E v o l D i r
May 1, 2014
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .53
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1082 EvolDir May 1, 2014
Conferences
Belgium EMPSEB 20 Sep1-6 DeadlineExtended . . . . 2
Brazil EVOLUTION2015 SymposiumProposals . . . . . 3
CzechRepublic CladoceraEvolution Sept28-Oct3 . . . . 3
Ecuador Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Greifswald Germany Phylogenetics Jul14-16 Deadline
5
Guelph OE3C2014 May8-10 LastCall . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Innsbruck Austria Wolbachia Jun6-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
JohnsHopkinsU Galaxy Jun30-Jul2 AbstractsDueApr4
6
Kolympari Greece Lepidoptera Aug17-23 . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Lausanne ESEB Aug10-15 CallForProposals Gender-
Bias . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
London CladeDynamics Nov10-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Montreal GenomeBiomes May25-29 RoommateNeeded
8
NewYork EvolutionaryGenomics Jun6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
NHM London CollectionsClimateChange Jun25 . . . . .9
Raleigh Evolution Jun20-24 Deadlines . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9Raleigh Evolution Jun20-24 EarlyBirdDeadline . . . . 10
Raleigh Evolution Jun20-24 UndergradDiversity Dead-
line . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Raleigh iEvoBio Jun20-24 RegistrationDeadline Apr16
10
Rosco France EvolutionDiseases Sep6-10 . . . . . . . . . 11
Seattle EvolutionPlasticity AWARDdeadline . . . . . . .12
Seattle EvolutionPlasticity Jun27-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Turku EvolutionaryPhylogenetics Aug11-14 . . . . . . . 13
Turku Finland ButteryEvolution Aug11-14 AsHosts
13
Turku Finland ButteryEvolution Aug11-14 Be-
haviourSymp . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
UAveiro HerpetologyConservation Sep30-Oct4 . . . . .14
UIllinois UC ArthropodGenomics Jun12-14 . . . . . . . .15
UIllinois UC ArthropodGenomics Jun12-14 Deadline
15
Belgium EMPSEB 20 Sep1-6
DeadlineExtended
EMPSEB 20- DEADLINE FOR ABSTRACT SUB-
MISSION EXTENDED TO 1st OF MAY 2014.
Dear Colleagues,
The registration deadline for EMPSEB 20 (European
meeting of PhD students in evolutionary Biology) has
been extended to the 1st of May, giving PhD students
at all stages of their research another month to ap-
ply! Themeeting will this year be held in La Roche-
en-Ardenne in Belgium, from the 1st-6th of September,
2014.
Plenary speakers have been conrmed and their talks
will cover an array of diverse topics, e.g. sexual and
asexual evolution, phenotypic plasticity, non-genetic
heredity and epigenetics, complex systems and the evo-
lution of viruses, venoms and stress resistance, involv-ing methods like genomics, proteomics, quantitative ge-
netics or modelling.
Details about the conrmed plenaries and how to reg-
ister can be found on the EMPSEB website:
http://empseb20.com/ Registration fee:
350 euro (price includes transport from the airport to
La Roche-en-Ardenne, accommodation, and meals dur-
ing the conference)
EMPSEB in a nutshell:
EMPSEB provides a platform for PhD students study-
ing evolutionary biology to present their work and meet
their peers from all over Europe. It takes place in a dif-
ferent European city each year, and is organised by the
PhD students of the host country. The meeting is now
an annual tradition that started 19 years ago with the
rst meeting being held in Zurich, Switzerland in 1995.
EMPSEB 20 will last for 5 days and will involve a va-
riety of activities... plus an optional excursion on the
last day!
A number of senior evolutionary scientists have beenMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 3
selected to give plenary talks and to provide construc-
tive feedback on the participants' research. All PhD
students are required to give a presentation of 15 min-
utes.
Besides the website, you can also follow EMPSEB 20 on
Facebook (https://www.facebook.com/EMPSEB20)
and Twitter (https://twitter.com/EMPSEB20)
Any enquiries can be directed tosecre-
tary@empseb20.com
We would be very grateful if you could forward this
message to anyone you think might be interested. We
additionally included an EMPSEB 20 yer in attach-
ment to easily advertise and spread information about
this interesting meeting for PhD students.
Best regards,
Gwenna el Bataille, EMPSEB20 President
Gwenna el BATAILLE, PhD student - Teaching assis-
tant
Earth and Life Institute Universit e Catholique de Lou-
vain SST/ELI/ELIB B^ atiment Carnoy, c.145 Croix du
sud 4-5, bte L7.07.04 1348 Louvain-la-Neuve BEL-
GIUM
gwennael.bataille@uclouvain.be
Brazil EVOLUTION2015
SymposiumProposals
Call for Symposia for 2015 Annual Meeting
The 2015 annual meeting of the Society for the Study of
Evolution is planned for June 26-30, 2015 in Guaruja,
Brazil. The SSE Council invites proposals for the two
Society-sponsored symposia to be held in conjunction
with the meeting. Symposium proposals should in-
clude: (1) a synopsis of the symposium theme (about
one page); (2) a tentative list of speakers, including
institutional aliations, and topics; (3) a rationale for
the symposium explaining why this topic and this group
of speakers are particularly appropriate for a Society-
sponsored symposium; and (4) a statement that all po-
tential speakers have been contacted and agree to par-
ticipate in the symposium.
In evaluating proposals, SSE Council seriously con-
siders the diversity of participants as a major quali-
cation. Symposium organizers are expected to take
into account gender, seniority, nationality, and otheraspects traditionally underrepresented in Society sym-
posia when preparing proposals. In addition, Council
will favor those proposals whose topics concern newly
emerging elds, elds ripe for syntheses, and elds dif-
ferent from those that have been included in recent So-
ciety symposia.
The Council will select two proposals for half-day sym-
posia at the annual meeting in June 2014. All appli-
cants will be notied of the Council's decision in Au-
gust. The Society provides travel support for organiz-
ers and participants in sponsored symposia. Details are
available on request. To be assured of full considera-
tion, proposals must be received by midnight Eastern
Standard Time on June 6, 2014:
Proposals should be sent by email
(bbrodie@virginia.edu) as a single attachment in
PDF format (under subject heading: SSE Symposia
Proposal). Please expect and request conrmation of
receipt of the proposal.
Butch Brodie
Executive Vice President, SSE
bbrodie@virginia.edu
CzechRepublic CladoceraEvolution
Sept28-Oct3
Dear colleagues,
we are happy to announce that after several delays
caused by technical issues, the registration for the 10th
Symposium on Cladocera, to be held in the Czech Re-
public, is nally open.
The Symposium on Cladocera, a traditional triannual
meeting of researchers studying cladoceran crustaceans,
will be held this autumn in the Czech Republic. To
celebrate the anniversary 10th meeting, it is tting
to nd a spectacular place, and invite special guests.
Thus, we will hear talks and admire posters on ecology,
evolutionary biology, diversity, systematics, genomics...
and many other aspects of these increasingly important
model organisms in the recently restored baroque rid-
ing hall of the Lednice chateau, one of the landmarks
of the UNESCO World Heritage area Lednice-Valtice
Cultural Landscape.
The keynote talks will be presented by Luc De Meester
(Katholieke University Leuven, Belgium) and Michael
Lynch (Indiana University, Bloomington, USA). As it4 EvolDir May 1, 2014
became tradition, a special issue of Hydrobiologia will
be published as conference proceedings.
Apart from an exciting scientic programme, the con-
ference participants and their accompanying persons
will get opportunities to admire the historical, natural
and oenological treasures of this unique region of Cen-
tral Europe. To learn more, visit the conference website
www.cladocera2014.org . The registration form allows
online payments by credit/debit cards, and you may
use it also to book accommodation in one of the hotels
in the immediate vicinity of the conference venue. The
deadline for early bird discount is on June 15. However,
the rst 30 registered participants will get a very special
surprise gift upon arrival, so we recommend not to wait
too long! Those who register early can also expect the
best rooms in the conference hotels. Note that you do
not need to submit your presentation abstract together
with the registration. The abstracts (to be provided by
e-mail) can be sent up to July 15.
With regards
Adam Petrusek & the organization team
Pokud je tento e-mail sou e ast obchodn ho jedn an ,
P rodov deck a fakulta Univerzity Karlovy v Praze:
a) si vyhrazuje pr avo jedn an kdykoliv ukon eit a to i
bez uveden d uvodu, b) stanovuje,3
4e smlouva mus m t
p semnou formu, c) vylu euje pijet nab dky s do-
datkem  ei odchylkou, d) stanovuje,3
4e smlouva je
uzavena teprve v yslovn ym dosa3
4en m shody na v1ech
n ale3
4itostech smlouvy.
petrusek@natur.cuni.cz
Ecuador Biodiversity
Symposio: Biodiversidad del g enero Solanum: Carac-
terizaci on, conservaci on y aprovechamiento; 7 y 8 de
Mayo del 2014, Loja, Ecuador
(Symposium: Biodiversity in Solanum: Characteriza-
tion, Conservation and Utilization; 7-8 May 2014, Loja,
Ecuador)
Los invitamos al 2014 simposio intrenacional: \Biodi-
versidad del g enero Solanum: Caracterizaci on, conser-
vaci on y aprovechamiento". A realizarse los d as 7 y 8
de Mayo del 2014 en la Universidad T ecnica Particular
de Loja, Ecuador
El sur del Ecuador es una de las regiones de mayor
diversidad en el mundo, debido a la presencia de ladepresi on de Huancabamba (Andes), donde la rup-
tura de la cordillera de los Andes ha dado lugar a
la fragmentaci on del h abitat. La radiaci on adapta-
tiva de especies de plantas y animales en esta regi on
la convierten en un laboratorio natural para el estu-
dio de la especiaci on. Este simposio ser a un escaparate
de la biodiversidad de Solanum, un g enero complejo,
con muchas especies silvestres y de cultivos comerciales
importantes, como la papa, el tomate, el pimiento y
la berenjena, as como otros cultivos regionales como
naranjilla, tomate de  arbol, y pepino dulce, que tienen
el potencial para una mayor distribuci on. Adem as, la
reuni on de dos d as incluir a paneles y discusiones infor-
males de la protecci on del germoplasma silvestre, y el
desarrollo de la investigaci on en colaboraci on interna-
cional para identicar, conservar y utilizar la biodiver-
sidad en este rico y diverso grupo de organismos.
La lista de ponentes incluye: - Pablo Acosta, Univer-
sidad T ecnica Particular de Loja, Ecuador - Patricia
Bedinger, Colorado State University, USA - Merideth
Bonierbale, Centro Internacional de la Papa, Lima,
Peru - Joaqu&#305;n Canizares, Instituto de Con-
servaci on y Mejora de la Agrodiversidad Valenciana.
Valencia, Espa~ na -Patricio Castro, Universidad Na-
cional de Loja, Ecuador - Roger Chetelat, Director,
Tomato Genetics Resource Center, University of Cal-
ifornia, Davis, USA - Robert Last, Michigan State Uni-
versity, USA - Bruce McClure, University of Missouri,
USA - Leonie Moyle, Indiana University, Bloomington -
Jaime Prohens, Instituto de Conservaci on y Mejora de
la Agrodiversidad Valenciana. Valencia, Espa~ na - Flor
Rodriguez, Centro Internacional de la Papa, Lima, Peru
La inscripci on para el Simposio de 2 d as es de $ US30.
Detalles (en Espa~ nol y Ingl es), incluyendo la infor-
maci on de registro y los viajes, se pueden encontrar
en la p agina web del Simposio: www.utpl.edu.ec/-
diversidadsolanum/ ******
Symposium: Biodiversity in Solanum: Characteriza-
tion, Conservation and Utilization Universidad T ecnica
Particular de Loja, Loja, Ecuador, 7-8 May 2014
We are pleased to announce the Symposium 'Biodiver-
sity in Solanum: Characterization, Conservation and
Utilization' to be held at Universidad T ecnica Particu-
lar de Loja, Loja, Ecuador, May 7-8.
Southern Ecuador is one of the megadiverse regions of
the world due to the presence of the Huancabamba
(Andes) depression, where the breakup of the Andes
cordillera has led to habitat fragmentation. Adaptive
radiation of both plant and animal species in this re-
gion make it a natural laboratory for the study of spe-
ciation. This symposium will showcase the biodiversityMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 5
of Solanum, a complex genus with many wild species
and important crop species including potato, tomato,
pepper and eggplant, as well as other regional crops
such as naranjilla, tamarillo, and pepino, which have
the potential for wider distribution. In addition, the
two day meeting will involve panel and informal dis-
cussions of the protection of wild germplasm, and the
development of international collaborative research to
identify, conserve, and utilize biodiversity in this richly
diverse group of organisms.
Conrmed symposium speakers include: - Pablo
Acosta, Universidad T ecnica Particular de Loja,
Ecuador - Patricia Bedinger, Colorado State University,
USA - Merideth Bonierbale, International Potato Insti-
tute, Lima, Peru - Joaqu&#305;n Canizares, Institute
for the Conservation and Improvement of Agricultural
Biodiversity, Valencia, Spain -Patricio Castro, Univer-
sidad Nacional de Loja, Ecuador - Roger Chetelat, Di-
rector, Tomato Genetics Resource Center, University of
California, Davis, USA - Robert Last, Michigan State
University, USA - Bruce McClure, University of Mis-
souri, USA - Leonie Moyle, Indiana University, Bloom-
ington - Jaime Prohens, Institute for the Conservation
and Improvement of Agricultural Biodiversity, Valen-
cia, Spain - Flor Rodriguez, International Potato Insti-
tute, Lima, Peru
Registration for the 2-day symposium is $US30.
Details (in English and Spanish), including information
for registration and travel, can be found at the Sym-
posium website: www.utpl.edu.ec/diversidadsolanum/
lmoyle@indiana.edu
Greifswald Germany Phylogenetics
Jul14-16 Deadline
Attention! The deadline is approaching for the 1st
Greifswald Phylogenetics Meeting, which will be held
in July 2014!!!!
I herewith want to announce the 1st Greifswald Phy-
logenetics Meeting, which will be held in Greifswald
(north eastern Germany) from the 14th till the 16th of
July 2014.
Registration is now open and the deadline (both for
registration as well as for abstract submission) is the
30th of April. There are still a few free slots, so please
register asap!
Our conference poster can be found here: http:/-/stubber.math-inf.uni-greifswald.de/ ~ spillner/gpm-
2014/poster-gpm-2014.pdf Feel free to print it and for-
ward it to anybody who might be interested! For
more details, please visit the conference website:
http://stubber.math-inf.uni-greifswald.de/ ~ spillner/-
gpm-2014/gpm-2014.html This meeting will have a
particular focus on mathematical (e.g. graph theoreti-
cal, combinatorial, probabilistic and algebraic) aspects
of evolutionary tree or network reconstruction, but it
will also bring together scientists from dierent disci-
plines in order to provide the opportunity of close col-
laboration.
Scope:
Phylogenetics is an interdisciplinary research area that
aims at reconstructing the evolutionary history of bi-
ological systems such as, for example, collections of
species, populations or groups of bio-molecules. To
achieve this, biologists work closely together with math-
ematicians and computer scientists. The conference will
provide researchers from all three involved disciplines
an opportunity to present their recent work and ex-
change ideas.
Location: Greifswald is a beautiful little town located
directly at the Baltic Sea in close proximity to the fa-
mous islands R ugen and Usedom. Greifswald university
was founded in 1496 and has therefore a long tradition
and history. Being a former Hanse town, Greifswald is
famous for its historic market square, its cathedral and
the museum harbor. Other famous towns like Stralsund
with the Oceaneum or the world cultural heritage city
of Wismar are nearby, as well as the city of Rostock
with its newly established Darwineum. The region is a
holiday region but not too crowded by tourists. In July
the weather is most likely to be great and we hope that
if you can come to our meeting, you will nd the time
to stay longer and enjoy this unique area. There is a
direct and regular train connection to and from Berlin,
and the nearest international airports are Hamburg and
Berlin.
Please note that the meeting starts early on the 14th
with one of our highlight talks and ends in the evening
of the 16th with another highlight talk - so if possible,
please plan your stay from the 13th till the 17th of July.
The registration fee is 150 Euros (100 Euros for stu-
dents).
Organizers: Mareike Fischer, Andreas Spillner, Martin
Haase
Invited speakers: Olaf Bininda-Emonds, Mike Steel,
Olivier Gascuel, Vince Moulton, Allen Rodrigo
For more details, visit our website http://-6 EvolDir May 1, 2014
stubber.math-inf.uni-greifswald.de/ ~ spillner/gpm-
2014/gpm-2014.html or contact Mareike Fischer:
email@mareikescher.de
Mareike Fischer <email@mareikescher.de >
Guelph OE3C2014 May8-10
LastCall
Dear Colleagues,
Registration for the Ontario Ecology, Ethology, and
Evolution Colloquium closes this Monday, April 7.
OE3C 2014 is hosted by the University of Guelph and
will be held on May 8-10.
We are still accepting abstract submissions for oral
or poster presentations, especially from undergradu-
ate or graduate students and post-docs. Abstract
guidelines, conference logistics, and instructions about
registration can be found on our website: http:/-
/www.uoguelph.ca/oe3c2014/ Please contact us at
oe3c2014@gmail.com with any questions.
We hope to see you in May!
Kate Eisen http://www.uoguelph.ca/oe3c2014/
oe3c2014@gmail.com
OE3C 2014 <oe3c2014@gmail.com >
Innsbruck Austria Wolbachia
Jun6-11
The end of extended early registration for the 8th In-
ternational Wolbachia Conference is approaching fast:
submission of poster and oral presentations will be pos-
sible exclusively until 4 April 2014; no exceptions will be
made. Furthermore, 15% late registration charge will
be added to the conference fees afterwards. Late reg-
istration (without possibility to submit presentations)
will close on 23 May 2014. The conference will be held
from 6 to 11 June 2014 in Innsbruck, Austria.
Please register now to get hold of the remaining pre-
sentation slots.
Conference topics will include, inter alia, - ecology, evo-
lution, and development - phenotypes, diversity, anddistribution - cell biology - genetics & genomics - appli-
cations in pest control and disease management - other
reproductive parasites than Wolbachia.
Visit the conference website at http://-
wolbachia2014.org or proceed directly to the reg-
istration page at http://wolbachia2014.org/05-reg.php
. Please also consider subscribing to our newsletter
to be constantly informed about important news on
the meeting: http://wolbachia2014.org/nl.php Kind
regards from Innsbruck, Wolfgang Arthofer on behalf
of the WOLBACHIA 2014 Organizing Committee
*8^th International Wolbachia Conference * *Wolfgang
Arthofer Organising Committe*
Molecular Ecology Group, University of Innsbruck
Technikerstr. 25, 6020 Innsbruck, Austria Phone
+43 (0) 512 507 51751 Fax +43 (0) 512 507 51799
oce@wolbachia2014.org http://wolbachia2014.org
WOLBACHIA 2014 logo
oce@wolbachia2014.org
JohnsHopkinsU Galaxy Jun30-Jul2
AbstractsDueApr4
Hello all,
This is a reminder that talk abstract submissions for
the 2014 Galaxy Community Conference are due this
Friday, April 4. See http://bit.ly/gcc2014abs for de-
tails. This is a great opportunity to share your work in
high-throughput biology.
Accepted abstracts will be considered for the Giga-
Science \Galaxy: Data Intensive and Reproducible Re-
search" series (announced for GCC2013). BGI is also
continuing to cover the article processing charges until
the end of the year
Poster abstracts are being accepted until April 25.
Early registration (save a bundle, really) is also open.
Thanks, and I do hope you'll join us in Baltimore,
Dave C, on behalf of the GCC2014 Organizing Com-
mittee
2014 Galaxy Community Conference (GCC2014)
http://galaxyproject.org/GCC2014 June 30 - July 2,
2014 Homewood Campus Johns Hopkins University
Baltimore, Maryland, United States
On Sat, Feb 22, 2014 at 3:29 PM, Dave ClementsMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 7
<clements@galaxyproject.org >wrote: > > The 2014
Galaxy Community Conference (GCC2014, http://-
galaxyproject.org/GCC2014) features two full days of
presentations, discussions, poster sessions, lightning
talks and birds-of-a-feather, all about data-intensive
biology and the tools that support it. GCC2014 also
includes a Training Day with ve concurrent tracks
and in-depth coverage of thirteen dierent topics. >
>GCC2014 will be held at the Homewood Campus
of Johns Hopkins University, in Baltimore, Maryland,
United States, from June 30 through July 2, 2014. >
>Galaxy is an easily extensible data integration and
analysis platform for life sciences research that supports
hundreds of bioinformatics analysis tools. Galaxy is
open-source and can be locally installed or run on the
cloud. There are hundreds of local installs, and over 50
publicly accessible servers around the world. > >Early
registration is now open. Early combined registration
(Training Day + main meeting) starts at $140 for post-
docs and students. Registration is capped this year at
250 participants, and we expect to hit that limit. Reg-
istering early assures you a place at the conference and
also a spot in the Training Day workshops you want
to attend. > > You can also book aordable confer-
ence housing at the same time you register. See the
conference Logistics page for details on this and other
housing options. > >Abstract submission for both oral
presentations and posters is also open. Abstract sub-
mission for oral presentations closes April 4, and poster
submission closes April 25. The GigaScience \Galaxy:
Data Intensive and Reproducible Research" series (an-
nounced for GCC2013) is continuing to take submis-
sions for this year's meeting and beyond. BGI is also
continuing to cover the article processing charges until
the end of the year, and for more information see their
latest update. > > Thanks, and hope to see you in
Baltimore! > > The GCC2014 Organizing Committee
{ http://galaxyproject.org/GCC2014 http://-
galaxyproject.org/ http://getgalaxy.org/ http:/-
/usegalaxy.org/ https://wiki.galaxyproject.org/
clementsgalaxy@gmail.com
Kolympari Greece Lepidoptera
Aug17-23
Announcing The Ninth International Workshop on
MOLECULAR BIOLOGY AND GENETICS OF THE
LEPIDOPTERA which will be held on August 17-23,
2014, at the Orthodox Academy of Crete in Kolympari,Crete, Greece.
Topics will include
* Genome Sequencing and Mapping * Comparative Ge-
nomics, Evolution and Phylogeny * Population and
Evolutionary Genetics * Post-genomic and Functional
Genomic Tools and Applications * Development and
Dierentiation * Endocrinology, Physiology and Bio-
chemistry * Receptors and Ligands * Immunity *
Neurobiology * Transgenesis and Paratransgenesis *
Viruses, Other Pathogens and Pest Control * Chem-
ical Ecology
Registration is now open at the conference website
http://lepidoptera.ice.mpg.de The early registration
deadline is 23 May 2014, nal registration by 6 June
2014.
On behalf of the organizing committee, David G. Heckel
lepidoptera (at) ice.mpg.de
lepidoptera@ice.mpg.de
Lausanne ESEB Aug10-15
CallForProposals GenderBias
Symposium proposals for ESEB 2015: potential gender
bias
Further to our recent call for symposium proposals for
ESEB 2015 in Lausanne next year, we wish to encour-
age potential symposium organisers to take diversity (of
gender, nationality and age) into account when propos-
ing speakers for their symposium.
As ESEB members will be aware, research shows clearly
that (gender) bias in academia is usually not the result
of intentional acts of exclusion, but rather the eect
of more subtle mechanisms like implicit bias. Substan-
tial concern has been raised about gender bias among
invited speakers for symposia at previous ESEB (and
other) meetings. The organisers of ESEB 2015 acknowl-
edge this concern and wish to ensure that symposia se-
lected for ESEB in Lausanne draw participants (both
invited and those selected for inclusion when abstracts
are reviewed) as broadly as possible to reect the full
research strengths of the elds represented. We thus en-
courage prospective symposium organisers to account
for potential implicit bias before inviting speakers or
submitting their proposals.
Balance in terms of gender, nationality and age will be
included as one criterion used by the scientic commit-8 EvolDir May 1, 2014
tee when selecting symposia.
Further information about the symposia can be
found at: www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/symposium-
information
For symposium submission, please go to: http:/-
/www3.unil.ch/wpmu/eseb2015/wpgforms/-
symposium/ The organisers and the scientic
committee of ESEB 2015.
John Pannell <John.Pannell@unil.ch >
London CladeDynamics Nov10-11
Radiation and Extinction - Investigating Clade Dynam-
ics in Deep Time 10th-11th November 2014 - Linnean
Society of London (UK)
A two-day symposium and workshop bringing together
a diverse array of researchers developing and applying
methods for reconstructing deep-time macroevolution-
ary patterns in biodiversity, with a particular focus on
analytical approaches that take advantage of the wealth
of data available in the fossil record.
Dan Rabosky (University of Michigan) will deliver
the plenary talk, with additional conrmed presenta-
tions from Tracey Aze (University of Oxford), Natalie
Cooper (Trinity College Dublin), Mario dos Reis (Uni-
versity College London), John Finarelli (University Col-
lege Dublin), Matt Friedman (University of Oxford),
Melanie Hopkins (American Museum of Natural His-
tory), Graeme Lloyd (University of Oxford), Emily
Rayeld (University of Bristol), Marcello Ruta (Univer-
sity of Lincoln), Graham Slater (Smithsonian National
Museum of Natural History), Jeroen Smaers (Stony
Brook University), Tanja Stadler (ETH Z urich), Gavin
Thomas (University of Sheeld), and Chris Venditti
(University of Reading).
Further details and registration here:
http://www.linnean.org/Meetings-and-
Events/Events/Radiation+and+Extinction+-
+Investigating+Clade+Dynamics+in+Deep+Time
Dr. Anjali Goswami Reader in Palaeobiology De-
partment of Genetics, Evolution, and Environment
and Department of Earth Sciences University College
London Darwin Building 218A Gower Street London
WC1E 6BT +44 (0)20 7679 2190 www.goswamilab.com
\Goswami, Anjali" <a.goswami@ucl.ac.uk >Montreal GenomeBiomes May25-29
RoommateNeeded
PhD student seeking a male roommate to share a dou-
ble room at the upcoming joint CSZ/CSEE Genomes to
Biomes Meeting in Montreal,Canada, 25-29 May 2014.
Student plans to stay for the entire meeting, including
the night of 29 May (departure 30 May). Anyone in-
terested in sharing should contact Roohollah Abbasi:
roohollahabbasi@gmail.com
Jerey Marcus <Jerey.Marcus@umanitoba.ca >
NewYork EvolutionaryGenomics
Jun6
Dear Colleagues,
Please join us in New York for \Genomes Evolving:
The 13th Annual Symposium of NYU's Center for Ge-
nomics and Systems Biology." The one- day meeting
will be Friday, June 6th. Our keynote speakers are
Deborah Charlesworth and Greg Gibson.
Register (free!) at http://biology.as.nyu.edu/object/-
2014.cgsb.symposium Talks: Adam Auton (Einstein
University) Understanding patterns of variation in hu-
man meiotic recombination
Chip Aquadro (Cornell University) Sex, ies and con-
ict: the molecular evolution of germline stem cell genes
in Drosophila
Leonie Moyle (Indiana University) Evolutionary ge-
nomics of plant reproductive behavior
Ulises Rosas (New York University) Genetic mecha-
nisms regulating root allometry responses and variation
in Arabidopsis natural populations
Greg Gibson (Georgia Institute of Technology)
Keynote: Are humans getting tter, sicker, neither or
both?
Elodie Ghedin (New York University) Escape the virus:
swarm transmission of u
Itsik Pe'er (Columbia University) Sequencing the
Ashkenazi genomeMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 9
Kirsten Bomblies (Harvard University) Adaptation to
whole genome duplication in Arabidopsis arenosa
Casey Dunn (Brown University) Phylogenetics will be
the new genetics
Deborah Charlesworth (University of Edinburgh)
Keynote: What can plants tell us about sex chromo-
some evolution?
mrockman@nyu.edu
NHM London
CollectionsClimateChange Jun25
Colleagues,
Scientic Collections International (SciColl) and The
Natural History Museum London (NHM) will host a
breakout session at the Society for the Preservation
of Natural History Collections (SPNHC) 2014 Annual
Meeting, held during the afternoon sessions on 25 June
2014. The main theme is the integration of scientic
collections into environmental change research. Natu-
ral history and other scientic collections, such as core,
soil and genetic libraries, oer relatively under-utilized
or under-integrated sources of critical evidence about
the past, and hold the potential for rening our under-
standing of how natural systems respond to environ-
mental change.
We would like to hear your experiences and have your
input regarding the use of collections in environmental
and climate change research, especially cases where re-
search and collections have bridged multiple disciplines,
including connections to anthropology and archaeology.
We ask that those interested in presenting either
as a full speaker (15 minutes w/ questions) or
lighting talk and panel member (5 minute light-
ing round) submit abstracts following the SPNHC
2014 system here: http://www.museumwales.ac.uk/-
spnhc2014/submissions/. Additionally, please add
\SciColl/NHM" in the subject line of your submission
email. Submissions are due by 5 May 2014.
Not interested in presenting, but still have something
to share about collections, environmental change, and
interdisciplinary work? Join us for our panel and open
discussions. We want to hear from you, the collec-
tions professionals, about how you think your collec-
tions could be better utilized and how communication
and access across collections can be improved.See our full session description here: http:/-
/www.museumwales.ac.uk/media/31183/-
SciCollNHM SPNHC-18Mar14.pdf **Additional
Event: Save the Date** We will also be hosting a
2-day conference at NHM London, 15-16 September
2014. If you can1t make it to SPNHC, please consider
joining us at this event which will focus on the integra-
tion of interdisciplinary collections and environmental
change research. More details will follow in the coming
weeks.
Thank you! ~Eileen and Ellinor
Eileen Graham, Program Manager Scientic Collec-
tions International
e: grahame@si.edu p: 202-633-0256 t: @sci coll w:
www.scicoll.org Dr Ellinor MICHEL Department of
Life Sciences The Natural History Museum Cromwell
Road SW7 5BD London UK tel: +44-207-942-5516
http://nhm.academia.edu/EllinorMichel
www.researchgate.net/prole/Ellinor Michel Elli-
nor Michel <e.michel@nhm.ac.uk >
Raleigh Evolution Jun20-24
Deadlines
The deadlines to register at discounted early bird rates,
sign up for eld trips, and apply for travel awards
and other opportunities at Evolution 2014 <http:/-
/evolution2014.org/ >in Raleigh, NC, are fast ap-
proaching. Please keep the following dates in mind as
you plan your trip:
* March 31: deadline to apply for SSE interna-
tional travel awards <http://evolution2014.org/travel-
information/travel-awards/ >* March 31: apply for
travel awards for faculty at minority-serving institu-
tions <http://evolution2014.org/travel-information/-
travel-awards/ >* April 1: graduate student vol-
unteer <http://evolution2014.org/wpgforms/student-
volunteers-2/ >sign-up ends (priority given to graduate
students based in North Carolina) * April 1: deadline
to apply for the Phylogenomics Symposium and Soft-
ware School <http://www.cs.utexas.edu/%7Etandy/-
symposium-2014.html >* April 1: deadline to sign up
for eld trips <http://evolution2014.org/conference-
information/pre-post-conference-trips/ >
* April 14: undergraduate travel awards <http://-
evolution2014.org/travel-information/travel-awards/ >
close * April 16: early-bird registration <http://-10 EvolDir May 1, 2014
evolution2014.org/registration-and-other-costs/ >and
presentation submission deadline * May 23: childcare
<http://evolution2014.org/childcare/ >registration
deadline * May 31: deadline to enter the evolution
lm festival <http://lmfestival.nescent.org/ >* late-
May/early-June: complete program becomes available;
stay tuned * June 1: cancellation deadline
We look forward to seeing you in Raleigh in June!
Follow or join the conversation on Twitter using
#Evol2014. Questions and suggestions? Please email
organizer@nescent.org
Robin Smith <ras10@duke.edu >
Raleigh Evolution Jun20-24
EarlyBirdDeadline
Dear colleagues,
The earlybird registration deadline is rapidly approach-
ing { 16 April. After that, registration rates increase
by $50.
Also, please submit your presentation title and abstract
by 16 April to be sure of making it into the program.
We look forward to seeing you in Raleigh in June!
Follow or join the conversation on Twitter using
#Evol2014.
Questions and suggestions? Please email orga-
nizer@nescent.org
Allen Rodrigo Chair, Evolution 2014 Organizing Com-
mittee
a.rodrigo@nescent.org
Raleigh Evolution Jun20-24
UndergradDiversity Deadline
Undergraduate Diversity at Evolution 2014 - DEAD-
LINE LESS THAN ONE WEEK AWAY!
We are pleased to announce an undergraduate travel
award to bring talented and diverse undergraduates to
the Evolution meetings this June 20-24 in Raleigh, NC
(www.evolution2014.org). For the 12th year in a rowwe will y a cohort of undergraduates from throughout
the US and Puerto Rico to present a poster at the meet-
ings, receive mentoring from graduate students, post-
docs and faculty, and participate in a career-oriented
'Undergraduate Futures in Evolutionary Biology' panel
and discussion. The program covers the costs of travel,
registration, food and accommodation at the meetings.
The application deadline is Monday, April 14th, and
decisions will be announced by Monday, April 21st. Ap-
plications are welcomed from all undergraduates, and
the admissions goal is to create a diverse pool of stu-
dents.
An overview of the program and student eligibility, and
a link to the online application can be found at:
www.nescent.org/eog/undergraddiversity Applications
consist of a short statement of interest, a letter of rec-
ommendation and the title and abstract of the poster
to be presented.
In addition, we will be soliciting names of graduate
students, postdocs and faculty members who would
like to serve as mentors during the meetings. Men-
tors meet with pairs of students and attend talks with
them, introduce them to colleagues, network and gen-
erally make the meetings a welcoming place for them.
Although costs are not covered for mentors it is an
unusually rewarding experience. Contact Richard Kli-
man (rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu) if you are interested
in serving as a mentor.
For inquires contact one of the organizers:
Jory Weintraub - jory@nescent.org
Richard Kliman - rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu
Scott Edwards - sedwards@oeb.harvard.edu
Jory P. Weintraub, PhD Assistant Director, Education
& Outreach National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) 2024 West Main St., Suite A200, Durham,
NC 27705 Phone: 919.668.4578 Fax: 919.668.9198
Email: jory@nescent.org Skype: jory.weintraub
\Weintraub, Jory P" <lviscrst@live.unc.edu >
Raleigh iEvoBio Jun20-24
RegistrationDeadline Apr16
The early registration and abstract submission dead-
line for the 2014 Informatics for Evolutionary Biology
conference is Wednesday, April 16. Registration andMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 11
abstract submission is being done jointly with Evolu-
tion:
http://evolution2014.org/registration-and-other-
costs/ iEvoBio is a forum bringing together biologists
working in evolution, systematics, and biodiversity,
with software developers, and mathematicians. The
goal of iEvoBio is both to catalyse the development of
new tools, and to increase awareness of the possibilities
oered by existing technologies.
April 16 is the deadline for lightning talks and for soft-
ware bazaar submissions. Submitted talks and soft-
ware demos should be in the area of informatics aimed
at advancing research in phylogenetics, evolution, and
biodiversity, including new tools, cyberinfrastructure
development, large-scale data analysis, and visualiza-
tion. If a submission concerns a specic software sys-
tem, that software must be licensed with a recognized
Open Source License.
For more information, including details of the
open source requirement, see http://ievobio.org .
Karen Cranston, PhD Training Coordinator and
Informatics Project Manager nescent.org @kcranstn
http://orcid.org/0000-0002-4798-9499 Karen Cranston
<karen.cranston@nescent.org >
Rosco France EvolutionDiseases
Sep6-10
Dear Colleagues,
We are pleased to announce the Jacques Monod Con-
ference Infectious Diseases as Drivers of Evolution: the
Challenges Ahead which will take place at Rosco
(Brittany, France) from the 6th-10th September 2014.
We welcome proposals for papers on any aspect of the
ecology and evolution of host-parasite interactions. The
deadline for applications is the 2nd May.
For more info on the conference and how to ap-
ply please go to http://www.cnrs.fr/insb/cjm/2014/-
Milinski e.html We look forward to seeing you in
Rosco!
Manfred Milinski (Chairman) Ana Rivero (Vice-
Chairman)
Infectious diseases as drivers of evolution: the chal-
lenges ahead
Invited speakers (provisional titles)ALIZON Samuel (Montpellier, France) Multiple infec-
tion and virulence evolution BONNEAUD Camille (Ex-
eter, United Kingdom) Evolution of host resistance
and pathogen virulence following an emerging infec-
tious disease outbreak BOOTS Mike (Exeter, United
Kingdom) Epidemiological drivers of the coevolution
of host parasite diversity BUCKLING Angus (Exeter,
United Kingdom) Viruses as drivers of bacterial evolu-
tion over ecological time scales CHARBONEL Nathalie
(Montpellier, France) Adaptative genomics of bank
vole tolerance to Puumala hantavirus in Europe DAY
Troy (Kingston, Canada) The evolutionary dynamics
of drug resistance DOBSON, Andy (Princeton, US)
[to be announced] EBERT Dieter (Basel, Switzerland)
The population genetics of red queen dynamics ED-
WARDS Scott (Harvard, USA) Pathogen evolution and
pathogen load in the race between house nches and
Mycoplasma gallisepticum EIZAGUIRRE Christophe
(Kiel, Germany) Host-parasite interaction - a fuel
for speciation GANDON Sylvain (Montpellier, France)
Malaria manipulates mosquitoes GIRAUD Tatiana
(Paris-Sud, France) Mating types, sexes, sex, no-sex,
sex with clones, and mating type chromosomes in fungi
GRAHAM Andrea (Princeton, USA) The within-host
dynamics of optimal defence GRUNAU Christoph (Per-
pignan, France) Darwins pangens and Jollos' Dauer-
modikation - myth or reality? Lessons from the hu-
man parasite Schistosoma mansoni GUPTA Sunetra
(Oxford, United Kingdom) The role of epistatic interac-
tions between malaria-protective haemoglobin disorders
in determining their epidemiology KOSKELLA Britt
(Exeter, United Kingdom) Bacteria-phage coevolution
within a long-lived host LAZZARO Brian (Cornell,
USA) Complexity in the function and evolution of in-
sect immunity LIVELY Curt (Indiana, USA) Parasite-
mediated selection leads to host genetic diversity, but
host genetic diversity reduces R0: how does that
work? McCOY Karen (Montpellier, France) Evolution
of host specialisation and circulation of vector-borne
disease agents MILINSKi Manfred (Ploen, Germany)
Olfactory signalling of immunogenetics for mate choice
MORET Yannick (Dijon, France) Evolutionary ecology
and mechanisms of trans-generational immune priming
in insects REECE Sarah (Edinburgh, United Kingdom)
Plasticity in parasite phenotypes: evolutionary and eco-
logical implications for disease RIVERO Ana (Mont-
pellier, France) More than just ying syringes: evo-
lutionary ecology of Plasmodium-infected mosquitoes
SCHMID-HEMPEL Paul (Zurich, Switzerland) Do in-
fections drive the evolution of microbiota in social in-
sects? SCHNEIDER David (Stanford, USA) Infected
hosts take a long view and plan for recovery SCHU-
LENBURG Hinrich (Kiel, Germany) Lessons from C.
elegans as a model host: fast and complex adaptations12 EvolDir May 1, 2014
SIVA-JOTHY Mike (Sheeld, United Kingdom) Sym-
bionts and insect cellular immunity SORCI Gabriele
(Dijon, France) Immune evasion and the evolution of
host defence VARALDI Julien (Lyon, France) Infected
viruses as key players in host-parasitoid interaction
WEBSTER Joanne (London, United Kingdom) Schis-
tosome evolution in a changing
Prof. Dr. Manfred Milinski Department of Evolu-
tionary Ecology Max-Planck-Institute for Evolutionary
Biology August-Thienemann-Strasse 2 D-24306 Ploen,
Germany, milinski@evolbio.mpg.de
milinski@evolbio.mpg.de
Seattle EvolutionPlasticity
AWARDdeadline
2014 American Genetic Association Presidential Sym-
posium - Evolution and Plasticity: Adaptive responses
by species to human-mediated changes to their ecosys-
tems
27-29 June 2014 University of Washington, Seattle
STUDENT AWARD APPLICATIONS AND ALL
POSTER ABSTRACTS DUE APRIL 15
Awards are available to cover registration ($150), and
a limited number to cover both travel and registration
($650). See the Symposium website for details - http:/-
/www.theaga.org/sample-page/aga2014/ AGA meet-
ings are small and friendly, oering students a great op-
portunity to interact with top international researchers.
Early Registration till May 15 only $150 for students,
$200 general includes 2 hosted receptions
SCHEDULE:
Friday 27 June 6 - 9 PM Hosted reception and poster
session Saturday 28 June 8 AM - 5 PM Symposium,
Day 1
Key Lecture by David Reznick, UC Riverside, \Hard
and soft selection revisited:How evolution by natural
selection works in the real world"
Saturday 28 June 6 - 9 PM Hosted reception and poster
session Sunday 29 June 8 AM - 5 PM Symposium, Day
2
Noon brown-bag discussion, \What should conserva-
tion biologists and evolutionary biologists know about
epigenetics?" moderated by Katie Peichel, AGA
president-elect. This will follow a special presentationby Michael Skinner, WSU, \Epigenetic transgenera-
tional inheritance of phenotypic variation in evolution:
Lessons from Darwin's nches"
Please visit the AGA website to register and book hous-
ing:
http://www.theaga.org/sample-page/aga2014/ Robin
Waples, AGA President
agajoh@oregonstate.edu
Seattle EvolutionPlasticity Jun27-29
2014 American Genetic Association Presidential Sym-
posium - Evolution and Plasticity: Adaptive responses
by species to human-mediated changes to their ecosys-
tems
27-29 June 2014 University of Washington, Seattle
STUDENT AWARDS: Awards are available to cover
registration ($150), and a limited number to cover both
travel and registration ($650). See the AGA web-
site for details - http://www.theaga.org/sample-page/-
aga2014/ Poster abstracts due April 15
Tentative schedule:
Friday 27 June 6 - 9 PM Hosted reception and poster
session Saturday 28 June 8 AM - 5 PM Symposium,
Day 1
Including: Key Lecture by David Reznick, UC River-
side, \Hard and soft selection revisited:How evolution
by natural selection works in the real world"
Saturday 28 June 6 - 9 PM Hosted reception and poster
session Sunday 29 June 8 AM - 5 PM Symposium, Day
2
Including: Noon brown-bag discussion, \What should
conservation biologists and evolutionary biologists
know about epigenetics?" moderated by Katie Peichel,
AGA president-elect. This will follow a special presen-
tation by Michael Skinner, WSU, \Epigenetic transgen-
erational inheritance of phenotypic variation in evolu-
tion: Lessons from Darwin's nches"
Registration includes all the above activities: General
is $200 until May 15th
Please visit the AGA website to register and book hous-
ing:
http://www.theaga.org/sample-page/aga2014/ Robin
Waples, AGA PresidentMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 13
agajoh@oregonstate.edu
Turku EvolutionaryPhylogenetics
Aug11-14
Dear all,
We are organising a symposium on evolutionary phylo-
genetics and Lepidoptera biodiversity (see details be-
low) at the International Conference on the Biology
of Butteries, 2014 in Turku, Finland (August 11-
14th). http://nymphalidae.utu./icbb2014/index.html
We encourage submission for talks and posters: http:/-
/nymphalidae.utu./icbb2014/abstract.html Deadline
for abstract submission is May 1.
Thanks, and hope to see many of you in Turku,
Marianne Elias and Karina Lucas Silva Brandao Evo-
lutionary phylogenetics and Lepidoptera biodiversity:
diversication, adapations and community ecology
Why are there so many species on Earth, and why are
they so concentrated in a small number of hotspots?
More specically, what are the processes underlying
diversication and what are those permitting multiple
species to coexist? These questions have intrigued bi-
ologists since the acceptance of Darwin's theory of evo-
lution and still represent a major challenge for modern
evolutionary biology. The insect order Lepidoptera is
an excellent model group to answer these questions, us-
ing recent approaches based on molecular phylogenies.
The purpose of this symposium is to present original
research on diversication, adaptation and community
ecology of Lepidoptera, using phylogenetic tools.
Marianne Elias CNRS Researcher UMR 7205 - CNRS
Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle 45 rue Buf-
fon, CP50, 75005 Paris phone: +33 1 40 79
37 90 http://www.mnhn.fr/oseb/elias-marianne,279
melias2008@gmail.com
Turku Finland ButteryEvolution
Aug11-14 AsHosts
Butteries as Hosts: what do they face and how do they
face it?at the 7th International Conference on the Biology of
Butteries in Turku, Finland - 11th - 14th of August
2014.
http://nymphalidae.utu./icbb2014/index.html
Butteries serve as hosts to an extremely large range
of organisms, from endo- and ecto-parasitoid wasps,
pathogenic fungi and viruses, to endosymbiotic bacteria
exhibiting phenotypes in the spectrum between para-
sitism and mutualism. Such interactions can have pro-
found consequences for the biology of buttery hosts.
The consequent co-evolutionary arm races might, in-
deed, lead to modications in the hosts1immune strate-
gies, demography, behaviour and important ecological
and life-history traits. It is critical that we acknowl-
edge the presence and impacts of parasites, pathogens
and symbionts in shaping the biology of their buttery
hosts. This symposium will bring together an excit-
ing mix of researchers to examine some of the best-
studied interactions and their consequences for butter-
y species, for a broader understanding of the butter-
ies.
The Keynote speaker for this session is Associate
Professor Sonia Altizer from University of Georgia,
USA (http://saltizer.myweb.uga.edu/). Other invited
speakers are Dr. T. Huigens (Netherlands), Dr. M.
Gibbs (UK) and Dr. E. Hornett (USA/UK).
### Deadline for abstract submission is the 1st May
2014 ###
Each talk = 12 min + 3 min questions. Presenters not
oered talks, may present posters. Poster info: Regu-
lar A0 poster size (841 x 1189 mm, portrait orientation
ONLY)
The whole conference promises additional exciting sym-
posia including sessions on various aspects of butter-
y Biology, Conservation and Genetics, with plenary
speakers by Prof. Ilkka Hanski (Finland), Naomi Pierce
(USA), Antonia Monteiro (USA) and Felix Sperling
(Canada)
For the conference draft programme see: http://-
nymphalidae.utu./icbb2014/symposia.html Submis-
sion must include: 1) The type of presentation
Oral/Poster
2) The title of the presentation
3) The name of all authors (underline the presenting
author)
4) The institution of each author (short description, not
the complete postal address)
5) The Abstract
Registration information can be found here: http://-14 EvolDir May 1, 2014
nymphalidae.utu./icbb2014/registration.html Follow
updates on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/-
events/812109435470412/ Sincerely, Anne Duplouy
Dr. Anne Duplouy Academy of Finland Postdoctoral
researcher The University of Helsinki PO Box65 Vi-
ikinkaari 1 00790 Helsinki Finland
email: anne.duplouy@helsinki. web:
www.anneduplouy.net anne.duplouy@helsinki.
Turku Finland ButteryEvolution
Aug11-14 BehaviourSymp
ICBB.2014 Symposium:Buttery.behaviour
We are organising a symposium for the International
Conference on the Biology of Butteries, 2014 in Turku,
Finland (August 11-14th) and encourage submissions
for talks and posterson 'Behavioural and neurological
aspects of ecological adaptation and speciation'
Symposium theme: A major goal of evolutionary biol-
ogy has been to characterize the adaptations between
populations that contribute to ecological divergence
and speciation. Although most studies have concen-
trated on structural adaptations, such as colour pat-
tern, shifts in behaviour may be especially important
in generating both reproductive and ecological isola-
tion. These behavioural dierences may be genetically
determined or acquired (learnt), may involve sensory
adaptations, changes in life history, or adaptive changes
in brain size, structure or connectivity. This sympo-
sium will take a broad approach to examining the role of
behavioural and neurological change in ecological adap-
tation and speciation.
We hope to attract talks spanning the following topics:
The role of behavioural plasticity in ecological diversi-
cation The genetic architecture of adaptive behaviours
Behavioural aspects of reproductive isolation Neural
basis of adaptive behaviours Ecological correlates of
neural diversication
**During abstract submission please select 'BE-
HAVIOURAL ECOLOGY' from the drop down box for
the main topic area of your abstract.**
Invited Speakers: Prof. Steven Reppert (U. Mas-
sachusetts): Neuroethology of monarch buttery mi-
gration Prof. Emilie Snell-Rood (U. Minnesota): Nu-
trition as a constraint on life history and brain evolu-
tion: a comparative study across butteries Dr. EricaWesterman (U. Chicago): Perceptual biases and visual
attraction: the role of perception in reproductive iso-
lation Dr. Maaike De Jong (U. Bristol): Ecological
genetics of life history and host plant adaptation in the
Glanville fritillary buttery
More details: Conference information: http:/-
/nymphalidae.utu./icbb2014/index.html Ab-
stract submission: http://nymphalidae.utu./-
icbb2014/abstract.html Many thanks and we
hope to see you in Turku, Stephen Montgomery
(Stephen.Montgomery@cantab.net) & Richard Merrill
(R.Merrill@zoo.cam.ac.uk)
Dr. Stephen Montgomery
Research Fellow The Royal Commission for the
Exhibition of 1851 Dept. of Genetics, Evo-
lution and Environment University College Lon-
don www.SHMontgomery.co.uk Stephen Montgomery
<stephen.h.montgomery@ucl.ac.uk >
UAveiro HerpetologyConservation
Sep30-Oct4
We have the pleasure to invite you to participate
in the XIII Iberian Congress of Herpetology, about
the topic Risk Assessment and Conservation in Her-
petology, which will take place at the University of
Aveiro Campus, from September 30th to October 4th
2014.Organizing Committee:Isabel Lopes. CESAM,
Univ. Aveiro
Manuel Ortiz-Santaliestra: Univ. Koblenz-Landau
Amadeu Soares: CESAM, Univ. Aveiro Enrique Garc a
Mu noz: CESAM, Univ. Aveiro Miguel ~Angel Car-
retero: CIBIO, Univ. Porto Neftal  Sillero: CICGE,
Univ. Porto S ergio Marques: CESAM, Univ. Aveiro
Eduardo Ferreira: CESAM, Univ. Aveiro
Scientic Committee:
Isabel Lopes: CESAM, Univ. Aveiro Manuel Ortiz-
Santaliestra: Univ. Koblenz-Landau Amadeu Soares:
CESAM, Univ. Aveiro Miguel ~Angel Carretero:
CIBIO, Univ. Porto ~A nigo Mart nez-Solano: CIBIO,
Univ. Porto Neftal  Sillero: CICGE, Univ. Porto
Conrmed Invited Speakers:
Jan W. Arntzen: Naturalis Biodiversity Center Clau-
dia Corti : Univ. Firenze Armando Loureiro: Inst.
Conserva c ~A$o da Natureza e das Florestas Albert
Mart nez-Silvestre: Ctre. Recuperaci o d'Ambis yMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 15
R eptils de Catalunya Rui Rebelo: Univ. Lisboa Xavier
Santos: CIBIO, Univ. Porto Neftal  Sillero : CICGE,
Univ. Porto
We will provide short advanced courses (3 h) to be
taught on September 30th:
- Ecotoxicology of amphibians and reptiles - Modelling
in Herpetology - Scientic illustration in Herpetology
Important deadlines:
Abstract submission: 15 April - 31 July 2014 Regis-
tration deadline (advanced courses & eld trip on last
day): 1 September 2014
Fees:
Up to September 1st: General - 150; Member of
AHE/SPH - 125; Student - 60; Student University of
Aveiro - 35 After September 1st: Corresponding re-
duced fee + 50
For any information or questions contact:
BIO-herpe2014@ua.pt or go visit our website:
herpe2014.web.ua.pt
Emanuele Fasola Msc PhD student at Department of
Biology of Aveiro University (DeBio, Universidade de
Aveiro),CESAM (Centro de EstudoS do Ambiente e
do Mar), applEE (applied Ecology and Ecotoxicology
r&amp;d group).
CESAM webpage: http://www.cesam.ua.pt/-
emanuelefasola Campus Universit ario de Santiago,
Universidade de Aveiro, 3810-193 Aveiro, Portugal.
Mail: emanuele.fasola@ua.pt or vanderfas@alice.it
Member of: Italian Society for Evolutionary Bi-
ology SIBE www.sibe-iseb.it and Member of:
Student Aairs Committee of European Society
for Conservation Biology SCBEuroSAC http://-
scb-students.wikispaces.com/ \vanderfas@alice.it"
<vanderfas@alice.it >
UIllinois UC ArthropodGenomics
Jun12-14
ARTHROPOD GENOMICS 2014
The deadlines for abstract submission and early-bird
registration for the 8th Annual Arthropod Genomics
Symposium are coming up soon! Register and submit
your abstract soon to enjoy the reduced registration
rate and take advantage of this opportunity to present
your work.The schedule of speakers for AGS 2014 is now available
on the website (link below.)
Important Dates:
Friday, April 4, 2014: Deadline to submit Travel Grant
Application for Vector Biologists
Thursday, April 17, 2014: Deadline to submit poster
abstracts
Monday, April 21, 2014: Early-bird registration dead-
line
The 8th Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium will
be held Thursday, June 12 { Saturday, June 14, 2014,
hosted by the Institute for Genomic Biology at the Uni-
versity of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. The link for
conference registration and abstract submission is be-
low. Two speakers for each session of the symposium
will be selected from among the submitted abstracts.
The symposium will feature sessions on the i5k consor-
tium, vector biology, social insects, microbiomes, and
population and comparative genomics. Patricia Wit-
tkopp (University of Michigan) will give the keynote
lecture on the evolution of promoters and gene regula-
tion in /Drosophila/ on Thursday evening. Judy Willis
(University of Georgia) will give a retrospective lecture
on 50 years in insect genomics on Friday evening.
All are also invited to register for a pre-symposium
Epigenomics Workshop to be held on-site on June 12.
To register for the Arthropod Genomics Sympo-
sium or view more information visit: http:/-
/conferences.igb.illinois.edu/arthropod/ Arthropod
Genomics Symposium 2014 <ags@igb.illinois.edu >
UIllinois UC ArthropodGenomics
Jun12-14 Deadline
One week remains to submit abstracts for the 8th An-
nual Arthropod Genomics Symposium! The deadline
for early-bird registration is also coming up fast, on the
following Monday. Register and submit your abstract
soon to enjoy the reduced registration rate and take
advantage of this opportunity to present your work.
The schedule of speakers for AGS 2014 is now available
on the website (link below.)
Important Dates:
Thursday, April 17, 2014: Deadline to submit poster
abstracts16 EvolDir May 1, 2014
Monday, April 21, 2014: Early-bird registration dead-
line
The 8th Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium will
be held Thursday, June 12 Saturday, June 14, 2014,
hosted by the Institute for Genomic Biology at the Uni-
versity of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. The link for
conference registration and abstract submission is be-
low. Two speakers for each session of the symposium
will be selected from among the submitted abstracts.
The symposium will feature sessions on the i5k consor-
tium, vector biology, social insects, microbiomes, and
population and comparative genomics. Patricia Wit-tkopp (University of Michigan) will give the keynote
lecture on the evolution of promoters and gene regula-
tion in /Drosophila/ on Thursday evening. Judy Willis
(University of Georgia) will give a retrospective lecture
on 50 years in insect genomics on Friday evening.
All are also invited to register for a pre-symposium
Epigenomics Workshop to be held on-site on June 12.
To register for the Arthropod Genomics
Symposium or view more information visit:
http://conferences.igb.illinois.edu/arthropod/
ags@igb.illinois.edu
GradStudentPositions
BaylorU EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Bielefeld Vancouver 5 GenomeComputations . . . . . . 17
BoiseStateU MolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
ClarkU AnnelidEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
GLIER UWindsor Salmon Genetics LH Variation . 18
GrithU Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18
Krakow Poland EcoEvo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
LavalU EvolGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
LavalU SystemsBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
LeidenU MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
McGillU HumanPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
MonashU EvolutionaryTheory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21
MonashU EvolutionSexualDimorphism . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
MonashU GenomeConict Ageing SexualSelection . 22
MonashU TelomereEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Sheeld Macroevolution Birds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
SimonFraserU BritishColumbia EvolutionaryBiol . . 23
UAdelaide PlantDomestication AncientDNA . . . . . . 24
UAlaskaFairbanks AvianSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
UEssex EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25UGlasgow VirusEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
UGraz CichlidsEvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
UGuelph SalmonGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
UNeuchatel EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
UNeuchatel Switzerland HostParasiteEvolution . . . . 28
UNevada EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .28
UNevadaReno BioinformaticsGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
UNorthernColorado PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
UPenn Paleobiology Macroevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30
UQuebec Montreal SexualSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
USheeld MathModelling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31
USouthampton WildlifeConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
USouthernMississippi ElasmobranchEvolution . . . . . 32
UtahStateU EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UTulsa Oklahoma EctoparasitePopGenet . . . . . . . . . .33
UWesternAustralia 2 Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
UZurich 2 Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
VictoriaU NZ InvasiveSpeciesEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
WestVirginiaU BobcatEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .36
BaylorU EvolutionaryBiology
The Danley Lab at Baylor University (http://-www.baylor.edu/Patrick Danley) seeks a Ph.D. student
broadly interested in evolutionary biology using East
African cichlid sh as a model system. The exact na-
ture of the research will be developed by the student in
collaboration with Pat Danley though it should relate
to the lab's previous research on sexual selection (mateMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 17
choice, aggression), phylogeography, and speciation.
Applicants with a background in behavioral, phyloge-
netic, and genomic methods are encouraged to apply.
Applicants experienced with R, Perl, and Python are
a plus. Applicants are expected to have completed (or
will soon complete) either a BS/BA or Msc. by the
start of the 14-15 academic year.
The successful applicant will be admitted to the De-
partment of Biology's Ph.D. program which provides 5
years of 12 month stipend ($21,000, plus possible en-
hancements for outstanding students), tuition remis-
sion, and benets.
The Baylor's Department of Biology has an active
graduate community of over 50 students and pos-
sesses strengthens in the areas of integrative organ-
ismal biology and aquatic ecology. Waco, home of
Baylor University, is conveniently located 90 min-
utes from both Dallas and Austin and was recently
ranked as one of America's Awesomest (sic) Cheap
Cities making it a perfect home for would be graduate
students. http://www.wisebread.com/10-of-americas-
awesomest-cheap-cities To apply, please send a cover
letter, CV, unocial transcripts, and GRE scores to
patrick danley@baylor.edu.
Patrick Danley@baylor.edu
Bielefeld Vancouver 5
GenomeComputations
Dear members of evoldir,
5 PhD positions are available within the bilateral
Bielefeld-Vancouver Research Training Group on `Com-
putational methods for the analysis of the diversity and
dynamics of genomes',
http://wiki.techfak.uni-bielefeld.de/didy/-
Announcement/ The individual projects are here:
http://wiki.techfak.uni-bielefeld.de/didy/-
Announcement/Projects2014 Deadline for application
is May 18.
Best regards Ellen Baake Bielefeld
ebaake@techfak.uni-bielefeld.deBoiseStateU MolecularEvolution
PhD opening
The lab of Dr. Eric Hayden at Boise State Univer-
sity is seeking PhD students (and postdocs) to study
the molecular evolution of non-protein-coding RNA
molecules. Research topics include robustness and
evolvability of RNA molecules, empirical RNA tness
landscapes, and experimental evolution of RNA. In
addition to traditional molecular biology techniques,
the research utilizes next-generation sequencing and
provides opportunities for computational biology ap-
proaches. Students are encouraged to develop a project
to match their learning and career objectives. Stu-
dents will enter our interdisciplinary Biomolecular Sci-
ence PhD program designed to oer students the op-
portunity to take classes and conduct research at the
interfaces of Biology, Chemistry and Physics. Mentor-
ing and resources are available from faculty in all three
disciplines. Students and postdocs with an interest in
developing skills around RNA molecular biology and se-
quence analysis/computational approaches are encour-
aged to apply. Previous experience with one of the ap-
proaches is preferred, but exceptional applicants with-
out experience will be considered. PhD students will
be guaranteed funding throughout their PhD based on
a combination of Teaching assistantships and Research
Assistantships. The city of Boise oers a unique com-
bination of a very livable urban environment as well as
access to numerous outdoor experiences, which landed
it as #12 on the Best Places to Live in the U.S.A. (liv-
ability.com).
Please email a brief description of why you are in-
terested in the position and your past experiences to:
erichayden@boisestate.edu
Eric J. Hayden Assistant Professor Biological Sciences
Boise State University Boise, Idaho, USA 83725
*Oce Number*: 208-426-4625 *Oce Fax*: 208-426-
1040
Eric Hayden <erichayden@boisestate.edu >
ClarkU AnnelidEvoDevo18 EvolDir May 1, 2014
The lab of Dr. N eva Meyer at Clark University is look-
ing for a PhD student to study central nervous system
(CNS) evolution using the annelid Capitella teleta. The
molecular mechanisms underlying annelid development
are not well understood and multiple features (phylo-
genetic position, spiral cleavage) make annelids a great
group of animals to study evolution of animal body
plans. Potential research topics include deciphering
the CNS neurogenic gene regulatory network, under-
standing whether or not Capitella has neural stem cells
and if so how these cells are developmentally regulated
(i.e., neurogenesis), and understanding how the dorsal-
ventral axis is specied. In addition to using tradi-
tional techniques in molecular and cellular biology, the
research program is expected to utilize next-generation
sequencing.
Students are encouraged to develop a project that
matches their learning and career objectives and will
enter Clark University's Biology PhD program. Previ-
ous experience in molecular biology is desirable. PhD
students will be guaranteed funding for ve years, with
a possible extension through teaching and research as-
sistantships. Possible start dates are September 2014
or January 2015.
Clark University is a small liberal arts research univer-
sity located in Worcester, MA. Worcester has a nice
combination of urban and outdoor activities and is in
close proximity to a variety of New England destina-
tions.
Please email a brief description of why you are in-
terested in the position and your past experiences to:
nmeyer@clarku.edu
N eva P. Meyer, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Clark Univer-
sity Department of Biology 950 Main Street Worcester,
MA 01610
NMeyer@clarku.edu
GLIER UWindsor Salmon Genetics
LH Variation
Funded Ph.D. position to investigate the genetics of
early life history variation in Pacic salmon (immedi-
ate start)
We are oering an exciting opportunity for an out-
standing doctoral student (preference for Canadian cit-
izen and landed immigrants) to address a question cen-
tral to our understanding of the evolution of life his-tory variation and local adaptation in salmon: does life
history variation reect traditional adaptation to local
conditions, or have salmon evolved novel forms of life
history plasticity? The successful candidate will use
molecular, population, and quantitative genetic meth-
ods combined with captive breeding experiments and
eld-based measurements to partition the relative con-
tribution of genetic, epigenetic, GxE interactions and
environmental eects to early life history trait variation
in Pacic salmon. Your eldwork would take place on
coastal British Columbia, and your lab work would take
place primarily in GLIER's innovative Environmental
Genomics Facility, where you would have hands-on ex-
perience using diverse and cutting edge genetics tech-
nologies such as nano-uidic qRT-PCR and NextGen
RNAseq. You will collaborate with salmon farms, sci-
entists at the Department of Fisheries and Oceans as
well as researchers at government agencies in BC and
Ontario.
Join us at the Great Lakes Institute of Environmen-
tal Research (GLIER) for a unique interdisciplinary
doctoral experience where you will be mentored by
our team of internationally renowned researchers and
have unmatched hands-on access to cutting edge ge-
netics facilities. All inquiries should be directed to
Dr. Daniel Heath, Director of GLIER, at 519-253-3000
x3762 (dheath@uwindsor.ca).
saraj@uwindsor.ca
GrithU Bioinformatics
A Ph.D. scholarship in Bioinformatics is available at
Grith University, Nathan, Australia. We have a world
class Ancient Genomics laboratory and have sequenced
the genomes of ancient penguins, ancient Australians
and the extinct moa. We are looking for an enthusias-
tic student with immense interest in the bioinformat-
ics analysis of next generation sequence data from Illu-
mina, FLX and ion-torrent platforms. The prospective
student could work on one of the following project:
1. Ancient human population genomics
2. Evolutionary genomics of ancient and modern pen-
guins
An honors or master's degree in biological, physical or
computational science is required. Persons with a non-
biology degree should have some basic understanding
of genetics, evolutionMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 19
and molecular biology.
Essential skills include:
[We wouldn't expect a starting PhD student to have
many of these skills, but an ability and desire to learn
them is obviously essential]
Scripting: Perl/Python
Unix command line (particularly to use parallel com-
puting clusters)
Programming: Java/C/C++ (OOPS concept)
Database: maintenance and design;
MySQL/PosgreSQL/SQLite or similar
Familiarity with sequence databases and genome
browsers (eg. NCBI/EMBL/DDBJ, UCSC)
Familiarity with the following software is desirable:
Read mapping: BWA; Bowtie; GSMapper (454); SOAP
De novo assembly: Velvet; SOAP de novo; Newbler
(454)
Assembly summary: Samtools; GATK
Population genetic software: PLINK; EIGENSOFT
For further details please contact Prof. David Lambert
( d.lambert@grith.edu.au)
Regards Sankar
Sankar Subramanian Research Fellow Environmental
Futures Centre Grith University Nathan QLD 4111
Australia
Email: s.subramanian@grith.edu.au Ph: 61-7-
37357495 Fax: 61-7-37357459
Sankar Sankarasubramanian
<s.subramanian@grith.edu.au >
Krakow Poland EcoEvo
Master studies in Ecology and Evolution
EcoEvo is a two year Master of Science programme for
students interested in the functionning and evolution of
the biosphere oered by the Institute of Environmental
Sciences at Jagiellonian University in Krakow,Poland.
The participants will investigate the mechanisms un-
derlying ecological and evolutionary processes and will
develop practical skills related to carrying out research
and conservation projects. They will undertake a range
of multidisciplinary courses (consisting of lectures, sem-inars, laboratory work and eld classes) as well as carry
out group and individual research projects.
Starting date: October 2014
Admission: the application for the programme is a con-
tinuous process; additional application rounds start un-
til there are no more places available or the last appli-
cation round is over. The dates of application rounds
for 2014 are: 19 March V 6 May, 7 May V 24 June, 25
June V 19 August and 20 August V 17 September.
Tuition fees: (1) EU citizens and non-EU citizens with
documented Polish background - no tuition fee; (2) non-
EU citizens V 1st year: $ a 2200, 2nd year: $ a 2000.
For more information see: www.ecoevo.uj.edu.pl
{ { Dr. Zoa Prokop Molecular and Behav-
ioral Ecology Group Jagiellonian University Gronos-
tajowa 7 30-387 Krakow, Poland tel. +48 12 664
5151 e-mail: zoa.prokop@uj.edu.pl *Google Scholar
prole <http://scholar.google.co.nz/citations?user=-
58lKo7IAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao >*
Zoa Prokop <zoa.prokop@uj.edu.pl >
LavalU EvolGenomics
PhD position-Laval University-Ecological Genomics
A four year PhD position in ecological genomics is avail-
able at Laval University. The project will exploit a
new study system we recently developed for the study
of adaptation and ecological speciation using the bud-
ding yeast Saccharomyces paradoxus. The candidate
will use genomic tools (whole-genome sequencing, high-
throughput phenotypic proling, QTL analyses, associ-
ation mapping) to study the molecular bases of pheno-
typic divergence between incipient species and identify
genes involved in hybrid incompatibilities. The project
will combine experimental molecular biology, bioinfor-
matics approaches and possibly eld work.
See recent publications: Leducq et al., Proc Soc B
(2014); Charron et al., FEMS Yeast Research (2014);
Leducq et al., PLoS Genetics (2012); Landry and
Aubin-Horth, Adv Exp Med Biol. (2014); Verta et al.,
Molecular Ecology (2013); Pavey et al., Trends in Ecol-
ogy and Evolution (2012); Fontanillas et al., Molec-
ular Ecology (2010); Brown et al., Molecular Ecol-
ogy (2008); Lynch et al. PNAS (2008); Landry et
al., Molecular Ecology (2006); Landry et al. Heredity
(2007); Landry et al. Science (2007);20 EvolDir May 1, 2014
Applicants must have i) a strong background in evo-
lutionary genetics and/or evolutionary ecology plus a
strong interest for using genomics and bioinformatics
tools and ii) a MSc degree in any relevant eld of the
life sciences.
The Landry laboratory is a dynamic, international and
interdisciplinary research group with broad interests
in integrative biology, systems biology, molecular evo-
lution, bioinformatics and ecological genomics. Laval
University is one of the most important research uni-
versities in Canada and is located in Quebec City, a
lively city with a vibrant culture that oers an excep-
tional quality of life.
Interested applicants should send a CV with a list
of publications and accomplishments, a low-resolution
copy of ocial academic transcripts, a statement of in-
terests (1 page) and the names of three referees in a
single PDF le to Christian.landry@bio.ulaval.ca.
Christian Landry <Christian.Landry@bio.ulaval.ca >
LavalU SystemsBiology
PhD position-Laval University-Systems Biology
A four year PhD position in evolutionary systems bi-
ology is available at Laval University. The project will
be tailored to the candidates interests and will have
to touch upon current research interests of the labora-
tory, which include i) evolution and robustness of pro-
tein interaction networks; ii) evolution of signalling net-
works and crosstalk among posttranslational modica-
tions; iii) gene duplication and the evolution of network
complexity.
See recent publications: Landry et al. Cell (2013); Diss
et al. Cell Reports (2013); Freschi et al. PLoS Ge-
netics (2013); Diss et al. Current Opinion in Biotech-
nology (2013); Freschi et al. Molecular Systems Bi-
ology (2011); Gagnon-Arsenault et al. J Proteomics
(2013); Moses and Landry, Trends in Genetics (2010);
Diss et al. JEZ B (2014); Leducq et al. PLoS Genetics
(2012); Levy et al. Phil Trans Roy Soc (2012); Landry
et al. Trends in Genetics (2009); Tarassov et al. Science
(2008);
Applicants must have i) a strong background in genet-
ics or molecular biology or biochemistry or proteomics
or bioinformatics (or their combination), and an exper-
tise in or a strong interest for evolutionary biology and
ii) a MSc degree in any relevant eld of the life sciences.The Landry laboratory is a dynamic, international and
interdisciplinary research group with broad interests
in integrative biology, systems biology, molecular evo-
lution, bioinformatics and ecological genomics. Laval
University is one of the most important research uni-
versities in Canada and is located in Quebec City, a
lively city with a vibrant culture that oers an excep-
tional quality of life.
Interested applicants should send a CV with a list
of publications and accomplishments, a low-resolution
copy of ocial academic transcripts, a statement of in-
terest (1 page) and the names of three referees in a
single PDF le to Christian.landry@bio.ulaval.ca.
Christian Landry <Christian.Landry@bio.ulaval.ca >
LeidenU MicrobialEvolution
4-year PhD studentship, Microbial Evolution and Ecol-
ogy
Institute of Biology, University of Leiden, The Nether-
lands
A 4-year PhD position in microbial evolution and ecol-
ogy is available at the University of Leiden in The
Netherlands. This NWO funded project, run jointly
by Daniel Rozen and Gilles van Wezel, will study the
evolution and ecology of antibiotic production and re-
sistance in the soil, with the broad aim of understanding
the role of antibiotics in nature. Focusing on the prolic
antibiotic producing genus, Streptomyces, the student
will test the idea that the control of antibiotic produc-
tion and resistance is tied to competitive and social in-
teractions between coexisting bacteria. The project will
integrate methods from microbial and chemical ecology
and use high-end mass spectrometry to identify com-
pounds that modify antibiotic production or resistance.
Interested applicants should ideally have experience in
microbial ecology and a strong background in evolution-
ary biology. Experience with molecular genetics and an
interest in chemical ecology is also desirable.
Applications will reviewed until the position is lled.
Informal enquiries can be addressed to: Daniel
Rozen, Tel: +31 (0)71 527 7990, Email:
d.e.rozen@biology.leidenuniv.nl
d.e.rozen@biology.leidenuniv.nlMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 21
McGillU
HumanPopulationGenomics
Graduate position in mathematical and population ge-
netics
Graduate student positions in mathematical and popu-
lation genetics are available in Simon Gravel's group at
McGill University in Montreal, Canada. The group fo-
cuses on creating mathematical and statistical methods
to understand human history and evolution through the
analysis of high-throughput genomic data. Students
will be involved in conceptual methods development,
implementation, and applications to exciting datasets.
This is unique opportunity to be involved in work that
is relevant and interesting from a mathematical, biolog-
ical, and historical perspectives.
We welcome applications from qualied candidates
from diverse backgrounds, including biology, anthro-
pology, mathematics, physics, computer science, and
related elds.
The position oers an exceptional opportunity for col-
laborative research in a quantitative and theoretical lab
with access to cutting-edge data. McGills Department
of Human Genetics, the Genome Quebec Innovation
Center, and the numerous nearby institutes in down-
town Montreal provide a thriving research environment.
Applications and queries should be sent to
gravellab@gmail.com. Please include a statement
of interest (1 page), a CV with a list of publica-
tions, contact information for three references, and a
low-resolution scan of ocial transcripts.
simon.gravel@gmail.com
MonashU EvolutionaryTheory
An opportunity is available for a PhD student to join
Tim Connallon's research group in the School of Biolog-
ical Sciences at Monash University, in Melbourne, Aus-
tralia. We are seeking creative and motivated students
who wish to carry out original research in evolutionary
theory. Individuals with strong interest in evolutionarybiology, and a background in biology or other relevant
eld (e.g., mathematics, physics, computer science), are
invited to apply. Those with strong quantitative and
computational skills are particularly encouraged.
Specic projects are exible, and may potentially ad-
dress (but are not limited to) topics in: sexual di-
morphism, tness tradeos, the genetics of adaptation,
the maintenance of genetic variation, sex chromosome
evolution, gene duplication, gene expression evolution,
and/or the evolution of genome organization. Research
plans will be developed in collaboration with the suc-
cessful candidate, and tailored to match their individual
interests and strengths.
Successful candidates will be fully funded for 3.5 years,
for full time research, with no teaching requirements.
The annual stipend is approximately $25,000 AUD, tax-
free, and additional expenses for research, coursework,
and conference attendance will also be covered. Both
Australian/NZ domestic and international students are
eligible to apply. Domestic candidates will be invited to
apply for an Australian Postgraduate Award (approxi-
mately $25,000 AUD), with potential for a competitive
top-up scholarship (additional $5,000).
Monash University is a member of Australia's Group
of Eight coalition, and is internationally recognized for
excellence in research and teaching. The School of Bi-
ological Sciences (http://monash.edu/science/about/-
schools/biological-sciences/) is home to a collegial and
interdisciplinary research environment, with strengths
in ecology, genetics and evolutionary biology. Monash
is located in Melbourne, one of the most liveable cities
in the world and a cultural and recreational hub.
To apply, please send a CV, academic transcript, con-
tact details for two academic references, and a brief out-
line of research interests to tmc233@cornell.edu. Infor-
mal inquiries are also welcome at the same address. Ap-
plicants must hold a Bachelor's degree with rst-class
honours, or a master's degree. Review of applications
will begin immediately, and short-listed candidates will
be contacted to set up phone/Skype interviews.
tmc233@cornell.edu
MonashU
EvolutionSexualDimorphism
An opportunity is available for two PhD students to join
Tim Connallon's research group in the School of Biolog-22 EvolDir May 1, 2014
ical Sciences at Monash University, in Melbourne, Aus-
tralia. We are seeking creative and motivated students
who wish to carry out original research on the evolution
of sexual dimorphism. Individuals with a background
in biology or a related eld are invited to apply, and
those with strong quantitative and computational skills
are particularly encouraged. Specic projects are exi-
ble, potentially interdisciplinary, and include opportu-
nities to carry out new research in theoretical, experi-
mental, or computational evolutionary biology. Specic
research plans will be developed in collaboration with
each successful candidate, and tailored to match their
individual interests and strengths.
Successful candidates will be fully funded for 3.5 years,
for full time research, and with no teaching require-
ments. The annual stipend is approximately $25,000
AUD, tax-free, and additional expenses for research,
coursework, and conference attendance (once per year)
will also be covered. Both Australian/NZ domestic
and international students are eligible to apply. Do-
mestic candidates will be invited to apply for an Aus-
tralian Postgraduate Award, with a top-up scholar-
ship awarded to successful recipients (approximately
$25,000 AUD, with top-up of $5000).
Monash University is a member of Australia's Group
of Eight coalition, and is internationally recognized for
excellence in research and teaching. The School of Bi-
ological Sciences (http://monash.edu/science/about/-
schools/biological-sciences/) is home to a collegial and
interdisciplinary research environment, with strengths
in ecology, genetics and evolutionary biology. Monash
is located in Melbourne, one of the most liveable cities
in the world and a cultural and recreational hub.
To apply, please send a CV, academic transcript,
and a brief outline of research interests and goals to
tmc233@cornell.edu. Informal inquiries are also wel-
come at the same address. Applicants must hold a
Bachelor's degree with rst-class honours, or a master's
degree. Review of applications will begin immediately,
and short-listed candidates will be contacted to set up
phone/Skype interviews.
tmc233@cornell.edu
MonashU GenomeConict Ageing
SexualSelection
A PhD position in the eld of evolutionary ecology /
evolutionary genomics is available, for a high achievingstudent, in the research group of Dr Damian Dowling
at Monash University.
The topic of the project can be exible, and discussed
with Dr Dowling in advance of the application. The
successful applicant will have the capacity to develop
their own interests within the general eld of experi-
mental evolutionary biology for the duration of the PhD
candidature. Projects that draw on the following areas
of interest to the Dowling lab, will be particularly en-
couraged:
Evolutionary coadaptation and conict between mito-
chondrial and nuclear genomes
The evolution of ageing
Sexual selection and adaptation
The successful applicant will be familiar with basic evo-
lutionary concepts, understand the core tenets of ex-
perimental design, and have strong quantitative skills.
Some expertise in evolutionary genomics is desirable,
but not essential.
The successful applicant will nominate for a scholar-
ship to cover salary. Students who hold a four year un-
dergraduate degree with strong academic performance,
and a rst-authored publication, stand an excellent
chance of obtaining a scholarship. The tax-free 2014
rate of a scholarship is A$25392.
The position includes funding for international and na-
tional conference visits, and for all research costs.
Monash University is a member of Australia's \Group
of Eight" \ a coalition of research-intensive uni-
versities, and is internationally recognized for its
excellence in research and teaching. The School
of Biological Sciences ( http://monash.edu/science/-
about/schools/biological-sciences/) is home to a col-
legial and world-class research environment, with
key strengths in evolutionary ecology and genomics.
Monash is located in Melbourne, a vibrant cultural
and recreational centre ( http://en.wikipedia.org/-
wiki/World's most livable cities).
The deadline for scholarship applications in the current
round is 31st May 2014.
Interested students should contact
damian.dowling@monash.edu for further informa-
tion, and attach a CV, academic transcript, contact
details of two academic referees, and a brief description
of their research interests.
For further information on these scholarships
and Monash application procedures, please visit
http://monash.edu/science/about/schools/biological-
sciences/postgrad/ For further information onMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 23
the research group of Damian Dowling, http://-
damiandowlinglab.com damian.dowling@monash.edu
MonashU TelomereEvolution
PHD POSITION WITH TOP-UP AWARD: TELOM-
ERE DYNAMICS OF FREE-LIVING FAIRY-WRENS
Organization: Monash University Location: Mel-
bourne, Australia Deadline: 15 April 2014
In my research group in behavioural ecology at Biologi-
cal Sciences, Monash University I have available a PhD
top-up scholarship (a $5000 bonus) for a talented and
motivated PhD student to study telomere dynamics in
fairy-wrens. The student will need to secure a Monash
post-graduate scholarship stipend (and tuition waiver
in the case of international students). The stipends
include all course fees plus ~$25,000 AUD per annum
tax-free, with no teaching requirements, for 3.5 years.
Should the applicant be successful, the funding of top-
up, project costs and research support including the
costs of attending at least one conference will be pro-
vided by the research group.
Requirements: We are looking for enthusiastic student
with a passion for life-history in evolutionary ecology
and for studying wild animals. Experience in molec-
ular genetic techniques and/or advanced quantitative
skills are highly desirable, and experience with eld-
work and/or birds a bonus. Starting date is nego-
tiable. To express interest, contact Dr. Anne Peters
(anne.peters@monash.edu), with a brief CV detailing
relevant experience, an expression of interest and con-
tact details of three referees before 15 April 2014 or
earlier to meet the Monash application deadline of 31
May.
Further details:https://sites.google.com/site/-
petersresearchgroup/
anne.peters@monash.edu
Sheeld Macroevolution Birds
*Understanding evolutionary rates on the avian tree of
life* Keywords: rates of evolution, birds, macroevolu-
tion, phylogeny, morphometrics, plumage colourA fully funded PhD position supported by the Euro-
pean Research Council is available at the University
of Sheeld, in the Department of Animal and Plant
Sciences. The candidate will work under the super-
vision of Gavin Thomas (http://www.shef.ac.uk/aps/-
sta-and-students/acadsta/thomas), and will investi-
gate the rates of phenotypic evolution in birds.
The project is focused on modelling phenotypic evolu-
tion of species traits in birds at broad phylogenetic and
spatial scales. The aims are to test how and why phe-
notypic evolutionary rates vary and to ask how that
variation has shaped both the avian tree of life and
global distributions of species and traits. The success-
ful applicants will join a new research team collecting
novel, high-resolution morphometric data on bird bill
shape using 3D structured white-light digitisation and
plumage colour using visible and UV spectrum digital
photography.
The student will integrate into a thriving department
and will receive training in morphometrics, phyloge-
netic comparative approaches to study macroevolution,
and museum collection based research. Applications
are invited from candidates with interests in macroevo-
lution and collection based research to address ques-
tions in evolutionary biology. Prior experience in R
would be an advantage.
The deadline for applications is 9th May 2014. The
project is open to UK/EU students.
Informal inquiries can be addressed to Gavin Thomas:
gavin.thomas@sheeld.ac.uk
Formal applications should be made using our
online application form: https://www.shef.ac.uk/-
postgradapplication/ and should be accompanied by a
CV and cover letter (max 1 page) explaining your in-
terests in the studentship.
In addition to the above studentship, four postgradu-
ate research assistant <http://goo.gl/A1sudm >and
two postdoctoral research associate <http://goo.gl/-
ZPkrN3 >jobs are available.
Gavin Thomas gavin.thomas@sheeld.ac.uk
SimonFraserU BritishColumbia
EvolutionaryBiol
Opportunities for Graduate Study on Speciation, Eco-
logical Genomics, and Behavior, in Timema walking-24 EvolDir May 1, 2014
sticks. We invite applications for several graduate po-
sitions (MSc or PhD) to join an international team that
uses Timema walking sticks as research systems to ad-
dress several of the primary outstanding questions in
evolutionary biology, ecology and genomics, with em-
phases of questions related to species formation, climate
adaptation, genomics of adaptation, asexuality, mating
systems, and cuticular hydrocarbons. The successful
candidates will be based at Simon Fraser University in
Burnaby, British Columbia, Canada, and conduct eld-
work in southern California. Positions would begin in
Fall 2104, or in early 2015. Candidates who have se-
cured NSERC PGS funding, or other fellowship fund-
ing, are preferred. Please send a CV and letter of inter-
est to Dr. Bernard Crespi, Biosciences, Simon Fraser
University, crespi@sfu.ca
Bernard Crespi <crespi@sfu.ca >
UAdelaide PlantDomestication
AncientDNA
Graduate position: UAde-
laide.PlantDomestication.AncientDNA
PhD scholarships at the Australian Centre for Ancient
DNA, Adelaide, Australia
A PhD position is currently available at the Australian
Centre for Ancient DNA, School of Earth & Environ-
mental Sciences, at the University of Adelaide (http:/-
/www.adelaide.edu.au/acad). The position is open to
both international and domestic students with a strong
academic achievement in either molecular biology, evo-
lutionary and plant biology or Bioinformatics.
Project: The Fertile Crescent region of the Near East
(encompassing Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Turkey, Syria, Jor-
dan, Palestine, Lebanon) was an important region for
the development of human civilisation and agriculture.
Many of the founding crops (such as wheat, barley
and rye) and livestock (cattle, sheep, pigs, etc) were
rst cultivated there. But as crops were selectively
bred for characteristics such as height and yield, many
unique phenotypes and their underlying genomic coun-
terparts were lost over time. Now, as genetic diversity
is extremely reduced in crops like wheat and barley,
breeders are turning to wild cultivars to introduce new
traits to continue to improve agricultural populations.
With the improvement of next-generation genome se-
quencing (NGS) technology and ancient DNA extrac-
tion methodology it is now possible to directly accessancient alleles from 5,000-year-old wheat and barley
seeds, preserved in ancient storage jars buried in a cave
in Armenia. This project a ims to investigate ancient
wheat and barley genomes and identify lost genes and
alleles through comparison with modern breeds.
Experience: This project will ideally suit an enthusi-
astic student who is interested in learning more about
ancient DNA experimental work and Next-Generation
Sequencing (NGS), and investigating the mechanisms
of plant domestication and evolution by using these
unique ancient samples. A good level of molecular bi-
ology is essential, and computational knowledge (espe-
cially in UNIX systems) is desireable.
Competitive scholarships are available via the Uni-
versity of Adelaide Graduate Centre for domestic
(https://www.adelaide.edu.au/graduatecentre/-
scholarships/research/) and international students
(http://www.adelaide.edu.au/graduatecentre/-
scholarships/research-international/opportunities/).
To be eligible for these, applicants should have a 1st
Class Honours or MSc degree and high undergraduate
academic record. Both the Australian Department
of Immigration and University of Adelaide expect
international applicants to meet the English Language
Prociency (ELP) requirements. The ELP is based on
high scores in IELTS (International English Language
Testing System) or TOEFL (Test of English as a
Foreign Language). For further information please
refer to http://international.adelaide.edu.au/apply/-
admission/ . There is the potential for eldwork,
and training in ancient DNA, bioinformatics and
next-generation sequencing. Interested applicants are
encouraged to send a resume and a cover letter to Dr
Jimmy Breen (jimmy.breen@adelaide.edu.au)
jimmy.breen@adelaide.edu.au
UAlaskaFairbanks AvianSpeciation
SEEKING A GRADUATE STUDENT IN AVIAN
SPECIATION, under the supervision of Kevin Winker
at the University of Alaska Fairbanks. Students with
demonstrated lab abilities, decent grades and GRE
scores, experience with museum specimens, and capable
of data analysis and writing are preferred and encour-
aged to apply.
Alaska is a remarkable state in which to study birds.
Situated at the conuence of the Old and New world
avifaunas, and with a deep interglacial history of refu-May 1, 2014 EvolDir 25
gia and the Bering land bridge, Alaska's rich avifauna
provides a fertile ground for avian studies. The Winker
lab is also involved with research in the New and
Old world tropics (see the publications associated with
this lab here: http://kevinwinker.org/). The Univer-
sity of Alaska Fairbanks is renowned for its strengths
in wildlife, ecology, and evolutionary biology research.
Fairbanks itself is a great place to live. Details about
the University, the Museum, and the Department of
Biology and Wildlife can be found at www.uaf.edu,
www.uaf.edu/museum, and www.bw.uaf.edu.
Interested students are invited to send letters of
interest, curriculum vitae (including summaries of
grades and GRE scores), and the names of refer-
ences to: Kevin Winker, University of Alaska Mu-
seum, 907 Yukon Drive, Fairbanks, Alaska 99775-6960,
kevin.winker@alaska.edu.
kswinker@alaska.edu
UEssex EvolutionaryGenomics
3-YEAR FUNDED PhD POSITION ON EVOLU-
TIONARY GENOMICS
TITLE: How the loss of genes has shaped the genome as
we know it SUPERVISOR: Antonio Marco ORGANI-
ZATION: University of Essex LOCATION: Colchester,
United Kingdom DEADLINE: April 30th, 2014
DESCRIPTION: Genomes are the product of a long
evolutionary process. Many genes have multiple copies,
reecting the importance of gene duplication during
genome evolution. The duplication of genes with reg-
ulatory functions has been associate with the devel-
opment of novel functions. However, there is strong
evidence that the loss of gene functions has also in-
uenced the evolution of species. Gene loss is often
associated with redundant functions, but the loss of
non-redundant regulatory genes also happens with rel-
ative frequency. In recent years, the characterization of
novel types of regulatory genes, such as microRNAs or
long-non-coding RNAs, showed that gene loss is much
more important that previously thought. Nevertheless,
gene loss as a driving evolutionary force has not been
systematically explored.
This project aims to understand how gene losses have
shaped genomes. A PhD student will compare the
genomes of related species and characterize which genes
have been lost in specic lineages. The work will fo-cus in transcription factors as well as in other regu-
latory genes such as microRNAs. By analysing the
function, evolutionary age and regulatory connections
of lost genes, we will be able to generate a model of
genome evolution by gene loss. The candidate will be
trained in computational biology / bioinformatics, with
a focus on evolutionary genetics and comparative ge-
nomics. No prior knowledge of computer programming
is required, but the candidate will have the chance to
learn one programming language and state-of-the-art
computational approaches. Depending on the interest
of the student, the project may also involve molecular
genetics in Drosophila melanogaster.
REFERENCES: - Marco A, Ninova M, Ronsaugen M,
Griths-Jones S (2013) Clusters of microRNAs emerge
by new hairpins in existing transcripts. Nucleic Acids
Res, 41:7745-7752. - Marco A (2012) Regulatory RNAs
in the light of Drosophila genomics. Brief Func Ge-
nomics, 11:356-365. - Hahn MW, Han MV, Han S-
G (2007) Gene family evolution across 12 Drosophila
genomes. PLoS Genetics 3:e197.
CAMPUS: The School of Biological Sciences at Univer-
sity of Essex is one of the largest science departments
in the University, with some 52 teaching and academic
sta working in the areas of environmental microbiol-
ogy, plant productivity, biophysics, biochemistry, or-
ganic chemistry, cell/molecular biology and evolution.
This broad-based structure provides for a strong mul-
tidisciplinary environment involving collaboration be-
tween chemists, biochemists and biologists.
Colchester campus is located in Wivenhoe Park, a pic-
turesque and historic 200 acres parkland. The park was
originally landscaped in the eighteenth century and was
painted by celebrated landscape artist John Constable.
The campus is only two miles from the historic centre of
Colchester - England's oldest recorded town, and one
hour from London. It is a vibrant and international
campus, hosting more than 9,000 students from more
than 130 dierent nationalities.
FUNDING: This scholarship will be to the value of
$12,500 per annum plus UK tuition fees.
Apply from the University web page at: http:/-
/www.essex.ac.uk/study/pgr/how toapply/-
default.aspx For any query, please, contact me
at: amarco.bio@gmail.com http://amarco.net { Anto-
nio Marco School of Biological Sciences University of
Essex
Web: http://amarco.net Blog: http://-
eblogution.wordpress.com Twitter: http://-
twitter.com/amarcobio amarco.bio@gmail.com26 EvolDir May 1, 2014
UGlasgow VirusEvolution
PhD Studentship, University of Glasgow
A genomic approach to uncovering the mechanisms
driving host restriction and virulence in louping ill virus
Why particular viruses are able to infect and to cause
disease in some host species but not others are funda-
mental questions that are critical for controlling viral
pathogens. This project aims to uncocver the molec-
ular and evolutionary mechanisms underlying host re-
striction and virulence of louping-ill virus (LIV), one
of several closely related tick-borne aviviruses in Eu-
rope that exhibit high phenotyopic variability: whereas
LIV mainly causes disease in British sheep and grouse,
other LIV strains and related viruses elsewhere in Eu-
rope tend to aect other livestock species or human
hosts. Using a combination of whole genome sequenc-
ing, bioinformatics, in vitro experiments and reverse
genetics the project aims to 1) examine the genome-
wide diversity and evolutionary history of LIV across
its current range; 2) compare the ability of dierent
LIV strains and related virus species for in vitro growth
in a range of host species; 3) to experimentally ver-
ify putative genotype-phenotype relationships through
a reverse genetics system. Through the application of
powerful new technologies and analytic approaches, the
project will provide novel insights about the biology of a
signicant animal pathogen in the UK and advance our
general understanding of the factors governing virus-
host interactions.
This exciting studentship opportunity will draw on ex-
pertise from academics within the University of Glas-
gow and The Moredun Research Institute. The student
will spend an equal percentage of their time at both lo-
cations.
BBSRC WestBio DTP studentships will follow a 4-
year PhD model. The nancial package will include
a 4-year stipend, approved University of Glasgow fees
and a consumables budget per annum. The success-
ful student will participate in the robust MVLS Col-
lege skills training programme throughout their studies.
Please follow URL for further information regarding the
programme structure: http://www.gla.ac.uk/colleges/-
mvls/graduateschool/bbsrcwestbiodtp/ (please note
that this project will not involve the Mini-Project ro-
tations as detailed in the programme structure).Supervisors: Dr Roman Biek, Dr Colin J McInnes, and
Dr Alain Kohl
Stipend: $13,726 per annum (2013/14 rate) Start date:
1 October 2014
Application Deadline: 28 April 2014
For informal enquiries contact the main supervisor (Ro-
man.Biek@glasgow.ac.uk).
Eligibility
This position is restricted to UK and EU nationals who
meet the residence criteria below.
Qualications criteria: Applicants applying for a BB-
SRC WestBio DTP studentship must have obtained, or
be about to obtain, a rst or upper second class UK
honours degree or the equivalent qualications gained
outside the UK, in an appropriate area of science or
technology.
Residence criteria: The BBSRC DTP grant pro-
vides funding for tuition fees and stipend for UK
and *EU nationals that meet all the required eli-
gibility criteria. *Note that EU nationals must be
able to demonstrate that they have resided in the
UK for three years prior to commencing the stu-
dentship. If not, EU nationals are still able to ap-
ply to the programme, but would be eligible to receive
a 'fees only' award. Full qualications and residence
eligibility details are available here: BBSRC Guide
to Studentship Eligibility - http://www.bbsrc.ac.uk/-
web/FILES/Guidelines/studentship eligibility.pdf Ro-
man.Biek@glasgow.ac.uk
UGraz CichlidsEvolutionaryBiology
A four year position as 'University assistant without
doctorate' is available at the Institute of Zoology, Uni-
versity of Graz (Austria), in the group of Kristina Sefc.
Applicants interested in completing a doctoral thesis in
the framework of this position are particularly encour-
aged to apply.
The applicant will join our ongoing research on behav-
ioral ecology and evolutionary biology of cichlid shes,
and is invited to participate in the design of research in
line with his or her specic interests. Applicants must
have a MSc degree in a relevant eld, and be knowl-
edgeable in behavior, ecology and physiology of sh.
Experience or interest in sh keeping is also essential,
as the applicant will be responsible for the managementMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 27
of laboratory sh stocks. Furthermore, experience with
eld work, particularly in tropical aquatic ecosystems,
is a plus, as the position may require the planning and
realization of eld work at Lake Tanganyika.
The position also involves teaching in zoology, evolu-
tionary biology or ecology.
Interested applicants are referred to the University?s
website (http://jobs.uni-graz.at/en/MB/74/99) for in-
formation on the application process. Please con-
tact me if you have any questions (kristina.sefc@uni-
graz.at). The application deadline is May 7, 2014.
Kristina Sefc <kristina.sefc@uni-graz.at >
UGuelph SalmonGenomics
Three graduate student positions that apply informa-
tion from high-density single nucleotide polymorphism
(SNP) chips to Atlantic salmon breeding are available
in Dr. Elizabeth Bouldings laboratory in the Depart-
ment of Integrative Biology at the University of Guelph
in collaboration with Kelly Cove Salmon Ltd. begin-
ning in May or September 2014.
1) Ph.D. or M.Sc. in applied Atlantic salmon dis-
ease genomics/ animal breeding for genetic resistance
in commercial strains of Atlantic salmon. The project
would involve: a. assisting with annual disease trials
in eastern Canada for Infectious salmon anemia (ISA)
and Bacterial kidney disease (BKD); b. extractions of
high molecular weight DNA from n clips using mod-
ern high-throughput techniques; c. quantitative trait
loci (QTL) mapping of ISA and BKD within families of
Atlantic salmon using a custom 11K SNP chip; d. cal-
culation of heritabilities and genetic correlations among
dierent disease/parasite-resistance traits; e. assisting
a research associate with the calculation of genomic
breeding values for the two traits using a proprietary
200 K SNP chip; f. searching the salmon genome for
candidate mutations associated with large amount of
the variance in disease/parasite resistance. Ideal candi-
dates would have a background in several of: bioinfor-
matics, sh diseases, sh physiology, comparative ge-
nomics, molecular laboratory techniques or statistical
animal breeding.
2) M.Sc. in applied Atlantic salmon genomics for
salmon louse resistance in commercial strains of At-
lantic salmon. The project would involve: a. assisting
with annual salmon louse parasite challenges in east-ern Canada; b. extractions of high molecular weight
DNA from n clips from challenges using modern high-
throughput techniques; c. quantitative trait mapping of
salmon lice resistance within families of Atlantic salmon
using a custom 11K SNP chip d. searching the salmon
genome for candidate mutations associated with large
amount of the variance in disease/parasite resistance.
Ideal candidates would have a background in several of:
bioinformatics, sh diseases, sh physiology, compara-
tive genomics, molecular laboratory techniques.
3) M.Sc. in Bioinformatics. Development of new al-
gorithms and R scripts for manipulating data from
high density SNP chips and massive phenotypic trait
les, developing algorithms and scripts to locate
errors in very large pedigrees. Candidates must
meet the admission requirement of the University of
Guelph M.Sc. program in Bioinformatics. http://-
www.bioinf.uoguelph.ca/ Preference will be given to
Canadian citizens or residents. Interested candidates
should send an email to Professor Elizabeth Boulding
boulding@uoguelph.ca with the following attachments,
preferably as pdf les: 1) All their unocial university
and college transcripts 2) a short version of their re-
sume 3) the names, emails and telephone numbers of 3
referees including at least one previous employer.
Elizabeth Grace Boulding Professor University
of Guelph, Ontario Canada Department of Inte-
grative Biology 50 Stone Road East University
of Guelph Guelph, Ontario N1G 2W1 Canada
Email: boulding@uoguelph.ca webpage: http://-
www.uoguelph.ca/ib/people/faculty/boulding.shtml
boulding@uoguelph.ca
UNeuchatel EvolutionaryGenomics
PhD position in plant population genetics available
at the Laboratory of Evolutionary Botany, Univer-
sity of Neuchatel http://www2.unine.ch/cms/lang/-
en/pid/11440 The main objective of this PhD project
is to infer the evolution of selected diploid/polyploid
Aegilops wild wheats in space and time. Dated phylo-
genies will provide a robust framework to address the
comparative phylogeography of their genomes and their
inhabiting transposable elements.
The work combines knowledge from high-throughput
sequencing, genotyping, bioinformatics, population ge-
netics and evolutionary ecology. Field work will be con-
ducted to complement existing data.28 EvolDir May 1, 2014
We seek a highly motivated student with strong inter-
est in evolutionary genomics. Skills in treating large
datasets with varied statistical tools are relevant. The
fellow will interact within a network of researchers and
particularly with Prof. N. Salamin at the University of
Lausanne, and needs to have collaborative abilities.
For more information please contact Christian Parisod
(christian.parisod@unine.ch)
Please send your complete application (letter describing
motivation and ideas for this project, CV incl. publica-
tion list and contact details of at least two references)
as one single pdf to christian.parisod@unine.ch
Application received before April 28th will be given full
consideration. Expected start date is June 1st 2014 or
at earliest convenience thereafter.
Christian Parisod and Fran?ois Felber
Christian Parisod Evolutionary Botany, University
of Neuchatel Rue Emile-Argand 11, 2000 Neuchatel,
Switzerland Phone: +41 (0)32 718 2344, Fax: +41
(0)32 718 3001 e-mail: christian.parisod@unine.ch
http://www2.unine.ch/evobot/page-11460.html
Christian Parisod <christian.parisod@unine.ch >
UNeuchatel Switzerland
HostParasiteEvolution
A 3-year PhD position for the mathematical modelling
of the evolutionary ecology of host-parasite interactions
is available immediately in the group of Jacob Koella
at the University of Neuchatel, Switzerland.
The general research of the group is to integrate evo-
lutionary and ecological thinking into the epidemiology
and control of infectious diseases. We develop the theo-
retical basis of this integration and test empirically as-
sumptions and predictions of the theory, using malaria,
microsporidians and their mosquito hosts as experimen-
tal systems.
The PhD-project will develop mathematical models to
integrate resource ecology with the within-host dynam-
ics of parasite to obtain a better picture of the evo-
lution of the host-parasite interaction. This approach
explicitly takes into account a fundamental, yet largely
neglected, aspect of parasites: that they steal resources
from their host to support their own development. Re-
source ecology thus gives a mechanistic basis of the
host's and the parasite's development. The projectwill be done in close contact with an experimental
project on the same topic, which uses the microsporid-
ian Vavraia culicis and its host, the mosquito Aedes
aegypti as an experimental system
The position requires an independent, enthusiastic, and
scientically curious person with a strong background
(at the level of an MSc) in theoretical evolutionary bi-
ology or applied mathematics and an interest in par-
asitology. The position requires some teaching of un-
dergraduate and graduate biology labs. The generous
salary is in accordance with the standards of the Swiss
National Science Foundation.
Neuchatel is located in the French part of Switzerland
and is an attractive city with a high quality of life. The
city is situated on the shore of Lake Neuch^ atel with the
Jura Mountains to the North and a view of the Bernese
Alps to the South. For outdoors enthusiasts, this is
an excellent area for outdoor activities such as hiking,
climbing or skiing.
To apply, send a 1-2 page cover letter (in English) in-
dicating research interests, your CV, and the names
and email addresses of two referees by email to:
jkoella@gmail.com
Applications will be considered until the position is
lled.
Jacob Koella
Institut de Biologie Universit e de Neuch^ atel rue Emile-
Argand 11 2000 Neuch^ atel Switzerland
jkoella@gmail.com
UNevada EvolutionaryBiology
The Parchman lab in the Biology Department at the
University of Nevada, Reno is recruiting PhD students
for Fall 2014 or Spring 2015. Most research in the lab
utilizes high throughput DNA sequencing approaches
to address questions involving landscape genomic varia-
tion, the genetic basis of adaptation, speciation and hy-
bridization, and other general questions involving pop-
ulation genetic analysis of geographic, genomic, and
phenotypic variation in natural populations. The re-
search typically aims to address questions of both eco-
logical and evolutionary signicance in natural popula-
tions, and focuses on a diverse array of organisms. You
can read more about research in the lab at: http://-
wolfweb.unr.edu/~tparchman/Home.html . I am look-May 1, 2014 EvolDir 29
ing for students broadly interested in evolutionary biol-
ogy, evolutionary ecology, population genetics and ge-
nomics, and/or computational approaches for genomic
analysis. Ideal applicants would have experience in ba-
sic laboratory genetics approaches for population ge-
netics and some familiarity with programming in R,
Perl, and Unix based systems. Potential research top-
ics for PhD students include landscape genomic vari-
ation in conifers, population genomic analysis of hy-
brid zones, and population genomic variation across the
adaptive radiation of crossbills. This list serves only
as an example, and students interested in alternative,
but related research topics are encouraged to apply.
UNR has a strong interdisciplinary PhD program in
Ecology, Evolution, and Conservation Biology (http:/-
/environment.unr.edu/eecb/). Graduate students ac-
cepted into the EECB program are guaranteed nancial
support through Teaching Assistantships (TAs) which
includes health insurance and an out-of-state tuition
waiver. In addition, funds are available to seed doc-
toral dissertation projects, for example through paying
for high throughput sequencing costs.
University of Nevada, Reno (UNR) is Tier I research
university located in a spectacular environment at the
conuence of the Great Basin and the Sierra Nevada
Mountains. The faculty and graduate students at UNR
are highly interactive and include an internationally
known group of evolutionary biologists and ecologists.
A complete renovation of the Parchman lab has just
been nished, and we are now equipped with ample
(and new) molecular and computational resources for
modern genome sequence analysis. We are also lo-
cated in an ideal setting for eld-based projects in the
Great Basin and Sierra Nevada regions, allowing envi-
able access to spectacular montane and desert ecosys-
tems. Reno is only 45 minutes from Lake Tahoe, oers
a high quality of living, an excellent climate, and is a
large enough city to oer diverse activities and ameni-
ties. World class rock climbing, skiing, and mountain
biking opportunities are in extremely close proximity.
Those interested should contact me at tparch-
man@unr.edu with a description of your interests, qual-
ications and preliminary application materials (CV,
GRE scores, names and contact information for three
references).
Thomas L. Parchman Assistant Professor Department
of Biology, MS 314 University of Nevada, Reno Max
Fleishman Agriculture Building 1664 N. Virginia Street
Reno, NV 89557-0314 tparchman@unr.edu
Thomas L Parchman <tparchman@unr.edu >UNevadaReno
BioinformaticsGenomics
GRADUATE STUDENT POSITIONS IN BIOINFOR-
MATICS AND GENOME EVOLUTION AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA, RENO
The new Bioinformatics and Genome Evolution lab at
the University of Nevada, Reno, is accepting applica-
tions for Ph.D. students with a strong interest in bioin-
formatics and molecular evolution.
Research areas in the lab include the evolution of molec-
ular pathways and networks (e.g., protein-protein inter-
action networks, metabolic pathways/networks, signal
transduction pathways/networks, etc.), and organisms
genomic adaptation to dierent temperatures.
More information on the lab can be found at
www.genomeevol.wordpress.com The ideal candidates
have: - A strong commitment to high-quality re-
search. - A strong interest in Molecular Evolution.
- Experience with bioinformatics analyses, including
programming in any scripting language (e.g. PERL
or Python). - Good communication skills. - Good
interpersonal skills. - The requirements to be ac-
cepted in the graduate program, listed here: http:/-
/environment.unr.edu/eecb/apply/index.html Infor-
mal applications should be addressed to Dr. David
Alvarez-Ponce (david.alvarez.ponce@gmail.com) as a
single PDF, including: - An application letter, address-
ing the applicants motivation for the position, and how
her/his experience and skills fulll the requirements
listed above. - A full CV. - Contact information for
3 potential referees.
The University of Nevada, Reno oers an interactive
and productive research environment, including out-
standing core facilities in proteomics, genomics, and
bioinformatics. The Biology Department has a grow-
ing evolutionary genomics research community. Reno
is located in the Sierra Nevada mountains near Lake
Tahoe, and has been recently rated as one of the best
small cities in the US for outdoor recreation and overall
quality of life.
Please circulate this post among suitable candidates.
david.alvarez.ponce@gmail.com30 EvolDir May 1, 2014
UNorthernColorado PlantEvolution
Graduate positions (MS or PhD) in Plant Evolution in
the lab of Dr. Mitchell McGlaughlin, School of Biolog-
ical Sciences, University of Northern Colorado.
I am seeking MS or PhD students interested in the pop-
ulation genetics, conservation, speciation, and phylo-
geography of plant species. Research is my lab is fo-
cused on using population genetics to understand plant
speciation and to inform the conservation of rare and
endangered taxa. We employ a wide range of genetic
data types, including low copy nuclear sequence, chloro-
plast sequence, nuclear microsatellite, and next genera-
tion sequence data. Current research projects include,
phylogeography of the California Channel Islands, an-
cestral polymorphism in Acmispon, hybridization in
endangered Sclerocactus, and conservation genetic re-
search with several native Colorado taxa. Doctoral stu-
dents are encouraged to develop projects within the
scope of research in my lab and masters students can
develop their own projects or work on research already
initiated in the lab. Funding is available to support
graduate students through teaching and research assis-
tantships. I am looking for stu dents to start in Fall
2014 or Spring 2015.
For more information please visit my lab website:
http://www.unco.edu/mcglaughlinlab/ or the depart-
ment website: http://www.unco.edu/nhs/biology/-
index.htm The University of Northern Colorado is a
public institution with about 11,000 undergraduate and
1,500 graduate students, located in Greeley, Colorado.
Greeley is situated 50 miles northeast of Denver and
20 miles east of the Rockies, with easy access to Rocky
Mountain National Park and other outdoor activities.
Interested applicants should send a letter of in-
terest and CV to Dr. Mitchell McGlaughlin
(Mitchell.mcglaughlin@unco.edu). To apply, stu-
dents will need to submit a complete application to
the UNC School of Biology (http://www.unco.edu/-
nhs/biology/students/gradapp-instructions.html)
and Graduate School (http://www.unco.edu/grad/-
index.html). There is no xed application deadline.
Applications are reviewed when they are received.
{ Mitchell McGlaughlin, Ph.D. Associate Professor
School of Biological Sciences 501 20th Street, Ross Hall
1560 University of Northern Colorado Greeley, CO
80639 970-351-2139 Mitchell.Mcglaughlin@unco.eduhttp://www.unco.edu/mcglaughlinlab
Mitchell.McGlaughlin@unco.edu
UPenn Paleobiology Macroevolution
PhD Fellowship in Paleobiology/Paleontology at the
University of Pennsylvania
A PhD fellowship in Paleobiology is available in the
Department of Earth and Environmental Science at
the University of Pennsylvania. Prof. Lauren Sallan
seeks a graduate student to address major paleobiolog-
ical questions, such as how global change has aected
life over time, how life evolves at high levels (macroevo-
lution), and the origins of living biodiversity. Specic
topics include, but are not limited to: the causes and
consequences of the end-Devonian mass extinction and
similar events, the role of predation in setting marine
biodiversity, the origins of $B!H(Bliving fossils,$B!I(B
the eect of the Late Paleozoic Ice Age on the evolution
of major groups, and early vertebrate evolution. The
student can also develop a new project that address the
same major questions using quantitative, phylogenetic
and descriptive methods. While research in the lab has
focused on shes, any suitable and well-preserved group
of fossil animals may be used.
Interested students should contact Prof. Sallan di-
rectly (laurensallan@gmail.com; arriving at Penn in
July 2014) for details.
Lauren Sallan, PhD Assistant Professor, Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology & Michigan Fellow, Michi-
gan Society of Fellows University of Michigan Of-
ce: 1076 Ruthven Museums Bldg Phone: (954) 895-
9192 or (734) 764-7797 Websites: www.lsa.umich.edu/-
directory/faculty/lsallan www.LaurenSallan.com Lau-
ren Sallan <lsallan@umich.edu >
UQuebec Montreal SexualSelection
Graduate Research in Sexual Selection and Ecological
Immunology
Funded PhD and MSc positions are available under the
supervision of Dr. Clint Kelly at the Universit e du
Qu ebec  a Montr eal (http://thekellylab.wordpress.com)May 1, 2014 EvolDir 31
beginning August 2014. I am seeking motivated stu-
dents to study questions related to sexual selection in-
cluding, but not limited to, 1) alternative mating strate-
gies in New Zealand tree weta (funded by Canada Re-
search Chairs Program); or 2) the physiological and
reproductive costs of investment in immunity in in-
sects (funded by NSERC). My lab uses an empirical ap-
proach in the eld and laboratory to examine a broad
set of topics in behavioural and evolutionary ecology
and we employ a variety of techniques and procedures
to address research questions, including: molecular
genotyping, immunological assays, phylogenetic com-
parative studies, geometric morphometrics and meta-
analysis. The Kelly Lab belongs to the large, research-
active D epartement des Sciences Biologiques at UQAM
(http://bio.uqam.ca). If interested in pursuing a grad-
uate degree in the Kelly Lab please send a brief de-
scription of your research interests and a CV to clintd-
kelly@icloud.com.
clintdkelly@icloud.com
USheeld MathModelling
http://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=54179&LID=1381 Thanks,
James
Mathematical modelling of key transitions in social in-
sect systems
Our research is about trying to understand the func-
tioning of biological systems through the use of mathe-
matical models. Dr Childs is a population biologist who
develops data-driven models to understand population
dynamics and natural selection. Dr Marshall is a com-
putational biologist with interests in social evolution
and social insect behaviour. We have been awarded a
studentship to facilitate a new collaboration. Research
pursued by the student may address any topic that lies
at the interface of our interests, though we are partic-
ularly interested in the following two questions:
1) Can we detect critical transitions in social insect sys-
tems? Ecologists have become increasingly interested in
using ideas from nonlinear dynamics to forecast quali-
tative changes in the behaviour of natural communities
(e.g. via critical slowing down). Using this framework,
we would like to develop methods to forecast the oc-
currence of economically important phenomena in so-
cial insect systems (e.g. colony collapse disorder). 2)What inuences the evolutionary stability of unicolo-
nial ant species? Some ant species form huge unicolo-
nial populations. The existence of such supercolonies is
surprising: since the relatedness of individuals within
them is nearly zero, kin selection theory predicts they
should be evolutionarily unstable. We would like to de-
velop models to explore the demographic and ecological
factors that favour such colonies in evolutionary time.
The studentship is fully funded and open to residents of
the UK/EU. We are looking for students with a strong
background in mathematics, physics, or computer sci-
ence. Contact Dr Childs for further information.
James A. R. Marshall Behavioural and Evolutionary
Theory Lab Department of Computer Science and
Kroto Research Institute University of Sheeld http:/-
/stawww.dcs.shef.ac.uk/people/J.Marshall/ James
Marshall <James.Marshall@sheeld.ac.uk >
USouthampton
WildlifeConservation
This MRes in Wildlife Conservation is a collaborative
programme, run jointly by the Centre for Biological Sci-
ences at the University of Southampton and Marwell
Wildlife, an action-oriented conservation organisation
based at nearby Marwell zoo. The ultimate aim of the
MRes is to produce individuals who have skills, experi-
ence and academic credentials required for employment
as conservation biologists. We believe there shouldn't
be a choice between gaining experience or a qualica-
tion, this MRes allows you to achieve both.
The taught element of the course, including a eld
trip to Kenya, runs from October to January, with
the extended research project running from February
to September. Candidates must select their preferred
project are upon application.
For more details on the course and how to apply, please
visit our course website http://southampton.ac.uk/-
wildlifeconservation Best wishes,
Judith
Dr Judith Lock Centre for Biological Sciences, Life
Sciences B85, University of Southampton, Southamp-
ton SO17 1BJ Tel: 02380594312 Twitter: @Ju-
dith Lock MRes Wildlife Conservation, Joint Pro-
gramme Manager http://www.southampton.ac.uk/-
wildlifeconservation J.E.Lock@soton.ac.uk32 EvolDir May 1, 2014
USouthernMississippi
ElasmobranchEvolution
Salary: $19,200 - $19,800; tuition waiver Two MS Grad-
uate Assistantships in the laboratories of Drs. Andrew
Evans and Jay Grimes at the University of Southern
Mississippi Gulf Coast Research Laboratory are avail-
able beginning in Fall 2014. Selected students will par-
ticipate in a collaborative research project characteriz-
ing the elasmobranch microbiome and potential inter-
actions between bacteria and their elasmobranch hosts.
The project will include tissue collection, 16S rRNA
gene sequencing and bioinformatics, bacterial culture
and uorescence in-situ hybridization. Successful ap-
plicants will participate in project design, data collec-
tion and analysis, and will develop an independent line
of research for their MS thesis.
Applicants should have a B.S. in biology, microbiology,
physiology or a closely related eld and a strong de-
sire to study elasmobranch physiology, microbiology,
bioinformatics, molecular biology and/or microbial-
vertebrate symbiotic relationships. Preference will be
given to applicants with experience in one or more
of the following areas: culture-based and non-culture-
based (e.g. microbiomics, PCR/qPCR) methods for the
identication of bacteria associated with tissues and or-
gans, uorescence in-situ hybridization or immunohis-
tochemistry, and elasmobranch physiology/molecular
biology. Minimum academic qualications include a
GPA of 3.0 and verbal and quantitative GRE scores
in the upper 50th percentile.
Please send to andrew.n.evans@usm.edu, preferably as
a single .pdf document: 1. Cover letter highlighting in-
terest and qualications 2. CV including GRE scores
(unocial OK) 3. Unocial transcripts
Andrew N. Evans Assistant Professor Dept. of Coastal
Sciences University of Southern Mississippi 703 East
Beach Drive Ocean Springs, MS 39564 (228) 872-4298
Andrew Evans <andrew.n.evans@usm.edu >
UtahStateU EvolutionaryGeneticsThe Gompert lab at Utah State University (Depart-
ment of Biology) is recruiting PhD students for Fall
2014 or Spring 2015. In our research we seek to bet-
ter understand adaptation, speciation, and the deter-
minants of genetic and phenotypic variation in na-
ture. We work with a variety of organisms and
use diverse approaches to investigate these topics.
Most projects in the lab involve generating large,
genome-scale DNA sequence data and applying ex-
isting or new statistical analyses to these data to
test alternative hypotheses. You can read more
about research in the Gompert lab here, https://-
gompertlab.wordpress.com/research/ . We are looking
for students broadly interested in evolutionary genetics,
genomics, or computational biology, and students with
academic training in biology, statistics or applied math,
or computer science are encouraged to apply. Potential
research topics for these PhD students include (i) uc-
tuating selection and the maintenance of genetic vari-
ation in the wild, (ii) adaptation from standing varia-
tion in phytophagous insects, (iii) polygenic adaptation,
(iv) hybridization and speciation, (v) the repeatability
and predictability of evolution, and (vi) computational
analyses of genome sequence variation. This is not an
exhaustive list and students interested in alternative,
but related research topics are also encouraged to ap-
ply. You can learn more about my expectations for
graduate students and my mentoring approach here,
https://gompertlab.wordpress.com/join-us/ . Gradu-
ate students accepted into the lab are provided nan-
cial support through Teaching Assistantships (TAs) or
Research Assistantships (RAs). Interested students are
also strongly encouraged to apply for graduate research
fellowships, such as the National Science Foundation
Graduate Research Fellowship. Importantly, students
are eligible to apply for this and other fellowships in
their nal year as undergraduates. Additional funding
exists for graduate student research and travel to sci-
entic meetings.
Utah State University (USU) is a rst-class research
university located in the US Rocky Mountains. The
faculty and graduate students at USU are highly inter-
active and include a great and diverse group of evolu-
tionary biologists. The Gompert lab has ample com-
putational and molecular resources for modern genome
sequence analysis. We are also well-equipped for eld
work and lab or eld experiments. Logan is a small
town in northern Utah with a strong sense of commu-
nity. The town is just minutes from great opportuni-
ties for outdoor recreation including mountain biking,
rock climbing, cross-country and downhill skiing, and
back-packing. Logan is also within a few hours of sev-
eral national parks, major ski resorts, and world famousMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 33
slickrock mountain biking.
Interested students are encouraged to e-mail me
(zach.gompert@usu.edu). Please include a short de-
scription of your academic background and research in-
terests and your CV. Please contact me by May 10th
for full consideration. USU and the Gompert lab are
committed to providing equal educational and employ-
ment opportunities regardless of race, color, religion,
sex, sexual orientation, national origin, socio-economic
background, age, disability, or veteran status.
Zach Gompert Assistant Professor
Department of Biology Utah State University
Phone: 435 797-9463 e-mail: zach.gompert@usu.edu
Website: https://gompertlab.wordpress.com/
zachariah.gompert@aggiemail.usu.edu
UTulsa Oklahoma
EctoparasitePopGenet
Graduate research opportunity to study ectoparasite
population genetics and metapopulation dynamics. De-
partment of Biological Sciences - University of Tulsa
A graduate student at the M.S. or Ph.D level is sought
to work with Drs. Charles Brown and Warren Booth
in the Department of Biological Sciences at The Uni-
versity of Tulsa, Oklahoma. The successful applicant
will develop a thesis research project focused on the
metapopulation dynamics and population structure of
swallow bugs (Oeciacus vicarius: Cimicidae), a disease
vectoring ectoparasite of cli swallows (Petrochelidon
pyrrhonota). The PIs have amassed a large collection
of swallow bugs from cli swallow colonies varying in
size, geographic location, and patterns of occupation,
and have recently identied hundreds of microsatel-
lite markers specically for swallow bugs using next-
generation sequencing. The work will draw on a long-
term (32-year) study on social behavior and reproduc-
tive ecology of cli swallows in western Nebraska.
The study aims to examine the following objectives:
nest delity and dispersal patterns, inbreeding dynam-
ics, metapopulation structure and population dieren-
tiation; relationships between host and parasite genetic
structure and diversity; and the potential of blood-fed
bugs as indirect indicators of cli swallow demography
and social structure. Additionally, the student may ex-
plore the evolution of extreme phenotypes exhibited by
the study species through comparative transcriptomicmethods.
Applicants for this position should have a strong
background in population genetics, molecular ecology,
evolutionary biology, or ecology, be willing to under-
take seasonal eld research at the study site in western
Nebraska, and meet the admission requirements for the
Department of Biological Sciences graduate program.
(http://www.utulsa.edu/academics/colleges/college-
of-engineering-and-natural-sciences/departments-and-
schools/Department-of-Biological-Science.aspx)
Applications should include the following: 1) A letter
of interest (not exceeding two pages). 2) A curricu-
lum vitae. 3) Names and email addresses for at least
three academics/researchers willing to provide a letter
of recommendation 4) Copies of undergraduate/post-
graduate transcripts 5) Electronic copies of published
manuscripts, if any.
For more information about this opportunity, con-
tact Drs. Brown (charles-brown@utulsa.edu) or Booth
(warren-booth@utulsa.edu). Anticipated start date is
mid-August 2014.
Additional information regarding our research can be
found at our current departmental webpages: Brown
- http://www.utulsa.edu/academics/colleges/college-
of-engineering-and-natural-sciences/departments-
and-schools/Department-of-Biological-Science/Our-
Faculty-and-Sta/B/Charles-Brown.aspx Booth
- www.booth-lab.org <http://www.utulsa.edu/-
academics/colleges/college-of-engineering-and-natural-
sciences/departments-and-schools/Department-
of-Biological-Science/Our-Faculty-and-Sta/B/-
Warren%20Booth.aspx >
Dr. Warren Booth Assistant Professor of Molecular
Ecology Department of Biological Sciences University
of Tulsa 315 Oliphant Hall Tulsa, OK 74104
Tel. (918) 631-3421 - Oce (918) 631-3136
- Lab Web site < http://www.utulsa.edu/-
academics/colleges/college-of-engineering-and-natural-
sciences/departments-and-schools/Department-
of-Biological-Science/Our-Faculty-and-Sta/B/-
Warren%20Booth.aspx >- TU academic Lab website
<http://www.booth-lab.org/ >
\Booth, Warren" <warren-booth@utulsa.edu >
UWesternAustralia 2 Biodiversity34 EvolDir May 1, 2014
Two PhD opportunities: Marine and terrestrial inver-
tebrate diversity and evolution in the Pilbara region,
Australia
The Western Australian Museum has secured funding
from the Net Conservation Benets fund (NCB) to un-
dertake a ve year project on the Conservation Sys-
tematics of the western Pilbara fauna. In this project
we are using molecular tools to provide a systematic
framework for understanding the diversity, evolution-
ary relationships, and distributions of marine and ter-
restrial fauna in the Pilbara region. Included under
this broad objective are specic questions pertaining to
evolutionary history, understanding the drivers of speci-
ation, species delimitation, phylogeography, taxonomy,
and co-speciation.
This project has funding to support two PhD projects
that broadly align with the NCB project objectives.
The PhD projects will be aimed at using molecu-
lar markers to investigate biodiversity in invertebrates
from the Pilbara region, and surrounds. One project
will focus on marine invertebrates (eg, sponges, soft
corals, nudibranchs, crinoids, or other groups) and the
other will focus on terrestrial invertebrates (eg, trap-
door spiders, opiliones, millipedes, or other arachnid or
insect groups). The PhD students will be enrolled in the
School of Animal Biology at the University of Western
Australia, and based jointly at the new Molecular Sys-
tematics Unit laboratory, Western Australian Museum,
Welshpool, Perth, where the successful applicants will
have the opportunity to work directly with specialists
in these elds. The specic project aims, questions, de-
sign and methods will be developed collaboratively by
the students and supervisors.
The work will include opportunities for eld work in
the Pilbara region, and lab costs will be generously sup-
ported by the NCB project.
Currently, this opportunity is open to domestic stu-
dents (Australia and New Zealand). Although the
position is fully funded, students will be expected to
put in an application for an Australian Postgraduate
Award (APA or University Postgraduate Award
(UPA) ( http://www.scholarships.uwa.edu.au/-
search?sc view=1&id=341&page=1&q=-
Australian+Postgraduate+Award&s=1&old key=0)
through UWA. The NCB funding will provide an
additional top-up scholarship of $5k per year, bringing
the total stipend to approx. $34k per year (tax free).
Any international student should contact personnel
below.
Applications open 2 June, and close 11 July for
a 1 Aug 2014 start. However, we encourageany applicants to contact us and begin discussions
as soon as possible. Those interested in marine
invertebrates should contact Nerida Wilson (Ner-
ida.Wilson@museum.wa.gov.au) and cc Jason Kenning-
ton ( jason.kennington@uwa.edu.au). Those interested
in terrestrial invertebrates should contact Joel Huey
(Joel.Huey@museum.wa.gov.au) and cc Raphael Did-
ham (raphael.didham@uwa.edu.au).
hueyjoel@gmail.com
UZurich 2 Biodiversity
The Altermatt lab at the Institute of Evolutionary Bi-
ology and Environmental Studies (IEE) of University
of Zurich and the Department of Aquatic Ecology of
Eawag, Switzerland, has a vacancy for:
Two PhD Studentships in Ecology
Project title: Bridging biodiversity and ecosystem func-
tioning in dendritic networks: a meta-ecosystem per-
spective
Understanding the causes and consequences of biodi-
versity is among the most challenging goals in ecol-
ogy. Recent results indicate a generally positive ef-
fect of diversity on ecosystem processes. Up to now,
almost all work on biodiversity-ecosystem functioning
has been conducted in a non-spatial, one-patch per-
spective. Natural ecosystems, however, are spatially
explicit, and there is substantial ow of material and
organisms among patches and ecosystems. This project
aims at applying the concept of meta-ecosystems to em-
pirical data in spatially explicit dendritic networks.
In a project including two complementing PhD theses
and a Postdoc fellow, we will use a laboratory protist
microcosm system to experimentally test interacting ef-
fects of habitat network structure and ecosystem func-
tioning (PhD Project 1). We will extend these ndings
to mesocosm experiments and large-scale eld stud-
ies with amphipods to study ecosystem functioning in
Swiss river networks (PhD Project 2). Finally, we will
synthesize the ndings. In the whole project, diversity
and ecosystem functioning will be studied in spatially
explicit dendritic networks in a highly consistent frame-
work. Ultimately, we want to get a comprehensive un-
derstanding of biodiversity and ecosystem functioning
in riverine systems.
Competitive applicants will have previous experience in
ecology, biodiversity and spatial dynamics and be in-May 1, 2014 EvolDir 35
terested in participating in this extensive new research
project. They will be highly motivated, enthusiastic
and independent persons with a passion for science.
Candidates should have a good conceptual understand-
ing of ecological theory, excellent experimental skills
and/or a background in quantitative modeling. Excel-
lent communication and writing skills in English, good
work ethics, and creative thinking are desired. A Mas-
ters level degree (or equivalent) in Ecology or related
subject is necessary for admission. The working lan-
guage in the Altermatt lab is English.
The Altermatt lab has a shared base at University of
Zurich and at Eawag. It oers a stimulating and inter-
national research environment, excellent research facil-
ities and a lively and social working place. Zurich hosts
many other research groups in ecology and biodiver-
sity research, and is among the world's leading cities in
terms of science, culture and quality of life. The posi-
tions will be for a period of three years, and could start
in August 2014 or soon thereafter. The PhD students
will be enrolled at University of Zurich and be part of
the PhD Program in Ecology.
The project is nanced by the Swiss National Science
Foundation (SNSF Research Professorship to Florian
Altermatt from August 2014 onwards).
For further information, consult
http://homepages.eawag.ch/ ~ alterm/Home.html
http://www.ieu.uzh.ch/index.html www.eawag.ch or
directly contact Dr. Florian Altermatt: Tel: +41 58
765 55 92, E-mail: orian.altermatt@eawag.ch
Applications must be submitted by 10th May 2014 and
should include a motivation letter with a description of
pertinent experience, a complete CV (incl. publication
list), the names (with e-mail addresses) of three aca-
demic references, and copies of certicates of academic
qualications. The application should be submitted as
one single pdf-le.
We look forward to receiving your application through
the online application form at:
http://internet1.reine.ch/673277/0267/-
++publications++/1/index.html Any other way
of applying will not be considered.
orian.altermatt@eawag.ch
VictoriaU NZ InvasiveSpeciesEvolPhD Position for 2014 (3 years) at Victoria University
of Wellington
Do human actions select for traits that promote inva-
siveness in animals?
*Project Description: * Are humans driving the evo-
lution of invasive species to our own detriment? Hu-
mans unwittingly and routinely transport invasive ani-
mals and plants around the globe. We hypothesise that
this process leads to selection for behavioural traits that
enhance invasiveness. The proposed project will test
this hypothesis with the Argentine ant, which is listed
among the world's worst invasive species, and consid-
ered the 'Genghis Khan' of the ant world. The project
will study populations from the native and introduced
range to assess if: 1) variation in novelty-seeking be-
haviour exists among populations of ants; 2) this varia-
tion in behaviour has a molecular basis; 3) humans have
exerted selection pressure on this behaviour; and 4)
novelty-seeking promotes invasiveness. The project will
combine surveys of ecological communities, behavioural
experiments, studies of population genetics, and gene
and neurochemical expression. The scale of this analy-
sis - from genes to communities, across four continents
- is novel and integrative. This novel research will elu-
cidate an underlying mechanism of how evolution and
ecology interact to facilitate invasion success.
*The Ideal Candidate:* The ideal candidate will pos-
sess experience and ability with molecular genetics tech-
niques, ecology, and statistics. In addition they will be
motivated and organized, with a demonstrated capacity
to master the broad skill set necessary for the success-
ful completion of a research project. The candidate
will be enrolled at Victoria University of Wellington in
New Zealand, co-supervised by Dr. Monica Gruber and
Prof. Phil Lester. Students will also spend time sam-
pling and undertaking experiments in Argentina, Cal-
ifornia and Australia. Our national and international
team of world-class researchers includes Prof. Alison
Mercer (University of Otago), Prof. Gene Robinson
and Assoc. Prof. Andy Suarez (University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign), Dr. Dave Chapple (Monash Uni-
versity) and Dr. Ben Homann (CSIRO Darwin). The
project oers a tremendous opportunity to undertake
research with world-leaders.
*Eligibility and funding:* This opportunity is open to
all nationalities. However, candidates must satisfy the
English Language Requirements of the University to
be eligible for study, and New Zealand criteria for PhD
entry. See http://www.victoria.ac.nz/fgr. The project
has sucient funds for travel, consumables, and inter-
national conference attendance. Students will be en-
couraged to seek funding for personal support and fees36 EvolDir May 1, 2014
through a Victoria University Postgraduate Scholar-
ship.
*How to Apply:* Interested applicants are encouraged
to make informal enquiries to Dr. Monica Gruber.
Please send your Curriculum Vitae, a copy of your aca-
demic transcript, a sample of your written scientic
work and the names of three referees with a covering let-
ter to: Dr Monica Gruber (monica.gruber@vuw.ac.nz)
Applications will remain open until the position is lled.
It would be desirable if the successful applicant were
able to start in mid-late 2014. Dates will be exible for
the ideal candidate.
Monica Gruber Post-doctoral Research Fellow School
of Biological Sciences Victoria University of Wellington
PO Box 600, Wellington 6140 New Zealand ph: +64 4
463 5026 / 027 658 9903
Monica.Gruber@vuw.ac.nz
WestVirginiaU BobcatEvolution
Ph.D. Graduate Research Assistantship -
Bobcat Molecular Ecology, Division of Forestry and
Natural Resources, Wildlife and Fisheries Resources
Program, West Virginia University
STARTING DATE: August 2014 or negotiable.
CLOSING DATE: Position is open until lled and
pending nal approval of funding.
DESCRIPTION: Student will be supported by 12-
month Research Assistantship for 4 years.
Biological data on bobcats in West Virginia have not
been updated since the late 1970s. Improved data are
needed to update the harvest models due to increas-
ing pelt prices and harvest demand, changing habitat
quality and abundance, and unreliable harvest data.The student will coordinate with West Virginia Divi-
sion of Natural Resources personnel to: 1) coordinate
statewide hair snare sampling protocol for bobcats; 2)
collect genetic data to use in estimating the popula-
tion and identify potential migration barriers in the
landscape; 3) estimate and compare relative abundance
of bobcats among ecological regions in West Virginia;
4) rene and or verify the existing bobcat population
model to evaluate and determine the bobcat popula-
tion and use in conjunction with harvest data to evalu-
ate potential changes in bag limits; and 5) collaborate
with an MS student who will obtain productivity, age,
and condition data that will contribute to the popu-
lation model. The student will be working toward a
Ph.D. in Forest Resources Science with an emphasis in
Wildlife and Fisheries Resources at West Virginia Uni-
versity (http://wildlife.wvu.edu/).
QUALIFICATIONS: B.S. and M.S. in Wildlife, Ecol-
ogy, Genetics, or closely related eld. Minimum GPA
of 3.0 and combined quantitative/verbal GRE scores of
300 ( ~1,100 old scoring system). A strong interest in
population genetics, predator ecology, and modeling is
required.
STIPEND: $19,848/year plus health insurance and
complete tuition waiver.
CONTACT: Student will be co-advised by Dr. James
T. Anderson and Dr. Amy Welsh. Interested in-
dividuals should send a letter of interest, resume, a
500-word statement of purpose (why do you want
to work on this project, your research interests,
and long-term career goals), unocial copy of tran-
scripts and GRE scores, and contact information
for 3 references to jim.anderson@mail.wvu.edu and
amy.welsh@mail.wvu.edu
Amy B. Welsh, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Wildlife
and Fishery Resources Program West Virginia Uni-
versity P.O. Box 6125 Morgantown, WV 26506
Phone: 304-293-0718 Oce: 311B Percival Hall
Website: http://wildgenomics.forestry.wvu.edu Amy
Welsh <Amy.Welsh@mail.wvu.edu >
JobsMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 37
Bergen Norway EvolutionaryVertebrateZoology . . . .37
Bergen Norway SystematicBotany . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
CanadianParks Edmonton ConservationManager . . 38
Cornell LabManager AvianGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
CSIRO Canberra FruitFlyControl . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
ImperialCollege London ResTech PollinatorEvolution
41
KORA Switzerland FieldAssist LynxPredation . . . . 41
MelbourneU FieldAssist Fairywren . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
MNHN Paris InsectAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
NorthCarolina MuseumNS Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . .43
Peru FieldAssist ButterySpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
RiceU HuxleyFellow Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
SmithsonianInst DNALabTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44SunYetSenU 6 EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
TrinityU Texas ResTech LizardEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 45
UBern EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .45
UHaifa EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .46
UHull Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .46
UOslo EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Uppsala Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .48
Uppsala Sweden Bioinformatician . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
USussex FieldAssist SpainWasps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
UVienna LabTechAssistant PopGenomics . . . . . . . . . 50
UVirginia ResTech EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . 51
UWashington ViralEvolutionSocialNetworks . . . . . . . 51
Vienna ResearchGroupLeader . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Bergen Norway
EvolutionaryVertebrateZoology
Associate Professor in Vertebrate Zoology
(anatomy/evolution) A permanent position as as-
sociate professor in vertebrate zoology is open at the
University Museum of Bergen, the Natural History
Collections (http://www.uib.no/universitymuseum).
We are seeking a researcher within vertebrate zoology
with special competence in vertebrate skeletal morphol-
ogy (osteology). The successful applicant should also
have competence in one or several of the new scientic
methods; i.e. isotopes, trace elements or DNA and be
able to apply these in research on modern as well as
sub-fossil skeletal material. The comprehensive collec-
tions of skeletal material from prehistory and present
time are important data for research within faunal-
and environmental history, morphological adaptation
or evolutionary relationships. The successful applicant
is expected to document research at international level
in zoology/osteology at in least one of these methods.
He/she is supposed to work within faunal- and environ-
mental history.
The position is connected to the osteology collections.
The University Museum of Bergen hold two comprehen-
sive collections of vertebrate skeletons; one recent col-
lection of c.15000 specimens (sh, amphibians, reptiles,
birds and mammals) from Norway and a national col-
lection of sub-fossil bones, mainly from the post glacial
and from archaeological excavations. The successful ap-
plicant will have scientic responsibility for the modern
skeletal collection. He/she is expected to participate in
developing the collections through own research, butalso by national and international cooperation as well
as improvement of databases and home pages. The suc-
cessful applicant is also expected to participate in teach-
ing and in the development of zoological exhibitions at
the University museum.
A more detailed description of the position and infor-
mation about necessary documentation which must be
enclosed in the application can be found further down
on this page. Additional information can be obtained
from the head of the Natural History Collections, asso-
ciate professor Kari Loe Hjelle, phone (+47) 55583323
/ e-mail kari.hjelle@um.uib.no.
http://www.jobbnorge.no/en/available-jobs/job/-
101820/associate-professor-in-vertebrate-zoology
Bjarte Henry Jordal <Bjarte.Jordal@um.uib.no >
Bergen Norway SystematicBotany
Associate Professor in Systematic Botany A permanent
position as associate professor in systematic botany is
open at the University Museum of Bergen, the Nat-
ural History Collections (DNS),(http://www.uib.no/-
universitymuseum).
We are seeking an active researcher focusing on plant
evolution, who has expertise in systematics of vascular
plants and phylogenetics. Relevant elds of research are
evolutionary relationships, taxonomy and species diver-
sity of vascular plants, and evolutionary processes gen-
erating biodiversity. Applicants must be able to docu-
ment research with international standards within one
or more of these elds.
This position entails the scientic responsibility for a38 EvolDir May 1, 2014
botanic garden that is more than a century old; the
Museum Garden. The successful applicant will also be
scientically responsible for the botanical exhibitions
at the museum, and will take part in the development
of new natural history exhibitions which are currently
being planned. He or she will also be expected to take
part in the teaching of botany at UiB.
A more detailed description of the position and infor-
mation about necessary documentation which must be
enclosed in the application can be found further down
on this page. Additional information can be obtained
from the head of the Natural History Collections, asso-
ciate professor Kari Loe Hjelle, phone (+47) 55583323
/ e-mail kari.hjelle@um.uib.no.
http://www.jobbnorge.no/en/available-jobs/job/-
101821/associate-professor-in-systematic-botany
Bjarte Henry Jordal <Bjarte.Jordal@um.uib.no >
CanadianParks Edmonton
ConservationManager
The Canadian Parks and Wildness Society in Edmon-
ton is seeking a conservation manager to head up their
operations in Northern Alberta, please see below:
Exceptional Opportunity to Lead an Alberta Conser-
vation Organization CPAWS Northern Alberta - Con-
servation Manager/Executive Director
The Canadian Parks and Wilderness Society, Northern
Alberta chapter (CPAWS NAB) is seeking a dynamic,
results-oriented individual to provide strategic leader-
ship to the chapter. This position reports directly to
the chapter's Board of Directors and has a strong con-
servation focus in its daily work. The chapter is explor-
ing two dierent operational models for this position.
Only one of the two positions will be hired based on
the qualications of the 'best t' candidate.
1. Full-time Conservation Manager Candidate has a
minimum of 3-4 years of progressively responsible expe-
rience, a strong conservation background, proven lead-
ership and communication skills, some experience with
strategic planning and fund development, and the po-
tential to grow into an Executive Director role over
time. In this model, the Board will work with the Con-
servation Manager to develop targeted skill-gaps. Ap-
plicant's related work experience should not be limited
to summer/co-op term positions.
2. Part-time Executive Director (3-4 days/week) Can-didate has 5-7 plus years of leadership experience, a
strong conservation and strategic planning background,
and proven experience with fund development, stake-
holder and media relations, and the non-prot sector
(management-oriented preferred).
Position Focus Areas The Board will work with the
right candidate to shape the position to the candidate's
strengths in relation to the organization's gaps and a
manageable workload. The nal job description, po-
sition expectations, and operational model will be de-
termined once the position is lled in consultation with
the best candidate. CPAWS NAB is small chapter with
limited administrative and sta support requirements
for the leadership position. 1. Providing vision and
strategic leadership to achieve CPAWS NAB's conser-
vation goals. 2. Ensuring that CPAWS NAB is an
inuential voice on conservation and parks in Northern
Alberta. 3. Representing the organization in multi-
stakeholder discussions and to the public, government,
and other stakeholders as needed. 4. Working within
existing organizational structures and nancial frame-
works to guide day-to-day operations. 5. Supervising
and leading the organization's small contract sta and
working with the Board to ensure volunteers remain
engaged in key support roles and Board-lead commit-
tees. 6. Supporting the chapter's fund development and
outreach eorts (led by the Board's Fund Development
and Outreach/Special Events committees) 7. Fostering
strong relationships within the CPAWS Pan-Canadian
Network particularly with the Southern Alberta Chap-
ter and the National oce.
Desired skill-sets for both operational models: The
Board recognizes the level and depth of experience with
the targeted skill sets will dier between the two oper-
ational models under consideration. . University de-
gree in a conservation or environmental planning re-
lated eld or equivalent related work experience. .
Knowledge and experience working with environmen-
tal issues, in particular those regarding conservation,
the boreal forest, and parks. . A demonstrated passion
for wilderness and conservation. . Leadership expe-
rience, including experience working with and leading
teams. . An understanding of the public policy and
political process in Alberta and Canada. . Strategic
planning experience and a capacity to understand and
respect the often contrasting needs of the various stake-
holders . Successful history of working with stakehold-
ers and partner organizations and building networks.
. Excellent verbal and written communications skills
. Assets include experience with GIS, media relations,
and working with First Nations.
About the Organization CPAWS NAB is a well-
established, conservation group that engages with gov-May 1, 2014 EvolDir 39
ernments, industry, and the Canadian public, and is
the pre-eminent voice for protecting wilderness and
biodiversity in the northern two-thirds of Alberta.
The ED will work collaboratively with the Board,
sta, key volunteers, the CPAWS national network,
and other key stakeholders to achieve our conserva-
tion goals. For more information on our chapter visit:
www.cpawsnab.org . About Edmonton If you are pas-
sionate about wilderness, then Edmonton is the city for
you! The city boasts the longest connected urban park-
land in North America, oering up over 97 km of trails
for biking, hiking, skiing and running. Elk Island Na-
tional Park is less than an hour away, and weekend trips
to the Rocky Mountain parks are a must. Edmonton
has fantastic
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Cornell LabManager
AvianGenomics
The following position is available in the Evolutionary
Biology Program at the Cornell Lab of Ornithology. It
is currently posted through April 30, 2014 on the Jobs
at Cornell web page at https://cornellu.taleo.net/-
careersection/10164/jobdetail.ftl?lang=en&job=23382
Lab Manager-23382
Research Support Specialist I - Band E Lab of Ornithol-
ogy, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Cornell
University
The Cornell Lab of Ornithology is the world's leading
resource for conservation, research, education, and citi-
zen science focused on birds. The Lab is a vibrant unit
within Cornell's College of Agriculture and Life Sci-
ences (CALS), where twelve world-class, mission-driven
programs are directed by full-time faculty and other
professionals. Lab sta teach undergraduate courses,
advise graduate students, collect and disseminate dig-
ital resources on biodiversity, and engage with part-
ner organizations and citizens around the world to con-
duct scientic research and conservation actions. Our
management and sta are committed to the highest
standards of ethics and excellence in all areas of our
work, and our Board leadership includes faculty from
Cornell and other universities, successful leaders andmanagers from the business and non-prot sectors, and
conservation-minded citizens from the United States
and beyond.
The Fuller Evolutionary Biology Program at the Lab of
Ornithology is currently seeking a Lab Manager. Du-
ties include:
* Provide high level technical oversight for an animal
molecular genomics laboratory that supports research
on a broad variety of organisms and topics using a di-
verse array of traditional and next- generation tech-
nologies. * Oversee the work of the lab's large re-
search community of students, postdoctoral scholars,
aliated faculty, and visiting researchers (25-30 peo-
ple in total at any given time, with high turn-over
among visiting aliates). * Train and subsequent inde-
pendent oversight of students and other lab users (in-
cluding novices) learning traditional and next- gener-
ation molecular lab skills, including DNA extraction,
PCR amplication, microsatellite and SNP analysis,
and DNA sequencing. * Provide equivalent training of
lab users in project design and implementation skills.
* Provide oversight of lab users in the design, trou-
bleshooting, and implementation of projects using next
generation genetic/genomic tools, potentially includ-
ing GBS, ddRAD, high throughput SNP genotyping,
Illumina sequencing, transcriptome analysis, and sim-
ilar approaches. * Independently generate and ana-
lyze next-generation genomic datasets in support of lab-
wide research projects. * Manage all day-to-day labo-
ratory operations and infrastructure. * Oversee and en-
sure long-term security of data and sample archives, in-
cluding an extensive collection of 30,000+ genomic and
tissue samples. * Ensure that laboratory and its users
meet all standard laboratory safety guidelines. * Pur-
sue independent research and publications using avian
genetics.
Applicants to provide cover letter, resume, contact in-
formation for 3 references
Required Qualications:
* Bachelor's degree in a biology-related eld. * 2-3
years of experience in a molecular biology laboratory. *
Mastery of routine methods in molecular biology such
as DNA sequencing and extraction and PCR ampli-
cation. * Ability to prepare reports and analyses for
presentation to others. * Must be personable, exi-
ble, possess excellent organizational and communica-
tion skills and take pride in their work. * Ability to
develop eective working relationships and maintain
positive working relationships within a diverse labora-
tory group. * Visual concentration, attention to de-
tail and manual dexterity required. * Must be able to
work independently as well as in a team environment.40 EvolDir May 1, 2014
* Ability to respond eectively in an environment in
which priorities change. * Must exercise sound and eth-
ical judgment when acting on behalf of the University.
* Experience using some combination of next genera-
tion genetic/genomic tools such as GBS, ddRAD, SNP
genotyping, Illumina sequencing, transcriptome analy-
sis, and similar approaches. * Prior supervision expe-
rience. * Prior experience with budgets and nancial
transactions.
Preferred Qualications:
* Advanced degree in a relevant area and research expe-
rience relevant to genetic/genomic studies of any group
of organisms. * Previous laboratory management ex-
perience strongly preferred. * Applicants to be adept
at both traditional and next-generation molecular lab-
oratory and analysis skills, including current
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
CSIRO Canberra FruitFlyControl
Applications are invited for an indenite (perma-
nent) Research Scientist position in molecular biol-
ogy/functional genomics based at CSIRO Ecosystem
Sciences, Canberra, Australia. We are seeking an early
to mid-career scientist with an interest in investigating
the functional and molecular basis for ecologically rele-
vant traits using knockouts and gene expression analy-
sis. This role will join the Ecological and Evolutionary
Genomics team, and will in the rst instance work to
develop RNAi (gene silencing) methods to improve the
Sterile Insect Technique (SIT) to control Queensland
Fruit Fly as part of a recently-established Australian
consortium (SIT-Plus). We are seeking an enthusias-
tic, innovative and highly independent scientist with a
PhD in molecular biology or functional genomics.
As a Research Scientist, your role will be to design,
perform, analyse and communicate results of molecu-
lar biology and functional genomics experiments. You
will critically evaluate, develop, and improve methods
for RNAi gene silencing and targeted mutagenesis (eg.
CRISPR, TALEN) in invertebrates, including design
and implementation of new methods if required. You
will work collaboratively with internal and external col-laborators to develop and implement an RNAi-based
approach to the Sterile Insect Technique (SIT) to con-
trol Queensland Fruit Fly.
Specically you will:
1) Lead the development of novel approaches that use
gene silencing to control invertebrate pests.
2) Generate novel theoretical perspectives by pursuing
new ideas and approaches and networking with scien-
tic colleagues across a range of disciplines and organ-
isations.
3) Under broad supervision, undertake planning and
preparation of research proposals and carry out investi-
gations requiring originality, creativity and innovation.
4) Communicate ndings through seminars, research
reports and publication in high-impact international
journals.
5) Help build CSIRO's research reputation for inte-
grated and multi- disciplinary science related to under-
standing ecosystem services.
6) Initiate new research projects aiming to identify the
genetic basis of ecologically relevant traits in inverte-
brates.
7) Work eectively as part of a research team to eec-
tively meet project milestones, and supervise technical
sta and students.
Location: Canberra, Australia Term: Inde-
nite/Ongoing Reference Number: ACT14/00974
Salary: AU$92k - AU$100k plus up to 15.4% super
CSIRO Ecosystem Sciences (CES) is a globally signi-
cant centre for sustainability science. The Division ap-
plies multidisciplinary science to help ensure the sus-
tainability of Australia's agricultural and forestry sys-
tems, built environments, biodiversity, and rural and
urban communities and industries. The Evolutionary
Biology Program houses the molecular biology, bio-
chemistry, microbiology, analytical chemistry, phylo-
genetics, and genomics capability in CES. The pro-
gram aims to document Australia's terrestrial fauna
through recognition of species and their distributions,
and through the interpretation of their evolutionary ori-
gins. The Program examines how Australia's biodiver-
sity has been shaped by evolution, and takes inspira-
tion from evolutionary processes to develop genomics
and bio-inspired technologies.
http://www.csiro.au/Organisation-Structure/-
Divisions/Ecosystem-Sciences/Evolutionary-
Biology.aspx How to Apply for this Job:
To view the position description or to apply online,
please visit the following link:May 1, 2014 EvolDir 41
http://csiro.nga.net.au/?jati=3Dc23cca95-3647-d52a-
ea14-7fb6949f1cde Applications close May 25th
2014
DrOwain Edwards Program Leader jEvolutionary Bi-
ology Principal Research Scientist CSIRO Ecosystem
Sciences Underwood Avenue, Floreat WA 6014 jClu-
nies Ross St, Canberra, ACT 2601
Phone: +6189333 6401 (Perth) j+6126246
4514 (Canberra) jMobile: 0438877 180
owain.edwards@csiro.au
Owain.Edwards@csiro.au
ImperialCollege London ResTech
PollinatorEvolution
[Imperial College London] <http://www.jobs.ac.uk/-
employer/imperial-college-london >
Research Technician Imperial College London -
Department of Life Sciences
Faculty of Natural Sciences
Salary scale: ^A$25,370 - ^A$28,040 per annum (maxi-
mum starting salary ^A$25,370)
A Research Technician position is available in the re-
search group of Dr Richard Gill to support research
looking into the eects of environmental stressors on
insect pollinators. The post holder will be based in
the Department of Life Sciences at the Silwood Park
Campus (near Ascot in Berkshire) of Imperial College
London and will become an active member of the Grand
Challenges in Ecosystems and Environment initiative
(http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/-
ecosystemsandenvironment/grandchallenges).
A substantial part of the Research Technician's role will
be to support a recently funded NERC project looking
at the behavioural and molecular responses to pesti-
cide exposure in bees. You will also be expected to
assist in the running of the Gill Research Laboratory.
The postholder will take part in leading edge research
which will include novel, interesting and important axes
of research.
The main duties of the role will include the collection,
preparation, processing and storage of bees, plants and
chemicals. You will also be expected to assist with the
running of manipulation experiments and data collec-
tion and be involved with bee and plant husbandry.You will provide assistance in the laboratory to the re-
search group and assist with presentation of results to
the group, collaborators, and to the research commu-
nity in general. You may also be expected to prepare
molecular samples such as DNA and RNA extractions
and associated optimisation methods.
You must have 2 A-levels in relevant subjects, or equiv-
alent vocational qualications, plus work experience,
preferably in a relevant technical/scientic role. Proven
experience in assisting to carry out scientic research in
a laboratory and/or eld setting, aided with observa-
tions of animal behaviour, and experience in providing
support for analyses of large data are essential. You
must also have experience in collection, preparation,
processing and/or storage of animal and plant speci-
mens and a background in a similar work environment.
You should have a methodical approach to your work,
good interpersonal and organisational skills, and be
able to communicate well within a research group. You
will be expected to organise and prioritise your work in
response to deadlines, while paying close attention to
detail.
This is a xed-term appointment available for up to 24
months on a full-time basis or up to 36 months on a
part-time basis.
Informal enquiries should be directed to Dr Richard Gill
at r.gill@imperial.ac.uk.
The preferred method of application is online via
our website http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/employment
(please select \Job Search" then enter the job title or
vacancy reference number including spaces - NS 2014
049 JT - into \Keywords"). Please complete and up-
load an application form as directed.
Alternatively, if you are unable to apply on-
line, please contact Christine Short by email
c.j.short@imperial.ac.uk, to request an application
form.
Closing date: 30 April 2014 (midnight BST)
\Gill, Richard J" <r.gill@imperial.ac.uk >
KORA Switzerland FieldAssist
LynxPredation
Internship:** Lynx Predation Project** Short title:**
Predation of Eurasian lynx in the Northwestern Swiss
Alps42 EvolDir May 1, 2014
**Abstract:** Eurasian lynx are specialised preda-
tors of medium sized ungulates such as roe deer and
chamois. The KORA research group (Carnivore Ecol-
ogy and Wildlife Management) cooperates with the
?Rehprojekt im Simmental? of the University of Zurich
in order to better understand the evolution and dynam-
ics of predator-prey relationships.
**Tasks:** The following topics will be addressed:
functional responses, dierences in hunting strategy be-
tween males and females, use of kills, zones of high risk
for prey.
Field assistant will help with on-going eld work, or-
ganization and data management. Field Tasks will in-
clude localization of lynx kills with handheld GPS, iden-
tication of species, age and sex of prey, measurements
of kill site characteristics. Oce tasks include organiza-
tion of daily work, data entry and reporting to ocials.
**Data: **source Data gathered in the eld, existing
predation data from KORA
**Time scale:** Continuous eldwork from Mai to Au-
gust 2014 (dates negotiable)
**Funding:** No salary (possibly BNF internship or
civil service), eld expenses are covered
**Job prole:** You need a driver?s license, good phys-
ical condition and the ability to judge risks and your
own limits. The terrain can be steep and dangerous.
Skills in reading maps, mountaineering or hiking are of
high advantage. Spoken skills in German or French are
necessary to communicate with local people. Field days
are long and unpredictable; you should have a place to
stay in Bern.
It is also possible to combine the internship with a
Bachelor or Master Thesis.
**Contact:** Kristina Vogt k.vogt@kora.ch
Kristina Vogt <k.vogt@kora.ch >
MelbourneU FieldAssist Fairywren
We are looking for eld assistants to help monitor a
colour-banded population of superb fairy-wrens near
Melbourne, Australia for a study on animal personali-
ties.
Time period: start late August or October 2014, n-
ish January 2015 (4-5 months, with mist-netting till
end September and nest searching and monitoring Oct-Jan).
Duties include regular censusing of colour-banded birds,
searching for and monitoring nests, mist-netting, be-
havioural observations, video analysis, and data proof-
ing. Working days are long, with early starts six days a
week. Enthusiasm, self-motivation, and a strong work
ethic are a must. The study is based at Serendip Sanc-
tuary, a small reserve on the outskirts of Melbourne.
Qualications: experience monitoring colour-banded
birds, nest-searching, and mist-netting. Must also be
early riser, physically t, able to work in extreme
weather conditions, and enjoy basic shared living con-
ditions. Onsite accommodation in a house with shared
dorm-style room is provided, but assistants cover travel
to the site and their own food costs. The project will re-
imburse up to AU$500/mo towards receipted food and
travel expenses.
For more information contact: Timon van As-
ten (t.vanastenATstudent.unimelb.edu.au). To apply,
please email a letter outlining previous relevant eld
research experience, and a resume including names and
contact information for 3 referees.
timonv@student.unimelb.edu.au
MNHN Paris InsectAdaptation
Dear Evoldirians,
A lecturer position is opened at the National Museum
of Natural History (MNHN) in Paris, France, to
work on adaptations, speciation and diversication
in Insects. The lecturer will be in charge of curating
the Lepidoptera collection of the MNHN. Details
(in French only, sorry!) are found here (position
n4112). https://www.galaxie.enseignementsup-
recherche.gouv.fr/ensup/ListesPostesPublies/-
Emplois publies Museum TrieParCorps.html Please
note that EU applicants must already have the 'quali-
cation pour les fonctions de maitre de conf erence' to
be eligible. Non-EU applicants do not need this.
Marianne Elias CNRS Researcher UMR 7205 - CNRS
Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle 45 rue Buf-
fon, CP50, 75005 Paris phone: +33 1 40 79
37 90 http://www.mnhn.fr/oseb/elias-marianne,279
melias2008@gmail.comMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 43
NorthCarolina MuseumNS
Biodiversity
North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences: Assistant
Director, Biodiversity Research Lab
Division Information: This position is located in
Raleigh, North Carolina at the NC Museum of Natu-
ral Sciences, an award-winning major institution with a
prominent State-wide, national and international pro-
le. This key position works in the Biodiversity Re-
search Laboratory, a unit within the Museum's Re-
search & Collections section.
Description of Work: The goal of this position is to de-
velop a research and science communication program
in a biodiversity-related eld. This position has three
primary areas of responsibility: 1. Development of orig-
inal scientic research programs in biodiversity, ani-
mal movement, spatial ecology, urban ecology, or re-
lated elds; research programs may have local, regional,
and/or international focus and will include pursuit of
external research funding, data generation and analy-
ses, and publication/dissemination of results; some as-
pects of this research should be suitable for display in
the Biodiversity Lab (which is on-exhibit at the Mu-
seum) and, ideally will include collaborations with lo-
cal universities and citizen scientists. 2. Operational
management and administration of the Biodiversity Re-
search Laboratory in the Nature Research Center wing
of the NC Museum of Natural Sciences, including super-
vision of laboratory with oversight of equipment, bud-
gets, personnel, research programs, and volunteer pro-
grams. 3. Participation in science communication ini-
tiatives, including participation in Museum educational
programming, delivering public science-based presen-
tations, interacting with Museum visitors, serving as a
role model for students and citizen scientists, and creat-
ing programmatic themes that raise the science literacy
of visitors.
Applications due: May 31, 2014
For more information and application instructions,
please see: http://tinyurl.com/kodm4ye Jason R.
Cryan, Ph.D. Deputy Museum Director, Research &
Collections North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences
11 W. Jones Street Raleigh, NC 27601
Phone: (919) 707-9933 Fax: (919) 715-2614
email: jason.cryan@naturalsciences.org MuseumWebsite: www.naturalsciences.org Research Web-
site: www.planthopper.com \Cryan, Jason R"
<Jason.Cryan@naturalsciences.org >
Peru FieldAssist ButterySpeciation
A eld assistant is required to help with research on
speciation in Heliconius butteries. We are studying
the genetic basis of traits causing reproductive isola-
tion between a pair of recently diverged sister species (
http://www.york.ac.uk/res/dasmahapatra/). The eld
assistant will help to collect data for QTL mapping of
the genomic regions involved in the production of colour
patterns, pheromones and host plant choice.
The eld assistant will be required from June - Decem-
ber 2014, but the exact dates are exible and shorter
time periods could be considered. The assistant will
work with a postdoctoral researcher in Tarapoto, Peru
(a medium sized town at the Amazonian/Andean eco-
tone). The eld assistant's primary tasks will be to
help run experiments on captive populations of butter-
ies and to collect wild butteries to supplement cap-
tive stocks. The eld assistant will develop an excellent
practical knowledge of Heliconius butteries and their
host plants (Passioraceae). S/he will improve his/her
understanding of evolutionary ecology and genetics, be
actively involved in experimental design, preliminary
data analysis, and likely gain co-authorship on a pub-
lished study. The project will provide excellent prepa-
ration for a PhD on tropical biodiversity.
The eld assistant's return airfare to Peru and accom-
modation will be covered, in addition to a small stipend
for food and basic living costs.
Applicants should hold an undergraduate or Master's
degree in Life Sciences with an interest in Evolutionary
Biology, and have a passion for natural history and bio-
diversity. The successful applicant will need to be inde-
pendent and comfortable in a culturally challenging en-
vironment. Spanish language skills are highly desirable
but not essential. Latin Americans are particularly en-
couraged to apply. Interested candidates should write
to Neil Rosser (neil.rosser@york.ac.uk) before 1st May
2014.
neil.rosser@york.ac.uk44 EvolDir May 1, 2014
RiceU HuxleyFellow Evolution
HUXLEY FELLOW in ECOLOGY & EVOLUTION:
The Ecology and Evolutionary Biology department
of Rice University (http://eeb.rice.edu/) seeks to ll
a Huxley Fellow position in ECOLOGY or EVOLU-
TION. The position is a two-year appointment with
a third year extension possible, with a start date of
July 1, 2014. Our prestigious Huxley Fellow Program
aims to recruit outstanding researchers with a PhD
and postdoctoral experience, who merge excellence in
teaching (25%) and research (75%). The Huxley Fel-
lows receive faculty status, employee benets, compet-
itive salary, and research funds for independent or col-
laborative research. Collaborative interests with the
existing faculty are a plus and applicants are encour-
aged to identify a potential faculty host(s) within the
EEB department. An application (curriculum vitae,
statement of research interests and statement of teach-
ing) and three letters of recommendation should be
submitted via e-mail to Diane Hatton, rdh@rice.edu.
Please write \Huxley Fellow Application" in the sub-
ject line. Application review will begin May, 9, 2014.
For further questions and informal inquiries please con-
tact Dr. Volker Rudolf (vr2@rice.edu), Huxley Fellow
Search Committee Chair. Rice University is an Equal
Opportunity/Armative Action Employer and values a
diverse faculty. Women and minorities are encouraged
to apply.
Diane Hatton
Project Coordinator
Dept of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
Rice University
Diane Hatton <rdh@rice.edu >
SmithsonianInst DNALabTech
Laboratory Technician - Smithsonian Institution
Center for Conservation and Evolutionary Genetics,
Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute, and Di-
vision of Mammals, Department of Vertebrate Zoology,
National Museum of Natural History.We are recruiting at least one technician to conduct
DNA analyses in the laboratory at the Center for Con-
servation and Evolutionary Genetics Laboratory, lo-
cated at the National Zoo in Washington, DC. The
selected individual will be involved in projects on
African mammals, their pathogens and associated vec-
tors, with Drs. Kris Helgen (NMNH), Hillary Young
(UCSB/NMNH), Jesus Maldonado (SCBI/NMNH)
and Rob Fleischer (SCBI).
The position will include the use of basic DNA skills
(DNA extraction, PCR and standard DNA sequenc-
ing), next-generation sequencing (454 and Illumina) li-
brary preparation, ancient DNA, and other molecular
methods as required. The work will include pathogen
diagnostics, host and vector DNA barcoding, and an-
cient population genetics.
The position is available initially for 18 months and will
begin as soon as possible following the deadline, ideally
by 1 June 2013.
Minimum qualication is a bachelor's degree in biol-
ogy or similar eld, or an equivalent combination of
education or experience. Demonstrated laboratory ex-
perience in one or more of the above areas are required.
To apply, email Rob Fleischer (eischerr@si.edu) and
Kris Helgen (Helgenk@si.edu) with: (1) a brief letter
of application detailing your interests and experience
in the methods listed above; (2) a current curriculum
vitae or resume; and (3) names, addresses and phone
numbers of at least three references.
Deadline for applications is 10 May 2014. Please con-
tact Dr. Fleischer and Dr. Helgen if you have any
questions concerning the position.
\Fleischer, Robert" <FleischerR@si.edu >
SunYetSenU 6 EvolutionaryBiol
The Ecology and Evolution program at Sun Yet-Sen
University (SYSU), a premiere institution in China, is
seeking to expand its Ecology and Evolution program
by recruiting 6-8 PIs. The positions, open rank, wel-
come qualied scientists of all nationalities. The EE
program at SYSU, recently ranked rst in China, plans
to recruit in broad areas of modern ecological research
and in the interface between ecology and evolution.
SYSU has had long-standing ties with major universi-
ties in North America and their faculty members have
strong research presence on campus. An InternationalMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 45
center established 2005 will be expanded into a new
Open Laboratory in Ecology and Evolution as part of
this growth. Salary and start-up package are highly
competitive. The university is located in Guangzhou, a
major metropolis in southern China. Guangzhou is one
of the three most internationalized cities in the country
and is home to many international schools from K to
12.
For inquiry, please write to
Hong Pang (Sun Yat-sen University, Lssh-
pang@mail.sysu.edu.cn) .
For pre-application consultation, interested individuals
are welcome to contact
Fangliang He (University of Alberta, fhe@ualberta.ca),
Chung-I Wu (University of Chicago,
ciwu@uhicago.edu) or
Antony Dean (University of Minnesota,
deanx024@umn.edu).
(SYSU; http://www.sysu.edu.cn/2012/en/index.htm;
http://www.sysu.edu.cn/2012/cn/index.htm)
wuci<cw16@uchicago.edu >
TrinityU Texas ResTech
LizardEvolution
*Research technician position: lizard behavioral evolu-
tion*
A full-time, NSF-funded, technician position is avail-
able in the laboratory of Dr. Michele Johnson at Trin-
ity University in San Antonio, Texas. Projects in the
Johnson lab focus on behavioral evolution in lizards,
using approaches from the elds of ecology and neu-
roscience to study the physiological traits underlying
social behaviors. We are searching for a motivated,
team-oriented technician to join our dynamic research
group.
The ideal candidate will have a B.S. or B.A. in biol-
ogy, biochemistry, or a related eld, and a minimum of
one year of experience working in a researchlaboratory.
The primary duties of the position include data collec-
tion in the lab and eld (with likely summer eldwork in
the Caribbean), general maintenance of the laboratory,
general care of laboratory animals, and training and
supervision of undergraduate researchers. Previous re-
search experience with vertebrates and facility with ba-sic molecular and histological techniques are desirable.
Facility with basic laboratory equipment, enthusiasm
for working in the eld, ability to adhere to safety re-
quirements, excellent organizational and interpersonal
skills, and the ability to handle multiple priorities are
required. This job is ideal for persons who have an
interest in gaining additional research skills and expe-
rience prior to graduate school.
The Johnson lab is housed in Trinity University's brand
new Center for the Sciences and Innovation (http:/-
/goo.gl/cLZ8KP). San Antonio is among the fastest-
growing cities in the United States, and the low cost of
living, many cultural opportunities, and warm climate
make the city a wonderful place to live.
To apply for the position, please send the fol-
lowing materials to Dr. Michele Johnson at
michele.johnson@trinity.edu: CV or resume, including
contact information for 2-3 references, and a cover let-
ter explaining why you are interested in the position.
Review of applications will begin immediately, and the
ideal start date is May 12, 2014. We strongly encourage
women and minority candidates to apply, as we value
working with a diverse team. Trinity University is an
Equal Opportunity Employer.
Michele A. Johnson, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Trinity
University Department of Biology One Trinity Place
San Antonio, TX 78212
michele.johnson@trinity.edu oce phone: 210-999-8918
lab phone: 210-999-8914 www.trinity.edu/mjohnso9/
mjohnso9@trinity.edu
UBern EvolutionaryBiol
Reminder
Professor in Evolutionary Biology
The Institute of Ecology and Evolution of the Univer-
sity of Bern, Switzerland, announces a vacancy for a
professorship (open rank) in Evolutionary Biology.
Applications are sought from individuals with an out-
standing research record in theoretical and/or exper-
imental evolution. Candidates with a strong back-
ground in evolutionary genomics are also encouraged
to apply. The candidate should have a doctorate in a
relevant eld, several years of postdoctoral and teaching
experience, an interest in developing, testing and teach-
ing evolutionary theory and in collaborating with other46 EvolDir May 1, 2014
researchers of our institute. Senior researchers are also
encouraged to apply. Hiring level, from tenure-track
Assistant Professor to Full Professor, will be commen-
surate with experience.
The new faculty member will have responsibility for
part of the teaching of evolutionary biology at under-
graduate and graduate levels. All graduate teaching
and advanced undergraduate teaching are in English.
The application should include a letter of motivation, a
CV with a short research plan for the next 5 years,
funding history, list of previous teaching and super-
vised MSc and PhD students, a list of publications,
and the names and contact information for three refer-
ences. Applications from women are strongly encour-
aged. Appointment will be either to tenure track or
tenured, commensurate with experience. The earliest
starting date for the position is August 1st 2015.
Applications must be submitted by April 10th 2014
as one PDF le to info@natdek.unibe.ch, and should
be addressed to the Faculty of Science, University of
Bern, Prof. Silvio Decurtins, Dean, Sidlerstrasse 5,
3012 Bern, Switzerland.
You can contact director@iee.unibe.ch for further in-
formation about the position. More information about
the institute can be found on iee.unibe.ch
Laurent Excoer <laurent.excoer@iee.unibe.ch >
UHaifa EvolutionaryBiology
The Department of Evolutionary and Environmen-
tal Biology, University of Haifa, Israel (http://-
eeb.haifa.ac.il), invites candidates for a tenure-track po-
sition to begin on October 2014 or October 2015. We
shall consider any excellent scientist in the elds of Evo-
lutionary Biology and/or Ecology.
Interested candidates should send a letter of research
interests/plans, CV, list of publications, and contact in-
formation of at least three referees to Ms. Limor Dvir,
ldaniely@univ.haifa.ac.il by April 30, 2014.
Alan R. Templeton Charles Rebstock Professor Emer-
itus of Biology and Genetics Professor of Evolutionary
and Environmental Biology
Department of Biology Washington University St.
Louis, MO 63130-4899 USA Institute of Evolution, and
Department of Evolutionary and Environmental Biol-
ogy University of Haifa Haifa 31905, Israel p. 314-935-6868 f. 314-935-4432 e. temple a@wustl.edu
http://pages.wustl.edu/templeton
templeton@biology2.wustl.edu
UHull Bioinformatics
Bioinformatics Research Fellow in Evolutionary & En-
vironmental Genomics
This is an exciting new Research Fellow position for a
bioinformatician to work with sta in Evolutionary and
Environmental Genomics. We are looking to work with
a bioinformatics colleague and scientist, this is not a
technical post. We have quite a number of projects,
most already with data, on which you could take the
lead. We would additionally welcome the development
of new projects in collaboration with sta in the group.
We anticipate that for the right candidate this could
be a very productive fellowship in terms of publica-
tions and collaborations. Please feel free to discuss the
position with Dave Lunt. The advert is below:
Reference: FS0093 Campus: Hull Faculty: Faculty of
Science and Engineering Department: School of Bio-
logical, Biomedical and Environmental Sciences Salary:
$31,644 to $36,661 per annum, Post type: xed term,
full time Closing date: Sunday 27 April 2014
Applicants with a strong background in bioinformat-
ics, comparative genomics, or evolutionary and popu-
lation genomics are invited to apply for the position of
Postdoctoral Research Fellow within the School of Bio-
logical, Biomedical, and Environmental Sciences at the
University of Hull, UK.
The post-holder will work closely with members of
the Evolutionary and Environmental Genomics (EEG)
group to analyze genomic datasets from a diverse range
of projects and develop new collaborative research pro-
grammes. Previous expertise of work with eukaryotic
genome assembly, RADseq, metabarcoding, or popula-
tion genomics would be advantageous.
The position is funded by The School of Biological,
Biomedical, and Environmental Sciences for two years
and will be central to the developing research agenda
of this active group. Existing expertise within the
EEG Group encompasses phylogenetics, network ecol-
ogy, bioinformatics, speciation genetics, molecular evo-
lution, and population genetics. It is anticipated that
the new Bioinformatics Fellow will complement and ex-May 1, 2014 EvolDir 47
tend these existing skills. The EEG Group is very re-
search active and currently comprises six members of
academic sta along with postdocs, research students,
and technicians.
The post-holder will also be involved in undergraduate
and postgraduate bioinformatics teaching. This may
include undergraduate metabarcoding practicals, post-
graduate training days in bioinformatics, and similar.
This will be an exciting career opportunity for a re-
search fellow wishing to broaden their experience with
dierent research systems, develop methods and novel
bioinformatics approaches, forge new collaborations,
and maintain a very substantial publication record.
The successful applicant will have completed a PhD
in a relevant biological subject area (e.g. bioinformat-
ics, evolutionary biology, population genetics) and have
proven ability to carry out large-scale data analysis us-
ing bioinformatic approaches. An excellent understand-
ing of the science underlying the work of the EEG group
would be advantageous.
This is a full time position for 24 months in the rst
instance.
Candidates are encouraged to discuss this role infor-
mally with Dr Dave Lunt, Tel: +44 (0)1482 465514,
Email: dave.lunt@gmail.com
For information about the position and research
of the EEG group visit: http://www.evohull.org/-
environmental-genomics/ For information about the
School visit: www.hull.ac.uk/biosci To apply see
https://jobs.hull.ac.uk/FS0093 Dr. Bernd H aning
Lecturer in Ecology and Evolution Director of Post-
graduate Studies Evolutionary Biology Group Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences University of Hull Hull,
HU6 7RX UK
E-mail: b.haening@hull.ac.uk Tel: 0044-1482-465804
Fax: 0044-1482-465458 http://www2.hull.ac.uk/-
science/biological sciences/our sta/academic sta/-
bernd h aning1.aspx B.Haening@hull.ac.uk
UOslo EvolutionaryGenomics
University of Oslo, Natural History Museum Profes-
sor/Associate Professor in Evolutionary Genomics
https://uio.easycruit.com/vacancy/1113731/-
71922?iso=no The Natural History Museum (NHM)
of the University of Oslo holds extensive collectionsof animals, fungi, and plants. Besides being the
foundation for the classication of organisms, the
collections are also important repositories for studying
various aspects of geographical and temporal variation
in biodiversity. The recent development of sequencing
techniques that are suitable for ancient or historical
specimens with degraded DNA, has signicantly
increased the potential to take advantage of the unique
documentation of life on Earth preserved through
natural history museum collections.
The museum ^As strategy emphasizes the importance of
using the collections as a gene bank and to extract
the genetic information of specimens for use in science.
NHM is also building up collections of fresh DNA/tissue
samples and is heavily involved in the global DNA
barcoding initiative. The museum has established an
ancient-DNA laboratory for extraction of highly de-
graded DNA from museum samples and from environ-
mental samples, and runs a regular DNA laboratory.
Through a strategic collaboration with the Department
of Biosciences at our university, NHM has access to cen-
tral high-throughput DNA sequencing facilities and is
partner in a joint eort to establish a new ancient-DNA
laboratory which will be hosted by the Department of
Biosciences.
We now want to strengthen the museum's focus on
collection-based science by increasing our competence
in high-throughput sequencing techniques applied to
biodiversity research and, in particular, to degraded
DNA from museum collections and environmental sam-
ples.
The museum has recently reorganized its research de-
partment into smaller research groups representing the
main research topics within biology at NHM. These in-
clude sexual selection and speciation in animals, animal
systematics, plant evolution, taxonomy and phylogeny
of plants and fungi, and modelling of geo-ecological pat-
terns and processes. More information can be found at
the NHM homepages.
Job description
It is expected that the successful candidate should take
a lead in coordinating and developing the museum ^As
research in evolutionary genomics and biosystematics
with emphasis on the use of highly degraded DNA.
He/she should be an asset for the whole research de-
partment but is expected to associate formally with
one of the existing research groups. Additional internal
resources, including PhD and postdoc positions, will
be made available. The successful candidate will be
expected to attract extramural research funding, and
a proven record of accessing such funding is essential.
The candidate will participate in teaching evolution-48 EvolDir May 1, 2014
ary genomics, including courses under the bachelor and
master programs of UiO, and should be a capable and
enthusiastic supervisor of master and PhD students.
Relevant background for taking the scientic respon-
sibility for parts of the museum ^As collections is an ad-
vantage, but not a requirement. Duty work may also in-
clude providing assistance in phylogenomics and bioin-
formatics to the research community at NHM.
Qualications
To qualify for appointment as Professor/ Associate Pro-
fessor, the applicant must have documented scientic
work equivalent to a doctorate, and several years of
post^ adoctoral experience.
We seek an active researcher in evolutionary genomics
with a strong publication record. The successful candi-
date should be on an upward trajectory and is expected
to have strong potential to execute research projects at
a high international level and to perform research in
areas that will have synergistic eects with current re-
search in the museum. He/she should have the ability
to create an attractive research environment and the
ideal candidate ^As research would address fundamental
questions in evolutionary genomics and biosystematics.
The candidate should have a solid background in high-
throughput DNA sequencing and in bioinformatics.
Candidates for the position should supply a research
plan, which demonstrates how the applicant's research
will strengthen or create synergy eects on current re-
search at the museum. Applicants, who at the time of
appointment cannot document formal teaching compe-
tence, must acquire such competence in the course of
two years.
The teaching languages at the University of Oslo are
Norwegian and English. The person appointed to the
position is expected to be able to teach in Norwegian
or English or both.
Personal qualities - Good collaborative skills and so-
cial intellect - Strong dedication and motivation - Good
command of written and oral English
We oer
- Pay Grade 72-90 (NOK 627 100 -997 000 per year) for
appointment as Professor (SKO 1013)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlUppsala Bioinformatics
Dear colleagues,
A permanent position as Bioinformatics special-
ist/Scientic programmer is available in Thijs Ettema's
lab, Cell and Molecular Biology, Uppsala University,
Sweden. Applications here: http://www.uu.se/en/-
jobs/jobs-detail-page/?positionId=36221 We are look-
ing for: A Bioinformatics specialist or Scientic pro-
grammer that will work at the lab of Thijs Ettema at
the Department for Cell- and Molecular biology, Upp-
sala University. The position is permanent with a 6-
month probationary period beginning June 1st or by
appointment.
The Ettema-lab: cutting edge research in microbial
and evolutionary genomics Prof. Ettema's lab is apply-
ing emerging genomics technologies to analyze microor-
ganisms that defy cultivation under laboratory condi-
tions. These organisms are predicted to comprise up
to 99% of all microbes on our planet. By combining
such cultivation-independent methods, such as single
cell genomics and metagenomics, with next-generation
sequencing-based analyses, the Ettema lab aims to
study uncultured microorganisms ('microbial dark mat-
ter') at the genomic level. Such studies will paint a de-
tailed picture of the overall diversity and origin of life
on our planet, and will eventually also reveal impor-
tant clues about how complex life emerged. For more
information, please see: http://www.ettemalab.org/
The Ettema-lab is located at the Biomedical Center
(BMC) and will enter brand-new oce spaces and a
fully equipped genomics lab during the autumn of 2014.
Moreover, the lab is well connected to several technol-
ogy platforms of the SciLifeLab, including platform-
based services for next-generation-sequencing, compu-
tational support and bioinformatics. We are also ac-
tively engaged in a new SciLifeLab platform for sin-
gle cell genomics (http://www.scilifelab.se/facilities/-
single-cell/). The research activities in the Ettema-lab
are supported by a number of prestigious grants, such
as the European Research Council, the Foundation for
Strategic Research and the Swedish Research Council.
Job assignment: We are now looking for an experienced
bioinformatician that will provide computational sup-
port to ongoing research projects within the Ettema
lab. The successful candidate will have the follow-
ing tasks: - In collaboration with the researchers of
the lab, design and perform bioinformatics analysis in
molecular evolution, phylogenomics, sequence analysisMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 49
and metagenomics, among others. - Set up and main-
tain pipelines for the assembly, annotation and analy-
sis of large-scale genome and metagenome sequencing
datasets; set up and maintain databases for compara-
tive and evolutionary studies of uncultivated microor-
ganisms. - System administration of the existing lo-
cal computational infrastructure (server, workstations)
and accounts (about 5% of the time). Potentially, the
successful candidate might be asked to develop novel
bioinformatics applications.
Qualications:
Requirements: - A PhD or similar research experience
in bioinformatics and genomics (within academia or in-
dustry). - Extensive experience with the analysis of
next-generation sequencing datasets. - Demonstrated
experience working in a Linux environment and u-
ency in at least one programming or scripting language
(bash, Perl, python, R, etc.). - Fluent oral and written
communication in English. Personal qualities: - Strong
sense of organization - Ability to work in cooperation
with academic researchers - Excellent communication
skills - Pedagogic skills to teach researchers with lim-
ited bioinformatics experience - Ability to work inde-
pendently Merits: - Postdoctoral studies in a related
eld. - Experience of development and applications
of bioinformatics and/or biostatistics methodologies or
pipelines for design and analysis of large-scale sequenc-
ing datasets (e.g. Galaxy) - Experience of system ad-
ministration
The positions are permanent with a 6-months trial pe-
riod. The positions will be placed in the Ettema lab at
the Department for Cell and Molecular Biology, Upp-
sala University. For further details about the position,
please contact Thijs Ettema: thijs.ettema@icm.uu.se,
+46 18 471 45 21. For more information about
the activities in the Ettema-lab, please see http://-
www.ettemalab.org/ Application: Please send your
application marked with ref.nr UFV-PA 2014/1062 as
soon as possible, but no later than 2014-04-30.
Lionel Guy Molecular Evolution, Uppsala University,
Uppsala, Sweden
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlUppsala Sweden Bioinformatician
Bioinformatician in transcriptomics
Full time permanent position. The position is available
as soon as possible. 6 months trial period.
Uppsala University is an international research univer-
sity focused on the development of science and educa-
tion. Our most important assets are all the individu-
als who with their curiosity and their dedication makes
Uppsala University one of Sweden's most exciting work
places. Uppsala University has 40,000 students, 6,500
employees and a turnover of SEK 5,500 million.
Next-generation sequencing (NGS) is a rapidly growing
eld that provides fascinating new insights into the ge-
netic underpinnings of cellular functions and diseases.
However, these new methods place increasing demands
on computational expertise and data management. The
Swedish Bioinformatics Infrastructure for Life Sciences
(BILS; http://bils.se) is therefore seeking a motivated
bioinformatician to join their ranks and provide sup-
port to projects in the eld of transcriptomics and next-
generation sequencing.
Job description: The position will be placed at Upp-
sala University and will be linked to Science for Life
Laboratory. Among the main objectives for this newly
created post will be the reconstruction of transcripts
from read data, using both mapping-based but also de-
novo assembly algorithms. In addition, the candidate
is expected to provide support to projects working with
RNA sequencing to study the expression of genes and
transcripts. Finally, a major aspect of the study of
transcriptomes is the ability to assign functions to in-
dividual sequences. Together with the team at the BILS
annotation platform, the successful applicant will spend
part of the time on the development and implementa-
tion of workows for the functional annotation of genes
and transcripts.
Qualications: We seek a candidate with a PhD in
bioinformatics, molecular biology, computer science or
any related eld who has a strong competence in work-
ing with large sequencing data sets and analysis meth-
ods in the eld of NGS, including but not limited to,
RNA-seq. The ability to drive projects and work in
a collaborative, yet service-minded environment is a
must. Special consideration will furthermore be given
to applicants with prociency in one or more scripting
languages (e.g. Perl, Python, Ruby) as well as experi-
ence in pipeline design. Excellent communication skills50 EvolDir May 1, 2014
in both written and spoken English are required, since
the candidate will collaborate with scientists of very
dierent backgrounds. Emphasis will be placed on per-
sonal suitability for the position.
Information: For questions regarding BILS, please
check out our website at http://www.bils.se or
contact the director of BILS, Bengt Persson
(bengt.persson@bils.se). For questions regarding
the position, please send an Email to Henrik Lantz
(henrik.lantz@imbim.uu.se).
You are welcome to submit your application no later
than 12 May 2014. Please see the link below for full
details and to access the application form:
http://www.uu.se/en/jobs/jobs-detail-page/-
?positionId=3D36290 henrik.lantz@imbim.uu.se
USussex FieldAssist SpainWasps
VOLUNTEER FIELD ASSISTANT sought immedi-
ately for 4-6 weeks (starting mid-April 2014), to help
with a study of paper wasp (Polistes) behavioural ecol-
ogy in southern Spain. The work will involve helping
a postdoctoral researcher/PhD student to census and
observe colonies as part of experiments to elucidate the
basis of helping behaviour in these wasps, which live in
small colonies of <20 individuals. The successful appli-
cant must be prepared to work hard and have an inter-
est in behavioural/evolutionary biology and enthusiasm
for eldwork. Successful applicants will obtain excel-
lent experience of cutting-edge insect behavioural ecol-
ogy. A driving licence and any ability to speak Spanish
would be advantages, but neither is essential. Because
the work involves recording colour marks on individ-
ual animals, the job would not be suitable for someone
who is colour-blind. See our research group website for
more information about the kind of work we do (http:/-
/www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/ eldlab/).
Air fare (from the UK) and accommodation expenses
will be provided, with the applicant needing to pay for
only their own food/personal expenses, which are rela-
tively cheap in Spain, their travel to/from the airport in
their home country, and their travel insurance. A suc-
cessful applicant will also receive a $250 contribution
towards their expenses, on completion of the work. Ac-
commodation will be in a large house shared with the
other members of the research group - including shower,
cooking facilities, TV, large garden etc. Accommoda-
tion is in a medium-sized coastal town with nice beach.Please send a covering letter and CV, including con-
tact details (including e-mail addresses/tel nos.) for
the applicant and 2-3 referees who would be available
to provide references. Email as a single Word document
to: j.eld@sussex.ac.uk
Applicants can come to Sussex University, to discuss
the project, either 10/11 April or 15/16th. In your
cover letter, please indicate which of these dates you
are available. Skype interview may also be possible,
but meeting in person is preferred. The position will
be allocated as soon as a suitable person is identied.
Informal enquiries: j.eld@sussex.ac.uk
Professor Jeremy Field School of Life Sciences, John
Maynard Smith Building, University of Sussex, Falmer,
Brighton BN1 9QG, UK
J.Field@sussex.ac.uk
UVienna LabTechAssistant
PopGenomics
The Research Group of Plant Ecological Genomics of
the Department for Botany and Biodiversity Research
at the University of Vienna, Austria is recruiting a
Lab Technical Assistant in Molecular Biology
An up to 5-years position funded by the Aus-
trian Science Fund (FWF) is immediately avail-
able in a research project on the evolution of
wild polyploid orchids (see www.botanik.univie.ac.at/-
systematik/projects/dactylorhiza/). Our exciting re-
search makes use of an array of state-of-the-art genomic
and epigenomic techniques. Apart from playing a key
role in optimizing and performing parts of laboratory
protocols, the Assistant will take care of orders and lab
equipment. S/he will also maintain databases of proto-
cols and samples.
We are looking for a highly focused and motivated can-
didate that searches for exciting research opportunities
and has an excellent previous record. The successful
candidate must have excellent organization and com-
munication skills, and to work in a multinational team.
S/he is expected to have a degree in a related disci-
pline (e.g., molecular biology, biochemistry) and to be
able to demonstrate previous experience with molecular
laboratory duties. Experience with RNA work and/or
NGS library preparation will be considered as an im-
portant advantage. The Assistant should be willing toMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 51
learn continuously new methodologies with the support
of the rest of the team. The working language in our
laboratory is English; German skills are therefore not
essential, but they are highly desirable to allow a proper
communication with people from outside the team. The
position oers a competitive salary (according to expe-
rience min. 27,000 per year before tax for full time, in-
cluding social and health security), and opportunities
for career development/further training. If preferable
for the successful candidate, 30 hours a week employ-
ment is also possible.
To be considered please send your application per email
to ovidiu.paun@univie.ac.at including your CV, a cover
letter explaining why would this job t your qualica-
tions, experience and expectations (up to two pages),
and the names and contacts of three referees. Please
note: Incomplete applications will not be considered.
Screening of applications will begin immediately and
will continue until the position is lled. The latest pre-
ferred start date is June 1st, 2014.
ovidiu.paun@univie.ac.at
UVirginia ResTech
EvolutionaryGenetics
The Blackman Laboratory in the Department of Biol-
ogy is seeking a Laboratory Technician 2 to assist with
research in evolutionary and ecological developmental
genetics using sunower and monkeyower as study sys-
tems. Research in the lab focuses on how and why plant
developmental responses to environmental cues evolve
during domestication, adaptation, and speciation.
The position will involve a combination of research and
lab management responsibilities. Research duties will
include plant care and phenotyping, molecular and bio-
chemical work (e.g. DNA/RNA extraction, genotyping,
qRT-PCR, sequencing library construction), and coor-
dination of large eld/greenhouse experiments. Initial
projects will be closely supervised with increased inde-
pendence possible as experience and expertise are de-
veloped. Lab management duties will include data and
germplasm collection management, oversight of lab or-
ganization, ordering supplies and equipment, and su-
pervision and training of undergraduate researchers.
A Bachelor's degree in Biology or a related discipline
is required. 1 year's experience working or studying
in a research lab setting, including prior conduct of anindependent research project is required. Being able
to perform sterile techniques, prepare media, carry out
basic procedures associated with DNA amplication
and sequencing is also required. Strong organizational,
computer, and communication skills are essential, and
demonstrated experience with basic molecular biology
techniques and plant care is preferred.
The position will remain open until lled. Ideal start
date is June 2014. This is a one-year appointment;
however, the appointment may be renewed contingent
upon available funding and satisfactory performance.
To apply, please submit a candidate prole through
Jobs@UVA (https://jobs.virginia.edu), search on post-
ing number 0614045. Electronically attach your cur-
riculum vitae, a cover letter, and contact information
for three (3) references.
Questions regarding this position should be di-
rected to: Dr. Benjamin Blackman 434-924-
1930 bkb2f@virginia.edu http://people.virginia.edu/-
~bkb2f/Blackman Lab/
Questions regarding the sta application process or
Jobs@UVA should be directed to:
Richard Haverstrom rkh6j@virginia.edu
The University of Virginia is an equal opportunity and
armative action employer. Women, minorities, vet-
erans, and persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
Benjamin Blackman Department of Biology University
of Virginia PO Box 400328 Charlottesville, VA 22904
Tel: 434.924.1930 E-mail: bkb2f@virginia.edu Web:
http://people.virginia.edu/ ~ bkb2f/Blackman Lab/
bkb2f@virginia.edu
UWashington
ViralEvolutionSocialNetworks
UW.ViralEvolutionSocialNetworks
Programmer/Researcher UW.ViralEvolutionSocialNetworks
The UW Center for Studies in Demography and Ecol-
ogy (CSDE) and Department of Microbiology have
teamed up to provide an outstanding opportunity for
a Scientic Programmer/Researcher (Research Scien-
tist/Engineer 3) to integrate within-host models for vi-
ral dynamics into social network models for the spread
of HIV within populations.52 EvolDir May 1, 2014
The Programmer/Researcher will do scientic research
and computer programming while providing computer
support services for project investigators. The research
component will involve developing and testing scien-
tic hypotheses related to one or more of the following
subject areas: social network modeling; epidemiology;
mathematical modeling of population dynamics; evolu-
tionary biology; population genetics; HIV virulence and
pathogenesis; and resistance to anti-retroviral drugs.
The programming component requires the candidate
to construct, test, and maintain programs written in
C and R; create detailed documentation; and publish
packages on the Comprehensive R Archive Network
(CRAN). Interact with multiple scientists with diverse
interests and expertise in order to write papers, develop
software, and interact with end-users of the integrated
software. The programmer/researcher will also present
results at scientic meetings and participate in the de-
velopment of materials for training workshops on the
software.
In the initial phases of the project, the Program-
mer/Researcher will spend most of his or her time work-
ing with social scientists at the CSDE. As the project
progresses, he or she will spend increasing amounts of
time working with biomedical researchers in the De-
partment of Microbiology.
Requirements:
- MS or Ph.D. in a Quantitative Field (e.g., Com-
puter Science, Mathematics, or Statistics) or a Biomed-
ical/Social Science Field that includes signicant math-
ematical and computational components and three to
ve years' experience .
- Ability to read, analyze and write scientic papers
- Expertise in the R programming language and pack-
age development in R.
- Experience with the C programming language.
- Excellent communication skills
- Willingness to write detailed software documentation
for end users.
- Has established technical expertise; serves as a re-
source to research unit/department.
Equivalent education/experience will substitute for all
minimum qualications except when there are legal re-quirements, such as a license/certication/registration.
To apply, go to https://-
uwhires.admin.washington.edu/eng/candidates and
enter requisition number 107046 in the required
eld. If you have questions about this position,
you may contact Josh Herbeck (jherbeck@uw.edu),
Steve Goodreau (goodreau@uw.edu), or John Mittler
(jmittler@uw.edu).
Joshua Herbeck <herbeck@uw.edu >
Vienna ResearchGroupLeader
Applications are invited for outstanding early-career
scientists (2-8 years postdoc experience), interested in
starting their own independent research group at the
Vetmeduni Vienna.
We are aiming to attract exceptional candidates, who
will prepare an application together with a profes-
sor of the Vetmeduni Vienna for the current call for
young investigators by the Vienna Science and Tech-
nology Fund (WWTF): http://www.wwtf.at/upload/-
VRG14 webv1.pdf In the case of funding through the
WWTF, the candidate will receive up to 1.6 million
EURO for a period of 6-8 years. After the WWTF
funding period and a successful evaluation the candi-
date will be oered a Senior Scientist position at the
Vetmeduni Vienna.
Interested candidates should contact
Prof. Dr. Christian Schl otterer
Christian.schloetterer@vetmeduni.ac.at
Deadline: 15.5.2014
Christian Schl otterer Institut f ur Populationsgenetik
Vetmeduni Vienna Veterin arplatz 1 1210 Wien Aus-
tria/Europe
phone: +43-1-25077-4300 fax: +43-1-25077-4390
http://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/population-genetics/
Vienna Graduate School of Population Genetics http:/-
/www.popgen-vienna.at schlotc@gmail.comMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 53
Other
ASN workshop proposals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
CLUMPP and DISTRUCT answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
CLUMPP and DISTRUCT answers 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
EthidiumBromide alternative answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
EvolutionaryBiol LearningLessons . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Evolution video . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Inclusive tness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Indel aa selection answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Intron evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .57
KJT survey txt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
LIMS for EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
MorphoJ website . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
MouseSamples MD Delaware . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58Photos population geneticists . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Phyloseminar Bastien Boussau Apr22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Phyloseminar EricTannier Apr30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Phyloseminar Gergely . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Plant sequencing projects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Rearing Chambers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
SelectiveSweep Webserver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Software BEAST v2 1 2 released . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Species Ontology survey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .61
UBasel VolFieldAssist ButteryDispersal . . . . . . . . . . 62
Undergraduate Evol course . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .63
Undergraduate Summer Research SyracuseU . . . . . . 63
ASN workshop proposals
Are you organizing a workshop for 2015 or the near
future?
The American Society of Naturalists provides work-
shop support to help defray the cost to students for at-
tending. In particular, ASN is interested in sponsoring
workshops for graduate students that provide training
in modeling, data analysis, or other professional skills.
The ASN workshop committee anticipates supporting
1-4 workshops per year at a rate of $1000-2000 each,
which can be used towards workshop expenses or defer-
ment of student fees. The application for workshop sup-
port should include descriptions of: the workshop (in-
cluding tangible benets to participants), venue, proce-
dures for selecting participants, anticipated number of
participants, and a budget that includes plans for use of
ASN funds. Applications should be submitted as a pdf
on or before 15 May 2014 to mbutler@hawaii.edu and
should carry the label 'ASN Workshop Sponsorship' in
the subject line to assure full consideration. Inquiries
should be directed to Marguerite A. Butler at the same
address.
Recent workshops (co-)sponsored by the American So-
ciety of Naturalists:
2013 - present \Workshop on Molecular Evolution",
organized by D. Hillis and M. Sogin at MBL (stu-
dent applications due 4/15 http://hermes.mbl.edu/-
education/courses/special topics/mole.html )2012 \Mathematical modeling in evolutionary ecology"
by H. Kokko - at the Joint Congress on Evolutionary
Biology in Ottawa
2012 \Graduate Workshop: The tree of sex - a compre-
hensive synthesis of sex determination systems in eu-
caryotes" by D. Bachtrog, J. Mank, and K. Peichel - at
the Joint Congress on Evolutionary Biology at Ottawa
2011 - present \Workshop on Evolutionary Quantita-
tive Genetics", organized by S. Arnold and J. Felsen-
stein at NESCENT
mbutler808@gmail.com
CLUMPP and DISTRUCT answers
\A few weeks ago I posted the following query "Does
anyone have a user-friendly way of inputting data into
CLUMPP and DISTRUCT? CLUMPP averages results
across STRUCTURE simulations once K has been se-
lected, and DISTRUCT produces the STRUCTURE
gure.The challenge is that both are command-line
programs, and DISTRUCT mac version seems broken
(however, I assume PC version is OK).
Dent Earl and Bridgett vonHoldt produced an great so-
lution for processing STRUCTURE output. A similar
solution for CLUMPP and DISTRUCT would be most
welcome.
(Earl, D. A., vonHoldt, B. M., 2011. STRUCTURE
HARVESTER: a website and program for visualizing54 EvolDir May 1, 2014
STRUCTURE output and implementing the Evanno
method. Conservation Genetics Resources 4, 359-361,
doi:10.1007/s12686-011-9548-7.)\
Many thanks to those who replied. Their answers are
found at http://molecularsherieslaboratory.com.au/-
answers-to-technical-query-posted-on-evoldir/\
Thanks, Jenny
Jennifer Ovenden <j.ovenden@uq.edu.au >
CLUMPP and DISTRUCT answers
2
The link in the email is giving problems.
Currently it is http://-
molecularsherieslaboratory.com.au/answers-to-
technical-query-posted-on-evoldir/\ It needs to be
(i.e. With the \ removed at the end) http:/-
/molecularsherieslaboratory.com.au/answers-to-
technical-query-posted-on-evoldir/ Can you repost this
email?
Thanks, Jenny
\A few weeks ago I posted the following query "Does
anyone have a user-friendly way of inputting data into
CLUMPP and DISTRUCT? CLUMPP averages results
across STRUCTURE simulations once K has been se-
lected, and DISTRUCT produces the STRUCTURE
gure.The challenge is that both are command-line
programs, and DISTRUCT mac version seems broken
(however, I assume PC version is OK).
Dent Earl and Bridgett vonHoldt produced an great so-
lution for processing STRUCTURE output. A similar
solution for CLUMPP and DISTRUCT would be most
welcome.
(Earl, D. A., vonHoldt, B. M., 2011. STRUCTURE
HARVESTER: a website and program for visualizing
STRUCTURE output and implementing the Evanno
method. Conservation Genetics Resources 4, 359-361,
doi:10.1007/s12686-011-9548-7.)\
Many thanks to those who replied. Their answers are
found at http://molecularsherieslaboratory.com.au/-
answers-to-technical-query-posted-on-evoldir/
Thanks, Jenny
*****
** New UQ email address** j.ovenden@uq.edu.au
Jennifer Ovenden http://-molecularsherieslaboratory.com.au http://-
www.uq.edu.au/sbms/sta/jennifer-ovenden From:
Richard Coleman <richard.colema@gmail.com >Date:
Thursday, 3 April 2014 6:52 pm To: Jennifer Oven-
den<j.ovenden@uq.edu.au >Subject: Fwd: Other:
CLUMPP andDISTRUCT.answers
Hi Jenny,
Thanks for asking this question! I am going through
the exact same issue at this very moment. I was won-
dering if you had a working link to the answers you
compiled? The link that is provided leads to an empty
page.
Regards, Richard
|-
Richard Coleman Graduate Research Assistant,
Toonen-Bowen Lab NSF Graduate Research Fellow-
ship Program Fellow At-Large Representative, UH
Graduate Student Organization Executive-at-Large for
Oahu, UH Student Caucus
Hawai'i Institute of Marine Biology University of
Hawai'i, ManoajDepartment of Biology Coconut Island
jPO Box 1346jKane'ohe, HI 96744 '916.524.3734 j-
rcolema@hawaii.edu jrichard.colema@gmail.com
EthidiumBromide alternative
answers
Dear EvoDir members:
Please, nd here below a summary of the answers I got
from all of you about question on DNA stain.
Thank you very much for your very useful suggestions!
Cheers,
Filippo
|{
1. The idea that Ethidium bromide is dangerous, espe-
cially at the quantities used to stain gels, is probably
false, and is certainly not based on sound mechanism
nor strong epidemiological evidence. The article
below is very interesting: http://goo.gl/AJKSup For
staining DNA on agarose, our labs use Gel red which
is no where as toxic as ethidium bromide http://-
www.bioscience.co.uk/site/user/ page.phtml?page id
22&search=gel+red&productgrp=OTHER&sid=tgtk74337
Did you try SYBR Safe from Invitrogen? We have beenMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 55
using it for the past 9 months now and it is really reli-
able (we have even reduced the concentration by half).
4. We use a product called Gel Red. It works well. Not
sure who would carry it in Europe, but VWR carries it
in the states: http://biotium.com/technology/gelred-
gelgreen-nucleic-acid-gel-stains/ 5. Maybe GelRed
could help you (http://biotium.com/technology/
gelred-gelgreen-nucleic-acid-gel-stains/). During my
last internship, I used it. It is supposed to be non-
toxic, but my supervisor was not sure that degradation
pruducts were non-toxic.
Have you tried RedSafe? Here is as example: http://-
www.chembio.co.uk/ product detail.php?product id0
We use Midori green it's just as good if not better than
ethidium bromide and less toxic.
You may nd this blog post helpful: http:/-
/ rrresearch.eldofscience.com/2006/10/heresy-about-
ethidium-bromide.html
9. We use GelRed from Biotium. It is quite bright and
works with the same lters as ethidium bromide.
10. We use EZ-Vision: http://www.amresco-inc.com/-
home/products/best- sellers/EZ-Vision.cmsx
I have been using a product called SafeView by NBS
biologicals: http://www.nbsbio.co.uk/nbs-sv1 12. In
our population genetics lab, we use a product called
GelRed, manufactured by Biotium. It gives us very
good results. Bands are easily visible on the 1% and
2% agarose gels we use. We use the standard safety and
handling procedures as those with ethidium bromide
(gloves, gelred only glassware, contamination area, etc),
but it is reported to be non-toxic and non-mutagenic.
I hope this helps!
I use EZ-vision by Amresco. The RNA version also
works.
We use SafeView (www.nbsbio.co.uk/nbs-sv1) and have
never had any problems!
My lab uses SYBR Safe with a Blue-Light source. It
works nearly as well as Ethidium and is much safer:
http://www.lifetechnologies.com/ us/en/home/life-
science/dna-rna-purication-analysis/nucleic-acid-
gel-electrophoresis/dna-stains/sybr-safe.html
16. We use SybrSafe - it works nearly as well as
EtBr: http:// www.lifetechnologies.com/us/en/home/-
life-science/dna-rna-purication- analysis/nucleic-acid-
gel-electrophoresis/dna-stains/sybr-safe.html
Try Nancy-520 from Sigma: http://-
www.sigmaaldrich.com/life-science/ cell-
biology/detection/learning-center/nancy-520.html
Nancy seems like a nice alternative to SYBR andethidium bromide, but I've never used it.
We've had success with SYBR Safe DNA gel stain for
>7 years in the Johnson Lab, and, given it produces
comparable results while being much safer than ethid-
ium bromide, several other labs use it here on campus
at BYU. If there is a chance you could stick with SYBR,
maybe you could explain the problem in further detail,
and then people could help you arrive at a solution with
SYBR. So far, it remains unclear why these other op-
tions haven't worked for you.
We use a product called GelRed from Biotum. It works
quite wells as an \in-gel" or \post-gel" stain. http://-
biotium.com/technology/gelred- gelgreen-nucleic-acid-
gel-stains/
We use the GelRed Nucleic Acid Gel Stain from Bi-
otium (http:// biotium.com/product/gelredtm-nucleic-
acid-gel-stain-10000x-in-water/) and we have satisfac-
tory results. Here is our protocol:
Mix 1
4 mg of BFB (Bromophenol blue)
1 ml of mili-Q Water
Mix 2
174 ul of Mix 1
250 ul of glycerol
576 ul of mili-Q Water
Loading Solution
1 ul of GEL RED
999 ul of Mix 2
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
EvolutionaryBiol LearningLessons
I have developed a series of active learning lessons in
evolutionary biology (undergraduate level). A list and
brief description of the lessons are provide at http://-
spot.colorado.edu/~am/Site/Teaching.html I am inter-
ested in having folks test these lessons and provide feed-
back. There are descriptions of two lessons available for
download with more coming depending on interest.56 EvolDir May 1, 2014
Andrew Martin Professor University of Colorado A
mind once stretched by a new idea never regains its
original dimensions.
Andrew Martin <Andrew.Martin-1@colorado.edu >
Evolution video
Submit your best evolution-themed video for screening
at this year's Evolution meeting
Deadline: May 31
Scientists and science communicators of all stripes are
invited to enter the fourth annual NESCent Evolution
Video Competition. To enter, please submit a video
that explains a fun fact, key concept, compelling ques-
tion, or exciting area of evolution research in three
minutes or less. Entries may be related or unrelated
to your own research, and should be suitable for use
in a classroom (K-12, undergraduate, graduate...your
choice). Animations, music videos, and mini documen-
taries are all fair game. The nalists will be screened at
the Evolution 2014 conference in Raleigh, NC <http:/-
/evolution2014.org/ >. You don't need to attend the
conference to enter. The rst- and second-place win-
ners will receive travel awards to attend the scientic
meeting of their choice. All videos submitted by May
31 are eligible to win.
For more information visit lmfestival.nescent.org/
Robin Ann Smith, Ph.D. Science Writing and Commu-
nications National Evolutionary Synthesis Center 2024
W. Main Street, Suite A200 Durham, NC 27705 Tel:
919-668-4544 rsmith@nescent.org
http://robinannsmith.com/ http://twitter.com/-
NESCent www.nescent.org/ ras10@duke.edu
Inclusive tness
Royal Society Publishing has just published Inclusive
tness: 50 years on, compiled and edited by Andy
Gardner and Stuart A West. This content can be ac-
cessed at http://bit.ly/PTB1642 A print version is also
available at the special price of ^A$35.00. You can order
online via the above web page (enter special code TB1642 when prompted) or, alternatively, you can contact
debbie.vaughan@royalsociety.org
Felicity Davie Royal Society Publishing
T +44 20 7451 2647
The Royal Society 6-9 Carlton House Terrace London
SW1Y 5AG http://royalsocietypublishing.org Regis-
tered Charity No 207043
Felicity.Davie@royalsociety.org Felic-
ity.Davie@royalsociety.org
Indel aa selection answers
Dear Brian and Evoldir Members,
some time ago, I had asked a question in Evoldir re-
garding examples of aa indels. The answers were very
helpful for me, and I thank everybody.
Here is a compilation of the replies. I also put the emails
of the people who gave the replies to facilitate further
communications.
all the best pavlos
|{
Many examples of conserved insertions and deletions
that are evolutionarily highly signicant are described
in our published work. Most of the conserved indels re-
ported thus far are for dierent groups of microorgan-
isms, and information for their sequence alignments and
group-specicities can be found at the following web-
site (Microbial Evolution and Molecular Signatures <
www.microbialevolution.com >and the references de-
scribed there. You may also look at the Wikipedia page
on *Conseved Signature Indel*s, which describes sig-
nicance and some general characteristics of the Con-
served Indels in protein sequences. Further, as shown in
the following work \Singh, B. and Gupta, R. S. (2009)
Conserved inserts in the Hsp60 (GroEL) and Hsp70
(DnaK) proteins are essential for cellular growth. *Mol
Genet Genomics* 281*,* 361-373", conserved indels in
a number of proteins have been shown to be essential
for the group of organisms where they are found. Hope-
fully, the information provided will help clarify the evo-
lutionarry/functional signicance of conserved indels.
by gupta@mcmaster.ca
|{
try the fast-evolving genes for venom proteins in trop-May 1, 2014 EvolDir 57
ical conus snails http://phys.org/news/2012-04-snails-
fast-genes-predatory-rene.html also the MHC genes
and, as anthropo-selected artifacts, the monoclonal an-
tibodies that have found major medical or industrial
success.
by marcos.antezana@gmail.com
|{
The lentivirus (such as HIV-2, HIV-2, EIAV, FIV) en-
velope protein grows and shrinks in length over very
short time spans. The \variable loops" on the surface
of the envelope shield the virus from the host immune
system. The longer the lops, the more of the of the
conserved parts of the envelope are hidden. But those
conserved parts are needed to bind to the host cell sur-
face receptors (CD4 and CCR5 host proteins).
You can download alignments of HIV-1 envelope here:
http://www.hiv.lanl.gov/content/sequence/-
NEWALIGN/align.html Shorter V1-V2 loops are
favored at transmission and early in the infection
process before the host immune system has created
neutralizing antibodies which bind the CD4 receptor-
biding site of the envelope. So the loops tend to grow
over time in each infected individual and then shorter
ones are selected at transmission. Of course this is
only on average, and not a solid rule that is always
followed.
I did a PubMed search for [amino acid insertion] and
found these:
Diversity and Complexity of the Mouse Saa1 and
Saa2 genes. <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/-
24521869 >
Mori M, Tian G, Ishikawa A, Higuchi K.
Exp Anim. 2014;63(1):99-106. PMID: 24521869
A unique *insertion* of low complexity *amino acid* se-
quence underlies protein-protein interaction in human
malaria parasite orotate phosphoribosyltransferase and
orotidine 5'-monophosphate decarboxylase. <http://-
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24507637 >
Imprasittichail W, Roytrakul S, Krungkrai SR,
Krungkrail J.
Asian Pac J Trop Med. 2014 Mar;7(3):184-92. doi:
10.1016/S1995-7645(14)60018-3. PMID: 24507637
The 19-*amino acid insertion* in the tumor-associated
splice isoform Rac1b confers specic binding to p120
catenin. < http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/-
20395297 >
Orlichenko L, Geyer R, Yanagisawa M, Khauv D,
Radisky ES, Anastasiadis PZ, Radisky DC.J Biol Chem. 2010 Jun 18;285(25):19153-61. doi:
10.1074/jbc.M109.099382. Epub 2010 Apr 15. PMID:
20395297
Extension of the hydrolysis spectrum of AmpC
beta-lactamase of Escherichia coli due to *amino
acid insertion* in the H-10 helix. <http://-
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17586561 >
Mammeri H, Poirel L, Nordmann P.
J Antimicrob Chemother. 2007 Sep;60(3):490-4. Epub
2007 Jun 22. Erratum in: J Antimicrob Chemother.
2008 Apr;61(4):971. PMID: 17586561
A 59 *amino acid insertion* increases Ca(2+) sen-
sitivity of rbslo1, a Ca2+ -activated K(+) chan-
nel in renal epithelia. <http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/-
pubmed/10568789 >
Hanaoka K, Wright JM, Cheglakov IB, Morita T, Gug-
gino WB.
J Membr Biol. 1999 Dec 1;172(3):193-201. PMID:
10568789
A novel isoform of rat estrogen receptor beta with 18
*amino acid
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Intron evolution
Dear Evoldir Members,
I'm wondering if anyone could point me toward some
recent comprehensive reviews, dedicated websites, or
specic bodies of work on intron sequence evolution
in protein-encoding genes? I am especially inter-
ested in conceptual papers and/or any that might in-
clude new tools for nding and comparing specic se-
quence themes independently of intron length, potential
miRNA encoding regions, miRNA target sites, etc.
thanks in advance for any help you can give.
Bruce Turner
shgen@vt.edu58 EvolDir May 1, 2014
KJT survey txt
* KJT Group is a healthcare market research rm
(www.kjtgoup.com) * We are looking to eld a study
for a large multinational, medical device client, regard-
ing next-generation sequencing (NGS) trends as they
relate to target enrichment/sequence. * Target survey
respondents include
* Title/role: Principle Investigator, Investigator, Scien-
tist, Research Scientist, Research Associate/Assistant,
Director or Co-Director, Genomics Operations Man-
ager * Works in/for: University, Medical school, Phar-
maceutical or Biotech company, Agricultural company,
Government Laboratory, Clinical Laboratory * Have
access to instrument for DNA/RNA sequencing or work
using it * Roche, Illumina, Life Technologies, or Pa-
cic Biosciences * Decision maker for capital equipment
(reagents and kits) or hands on user of equipment *
Number of genes analyzed (to be used for classication
purposes. Depending on market size we may adjust as
appropriate once we have a better understanding.)
* Number of publications * We follow CASRO (http://-
kjtgroup.com/about/memberships-aliations/) guide-
lines and personal info is not released to client * We
only collect personal information in order to send $hon-
oraria to study participants * Participant expectations
* 25-minute web-assisted telephone interview * Incen-
tive $amount TBD
Any interested participants would be able to link to a
screener/scheduler.
Mike Michael Mooney KJT GROUP, INC. Field Oper-
ations Manager
Email: michaelm@KJTgroup.com jWebsite: http://-
KJTgroup.com Oce: 6 East Street, Honeoye Falls,
NY 14472 Telephone: 585.582.5053 jFax: 585.624.8052
LIMS for EvolBiol
Dear Evol-dir community,
I would appreciate recommendations for laboratory
information management systems for academic labsfocused on molecular biology. As our lab does
mostly population genetics-oriented research on numer-
ous species, we are accumulating more samples and as-
sociated information than is easy to keep track of in
spreadsheets and our heads. Ideally this LIMS would
accommodate the use of barcodes for samples and stor-
age locations (i.e. boxes, freezers), provide easy record-
ing of actions on samples like extraction and library
preparation, list the outcomes of those events (de-
graded, failed, consumed, etc.), and connect to prod-
ucts of those events (e.g. links to NGS fastq les).
I am most interested in relatively simple out-of-the-box
solutions or MS Access templates that won't break the
bank. Any suggestions or experience would be helpful.
Thanks!
Stuart Willis
swillis4@gmail.com
MorphoJ website
Dear all,
My name is Emma Chance and I am a nal year student
at the University of Manchester working on my disser-
tation project. I have created a website to help people
beginning or switching to using MorphoJ, for analysing
geometric morphometric data, get started with fewer
diculties and have a greater understanding into the
rationale and purpose behind a few of the key statisti-
cal analyses. I would really appreciate it if you could
take a look at my website, and spend no longer than
5 minutes of your time to answer a quick survey about
how useful you have found my resource and any im-
provements that I could make.
Thank you very much for your time. Kind regards,
Emma Chance
http://personalpages.manchester.ac.uk/student/-
emma.chance/Homepage/Homepage.htm
emma.l.chance@gmail.com
MouseSamples MD Delaware
Hello all,May 1, 2014 EvolDir 59
I am working on a study of the evolutionary genetics of
house mice (Mus musculus), and I am looking for fresh
tissue samples from populations of house mice speci-
cally from the eastern shore of Maryland and anywhere
in Delaware.
Because the tissue must be relatively fresh, I am specif-
ically looking for anyone who is currently, or will soon
be, doing small mammal trapping (whether for research
purposes or to remove a nuisance species), and who
might be willing to collect some tissue from any house
mice collected. I can provide a sampling kit and pay
for shipping, so the commitment would mostly be in
terms of time (which should be minimal if part of an
established trap line or while trying to remove a mouse
infestation from a home or farm). If you are inter-
ested in helping out with this study, please email me at
achunco@gmail.com and I'd be happy to provide more
details about this study.
Thank you in advance,
Amanda
Amanda Chunco Environmental Studies Elon Univer-
sity achunco@gmail.com
achunco@elon.edu
Photos population geneticists
For evoldir:
During the 1960s and 1970s I frequently took photos
of people in my eld, especially theoretical population
geneticists.
I have now posted 40 of them, scanned from color slides,
in a Flickr album here:
https://www.ickr.com/photos/123558304@N02/-
sets/72157644164299043# These are many of the best
ones, but I do hope to add more later.
Joe Felsenstein joe@gs.washington.edu Department of
Genome Sciences and Department of Biology, Univer-
sity of Washington, Box 355065, Seattle, WA 98195-
5065 USA
Joe Felsenstein <joe@gs.washington.edu >Phyloseminar Bastien Boussau
Apr22
Bastien Boussau Universit e de Lyon Gene tree-species
tree methods for comparative genomics Tuesday, April
22, 2014 9:00 AM PDT
In this second talk of our series on genome-scale phy-
logeny, I build upon Gergely's introduction and present
the modelling assumptions and algorithmic details be-
hind some of the methods we and others have devel-
oped. There will be two parts to this talk. I start with
the model of gene duplications and losses implemented
in PHYLDOG. I present the assumptions we make and
the shortcuts we take to improve the program's e-
ciency, and show some results on real and simulated se-
quence data. I notably show problems that arise when
the program is confronted with data generated with
a model of incomplete lineage sorting (Rasmussen and
Kellis, 2012), and present avenues of research to nd so-
lutions to these problems. In the second part, I present
our current eorts to use our model of gene duplica-
tion, loss, and transfer (Sz ollosi et al, 2013) to infer a
species tree in which speciation nodes are ordered in
time. I briey remind the forgetful viewer of what this
model does and how it works, and I then explain how
we devise a new MCMC algorithm to use it on data
sets containing dozens of species and thousands of gene
families. I nish with some perspectives of our plans
uniting gene tree-species tree models and databases of
gene families and phylogenetic trees.
For more details, see http://phyloseminar.org/ . Fred-
erick \Erick" Matsen, Assistant Member Fred Hutchin-
son Cancer Research Center http://matsen.fhcrc.org/
ematsen@gmail.com
Phyloseminar EricTannier Apr30
Evolution of genome organization Eric Tannier INRIA,
Universit e de Lyon
Genome rearrangements were discovered and used to
build molecular phylogenies in the 1930s. They are im-
plied in many cancers and their evolutionary role might60 EvolDir May 1, 2014
be of primary importance. But the mathematical and
computational tools to model rearrangements are still
not as ecient as the ones developed later for local mu-
tations as nucleotide or amino-acid substitutions. In
this seminar I will report the attempts to integrate
genome organisations in the usual models of genome
evolution. I will explain how this can improve the in-
ference of phylogenies, as well as ancestral genomes.
For more information, see http://phyloseminar.org/-
. Frederick \Erick" Matsen, Assistant Member
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center http://-
matsen.fhcrc.org/ ematsen@gmail.com
Phyloseminar Gergely
Mini-course on genome-scale phylogeny, talk 1 of 3.
Inferring gene trees with species trees Gergely Sz oll~ osi
E otv os Lor and Tudom anyegyetem Tuesday, April 15,
2014 9:00 AM PDT
Molecular phylogeny has focused mainly on improving
models for the reconstruction of gene trees based on
sequence alignments. Yet, most phylogeneticists seek
to reveal the history of species. Although the histories
of genes and species are tightly linked, they are seldom
identical, because genes duplicate, are lost or horizon-
tally transferred. Building models describing the rela-
tionship between gene and species trees can thus im-
prove the reconstruction of gene trees when a species
tree is known, and vice-versa. Several approaches have
been proposed to solve the problem in one direction or
the other, but in general neither gene trees nor species
trees are known. Only a few studies have attempted to
jointly infer gene trees and species trees.
I introduce models that describe the relationship be-
tween gene trees and species trees. I begin with models
that account for gene duplication and loss, and subse-
quently introduce models that account for the horizon-
tal transfer of genes. I review results from simulations
as well as empirical studies on genomic data that show
that combining gene tree-species tree models with mod-
els of sequence evolution improves gene tree reconstruc-
tion. In turn, these better gene trees provide a better
basis for studying genome evolution or reconstructing
ancestral chromosomes and ancestral gene sequences. I
also discuss the possibility of extracting information on
the timing of speciation events from ancient horizontal
transfer events.Frederick \Erick" Matsen, Assistant Member
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center http://-
matsen.fhcrc.org/ ematsen@gmail.com
Plant sequencing projects
Dear EvolDir community:
We are planning an experiment in which we subject
plants in the eld to specic selective pressures for mul-
tiple generations and then use RNASeq on selected and
control plants to examine changes in the gene expres-
sion associated with selection under these pressures.
However, we are having diculty identifying sequenced
plant species on which we can map RNASeq results
that are suitable to our requirements (1. Grow in the
cool temperate climates found in Scotland; 2. Grow in
grasslands; 3. Associate with arbuscular mycorrhizal
fungi (e.g. no pines or Brassicas)).
Thus I ask: Do you know of any ongoing sequencing
projects for the following plant species (or close rela-
tives of the following plant species)?
Plantago lanceolata, Centaurea cyanus, Daucus carota
(carrot), Trifolium pratense, Pisum sativa (pea), Bro-
mus hordeaceus, Avena fatua or any onion species. Any
help you could provide or alternatives you could suggest
would be greatly appreciated!
If your group, or a group you know, is involved in such
a sequencing project we would like to discuss the possi-
bility of using the genome map in 4-5 years. We would,
of course, keep all information condential until publi-
cation. Please contact me oist using the information
below to discuss.
Thank you! Alison
Alison Bennett, Ph.D., FRES Research Leader James
Hutton Institute n ee Scottish Crop Research Insti-
tute Errol Road Invergowrie Dundee DD2 5DA Al-
ison.Bennett@hutton.ac.uk 044 (0) 1382 568700 ext
7567
Alison.Bennett@hutton.ac.uk
Rearing ChambersMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 61
We are looking for an insect rearing chamber and got a
great price from Powers Scientic but I am unfamiliar
with the company or their chambers. Does anyone have
one or know of them? Would you recommend them?
Thank you in advance for your time!
Diane Ramos, PhD
Assistant Professor Natural Sciences Department Dae-
men College 4380 Main St. Amherst, NY 14226
Duns Scotus 329 (716) 839-8560 dramos@daemen.edu
716.839.8560
dramos@daemen.edu
SelectiveSweep Webserver
Dear Evoldir,
We are developing a web-server for performing selec-
tive sweep analyses using either OmegaPlus (LD-based)
or SweeD (SFS-based). The user has to upload data
(FASTA, VCF, ms or MaCS format), insert analysis
parameters and provide his email. Then results will be
submitted to his mailbox.
Please visit the page: http://pop-gen.eu/wordpress/-
server-for-selective-sweep-detection for further infor-
mation. The tools are described in the following pa-
pers:
SweeD: likelihood-based detection of selective
sweeps in thousands of genomes. <http://-
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23777627 >Pavlidis
P,A1
2ivkovic D, Stamatakis A, Alachiotis N., Mol Biol
Evol. 2013 Sep;30(9):2224-34.
OmegaPlus: a scalable tool for rapid detection of se-
lective sweeps in whole-genome datasets. <http://-
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22760304 >Alachiotis
N, Stamatakis A, Pavlidis P., Bioinformatics. 2012 Sep
1;28(17):2274-5.
Kind regards, pavlos
Pavlos Pavlidis, PhD
pavlidisp@gmail.com
Foundation for Research and Technology - Hellas Insti-
tute of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology ^Iikolaou
Plastira 100, Vassilika Vouton GR - 711 10, Heraklion,
Crete, Greece
Pavlos Pavlidis <pavlidisp@gmail.com >Software BEAST v2 1 2 released
BEAST v2.1.2
We are pleased to announce the release of BEAST
v2.1.2.
The main improvements are: o BEAUti handles mul-
tiple partitions more conveniently o improved package
management o x bug in *BEAST template o added
functionality (FASTA support, stochastic distributions,
*BEAST operator weighting, etc.) o support for more
packages.
A more complete list can be found here http://-
blog.beast2.org/2014/03/30/what-is-new-in-beast-v2-
1-2-and-its-packages/ To install, select the package for
your operating system at
http://beast2.org/ BEAST core development team
Remco Bouckaert <remco@cs.auckland.ac.nz >
Species Ontology survey
Dear Biologist,
A small collaborative eort has been formed with the
goal of exploring contemporary opinions on the nature
of species. With competing and sophisticated opera-
tional strides in mathematics, techniques and analyses,
and data handling, it is an exciting time to once again
explore the topic of species ontology. Therefore, we ask
for your help with this endeavor as the community of
systematic biologists. It would be most appreciated if
you would take the brief survey by clicking on the link
at the bottom of this letter. The survey deals with opin-
ions on the nature of species, and will take very little
time to complete ( <5 minutes). Please read the rest
of this information letter thoroughly before proceeding.
Thank you for your help.
Auburn University College of Science and Mathematics
Department of Biological Sciences
(NOTE: DO NOT AGREE TO PARTICIPATE UN-
LESS IRB APPROVAL INFORMATION WITH CUR-
RENT DATES HAS BEEN ADDED TO THIS DOC-
UMENT.)62 EvolDir May 1, 2014
=== *INFORMATION LETTERfor a Research Study
entitled\Species Perceptions: Ontological evidence for
a Biological Divide"*
*You are invited to participate in a research study* to
explore contemporary opinions on the nature of species.
The study is being conducted by Christopher Murray
(PhD candidate), under the direction of Dr. Craig
Guyer, Professor in the Auburn University Department
of Biological Sciences. You were selected as a possible
participant because you participate in evolutionary bi-
ology at a professional level and are age 18 or older.
*What will be involved if you participate?* Your par-
ticipation is completely voluntary. If you decide to par-
ticipate in this research study, you will be asked to re-
spond to six opinion-based questions. Your total time
commitment will be approximately ve minutes. If you
are invited to take the survey multiple times, please
only complete it once.
*If you change your mind about participating*, you can
withdraw at any time by closing your browser window.
If you choose to withdraw, your data can be withdrawn
as long as it is identiable. Once you've submitted
anonymous data, it cannot be withdrawn since it will
be unidentiable. Your decision about whether or not
to participate or to stop participating will not jeopar-
dize your future relations with Auburn University, the
Department of Biological Sciences or the investigators.
*Any data obtained in connection with this study will
remain anonymous.* We will protect your privacy and
the data you provide by never recording IP addresses,
panel information or identifying information using the
Qualtrics survey system options. Information collected
through your participation may be published in a pro-
fessional journal, and/or presented at a professional
meeting.
*If you have questions about this study*, please con-
tact Christopher M Murray at murracm04@gmail.com
or Caleb D. McMahan at cmcmah2@tigers.lsu.edu.
*If you have questions about your rights as a research
participant*, you may contact the Auburn University
Oce of Human Subjects Research or the Institutional
Review Board by phone (334) 844-5966 or e-mail at
hsubjec@auburn.edu or IRBChair@auburn.edu.
HAVING READ THE INFORMATION ABOVE, YOU
MUST DECIDE IF YOU WANT TO PARTICIPATE
IN THIS RESEARCH PROJECT. IF YOU DECIDE
TO PARTICIPATE, PLEASE CLICK ON THE LINK
BELOW. YOU MAY PRINT A COPY OF THIS LET-
TER TO KEEP.
Christopher M Murray 4/21/14Investigator Date Caleb D McMa-
han 4/21/14 Co-Investigator
Date The Auburn University Institutional Review
Board has approved this document for use from 4/3/14
to 4/2/17. Protocol #14-141 EX1404
===*LINK TO SURVEYhttps:/-
/auburn.qualtrics.com/SE/?SID=-
SV54HAzRvBFqFv2cJ Caleb McMahan
<cmcmah2@tigers.lsu.edu >
UBasel VolFieldAssist
ButteryDispersal
Field assistants in buttery evolutionary ecology
We are looking for voluntary eld assistants to partic-
ipate in a research project on dispersal and behavioral
ecology of butteries. The project is run by the Re-
search Station Petite Camargue Alsacienne, University
of Basel (www.camargue.unibas.ch, PD Dr. Valentin
Amrhein). Fieldwork will be done from June to August
2014, at the Research Station Petite Camargue Alsaci-
enne in France, about 10 km north of Basel (Switzer-
land).
Field assistants will participate in a capture-mark-
recapture study and in translocation experiments, and
some knowledge on identication and handling of but-
teries would be an advantage. We cannot cover travel
expenses, but we oer free accommodation and use of
the infrastructure at the research station. Field assis-
tants will receive a compensation of 600 Euros for the
eld season to cover food expenses. Applicants are ex-
pected to stay for the entire eld season from beginning
of June until the end of August.
The positions will be lled as soon as possible. Appli-
cations should be in English and should include, in one
single pdf or word le, a curriculum vitae and a letter
of motivation. Please send applications by email to the
following address:
PD Dr. Valentin Amrhein Zoological Institute Univer-
sity of Basel pca.recherche@orange.fr
Valentin Amrhein <pca.recherche@orange.fr >May 1, 2014 EvolDir 63
Undergraduate Evol course
Hi,
Next semester, I will be teaching an undergraduate
course on Vertebrate form and function, which will have
a large component of functional morphology.
The course will include a weekly 2h 30 min lab, which
should complement the lecture part. I would like to
make the lab more interesting and practical than just
focusing it on a comparative study of bones/skeletons
and anatomies.
I was wondering if anyone has suggestions on how I
could make the lab more interesting and possibly in-
clude some research - based experience for the students.
Thanks in advance, Ylenia
{
Dr. Ylenia Chiari Assistant Professor
Department of Biology University of South Alabama
LSCB 123 5871 USA Dr. N. Mobile, AL 36688 USA
Phone: (251) 460-6331 Fax: (251) 414 8220
Email yle@yleniachiari.it
Web http://www.yleniachiari.it http://-
www.usouthal.edu/biology/faculty/chiari/-
chiariindex.html Ylenia Chiari <yle@yleniachiari.it >
Undergraduate Summer Research
SyracuseUThe lab of Dr. Scott Pitnick at Syracuse University in
central New York is looking for a mature, motivated
undergraduate for NSF REU (Research Experience for
Undergraduates) research in sexual selection and speci-
ation biology. The successful candidate will work with
the PI, a technician, postdoctoral fellows and PhD stu-
dents to conduct experiments on three dierent model
dipteran study systems: (1) the fruit y Drosophila
melanogaster and related species, (2) the yellow dung
y Scathophaga stercoraria and (3) the dung y Sep-
sis punctum. Investigations will be conducted in the
laboratory, with articial pastures in a greenhouse and
at local cattle and sheep pastures. The successful can-
didate will potentially participate in projects concep-
tually related to postcopulatory sexual selection, rapid
evolutionary diversication, mechanisms of reproduc-
tive isolation between sibling species, mechanisms of
ejaculate-female interaction, and alternative male re-
productive tactics. She/he will receive training and
experience in many to all of the following skills: rear-
ing, maintaining and handling y cultures; collecting
virgins and setting up mating crosses; dissecting male
and female reproductive tissues; preparing and staining
sperm slides; microscopy and use of camera software
to quantify sperm quantity, quality, performance and
fate within the female reproductive tract. The student
will be on campus from May 26-Aug. 15 (some ex-
ibility allowed) and will receive a summer stipend of
$4950. Only US citizens or permanent residents who
are fully enrolled in undergraduate institutions are el-
igible. Please send an ocial transcript, a brief essay
(no longer than one page) on your research interests,
career goals and what you seek to gain from an REU
experience, and provide contact information for two ref-
erences to Dr. Pitnick at sspitnic@syr.edu. Deadline
for application is April 30.
Dr. Scott Pitnick Professor of Biology Syracuse
University Syracuse, NY 13244 USA (315) 443-
5128 sspitnic@syr.edu http://biology.syr.edu/faculty/-
pitnick/pitnick.htm
sspitnic@syr.edu
PostDocs64 EvolDir May 1, 2014
ArizonaStateU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
BGPI Montpellier InvasiveAdaptations . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
BiKF Frankfurt BiodiversityModels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
BiKF Frankfurt EvolutionSeedDispersal . . . . . . . . . . . 67
ColdSpringHarborLabs ComputationalGenomics . . .67
CornellU CassavaGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .68
CornellU SymbiosisMetabolicCooperation . . . . . . . . . 69
CSIRO Canberra TephritidaeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
FHCRC Seattle HIV molecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 70
Glasgow EpidemiologicalPhyloDynamicModelling . .70
Goiania Brazil EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
Goiania Brazil PlantGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .72
INRA France ChickenEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
ISTVienna Austria PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Lausanne PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
LMU Munich ComparativeGenomicsPhylogenomicsNon-
Bilateria . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
LMU Munich ComparativeGenomicsPhylogenomicsNon-
Bilateria 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Lyon France SexChromosomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . .76
Marseille MarinePopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Montpellier WheatTranscriptomicsAdaptation . . . . . 77
Okinawa EvolutionofBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Oxford PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .79
Paris EvolutionaryEcology Phylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . 80
QMUL London phylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Rosco France ClimateAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Sheeld Macroevolution Birds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
StLouis GrassEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82TexasAM LandscapeGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .83
UAlabama DrosophilaMetabolomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
UCalifornia Davis 2 MaizeEvolutionaryGenetics . . . 84
UCalifornia Davis EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . .85
UCalifornia LosAngeles EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . 85
UCollegeLondon CooperationImprinting . . . . . . . . . . .86
UFedSaoCarlos Brazil QuantGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
UFlorida EvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
UIllinois FungalEcolEvolutionMetagenomics . . . . . . . 87
UInnsbruck NextGenerationSequencing . . . . . . . . . . . .88
UKansas Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
UKansas ComputationalBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
ULille France Arabiodopsis SelfIncompatibility . . . . 90
UMassachusetts Boston Phylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
UMichigan TreeSnail EvolGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
UMinnesota FungalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .91
UNebraska InsectAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
UNotreDame MalariaMosquito PopulationGenomics 92
UOslo PaleoData . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93
URhodeIsland DiatomTranscriptomics . . . . . . . . . . . . .94
USFS Oregon EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
USP Brazil EvolutionModularity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
UZurich Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
VanderbiltU EvolutionOfHumanBirth . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
WashingtonU StLouis GenomicImprinting . . . . . . . . . 97
WashingtonU StLouis MicrobialSociality . . . . . . . . . . 97
YaleU MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
ZEM UZurich EvolutionaryMedicine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
ArizonaStateU
EvolutionaryGenomics
[A pdf of this ad is available at http://cartwrig.ht/-
postdocs.pdf] The Cartwright Lab at Arizona State
University in Tempe, AZ is seeking multiple Postdoc-
toral Research Associates in the areas of Evolution-
ary Genomics, Statistics, and Bioinformatics to develop
methodologies and study evolutionary questions related
to mutation and short-read sequencing. Successful ap-
plicants will join a rapidly growing and well-funded lab
involved on a variety of active research projects and
collaborations. Current projects include (1) the analy-
sis of cilliate mutation accumulation lines, (2) the de-
velopment of software for de-novo mutation detection
from traditional and single-cell sequencing datasets, (3)
the analysis of non-pathogenic somatic mutation pat-
terns in mammals and plants, (4) the study of indel
patterns across the tree of life, (5) characterizing muta-tions and tness-landscapes of metabolically engineered
microbes, (6) population genetics of malaria parasites,
(7) the construction of phylogenies from short-read,
whole genome datasets, and (8) simulation techniques
for molecular evolution research.
The Cartwright Lab is part of the Center for Evolu-
tionary Medicine and Informatics (CEMI), one of 10
research centers in Arizona State University's Biode-
sign Institute. Research in the Cartwright Lab cov-
ers many dierent questions in population genetics and
molecular evolution, at the interface of biology, statis-
tics, and computer science. A majority of our research
involves developing, implementing, and applying novel
methodologies to study genomic datasets. Members
have the opportunity to develop both dry-lab and wet-
lab research programs through interactions with both
national and international collaborations.
As part of this project, the Postdoctoral Research As-
sociates are expected to be able to:
1) Assemble microbial or metazoan genomes from
short-read sequences and identify variable sites and re-
gions. 2) Develop novel, high-throughput methodolo-May 1, 2014 EvolDir 65
gies to study mutations from next generation sequenc-
ing of related individuals and cells. 3) Work closely
with collaborators to customize methodologies to spe-
cic experimental designs.
Required Qualications: Ph.D. in genomics, bioinfor-
matics, or a related eld
Desired Qualications: Experience working with
genomes and evolutionary analyses; Knowledge of pro-
gramming languages including R, Python, and C++;
Knowledge of statistical methodologies; Experience
with short-read sequencing
Application must contain: (1) Resume, (2) Cover Let-
ter, (3) Names, addresses, and phone numbers of three
professional references
Deadline for applications is May 1, 2014. Applications
will continue to be accepted and considered until the
job is lled/closed.
For more information see http://cartwrig.ht/lab/ or
http://labs.biodesign.asu.edu/cartwright/ . To ap-
ply, forward one document that includes a cover
letter, detailed CV, and names of 3 references to
cartwright@asu.edu. Please put the job title in the sub-
ject line of the letter.
Arizona State University is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action employer. A background check
is required for employment.
A pdf of this ad is available at http://cartwrig.ht/-
postdocs.pdf Reed A. Cartwright, PhD Assistant
Professor of Genomics, Evolution, and Bioinformat-
ics School of Life Sciences Center for Evolutionary
Medicine and Informatics The Biodesign Institute Ari-
zona State University
Address: The Biodesign Institute, PO Box 875301,
Tempe, AZ 85287-5301 USA Packages: The Biodesign
Institute, 1001 S. McAllister Ave, Tempe, AZ 85287-
5301 USA Oce: Biodesign A-224A, 1-480-965-9949
Website: http://cartwrig.ht/ rcartwri@asu.edu
BGPI Montpellier
InvasiveAdaptations
Postdoctoral Position in modeling the genetics of adap-
tation of invasive populations
We seek to hire a post-doctoral research associate
for a Grand Federative Project funded by the FrenchAgropolis Fondation1 called BIOFIS \Bioagressors and
invasive species: from individual to population to
species". The project is dedicated to develop, coordi-
nate and communicate research actions on bioagressors
in Europe (insects, mites, trees, fungi and virus) and
on their associated natural enemies.
Term and location: The position should start in Decem-
ber 2014 at the latest. Support is for one year. This po-
sition is co-supervised by E. Klein (INRA - BIOSP, Avi-
gnon France) and V. Ravign e (CIRAD - BGPI, Mont-
pellier, France). We encourage the postdoctoral fellow
to be based in Montpellier but being hosted in Avignon
is also possible.
Eligibility: Agropolis Fondation typically considers ap-
plications from candidates that have not resided or
carried out their main activity (work, studies, etc) in
France for more than 12 months in the 3 years imme-
diately prior to the date of submission of the proposal
and that have obtained their PhD degree for no more
than 3 years upon the date of application. However,
we encourage excellent candidates not entirely fulll-
ing these conditions to contact us, as these might be
funded if no other eligible candidate satises scientic
requirements for the job.
Project: Bioinvasions have long been considered as
purely ecological processes until researchers recognize
that evolutionary processes such as drift and selection
may play a substantial role in their success. Recently
particular attention has been paid to evolutionary pro-
cesses occurring during spatial expansions. Selection
for dierent life-history strategies at the source and
front of invasions is expected to aect the speed of
spatial spread. The strong eects of genetic drift as-
sociated to the specic demography of an expansion
(in particular successive funding eects distributed in
space) may as well shape the neutral and selected di-
versity along invasion waves. To better understand the
interaction between drift, selection, and dispersal, we
wish to design and analyze spatially explicit simulation
models allowing studying the spatial spread of bene-
cial/neutral/deleterious mutations during a coloniza-
tion process. We are particularly interested in study-
ing the eect of i) environmental heterogeneity and ii)
non-standard mating systems (e.g., mixing sexual and
asexual reproduction) on the process. In the end, these
theoretical results may be confronted to population ge-
netics data in dierent species.
This work is mainly theoretical in its present shape but
it is expected to produce useful results for approaches
aiming at detecting traces of selection during bioinva-
sions from the analysis of the spatial genetic structure
of populations at a large number of loci (genome scan).66 EvolDir May 1, 2014
We seek a young researcher who combines with a
strong conceptual background in evolutionary biology
and some modeling skills (mathematics and computer
science). Experience with programming, bioinformatics
and theoretical population genetics is required. Skills
in data analysis are not necessary but will be consid-
ered positively. Facility in writing is important. The
post-doc will benet by working as a member of the
BIOFIS project team with an extent network of collab-
orators interested in dispersal, invasion biology, plant
pathology, evolutionary biology and population genet-
ics.
Contact: Virginie Ravign e. Virginie.ravigne@cirad.fr
1 Agropolis Fondation: http://www.agropolis-
fondation.fr/ Virginie Ravign e Chercheuse CIRAD -
D epartement BIOS - UMR BGPI
UMR PVBMT Station de Ligne-Paradis P^ ole de protec-
tion des plantes 7 chemin de l'IRAT 97410 Saint-Pierre
- R eunion
Tel : 0262 49 92 24 /06 92 32 04 97 Mail
: Virginie.Ravigne@cirad.fr http://agents.cirad.fr/-
index.php/virginie.ravigne
Virginie Ravign e <virginie.ravigne@cirad.fr >
BiKF Frankfurt BiodiversityModels
The Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre (BiK-
F) has been founded by the Senckenberg Gesellschaft
fuer Naturforschung, the Goethe-University Frankfurt
am Main, and additional partners. It is funded by
the Federal State of Hessen through its Initiative for
the Development of Scientic and Economic Excellence
(LOEWE). The mission of the centre is to carry out in-
ternationally outstanding research on the interactions
of biodiversity and climate change at the organism level.
The working group of Prof. Dr. Katrin B ohning-Gaese
invites applications for a
Postdoctoral Researcher on \Intercomparisons of bio-
diversity models" Ref. #B20b
The project contributes to the EU COST Action
\Harmonizing Global Biodiversity Modelling HarmBio
(http://harmbio.uom.gr/)". This action aims for the
harmonization of current models and datasets of terres-
trial, freshwater and marine biodiversity to improve the
reliability of future projections of biodiversity change.
This cross community initiative aims to accelerate thedevelopment of transparent and scientically robust
biodiversity models, through validation, calibration and
inter-comparison of models and data.
Your tasks: ^ a Facilitating systematic inter-comparisons
and benchmarking of biodiversity models. Model com-
parisons will involve comparing outputs of dierent
models among models as well as with biodiversity data.
^ a Facilitating the development of standards for model-
model and model-data comparisons ^ a Leading con-
ceptual and original scientic publications as well as
preparing grant proposals ^ a Facilitating exchange and
collaborations with other members of the COST Action
^ a Organizing and leading international workshops
Your prole: ^ a PhD in ecology, biodiversity modelling,
statistics, or a related eld ^ a Solid background in bio-
diversity modelling, advanced statistics and macroecol-
ogy ^ a Very strong publication record ^ a Experience and
interest in working within an international collaborative
research group ^ a Very good organizational and excellent
written and oral communication skills
Salary and benets are according to a public service
position in Germany (TV-H E13). The contract shall
start on July, 1st 2014 and will initially be restricted un-
til December, 31th 2015. An extension of the contract
is possible. The Senckenberg Research Institute sup-
ports equal opportunity of men and women and there-
fore strongly invites women to apply. Equally qualied
handicapped applicants will be given preference. The
place of employment will be Frankfurt am Main, Ger-
many. The employer is the Senckenberg Gesellschaft
fuer Naturforschung. Funding of the position is subject
to nal approval.
Please send your application before April, 23rd 2014
preferentially by e-mail (attachment in a single pdf
document), mentioning the reference of this position
(Ref. #B20b) and including a letter outlining your
suitability for the post, a detailed CV, contact de-
tails of 2 references and pdfs of ve publications to
the Administrative Director: Herrn Dr. Johannes Heil-
mann c/o Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung
Senckenberganlage 25 60325 Frankfurt E-Mail: recruit-
ing@senckenberg.de Your application should contain
the information on where you found the job advertise-
ment.
For scientic enquiries please get in contact with
Prof. Dr. K. B ohning-Gaese (email: katrin.boehning-
gaese@senckenberg.de.
Frankfurt, 26.03.2014
Dr. Johannes Heilmann Administrative Director
Jan.Wenner@senckenberg.deMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 67
BiKF Frankfurt
EvolutionSeedDispersal
The Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre (BiK-
F) has been founded by the Senckenberg Gesellschaft
fuer Naturforschung, the Goethe-University Frankfurt
am Main, and additional partners. It is funded by
the Federal State of Hessen through its Initiative for
the Development of Scientic and Economic Excellence
(LOEWE). The mission of the centre is to carry out in-
ternationally outstanding research on the interactions
of biodiversity and climate change at the organism level.
The working group of Prof. Katrin B ohning-Gaese in-
vites applications for a
Postgraduate Researcher in \Seed dispersal and polli-
nation interactions of birds" Ref. #B61
The project is part of the DFG Research Group
Kilimanjaro (www.kilimanjaro.biozentrum.uni-
wuerzburg.de).
Your tasks: ^ a Contribute to an ongoing PhD investiga-
tion of the impact of climatic factors and land-use inten-
sity on the functional diversity of birds and their mutu-
alistic interactions with plants ^ a Intensive eld work on
birds and their fruit and ower resources along eleva-
tional and land-use gradients on Mt. Kilimanjaro, Tan-
zania ^ a Monitoring of interactions using visual obser-
vations and digital cameras; analyses of camera record-
ings ^ a If interested, statistical analysis of frugivore -
plant interaction networks and publication of research
results ^ a Close collaboration with other members of the
Research Group Kilimanjaro, in particular with a cor-
responding project on the functional diversity of bats
Your prole: ^ a Master's degree in ecology or a related
eld ^ a Solid background in community ecology and/or
animal ecology ^ a Experience in eld work in a tropical
country ^ a Very good bird identication skills, interest
in plants ^ a Willingness to learn basics in Kiswahili ^ a
Very good organizational and oral communication skills
^ a Ability to work independently; physical and mental
endurance
Salary and benets are according to a public service
position in Germany (TV-H E13, 50%). The contract
shall start approximately October 2014 and will be re-
stricted to 18 months. The Senckenberg Research In-
stitute supports equal opportunity of men and women
and therefore strongly invites women to apply. Equallyqualied handicapped applicants will be given pref-
erence. The place of employment will be Frankfurt
am Main, Germany. The employer is the Senckenberg
Gesellschaft fuer Naturforschung.
Please send your application before April, 23rd 2014
preferentially by e-mail (attachment in a single pdf
document), mentioning the reference of this position
(Ref. #B61) and including a letter outlining your suit-
ability for the post, a detailed CV and contact details
of 2 references to the Administrative Director: Herrn
Dr. Johannes Heilmann c/o Senckenberg Gesellschaft
f ur Naturforschung Senckenberganlage 25 60325 Frank-
furt E-Mail: recruiting@senckenberg.de Your applica-
tion should contain the information on where you found
the job advertisement.
For scientic enquiries please get in contact with
Prof. Dr. K. B ohning-Gaese (email: katrin.boehning-
gaese@senckenberg.de.
Frankfurt, 26.03.2014
Dr. Johannes Heilmann Administrative Director
Jan.Wenner@senckenberg.de
ColdSpringHarborLabs
ComputationalGenomics
MULTIPLE POSTDOCTORAL POSITIONS are
available in Dr. Adam Siepel's research group in its new
location at the Simons Center for Quantitative Biology
at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, starting in Septem-
ber, 2014. The Siepel group specializes in the develop-
ment of probabilistic models, algorithms for inference,
prediction methods, and application of these methods
in large-scale genomic data analysis. Of particular in-
terest is research relevant to existing, NIH-supported
projects in (1) human population genomics, including
demography inference using Bayesian coalescent-based
methods, inference of natural selection on regulatory
and other noncoding sequences, and prediction of t-
ness consequences for noncoding mutations; and (2)
transcriptional regulation in mammals and Drosophila,
including the estimation of rates and patterns of tran-
scriptional elongation from the GRO-seq data, predic-
tion of transcription factor binding sites from DNase-
seq data, and regulatory network inference based on
joint patterns of transcription and binding in inducible
systems. The research on transcriptional regulation will
continue to be carried out in close collaboration with68 EvolDir May 1, 2014
Dr. John Lis at Cornell University.
Relevant recent papers including the following:
1. Rasmussen MD, Hubisz MJ, Gronau I, Siepel
A. Genome-wide inference of ancestral recombination
graphs. PLOS Genet., in press.
2. Freedman AH, Gronau I, Schweizer RM, Ortega-Del
Vecchyo D, Han E, et al. (30 co-authors). Genome se-
quencing highlights the dynamic early history of dogs.
PLOS Genet.10(1):e1004016, 2014.
3. Capra JA, Hubisz MJ, Kostka D, Pollard KS, Siepel
A. A model-based analysis of GC-biased gene conver-
sion in the human and chimpanzee genomes. PLOS
Genet. 9(8):e1003684, 2013.
4. Arbiza L, Gronau I, Aksoy BA, Hubisz MJ, Gulko B,
Keinan A, Siepel A. Genome-wide inference of natural
selection on human transcription factor binding sites.
Nature Genetics 45(7):723- 729, 2013.
5. Danko CG, Hah N, Luo X, Martins AL, Core L, Lis
JT, Siepel A, Kraus WL. Signaling pathways dieren-
tially aect RNA polymerase II initiation, pausing, and
elongation rate in cells. Mol. Cell50(2):212- 222, 2013.
6. Gronau I, Arbiza L, Mohammed J, Siepel A. In-
ference of natural selection from interspersed genomic
elements based on polymorphism and divergence. Mol.
Biol. Evol. 30(5):1159-1171, 2013.
7. Guertin MJ, Martins AL, Siepel A, Lis JT. Accurate
prediction of inducible transcription factor binding in-
tensities in vivo. PLOS Genetics, 8(3):e1002610, 2012.
8. Gronau I, Hubisz MJ, Gulko B, Danko CG, Siepel
A. Bayesian inference of ancient human demography
from individual genome sequences. Nature Genetics
43(10):1031-1034, 2011.
The ideal candidate will be enthusiastic, highly moti-
vated, and independent, will have a strong background
in comparative genomics, population genomics, or tran-
scriptional regulation, a serious interest in molecular bi-
ology and genetics combined with good skills in math-
ematics and computer science, and a strong record of
accomplishment in research. Postdoctoral associates in
the group are expected to participate in both methods
development and data analysis, to be comfortable in a
fast-moving, interactive, and collaborative research en-
vironment, and to actively publish and present results.
Required Qualications
1. Ph.D. in bioinformatics, computer science, statis-
tics, genetics, molecular biology, applied mathematics,
or a related eld. 2. Research experience (with rst-
author publications) in computational genomics or a
closely related eld. 3. Fluency in probabilistic model-ing and computational statistics. 4. Prociency in pro-
gramming, ideally in C or C++ as well as in scripting
languages such as python, perl, matlab, or R. Should
be comfortable in a linux environment, with large data
sets, computer clusters, and databases.
Term
The term for this position is exible but most likely
will be 2-3 years. The proposed start date is September
2014. As many as 4 positions may be lled, depending
on the quality of the applicants.
To Apply
Submit a CV, a short description of research interests
and experience, and contact information for three ref-
erences by e-mail to acs4 at cornell dot edu. Informal
inquiries are welcome.
Adam Siepel 102E Weill Hall Cornell University Ithaca,
NY 14853
Adam Charles Siepel <acs4@cornell.edu >
CornellU CassavaGenomics
Research Associate: Genomic Selection in Cassava
A Research Associate position is available to work in
the area of genomic selection in the Department of
Plant Breeding and Genetics at Cornell University. The
overall purpose of this position is to serve as a key re-
searcher and assistant to Jean-Luc Jannink, the leader
of an international project to implement genomic selec-
tion in cassava (http://www.nextgencassava.org). The
position requires an experienced scientist to conduct
independent research in development and implementa-
tion of genomic prediction models, with an emphasis on
empirical data from cassava breeding programs. The
individual will provide regular advice to PhD students
conducting research in genomic selection, and will help
them with preparation of research papers. In addition,
the individual will work with the project manager to co-
ordinate activities and the ow of information among
project partners. The position involves travel to Nige-
ria and Uganda for meetings with colleagues, visiting
eld sites, and presentation of workshops.
Anticipated Division of Time Research and writing: 60-
70% Teaching (mentoring, preparing and giving work-
shops): 20-30% Coordination, meetings: 10%
Requirements PhD in genetics, plant breeding, or
statistics required Three years of postdoctoral experi-May 1, 2014 EvolDir 69
ence desirable Programming experience required Ex-
perience with statistical genomics required Excellent
writing skills required Mentoring/teamwork experience
required Ability to work well with people of dier-
ent backgrounds and experience required Willingness
to travel to Africa required Experience with next-
generation genotype data desirable
The position is available 7/01/14. Applications will
be reviewed until a suitable candidate is found.
The initial appointment will be made for one year,
with the expectation of renewal pending satisfac-
tory performance (the project is funded until August
2017). Cornell is an equal opportunity employer.
A list of publications from the Jannink group can
be found at http://www.ars.usda.gov/pandp/people/-
people.htm?personid=40650 Inquiries or applications
can be sent to the project manager, Hale Tufan
(hat36@cornell.edu). In your CV, please indicate which
publications were actually written by you.
\Martha T. Hamblin" <mth3@cornell.edu >
CornellU
SymbiosisMetabolicCooperation
\Job: Evolution of Metabolic Cooperation in Insect-
Microbial Symbiosis"
A postdoctoral position in animal-microbial interac-
tions is available immediately in the laboratory of Dr
Angela Douglas (Cornell University, USA), to inves-
tigate the evolution of metabolite exchange between
symbiotic bacteria and their animal hosts. The re-
search project funded by NSF will investigate (1) how
the coevolved metabolic networks of the interacting
organisms are integrated, including network proper-
ties that may increase metabolic cooperation and re-
duce conict among the partners; and (2) the contri-
bution of systems-level variation in network properties
to the functional variation among symbioses involving
bacteria with genetically equivalent metabolic capabil-
ities. The research involves metabolic modeling, in-
cluding metabolic network reconstruction and ux bal-
ance analysis, together with genome/transcriptome se-
quencing and metabolite analysis in the context of co-
evolved symbioses; prior experience of working with
genomes is essential, and experience of metabolic mod-
eling and/or symbiotic associations is strongly pre-
ferred. The successful candidates will join an integrated
team of researchers committed to understand the evolu-tion and function of animal-bacterial symbioses (http:/-
/www.angeladouglaslab.com/).
Applications from candidates with a PhD in a biologi-
cal discipline should be sent by email to Angela Douglas
(aes326@cornell.edu). Please include a CV, statement
of research, and details of three referees. The covering
letter should include an explanation of how your quali-
cations and experience make you a good candidate for
this position. Informal inquiries are welcome. To en-
sure full consideration, all materials should be received
by May 12, 2012; however, applications will be accepted
until the position is lled.
Angela E. Douglas Daljit S. and Elaine Sarkaria Pro-
fessor of Insect Physiology and Toxicology Department
of Entomology and Department of Molecular Biology
and Genetics 5134 Comstock Hall Cornell University
Ithaca, NY 14853 USA
Tel. +1-607-255-8539 FAX +1-607-255-
0939 email aes326@cornell.edu http://-
www.angeladouglaslab.com/ aes326@cornell.edu
CSIRO Canberra
TephritidaeGenomics
Applications are invited for a three-year OCE Post-
doctoral Fellowship in quantitative genetics/genomics
of fruit ies. The Tephritidae fruit y family includes
some of the major pests of cultivated eshy fruits in
tropical and temperate regions of the world. In Aus-
tralia this includes Bactrocera tryoni, B. neohumeralis
and B. jarvisi, three species that dier in their dis-
tribution, stress tolerance and host rank preference.
These species produce fertile hybrids in the laboratory,
thereby oering unique experimental strategies. The
successful candidate will pursue a genetic dissection of
fruit y natural history traits as part of a research team
working more broadly on the molecular biology of Bac-
trocera species, including full genome sequencing, com-
parative genomics, RNAi and gene expression, and will
build and lead the quantitative genetics component of
the project.
Specically you will:
1) Contribute to the design of laboratory bioassays and
common garden experiments to determine whether in-
trogression can change reproductive performance un-
der conditions favouring traits from one species over
another.70 EvolDir May 1, 2014
2) Guided by full-genome sequence, identifying regions
of recombination that are preferentially introgressed in
hybrid lines under dierent conditions.
3) Undertake molecular characterisation of the most
promising candidate loci using RNAi.
4) Produce high quality scientic and technical out-
puts including journal articles, conference papers and
presentations, patents and technical reports.
5) Develop innovative concepts and ideas for further re-
search, regularly review relevant literature and patents.
Location: Black Mountain, Canberra, Australia Salary:
AU$78,000 to $88,000 plus up to 15.4% superannuation
Reference Number: ACT13/03745 Term: 3 years
CSIRO Ecosystem Sciences (CES) is a globally signi-
cant centre for sustainability science. The Division ap-
plies multidisciplinary science to help ensure the sus-
tainability of Australia's agricultural and forestry sys-
tems, built environments, biodiversity, and rural and
urban communities and industries. The Evolutionary
Biology Program houses the molecular biology, bio-
chemistry, microbiology, analytical chemistry, phylo-
genetics, and genomics capability in CES. The pro-
gram aims to document Australia's terrestrial fauna
through recognition of species and their distributions,
and through the interpretation of their evolutionary ori-
gins. The Program examines how Australia's biodiver-
sity has been shaped by evolution, and takes inspira-
tion from evolutionary processes to develop genomics
and bio-inspired technologies.
http://www.csiro.au/Organisation-Structure/-
Divisions/Ecosystem-Sciences/Evolutionary-
Biology.aspx How to Apply for this job:
To view the position description and apply online,
please visit:
http://csiro.nga.net.au/?jati=3D2a3c87b6-82cc-a685-
3737-7713254bc53c
Applications close May 7th 2014
DrOwain Edwards Program Leader jEvolutionary Bi-
ology Principal Research Scientist CSIRO Ecosystem
Sciences Underwood Avenue, Floreat WA 6014 jClu-
nies Ross St, Canberra, ACT 2601
Phone: +6189333 6401 (Perth) j+6126246
4514 (Canberra) jMobile: 0438877 180
owain.edwards@csiro.au
Owain.Edwards@csiro.auFHCRC Seattle HIV
molecularEvolution
This postdoctoral position is an opportunity to con-
tribute to the design of the upcoming 701 and 702 HIV
vaccine trials to maximize power in subsequent statis-
tical analyses. Specically, it will be to develop new
statistical and molecular evolution methods to design
the trials so that infection time and founder sequences
can be inferred with maximum delity. The scope of
the study design includes sampling times and sequenc-
ing protocol, and also may aord some opportunities to
design novel ways of combining sequencing methodolo-
gies. The project will last two years, with some possi-
bility of extension. It may also oer an option to travel
to South Africa to help teach a short course at the Uni-
versity of Cape Town, and possibly interact with the
Fred Hutchinson Research Institute there.
This position will require signicant statistics expertise,
programming ability, and of course interest in collab-
oration. A background in molecular evolution would
be very helpful, but isn't strictly required. For more
details, see http://matsen.fhcrc.org/general/2014/04/-
11/HVTN-postdoc.html Frederick \Erick" Matsen,
Assistant Member Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research
Center http://matsen.fhcrc.org/ ematsen@gmail.com
Glasgow EpidemiologicalPhyloDy-
namicModelling
Research Assistant / Associate in Epidemiologi-
cal/Phylodynamic Modelling - Ref: 008448
Grade 6/7: $26,527 - $29,837 / $32,590 - $36,661 per
annum
The Institute of Biodiversity, Animal Health and Com-
parative Medicine (University of Glasgow) is looking to
recruit a postdoctoral research assistant with excellent
computational skills and an interest in epidemiologi-
cal models to support our research on the transmis-
sion dynamics of bovine Tuberculosis (bTB) in British
and Irish cattle and badgers. BTB is the most promi-
nent disease of livestock in Britain and Ireland, andMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 71
an exceptional exemplar for developing general princi-
ples regarding the transmission dynamics of multi-host
pathogens.
Possessing excellent quantitative skills and academic
qualication at Degree and/or PhD you will con-
tribute to this BBSRC funded project by developing
novel methodologies to explore the dynamics of bTB
spread, exploiting dense demographic data and whole
genome sequence data generated from the vast archive
of bacterial samples available. The project is led by
Prof. Rowland Kao and builds on a broad consor-
tium of collaborators at Glasgow, the AHVLA and
AFBI in Northern Ireland. The holder will be embed-
ded within the Boyd Orr Centre for Population and
Ecosystem Health (www.glasgow.ac.uk/boydorr), a vi-
brant research grouping of scientists interested in the
application and development of cutting edge quantita-
tive methods to solve real disease problems. The work
of the Boyd Orr Centre was recently acknowledged by
the award of the Queen's Anniversary Prize to the Uni-
versity of Glasgow, on the basis of the Centre's research
excellence and commitment to broader impact on hu-
man and an imal health (http://www.gla.ac.uk/news/-
headline 297128 en.html).
This position is funded until 31 May 2017.
For more details and online application see: http:/-
/www.gla.ac.uk/about/jobs/vacancies/ (Reference:
008448)
Closing date: 9 May 2014
Informal inquiries to Rowland Kao (Row-
land.Kao@glasgow.ac.uk) or Roman Biek (ro-
man.biek@glasgow.ac.uk)
Roman.Biek@glasgow.ac.uk
Goiania Brazil EvolutionaryBiology
*POST-DOC IN EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY
(BRAZIL)*
*Post-Doctoral Research position *in Goiania, Brazil
with a competitive salary (49,200 BRL a year) for
one year, extendable to second based on performance,
focusing on developing next-generation sequence data
and comparing it to fossil pollen data for a population
genomics study.
*Applicants* must have experience in population ge-
nomics or phylogenomics, as well as a strong interest inevolutionary biology and ecology. Programming skills
are important and should include prociency working
in the Unix environment as well as experience with R,
Python/Perl and/or standard sequence analysis tools.
Highly enthusiastic applicants with a strong disposition
to learn the needed tools to succeed are also encouraged
to apply.
*Informal inquiries as well as applications (includ-
ing a CV, copies of relevant publications, and
two names of recommenders) should be emailed
to Christine Bacon (**christinedbacon@gmail.com*
<christinedbacon@gmail.com >*) prior to May 15th,
2014.*
*Starting date*: July 1st, 2014, or upon agreement
*Project*: The de-evolution of diversity in Amazonia
Tropical America (the Neotropics) is recognized as har-
boring biodiversity hotspots, such as Amazonia, but
there are some areas where diversity has decreased over
time, particularly in oligarchic (monodominant) forests.
This project aims to understand the evolutionary ori-
gins and maintenance of oligarchic forests in the context
of geologic change and historical climate, thereby im-
proving our predictions of how organisms, habitats, and
Neotropical biomes may respond to comparable changes
in the face of climate change. The genus *Mauritia
*(Arecaceae, the palm family) presents an ideal system
for investigating the evolution of oligarchic forests, or
the de-evolution of Amazonian biodiversity. The genus
has a rich pollen record, the taxonomy of palms is well
known, and next- generation sequencing techniques,
gene capture probes, have been developed specically
for palms that are appropriate for investigating de-
mographic structure on both ecological and evolution-
ary time-scales. Furthermore, *Mauritia *is the most
widely used and economically important native South
American palm. We hypothesize that historical extinc-
tions in *Mauritia *correlate with increased diversi-
cation rates in eudicotyledonous plants, the expansion
of South American savannas, and/or the constriction
of lowland rainforests during the Neogene. The infer-
ence of biogeography and diversication is an integral
window into the past that enables the investigation of
how geographic regions, biomes, and communities as-
sembled through time and how they may evolve in the
future. By integrating data across elds, for example
from geology, genetics, fossils, species distribution and
abundance, and morphology, we can reach a more com-
prehensive framework for the understanding of biome
evolution and extinction.
*Keywords*: Amazon, biodiversity, fossil, next-
generation sequencing, palms, pollen72 EvolDir May 1, 2014
*Institution*: Laboratory of Genetics and Biodiver-
sity, Universidad Federal de Goias, Goiania, GO, Brazil
(http://lgbio.icb.ufg.br/pages/33272-lgbio)
*Remuneration*: Monthly, untaxed salary is 4,100.00
Brazilian Reais per month. Moving costs and health in-
surance are not included. The position is for one year,
extendable to two years based on a performance eval-
uation at the end of the rst year. The position is
funded by the Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento
Cientico e Tecnologico (CNPq; the Brazilian National
Science Foundation). The post-doc position includes
funding for travel abroad or within Brazil for project de-
velopment, either for conferences, workshops, or train-
ing visits. One trip to the Antonelli Lab at the Univer-
sity of Gothenburg, Sweden is planned for early 2015.
*The research project team*: The Laboratory of Ge-
netics and Biodiversity at the Universidad Federal de
Goias is actively working on various next-generation
sequencing projects of key plant taxa from the Cer-
rado, as well as other organisms (herpetofauna, ichty-
ofauna, etc.). The core supervisor for this posi-
tion is Rosane Collevatti ( http://scholar.google.com/-
citations?user=ChqtpzkAAAAJ&hl=en), known for
her breadth of research on phylogeography and
population genomics. The co-PI on the CNPq
grant is Christine Bacon ( http://scholar.google.com/-
citations?user= p4DcHgAAAAJ&hl=en), who studies
evolution and biogeography in palms (Arecaceae).
Christine is based on Santander, Colombia and will be
at UFG working on the project 1-3 months per year
for the duration of the grant. Other associates of the
project are Thiago Rangel (
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Goiania Brazil PlantGenetics
The laboratory of Genetics and Biodiversity from
de Universidade Federal de Goias, Goiania, Brazil,
is supporting researchers wanting to apply to the
open FAPEG postdoc scholarships (20 in total -
all areas) call. Projects should be in the areas
of Plant molecular genetics, Plant genetics of pop-
ulations, Plant molecular ecology and Plant cyto-
genetics of species of the Brazilian Cerrado region.Please visit FAPEG site about requirements and Mar-
iana Telles for more information and project de-
tails ( tellesmpc@gmail.com). Proposal submission
closing date 30/05/2014 http://www.fapeg.go.gov.br/-
sitefapeg/ Fernando Roa <ferroao@gmail.com >
INRA France ChickenEvolution
Job description: The laboratories 'Math ematique Infor-
matique et G enome (MIG)' and 'G en etique Animale et
Biologie Int egrative (GABI)' at INRA research center
in Jouy-en-Josas, (30 km south of Paris) have an open
post-doctoral position funded by the 'Domestichick'
ANR grant.
Project description: The objective of the project is to
study the evolutionary dynamics of chicken domestica-
tion, using a comparative genomics approach. The Gal-
lus genus comprises 4 species. G. gallus is considered as
the ancestral species of the domestic chicken. Previous
work demonstrated the genomic contribution of G. son-
neratii and it is considered that other species may also
have contributed to the genomic make-up of the domes-
tic chicken. Our approach relies on (1) deep-sequencing
of a representative sample of wild Gallus species (n) and
(2) deep re-sequencing of birds from various domestic
breeds, to identify the genomic structure of the domes-
tic chicken genome and to detect introgression or other
evolutionary events xed during domestication. The
study is three-pronged:
1. The rst step deals with genome assembly, using the
domestic chicken reference genome, and variant detec-
tion (SNPs, indels, structural variants).
2. In the second step, we will build a hidden markov
model (HMM) to represent the evolutionary history of
both wild and domestic birds and infer local ancestry
of domestic birds along the genome.
3. The third step is devoted to the evolutionary dy-
namics that shaped the Gallus genome at the genus
level. We will more specically develop and implement
an Approximate Bayesian Computation by Population
Monte-Carlo (ABC-PMC) method to test dierent de-
mographic scenarios and identify the complex events
underlying the current diversity: bottleneck, gene ow,
selection.
The post-doctoral fellow will be involved in all steps of
the studies but his/her work will focus on the model-
ing, implementation and use of the statistical modelsMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 73
mentioned in steps 2 and 3.
Research Environment: The work will take place in
MIG laboratory, an interdisciplinary laboratory that
hosts around 40 people in addition to a bioinformatics
platform. The work involves close collaboration with
MIG and GABI researchers. The candidate will benet
from the bioinformatics expertise of both laboratories,
the expert knowledge of GABI researchers about the
domestic chicken and the MIGALE computation facil-
ity hosted by MIG.
On a broader scale, the candidate will also benet from
the scientic environment of the INRA research center
of Jouy-en-Josas, which hosts several research teams
working on animal genetics, and the collaboration net-
work of both partners, known for their skills in statis-
tical genetics.
Qualications: The candidate should hold a PhD
in bioinformatics, biostatistics or applied mathemat-
ics with applications in molecular biology. (1) Skills
and/or knowledge in computational or Bayesian statis-
tics and (2) skills with NGS data analysis would be a
plus but not required. The candidate should have a
strong interest in data analysis, especially in compara-
tive genomics, and a taste for collaborative work.
Funding: 21 months post-doctoral fellowship, start-
ing as soon as possible and nanced by ANR grant
Domestichick. Salary will depend on the candi-
date's background and experience. Additional -
nancial compensation through the AgreenSkills pro-
gram will be sought for eligible candidate (http://-
www.agreenskills.eu/agreenskills-cms/). The job will
be located at the INRA research center of Jouy-en-
Josas, in the South-West of Paris.
Application: Send a detailed CV, a short mo-
tivation letter and references to Fr ed eric Hospital
<frederic.hospital@jouy.inra.fr >and Mahendra Mari-
adassou <mahendra.mariadassou@jouy.inra.fr >. Ap-
plications should be submitted before June 1st, 2014
bertrand.bedhom@jouy.inra.fr
ISTVienna Austria
PopulationGenetics
A postdoc position is available to work at the inter-
face between computer science and population genetics.
The mathematical tools available to computer science,
and in particular to the theory of evolutionary compu-tation, oer many exciting opportunities of application
to population genetics. We aim at deploying these tools
in many outstanding problems in evolutionary theory,
such as the evolution of recombination, analysis and
classication of tness landscapes, and the limits to se-
lection. There is ample freedom in choosing research
directions within this framework.
The position is part of SAGE (Speed of Adaptation
in Population Genetics and Evolutionary Algorithms),
a new European project in the Future and Emerging
Technologies scheme. The post involves close collabo-
ration with the other SAGE partners at Nottingham,
Jena, IST Austria and Sheeld. For further infor-
mation about SAGE, please see http://www.project-
sage.eu. The position will be based at IST Austria,
in the Population Genetics group headed by Nick Bar-
ton, and will be available for three years. The salary
scale starts at 47.250 p.a. Applicants should have a
Ph.D. in a relevant area (including computer science,
mathematics, statistical physics, and population genet-
ics), with strong mathematical skills, and an interest in
fundamental research. For further details, please con-
tact Tiago Paixao (tiago.paixao@ist.ac.at) and see the
group's webpage at https://ist.ac.at/research-groups-
pages/barton-group/. Applications should include a
CV, a statement of research interests or a motivation
letter, and names of two to three referees.
The Institute of Science and Technology is a new multi-
disciplinary research institute, located just outside Vi-
enna (www.ist-austria.ac.at). The Institute encourages
multidisciplinary research, and has strong groups at
the interface between biology and physics, and in com-
puter science. There are close links with other evolution
groups in Vienna (www.univie.ac.at/evolvienna).
Tiago Paixao <paixao@ist.ac.at >
Lausanne PopulationGenetics
Computational Population Genetics
The Jensen Lab has two open postdoc positions. In
both cases, the ideal candidate will work on the inter-
section of theory development, statistical method de-
sign, and data analysis. However, candidates with par-
ticular expertise in one of these areas, with an interest
to develop the others, will be happily considered.
The rst will be centered around the study of cryp-
tic coloration in wild mouse populations - a long-term74 EvolDir May 1, 2014
Swiss NSF funded collaboration between our group,
the Hoekstra Lab (Harvard), and the Excoer Lab
(Berne) - with the possibility of spending time in all
three groups. The project has recently undergone a
large expansion, and this new hire will work on both
novel population genetic method development for the
joint inference of selection and demography, as well
as the analysis of multiple newly generated datasets.
For examples of recent lab publications in this area,
please see: 1) Linnen et al. 2009. On the origin and
spread of an adaptive allele in Peromyscus mice. Sci-
ence 325: 1095-98. 2) Domingues et al. 2012. Targeted
re-sequencing reveals a single recent origin of a bene-
cial pigment allele in cryptic beach mice. Evolution 66:
3209-23. 3) Linnen et al. 2013. Adaptive evolution of
multiple traits through multiple mutations at a single
gene. Science 339: 1312-16.
The second will be centered around the study of vi-
ral drug-resistance evolution utilizing both experimen-
tal and clinical data, a long-term European Research
Council (ERC) funded project. This new hire will work
on both theory development related to extensions of
Fisher's Geometric Model, method development per-
taining to the inference of the distribution of tness ef-
fects, as well as the analysis of large-scale datasets from
both Human Cytomegalovirus (HCMV) and inuenza
virus . For examples of recent lab publications in this
area, please see: 1) Renzette et al. 2013. Demogra-
phy and selection contribute to the rapid evolution of
cytomegalovirus within human hosts. PLoS Genetics
9(9): e1003735. 2) Bank et al. 2014. A Bayesian
MCMC approach to assess the complete distribution
of tness eects of new mutations: uncovering the po-
tential for adaptive walks in challenging environments.
Genetics 196: 841-52. 3) Foll et al. 2014. Inuenza
virus drug resistance: a time-sampled population ge-
netics perspective. PLoS Genetics 10(2): e1004185.
The Jensen Lab is an active research group, with cur-
rent postdocs and PhD students coming from back-
grounds spanning biology, mathematics, and computer
science. We are located in the School of Life Sciences at
the Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne (EPFL)
in Switzerland, on the shores of Lake Geneva and at
the base of the Alps. The working language of the lab
is English. Further information may be found on the
lab website: http://jensenlab.ep.ch Starting dates are
exible, and salaries are highly competitive (newly ap-
pointed postdocs begin at CHF 81,000 = EUR 66,000
= USD 92,000 / year). Both positions have available
funding for three years, and contracts are renewed an-
nually. Interested applicants should send a CV, contact
information for three references, as well as a cover let-
ter stating general research interests as well as t tothe desired position. Applications should be sent to
jerey.jensen@ep.ch by June 01, 2014.
jerey.jensen@ep.ch
LMU Munich
ComparativeGenomicsPhylogenomicsNon-
Bilateria
PostDoc position in comparative genomics and phyloge-
nomics of non-bilaterian animals (LMU Munich, Ger-
many)
We invite applications for a *PostDoc* position in the
project MODELSPONGE funded by the LMUexcellent
program through the German Excellence Initiative.
The project is located at the *Department of Earth-
and Environmental Sciences* (Chair of Paleontology
and Geobiology) and the *GeoBio-Center ^LMU * of
the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit at (LMU) M unchen.
The phylogenetic relationships among non-bilaterian
animals (i.e. Porifera, Ctenophora, Cnidaria, Placo-
zoa) and their relationships to the Bilateria are still
discussed controversially. This project will build on
recently published as well as unpublished in-house se-
quenced genomes of sponges and other non-bilaterians
to comparatively analyse their genomes to further our
understanding of early animal evolution. The project
is also aimed at contributing to resolve controversies
about the branching patterns at the base of the ani-
mal tree of life. Key publications in this context from
the lab include Philippe et al., 2009, Current Biol-
ogy; Pick et al., 2010, Molecular Biology and Evolu-
tion; Philippe et al., 2011, PLoS Biology; W orheide et
al., 2012, Advances in Marine Biology; Dohrmann &
W orheide, 2013, Integrative and Comparative Biology;
Nosenko et al., 2013, Molecular Phylogenetics and Evo-
lution.
We are seeking a highly motivated applicant, ideally
trained in evolutionary bioinformatics, with excellent
and demonstrated (phylo)genomic skills, bioinformat-
ics expertise as well as a sound background in biology,
who is willing to tackle the challenging task of work-
ing with the genomes of non-bilaterian animals. The
successful candidate will also contribute to the lab's
ongoing genome sequencing eorts, contribute to ex-
pand the bioinformatic tools available in the lab, and
has the opportunity to contribute to teaching specialty
courses in the Master's programme. High-performanceMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 75
computing is available in the lab (64-core LINUX clus-
ter) as well as through the Leibnitz Rechenzentrum ( <
www.lrz.de >).
The successful candidate will join an international and
dynamic lab focussing on the geobiology and evolution
of marine animals. More information about the lab can
be found at <www.geobiology.eu >.
*Requirements*: PhD in Biology or Bioinformatics
or related eld; demonstrated expertise and under-
standing of molecular evolution including phylogenomic
methods, demonstrated expertise in processing and
analysing Illumina NGS genome and transcriptome
data; excellent English language skills; excellent pro-
gramming skills (e.g., in commonly used bioinformatic
languages such Perl, Python, etc.). Evidence of this
expertise must be provided through high-ranking in-
ternational publications. Prior postdoctoral experience
is desirable but not essential. German language skills
are not necessary, the working language of the group is
English.
The position is initially available for 12 months, with
possible extension depending on performance. The po-
sition will be paid according to the German salary
scheme TV-L E13.
*Application*: Send application including letter of mo-
tivation, CV, PDFs of max. 5 of your most sig-
nicant publications, and contact details of 2 refer-
ees in a single PDF (only) by email to Mrs Monika
Brinkrolf <m.brinkrolf@lrz.uni-muenchen.de >. Appli-
cation deadline is 15 May 2014. Informal enquiries
may be directed to Professor Gert W orheide (woer-
heide@lmu.de).
The Department of Earth- and Environmental Sci-
ences, Palaeontology & Geobiology of the Ludwig-
Maximilians-Universit at Munich oers an excellent
multidisciplinary research environment, one of its par-
ticular strength being due to the close interaction
between Geosciences and the Faculty of Biology in
the framework of the GeoBioCenter ^LMU (http://-
www.geobio-center.uni-muenchen.de).
The LMU Munich is the leading research university in
Germany, with a more than 500-year-long tradition,
and builds upon its success in the Excellence Initia-
tive, a Germany-wide competition promoting top-level
university research. Munich has been repeatedly voted
Germany's most livable city and is among the Top 5
most livable cities worldwide.
The LMU Munich is an Equal Opportunity/Armative
Action Employer and has an armative action policy
for the disabled.Prof. Dr. Gert W orheide Department of Earth and En-
vironmental Sciences, Division of Paleontology & Geo-
biology & GeoBio-CenterLMU Ludwig-Maximilians-
Universit at M unchen, and Director, Bavarian State
Collections of Palaeontology and Geology Richard-
Wagner-Strae 10 80333 M unchen Germany
Phone: +49 (89) 2180-6718 Fax: +49 (89) 2180-6601
E-Mail: woerheide@lmu.de www.palmuc.de jwww.mol-
palaeo.de
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
LMU Munich
ComparativeGenomicsPhylogenomicsNon-
Bilateria
2
PostDoc position in comparative genomics and phyloge-
nomics of non-bilaterian animals (LMU Munich, Ger-
many)
We invite applications for a *PostDoc* position in the
project MODELSPONGE funded by the LMUexcellent
program through the German Excellence Initiative.
The project is located at the *Department of Earth-
and Environmental Sciences* (Chair of Paleontology
and Geobiology) and the *GeoBio-Center ^LMU * of
the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit at (LMU) M unchen.
The phylogenetic relationships among non-bilaterian
animals (i.e. Porifera, Ctenophora, Cnidaria, Placo-
zoa) and their relationships to the Bilateria are still
discussed controversially. This project will build on
recently published as well as unpublished in-house se-
quenced genomes of sponges and other non-bilaterians
to comparatively analyse their genomes to further our
understanding of early animal evolution. The project
is also aimed at contributing to resolve controversies
about the branching patterns at the base of the ani-
mal tree of life. Key publications in this context from
the lab include Philippe et al., 2009, Current Biol-
ogy; Pick et al., 2010, Molecular Biology and Evolu-
tion; Philippe et al., 2011, PLoS Biology; W orheide et
al., 2012, Advances in Marine Biology; Dohrmann &
W orheide, 2013, Integrative and Comparative Biology;76 EvolDir May 1, 2014
Nosenko et al., 2013, Molecular Phylogenetics and Evo-
lution.
We are seeking a highly motivated applicant, ideally
trained in evolutionary bioinformatics, with excellent
and demonstrated (phylo)genomic skills, bioinformat-
ics expertise as well as a sound background in biology,
who is willing to tackle the challenging task of work-
ing with the genomes of non-bilaterian animals. The
successful candidate will also contribute to the lab's
ongoing genome sequencing eorts, contribute to ex-
pand the bioinformatic tools available in the lab, and
has the opportunity to contribute to teaching specialty
courses in the Master's programme. High-performance
computing is available in the lab (64-core LINUX clus-
ter) as well as through the Leibnitz Rechenzentrum ( <
www.lrz.de >).
The successful candidate will join an international and
dynamic lab focussing on the geobiology and evolution
of marine animals. More information about the lab can
be found at <www.geobiology.eu >.
*Requirements*: PhD in Biology or Bioinformatics
or related eld; demonstrated expertise and under-
standing of molecular evolution including phylogenomic
methods, demonstrated expertise in processing and
analysing Illumina NGS genome and transcriptome
data; excellent English language skills; excellent pro-
gramming skills (e.g., in commonly used bioinformatic
languages such Perl, Python, etc.). Evidence of this
expertise must be provided through high-ranking in-
ternational publications. Prior postdoctoral experience
is desirable but not essential. German language skills
are not necessary, the working language of the group is
English.
The position is initially available for 12 months, with
possible extension depending on performance. The po-
sition will be paid according to the German salary
scheme TV-L E13.
*Application*: Send application including letter of mo-
tivation, CV, PDFs of max. 5 of your most sig-
nicant publications, and contact details of 2 refer-
ees in a single PDF (only) by email to Mrs Monika
Brinkrolf <m.brinkrolf@lrz.uni-muenchen.de >. Appli-
cation deadline is 15 May 2014. Informal enquiries
may be directed to Professor Gert W orheide (woer-
heide@lmu.de).
The Department of Earth- and Environmental Sci-
ences, Palaeontology & Geobiology of the Ludwig-
Maximilians-Universit at Munich oers an excellent
multidisciplinary research environment, one of its par-
ticular strength being due to the close interaction
between Geosciences and the Faculty of Biology inthe framework of the GeoBioCenter ^LMU (http://-
www.geobio-center.uni-muenchen.de).
The LMU Munich is the leading research university in
Germany, with a more than 500-year-long tradition,
and builds upon its success in the Excellence Initia-
tive, a Germany-wide competition promoting top-level
university research. Munich has been repeatedly voted
Germany's most livable city and is among the Top 5
most livable cities worldwide.
The LMU Munich is an Equal Opportunity/Armative
Action Employer and has an armative action policy
for the disabled.
Prof. Dr. Gert W orheide Department of Earth and En-
vironmental Sciences, Division of Paleontology & Geo-
biology & GeoBio-CenterLMU Ludwig-Maximilians-
Universit at M unchen, and Director, Bavarian State
Collections of Palaeontology and Geology Richard-
Wagner-Strae 10 80333 M unchen Germany
Phone: +49 (89) 2180-6718 Fax: +49 (89) 2180-6601
E-Mail: woerheide@lmu.de www.palmuc.de jwww.mol-
palaeo.de
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Lyon France
SexChromosomeEvolution
Postdoc position on sex chromosome evolution - Lyon
(France)
We oer a 24-months postdoc position on sex chro-
mosome evolution in primates. The postdoc research
project will be about studying the eect of X-Y and
Y-Y gene conversion on the evolution of the primate Y
chromosome. The postdoc will contribute to ongoing
methodological developments to identify gene conver-
sion events in phylogenies using a ML framework and
to study the molecular evolution of regions undergoing
gene conversion using non-homogeneous codon-based
models. She/he will apply these methods to an unpub-
lished multispecies sequence dataset. The postdoc will
work with Gabriel Marais (http://lbbe.univ-lyon1.fr/-
-Marais-Gabriel-.html) and Laurent Gu eguen (http://-
lbbe.univ-lyon1.fr/-Gueguen-Laurent-.html). The posi-
tion will be at the \Ecology and Evolutionary biology"May 1, 2014 EvolDir 77
Department (rated A+ at last AERES evaluation in
2009, see http://lbbe.univ-lyon1.fr), at the Universit e
Lyon 1. Gross salary is 2,500 euros / month, health
insurance provided.
Contact: Prof. Gabriel Marais CNRS / Universit e
Lyon 1 Email : Gabriel.Marais@univ.lyon1.fr
MARAIS GABRIEL <Gabriel.Marais@univ-lyon1.fr >
Marseille MarinePopulationGenetics
Dear all
I propose a post-doctoralfelllowship (6 - 24 months)
Marine comparative population genetics and commu-
nity ecology.
We obtained funds for 24 months of fellowships. The
fellowship is nanced by a FP7 European program (DE-
VOTES: Development of innovative tools for monitor-
ing and assessing the good environmental status of the
marine environment). *We seek candidates who proved
their autonomy in data analyses and in writing inter-
national scientic papers.* A solid experience in pop-
ulation genetics is also required. Expertise in commu-
nity ecology, benthic coastal marine biodiversity, ma-
rine currentology, modelisation, as well as scuba-diving
is not compulsory but considered as a \plus". Our goal
(IMBE) is to evaluate the interest and the limits of
intra-specic genetic diversity (of a set of species) as
an indicator of the good environment status of a local-
ity. For this, we compare local diversity among species,
with species diversity (Shannon or other indices) when
possible, and we aim at correcting for (or taking into
account) genetic connectivity and physical connectivity.
The post-doc will at rst benet from an already avail-
able data set (partly published) of population genetic
data from 6-10 invertebrate species (eventually a red
alga may also be available) with contrasted dispersal
abilities in a common set of localities along the French
Mediterranean coast. His rst goal will be to combine
those data in a global comparative analysis, integrat-
ing physical data and models (by collaborations with
physical oceanographers), biological data on life his-
tory traits(duration and season of dispersal stage), and
disentangle factors linked to physics, life history traits.
The post-doc is expected to write and submit one sci-
entic article (at least) within the 6 months period with
the data that were already available.A fellowship of 18 months will then be proposed for
a combined study comparing community composition
and intra-species genetic diversity, focusing on coral-
ligenous habitats. Coralligenous habitats are typically
Mediterranean; they are highly complex habitats, based
on a biogenic substratum composed of a variety of
red algae. Community composition will be obtained
from metabarcoding (with controls by classical taxon-
omy and photo-quadrats). Population genetics will be
studied for a few species of the coralligenous habitat:
at least one red alga (or a full species complex, provid-
ing natural replicates), a bryozoan, etc. (NGS geno-
typing will be obtained for some species). Samplings
are nely contextualized by contrasted ecological pa-
rameters (orientation, depths, slope, rugosity, temper-
ature...) within each locality (islets), allowing estimat-
ing the relative parts of adaptation and neutrality at
both the intra-specic and the community levels (lo-
cal adaptation, neutral theory of biodiversity). This
sampling and ecological study is a strong part of the
European ANR \CIGESMED" (an ERANET project
of the Seas-ERA call).
Do not hesitate to contact us for more details on the
scientic project and the contract.
Contact: anne.chenuil@imbe.fr
*www.imbe.fr*
*http://www.cigesmed.eu/*** *www.devotes-
project.eu/*
{ Anne CHENUIL
Email: <anne.chenuil@imbe.fr >
UMR 7263 (CNRS) - IMBE Institut M editerran een
de Biodiversit e et d'Ecologie Marine et continen-
tale (IMBE) (Aix-Marseille Universit e) Station Marine
d'Endoume Chemin de la Batterie des Lions 13007
MARSEILLE
Tel.: +33 (0)4 91 04 16 17 Fax: +33 (0)4 91 04 16 35
Anne Chenuil <anne.chenuil@imbe.fr >
Montpellier
WheatTranscriptomicsAdaptation
Dear colleagues,
We have a 18 month postdoc in Montpellier starting in
September 2014 on the wheat transcriptomic response
to pathogenic and mutualistic bacteria. Details below.78 EvolDir May 1, 2014
*Postdoc *on Wheat transcriptomics in interaction
with mutualistic and pathogenic bacteria
18 month postdoc starting in September 2014 (possi-
bility to change slightly the start date according to eli-
gibility criteria and availability of candidates)
*Lab host:*UMR RPB (Resistance of Plants to Bioa-
gressors), IRD (Institute of Research for Develop-
ment (www.ird.fr <http://www.ird.fr >), Montpellier,
France. The postdoc will be under the direction of
Dr Ralf Koebnik, and will interact also with Dr Lionel
Moulin and Dr Florence Wisniewski-Dy e. Montpellier
is a vibrant, elegant and artistic city in the heart of the
Languedoc-Roussillon region, along the shores of the
Mediterranean Sea in southern France.
*Project:*MIC-CERES (http://umr-lstm.cirad.fr/-
principaux-projets/mic-ceres)
*Eligibility criteria:*
PhD defense less than 2 years ago on 1 ^st of Septem-
ber 2014 (possibility to increase if we modify starting
date). The candidate should not have spent more than
10 months in France during the last 3 years. Eligibil-
ity criteria regarding the date of PhD defense might be
reconsidered for best tting candidates.
*Postdoc Prole:*
We are looking for an enthusiastic young post-
doc researcher to work primarily on the bread
wheat transcriptomic response to pathogenic (/Xan-
thomonas/) or mutualistic bacteria (/Azospirillum
/and/Burkholderia/). Activities will include RNA ex-
traction of wheat roots and leaves in dierent inoc-
ulation conditions, preparation of samples for RNA
sequencing, analyses of RNAseq data and dierential
gene expression studies in wheat challenged with /Xan-
thomonas,/ /Azospirillum/ or /Burkholderia/.
The candidate will have knowledge on plant transcrip-
tomics, DNA sequence technology and downstream
analyses. Background in plant response to microbes
would be a plus. Candidates with experience in
RNAseq analyses (fastQC, Cutadapt, Tophat/bowtie,
or others pipelines) and R language for dierential ex-
pression analyses (DESeq, DESeq2, edgeR, EBseq) will
be favored; otherwise attraction to computing and will-
ingness to learn would be OK.
Working language will be English. Basic knowledge of
French will facilitate extra-lab communication but is
not a must.
*Starting salary:*1750 euros per month including social
security, pension and job loss benets.
*How to apply:*send a CV and a covering letter describ-ing your suitability for the position before *May 15 ^th
, 2014* to ralf.koebnik[at]ird.fr, lionel.moulin[at]ird.fr
and orence.wisniewski[at]univ-lyon1.fr.
Lionel Moulin
{
Dr Lionel Moulin, Charg e de Recherche IRD Labo-
ratoire des Symbioses Tropicales et M editerran eennes,
TA A-82/J Campus International de Baillarguet, 34398
Montpellier cedex 5, FRANCE T el: +33 467593763
Fax: +33 467593802 Website: umr-lstm.cirad.fr
Lionel Moulin <lionel.moulin@ird.fr >
Okinawa EvolutionofBiodiversity
The Biodiversity and Biocomplexity Unit (http://-
arilab.unit.oist.jp/, PI: Evan Economo) at the Okinawa
Institute of Science and Technology, Japan, is seeking
applicants for postdoctoral researchers.
Our research investigates ecological and evolution-
ary processes generating and maintaining biodiversity
across spatial scales and levels of biological organiza-
tion, with an empirical focus on ant biodiversity. On-
going projects (http://arilab.unit.oist.jp/research/) in-
clude understanding the macroevolutionary dynamics
of the hyperdiverse ant genus Pheidole, global biodiver-
sity patterns in ants, the island biogeography of Pacic
Island ants, genomic approaches to community ecology,
biodiversity theory, and high-throughput biodiversity
inventory methods. Towards those ends, we integrate
a variety of approaches including quantitative theory,
phylogenetics, high-performance computing, ecoinfor-
matics, morphometrics, eld sampling, and traditional
collections-based taxonomy. Within these general re-
search areas, the specic project is exible and can
be adapted to the interests and skills of the postdoc.
Previous knowledge and experience with ant biology
is not required, and it is possible to work on other
taxonomic groups. Applicants having experience with
model-based inference of population and evolutionary
processes and working with next-generation sequence
data are especially encouraged to apply.
The successful candidate will be provided funding to
pursue their research and attend meetings, technician
support, and access to state-of-the art facilities and
equipment on the OIST campus. These resources in-
clude a 4000-core computer, a high-throughput ecolog-
ical genomics pipeline, an X-ray micro-CT, SEM/TEM,May 1, 2014 EvolDir 79
confocal microscopes, etc. There will be numerous op-
portunities to work closely with other research groups
at OIST and elsewhere.
To apply, please send your CV, a list of references,
and a letter describing your scientic background
and interests in a combined document by email to
<economo@oist.jp >by April 15. Informal enquiries or
questions are also welcome at the same address. The
start date is exible. Applicants must have a PhD in
Ecology/Evolution or related eld.
About OIST: The Okinawa Institute of Science and
Technology (www.oist.jp) is a new interdisciplinary
research institute and graduate university located in
the seaside village of Onna-son. The institute is inter-
national by design; the working language is English
and researchers are split between Japanese and foreign
nationalities. Knowledge of Japanese is not required,
and our relocation sta will assist you with moving
to Okinawa and setting up your life. The institute is
located in a beautiful ecological setting adjacent to
coral reefs and subtropical forest, and oers a compet-
itive compensation package for postdoctoral scientists.
For more information on OIST, see recent articles
in Nature (http://www.nature.com/news/2011/-
110629/full/474553a.html) (http://www.nature.com/-
nature/journal/v474/n7353/full/474541b.html),
the Economist (http://www.economist.com/node/-
21540228), and info on our lab website (http://-
arilab.unit.oist.jp/laboist-okinawa-oist/).
Evan P. Economo Assistant Professor Biodiversity and
Biocomplexity Unit Okinawa Institute of Science and
Technology 1919-1 Tancha Onna-son, Kunigamigun
Okinawa, Japan 904-0495 http://arilab.unit.oist.jp/
evaneconomo@gmail.com
Oxford PopulationGenetics
Population and statistical genetics posts in Oxford
Group of Gil McVean, Wellcome Trust Centre for Hu-
man Genetics Grades 7 and 8: Salary range $29,837 -
$45,053 with a discretionary range to $49,216 p.a.
Up to four posts are available to work on population
and statistical genetics theory, methodology and appli-
cation in the group of Gil McVean at the Wellcome
Trust Centre for Human Genetics (WTCHG) Oxford;
see http://www.well.ox.ac.uk/gil-mcvean . Posts are
available to work across a range from projects includ-
ing: 1. The comparative study of mutation and recom-bination rates in vertebrates through whole-genome se-
quencing of individuals in extended pedigrees. 2. Char-
acterisation of patterns of genetic variation within the
HLA region and the analysis of host-pathogen inter-
actions. 3. Methods for analysing patterns of haplo-
type structure in very large sample sizes ( >100,000)
with application to large-scale data sets being gener-
ated within the UK. 4. Graphical methods for de-
scribing genome reference variation with application to
improved characterisation of high diversity regions of
human and pathogen genomes using high throughput
sequencing.
You will help in the design of experiments, the devel-
opment of statistical and computational methods for
analysing data, interpretation of project data, the dis-
semination of methodology and results, and participate
in collaborations with specic partners and interna-
tional consortia. Where appropriate, more senior ap-
pointees with help with the supervision of junior posts.
You will have a PhD with a strong quantitative or
computational element, a good publication record and
skills in statistical programming (preferentially R). You
should have experience of analysing large data sets and
experience of scripting (Python or Perl). We are look-
ing for people with a range of skills and expertise, from
population genetics theory to software development.
The positions are funded by the Wellcome Trust and
are xed-term for 3 years in the rst instance.
How to apply Applications for this vacancy are to be
made online. You will be required to upload a CV and
supporting statement as part of your online application.
For more information, please see the fol-
lowing sites: Junior posts: https://-
www.recruit.ox.ac.uk/pls/hrisliverecruit/-
erqjobspec version 4.jobspec?p id=112693 Se-
nior posts: https://www.recruit.ox.ac.uk/pls/-
hrisliverecruit/erq jobspec version 4.jobspec?p id=-
112808 Please contact mcvean@well.ox.ac.uk for
additional information.
Gil McVean Professor of Statistical Genetics Acting
Director of the Oxford Big Data Institute Wellcome
Trust Centre for Human Genetics Roosevelt Drive Ox-
ford OX3 7BN UK
Tel (WTCHG): +44 1865 287534 Tel (Statistics): +44
1865 281881 PA Emma Jones: emma@well.ox.ac.uk
+44 1865 287506 web: http://www.well.ox.ac.uk/gil-
mcvean mcvean@well.ox.ac.uk80 EvolDir May 1, 2014
Paris EvolutionaryEcology
Phylogenetics
Postdoctoral positions. Evolutionary ecology - phylo-
genetics. Ecole Normale Sup erieure, Paris
Several postdoctoral positions are avail-
able to work with H el ene Morlon (http://-
www.cmap.polytechnique.fr/ ~ morlon/) on a project
supported by a ve year grant from the European
Research Council (ERC), in the general area of
evolutionary ecology and phylogenetics. The project
integrates across diverse elds (macroevolution,
macroecology, community ecology, ecological net-
works, paleobiology, microbial ecology) with a focus
on phylogenetic approaches. Applicants with very
diverse backgrounds are encouraged to apply (e.g.
mathematics, physics, ecology, evolutionary biology,
bioinformatics). Applicants should have solid quanti-
tative, programming, and/or bioinformatics skills, as
well as good writing skills. Speaking French is not
mandatory.
The postdoctoral researchers will work in H el ene Mor-
lon's group at the Institute of Biology of the Ecole
Normale Sup erieure (http://www.ibens.ens.fr/). The
IBENS is a multidisciplinary research centre in Biol-
ogy with more than 300 sta members, conveniently
located in the Latin Quarter in downtown Paris. The
centre develops research in a wide range of disciplines,
including evolutionary biology, ecology, computational
biology, genetics, and comparative genomics.
Review of applications begins immediately and will con-
tinue until the positions are lled. Starting dates are
exible and salaries depend on experience. To ap-
ply, please submit: i) a cover letter summarizing re-
search interests and expertise ii) a Curriculum Vitae
(including publications), and iii) the names and con-
tact information for at least two references. Questions
and application should be sent to H el ene Morlon (mor-
lon@biologie.ens.fr).
Helene Morlon <morlon@biologie.ens.fr >
QMUL London phylogenomicsA Postdoctoral Research Assistant position is available
for three years in the School of Biological and Chemical
Sciences at Queen Mary University of London (QMUL)
with Dr Richard Buggs, using genome sequencing and
phylogenomics methods to identify candidate genes for
low pest and pathogen susceptibility in ash trees.
QMUL is one of the UK's leading research-focused
higher education institutions, with a budget of $285
million per annum. Richard Buggs' research group
works on the evolutionary genomics of trees, and this
project collaborates with Stephen Rossiter whose group
studies the phylogenomics of mammals.
This project is funded jointly by a grant from BBSRC,
Defra, ESRC, the Forestry Commission, NERC and the
Scottish Government, under the Tree Health and Plant
Biosecurity Initiative.
The PDRA will be responsible for sequencing and as-
sembling the genomes of 35 ash species. Using pipelines
developed by the group of co-PI Rossiter to study con-
vergence (Nature 502, no. 7470 (2013): 228-231), the
PRDA will use phylogenomic methods to identify genes
and alleles associated with low susceptibility to ash
dieback and the emerald ash borer. The PDRA will
liaise with collaborators at Forest Research (UK) and
the United States Forest Service (Ohio) who will exper-
imentally determine the susceptibility phenotypes for
each species. The PDRA will also interact with social
scientists seeking to understand the attitude of the UK
public to the potential use of genus-wide genome diver-
sity in trees to combat tree health threats.
The successful candidate will have a PhD in a relevant
area of bioinformatics, molecular systematics, molecu-
lar evolution or a related eld. Candidates must have
experience in genomics, phylogenetics and program-
ming, with a solid grounding in plant systematics, evo-
lutionary biology and/or handling next generation se-
quence data. Previous post-doctoral experience is es-
sential criteria for this post.
During the project, the PDRA will also have opportu-
nities to develop their supervision, writing, communica-
tion, media, and organisational skills, excellent prepa-
ration for a career in academia or industry. Duties will
also include assisting in the training and supervision of
PhD and nal year project students.
The position is full time and available for 36 months.
The starting salary will be $38,579 per annum, inclu-
sive of London Allowance. Benets include 30 days an-
nual leave, dened benet pension scheme and interest-
free season ticket loan.
Candidates must be able to demonstrate their eligibility
to work in the UK in accordance with the Immigration,May 1, 2014 EvolDir 81
Asylum and Nationality Act 2006. Where required this
may include entry clearance or continued leave to re-
main under the Points Based Immigration Scheme.
http://www.jobs.qmul.ac.uk/4725 For informal en-
quiries via email: r.buggs@qmul.ac.uk
The closing date for applications is 25th April 2014.
Interviews will be held soon thereafter.
Dr Richard Buggs jSenior LecturerjSchool of Bi-
ological and Chemical Sciences, Queen Mary Uni-
versity of London, E1 4NS, United Kingdom j
email: r.buggs@qmul.ac.uk jwebsite: http://-
www.sbcs.qmul.ac.uk/sta/richardbuggs.html joce:
+44(0)207 882 8441 jmobile: +44(0)772 992 0401 j
twitter: @RJABuggs
r.buggs@qmul.ac.uk
Rosco France ClimateAdaptation
*Context of the project *(OPOPOP ANR-BIOADAPT
January 2014-december 2017)
Global change linked to temperature increase and ocean
acidication but also more direct anthropogenic inu-
ences, such as aquaculture, have caused a worldwide
increase in reports of /Vibrio/-associated illness aect-
ing humans but also animals such as corals and mol-
lusks. In particular, over the last 5 years, /Vibrio splen-
didus/ and /V. aestuarianus/ have been associated with
recurrent mortality outbreaks in oyster beds (/Cras-
sostrea gigas/) in France. Investigating the \emergence
of /Vibrio/ pathogenesis events" requires the analysis
of microbial evolution at the gene, genome and popu-
lation level in order to identify genomic modications
linked to increased virulence, resistance and/or preva-
lence, or to recent host shift.
*The aim of the post doc project is to:*
/1- Compare the population structure of Vibrio in oys-
ters and surrounding water during oyster mortality out-
breaks/
In the water column, vibrios have been shown to assem-
ble into specic populations dened by ecological pref-
erences to attach to dierent types of particles and/or
zooplankton, or to occur free-living. We will determine
if /Vibrio/ populations are assembled neutrally in oys-
ter or whether specic colonization processes occur and
result in association with specic populations./Method /: Phylogenetic (PhyML) and population
prediction (Adapt ML, BAPS) as described previously
(Hunt et al., 2008; Shapiro et al., 2012).
/2- Compare the genome of virulent versus non-virulent
strains belonging to dierent ecological populations/
Preliminary data suggested that not all /Vibrio/ pop-
ulations harbor potential oyster pathogens.Moreover,
within pathogen-containing populations (i.e., closely re-
lated, ecologically similar genotypes) pathogenicity po-
tential ranges from non-virulent to highly virulent.We
are currently testing how eciently dierent strains and
genotypes aect host survival.These data will be corre-
lated with genome analyses to build hypotheses of gene
function in the context of oyster pathogenesis.
/Method: /Genome assembly from short read data us-
ing hybrid strategy (scaolding onto closely related
genomes and /de novo/ assembly), comparative ge-
nomic, phylogeny (Shapiro et al., 2012; Gouden ege et
al., 2013)
*/Competences required:/***Bioinformatician:
Genome assembly, annotation, comparative ge-
nomics, phylogeny, microbial evolution, computational
biology, microbial diversity, genotyping, ecology**
*//*
*/Beginning of the post doc:/*mid 2014; 30 months
*//*
*/Salary:/*about 1900 euros/months
*//*
*/Professional address:/*the post doc will be based
in the team of Dr Fr ed erique Le Roux at the sta-
tion biologique de Rosco (http://www.sb-rosco.fr/-
en-genomic-vibrio.html) and will be co-supervised by
Pr Martin F. Polz at the MIT (http://polzlab.mit.edu/-
). Training in the Polz lab will be funded by the project.
*A letter explaining the competences and scientic in-
terests, a CV, a publications list and letter(s) of refer-
ence should be send to Fr ed erique Le Roux by email:
frederique.le-roux@sb-rosco.fr*
Le Roux Fr ed erique Head of the GV team Equipe
 emergente Ifremer/UPMC: \G enomique des Vibrio"
Station Biologique de Rosco frederique.le-roux@sb-
rosco.fr Tel ext: 33 (0)2 98 29 56 47 Tel int: 416
Fr ed erique Le Roux <frederique.le-roux@sb-rosco.fr >82 EvolDir May 1, 2014
Sheeld Macroevolution Birds
Understanding evolutionary rates on the avian tree of
life Two post-doctoral and four postgraduate research
assistant positions in macroevolution/trait evolution in
birds.
Two postdoctoral research associate positions and four
postgraduate research assistant positions are available
to work on macroevolution and trait evolution in birds.
The posts are funded by a European Research Coun-
cil consolidator grant to Gavin Thomas in the Depart-
ment of Animal and Plant Sciences at the University
of Sheeld. The successful applicants will join a new
research team collecting novel, high-resolution morpho-
metric data on bird bill shape using 3D structured
white-light digitisation and plumage colour using vis-
ible and UV spectrum digital photography.
Postdoctoral Research Associates (two posts): The
project is focused on modelling phenotypic evolution of
species traits in birds at broad phylogenetic and spatial
scales. The aims are to test how and why phenotypic
evolutionary rates vary and to ask how that variation
has shaped both the avian tree of life and global dis-
tributions of species and traits. The exact directions
of the research will be partially dependent on the skills
and interests of the successful applicant(s). Applicants
must have a PhD with emphasis on macroevolution-
ary/phylogenetic approaches to evolutionary biology or
similar. Expertise in modelling evolutionary processes
on phylogenies, 3D surface morphometrics, or measur-
ing plumage colour with digital photography would be
advantageous.
Full details are available from, and formal applications
should be made, via University of Sheeld job's pages
<http://goo.gl/ZPkrN3 >
Postgraduate Research Assistants (four posts): The
postgraduate post-holder(s) will be responsible for gen-
erating and processing high-resolution morphometric
data on bird bills using 3D structured white-light digi-
tisation and plumage colour using visible and UV spec-
trum digital photography. Data collection will rely on
extensive museum collections in the UK and elsewhere.
Applicants must have a good rst degree in biology,
ideally with a substantial evolutionary biology compo-
nent. However, candidates with other backgrounds will
be considered. A masters degree in an evolutionary
biology discipline would be an advantage. Potentialapplicants with a PhD are also eligible to apply. Ex-
perience in working with museum collections would be
an advantage but is not essential and training will be
provided. Up to four positions are available initially
as xed-term one-year contracts with funding available
to extend by an additional 1-2 years for suitable candi-
dates.
Further details are available from, formal applications
should be made via University of Sheeld job's pages
<http://goo.gl/A1sudm >
Informal enquiries for all posts are encouraged and
should be sent by email (gavin.thomas@sheeld.ac.uk)
with an outline or your research interests, CV and
or/link to a personal webpage.
In addition to the above posts one PhD studentship on
the same grant is available and details will be advertised
very soon.
Gavin Thomas <gavin.thomas@sheeld.ac.uk >Gavin
Thomas <gavin.thomas@sheeld.ac.uk >
StLouis GrassEvolution
Post-doctoral position, evolution of plant development
Donald Danforth Plant Science Center
The Kellogg lab at the Donald Danforth Plant Sci-
ence Center has funding for a post-doc interested in
the evolution of genes, genomes, and morphology in
the grasses. The project will investigate controls of
inorescence development in grasses related to maize
and sorghum, and is a collaborative project with the
McSteen lab at University of Missouri-Columbia. We
are combining studies of genomics, molecular evolution,
plant development, and gene expression to translate re-
sults from maize to other cereal crops and wild grasses.
Specically, we are investigating the gene suppressor of
sessile spikelet1, which controls spikelet pairing, a fun-
damental aspect of inorescence architecture in a major
clade of grasses. The project will involve studying the
molecular evolution of the protein and its genomic con-
text, expression of the gene in the model system Setaria
viridis, and construction of transgenic plants to test hy-
potheses of gene regulation.
The successful candidate should have a strong back-
ground in molecular evolution, genomics, and/or evolu-
tion of development. Candidates with a Ph.D. in plant
biology, with strengths in phylogenomic analysis, plant
morphology, and methods of studying gene expressionMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 83
are strongly encouraged to apply.
More information about the Kellogg lab
is at kellogglab.weebly.com and at http://-
www.danforthcenter.org/scientists-research/principal-
investigators/elizabeth-kellogg . Send resume and
three references to:
Donald Danforth Plant Science Center Human Re-
sources RE: Postdoc/Kellogg lab 975 North Warson
Rd. St. Louis, MO 63132
Or by email to: careers@danforthcenter.org with 'Post-
doc/Kellogg Lab' in the subject line.
\Kellogg, Elizabeth" <EKellogg@danforthcenter.org >
TexasAM LandscapeGenetics
TEXAS, COLLEGE STATION. Texas A&M Univer-
sity. The Department of Geography invites applica-
tions for a non-tenure track Visiting Assistant Profes-
sor in Geography with research and teaching interests
in landscape genetics and spatial population genetics
to begin 1 September 2014. The successful candidate
will be required to teach two undergraduate classes
per year in the Geography Department and the En-
vironmental Studies Program at Texas A&M Univer-
sity. This position will be responsible for maintain-
ing an active research agenda in coordination with the
Biogeography Lab in the Department of Geography.
This will include writing proposals, helping with the
analysis of genetic/genomic data, and interacting with
graduate students. Minimum qualications include a
Ph.D. in Genetics, Bioeography, Landscape Ecology or
related discipline. Experience in ecological and land-
scape genetics and population genetics research is re-
quired. Familiarity with bioinformatics, genomics and
specic software packages for genetics analysis are pre-
ferred (e.g. GeneLand, SPAGeDi, STRUCTURE, R).
Preference will be given to candidates with experience
working in plant population genetics, especially with
conifers.
The Biogeography Lab at TAMU (http://-
people.tamu.edu/ ~ cairns) is engaged in using
genetics/genomics techniques to investigate gene ow
across topographically complex landscapes. One
specic project aims to determine the importance
of long distance dispersal to the migration potential
of the alpine treeline in south central Alaska. More
details regarding current and planned research projectsare available from Dr. Cairns. The person hired for
this position will be expected to work closely with
Dr. Cairns to strengthen the landscape genetics
research program. The Department of Geography
has 20 faculty members with strengths in biogeogra-
phy, climatology, geomorphology, human geography,
human-environment relationships, geographic edu-
cation and GIST (Geographic Information Science
and Technology) (http://geography.tamu.edu). We
are based in the College of Geosciences (http:/-
/geosciences.tamu.edu) with the Departments of
Atmospheric Science, Geology & Geophysics, and
Oceanography, and play a major role in the Envi-
ronmental Programs in Geosciences. The College of
Geosciences also includes Sea Grant, the Geochemical
and Environmental Research Group (GERG), and the
Integrated Ocean Drilling Program (IODP). Texas
A&M University houses the Whole Systems Genomics
Initiative (http://genomics.tamu.edu) that provides an
intellectually vibrant community and state-of-the-art
resources for genomics and bioinformatics research.
Texas A&M University, a land-,sea-, and space-grant
university, is located in a metropolitan area with
a dynamic and international community of 175,000
people.
Candidates should submit a letter of application, cur-
riculum vitae, and names and addresses (including e-
mail addresses) of three referees to Dr. David Cairns
(cairns@tamu.edu) Assistant Department Head, De-
partment of Geography, Texas A&M University, Col-
lege Station, TX, 77843-3147. We will begin reviewing
applications immediately. Texas A&M University is an
Armative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer com-
mitted to excellence through the recruitment and re-
tention of a diverse faculty and student body and com-
pliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act. The
University is dedicated to the goal of building a cul-
turally diverse and pluralistic faculty and sta commit-
ted to teaching and working in a multicultural environ-
ment. We strongly encourage applications from women,
underrepresented ethnic groups, veterans, and individ-
uals with disabilities. Texas A&M University also has
a policy of being responsive to the needs of dual-career
partners (hr.tamu.edu/employment/dual-career.html).
cairns@tamu.edu
UAlabama DrosophilaMetabolomics
Postdoctoral Fellow in Drosophila Metabolomics84 EvolDir May 1, 2014
A postdoctoral position in the cutting-edge eld of
metabolomics is available in the laboratory of Laura
Reed, within the Department of Biological Sciences
at the University of Alabama. The Reed Lab is
a highly interactive group that conducts research on
the genetic basis of genotype-by-environment interac-
tions contributing to metabolic disease and variation in
Drosophila. Major areas of research include QTL map-
ping of loci interacting with diet to produce obesity
and type-2 diabetes phenotypes, evolutionary genet-
ics of complex traits, functional analysis of candidate
genes for metabolic phenotypes, whole genome expres-
sion analysis of genetic and environmental variation,
and metabolomic analyses.
This opening is for a highly motivated postdoctoral fel-
low with familiarity with Drosophila and some back-
ground in bioinformatic methods. The postdoc will
work to facilitate the data curation and experimenta-
tion goals of the International Drosophila Metabolomics
Curation Consortium (IDMCC, http://ygxe.ua.edu/-
metabolomics.html) including working to expand pub-
lically available tools such as MetScape 2.0 devel-
oped by researchers at the University of Michigan
(metscape.ncibi.org, Karnovsky et al, 2012) and Meta-
Cyc developed by researchers at SRI International in
California (www.metacyc.org, Caspi et al, 2013) to
incorporate Drosophila specic data. The postdoc
will also work closely with the NIH Common Fund
Metabolomics Data Center and Workbench (WDCW)
at UC San Diego. While collating relevant data sources
the postdoc will help identify critical gaps in the avail-
able knowledge needing further empirical work to ll,
and would then have the opportunity to conduct some
of those studies.
All candidates must have received a Ph.D. in a relevant
eld.
The position is available for 2 years with the possibility
of renewal contingent on securing external funding, and
will include a competitive salary and full benets.
A successful applicant will have:
Extensive research experience
Creativity and independence
Genetic or molecular lab experience
Computational or bioinformatics experience
Excellent communication skills, both written and oral.
Application review will begin May 1, 2014 and will con-
tinue until the position is lled. The successful appli-
cant should be able to beginning working in the position
August 15, 2014.Submit an application to the departmental postdoc-
toral pool https://facultyjobs.ua.edu/postings/33497 .
Materials should include:
1. Cover letter with a description of past research ac-
complishments and future research goals, (maximum of
two pages) and the names and contact information for
3 references. 2. Curriculum vitae
Contact Dr. Laura Reed (lreed1@as.ua.edu) with ques-
tions regarding the position or application process.
For further information about the Reed lab visit y-
gxe.ua.edu.
About the University of Alabama
The University of Alabama is the agship campus of
the University System of Alabama, with an enrollment
of over 35,000 students. The University is committed
to achieving excellence as one of the country's primary
centers of research and education. It is located in the
vibrant college town of Tuscaloosa, AL, which boasts
many cultural and athletic activities. The campus also
benets from the close proximity to the Birmingham
metropolitan community.
The University of Alabama is an Armative Ac-
tion/Equal Opportunity Employer. Women and mi-
norities are encouraged to apply.
Laura K. Reed Assistant Professor Dept. of Biolog-
ical Sciences University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa Of-
ce: 2330 SEC, Lab: 2322 SEC Mailing address: Box
870344, Tuscaloosa AL 35487
oce: 205-348-1345 lab: 205-348-1368
lreed1@bama.ua.edu http://ygxe.ua.edu/
lreed1@ua.edu
UCalifornia Davis 2
MaizeEvolutionaryGenetics
Two postdoc positions are available in the lab of Jef-
frey Ross-Ibarra at UC Davis to study the evolutionary
genetics of maize and teosinte. We are recruiting for
two projects:
An NSF funded project to use population genomics to
understand local adaptation and inbreeding depression
of teosinte and maize landraces. We are currently se-
quencing >100 maize and teosinte genomes from multi-
ple populations, which serve as the parents of two large
mapping populations for which phenotyping is under-May 1, 2014 EvolDir 85
way. Potential projects are exible and include inves-
tigation of inbreeding depression, the eects of linked
selection, and local adaptation.
A USDA- and industry-funded project to investigate re-
gions of the maize genome under selection during mod-
ern breeding. Using genotype, phenotype, and pedigree
data from thousands of maize inbred lines, we will use
a number of approaches to understand the eects and
targets of selection during the last 80 years of maize
breeding.
Opportunities exist for both positions to additionally
collaborate on a number of projects, including adapta-
tion to high elevation in maize landraces and the popu-
lation genetics of centromere evolution. Both positions
are for one year, with the potential for a second year
of support conditional on performance. Start dates are
open-ended, with preference for earlier dates.
UC Davis has extremely strong programs in both plant
and evolutionary biology. Candidates would have the
opportunity to interact with members of the Center for
Population Biology and the Genome Center as well as
the Dept. of Plant Sciences.
Preference is for candidates with a strong background
in evolutionary biology, prociency in unix and experi-
ence with computational analysis of population genetic
data. For more information or to apply, please send a
cover letter and a CV with a list of references to rossi-
barra@ucdavis.edu.
Jerey Ross-Ibarra
Dept. of Plant Sciences and Genome Center 262 Rob-
bins Hall, Mail Stop 4 University of California One
Shields Ave Davis, CA 95616
Tel: 530-752-1152 Fax: 530-752-4604 www.rilab.org
rossibarra@ucdavis.edu
UCalifornia Davis
EvolutionaryGenomics
A postdoctoral position is available in Artyom Kopps
lab starting in the summer of 2014. Our work fo-
cuses on the evolution of developmental pathways, es-
pecially with regard to evolutionary innovations and
convergent evolution. By focusing on closely related
species of Drosophila, we integrate molecular-genetic
approaches with phylogenetic, quantitative-genetic,
and population-genetic analyses. The main postdoc-toral project would involve the identication of genes
responsible for convergent evolution of sex-specic color
patterns in dierent (non-model) Drosophila species.
Additional projects may focus on the evolution of sex-
and tissue-specic transcriptomes. Postdocs will be
encouraged to develop independent research reecting
their own interests, within the broad eld of develop-
mental evolution and evolutionary genomics.
Initial appointment is for one year, extendable
by mutual agreement. Candidates should have
demonstrated expertise in genomics and bioinformat-
ics/computational biology. Experience in eukaryotic
genome assembly, resequencing, GWAS, RNA-seq, and
ChIP-seq is highly desirable. Our lab provides a relaxed
and supportive atmosphere. The broader research en-
vironment at UC - Davis oers postdoctoral fellows an
excellent chance to interact and collaborate with many
other people working in the elds of evolutionary ge-
netics and comparative genomics. Northern Califor-
nia, where Davis is located, provides outstanding recre-
ational opportunities. Interested applicants should con-
tact Artyom Kopp (akopp@ucdavis.edu) with a CV, a
brief statement of research interests, and the names of
three references.
akopp@ucdavis.edu
UCalifornia LosAngeles
EvolutionaryGenetics
Postdoc UCLA Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Ge-
netics
University of California, Los Angeles Center for Trop-
ical Research and Department of Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology
We seek a highly qualied and enthusiastic individual
to join our team to conduct bioinformatic analyses, de-
velop statistical methods, and analyze population-level
genetic data of select animals and plants from Central
Africa. The overarching goal of the NSF-PIRE funded
project is to develop an integrated, evolutionarily in-
formed framework for conserving Central African bio-
diversity under climate change (for more information
see http://www.caballiance.org/ ).
The successful candidate will be expected to analyze
and manage genomic sequence data generated on next-
generation platforms, construct and execute bioinfor-
matic pipelines for de novo assembly, alignment, SNP86 EvolDir May 1, 2014
detection, annotation, and assist in the development
and implementation of novel methods of statistical
analysis for genetic data in molecular ecology contexts.
This project will provide an exciting opportunity for
the analysis of cutting-edge genomic data from non-
model systems. Specic activities will include, but are
not limited to:
- Transcriptome assembly and alignment of non-model
organisms - Comparing assembled transcriptomes to
genomes from model taxa - Assigning locations of se-
quences identied by RAD-tag within a genome - Infer-
ence of population history and natural selection across
diverse taxa
The postdoc will work under the joint supervi-
sion of Kirk Lohmueller <klohmueller@ucla.edu >
(https://www.eeb.ucla.edu/Faculty/Lohmueller/) and
Thomas B. Smith <tbsmith@ucla.edu >(http://-
www.environment.ucla.edu/ctr) at UCLA, but will be
expected to collaborate closely with other PIRE collab-
orators, including Katy Gonder, Nicola Anthony, and
other members of the PIRE team. The postdoc will also
be encouraged to develop her/his own research focus on
some aspect(s) of the project.
Application: Please send a single PDF containing a
CV, a statement of research interests, and contact
information for three references to Christa Gomez,
cgomez@lifesci.ucla.edu with a subject of Bioinformat-
ics Postdoc. Review of applications will begin June 1st,
2014. The postdoc is for two years with the possibility
of renewal. Salary will be determined based on experi-
ence level.
tbsmith@ucla.edu
UCollegeLondon
CooperationImprinting
Postdoctoral Research Fellowship University College
London
1. The regulation of cooperation and cheating in the
evolution of multicellularity 2. The evolution of ge-
nomic imprinting
A 2-year postdoctoral research fellowship funded by
the EPSRC is available in the Department of Genet-
ics, Evolution and Environment, UCL. We seek an en-
thusiastic and highly motivated postdoc, with experi-
ence in population genetics, game theory, mathemat-
ical modelling and computer simulation. The postholder will join the research group of Professor An-
drew Pomiankowski working with Dr Nick Lane (UCL)
or Dr Francisco Ubeda (Royal Holloway University
of London). They will be a member of CoMPLEX
(www.ucl.ac.uk/complex) and the 2020 Science Pro-
gramme (www.2020science.net). They will join sev-
eral other 2020 fellows appointed on this programme at
UCL Oxford University and Microsoft Research Cam-
bridge.
Suitable candidates will be highly motivated re-
searchers with a PhD in a relevant area of science, such
as: mathematical or computational biology, computer
science or biology. Research experience of mathemati-
cal or computational modelling of complex natural sys-
tems is essential, as well as the ability to conduct and
complete research projects, as witnessed by published
peer-reviewed work. The post-holder is expected to be
exceptional early-stage scientists who will apply for fur-
ther research fellowship funding during the period of the
award.
Please send expressions of interest & CV to ucbh-
pom@ucl.ac.uk. Further details and formal ap-
plications should use the following link http:/-
/www.2020science.net/news/2-x-research-fellow-
positions-ucl Closing Date: 21 Apr 2014, 5pm
1) The regulation of cooperation and cheating in the
evolution of multicellularity (with Nick Lane, UCL).
Projects in this theme will extend existing theoretical
work on the transition from relatively simple prokary-
otic forms of life to complex, multicellular eukaryotes.
Research could focus on the origins of sexual reproduc-
tion, symbiosis with the proto-mitochondrion, multi-
cellularity and the evolution of a germline, gene and
protein interactions between mitochondria and the nu-
cleus, or related topics.
2) The evolution of genomic imprinting (with Francisco
Ubeda, Royal Holloway University of London).
Imprinted genes are either maternally expressed and
paternally silenced or show the reverse pattern of gene
expression. This project will develop a mathematical
framework of the co-adaptation theory of genomic im-
printing, the idea that imprinting coordinates expres-
sion of positively interacting loci in dierent individu-
als. The model will be integrated into the existing body
of theory, in particular the kinship theory of imprinting.
Andrew Pomiankowski Professor of Genetics UCL
ucbhpom@ucl.ac.uk ucbhpom@ucl.ac.ukMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 87
UFedSaoCarlos Brazil
QuantGenetics
Another postdoctoral position (up to two years fund-
ing) is now available at the Universidade Federal de Sao
Carlos (UFSCar) working with Reinaldo A. de Brito,
in collaboration with Jason Wolf (University of Bath).
The collaboration oers the opportunity for the post-
doc to spend time in both Bath (UK) and Sao Carlos
(Brazil), with empirical components being done in Sao
Carlos and computational work being split between in-
stitutions.
The project is focused on understanding the genetic
architecture of species dierences in South American
fruit ies of the group Anastrepha fraterculus (Diptera:
Tephritidae). The primary goal of the project is to un-
derstand the nature of variation underlying traits that
distinguish species (including major ecologically rele-
vant traits as well as traits potentially involved in mate
recognition) and how the species dierences relate to
within species variation.
The postdoc will contribute to empirical and computa-
tional components of the project. Empirical work will
involve implementation of multigenerational breeding
schemes, phenotyping and next-generation genotyping.
Computational work will involve genome scale analysis
of associations using marker and sequence data.
This is a second post-doc opportunity associated with
the project previously advertised. We expect that this
position will be lled by July (to ensure that the full
two years of funding is available). We are looking for
people interested in discussing the details of the project
and the application process. If you expressed interest in
the previously advertised position and would like to be
considered for this second position, please let us know
and send an updated CV.
Please contact either one of us for more information or
to express interest.
Reinaldo A. de Brito brito@ufscar.br CCBS- Depto de
Genetica e Evolucao Universidade Federal de Sao Car-
los
Jason B. Wolf Jason@evolutionarygenetics.org Dept. of
Biology & Biochemistry University of Bath
brito@power.ufscar.brUFlorida EvolutionaryEcology
Postdoctoral Researcher position in buttery evolution-
ary ecology at University of Florida
A Postdoctoral Researcher position is available at the
Florida Museum of Natural History's McGuire Center
for Lepidoptera and Biodiversity, University of Florida.
The postdoc will form an integral part of the multi-
institution team working on the NSF-funded project
\Dimensions: Collaborative Research: Connecting the
proximate mechanisms responsible for organismal di-
versity to the ultimate causes of latitudinal gradients
in species richness". In particular, the postdoc will
be responsible for conducting and coordinating ecologi-
cal studies of Adelpha buttery communities in several
Neotropical eld sites.
The deadline for applications is May 16th, 2014,
with the position available from January 2015
(or earlier) for three years. Information on the
position and application instructions are avail-
able here: http://www.mnh.u.edu/butteries/-
neotropica/postdoc2014.html Please contact me
(kwillmott@mnh.u.edu) with any questions.
Keith Willmott Associate Curator for Lepidoptera
McGuire Center for Lepidoptera and Biodiversity
Florida Museum of Natural History 3215 Hull Road,
Powell Hall PO Box 112710 Gainesville, FL 32611
(USA) Tel: ( 1 352) 273 2012 Fax: (1 352) 392 0479
kwillmott@mnh.u.edu
UIllinois
FungalEcolEvolutionMetagenomics
Postdoctoral fellow in fungal metagenomics and ecology
A postdoctoral position is available in the department
of Plant Biology, in the School of Integrative Biology,
at the University of Illinois in Urbana-Champaign. PIs
Astrid Ferrer (aquatic mycologist), Katy Heath (plant
and microbe evolution), and Jim Dalling (plant and
fungal community ecology) are looking for a highly
motivated postdoc to work on a NSF-funded Dimen-88 EvolDir May 1, 2014
sions of Biodiversity project aimed at understanding
the ecological and genetic controls on fungal commu-
nity assembly and decomposition function in tropical
wood-decomposing aquatic fungi. Both the Heath and
Dalling labs are lively, highly-collaborative environ-
ments with students and postdocs working on a range
of topics in ecology and evolution of plants, bacteria,
and fungi.
The duties of the project postdoc will include prepar-
ing libraries for metagenomic sequencing of aquatic
fungi communities from environmental DNA samples,
RNAseq of cultured fungi in response to various envi-
ronmental treatments, downstream bioinformatic and
statistical analyses, and writing manuscripts based on
these results.
Expertise in some or all of the following areas is desired:
Molecular biology, (meta)genomics, bioinformatics, sta-
tistical analysis, ecology, evolution.
Strong candidates will also possess the following at-
tributes:
- A strong publication record from their PhD (papers
published, in press, or submitted).
- Creativity, independence, and the desire to learn new
things.
- Excellent communication skills, both written and oral.
All candidates must have received a Ph.D. in a relevant
eld. The position is available for 2 years, with the
rst year as a probationary period, and will include a
competitive salary and full benets.
Application review will begin May 1, 2014 and will con-
tinue until the position is lled. Start date is exible,
with a rough target date of August 2014. All materials
should be submitted to the PIs below for consideration.
Applications should include a brief cover letter, curricu-
lum vitae, a brief description of past research accom-
plishments and future research goals (under two pages),
and the names and contact information for three refer-
ences.
Contact Dr. Katy Heath regarding the position or ap-
plication process. For further information about the
Heath lab, visit the lab webpage accessible at: http:/-
/www.life.illinois.edu/heath Katy Heath
Assistant Professor
Department of Plant Biology
University of Illinois
kheath@illinois.edu kheath@illinois.eduUInnsbruck
NextGenerationSequencing
EVOLUTIONARY SYSTEMATICS, INSTITUTE OF
BOTANY, UNIVERSITY OF INNSBRUCK PostDoc
position
The Evolutionary Systematics group of the Insti-
tute of Botany seeks to hire a PostDoc with expe-
rience in Next Generation Sequencing (wetlab and
bioinformatic analysis of restriction site associated
DNA [RAD] sequencing data). The position starts
in autumn 2014 (exact starting date exible; 40
h/week employment for 26 months). Centering on
the Alpine Space, the group's mission is interdisci-
plinary research, embedded in international collabo-
ration networks. A list of research topics can be
found at: http://www.uibk.ac.at/botany/research/-
biodiversity/vascular plants/index.html.en . The suc-
cessful candidate will conduct NGS-based phylogeo-
graphic studies of a range of steppe organisms, in-
cluding both plants and animals. The project con-
sortium is international and includes members of the
Universities of Innsbruck and Vienna (Austria), Lau-
sanne (Switzerland) and the Real Jard n Bot anico in
Madrid (Spain). The project addresses the follow-
ing issues: (1) Did the steppe biota colonize each
Alpine dry valley independently or is there evidence
for genetic exchange among the insular steppe habi-
tats of dierent valleys? (2) What are the biogeo-
graphic connections of steppe biota from the Alpine
dry valleys with other areas of steppe vegetation in
Eurasia? (3) Are the phylogeographic patterns seen in
steppe plants and animals congruent, implying range
shifts of entire communities, or rather idiosyncratic,
suggesting individualistic responses to climatic oscil-
lations? (4) Our phylogeographic approach will un-
ravel intraspecic patterns of spatial dierentiation and
temporal diversication across steppe plant and ani-
mal lineages. These will then not only be compared
with each other, but also with data from independent
sources. Changes of distribution ranges of our study
taxa through time will be hindcasted using environ-
mental niche modeling. A description of the project can
be found at http://www.uibk.ac.at/botany/research/-
biodiversity/vascular plants/steppe-ora.html.en).
***Responsibilities*** 1. optimization of a double di-
gest RAD sequencing protocol for the study species,May 1, 2014 EvolDir 89
barcoding of individuals for pooled analyses 2. process-
ing raw Illumina data and ltering of SNPs 3. phylogeo-
graphic and phylogenetic (BEAST, ABC-approaches,
etc.) data analyses 4. species distribution modeling
with Maxent 5. leading role in manuscript writing 6.
contact and collaboration with scientists and laboratory
technicians at the Molecular Ecology group, Institute of
Ecology, Innsbruck University, as well as at other Aus-
trian research facilities, and internationally 7. possibly
(but not necessarily!) sampling of steppe species in Eu-
rope (Alps, Eastern Europe) and central Asia in 2015
***Selection criteria*** A. PhD degree in life sciences
B. published research experience in molecular system-
atics / evolution / biogeography, especially using high-
throughput sequencing data C. prociency in main-
tenance of Linux systems for bioinformatic purposes,
Biopython, mysql, scripting languages (e.g. awk, Perl,
R) D. experience in the use of relevant software pack-
ages for phylogeographic / phylogenetic analyses E.
ability to work as part of a multi-disciplinary team F.
ability to work independently G. very good knowledge
of English
***Salary*** The annual gross salary is Euro 48,768 for
a 40 h/week employment (26 months). This translates
into a yearly net income of 31,037 EUR. Extension to
30 months and corresponding reduction of the weekly
working hours are possible and welcome. The contract
includes health insurance and 5 weeks of holidays an-
nually.
***How to apply*** To apply, please submit by E-mail
to<peter.schoenswetter@uibk.ac.at >: a cover letter,
systematic point-by-point replies as to your readiness
for the responsibilities and how you meet the selection
criteria, brief statement of research interests, curricu-
lum vitae, a complete list of publications, and two ref-
erence letters.
Applications must be submitted in English until April
30th, 2014.
The University of Innsbruck is striving to increase the
percentage of female employees and therefore invites
qualied women to apply. In the case of equivalent
qualications, women will be given preference. An of-
fer of employment is contingent on a satisfactory pre-
employment background check.
***The research institution and its environ-
ment*** Detailed information about the Evolu-
tionary Systematics group can be found at http:/-
/www.uibk.ac.at/botany/units research groups/-
evolutionary systematics.html.en .
/This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UKansas Bioinformatics
Postdoctoral researcher position available in computa-
tional global change ecology. Dr Daniel Reuman is re-
cruiting into his lab in the University of Kansas De-
partment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and the
Kansas Biological Survey. Research will focus on soft-
ware aspects of two large projects: 1) Ramications of
metapopulation synchrony through the complex North
Sea and North Atlantic metacommunities in the face of
climate change; and 2) Revealing the mechanisms link-
ing the structure, functioning, and dynamics of whole
ecological communities using likelihood. The researcher
will be expected to contribute to software development
for both projects, collaborating with teams of biolo-
gists, statisticians, and modellers and pursuing inde-
pendent research questions. The position could be suit-
able for scientists from diverse training backgrounds.
See http://employment.ku.edu/sta/313BR for details
or to apply. Contact reuman@ku.edu with questions.
Daniel C. Reuman Senior Lecturer, Department
of Life Sciences Imperial College London http://-
www3.imperial.ac.uk/people/d.reuman Visiting Assis-
tant Professor, Laboratory of Populations, Rockefeller
University Grand Challenges in Ecosystems and the
Environment initiative, member
Director, MSc in Quantitative Biology
http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/lifesciences/-
postgraduate/courselist/quantitative-biology
Director, MRes in Biodiversity Informatics
and Genomics http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/-
pgprospectus/facultiesanddepartments/lifesciences/-
postgraduatecourses/biodiversityinformaticsgenomics
+44 (0)20 7594 2401
\Reuman, Dan" <d.reuman@imperial.ac.uk >
UKansas ComputationalBiol
Postdoctoral researcher position available in computa-90 EvolDir May 1, 2014
tional global change ecology. Dr Daniel Reuman is re-
cruiting into his lab in the University of Kansas De-
partment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and the
Kansas Biological Survey. Research will focus on soft-
ware aspects of two large projects: 1) Ramications of
metapopulation synchrony through the complex North
Sea and North Atlantic metacommunities in the face of
climate change; and 2) Revealing the mechanisms link-
ing the structure, functioning, and dynamics of whole
ecological communities using likelihood. The researcher
will be expected to contribute to software development
for both projects, collaborating with teams of biolo-
gists, statisticians, and modellers and pursuing inde-
pendent research questions. The position could be suit-
able for scientists from diverse training backgrounds.
See http://employment.ku.edu/sta/313BR for details
or to apply. Contact reuman@ku.edu with questions.
d.reuman@imperial.ac.uk
ULille France Arabiodopsis
SelfIncompatibility
*Post-doctoral position on the origin of functional nov-
elty at the self-incompatibility locus in Arabidopsis*
We are looking for a post-doctoral associate to work
on allelic diversication at the self-incompatibility lo-
cus in the outcrossing Arabidopsis species /A. halleri/.
While the genes encoding self-incompatibility are typ-
ically highly multiallelic, the emergence of new allelic
specicities has remained a mystery. This is in par-
ticular due to the functional constraint caused by the
fact that these genes encode a molecular lock-and-key
mechanism, whereby both the lock and the key must
both be hit by novel cognate mutations in order for the
system to remain functional. To address this issue, the
project will use a resurrectionapproach to recon-
struct ancestral protein sequences and express them in
/A. thaliana/ using tools of genetic transformation to
test whether contemporary specicities have retained
identical recognition phenotypes as compared to their
ancestor.
The ideal candidate should have either previous experi-
ence with genetic transformation in /A. thaliana/ and
a keen interest in evolutionary biology or a strong back-
ground in evolutionary biology with demonstrated abil-
ities in either molecular biology or the management of
large experimental designs in plants. A high level of
autonomy is required. Initial duration of the post-docin one year with possible extension for an additional 6
months. Salary is competitive and commensurate with
experience. The position is available now and the start-
ing date should be no later than July 1 ^st .
Applicants should send a letter describing their
qualications, a research statement, a curricu-
lum vitae, and names, addresses, email ad-
dresses and telephone numbers of three references
through emails vincent.castric@univ-lille1.fr and
Xavier.Vekemans@univ-lille1.fr
*Contact :*
Vincent CASTRIC & Xavier VEKEMANS
UMR CNRS 8198 Laboratoire de Genetique et Evolu-
tion des Populations Vegetales
Universit e Lille 1 - Sciences et Technologies
59655 Villeneuve d'Ascq
FRANCE
Vincent CASTRIC CR1 CNRS, HDR.
UMR CNRS 8198 Laboratoire de Genetique et Evolu-
tion des Populations Vegetales Universit e Lille 1 - Sci-
ences et Technologies Batiment SN2, bureau 108 59655
Villeneuve d'Ascq - FRANCE Tel: +33 3 2033 5923 -
Fax: +33 3 2043 6979 http://gepv.univ-lille1.fr/ Vin-
cent CASTRIC <Vincent.Castric@univ-lille1.fr >
UMassachusetts Boston
Phylogenetics
Postdoctoral research associate in phylogenetic compar-
ative methods
A postdoctoral position is available in the Revell lab
(http://faculty.umb.edu/liam.revell/) at the University
of Massachusetts Boston in theoretical phylogenetics
and/or computational phylogeny methods. Applicants
should have a Ph.D. and extensive training and expe-
rience in one or more of the following areas: phylogeny
method development or application in software; theo-
retical evolutionary quantitative genetics; and/or evo-
lutionary computational biology. The ideal candidate
will also have broad training in evolutionary biology,
strong writing skills, and prior teaching or mentoring
experience.
The postdoc hired from this search will play a key role
in a recently funded NSF project to develop and apply
new methods for evolutionary analysis in the context ofMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 91
phylogenetic trees. Major goals of this project include
developing new visualization methods for phylogenetic
comparative biology, improving the integration of phy-
logeny inference and comparative analysis, and bridg-
ing micro- and macroevolution in phylogenetic compar-
ative biology. Consequently, the best candidate for this
position will have skills and experience in multiple ar-
eas. The project also has substantial training goals, in-
cluding the development of a new series of phylogenetic
analysis mini-courses in Latin America, and a young de-
velopers' workshop at UMass Boston's Nantucket Field
Station. The successful candidate will also be expected
to participate in some of these programs.
The position is available for one year with the possibil-
ity of renewal. Start date is exible. Please email Liam
Revell (liam.revell@umb.edu) with any questions about
this position.
A complete application for this position will include:
(1) a brief cover letter; (2) a curriculum vitae; (3) a
maximum two-page statement of your research expe-
rience & interest; and (4) names & contact informa-
tion for three references. Applications can be submit-
ted online via UMass Boston's Interview Exchange sys-
tem via the following URL: http://www.phytools.org/-
postdoc.search/. The position is open until lled, but
applications should be sent by May 29, 2014 for full
consideration.
UMass Boston provides equal employment opportuni-
ties (EEO) to all employees and applicants for employ-
ment.
{ Liam J. Revell, Assistant Professor of Bi-
ology University of Massachusetts Boston
web: http://faculty.umb.edu/liam.revell/ email:
liam.revell@umb.edu blog: http://blog.phytools.org
Liam.Revell@umb.edu
UMichigan TreeSnail EvolGenomics
*UMichigan.Tree.Snail.Evolutionary.Genomics*
Postdoctoral opening in the evolutionary genomics of
endangered tree snails
Position is available beginning October 2014 to work at
the University of Michigan (Ann Arbor) with Diarmaid
O Foighil and Taehwan Lee.
We are looking for a highly motivated postdoc with a
background in comparative evolutionary genomics toparticipate in an ongoing research project. It concerns
Tahitian tree snail species (Partulidae) that dieren-
tially survived a recent mass extinction event and in-
volves working with museum, captive and remnant wild
specimens. A background in invertebrate biology is pre-
ferred. Demonstrated expertise in next-generation se-
quencing, bioinformatics and comparative/population
genomics is required.
The position will be initially funded for one year, with
the possibility of renewal for up to two additional years
contingent on funding and satisfactory performance.
Salary and benets are competitive. Ann Arbor is
a classic American college town. It routinely makes
the national \best of" lists (www.annarborusa.org/-
live-here/facts-rankings) and the University of Michi-
gan's Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biol-
ogy is an excellent academic environment with a dy-
namic and interactive research program ( http://-
www.lsa.umich.edu/eeb/).
The position is available October 1st 2014, but the
start is exible to some degree. Applicants should have
earned their Ph.D. by September 2014 and should send
(to the email address below) a cover letter with a state-
ment of background and research interests, a *Curricu-
lum Vitae* and the names and contact details of three
references. Review of applications will begin May 1st,
2014; however, the position will remain open until lled.
Diarmaid O Foighil, University of Michigan Museum
of Zoology and Department of Ecology & Evolutionary
Biology, 1109 Geddes Avenue, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-
1079.
diarmaid@umich.edu
Phone: 734 647 2193
www.lsa.umich.edu/UMICH/eeb/Home/People/-
O'Foighil-CV-2014.pdf The University of Michigan is
an equal opportunity/armative action employer.
Diarmaid O'Foighil <diarmaid@umich.edu >
UMinnesota FungalGenomics
Postdoctoral Position - Fungal Genomics and
Metabolomics University of Minnesota, St. Paul,
MN
Position description:
A postdoctoral position focused on comparative ge-92 EvolDir May 1, 2014
nomics, metabolomics, and regulatory mechanisms of
secondary metabolites in fungi is available in the Bush-
ley lab. This project will focus on population genomics
of fungi (Fusarium, Tolypocladium spp.) to investi-
gate regulation and evolution of secondary metabo-
lite genes, clusters, and metabolites. The project
will adopt an interdisciplinary approach that integrates
next-generation genome sequencing and assembly, com-
parative genomics, and RNA-Seq experiments with
analyses of chemical products. Genome resequencing
will examine the roles of structural variation, transpo-
sition, selection, genome methylation, and other evolu-
tionary processes in driving the diversication of sec-
ondary metabolite genes and clusters. Strain specic
dierences in metabolite expression will be investigated
under a variety of dierent media conditions and data
will be integrated to develop and analyze metabolic and
regulatory networks involved in controlling secondary
metabolism.
Minimum requirements: A Ph.D. in molecular biology
and genetics, mycology, genomics, chemistry, biochem-
istry, or related elds. The ideal candidate will have ex-
isting skills in two or more of the following: experience
in sequencing and analysis of next-generation sequence
data, bioinformatics and comparative genomics, molec-
ular biology, mass spectrometry, nmr, and a willingness
to learn new techniques. The initial appointments is for
1 year, with an opportunity for renewal for a second
year. The position is available beginning in June 2014.
Start date is exible. Salary range $38,000 - $43,000
depending on experience, plus health benets.
To apply: Any questions regarding the position
should be directed to kbushley@umn.edu. In-
formal inquiries are welcome. Applicants must
apply through the University of Minnesota
Oce of Human Resources website (employ-
ment.umn.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind9828)
and include a CV, a cover letter detailing research
interests and experience, and contact information for
three references. Screening of applicants will begin
May 15 until a suitable candidate is found.
Kathryn Bushley Assistant Professor University of Min-
nesota Department of Plant Biology 822 BioSci Bldg
1445 Gortner Avenue St. Paul, MN 55108
phone: 612-625-8213
Kathryn Bushley <kbushley@umn.edu >UNebraska InsectAdaptation
A postdoctoral position is available in the Department
of Entomology, University of Nebraska Lincoln. Nick
Miller is looking for a motivated postdoc to work on
the emerging adaptation of Diabrotica virgifera vir-
gifera (western corn rootworm) to transgenic Bt maize.
Responsibilities will include insect rearing for lab se-
lection experiments and crosses, producing libraries for
Illumina sequencing and analyzing data for population
genomics and QTL mapping studies.
Required qualications: A PhD in biology, genetics, en-
tomology or a related discipline.
Desired qualications: * Experience working with in-
sects. * Experience with standard molecular tech-
niques * Experience working with large data sets in
a Linux/UNIX environment * Demonstrated ability to
develop publishable manuscripts in a timely manner *
Although not essential, some programming skills would
be advantageous
The start date for the successful applicant will be
around September ' October 2014 but interested in-
dividuals are encouraged to apply immediately. For
further information, please contact:
Nick Miller
Department of Entomology University of Nebraska-
Lincoln Lincoln NE 68583 USA
nick.miller@unl.edu
UNotreDame MalariaMosquito
PopulationGenomics
POSTDOC: Population Genomics of Malaria
Mosquitoes
A Postdoctoral position (1 year with possible ex-
tensions up to 5 years) is available immediately in
the evolutionary genomics group of Nora Besansky
(www3.nd.edu/ ~nbesansk/).
We are seeking highly qualied and enthusiastic ap-
plicants with a quantitative background in theoreti-May 1, 2014 EvolDir 93
cal/statistical population genetics and evolutionary bi-
ology, experience in genomic data analysis, and at least
some knowledge of primary short read analysis.
Our ongoing research centers on the evolutionary,
ecological and population genomics of Anopheles
mosquitoes that transmit malaria. In particular, we
study those species responsible for the majority of
malaria cases and deaths on the African continent, An.
gambiae and An. funestus. These two Afrotropical
species each belong to cryptic species complexes bear-
ing their names, and both nominal taxa display con-
siderable genetic heterogeneity and population struc-
ture suggesting further genetic subdivision and poten-
tial speciation. We study their population genomics at
dierent spatial scales, from local to regional and conti-
nental. We are particularly interested in how spatially
varying selection (e.g., along environmental gradients
of aridity: Cheng et al 2012, Genetics 190:1417), ongo-
ing ecological speciation (e.g., Cassone et al 2014, Mol
Ecol 10.1111/mec.12733; Guelbeogo et al 2014, Malar
J 13:65), and genetic introgression (e.g., Besansky et
al. 2003, PNAS 100:10818) impact patterns of genomic
and transcriptomic variation. Specic projects ongo-
ing in the laboratory include the functional genomics
of chromosomal inversions{which we are approaching
through systems genetics and genome-wide association
studies, the genetic basis of saltwater tolerance in the
An. gambiae complex, Y chromosome structure and
evolution in the An. gambiae complex, and the ecolog-
ical genomics of incipient species of An. gambiae and
An. funestus. The availability of annotated reference
genome assemblies for both species (Neafsey et al 2013,
G3 3:1191), and their relatively small genome size ( ~250
Mb) allows us to use whole genome sequencing of pools
or barcoded individual mosquitoes from natural popu-
lations to approach these questions. Our work on these
large data sets is facilitated by extensive collaboration
with computer scientists both on and o campus (S.
Emrich, ND; A. Phillippy & S. Koren, Battelle National
Biodefense Institute), and with a statistical geneticist
(M. Hahn, Indiana University, Bloomington). In addi-
tion to the NIH-funded projects based in the Besansky
lab, we are actively engaged in large international con-
sortia, one of which is modeled on the Human HapMap
project and has sequenced over 1000 individual An.
gambiae genomes sampled across Africa (MalariaGen;
www.malariagen.net/projects/vector). Furthermore,
opportunities for collaboration and exchange are avail-
able with partners in Europe and Africa [F. Simard, C.
Costantini: IRD, Montpellier; D. Ayala: IRD/Gabon;
M.C. Fontaine: Univ. of Groningen, Netherlands (be-
ginning Fall 2014)]. The successful candidate will help
develop and lead a project in at least one of the ar-eas of ongoing research in the laboratory, and would be
expected to contribute collaboratively to others.
REQUIREMENTS: (1) A PhD in genetics/genomics,
evolutionary biology, bioinformatics, or a related disci-
pline; (2) a strong background in statistics and popu-
lation genetics; (3) prociency in the Linux/Unix com-
puting environment and familiarity with R and at least
one other programming language (e.g. Python or Perl);
(4) experience with the analysis of high throughput bi-
ological data sets; and (5) good communication skills
and prociency in English, both speaking and writing.
PREFERENCES: If the Ph.D. was conferred in the bi-
ological sciences, we are looking for subsequent quali-
cation and/or experience in bioinformatics; if the Ph.D.
was conferred in statistics, computer science, or math-
ematics, we are looking for subsequent qualication
and/or experience in the biological sciences. In addi-
tion to meeting all the requirements, the ideal candi-
date will be a highly motivated individual with demon-
strated expertise in population genomics or human ge-
netics and evolutionary biology, strong statistical skills,
experience with next generation sequence and analysis
of whole genome sequence data, a good understanding
of molecular biology, and an excellent record of scien-
tic publication. Fluency in French is a plus.
HOW TO APPLY: Applicants should submit a sin-
gle PDF le (to nbesansk [at] nd.edu) containing (1)
a cover letter briey summarizing past research accom-
plishments and future goals; (2) a CV; (3) two recent
publications; and (4) the names and contact informa-
tion for three references. Screening of applicants will
begin immediately and continue until the position is
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UOslo PaleoData
Be at the cutting edge: 3 year postdoc at
the Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Syn-
thesis, University of Oslo modeling paleo data
using capture-recapture, occupancy and compara-
tive approaches. http://uio.easycruit.com/vacancy/-
1168135/96871?iso=no Lee Hsiang Liow (Ph.D) Cen-
tre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis (CEES)94 EvolDir May 1, 2014
Department of Biosciences University of Oslo, Norway
folk.uio.no/leehl
Lee Hsiang Liow <l.h.liow@ibv.uio.no >
URhodeIsland
DiatomTranscriptomics
*Postdoctoral Research Associate Position: Examining
Microbial Interactions in Marine Plankton*
The Rynearson lab at the University of Rhode Island,
Graduate School of Oceanography invites applications
for a Postdoctoral Research Associate. The research
project, funded by the Gordon and Betty Moore Foun-
dation, will examine microscale interactions between
marine diatoms and bacteria and is a collaboration with
Professor D. Hunt, Duke University.
*Responsibilities and Duties*: The postdoctoral asso-
ciate will be primarily responsible for analysis of the
gene expression component of the project and will be
working with high-throughput transcriptomic data and
physiological data to tease apart diatom-bacteria inter-
actions. Responsibilities include dissemination of re-
sults in publications and presentations, contributions to
the functioning of the lab, and assistance with graduate
and undergraduate student mentoring. The successful
applicant will have the opportunity to design follow-
on controlled laboratory experiments and with future
proposal preparation.
*Qualications*: Candidates are required to have a
Ph.D. degree by August 2014 in Computer Sciences,
Oceanography, Biology or a related eld. Excellent
command of the English language (written and verbal)
and quantitative analytical skills are essential. Candi-
dates should possess demonstrable experience with ei-
ther the analysis of high throughput sequencing data
including programming knowledge or with experimen-
tal marine microbiology.
*Appointment*: The position is for 12 months initially,
commencing July or August 2014 and renewable for an
additional 12 months depending on performance. The
successful candidate will receive training in research
collaboration, presentation and publication of results,
and outreach and mentoring. There will be opportuni-
ties for development of additional research projects and
proposals.
*To Apply*: Applications must include (1) a statementof experience,**career goals, research vision and inter-
ests; (2) curriculum vitae, (3) reprints of relevant pub-
lications and (4) names and addresses of three referees
willing to write condential letters of recommendation.
All materials should be emailed as a single pdf docu-
ment to: rynearson@mail.uri.edu with 'PostDoc Appli-
cation' in the subject line. Candidates will be selected
based on overall excellence, including academic qual-
ications, letters of recommendation, and prior skills,
experience, and research goals that are compatible with
the goals of the funded research. The position is com-
pensated through a competitive salary and excellent
benets package.
*Closing date*: For full consideration, applications
should be received by May 5, 2014.Further infor-
mation: Rynearson lab: http://www.gso.uri.edu/-
users/rynearson URI Graduate School of Oceanog-
raphy: http://www.gso.uri.edu/ Hunt Lab: http://-
oceanography.ml.duke.edu/hunt/ Tatiana Rynearson
<rynearson@mail.uri.edu >
USFS Oregon EvolutionaryGenetics
POST-DOCTORAL RESEARCH GENETI-
CIST/ECOLOGIST
A postdoctoral research position is available at the
USDA Forest Service Pacic Northwest Research Sta-
tion in Corvallis, Oregon. The candidate will conduct
ecological genetics research to explore population vari-
ation in adaptive traits of native grasses and forbs of
the western United States. The primary goal of the re-
search is to model responses in adaptation and adaptive
traits as a function of the environments of planting sites
and seed sources. The employee will use the knowledge
gained to evaluate alternatives for guiding population
movement for restoration of native plant communities
including considerations of climate change. The posi-
tion is a two-year, full-time term position, with the pos-
sibility for extension of an additional two years depen-
dent upon funding and performance. Shorter appoint-
ments may be possible (e.g., sabbaticals for university
faculty). Salary is approximately $61,867 per year (GS-
11) depending on qualications. The employee will be
eligible for health and life insurance, annual (vacation)
and sick leave, and will be covered by the Federal Em-
ployees Retirement System.
Qualications: US citizen with PhD in ecology, botany,
forestry, genetics or related eld prior to beginning em-May 1, 2014 EvolDir 95
ployment; demonstrated knowledge of statistical anal-
ysis and associated software (including SAS and R)
for nonlinear mixed-eects models and multivariate
analysis; demonstrated skills in communicating science
through publications and public speaking; knowledge
of GIS is desirable. The position is full-time for 13 to
48 months and will be lled at the GS-11 level.
To apply: Send curriculum vitae and cover letter in-
dicating interests and qualications along with a copy
of your college transcripts (unocial copies are ne).
Include a list of your publications (including a pdf or
link to one or more featured publications) and at least
three professional references with information on how
to contact them (email and phone number). Indicate
when you would be available in your cover letter and
please state that you are a US citizen. Applications will
be accepted until close of business by April 30, 2014,
but it is in the applicant's best interest to turn in their
application as soon as possible. Send the information
to Dr. Brad St.Clair at bstclair@fs.fed.us.
Please pass this advertisement on to interested parties.
Brad St.Clair Research Geneticist US Forest Service,
Pacic Northwest Research Station 3200 SW Jeerson
Way, Corvallis, Oregon 97331-4401 ph: (541) 750-7294,
fax: (541) 750-7329 email: bstclair@fs.fed.us
bstclair@fs.fed.us
USP Brazil EvolutionModularity
Fellowship opportunity
- *No:* 602 - *Title:* Post doctoral fellowship
in Evolutionary Biology - *Field of knowledge:*
Genetics - * FAPESP process:* 11/14295-7 <http:/-
/www.bv.fapesp.br/pt/auxilios/46489/modularidade-
e-suas-consequencias-evolutivas/ >(p agina do projeto
na Biblioteca Virtual FAPESP) - *Project title:* Mod-
ularity and its evolutionary consequences - *Working
area:* Evolutionary Biology - *Principal investigator:*
Gabriel Marroig - *Unit/Instituition:* Instituto de
Bioci^ encias/USP - *Partner Instituition:* - *Part-
ner Representative:* - *Deadline for submissions:*
22/05/2014 - *Publishing date:* 17/04/2014 - *
Summary:*
The Instituto de Bioci^ encias, located at the Universi-
dade de S~ ao Paulo (USP) seeks candidates to ll a post-
doctoral scholarship from FAPESP - *www.fapesp.br/-
en/5427*The research area includes: The study of modularity
(genetic and phenotypic) in bats and their evolution-
ary consequences for morphological diversication in
the group.
The candidate should preferably have a database on
morphometric data already collected in a representative
group of bats with enough diversity and phylogenetic
scope to allow analysis of modularity and the evolution
of characters mean based on a comparative framework.
The candidate should also have a solid foundation in
statistics, quantitative genetics, evolutionary biology
and have notions of comparative analysis and program-
ming.
This position will be under the supervision of Associate
Prof. Gabriel Marroig. The candidate must be inter-
ested in working in collaboration with other researchers
and postgraduate students within the research group.
The applicant must submit by May 22, 2014, for *gmar-
roig@usp.br* address, a text explaining their research
experience and interest in the area as well as an updated
resume containing names and contact information of
three teachers who can provide references professionals
about the candidate.
The candidate will be selected by the analysis of the
documentation and the position is open immediately
to implement the fellowship.
Gabriel Marroig <gmarroig@gmail.com >
UZurich Biodiversity
The Altermatt lab at the Institute of Evolutionary Bi-
ology and Environmental Studies (IEE) of University
of Zurich and the Department of Aquatic Ecology of
Eawag, Switzerland, has a vacancy for:
A Postdoc Position in Metacommunity-
/Metaecosystem Ecology
Project title: Bridging biodiversity and ecosystem func-
tioning in dendritic networks: a meta-ecosystem per-
spective
Understanding the causes and consequences of biodi-
versity is among the most challenging goals in ecol-
ogy. Recent results indicate a generally positive ef-
fect of diversity on ecosystem processes. Up to now,
almost all work on biodiversity-ecosystem functioning
has been conducted in a non-spatial, one-patch per-96 EvolDir May 1, 2014
spective. Natural ecosystems, however, are spatially
explicit, and there is substantial ow of material and
organisms among patches and ecosystems. This project
aims at applying the concept of meta-ecosystems to em-
pirical data in spatially explicit dendritic networks.
In a project linked to two complementing PhD theses,
the Postdoc Fellow will use a laboratory protist micro-
cosm system to experimentally test interacting eects
of habitat network structure and ecosystem function-
ing. As a group, we will extend these ndings to meso-
cosm experiments and large-scale eld studies with am-
phipods to study ecosystem functioning in Swiss river
networks. The Postdoc will synthesize the ndings,
and link or expand existing theoretical work. In the
whole project, diversity and ecosystem functioning will
be studied in spatially explicit dendritic networks in a
highly consistent framework. Ultimately, we want to
get a comprehensive understanding of biodiversity and
ecosystem functioning in riverine systems.
Competitive applicants will have previous experience in
ecology, biodiversity and spatial dynamics and be in-
terested in participating in this extensive new research
project. They will be highly motivated, enthusiastic
and independent scientists. Candidates should have a
good conceptual understanding of ecological theory, ex-
cellent experimental skills and/or a strong background
in quantitative modeling. Excellent communicational
and writing skills in English, experiences with publish-
ing scientic articles, good work ethics, and creative
thinking are desired. A PhD in Ecology or related sub-
ject is necessary for admission. The working language
in the Altermatt lab is English.
The Altermatt lab has a shared base at University of
Zurich and at Eawag. It oers a stimulating and inter-
national research environment, excellent research facil-
ities and a lively and social working place. Zurich hosts
many other research groups in ecology and biodiver-
sity research, and is among the world's leading cities
in terms of science, culture and quality of life. The
positions will be for a period of two years, and could
start in the second half of 2014. The project is nanced
by the Swiss National Science Foundation (SNSF Re-
search Professorship to Florian Altermatt from August
2014 onwards).
For further information, consult
http://homepages.eawag.ch/ ~ alterm/Home.html
http://www.ieu.uzh.ch/index.html www.eawag.ch or
directly contact Dr. Florian Altermatt: Tel: +41 58
765 55 92, E-mail: orian.altermatt@eawag.ch
Applications must be submitted by 10th May 2014 and
should include a motivation letter with a description ofpertinent experience, a complete CV (incl. publication
list), the names (with e-mail addresses) of three aca-
demic references, and copies of certicates of academic
qualications. The application should be submitted as
one single pdf-le.
We look forward to receiving your application through
the online application form at:
http://internet1.reine.ch/673277/0266/-
++publications++/3/index.html Any other way
of applying will not be considered.
orian.altermatt@eawag.ch
VanderbiltU
EvolutionOfHumanBirth
PostDoctoral Position at Vanderbilt University - Evo-
lution of Human Birth A postdoctoral position is
available in the Rokas lab at Vanderbilt University
in Nashville, Tennessee to study the evolutionary ge-
nomics of human pregnancy. The ideal candidate will
have a strong background in evolutionary genomics, fa-
miliarity with scripting languages, a strong publication
track record, and a commitment to teamwork.
The candidate will join a team of researchers working
on developing the computational and conceptual tools
necessary for generating a comprehensive evolutionary
synthesis of human birth. Through the generation of
database tools that will build bridges between evolu-
tionary biologists, geneticists, molecular and develop-
mental biologists, physiologists, obstetricians, and so-
cial anthropologists, and by exploiting the power of
within and between species genomic comparisons, our
research project aims to elucidate the evolution of hu-
man birth and pregnancy.
The project is funded by the March of Dimes
and is in close collaboration with the Abbot lab
(http://vanderbilt.edu/abbotlab/Home.html) and is
one of the ve major research themes that com-
prise the March of Dimes Ohio Collaborative (http://-
prematurityresearch.org/ohiocollaborative/).
For more information on the Rokas lab: http://-
as.vanderbilt.edu/rokaslab/ For more information on
Nashville: http://www.vanderbilt.edu/nashville/ and
http://www.nytimes.com/2013/01/09/us/nashville-
takes-its-turn-in-the-spotlight.html Interested ap-
plicants are encouraged to send a CV, an one-page
statement of past research accomplishments, andMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 97
contact information for three references to Antonis
Rokas at antonis.rokas@vanderbilt.edu
The position is available eective immediately. Best,
Antonis
Antonis Rokas Associate Professor of Biological Sci-
ences and Biomedical Informatics Cornelius Van-
derbilt Chair in Biological Sciences Department of
Biological Sciences Vanderbilt University VU Sta-
tion B 351634, Nashville, TN 37235 Email: anto-
nis.rokas@Vanderbilt.Edu Tel: +1-615-936-3892 Fax:
+1-615-343-6707 http://as.vanderbilt.edu/rokaslab/
antonis.rokas@Vanderbilt.Edu
WashingtonU StLouis
GenomicImprinting
Evolution of genomic imprinting postdoctoral fellow-
ships at Washington University in St. Louis. Social in-
sects provide an outstanding opportunity to test novel
predictions of the kinship theory of genomic imprinting
in social insects (Queller 2003 BMC Evolutionary Biol-
ogy 3:15). This project involve testing for such imprint-
ing using genomic techniques. Experience with RNA-
seq methods and analysis is desirable.
David Queller and Joan Strassmann lead a friendly
and interactive team of highly motivated, creative,
and smart investigators. We are seeking ener-
getic postdocs with strong backgrounds in areas
such as evolutionary biology, social behavior, mu-
tualism, microbial evolution, genomics, and molec-
ular biology. Check out our website, (http://-
strassmannandquellerlab.wordpress.com/) for more in-
formation on our lab, or Strassmann's blog (http:/-
/sociobiology.wordpress.com). To apply, please email
Patrick Clark (pclark@wustl.edu), specifying \imprint-
ing postdoc" in the subject line. Please attach a single
le including CV, statement of research interests, and
the names, phone numbers, and email addresses of three
references. Women and underrepresented minorities are
particularly encouraged to apply. Funding is from the
John Templeton Foundation. We will begin reviewing
applications by 15 May 2014 and will continue to ac-
cept them until the positions are lled. Postdocs may
start immediately but date is negotiable.
queller@biology2.wustl.eduWashingtonU StLouis
MicrobialSociality
Microbial sociality postdocs in the Queller-Strassmann
lab at Washington University in St. Louis. One or
more postdoctoral positions for 2-3 years are available
for work on either of two projects involving evolution-
ary aspects of microbial sociality.
1. Experimental evolution of cooperation in mi-
crobes, especially in population structures relevant to
\higher" organisms (Queller et al. 2013 Biology Let-
ters 9:20130636; Kuzdzal-Fick et al. 2011. Science 334:
1548-1551)
2. The farming and defensive symbioses of Dic-
tyostelium discoideum amoebas and bacteria (Brock et
al. 2011 Nature 469:393-396; Brock et al 2013 Nature
Communications 4:2385; Stallforth et al. 2013PNAS
110:14528-14533)
David Queller and Joan Strassmann lead a friendly
and interactive team of highly motivated, creative,
and smart investigators. We are seeking ener-
getic postdocs with strong backgrounds in areas
such as evolutionary biology, social behavior, mu-
tualism, microbial evolution, genomics, and molec-
ular biology. Check out our website, (http://-
strassmannandquellerlab.wordpress.com/) for more in-
formation on our lab, or Strassmann's blog (http://-
sociobiology.wordpress.com). To apply, please email
Patrick Clark (pclark@wustl.edu), specifying either
\experimental evolution postdoc" or \farming postdoc"
in the subject line. Please attach a single le includ-
ing CV, statement of research interests, and the names,
phone numbers, and email addresses of three references.
Women and underrepresented minorities are particu-
larly encouraged to apply. Funding is from the John
Templeton Foundation. We will begin reviewing ap-
plications by 15 May 2014 and will continue to accept
them until the positions are lled. Postdocs may start
immediately but date is negotiable.
queller@biology2.wustl.edu
YaleU MicrobialEvolution98 EvolDir May 1, 2014
Yale Postdoctoral Position in Microbial Evolutionary
Ecology
A two- to three-year postdoctoral position is available
immediately in the laboratory of Paul Turner in the De-
partment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at Yale
University. We are seeking a highly motivated and cre-
ative individual to participate in ongoing experimen-
tal projects relating to eco-evolutionary theory. These
projects concern (i) role of environmental heterogene-
ity on adaptability of bacteriophages, (ii) role of niche
construction in the evolutionary ecology of virus- cancer
cell interactions, and (iii) eects of host density on vir-
ulence evolution in killer viruses of yeast. The success-
ful candidate will engage in these projects in the rst
year, while increasingly developing and leading projects
of their own design as the position continues. The ex-
periments can utilize high-throughput, automated mea-
sures of evolving microorganisms via liquid-handling
robotics. Experience with these technologies is pre-
ferred, but all strong candidates will be considered.
This postdoctoral position is in association with the
Yale Institute for Biospheric Studies program in Eco-
Evolutionary Dynamics, which is co-directed by David
Vasseur, David Post, and Paul Turner. Through this
program, the candidate will participate in regular work-
ing groups combining international leaders in experi-
mental and theoretical approaches to eco-evolutionary
dynamics. More information on the Department
of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology is available at
www.yale.edu/eeb. For information about postdoc-
toral appointments at Yale, see http://www.yale.edu/-
postdocs/. Applications should be emailed to Paul
Turner (paul.turner@yale.edu) and include a CV, short
statement of research interests, and contact information
for three references. Applications will be considered be-
ginning on May 1, 2014.
Paul E. Turner Chair of Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology Yale University New Haven, CT
06520 (203) 432-5918 http://www.yale.edu/turner/
paul.turner@yale.eduZEM UZurich EvolutionaryMedicine
Post-doctoral research associate. 70-100%. Starting
date: from July 2014.
The Zentrum f ur Evolution are Medizin (ZEM) is an
interdisciplinary centre specialising in the study of evo-
lutionary medicine. We combine four main research
areas (biomolecular, morphology, imaging and basic re-
search) to investigate the evolution of diseases (includ-
ing infectious and joint diseases) by the use of historical,
archaeological and/or mummied remains.
The Molecular Group is based in the purpose built
state-of-the-art ancient DNA laboratory, and comprises
of one full time post-doc, two PhD students and a tech-
nician. We are seeking another postdoctoral associate.
The successful applicant will be highly motivated and
skilled in all aspects of ancient DNA research and ded-
icated to furthering their career in academia (e.g. un-
dertake habilitation) . S/he will be willing to assist in
ongoing projects of the ZEM, be able to manage their
own medically relevant research project as well as assist
with student training, teaching and supervision.
Candidates must possess a PhD in ancient genetics or
associated discipline with a minimum 3 years experi-
ence in ancient DNA. They must have high through-
put sequencing experience, good communication (writ-
ten and oral) skills and be abile to work in a team and
individually. Bioinformatics experience and teaching /
supervising experience are an advantage.
The position is open to individuals who wish to main-
tain existing associations, and may require interna-
tional travel for sample identication and/or collection.
To apply please send a single .pdf le containing:
Full CV, list of publications, past and present fund-
ing, two references, and a letter of motivation to
irina.rau@uzh.ch by the 15th May 2014.
Abigail Bouwman <abigail.bouwman@uzh.ch >May 1, 2014 EvolDir 99
WorkshopsCourses
Arolla Switzerland SocialEvolution Jul13-15 . . . . . . . 99
Cambridge WTAC GeneticAnalysisDiseases Jul23-29
99
Finland InfectiousDiseases Aug17-24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
Ireland PhylogeneticSummerCourse Aug31-Sep5 . .100
Jaca Spain MarginalPopulationsAdaptation Jul7-11
101
MathVillage Turkey QuantEvolutionaryBiol Sep14-21
Deadline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
MDIBL Maine EnvironmentalGenomics Aug2-9 . . 102
MTRL Florida MethodsGenomicAnalysis Jun15-Jul5
102MTRL Florida MethodsGenomicAnalysis Jun15-Jul5 2
103
MTRL Florida MethodsGenomicAnalysis Jun15-Jul5
Deadline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
Online GMOD Training May19-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
Oxford BiolSeqAnalysis Jul16-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
Rosco France MarineGenomics May25-Jun7 . . . . .105
SWRS Arizona LepidopteraEvolution Aug14-23 . . 105
UFribourg Switzerland GenomicsSpeciationContinuum
Sep4-5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
UlosAndesBogota Phylogenetics Jul8-11 . . . . . . . . . . 106
Arolla Switzerland SocialEvolution
Jul13-15
WORKSHOP
SOCIAL EVOLUTION: MERITS AND LIMITA-
TIONS OF INCLUSIVE FITNESS THEORY
WHEN: 13-15 July 2014 WHERE: Arolla (Swiss Alps)
DESCRIPTION: Inclusive tness theory is generally
assumed to suciently explain the evolution of social
behaviour. However, empirical evidence is accumulat-
ing that other evolutionary concepts need to be involved
to explain cooperation and social structure in a wide
range of taxa. This includes the archetypical exam-
ples of altruism, like the reproductive division of labour
in eusocial hymenoptera and the cooperative breeding
groups observed in many vertebrates. Recent evidence
from insects and vertebrates reveals that high levels of
relatedness can even reduce rather than further coop-
eration and altruism.
The aim of this workshop is to combine pertinent evolu-
tionary theoreticians and empiricists to discuss comple-
mentary evolutionary mechanisms to inclusive tness
theory. This is a topic of great interest to students and
biologists in general, because there is a growing aware-
ness that explanations based on inclusive tness, which
have dominated the theoretical and empirical literature
for the past half century, cannot account for many ex-
amples of apparently altruistic behaviour observed in
nature.
INFO & REGISTARTION: http:/-/biologie.cuso.ch/index.php?id=-
1128&clear cache=1&tx displaycontroller[table]=-
members&tx displaycontroller[showUid]=1898
SPEAKERS: Prof. Rufus Johnstone, University of
Cambridge (UK) Prof. Laurent Lehmann, University
of Lausanne (CH) Dr Christina Riehl, Harvard Uni-
versity (US) Prof. Hanna Kokko, Australian National
University (AU) Dr Erol Akcay, University of Pennsyl-
vania (US) Dr Elli Leadbeater, University of London
(UK)
{
Caroline Betto-Colliard Department of Ecology and
Evolution Biophore Building University of Lausanne
CH-1015 Lausanne Switzerland
tel: + 41 21 692 4218 fax: + 41 21 692 4265 Oce:
3206
http://www.unil.ch/dee/page55421.html Caroline
Betto-Colliard <caroline.betto-colliard@unil.ch >
Cambridge WTAC
GeneticAnalysisDiseases Jul23-29
Application Deadline Approaching, 11 April 2014
Human Genome Analysis, Genetic Analysis of Mul-
tifactorial Diseases Venue: Wellcome Trust Genome
Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, UK When: 23 - 29 July
2014
Course organiser: Daniel Weeks (University of Pitts-100 EvolDir May 1, 2014
burgh, USA) Course instructors: Heather Cordell (In-
stitute of Genetic Medicine, Newcastle University, UK)
Janet Sinsheimer (University of California, Los Ange-
les, USA) Eric Sobel (University of California, Los An-
geles, USA) Joe Terwilliger (Columbia University, New
York, USA) Simon Heath (Centre Nacional d'An alisi
Gen omica (CNAG), Barcelona, Spain)
Guest speakers: Cornelia van Duijn (Erasmus Uni-
versity Medical Center, The Netherlands) Dajiang
Liu (Penn State College of Medicine, USA) Dorret
Boomsma (VU University Amsterdam, The Nether-
lands) Eris Moses (The University of Western Aus-
tralia) Philippe Froguel (Imperial College London, UK)
Summary: This advanced course covers statistical
methods currently used to map disease susceptibility
genes, with an emphasis on (but not limited to) meth-
ods that can analyse family data or a combination
of families and individuals. Discussions of the latest
statistical methodology are complemented by practical
hands-on computer exercises using state-of-the-art soft-
ware. The statistical basics behind each method will
be carefully explained so that participants with a non-
statistical background can understand.
We will discuss fundamental issues needed to increase
success in gene mapping studies including: optimal
study design, power to detect linkage and association,
determining the most appropriate statistical methods
and software, interpretation of statistical results and
trouble shooting. We will also cover the basic principles
of statistical inference, hypothesis testing, population
and quantitative genetics and Mendelian inheritance.
Our interactive and intensive educational program will
enable one to better carry out sophisticated statistical
analyses of genetic data, and will also improve one's in-
terpretation and understanding of the results. All the
software used is freely available, so that skills learned
can be easily applied after the course.
Teaching will take the form of lectures by invited speak-
ers, informal tutorials, hands-on computer sessions, and
analysis of disease family data sets. There will also be
an opportunity to discuss participants' own data sets.
Registration fee and bursaries: Registration (including
accommodation and all meals) $890. Limited bursaries
are available covering up to 50% of the registration fee.
Full details: http://www.wellcome.ac.uk/Education-
resources/Courses-and-conferences/Advanced-
Courses-and-Scientic-Conferences/Advanced-
Courses/WTX026851.htm JanetS@mednet.ucla.eduFinland InfectiousDiseases Aug17-24
LAST REMINDER (application deadline 15 April)
Summer school: Dynamics of Infectious Diseases (17-24
August 2014, Finland)
Dear Colleagues,
We are pleased to invite students and young researchers
to the 2014 edition of The Helsinki Summer School on
Mathematical Ecology and Evolution, an EMS-ESMTB
School in Applied Mathematics, which will focus on the
dynamics of infectious diseases. The school will be held
between 17 and 24 August 2014 in Turku, Finland. The
core program consists of ve series of lectures,
Odo Diekmann: Population dynamics of infectious
diseases Frank Ball: Stochastic models of epidemics
Thomas House: Networks and epidemics Michel
Langlais: Spatial dynamics of infectious diseases Troy
Day: Evolution of hosts and pathogens
All young researchers working in mathematical epi-
demiology, ecology or evolution can apply from all coun-
tries, especially from Europe and the Mediterranean.
The school is aimed at graduate students of mathemat-
ics, but we also welcome students of biology with su-
cient background in mathematics, as well as advanced
undergraduates and postdocs.
The deadline for applications is 15 April 2014.
There is no registration fee. For more details and
application, see http://mathstat.helsinki./research/-
biomath/summerschool2014/ . Eva Kisdi, Mats Gyl-
lenberg and Elina Numminen
kisdi@mappi.helsinki.
Ireland PhylogeneticSummerCourse
Aug31-Sep5
Dear EvolDir readers,
We are pleased to announce a week-long, intensive phy-
logenetics course covering all aspects of modern molec-
ular phylogenetics and phylogenomics.
This course starts with the basics of phylogenetic re-May 1, 2014 EvolDir 101
construction and deals with all the major methods and
all kinds of data from genes to genomes. Therefore, it
is particularly suited to researchers that have a keen in-
terest in phylogenetic reconstruction but have little or
no practical experience or theoretical background (ide-
ally suited to new Masters/PhD students/post-docs,
but also investigators moving into this area of research).
We welcome organismal phylogeneticists or genome sci-
entists who are trying to make sense of the evolutionary
history of any kind of gene or genome.
You can nd out more about this course here:
http://bioinf.nuim.ie/phylogenetics-summer-course-
2014/ Please pass this message on to anybody you
feel might be interested.
Kindest regards,
James.
James McInerney PhD DSc, Molecular Evolution &
Bioinformatics Unit, Department of Biology, National
University of Ireland Maynooth, Co. Kildare, Ireland.
website | http://bioinf.nuim.ie/james-mcinerney/
mcinerney.james@gmail.com
Jaca Spain
MarginalPopulationsAdaptation
Jul7-11
The 2014 Training School of Cost Action FP1202 MaP-
FGR will be organized in Jaca (Spain) on 7-11 July
2014, kindly hosted by University of Saragoza.
The topic of this 2014 TS will be "Adaptation and evo-
lution of Marginal-Peripheral populations of forest trees
at the leading, altitudinal and rear edges of species dis-
tribution".
The TS will focus on: Introduction of "popula-
tion", "marginal-peripheral (MaP) population" con-
cepts; Ecological aspects of forest species distributions;
Forest population genetics and the key role of MaP pop-
ulations; Conservation and adaptation of MaP popula-
tions (including adaptation, resilience and phenotypic
plasticity in MaP populations); MaP at leading edges,
Map at rear edges and MaP at altitudinal edges; Scien-
tic methods on adaptive traits and strategies related
to the conservation in situ and ex situ of MaP popula-
tions and related forest genetic resources; Management
of MaP reproductive materials and related legislation
(based on information available in National Reportsprepared by European/Mediterranean partners in the
context of the rst State of the World Forest Genetic
Resources). Presentation of most recent study cases on
adaptation and evolution of MaP FGR at the edges of
species distribution ; Presentation of the trainees own
researches on MaP population and FGR.
Financial support is available for trainees from
COST countries, approved Near Neighbour Institutions
(NNC) and approved European RTD Organisations.
The call for applications and the related Vademecum
are available on the webpage of the Cost Action MaP-
FGR at http://map-fgr.entecra.it/?p05 . Deadline for
application is 16th May 2014.
bruno.fady@avignon.inra.fr
MathVillage Turkey
QuantEvolutionaryBiol Sep14-21
Deadline
****NOTE that the early application deadline is next
week: April 22nd.
*Workshop / Summer school \Quantitative Evolution-
ary Biology { understanding evolution with models and
genomes."
*Time and Place September 14-21, 2014, Mathematics
Village, Sirince, near Izmir (western Turkey).
*Keynote lecturers Aida Andres (MPI for Evolution-
ary Anthropology, Leipzig) Nick Barton (IST-Austria,
Klosterneuburg) Thomas Lenormand (CEFE/CNRS,
Montpellier) Pleuni Pennings (Stanford University,
California)
*Description The workshop is mainly targeted towards
advanced graduate students and early post-docs study-
ing evolutionary theory, evolutionary genetics or evo-
lutionary genomics. However, we also accept a limited
number of more experienced researchers in these elds
that can share their knowledge with the students and
that are open to collaboration with the scientists in the
workshop. The main body of the workshop will con-
sist of keynote lectures (see above), and group projects
developed by students under the supervision of young
scientists. There will also be various short lectures and
seminars during the workshop.
*For more information, visit http://-
qevolution2014.wordpress.com/ *Application dead-
lines Early: April 22, 2014 (recommended as the102 EvolDir May 1, 2014
number of attendees and fellowships are limited) Late:
June 15, 2014
*Other Participating Scientists Melis Akman (UC,
Davis), Tugce Bilgin (UZH, Zurich), Emily Jane Mc-
Tavish (University of Kansas), Tiago Paixao (IST Aus-
tria), Lilia Perfeito (Gulbenkian Inst, Oeiras)
*Organizers Mehmet Somel (METU, Ankara), Hannes
Svardal (GMI, Vienna), Murat Tugrul (IST Austria)
*Co-sponsor: ESEB Global Training Initiative & NES-
Cent
Murat Turul
PhD Student @ Barton Group Evolutionary Genetics,
IST-Austria
{
Murat Tugrul
muratugrul@gmail.com
MDIBL Maine
EnvironmentalGenomics Aug2-9
Next-Generation Summer Course in Environmental Ge-
nomics at the Mount Desert Island Biological Lab
A technical course to guide research into how environ-
mental conditions aect gene responses and the tness
of organisms
Date: August 2 to August 9, 2014. Number of partici-
pants: Restricted to 25.
http://www.mdibl.org/courses/-
Environmental Genomics/399/ The faculty at
MDIBL is pleased to again oer a training course in
Environmental Genomics, aiming to better understand
technologies and approaches used to discover how gene
function is inuenced by environmental conditions
while accounting for variation that exists within and
among natural populations. This course is built on the
paradigm that the research eld will most eectively
grow by properly designing large-scale experiments en-
abled by drastically increased sample-throughput and
lower sequencing costs. Most importantly, the bioin-
formatics challenges of manipulating and analysing
population-level genomics data must be addressed.
This course is designed to train the next-generation of
environmental scientists, which have included in past
years: university professors, postdoctoral researchers,doctoral students and government scientists, represent-
ing institutions from North America and Europe. Most
responded in the departure survey that the course cur-
riculum, choice of technologies, and eectiveness pro-
vided sucient training to either begin or enlarge an
environmental genomics project in their own labora-
tories. All reported that they would recommend this
course to a colleague.
This course trains researchers to design studies, and
to collect and analyse DNA re-sequencing and RNA-
Seq gene expression data. Daphnia is used for training
because of its growing use as a model system for en-
vironmental genomics and for improving environmen-
tal health protection, yet the skills learned during the
course will be applicable to all study systems with ma-
turing genomics resources. Much time is devoted to
guiding the current and future projects of attendees.
Ultimately, participants will be better positioned to
incorporate these technologies into their own research
laboratories, while better understanding how functional
genomics and automation can be applied to ecology,
evolution and environmental toxicology.
Course Faculty include: * John Colbourne (University
of Birmingham & MDIBL) * Joseph Shaw (Indiana
University & MDIBL) * Benjamin King (MDIBL) *
Andrew Whitehead (University of California Davis) *
Gary Churchill (Jackson Laboratory) * Trudy Mackay
(North Carolina State University) * Thomas Hamp-
ton (Dartmouth College) * Luisa Orsini (University of
Birmingham) * John Novembre (University of Chicago)
* Michael Herman (Kansas State University) * Wes
Warren (The Genome Institute, Washington Univer-
sity)
plus many more. Mount Desert Island Biolog-
ical Laboratory Old Bar Harbor Rd., Salisbury
Cove, ME 04672 MDIBL - http://www.mdibl.org
j.k.colbourne@bham.ac.uk
MTRL Florida
MethodsGenomicAnalysis
Jun15-Jul5
Dear colleagues -
After receiving overwhelming interest we are excited to
announce that we will be teaching three workshops on
Methods in Ecological and Evolutionary Genomics at
the Mote Tropical Research Laboratory, Florida Keys.May 1, 2014 EvolDir 103
Metabarcoding of Symbiont Communities June 15 -
June 20
Whole-genome genotyping with 2bRAD June 20 - June
27
Global gene expression proling with tag-based RNA-
Seq June 27 - July 5
To learn more about the specics of each workshop,
please go to our website: http://www.bio.utexas.edu/-
research/matz lab/matzlab/MEGA2014.html Prereq-
uisites The workshops aim at researchers at or above
graduate-level actively working in the eld of evolution
and/or ecology. Practical molecular biology experience,
however limited, will be helpful. People with earlier ex-
perience with metabarcoding, RNA-seq and RAD are
welcome: we use the latest wet-lab methods and analy-
sis protocols developed in the Matz lab, which would be
very useful even for an experienced practitioner. The
students will need to bring your own laptop with in-
stalled R and (for PC users) SSH terminal application.
To enroll By April 30, 2014, send an email
with \MEGA 2014" in the subject line to all
the instructors (Mikhail Matz <matz@utexas.edu >,
Sarah Davies <daviessw@gmail.com >, Rachel Wright
<rachelwright8@gmail.com >), indicating your interest,
and a short description of your research focus (or simply
references to your relevant publications). Please specify
how likely you are to participate, assuming that you will
have to pay the workshop's fee by May 15 (more details
on making payments will be provided here later). Each
part of the workshop is limited to 12 participants, rst
come rst serve (assuming the prerequisites are met).
Please do not hesitate to contact us should you have
any questions. Best regards,
Mikhail V. Matz: matz@utexas.edu Sarah W. Davies:
daviessw@gmail.com Rachel M. Wright: rachel-
wright8@gmail.com
Sarah W. Davies M.Sc. Graduate Student University
of Texas at Austin
daviessw@gmail.com
MTRL Florida
MethodsGenomicAnalysis
Jun15-Jul5 2
We are very excited to oer the Methods in Eco-
logical Genomics Workshops this summer in theFlorida Keys. Unfortunately, for some reason we
don't seem to be receiving nearly as many applica-
tions in response to the ocial workshop announce-
ment (http://www.bio.utexas.edu/research/matz lab/-
matzlab/MEGA2014.html) as the community interest
expressed in our earlier surveys have suggested. If you
plan on attending any of our workshops but are waiting
on nancial approval, please still email us to avoid the
cancelation of these workshops.
To express interest please send an email with
\MEGA 2014" in the subject line to all the in-
structors (Mikhail Matz <matz@utexas.edu >, Sarah
Davies <daviessw@gmail.com >, Rachel Wright
<rachelwright8@gmail.com >) with just a few words
about yourself:
1. Are you a graduate student, postdoc, or faculty?
2. Where?
3. What is you research area?
Hope to see you in Florida!
Sarah W. Davies, Ph.D.
University of Texas at Austin
daviessw@gmail.com
MTRL Florida
MethodsGenomicAnalysis
Jun15-Jul5 Deadline
Hello colleagues,
We just wanted to remind you that the deadline for
signing up for our Methods in Ecological Genomic Anal-
ysis (MEGA) workshops is fast approaching!
http://www.bio.utexas.edu/research/matz lab/-
matzlab/MEGA2014.html Metabarcoding of Symbiont
Communities June15 - June 20
Whole-genome genotyping with 2bRAD -very few spots
left! June 20 - June 27
Global gene expression proling with tag-based RNA-
Seq - very few spots left! June 27 - July 5
By April 30, 2014, please send an email with
'MEGA 2014' in the subject line to all the instruc-
tors (Mikhail Matz <matz@utexas.edu >, Sarah
Davies <daviessw@gmail.com >, Rachel Wright
<rachelwright8@gmail.com >), indicating your inter-
est, and a short description of your research focus (or104 EvolDir May 1, 2014
simply references to your relevant publications). Please
specify how likely you are to participate, assuming that
you will have to pay the workshop's fee by May 15.
Each part of the workshop is limited to 12 participants,
rst come rst serve (assuming the prerequisites are
met).
As always please email if you have any questions! We
hope to see you in Florida this summer! Cheers Misha,
Rachel and Sarah
Sarah W. Davies Ph.D. University of Texas at Austin
daviessw@gmail.com
Online GMOD Training May19-23
http://gmod.org/wiki/GMOD Online Training 2014
The Generic Model Organism Database (GMOD;
http://gmod.org) project is oering an online training
course for those interested in learning how to use and
deploy GMOD's free, open-source bioinformatics soft-
ware. The GMOD project provides interoperable tools
for visualising, storing, and disseminating genetic and
genomic data.
The course will be held from 19th-23rd May 2014, with
online tuition and interaction with tutors occurring be-
tween (approximately) 9am and 5pm US Eastern time.
Components covered in the online training include:
-Chado database schema -Galaxy analysis pipeline -
GBrowse genome browser -JBrowse genome browser -
MAKER genome annotation pipeline -Tripal website
generator and database interface -WebApollo manual
gene annotation software
By the end of the course, participants will have hands-
on experience of setting up and using core components
needed for a modern genomics project.
More information and application form: http://-
gmod.org/wiki/GMOD Online Training 2014 Please
feel free to email help@gmod.org if you have any ques-
tions.
{ Amelia Ireland GMOD Community Support Generic
Model Organism Database project http://gmod.org jj
@gmodproject
amelia.ireland@gmod.orgOxford BiolSeqAnalysis Jul16-19
BIOLOGICAL SEQUENCE ANALYSIS AND PROB-
ABILISTIC MODELS Workshop
* 16-19 July, 2014 * Venue: Merton College, Oxford *
Registration and Abstract deadline: 19 May * Regis-
tration includes lodging and meals * Website for more
information: alturl.com/sz33u
The elds of genetics and evolutionary biology are cur-
rently developing at a huge pace. As a result our un-
derlying theoretical understanding, our models of ge-
netics and evolution, as well as their associated infer-
ential methods are all undergoing rapid development,
underlining the interest for a meeting dedicated to this
topic.
The focus of the meeting will be methods and inference
in population genetics, phylogenetics and functional ge-
nomics. This meeting brings together leaders from sev-
eral areas of biological sequence analysis, with an em-
phasis on advancing the underlying theoretical models
that many problems share. Topics will include evolu-
tion of pathogens; disease epidemiology; the population
genetics of cancer; and phylogenetic and population ge-
netic models for studying sequence evolution.
The conference will be held in Merton College, Oxford,
UK, one of the city's oldest colleges. The registration
fee of ^A$385 includes on-site housing and meals.
For more information and signing up, go to the follow-
ing website: alturl.com/sz33u
We will be able to host up to ~90 participants. All
participants are expected to contribute actively by pre-
senting a talk or a poster. Additional speakers will be
selected based on submitted abstracts. To promote sci-
entic collaboration, we will distribute an abstract book
that will include contact information for all attendees.
Organisers: Adam Siepel Anders Krogh Gerton Lunter
Gil McVean Molly Przeworski Richard Durbin Thomas
Mailund
Conrmed speakers: Aleksandra Walczak Alexei
Drummond Amy Williams Asger Hobolth Barbara En-
glehardt Carolin Kosiol Dan Guseld Daniel Wegmann
David Balding Heng Li Ida Moltke Ines Hellmann Joe
Pickrell Jonathan Marchini Kay Pr ufer Kelley Harris
Lior Pachter Peter Ralph Sharon Browning Simon My-
ers Yun Song Zam Iqbal Benedict Paten Jouni Sir enMay 1, 2014 EvolDir 105
Guy Sella Philipp Messer Johannes Soeding
Adam Charles Siepel <acs4@cornell.edu >
Rosco France MarineGenomics
May25-Jun7
SUMMER COURSE ON MARINE GENOMICS
AT THE MARINE BIOLOGICAL STATION OF
ROSCOFF (F)
Second announcement
>From May 25th - June 7th, 2014 the 10th Summer
Course on Marine Evolutionary & Ecological Genomics
will take place at the Station Biologique de Rosco,
Rosco, France.
Aims: The two week course, which consists of lectures,
tutorials and computer labs, aims to highlight the cru-
cial role of marine genomics for the understanding of
the marine environment and for an ecient use of its
resources. It takes place at the Biological Station, a vi-
brant research community of 273 scientists and support
personnel, located in the old town and shing port of
Rosco, Brittany, France. Advanced PhD students and
junior postdocs are encouraged to apply.
The course includes lectures, tutorials and computer
based exercises on the following topics. * Genomics -
next generation sequencing, database searching, basic
skills in data handling and bioinformatics * Popula-
tion genomics - diversity, structure, connectivity and
gene ow, assignment, eective population size, pop-
ulation dynamics, adaptive variation * Environmental
genomics - environment - genome interactions, ecoge-
nomics, metagenomics and metagenetics * Functional
genomics - genome structure, molecular evolution at
the functional level, genomic architecture, functional
networks * Comparative genomics - whole genome com-
parisons, concatenated phylogenies, genome organiza-
tion, annotating genomic information, co-evolution
The course covers all aspects of life in the ocean.
Target group PhD students (at least in their second
year) and junior postdocs with a solid knowledge in
phylogenetics and/or population genetics. 18 partici-
pants will be selected on the following criteria: 1. Rel-
evance of the course for their PhD or post-doc project
2. Background and experience 3. We aim at training
people with dierent research backgrounds; not more
than one person per institute will be considered. Weimplement a gender policy.
The selected persons will be notied by mid April and
will have to conrm attendance within 7 days. There
is a waiting list in case of non-conrmations and can-
cellations.
Teaching sta : Jonas Coll en, SB-Rosco, FR Si-
mon Creer, U Bangor, UK Yves Desdevises, UPMC,
Banuyls, FR Jakob Hemmer-Hansen, DTU-Aqua, DK
Erica Leder, U Turku, Fi Fr ed eric Partensky, SB-
Rosco, FR Daniel Vaulot, SB-Rosco, FR Filip Volck-
aert, KULeuven, BE Mathias Wegner, GEOMAR, Kiel
and AWI-Sylt, GE
Organizing committee Jonas Coll en, SB-Rosco, FR
Damien Guiant, SB-Rosco, FR Matthias Obst, Univ.
Gothenburg, SW Jeanine Olsen, Univ Groningen, NL
Filip Volckaert, KU Leuven, BE
For information and application please check http://-
meeg2014.sciencesconf.org . The application deadline
is April 8 2014.
Filip Volckaert <Filip.Volckaert@bio.kuleuven.be >
SWRS Arizona
LepidopteraEvolution Aug14-23
Announcing the sixth annual Lep course, 14- 23 Au-
gust, 2014.
Held at the South West Research Station (SWRS) in
the Chirichahua Mountains in SE Arizona (a 2 1/2 hour
drive from Tucson), the focus of the Lep course is to
train graduate students, post-docs, faculty, and seri-
ous citizen-scientists in the classication and identi-
cation of adult lepidoptera and their larvae. Topics to
be covered include an extensive introduction into adult
and larval morphology with a focus on taxonomically-
important traits, extensive eld work on both adults
and larvae, collecting and curatoral techniques, gen-
italic dissection and preparation, larval classication,
use (and abuse) of DNA bar coding, and general issues
in lepidoptera systematics, ecology, and evolution.
THE LOCATION: With its extensive series of Sky-
Island mountain ranges, SE Arizona has the highest
lepidoptera diversity in the US. With low desert scrub,
oak and mixed oak-pine woodland, lush riparian, ju-
niper, Douglas r, and mountain meadow habitats all
within a 40 minute drive from the station, the SWRS
is an ideal location from which to sample this diversity106 EvolDir May 1, 2014
(of both habitats and species).
Partial list of Invited instructors (subject to change):
John Brown (Smithsonian), Rich Brown (Mississippi
Entomological Museum), Marc Epstein (CDFA), Chris
Grinter (Denver Museum of Nature & Science), Bruce
Walsh (University of Arizona), Dave Wagner (Univer-
sity of Connecticut ) and Ray Nagle (University of Ari-
zona).
Fees: Tuition for the course is $1070 for students and
$1170 for non-students to be paid by all participants
on being informed of their acceptance. Tuition covers
overhead costs of the workshop and room and board at
the SWRS. Deadline for applications is 14 June 2014.
For more information, see http://-
research.amnh.org/swrs/education/lepidoptera-course
or www.lepcourse.org or contact Bruce Walsh at
jbwalsh@u.arizona.edu You can also see photos and
comments from students in previous courses at their
facebook site, \2011 Lep Course, SWRS SEAZ".
jbwalsh@email.arizona.edu
UFribourg Switzerland
GenomicsSpeciationContinuum
Sep4-5
Dear colleagues,
I am pleased to inform you that registration for our
2014 'Fribourg Ecology & Evolution days' workshop is
now open. The event will take place on 4-5 Septem-
ber 2014 at University of Fribourg, Switzerland. The
theme of this year's workshop is 'GENOMICS OF THE
SPECIATION CONTINUUM'.
Invited Speakers: NICOLAS BIERNE, CNRS Mont-
pellier (FR) ALEX BUERKLE, University of Wyoming
(USA) MIKKEL SCHIERUP, Aarhus University (DK)
OLE SEEHAUSEN, EAWAG (CH) TANJA SLOTTE,
Uppsala University (SE) JOHN WIENS, University of
Arizona (USA)
Organizers: CHRISTIAN LEXER, University of Fri-
bourg (CH) DANIEL WEGMANN, University of Fri-
bourg (CH) HEINZ MUELLER-SCHAERER, Univer-
sity of Fribourg (CH) ALEX WIDMER, Swiss Federal
Institute of Technology (ETH), Zurich (CH)
Our yearly Fribourg Ecology & Evolution workshops
gather lively small crowds of PhD students and re-
searchers around our invited speakers. Previous edi-tions of this workshop series have triggered stimulating
discussions on topics of mutual interest in an informal
setting, and we look forward to continuing this tradi-
tion with this year's event. For more information about
the workshop and venue, please visit:
http://www.unifr.ch/biol/ecology/CUSO/-
EEday2014/index.html Abstract submission is
now open and closes 1 July. Registration is now open
and closes 1 August.
Christian Lexer Professor of Evolutionary Biology Uni-
versity of Fribourg, Department of Biology Unit of
Ecology & Evolution Chemin du Mus ee 10, CH-1700
Fribourg, Switzerland Tel (oce) +41 (0)26 300 8868
Tel (lab): +41 (0)26 300 8895 Fax: +41 (0)26 300
9698 Mobile: +41 (0)77 472 0789 Email: chris-
tian.lexer@unifr.ch Web: http://www.unifr.ch/biol/-
ecology/lexer/index.html christian.lexer@unifr.ch
UlosAndesBogota Phylogenetics
Jul8-11
This is just a reminder that applications for our Univer-
sidad de los Andes, Bogot a course on phylogenetic com-
parative methods in R are due in one week on Thurs-
day May 1, 2014. The course is free to attend, and we
expect that the majority of admitted students coming
from outside Bogot a will be oered support for travel
& accommodation. More information can be found in
the original English & Spanish advertisements, below:
|{
Intensive short course on phylogenetic comparative
methods in R (Spanish description below)
We are pleased to announce a new graduate-level in-
tensive short course on the use of R for phylogenetic
comparative analysis. The course will be four days in
length and will take place at the Universidad de los An-
des, Bogot a, Colombia from the 8th to the 11th of July,
2014. This course is partially funded by the National
Science Foundation, with additional support from the
University of Massachusetts Boston and the Universi-
dad de los Andes. There are a number of full stipends
available to cover the cost of travel, room and board for
qualied students and post-docs. Applicants are wel-
come from any country; however we expect that most
admitted students will come from Colombia and the
Andean region. Accepted students from further aeld
may be oered only partial funding for their travel ex-May 1, 2014 EvolDir 107
penses. Topics covered will include: an introduction
to the R programming language, tree manipulation, in-
dependent contrasts and phylogenetic generalized least
squares, ancestral state reconstruction, models of char-
acter evolution, diversication analysis, and community
phylogenetic analysis. Course instructors will include
Dr. Liam Revell (University of Massachusetts Boston),
Dr. Luke Harmon (University of Idaho), and Dr. An-
drew J. Crawford (Universidad de los Andes).
Instruction in the course will be primarily in English;
however some of the instructors and TAs of the course
are competent or uent in Spanish and English. Dis-
cussion, exercises, and activities will be conducted in
both languages.
To apply for the course, please submit your CV along
with a short (maximum 1 page) description of your
research interests, background, and reasons for tak-
ing the course. Admission is competitive, and pref-
erence will go towards students with background in
phylogenetics and a compelling motivation for taking
the course. Applications should be submitted by email
to bogota.phylogenetics.course@gmail.com by May 1st,
2014. Applications may be written in English or Span-
ish; however all students must have a basic working
knowledge of scientic English. Questions can be di-
rected to liam.revell@umb.edu.
|{
Curso posgrado de m etodos comparativos logen eticos
en R
Nos complace anunciar un nuevo curso corto e inten-
sivo a nivel de posgrado sobre el uso de R en investiga-
ciones cient cas que usan m etodos comparativos lo-
gen eticos. El curso tendr a una duraci on de cuatro d as
y se llevar a a cabo en la Universidad de los Andes (Bo-
got a, Colombia) entre el 8 y el 11 de julio de 2014. Este
curso est a parcialmente nanciado por la National Sci-ence Foundation de los Estados Unidos, con el apoyo
adicional de la Universidad de Massachusetts Boston
y la Universidad de los Andes. Hay varios estipen-
dios completos disponibles para cubrir los costos de ti-
quetes y alojamiento para estudiantes e investigadores
postdoctorales calicados. Estudiantes de cualquier
pa s ser an aceptados; sin embargo anticipamos que la
mayor a de los estudiantes aceptados ser an de Colom-
bia y otros pa ses andinos. Estudiantes provenientes
de pa ses m as alejados tendr an la posibilidad de recibir
solo apoyo parcial para costear los gastos del viaje. Los
temas que ser an discutidos en el curso incluyen: una
introducci on al idioma de programaci on de R, manip-
ulaci on de los  arboles logen eticos, m nimos cuadrados
generalizados en un contexto logen etico, reconstruc-
ciones de los estados ancestrales, modelos de evoluci on,
an alisis de la diversicaci on en el contexto de una loge-
nia, y an alisis logen eticos de comunidades ecol ogicas.
Los instructores del curso ser an: Dr. Liam Revell (Uni-
versity of Massachusetts Boston), Dr. Luke Harmon
(University of Idaho), y Dr. Andrew J. Crawford (Uni-
versidad de los Andes).
El curso ser a dictado principalmente en ingl es; sin em-
bargo algunos de los instructores y TA del curso hablan
uido el espa~ nol. Las discusiones, los ejercicios, y las
actividades del curso se har an en espa~ nol e ingl es.
Para aplicar al curso, deben enviar una copia de su CV
con una corta (1 p agina) descripci on de sus intereses
cient cos, experiencia, y razones por las cuales quieren
tomar el curso. El proceso de admisi on ser a competido,
y se preferir an estudiantes con conocimientos en lo-
gen etica
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only108 EvolDir May 1, 2014
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.