E v o l D i r
November 1, 2006
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Forward
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same ﬁeld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be “bulletin board” in nature, if there is a “discussion” style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Forward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
Afterward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 932 EvolDir November 1, 2006
Conferences
Ascona Switzerland PlantInvasives FEb25-Mar2 . . . . 2
Bangkok MEEGID Nov30-Dec3 CallForProposals . . . 3
Bangkok MEEGID Nov30-Dec3 Debates . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Bayreuth Germany PhDEvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Davos Switzerland Biodiversity Nov23-24 . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Hamamatsu Japan MathBiol Mar14-17 CallforPapers
5
Honolulu IEEE EvolutionarySystems Apr1-5 . . . . . . . 5
Honolulu IEEE EvolutionarySystems Apr1-5 2 . . . . . 6
Innsbruck EvolImmunity Apr22-27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
IrvineCA EvolAdaptation Dec1-2 EarlyRegistra-
tionDeadline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
IrvineCA InTheLightOfEvol Dec1-2 EarlyRegistra-
tionDeadline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
KansasCity EcoGenomics Nov3-5 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Manchester EvolBiol Mar29-30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9Manchester PopGenet Jan9-12 Registration . . . . . . . . . 9
RoyalSocietyLondon ComparativeGenomics Nov10 2
10
SanteFe EncouragingEvolBiol Oct3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Seattle EvolSalmon Dec7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Switzerland FungalSymbiontEvol Apr29-May4 . . . . . 12
Toronto CSEE SCEE May17-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
UCLosAngeles IntlSummitEvolChange Feb8-10 3 . . 13
UMassAmherst NEMEB2006 Nov4 Deadline . . . . . . 13
UMichigan YoungSci Mar10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
UPorto Portugal EvolBiol Dec21 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
VenturaBeachCA QuantGenetGenomics Feb18-23 . 14
Wageningen AdaptiveBehaviour Nov3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
YaleU BayesianInvasion Oct28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
ZhejiangU China QuantGenetics Aug18-24 . . . . . . . . 16
Ascona Switzerland PlantInvasives
FEb25-Mar2
INTERNATIONAL WORKSHOP
Colonization versus invasion: do the same traits mat-
ter? Towards a joint perspective in research on range
expansion of native and biological invasion of non-
indigenous plants
February 25 to March 2, 2007, Monte Verita, Ascona,
Switzerland. (Monday morning to Thursday evening;
arrival on Sunday, departure on Friday)
FOCUS The aim of this conference is to work at the
interface of native-species range expansion and non-
indigenous species invasion. We would like to bring to-
gether scientists from these diﬀerent, but closely linked
ecological ﬁelds to kick-oﬀ an intensiﬁed research eﬀort
on possible climate warming eﬀects on ecosystems and
on mechanisms leading to biological invasion of non-
indigenous species. Until now, research groups work-
ing on biological invasion, on the impact of biodiver-
sity on invasion resistance and on range-shifts of nativespecies due to climate-mediated habitat change have
not worked closely together even though the three ar-
eas of research are closely linked. Collaboration in these
research areas could result in a deeper understanding
of traits that enable both, native and invasive species
to expand their ranges under novel environmental con-
ditions.
The scientiﬁc program will consist of keynote lectures
by 12 invited speakers, contributed oral and poster pre-
sentations and discussion groups. Those contributing
talks or posters are encouraged to present results or
ideas from on-going research. Participants are expected
to attend the entire workshop and their number is lim-
ited to 73.
INVITED SPEAKERS D. Blumenthal, USDA-ARS,
Fort Collins, Colorado (USA) M.A. Davis, Macalester
College, St. Paul (USA) P. Edwards, Institute of Inte-
grative Biology, ETH Zurich (CH) P.M. Kotanen, Dept.
of Botany, University of Toronto (CDN) H. Mueller-
Schaerer, Dept. of Biology, University of Fribourg
(CH) R. Petit, UMR Biodiversity Genes & Ecosys-
tems, INRA, Cestas (F) P. Pysek, Institute of Botany,
Pruhonice (CZ) B. Schmid, Institute of Environmental
Sciences, University of Zurich (CH) W. Thuiller, Lab-
oratoire d’Ecologie Alpine, Grenoble (F) W. van derNovember 1, 2006 EvolDir 3
Putten, NIOO-KNAW, Centre for Terrestrial Ecology,
Heteren (NL) M. Vila, Estaci´ on Biol´ ogica de Do˜ nana
(EBD-CSIC), Sevilla (E) G.-R. Walther, Institute for
Geobotany, University of Hannover (D)
Detailed information and registration: http://-
www.unizh.ch/uwinst/Ascona Registration deadline:
November 6, 2006.
Organisers: Bernhard Schmid, Jasmin Joshi (Univer-
sity of Zurich, Switzerland), Regula Billeter and Peter
Edwards (ETH Zurich) and Dana Blumenthal (USDA-
ARS Rangeland Resources Research Unit, Fort Collins,
USA)
–
Dr. Jasmin Joshi Institute of Environmental Sci-
ences University of Zurich Winterthurerstrasse 190 CH-
8057 Zuerich Switzerland Tel. ++41 (0)1 635 6128
Fax ++41 (0)1 635 5711 e-mail joshi@uwinst.unizh.ch
http://www.unizh.ch/uwinst/ Please note the forth-
coming international workshop on:
“Colonization versus invasion: do the same traits mat-
ter? ” http://www.unizh.ch/uwinst/Ascona/ Monte
Verit` a, Ascona, Switzerland February 25 to March 2,
2007
Bangkok MEEGID Nov30-Dec3
CallForProposals
MEEGID VIII Bangkok, Thailand. 30th November-
2nd December 2006
Call for conferences/symposia proposals and papers.
Still open to proposals!
The 8th International Meeting “Molecular Epidemi-
ology and Evolutionary Genetics of Infectious Dis-
eases” (MEEGID VIII) will be held in Bangkok, Thai-
land, 30th November morning-2nd December evening
2006. As for the 7 ﬁrst MEEGID meetings, it will be
co-organized by the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC; http://www.cdc.gov/ ) in Atlanta
and the Institut de Recherche pour le D´ eveloppement
(IRD; http://www.ird.fr/ ) in France. Mahidol Uni-
versity ( http://www.mahidol.ac.th/ ) will be an oﬀﬁ-
cial co-organizer of the meeting, which will be sup-
ported also by the French Embassy in Bangkok ( http:/-
/www.ambafrance-th.org/ ).
The MEEGID meetings are organized in synergy
with the new journal Infection, Genetics and Evolu-tion (Elsevier; http://www.elsevier.com/locate/meegid
), which scientiﬁc topic is identical to that of the
MEEGID. Launched only 5 years ago, Infection, Ge-
netics and Evolution is now published with 6 issues per
year, and is covered by Medline and Index Medicus,
starting from the 1st issue. It has been quoted 3.5/5.0
(“very good”) by the US National Library of Medicine.
It is now covered by ISI and an oﬃcial impact factor
will be available soon. IF evaluated by Elsevier from
the SCOPUS database is 3.195.
Communications on genetics, genomics, proteomics,
population biology, mathematical modelling, bioinfor-
matics are welcome. They can deal with the host, the
pathogen, or the vector in case of vector-borne diseases.
Papers considering host + pathogen or pathogen +
vector (co-evolution) are particularly encouraged. All
pathogens are within the scope of MEEGID: viruses,
parasitic protozoa, helminths, fungal organisms, prion.
All infectious models can be considered, including those
of veterinary or agronomical relevance.
The papers communicated for MEEGID VIII will be
published in a special issue of Infection, Genetics and
Evolution, as already done for MEEGID VI (Paris, July
2002). MEEGID VIII will include 12 plenary lectures,
12 specialized symposia, 9 “express-debates” (20 mn
presentation by only one speaker followed by 40 mn
free discussion) and several poster sessions.
Special emphasis through plenary lectures and sym-
posia will be given to health problems of particular
interest to Thailand and South-East Asia: avian ﬂu,
SARS, malaria, dengue, tuberculosis. Plenary lectures
and symposia will also deal with trasnversal topics
such as population genetics or species concepts. The
congress is still open to proposals of conferences and
symposia, since some slots are still available.
Scientiﬁc committee of MEEGID VIII :
Prof. Amaret Bhumiratana, Dean of Faculty of Sci-
ence Mahidol University; Dr. Sansanee Chaiyaroj,
Deputy Dean for Research, Faculty of Sciences, Mahi-
dol University; Dr. Pattamaporn Kittayapong, CVVD
and Dept. of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, Mahi-
dol University; Dr Philippe Barbazan, RD/ Mahidol
University Collaborative programme on emerging dis-
eases Dr Jean-Paul Gonzalez, IRD/ Mahidol Univer-
sity Collaborative programme on emerging diseases; Dr
Jean-Pierre Hugot, National History Museum, Paris,
France Dr Janet McNichols, Thailand MOPH -US
CDC Collaboration Dr Leonard Peruski , Thailand
MOPH -US CDC Collaboration Dr Stuart Blacksell,
Wellcome Trust-Mahidol University-Oxford Tropical
Medicine Research Unit Dr. Robert Gibbons, Armed
Forces Research Institute of Medical Science (AFRIMS)4 EvolDir November 1, 2006
Dr Marc Lallemant, PHPT, IRD HIV programme in
Chiang Mai Dr Brett Crawley, Biomerieux Company
Thailand Dr Jean-Pierre Dujardin, IRD/ Mahidol Uni-
versity/Genetics and Evolution of Infectious Diseases
Dr Michel Tibayrenc, IRD representative in Thailand,
editor-in-chief Infection, Genetics and Evolution
The following topics for symposia and/or plenary lec-
tures have been already selected
Aedes aegypti: genomics, population biology, epidemi-
ological role Avian ﬂu Anthropozoonoses Contribution
of private industry to infectious disease control Cy-
tokine genetics Host-pathogen interactions HIV Human
genetics/genomics and transmission of infectious dis-
eases Human immune response gene polymorphism ver-
sus HIV-1 and dengue virus diversity in SE Asians Inte-
grative models for the dynamics of antigenically-diverse
pathogens. Malaria Modern approaches to medical en-
tomology : morphometry and population genetics My-
cobacterium tuberculosis epidemiology, molecular typ-
ing and evolution Pharmacogenomics Phylogeography
Population genetics of pathogens Trypanosomatidae
evolution and pathogenic role in humans and animals
Vectors: Population structure and Genetic structure
Keynote speakers include :
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Bangkok MEEGID Nov30-Dec3
Debates
The MEEGID VIII congress in Bangkok and Infection,
Genetics and Evolution ( http://www.elsevier.com/-
locate/meegid ) will be the priviledged tribune for de-
bates of high topicality:
Human evolution: has it been shaped chieﬂy by trans-
missible diseases?
Molecular typing of pathogens: what is it good for?
Does Intelligent Design challenge neodarwinism? Is it
challenged by transmissible diseases?
Is a uniﬁed species concept for pathogens possible?
Is an integrated approach host/pathogen/vector feasi-
ble?Large-scale copy number variation: a major actor in
genetic susceptibility to infectious diseases?
The Asean CDC: a ﬁrst step toward the World CDC
belt?
More information at http://www.th.ird.fr/events/-
2006/meegid.htm (constantly updated).
Michel Tibayrenc, MD, PhD Editor -in-chief In-
fection, Genetics and Evolution (Elsevier) http://-
www.elsevier.com/locate/meegid Impact factor evalu-
ated by Elsevier: 3.195 IRD representative in Thailand
IRD Representative Oﬃce French Embassy 29, Thanon
Sathorn Tai, Bangkok 10120, Thailand Tel : + (66 2)
627 2190 Fax : + (66 2) 627 2194 Cel: + (66 1) 82 64 056
E-mail : (direct): Michel.Tibayrenc@ird.fr (secretary)
irdth@ksc.th.com Website : http://www.th.ird.fr
tibayren <Michel.Tibayrenc@ird.fr >
Bayreuth Germany PhDEvolBiol
Invitation to the
Graduate Meeting of the Evolutionary Biologists of the
German Zoological Society
February 2007 in Bayreuth, Germany
The 12th meeting of the study group Evolutionary
Biology will take place on February, 23-25, 2007 at
Bayreuth University, Germany. We expect about 80
scientists covering all ﬁelds of evolutionary biology. The
main topic of the meeting will be life-history evolution,
though contributions from all other ﬁelds of evolution-
ary biology are welcome. Conﬁrmed keynote speak-
ers include Prof. Sauer (Bonn), Prof. Blanckenhorn
(Z¨ urich) and Dr. Sommer (Berlin).
For more information visit http://www.uni-
bayreuth.de/departments/toek1/dzgtagung/-
index e.htm . Deadline for registration is December,
15th, 2006.
PD Dr. Klaus Fischer Department of Animal Ecology
I University of Bayreuth D-95440 Bayreuth, Germany
Phone: + 49-921-552649 Fax: + 49-921-552784 E-mail:
Klaus.Fischer@uni-bayreuth.de
PhD meeting EvoBio in Bayreuth! http://www.uni-
bayreuth.de/departments/toek1/dzgtagung/
Klaus.Fischer@uni-bayreuth.deNovember 1, 2006 EvolDir 5
Davos Switzerland Biodiversity
Nov23-24
Conference “Biodiversity Conservation - From Genes to
Habitats” Davos (Switzerland), November 23/24, 2006
Visit the website for information and registration:
http://www.wsl.ch/intrabiodiv Felix Gugerli, PhD Bi-
ologist / Group leader Swiss Federal Research Institute
WSL Research Unit Ecological Genetics & Evolution
Zuercherstrasse 111 CH-8903 Birmensdorf
SWITZERLAND
phone: +41-(0)44-739-2590 fax: +41-(0)44-739-
2215 http://www.wsl.ch/staﬀ/felix.gugerli/ fe-
lix.gugerli@wsl.ch
Hamamatsu Japan MathBiol
Mar14-17 CallforPapers
dear evoldir members,
i would like to announce the following call for papers
for biomath conference:
The 2nd International Symposium “Dynamical Sys-
tems Theory and Its Applications to Biology and En-
vironmental Sciences” Hamamatsu Japan, March 14th-
17th, 2007. http://moon.sys.eng.shizuoka.ac.jp/ ˜ dst-
sympo2nd/ Deadline for call for papers is 16 October,
2006 (one week).
The symposium broadly focusses on any dynamical as-
pect of math biology. Many presentations are reviewed
as a special issue/articles of several scientiﬁc jounrals,
as before. We would appreciate it if you consider to
present a paper/poster at the conference.
Sympsium objectives and other information is in the
postscript.
best regards, jin
Jin Yoshimura Deoartment of Systems Engineer-
ing, Shizuoka University 3-5-1 Johoku, Hamamatsu,
Shizuoka, 432-8561, JAPAN. tel: +81-53-478-1215
email:jin@sys.eng.shizuoka.ac.jpP.S. Symposium Objectives
Dynamical system theory in mathematical biology and
envionmental science has been attracted much atten-
tion from many scientiﬁc ﬁelds as well as mathematics.
Mathematicians should establish a mathematical basis
on the various problems appeared in dynamical sys-
tems of biology and feed back their work to biology and
environmental sciences. Biologists and environmental
scientists should clarify/build the model systems that
are important in the global biological and environmen-
tal problems of their own. The purpose of “The In-
ternational Symposium on Dynamical Systems Theory
and Its Applications to Biology and Environmental Sci-
ences” is to discuss many interests on the rich proper-
ties of dynamical systems appeared in biology and envi-
ronmental sciences. The symposium constitutes of the
lectures by about 20 eminent mathematical biologists
and contributed oral or poster sessions. Asian contrib-
utors are especially welcome to the symposium. http:/-
/moon.sys.eng.shizuoka.ac.jp/˜dst-sympo2nd/ Collec-
tions of papers based on the presentations may appear
as special issues of international journals. We already
have agreements with Journal of Biological Dynamics.
Correspondence takeuchi@sys.eng.shizuoka.ac.jp Ya-
suhiro Takeuchi, Faculty of Engineering, Shizuoka
University 3-5-1 Johoku, Hamamatsu, Shizuoka,
432-8561, JAPAN. tel: +81-53-478-1200 http://-
moon.sys.eng.shizuoka.ac.jp/˜dst-sympo2nd/ ——
—- Jin Yoshimura jin@sys.eng.shizuoka.ac.jp
jin@sys.eng.shizuoka.ac.jp
Honolulu IEEE
EvolutionarySystems Apr1-5
Dear Colleagues,
The IEEE Artiﬁcial Life Symposium will include stud-
ies of evolutionary systems and aspects of evolution in
the setting of “life-as-it-could-be” in natural and arti-
ﬁcial systems (on earth and elsewhre), not only life-as-
we-know-it (on plantet earth).
We’d also like to announce that there will be an Award
for Best Student Paper. Please forward the announce-
ment below to interested colleagues and students.
Best Regards,
Chrystopher Nehaniv6 EvolDir November 1, 2006
IEEE Symposium Series on Computational Intelligence
2007 http://www.ieee-ssci.org/ IEEE-ALife’07
The First IEEE Symposium on Artiﬁcial Life http:/-
/www.itee.adfa.edu.au/ ˜ alar/ieeealife07/ April 1-5,
2007
Honolulu, Hawaii, USA
Best Student Paper
This symposium will be oﬀering a best student paper
award. To qualify, the paper must be submitted under
the student category.
Call for Papers
The IEEE-Alife’07 brings together researchers working
on the emerging areas of Artiﬁcial Life and Complex
Adaptive Systems. In particular, the conference focuses
on Artiﬁcial life in silico including artiﬁcial chemistry,
multi-agent systems, and robotics; ant colony systems;
biological and evolutionary systems; evolutionary art,
immune systems; neuro- biology and neuro-computing;
network theory; swarm intelligence; and other topics.
PAPER SUBMISSION
Authors are invited to submit previously unpublished
work to IEEE-ALife’07. All papers will be subject to a
peer review process. Accepted papers will be published
in the conference proceedings and the attendance of at
least one author of an accepted paper at the conference
is a condition for publications. The maximum number
of pages is 8. Only PDF ﬁles are acceptable.
We invite high quality technical papers on substantial,
original, and unpublished research on all aspects of
Artiﬁcial Life and Complex Adaptive Systems. Sub-
mission and formatting information are at http://-
www.itee.adfa.edu.au/ ˜ alar/ieeealife07/ps.htm IM-
PORTANT DATES Submission of papers : 31 Octo-
ber 2006 Decisions sent to authors: 30 November 2006
Camera ready format : 15 January 2007 Conference
date : 1-5 April 2007
ORGANIZATION Conference Co-Chairs Hussein Ab-
bass (UNSW, Australia, abbass@itee.adfa.edu.au)
Mark Bedau (Reed, USA, mab@reed.edu) Stefano
Nolﬁ (CNR, Italy, stefano.nolﬁ@istc.cnr.it) Janet
Wiles (UQ, Australia, j.wiles@itee.uq.edu.au) Pub-
licity chair Chrystopher Nehaniv (U Herts, UK,
C.L.Nehaniv@herts.ac.uk) Web Masters Lam Thu Bui
(UNSW@ADFA, l.bui@student.adfa.edu.au) Kamran
Shaﬁ (UNSW@ADFA, k.shaﬁ@student.adfa.edu.au)
TOPICS OF INTEREST (non-exhaustive list): Adap-
tive robotics Artiﬁcial Chemistry Artiﬁcial societies
and markets Ant colony optimization Applications
of ALife technologies Bioinformatics Biological agentsCellular automata Coevolution of morphology and
mind Collaborative behaviour Complex systems Com-
plexity Coordination Embodied cognition Emergence
Ethics of artiﬁcial life Evolutionary and adaptive dy-
namics Evolutionary computation Fitness landscapes
Games Hierarchical dynamics Marriage in Honey-Bees
optimization Modularity Multi-agent systems Network
theory Neural networks and connectionism Neurobiol-
ogy Origin of life Philosophy of artiﬁcial life Percolation
Robotics Self-organization Self-replication Simulation
and synthesis tools and methodologies Social networks
Swarm Intelligence Visualization Wet Alife
IEEE ALIFE 2007 Webpages: http://-
www.itee.adfa.edu.au/ ˜ alar/ieeealife07 Prof. Dr.
Chrystopher L. Nehaniv Research Professor of
Mathematical & Evolutionary Computer Sciences
Adaptive Systems, Algorithms, & BioComputa-
tion Research Groups School of Computer Science
University of Hertfordshire College Lane Hatﬁeld,
Hertfordshire AL10 9AB United Kingdom e-mail:
C.L.Nehaniv@herts.ac.uk phone: +44-1707-284-470
fax: +44-1707-284-303
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Honolulu IEEE
EvolutionarySystems Apr1-5 2
Dear Colleagues,
Based on numerous requests, papers submitted to IEEE
Artiﬁcial Life after the deadline may still be considered
for review on a time-available basis.
Note however that in no event will late papers submit-
ted after *** November 10th *** be considered.
Looking forward to your submissions!
Kind Regards,
Chrystopher L. Nehaniv
—
IEEE Symposium Series on Computational Intelligence
2007 http://www.ieee-ssci.org/ IEEE-ALife’07
The First IEEE Symposium on Artiﬁcial Life http:/-
/www.itee.adfa.edu.au/ ˜ alar/ieeealife07/ April 1-5,November 1, 2006 EvolDir 7
2007
Honolulu, Hawaii, USA
Best Student Paper
This symposium will be oﬀering a best student paper
award. To qualify, the paper must be submitted under
the student category.
Call for Papers
The IEEE-Alife’07 brings together researchers working
on the emerging areas of Artiﬁcial Life and Complex
Adaptive Systems. In particular, the conference focuses
on Artiﬁcial life in silico including artiﬁcial chemistry,
multi-agent systems, and robotics; ant colony systems;
biological and evolutionary systems; evolutionary art,
immune systems; neuro- biology and neuro-computing;
network theory; swarm intelligence; and other topics.
PAPER SUBMISSION
Authors are invited to submit previously unpublished
work to IEEE-ALife’07. All papers will be subject to a
peer review process. Accepted papers will be published
in the conference proceedings and the attendance of at
least one author of an accepted paper at the conference
is a condition for publications. The maximum number
of pages is 8. Only PDF ﬁles are acceptable.
We invite high quality technical papers on substantial,
original, and unpublished research on all aspects of
Artiﬁcial Life and Complex Adaptive Systems. Sub-
mission and formatting information are at http://-
www.itee.adfa.edu.au/ ˜ alar/ieeealife07/ps.htm IM-
PORTANT DATES Submission of papers : 31 Octo-
ber 2006 Decisions sent to authors: 30 November 2006
Camera ready format : 15 January 2007 Conference
date : 1-5 April 2007
ORGANIZATION Conference Co-Chairs Hussein Ab-
bass (UNSW, Australia, abbass@itee.adfa.edu.au)
Mark Bedau (Reed, USA, mab@reed.edu) Stefano
Nolﬁ (CNR, Italy, stefano.nolﬁ@istc.cnr.it) Janet
Wiles (UQ, Australia, j.wiles@itee.uq.edu.au) Pub-
licity chair Chrystopher Nehaniv (U Herts, UK,
C.L.Nehaniv@herts.ac.uk) Web Masters Lam Thu Bui
(UNSW@ADFA, l.bui@student.adfa.edu.au) Kamran
Shaﬁ (UNSW@ADFA, k.shaﬁ@student.adfa.edu.au)
TOPICS OF INTEREST (non-exhaustive list): Adap-
tive robotics Artiﬁcial Chemistry Artiﬁcial societies
and markets Ant colony optimization Applications
of ALife technologies Bioinformatics Biological agents
Cellular automata Coevolution of morphology and
mind Collaborative behaviour Complex systems Com-
plexity Coordination Embodied cognition Emergence
Ethics of artiﬁcial life Evolutionary and adaptive dy-
namics Evolutionary computation Fitness landscapesGames Hierarchical dynamics Marriage in Honey-Bees
optimization Modularity Multi-agent systems Network
theory Neural networks and connectionism Neurobiol-
ogy Origin of life Philosophy of artiﬁcial life Percolation
Robotics Self-organization Self-replication Simulation
and synthesis tools and methodologies Social networks
Swarm Intelligence Visualization Wet Alife
IEEE ALIFE 2007 Webpages: http://-
www.itee.adfa.edu.au/ ˜ alar/ieeealife07
c.l.nehaniv@herts.ac.uk
Innsbruck EvolImmunity Apr22-27
ESF-FWF Conference in Partnership with LFUI: En-
vironmental and Evolutionary Immunology
Evolutionary ecology of immunity is a rapidly expand-
ing ﬁeld of research that brings together evolutionary
biologists, ecologists and immunologists. The confer-
ence will oﬀer a chance to discuss the most recent de-
velopments in this ﬁeld, with a special focus on the
evolution and ecology of an important defence func-
tion of organisms against disease: the innate immune
system. Even invertebrates possess this evolutionary
ancient part of immunity. The conference will have a
broad-based interest - from the molecular and cellular
through to the ecological level, encorporating evolution-
ary thinking at all of these levels. More speciﬁcally, we
will cover topics such as how immune speciﬁcity is en-
abled in invertebrates; the impact of stress and fear; a
theoretical angle on innate immunity and the interplay
between innate immunity, sex and evolution.
Scientiﬁc programme and application form are acces-
sible on-line through http://www.esf.org/conferences/-
07223 (closing date for application: 20 November 2006).
Some grants available for young researchers to cover the
conference fee and possibly part of the travel costs.
Many thanks for passing on the conference details to
your colleagues who may be interested in this event.
Kind regards, Corinne Wininger - Le Moal Publicity
Oﬃcer - ESF Research Conferences European Science
Foundation - Research Conferences Unit 1 quai Lezay-
Marn´ esia, BP 90015 67080 Strasbourg Cedex, France
Phone: +33 (0)388 76 71 35 Fax: +33 (0)388 36 69
87 clemoal@esf.org www.esf.org/conferences Corinne
Wininger - Le Moal <clemoal@esf.org >8 EvolDir November 1, 2006
IrvineCA EvolAdaptation Dec1-2
EarlyRegistrationDeadline
December 1-2, 2006 In the Light of Evolution: Adap-
tation and Complex Design Organizers: John C. Avise
and Francisco J. Ayala Beckman Center of the National
Academies, Irvine, CA A century-and-a-half after Dar-
win, the challenge of understanding nature’s complex
design remains in many regards in its infancy. For ex-
ample, only recently has it become possible to conduct
whole-genome analyses in ways that may permit the
discovery of heretofore unspeciﬁed structural and reg-
ulatory genes contributing to the molecular assembly
of complex organismal phenotypes. New discoveries in
paleontology and developmental biology have signiﬁ-
cantly improved our understanding of the intermediate
stages of seemingly complex evolutionary transitions.
Recent developments in evolutionary genetic theory,
such as formal network analysis, have opened exciting
new avenues for exploring the geneses and maintenance
of biological complexity at the levels of genetic and
metabolic pathways. <http://www.nasonline.org/-
Sackler evolution >www.nasonline.org/-
Sackler evolution $250 EARLY REGISTRATION
UNTIL OCT 15
$150 STUDENT / POST DOC REGISTRATION -
TRAVEL/HOTEL AWARDS STILL AVAILABLE
Register at <http://www.nasonline.org/-
Sackler evolution >www.na son-
line.org/Sackler evolution
“Francisco J. Ayala” <fjayala@uci.edu >
IrvineCA InTheLightOfEvol Dec1-2
EarlyRegistrationDeadline
December 1-2, 2006
In the Light of Evolution: Adaptation and Complex
Design
Organizers: John C. Avise and Francisco J. Ayala
Beckman Center of the National Academies, Irvine, CAA century-and-a-half after Darwin, the challenge of un-
derstanding nature \’s complex design remains in many
regards in its infancy. For example, only recently has
it become possible to conduct whole-genome analy-
ses in ways that may permit the discovery of hereto-
fore unspeciﬁed structural and regulatory genes con-
tributing to the molecular assembly of complex or-
ganismal phenotypes. New discoveries in paleontology
and developmental biology have signiﬁcantly improved
our understanding of the intermediate stages of seem-
ingly complex evolutionary transitions. Recent devel-
opments in evolutionary genetic theory, such as formal
network analysis, have opened exciting new avenues
for exploring the geneses and maintenance of biologi-
cal complexity at the levels of genetic and metabolic
pathways. www.nasonline.org/Sackler evolution $250
EARLY REGISTRATION UNTIL OCT 15
$150 STUDENT / POST DOC REGISTRATION -
TRAVEL/HOTEL AWARDS STILL AVAILABLE
Register at www.nasonline.org/Sackler evolution
SMBE <info@smbe.org >
KansasCity EcoGenomics Nov3-5 2
GENES IN ECOLOGY, ECOLOGY IN GENES Eco-
logical Genomics Symposium November 3 to 5, 2006,
in Kansas City
PLEASE NOTE: THE DEADLINE TO MAKE HO-
TEL RESERVATIONS AT THE GROUP RATE IS
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, AT 5:00 P.M.
We are continuing to accept Registrations for you
to attend. . . . . WHAT? Ecological Genomics
Symposium WHEN? November 3, 4, and 5, 2006
(Friday evening, Saturday, & Sunday morning)
WHERE? Sheraton Hotel, Overland Park, KS (Kansas
City metro area) HOW DO I REGISTER? Click on
the following links: ONLINE Registration for the
conference <https://www.dce.ksu.edu/cgi-bin/conf/-
ecological genomics.cgi >ONLINE Reservations for the
Sheraton Hotel <http://www.starwoodmeeting.com/-
StarGroupsWeb/booking/reservation?id05175
165&key¨ e479 >(Deadline for a guaranteed room rate of
$89 is Friday, 10/13/06.) WHO IS SPEAKING? Visit
this website for a complete schedule <http://www.k-
state.edu/ecogen/Schedule-2006.pdf >. QUESTIONS?
Contact ECOGEN@ksu.edu or (785) 532-3482.
POSTER ABSTRACTS? We are continuing to accept
abstracts for poster presentations. Participants areNovember 1, 2006 EvolDir 9
invited to share their own research at poster sessions
on Friday night and Saturday. Please follow the online
abstract submission guidelines <http://www.ksu.edu/-
ecogen/PosterAbstractGuidelines2006.htm >.
A complete brochure and Symposium schedule can
be downloaded by clicking on the Symposium
Information website <http://www.ksu.edu/ecogen/-
symp2006.html >. Links for online Conference Reg-
istration and Hotel Reservations are also posted on the
website.
Please share this announcement with colleagues and
students who are interested in learning more about the
emerging ﬁeld of Ecological Genomics.
“Ecology in Genes, Genes in Ecology” FEATURED
SPEAKERS: Ian T. Baldwin, Max-Planck Institute for
Chemical Ecology, “Using transformed plants to study
ecological interactions” May R. Berenbaum, University
of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, “Cytochrome P450
genes and genomics in insect-plant interactions: Neces-
sity or nimiety?” Justin Fay, Washington University,
“Evolution of gene expression” Maria J. Harrison, Cor-
nell University, “Towards an understanding of the ar-
buscular mycorrhizal symbiosis: Functional genomics
approaches” Michael W. Nachman, University of Ari-
zona, “The genetic basis of reproductive isolation in
mice” Katie Peichel, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research
Center, “Genetics of reproductive isolation in stickle-
backs” Loren Rieseberg, Indiana University, “The geo-
graphic scale of adaptation in annual sunﬂowers” John
H. Willis, Duke University, “Genetic analysis of adap-
tation and reproductive isolation in Mimulus” Patri-
cia Wittkopp, University of Michigan, “Genetic basis
of regulatory variation”
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas
State University.
Ecological Genomics Institute Kansas State Univer-
sity, Division of Biology 116 Ackert Hall, Manhattan,
KS 66506-4901 (785) 532-3482, www.ksu.edu/ecogen
dmerrill@ksu.edu
Manchester EvolBiol Mar29-30
————–MASAMB 2007: Call for Submissions———
——–
The annual Mathematical and Statistical Aspects of
Molecular Biology (MASAMB) meeting will take place
in Manchester on March 29-30, 2007.See http://www.cs.manchester.ac.uk/ai/masamb07/-
for details.
With participants from mathematics, statistics, com-
puter science, bioinformatics, biology and related ﬁelds,
the MASAMB meetings provide an intimate setting for
exchange of ideas in methodological and applied re-
search. Research students and scientists newly entering
the ﬁeld of genomic research are particularly welcome.
Likely topics for sessions this year are phylogenetics and
comparative genomics, microarrays and functional ge-
nomics, biological networks and systems biology. We
also welcome contributions from any other areas where
mathematical and statistical techniques are being ap-
plied to important problems in molecular and cell biol-
ogy.
To be considered for a talk or poster authors should
submit a one page abstract describing their research.
This abstract will be used to select presentations and
should provide an overview of the research objectives,
methods and results.
Important dates are:
Abstract Submission: January 19 Author Notiﬁcation:
February 2 Registration ends: March 1 Conference:
March 29-30
Further details, along with instructions for abstract
submission and registration, are provided on the above
conference website.
MASAMB Programme Committee
Magnus Rattray, University of Manchester, UK Simon
Whelan, University of Manchester, UK Frank Brugge-
man, University of Manchester, UK Nick Goldman, Eu-
ropean Bioinformatics Institute, UK Des Higgins, Uni-
versity College Dublin, Ireland
Manchester PopGenet Jan9-12
Registration
Registration is now open for the Population Genet-
ics Group meeting to be held in Manchester from 9th
to 12th January 2007. The website is: http://www/-
bioinf.man.ac.uk/PopGroup2006/ The plenary speak-
ers for this year’s meeting are Mohamed Noor (spe-
ciation), Ken Wolfe (genome evolution) and Michael
Bruford (conservation genetics).
The deadline for registration is 26th November 2006. A10 EvolDir November 1, 2006
late booking fee ( £20) will be incurred after that date.
For those of you wanting the budget option i.e. sharing
a room, please book early to avoid disappointment.
In case anyone should be unaware of the delights of
Manchester (pubs, bars, nightlife, music, shopping,
restaurants, historical buildings, lively atmosphere, the-
atre, opera, football, etc, etc, in addition to hosting
a conference on population genetics), then check out
these websites:
http://www.visitmanchester.com/ http:/-
/www.visitenglandsnorthwest.com/-
displaypage.asp?page=27
Please direct any questions to
cathy.walton@manchester.ac.uk
Cathy Walton
Catherine.Walton@manchester.ac.uk Cather-
ine.Walton@manchester.ac.uk
RoyalSocietyLondon
ComparativeGenomics Nov10 2
The Genetics Society Autumn Meeting Comparative
Genomics and Diversity Friday 10th November, 2006,
The Royal Society, London
Scientiﬁc Programme 09.30 Registration and Coﬀee
10.00 Welcome & Introduction to Symposium. Ewan
Birney (European Bioinformatics Institute, UK)
Session 1. Chair: Julian Parkhill (The Sanger Institute,
UK)
10.10 Comparative genomics of the alpha-
Proteobacteria Siv Andersson, (University of Uppsala,
Sweden)
10.50 Comparative genomics of protozoa and insights
into pathogenesis. Matt Berriman, (Sanger Institute,
UK)
11.30 Tea/Coﬀee
Session 2. Chair: Julian Parkhill (The Sanger Institute,
UK)
11.50 Neglected animal genomes Mark Blaxter, (Uni-
versity of Edinburgh, UK)
12.30 Interpreting the function of evolutionarily con-
strained sequences Elliott Marguilles, (National Human
Genome Research Institute, USA)13.10 LUNCH
Session 3. Chair: Jane Rogers (The Sanger Institute,
UK)
14.20 Primate comparative genomics Svante Paabo,
(Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology,
Germany)
15.00 GENETICS SOCIETY MEDAL LECTURE
Comparative genomics of Drosophila Michael Ash-
burner, (University of Cambridge, UK)
16.00 Tea and Coﬀee
Session 4. Chair: Ewan Birney (European Bioinfor-
matics Institute, UK)
16.20 Comparative genes and hyper-unstable genomes
in ﬂowering plants Jeﬀ Bennetzen, (University of Geor-
gia, USA)
17.00 A genetic analysis of mouse Chr 11: essential
genes, functions and linkage conservation Monica Jus-
tice, (Baylor College of Medicine, USA)
17.40 Evidence for positive selection in non-coding se-
quence Chris P Ponting, (University of Oxford, UK)
18.20 WINE RECEPTION
Registration is available at www.genetics.org.uk Brian
Charlesworth <brian.charlesworth@ed.ac.uk >
SanteFe EncouragingEvolBiol Oct3
Please join us in Santa Fe at the ASLO Water Rocks!
Meeting for a special session. We are interested in
bringing a diverse group of scientist together. Please
read the description below and contact any one of the
session chairs with questions. There are opportunities
for oral as well as poster presentations. We strongly en-
courage evolutionary biologists to submit an abstract.
NOTE: ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DUE OCT.
3, 2006. To submit please visit: https://-
www.sgmeet.com/aslo/santafe2007/startprocess.htm
Title: SS27 Trace Metals, Microbial Processes, and Bio-
geochemical Cycles through Space and Time
Organizers - Kathy Barbeau, Scripps Institution of
Oceanography, UC San Diego, kbarbeau@ucsd.edu Al-
ison Butler, Dept. of Chemistry and Biochemistry,
UC Santa Barbara, butler@chem.ucsb.edu Felisa Wolfe-
Simon, Arizona State University, fwolfe@asu.eduNovember 1, 2006 EvolDir 11
Invited Speakers: Franois M. M. Morel, Dept. of Geo-
sciences, Princeton University Ariel Anbar, School of
Space and Earth Exploration and Dept. of Chemistry
and Biochemistry, Arizona State University
Trace metals play an important role in structuring
aquatic microbial communities by virtue of their func-
tion as essential micronutrients and toxins. Mod-
ern environments show marked spatial variability in
trace metal bioavailability, and over geologic time scales
changes in Earth’s redox state have dramatically af-
fected trace metal geochemistry. Both of these gradi-
ents are hypothesized to constrain the selection of el-
ements for biological usage in microbial communities;
however, the interaction between bioinorganic and en-
vironmental chemistry is only beginning to be under-
stood, and due to the complex set of feedback cycles in-
volved a multidisciplinary approach is warranted. Ev-
idence from the rock record examined synergistically
with physiological and genomic data on extant organ-
isms will be required to fully appreciate and understand
the evolution of bioinorganic chemistry, including the
modern employment of novel metalloenzymes (e.g. uti-
lizing metals such as Ni, W, Cd, V). Current studies
of trace elements and their biogeochemical cycles are
taking advantage of molecular-level knowledge of trace
element speciation, new stable isotope analytical tech-
niques, and increasingly sophisticated ﬁeld incubation
methods. At the same time, the availability of partial
and complete genomic information for model organisms
and microbial assemblages is enabling researchers to
elucidate the function of trace elements at the organism
and ecosystem level. We invite a wide range of papers,
with an aim to engage researchers from diverse ﬁelds
interested in synthesis of the information in this emerg-
ing ﬁeld, which embraces biochemistry, paleoceanogra-
phy, molecular genomics, inorganic chemistry, micro-
biology, and geochemistry. Topics will include metal
speciation and bioavailability, biogenic metal chelating
agents, metalloenzymes, metals as limiting micronutri-
ents or toxins, the role of microbes in trace element
transformations, and genomic studies of metal function,
acquisition or cellular homeostasis.
Thanks and I look forward to your submissions, Felisa
Wolfe-Simon
Felisa Wolfe-Simon, PhD NSF Postdoctoral Research
Fellow Metallomics Laboratory Department of Chem-
istry and Biochemistry Arizona State University P.O.
Box 871604 Tempe, AZ 85287-1604 lab: 480-965-7570
fax: 480-965-2747 www.ironlisa.com fwolfe@asu.edu
fwolfe@asu.eduSeattle EvolSalmon Dec7
Evolutionary Changes and Salmon: Consequences of
anthropogenic changes for the long-term viability of Pa-
ciﬁc salmon and steelhead
A Symposium
7 December 2006 Seattle, WA
A great deal of eﬀort (and money) has been expended
in evaluating the anthropogenic factors that have con-
tributed to the widespread declines of anadromous Pa-
ciﬁc salmonids. With few exceptions, however, these
eﬀorts have focused on ecological/demographic eﬀects,
and relatively little attention has been paid to the evo-
lutionary response of salmon to anthropogenic change.
This is unfortunate, because any changes to the ecosys-
tems that salmon inhabit will alter the selective regimes
they experience and can be expected to elicit an evo-
lutionary response. What is not clear is the nature
and magnitude of these evolutionary changes and the
consequences they have for long-term viability of nat-
ural populations of these species, which play such an
important role in marine and terrestrial ecosystems
as well as in human societies. The Symposium will
bring together top salmon biologists and top evolu-
tionary biologists to explore this challenging topic.
The meeting is sponsored by the NOAA Fisheries
Northwest Fisheries Science Center and will end with
a hosted reception and poster session. Contributed
posters are solicited on three general themes: 1) The
nature and extent of anthropogenic changes that af-
fect salmon and their ecosystems; 2) Data for salmon
that provide insights into their potential for evolution-
ary change; 3) Case studies from other organisms that
demonstrate an evolutionary response to anthropogenic
change. Posters on other related topics also will be con-
sidered. If you are interested in presenting a poster at
the Symposium, submit an abstract ( <200 words) by
November 10 to Robin Waples (robin.waples@noaa.gov
<mailto:robin.waples@noaa.gov >). You will be noti-
ﬁed soon afterwards whether the poster is accepted.
Please contact Robin if you have any questions. More
information about the meeting and how to regis-
ter can be found at the following website: http://-
www.regonline.com/108983 . For questions about regis-
tration or logistics, contact Tara Torres (tara@ucar.edu
<mailto:tara@ucar.edu >; 303-497-8694).
paul.moran@noaa.gov paul.moran@noaa.gov12 EvolDir November 1, 2006
Switzerland FungalSymbiontEvol
Apr29-May4
Dear Colleagues, 12 October 2006
We have organized a meeting on the Population
and Evolutionary Biology of Fungal Symbionts that
will occur in spring next year in Switzerland. The
meeting will be limited to 100 participants and
approximately 50 places remain open. More in-
formation is presented on the email attachment
and on our web site, http://www.path.ethz.ch/-
news/conferences/2006 ascona/. Registration is now
open and the remaining places will be ﬁlled on a ﬁrst-
come, ﬁrst-served basis. Please register on the web site
as soon as possible if you want to attend. Please feel
free to pass along this information to colleagues who
may be interested in this topic.
Best wishes,
Bruce
Many fungi are symbionts that form mutualistic as-
sociations with plants and animals. Plant examples
include lichens, mycorrhizae, and leaf and stem endo-
phytes. More than 80% of all plants are mycorrhizal,
with the fungal partner obtaining carbon from the plant
and contributing to the plant phosphate and other nu-
trients needed for growth. Leaf and stem endophytes
protect the plants they inhabit from herbivory through
production of alkaloid secondary metabolites and also
can aﬀect ﬂowering and other aspects of plant reproduc-
tion. Mutualistic animal associations include the attine
ants that farm fungi as their primary source of nutri-
tion. Fungal associations can also be antagonistic, in-
cluding many important plant pathogens, such as rusts,
smuts, and the forest pathogens that cause Dutch elm
disease and chestnut blight. The amphibian chytrid Ba-
trachochytrium dendrobatidis is thought to be respon-
sible for the recent alarming decline in frog populations
worldwide, while insect- infecting fungi such as Beau-
varia bassiana are already used as biocontrol agents
to manage insect populations and have recently been
proposed to control the spread of malaria-transmitting
mosquitos. Other fungi such as Pneumocystis, Coccid-
ioides, and Cryptococcus parasitize humans and have
increased in importance due to the increase in patients
with suppressed immune systems. Commensal fungi in-
clude species such as Candida albicans that commonly
inhabit the gastrointestinal tract of humans, but occa-sionally become pathogens. Similarly, most plant roots
are colonized by commensal strains of Fusarium oxys-
porum, but occasionally some of these strains evolve
to become pathogenic. PCR-ampliﬁcation of environ-
mental samples using fungus-speciﬁc primers has shown
that many more species of fungi live in intimate asso-
ciations with plants, but we don???t know what their
function is, or whether they are mutualists, commen-
sals, or antagonists in their hosts. It is clear that many
fungi form symbioses with other eukaryotes and that
many of these symbioses are important in the frame-
work of ecology, agriculture, and medicine.
Bruce McDonald Plant Pathology Institute of Integra-
tive Biology, Zurich (IBZ) ETH Zurich, LFW B16 8092
Zurich Switzerland
Oﬃce: +41 44 632 3847 FAX: +41 44 632 1572
Assistant: +41 44 632 3848 (Ulrike Rosenberger)
Email: bruce.mcdonald@agrl.ethz.ch Web (Group):
http://www.path.ethz.ch Population Genetics of
Plant Pathogens: http://www.apsnet.org/education/-
AdvancedPlantPath/Topics/PopGenetics/top.htm
Bruce McDonald <bruce.mcdonald@agrl.ethz.ch >
Toronto CSEE SCEE May17-20
FIRST ANNOUNCEMENT
Canadian Society of Ecology and Evolution (CSEE)
Annual Meeting, Toronto, May 17-20, 2007
We are pleased to announce that the second CSEE an-
nual meeting will be held over three and a half days
from May 17-20, 2007 at Victoria Collegein the Uni-
versity of Toronto. There will be 3 plenary talks,
3 symposia, 132 contributed talks, 2 poster sessions,
and rooms for evening workshops. We expect about
500 delegates. More information can be found at:
http://www.eeb.utoronto.ca/csee/index.html In addi-
tion, CSEE is launching a contest to ﬁnd a logo rep-
resenting the Society (see http://www.ecoevo.ca/en/-
ﬁndlogo.htm ). The contest is open to graduate stu-
dents and post-doctoral fellows who are members of
the Canadian Society for Ecology and Evolution. The
First Prize is an award of $500 in support of research
or travel expenses for attending the CSEE meeting.
************
PREMI `ERE COMMUNICATION
R´ eunion annuelle de la Soci´ et´ e Canadienne d’ ´EcologieNovember 1, 2006 EvolDir 13
et d’ ´Evolution (SCEE), Toronto, 17-20 mai 2007.
La SCEE a le plaisir d’annoncer qu’elle tiendra
sa deuxi` eme r´ eunion annuelle au Victoria College
de l’Universit´ e de Toronto du 17 au 20 mai 2007.
Cette r´ eunion inclura 3 pr´ esentations pl´ eni` eres, 3
symposiums, 132 pr´ esentations libres, 2 sessions de
pr´ esentations par aﬃches et des locaux pour la tenue
d’ateliers en soir´ ee. Nous pr´ evoyons accueillir envi-
ron 500 d´ el´ egu´ es. Vous trouverez plus d’information
surhttp://www.eeb.utoronto.ca/csee/fr/index.htm En
plus, la SCEE annonce la tenue d’un concours aﬁn
de trouver un logo repr´ esentant la Soci´ et´ e ( http://-
www.ecoevo.ca/fr/trouvezlogo.htm ). Ce concours est
ouvert aux ´ etudiants gradu´ es et aux stagiaires post-
doctoraux qui sont membres de la Soci´ et´ e Canadienne
d’´Ecologie et d’ ´Evolution. Le premier prix est d’une
valeur de 500$, pour supporter des travaux de recherche
ou d´ epenses de voyage aﬁn d’assister ` a la conf´ erence de
la SCEE.
“Sarah P. Otto” <otto@zoology.ubc.ca >
UCLosAngeles
IntlSummitEvolChange Feb8-10 3
Evolutionary Change in Human-altered Environments
An International Summit
February 8-10, 2007 Institute of the Environment Uni-
versity of California, Los Angeles
Organized by Thomas Smith and Louis Bernatchez.
Human activities are aﬀecting the evolutionary pro-
cesses that generate and maintain biodiversity. Climate
change and deforestation are facilitating the evolution-
ary jump of animal diseases to humans. Fish farming
has resulted in the spread of poorly adaptive genes to
the wild. Introductions of exotic species are impacting
native species and limiting their ability to adapt.
In response to this developing crisis, we are convening
an international summit of evolutionary biologists, con-
servation practitioners, and policy makers to synthesize
current knowledge and to begin to develop plans to mit-
igate the eﬀects. The summit will feature talks from
more than 40 leading evolutionary biologists, poster
presentations, and working groups. A central goal of
the summit is to bring the discussion beyond academic
boundaries to frame real-world solutions to these prob-
lems. For more information, registration and to submit
an abstract for a poster go to:http://www.ioe.ucla.edu/ctr/ioesymposium.html The
deadline for poster abstracts is December 1, 2007.
Travel grants for students and post docs to attend are
now available
Louis Bernatchez
Titulaire de la Chaire de recherche du Canada en
G´ enomique et Conservation des Ressources Aquatiques
D´ epartement de biologie Pavillon Charles-Eug` ene
Marchand Universit´ e Laval, Quebec QC G1K 7P4
Canada
T´ el: 418 656-3402 Fax: 418 656-2043 Couriel:
Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca Web: http://-
www.bio.ulaval.ca/louisbernatchez/
Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca
UMassAmherst NEMEB2006 Nov4
Deadline
REMINDER: The registration deadline for NEMEB
XVII (New England Molecular Evolutionary Biologists
meeting 2006) is midnight WEDNESDAY Oct 18. All
contributed talk and poster titles must be submitted
before the deadline to be included in the conference.
No abstract is required.
Registration is online at the following site: http://-
bcrc.bio.umass.edu/nemeb2006/node/3 All others who
plan to attend should also register by the deadline.
There is no registration fee.
NEMEB XVII will be held at the University of Mas-
sachusetts in Amherst on Saturday, November 4, 2006.
Invited talks:
Daniel Weinreich, Brown University, Finding Darwin in
the details: simple questions in molecular evolution.
Ant´ onia Monteiro, Yale University, Evolution of a com-
plex trait: lepidopteran eyespots – homology vs. co-
option.
Peg Riley, University of Massachusetts Amherst, Ap-
plying ecological and evolutionary theory to meet the
challenge of antibiotic resistance.
Matthew Meselson, Harvard University, Why does sex-
ual reproduction exist?
For more information, please see the website:
http://bcrc.bio.umass.edu/nemeb2006/ bnor-14 EvolDir November 1, 2006
mark@ent.umass.edu bnormark@ent.umass.edu
UMichigan YoungSci Mar10
Speaker Nominations Sought Young Scientists Sympo-
sium 2007, University of Michigan
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
at the University of Michigan seeks nominations for its
third annual Young Scientists Symposium to be held on
March 10, 2007. The annual symposium, supported by
Dr. Nancy Walls and the College of Literature, Science
and the Arts, brings together outstanding young scien-
tists from throughout the United States to focus on a
particular theme. The theme for the 2007 symposium
is Evolutionary Ecology.
One major goal of the symposium is to highlight the
work of young scientists who are poised to make signif-
icant contributions to the development of their ﬁelds.
Speakers must be early in their scientiﬁc careers, gener-
ally ﬁnishing graduate students or post-doctoral schol-
ars. We expect to invite about eight speakers to the
2007 symposium, for whom we will cover the expenses
of travel, food, and accommodation. As well as giving
research talks at the symposium, invited speakers will
be asked to judge a graduate student poster competi-
tion.
Speakers will be selected based on nominations from
members of the scientiﬁc community. There are two
parts to the nomination process. First, a nominator
must send a one-page letter to the committee, describ-
ing the contributions that the nominee is making to re-
search in Evolutionary Ecology. The nomination letter
should also address the ability of the nominee to present
a lively and engaging seminar. Second, the nominee
should send curriculum vitae and a seminar abstract to
the committee. All materials should be sent by email to
YSS07@umich.edu by October 31, 2006. The Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the Uni-
versity of Michigan strongly encourages nominations of
women and minorities. Questions about the sympo-
sium or the nomination process should be sent to the
email address above.
http://www.lsa.umich.edu/eeb/ cwdick@umich.eduUPorto Portugal EvolBiol Dec21
Following the success, last year in Lisbon, of the 1st
National Meeting of Evolutionary Biology, bringing to-
gether Portuguese evolutionary biologists, working in
Portugal and abroad,
the 2nd National Meeting of Evolutionary Biology
will be held on the 21st of December 2006, in the
Campus Agr´ ario de Vair˜ ao, Centro de Investiga˜ ao e
Biodiversidade e Recursos Gen´ eticos (CIBIO; http:/-
/cibio.up.pt/ ) da Universidade do Porto.
The organization of this year’s event is in the hands of
Nuno Ferrand (CIBIO), with collaboration from Jorge
Rocha (Instituto de Patologia e Imunologia Molecu-
lar - IPATIMUP; http://www.ipatimup.pt/ ) and Jorge
Vieira (Instituto de Biologia Molecular e Celular -
IBMC; http://www.ibmc.up.pt/ ).
The organizers are open to suggestions regarding
the program and welcome volunteers willing to help
organize the event. Suggestions and questions
may be posted on the electronic group http://-
groups.google.com/group/biologia evolutiva or sent to
biologia.evolutiva@gmail.com.
For registration, send your name, institution, and study
area to biologia.evolutiva@gmail.com
Lastly, please forward this message to all potentially in-
terested participants (there is also a meeting poster, in
Portuguese, at http://andrelevy.net/enbe2.cartaz.pdf )
Thank you – http://groups.google.com/-
group/biologia evolutiva/ http://andrelevy.net/-
biologia evolutiva.htm – Andr´ e Levy Paz, Peace, Pax,
Salaam, Shalom, He Ping, Shanti, Mir
http://andrelevy.net http://andrelevy.net an-
drelevy@gmail.com
VenturaBeachCA
QuantGenetGenomics Feb18-23
The semi-annual Gordon Conference on Quantitative
Genetics and Genomics will take place February 18-November 1, 2006 EvolDir 15
23, 2007 at the Ventura Beach Marriott, Ventura, Cal-
ifornia. Conference participants consistently rank this
as the best meeting that they attend. We emphasize
cross-disciplinary communication, cutting edge work,
and a lot of fun (including the traditional wine-country
tour). The 2005 meeting sold out, so count on register-
ing early.
http://www.grc.org/programs/2007/quantgen.htm
Quantitative genetics aims to link phenotypic variation
to its underlying genetic basis in order to better
understand and predict genetic composition and long
term change within natural, agricultural, and human
populations. Traditionally built upon statistical
abstractions of genetic eﬀects, the ﬁeld is now rapidly
advancing by making use of recent developments in
genetic technology to reveal explicit links between
genes and complex phenotypes, and therefore serves as
a focal point bringing together many emerging areas of
genetics, genomics, statistics, and biotechnology. This
synthesis is already having a large impact on the areas
of evolutionary biology, plant and animal breeding,
and the analysis of human disease. The strength of
the Gordon Conference on ˆ aQuantitative Genetics and
Genomicsˆ a has historically been the bringing together
of leaders in each of these ﬁelds to explore areas of
shared interest and cutting edge developments with
the potential to aﬀect all researchers within the broad
ﬁeld of quantitative genetics.
Building upon the tremendous success of our confer-
ences in recent years, we will again focus on cutting
edge developments in the ﬁeld, especially highlighting
whole genomic approaches to marker analysis, associa-
tion mapping, transcriptional proﬁling, and statistical
analysis. As the ﬁeld turns its attention from loosely
mapped chromosomal regions to speciﬁc genetic ele-
ments, elucidation of gene function in a quantitative
genetic context becomes central, and these approaches
will also be highlighted here. Finally, comprehensive
solutions to understanding genetic basis of complex
variation require large-scale collaborations among re-
searchers, and several exemplars of these eﬀorts will be
presented.
We look forward to meeting you in Ventura, CA in
February of 2007! Your continued participation and
support of this conference is greatly appreciated. As
you will see from the schedule, afternoons are free for
adventure and discussion, while poster sessions will be
held in the evening.
Lastly, expenses for these meetings are rapidly climb-
ing. If you or your institution/company are interested
in making a ﬁnancial contribution to the chair’s fund
(to support registration, travel, and social activities),please contact Patrick Phillips (pphil@uoregon.edu).
See you in Ventura! Patrick Patrick and Daniel Pomp
Program: * Two Decades of Quantitative Genetics and
Genomics (Patrick Phillips / Eugene Eisen) * Keynote:
Genetic regulation of development (Elliot Meyerowitz)
* Genome-wide Association Mapping (Richard Mott
/ Magnus Nordberg) *Gene Expression and Map-
ping (Leonid Krugliak / Eric Schadt) *Statistical Ge-
nomics (Rebecca Doerge / David Allison / Manolis Der-
mitzakis) * Collaborative Crosses (Ed Buckler / Elisa
Chesler) * Selection and Mapping in Animal Models
(Daniel Pomp / Jerry Taylor / Archie Clutter) * Selec-
tion and Mapping in Natural Populations (Hopi Hoek-
stra / Andy Clark) * Quantitative Genomics of Behav-
ior (Trudy Mackay / Charles Whitﬁeld) * Quantitative
Genetics and Species Diﬀerences (John Willis / David
Houle) * Variation in Developmental Systems (Fred Ni-
jhout / William Cresko)
A full program should be available in a few weeks.
Patrick C. Phillips, Professor of Biology Cen-
ter for Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
Email: pphil@uoregon.edu Phone: (541) 346-
0916 |FAX (541) 346-2364 Address: 5289
University of Oregon Eugene, OR 97403-5289
USA Web: Lab http://www.uoregon.edu/-
˜ pphil EvoNet http://www.EvoNet.org CEEB
http://evolution.uoregon.edu IGERT http://-
evodevo.uoregon.edu pphil@uoregon.edu
Wageningen AdaptiveBehaviour
Nov3
International Symposium on Ecological Implications of
Adaptive Behavior, November 3, 2006, Wageningen,
The Netherlands
How does adaptive behavior aﬀects the structure and
evolution of ecological communities? Behavioral ﬂexi-
bility in organisms has a major impact on both their
ability to persist in an environment and their evolu-
tionary development in that environment. Behaviors
that aﬀect species interactions are particularly impor-
tant for predicting the abundance of species within bi-
ological communities. Understanding these behaviors
can be essential in applied ecology, conservation biol-
ogy and ﬁsheries management. Other behaviors that
act within a species, such as mate choice, can be im-
portant in processes such as speciation and density de-16 EvolDir November 1, 2006
pendent population regulation.
The symposium will address the ways in which be-
havioral components of interactions can be measured
and modeled. It will explore the predictions of mod-
els that incorporate adaptive behavior, using problems
ranging from the change in ecosystem functioning with
global warming to the optimal harvesting of biological
resources. It will also highlight the variety of unex-
plored problems associated with the interactions among
behavioral, ecological, and evolutionary processes.
Organizer Dr. Wolf Mooij (Netherlands Institute of
Ecology, w.mooij@nioo.knaw.nl)
Speakers Peter Abrams (University of Toronto)
Matthijs Vos (Netherlands Institute of Ecology) Don
DeAngelis (University of Miami) Hanna Kokko (Uni-
versity of Helsinki) Franjo Weissing (University of
Groningen) Jaap van der Meer (Netherlands Institute
of Sea Research) John Fryxell (University of Guelph)
Location WICC, Wageningen, The Netherlands
Date November 3, 2006
Information and registration http://-
www.currentthemesinecology.nl Ph.D. course
on Consumer-Resource Interactions The sympo-
sium will be followed by an international Ph.D.
course on Consumer-Resource Interactions. The
course will take place in Zeist, The Nether-
lands, during November 5-9. For more info on
the course go to http://www.rug.nl/biologie/-
onderzoek/onderzoekScholen/functionalEcology/
phdCourses/consumerResourceInteractions (or search
Consumer-Resource Interactions with Google)
W.Mooij@nioo.knaw.nl W.Mooij@nioo.knaw.nl
YaleU BayesianInvasion Oct28
Announcing a Special Symposium!
We would like to invite all interested parties to at-
tend the forthcoming “Bayesian Invasion” symposium.
The event features presentations by leading experts in
Bayesian phylogenetic research that describe exciting
new developments in Bayesian phylogeny estimation
and phylogeny-based inference methods.
The symposium will be held on the Yale campus be-
tween 10AM-6:00PM on Saturday October 28, 2006, in
the main auditorium of Linsly- Chittenden Hall (room
102), located at 63 High Street in New Haven.All are welcome and registration is free. Because
space is limited, early registration is strongly
encouraged. For more information and online
registration, please visit the symposium web
site: http:// www.phylodiversity.net/bmoore/-
symposium/symposium.html . Brian R. Moore
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
Yale University 165 Prospect Street New Haven
CT 06520 Phone: 203-432-7168 Fax: 203-432-2374
Web: http://www.phylodiversity.net/bmoore/
brian.moore@yale.edu
ZhejiangU China QuantGenetics
Aug18-24
The Second Announcement:
The 3rd International Conference of Quantitative Ge-
netics Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China August
18-24, 2007 ( http://ibi.zju.edu.cn/icqg )
The 3rd International Conference on Quantitative Ge-
netics (ICQG3) will be held during August 18-24, 2007
hosted by Zhejiang University in Hangzhou, China. As
with the 1st ICQG in Ames, Iowa in 1976 and the
2nd ICQG in Raleigh, North Carolina in 1987, the 3rd
Conference will be a comprehensive survey of the cur-
rent status of quantitative genetics. New technologies
in areas ranging from genomics and molecular genet-
ics to statistics are providing both opportunities and
challenges for our understanding of the genetic basis of
quantitative traits in natural populations, the evolution
of characters, and use for plant and animal breeding.
The outline program and list of speakers is appended.
The Conference will be held in an international hotel,
the Dragon Hotel, in the downtown of Hangzhou.
Zhejiang University is one of the few top-rank research
institutions in China. It is a comprehensive institute
with a full range of disciplines. With a faculty capable
of top-level and large-scale research and a high pro-
portion of graduate students, the university has been
undertaking projects, both basic and applied, to ad-
dress pressing issues and challenges of today and of the
future. The City of Hangzhou is one of the seven an-
cient capital cities of China. It has a population of 3.72
million and has a recorded history spanning 2100years.
Marco Polo described Hangzhou as the “Most beauti-
ful, magniﬁcent, and heavenly city in the world.” Lo-
cated in China’s most developed southeast coastal area,November 1, 2006 EvolDir 17
Hangzhou is renowned for its thriving economy, color-
ful culture and beautiful landscape, especially its famed
West Lake and Tea House.
The Conference welcomes participants to submit con-
tributed papers. Only an abstract is needed and is to
be submitted at registration for the conference. A lim-
ited number of contributed papers will be selected for
oral presentation in an appropriate session of the con-
ference. Accompanying persons are also welcomed, and
a special program for them will be arranged.
Organizers Academic Chairs : Bruce Weir,
University of Washington, Seattle, USA
(bsweir@u.washington.edu) William Hill, University of
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK (w.g.hill@ed.ac.uk) Junyi
Gai, Nanjing Agriculture University, Nanjing, China
(sri@njau.edu.cn) Changqin Wu, China Agriculture
University, Beijing, China (chxwu@public.bta.net.cn)
Organizing Chairs: Jun Zhu, Zhejiang University,
Hangzhou, China (jzhu@zju.edu.cn) Zhao-Bang Zeng,
North Carolina State University, Raleigh, USA
(zeng@stat.ncsu.edu) Local Organizer: Zhejiang
University
Invited speakers Laura Almasy (San Antonio, TX,
USA) Linkage analysis for quantitative traits using
whole genome data Leif Andersson (Uppsala, Swe-
den) Genes for quantitative traits in domestic animals
Ed Buckler (Ithaca, NY, USA) Dissection of complex
traits in maize Lon Cardon (Oxford, UK) Associa-
tion mapping of quantitative traits Andy Clark (USA)
Evolutionary quantitative genetics of gene regulatory
networks Mike Goddard (Melbourne, Australia) Ge-
nomic selection Fred Hospital (Gif-sur-Yvette , France)
Challenges for eﬀective marker assisted selection in
plants Jean-Luc Jannink (Ames, IA, USA) Design and
analysis for QTL detection in plant populations Pe-ter Keightley (Edinburgh, UK) Analysis and implica-
tions of mutational variation Mark Kirkpatrick (Austin,
TX, USA) Evolutionary quantitative genetics Ning
Li (Beijing, China) Genomics in quantitative genetic
analysis Trudy Mackay (Raleigh, NC, USA) The ge-
netic architecture of complex behaviours: Lessons from
Drosophila Eric Schadt (Seattle, WA, USA) Recon-
structing genetic networks to identify subtypes of dis-
ease and key regulators of disease and their associated
network components Pak Sham (Hong Kong) Appli-
cation of genome-wide SNP data for uncovering pair-
wise relationships and quantitative trait loci Daniel
Sorensen (Foulum, Denmark) Developments in statis-
tical analysis in quantitative genetics Hamish Spencer
(Otago, New Zealand) Eﬀects of genomic imprinting
on quantitative traits Peter Visscher (Brisbane, Aus-
tralia) Utilisation of whole genome mapping to parti-
tion genetic variation Bruce Walsh (Tucson, AZ, USA)
Quantitative Genetics, version 3.0:Where have we gone
since 1987 (last congress) and where are we headed?
Zhao-Bang Zeng (Raleigh, NC, USA) Statistical issues
of gene expression QTL analysis Qifa Zhang (Wuhan,
China) Genetic basis of heterosis in crop plants Qin
Zhang (Beijing, China) QTL mapping in animals Jun
Zhu (Hangzhou, China) Mixed model methods for an-
alyzing complex traits
Programs 08/19 Registration and Reception Academic
program The Conference will run as single sessions.
Each session is composed of 90 minutes presentation
from invited and contributed speakers. 08/20 Confer-
ence session (morning and afternoon).
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
GradStudentPositions
BinghamtonU Evol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
ClemsonU Evol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
ClemsonU phylogeography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
European Bioinformatics Inst . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19Gatersleben Germany ApomicticTranscriptome . . . . 20
JamesCookU Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
LundU EvolEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
MonashU Butterﬂies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2118 EvolDir November 1, 2006
Munich Adaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Oulu Finland 7 PopGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Singapore ComputationalBiosci . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
UBasel SexualSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
ULouisianaMonroe PhenotypicPlasticity . . . . . . . . . . . 25
UMaryland EvolSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
UPadova EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
USouthFlorida Speciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
UTurku PredatorPreyEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27UVienna BotanicalSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
UZurich PlantMolSyst . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
UZurich SystBotany . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
UppsalaU EvolEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Wageningen Celegans . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Wageningen Celegans GeneExpr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Zurich PlantEvolutioanryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
BinghamtonU Evol
Graduate Student Positions in Ecology, Evolution and
Behavior at Binghamton University
The Department of Biological Sciences at Bingham-
ton University is recruiting qualiﬁed applicants for the
M. S. and Ph. D. programs in Ecology, Evolution
and Behavior (EEB). Areas of research emphasis could
include ANIMAL BEHAVIOR (including the evolu-
tion of parental care, helping behaviors and mating
systems), POPULATION AND ECOSYSTEM ECOL-
OGY (including invasive species, predator-prey interac-
tions, and biogeochemistry), SYSTEMATICS (includ-
ing paleobotany, phylogenetic reconstruction and evo-
lutionary development), and EVOLUTIONARY GE-
NETICS (including host-symbiont coevolution, human
population genetics and quantitative genetics).
Several faculty are actively recruiting graduate stu-
dents:
Anthony Fiumera ( http://bingweb.binghamton.edu/-
˜ aﬁumera/home.html ) Andrew Merriwether ( http://-
anthro.binghamton.edu/Faculty/Merriwether.html )
along with many others. Visit the departmental website
at (http://biology.binghamton.edu/ ) for more informa-
tion about faculty research interests and please contact
the faculty member you are interested in working with
before beginning the application process.
Students will have access to the Nature Preserve
(http://naturepreserve.binghamton.edu/ ) the E.W.
Heier Teaching & Research Greenhouse ( http://-
biogreenhouse.binghamton.edu/ ) and a Molecular Biol-
ogy Core Facility. EEB students will also have the op-
portunity to participate in the EvoS program ( http://-
bingweb.binghamton.edu/˜evos/ ), a campus-wide Evo-
lutionary Biology initiative designed to promote inter-
actions among members from a variety of university
departments. Financial aid may be available for highlyqualiﬁed applicants through either Graduate Teaching
or Research Assistantships.
Binghamton University is a doctoral granting in the
SUNY system and is consistently ranked as one of the
top 50 public universities in the nation by U.S. News
& World Reports. Located in the Southern Tier of
upstate New York, Binghamton University oﬀers quick
access to a variety of outdoor activities yet is only a few
hours away from both New York City and Philadelphia.
Visit the Graduate School website for informa-
tion about the application process. ( http://-
gradschool.binghamton.edu/ps/gradapplication.asp ).
If you have any questions, please contact Dr. San-
dra Micheal (Graduate Committee Chairperson)
(smichael@binghamton.edu).
aﬁumera@binghamton.edu aﬁumera@binghamton.edu
ClemsonU Evol
GRADUATE OPPORTUNITIES IN ECOLOGY AND
EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY
The Department of Biological Sciences at Clemson Uni-
versity is recruiting doctoral students for its empha-
sis area in ecology and evolutionary biology. Annual
stipends of $17,000 are guaranteed for 5 years (TAs in
academic semesters, RAs in summer). Individual fac-
ulty may augment these stipends from grant support.
In addition, applicants are eligible to compete for ﬁrst-
year fellowships from the graduate school of $10,000 or
$15,000 in addition to the annual stipend. The ecol-
ogy and evolutionary biology area includes six new fac-
ulty (M. Childress, S. DeWalt, B. Hersh, P. Marko, A.
Moran, and K. Paul), all seeking new PhD students,
and several established faculty (R. Blob, M. Ptacek,
C. Rice) who are currently recruiting new students for
their labs. For more information regarding the ecol-
ogy and evolutionary biology emphasis area in the Bi-November 1, 2006 EvolDir 19
ological Sciences graduate program at Clemson, please
visit our web site: ( http://www.clemson.edu/biosci/-
graduate/ ). Deadline for application of prospective stu-
dents to be considered for graduate school fellowship
competition is December 15th, 2006.
For more information about graduate faculty in ecol-
ogy and evolution at Clemson, please visit: http:/-
/www.clemson.edu/biosci/graduate/interests.htm For
Rick Blob: http://people.clemson.edu/ ˜ rblob/-
;rblob@clemson.edu; Biomechanics and the evolution
of animal function; animal locomotion; comparative
vertebrate anatomy, physiology, and functional mor-
phology; herpetology; vertebrate paleontology.
For Michael Childress: http://people.clemson.edu/-
˜ mchildr/; mchildr@clemson.edu; Behavioral ecology,
marine ecology, comparative sociobiology, invertebrate
zoology, animal behavior, communication, evolutionary
biology.
For Saara DeWalt: http://people.clemson.edu/-
˜ saarad/; saarad@clemson.edu; Population ecology
and genetics of invasive plants; community ecology of
woody plants with emphasis on lianas (woody vines);
tropical ecology.
For Brad Hersh: http://people.clemson.edu/˜bhersh/-
;bhersh@clemson.edu; Development and evolution of
animal shapes, especially insect wings; molecular mech-
anisms of gene regulation during Drosophila develop-
ment; regulation of target genes by Hox proteins.
For Peter Marko: http://people.clemson.edu/-
˜pmarko/; pmarko@clemson.edu; Molecular population
biology, biogeography, and conservation genetics.
For Amy Moran: http://people.clemson.edu/˜moran/-
;moran@clemson.edu; Ecology and evolution of ma-
rine organisms; physiological and morphological adap-
tations of early life history stages to varying environ-
ments.
For Kim Paul: http://www.clemson.edu/biosci/-
faculty/paul/; kpaul@clemson.edu Parasite-host adap-
tation in African Trypanosomes; biochemistry of fatty
acid metabolism; environmental sensing and regulation
of lipid uptake and metabolism.
For Margaret Ptacek: http://people.clemson.edu/-
˜mptacek/; mptacek@clemson.edu; Speciation; animal
behavior and mating systems; population divergence in
ﬁshes; conservation genetics.
For Charlie Rice: http://people.clemson.edu/˜cdrice/-
;cdrice@clemson.edu; Comparative marine immuno-
biology, with a special interest in the immunobi-
ology of ﬁshes; molecular and cellular aspects of
neuroendocrine-immune interactions.“Margaret B. Ptacek” <mptacek@CLEMSON.EDU >
ClemsonU phylogeography
GRADUATE STUDENT POSITION IN PHYLO-
GEOGRAPHY AND COMMUNITY GENETICS
Dr. Peter Marko is seeking highly motivated graduate
students to participate in a comparative phylogeogra-
phy project focused on the marine ﬂora and fauna of the
north Paciﬁc. Applicants should have strong interests
in both community ecology and molecular approaches
to biogeography; students will be involved in ﬁeld
collections, molecular genetic analyses, and potentially
ﬁeld experiments. Annual PhD stipends of $17,000 are
guaranteed for 5 years, and can be augmented by grant
funds when appropriate. In addition, applicants are
eligible to compete for fellowships from the graduate
school of $10,000 or $15,000. For more information re-
garding the ecology and evolutionary biology emphasis
area in the Biological Sciences graduate program at
Clemson, please visit our department web site ( http:/-
/www.clemson.edu/biosci/graduate/ ) and my lab
web page ( http://www.clemson.edu/biosci/graduate/
www.clemson.edu/biosci/faculty/marko/lab/ ). In-
quiries should be sent to pmarko@clemson.edu and
include a CV, a statement of research interests, and
contact information for three references. Screening of
applicants will begin December 1, 2006.
pmarko@CLEMSON.EDU pmarko@CLEMSON.EDU
European Bioinformatics Inst
There is still just about time to apply for PhD stu-
dentships to work at the European Bioinformatics In-
stitute or other EMBL sites.
The closing date is 1 November 2006, for studentships
commencing in October 2007.
At the EBI, list readers might be interested to know of
opportunities that exist in the research of Nick Gold-
man and Ewan Birney at EBI.
If you are a lecturer, please draw this to the attention
of your talented undergraduate or Masters students.20 EvolDir November 1, 2006
EMBL PhD studentships are open to any nationals
of EMBL nations. Under certain circumstances, we
are also able to consider non-EMBL-nationals’ appli-
cations.
Full details on the PhD programme and applica-
tions are available at this site: http://www.embl.org/-
training/phdprogramme/index.html Further details
on the EBI’s opportunities for PhD students are
available at this site: http://www.ebi.ac.uk/training/-
Studentships/ Nick Goldman
Nick Goldman tel: +44-(0)1223-492530 EMBL - Euro-
pean Bioinformatics Institute fax: +44-(0)1223-494468
Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge
CB10 1SD, UK
goldman@ebi.ac.uk
Gatersleben Germany
ApomicticTranscriptome
PhD position - Transcriptome analysis of apomictic Hy-
pericum perforatum
Position begins 1st January, 2007
Location: Apomixis research group, Dept. of Cy-
togenetics and Genome Analysis, Leibniz Institute of
Plant Genetics and Crop Plant Research (IPK), D-
06466 Gatersleben, Germany
http://www.ipk-gatersleben.de/en/02/04/01/05/
Contact: Dr. Tim Sharbel sharbel@ipk-gatersleben.de
Project: I would like to announce a 3 year PhD posi-
tion based in my research group, but funded through
the IMPRS (see link below). We are studying repro-
duction in St. John’s wort (H. perforatum), a species
which can reproduce either through sex or apomixis
(asexual reproduction through seed). One of the major
goals of my group is to decipher the underlying changes
in gene regulation which cause the switch from sexual
to apomictic seed production. The project will thus in-
volve a number of major steps, including (1) the identi-
ﬁcation of highly-expressive accessions using ﬂow cyto-
metric analyses of seeds; (2) the isolation of single egg
cells or ovules from both sexual and apomictic acces-
sions; and (3) a comparative transcriptome analysis of
both reproductive forms using SAGE (serial analysis of
gene expression) technology.
The position is funded through the International
Max Planck Research Schools ( http://www.mpg.de/-english/institutesProjectsFacilities/schoolChoice/-
ecologi calInteractions/index.html).
My research group is part of the Leibniz Institute of
Plant Genetics and Crop Plant Research (IPK), a very
high-tech institute located near the Harz Mountains,
about 2 hours south west of Berlin. Please don’t hesi-
tate to contact me if you require any further informa-
tion.
Best wishes, Tim
Dr. Tim Sharbel Apomixis Research Group Dept. of
Cytogenetics and Genome Analysis Leibniz Institute of
Plant Genetics and Crop Plant Research (IPK) Cor-
rensstraße 3, D-06466 Gatersleben Germany
Apomixis Group Webpage http://www.ipk-
gatersleben.de/en/02/04/01/05/ IPKWebpage
www.ipk-gatersleben.de tel: +049 (0)39482 5608 fax:
+049 (0)39482 5137
sharbel@ipk-gatersleben.de sharbel@ipk-gatersleben.de
JamesCookU Biodiversity
A number of funded PhD scholarships are available for
commencement early in 2007 at James Cook Univer-
sity, Australia. JCU has an international reputation
for many areas of research, particularly in disciplines
related to the tropics. Each PhD Scholarship will pro-
vide a stipend allowance for three years: outstanding
applicants may be eligible for full tuition-fee waivers.
These scholarships are available to both international
and domestic (Australian) students.
Project descriptions and supervisors are listed below.
Applicants are encouraged to contact the listed super-
visors for further details.
Applications must be submitted by October 31, 2006.
Further information on these and other scholarships
can be accessed via http://www.jcu.edu.au/oﬃce/grs/-
scholarships/index.html .
1). Biodiversity and climate change: ant distribution,
abundance and ecophysiology
*Supervisors*: Steve Williams
(steve.williams@jcu.edu.au)m
<mailto:steve.williams@jcu.edu.au%29m >
Simon Robson (simon.robson@jcu.edu.au
<mailto:simon.robson@jcu.edu.au >) and AndrewNovember 1, 2006 EvolDir 21
Krockenburger (andrew.krockenburger@jcu.edu.au)
2. Biodiversity and climate change: interactions be-
tween climate change, Net primary productivity and
bird abundance and altitudinal distributions
*Supervisors*: Steve Williams
(steve.williams@jcu.edu.au), Richard Pearson
(richard.pearson@jcu.edu.au), Peter Franks
3). The impact of multiple stressors on benthic mi-
croalgae on the GBR coral reefs
*Supervisors: *Kirsten Heimann, JCU
(Kirsten.Heimann@jcu.edu.au); Sven
Uthicke, AIMS (s. uthicke@aims.gov.au
<mailto:uthicke@aims.gov.au >)
4) Benthic diatoms as indicators for water quality
*Supervisors: *Kirsten Heimann, JCU
(Kirsten.Heimann@jcu.edu.au); Sven
Uthicke, AIMS (s. uthicke@aims.gov.au
<mailto:uthicke@aims.gov.au >)
5) Climate change and the demography of reef ﬁsh as-
semblages
*Supervisors*: Mark McCormick, JCU
(mark.mccormick@jcu.ed.au); Mark
Meekan , AIMS (m.meekan@aims.gov.au
<mailto:m.meekan@aims.gov.au >
6. Understanding and enhancing social resilience: im-
plications of climate change
*Supervisors*: Terry Hughes (JCU/ARC
CoE) (terry.hughes@jcu.edu.au), Larry
Fiddick (JCU) (larry.ﬁddick@jcu.edu.au
<mailto:larry.ﬁddick@jcu.edu.au >) , Gail Kelly
(CSIRO) (gail.kelly@csiro.au), Tim Lynam (CSIRO)
(tim.lynam@csiro.au)
simon.robson@jcu.edu.au
LundU EvolEcol
Dear All,
A PhD-student position in evolutionary ecology is avail-
able for application at the Section for Animal Ecology
(Lund University, SWEDEN). The tentative title/topic
is “Experimental studies on sexual isolation in natu-
ral populations”, and model organisms will be reptiles
or insects, or a combination of the two. Experimen-
tal studies on natural ﬁeld populations will be comple-mented with molecular analyzes of gene ﬂow, in par-
ticular directional gene ﬂow, between populations. We
are looking for a highly motivated, independent and
well-qualiﬁed candidate who will work in an already es-
tablished research group (see for additional information
about current research).
The candidate should ideally have some past in-
dependent research experience in evolutionary ecol-
ogy/biology, population genetics, conservation biology,
molecular ecology or related ﬁelds in ecology/evolution.
A strong interest in evolutionary biology in general, and
speciation ecology in particular, is requested, and the
candidate should be able to work both independently
as well as in a group. Applicants should be prepared
to work both in the ﬁeld and in the laboratory. Ex-
perience and interest in statistics and/or mathematical
modelling will be considered as extra advantages.
Information and application forms (in Swedish) can be
found at:
Info: http://www.science.lu.se/o.o.i.s/3168 Applica-
tion form: http://www.science.lu.se/upload/LUPDF/-
natvet/Dokument/Ans DoktAnst.pdf Additional in-
formation can bey obtained from Erik Svensson
(erik.svensson@zooekol.lu.se)
Send application form, documents regarding courses
and reseach experience, letters of recommendation (op-
tional) and all other documents to Kansli N, Lunds
universitet, Box 118,221 00 LUND, no later than Mon-
day 6 November 2006. Copies of all documents should
be authenticated.
Best wishes/Erik Svensson
Erik Svensson <erik.svensson@zooekol.lu.se >
MonashU Butterﬂies
We have recently been awarded funding to investigate
species responses to climate change using the widely-
distributed Common brown butterﬂy (Heteronympha
merope) as a model. We are applying an exciting, novel
combination of functional and neutral marker genet-
ics, experimental physiology and biophysical modelling,
and will compare data collected 30 years ago with con-
temporary data. We are seeking three strong PhD ap-
plicants to apply for PhD scholarships to work on this
project at Monash University, The University of Mel-
bourne and La Trobe University. The students will be
exposed to a range of genetic, physiological and mod-22 EvolDir November 1, 2006
elling techniques and will all have the opportunity for
extensive ﬁeldwork.
Background and PhD project descriptions:
Climate change and habitat fragmentation are together
a major threat to the continued survival of a vast num-
ber of species. Correlative bioclimatic models are often
used for predicting future suitable habitats, but cur-
rently do not take into account whether species are able
to colonise new regions, nor the mechanisms by which
they interact with and adapt to their climatic environ-
ment. We aim to bridge the gap between genotype,
phenotype and geographic distribution to improve dra-
matically our ability to predict the eﬀect climate change
will have on the range of a species.
Three projects are outlined below, each investigating
a diﬀerent aspect of the study. However, the results
from each of these will be complementary in develop-
ing predictive modelling tools to apply more broadly
than just our model organism. The students will there-
fore be encouraged to interact with the larger research
group as well as to develop their own ideas about re-
search direction and experimental design. All students
will participate in extensive ﬁeldwork along the eastern
coast of Australia to collect butterﬂy specimens for the
project.
Project 1: How have ecologically signiﬁcant enzymes
and wing characters responded to climate change in the
Common brown butterﬂy?
Contacts:
1. Dr Neil Murray
School of Molecular Sciences, La Trobe University, Aus-
tralia
Phone: +61 3 9479 2270 / email:
n.murray@latrobe.edu.au
2. Dr Paul Sunnucks
School of Biological Sciences, Monash University, Aus-
tralia
Phone: +61-3-9905-9593 / email:
paul.sunnucks@sci.monash.edu.au
This project will make a comparison between classic
and current data for enzymes and morphological char-
acters likely to play important roles in climate change
ecology. One major advantage of using the Common
brown as a model organism is that it was extensively
sampled 30 years ago by Neil Murray and Kay Pearse.
Many of the sampling locations were in the vicinity of
weather stations, allowing accurate correlation between
changes in the distribution of these important traits and
climate conditions since the last study. This projectwill analyse the allele frequency distribution for ecolog-
ically signiﬁcant enzymes and wing morphology char-
acters. The data collected will be compared that from
the previous study, which identiﬁed variation in these
characters across the butterﬂy’s range, correlating with
temperature and rainfall variation. This comparison
will be extremely powerful for two reasons: 1) we will
be able to associate the changes we see over 30 years
with changes in climate change during this time; and
2) we will have the potential to apply the predictive
modelling tools we develop on past data to test their
forecasting accuracy.
Project 2: What evolutionary processes are behind the
climate change response?
Contacts:
1. Dr Paul Sunnucks
School of Biological Sciences, Monash University, Aus-
tralia
Phone: +61-3-9905-9593 / email:
paul.sunnucks@sci.monash.edu.au
2. Dr Melanie Norgate
School of Biological Sciences, Monash University, Aus-
tralia
Phone: +61-3-9905-5680 / email:
melanie.norgate@sci.monash.edu.au
Constraints on ﬂight ability in butterﬂies are extremely
well-studied and, importantly, a number of enzymes
have been identiﬁed that are directly linked to ﬂight
ability in butterﬂies and other insects, including a
wealth of classic work on glucose phosphate ismoerase
(GPI or PGI). This project investigates the functional
genomics of ﬂight ability and climate change response
by examining these enzymes at the genetic level. The
speciﬁc mutations responsible for diﬀerent forms of the
enzymes will be identiﬁed and their eﬀect on the but-
terﬂies will be examined in two ways. The rate and
extent of the enzymatic reaction catalysed by puriﬁed
protein will be measured in vitro, allowing us to make
a direct connection between the mutations and protein
activity. In addition, the eﬀect of the mutations will
be examined in vivo by investigating ecologically rele-
vant traits (e.g. ﬂight ability and reproductive output)
using cages and ﬂight aviaries. The geographical distri-
bution of the diﬀerent enzyme alleles will be identiﬁed
as part of Project 1 (above). These data will be assessed
against neutral
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-November 1, 2006 EvolDir 23
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Munich Adaptation
* PhD and Postdoc Positions in Evolutionary Biology
in Munich*
The University of Munich, Munich Technical University
and the University of Applied Sciences Weihenstephan
are pleased to announce the establishment of a Col-
laborative Research Center under the theme Adapta-
tion: Selection Pressures, Phenotypic Responses, Ge-
netic Mechanisms and Resulting Diﬀerentiation. Pend-
ing ﬁnal funding approval by the German Research
Foundation, multiple PhD and postdoc positions (in-
cluding one slot for a computer programmer) will be
available. The Research Center will include 14 indi-
vidual projects employing both experimental and the-
oretical approaches to the study of adaptation. Ar-
eas of research include population genetics, evolution-
ary functional genomics, QTL analysis and phenotypic
evolution.
Participating faculty include:
Wolfgang Stephan, Research Center Coordinator
(University of Munich) John Baines (University of
Munich) Susanne Foitzik (University of Munich)
Wilfried Gabriel (University of Munich) Bernhard
Haubold (University of Applied Sciences Weihen-
stephan) Joachim Hermisson (University of Munich)
Wolfgang Ludwig (Munich Technical University) Beate
Nuernberger (University of Munich) Joerg Overmann
(University of Munich) Martin Parniske (University
of Munich) John Parsch (University of Munich) Pe-
ter Pfaﬀelhuber (University of Munich) Susanne Ren-
ner (University of Munich) Laura Rose (University of
Munich)
PhD students will also have the opportunity to par-
ticipate in a newly established Graduate Program in
Evolution, Ecology and Systematics (EES) at the Uni-
versity of Munich. This program is supported by
the Volkswagen Foundation and includes team-taught
courses for entering PhD students, a student-organized
external-speaker seminar series and yearly workshops
and excursions.
For more information about the Collaborative Research
Center, EES Program and details of the individual
projects and positions available, please visit the follow-
ing website:http://www.biologie.uni-muenchen.de/ou/-
sfbadaptation/index.htm Applications are now
being accepted. Pending ﬁnal approval, positions will
be available starting January 1, 2007, but will remain
open until ﬁlled. Applicants should specify which
project(s) and position(s) (Phd or postdoc) they wish
to be considered for and provide (preferably as PDF
ﬁles) a CV, statement of research interests/experience
and the name and contact information of 2 references.
Applicants for PhD positions should also provide a
transcript of their academic record. Informal inquiries
and formal applications should be sent to Pleuni
Pennings (pennings@lmu.de).
The University of Munich is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer and has an aﬃrma-
tive action policy for the disabled.
– Pleuni S. Pennings
* Program Coordinator of the Munich Graduate School
for Evolution, Ecology, and Systematics
* Postdoc in theoretical evolutionary biology
Evolutionary Biology, Department Biologie II Univer-
sity of Munich (LMU) Gro ˜Ahaderner Str. 2 D-82152
Planegg-Martinsried
Tel: 0049 89 2180 74 234 http://www.biologie.uni-
muenchen.de/ou/theopopgen/index.htm
pennings@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de skype: ple-
unipennings
pennings@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de
pennings@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de
Oulu Finland 7 PopGenet
The Finnish Graduate School in Population Genetics
announces seven new positions for PhD students. The
graduate school trains students in the broad area of
population genetics and the students are expected com-
plete a doctoral thesis in about four years. The stu-
dents entering the school should join a research project
led by one of the supervisors that are members of the
school. The research teams involved, their contact ad-
dresses, and the instructions concerning the application
are found at the web site http://cc.oulu.ﬁ/˜biolwww/-
PopGenSchool/ . The applications are due to October
27, 2006.
Pekka Pamilo Head of the Graduate School
pekka.pamilo (at) oulu.ﬁ24 EvolDir November 1, 2006
pekka.pamilo@oulu.ﬁ
Singapore ComputationalBiosci
Nanyang Technological University (College of Engineer-
ing), Singapore
PhD in Computational Bioscience
Multiple agent models of sexual selection
Description:
We take an in-depth study of how life self-organizes and
adapts to environmental changes in evolutionary biol-
ogy. In particular, the project will consider how mating
strategies adapt and stablize as an evolutionary multi-
player game. The objective is twofold: 1) to under-
stand and explain why males in many higher-organisms
are endowed with exaggerated courtship signals (e.g.
brightly coloured feathers) which reduce their survival
but are still preferred by females and 2) to use artiﬁ-
cial life models to study how strategies evolve through
the collective and coevolutionary dynamics of multiple
agents acting autonomously to maximize genetic ﬁt-
ness.This research will be done in collaboration with
the Centre for Mathematics and Physics in Life Sci-
ences and Experimental Biology (CoMPLEX) at Uni-
versity College London as well as the Department of
Biology at the National University of Singapore.
If you are interested please ap-
ply online at http://www.ntu.edu.sg/-
GradStudies/research+programmes/default.htm
for a graduate programme by research (leading to
a PhD), and email Dr. Tay Joc Cing at asjc-
tay@ntu.edu.sg.
The next intake will be in January 2007.
Min Requirements: 2nd Upper Hons and above in Com-
puter Science/ Engineering, Physics or Mathematics.
Salary: S$1400 - 1500/mth, On-campus accomodation
provided.
Type: Full time graduate student, 4 year programme.
ucbhpom@ucl.ac.uk ucbhpom@ucl.ac.ukUBasel SexualSelection
Division of Evolutionary Biology at the Zoological In-
stitute of the University of Basel, Switzerland
PhD position in Sperm competition, cryptic female
choice and sex allocation in hermaphrodites
The earliest starting date is December 2006.
A Phd position is available in the group of Dr. Lukas
Scharer. The research of our group focuses on repro-
ductive biology in simultaneous hermaphrodites, using
the free-living marine ﬂatworm Macrostomum lignano
as a model.
The speciﬁc aims are to better understand the mecha-
nisms of sperm competition and cryptic female choice in
hermaphrodites. Current evolutionary theory predicts
that such mechanisms of post-copulatory sexual selec-
tion can have a profound inﬂuence on the evolution of
sex allocation (i.e. how much a hermaphrodite invests
in male and female reproduction), but only limited em-
pirical data is currently available to test this theory. To
produce such data the successful candidate will carry
out laboratory experiments, molecular paternity anal-
yses, and ﬁeld work in the Mediterranean Sea.
Our group has recently moved to the Division of Evolu-
tionary Biology at the Zoological Institute of the Uni-
versity of Basel, Switzerland, a very stimulating and
highly international research environment with English
as the predominant language. There are groups work-
ing on host-parasite interactions, evolution of the im-
mune system, behavioural ecology of vertebrates, and
parent-oﬀspring conﬂict. Given the strong backgrounds
in experimental design, statistics, population genetics,
and quantitative genetics, it is an ideal place to study
for a PhD in evolutionary biology.
The successful candidate should be dedicated, inquis-
itive, creative, and collaborative. Moreover, he/she
should have a keen interest to learn about experimental
design and proper statistical analysis. Previous expe-
rience in molecular biology is an advantage, but not a
prerequisite. A MSc or equivalent education level is re-
quired for this position and the salary is in accordance
to the standards of the Swiss National Science Founda-
tion.
Basel is the third largest city of Switzerland and attrac-
tively situated at the foot of the Jura mountain range.
It has the beautiful river Rhine, directly borders bothNovember 1, 2006 EvolDir 25
Germany and France, and thus oﬀers rich culinary, cul-
tural, and outdoor possibilities.
To apply please send a CV, a copy of your MSc-
thesis (if available), and contact details of 1-2 referees
to lukas.scharer@unibas.ch (electronic applications are
preferred). The reviewing of your applications will start
on October 30, but candidates will be considered until
the position is ﬁlled.
For more details about our research please visit our
Homepage.
Lukas Scharer
Evolutionary Biology Zoologial Institute University of
Basel Vesalgasse 1 4051 Basel Switzerland
Tel: ++41 61 267 03 66 Fax: ++41 61
267 03 62 Email: lukas.scharer@unibas.ch Home-
page: http://evolution.unibas.ch/schaerer/index.htm
lukas.scharer@unibas.ch lukas.scharer@unibas.ch
ULouisianaMonroe
PhenotypicPlasticity
TEACHING/RESEARCH ASSISTANTSHIP (MS)
AVAILABLE.
The Department of Biology at the University of
Louisiana at Monroe is looking to recruit a student in-
terested in studying phenotypic plasticity in various ac-
cessions of Arabidopsis using a combination of qualita-
tive and quantitative methods. Applicants should have
an interest in botany and morphometrics, and have
good math and computer skills. Starting date for the
position is on or around January 15, 2007. The position
includes a full tuition waiver and stipend ($8,000 per
year) and requires the student to teach undergraduate
lab courses. Additional stipend funds may be available
from grants currently in review.
Monroe is a city of 56,000 people on the banks of the
Ouachita River in north-central Louisiana, and serves
as the educational, commercial, and economic hub of
the Delta parishes. ULM enrolls over 8,500 students,
and houses Herbarium NLU, one of the largest herbaria
in the south with over 450,000 specimens. The cost of
living is very reasonable, and the area tends to avoid
hurricanes.
We are looking for applicants with a minimum 3.0
undergraduate GPA and minimum 1000 GRE (v+q);
please note that these are above the minimum entrancerequirements for ULM (see below). Applicants lack-
ing graduate degrees in other biological areas will be
given preference. Interested students should contact ei-
ther Dr. Russ Minton (minton@ulm.edu) or Dr. Tom
Sasek (sasek@ulm.edu) for additional information and
speciﬁcs on applying. General information on the de-
partment, faculty, facilities, and course oﬀerings can be
found at http://www.ulm.edu/biology . Students seek-
ing admission to the Biology Graduate Program must
ﬁrst be admitted to the ULM Graduate School. Appli-
cation forms may be obtained online from the Oﬃce of
Graduate Studies and Research. In addition to a mini-
mum undergraduate GPA of 2.5, the Biology Graduate
Program requires either a score of 900 or higher on the
GRE General Test (combined verbal and quantitative
scores), or a total of 2400 points when the GPA is mul-
tiplied by the combined verbal and quantitative GRE
General Test scores. Students must also have taken
courses in introductory zoology, introductory botany,
introductory microbiology, ecology, genetics, and an up-
per level physiology class (animal, plant, human, or
cell). A limited number of course deﬁciencies can be
taken after admission.
Russ Minton, Ph.D. Assistant Professor, Department of
Biology University of Louisiana at Monroe Monroe, LA
71209-0520 ph: 318-342-1795 fax: 318-342-3312 http:/-
/www.ulm.edu/˜minton minton@ulm.edu
UMaryland EvolSystematics
*University** of Maryland** BEES Graduate Pro-
gram*
The interdisciplinary graduate program in Behavior,
Ecology, Evolution and Systematics (BEES) at Univer-
sity of Maryland is looking for exceptional Ph. D. can-
didates for the academic year 2007-2008. The BEES
program consists of over 50 faculty members. At Uni-
versity of Maryland the participating departments in-
clude: Animal and Avian Sciences, Anthropology, Biol-
ogy, Biological Resources Engineering, Cell Biology and
Molecular Genetics, Computer Sciences, Entomology,
Geology, Natural Resource Sciences, Philosophy, and
Psychology. We also have adjunct faculty from a num-
ber of aﬃliated institutions from the surrounding DC
metropolitan area including the Smithsonian Institute,
National Cancer Institute, UM Center for Advanced
Research in Biotechnology (UMBI), and USDA.
We oﬀer Darwin Fellowships to outstanding Ph. D.26 EvolDir November 1, 2006
candidates and have just instituted a new graduate fel-
lowship program to fund Ph. D. students planning on
being co-advised by a member of the Smithsonian ad-
junct faculty along with a BEES UM faculty member.
As a long-term member of the Organization for Tropi-
cal Studies (OTS), we encourage and fund participation
by our BEES graduate students in ﬁeld courses oﬀered
by OTS.
Please see our BEES program web site for more infor-
mation: http://bees.umd.edu <http://bees.umd.edu
Faculty accepting graduate students for the 2007-
2008 academic year are listed here: http://-
www.chemlife.umd.edu/grad/bees/fac accepting.html
Please feel free to contact us is you have any questions
at: beesoﬃce@umd.edu <mailto:beesoﬃce@umd.edu >
–
http://www.life.umd.edu/biology/dudashlab/-
dudashlabpage.html Michele R. Dudash Associate
Professor of Biology and Director of the Gradu-
ate Program in Behavior, Ecology, Evolution and
Systematics
Department of Biology, Room 3202 Biology Psychol-
ogy Building University of Maryland College Park, MD
20742
Oﬃce: 301-405-1642 Fax: 301-314-9358 Email: mdu-
dash@umd.edu
Summer Research Address:
Mountain Lake Biological Station 240 Salt Pond Road
Pembroke, VA 24136
Lab phone at MLBS is 540-626-5257 Fax at MLBS is
540-626-5229
“Peace and joy of having known them, with the sorrow
of the loss less debilitating”
Michele Dudash <mdudash@umd.edu >
UPadova EvolBiol
The Doctoral School in Biosciences (course in Evolu-
tionary Biology) of the University of Padova (Italy) an-
nounces a new position for a PhD student.
Topical focus Growth control and regulation during
the post-embryonic development of Lithobius forﬁcatus
(Chilopoda).
Background By investigating the generative mecha-nisms of organic forms, evolutionary developmental bi-
ology (evo-devo) speciﬁcally addresses a quite neglected
topic of the theory of evolution, that is, the origin of
variation, the row material for natural section. In the
evo-devo perspective, evolution is the change of devel-
opmental processes through time. Thus, the study of
the mechanisms of evolution and evolutionary history
goes through the analysis of organismal developmental
systems, in their relationship with the genetic devel-
opmental network and the physiological processes that
control them. In arthropods, during post-embryonic
development, body size increase occurs mainly in a
stepwise manner, as the ontogeny is punctuated by the
moulting cycle. Moreover, postembryonic development
of many arthropods is characterized, at lest for a few
early instars, by a progressive increase in the number
of body segments, moult after moult (anamorphic de-
velopment). The relationship between growth, segmen-
tation and moulting cycle, characterizes arthropod on-
togeny and it is at the basis of the evolution of arthro-
pod body plan.
Research project Through a breeding of Lithobius forﬁ-
catus (Chilopoda) under environmental controlled con-
dition and the analysis of developmental trajectories
referred to individual specimens (longitudinal analy-
sis), the project aims to investigate the evolvability of
the developmental system of regulation and control of
growth during the anamorphic phase of post-embryonic
development (the phase during which there is an in-
crease in the number of body segments). Biometrical
analyses involve in vivo measures of exoskeleton size
and body weight, as well as measures of endocrinologi-
cal parameters (temporal variation in the title of growth
and moulting hormones) and measures of cell prolifer-
ation and cell death.
The course will last 3 years (start 2nd January 2007).
Deadline for applications is October 25th 2006. For
foreign students, the position will be covered by a
scholarship fully founded by the Fondazione Cassa di
Risparmio di Padova e Rovigo. The successful candi-
date will be oﬀered full board and lodging. The con-
nected charges will be covered by the University of
Padova through the Fondazione Cassa di Risparmio di
Padova e Rovigo. Salary is about 830 Euros per month.
Information and instructions concerning the ap-
plication are found at the web site - <http:/-
/www.unipd.it/en/students/res doctorates.htm >
http://www.unipd.it/en/students/res doctorates.htm
For further information contact
Giuseppe Fusco, PhD Department of Biology Uni-
versity of Padova Via U. Bassi 58/B I-35131 Padova
Italy tel. +39.049.827.6238 fax +39.049.827.6230November 1, 2006 EvolDir 27
e-mail giuseppe.fusco@unipd.it webpage http://-
dept.bio.unipd.it/fusco
Giuseppe Fusco <giuseppe.fusco@unipd.it >
USouthFlorida Speciation
Ph.D. position available to study speciation
I have funding available for a graduate student begin-
ning Fall, 2007 to study various aspects of the process of
speciation and its relationship to patterns of biodiver-
sity. The student would join my laboratory in the De-
partment of Zoology at the University of Florida. The
overarching goal of this collaborative research project
is to link micro- and macroevolution using an excit-
ing new approach based on individual energetics. The
research will employ a combination of approaches, in-
cluding laboratory experimentation, ﬁeld studies, and
modeling. I am especially interested in ﬁnding students
that are inquisitive, creative, and collaborative to join
our exciting research program. The student will have
the opportunity to take part in all aspects of this re-
search, as well as collaborate with other students and
faculty from the department. Individuals from groups
underrepresented in science are especially encouraged
to apply.
For more information, please contact me via e-mail
(gillooly@zoo.uﬂ.edu), and take a look at my website.
I would be glad to chat with you. Also, feel free
to check out our departmental webpage for informa-
tion on graduate admissions ( http://www.zoo.uﬂ.edu/-
GRADUATE/appinfo.html ).
James F. Gillooly Assistant Professor Department
of Zoology University of Florida Gainesville, FL,
USA 32611-8525 Phone: 352-392-2743, fax: 352-392-
3704 web site: http://www.zoo.uﬂ.edu/gillooly Jamie
Gillooly <gillooly@zoo.uﬂ.edu >
UTurku PredatorPreyEvol
A PhD. STUDENT POSITION: to study predator-prey
interactions in a Finnish forest bird community. Uni-
versity of Turku, FinlandCurrently our research group is studying intra-guild
predation and competition between Tengmalm’s and
Pygmy owls in intensively managed forest landscape;
furthermore, we investigate passerine habitat selection
and reproductive investment decisions, and the conse-
quences (behavioural and evolutionary) of these deci-
sions relative to breeding owls and other avian preda-
tors. We are looking for a (non-Finnish) PhD student
with an MSc degree (or equivalent) to join our group
in these studies early in 2007. The candidate will be
able to continue within the already established stud-
ies. However, there is also scope for developing new
questions relating to the system, something we would
encourage. This is therefore an ideal opportunity for
a motivated PhD student eager to be involved in all
stages of developing a research project.
In general, you should have an interest in be-
havioural/evolutionary ecology and have some experi-
ence in conducting ﬁeldwork, preferably bird related.
You will work closely in the ﬁeld and oﬃce with a post-
doc, and other PhD and MSc level students. Fieldwork
(in the Kauhava/Lapua area, 350km north of Turku,
Finland) will typically last 3 months/year, with the re-
mainder of the time being spent at the Section of Ecol-
ogy, Dept. of Biology, Univ. of Turku, Finland.
Section homepage: http://www.sci.utu.ﬁ/biologia/-
en/ecology.html Research group homepage: http://-
users.utu.ﬁ/ekorpi/index.htm Some relevant informa-
tion can be found at http://users.utu.ﬁ/robtho/
Initially this position has funding for 1 year ( ~
1100/month). Several possibilities exist for applying
for additional funding once the candidate is in Finland.
Please note that non-Finns that have been living in
Finland for longer than 1 year are not eligible for this
position.
For more information or to apply, please send a short
cover letter with motivation for this project, CV and
two references by email to: Erkki Korpim¨ aki (eko-
rpi@utu.ﬁ) and Robert L. Thomson (robtho@utu.ﬁ)
not later than 30.11.2006.
robtho@utu.ﬁ robtho@utu.ﬁ
UVienna BotanicalSystematics
Ph.D position in the department of Systematics and
Evolutionary Botany, Univ. of Vienna Austria. Its a
collaborative project between Austria and Royal Botan-
ical Gardens, Kew, UK. The title of the project is28 EvolDir November 1, 2006
“Molecular Phylogeny and chromosomal evolution in
Polystachya (Orchidaceae), its a three grant from Aus-
trian Science Foundation (FWF). Requirement will be
knowledge in plant taxonomy, some experience in DNA
sequencing and basic on cytology. To register as a Ph.D
student in University of Vienna one should have a recog-
nised M.Sc. degree.
Thank you.
sincerely
Ao. Univ. Prof. Dr. Rosabelle Samuel De-
partment of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany
Faculty of Life Sciences University of Vienna Ren-
nweg 14 A-1030, Vienna, Austria Phone: 00431-
4277-54162 or 54129 Fax : 00431-4277-9541 email:
mary.rosabella.samuel@univie.ac.at
Rose Samuel <mary.rosabella.samuel@univie.ac.at >
UZurich PlantMolSyst
Ph.D. ASSISTANTSHIP IN PLANT MOLECULAR
SYSTEMATICS/ EVOLUTIONARY ECOLOGY
POSITION DESCRIPTION: ONE 50%, 3-year Ph.D.
Assistantship is available in the area of Plant Molec-
ular Systematics/Evolutionary Ecology at the Insti-
tute of Systematic Botany of the University of Zurich,
under the supervision of Prof. Elena Conti. The
Ph.D. project will focus on hybridization and/or the
evolution of breeding systems in the genus Primula
by using a combination of macro-evolutionary (phy-
logenetics) and micro-evolutionary (population genet-
ics; ﬁeld experiments; pollination biology) approaches,
in relation to the speciﬁc interests and strengths
of the selected applicant. For further information,
see: http://www.systbot.unizh.ch/institut/personen/-
person.php?l=d&id=24 DEADLINE FOR APPLICA-
TION: November 15, 2006. If needed, the position
will remain open until a suitable candidate is found.
STARTING DATE: Between Jan. 1 and February 1,
2007. A starting date of March 1 could be considered
under special circumstances. REQUIREMENTS: Per-
spective students are expected to have received their
Master’s degree or equivalent by the start of the Ph.D.
program. Good knowledge of English and German
highly desirable. The ideal candidate will have docu-
mented experience/knowledge in one or more of the fol-
lowing areas: molecular biology, phylogeny reconstruc-
tion, population genetics, evolutionary ecology, plantbreeding systems, pollination biology. The selected
candidate will be expected to help in teaching (3 to 5
hours weekly average, for 4-5 months per year) and in
writing proposals to help fund his/her research. HOW
TO APPLY: Send the following by regular mail to Prof.
Elena Conti, Institute for Systematic Botany, Zollik-
erstrasse 107, 8008, Zurich, Switzerland: I) a one- to
two-page application letter addressing, but not limited
to the following questions: a) Why are you interested
in a Ph.D. in this research area? b) What are your
career goals? II) Your detailed curriculum vitae, in-
cluding a detailed list of ﬁeld collecting, molecular, an-
alytical, and linguistic skills, presentations at scientiﬁc
meetings, and publications (if applicable); III) a copy
of your undergraduate and graduate academic records,
with grades and explanation of the grading system; IV)
two or three letters from your academic advisors ad-
dressing: a) your intellectual and academic skills; b)
your dedication to science; c) your ability to work co-
operatively in a team. Please, follow the directions for
application carefully. Incomplete applications will not
be further considered. FACILITIES: The Institute for
Plant Systematics of the University of Zurich oﬀers ex-
cellent research facilities in an international and stim-
ulating academic environment. Located in the heart of
Europe, Zurich oﬀers all the cultural opportunities of a
major European city in close proximity to the Alps.
–
Prof. Elena Conti, Ph.D. University of Zuerich, Insti-
tute for Systematic Botany Zollikerstrasse 107, 8008
Zuerich, SWITZERLAND Ph: 0041 1 634 8424 Fax:
0041 1 634 84 03 email: ContiElena@access.unizh.ch
http://www.systbot.unizh.ch/institut/personen/-
person.php?l=d&id=24
ContiElena@access.unizh.ch
UZurich SystBotany
Ph.D. ASSISTANTSHIP IN PLANT MOLECULAR
SYSTEMATICS/ EVOLUTIONARY ECOLOGY
POSITION DESCRIPTION: ONE 50%, 3-year Ph.D.
Assistantship is available in the area of Plant Molec-
ular Systematics/Evolutionary Ecology at the Insti-
tute of Systematic Botany of the University of Zurich,
under the supervision of Prof. Elena Conti. The
Ph.D. project will focus on hybridization and/or the
evolution of breeding systems in the genus Primula
by using a combination of macro-evolutionary (phy-November 1, 2006 EvolDir 29
logenetics) and micro-evolutionary (population genet-
ics; ﬁeld experiments; pollination biology) approaches,
in relation to the speciﬁc interests and strengths
of the selected applicant. For further information,
see: http://www.systbot.unizh.ch/institut/personen/-
person.php?l=d&id=24 DEADLINE FOR APPLICA-
TION: November 15, 2006. If needed, the position
will remain open until a suitable candidate is found.
STARTING DATE: Between Jan. 1 and February 1,
2007. A starting date of March 1 could be considered
under special circumstances. REQUIREMENTS: Per-
spective students are expected to have received their
Master’s degree or equivalent by the start of the Ph.D.
program. Good knowledge of English and German
highly desirable. The ideal candidate will have docu-
mented experience/knowledge in one or more of the fol-
lowing areas: molecular biology, phylogeny reconstruc-
tion, population genetics, evolutionary ecology, plant
breeding systems, pollination biology. The selected
candidate will be expected to help in teaching (3 to 5
hours weekly average, for 4-5 months per year) and in
writing proposals to help fund his/her research. HOW
TO APPLY: Send the following by regular mail to Prof.
Elena Conti, Institute for Systematic Botany, Zollik-
erstrasse 107, 8008, Zurich, Switzerland: I) a one- to
two-page application letter addressing, but not limited
to the following questions: a) Why are you interested
in a Ph.D. in this research area? b) What are your
career goals? II) Your detailed curriculum vitae, in-
cluding a detailed list of ﬁeld collecting, molecular, an-
alytical, and linguistic skills, presentations at scientiﬁc
meetings, and publications (if applicable); III) a copy
of your undergraduate and graduate academic records,
with grades and explanation of the grading system; IV)
two or three letters from your academic advisors ad-
dressing: a) your intellectual and academic skills; b)
your dedication to science; c) your ability to work co-
operatively in a team. Please, follow the directions for
application carefully. Incomplete applications will not
be further considered. FACILITIES: The Institute for
Plant Systematics of the University of Zurich oﬀers ex-
cellent research facilities in an international and stim-
ulating academic environment. Located in the heart of
Europe, Zurich oﬀers all the cultural opportunities of a
major European city in close proximity to the Alps.
–
Prof. Elena Conti, Ph.D. University of Zuerich, Insti-
tute for Systematic Botany Zollikerstrasse 107, 8008
Zuerich, SWITZERLAND Ph: 0041 1 634 8424 Fax:
0041 1 634 84 03 email: ContiElena@access.unizh.ch
http://www.systbot.unizh.ch/institut/personen/-
person.php?l=d&id=24
ContiElena@access.unizh.chUppsalaU EvolEcol
PhD position in Evolutionary Ecology Evolutionary
consequences of environmental change
A 4-year PhD position is available in the department
of Ecology and Evolution / Limnology at Uppsala Uni-
versity. The student can choose between two projects,
depending on interests and skills: 1. Evolutionary re-
sponses to changed selection on the threespined stick-
leback in the Baltic Sea. 2. The evolutionary con-
sequences of the invasion of round gobies (Neogobius
melanostomus) into the Baltic Sea.
In the ﬁrst project, the student would work in close col-
laboration with two other PhD students investigating
the eﬀects of eutrophication on Baltic Sea sticklebacks.
Present results show that changed environmental con-
ditions aﬀect the density and reproductive output of
reproducing individuals and the selection on individ-
ual traits. However, whether an evolutionary response
will occur depends on the heritability of the traits and
on gene ﬂow. Sexual selection is assumed to facilitate
adaptation to new conditions, but harsh conditions may
reduce heritability and sexual selection can impose a ﬁt-
ness cost on the population. The work would include
both behavioural and genetic work, carried out in the
lab and in the ﬁeld. Fish populations from diﬀerent
parts of the Baltic Sea, suﬀering to diﬀerent degrees
from eutrophication, will be considered.
In the second project, the student would start a new
project together with the supervisor, and work in col-
laboration with other groups investigating the round
goby both in the Baltic Sea and in the Great Lakes in
North America. The project would focus either on the
eﬀects on native species or on phenotypic and evolution-
ary changes in the invader as it colonizes new areas.
The salary will follow the scheme of Uppsala University
(rising from approx 15 000 to 22 000 SEK/month in 4
years). A MSc or equivalent education level is required.
The student will be based in Uppsala with part of the
ﬁeld work carried out at Tv¨ arminne Zoological Station
in Finland (University of Helsinki). The position will
start at the earliest possible date.
Interested candidates should send an application letter,
a CV, a brief summary of research experience and in-
terests, and the contact details of at least two referees
by November 27th 2006 to ulrika.candolin@ebc.uu.se.30 EvolDir November 1, 2006
Ulrika Candolin Dept of Ecology and Evolu-
tion/Limnology, Uppsala University Box 573,
SE-752 37 Uppsala, Sweden Phone: +46-18-471
2701, E-mail: ulrika.candolin@ebc.uu.se, http:/-
/www.ebc.uu.se/limno/ http://www.helsinki.ﬁ/-
bioscience/hsg/index.htm ucandoli@mappi.helsinki.ﬁ
ucandoli@mappi.helsinki.ﬁ
Wageningen Celegans
Graduate position:
PhD position DPW 06-33 Gene-environment interac-
tions in Caenorhabditis elegans.
Wageningen University and Research Centre, The
Netherlands.
Job description ——- Environmental variation is an im-
portant driver of evolution. Gene-environment interac-
tions are at the heart of this selection process aﬀect-
ing traits in numerous organisms. Goal of the project
is to identify gene-environment interactions underlying
complex traits in the soil nematode Caenorhabditis el-
egans.. The characterization of genes will be performed
in natural as well as laboratory populations using quan-
titative genetic and genomical approaches. The PhD
candidate will investigate the genetic variation of gene
expression (genetical genomics) in laboratory strains of
C. elegans exposed to diﬀerent environmental condi-
tions. Natural ﬁeld populations of C. elegans. will be
assessed for comparative gene expression in response to
selected soil parameters. Traits to be studied can be
body size, feeding behaviour and mobility in response
to anoxia, temperature, pH and toxic stressors.
Requirements ——- MSc degree in Biology, genetical
and/or evolutionary sciences or comparable education
experience in genetic mapping and knowledge of bioin-
formatics is preferred good writing (English) and com-
munication skills accurate, systematic worker
Organization ——- Wageningen University and Re-
searchcentre, Laboratory of Nematology
Conditions of employment ——- Estimated maximum
salary per month: eur 2000 - 2500 Employment basis:
Temporary for speciﬁed period Duration of the con-
tract: 1-4 years Maximum hours per week: 38
Additional conditions of employment: Temporary con-
tract for 1 year. After a positive evaluation of this ﬁrst
year an extension of 3 years will be given. Salary from1933, in the ﬁrst year to 2472, in the fourth year, per
month, based on full time employment.
Additional Information ——- Additional information
about the vacancy can be obtained from:
Dr. Jan E. Kammenga, Laboratory of Nema-
tology, Wageningen University, Binnenhaven 5,
6709 PD, Wageningen, The Netherlands, Tel:
+31 317 482998/482197, Fax: +31 317 484254,
email: Jan.Kammenga@wur.nl, website: http://-
www.nem.wur.nl/UK/Staﬀ/Kammenga/ No rights
can be obtained from this notiﬁcation.
Dr. Jan. E. Kammenga Laboratory of Nematology Wa-
geningen University Binnenhaven 5 6709 PD, Wagenin-
gen The Netherlands Tel: +31 317 482998/482197 ax:
+31 317 484254
Wageningen Celegans GeneExpr
PhD position DPW 06-40 Plasticity of global gene ex-
pression in Caenorhabditis elegans.
Wageningen University and Research Centre, The
Netherlands.
Job description ——- Recent studies have shown that
mRNA levels for many genes are heritable and that
master regulators aﬀect the expression levels of hun-
dreds of genes. Whether environment-induced response
of gene expression also shows heritable variation is un-
known. To answer this question we look for a PhD
student who unravels gene expression plasticity to var-
ious environmental variables in trhe nematode C. ele-
gans. Central in these studies will be the identiﬁcation
of regulatory genes of expression plasticity.
Requirements ——- MSc degree in Biology, genetical
and/or evolutionary sciences or comparable education
experience in genetic mapping and knowledge of bioin-
formatics is preferred good writing (English) and com-
munication skills accurate, systematic worker
Organization ——- Wageningen University and Re-
searchcentre, Laboratory of Nematology
Conditions of employment ——- Estimated maximum
salary per month: eur 2000 - 2500 Employment basis:
Temporary for speciﬁed period Duration of the con-
tract: 1-4 years Maximum hours per week: 38
Additional conditions of employment: Temporary con-
tract for 1 year. After a positive evaluation of this ﬁrst
year an extension of 3 years will be given. Salary fromNovember 1, 2006 EvolDir 31
1933, in the ﬁrst year to 2472, in the fourth year, per
month, based on full time employment.
Additional Information ——- Additional information
about the vacancy can be obtained from:
Dr. Jan E. Kammenga, Laboratory of Nema-
tology, Wageningen University, Binnenhaven 5,
6709 PD, Wageningen, The Netherlands, Tel:
+31 317 482998/482197, Fax: +31 317 484254,
email: Jan.Kammenga@wur.nl, website: http://-
www.nem.wur.nl/UK/Staﬀ/Kammenga/ No rights
can be obtained from this notiﬁcation.
Zurich PlantEvolutioanryGenetics
ETH Zurich: PhD position: “molecular basis of plant-
pollinator interactions”
A PhD position funded by the Swiss Federal Institute of
Technology (ETH) Z¨ urich is available at the plant eco-
logical genetics group to study the molecular basis and
evolutionary ecology of plant-pollinator interactions in
Ophrys. The project will focus on the identiﬁcation
and evolutionary patters of genes encoding key odor
compounds for pollinator-mediated reproductive isola-
tion. I am looking for a candidate with a background
in molecular biology (ecology) or biochemistry, or ecol-
ogy/evolution with good knowledge of molecular tech-
niques. Experience in growing orchids is an advantage.The project is embedded in a larger framework of evolu-
tionary studies in Ophrys and Silene performed in our
group ( www.peg.ethz.ch ). We are currently a group
of 3 academic staﬀ, two PostDoc, and 7 PhD students
that investigate topics such as pollinator mediated se-
lection, reproductive isolation, hybridisation, and habi-
tat adaptation. Our institute houses modern molecu-
lar and chemical ecology labs, including a wind tunnel
for behavioural experiments with pollinators. Green-
houses and growth chambers for plant cultivation are
also available.
Z¨ urich has a large and very active research community
at the ETH (www.ethz.ch <http://www.ethz.ch/ >)
and the University of Z¨ urich (www.unizh.ch <http:/-
/www.unizh.ch/ >) dealing with various aspects of
organismal and molecular biology ( www.lifescience-
zurich.ch <http://www.lifescience-zurich.ch/ >). The
city also oﬀers excellent quality of life through active
cultural programs and infrastructure, as well as an at-
tractive surrounding including the alps in proximity.
If you are interested, please send a letter describing your
motivation for the application, C.V., copy of degrees,
publications (manuscripts) if any, and e-mail addresses
of two academic referees (applications by e-mail pre-
ferred) by 30. November 2006. If you have further
questions, don‘t hesitate to contact me.
PD Dr. Florian Schiestl Plant Ecological Genetics / In-
stitute of Integrative Biology ETH Universit¨ atsstrasse
16 CH-8092 Z¨ urich ﬂorian.schiestl@env.ethz.ch
ﬂorian.schiestl@env.ethz.ch
Jobs
AmerMuseumNatHist Programmer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
BucknellU Genetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
BuﬀaloStateC EvolPlantBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Cincinnati InvasiveSpeciesEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
ColoradoStateU PlantEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
ColumbiaU EvolLandscapeEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
DukeU BaboonEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
DuquesneU EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Edinburgh EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35EmoryU DiseaseEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
FloridaStateU GenotypeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
ImperialCollegeLondon EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
IowaStateU EvolOfOrganisms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
JohnCurtinSchoolMed Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
KentStateU EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Kingston Tasmania PopGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
NCStateMuseum DirectorResearchCollections . . . . . 39
NorthCarolinaStateU 2 Genetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4032 EvolDir November 1, 2006
OhioStateU WorkﬂowProgrammer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Paris EvolEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
ScrippsInst MuseumScientist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
UArizona EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
UArkansas EvolGlobalChangeBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UBritishColumbia EvolTheory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UCSantaCruz PlantEvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UC Merced Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UCaliforniaSantaBarbara EvolTheory . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UColoradoBoulder VertebrateCurator . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
UConnecticut Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
UGeorgia EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
UGuelph BarcodingTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
UIdaho ReproductiveBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
UIllinois GenomicsBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47UKentucky BiologyChair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
UKonstanz EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
UKwaZuluNatal PlantMolSyst . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
UKwaZuluNatal PlantMolSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
UMaryland Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
USouthFlorida 2 EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
USouthernCalifornia CompBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
UWashington MathematicalBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
UWyoming FunctionalGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
UWyoming MolEvolMicrobes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
UniversityCollegeLondon ResearchTechnician . . . . . . 54
WashingtonStateU MolAnthropology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
WilliamMaryC ConservationBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
AmerMuseumNatHist Programmer
The American Museum of Natural History
(www.amnh.org ) seeks to ﬁll a programmer posi-
tion for bioinformatics applications. Candidates
should hold a Computer Science or engineering BS or
MS degree. Experience with medium sized to large
applications is required, preferable in a functional
language (ML, Lisp, Haskell, Ocaml), though not
necessary (if selected, the programmer is expected to
learn the OCaml language). Experience in parallel
computing desirable. Experience in UNIX/LINUX
environments is imperative. Competitive salary +
Museum’s beneﬁts, in an academic environment. The
position is open until ﬁlled (as soon as possible).
Candidates should contact Dr. Ward Wheeler
(wheeler@amnh.org) for more information.
Andres Varon <avaron@amnh.org >
BucknellU Genetics
BUCKNELL UNIVERSITY BIOLOGY DEPART-
MENT
Geneticist
The Biology Department at Bucknell University invites
applications for an entry-level, tenure-track AssistantProfessor position to begin August 2007. We are seek-
ing a broadly trained geneticist who could teach an
upper-level course in his/her area of specialty, con-
tribute to our core genetics course, and participate in
interdisciplinary programs. The successful candidate is
expected to establish a research program that involves
talented undergraduates and attracts extramural fund-
ing. Ph.D., postdoctoral experience, evidence of teach-
ing eﬀectiveness, and a strong research record are re-
quired. Bucknell University is a premier liberal arts
university with a long-standing tradition of excellence
in the sciences. Start-up funds and internal funding for
research are available. To apply, please refer to website:
http://www.bucknell.edu/jobs . Review of applications
will begin on October 20, 2006. The search will remain
open until the position is ﬁlled.
An Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer,
Bucknell University especially welcomes applications
from women and minority candidates.
Science Pedagogist
The Biology Department at Bucknell University invites
applications for a tenure-track Assistant/Associate
Professor to begin August 2007. We are seeking a
broadly trained biologist with a specialty in science
pedagogy who will teach non-major courses and par-
ticipate in the development of new science curricular
initiatives. The successful candidate is expected to es-
tablish a research program in college science pedagogy
that involves talented undergraduates and attracts ex-
tramural funding. Ph.D., postdoctoral experience, ev-
idence of teaching eﬀectiveness, and a strong research
record are required. Bucknell University is a premier
liberal arts university with a long-standing tradition of
excellence in the sciences. Start-up funds and internal
funding for research are available. To apply, please re-
fer to website: http://www.bucknell.edu/jobs . ReviewNovember 1, 2006 EvolDir 33
of applications will begin on November 3, 2006. The
search will remain open until the position is ﬁlled.
An Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer,
Bucknell University especially welcomes applications
from women and minority candidates.
Steve Jordan Department of Biology Bucknell Uni-
versity Lewisburg, PA 17837 Oﬃce: 310 Bio.
Bldg. +1 570-577-1254 Lab: 331 Bio. Bldg.
+1 570-524-3816 Fax: +1 570-577-3537 http://-
www.facstaﬀ.bucknell.edu/sdjordan/jordan.html
sdjordan@bucknell.edu sdjordan@bucknell.edu
BuﬀaloStateC EvolPlantBiol
Evolutionary Plant Biologist Assistant Professor
Buﬀalo State College, tenure-track assistant profes-
sor, Biology Department, to begin September 1, 2007.
Competitive salary. Buﬀalo State College oﬀers green-
house facilities, a teaching herbarium, and access to a
variety of ﬁeld facilities.
Responsibilities: Teach evolution and plant biol-
ogy courses at undergraduate and graduate level.
Develop plant biology research program involving
undergraduate- and master’s-level students. Teach
courses in Intellectual Foundations curriculum. Service
to department and college.
Required Qualiﬁcations: Doctoral degree in biological
sciences. Broad training and research experience in
plant biology with strong background in evolutionary
biology.
Preferred Qualiﬁcations: Postdoctoral research and/or
teaching experience. Research involving evolution,
ecology, or physiology of plants.
Review of applications will begin December 1, 2006 and
continue until position is ﬁlled. Send letter of applica-
tion, curriculum vitae, statement of teaching and re-
search interests, and contact information for 3 profes-
sional references to: Search Committee Chair, Biology
Department, Buﬀalo State College, SC 314, 1300 Elm-
wood Ave., Buﬀalo, NY 14222-1095. For more infor-
mation about the college, visit www.buﬀalostate.edu
.Buﬀalo State is an aﬃrmative action/equal opportu-
nity employer.
Amy McMillan, Ph.D. Biology Department Buﬀalo
State College 1300 Elmwood Ave. Buﬀalo, NY 14222
716-878-3756 phone 716-878-4028 faxMCMILLAM@buﬀalostate.edu MCMIL-
LAM@buﬀalostate.edu
Cincinnati InvasiveSpeciesEvol
The Ecological Exposure Research Division ( http://-
www.epa.gov/eerd/ ) of US EPA’s National Exposure
Research Laboratory is seeking an individual with
a Master’s degree or higher to support research at
their Cincinnati, OH facility on the utilization of ge-
netic tools for the detection and monitoring of inva-
sive species. This work will include (1) the develop-
ment of ’DNA barcode’ reference libraries for species
established in United States Paciﬁc estuaries and in
the Great Lakes; (2) the development of qualitative
and quantitative PCR-based approaches for screening
environmental samples (plankton, benthos and ballast
water) for the presence of target invasive species; (3)
the exploration of DNA-methods (such as community
shotgun sequencing, community ﬁngerprinting, and mi-
croarray approaches) for characterization of biodiver-
sity in environmental samples; and (4) the exploration
of ’next generation’ methods for DNA-based identi-
ﬁcation and monitoring, including PCR-independent
approaches. For a full announcement of the posi-
tion and instructions for application, visit http://-
www.epa.gov/oamrtpnc/q0700008/index.htm . John
Darling NERL Postdoctoral Fellow Molecular Ecology
Research Branch US EPA 26 Martin Luther King Drive
Cincinnati, OH 45268 (513) 569-7865
ColoradoStateU PlantEvol
Plant Evolutionary Biologist Department of Biology,
Colorado State University www.colostate.edu/Depts/-
Biology The Biology Department invites applications
for a tenure-track position (ASSISTANT PROFES-
SOR) in plant evolutionary biology to join a growing
group of evolutionary biologists. We seek a broadly
trained plant biologist who addresses fundamental and
integrative questions in evolutionary biology. Appli-
cants should be well-versed in genetics, with the pos-
sibility of applying genomic tools to organismal ques-
tions. Examples of appropriate research interests could
include evolution of morphology and life histories, mat-34 EvolDir November 1, 2006
ing systems, population genetics and adaptation, hy-
bridization and speciation, invasive species, and con-
servation biology. The successful candidate will be ex-
pected to develop an extramurally funded research pro-
gram and contribute to undergraduate and graduate
teaching. Applicants must have a Ph.D. by the time of
appointment; post-doctoral experience is preferred. To
receive full consideration, apply online by November 8,
2006 ( www.natsci.colostate.edu/searches/Biology ). In-
clude a C.V., statements of research/teaching interests,
representative publications and the names and con-
tact information for three referees. Referees will re-
ceive instructions by e-mail for submitting letters on-
line, or may mail letters to Plant Evolutionary Biology
Search Committee, Department of Biology, Colorado
State University, Fort Collins CO 80523-1878. Com-
plete applications of semi-ﬁnalists will be reviewed by
all faculty in the Department. CSU is an AA/EO Em-
ployer. Oﬃce of Equal Opportunity and Diversity, 101
Student Services.
– John McKay Bioagricultural Sciences and Pest Man-
agement C129 Plant Sciences Building Fort Collins, CO
80523
oﬃce 970 491 5730 lab 970 491 0259 cell 970 402 4828
fax 970 491 3862 email jkmckay@colostate.edu
jkmckay@lamar.colostate.edu
ColumbiaU EvolLandscapeEcol
Evolutionary Landscape Biologist
Columbia University’s Department of Ecology, Evo-
lution, and Environmental Biology seeks to appoint
a landscape biologist at the Assistant Professor level.
Among evolutionary biologists, an eligible candidate
might, for example, study biogeography, or evolution-
ary or population genetics, as long as the research pro-
gram includes landscape-scale spatial analysis. The
successful candidate will be expected to establish a
vigorous, externally funded research program comple-
menting and augmenting existing strengths within E3B
and related institutions ( www.columbia.edu/cu/e3b/-
job) and to participate in undergraduate and gradu-
ate teaching. Candidates should send statements of re-
search and teaching, curriculum vitae, and contacts for
3 or more referees to Marina Cords, E3B Search Com-
mittee Chair, Columbia University, 1200 Amsterdam
Avenue, MC 5557, New York, NY 10027, by November
20. A single pdf ﬁle of these materials should also besent to eeeb-facsearch@columbia.edu. Ph.D. required
at time of appointment. Applications from women and
minorities are encouraged. Columbia University is an
Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer.
Marina Cords, Professor Department of Ecology, Evo-
lution and Environmental Biology Columbia University
10th ﬂoor, 1200 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY
10027
Marina Cords <mc51@columbia.edu >
DukeU BaboonEvol
*Position* Database Technician *Field* Amboseli Ba-
boon Research Project *Institution* Duke University
*Contact* Leah Gerber, lgerber@duke.edu
*Description* The Department of Biology at Duke Uni-
versity seeks a full-time research specialist for work
on the Amboseli Baboon Research Project. Position
entails maintaining and updating a large, relational
database containing long-term behavioral, ecological,
and demographic data from a ﬁeld study of wild ba-
boons. Maintenance of the database stresses accuracy,
integrity, and precise protocol documentation for the
addition of new data and revision of current datasets.
Data extraction and statistical analysis will be required
for use in presentations, grant proposals, and publi-
cations. Ability to coordinate with project collabora-
tors and assist in the supervision of undergraduate and
graduate student research projects is necessary, espe-
cially when PI is in the ﬁeld.
*Requirement*s: Bachelors degree in relevant ﬁeld,
course work and research experience in behavioral ecol-
ogy and evolutionary biology, experience with relational
database management, ability to perform elementary
statistics, and excellent organizational skills. Familiar-
ity with Windows-based and/or UNIX-based computer
programs and SQL a plus.
To apply, please send resume by email (preferred) to
lgerber@duke.edu or to Leah Gerber, Department of Bi-
ology, Box 90338, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708.
lgerber@duke.eduNovember 1, 2006 EvolDir 35
DuquesneU EvolBiol
Duquesne University invites applications for a tenure-
track position in the Department of Biological Sciences.
The successful applicant is expected to develop a vigor-
ous independent research program involving the study
of molecular, cellular, and/or organismal processes. Ar-
eas of interest include, but are not limited to, cell biol-
ogy, development, immunology, and physiology.
The successful candidate will join an active department
of 17 faculty members with a commitment to combining
externally funded research with excellence in teaching
at both the graduate and undergraduate levels. Ap-
plicants must have post-doctoral experience, and are
expected to mentor MS and PhD students. Hiring is
expected to be at the Assistant Professor level; how-
ever, more senior candidates may also be considered.
Competitive salary and start-up packages are available.
Additional information about the Department can be
found at http://www.science.duq.edu/biology .
To apply, send a cover letter, CV, statements of re-
search and teaching goals, and three letters of recom-
mendation to: Dr. Michael Jensen-Seaman, Biology
Faculty Search Committee, Department of Biological
Sciences, 201 Mellon Hall, 600 Forbes Avenue, Pitts-
burgh, PA 15282. Review of applications will begin
December 15, 2006.
Please direct inquiries about the position to Michael
Jensen-Seaman at seamanm@duq.edu .
Duquesne University was founded in 1878 by its spon-
soring religious community, the Congregation of the
Holy Spirit. Duquesne University is Catholic in mis-
sion and ecumenical in spirit. Motivated by its Catholic
identity, Duquesne values equality of opportunity both
as an educational institution and as an employer.
seamanm@duq.edu seamanm@duq.edu
Edinburgh EvolBiol
Three RCUK Fellowships in Complexity Science have
been advertised on the University of Edinburgh jobs
website, and will shortly be advertised in Nature:http://www.jobs.ed.ac.uk/vacancies/-
index.cfm?fuseaction=vacancies.detail&vacancy ref=-
3006450
These positions are essentially permanent lectureships,
with the ﬁrst ﬁve years free for research. One post may
be available in evolutionary biology; for further details,
please contact
A.J.Leigh-Brown@ed.ac.uk A.J.Leigh-Brown@ed.ac.uk
EmoryU DiseaseEvolution
Disease Ecologist
The Department of Biology at Emory University is
seeking to recruit an ecologist who studies the fun-
damental ecological processes aﬀecting the dynamics,
spread and emergence of infectious diseases. The de-
partment will consider applicants holding a Ph.D. or
equivalent degree from a wide range of specializations
including, but not limited to: (i) theoretical and/or
experimental work on the population dynamics of in-
fectious diseases and/or the immune response within
a host; (ii) molecular ecology and epidemiology of in-
fectious disease; and (iii) experimental and ﬁeld stud-
ies of pathogen-host interactions. The position is for a
tenure-track assistant professor, although an appoint-
ment at a higher rank will be considered in excep-
tional circumstances. Applicants must provide evidence
that they will develop a strong, independently funded
research program. A commitment to undergraduate
teaching is expected and the appointees will also par-
ticipate in appropriate Ph.D. granting programs of the
interdepartmental Graduate Division of Biological and
Biomedical Sciences.
Applicants should submit a curriculum vitae and a
statement detailing their current and future research
plans, and arrange for submission of three letters of
recommendation. Please address applications to: Dr.
Leslie A. Real, Disease Ecology Search, Department
of Biology, Emory University, 1510 Clifton Road, At-
lanta, GA 30322; Tel: (404) 727-4234; Fax: (404) 727-
2880; E-mail: biol srch@emory.edu. Review of com-
pleted applications will begin November 15, 2006. In-
formation on the Biology Department can be found
athttp://www.biology.emory.edu and a description
of the graduate programs in the Graduate Division
of Biological and Biomedical Sciences is provided at
http:// www.biomed.emory.edu/ tschlen@emory.edu36 EvolDir November 1, 2006
tschlen@emory.edu
FloridaStateU GenotypeEvolution
Florida State Universtiy, Department of Biological Sci-
ence INTEGRATING GENOTYPE AND PHENO-
TYPE
The Department of Biological Science invites applica-
tions from molecular and evolutionary geneticists work-
ing to understand the relationship between genotype
and phenotype. Eight tenure-track positions at all
ranks will be ﬁlled. Two types of applications are being
solicited: (1) individual candidates interested in build-
ing an interactive group of faculty and (2) self-identiﬁed
groups of candidates at any level whose research col-
lectively ﬁts the mission of the initiative. Emphasis
will be placed on hiring groups or individuals exploring
gene regulatory mechanisms and their consequences for
phenotypic variation and evolutionary change, includ-
ing, but not limited to, epigenetics, regulatory RNAs,
chromatin biology, comparative genomics, quantitative
genetics, and developmental biology. This initiative co-
incides with the construction of a new Life Science Re-
search and Teaching Building and is part of the Path-
ways of Excellence Program aimed at propelling FSU
into the top rank of public universities.
To apply, please submit electronic copies (PDF ﬁles
preferred) of a cover letter, curriculum vitae, state-
ments of research and teaching interests, and the names
and e-mail addresses of four references to Dr. David
Houle, Chair, Genotype-Phenotype Search Committee,
e-mail genphensearch@bio.fsu.edu. Group applications
should, in addition, identify a primary contact person
and provide a brief description of the integrative nature
of the group and the anticipated collaborative interac-
tions among its members. Informal inquiries about sub-
mitting group applications are encouraged before sub-
mission.
For detailed information please visit http://-
www.bio.fsu.edu/genphensearch/ Review of ap-
plications will begin December 8, 2006.
FSU is an AA/EO employer. Applications from minor-
ity and female candidates are especially encouraged.
David Houle
Phone: 850-645-0388 FAX: 850-644-9829 http://-
bio.fsu.edu/˜dhoule/ Department of Biological Science
Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306-1100dhoule@bio.fsu.edu dhoule@bio.fsu.edu
ImperialCollegeLondon EvolBiol
Lecturer/Senior Lecturer in Ecology & Evolutionary
Biology (2 posts)
Imperial College London Division of Biology Silwood
Park Campus
Salary: Lecturer scale £37,290 - £41,650 per annum,
Senior Lecturer scale £46,000 per annum upwards
Imperial College is ranked in the top ten universities of
the world, according to the 2006 Times Higher Educa-
tion Supplement league tables.
We seek to appoint two new permanent members of
academic staﬀ in the Division of Biology. We will wel-
come applications from talented researchers in any area
of ecological, evolutionary, conservation or environmen-
tal biology but we particularly encourage applications
from candidates in the ﬁelds of community, landscape
and complex systems ecology; molecular ecology; exper-
imental ﬁeld and microcosm ecology; population ecol-
ogy; and the biological consequences of environmental
change. The positions are also open across microbial,
plant and animal systems.
The Division of Biology is an RAE 5* department in the
Faculty of Natural Sciences. The Division includes the
Ecology & Evolution Section and the NERC Centre for
Population Biology, both of which are based at Imperial
College’s Silwood Park campus. The new appointees
will be based at Silwood Park, working alongside aca-
demics with international reputations in the ﬁelds of
ecology, evolution, conservation and environmental bi-
ology.
The successful applicants will be highly motivated, with
a PhD in a relevant subject, and will have a strong
research record for their career stage. They will be
expected to develop an independent and externally-
funded research programme, and to contribute to teach-
ing at undergraduate and postgraduate levels.
Applications and requests for further information and
application forms should be made to Mrs Diana An-
derson, Division of Biology, Imperial College London,
Silwood Park Campus, Ascot, Berks, SL5 7PY, UK,
d.anderson@imperial.ac.uk.
Applications should include a completed application
form, curriculum vitae, brief statement of research in-November 1, 2006 EvolDir 37
terests and names and addresses of three referees.
For informal enquiries please contact Prof. Ian Owens
(i.owens@imperial.ac.uk).
Closing date: 1 December 2006
– Prof. Ian P.F. Owens Division of Biology & NERC
Centre for Population Biology Imperial College London
Silwood Park Ascot, Berkshire SL5 7PY, UK
http://www.imperial.ac.uk/people/i.owens Ian Owens
<i.owens@imperial.ac.uk >
IowaStateU EvolOfOrganisms
Ecology and Evolution of Organisms- Iowa State Uni-
versity, Ames
The Department of Ecology, Evolution, & Organismal
Biology at Iowa State University seeks a tenure-track
Assistant Professor who excels in any area compatible
with our department’s interests in the ecology and evo-
lution of organisms.
Potential research areas include: form, function, and
adaptation plasticity, perceptory systems and behavior
population dynamics, species interactions, and ecologi-
cal organization diversiﬁcation and systematics.
The successful candidate will join a dynamic depart-
ment of 34 faculty who use integrative approaches that
bridge disciplines and span multiple levels of biological
organization. Applicants must have a Ph.D. in a bio-
logical science and are expected to develop a nationally
recognized research program and contribute to under-
graduate and graduate teaching.
Submit cover letter, CV, 3 reprints, research & teaching
statements, & 3 letters of recommendation electroni-
cally to: eeobsearch@iastate.edu by 15 Oct 2006 For
more information and instructions, please see http://-
www.eeob.iastate.edu/search . Direct questions to Dr.
Carol Vleck, Search Committee Chair (cvleck(at) ias-
tate.edu).
The department is committed to fostering a culturally
diverse educational environment. ISU is an Equal Op-
portunity /Aﬃrmative Action Employer.
Stephen Proulx Assistant Professor Ecology, Evolution
& Organismal Biology 253 Bessey Hall Ames, IA 50011-
1020 (515)294-0272 proulx@iastate.edu
Oﬃce: 339 Bessey Hallproulx@iastate.edu proulx@iastate.edu
JohnCurtinSchoolMed
Bioinformatics
ANU College of Medicine and Health Sciences The John
Curtin School of Medical Research Division of Molecu-
lar Bioscience
Research Fellow/Fellow in Bioinformat-
ics/Computational Biology Academic Level B/C
Fixed Term - up to 5 years
Salary Range: $62,985 - $87,907 pa plus 17% super
Reference No: JC 3713
The John Curtin School of Medical Research is seek-
ing to make a new appointment within the Division of
Molecular Bioscience.
The successful applicant will have demonstrated experi-
ence in bioinformatics or computational biology with a
strong interest in and understanding of genome or pro-
tein structure, function and diversity. He/she will be
expected to run an internationally competitive research
programme in their area of expertise.
The successful applicant will be expected to supervise
postdoctoral fellows and PhD students, as well as ap-
ply for funding from national and international funding
bodies.
Level of appointment will be according to experience
and qualiﬁcations.
* Salaries are subject to a 6% increase from 16 Novem-
ber 2006.
Selection Criteria: http://info.anu.edu.au/hr/jobs/ or
from HR Management Section, CHMS T: + 61 2 6125
2580 E: hr@cmhs.anu.edu.au
Enquiries: Professor Frances Shannon, T: + 61 2 6125
9690 E: frances.shannon@anu.edu.au
Closing Date: 6 weeks from advertisement placement
Information for applicants: http://info.anu.edu.au/-
hr/Jobs/ How toApply/index.asp Job Application
Cover sheet: http://info.anu.edu.au/policies/Forms/-
Human Resources/Recruitment/HR86.asp
Gavin.Huttley@anu.edu.au38 EvolDir November 1, 2006
KentStateU EvolBiol
ECOLOGICAL/EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY. As
part of an ongoing expansion of the Biological Sci-
ences faculty, Kent State University invites applications
fora tenure-track position in the Department of Biolog-
ical Sciences at the rank of assistant professor begin-
ning in August 2007. We seek applicants who com-
plement departmental strengths in conservation biol-
ogy, ecology, and evolutionary biology and are partic-
ularly interested in candidates using genomic and/or
proteomic tools to address ecological and/or evolution-
ary questions. The department has access to a va-
riety of ﬁeld sites and superb core research facilities
and oﬀers competitive startup packages. The success-
ful candidate is expected to establish a high-quality,
extramurally funded research program and exhibit a
commitment to excellence in graduate and undergrad-
uate education. Applicants must have a Ph.D. degree
and postdoctoral experience. For more information on
this position and the faculty, see www.kent.edu/biology
/ecol search.cfm. Applicants should send their curricu-
lum vitae and relevant reprints, statement of research
and teaching interests, and three letters of recommen-
dation to:
Chair, Ecological/Evolutionary Biology Search Com-
mittee Department of Biological Sciences Kent State
University P.O. Box 5190 Kent, Ohio 44242-0001 Fax:
330-672-3713
Review of applications will begin October 31, 2006,
and continue until the position is ﬁlled. KentState
University is an Aﬃrmative Action/Equal Opportuni-
tyEmployer and encourages applications from candi-
dates who would enhance the diversity of the Univer-
sity?s faculty.
orocha@kent.edu
Kingston Tasmania PopGenet
Population Geneticist (Research Scientist)
Southern Ocean Ecosystems
APS Level 6 - Executive Level 1 - non-ongoing (approx-imately 4 years)
Salary: $59,316 - $80,921 pa
Duties: The Population Geneticist will contribute to
the development of the Australian Government Antarc-
tic Division’s (AGAD) research programme by working
within the Australian Centre for Applied Marine Mam-
mal Science (ACAMMS). The speciﬁc tasks of the Pop-
ulation Geneticist will be to design, execute, analyse
and publish population genetic studies of marine mam-
mals. He/she will work within a small team of marine
mammal researchers and with a network of external
collaborators in support of the priorities for ACAMMS
and the AGAD’s science strategic plan. The incum-
bent is expected to develop a population genetics re-
search programme that includes post-graduate research
projects.
Applications addressing the selection criteria together
with the Application Cover Sheet and Medical Check-
list Form should be forwarded to the Corporate Ser-
vices Oﬃcer, Australian Government Antarctic Divi-
sion, 203 Channel Highway, Kingston, Tasmania 7050
or via email to recruitment@aad.gov.au.
Closing date: Friday 13 October 2006
Contact Oﬃcer: Dr Nick Gales (03) 6232 3437 or email
nick.gales@aad.gov.au.
Note: Applications will not be acknowledged. Engage-
ment may be subject to conditions including proba-
tion, qualiﬁcations, health and security/character clear-
ance requirements. Applications from persons who are
not Australian citizens will usually only be considered
where there are no suitable Australian applicants. A re-
location allowance may be payable where the successful
candidate is recruited within Australia and is required
to relocate to Southern Tasmania.
Australian Government Antarctic Division - Common-
wealth of Australia IMPORTANT: This transmission
is intended for the addressee only. If you are not
the intended recipient, you are notiﬁed that use or
dissemination of this communication is strictly pro-
hibited by Commonwealth law. If you have re-
ceived this transmission in error, please notify the
sender immediately by e-mail or by telephoning +61
3 6232 3209 and DELETE the message. Visit our
web site at http://www.aad.gov.au/ Simon Jarman
<Simon.Jarman@aad.gov.au >November 1, 2006 EvolDir 39
NCStateMuseum
DirectorResearchCollections
http://osp.its.state.nc.us/-
positiondetail.asp?vacancykey=4328-0000-0028-
150&printit=no
*Position*: NATURAL SCIENCE RES CURAT
Working Title: DIR OF RESEARCH & COL-
LECTIONS *Vacancy Number*: 4328-0000-0028-150
*Salary Grade*: FR *Salary Range*: $43641 - $74371
*Hiring Range*: $43641 - $74371 *Department*: EN-
VIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES *Divi-
sion*: N. C. MUSEUM OF NATURAL SCIENCES
*Type of Appointment*: Perm Full-Time *Location*:
WAKE *Posting Date*: 10/13/2006 *Closing Date*:
11/10/2006 *Number of Positions*: 1
*Description of Work*
manages and supervises the research & collections sec-
tion; develops relationships and collaborations/projects
with scientiﬁc community and other agencies; conducts
research and disseminates information. plays a key role
in overseeing scientiﬁc content disseminated by the mu-
seum and the nature research center (planned new wing
of the museum); will work closely with the nrc director
and scientiﬁc advisory board on science content devel-
opment of the nrc programming and research. the di-
rector of research and collections is the primary admin-
istrative position for the research and collections sec-
tion. is a member of the museum’s management team
and reports to the museum director. directly supervises
8 curator iis and the research administrative assistant.
will oversee the activities of 15 permanent positions.
*knowledge, skills and abilities*
requires policy making skills. ability to develop pro-
cedures and recommendations to the museum director.
ability to work with a wide range of people in a posi-
tive manner. requires scientiﬁc accuracy of the highest
professional quality. ability to develop and present sci-
entiﬁc papers acceptable to peer review groups. ability
to work successfully both independently and with oth-
ers, and must work with a wide variety of people from
the general public to internationally recognized experts
in biological ﬁelds.
ph.d. preferred. supervision and oversight of a natural
resources unit, fundraising abilities, including experi-
ence in obtaining grant funds for research and specialprojects related to collections.
*training and experience requirements*
master’s degree in biology, zoology, botany, or other
natural science curriculum or related ﬁeld and four
years of progressively responsible experience, preferably
in a natural science museum program; or an equivalent
combination of education and experience. management
prefers 10 years of research and administration in a uni-
versity science, or science related, department or a nat-
ural history museum.
*How to Apply*:
The State Application for Employment ( PD-
107) <http://www.osp.state.nc.us/jobs/-
gnrlinfo.htm#app >and a comprehensive list of State
Government vacancies are available on the Internet at
http://www.osp.state.nc.us/jobs/gnrlinfo.htm#app .
The North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences
(MNS) uses the Merit-Based Recruitment and Se-
lection Plan to ﬁll positions subject to the State
Personnel Act with highly qualiﬁed individuals.
NCDENR-Museum of Natural Sciences is an Equal
Opportunity Employer. All applicants must complete
and submit a State Application for Employment
(PD-107 ) <http://www.osp.state.nc.us/jobs/-
gnrlinfo.htm#app >. Resumes will not be considered
oﬃcial application of employment and will not be
accepted in lieu of a State Application for Employment
(PD-107 ) <http://www.osp.state.nc.us/jobs/-
gnrlinfo.htm#app >. Faxed applications will not be
accepted. Be sure to indicate the position/vacancy
number and job title in the section “Jobs Applied For”.
Applicants seeking Veteran’s Preference for ﬁrst time
employment with State Government should submit
either Form DD-214 or discharge orders. Application
must be received in the MNS Division Personnel Oﬃce
no later than 5:00 p.m. on the closing date. Salary
rate depends upon training, experience, equity, and
budgetary considerations. Degrees must be received
from appropriately accredited institutions.
*Contact Person*: RHONDA CLAPP *Contact
Agency*: MUS. OF NATURAL SCIENCES *Contact
Address*: 11 W. JONES ST.
RALEIGH , NC 27601-1029 **Contact Phone*: * 919-
733-7450 *Ext: *00207
“Morgan Raley, Ph.D.” <Morgan Raley@ncsu.edu >40 EvolDir November 1, 2006
NorthCarolinaStateU 2 Genetics
Please post to EvolDir:
Two Faculty Positions
Department of Genetics
North Carolina State University
The Department of Genetics at North Carolina State
University seeks applications at the ASSISTANT PRO-
FESSOR level for two tenure-track faculty positions.
We seek outstanding individuals whose research inter-
ests and model systems add breadth to and complement
the existing strengths of the Department (see http:/-
/www.cals.ncsu.edu/genetics/ for additional informa-
tion).
A Geneticist, with research interests exploring funda-
mental biological problems using eukaryotic model or-
ganisms. Dr. William R. Atchley, Chair of Genetics
Search, position # 01-09-0610.
An Evolutionary/Population Geneticist, with research
interests exploring fundamental problems in evolution-
ary and population genetics. Dr. Trudy F. C. Mackay,
Chair of Evolutionary/Population Genetics Search, po-
sition # 01-09-0609.
Applicants must have a Ph.D., postdoctoral research
experience, teaching experience and clear evidence of
productivity, creativity and independence. Successful
candidates will participate in undergraduate and grad-
uate teaching and are expected to develop a vigorous
extramurally funded research program.
Review of applications will begin October 30, 2006 and
continue until the position is ﬁlled. To apply go to
http://jobs.ncsu.edu, search by position number and
provide a letter of application, curriculum vitae, a brief
statement of research and teaching interests. Candi-
dates should mail representative preprints or reprints
and arrange to have at least three letters of recommen-
dation sent to the appropriate search chair at the De-
partment of Genetics, Box 7614, North Carolina State
University, Raleigh, NC 27695-7614.
NC State is an equal opportunity and aﬃrmative action
employer. All qualiﬁed applicants will receive consid-
eration for employment without regard to race, color,
national origins, religion, sex, age, veteran status, or
disability. NC State University welcomes all persons
without regard to sexual orientation. ADA Accom-modations: Jeﬀrey Hawley (jeﬀ hawley@ncsu.edu; ph:
919-515-5727; fax: 919-515-3355).
Julie Douglas Pederson Department of Genetics
North Carolina State University Raleigh, NC 27695-
7614 Tel: 919-515-4248 Fax: 919-515-3355 email:
julie pederson@ncsu.edu
Julie Pederson <julie pederson@ncsu.edu >
OhioStateU WorkﬂowProgrammer
The Ohio State University Department of Biomedical
Informatics (bmi.osu.edu) seeks a programmer (BS to
MS) to develop a workﬂow application to integrate re-
sults of whole genome phylogenetic analysis with ge-
ographic, environmental, and phenotypic data. Expe-
rience in data modeling, query interface development,
and data management in the context of geographic in-
formation systems is important. Contact: Daniel Ja-
nies, (danjanies@yahoo.com) for more information.
Daniel.Janies@osumc.edu Daniel.Janies@osumc.edu
Paris EvolEcol
LECTURER (MAITRE DE CONFERENCE) IN
EVOLUTIONARY ECOLOGY OF HOST-PARASITE
INTERACTIONSThe Laboratory of Evolutionary Par-
asitology (Universit Pierre et Marie Curie, Paris,
France) intends to create a permanent position for a
lecturer (Ma“tre de Confrence) in evolutionary ecol-
ogy of host-parasite interactions.We seek candidates in-
terested in experimental coevolution of microbial host-
parasite systems. The candidate should have a broad
background in evolutionary ecology (life history the-
ory, population biology, population genetics). He or
she should be interested in the interplay between eco-
logical factors, epidemiology and the coevolutionary
process and have experience with microbiology tech-
niques and experimental evolution approaches. Teach-
ing will include introductory lectures as well as ad-
vanced courses for masters students.The position will
be oﬃcially advertised in spring 2007 and start in au-
tumn 2007. Note that the French system requires that
potential candidates be registered in the so-called ”liste
des qualiﬁcations“ for which the deadline is OctoberNovember 1, 2006 EvolDir 41
16, 2006!For further information, contact Oliver Kaltz
(okaltz@snv.jussieu.fr).
Oliver Kaltz Laboratoire de Parasitologie Evolutive
CNRS-UMR 7103, CC 237 Universit ˜Ac/circlecopyrtPierre et
Marie Curie 7 quai St. Bernard 75252 Paris Cedex
France
tel: ++33-1-44273823 fax: ++33-1-44273516
okaltz@snv.jussieu.fr
ScrippsInst MuseumScientist
41101 MUSEUM SCIENTIST (100% Career) Filing
Deadline: 11/01/2006 Payroll Title: Asst Museum Sci-
entist. Full Salary Range: $2,773 - $3,308/month. Pay-
roll Title: Museum Scientist. Full Salary Range: $3,045
- $4,900/month.
*** Level of the position will be based on candidate’s
experience and qualiﬁcations.
DESCRIPTION: Under supervision, perform curato-
rial, preparatory, and clerical activities of the SIO Ben-
thic Marine Invertebrates research collection. Main-
tain best practice for specimen curation, storage, and
mailing as well as data handling, and data sharing.
Develop and maintain the Benthic Invertebrates web-
site, including the online database and image library.
Track institutional loans, including those for teaching
purposes. Ensure proper permits and documentation
are current for ﬁeld collection and museum exchange
of specimens. Assist the curator in identifying, and
applying for, available extramural funding. Train vol-
unteers in the use of the collection. Assist curators,
faculty, scholars, and students in obtaining and identi-
fying specimens for the research projects. Support in-
stitutional fund-raising eﬀorts by providing tours and
information regarding the collection. Host meetings
and present talks to school and special interest groups
on research and collection activities. Organize displays
presenting collection material and research activities.
Under supervision, research and publishing on inverte-
brate group/s of interest is possible.
QUALIFICATIONS: * Experience in invertebrate di-
versity, systematics, scientiﬁc nomenclature and inver-
tebrate literature. * Prior experience with preservation
techniques for large and small invertebrates. * Expe-
rience with museum/collections operations and proce-
dures. * Experience in studying and identifying inverte-
brate materials. * Experience with website creation andmaintenance, particularly those components which en-
compass a digital image library and an online database.
* Experience with ﬁeld collection of benthic marine in-
vertebrates. * Graduate degree involving systematics
and/or taxonomy or an equivalent combination of edu-
cation and experience. * Must be able to work around
alcohol and other preservatives. * Must be able to go
to sea/remote location for collection purposes.
SPECIAL CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT: Pos-
sess or be able to acquire a SCUBA diving license.
For application details follow this link:
http://joblink.ucsd.edu/bulletin/job.html?job id=-
41101
Note the job closing date is November 1, but this will
be extended to November 17.
For further information you may contact
Greg Rouse Scripps Institution of Oceanography 0202
University of California, San Diego 9500 Gilman Drive
La Jolla, CA 92093-0202 USA
e-mail: grouse@ucsd.edu Phone:+1 858 534 7973 Fax:
+1 858 534-7313
grouse@ucsd.edu grouse@ucsd.edu
UArizona EvolBiol
RE: Position in microbial ecology and evolution
Dear Colleague,
Please bring the position below to the attention of any
qualiﬁed applicants. We seek an outstanding researcher
who will take advantage of an excellent research set up
and the opportunity to develop an independent and cre-
ative research program.
Sincerely,
Nancy Moran
Regents’ Professor Department of Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology University of Arizona Tucson Arizona
85721 nmoran@email.arizona.edu tel 520-621-3581 fax
520-621-9190
FACULTY POSITION DEPARTMENT OF ECOL-
OGY & EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY UNIVERSITY
OF ARIZONA
A tenure-track position is available as part of a broad
initiative in microbial sciences at the University of42 EvolDir November 1, 2006
Arizona. We seek applicants with independent re-
search programs in microbial biology, as exempliﬁed
by any of the following areas: 1) microbial evolution
and ecology; 2) microbial genomics and/or metage-
nomic analysis; 3) evolution and/or population bi-
ology of infectious disease agents; 4) bioinformatics,
computational or evolutionary genomics; 5) systems
biology and proteomics in microbial systems. Re-
search organisms can be bacterial, archaeal or eu-
karyotic. The start date is ﬂexible but may be as
early as summer 2007. Curriculum vitae and state-
ments of research and teaching interests must be sub-
mitted online at <http://www.uacareertrack.com/ >
www.uacareertrack.com (Job #35890). In addition,
please arrange to have three letters of recommendation
sent to:
Amanda Burke Microbial Biologist Search EEB De-
partment - BSW 310 1041 E. Lowell Street, U of A
Tucson, AZ 85721
Review of applications will begin October 31 and con-
tinue until position is ﬁlled. The University of Arizona
is an EEO/AA Employer - M/W/D/V.
Amanda Burke <ajburke@email.arizona.edu >
UArkansas EvolGlobalChangeBiol
Brian, The endowed chair is directed to anyone who is
involved in global change biology - ecologists, geneti-
cists, evolutionary biologists, plant biologists, nutrient
cycling folks, etc. The other is for an ecologist, but they
are being advertised together in Science, etc soon, so I
sent them together. We are simply hoping to ﬁnd the
best qualiﬁed persons to join our group in ecology and
evolutionary biology.
ENDOWED CHAIR, GLOBAL CHANGE BIOLOGY
The Department of Biological Sciences seeks applicants
for an Endowed Chair (rank open) in Global Change
Biology, working on the biotic consequences of environ-
mental change. Candidates must have a Ph.D. and an
established record of research productivity in a ﬁeld rel-
evant to Global Change Biology. The candidate will be
expected to continue a well funded research program,
supervise graduate students, teach at the graduate and
undergraduate levels, and provide leadership at the de-
partment and university levels in developing research
emphases in Global Change Biology.
ECOLOGISTThe Department of Biological Sciences seeks applicants
for a tenure- track Assistant Professor in Ecology. Par-
ticular preference will be paid to those working in prob-
lems that emphasize community, ecosystem, or land-
scape ecology. The candidate must have a Ph.D., post-
doctoral experience and an established record of re-
search productivity and will be expected to develop an
active research program, supervise graduate and un-
dergraduate research, and teach at the graduate and
undergraduate levels.
The University of Arkansas is a land grant institution
with facilities for stable isotope analysis, molecular bi-
ology, GIS, tree- ring analysis, water and soil analyses,
and the USGS Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research
Unit.
Application review will begin November 15, 2006, and
will continue until the positions are ﬁlled. Send a cur-
riculum vita, statements of research and teaching inter-
ests, and at least three letters of recommendation to Dr.
Steven J. Beaupre, GCB Search Committee Chair, De-
partment of Biological Sciences, or Dr. Gary R Huxel,
Ecology Search Committee Chair, SCEN 632, Univer-
sity of Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR 72701. Please visit
http://biology.uark.edu/ . The University of Arkansas
is an Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer.
Applicants must have proof of legal authority to work
in the United States at the time of hire.
William J. Etges Department of Biological Sciences
SCEN 632 University of Arkansas Fayetteville, AR
72701 USA wetges@uark.edu http://comp.uark.edu/-
˜ wetges/wetges.html voice: (479) 575-6358 lab: (479)
575-7437 FAX (479) 575-4010
“Those who would sacriﬁce liberty for security deserve
neither.” Ben Franklin.
“William J. Etges” <wetges@uark.edu >
UBritishColumbia EvolTheory
The Department of Mathematics at UBC is looking for
a person in Mathematical Ecology and Evolution, with
preference given to people working in evolutionary the-
ory, e.g. adaptive dynamics or game theory.
The oﬃcial ad is pasted below. The Math Department
at UBC has a very good Math Biology group and a top
notch Probability group. UBC also has a very good
Ecology and Evolution group in the Zoology Depart-
ment. Therefore, the position oﬀers excellent opportu-November 1, 2006 EvolDir 43
nities for scientiﬁc interactions. In addition, Vancouver
is a very beautiful place to live and work.
Please don’t hesitate to contact me with any questions
regarding this position.
Best regards,
Michael Doebeli
The Mathematics Department at the University of
British Columbia is seeking outstanding candidates for
at least four positions, subject to funding, at the tenure-
track Assistant Professor level, with a starting date of
July 1, 2007. Postdoctoral experience is normally ex-
pected. Exceptional candidates at the Associate Pro-
fessor or Professor level may be considered. Prior-
ity research areas are (see http://www.math.ubc.ca/-
priorities/ ):
1. Mathematical Evolution and Ecology. Some prefer-
ence will be given to applicants working in evolution-
ary theory, including but not limited to game theory,
adaptive dynamics, or quantitative genetics. 2. Al-
gebraic Groups, Representation Theory, or Automor-
phic Forms. 3. Geometric Analysis, especially diﬀeren-
tial/symplectic geometry via PDE methods. 4. Com-
putational Applied Mathematics with a strong empha-
sis in scientiﬁc computation. 5. Mathematical Finance
and Economics.
In any event, exceptional candidates in any area of
Mathematics may be considered. Joint positions with
other departments may be possible. The successful ap-
plicant is expected to work in an area of interest to cur-
rent faculty, to interact with related groups in the De-
partment and to have demonstrated interest and ability
in teaching. The salary will be commensurate with ex-
perience and research record.
Applicants are strongly encouraged to apply on-
line as described at: http://www.math.ubc.ca/Dept/-
deptJobs.shtml#Apply Alternatively, applicants may
send a current CV including a list of publications, state-
ment of research and teaching interests, and should ar-
range for three letters of recommendation to be sent
directly to:
Chair, Departmental Committee on Appointments De-
partment of Mathematics, #121-1984 Mathematics
Road University of British Columbia Vancouver, B.C.,
Canada, V6T 1Z2
The deadline date for receipt of applications is Decem-
ber 1, 2006.
The Department is one of the leading Mathematics
Departments in Canada and has strong connections
with other mathematical institutes, such as the Pa-
ciﬁc Institute for the Mathematical Sciences (PIMS),Mathematics of Information Technology and Com-
plex Systems (MITACS), Banﬀ International Research
Station (BIRS), and the UBC Institute for Applied
Mathematics (IAM). For more information see http://
www.math.ubc.ca The University of British Columbia
hires on the basis of merit and is committed to em-
ployment equity. We encourage all qualiﬁed persons to
apply; however Canadian citizens and permanent resi-
dents will be given priority.
Dr. Michael Doebeli Department of Mathematics Uni-
versity of British Columbia 1984 Mathematics Road
Vancouver B.C. Canada V6T 1Z2
email: doebeli@math.ubc.ca phone: (604) 822-3326
fax: (604) 822-2416
web: http://www.math.ubc.ca/˜doebeli web: http://-
www.math.ubc.ca/˜doebeli
UCSantaCruz PlantEvolBiol
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, SANTA CRUZ
ECOLOGY & EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY Assis-
tant Professor Position #799-07
The Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Department of
the University of California, Santa Cruz, invites ap-
plications for a tenure-track faculty position in Plant
Evolutionary Biology.
We are seeking candidates investigating broad themes
in evolutionary biology, including but not limited to the
ﬁelds of evolutionary physiology, paleoecology, phylo-
geography, the evolution of diversity, evolutionary ecol-
ogy, and the application of phylogenetic methods to
evolutionary questions. The successful candidate must
be committed to excellence in research and in teach-
ing at both the undergraduate and graduate levels, in-
cluding courses in plant diversity and evolution, and
contribute to the academic community through univer-
sity service and close interactions with other faculty.
The campus is especially interested in candidates who
can contribute to the diversity and excellence of the
academic community through their research, teaching,
and/or service.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: A Ph.D. in a relevant
ﬁeld; postdoctoral or equivalent research experience; a
demonstrated record of research excellence and poten-
tial for teaching and mentorship. POSITION AVAIL-
ABLE: Fall 2007
TO APPLY: Electronic submissions are required.44 EvolDir November 1, 2006
Please e-mail a curriculum vitae and a state-
ment of research and teaching interests to eebre-
cruit@biology.ucsc.edu. Please arrange for three letters
of reference evaluating the candidate’s scholarly contri-
butions, teaching, and other professional accomplish-
ments to be e-mailed directly by the referee to the e-
mail address below. Letters will be treated as conﬁden-
tial documents (please direct referees to UCSC’s con-
ﬁdentiality statement at http://www2.ucsc.edu/ahr/-
policies/confstm.htm ).
EMAIL ADDRESS: eebrecruit@biology.ucsc.edu
Please refer to position #799-07 in all correspondence.
CLOSING DATE: Positions are open until ﬁlled. Initial
screening will begin on November 6, 2006. To ensure
full consideration, applications must be received by that
date.
For more information about the Biology De-
partment, visit http://www.biology.ucsc.edu
parker@biology.ucsc.edu parker@biology.ucsc.edu
UC Merced Bioinformatics
Assistant professor in Bioinformatics
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, MERCED
The University of California is creating a dynamic new
university campus and campus community in Merced,
California, which opened in September 2005 as the
tenth campus of the University of California and the
ﬁrst American research university built in the 21st
century. In keeping with the mission of the Univer-
sity to provide teaching, research and public service
of the highest quality, UC Merced will be providing
new educational opportunities at the undergraduate,
masters and doctoral levels through three academic
schools: Engineering, Natural Sciences and Social Sci-
ences/Humanities/Arts.
The School of Natural Sciences at the University of Cal-
ifornia, Merced invites applications for a tenure-track
faculty position in Bioinformatics. The ideal candi-
date will develop state-of-the-art research on integra-
tive data analysis and interpretation using mathemat-
ical and statistical models in biological systems. The
research emphasis should be on integrative approaches,
such as systems biology, networks analysis, compara-
tive genomics, computational biology and bioinformat-
ics that address fundamental biological questions inmodel and non-model organisms. The candidate should
demonstrate outstanding leadership potential, perti-
nent to developing an innovative research program and
to promoting the success of the University of Califor-
nia’s newest campus. The successful candidate will be
expected to teach undergraduate and graduate courses
in bioinformatics, as well as contribute to courses that
further our goals in interdisciplinary education.
The University of California at Merced is an aﬃrmative
action/equal opportunity employer with a strong insti-
tutional commitment to the achievement of diversity
among its faculty, staﬀ, and students. The University
is supportive of dual career couples.
Interested applicants should submit online: curricu-
lum vitae, statements of research and teaching in-
terests, and the names and addresses of ﬁve ref-
erences ( http://jobs.ucmerced.edu/n/academic/ posi-
tion.jsf?positionIdp2).
Applications will be considered starting on December
31, 2006.
For further information please contact M´ onica
Medina, School of Natural Sciences at: mmed-
ina@ucmerced.edu.
Monica Medina Assistant Professor and Founding Fac-
ulty School of Natural Sciences University of Califor-
nia, Merced P.O. Box 2039 Merced CA 95344 tel: 209-
381-7863 fax: 209-228-4053 mmedina@ucmerced.edu
http://qsb.ucmerced.edu/mmedina/ Monica Medina
<mmedina@ucmerced.edu >
UCaliforniaSantaBarbara
EvolTheory
Assistant Professor: Evolutionary Theory University of
California, Santa Barbara
The Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Marine
Biology at the University of California, Santa Bar-
bara seeks an interactive scientist who develops the-
ory to address fundamental questions in evolutionary
biology. Theorists whose research program addition-
ally includes organismal, empirical or comparative ap-
proaches are also encouraged to apply. The appoint-
ment will be at the Assistant Professor level. The
primary selection criteria for this position are excel-
lence in both research and teaching. Applicants will
be expected to teach courses at the undergraduate and
graduate levels in evolutionary theory and in other ar-November 1, 2006 EvolDir 45
eas according to their expertise. More details on the
position can be found at http://www.lifesci.ucsb.edu/-
eemb/department/jobs/jobs.html/ Applicants should
submit an application letter together with a curricu-
lum vitae, a statement of research accomplishments and
future plans, a statement of teaching experience and
interests, up to ﬁve selected reprints, and arrange for
three letters of reference to be sent to:
Evolution Search Committee Department of Ecology,
Evolution, and Marine Biology University of California
Santa Barbara, CA 93106-9610 U.S.A.
Alternatively, applications can be sent electronically to
evolutionsearch@lifesci.ucsb.edu.
Review of applicants will begin January 3, 2007, and
will continue until the position has been ﬁlled.
The department is especially interested in candidates
who can contribute to the diversity and excellence of the
academic community through research, teaching and
service.
UCSB is an Equal Opportunity Aﬃrmative Action em-
ployer.
Todd Oakley, Assistant Professor Ecology Evolution
and Marine Biology University of California- Santa Bar-
bara, CA 93106
oakley@lifesci.ucsb.edu oakley@lifesci.ucsb.edu
UColoradoBoulder
VertebrateCurator
Please feel free to post this job advertisement widely
within your institutions. Best, Rob Guralnick
Curator of Vertebrates and Assistant Professor in Ecol-
ogy and Evolutionary Biology
The University Museum and Department of Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology (EEB), University of Col-
orado Boulder invite applications for a joint, tenure-
track, 9-month appointment as Curator of Vertebrates
and Assistant Professor. Primary responsibilities will
be to curate and develop the Museum’s vertebrate col-
lections, conduct research on vertebrates, and teach in
Museum and Field Studies and EEB. Applicants must
have a doctoral degree and published research; cura-
torial experience is important. Send curriculum vi-
tae, representative publications, statements of research,
teaching and curatorial experience, and names and ad-
dresses of four references to Dr. Robert Guralnick, Uni-versity of Colorado Museum, 265 UCB, Boulder, CO
80309-0265. Review of applications begins December
1, 2006. The University of Colorado is committed to
diversity and equality in education and employment.
Rob Guralnick <Robert.Guralnick@colorado.edu >
UConnecticut Bioinformatics
Bioinformatics Scientist Biotechnology/Bioservices
Center
The University of Connecticut seeks a Bioinformatics
Scientist primarily to serve the biological science com-
munity through consultation in a Bioinformatics Facil-
ity in the Biotechnology/Bioservices Center. The Fa-
cility consists of a 17-node Apple Workgroup cluster
that uses Sun Grid Engine for its distributed resource
management and runs Bioteam1s iNquiry as a portal to
over 170 applications. A Systems Manager maintains
the cluster and applications. The successful candidate
will provide consultation to faculty and graduate stu-
dents on the use of speciﬁc computing tools for solving
a broad range of problems in biology, be able to inter-
face with biologists and computer scientists, have an
excellent command of verbal and written communica-
tion skills, and must use them eﬀectively. Extensive ex-
perience is required in the application of software and
databases used in computational biology, and in sup-
porting desktop computing environments. Long range
eﬀorts will be to continue development and mainte-
nance of an integrated bioinformatics network to serve
a diverse research community.
Qualiﬁcations include a M.S. or Ph.D. in bioinformat-
ics and experience or the equivalent skills to handle
problems in phylogenetics, genomics, gene and protein
expression analysis, database mining, molecular mod-
eling, and structure-function analysis. Highly desirable
are two or more years post M.S. work experience. The
M.S. appointment will be as an Academic Assistant II
or III. The successful candidate will function as a tech-
nical resource by providing support to faculty and stu-
dents for on-going research activities. Candidates with
a Ph.D. and a strong publication record may be eligible
for an Assistant Professor In-Residence position. This
position provides opportunities for research and an aﬃl-
iation with an academic department. In addition, this
position requires research activities supported by exter-
nal grant funding, and may involve teaching. Both po-
sitions are non-tenure track annual 11-month appoint-46 EvolDir November 1, 2006
ments. Salary commensurate with qualiﬁcations.
Screening of candidates will begin immediately and re-
main open until ﬁlled. Interested candidates must sub-
mit a cover letter, curriculum vitae, and have three let-
ters from professional referees sent to: Sue Levesque,
University of Connecticut, Biotechnology/Bioservices,
Unit 3149, 91 N. Eagleville Road, Storrs, CT 06269-
3149.
The University of Connecticut encourages applications
from under-represented groups, including minorities,
women, and people with disabilities.
j.p.gogarten@uconn.edu j.p.gogarten@uconn.edu
UGeorgia EvolutionaryGenetics
FACULTY POSITION IN ECOLOGICAL GENETICS
As part of a long-term eﬀort to build on strengths in
evolutionary biology, the Department of Genetics at the
University of Georgia has committed to hiring ﬁve new
faculty in evolutionary biology over a three year pe-
riod. Last year, we added two faculty in the areas
of molecular evolution and theory. This year, we in-
vite applications for a tenure-track position in evolu-
tionary biology at the Assistant Professor level. We
are seeking a scientist using an experimental approach
to study fundamental questions at the interface of ge-
netics and ecology. Future faculty lines will be in the
areas of evolutionary genomics, and evolution & devel-
opment. For information about the department, see
http://www.genetics.uga.edu . Applications should be
sent by email as a single PDF ﬁle that includes a cover
letter, CV, and brief statements of research and teach-
ing interests to: “ecogen@uga.edu”. Three letters of
recommendation should also be sent, either as a PDF
to the above e-mail address, or in hard copy, to the
Ecological Genetics Search Committee, Department of
Genetics, Davison Life Sciences Building, University of
Georgia, Athens, GA 30602-7223. Review of applica-
tions will begin on November 20, 2006.
The University of Georgia is an aﬃrmative action, equal
opportunity employer and is committed to having a di-
verse faculty.
–
Rodney Mauricio, Ph.D. Department of Genetics
Phone: (706) 542-1417 University of Georgia FAX:
(706) 542-3910 Athens, GA 30602-7223 e-mail: mauri-cio@uga.edu
Lab Web Page: http://www.genetics.uga.edu/-
mauriciolab/mauriciohome.html Evolution at UGA:
http://www.genetics.uga.edu/evolution/evoluga.html
mauricio@uga.edu mauricio@uga.edu
UGuelph BarcodingTech
Lab Technician Positions(s) at the Canadian Centre for
DNA Barcoding Location: Canadian Centre for DNA
Barcoding, Biodiversity Institute of Ontario, University
of Guelph, Guelph, Ontario, Canada.
Responsibilities: The Canadian Centre for DNA Bar-
coding invites applications for technicians to work in
close association with scientists conducting research in
species discovery and identiﬁcation in fungi and protists
using DNA barcodes. Research in our lab utilizes high-
volume DNA isolation protocols optimized for use with
robotic liquid handling systems. Barcode sequencing is
performed using two ABI 3730 sequencers. DNA ex-
traction, ampliﬁcation and sequencing will generally be
performed by a technician working independently, while
sequence editing and analysis will be in closer collab-
oration with the supervising postdoctoral researcher.
Applicants should be well-rounded individuals with a
molecular biology and genetics background and strong
time management skills.
*Molecular biology: Preparation of DNA extractions,
PCR, DNA sequencing, and DNA sequence analysis.
Occasional use of robotics may be required, but train-
ing can be provided.
*Computer work: Data analysis using a variety of soft-
ware packages. Utilize molecular biology software (e.g.
primer design, sequence alignment, database searches,
etc.), and analysis of data Barcode of Life Datasystems
(BOLD) software.
Qualiﬁcations: B.Sc. or M.Sc. in molecular biology or
related ﬁeld. Coursework and/or experience in genet-
ics.
Closing Date: Open until ﬁlled. Preferred starting date
November 1, 2006.
Contact: Send cover letter, r´ esum´ e, to Dr Alex Smith,
Biodiversity Institute of Ontario, Integrative Biology,
University of Guelph, Guelph Ontario, N2G 1W1 or
e-mail materials to salex@uoguelph.ca
– M. Alex Smith PhD Research Program Coordi-November 1, 2006 EvolDir 47
nator Biodiversity Institute of Ontario Department
of Integrative Biology University of Guelph Guelph
ON N1G 2W1 (519) 824-4120 oﬃce ext. 52007 lab
ext. 52709 www.barcodinglife.org www.biodiversity.ca
salex@uoguelph.ca
UIdaho ReproductiveBiol
Brian,
Could you post the following on EvolDir? Though the
position is focused on reproductive or developmental
biology, people working on Evo-Devo or the evolution
of reproductive systems would be a great ﬁt in our de-
partment.
Thanks
Barrie Robison
Faculty Position in Vertebrate Reproduc-
tive/Developmental Biology
The Department of Biological Sciences at the Univer-
sity of Idaho invites qualiﬁed individuals to apply for
a tenure-track position in reproductive or developmen-
tal biology. Preference will be given to individuals at
the assistant professor rank whose research interests
complement current areas of strength within the de-
partment ( www.sci.uidaho.edu/biosci/ ): gamete phys-
iology, developmental biology, evolutionary genetics,
molecular biology of sex steroid receptors, gonad trans-
plantation, endocrine disruptor toxicology, and repro-
ductive behavior. The successful candidate will have
the opportunity to conduct interdisciplinary research
with faculty in the Center for Reproductive Biology
(www.crb.wsu.edu ), a joint initiative between the Uni-
versity of Idaho and nearby Washington State Univer-
sity. The University of Idaho has exceptional holding
facilities for warm water (e.g., zebraﬁsh) and cool wa-
ter (e.g., trout) ﬁsh, mammals, and birds. The candi-
date will be expected to teach at both the undergrad-
uate and graduate levels. A competitive salary and
start-up package will be provided. A Ph.D. in Biol-
ogy or a related ﬁeld and postdoctoral experience are
required. For more information and to apply online,
visit: http://www.hr.uidaho.edu . Send inquiries to bio-
fac@uidaho.edu. Review of applications will begin on
December 8, 2006; those completed by that date will
have priority.
The University of Idaho is an aﬃrmative action equal
opportunity employer.Barrie Robison <brobison@uidaho.edu >
UIllinois GenomicsBiol
The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is de-
voting signiﬁcant new resources to the further strength-
ening of its programs in genomic biology and related
disciplines. The institute for Genomic Biology is co-
sponsoring ﬁve new tenure-track faculty positions in
the area of Evolutionary Genomics. Faculty hiring
will be based in one or more academic departments,
with the possibility of a joint appointment in an in-
stitute for Genomic Biology research theme ( http://-
www.igb.uiuc.edu/research.html ). As established lead-
ers in the genomics of model organisms and integrative
biology, the university seeks ambitious scientists who
wish to work in an unparalleled interdisciplinary envi-
ronment to pursue fundamental questions in evolution-
ary biology using genomic approaches.
The Department of Animal Biology (School of Inte-
grative Biology) invites applications for a full-time (9-
month), tenure-track faculty position at the assistant
professor level to begin August 16, 2007, or nego-
tiable. We seek candidates who can establish a vigor-
ous, externally funded research program in vertebrate
evolutionary-developmental biology, broadly construed.
Areas of interest include, but are not limited to, evo-
lution of phenotypic variation or plasticity, and ge-
nomic studies of selection or diversiﬁcation. We are
particularly interested in candidates using or devel-
oping genomic approaches. The successful candidate
will be expected to collaborate with current faculty to
develop major research initiatives in evolutionary ge-
nomics. For full consideration, applications must be re-
ceived by December 8, 2006. For more information see
www.life.uiuc.edu/sib, email sib@life.uiuc.edu, or call
217.333.3044.
The Department of Animal Sciences (College of Agri-
cultural, Consumer, and Environmental Sciences) is
searching for a fulltime (9-month), tenure-track as-
sistant professor in evolutionary genomics. The suc-
cessful candidate will contribute to departmental and
campus-wide programs in evolutionary and statistical
genomics, and bioinformatics. The successful candi-
date’s research program will utilize genomic tools to ad-
dress questions relating to the evolution of vertebrate
genomes, the genomic basis of adaptive evolutionary
responses, and genomic changes resulting from inten-
sive selection and domestication. Questions should be48 EvolDir November 1, 2006
directed to Dr. Lawrence B. Schook at 217.265.5326
or schook@uiuc.edu. Applications received by October
31, 2006, will receive full consideration. Further appli-
cation information is detailed at www.ansci.uiuc.edu/-
jobs/searches/evo genomics/ . The Department of En-
tomology and Department of Pathobiology seek an
outstanding scientist with a background in interdisci-
plinary research involving the evolution of arthropod
vector-pathogen interactions, genetics and genomics,
for a full-time, tenured faculty position at the Asso-
ciate Professor or Professor level to begin August 2007,
or as negotiated. Candidates must have a Ph.D. in
a relevant ﬁeld, such as Molecular Evolution, Ento-
mology, Microbiology, Parasitology or Genetics. The
successful candidate will have developed an externally
funded research program involving genome-wide studies
to investigate the origin and evolution of genes essen-
tial to the establishment and maintenance of arthro-
pod vector-pathogen interactions. For full consider-
ation, applications must be received by December 8,
2006. For more information, see www.life.uiuc.edu/sib
andwww.life.uiuc.edu/sib email derosset@uiuc.edu, or
call 217.333.2449.
The Department of Natural Resources and Environ-
mental Sciences seeks a full-time (9-month), tenure-
track assistant professor of plant evolutionary ge-
nomics. Applicants should have a Ph.D. and a multidis-
ciplinary background that combines plant evolution and
genetics, molecular biology, and functional genomics.
We prefer candidates who can apply genomics tools to
study genetic patterns of perennial plant evolution in
response to artiﬁcial selection and domestication, and
who will develop an internationally recognized research
program, direct graduate students, interact with under-
graduates, contribute to teaching needs, and compete
for research funds. For full consideration, applications
must be received by October 16, 2006. For more infor-
mation, see www.nres.uiuc.edu, or call 217.333.9738.
The Department of Psychology is searching for a full-
time (9-month) faculty member with expertise in the
area of molecular genetics and individual diﬀerences in
human behavior, broadly construed. We are particu-
larly interested in applications from scholars who study
the biological and genetic epidemiological systems that
contribute to
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.htmlUKentucky BiologyChair
We seek a scholar of outstanding achievement to lead
the Biology Department at the University of Kentucky
in a signiﬁcant expansion of its faculty, facilities and
mission. This initiative to enhance our prominence in
science and education is propelled by a major legisla-
tive mandate to augment the state’s ﬂagship university.
The Lexington campus oﬀers a highly collaborative life
science community with complementary disciplines rep-
resented in the Colleges of Arts & Sciences, Agricul-
ture, Allied Health, Medicine, and Pharmacy. In ad-
dition to vigorous commitments to frontline research
and graduate training, the Department of Biology pro-
vides a thorough and diverse undergraduate experience
to the largest academic major on campus. Visit the de-
partmental website ( http://www.as.uky.edu/Biology )
for additional information.
Candidates should have distinguished records of ex-
tramurally funded research and scholarly achievements
commensurate with appointment at the Full Profes-
sor level. Strong commitments to undergraduate and
graduate education, as well as excellent communica-
tion, leadership and administrative skills are expected.
Applications should include a curriculum vitae, names
of at least three references, and descriptions of research
interests, educational vision, leadership philosophy, and
administrative experience. Materials should be ad-
dressed to the Chair Search Committee, Department
of Biology, 101 Thomas Hunt Morgan Building, Uni-
versity of Kentucky, Lexington, KY 40506, or may be
submitted electronically to biochair@uky.edu. Review
of applications will commence November 1 and continue
until a suitable candidate is selected.
srvoss@uky.edu srvoss@uky.edu
UKonstanz EvolBiol
UNIVERSITY OF KONSTANZ/GERMANY
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR/JUNIOR GROUP
LEADER IN EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY (molecu-
lar evolution/comparative genomics or devo-evo)
A position as “Assistant Professor” (German govern-
ment SALARY SCALE BATIIA) in the Department ofNovember 1, 2006 EvolDir 49
Biology at the University of Konstanz in Germany is
available from January 2007 on.
The person we are looking for should work on current
research topics in the ﬁelds of either molecular evolu-
tion/phylogenetics, comparative genomics, and/or the
evolution of developmental mechanisms. The position
is for a Ph.D. biologist, ideally with prior postdoc ex-
perience in molecular or developmental biology. A to-
tal of three research groups, two of which are headed
by Junior Group Leaders each representing their par-
ticular subdisciplines of evolutionary biology, make up
the Evolutionary Biology group (Lehrstuhl Evolutions-
biologie) in the Department of Biology. Besides the
group of Axel Meyer, one of those positions is currently
ﬁlled with Dr. Gerrit Begemann who is working on
zebraﬁsh developmental biology. Thierry Wirth, who
works on bacterial population genetics, is starting a
professorship in Paris, held this post before.
The taxonomic emphasis is open, however, work on
ﬁshes, particularly the zebraﬁsh and cichlid ﬁsh model
systems is desirable. Most of the ongoing evolutionary
research in Konstanz deals with comparative develop-
mental and molecular evolutionary/genomic aspects of
the origin of novelties (such as coloration and dentition)
in cichlid ﬁsh adaptive radiations.
Some recent publications of the lab include: Verheyen
et al. (2003). The origin of the superﬂock of cichlid
ﬁshes from Lake Victoria, East Africa. Science 300:
325-329. Salzburger et al. (2005). Out of Tanganyika:
Genesis, explosive speciation, key-innovations and phy-
logeography of the haplochromine cichlid ﬁshes. BMC
Evolutionary Biology 5: 17. Barluenga et al. (2006).
Sympatric speciation in Nicaraguan crater lake cichlid
ﬁsh. Nature 439: 719-23 Braasch et al. (2006). Asym-
metric evolution in two ﬁsh-speciﬁcally duplicated re-
ceptor tyrosine kinase paralogons involved in teleost
coloration. Molecular Biology and Evolution 23:1192-
1202.
Space in a modern animal care facility is available and
the exclusive help of a half-time technician will be avail-
able to this new group. Excellent opportunities are
available in terms of space, equipment, departmental fa-
cilities and annual ﬁnancial support from the University
of Konstanz for research expenses. The lab has state-of-
the-art facilities for molecular and developmental biol-
ogy, including 2 ABI 3100 DNA-Sequenzers, a pipetting
robot, a DNA-chip reader, etc. The University of Kon-
stanz and the Department of Biology in particular are
among the most highly rated institutions in Germany
and provide a lively and academically outstanding re-
search environment. Konstanz is a lovely historic town
located on Lake Constance on the border to Switzer-land.
Appointments are initially for two to three years, and
are renewable for up to six years, with an annual gross
salary (depending on age, marital status, etc.) of about
58,000 Euros before taxes and deductions (about 73.000
US$). Habilitation is possible, and a modest amount of
teaching (English or German) is required.
Additional information can be obtained from
axel.meyer@uni- konstanz.de, (tel.+49 7531 884163,
fax + 49 7531 883018) or directly from our WWW
page, where you can ﬁnd information on our re-
search interests and recent publications. http://-
www.evolutionsbiologie.uni-konstanz.de . Applications
including a (short 2-3 page) statement of research
interests, a full CV, and names and email addresses
of 2-3 referees, should be emailed to axel.meyer@uni-
konstanz.de. Applications should be received before
October 31, 2006. The University of Konstanz is an
equal opportunity employer.
– Axel Meyer, Ph.D. Professor of Zoology and Evolu-
tionary Biology Department of Biology University of
Konstanz Universit?tsstr. 10 D-78457 Konstanz Ger-
many
email: axel.meyer@uni-konstanz.de
tel. + 49 7531 88 4163 fax. + 49 7531 88 3018 tel.
secretary + 49 7531 88 3069 email: (Ingrid.Bader@uni-
konstanz.de)
http://www.evolutionsbiologie.uni-konstanz.de Axel
Meyer <axel.meyer@uni-konstanz.de >
UKwaZuluNatal PlantMolSyst
The University of KwaZulu-Natal is committed to em-
ployment equity and will give preference to appointable
candidates from the designated groups. All appoint-
ments are based on individual merit, relative to criteria
mentioned below. Candidates who do not meet all the
minimum criteria will not be considered. The university
reserves the right not to ﬁll the post or to extend the
recruitment process through re-advertising and head-
hunting in order to meet its equity targets.
SENIOR LECTURER: PLANT MOLECULAR SYS-
TEMATICS SCHOOL OF BIOLOGICAL & CON-
SERVATION SCIENCES PIETERMARITZBURG
CAMPUS REF NO.: SA51/2006
The School is well established with a very active re-50 EvolDir November 1, 2006
search proﬁle and a substantial graduate school. It has
excellent research facilities, including a comprehensive
herbarium (NU) and botanical garden.
The successful candidate must have a strong back-
ground in plant molecular systematics, be familiar with
modern molecular approaches to the study of biodiver-
sity, evolution, conservation or related areas, and have
a track record of publication in peer-reviewed journals.
S/he will be required to teach at undergraduate and
postgraduate levels, to supervise research students and
to establish a strong research programme. Assumption
of responsibility for curation of the NU Herbarium (as-
sisted by dedicated technical staﬀ) will be required.
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
* A PhD in a relevant ﬁeld * Evidence of current re-
search activity with published papers in the interna-
tional peer-reviewed scientiﬁc literature * Experience
in teaching at tertiary level
ADVANTAGES:
* Successful supervision of postgraduate students * Ex-
perience in herbarium curation
For further information see the School website at
http://www.ukzn.ac.za/biology or contact Prof. David
Ward at ward@ukzn.ac.za .
The remuneration package oﬀered includes beneﬁts and
will be dependent on the qualiﬁcations and/or experi-
ence of the successful applicant. The selection process
will commence on 30 October 2006 and will continue
until a suitable candidate is appointed or a decision is
taken not to ﬁll the post.
Applicants are required to submit a covering letter
highlighting their experience in, and providing evidence
for, each of the minimum requirements and advantages
listed above, together with a detailed CV including the
names, full addresses, fax numbers and e-mail addresses
of three referees, to Mrs. J Poulter, Human Resources
Administration, University of KwaZulu-Natal, Private
Bag X01, Scottsville, 3209, Fax. No. +27 (0) 33 260
5356 or e-mail PoulterJ@ukzn.ac.za .
Please ﬁnd our Email Disclaimer here: http:/-
/www.ukzn.ac.za/disclaimer/ Brothers@ukzn.ac.za
Brothers@ukzn.ac.za
UKwaZuluNatal
PlantMolSystematicsThe University of KwaZulu-Natal is committed to em-
ployment equity and will give preference to appointable
candidates from the designated groups. All appoint-
ments are based on individual merit, relative to criteria
mentioned below. Candidates who do not meet all the
minimum criteria will not be considered. The university
reserves the right not to ﬁll the post or to extend the
recruitment process through re-advertising and head-
hunting in order to meet its equity targets.
SENIOR LECTURER: PLANT MOLECULAR SYS-
TEMATICS SCHOOL OF BIOLOGICAL & CON-
SERVATION SCIENCES PIETERMARITZBURG
CAMPUS REF NO.: SA51/2006
The School is well established with a very active re-
search proﬁle and a substantial graduate school. It has
excellent research facilities, including a comprehensive
herbarium (NU) and botanical garden.
The successful candidate must have a strong back-
ground in plant molecular systematics, be familiar with
modern molecular approaches to the study of biodiver-
sity, evolution, conservation or related areas, and have
a track record of publication in peer-reviewed journals.
S/he will be required to teach at undergraduate and
postgraduate levels, to supervise research students and
to establish a strong research programme. Assumption
of responsibility for curation of the NU Herbarium (as-
sisted by dedicated technical staﬀ) will be required.
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
* A PhD in a relevant ﬁeld * Evidence of current re-
search activity with published papers in the interna-
tional peer-reviewed scientiﬁc literature * Experience
in teaching at tertiary level
ADVANTAGES:
* Successful supervision of postgraduate students * Ex-
perience in herbarium curation
For further information see the School website at
http://www.ukzn.ac.za/biology or contact Prof. David
Ward at ward@ukzn.ac.za .
The remuneration package oﬀered includes beneﬁts and
will be dependent on the qualiﬁcations and/or experi-
ence of the successful applicant. The selection process
will commence on 30 October 2006 and will continue
until a suitable candidate is appointed or a decision is
taken not to ﬁll the post.
Applicants are required to submit a covering letter
highlighting their experience in, and providing evidence
for, each of the minimum requirements and advantages
listed above, together with a detailed CV including the
names, full addresses, fax numbers and e-mail addresses
of three referees, to Mrs. J Poulter, Human ResourcesNovember 1, 2006 EvolDir 51
Administration, University of KwaZulu-Natal, Private
Bag X01, Scottsville, 3209, Fax. No. +27 (0) 33 260
5356 or e-mail PoulterJ@ukzn.ac.za .
Brothers@ukzn.ac.za Brothers@ukzn.ac.za
UMaryland Bioinformatics
Faculty Position in Bioinformatics
University of Maryland Baltimore County (UMBC)
The Department of Biological Sciences at UMBC in-
vites applications for an Assistant Professor position in
the area of Bioinformatics. A successful applicant will
be expected to establish a vigorous externally funded
in silico research program focused on one or more sig-
niﬁcant biological problems in the areas of genome biol-
ogy or proteomics, including interactomics. An interest
in developing tools to visualize complex bioinformatics
data sets is also desirable. We will consider appoint-
ment of qualiﬁed candidates at the Associate or Full
Professor level.
Applicants should provide a curriculum vitae, sum-
mary of current and proposed future research interests,
and statement of teaching interests, and have three
letters of reference sent to: Search Committee, De-
partment of Biological Sciences, University of Mary-
land Baltimore County, 1000 Hilltop Circle, Baltimore,
MD 21250. Electronic applications should be sent to
biosearch@umbc.edu. Review of completed applica-
tions will begin on November 15, 2006 and continue
until the position is ﬁlled.
UMBC is a medium-sized research university in the
Baltimore-Washington, D.C. area combining excellence
in research with outstanding educational programs.
UMBC is a national leader in mentoring minority un-
dergraduates to high achievement in academics and re-
search. The Department is developing in the area of
bioinformatics to complement its existing strengths in
molecular, cellular, developmental and evolutionary bi-
ology and neuroscience. For information about the
Department and its graduate programs visit http://-
www.umbc.edu/biosci/ . The University of Maryland
Baltimore County is an Aﬃrmative Action/Equal Op-
portunity Employer. UMBC values gender, ethnic, and
racial diversity; women, members of ethnic minority
groups and individuals with disabilities are strongly en-
couraged to apply.
– Philip Farabaugh |Oﬃce +1-410-455-3018 Pro-fessor |Lab +1-410-455-2659 Department of
Biological Sciences |FAX +1-410-455-3875 Uni-
versity of Maryland Baltimore County |Cellular
+1-410-952-7951 1000 Hilltop Circle |Internet
farabaug@umbc.edu Baltimore, MD 21250 http://-
research.umbc.edu/ ˜ farabaug/farabaug.html Philip
Farabaugh <farabaug@umbc.edu >
USouthFlorida 2 EvolBiol
The new Division of Integrative Biology at the Uni-
versity of South Florida has 2 positions for assistant
professors. We are looking for researchers in evolution
and ecology. In particular, we are looking for scientists
with research interests in one or more of the following
three areas: 1) Molecular ecology. Most likely this will
be someone working in population genetics, evolution-
ary genomics, or related areas. Our ad speciﬁes that
it be someone working “at the interface of ecology and
evolution at any level, from organisms to ecosystems.”
2) Quantitative ecology. This will be someone with
a strong theoretical component to their research, us-
ing mathematical and/or statistical models. This could
certainly be a theoretical population geneticist.
3) Physiological Ecology. Our ad speciﬁes that this be
someone “with a research emphasis on the responses of
organisms to environmental stressors or changing en-
vironmental conditions.” This description can include
both short-term physiological as well as evolutionary
responses.
Review begins December 1.
The full advertisement that will appear shortly in Sci-
ence is attached.
Those with questions about the positions are welcome
to contact me.
Gordon Fox
Assistant Professors in Ecology
The Department of Biology, Division of Integrative Bi-
ology at the University of South Florida invites applica-
tions for two tenure track positions in Ecology to begin
in Fall 2007. We are especially interested in candidates
whose work is focused in one of the following three ar-
eas: Quantitative Ecology, with a research emphasis in
mathematical or statistical models; Molecular Ecology,
with a research emphasis at the interface of ecology and
evolution at any level, from organisms to ecosystems;52 EvolDir November 1, 2006
or Physiological Ecology, with a research emphasis on
the responses of organisms to environmental stressors
or changing environmental conditions. The Tampa Bay
area has ready access to a variety of marine, freshwater
and terrestrial habitats in a sub-tropical environment.
USF has been designated as a university with very
high research by the Carnegie Foundation for the Ad-
vancement of Teaching. Faculty whose research com-
plements existing strengths in the new Division of In-
tegrative Biology are encouraged to apply (see: http:/-
/www.cas.usf.edu/biology ). A Ph.D. in Biology or re-
lated ﬁeld is required and post-doctoral experience is
preferred. Evidence of potential to develop a strong
externally-funded research program is desirable. Salary
is negotiable. Applicants should submit a curricu-
lum vita, statements of research and teaching inter-
ests, three representative publications and arrange to
have three letters of recommendation sent to the Ecol-
ogy Search Committee, Division of Integrative Biology,
Department of Biology SCA 110, University of South
Florida, 4202 East Fowler Avenue, Tampa, FL 33620.
Women and minorities are encouraged to apply. Review
of applications will begin on December 1st and continue
until the position is ﬁlled. According to Florida Law,
applications and meetings regarding them are open to
the public. For ADA accommodations, please contact
Janet Gauthier at (813) 974-3250 ﬁve working days
prior to need. USF is an AA/EEO institution.
– Dr. Gordon A. Fox Voice: (813)974-7352 Fax:
(813)974-3263 Dept. of Biology ((for US mail:)SCA
110) ((for FedEx etc:)BSF 156) Univ. of South Florida
4202 E. Fowler Ave. Tampa, FL 33620, USA http://-
boojum.cas.usf.edu/index.pl/home gfox@cas.usf.edu
USouthernCalifornia CompBiol
Any Professorial Level Computational Biology and
Bioinformatics University of Southern California
The University of Southern California invites applica-
tions for a position at any level, tenure or tenure track
as appropriate, in Computational Biology and Bioin-
formatics. Candidates with a strong background in
computer science or statistics with applications to ge-
nomics, proteomics or systems biology are encouraged
to apply. Ph.D. or equivalent degree required. The po-
sition is in the interdisciplinary Program in Molecular
and Computational Biology in the Department of Bio-
logical Sciences. Many of the current faculty hold jointappointments in other departments.
Interested candidates should send a curriculum vitae,
including research plans and names of three references
to: Michael S. Waterman, Search Committee, Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences, MCB201, University of
Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90089-2910 (or
e- mail cmbsearch@college.usc.edu). Evaluations of ap-
plications will begin January 15, 2007. USC is an
AA/EOE employer.
magnus@usc.edu magnus@usc.edu
UWashington MathematicalBiol
The Department of Applied Mathematics at the Uni-
versity of Washington has an opening, at the assistant
professor level, for a mathematical biologist, interpreted
broadly. (See ad below.) If you know of any qualiﬁed
candidates, please encourage them to apply for this po-
sition.
Thank you.
Mark Kot Applied Mathematics University of Washing-
ton
Applied Mathematics - Assistant Professor
Assistant Professor, tenure-track. Applicants must
hold a doctorate in applied mathematics, mathemat-
ics, or a related ﬁeld of application, and should show
outstanding promise and/or accomplishments in both
research and teaching. Areas of interest include all as-
pects of mathematical biology (bioengineering, bioﬂu-
ids, computational biology, bioinformatics, genomics,
neuroscience, physiology, etc.), and scientiﬁc comput-
ing and numerical analysis. However, applications from
any area of applied mathematics will be considered.
The successful candidate will complement the exist-
ing research expertise of the department while enhanc-
ing and broadening both its mathematical and scien-
tiﬁc scope. Interdisciplinary research activity is espe-
cially encouraged, and interactions with the physical,
engineering, or life sciences are expected. Informa-
tion about the department can be found at http://-
www.amath.washington.edu . Preference will be given
to applications received before November 15, 2006. In
exceptional circumstances, appointment at the Asso-
ciate or full Professor level may be considered for can-
didates who have demonstrated a commitment to men-
toring underrepresented students in the sciences.November 1, 2006 EvolDir 53
Applicants should send a curriculum vita and a de-
scription of research and teaching interests. Further,
arrangements should be made to have three or four let-
ters of references, at least one of which addresses the
candidate’s teaching experience or potential, sent di-
rectly to:
Hiring Committee Department of Applied Mathemat-
ics University of Washington BOX 352420 Seattle, WA
98195-2420
The University of Washington is building a culturally
diverse faculty and strongly encourages applications
from women and minority candidates.
kot@amath.washington.edu
kot@amath.washington.edu
UWyoming FunctionalGenet
FACULTY POSITIONS IN Ecological/FUNCTIONAL
Genetics
The Departments of Molecular Biology and Botany
at the University of Wyoming seek outstanding sci-
entists to ﬁll two tenure-track positions, preferably
at the Assistant Professor level. We seek interactive
colleagues who use innovative genetic or genomic ap-
proaches to study signiﬁcant questions in ecology. The
successful candidates will be expected to establish in-
dependently funded research programs and participate
in teaching at the undergraduate and graduate lev-
els. Candidates must hold a Ph.D. in an appropri-
ate ﬁeld and show evidence of productive postdoc-
toral experience. These positions reﬂect a commit-
ment of the University of Wyoming to enhance the in-
tegration among life science departments through in-
terdisciplinary graduate programs in Ecology ( http:/-
/www.uwyo.edu/PIE ) and Molecular and Cellular Life
Sciences ( http://www.uwyo.edu/mcls/ ). The positions
will speciﬁcally contribute to a broader initiative on
campus that addresses ecological responses to global
change, integrating across levels of inquiry ranging from
the molecular to the ecosystem levels.
Ecological Geneticist (75% Botany/25% Mol. Bio. ap-
pointment) — Preferred candidates will use experimen-
tal and/or observational approaches to resolve the ge-
netic underpinnings of traits and processes of ecological
importance. We are especially interested in individuals
committed to studying ecological genetics in contexts of
community dynamics and/or global change, but candi-dates with signiﬁcant contributions in any area of eco-
logical genetics will be considered.
Evolutionary and Ecological Functional Geneticist
(75% Mol. Bio./25% Botany appointment) — Pre-
ferred candidates will study the molecular basis of eco-
logical adaptations. Suitable approaches may include
but are not limited to the identiﬁcation and molecu-
lar characterization of genes involved in adaptation and
comparative genomics or metagenomics. Research that
combines computational and experimental approaches
to link ecology, evolution and molecular function will
also be considered.
The Departments are presently composed of 26 faculty
members with diverse research interests supported by
numerous grants. Salary and start-up packages will
be competitive. The University enrolls 12,000 stu-
dents including approximately 2500 graduate students.
Laramie is located in southeastern Wyoming about 120
miles from Denver, Colorado. For additional informa-
tion, see http://www.uwyo.edu/uwmolecbioand http:/-
/www.uwyo.edu/botany/ . Any questions can be di-
rected to ecogen@uwyo.edu. Candidates should sub-
mit by email a CV, description of research plans and
teaching philosophy, and arrange to have three letters
of recommendation submitted to the Ecological Genet-
ics Search Committee via ecogen@uwyo.edu. PDF for-
matting is preferred for these documents. Applicant
screening will begin on December 1 and continue un-
til a suitable candidate is identiﬁed. The University of
Wyoming is an AA/EO employer.
David Liberles <liberles@uwyo.edu >
UWyoming MolEvolMicrobes
Assistant Professor
Molecular Microbiology
The Department of Molecular Biology at the Univer-
sity of Wyoming seeks an outstanding scientist for a
tenure-track position at the Assistant Professor level.
We seek an interactive colleague who uses molecu-
lar approaches to address important problems in mi-
crobiology. We are particularly interested in candi-
dates investigating molecular and cellular mechanisms
of microbial pathogenesis and host-pathogen interac-
tions. However, demonstrated excellence in research
is more important than speciﬁc area. The successful
candidate will be part of the Microbiology Program54 EvolDir November 1, 2006
that integrates microbiologists across departmental and
college boundaries. The candidate will be expected
to establish an extramurally funded research program
and participate in undergraduate teaching of general
or medical microbiology, as well as contribute to the
Molecular and Cellular Life Sciences Graduate Pro-
gram ( http://www.uwyo.edu/mcls/ ). Salary and start-
up package will be competitive. Candidates must have
a Ph.D. degree and evidence of productive postdoc-
toral experience. The applications should be sent to
uwmbio@uwyo.eduformatted as a single pdf ﬁle con-
taining a cover letter, CV, research plans and teaching
philosophy. Three letters of recommendation should
be sent to uwmbio@uwyo.eduor to Chair, Microbiology
Search Committee, Department of Molecular Biology,
University of Wyoming, 1000 E. University Ave., Dept.
3944, Laramie, WY 82071. The Department of Molec-
ular Biology consists of 14 faculty members with di-
verse research interests and signiﬁcant extramural sup-
port. The University enrolls 12,000 students includ-
ing approximately 2,500 graduate students. Laramie
is located in the Rocky Mountains area of southeast-
ern Wyoming, 120 miles from Denver, CO. For ad-
ditional information see http://uwacadweb.uwyo.edu/-
UWmolecbio/.Screening of applications will begin on
November 15, 2006 and continue until a suitable can-
didate is identiﬁed. The University of Wyoming is an
EO/AA employer.
David Liberles <liberles@uwyo.edu >
UniversityCollegeLondon
ResearchTechnician
RESEARCH TECHNICIAN
Applications are invited for an experienced research
technician, who will carry out research work and main-
tain transgenic ﬂy stocks in Professor Linda Partridge’s
Drosophila Research Group at University College Lon-
don. The aim of the research in the Centre for Evolu-
tionary Genomics is to use model organisms to discover
genes and mechanisms that determine ﬁtness-related
traits. The technician will participate on an NERC-
funded research project on the role of microRNAs in
phenotypic plasticity to environmental change.
The position will be available for a period of 18 months,
starting as soon as possible.
The ideal candidate will have experience of molec-
ular biology techniques and will have worked withDrosophila previously. The main duties include exper-
imentation in molecular biology, biochemistry, genetics
and insect biology, as well as meticulously carrying out
routine ﬂy work.
You will have excellent organisational and research
skills, and a positive attitude to learn and troubleshoot
new methods.
The salary will be on Grade 7 - GBP 25,633 plus GBP
2,472 London Weighting.
For a full Job Description, Person Speciﬁcation and
information about the application process please visit
http://www.ucl.ac.uk/˜ucbtcee/cee/job1.html Closing
date for completed applications: Friday 20th October
2006.
Dr. Bregje Wertheim Department of Biology
University College London Darwin Building Gower
Street London WC1E 6BT United Kingdom e-mail:
b.wertheim@ucl.ac.uk e-mail: b.wertheim@ucl.ac.uk
WashingtonStateU
MolAnthropology
FACULTY POSITION Molecular Anthropology
Washington State University-Pullman seeks a tenure-
track assistant professor for a new full-time position
in molecular anthropology to be jointly appointed in
the Department of Anthropology and the School of Bi-
ological Sciences beginning Aug. 16, 2007. Required
qualiﬁcations include a Ph.D. by July 1, 2007 in An-
thropology or a life science; an active research program
commensurate with rank using molecular genetic ap-
proaches to address questions at the interface of biology
and anthropology; and demonstrated expertise in one
or more of the following areas: human genetics, ancient
DNA, phylogenetics, phylogeography and population
history, human evolution, zooarchaeology, or molecu-
lar evolution. The candidate will participate in a new
WSU/University of Washington IGERT program enti-
tled3Model-based Approaches to Cultural and Biolog-
ical Evolution2(http://depts.washington.edu/ipem/-
index.shtml ); preferred qualiﬁcations include previous
successes in interdisciplinary work in anthropology and
biology and strengths in teaching and in evolutionary
theory. Teaching expectations will depend on expertise
but will likely include an undergraduate Introduction
to Physical Anthropology in addition to undergradu-
ate and/or graduate courses in areas of expertise inNovember 1, 2006 EvolDir 55
biology and anthropology. Full Notice of Vacancy at
http://libarts.wsu.edu/anthro/ . To apply, send letter
of application, 2-pg research statement, 2-pg teaching
statement, cv, and names and contact information for
three references to Tim Kohler, Molecular Anthropolo-
gist Search Chair, Department of Anthropology, WSU,
Pullman, WA 99164-4910. All materials including let-
ters must be received by 4 December 2006. WSU is an
Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Action educator and
employer. Members of ethnic minorities, women, Viet-
nam or disabled veterans, persons with disabilities, and
people over the age of 40 are encouraged to apply. WSU
hires only U.S. residents or lawfully qualiﬁed non-U.S.
residents.
roalson@mail.wsu.edu roalson@mail.wsu.edu
WilliamMaryC ConservationBiol
CONSERVATION BIOLOGY
The Department of Biology at the College of William
and Mary invites applicants for a tenure track posi-
tion at the Assistant Professor level in CONSERVA-
TION BIOLOGY. The position is open to applicants
conducting research in any ﬁeld or scale of conserva-
tion biology that contributes to existing departmental
strengths in molecular and ecology/evolutionary biol-ogy. The ideal candidate will have strong quantita-
tive skills along with the ability to integrate approaches
across diverse levels of biological organization. The suc-
cessful candidate is expected to maintain an externally
funded research program involving both undergraduate
and master’s degree students. Teaching expectation is
one course each semester, usually alternating between
an upper-level conservation biology course with lab,
an introductory biology lecture course (genetics, organ-
isms, ecology and evolution), and another course in the
candidate’s area of expertise. Postdoctoral research ex-
perience is required, and previous experience teaching
undergraduate courses will be viewed favorably.
Review begins October 12 2006 and will continue un-
til an appointment is made. Submit a letter of appli-
cation, curriculum vitae, statements of research plans
and teaching philosophy, a list of courses taken/taught
relevant to conservation biology, and three letters of
reference to Conservation Biology Search Committee,
Department of Biology, The College of William and
Mary, P.O. Box 8795, Williamsburg, VA 23187-8795.
Information on the biology department and this posi-
tion may be obtained at www.wm.edu/biology . The
College is an EEO/AA employer.
George W. Gilchrist Email: gwgilc@wm.edu Direc-
tor of Graduate Studies Phone: (757) 221-7751 De-
partment of Biology, Box 8795 Fax: (757) 221-6483
College of William & Mary Williamsburg, VA 23187-
8795 http://gwgilc.people.wm.edu/ gwgilc@wm.edu
gwgilc@wm.edu
Other
Agilent chips . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Alexandrium samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Choice Review IntelligentDesign . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
ClemsonU AdaptationHawaiianGobies . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Computational MolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Darwin works online . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Diversity Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
GallMidge specimens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Hardy-Weinberg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Hummingbird Microsatellites . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59IntlJourPlantGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Iranian Fish PopGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Mapped Markers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Marseilles 10thEBM Presentations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
MetaAnalysis Synthesis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Microsat problems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Mindell review . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Miniprep and Sequencing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Mite infestation in fruit ﬂies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Mite infestation in fruit ﬂies answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6256 EvolDir November 1, 2006
MolEvol textbooks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
MolEvol textbooks answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
NESCent phyloinformatics hackathon . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
NSF PEET Mar5 Deadline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
NSF inventory Benin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Ohio election . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Partitioned Bremer with TreeRot . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Qiagen expiration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Qiagen expiration answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66RealTimePCR instrument advice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
RealTimePCRmachine Advice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
RealTimePCRmachine Advice answers . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Software DAMBE update . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
SouthernUtahU SeminarProposals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Structure software bug . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Ugandan Forest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
r8s program problem answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
Agilent chips
We are in the market for in situ oligio microarrays. The
purchase of the microarrays will represent a signiﬁcant
investment of our resources and dictate the course of
several projects over the following months. Based on
our needs, we are preparing to purchase our chips from
Agilent. Before we do so, however, we would like to
poll the community for any experiences, good and bad,
that people may have had with Agilent chips.
If you have experience with Agilent chips and would
like to share them with us (or would recommend an al-
ternative vendor), we would appreciate you comments.
Thanks
Patrick Danley
Kerry Shaw
Patrick Danley, Ph.D.
Postdoctoral Researcher Department of Biology Uni-
versity of Maryland
phone 301.405.8303 fax 301.314.9358 email pdan-
ley@umd.edu http://www.life.umd.edu/biology/-
shawlab/patrickdanley Evolutionary Genetics Reading
Group http://www.life.umd.edu/biology/shawlab/-
patrickdanley/evolgen/ patrick.danley@gmail.com
Alexandrium samples
Dear colleagues,
We are analysing Alexandrium catenella and A.
tamarense (harmful algae) phylogeography all aroundthe world (all continents). For this, we need Alexan-
drium DNA, or alive cells, or frozen pellets, ... in order
to obtain enough DNA for 10 to 20 PCR.
This is not so simple and needs probably more expla-
nation. If you are interested in such a collaboration,
please contact me, we’ll explain how to do.
Patrick BERREBI UMR 5554 “Institut des Sciences de
l’Evolution” Equipe M´ etapopulations, Conservation et
Co-´ evolution Universit´ e Montpellier II CC 065. Place
E. Bataillon 34095 Montpellier Cedex 5 (France)
M´ el: berrebi@univ-montp2.fr T´ el. France 04 6714 3732
- International 33 4 6714 3732
Choice Review IntelligentDesign
The following review is in the Nov. ’06 issue of
CHOICE, which is in many college/university libraries.
59. HUMANITIES-RELIGION (Indexed for:
Humanities-Unspeciﬁed / Humanities-Religion) Intel-
ligent thought: science versus the intelligent design
movement Vintage Books, 2006, ISBN: 0307277224,
$14.00
Evan B. Hazard, Ph.D. Professor Emeritus of Biology
Bemidji State University Bemidji, MN 56601-2699 ee-
hazard@paulbunyan.net
ClemsonU
AdaptationHawaiianGobies
GRADUATE OPPORTUNITY FOR DOCTORAL
STUDENT IN EVOLUTION OF ADAPTATION IN
HAWAIIAN GOBIESNovember 1, 2006 EvolDir 57
Drs. Richard Blob and Margaret Ptacek are seek-
ing a highly motivated doctoral student to participate
in a study of adaptation and functional morphology
of predator avoidance and waterfall climbing perfor-
mance in Hawaiian stream gobies. The successful can-
didate will integrate population genetics estimates of
migration with laboratory studies of genetic divergence
and phenotypic plasticity. The project will also in-
volve ﬁeld-based studies of functional performance and
biomechanics. Annual stipends of $17,000 are guar-
anteed for 5 years (TAs in academic semesters, RAs
in summer) for PhD students. In addition, appli-
cants are eligible to compete for ﬁrst-year fellowships
from the graduate school of $10,000 or $15,000 in ad-
dition to the annual stipend. For more information
regarding the ecology and evolutionary biology em-
phasis area in the Biological Sciences graduate pro-
gram at Clemson, please visit our web site: ( http:/-
/www.clemson.edu/biosci/graduate/ ) and our lab web
pages: Rick Blob ( www.clemson.edu/ ˜ rblob ) and
Margaret Ptacek ( www.clemson.edu/ ˜ mptacek ). In-
quiries should be sent to rblob@clemson.edu and mp-
tacek@clemson.edu and include a CV, a statement of
research interests, and contact information for three ref-
erences. Screening of applicants will begin December 1,
2006.
“Margaret B. Ptacek” <mptacek@CLEMSON.EDU >
Computational MolEvol
A book titled “Computational Molecular Evolution”,
by Ziheng Yang, has been published by Oxford Univer-
sity Press on 5 Oct 2006.
The book has 376 pages, with 96 illustrations. It is
written for upper-level undergraduate students, grad-
uate students, and researchers in the ﬁelds of molec-
ular phylogenetics, evolutionary biology, mathematics,
statistics, and computer science.
The prices are UKP 27.50 paperback and UKP 60 hard-
back in the UK, or US$ 49.5 paperback and US$ 109.5
hardback at amazon.com.
The books can be ordered at the following web sites.
However, I understand if you order it at a meeting at
an OUP bookstand, you get a 20% discount.
OUP web site: http://www.oup.com/uk/-
catalogue/?ci80198567028 amazon.com: http:/-
/www.amazon.com/Computational-Molecular-Evolution-Oxford-Ecology/dp/0198567022/ref´ ı
oep/102-1394520-6676140
amazon.co.uk: http://www.amazon.co.uk/gp/-
product/0198567022/202-4313776-0220627?v=-
glance&n&6239&s=books&v=glance Table of
contents (a detailed one is at the book web site:
http://abacus.gene.ucl.ac.uk/CME/ )
Preface 1. Models of Nucleotide Substitution 2. Mod-
els of Amino Acid and Codon Substitution 3. Phy-
logeny Reconstruction: Overview 4. Maximum Likeli-
hood Methods 5. Bayesian Methods 6. Comparison of
Methods and Tests on Trees 7. Molecular Clock and Es-
timation of Species Divergence Times 8. Neutral and
Adaptive Protein Evolution 9. Simulating Molecular
Evolution 10. Perspectives Appendixes Reference
Ziheng Yang
Darwin works online
Information found on: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/-
science/nature/6064364.stm Thursday, 19 October
2006, 00:48 GMT 01:48 UK
Charles Darwin’s works go online Darwin in 1881 (Dar-
win, F. and Seward, A. C. eds. 1903 - Cam Uni) His
theory on evolution has inﬂuenced many science disci-
plines The complete works of one of history’s greatest
scientists, Charles Darwin, are being published online.
The project run by Cambridge University has digitised
some 50,000 pages of text and 40,000 images of original
publications - all of it searchable.
Surfers with MP3 players can even access downloadable
audio ﬁles.
The resource is aimed at serious scholars, but can be
used by anyone with an interest in Darwin and his the-
ory on the evolution of life.
“The idea is to make these important works as accessi-
ble as possible; some people can only get at Darwin that
way,” said Dr John van Wyhe, the project’s director.
One big collection
Dr van Wyhe has spent the past four years searching the
globe for copies of Darwin’s own materials, and works
written about the naturalist and his breakthrough ideas
on natural selection.
The historian said he was inspired to build the library
at darwin-online.org.uk when his own eﬀorts to study58 EvolDir November 1, 2006
Darwin while at university in Asia were frustrated.
Galapagos ﬁnches from Darwin, C. R. ed. 1839 (Cam
Uni) Images as well as texts are available online “I wrote
to lots of people all over the world to get hold of the
texts for the project and I got a really positive reaction
because they all liked the idea of there being one big
collection,” he told BBC News.
Darwin Online features many newly transcribed or
never-before-published manuscripts written by the
great man.
These include a remarkable ﬁeld notebook from his fa-
mous Beagle voyage to the Galapagos Islands, where
detailed observations of the wildlife would later forge
his scientiﬁc arguments.
Free use
The real artefact was stolen in the 1980s and is still
missing, but the text has been transcribed from a mi-
croﬁlm copy made two decades earlier.
“It is astonishing to see the notebook that Darwin had
in his pocket as he walked around the Galapagos - the
scribbled notes that he took as he clambered over the
lava,” said Randal Keynes, the great-great-grandson of
Charles Darwin.
“If people can read it on the web and they learn that it
was stolen then I think there is more chance that this
very important piece of national heritage is recovered,”
he told BBC News.
The Beagle (London: John Murray - Cam Uni) Darwin
travelled to the Galapagos in The Beagle Other texts
appearing online for the ﬁrst time include the ﬁrst edi-
tions of the Journal Of Researches (1839), The Descent
Of Man (1871), The Zoology Of The Voyage Of HMS
Beagle (1838-43) and the 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th edi-
tions of the Origin Of Species, the pivotal tome that
elucidated his thoughts on evolution.
There is no charge to use the website. Most texts can
be viewed either as colour originals or as fully format-
ted electronic transcriptions. There are also German,
Danish and Russian editions.
Users can also peruse more than 150 supplementary
texts, ranging from reference works to contemporary
reviews of Darwin’s books, obituaries and recollections.
At the moment the site contains about 50% of the ma-
terials that will be provided by 2009, the bicentenary
of the naturalist’s birth.
“The family has always wanted Darwin’s papers and
manuscripts available to anyone who wants to read
them. That everyone around the world can now see
them on the web is simply fantastic,” said Mr Keynes.gerber@pierroton.inra.fr
Diversity Project
Dear Colleagues,
For the third consecutive year, we will be running The
Diversity Project, a research opportunity at Boston
University for under-represented minority undergrad-
uate students . Students will integrate hands-on ﬁeld
research on Indonesian coral reefs and cutting edge ge-
netic research at Boston University. The project will
explore the origins marine biodiversity in the Coral
Triangle in an eﬀort to improve conservation of this
remarkable ecosystems. Students are fully funded
for both living and travel expenses. Visit http://-
people.bu.edu/pbarber/Intro.htm for more information
and on-line application.
This research opportunity has been a remarkable per-
sonal and professional experience for the students who
have participated. Please encourage any students
whom you believe would beneﬁt from such an expe-
rience to apply. For further information, please contact
Dr. Paul Barber (pbarber@bu.edu). We look forward
to hearing from you.
Sincerely, Paul Barber – Dr. Paul H. Barber
Boston University Boston University Marine Program
5 Cummington St. Boston, MA 02215 617-358-
4589 oﬃce 617-358-4590 lab 617-353-6340 FAX pbar-
ber@bu.edu http://people.bu.edu/pbarber/ Paul Bar-
ber<pbarber@bu.edu >
GallMidge specimens
Hello all,
I’m in need of some alcohol preserved or frozen speci-
mens from the gall midge tribe Alycaulini for genetic
work. Speciﬁcally, I need species from the following
North American genera:
Astictoneura Calamomyia Chilophaga Edestochilus
Edestosperma Meunieriella Neolasioptera Protaplonyx
If you have any specimens that you are willing to
share, please e- mail me at eric.janson@vanderbilt.edu.November 1, 2006 EvolDir 59
Thanks!
Eric
————– Eric M. Janson Department of
Biological Sciences Vanderbilt University
eric.janson@vanderbilt.edu The Abbot Lab:
http://abbotlab.popgen.org Personal Website:
http://sitemason.vanderbilt.edu/site/hiWbEk/
eric.janson@vanderbilt.edu eric.janson@vanderbilt.edu
Hardy-Weinberg
Dear evoldir members,
Nowadays, I am working in populations genetic in a ﬁsh
specie. Exact Hardy-Weinberg tests to measure the sig-
niﬁcance of deviations from the null hypothesis of ran-
dom union of gametes (Weir 1990, Guo and Thompson
1992) were carried out. Almost all isozyme loci anal-
ysed (seven loci) were ﬁt Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium
proportions, execpt one loci. Could we consider that
whole populations are ﬁt Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium?
Thank in advance,
Ana Fazeres
Departamento de Biolog´ ıa University of Las Palmas de
Gran Canarias Las Palmas de Gran Canaria Canary
Islands Spain
amalheiro@pesca.gi.ulpgc.es mgonza-
lez@becarios.ulpgc.es
canariensis750@hotmail.com
Hummingbird Microsatellites
Does anyone know of anyone who has developed any
microsatellite markers for hummingbirds, or is hoping
to do so?
I am starting a PhD on The population structure and
breeding ecology of Rufous Hummingbirds (Selaspho-
rus rufus)at the Institute of Evolutionary Biology at
the University of Edinburgh (Working with Sue Healy)
and hope to do 4-5 months ﬁeld work in Canada during
the breeding season.I would like to use mircrosatellite markers to compare
the relatedness of populations breeding in diﬀerent re-
gions, and possibly for kinship studies within popula-
tions.
I have been unable to ﬁnd any known mircosatellite
markers for hummingbird s in any of the following
databases: The Sheﬃeld Molecular Genetics Facility,
GenBank Sequence Database, Molecular Ecology Notes
Primer Database, and the Table of microsatellite DNA
loci and their use as heterologous primers from The
Alaska Biological Science Center. (Scribner, K. T., and
J. M. Pearce. 2000)
Regards
Ida Bacon
s0674467@sms.ed.ac.uk s0674467@sms.ed.ac.uk
IntlJourPlantGenomics
>>>
International Journal of Plant Genomics
Special Issue on
Genomics of Major Crops and Model Plant Species
Call for Papers
Genomics of higher plants had its beginning in Decem-
ber 2000, with the publication of the whole genome se-
quence of the model plant species Arabidopsis thaliana,
and the event was celebrated all over the world. This
marked the beginning of plant genomics research and
rapid progress has been made in this area during the
last six years. Signiﬁcant developments include the
reports of several draft rice genome sequences during
2000-2002, publication of a high-quality rice genome
sequence in August 2005, and the recent publication
of poplar draft genome in 15 September, 2006 issue
of Science. Sequencing of whole genomes of several
other plant species is currently underway; these include
Sorghum, Brachypodium, Brassica, and Medicago. In
still other cases (e.g., wheat, corn, barley), where the
large genome size prohibits whole genome sequencing,
the gene rich regions, (GRRs) of the genomes are be-
ing identiﬁed to bring down the sequencing work to a
manageable level. Besides other approaches, cot frac-
tionation and methylation ﬁltration are being used for
this purpose. With the availability of whole genome
sequences in at least three higher plants, comparative
genomics studies and sequence annotations (gene iden-60 EvolDir November 1, 2006
tiﬁcation and assigning functions to genes) are being
undertaken at many centres around the world.
Authors should follow the International Journal of
Plant Genomics manuscript format described at the
journal site http://www.hindawi.com/journals/ijpg/-
.Prospective authors should submit an electronic copy
of their complete manuscript through the International
Journal of Plant Genomics Manuscript Tracking Sys-
tem at http://www.hindawi.com/mts/, according to
the following timetable:
Manuscript Due March 1, 2007 Acceptance Notiﬁcation
July 1, 2007 Final Manuscript Due October 1, 2007
Publication Date 1st Quarter, 2008
Guest Editors:
P. K. Gupta, Moleculer Biology Laboratory, Depart-
ment of Genetics and Plant Breeding, Faculty of Agri-
culture, Chaudhary Charan Singh University, Meerut
250004, India; pkgupta36@gmail.com
<<<
Please visit http://www.hindawi.com/journals/ijpg/-
for more information about the journal. The articles of
International Journal of Plant Genomics are published
online as soon as they are accepted for publication. To
submit a proposal of a special issue, please contact the-
journal’s editor-in-chief.
In order not to receive any future “IJPG-C4P”
alert messages, please simply click on the follow-
ing link: http://alert.hindawi.com/remove.asp?j=ijpg-
c4p&e=golding@mcmaster.ca >>>
Iranian Fish PopGenet
hi, i m safari, from international institue of acipenser
ﬁshes, iran . my majer is population genetic . i want to
work on aquatic plants of iran , (phylogeny ). is there
any body in the world that work on phylogeny and i can
cooprate with her or him . i can send iranian sample.
roghi safari <roghi safari@yahoo.com >
Mapped MarkersDear EvolDir members,
I’m looking for genotyping data (preferentially mis-
crosatellites) obtained from natural populations with
markers genetically mapped. Any species data are wel-
come as soon as the species is an outbred or partially
outbred and has a low population structure. I need to
have at least 8 markers located on a same linkage group.
This set of data will be used to test an algorithm that
we have developed to analyze the structure of linkage
disequilibrium along linkage group.
If you have such data and you are willing to share them,
I’ll greatly appreciate.
Thanks in advance,
C´ ecile Edelist PhD student
edelist@moulon.inra.fr <mailto:cedelist@moulon.inra.fr >
Marseilles 10thEBM Presentations
Most of the presentations presented at the 10th Evolu-
tionary biology meeting at Marseilles are now available
see : http://www.up.univ-mrs.fr/evol-cgr/ best regards
Pierre Pontarotti EA 3781 Evolution Biologique
http://www.up.univ-mrs.fr/evol We are organiz-
ing the 11th Evolutionary Biology Meeting at
Marseille http://www.up.univ-mrs.fr/evol/congres/
Pierre.Pontarotti@up.univ-mrs.fr
MetaAnalysis Synthesis
Dear Evoldir:
Mohamed Noor and Maria Servedio are coordinating a
working group at NESCent (the National Evolutionary
Synthesis Center: www.nescent.org ) devoted to im-
proving the coverage of meta-analyses and other syn-
thetic works. As evolutionary biology continues to
move from single case studies to broader, but more
diﬃcult questions regarding patterns and frequency,
meta-analyses and other syntheses have become in-
creasingly essential. Nonetheless, they sometimes suﬀer
from problems including 1) publication bias (negative
results often don’t get into print), 2) diﬃculties in locat-
ing relevant data, 3) extensive unpublished data, etc.November 1, 2006 EvolDir 61
Our working group, (SEED: Synthesis of Emerging
and Existing Data) proposes a novel, community-input-
based approach to facilitating such synthetic works.
Essentially, the topic of the synthetic work will be
posted broadly, and data (published or unpublished)
will be solicited from the community (our system also
has beneﬁts for those who provide unpublished primary
data). We have already secured statements of assis-
tance from the major journals in evolutionary biology
as well as NESCent. This does not replace the standard
literature-review-based approaches, but it is intended
to act as a supplement to improve coverage. We now
seek a few researchers who are at the early stages of
preparing a meta-analysis or other synthetic work to
see if they would be willing to allow us to help, hence
evaluating our approach.
If you are preparing such a synthetic work and are
potentially interested in letting us help you, please
contact either me (noor@duke.edu) or Maria (serve-
dio@email.unc.edu). Just let us know the topic of your
synthesis and what type of primary data you are seek-
ing. We can then provide you with detailed information
on our approach, and even do much of the legwork for
you. From our perspective, there’s virtually no cost to
you, and perhaps we’d be able to help your work!
Thank you for your time.
Mohamed & Maria
noor@duke.edu noor@duke.edu
Microsat problems
Hi all:
Do you know if DNA diluted with TE could aﬀect the
genotyping using labelled primers in a ABI automatic
sequencer?
Thanks in advance. Regards
Rodrigo Badilla Biologo Marino. Programa de
Doctorado en Acuicultura. Laboratorio de Ge-
netica Marina. IUSA, ULPGC. Las Palmas,
Gran Canaria. Espa˜ na. movil:+34 606237167
www.grupoinvestigacionacuicultura.org ro-
drigo.badilla@gmail.comMindell review
The following review appeared in the October 2006 is-
sue of CHOICE.
44-0916 QH371 2005-58131 CIP Mindell, David P. The
evolving world: evolution in everyday life. Harvard,
2006. 341p bibl index afp ISBN 0674021916, $24.95
eehazard@paulbunyan.net eehazard@paulbunyan.net
Miniprep and Sequencing
Dear colleagues,
Recently I followed a course on molecular biology. In
this course we had some practical lessons on gene ex-
pression using RT-PCR and cloning. At the plas-
mid puriﬁcation step we carried out ﬁrst a miniprep
(NaOH/SDS lysis) to check inserts and after another
miniprep (NucleoSpin Plasmid Quickpure) for plasmid
puriﬁcation and following sequencing. My question is:
with the ﬁrst miniprep can we go on with the sequenc-
ing without going to the puriﬁcation miniprep?
Best wishes and thanks in advance!
Iruka
Iruka Kinsachi <irukakinsachi@yahoo.com >
Mite infestation in fruit ﬂies
Hello all,
I have a low level mite infestation in some experimen-
tal lines of fruit ﬂies I am keeping for a long-term se-
lection experiment. The mites are white and not of
the parasitic variety, but I am not sure what species or
genus. I need to get rid of them, and had heard that
D. melanogaster typically has a shorter generation time
than the mite, so that doing several rapid generations
might allow the population to ’outrun’ its mite com-62 EvolDir November 1, 2006
petitors (coupled with a thorough cleaning and culture-
room disinfection, of course). My ﬂies are kept at 25
degrees Celcius.
Any suggestions or advice about this and/or other ef-
fective methods would be very greatly appreciated,
Thanks, Sam Yeaman
yeaman@zoology.ubc.ca
Mite infestation in fruit ﬂies answers
Hello all,
Many thanks again to all who wrote to me with advice
on dealing with mite infestations...most helpful! Sev-
eral people have contacted me who are interested in
the responses as well, so I have pasted them below to
share the wealth....
Cheers, Sam
*************
Hi Sam
it is fairly straight forward to get rid of mite infestations
in fruit ﬂies, especially if they are not speciﬁc parasites
of the ﬂies. First try to keep all lines quarantined so
that you contain the mite infestation, best by keep-
ing the bottles/vials in water baths (trays with water)-
that prevents mites from spreading between lines. Then
move ﬂies onto new ﬂy bottles/vials as soon as they
emerge from the pupae, you can also move them to
fresh vials in a series of 2-3 days. Make sure that you
keep the ﬂy room clean of dust, food sources for mites
remove potential hiding places. Use cleaning ethanol
or bleach to keep surfaces clean. Mites can be quite re-
sistent to adverse conditions, so you need to keep this
proceedures up for some time. You can place trapping
vials in your ﬂy room in order to access how much ﬂies
there are around. Very important- if you recycle your
containers then keep glass wear very clean and auto-
clave foam stoppers- or use one way cotton wool.
good luck- you should be able to get rid of the mites in
a couple of ﬂy generations.
Markus
Dr. Markus Riegler School of Integrative Biology Uni-
versity of Queensland St. Lucia QLD 4072 Australia
phone: (++617) 33469218 fax: (++617) 33651655
mriegler@uq.edu.au***********
Hi Sam. You have food mites. I’m sure you’ve heard
from others about this, but yes, you can try outrun-
ning the mites. Transfer the ﬂies to new food daily
for a week or so. And make sure the food is relatively
fresh. Also, bear in mind that there might be mite
eggs everywhere. Use alcohol on all bench space and be
scrupulously clean. You might also want to clean out
the incubators that you have been using. As soon as
you ﬁnish with food, dispose of or clean the vials. Old
food sitting around is a common cause of mite infes-
tations. Finally, remember Ashburner’s warning from
his ’Grey Book’–mites can appear by spontaneous gen-
eration. Oh, and don’t trust anyone who sends ﬂies
claiming them to be mite-free. Always put incoming
ﬂies through quarantine. Good luck! Daniel Promislow
***********
Sam,
Good luck.
I may have sounded too negative about the Tedion. I
may have helped, and it’s certainly easy to use.
If hygiene and some judicious benzyl benzoate don’t
completely control things for you, try adding the Te-
dion paper bits to the mix to controls.
Ian
Ian A. Boussy iboussy@luc.edu Dept. of Biology 340
Quinlan Life Sciences Building Loyola University of
Chicago 6525 N. Sheridan Rd. Chicago, IL 60626 tel.
773-508-3635 fax 773-508-3646 “Time ﬂies like an ar-
row, but fruit ﬂies like a banana.” –Groucho Marx
>>> >>> < yeaman@zoology.ubc.ca >10/08/06 10:56
AM>>> >>> Hi Ian, thanks for the advice! I was
going to order some tedion but now I don’t think I will
bother...I’ll probably try using multiple rapid transfers
plus benzyl benzoate and a heavy cleaning to stop re-
contamination. Cheers! Sam
Sam,
Mites can be diﬃcult to deal with.
Without seeing them, from your description it sounds
as though you’re dealing with an Acarid mite, proba-
bly related to (but not the same as) the dreaded “red”
mites that can form a hypopal form as a second instar.
This hypopus is the “parasitic mite” that is shown on
a website from Arizona. It’s actually a travelling stage
of the mite, which doesn’t feed at all but only rides,
and not actually parasitic at all. Unfortunately, large
numbers of hypopi riding on a ﬂy impede its ability to
do anything, including mate or eat. For them, transfer
deﬁnitely works with modest infestations because theNovember 1, 2006 EvolDir 63
hypopi leave the ﬂies eventually when they ﬁnd them-
selves in a new place. The hypopi are reddish, and,
when numerous, may crawl up the sides of a bottle and
congregate at the plug, forming a red ring that strikes
fear into the heart of a drosophilist!
I have had mites in the lab that a noted acarologist
said were the same species as that which form hypopi,
but that never formed hypopi! They are “food mites,”
related to stored grain pests, that are basically inter-
ested in the food, not the ﬂies. Getting rid of them
can usually be accomplished by changing ﬂies to new
food many times, and using cotton plugs, which they
can’t get through. Foam plugs are no barrier at all, and
rayon may not stop them as well as cotton.
I’ve used bits of paper towelling with Tedion, a miticide,
soaked into them. This is described, I think, in an old
DIS. (I’m at home or I’d look up the reference for you.)
It might give some protection to put a tab of Tedion-
paper in each vial each generation, but Tedion-paper
doesn’t kill oﬀ mites already in residence. Although I
have used Tedion-paper
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
MolEvol textbooks
Dear EvolDir members,
I am teaching a course (16 hours) in Molecular Evo-
lution to students in their 4th year in Biology whose
major is Ecology and Evolution - sort of ﬁrst year grad
students in the US system.
I am looking for a textbook that covers molecular evo-
lution, some relevant population genetics and phylo-
geography, phylogenetics, and possibly some practical
applications.
In the last two years I have based the course on Fu-
tuyma and the Li and Graur series, but I see that these
texts have a very mathematical approach to most of
the problems - that is they start with some algebra and
hence they derive biological concepts. Although this
approach is excellent for advanced students, I am not
sure of its appropriatedness for this speciﬁc course, as
students tend to learn the algebra and forget the biol-
ogy.I would, in turn, prefer a textbook that - not being nec-
essarily easy or poor - has a more direct, qualitative,
approach to the learning of concepts and principles.
Any suggestion would be highly appreciated.
Francesco Nardi
Francesco Nardi, Dr.
Dept. of Evolutionary Biology University of Siena
via Aldo Moro 2 - 53100 Siena Italy
Ph.: +39.0577.234420 (lab. 4398) Fax.:
+39.0577.234476
nardifra@unisi.it nardifra@unisi.it
MolEvol textbooks answers
I posted a request for a textbook in Molecular Evolu-
tion, here is a list of the books that diﬀerent people
suggested. Many thanks to all who replied. Francesco
Page and Holmes “Molecular Evolution, a phylogenetic
approach” (about one third of the e-mails suggested this
one) http://www.amazon.com/Molecular-Evolution-
Phylogenetic-Roderic-Page/dp/0865428891/sr=8-2/-
qid60460442/ref=pd bbs2/104-1739144-5944726?ie=-
UTF8&s=books Stearns and Hoesktra “Evolution”
http://www.oup.com/uk/catalogue/?ci80199255634
Joanna Freeland “Molecular Ecology” John Wiley
and Sons. http://www.amazon.com/Molecular-
Ecology-Joanna-R-Freeland/dp/0470090626/sr=8-1/-
qid60467310/ref=pd bbs1/102-8607095-8980932?ie=-
UTF8
Lowe, Harris and Ashton “Ecological genetics: design,
analysis and application”
Jonh C. Avise “Molecular markers, natural history and
evolution”
Ridley “Evolution”
Halliburton “Introduction to Population Genetics”
Futuyma
Price
“Evolutionary Bioinformatics” http://-
post.queensu.ca/˜forsdyke/book03.htm In addition:
Parker J.D (Ecology and Evolution Groups, School of
Biological Sciences, University of Southampton) has
some classroom practicals “BAMBEd”
Nick Barton is writing a book, to be published by64 EvolDir November 1, 2006
Cold Spring Harbor Press. <http://www.evolution-
textbook.org/ >http://www.evolution-textbook.org
Lindell Bromham is working on “Reading the story in
DNA: using DNA sequences to understand evolution”
To be published by Oxford University Press
Francesco Nardi, Dr.
Dept. of Evolutionary Biology University of Siena
via Aldo Moro 2 - 53100 Siena Italy
Ph.: +39.0577.234420 (lab. 4398) Fax.:
+39.0577.234476
nardifra@unisi.it nardifra@unisi.it
NESCent phyloinformatics
hackathon
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(www.nescent.org ) invites community input on an
upcoming Phyloinformatics Hackathon to leverage
Bio* open-source toolkits (e.g., BioPerl) to provide
the “glue” for evolutionary analyses of various types
that depend on automation, interoperability and data
integration.
BACKGROUND: While powerful computational tools
exist for comparison of evolutionary models, inferring
trees, etc, these tools are largely isolated from the rest
of bioinformatics (in terms of the input, output and
control), making it diﬃcult to achieve objectives of
interoperability of diverse applications, large-scale au-
tomation of computational analyses, and integration of
data from diverse sources. The Bio* toolkits (BioPerl,
BioJava, BioPython, BioRuby, etc.) are widely used as
the “glue” code to achieve such objectives in a genomics
context.
OBJECTIVES: The general plan for the ﬁrst NES-
Cent phyloinformatics hackathon is to leverage the Bio*
toolkits to facilitate evolutionary analysis, as described
on the hackathon web site (see “Proposal”) here:
https://www.nescent.org/wg phyloinformatics/ The
speciﬁc objectives are driven by “use cases”, that is,
speciﬁc target problems of interest to evolutionary bi-
ologists. A diversity of use cases is being considered
(click on the “Use Cases” link in the navigation bar).
CALL FOR INPUT: The organizers invite community
input in order to focus eﬀorts on the most urgent or
pervasive problems. Community input may take sev-
eral forms:* modiﬁcations (clariﬁcations, additions) to the current
list of use cases
* actual data ﬁles (e.g., alignments, trees, other data)
for use in testing
* citations to published papers that exemplify use cases
* your “wish list” for a phyloinformatics computing
platform (see “Forum”)
The NESCent web site (the link is given above) is a
“wiki” web, that is, it implements the “wiki” technol-
ogy (used in wikipedia) to facilitate community- based
authoring of web documents. Using your favorite web
browser, you can simply start editing the “Use Case”
document (the ﬁrst time, you will be prompted to
register), upload data ﬁles, or add comments to the
“Forum” page. If you are not comfortable with this
technology, you may email comments (and ﬁles) to
hlapp@nescent.org (please indicate if you don’t wish
to share your comments or data ﬁles on the wiki). You
may also contact any of the organizers with questions
or comments.
ATTENDANCE: The hackathon is scheduled for Dec
11-15, 2006 in Durham NC. Space is limited, and at-
tendance is by invitation. If you have not been con-
tacted but desire to attend, please contact Hilmar Lapp
(hlapp@nescent.org).
ORGANIZERS: Hilmar Lapp (NESCent;
hlapp@nescent.org) Aaron Mackey (GSK;
aaron.j.mackey@gsk.com) Mark Holder (FSU;
older@scs.fsu.edu) Arlin Stoltzfus (CARB, NIST;
arlin.stoltzfus@nist.gov) Todd Vision (NESCent;
tjv@bio.unc.edu) Rutger Vos (UBC; rvosa@sfu.ca)
stoltzfu@umbi.umd.edu
NSF PEET Mar5 Deadline
Colleagues,
We are sending a reminder that the National Science
Foundation?s program Partnerships for Enhancing Ex-
pertise in Taxonomy (PEET) is running a competition
for 2007. The deadline for proposals will be Monday,
March 5. The PEET program preferentially supports
projects that work on understudied groups of organ-
isms, and is an eﬀort designed to encourage the train-
ing of new generations of taxonomists and to translate
current expertise into electronic databases and other
formats with broad accessibility to the scientiﬁc com-November 1, 2006 EvolDir 65
munity. The PEET program is a biennial competi-
tion that has been in existence since 1995. To date 70
projects have been funded through the PEET program.
Signiﬁcant infrastructural developments (e.g., museum
collections, databases) and international collaborations
distinguish all the projects. We invite you to view
the solicitation (announcement NSF 04-606; http:/-
/www.nsf.gov/pubs/2004/nsf04606/nsf04606.htm ) for
further details on the program and proposal! guidelines.
Please note that the Cognizant Program Oﬃcer since
Dr. James Rodman?s retirement is now Dr. Juan Car-
los Morales ( sbbi@nsf.gov ).
Thank you, Systematic Biology and Biodiversity Inven-
tories, NSF Juan Carlos Morales, Patrick Herendeen,
W. Carl Taylor, Gera Jochum
SSB<SSBMembership@BurkInc.com >
NSF inventory Benin
Dear all,
I am engineer agronomist (specialist in fauna and trop-
ical ﬂora) having more 10 professional experience years
in forest inventory, of fauna mammal, of arthropods
and in biologic resource conservation. Author of sev-
eral scientiﬁc publications and techniques. Member of
the subgroup of work Odonata Specialist Group of the
International union for the Conservation of the Nature
(IUCN) and of several associations (group of work of
validation of documents of impact survey on the envi-
ronment to the Beninese agency for the environment,
Association Beninese of Environnemental assessment,
etc.) of the natural resource conservation. Next to it I
participated in all works of research (in sea and on the
long of coasts) on cetacean (whales and dolphins) and
the turtles marine of the Atlantic of Benin.
I search for taxonomists so that we propose for National
Science Foundation a project of insects inventory, Rep-
tilian, Amphibians, Spiders and Ferns of Benin.
I wait for your reactions. Please write me directly on:
tchisev@yahoo.fr
Sincerelly.
M. S´ ev´ erin Tchibozo Centre de Recherche pour
la Gestion de la Biodiversit´ e et du Terroir 04
B.p. 0385 Cotonou, BENIN T´ el: (+229) 95063950
/ 21353095 / 21303084 Fax (+229) 21303084 E-
mail: tchisev@yahoo.fr http://www.cerget.org/ http:/-/www.cerget.org/ http://www.hyperinfo.de/arccona/
tchisev@yahoo.fr
Ohio election
Brian Would you please post this to EvolDir?
Randy Mitchell, Prof Biology, University of Akron.
rjm2@uakron.edu
Dear Fellow Scientists,
In 2003, our community pulled together in response to
an attack on the teaching of evolution in Ohio. We
electronically circulated a petition that was signed by
over 6,800 scientists across our country. Many of you
also wrote passionate comments about how this 10th
grade “critique of evolution” lesson plan was just ﬂat
out bad science. We were able to take those signatures
and comments to the Ohio Board of Education and
show the moderates on the board the strength of sup-
port for the teaching of evolution within the scientiﬁc
community. Unfortunately, at the time there were not
enough moderates on the Board to overturn the lesson
plan & it narrowly passed.
The architect of that anti-science lesson plan, Deborah
Owens-Fink, is up for re-election on Nov. 7th. About
one month ago, we again electronically circulated a sim-
ilar request for help to our scientiﬁc community, this
time requesting a small donation to help us to replace
Owens-Fink with a pro-science candidate (former con-
gressman Tom Sawyer) for the Ohio Board of Educa-
tion. We assumed that if ~50% of those 6,800 people
would donate $5-10, we would be in a strong position to
get our pro-science message out & counter what would
likely be a well funded Owens- Fink campaign.
Unfortunately, our community has yet to pull through
for us this time. We have only received 191 donations,
& over half of these have been from non-scientists con-
cerned with the state of science education in our coun-
try. Owens-Fink has raised three times as much money
as we have, with her average donor giving over $1000.
She has been sending out more mailings & buying more
advertising than we have been able to aﬀord.
We would like to ask you to reconsider helping us out. If
you would simply go to www.votetomsawyer.com and
donate $10 and then pass this message to a handfull
of your colleagues (much the same as you did with our
2003 petition), we will be able to aﬀord the mailings we
need to get our word out in these crucial ﬁnal 2 weeks66 EvolDir November 1, 2006
of the campaign. We have the chance to depose the
single most eﬀective promoter of Intelligent Design in
Ohio, and for a mere $10, you can help us to eliminate
the need to have to circulate the NEXT petition to once
again implore the moderates on the Ohio BOE to reject
the next anti-science lesson plan that Owens-Fink will
assuredly propose if she is re-elected!
Thank you for your help,
Steve Weeks Randy Mitchell Peter Niewiarowski Fran-
cisco Moore Todd Blackledge Rich Londraville
PS please act soon - the Election will be November 7,
and we need to be active well ahead of then.
Randy Mitchell <rjmakron@yahoo.com >
Partitioned Bremer with TreeRot
I am trying to calculate partitioned Bremer scores us-
ing TreeRot, and I am getting non-standard output for
some datasets. Instead of the standard output (tree
length in left column, bremer score in right column),
my output looks like this:
110 NAN(004) 236 236 1 sec (CPU time = 0.11 sec)
NAN(004) NAN(004)
The output isn’t complete nonsense, as the numbers in
the left column (110 and 236 above) are the number
of steps each partition contributes to that constraint
tree, so I can theoretically still calculate the Bremer
scores. This only seems to happen with smaller datasets
(around 25-30 taxa or fewer).
Has anyone experienced this? Do you have any sugges-
tions as to what might be going on?
Thanks in advance.
– Leah Larkin, Ph.D. Research Assistant Professor De-
partment of Biology MSC03 2020, 167 Castetter Hall
1 University of New Mexico Albuquerque, NM 87131-
0001 (505) 277-2388 (Lab) (505) 239-6036 (Cell) (505)
277-4225 (Museum) (505) 277-0304 (FAX)
llarkin@unm.edu
Qiagen expirationThanks in advance for your help with two questions; if
anyone requests, I will post your answers/contact info
on the evolution net.
(1) how many yrs after dnaeasy kits expire are the com-
ponents still eﬀective in purifying genomic dna? evi-
dence that genomic dna remains stable?
(2) how can I stop getting large air bubbles in gels (6%
bis: acrylamide formamide-urea-0.5X TBE)?
Ann Eileen Miller Baker
Ann Eileen Miller Baker
<mouse@lamar.ColoState.EDU >
Qiagen expiration answers
Overview
DNAEASY QIAGEN EXPIRATION One person found
that 6-yr old dnaeasy gave dna that could be PCRed.
Several people said all reagents but proteinase K would
probably be OK.
LARGE AIR BUBBLES IN SEQUENCING GEL Most
suggested removing air in the gel using a vacuum; clean-
ing plate well; knocking ±plate with hand to remove
bubbles; putting something small btwn plates to ﬁsh
out±the bubbles. The vacuum is applied before adding
APS, temed. I was doing experiments to avoid large air
bubbles: putting small glass plate in 100 gm NaOH per
1 L dd h20 for ca. 5 days resulted in no large air bub-
bles in two gels so far. I use this same NaOH solution to
remove AgNO3-stained acrylamide gel from the small
plate.
EMAIL RESPONSES (I omitted a few responses be-
cause most were redundant)
———- Forwarded message ———- Date: Sun,
15 Oct 2006 08:17:54 -0700 From: Ward Watt
<wbwatt@stanford.edu To: Ann Eileen Miller Baker
<mouse@lamar.colostate.edu Subject: Bubbles in gels
Dear Ann,
Can’t help much with your question about the lifes-
pan of DNeasy components, except to say that the spin
columns themselves are pretty long-lived.
But as for the bubbles, have you been degassing your gel
mix before adding catalyst? (I assume this is a sequenc-
ing or fragment-analysis gel?) What we do is to put
a Nalgene plastic ﬁlter unit, 0.2-micron, on the stan-
dard building vacuum line (with a “trap” in between,November 1, 2006 EvolDir 67
of course) and ﬁlter the gel mix, pre-catalyst, through
into the collection ﬂask, then leave it under vacuum
there for ten minutes before adding catalyst, gently
swirling to mix, and then pouring the gel. The only
bubbles that ever result then are from pouring/sliding
plates too fast (we use an “OWL” casting rack rather
than the insane ABI syringe-and-gaskets rig) or from
incompletely cleaned plates.
Cheers,
Ward
Ward Watt Prof. of Biology
Dept. of Biological Sciences 371 Serra Mall
Stanford University Stanford, CA USA 94305-5020
Phone (650)-723-4297 FAX (650)-723-6132 Email wb-
watt@stanford.edu
Summer – Rocky Mountain Biological Laboratory 8000
County Road #317 (or P.O. Box 519) Crested Butte,
CO USA 81224 Phone and FAX (970)-349-5668 Same
email
A,
Weak acid = 100 mL glacial acetic with 900 mL dd
h20? OR 10 mL glacial acetic with 990 mL dd h20?
The ﬁrst step after electrophoresis before putting into
AgNO3 9no 32P) is to “ﬁx” in 100 mL glacial acetic
with 900 mL ddh20; my gel stays on the small plate
until after I scored.
I would guess the 10% solution would be better, but
have no personal experience. In my grad school lab we
used 1N HCl to clean mineral deposits from glassware.
I use “glue” (ca. 30-letter name in Sigma catalog) on
the shortplate; on the longplate, I now use a nonhaz-
mat from Amresco (forgot name), but with Westneat
we used “sigmacote”.
Sigmacote is the one I’ve used.
Let me know what ends up working for you. Lucky me,
I’m on to capillary sequencing now!
Brian
===== Original Message From Brian Ort
<brianort11@msn.com ==== Hi, I think acid
would work better. I have etched glass as a sort of
art project and I think the etching paste is basic. You
deﬁnitely don’t want to etch your plates! Weak acids
are very good at removing calcium and other hard
water deposits (think of acid rain on the Acropolis in
Athens or vinegar in your tea kettle). I would start
with weak acid and don’t leave it on the plates for
more than a minute to start. Rinse well with di-water
and wipe dry with soft paper towels. Then air dry fora day or so.
One other thing I’ve used is a silica coating on the inside
of one plate. That was to facilitate prying the plates
apart after running so that the gel could be blotted onto
ﬁlter paper, dried, and used for autoradiography. How-
ever, I think the silica coating also incidentally helped
with pouring the gel.
Cheers, Brian
Brian, Do you think NaOH (100 gm per 1 L dd
h20)could be eﬀective substitutee for acid? I did lotsa
tapping, but it was useless (so many large bubbles). Re-
spectfully, A who never degassed acrylamide, but will;
who routinely degassed starch gels
===== Original Message From Brian Ort
<brianort11@msn.com ==== Hi, I assume you’re
talking about bubbles formed while pouring a slab gel
between glass plates, as for sequencing or microsats.
First, you should degas the gel solution under vacuum.
You’re probably already doing this since most protocols
call for it. While pouring the gel, I’ve found it useful
to, ﬁrst, have the plates lying horizontally on some
padded support, then use my knuckles to tap on the
plate at the gel front while I’m injecting the gel with a
large syringe at the notched end of the plates. Tapping
causes the gel to advance past any rough spots inside
the plates. If a lab partner is available, it’s easier to
have one person pour and the other tap. So that’s a
primitive technique.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
RealTimePCR instrument advice
Please post Our laboratory, a molecular core facility,
will be purchasing a real time PCR instrument shortly,
we are looking for an instrument that can run mul-
tiple ﬂuors. Currently, we are looking at the iCycler
from Bio-Rad, or one of the instruments from Applied
Biosystems. I would be interested in hearing from expe-
rienced users of these or other comparable instruments
about their experiences. In particular, I would appreci-
ate information on reliability, operating costs, and ease
of use.68 EvolDir November 1, 2006
Cort L. Anderson Laboratory for Ecological and Con-
servation Genetics College of Natural Resources P.O.
Box 441136 University of Idaho Moscow, ID 83844
tel: 208 885 8914 fax 208 885 9080 email:
cla@uidaho.edu
cla@uidaho.edu
RealTimePCRmachine Advice
Dear EvolDir,
I am about to purchase a real-time PCR system for my
lab.
I have been looking at the following:
1/ ABI 7300 2/ BioRad Chromo4 (this was MJR) 3/
BioRad DNA Engine Opticon 2 (this was also MJR) 4/
BioRad MyiQ
I have not yet looked at the Eppendorf machine.
If anyone has any opinions to oﬀer or experience with
one or more of these machines, I would really appreciate
hearing from you.
Many thanks, Alex Wilson –
Dr Alex Wilson Assistant Professor Department of Bi-
ology University of Miami 1301 Memorial Drive Coral
Gables, Florida 33146-0421 USA
Phone: (305) 284 2003 Oﬃce: Cox Science Room 234
http://www.bio.miami.edu/acwilson/home.htm acwil-
son@bio.miami.edu
RealTimePCRmachine Advice
answers
Thanks to all those who responded to my question
about which real-time PCR machine to purchase. What
follows is a summary of the responses I got.
Our company has used 3 of the 4 you mentioned: ABI
7300 BioRad DNA Engine Opticon 2 (this was also
MJR) BioRad MyiQ And we’ve even tested out the
Stratagene MX3005P It all comes down to what special
preferences you would want from the machines. ABI:
We’ve had some limitations in programming optionswith this machine, however, we’re not doing the typical
real-time PCR assays. Opticon2/Stratagene: Very user
friendly. Of these two, we prefer the Opticon2 because
of the nice features in viewing your traces (you can roll
over the trace and it will highlight in diﬀerent colors
which sample it is both on the plate position as well
as in the description - VERY useful if running tons of
samples at the same time). MyiQ: A busy & slightly
complicated interface (lots of tabs and buttons to ac-
tivate before you can edit/create anything) but after
some practice, it isn’t too diﬃcult. Does not have the
roll-over-trace feature; instead, you have to select the
wells you want display or place your cursor over the
trace and catch the little hand cursor for it to tell you
which sample the trace is belongs to (a bit annoying
when looking at several samples, but BioRad is work-
ing on the feature for their next softward upgrade’at
least I hope). Bonus feature is that you can add cy-
cles /during/ a run. The Opticon2 is limited to 99
cycles (again, the types of assays we’re doing requires
us to sometimes run the whole thing out for a long time
to see when a product will form). It also has a much
faster ramp time then the Opticon2. Something that
is important to us is the ability to pause the run and
add/remove small amounts of volume in our sample and
both of the BioRad machines were the only ones that al-
lowed us to do that (meaning the plate/tubes were not
physically being blocked by the laser or whatnot when
we interrupt a run). We currently own all three (ABI
and both BioRads) and will probably consider buying
another MyiQ.
you might look into the stratagene machine.
we have one and love it. +
Hello, Alex,
I’ll forward to you my reply to Cort, who sent in a
similar query to the evoldir not long ago.
Best of luck,
Bob
PS: Note that the Eppendorf is pretty high priced
(around same as ABI 7500, I think). I’d stick with
the Bio-Rad rather than the MJ, because I think you’ll
get better customer support on the iQ series.
———
*From:* Robert E. Marra
[mailto:Robert.Marra@po.state.ct.us] *Sent:* Wednes-
day, October 11, 2006 8:36 AM *To:* ’cla@uidaho.edu’
*Subject:* realtime decisions
Hello Cort,November 1, 2006 EvolDir 69
I shopped around for a realtime instrument a little over
a year ago. Although there seems to be a penchant for
the Cepheid Smartcycler in my ﬁeld, for diagnostics, I
dismissed it because of its sample size limitation (16
per run). I looked at the ABIs, the Bio-Rad iQ5, and
the Eppendorf. I brieﬂy looked into the Stratagene, but
did not like several features, including the moving cam-
era, and I was nervous about its low price, wondering if
it wouldn’t come back to haunt me; i.e., you get what
you pay for. I only looked at the iQ5 from Bio-Rad, not
the MJResearch, and that was in part because at the
time, Bio-Rad was in litigation with ABI over licensing
for their MJR line (perhaps you know that Bio-Rad
purchased MJR some time ago). We (my technician
and I) were interested in the software as well as the in-
strument itself. One thing that appealed to us about
the iQ5 and the Eppendorf is that both instruments
can be used as stand-alone thermalcyclers, so part of
my purchasing was to buy one real-time unit and two
stand-alone thermalcyclers, and I liked the idea that all
three would share the same base unit, so that reaction
optimization can be done any machine, and for end-
point real-time PCR, the reactions themselves can be
done in a diﬀerent unit, than transferred to the iQ5 to
be read. The ABI units don’t have this feature. I liked
the Eppendorf best of all, both the instrument and the
software, but there were holdups relating to the licens-
ing litigation, and I had to make my purchase before
the opportunity to use the money would run out. So I
went with the iQ5, and for the most part, we’ve been
very happy with our decision. For one thing, Eppendorf
was not very ﬂexible on the pricing, even considering
that we were going to by the realtime unit as well as
two thermalcyclers, whereas Bio-Rad worked out a nice
deal for us. As with anything, since we’ve been using
the iQ5 (and we use it a lot), we have found some quirks
in the software, but they seem to be pretty responsive
to suggestions for updates, and they’ve already incor-
porated a couple of our suggestions (which, apparently,
others made as well). The tech support has been excel-
lent, too. One of my fears with ABI is that while
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Software DAMBE updateDear All,
I have uploaded a major update of my DAMBE soft-
ware. It includes the following new functions:
1. Hidden Markov model (HMM) for motif and gene
ﬁnding and secondary structure prediction
2. Gibbs sampler for ﬁnding regulatory sequences and
their locations
3. Other basic bioinformatics tools such as position
weight matrix, perceptrons (often used to characterize
signal sensors in gene ﬁnding) and discriminant func-
tion analysis (often used in gene ﬁnding involving con-
tent sensors)
4. Particularly relevant to evolutionary biologists is
a new codon adaptation index (CAI) based on tRNA
anticodons. Computation of CAI requires a set of ref-
erence genes known to be highly expressed. DAMBE’s
previous function of CAI is based on EMBOSS’s .cut
ﬁles (i.e., codon usage tables compiled and distributed
with EMBOSS, e.g., Ehum.cut for human, Eeco.cut for
E. coli) as the reference ﬁles. These EMBOSS .cut ﬁles
suﬀer from two problems. First, the .cut ﬁles are poorly
documented, which is typical of any open-source soft-
ware. DAMBE users often ask me what are those EM-
BOSS .cut ﬁles, how are they compiled, why there are
several .cut ﬁles for human, E. coli, etc. and which
ﬁle is more relevant for computing CAI. Most users are
unaware of the horrible answer that these .cut ﬁles are
mostly not documented, and generally will be horri-
ﬁed to learn the answer. For bacterial species, some
tables are from compilation of codon usage from ribo-
somal protein genes or from whatever genes known to
be highly expressed. The other problem is that the .cut
ﬁles do not follow any standard notation in ﬁle name.
The early TransTerm ﬁles have names made from the
ﬁrst character of the genus name and ﬁrst three char-
acters of the species name, but this convention is not
followed in EMBOSS.
My lab has used tRNA compilation from LoweLab and
compiled the tRNA-anticodon-derived codons. Using
such codon frequencies as the reference set results in
not only a more coherent CAI, but also make it much
more applicable to many more species. Currently it in-
cludes 215 eubacterial species, 21 archaebacteria and
13 eukaryotes.
For teachers not familiar with HHM or Gibbs sampler
(or position weight matrix or perceptron) but wish to
include these materials in teaching, I have tutorial chap-
ters to guide you through numerical illustrations (you
will need a good calculator or be familiar with a spread
sheet program such as EXCEL), conditional on your
providing comments.70 EvolDir November 1, 2006
The new version also ﬁxed a few bugs.
The installation package for DAMBE is freely available
at
http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca/-
dambe installation instructions.asp You need only a
few mouse clicks to install it.
For those who do not know DAMBE, it is a Windows
program with extensive functions for data analysis in
bioinformatics, molecular biology and evolution.
Best Xuhua
Dr. Xuhua Xia CAREG and Biology Depart-
ment University of Ottawa 30 Marie Curie, P.O.
Box 450, Station A Ottawa, Ontario Canada K1N
6N5 Tel: (613) 562-5800 ext 6886 Fax: (613) 562-
5486 URL: http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca Xuhua Xia
<Xuhua.Xia@uottawa.ca >
SouthernUtahU SeminarProposals
The Department of Biology at Southern Utah Univer-
sity is inviting Faculty, Post-docs, and Graduate stu-
dents to submit applications for the Invited Research
Seminar Series at Southern Utah University ? Win-
ter/Spring Semester 2007.
Southern Utah University is a small, undergraduate and
Master?s University located in the scenic, southwest
corner of Utah. Our pristine location oﬀers some of the
best slickrock trails, slot canyons, back country powder,
and hiking anywhere (see links below). Pre-talk high
country desert adventure will be strongly encouraged
and facilitated.
Selected colleagues will be provided with room/board,
recreational opportunities (resort ski pass, equipment
rental, etc.), and travel to/from Salt Lake City, Utah
or Las Vegas, Nevada.
Graduate students this is a great opportunity to add
invited seminar sections to your CVs. International
applications are welcome.
If interested, please send a CV, short research descrip-
tion, and available dates (see schedule below) to:
Dr. Jonathon Marshall
jonathon cmarshall@hotmail.com
Subject heading: Research Seminar
http://www.suu.edu/ Schedule 2007 January 16, 23,30 February 6, 13, 20, 27 March 5, 19, 26 April 3, 10,
17, 24
Area Attractions Bryce Canyon National Park
http://www.nps.gov/brca/ Zion National Park
http://www.nps.gov/zion/ Cedar Breaks Na-
tional Monument http://www.nps.gov/cebr/
Kolob Fingers http://www.utah.com/byways/-
kolob ﬁngers.htm Native American Rock Art http://-
www.utah.com/playgrounds/parowan gap.htm Brian
Head Ski Resort http://www.utah.com/ski/resorts/-
brian head.htm Gooseberry Mesa slick rock trail http:/-
/www.utahmountainbiking.com/trails/goose.htm
Rock Climbing Areas http://utahpictures.com/-
SnowCanyon1.html Remote overlook of the Grand
Canyon http://www.mmto.org/ ˜ swest/toroweap/-
toroweap.html John Ford/John Wayne Old Western
Movie Sets http://www.kaneutah.com/101things.htm
Birth place of Butch Cassidy http://www.utah.com/-
oldwest/butchcassidyoverview.htm Jonathon C.
Marshall, PhD. Dept. of Biology, SC116 Southern
Utah University Cedar City, UT 84720
Phone (435) 586-7927 Fax: (435) 586-8605
Jonathon Marshall <jonathon cmarshall@hotmail.com >
Structure software bug
I would appreciate knowing if anyone else has encoun-
tered the same problems I describe below, and if there
is a known “ﬁx.”
I am having diﬃculties with what seems to be a bug
when using the program STRUCTURE with Windows
XP, but may also be an incompatability with the op-
erating system. I’m using the Java-based “front end,”
running batch ﬁles with a dataﬁle that has 180 individ-
ual genotypes at 8 loci (total of 6 populations). Typi-
cally, my batch ﬁles contain 2 or 3 diﬀerent parameter
sets with diﬀerent settings for parameters like ancestry
model (admixture, no admixture, use pop information),
allelic relationships (correlated vs noncorrelated), etc,
and are generally run at K 2 to K = 7. In all cases,
burnin is 75000 and the run is 750,000 iterations.
Very often, during the ﬁfth run of the program in a
batch ﬁle, an error message comes up that apologeti-
cally tells me that STRUCTURE has to quit. I have the
option of “debugging,” and/or sending a report to Mi-
crosoft (yuk yuk...). Invariably, this happens when the
program is scrolling the results for individuals accrossNovember 1, 2006 EvolDir 71
the screen (while presumably writing to the results ﬁle),
and it always happens at the same place in the batch
ﬁle. The DOS prompt tells me that the system can’t
ﬁnd the specifed path, which does not make any sense,
for it wrote to that path just ﬁne for the previous run.
I can get the program started again by clicking on the
“debug” option displayed on the error window, but then
it will never write to a results ﬁle again for that run. I
have rechecked the data ﬁle several times, looking for
hidden formatting or other errors, but found nothing
amiss. I get the same error regardless of whether the
program has to write to directories on its hard drive,
to attached portable media, or to network drives
This computer is a newly set up system, using the lat-
est upgrade of Windows XP and incorporating several
security features mandated by my dept’s computer peo-
ple. Some colleagues here have suggested that this is
a memory issue, but my machine is “maxed out” with
respect to RAM, though I do suppose I could try al-
locating more memory to the program... Others have
suggested that I am asking too much of the program (or
its Java-based front end) and that I should be content
with smaller batch runs. Still others have suggested
that the problem is the Java itself. And some have sug-
gested that I should switch to using the command line
version of the program...
Any help or advice would be appreciated. I have writ-
ten to the “structureHelp” address but have not yet
received a response.
ﬁshgen@vt.edu
Ugandan Forest
Dear Evoldir Members, Please help us sign an Interna-
tional Petition to save one of the largest remnant natu-
ral forest reserves in the heart of Uganda. Mabira for-
est ( http://www.natureuganda.org/html/Mabira.htm;
http://www.traveluganda.co.ug/mabira.asp ) is a
36,000 ha natural forest that serves as the main water
source for Lake Victoria, the second largest freshwater
lake in the world and the latter is also the source
of River Nile. It has important biodiversity and is
a UNESCO and other international ecological and
evolutionary research site.
Ever since the government of Uganda assumed power,
there has been uncoordinated and un-researched give-
aways of evolutionary and ecologically essential ecosys-
tems to ’investors’ for growing palm trees, plantingsugar cane, industrial developments, among other un-
sustainable uses. For Mabira, the initial 25% of the
forest land is planned to be given to THE SUGAR CO-
OPERATION OF UGANDA, a sugar exporting com-
pany to plant sugar canes!!!
We, the undersigned believed your kind eﬀort to join
us in this international petition to the government of
Uganda will help them (the government and the ’in-
vestor’) see the concerns that learned people including
evolutionary biologists overall the world have for this
natural resource. There are hundreds of thousands of
alternative savannah bush lands in Uganda that the
company could utilize to grow sugar canes.
Please visit the link below to sign and also see the peo-
ple who have already signed the petition.
http://www.savemabira.petitiontime.com/-
ViewPetition.aspx?key=savemabira Best regards,
Okello
J B A Okello, PhD Makerere University Institute of
Environment & Natural Resources Molecular Genetics
Laboratory P. O. Box 7298 Kampala, UGANDA
John B A Okello <jbaokello@muienr.mak.ac.ug >
r8s program problem answers
Dear all,
Thank you all for your comments. I’ve ﬁnally managed
to make r8s run by putting the application on my direc-
tory and typing ’./r8s -f ﬁlename’ directly on terminal.
Since some people showed interest on any reply I had,
here I send all the help e-mails I received.
Cheers,
Ramiro
Hi Ramiro,
I don’t know if there’s aproblem with your copy of r8s,
but the ﬁrst thing I do when I encounter such a prob-
lem is to update my operating system (MacOS 10.4.7 is
out), although it seems more probable that the issue is
text encoding. Use a text editor like TextWrangler or
BBEdit to play around with text encoding (Macintosh,
Unix, DOS). Some programs like DOS line breaks, for
instance.
You can get both programs from http://-
www.barebones.com On the main text window,72 EvolDir November 1, 2006
click the icon to the right of the “M” icon to select the
text encoding of your choice. See a screenshot here:
http://www.macupdate.com/screenshot.php?id=-
11009
Although the program does open when you execute it
in the Terminal, I would just navigate to the directory
where both r8s and the input Nexus ﬁle are and do this:
$./r8s -b -f inputﬁle.nxs >logﬁle.txt
and make sure your Nexus ﬁle has all the necessary r8s
commands (run settings, priors, etc.). Of course, you
may just enter the r8s prompt and use the “execute”
command.
Cheers, sergios
Dr. Morales-Hojas,
I don’t have experience with R8S, but I often have prob-
lems with NEXUS ﬁles not being recognized while try-
ing to run phylogenetic programs (e.g. MrBayes) on a
Mac. One common problem is with the taxon names.
Look in your NEXUS ﬁle as text and see if the names
have single-quotes around them, like this: ’Drosophila’.
This was my problem with the NEXUS ﬁle generated by
PAUP* on a Mac. After removing these single-quotes
(using ﬁnd and remove in Word), the ﬁle was recognized
as NEXUS.
Hope this helps.
John McCormack UCLA
Ramiro, the ﬁrst thing to check is that your ﬁles are
text only; I’m not sure about r8s but many programs
won’t recognize any other format (e.g. .doc ﬁles from
Word).Bill
Ramiro,
r8s is a console program, double clicking does not
work well with those because when you double-click
the program’s start directory is your home directory.
Use the Terminal.app (in /Applications/Utilities) and
then learn a couple of commands to move around
(typically you need to know: ls, cd, mv, cp [type
man ls etc] or even better learn about the Ter-
minal.app on http://www.oreillynet.com/pub/a/mac/-
2001/12/14/terminal one.html . Peter
Dear Ramiro:
I too had similar diﬃculties with r8s. I got around it
by opening Terminal and then typing in:
./r8s -f ﬁlename
For some reason you must call r8s from the Terminal,
not by double-clicking on the executable. Hope this
helps!
Heather
Dear Ramiro,
I strngly suggest that you stop using your mouse all-
together when using r8s and operate the program from
the terminal window only. The manual lists the nec-
essary unix commands for running the software. How-
ever, if you don’t put the r8s program into the bin di-
rectory, you might rather run it with ./r8s command.
Good luck, Natalia
rmhojas@ibmc.up.pt
PostDocs
CornellU EvolGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
CornellU TheoPopGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
DukeU YeastPopEvolGen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
ImperialCollegeLondon 5PopBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
ImperialCollegeLondon FungalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 74
KansasStateU EcolGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
MichiganStateU InvasiveEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Munich Adaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76Munich Adaptation 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
NESCent DurhamNC EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Paris TheoPopEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
PennStateU EvolDisease . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Princeton DNARecombination . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
RiceU DictyosteliumMolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
SantaFeInst EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
ScrippsInst EvolGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81November 1, 2006 EvolDir 73
ScrippsInst MarineActinomycetes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
SmithsonianInst EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
StellenboschU AbaloneGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
UBritishColumbia Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
UFerrara MHC PopGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
UFlorida Speciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
UGlasgow PlantMatingSystems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
UIowa MicrobialEukaryoteEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
ULausanne FuncEvolGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
ULiverpool MullerianMimicry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86UMontana PopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
UMunich PhenotypicPlasticity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
USouthFlorida SandSkink . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
USouthernCalifornia Hybridization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
UUtrecht EvolAvianInﬂuenza . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
UWyoming Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
UZurich ThermalAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
WilliamsCollege Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
CornellU EvolGenetics
A postdoctoral position to study the evolutionary ge-
netics of anti-malaria immune defenses in Anopheline
mosquitoes is available in Brian Lazzaro’s lab at Cor-
nell University. Aims of the project include charac-
terization of selective pressures on anti-malaria defense
genes and quantitative genetic examination of variation
among wild An. gambiae in the ability support Plas-
modium development. Possible experiments the post-
doc may engage in include population genetic analyses
of immunity genes in An. gambiae and other species,
molecular evolutionary comparisons of vector and non-
vector mosquito species, and genotype-phenotype as-
sociation studies in An. gambiae to link resistance to
P. falciparum development with genotype in candidate
genes. This project is funded by the NIH and is ex-
ecuted in collaboration with Ken Vernick’s lab at the
University of Minnesota.
Applicants should have a strong background in pop-
ulation genetics, molecular evolution, or quantitative
genetics. Application materials should consist of a
CV and brief statement of research background and
interests sent to Brian Lazzaro at BL89@cornell.edu .
Informal inquiries about the position may also be
sent to the above address. Research in the Laz-
zaro lab revolves around the evolutionary genetics
of immune defense in insects, especially antibacte-
rial defenses in Drosophila and antimalarial defenses
in Anopheles. More information about the lab can
be found at <http://www.entomology.cornell.edu/-
Lazzaro >http://www.entomology.cornell.edu/Lazzaro .
This position is available immediately, but start date is
ﬂexible. Salary will be commensurate with experience
in accordance with the NIH pay scale.
BL89@cornell.edu BL89@cornell.eduCornellU TheoPopGenet
A postdoctoral position is available in Scott
Williamson’s lab in the Department of Biological
Statistics and Computational Biology at Cornell
University. Research in the Williamson lab focuses on
developing theoretical models and statistical applica-
tions for population genomic data, with a particular
emphasis on inference of natural selection and pop-
ulation demography. Ongoing biological application
of this work includes investigations of: (1) natural
selection and demographic change in human history,
(2) the public health consequences of negative selection
and mutation load in humans, (3) the relationship
between viral adaptation and disease progression
during chronic HIV infection, and (4) the impact of
domestication on genetic variation in cultivated plants.
Applicants should either have a PhD in evolutionary ge-
netics with a strong quantitative background or a PhD
in a quantitative ﬁeld (e.g. mathematics, statistics,
computer science, etc.) and a strong interest in evolu-
tionary biology and genomics. Applicants should also
have experience with scientiﬁc programming, and expe-
rience with numerical analysis (especially numerical so-
lution of partial diﬀerential equations) is helpful. To ap-
ply, send a cv to Scott Williamson (sw292@cornell.edu)
and arrange to have two letters of reference sent by
email. Applications should be received by December 1
to ensure full consideration.
Scott Williamson Assistant Professor Dept. of Biologi-
cal Statistics and Computational Biology Cornell Uni-
versity 167 Biotech (607) 254-8697 sw292@cornell.edu74 EvolDir November 1, 2006
DukeU YeastPopEvolGen
Postdoctoral Position in Yeast Population Genetics and
Genomics
A two year postdoctoral position is available in the De-
partment of Biology at Duke University to study the
eﬀects of genetic variation on regulatory networks in
yeast.
We seek a highly-motivated postdoctoral research asso-
ciate who has the ability to utilize a combination of ge-
netic and functional genomic experimental approaches
to further our understanding of how variation in gene
networks contributes to variation in cellular pheno-
types. Prior experience in the application of techniques
such as gene knockouts, allelic replacement and qPCR
methods in budding yeast or related fungi is required.
To apply for this position please send a cover let-
ter, CV and the names and contact information for
three references to: Dr. Paul Magwene, email:
paul.magwene@duke.edu. You may also send this in-
formation via post to: Paul Magwene, Department of
Biology, Duke University, P.O. Box 91000, Durham, NC
27708.
pmmagic@gmail.com
ImperialCollegeLondon 5PopBiol
Five Postdoctoral Research Associate Positions in Pop-
ulation Biology/ Ecology/Biodiversity
NERC Centre for Population Biology Division of Biol-
ogy Imperial College London Silwood Park
Salary: £23,560 - £34,330 per annum
The NERC Centre for Population Biology hosted by
Imperial College London, and is funded by NERC to
carry out research in all areas of population biology.
We seek ﬁve self-motivated postdoctoral Research As-
sociates to join the centre. You will have a strong back-
ground in population biology or related areas, and will
propose to develop work that complements current re-
search at the CPB (see http://www.cpb.bio.ic.ac.uk/ ).These posts will be funded until the end of the current
core contract to 31 March 2009 with a possibility for
renewal, subject to funds being available.
For Job description, Person speciﬁcation,further infor-
mation and an application form please use the links be-
low or contact Sarah Snellin (s.snellin@imperial.ac.uk):
http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/cpb/about/vacancies/ re-
searchassociatespositions
Please send completed application forms along with a
copy of your CV, details of two referees (please alert
your referees to the application) and a one page outline
of your current research interests to:
Sarah Snellin NERC Centre for Population Biol-
ogy,Imperial College London Silwood Park Campus
Ascot Berks SL5 7PY Tel: 020 7594 2346 e-mail:
s.snellin@imperial.ac.uk
For further information please contact Sarah Snellin on
the above details.
Closing date: 12 October 2006, 12.00 noon.
– Prof. Ian P.F. Owens Division of Biology & NERC
Centre for Population Biology Imperial College London
Silwood Park Ascot, Berkshire SL5 7PY, UK
http://www.imperial.ac.uk/people/i.owens Ian Owens
<i.owens@imperial.ac.uk >
ImperialCollegeLondon
FungalEvolution
A PDRA is sought for a 3 year, Leverhulme Trust-
funded Research Associate to test the relative im-
portance of sex versus asexual reproductive strategies
in fungal evolution focused on the genus Penicillium.
The goals of the project are threefold: to develop
a multigene phylogeny and multilocus sequence typ-
ing (MLST) scheme for Penicillium species, to deter-
mine the spatial scaling of genetic diversity for sec-
tion Chrysogena and subgenus Biverticillium using the
a global sampling of isolates and ecological niche mod-
elling, and to answer the historical question ’How lucky
was Fleming?’ by identifying the source of Fleming’s
original Penicillium isolate from his laboratory in St.
Mary’s Hospital, London.
In order to answer these questions, we are seeking
an excellent candidate to develop and adapt phy-
logenetic and epidemiological approaches to charac-November 1, 2006 EvolDir 75
terise the population genetic structure of the genus,
with an emphasis on characterising the spatial dis-
tribution of mating-types and recombination. Re-
quired skills: a PhD in population genetics, molecu-
lar evolution or molecular epidemiology with experi-
ence in bioinformatics/statistical genetics. The Salary
is on the scale 26,200 GBP to 29,170 GBP per an-
num. Recent publications on this, and allied re-
search, can be found at http://www1.imperial.ac.uk/-
medicine/people/matthew.ﬁsher/ This project will be
based at the Department of Infectious Disease Epi-
demiology at the St Mary’s Medical school campus,
Imperial College London and is in collaboration with
Dr Rob Samson at the CBS, the NCAUR, Peoria
USA and the Fleming Museum. The position is avail-
able from the 1st of December 2006. Please email
matthew.ﬁsher@imperial.ac.uk for further details. To
apply, please send a C.V., covering letter and names
and addresses of 2 referees to Dr. Matthew Fisher,
Imperial College Faculty of Medicine, Dpt of Infec-
tious Disease Epidemiology , St Mary’s Campus, Nor-
folk Place, London, W2 1PG, United Kingdom by 15
November 2006.
matthew.ﬁsher@imperial.ac.uk
KansasStateU EcolGenomics
POSTDOCTORAL OPPORTUNITY IN ECOLOGI-
CAL GENOMICS: Genetic Control Over Responses of
Prairie Grasses to Abiotic Stress
Postdoctoral Opportunity AVAILABLE at Kansas
State University to participate in this newly emerging
ﬁeld at the interface of ecology and genomics. This re-
search initiative will link responses of living systems to
environmental change at the genetic level. The overar-
ching goal of this research initiative is to identify the
genes that are involved in organismal responses to the
environment. This speciﬁc research assembles investi-
gators with complementary expertise in Ecology (John-
son) and Plant Molecular Biology (Shah) to elucidate
the response and adaptation of prairie grasses to abiotic
stresses. In particular, we are interested in understand-
ing the molecular, genomics, and physiological response
of roots of the dominant tall grass prairie species ’big
blue stem (Andropogon gerardii)’ to drought, nitrogen-
limitation, and other abiotic stresses, and to correlate
changes in gene expression in roots with ecological plant
response. This work will take place at Konza Prairie Bi-
ological Station and in the laboratories of Drs. Johnson(www.ksu.edu/johnsonlab ) and Shah in the Division of
Biology at Kansas State University.
This post-doctoral opportunity is part of the Ecological
Genomics initiative in Kansas. The program takes ad-
vantage of existing strengths at Kansas research univer-
sities (KSU, KU, WSU) in genetics and genomics, ecol-
ogy and evolutionary biology to answer cross-cutting
questions that lie at the interface of genomics and ecol-
ogy. More information about the Kansas Ecological Ge-
nomics Institute can be found at www.ksu.edu/ecogen .
For this postdoctoral position, we seek candidates with
a Ph.D. in molecular biology and an interest in ap-
plying molecular and genomic tools to address ecologi-
cal questions. Importantly, applicants should have the
interest and willingness to cross disciplines. The suc-
cessful candidates must be able to design and conduct
independent experiments. Excellent oral and written
communication skills and the ability to work well in a
team-based/collaborative research atmosphere are es-
sential.
Applications will begin to be reviewed on October 23,
2006, and will continue until the position is ﬁlled. Start
date for the post-doctoral position is November 15,
2006. A complete application must consist of: 1) A
cover letter detailing your qualiﬁcations and how they
relate to the advertised position, 2) A professional re-
sume, 3) Reprints/preprints of publications, and 4)
Names and contact information for three referees.
You may submit a complete application package by e-
mail to: dmerrill@ksu.edu
Complete applications can also be mailed to: Doris
Merrill, Program Coordinator Ecological Genomics In-
stitute Division of Biology, Kansas State University
Ackert Hall, Manhattan, KS 66506-4901 Phone: (785)
532-3482 Fax: (785) 532-6653
KSU is an Equal Opportunity Employer, and actively
seeks diversity among its employees.
dmerrill@ksu.edu dmerrill@ksu.edu
MichiganStateU InvasiveEvol
Postdoc: Invasive Species Ecology, Policy, Management
A position is available for a postdoctoral associate
to conduct research on the ecology, management and
policy implications of invasive species in the Great
Lakes region, with a primary focus on Michigan.76 EvolDir November 1, 2006
The successful candidate will oversee a newly es-
tablished database of non-indigenous biota of Michi-
gan and coordinate research, grant-writing and out-
reach activities as part of a multidisciplinary In-
vasive Species Initiative at Michigan State Univer-
sity (<http://www.invasivespecies.msu.edu/ >http://-
www.invasivespecies.msu.edu/ ). Applicants from all re-
lated disciplines are invited and persons with expertise
in modeling or quantitative approaches are especially
encouraged to apply. Excellent organizational skills and
ability to work with researchers across a variety of dis-
ciplines is required. The successful candidate will work
both as part of a multidisciplinary group, and with a
mentor who has parallel research interests. Applicants
must have a PhD before hiring. Starting salary will be
$36,000 plus beneﬁts and the initial appointment will
be for 18 months. Review of applications will begin
on November 15, 2006, and continue until a suitable
candidate is identiﬁed. Preferred starting date is early
2007. To apply, send statement of interest, curriculum
vitae, and the names and contact information of three
references to:
Dr. Doug Landis 204 Center for Integrated Plant Sys-
tems Michigan State University East Lansing, MI 48824
landisd@msu.edu (517) 353-1829
Douglas A. Landis Professor of Entomology Insect Ecol-
ogy and Biological Control 204 Center for Integrated
Plant Systems Michigan State University E. Lansing
MI 48824-1311
Phone (517) 353-1829 FAX (517) 353-5598 E-Mail lan-
disd@msu.edu
Visit our websites at: Enhancing Beneﬁcial Insects
with Native Plants http://www.ipm.msu.edu/plants/-
home.htm Invasive Species Ecology and Biological
Control Lab http://www.landislab.ent.msu.edu/
Garlic Mustard Project http://www.ipm.msu.edu/-
garlicmustard.htm The Purple Loosestrife Project
at MSU http://www.miseagrant.umich.edu/pp/-
index.html landisd@msu.edu landisd@msu.edu
Munich Adaptation
* PhD and Postdoc Positions in Evolutionary Biology
in Munich*
The University of Munich, Munich Technical University
and the University of Applied Sciences Weihenstephan
are pleased to announce the establishment of a Col-laborative Research Center under the theme Adapta-
tion: Selection Pressures, Phenotypic Responses, Ge-
netic Mechanisms and Resulting Diﬀerentiation. Pend-
ing ﬁnal funding approval by the German Research
Foundation, multiple PhD and postdoc positions (in-
cluding one slot for a computer programmer) will be
available. The Research Center will include 14 indi-
vidual projects employing both experimental and the-
oretical approaches to the study of adaptation. Ar-
eas of research include population genetics, evolution-
ary functional genomics, QTL analysis and phenotypic
evolution.
Participating faculty include:
Wolfgang Stephan, Research Center Coordinator
(University of Munich) John Baines (University of
Munich) Susanne Foitzik (University of Munich)
Wilfried Gabriel (University of Munich) Bernhard
Haubold (University of Applied Sciences Weihen-
stephan) Joachim Hermisson (University of Munich)
Wolfgang Ludwig (Munich Technical University) Beate
Nuernberger (University of Munich) Joerg Overmann
(University of Munich) Martin Parniske (University
of Munich) John Parsch (University of Munich) Pe-
ter Pfaﬀelhuber (University of Munich) Susanne Ren-
ner (University of Munich) Laura Rose (University of
Munich)
PhD students will also have the opportunity to par-
ticipate in a newly established Graduate Program in
Evolution, Ecology and Systematics (EES) at the Uni-
versity of Munich. This program is supported by
the Volkswagen Foundation and includes team-taught
courses for entering PhD students, a student-organized
external-speaker seminar series and yearly workshops
and excursions.
For more information about the Collaborative Research
Center, EES Program and details of the individual
projects and positions available, please visit the follow-
ing website:
http://www.biologie.uni-muenchen.de/ou/-
sfbadaptation/index.htm Applications are now
being accepted. Pending ﬁnal approval, positions will
be available starting January 1, 2007, but will remain
open until ﬁlled. Applicants should specify which
project(s) and position(s) (Phd or postdoc) they wish
to be considered for and provide (preferably as PDF
ﬁles) a CV, statement of research interests/experience
and the name and contact information of 2 references.
Applicants for PhD positions should also provide a
transcript of their academic record. Informal inquiries
and formal applications should be sent to Pleuni
Pennings (pennings@lmu.de).November 1, 2006 EvolDir 77
The University of Munich is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer and has an aﬃrma-
tive action policy for the disabled.
– Pleuni S. Pennings
* Program Coordinator of the Munich Graduate School
for Evolution, Ecology, and Systematics
* Postdoc in theoretical evolutionary biology
Evolutionary Biology, Department Biologie II Univer-
sity of Munich (LMU) Gro ˜Ahaderner Str. 2 D-82152
Planegg-Martinsried
Tel: 0049 89 2180 74 234 http://www.biologie.uni-
muenchen.de/ou/theopopgen/index.htm
pennings@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de skype: ple-
unipennings
pennings@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de
pennings@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de
Munich Adaptation 2
* PhD and Postdoc Positions in Evolutionary Biology
in Munich*
The University of Munich, Munich Technical University
and the University of Applied Sciences Weihenstephan
are pleased to announce the establishment of a Col-
laborative Research Center under the theme Adapta-
tion: Selection Pressures, Phenotypic Responses, Ge-
netic Mechanisms and Resulting Diﬀerentiation. Pend-
ing ﬁnal funding approval by the German Research
Foundation, multiple PhD and postdoc positions (in-
cluding one slot for a computer programmer) will be
available. The Research Center will include 14 indi-
vidual projects employing both experimental and theo-
retical approaches of the study of adaptation. Areas of
research include population genetics, evolutionary func-
tional genomics, QTL analysis and phenotypic evolu-
tion.
Participating faculty include:
Wolfgang Stephan, Research Center Coordinator
(University of Munich) John Baines (University of
Munich) Susanne Foitzik (University of Munich)
Wilfried Gabriel (University of Munich) Bernhard
Haubold (University of Applied Sciences Weihen-
stephan) Joachim Hermisson (University of Munich)
Wolfgang Ludwig (Munich Technical University) Beate
Nuernberger (University of Munich) Joerg Overmann(University of Munich) Martin Parniske (University
of Munich) John Parsch (University of Munich) Pe-
ter Pfaﬀelhuber (University of Munich) Susanne Ren-
ner (University of Munich) Laura Rose (University of
Munich)
PhD students will also have the opportunity to par-
ticipate in a newly established Graduate Program in
Evolution, Ecology and Systematics (EES) at the Uni-
versity of Munich. This program is supported by
the Volkswagen Foundation and includes team-taught
courses for entering PhD students, a student-organized
external-speaker seminar series and yearly workshops
and excursions.
For more information about the Collaborative Research
Center, EES Program and details of the individual
projects and positions available, please visit the follow-
ing website:
http://www.biologie.uni-muenchen.de/ou/-
sfbadaptation/index.htm Applications are now
being accepted. Pending ﬁnal approval, positions will
be available starting January 1, 2007, but will remain
open until ﬁlled. Applicants should specify which
project(s) and position(s) (Phd or postdoc) they wish
to be considered for and provide (preferably as PDF
ﬁles) a CV, statement of research interests/experience
and the name and contact information of 2 references.
Applicants for PhD positions should also provide a
transcript of their academic record. Informal inquiries
and formal applications should be sent to Pleuni
Pennings (pennings@lmu.de).
The University of Munich is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer and has an aﬃrma-
tive action policy for the disabled.
– Pleuni S. Pennings
* Program Coordinator of the Munich Graduate School
for Evolution, Ecology, and Systematics
* Postdoc in theoretical evolutionary biology
Evolutionary Biology, Department Biologie II Univer-
sity of Munich (LMU) Großhaderner Str. 2 D-82152
Planegg-Martinsried
Tel: 0049 89 2180 74 234 http://www.biologie.uni-
muenchen.de/ou/theopopgen/index.htm
pennings@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de
Pleuni Pennings <pennings@zi.biologie.uni-
muenchen.de >78 EvolDir November 1, 2006
NESCent DurhamNC EvolBiol
Call for Proposals: NESCent Postdoctoral Fellows,
Sabbatical Scholars, Working Groups and Catalysis
Groups
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NES-
Cent) is now accepting proposals for Postdoctoral Fel-
lows, Sabbatical Scholars, Working Groups and Catal-
ysis Groups. The deadline is December 1, 2006. For
more information, please see our website at http://-
www.nescent.org/proposals/ . Regards, Karen
– Karen Henry Assistant Director of Research Admin-
istration National Evolutionary Synthesis Center 2024
W. Main Street, Suite A200 Durham, NC 27705
email: khenry@nescent.org telephone: 919-668-4574
fax: 919-668-9192
khenry@nescent.org
Paris TheoPopEvol
Postdoctoral position in Paris: modelling ecological in-
vasion
We are seeking a postdoctoral fellow who will study
the invasion of France by the maize beetle Diabrotica
virgifera virgifera, a Coleopteran pest attacking maize
roots. This insect of American origin has recently ap-
peared in France and several invasion foci have been
identiﬁed.
The postdoctoral fellow will -aggregate all available
data -build a spatial statistical model resting on these
data -build a dynamic spatialized model for predictive
purposes -identify parameter values -run simulations
Previous experience in spatial dynamic modelling is re-
quired.
Funds from INRA and INAPG are available for two
years. Contract will be on a yearly basis. Salary be-
tween 2000 and 2500 euros/month depending on level
of experience. Applications will be reviewed as they
arrive and the call will remain open until the position
will be ﬁlled.Interested candidates must submit the following by e-
mail to <arditi@inapg.fr >:
-application letter -CV with list of publications -two or
three relevant publications -names and e-mail addresses
of three referees
Our research group has strong ties with a large commu-
nity of scientists at INRA, CNRS, INRIA, University
Pierre-et-Marie-Curie and University Paris-Sud.
Prof. Roger Arditi Ecologie des populations
et communaut´ es (USC-INRA 1285) Institut na-
tional agronomique Paris-Grignon, 16 rue Claude
Bernard, 75005 Paris, France Tel. +33 1
44 08 72 15. Fax: +33 1 44 08 72 57.
mailto:arditi@inapg.fr http://www.inapg.fr/ens rech/-
bio/Ecologie/ecologie.htm arditi@inapg.fr
PennStateU EvolDisease
Post doctoral scientist with an understanding and keen
interest in trophic interactions, population dynamics,
Parasitology and evolution are invited to apply for a re-
search position working closely with Peter Hudson and
a group of post-doctoral workers at the Center for In-
fectious Disease Dynamics (CIDD) www.cidd.psu.edu
<http://www.cidd.psu.edu/ >at Penn State Univer-
sity, USA from January 2007, initially for one year, but
with potential for extension to 3 or more years.
The candidate will be expected to work on parasite
community interactions using existing ﬁeld-data col-
lated databases, (e.g. long time series of grouse, rodents
and ﬁsh hosts and their parasite community), but also
to develop their own ﬁeld research project in the area of
disease dynamics, parasitology, etc in tune with CIDD’s
research themes http://www.cidd.psu.edu/research/-
index.html .
Desirable skills include:
- Strong analytical skills of long-term data sets - Mod-
eling skills - Database management and team work -
Knowledge of experimental design - Excellent ﬁeld skills
The successful candidate will join a research group
consisting currently of several advanced research staﬀ,
post-docs, PhD and MSc-students. Research projects
within CIDD have a strong emphasis on inter-
disciplinary collaboration and interactions with other
CIDD researchers are strongly encouraged. Salaries will
follow the schemes of Penn State University.November 1, 2006 EvolDir 79
The proposed start date is January 2007. The clos-
ing date for applications is Dec 1st 2006. Candidates
are asked to submit their CV including the names of 2
referees and a list of publications, plus a brief outline
(maximum one page) of their research interests. Appli-
cations should be sent by email to:
Peter Hudson - pjh18@psu.edu
Peter Hudson Center for Infectious Disease Dynamics
208 Mueller Penn State University State College PA
16803, USA
sep18@psu.edu sep18@psu.edu
Princeton DNARecombination
Postdoc Opportunity: Princeton University DNA Re-
combination, Rearrangement and Small RNAs
PRINCETON UNIVERSITY
A postdoctoral position is available in the Department
of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology to study the mech-
anism of scrambled gene and genome rearrangements in
ciliates, particularly the role of noncoding RNAs or epi-
genetic factors, using experimental tools. Strong exper-
imental training and experience from the Ph.D., ability
to work independently and creatively, and strong re-
search and written/oral communication skills are nec-
essary.
The initial appointment is for one year, and can be
extended, upon mutual agreement. Send CV and
names and email addresses of three references to: Laura
Landweber lﬂ@Princeton.edu Dept. of Ecology &
Evolutionary Biology Princeton University, Princeton,
NJ 08544. http://www.princeton.edu/ ˜ lﬂ Prince-
ton University is an equal opportunity/aﬃrmative ac-
tion employer. For information about applying to
Princeton, please link to http://web.princeton.edu/-
sites/dof/ApplicantsInfo.htm . Laura Landweber
<lﬂ@Princeton.EDU >
RiceU DictyosteliumMolEvol
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH POSITION: Molec-
ular evolution and comparative genomics of Dic-tyostelium (social amoebas)
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Rice
University
We seek a self-motivated postdoctoral researcher to
take advantage of the multiple genomes of social amoe-
bae (Dictyostelium) that are or soon will be available,
a unique opportunity for high-proﬁle work on genes
likely to be important in social interactions, microsatel-
lite evolution, and other questions. Successful appli-
cants should have experience with handling genomic
data sets and with analyses in molecular evolution and
phylogenetics. Experience with social insects, Dic-
tyostelium, or molecular biology is welcome, but not
necessary. Hands-on Dictyostelium experiments sug-
gested by genome studies are also possible, if desired.
The Strassmann/Queller Lab is a large and highly in-
teractive group focusing on social evolution, with ex-
tensive collaborations with genomic and Dictyostelium
researchers at Baylor College of Medicine, a 10-minute
walk away. Rice University is located in Houston,
Texas, a vibrant, international city famous for out-
standing low cost restaurants, arts, and outdoor activ-
ities such as bird-watching and kayaking.
The position is available now (start date negotiable)
and will last for at least 2 years. Applicants should
email (1) a brief cover letter outlining their qualiﬁca-
tions and research interests, (2) a curriculum vitae and
(3) contact information for three references to:
Joan Strassmann (strassm@rice.edu) or David Queller
(queller@rice.edu) http://www.ruf.rice.edu/˜evolve/
Joan Strassmann, David Queller Department of Ecol-
ogy and Evolutionary Biology MS 170 Rice University
6100 Main St. Houston TX 77005-1892
Joan Strassmann <strassm@rice.edu >
SantaFeInst EvolBiol
Hi Everyone,
I would like to draw your attention to the Postdoctoral
Fellowship Program at the Santa Fe Institute. If you
have any questions about the application process, or
concerning what an evolutionary biologist would do in
Santa Fe, just let me know.
The text of the postdoc ad follows.
Jon80 EvolDir November 1, 2006
Jon Wilkins wilkins@santafe.edu (505) 946-2755
POSTDOCTORAL FELLOWSHIP OPPORTUNI-
TIES AT THE SANTA FE INSTITUTE
The Santa Fe Institute (SFI) anticipates oﬀering several
Postdoctoral Fellowships to begin in September 2007.
The Postdoctoral Fellowship program at SFI provides
up to three years of research support for independent re-
search to scholars who have recently received a doctoral
degree. Unlike traditional postdoctoral positions, SFI
Postdoctoral Fellows pursue research questions of their
own design, and engage in collaborations with members
of the faculty, other SFI postdocs, and other researchers
from around the world. Fellows pursue projects that
lie at the boundaries of the traditional academic disci-
plines, and that create new ﬁelds of inquiry.
We provide a number of beneﬁts that are not available
in most postdoctoral positions. In addition to salary,
health beneﬁts, and retirement contributions, Fellows
have access to funds to support travel to meetings, to
visit collaborators at other institutions, and to bring
collaborators to visit SFI. Fellows are encouraged to
participate in all SFI activities, to invite speakers for
the colloquium series, and to organize workshops and
working groups.
Research at SFI is integrative, and there are no for-
mal programs or departments. Individual research
projects draw input from a variety of ﬁelds, including
biology, chemistry, computer science, physics, math-
ematics, economics, sociology, anthropology, and po-
litical science. We welcome applications from any of
these ﬁelds, as well as others not listed here. De-
scriptions of the research interests of the faculty and
current Postdoctoral Fellows can be found at http://-
www.santafe.edu/research/researchers.php . Most re-
search at SFI focuses on theoretical and computa-
tional approaches, although applicants whose research
includes an experimental or data-collection component
in collaboration with oﬀ-site colleagues are also encour-
aged to apply.
Candidates should have a Ph.D. (or expect to receive
one by September 2007), a strong academic record, and
a proven ability to work independently. We are partic-
ularly favorable toward applicants with an interest in
trans-disciplinary interactions and collaboration, and
who have demonstrated the potential to think outside
traditional paradigms. Applications are welcome from
candidates in any country. Women and minorities are
especially encouraged to apply. Successful foreign ap-
plicants must acquire an acceptable visa (usually a J-1)
as a condition of employment.
APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS1. Curriculum vitae (including publications list, if any).
2. Statement of research interests (2-3 pages). In this
statement, tell us what you are interested in, and why
you are interested in it. Also tell us why you would
like to come to SFI, rather than pursuing a traditional
postdoc. On the last point, think about addressing one
or more of the following: What sort of input from other
ﬁelds would most improve your future research? What
type of trans-disciplinary workshop might you want to
organize during your Fellowship? What aspects of your
present or future research are diﬃcult to pursue in a
traditional academic environment?
3. Three letters of recommendation from scholars who
know your work. (The letters should be sent indepen-
dently of the application. When you complete the on-
line application, please be prepared to provide e-mail
addresses of the three individuals who will recommend
you. SFI will contact them directly with instructions
for submitting letters.)
4. (Optional) A copy of one paper you have written in
English, either published or unpublished.
Online Application: You may submit your ma-
terials using our online application form, which
can be found at http://www.santafe.edu/ educa-
tion/postdocinst07.php. We strongly encourage you to
apply online to expedite your application.
Postal Mail/Courier: Application packages sent via
postal mail will also be accepted. Do not bind your ap-
plication materials in any manner. Include your e-mail
address and/or fax number. Mail application materials
to:
Postdoctoral Committee
Santa Fe Institute
1399 Hyde Park Road
Santa Fe, NM 87501 USA
DEADLINE: For full consideration, please submit all
application materials, including three letters of rec-
ommendation, electronically (preferred) or via post by
November 15, 2006. Candidates who are
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.htmlNovember 1, 2006 EvolDir 81
ScrippsInst EvolGenetics
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN EVOLUTIONARY
GENETICS/ HYBRID BEAKDOWN
A postdoctoral position is available to participate in
on-going research concerning the molecular basis of in-
traspeciﬁc hybrid breakdown (outbreeding depression).
The work will employ the intertidal copepod Tigriopus
californicus as a model system. Experiments focus on
the molecular, physiological and ﬁtness consequences
of hybridization between genetically divergent natural
populations. Areas of interest include interaction of nu-
clear and mitochondrial genes on mitochondrial ATP
synthesis, regulation of gene transcription in interpop-
ulation crosses, and environmental eﬀects on the phys-
iology and ﬁtness of hybrids. The successful candidate
will also be encouraged to participate in a range of other
projects as appropriate.
Interest and experience in the ﬁeld of evolutionary ge-
netics is desirable, and laboratory experience in the
analysis of DNA/RNA/ proteins is essential. Initial
appointment is for one year. The position is available
immediately and screening of applications will begin
Nov 1. Applicants should submit (email preferred) a
letter of interest and a complete CV, reprints of one or
two papers, and a list of three references to:
Ron Burton Marine Biology Research Division Scripps
Institution of Oceanography Phone: 858.822-5784 Uni-
versity of California, San Diego FAX: 858.534-7313 La
Jolla, CA 92093-0202 email: rburton@ucsd.edu
Ron Burton <rburton@ucsd.edu >
ScrippsInst MarineActinomycetes
A post-doctoral research position is available to work
on the comparative genomics, population genetics, and
ecology of marine actinomycetes. Research includes the
identiﬁcation of marine adaptation genes and the ge-
netic basis for ecological diﬀerentiation. The role of
horizontal gene transfer in genome evolution and niche
adaptation is also a focus of these studies. Ecological
studies relate to actinomycete diversity, distributions,
and activities in the sea, as well as the chemical ecol-
ogy of secondary metabolism. This position may alsoinclude the experimental characterization of gene func-
tion. Candidates should have a Ph.D. in microbiology
or related ﬁeld and a strong background in bioinfor-
matics, population genetics, and molecular evolution.
The initial appointment will be for one year with a
possibility of renewal for up to 1 additional year. Ques-
tions about the position may be directed to Paul Jensen
(pjensen@ucsd.edu@ucsd.edu).
Rank and salary are commensurate with experience and
based on UC salary scales. Applicants should send
a current curriculum vitae including a publication list
and names of three references to:
Dr. Paul R. Jensen Center for Marine Biotechnology
and Biomedicine Scripps Institution of Oceanography
La Jolla, California, USA 92093-0204
University of California is an equal opportunity and af-
ﬁrmative action employer.
– Paul R. Jensen, PhD Assistant Research Microbiol-
ogist Scripps Institution of Oceanography Mail Code
0204 La Jolla, California 92093 USA (tel) 858-534-7322
(fax) 858-558-3702 (email) pjensen@ucsd.edu
Courier address: Scripps Institution of Oceanography
Room 201 Kaplan Laboratory 8645 Discovery Way La
Jolla, CA 92037
pjensen@ucsd.edu pjensen@ucsd.edu
SmithsonianInst EvolBiol
Post-Doctoral Fellowships at the Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute.
3-Year Tupper Postdoctoral Fellowship
The Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute (STRI),
in the Republic of Panama, a division of the Smith-
sonian Institution in Washington D.C., invites appli-
cations for the Earl S. Tupper three-year postdoctoral
fellowship. Disciplines include ecology, anthropology,
paleontology, evolutionary biology, molecular phyloge-
netics, biogeography, animal behavior, soil sciences and
physiology of tropical plants and animals. Research
should be based at one of the STRI facilities; propos-
als that include comparative research in other tropical
countries will be considered. One fellowship is awarded
annually.
In order to apply send a detailed research proposal
with budget (less than 10 pages), a curriculum vitae,
2 letters of reference, names and telephone numbers82 EvolDir November 1, 2006
of 3 additional professional references and reprints of
most important papers. We suggest applicants consult
with the STRI scientiﬁc staﬀ member who will serve
as their host before submitting ﬁnal application. Staﬀ
and research interests are listed at http://www.stri.org
Annual stipend is $35,000 with yearly travel and re-
search allotments. Send documents by January 15 to:
3-Year Postdoctoral Fellowship, Smithsonian Tropical
Research Institute, Unit 0948, APO AA 34002-0948.
We also request that you send a single PDF ﬁle to:
FELLOWS@SI.EDU with the proposal, budget and
CV.
Awards are based upon merit, without regard to race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, citizenship, age or
condition of handicap of the applicant.
More information: http://www.stri.org/english/-
education fellowships/fellowships/tupper.php SI
Postdoctoral Fellowships
Postdoctoral and Senior Fellowships - Postdoctoral Fel-
lowships of three to twelve months are available for
scholars who have held the doctoral degree or equiv-
alent for fewer than seven years as of the application
deadline. Senior Fellowships of three to twelve months
are available for scholars who have held the doctoral
degree or equivalent for more than seven years as of
the application deadline. Applications for senior fellow-
ships may be made up to eighteen months in advance.
Stipends for senior fellowships are the same as for the
postdoctoral program, but the Smithsonian’s stipend
may be matched by other sources of funding such as a
sabbatical salary.
Stipends: Senior and Postdoctoral - $40,000 per year
Earth and Planetary Sciences Senior and Postdoctoral
- $45,000 per year Predoctoral - $25,000 per year Grad-
uate Students - $5,500
Deadline: January 15th (postmark) for awards to begin
on or after June 1st
More information: http://www.si.edu/ofg/ofgapp.htm
–
Dra. Rachel Collin Director, Bocas Research Sta-
tion Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute Apartado
Postal 0843-03092 Balboa, Ancon, Republic of Panama
collinr@si.edu http://striweb.si.edu/collinlab/ Phone:
+507-212-8766
Bocas del Toro Research Station http://www.stri.org/-
bocas Rachel Collin <collinr@si.edu >StellenboschU AbaloneGenetics
Post Doctoral position available in the Department of
Genetics, Stellenbosch University, South Africa (2 Oct
2006)
A Post Doctoral position in biotechnology is available
in the Aquaculture Division, Department of Genetics,
Stellenbosch University with the project title “Genetic
improvement of the abalone Haliotis midae.”
Haliotis midae, known locally as ’perlemoen’, occurs
along the Western, Southern and Eastern shores of
South Africa and is the only one of the six species that
occurs in South Africa that is commercially exploited.
H. midae displays a very slow growth rate, taking two
to ﬁve years to reach market size. This is an obstacle
in the proﬁtable farming and global competitiveness of
this species. In order to increase the productivity and
the proﬁtability of the commercial activity, a research
program has been designed that makes use of the mod-
ern technology currently applied to other aquaculture
species. The research program consists of three main
tears: a) establishment of breeding programs with the
assistance of genetic markers, b) generation of linkage
maps and QTL identiﬁcation, c) and the application of
gene transfer technology.
The successful candidate will be primarily responsible
for establishing gene transfer technology in the per-
lemoen, Haliotis midae. This will include gene con-
struct development and gene transfer by means of pri-
marily electroporation. This is an extremely exciting
new project that will establish a biotechnology platform
for abalone in southern Africa. This will be the ﬁrst
biotechnology application to a species used for com-
mercial application in Africa.
Applicable knowledge in gene transfer system, espe-
cially in aquatic species (ﬁnﬁsh or shellﬁsh) will be a
strong recommendation
The position is available for 2 years
Interested researchers are requested to send their CV
to Dr. Rouvay Roodt-Wilding at roodt@sun.ac.za
Closing date: 30 October 2006.
Dr. Rouvay Roodt-Wilding Aquaculture Division De-
partment of Genetics JC Smuts Building Room 213
University of Stellenbosch Private Bag X1 Matieland
SOUTH AFRICA 7602November 1, 2006 EvolDir 83
Tel: +27 (0) 21 808 5831 Fax: +27 (0) 21 808 5833
roodt@sun.ac.za
UBritishColumbia Biodiversity
BIODIVERSITY
We seek applicants for a 2-year postdoctoral fel-
lowship in the U.B.C. Biodiversity Research Centre
(www.biodiv.ca ). The Centre is currently made up of
over 40 members of the U.B.C. Science Faculty with in-
terests in ecology, evolution, systematics, biodiversity
and conservation. Preference will be given to candi-
dates with bold ideas, demonstrated research ability,
and strong communication skills. The successful candi-
date will be expected to: conduct original research on
core problems in biodiversity, foster interactions within
the Centre, run a seminar series and help maintain the
Centre’s web site. Starting date, 1 September 2007.
Salary $40,000 per yr. Research stipend: $7,000 per
yr. Send curriculum vitae, three letters of reference,
and a brief statement of goals to Search Chair, Biodi-
versity Research Centre, U.B.C., 6270 University Blvd.,
Vancouver, B.C., Canada V6T 1Z4. (Fax 604-822-0653,
e-mail biodiversity.centre@ubc.ca). Closing date for ap-
plication, 8 January 2007. The University of British
Columbia hires on the basis of merit and is commit-
ted to employment equity. We encourage all qualiﬁed
candidates to apply.
Luke Harmon Postdoctoral Fellow Biodiversity Cen-
tre, University of British Columbia 6270 Univer-
sity Blvd. Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada har-
mon@zoology.ubc.ca (604) 822-5937
UFerrara MHC PopGenet
Postdoc in MHC population genetics
Applications are invited for a postdoctoral research po-
sition in the population genetics group, Department of
Biology, University of Ferrara, Italy.
Applicants must have a Ph.D. (or at least three years
of research experience after graduation) in one of these
research areas: population genetics, bioinformatics, or
statistical genetics.The appointee will organize, statistically analyse, and
interpret (in collaboration with the other group mem-
bers), the genetic data of MHC (Major Histocompat-
ibility Complex) and STR (microsatellites) markers
typed in diﬀerent populations of ﬁve diﬀerent verte-
brates. This is the ﬁnal analytical part of a project
funded by the Italian Ministry of Education, Univer-
sity and Research (PRIN project), realized in collabora-
tion between the Universities of Ferrara, Florence, and
Padua. The title of the whole project is “The relative
roles of selective and demographic processes in shaping
MHC genetic variation: a comparison between popula-
tions across vertebrates”. A more detailed description
will be sent on request.
Experience with the analysis of population genetics
data is essential, as well as enthusiasm and indepen-
dence.
The position is for a one-year period, possibly extended
to a second year. Salary is 15.200 Euros p.a. Health
insurance is provided. To be compared with current life
costs, the average cost of a room in a shared apartment
in Ferrara is between 180 and 300 Euros per person per
month.
If you wish to apply, please send as soon as possible a
curriculum vitae and the names of at least two referees
(via e- mail) to:
Giorgio Bertorelle ggb@unife.it
Selected candidates will be interviewed by phone not
later than October, 23.
The appointee is expected to start between January and
February 2007.
Giorgio Bertorelle Department of Biology Univer-
sity of Ferrara http://web.unife.it/progetti/genetica/-
Giorgio/giorgio.html Phone +39 0532 291743 Fax: +39
0532 249761
Giorgio Bertorelle <ggb@unife.it >
UFlorida Speciation
Postdoc position available to study speciation and ex-
tinction
I have funding available for a postdoc to study spe-
ciation/extinction dynamics and their relationship to
patterns in biodiversity. The postdoc would join my
laboratory in the Department of Zoology at the Uni-84 EvolDir November 1, 2006
versity of Florida. The overarching goal of this collab-
orative research project is to link micro- and macro-
evolution using an exciting new approach based on in-
dividual energetics. The research will employ a combi-
nation of approaches, including laboratory experimen-
tation, ﬁeld studies, and modeling. The postdoc will
have the opportunity to take part in any/all aspects
of this research, as well as to pursue personal research
interests. Individuals from groups underrepresented in
science are especially encouraged to apply.
To apply, please send a CV and cover letter to me via
e-mail (gillooly@zoo.uﬂ.edu). Start date is negotiable.
James F. Gillooly Assistant Professor Department
of Zoology University of Florida Gainesville, FL,
USA 32611-8525 Phone: 352-392-2743, fax: 352-392-
3704 web site: http://www.zoo.uﬂ.edu/gillooly Jamie
Gillooly <gillooly@zoo.uﬂ.edu >
UGlasgow PlantMatingSystems
UNIVERSITY of GLASGOW Faculty of Biomedical &
Life Sciences Division of Environmental and Evolution-
ary Biology
POST-DOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSISTANT IN
POPULATION GENETICS OF PLANT MATING
SYSTEMS
LEVEL 6/7 £22,774 - 28,010 per annum (under review)
A PDRA is available on a NERC-funded project con-
cerned with evaluating how the mating “decisions” that
plants make aﬀect their potential to respond to environ-
mental change, as a result of changes in genetic diver-
sity resulting from diﬀerent levels of inbreeding. This
project will address this question by examining natu-
rally occurring populations of a species that is normally
outcrossing (i.e., is only able to breed with unrelated
individuals), but for which populations have been iden-
tiﬁed that have experienced a change in the genetic
machinery required to maintain this mating strategy.
Since the plants used in this study are restricted to
habitats that have been fragmented as a result of hu-
man population growth, the study could have impli-
cations for predicting how changes in breeding strate-
gies will inﬂuence the ability of populations to adapt to
changes in population size or restriction of migration
between populations as a result of human activities.
Objectives: 1) To investigate how loss of genetically
controlled self-incompatibility (SI) aﬀects diversity inthe female genes (SRK) controlling the self-recognition
phenotype: Sequence diversity at SRK will be com-
pared within and between S-haplotypes in predomi-
nantly self-compatible (SC) and predominantly self-
incompatible (SI) populations to establish whether se-
lective constraints are altered when the mating system
is changed. 2) To investigate whether loss of SI af-
fects recombination rates between SRK and its ﬂank-
ing genes: Sequence diversity in ﬂanking genes demon-
strated to be tightly linked to SRK (i.e. based on re-
duced levels of recombination compared to the physical
distance that separates them), as well as their linkage
disequilibrium with SRK will be compared in SC and
SI populations to determine whether suppression of re-
combination (characteristic of the S-locus) is altered
when the mating system is changed. 3) To investigate
how loss of SI is related to population genetic structure
based on reference loci that are not related to the S-
phenotype or linked to the S-locus: Sequence diversity
at reference loci located in diﬀerent parts of the nuclear
genome will be compared in SC and SI populations to
establish how population substructure, historical pop-
ulation size and gene ﬂow inﬂuence the loss of diversity
predicted in inbreeding populations and to set a base-
line for interpreting patterns of variation seen at the
loci that are linked to the S-locus.
Further particulars about the post and the research
environment can be found at: http://www.gla.ac.uk/-
ibls/news/posts.html and http://www.gla.ac.uk:443/-
ibls/staﬀ/staﬀ.php?who=PQdGnd Letters of applica-
tion, including two CVs, the names, postal and e-mail
addresses and fax numbers of two academic referees,
should be sent to: Lesley Frew, IBLS, West Medical
Building, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, G12 8QQ,
UK quoting the reference number 12694/DPL/A3.
Closing Date: 17 November, 2006. This post is avail-
able for up to 3 years.
Please send notes of interest or informal enquiries by
email to Barbara Mable (b.mable@bio.gla.ac.uk) as
soon as possible.
– Dr. Barbara Mable NERC Advanced Research
Fellow Division of Environmental and Evolution-
ary Biology Rm 404 Graham Kerr Building Univer-
sity of Glasgow Glasgow, Scotland G12 8QQ email:
b.mable@bio.gla.ac.uk Phone: +44 (0)141 330 3532
Mobile: +44(0)7910 833 819 Fax: +44 (0)141 330 5971
b.mable@bio.gla.ac.uk b.mable@bio.gla.ac.ukNovember 1, 2006 EvolDir 85
UIowa MicrobialEukaryoteEvol
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH FELLOW
For the National Science Foundation-funded project in
reconstructing the eukaryotic tree of life.
Department of Biological Sciences Laboratory of Dr.
Debashish Bhattacharya 446 Biology Building http://-
www.biology.uiowa.edu/faculty info.php?ID=120
Position Description: We seek a highly qualiﬁed post-
doctoral scientist for a 2-year position to work on the
evolution and phylogeny of microbial eukaryotes. The
individual will be responsible for participating in a
project in which 10 genes will be isolated and analyzed
from over 200 diﬀerent protists to infer a tree of eu-
karyotes. A comprehensive knowledge of phylogenetic
methods within the context of complex, multi-gene data
sets, and proﬁciency in basic and advanced molecular
biological methods such as degenerate PCR and auto-
mated sequencing are required. This is a collaborative
project therefore the individual must have strong in-
terpersonal skills and the willingness to travel to group
meetings. Previous experience and a publication record
in molecular evolution and phylogenetics are required.
A strong background in computational biology and ba-
sic programming skills and experience in protist (in par-
ticular, algal) evolution and taxonomy is desirable. Ap-
plicant should have a Doctoral Degree in Biology with
concentration in evolutionary biology and systematic or
equivalent combination of education/experience.
Please send curriculum vitae, names of three references
and a cover letter that describes your qualiﬁcations and
research interests to:
Dr. Debashish Bhattacharya, Department of Biological
Sciences, 446 Biology Building,
Iowa City, IA 52242-1324; or email at debashi-
bhattacharya@uiowa.edu
Second Position: POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH
FELLOW
For the National Science Foundation-funded project in
genome analysis of the alga Cyanophora paradoxa.
Department of Biological Sciences Laboratory of Dr.
Debashish Bhattacharya 446 Biology Building http://-
www.biology.uiowa.edu/faculty info.php?ID=120
Position Description: We seek a highly qualiﬁed post-doctoral scientist for a 2-year position to work on ge-
nomic and bioinformatic analysis of microbial eukary-
otes. The individual will be responsible for partici-
pating in a project in which the complete genome se-
quence is being determined from the photosynthetic
alga Cyanophora paradoxa. These data will be com-
bined with an extensive collection of genome informa-
tion from other eukaryotes. A comprehensive knowl-
edge of bioinformatic methods within the context of
comparative genomics and a strong background in
computational biology and basic programming skills
are required. This is a collaborative project there-
fore the individual must have strong interpersonal
skills and the willingness to travel to group meet-
ings. Applicant should have a Doctoral Degree in Biol-
ogy/Computational Sciences with concentration in ge-
nomics or evolutionary biology or equivalent combina-
tion of education/experience. Previous experience and
a publication record in bioinformatics and comparative
genomics are required. A strong background in biology
and experience in protist (in particular, algal) evolution
is desirable.
Please send curriculum vitae, names of three references
and a cover letter that describes your qualiﬁcations and
research interests to:
Dr. Debashish Bhattacharya, Department of Biological
Sciences, 446 Biology Building, Iowa City, IA 52242-
1324; or email at debashi-bhattacharya@uiowa.edu.
Eileen Sullivan Human Resources Biological Sciences
143 BB Phone: (319)335-1051 Fax: (319)335-1069
“Sullivan, Eileen R” <eileen-sullivan@uiowa.edu >
ULausanne FuncEvolGenomics
UNIVERSITY OF LAUSANNE
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN FUNCTIONAL
EVOLUTIONARY GENOMICS
Center for Integrative Genomics (CIG), University of
Lausanne, Switzerland
A research assistant/postdoctoral position (2 years with
possible extensions up to 5 years) is available imme-
diately to study the functional evolution of recently
emerged duplicate genes in the human genome.
We are seeking highly qualiﬁed and motivated appli-
cants with strong experimental lab skills in molecular
biology, cell biology, and/or biochemistry.86 EvolDir November 1, 2006
Some recent publications from the lab:
Vinckenbosch, N., Dupanloup, I. & Kaessmann, H.
(2006) Evolutionary fate of retroposed gene copies in
the human genome. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 103,
3220-3225.
Marques, A., Dupanloup, I., Vinckenbosch, N., Rey-
mond, A. & Kaessmann, H. (2005) Emergence of young
human genes after a burst of retroposition in primates.
PLoS Biol 3:e357.
Burki, F. & Kaessmann, H. (2004) Birth and adaptive
evolution of a hominoid gene supporting high neuro-
transmitter ﬂux. Nature Genet. 10, 1061-1063.
Emerson, J. J., Kaessmann, H., Betr&aacute;n, E. &
Long, M. (2004) Extensive gene traﬃc on the mam-
malian X chromosome. Science 303, 537-540
For more information about the group please see:
http://www.unil.ch/cig/page7858 en.html The lan-
guage of the CIG is English, and its members form an
international group that is rapidly expanding. The in-
stitute is in Lausanne, a beautiful city at Lake Geneva
with an impressive alpine scenery.
Please submit a CV, statement of research interest, and
two letters of recommendation (and/or names of refer-
ees) to:
Prof. Henrik Kaessmann Center for Integrative Ge-
nomics Genopode building University of Lausanne CH-
1015 Lausanne Switzerland Phone : +41-(0)21-692-
3907/3960 Fax : +41-(0)21-692-3965 E-mail : Hen-
rik.Kaessmann@unil.ch
Annick.Crevoisier@unil.ch
ULiverpool MullerianMimicry
THE UNIVERSITY OF LIVERPOOL
SCHOOL OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCHER
£27,193 - £28,849 pa
You will join an international team on a three-year
NERC funded project which aims to test alternative
hypotheses that explain Mullerian mimicry between de-
fended prey. We seek to test alternative causal hy-
potheses for the existence of Mullerian mimicry using
laboratory methods and to investigate their theoretical
evolutionary implications. You will be involved in thedesign, execution and analysis of behavioural experi-
ments with captive (and possibly free living birds) and
subsequently theoretical analysis of empirical ﬁndings.
You should have a PhD in an appropriate discipline,
with knowledge of statistical packages.
Quote Ref: B/851 Closing Date: 20 October 2006
speedm@liverpool.ac.uk speedm@liverpool.ac.uk
UMontana PopGenetics
Post Doctoral Position in Parasite Population Genet-
ics/Disease Ecology
Division of Biological Sciences, University of Montana,
Missoula, MT
I am seeking a postdoctoral research associate to col-
laborate on a research project at the interface of dis-
ease ecology and population genetics. The study will
use parasite population genetics as a tool for inferring
multi-species contact rates and pathways of parasite
transmission between sympatric ungulates in Montana.
The project focuses on the genetics of multi-host ne-
matode parasites and the ecology and behavior of their
ungulate hosts. The preferred applicant will have ex-
pertise in population genetic laboratory techniques (mi-
crosatellite genotyping), population genetic data analy-
sis, and an interest in applying these techniques to dis-
ease ecological questions. Previous experience working
with parasites is a plus. Interested candidates should
have a Ph.D. in ecology, evolutionary biology, or a re-
lated ﬁeld by the start date. The position is available
for at least one year, beginning as early as January
2007, with continuation depending on available fund-
ing.
For additional information or to apply, please email
Vanessa Ezenwa (vanessa.ezenwa@umontana.edu). Ap-
plications should include a cover letter and CV, includ-
ing the names and contact information of three refer-
ences. Review of applications will begin December 1,
2006.
—
Vanessa Ezenwa Assistant Professor Division of
Biological Sciences University of Montana Mis-
soula, MT 59812 phone: 406-243-5668 email:
vanessa.ezenwa@umontana.eduNovember 1, 2006 EvolDir 87
UMunich PhenotypicPlasticity
Postdoc:
UNIVERSITY of MUNICH, Department Biology, Evo-
lutionary Ecology
POST-DOCTORAL POSITION IN THEORETI-
CAL EVOLUTIONARY ECOLOGY: GENERAL GE-
NETIC MODELS ON PHENOTYPIC PLASTICITY
A unifying quantitative genetic model that includes
spatial and temporal variations of the environment, ir-
reversibly and reversibly plastic phenotypic traits, re-
liability of inducing cues and time delays for pheno-
typic response will be developed to study the role of
phenotypic plasticity in the process of adaptation by
modifying and directing the evolutionary response of
organisms under diverse selection regimes.
Pending ﬁnal approval of a Collaborative Research Cen-
ter in Munich under the theme “Adaptation: Selec-
tion Pressures, Phenotypic Responses, Genetic Mech-
anisms and Resulting Diﬀerentiation”, the position is
available starting January 1, 2007, but will remain
open until ﬁlled. The post is available for up to
4 years. Initial appointment is for one year. A
solid background in evolutionary biology and previ-
ous experience in modeling are desirable. The suc-
cessful candidate is expected to interact also with
other scientists of the Collaborative Research Cen-
ter. See http://www.biologie.uni-muenchen.de/ou/-
sfbadaptation/index.htm for more information. Ap-
plicants should submit (email preferred) a letter of in-
terest, a complete CV, reprints (pdf-ﬁles) of not more
than three papers, and name and contact information
of at least two references to:
wilfried.gabriel@lmu.de <mailto:wilfried.gabriel@lmu.de >
Wilfried Gabriel Professor of Ecology Evolutionary
Ecology Department Biologie II University of Munich
(LMU) Grosshaderner Str. 2 D-82152 Planegg-
Martinsried Germany Tel: ++49 89 2180 74 202
The University of Munich is an Equal Oppor-
tunity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer and has an
aﬃrmative action policy for the disabled.
wilfried.gabriel@LMU.de wilfried.gabriel@LMU.deUSouthFlorida SandSkink
OCTOBER 2006
The Department of Biology at the University of South
Florida invites applications for a post-doctoral posi-
tion to conduct genetic research on the sand skink
[Plestiodon (Neoseps) reynoldsi]. The possibility exists
that the selected individual will have the opportunity
to teach an upper level course in their specialty, if so
desired. The selected individual will work with Drs.
Henry R. Mushinsky and Earl D. McCoy. A brief de-
scription of the position follows. Please contact either
Mushinsky or McCoy for more details at the address
below.
The sand skink is a small burrowing federally threat-
ened species endemic to seven counties on the Lake
Wales Ridge in central Florida. During the past two
decades it has been inﬂuenced by the rapid urbaniza-
tion and spread of agriculture throughout its highly re-
stricted range. We are seeking a colleague who will
use molecular techniques to understand the population
structure and dispersal capabilities of the sand skink.
The genetic post-doc will work closely with an ecology
post-doc (already on board), a Ph.D student and the
two PIs. Salary is $36,000 per year plus full beneﬁts.
This position may be renewed for up to three years.
Interviews will begin at the end of October (2006) and
continue until the position is ﬁlled. Please contact
Henry R. Mushinsky (mushinsk@cas.usf.edu) or Earl
McCoy (McCoy@cas.usf.edu) if interested, Department
of Biology, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL
33620. 813-974-5218 (HRM)
Cheers, Henry
Henry R. Mushinsky Professor and Graduate Director
Department of Biology, SCA 110 University of South
Florida Tampa, Florida 33620 813-974-5218 FAX 813-
974-3263
“Mushinsky, Henry” <mushinsk@chuma1.cas.usf.edu >
USouthernCalifornia Hybridization
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION, UNIVERSITY OF88 EvolDir November 1, 2006
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
A Postdoctoral Fellow position is available in the labo-
ratory of Suzanne Edmands at the University of South-
ern California in Los Angeles. This is a one-year posi-
tion with the possibility of extension for a total of 2.5
years.
The goal of the funded research is to assess the long-
term consequences of hybridization between highly di-
vergent populations of the copepod Tigriopus califor-
nicus. The postdoc will take the lead in maintaining
breeding experiments, conducting ﬁtness and morpho-
metric measurements, and genotyping samples using
microsatellites. Work will also involve the development
and mapping of new microsatellite and SNP markers.
The ideal candidate would be a recent Ph.D. with a
background in evolutionary biology and/or quantita-
tive genetics. Experience with automated genotyping
(esp. CEQ or ABI) is highly desirable. The position is
available immediately (start date negotiable) and ap-
plications will be considered until the position is ﬁlled.
Please apply via email to Suzanne Edmands (sed-
mands@usc.edu) and include your CV, a brief descrip-
tion of research interests and contact information for
three references.
sedmands@usc.edu sedmands@usc.edu
UUtrecht EvolAvianInﬂuenza
Dear colleague,
In a co-operative project between University of Utrecht
and the Netherlands Institute of Ecology there is a va-
cancy for a postdoc on behaviour-based and epidemi-
ological modeling of avian inﬂuenza in populations of
migratory birds
The postdoc will be working on the project ˆ aCombining
behaviour-based and epidemiological models to iden-
tity the role of Arctic breeding migratory birds in the
ecology of diseases, notably Avian Inﬂuenzaˆ a within
the Theoretical Epidemiology group of the Depart-
ment of Farm Animal Health, University of Utrecht.
Detailed information on this vacancy can be obtained
at http://www.nioo.knaw.nl/JOBS/indexNL.htm
<http://www.nioo.knaw.nl/JOBS/indexNL.htm >
The project is funded by the Netherlands Organi-
sation for Scientiﬁc Research NWO (Earth and Life
Sciences) in its International Polar Year program.
The work will be conducted in close co-operation withthe department of Plant-Animal interactions of the
Netherlands Institute of Ecology, the Department of
Virology of Erasmus University - Rotterdam, and the
Arctic Centre - Groningen University. The project is
part of a suite of projects called BIRDHEALTH.
We are looking for an enthusiastic candidate with a
PhD degree in the ﬁeld of population biology or epi-
demiology. You have substantial experience in math-
ematical modeling, preferably within the ﬁeld of epi-
demiology or metapopulation dynamics. Because of
the multidisciplinary character of the parent project
you should be able to collaborate closely with epidemi-
ologists, virologists, waterfowl and behavioural ecolo-
gists and theoreticians. You have good communication
and writing skills, especially in English, and are a good
player in a team of PhD-students and postdocs.
There is a possibility to transform the project into a reg-
ular 4 year PhD position, but only if there is a talented
student with proven substantial experience in epidemi-
ological modelling.
We oﬀer a temporary full time appointment of maxi-
mally 3 years. The gross income is dependent on age
and experience, but is between 2252, and 3239, (salary
scale 10 Collaborative Labour Agreement of the Dutch
Universities) for a full time position.
For more information please contact Prof. Hans
(J.A.P.) Heesterbeek at the Faculty for Veterinary
Medicine, Theoretical Epidemiology, +31(0)30
253 1574 (email: j.a.p.heesterbeek@vet.uu.nl
<mailto:j.a.p.heesterbeek@vet.uu.nl >) or dr Silke
Bauer at the Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO-
KNAW) (email: s.bauer@nioo.knaw.nl).
How to apply? Respond in writing with a letter of mo-
tivation, curriculum vitae and addresses of 2 references
before 27-10-2006. Please send your response to the
Veterinary Faculty, Department P&O, drs M.A. Heins,
Yalelaan 1, 3584 CL Utrecht, The Netherlands with va-
cancy number 70650 or by e-mail vacatures1@vet.uu.nl.
Please forward this message to any colleagues that may
consider this vacancy of interest. I apologize for the
inconvenience in case you receive this message via mul-
tiple sources.
Plant Animal Interactions Centre for Limnology
Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO-KNAW) PO
Box 1299, 3600 BG Maarssen tel. +31-294-239317 fax
+31-294-232224 http://www.nioo.knaw.nl/CL/PDI/-
index.htm S.Bauer@nioo.knaw.nlNovember 1, 2006 EvolDir 89
UWyoming Bioinformatics
Postdoctoral Researcher in Bioinformat-
ics/Computational Comparative Genomics
A position is currently available for a postdoctoral
researcher in bioinformatics/computational compara-
tive genomics in the Liberles Research Group at
University of Wyoming. The position has guaran-
teed funding for one year and the salary is $35,000
plus beneﬁts. There may be possibilities to ex-
tend this term. Applicants should have good pro-
gramming skills and familiarity with linux, be famil-
iar with statistics, have good knowledge of molec-
ular biology, and an interest in evolutionary biol-
ogy/molecular evolution. For more details on research
in the Liberles Research Group, please see http:/-
/www.wyomingbioinformatics.org/LiberlesGroup . To
apply, please send a CV, contact information for three
references, and 2 .pdf copies of your favorite (signiﬁ-
cant) papers you have published together with a cover
letter to liberles@uwyo.edu.
The application deadline for this position is December
1, 2006.
David Liberles <liberles@uwyo.edu >
UZurich ThermalAdaptation
Post-doctoral Research Position (3 years)
available in a project on Latitudinal thermal adapta-
tion in dung ﬂies on three continents, in loose con-
nection with an ESF programme on Thermal adap-
tation in Ectotherms (URL given below). Central
to the project are investigations of latitudinal varia-
tion in body size and associated life history traits, as
well as corresponding genetic variation in molecular
markers (allozymes, microsatellites, gene sequences), in
dung ﬂies of the species Scathophaga stercoraria (yel-
low dung ﬂy) and Sepsis (neo)cynipsea from three con-
tinents: North America, Europe and Japan. A copy of
the original proposal can be sent upon request; for a
summary see http://www.research-projects.unizh.ch/-
p6409.htm . Our international group investigates theintegrated biology of several ﬂy species at the molecu-
lar, physiological, quantitative-genetic, behavioral, eco-
logical and life history levels in the laboratory and the
ﬁeld ( http://www.unizh.ch/zoolmus/zmneu/englisch/-
lehre/lehre 2e.html ).
We expect good theoretical and experimental back-
ground in evolutionary ecology and well developed
oral and written communication skills. Experience
with molecular methods, quantitative genetics, statis-
tics and/or modeling is highly desirable. We oﬀer a
stimulating research group with room for collaboration
and independence. Working languages are English and
German. The position is for 3 years, starting in early
2007 (negotiable). Salary according to Swiss National
Fund scale ca. SFr 90’000.- per year.
Send Curriculum vitae plus names and addresses of two
references by 30 November 2006, best by e-mail, to
Dr. Wolf Blanckenhorn Zoological Museum Univer-
sity of Zurich-Irchel Winterthurerstrasse 190 CH-8057
Zurich, Switzerland
Phone: +41 44 635.47.55 Fax: +41 44 635.47.80 e-mail:
wolfman@zoolmus.unizh.ch http://www.unizh.ch/-
zoolmus/zmneu/englisch/forschung e/ blancken-
horn wolf e.html http://www.esf.org/esf article.php?
language=0&articlea0&domain=3&activity=1
wolfman@zoolmus.unizh.ch wolf-
man@zoolmus.unizh.ch
WilliamsCollege Bioinformatics
HHMI Postdoctoral Research Fellow in Bioinformatics,
Genomics and Proteomics
Williams College seeks to hire a postdoctoral fellow in
its Bioinformatics, Genomics and Proteomics (BIGP)
Program. This position is funded by a Howard Hughes
Medical Institute grant to encourage future faculty de-
velopment. The HHMI Fellow will conduct independent
research under the mentorship of one or more of the 20
members of the BIGP Program at Williams ( http:/-
/www.williams.edu/BIGP ). In this context, the HHMI
Fellow will assist in supervising undergraduate students
performing thesis and independent research and will
teach one BIGP Winter Study course of his/her own
design.
This position for a scientist with training in bioinfor-
matics, genomics, and/or proteomics is ideally suited
for those who seek teaching and research experience at90 EvolDir November 1, 2006
a premiere liberal arts college. Candidates must have a
recent Ph.D. in a relevant ﬁeld. This is a full-time, one-
year position with a ﬂexible start date and the possi-
bility of renewal for one additional year. Salary is com-
petitive and funds for professional travel are included.
Applications are due December 11, 2006 for fellowships
that will begin in 2007. Questions about the fellowship
program can be answered by Dr. Wendy Raymond,
wraymond@williams.edu, (413) 597-3536.
Please send a cv, names and contact information of
three references, and a cover letter that 1.) identiﬁes
possible Williams College BIGP mentors, 2.) includes
a proposed title and a few sentences describing a one-month BIGP course you might teach, and 3.) includes
job number (300259-SCIENCE) to hr@williams.edu .
Only complete applications will be accepted.
Oﬃce of Human Resources e-mail: hr@williams.edu
Williams College welcomes diversity AA/EOE
–
Jason A. Wilder Assistant Professor of Biology
Williams College Williamstown, Massachusetts
01267 413-597-4811 (phone) 413-597-3495 (fax)
jwilder@williams.edu
Jason.Wilder@williams.edu Ja-
son.Wilder@williams.edu
WorkshopsCourses
BocasResStation Panama CoralEvol Jul23-Aug2 . . . 90
Caracas ConservationGenetics Jan21-31 . . . . . . . . . . . 91
Leicester PopDynamics Mar7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92Netherlands AdaptiveForaging Nov5-9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
BocasResStation Panama CoralEvol
Jul23-Aug2
Short course in “Taxonomy and Ecology of Caribbean
Gorgonians and Black Corals”
Dates: July 23-August 2, 2007 Location: Bocas Re-
search Station, Bocas del Toro, Panama Instructors:
Dr. Mary Alice Coﬀroth, State University of New York
at Buﬀalo Dr. Howard Lasker, State University of New
York at Buﬀalo Dr. Juan A. Sanchez, Universidad de
los Andes Dr. Dennis Opresko, Oak Ridge National
Laboratory
Organizer: Dr. Rachel Collin, STRI
Course Description The course is aimed at graduate
students, post-docs, or professionals who are interested
in learning and applying knowledge about the diver-
sity and ecology of Caribbean Gorgonians and BlackCorals. An additional aim is to standardize the taxo-
nomic treatment of gorgonians throughout the region,
and to foster a network of interested gorgonian workers
with participants of the Cnidarian Tree of Life and the
DNA barcoding initiatives. The students participating
in this course will:
1. Learn to describe and identify Caribbean Gorgoni-
ans and Black Corals. 2. Learn general biological and
ecological characteristics of the group. 3. Assist in de-
veloping species lists, keys and ID guides for the Bocas
fauna. 4. Learn the most recent advances in gorgonian
phylogenetics and systematics. 5. Participate in the
initiative to develop DNA barcodes for the reefs of Bo-
cas del Toro. 6. Conduct short independent projects.
Diving will be a required component of the course.
Course Registration Fee $250 (STRI registration, room
and board at the station is included) Need-based travel
fellowships will be available
Application Procedure This course is directed towards
graduate students and advance Licenciado candidates
and will be conducted in English. Please e-mail yourNovember 1, 2006 EvolDir 91
CV, 1 letter of recommendation, and a 1-2 page state-
ment explaining your background and reasons for tak-
ing the course, to Rachel Collin at CollinR@si.edu be-
fore March 1, 2007. Limit 12 students. To be consid-
ered for a need-based fellowship, applicants should send
a description of their need and their eﬀorts to obtain
funding for available sources. For more information see
http://striweb.si.edu/taxonomy training/ –
Dra. Rachel Collin Director, Bocas Research Sta-
tion Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute Apartado
Postal 0843-03092 Balboa, Ancon, Republic of Panama
collinr@si.edu http://striweb.si.edu/collinlab/ Phone:
+507-212-8766
Bocas del Toro Research Station http://www.stri.org/-
bocas Rachel Collin <collinr@si.edu >
Caracas ConservationGenetics
Jan21-31
*****VERSION EN CASTELLANO ABAJO*****
ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS for the third intensive
course of the Red de Gen´ etica de la Conservaci´ on (Re-
GeneC): “Genetics at the Service of Conservation,” 21-
31 January, 2007.
Application deadline: November 5th, 2006. See
“Preinscripci´ on,” http://regenec.cecalc.ula.ve/taller/-
2007/ for application process details and availability of
scholarships.
This 11-day intensive course is directed primarily to
Latin American postgraduate students and young pro-
fessionals will be oﬀered entirely in Spanish at Sim´ on
Bol´ ıvar University (Caracas, Venezuela). It is con-
ﬁrmed the participation of faculties from seven Latin
American countries (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colom-
bia, Mexico, Uruguay, and Venezuela), with a wide
array of scientiﬁc perspectives within this emerging
ﬁeld: - Marisol Aguilera, Universidad Sim´ on Bol´ ıvar,
Venezuela - Moises Burachik, Universidad de Buenos
Aires, Argentina - Susana Gonz´ alez, Universidad de
la Rep´ ublica Oriental del Uruguay, Uruguay - Jes´ us
E. Maldonado, Smithsonian Institute, USA - Angela
M.G. Martino, Universidad Experimental Francisco de
Miranda, Venezuela - Claret Michelangeli, Universi-
dad Central de Venezuela, Venezuela - Cristina Miyaki,
Universidade de Sao Paulo, Brazil - Mar´ ıa Oliveira-
Miranda, Universidad Sim´ on Bol´ ıvar - Andr´ es Pinz´ on,
Centro de Bioinform´ atica Center, nodo EMBnet deColombia, Colombia - Elie Poulin, Universidad de
Chile, Chile - Andrea Premoli, Universidad Nacional
del Comahue, Argentina - Kathryn Rodr´ ıguez-Clark,
Instituto Venezolano de Investigaciones Cient´ ıﬁcas,
Venezuela - Antonio Sol´ e-Cava, Universidade Federal
de Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
The course will combine discussion sessions, hands-on
data analysis labs, and presentations of ongoing re-
search by participating students, with formal lectures
covering the following topics:
How can (and cannot) genetics help conservation? An
overview of main concepts related with the ﬁeld using
case studies, demonstrating the range of questions and
hypotheses relevant to the ﬁeld, along with those per-
haps less relevant. Theory behind genetic approaches in
conservation: A brief refresher of basic population ge-
netics, molecular evolution, quantitative genetics and
other relevant disciplines.
Obtaining and preparing basic data: Marker types
and their applications, sample collection and storage,
primer design and ampliﬁcation protocols, consensus
sequence assembly and alignment, and use of special-
ized databases. Data analysis I: Phylogeography & phy-
logenetics. Data analysis II: Population applications,
in-situ (structuring, eﬀective sizes, historical events, on-
going interactions). Data analysis III: Individual appli-
cations, in-situ (parentage, capture-recapture methods,
behavior, forensics) Data analysis IV: Population ap-
plications, ex-situ (genealogies, quantitative genetics)
Round Table I: Biosecurity and bioethics in conserva-
tion. Round Table II: The role of biological collections
in conservation genetics.
This course is organized by Sim´ on Bol´ ıvar University
(Caracas, Venezuela) in collaboration with ReGeneC
members, and is supported by the Venezuelan National
Fund for the Advancement of Science and Technol-
ogy, the Biotechnology for Latin American and The
Caribbean Program of the United Nations University,
the American Genetics Association, UNESCO via the
Centro Internacional de Ecologia Tropical (Caracas),
and the Centro de Investigaciones de Biotecnolog´ ıa
Agr´ ıcola (CIBA).
For more information, please see our website or send an
email to regenec@gmail.com or regenec@cecalc.ula.ve.
********
PREINSCRIPCI ´ON ABIERTA para el tercer curso in-
tensivo de la Red de Gen´ etica de la Conservaci´ on (Re-
GeneC): La gen´ etica al servicio de la conservaci´ on, el
21 al 31 de enero de 2007.
Fecha l´ ımite: 5 de noviembre de 2006. Ver92 EvolDir November 1, 2006
“Preinscripci´ on,” http://regenec.cecalc.ula.ve/taller/-
2007/ para detalles del proceso de preinscripci´ on y be-
cas disponibles.
Este curso intensivo de 11 d´ ıas, dirigido principalmente
a estudiantes de posgrado y j´ ovenes profesionales lati-
noamericanos, se ofrecer´ a en Castellano en la Univer-
sidad Sim´ on Bol´ ıvar (Caracas, Venezuela). Participan,
en el curso, investigadores de siete pa´ ıses latinoamer-
icanos (Argentina, Brasil, Chile, Colombia, M´ exico,
Uruguay y Venezuela), con una amplia gama de enfo-
ques dentro de este campo emergente: - Marisol Aguil-
era, Universidad Sim´ on Bol´ ıvar, Venezuela - Moises Bu-
rachik, Universidad de Buenos Aires, Argentina - Su-
sana Gonz´ alez, Universidad de la Rep´ ublica Oriental
del Uruguay, Uruguay - Jes´ us E. Maldonado, Smith-
sonian Institute, USA - Angela M.G. Martino, Univer-
sidad Experimental Francisco de Miranda, Venezuela -
Claret Michelangeli, Universidad Central de Venezuela,
Venezuela
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Leicester PopDynamics Mar7
Dear Colleagues,
We are going to host a one-day international workshop
in the University of Leicester under a tentative title
“Waves and patterns in models of population dynamics
and evolution”
The date of the workshop has currently been ﬁxed on
March 7, 2007. Participation in the workshop is mostly
by invitation but we may also have a possibility for
several contributed talks. Those who may be inter-
ested to participate, please contact Sergei Petrovskii
<sp237@le.ac.uk >as soon as possible.
“Petrovskiy, Dr S.” <sp237@leicester.ac.uk >
Netherlands AdaptiveForaging
Nov5-9International Ph.D. course on Consumer Resource
Interactions: Adaptive foraging, adaptive defences
and ecosystem engineering, November 5-9, 2006, The
Netherlands
Aim of the course Consumer-resource interactions in
all its variations (i.e. plant-nutrient, plant-herbivore,
predator-prey, host-parasitoid, and host-parasite) are
central to ecological and evolutionary research. This
one-week course aims at providing an introduction to
three selected topics within this broad ﬁeld: adaptive
foraging, adaptive defenses and ecosystem engineering.
These topics will be introduced by world leading ex-
perts, with a focus on the latest developments and on-
going research eﬀorts. The introductions will provide
the starting point for practical work by the participants
in small groups to make the acquired knowlegde oper-
ational. In these groups, students are challenged to de-
velop ideas for their own research. This can be writing a
proposal, planning an experiment, developing a model
or writing a paper. So, each group of students can
choose between these three topics and four work forms.
The pool of experts will be available to all groups dur-
ing the practical work. Hence, the course oﬀers a great
opportunity for PhD students to interact with expert
world leading scientists. The main goal of the course
will be achieved if the participating PhD students go
home with novel ideas and techniques for their own re-
search.
Organizers This course is jointly organized by the
Netherlands research schools FE, PE&RC and SENSE.
Dr. Wolf Mooij (Netherlands Institute of Ecology, FE,
w.mooij@nioo.knaw.nl) Dr. Bart Nolet (Netherlands
Institute of Ecology, FE) Dr. Max Rietkerk (Univer-
sity of Utrecht, SENSE) Dr. Frank Van Langevelde
(Wageningen University, PE&RC)
Invited lecturers Peter Abrams (University of Toronto)
Don DeAngelis (University of Miami) John Fryxell
(University of Guelph) Herbert Prins (Wageningen
University) Moshe Shachak (Ben Gurion University)
Franjo Weissing (University of Groningen)
Location Hotel and Conference Centre De Bergse
Bossen, Traaij 229, Driebergen, The Netherlands
Duration November 5 - November 9, 2006
Information http://www.rug.nl/biologie/onderzoek/-
onderzoekScholen/functionalEcology/ phd-
Courses/consumerResourceInteractions (or search
Consumer-Resource Interactions with Google)
Symposium The course will be preceeded by a sym-
posium on ’Ecological consequences of adaptive be-
haviour’. The symposium will take place in Wa-
geningen on Friday November 3. For more info onNovember 1, 2006 EvolDir 93
the symposium go to www.currentthemesinecology.nl .W.Mooij@nioo.knaw.nl W.Mooij@nioo.knaw.nl
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here — Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from ‘blackballed’ addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned oﬀ and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf ﬁle.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
‘on vacation’, etc, style messages are automatically ﬁltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail’s your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word ﬁles, as HTML ﬁles, as L ATEX ﬁles, Excel ﬁles, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
“Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:” and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and ﬁlters. If the message is caught by one of the
ﬁlters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterward
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.