E v o l D i r
April 1, 2008
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Forward
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same ﬁeld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be “bulletin board” in nature, if there is a “discussion” style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Forward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
Afterward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192 EvolDir April 1, 2008
Conferences
Adelaide GeneticsSocAustralAsia Jul7-10 . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Barcelona EarlyMetazoanEvolution Oct24-25 . . . . . . . 3
Barcelona SMBE 2008 Jun5-8 AnimalEvo-
DevoSymposium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Barcelona SMBE 2008 Jun5-8 MolEvolEpidemiology 3
Barcelona SMBE 2008 Jun5-8 Prok Genomics . . . . . . 4
CornellU ISBE 2008 Aug15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Crete Wolbachia Jun9-14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
DalhousieU EvolutionaryProtistology Jul21-26 . . . . . . 7
Einsiedeln Switzerland PhDStudents EMPSEB14 Sep8-
13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Estonton Georgia SEPEEG 2008 Oct24-26 . . . . . . . . . 8
FloridaStateU SEEC Evolution Mar28-30 2 . . . . . . . . . 8
Fribourg Switzerland Aging May29-30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
KansasCity ArthropodGenomics Apr11-13 Deadline2 9
Marseilles 11thEvolBiol Videos Sep24-26 . . . . . . . . . . 10
Marseilles 12thEvolBiol Sep24-26 deadline . . . . . . . . . 10
Portland FishAdaptation Jul28-Aug1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
PortTownsend Evo-WIBO Apr18-20 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Raleigh NorthCarolina Genomics Jun4-7 . . . . . . . . . . 11
ROM Toronto BarcodeOfLife Apr28-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
ROM Toronto BarcodeOfLife Apr28-29 2 . . . . . . . . . . 12UAlberta EvolutionOfButterﬂies 2010 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
UCalforniaIrvine MEEGID IX Oct30-Nov1 Moved . 13
UIdaho CallForSSB Symposia Jun13-17 2009 . . . . . . 13
UIdahoMoscow SSE2009 Jun13-17 Call for Symposia
Proposals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
UIowa Evolution of Sex Jun16-19 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
UIowa Evolution of Sex Jun16-19 Registration . . . . . 15
ULondon SAGE2009 Sep14-17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
UMinnesota Evolution 2008 Jun20-24 CallForMentors
16
UMinnesota Evolution 2008 Jun20-24 deadline . . . . 17
UMinnesota Evolution 2008 Jun20-24 deadline2 . . . 17
UMinnesota Evolution 2008 Jun20-24 LifeHistoryEvol
18
UMinnesota Evolution 2008 Jun20-24 Undergraduate-
Diversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
UMinnesota SSE Jun20-24 LifeHistoryEvolution . . . 19
UOregon EvoDevo Symposium Apr4-6 deadline ex-
tended . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Warsaw Bioinformatics Apr24-27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Warsaw Bioinformatics Apr24-27 deadline extended 22
Adelaide GeneticsSocAustralAsia
Jul7-10
Genetics Society of AustralAsia Annual Conference
GSA2008 Adelaide, 7-10 July 2008
The annual conference of the Genetics Society of Aus-
tralAsia will take place in Adelaide, Australia on 7-10
July 2008.
There will be three full days of symposia and concurrent
sessions covering the breadth of genetics. Abstracts for
oral and poster presentations are welcome on any topic
in genetics.
The early registration and abstract submission deadline
is 1 May 2008.
Symposia will be held on the following topics:Teaching Genetics and Evolution Genetics of Develop-
ment Comparative Genomics Bioinformatics Rates of
Evolution Evolutionary Genetics
Conﬁrmed plenary and symposium speakers include:
Ken Wolfe Fred Nijhout Patricia Pukkila Jenny Graves
David Penny Allen Rodrigo Eldon Ball Mathew Bell-
gard Simon Ho Matt Phillips Brett Lidbury Karen
Burke da Silva David Adelson Brian Dalrymple Richard
Harvey Sally Dunwoodie
For more information please see the conference website:
http://www.adelaide.edu.au/gsa2008 The GSA2008
Organising Committee
Jack da Silva <jack.dasilva@adelaide.edu.au >April 1, 2008 EvolDir 3
Barcelona EarlyMetazoanEvolution
Oct24-25
Dear colleagues,
We are pleased to announce that registration to the
“ICREA Conference on the Origin and Early Evolu-
tion of Metazoans” is now open through the web page
http:// www.originmetazoa.com . The meeting will
be held in the PRBB (Parc de Recerca Biomedica de
Barcelona), Barcelona, Spain, 24th-25th October 2008.
Attendance will be free, but registration is required and
limited to the ﬁrst 200 people. Registration will include
coﬀee and tea during breaks. We will not be providing
accommodation, so you may want to search for hotels
now. We will supply a list of suitable hotels nearby
PRBB in the meeting webpage soon.
Registration dealine is July 15th 2008.
Best regards,
Inaki Ruiz-Trillo, Pere Martinez and Andrew J.
Roger http://www.originmetazoa.com organiz-
ers@originmetazoa.com
inaki.ruiz@icrea.es
Barcelona SMBE 2008 Jun5-8
AnimalEvo-DevoSymposium
Dear readers,
We invite submissions of abstracts for the Animal
Evo-Devo symposium at the SMBE2008 Conference in
Barcelona on June 5-8.
The breadth of genome sequence databases together
with the diversity of species under study are enabling a
greater understanding of evolutionary change in devel-
opmental processes. This symposium aims to balance
presentation of invertebrate and vertebrate systems,
with a particular focus on phenotype-driven approaches
addressing the generation of morphological novelty.
Those of evolutionary or developmental biology back-
grounds with an interest in this area are as welcome as
those already ﬁrmly in the evo-devo ﬁeld.Invited Speakers: Gunter Wagner (Yale University,
USA) “ Molecular Mechanisms of Innovation: diﬀerent
from Adaptation? ”
Jukka Jernvall (University of Helsinki, Finland) “ How
many genes does it take to make mammalian dental
diversity? ”
Co-organizers: Michel Milinkovitch (Free University of
Brussels), Denis Headon (University of Manchester)
Abstract deadline: March 3, 2008
Conference website: http://www.smbe2008.com/
“Michel C. Milinkovitch” <mcmilink@ulb.ac.be >
Barcelona SMBE 2008 Jun5-8
MolEvolEpidemiology
Dear colleagues,
We would like to invite you to submit your abstracts
(talks and posters) for the symposium “Molecular and
evolutionary epidemiology at the 2008 annual meet-
ing of the Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution
(SMBE) in Barcelona, Spain, from June 5th to 8th,
2008.
Symposium description: The analysis of microbial and
viral pathogens represents one of the most proliﬁc areas
currently contributing data for the study of genetic vari-
ation and molecular evolution. The application of evo-
lutionary theory to these analyses has produced many
relevant results with direct application to public health
issues, from local to world-wide scales. Identifying the
sources of outbreaks, tracing routes of transmission, t
racking the natural reservoir(s) of emerging pathogens
are among the best known results of molecular epi-
demiology analyses but the integration of evolutionary
thinking into epidemiology extends farther: two recent
cases have provided critical evidence for the innocence
and culpability, respectively, of medical personnel ac-
cused of transmitting HIV to hundreds of Libyan chil-
dren and HCV to almost 300 patients in Spain. The lat-
ter case was taken to court and the evolutionary anal-
ysis provided the basis for a 2000-years conviction of
an anaesthesiologist. However, by reconstructing the
evolutionary history of diﬀerent pathogens, evolution-
ary epidemiology allows to gain a much deeper insight
on the factors and processes that have led to their cur-
rent expansion and to make informed predictions about
future trends. Also, the modeling of epidemiological
scenarios is greatly improved by the incorporation on4 EvolDir April 1, 2008
information about the genetic variation and evolution-
ary history of the organisms being considered. The pro-
posed workshop is aimed at presenting the latest results
and developments in this area with special emphasis
on their application to public health issues, which will
hopefully make it very attractive for young investiga-
tors looking for new areas in which to develop their
recently learned skills, techniques and analytical tools.
Conﬁrmed Main Speakers: Oliver G. Pybus (Oxford
University, UK); Fernando Gonzalez-Candelas (Univ.
Valencia, Spain).
Symposium organiser: Fernando Gonzalez-Candelas
(Univ. Valencia, Spain)
Details of the conference can be found here: http:/-
/www.smbe2008.com/ Abstract submission deadline:
March 3, 2008 Early registration deadline: March 10,
2008
– Fernando Gonzalez –
Dr. Fernando Gonzalez Candelas Instituto Ca-
vanilles de Biodiversidad y Biologia Evolutiva
Dept. de Genetica Universitat de Valencia
Phone: (+34) 963 543 653 Apartado Oﬁcial
22085 FAX: (+34) 963 543 670 E-46071 Valencia
SPAIN e-mail: fernando.gonzalez@uv.es http:/-
/www.uv.es/%7Egonzalef/index.htm Fernando
Gonzalez <fernando.gonzalez@uv.es >
Barcelona SMBE 2008 Jun5-8 Prok
Genomics
Dear colleagues,
We would like to invite you to submit your abstracts
(talks and posters) for the symposium on prokaryotic
genomics at the 2008 annual meeting of the Society for
Molecular Biology and Evolution (SMBE) in Barcelona,
Spain, from June 5th to 8th, 2008.
Abstract submission deadline: March 3, 2008!!
THE CROSSROADS BETWEEN PROKARYOTIC
GENOMICS, ECOLOGY AND ADAPTATION
The now routine generation of vast nucleotide sequence
datasets has transformed our understanding of the dy-
namics of molecular evolution in prokaryotes and is pro-
viding ever more detailed insights into the emergence,
spatial structuring, specialisations and interactions be-
tween diﬀerent bacterial lineages in nature. We arenow beginning to understand the trade-oﬀs involved in
determining bacterial lifestyle choices: To be a special-
ist or a generalist? A pathogen or a commensal? To
cooperate or to cheat? This symposium captures the
continuing erosion of the barriers between comparative
genomics, population genetics, biogeography, metage-
nomics and experimental evolution to explore how bac-
teria continually adapt in the face of shifting selective
landscapes. Four diﬀerent threads are combined un-
der this banner: i) Comparative genomics overview
on how molecular processes (e.g. gene transfer) im-
pact on ecological adaptation, ii) how ecology in turn
impacts on sequence evolution iii) Metagenomics: de-
tecting the adaptive basis underlying bacterial diversity
using metagenomics, and iv) identifying the molecular
basis of adaptation in experimental systems. The syn-
thesis of these threads into a single symposium should
prove a timely and invaluable opportunity for world-
experts in their respective ﬁelds to explore fundamental
aspects of bacterial micro-evolution and adaptive radi-
ation. A comparative genomics overview at the start of
the session will highlight the role of horizontal transfer
in the exploitation of new niches. The role of stochastic
forces, in particular relating to the eﬀective population
size and selective sweeps, will also be considered in the
context of ecological specialisation and host adaptation.
The inclusion of experimental evolution will add the
basic question of trade-oﬀs between cooperation and
competition between populations and cells, how these
trade-oﬀs can be studied at the molecular level. The
symposium is deliberately broad, and will encapsulate
some basic debates concerning the intersection between
the ecological and molecular bases of bacterial popula-
tions.
Conﬁrmed Main Speaker: Julian Parkhill (Sanger Cen-
ter, UK);
Symposium organisers: Ed feil (Univ. Bath, UK), Ed-
uardo Rocha (Institut Pasteur, France)
Details of the conference can be found here: http:/-
/www.smbe2008.com/ Abstract submission deadline:
March 3, 2008 Early registration deadline: March 10,
2008
CornellU ISBE 2008 Aug15
The ISBE meeting is an important biennial conference
mainly attended by evolutionary biologists. This is why
we thought that the advert may be attractive for theApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 5
audience of EvolDir.
Advances in statistical philosophy and experimental de-
sign in behavioural ecology: a new ABC framework
ISBE 2008 post-conference symposium, Cornell Univer-
sity, Ithaca, New York, USA, August 15, 2008
We would like to solicit an active discussion among evo-
lutionary biologists who are concerned with recent ad-
vancements in the interpretations and analyses of be-
havioural and ecological data. The Behavioral Ecology
Congress in 2008 at Cornell University oﬀers an excel-
lent opportunity for such a discussion, as full-day post-
congress symposia are available for this purpose. With
the abstract proposed below, we are planning to apply
for a possibility to organize a post-congress symposium,
for which we seek contributors. We would like to invite
participants who would be interested in sharing their
experience with a broad audience on the highlighted
statistical issues. If you are registered (or planning to
register) for the main program of the conference, and
are potentially willing to give a short talk in our sympo-
sium, please contact either Laszlo or Shinichi for more
information:
Laszlo Zsolt Garamszegi laszlo.garamszegi@ua.ac.be
Shinichi Nakagawa itchyshin@yahoo.co.nz
PROPOSED ABSTRACT Advances in statistical phi-
losophy and experimental design in behavioural ecol-
ogy: a new ABC ±framework Laszlo Zsolt Garamszegi
& Shinichi Nakagawa Department of Biology, Univer-
sity of Antwerp, Wilrijk, Belgium Department of Ani-
mal & Plant Sciences, University of Sheﬃeld, Sheﬃeld,
UK
We aim to bring together researchers with diﬀerent in-
terests in behavioural ecology and evolutionary biology
to discuss recent signiﬁcant developments in the inter-
pretation of behavioural and ecological data. Analyt-
ical tools that incorporate statistical philosophies not
relying on statistical signiﬁcance have been highlighted
in recent years, but are still in limited use in our ﬁeld,
because of common (mis)beliefs and familiarity with
classical approaches. We suggest that conventional hy-
pothesis testing based on statistical signiﬁcance is of-
ten misleading or even incorrect in some circumstances,
because it assesses biological hypotheses using an all-
or-nothing criterion, instead of along a continuum. It
also leads to publication bias, due to unreported non-
signiﬁcant eﬀects, hindering the ﬁeld from advancing as
cumulative science. We propose an ABC framework, in
which such problems can be powerfully treated. The
ABC framework will open up new horizons for test-
ing evolutionary questions while it sets straightforward
guidelines for researchers in the ﬁeld to follow. In thisframework, A stands for AIC (Akaikes Information Cri-
terion), a popular tool of information theoretic IT (in-
formation theoretic) approaches that address the trade-
oﬀ between model complexity and goodness of ﬁt. This
allows an objective assessment of the potentially large
number of competing models that could describe the
data equally well. B refers to Bayesian inference, in
which new empirical evidence is combined with past
knowledge to update or newly infer the probability of
the hypotheses under test. Bayesian approaches also
harness us with capabilities of parameter estimation
in a way that alternative to the classical framework.
C emphasizes the importance of conﬁdence intervals,
which give the precision of parameter or eﬀect size es-
timates. Eﬀect size estimates and their conﬁdence in-
tervals should be at the heart of statistical inference
because they relate to biological importance in a way
that statistical signiﬁcance does not. Eﬀect size esti-
mates also facilitate meta-analysis, which has recently
established itself as an essential tool for quantitative
review in the ﬁeld. The three components of our ABC
framework complement each other. We would like to
focus on the basic philosophy behind these approaches
by considering pro- and contra arguments, and provide
a broad array of examples of biological questions that
can be tested in correlative or experimental designs, in
intra- or inter-speciﬁc contexts, and in diﬀerent taxo-
nomic groups.
Laszlo Zsolt Garamszegi
Department of Biology University of Antwerp Campus
Drie Eiken Universiteitsplein 1 B-2610 Wilrijk, Bel-
gium. Tel: (+32) 38 20 22 86 Fax: (+32) 38 20 22
71 E-mail: laszlo.garamszegi@ua.ac.be
Garamszegi Laszlo <laszlo.garamszegi@ua.ac.be >
Crete Wolbachia Jun9-14
FIFTH INTERNATIONAL WOLBACHIA CON-
FERENCE ORTHODOX ACADEMY OF CRETE
KOLYMBARI, CRETE, GREECE JUNE 9 - 14, 2008
Third Circular – March 18, 2008
This is the ﬁnal reminder for the registration to the 5th
International Wolbachia Conference that will be held
from June 9-14 at the Orthodox Academy of Crete
(http://www.oac.gr/ ), Kolymbari ( http://www.west-
crete.com/holidays-kolymbari.htm ), Crete, Greece.
REGISTRATION AND ACCOMMODATION6 EvolDir April 1, 2008
Please complete and send the Registration and
Accommodation Form to Aggeliki Saridaki (asari-
dak@cc.uoi.gr) by March 31, 2008.
The registration fee (150 Euros per participant) should
also be sent by check or by wiring funds by March 31.
REGISTRATION AND ACCOMMODATION FORM
Name:
Institution:
Postal Address:
Tel:
Fax:
E-mail:
Please give speciﬁc dates: arrival: departure:
Dates for additional nights:
Roommate Request (if any):
All rooms are non-smoking
Please advice for special needs
Conﬁrmation will be sent before the meeting Receipts
will be given at the meeting
PAYMENT INFORMATION FOR REGISTRATION
FEES
PLEASE SEND FEES PAYABLE IN EURO CUR-
RENCY BY MARCH 31, 2008
PREFERABLY WIRE FUNDS to:
Name of Account Holder: Research Committee - Uni-
versity of Ioannina
Bank Name: PIRAEUS BANK (Branch 2405)
Address: Demokratias Square, 45444 Ioannina, Greece
Bank Account Number or IBAN: GR20 0172 4050 0054
0503 4810 310
Bank Code - BIC or SWIFT: PIRBGRAA
ALTERNATIVELY CHECKS payable to:
Research Committee - University of Ioannina SEND
checks to:
Attn. Assoc. Prof. Kostas Bourtzis Department of En-
vironmental and Natural Resources Management Uni-
versity of Ioannina
2 Seferi Street
30100 Agrinio, GREECE
Tel. +30-26410-74114 Fax. +30-26410-74171 e-mail:
kbourtz@uoi.grWIRE FUNDS OR PAYMENT BY CHECK PLEASE
NOTE:
Important 1: Please mention the Conference Code
Number: 12229
Important 2: If wiring funds, please fax to my atten-
tion (+30-26410-74171) the respective certiﬁcate with
the transfer date and number.
Important 3: Expenses for funds transfer should be
paid by the conference participants.
FINANCIAL SUPPORT TO PhD STUDENTS
Financial support covering registration fees, lodging
and meals at the meeting ( ~$500 US per person) is
available for graduate students attending the Wolbachia
meeting. Funds are not available for travel expenses.
Support is provided by the US NSF Frontiers in Inte-
grative Biology Research Grant to Jack Werren.
Students wishing to apply for this support
should send an application to Cindy Landry at
cyly@mail.rochester.edu. Please refer to “Wolbachia
Meeting Student Support” in the subject line. Appli-
cations should be received by April 15th, although late
applications will be considered if residual funds are
available. Please include the information below to the
email:
Name
Email address
Department & Institution
Advisor’s Name
Advisor’s email address
Abstract of Your Planned Research Presentation Short
Curriculum Vitae in .pdf or .doc format
Please note that students receiving the support award
should prepay for their registration and lodging fees
and will be reimbursed after the meeting following sub-
mission of the receipts. Attendance at the MLST and
Education Workshops oﬀered during the meeting is re-
quired, as the funds are provided for this purpose.
ABSTRACTS AND PRESENTATIONS
Presentation will be in oral or poster format. Oral ses-
sions will include 20-25 minute talks. The Organizing
Committee does encourage poster presentations. The
abstracts should be as informative as possible. After
a review of the abstracts, the organizing committee
will decide on the ﬁnal scientiﬁc program. Deadline
for e-mail submission of Abstracts for Presentations
and Posters is 15 April, 2008. Please submit them to:
kbourtz@uoi.gr, mentioning the following details:April 1, 2008 EvolDir 7
Oral or Poster presentation?
Title: Author(s), aﬃliation(s) and email of correspond-
ing author Abstract (approximately 250 words)
If you have any questions or suggestions, please do not
hesitate to contact me (kbourtz@uoi.gr).
Looking forward to seeing you at Kolymbari, for the
Organizing Committee, Kostas Bourtzis
Wolbachia Conference Organizing Committee:
Kostas Bourtzis, University of Ioannina, Greece
Takema Fukatsu, Nat. Inst. of Advanced Industrial
Science and Technology, Japan
Greg Hurst, University of Liverpool, United Kingdom
Scott O’Neill, University of Queensland, Australia
Barton Slatko, New England Biolabs Inc., USA
Mark Taylor, Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine,
United Kingdom
Jack Werren, University of Rochester, USA
Kostas Bourtzis, PhD Associate Professor in Molecular
Biology and Biochemistry,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
DalhousieU
EvolutionaryProtistology Jul21-26
The International Society for Evolutionary Protistology
(ISEP) is holding its 17th Meeting 21-26 July, 2008,
in Halifax, Canada, on the campus of Dalhousie Uni-
versity. This is a joint meeting with the International
Society of Protistologists (ISOP).
The meeting website is: https://protist2008.dal.ca/ In
addition to contributed papers, the meeting will host
symposia on Protist phylogenomics, Cell compartmen-
talization in protists, and major events in Protist evo-
lution.
The meeting will be preceded by the Tree of Life
Web Project Protist Diversity Workshop (see https:/-
/protist2008.dal.ca/TOL protist diversit.php ), an
unique event co-sponsored by the Canadian Institutefor Advanced Research (CIFAR) program in Integrated
Microbial Biodiversity, and the Tula Foundation. This
will be held in Halifax on the 19-20 July.
Registration and abstraction submission for the com-
bined ISEP/ISOP meeting is now open. The deadline
for abstract submission and registration at the ’early’
rate is May 15th.
In order to make the meeting accessible to all scientists
and trainees, on-campus dormitory-style accommoda-
tion is available, in addition to nearby hotels. Student
accommodation starts at <$30 Can per day.
Visit https://protist2008.dal.ca/ for registration, and
for more details about the conference.
Sina Adl Alastair Simpson
Alastair.Simpson@Dal.Ca
Einsiedeln Switzerland PhDStudents
EMPSEB14 Sep8-13
Dear Prof. Golding,
me and fellow phd-students of the Universities of Basel
and Bern, Switerland, are organising the next Euro-
pean meeting of PhD students in Evolutionary Biology
in Einsiedeln, Switerland. Could you please put the
following text on the evoldir webpage? thanks a lot!
Christoph Gr¨ uter
We are pleased to announce the next European Meeting
of PhD Students in Evolutionary Biology (EMPSEB
14), 8th - 13th September 2008, Einsiedeln, Switzer-
land. This student conference brings together Euro-
pean students in an informal atmosphere, where they
can discuss their work without the pressure of present-
ing to senior academics. Present your work, discuss
your research ideas, meet new collaborators, receive
feedback on your talk, and make new friends from all
over Europe!
Important date: 1 April 2008: beginning of online reg-
istration
Plenary lectures by:
Sebastian Bonhoeﬀer, ETH Zurich, Switzerland Ash-
leigh Griﬃn, University of Edinburgh, UK Angela Hay,
University of Oxford, UK David Hosken, University
of Exeter, UK Alain Jacot, Max Planck Institute for
Ornithology, Germany Hanna Kokko, University of
Helsinki, Finland Daniel Rankin, University of Bern,8 EvolDir April 1, 2008
Switzerland Tom Wenseleers, Catholic University of
Leuven, Belgium
For registration and information please consult the
EMPSEB 14 website:
http://www.empseb.unibe.ch/ We are looking forward
to see you in Einsiedeln!
The EMPSEB 14 organizing committee
Ralph Dobler, Peter Biedermann, Melanie Dietz, Bar-
bara Fisher, Christoph Gr¨ uter, Alexander Kotrschal,
Roger Sch¨ urch, Francisca Segers
Dr. Christoph Grueter Division of Behavioural
Ecology University of Bern Wohlenstrasse 50a
CH-3032 Hinterkappelen Switzerland Phone:
+41(0)31 631 91 61 Fax: +41(0)31 631
91 41 christoph.grueter@esh.unibe.ch http:/-
/www.zoology.unibe.ch/behav/index.php and
http://biolo.bg.fcen.uba.ar/inssoc.htm visit
www.empseb.unibe.ch Gr¨ uter Christoph
<christoph.grueter@esh.unibe.ch >
Estonton Georgia SEPEEG 2008
Oct24-26
Mark your calendars!
The 2008 SouthEastern Population Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Genetics (SEPEEG) meeting will be held on
the weekend of October 24 - 26.
The meeting will take place at Rock Eagle conference
facility, which is in Eatonton, Georgia. Eatonton is
about an hour east of Atlanta, and is easily accessible
from Interstate 20.
Keeping with the tradition of SEPEEG, the 2008 meet-
ing will be informal and accommodations will be on the
rustic side. Registration will be available June 1st -
September 15th, and we expect the cost to be similar
to previous SEPEEG meetings (i.e., low!). Talk and
poster submissions are encouraged from undergrads,
grad students, post-docs, and faculty. This will be a
one talk at a time meeting, with no concurrent sessions.
SEPEEG 2008: http://mendel.genetics.uga.edu/-
index.php?page=sepeeg-2008 Rock Eagle: http:/-
/www.georgia4h.org/public/facilities/rockeagle/
default.htm
The meeting organizers are Kelly Dyer, David Hall,
David Moeller, and the University of Georgia Genet-ics Department.
Please contact any of us with questions.
Kelly Dyer (kdyer@uga.edu) David Hall (dave-
hall@uga.edu) David Moeller (dmoeller@uga.edu)
kdyer@uga.edu kdyer@uga.edu
FloridaStateU SEEC Evolution
Mar28-30 2
This is a friendly reminder that early registration for
the Southeastern Ecology and Evolution Conference is
nearing an end (February 29th). Early registration is
only $15! Once this closes, registration increases to
$35. Registration fees include some meals, a Satur-
day night social, T-shirt and other conference accouter-
ment. You can ﬁnd registration information at http:/-
/bio.fsu.edu/˜eerdg/seec/index.htm as well as lodging
and directions. Also on the website you can ﬁnd infor-
mation on the distinguished speakers we have lined up,
including our own Dr. Joseph Travis and Dr. Walter
Tschinkel. Additionally, we are still accepting abstracts
for poster session and talks- this is a great opportunity
to gain experience with an audience of peers. We will
be accepting abstracts until March 14th.
We look forward to seeing you this spring in Tallahas-
see! (See call for abstracts below.)
Florida State University will host the 2008 Southeast-
ern Ecology and Evolution Conference and is announc-
ing a call for abstracts for presentations of research.
This is a scientiﬁc symposium aimed at graduate, post-
doctoral, and undergraduate researchers in the ﬁelds
of ecology, systematics, and evolutionary biology. The
conference will be held on the campus of Florida State
University in Tallahassee, Florida on March 28-30,
2008.
Abstract Submission Information
Researchers interested in presenting posters or 15-
minute talks are invited to submit abstracts pertaining
to: - Animal Behavior - Conservation - Ecology - Evolu-
tion - Functional Morphology - History and Philosophy
of Science - Systematics
The deadline for the submission of abstracts is Friday
March 14, 2008 at 5:00 PM, EST. Please submit your
abstract along with registration at the SEEC website,
found at http://bio.fsu.edu/ ˜ eerdg/seec/ . Abstracts
should be limited to 250 words, and please include anyApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 9
primary and co-authors as well as session preference.
Information about poster and talk requirements is avail-
able on the SEEC website.
Please contact David McNutt (dmcnutt@bio.fsu.edu)
for questions regarding registration or abstract sub-
mission, or general questions about SEEC to Amanda
Buchanan (abuchanan@bio.fsu.edu) or Eric Jones
(ejones@bio.fsu.edu).
– Nathaniel K. Jue Ph.D. Candidate Florida State
University Department of Biological Science Conradi
Building Tallahassee, FL 32306
jue@bio.fsu.edu jue@bio.fsu.edu
Fribourg Switzerland Aging
May29-30
Symposium Aging: linking evolution with mechanisms
Fribourg, Switzerland, 29-30 May 2008.
Information and call for contributed talks
This symposium aims to bring together evolutionary
biologists who address the mechanisms of aging, and
molecular biologists whose work has implications for
understanding evolutionary processes shaping aging.
Invited speakers: Martin Ackermann (ETH Zurich,
Switzerland) Adam Antebi (Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, USA) Vera Gorbunova (University of
Rochester, USA) Scott D. Pletcher (Baylor College of
Medicine, Houston, USA) Marc Tatar (Brown Univer-
sity, Providence, USA) Rudi G.J. Westendorp (Univer-
sity of Leiden, The Netherlands)
We will combine invited talks with 12 contributed talks.
We therefore invite submissions of suitable talks. To
submit your talk, please send a title and abstract
to Tadeusz.Kawecki@unil.ch, with “Aging symposium:
talk submission” in the subject ﬁeld. Deadline: March
31, 2008.
Participation in the meeting is free (no registration
fee), and limited funding is available to cover the ho-
tel expenses of contributing speakers. For further in-
formation see the meeting website at www.unifr.ch/-
biol/ecology/aging Organizers Tad Kawecki (Univer-
sity of Lausanne) Laurent Keller (University of Lau-
sanne) Fritz Mueller (University of Fribourg)
– Tadeusz J. Kawecki Department of Ecology and Evo-
lution University of Lausanne Biophore CH 1015 Lau-sanne, Switzerland tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch
Tadeusz.Kawecki@unil.ch Tadeusz.Kawecki@unil.ch
KansasCity ArthropodGenomics
Apr11-13 Deadline2
You can still submit a poster abstract and register to
attend the 2ND ANNUAL ARTHROPOD GENOMICS
SYMPOSIUM: NEW INSIGHTS FROM ARTHRO-
POD GENOMES April 11-13, 2008, Muehlbach Hotel
(operated by Marriott) Downtown Kansas City
The room block at the Muehlbach/Marriott hotel will
expire 3/20/08 (or prior to 3/20 if the block sells out);
so make your hotel reservations TODAY! A link for
making reservations at the discounted room rate can be
found at www.ksu.edu/agc/symposium.shtml or tele-
phone 1-800-228-9290.
The deadline to submit POSTER ABSTRACTS for
presentation during two poster sessions has been ex-
tended!!! We welcome your presentation of a poster at
the Symposium. Abstract Guidelines can be found at
www.ksu.edu/agc/symposium.shtml .
REGISTRATION continues to be open! On-
line registration, a schedule, brochure and addi-
tional information are available at www.ksu.edu/agc/-
symposium.shtml . SYMPOSIUM WEBSITE: www.k-
state.edu/agc/symposium.shtml
SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM: The main symposium ses-
sions will take place on Friday-Saturday, April 11-12.
Speakers will present new insights from genomic ap-
proaches in arthropods and describe the development
of tools for genomic analysis. Optional workshops
are scheduled for Thursday and Friday evenings. An
evening of jazz and KC barbeque is planned for Sat-
urday night. On Sunday morning, participate in a
roundtable discussion with the ArthropodBase Consor-
tium. Activities will conclude by noon on Sunday.
FEATURED SPEAKERS: **John Kenneth Col-
bourne, Indiana University, Preservation, expansion
and invention of crustacean genes with reference to in-
sect genomes. **Christine G. Elsik, Georgetown Uni-
versity, Unusual base composition of the honey bee
genome. **Sarjeet S. Gill, University of California,
Riverside, Mosquito midgut interactions with bacte-
rial toxins. **Catherine A. Hill, Purdue University,
Tick genome organization and evolution. **Thomas
Kaufman, Indiana University, The latest news from10 EvolDir April 1, 2008
CNN: What the 12 sequenced Drosophila genomes have
told us about rapidly evolving genes and positive selec-
tion. **J. Robert Manak, University of Iowa, Empir-
ical annotation of arthropod genomes using tiled ge-
nomic microarrays. **Subbaratnam Muthukrishnan,
Kansas State University, Functional genomics of in-
sect chitin metabolism. **Hugh M. Robertson, Uni-
versity of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, What we’ve
learned about the insect chemoreceptors from arthro-
pod genome projects. **Bruce R. Schatz, University of
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, BeeSpace: Interactive
functional analysis of arthropod genomic data. **Jeﬀ
Stuart, Purdue University, Avirulence, sex determina-
tion, and a physical map of the Hessian ﬂy genome.
**Judy Willis, University of Georgia, Insect cuticular
proteins: Annotation, proteomics, expression, evolu-
tion. **Evgeny Zdobnov, University of Geneva, Medi-
cal School, Switzerland, A comparative perspective on
insect genomes.
KANSAS CITY JAZZ AND BARBEQUE: Partici-
pants are encouraged to stay Saturday night for an op-
tional evening of jazz and KC barbeque in the historic
18th and Vine district.
WORKSHOPS AND ROUNDTABLE DISCUSSION:
On Thursday evening, a workshop on “Community
Contributions to Genome Annotation” will feature a
presentation on use of the Apollo Genome Annota-
tion Curation Tool by Dr. Chris Elsik (BeeBase). On
Friday evening, Dave Clements (NESCent) and Scott
Cain (CSHL) will lead a workshop, “Chado Databases
and Integration with GMOD Tools.” Throughout the
meeting, arthropod genome database and bioinformat-
ics tool developers will be available for individual train-
ing on Apollo and database use as well as BeeSpace,
the automated literature annotation system developed
by Bruce Schatz and colleagues. On Sunday morning,
participate in a roundtable discussion led by members
of the ArthropodBase Consortium regarding the gener-
ation of integrated arthropod genome databases and
tools for genome analysis, and community curation.
Symposium attendees are invited to participate in these
additional events.
REGISTRATION: The registration fee of $325 ($200
for graduate and undergraduate students), includes a
welcome reception Thursday evening, breakfast and
lunch on Friday and Saturday, and light refreshments
at the Friday poster session. Additional fees apply for
the Apollo Workshop Thursday evening and Saturday
night dinner.
We look forward to seeing you in Kansas City! Please
share this announcement with colleagues and students!
Susan J. Brown, Professor Director, Center for Ge-nomic Studies on Arthropods Aﬀecting Human, Animal
and Plant Health by Doris Merrill, Program Coordi-
nator K-State Arthropod Genomics Center Division of
Biology, Kansas State University 116 Ackert Hall, Man-
hattan, KS 66506-4901 (785) 532-3482, dmerrill@k-
state.edu
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Marseilles 11thEvolBiol Videos
Sep24-26
Dear All,
We are pleased to inform you that the 12th Evolution-
ary Biology Meeting at Marseilles will take place on
24th 25th 26th September 2008.
We are also pleased to inform you that the video of the
oral presentations are available at http://www.univ-
provence.fr/webtv/?liste=biology meeting 2007
We would like to thank once more all the participants
for their outstanding work and we are waiting for you to
continue sharing the ideas and works of all next Septem-
ber.
For more information, do not hesitate to go on: http:/-
/sites.univ-provence.fr/evol-cgr
Best wishes,
Axelle
Egee@univ-provence.fr
Marseilles 12thEvolBiol Sep24-26
deadline
Dear All,
We are please to inform you that the early dead line
of the 12th Evolutionary Biology Meeting at Marseilles
(24th 25th 26th September 2008) will be on 31st March.April 1, 2008 EvolDir 11
For more information, do not hesitate to go on: http:/-
/sites.univ-provence.fr/evol-cgr Best wishes,
Axelle Pontarotti
Egee@univ-provence.fr
Portland FishAdaptation
Jul28-Aug1
We invite abstract submissions for oral presentations in
a symposium on the Genomics of Adaptation in Fish
Populations to be held at the International Congress
on the Biology of Fish in Portland, Oregon from July
28th - August 1st, 2008. A detailed description of this
symposium can be found at
http://ﬁshbiologycongress8.usgs.gov/icbf8/-
symposia.htm#Schulte While we cannot oﬀer
funding to cover travel expenses, the Fish Biology
Congress has generous travel awards for postdocs and
graduate students. In addition, there is a competition
for best student presentation. All information, includ-
ing details on abstract submission (deadline April 1st),
can be found at
http://ﬁshbiologycongress8.usgs.gov/index.htm Please
also send an email to tymchuk@zoology.ubc.ca if you
are interested in participating in this symposium.
Wendy Tymchuk, PhD University of British Columbia
Department of Zoology 6270 University Blvd. Vancou-
ver, BC V6T 1Z4 Phone: 604-822-6759 Email: tym-
chuk@zoology.ubc.ca
tymchuk@zoology.ubc.ca tymchuk@zoology.ubc.ca
PortTownsend Evo-WIBO Apr18-20
2
This a friendly reminder that Monday, March 17 is
the registration deadline for the 2008 meeting of “Evo-
WIBO: Evolutionary biologists in the Paciﬁc North-
west*.”
The meeting will take place April 18-20, 2008 at Ft.
Worden State Park in Port Townsend, Washington. For
registration and general information visit:http:// www.zoology.ubc.ca/evo-wibo
*Evo-WIBO stands for Evolutionary Biologists from
Washington, Idaho, British Columbia and Oregon, al-
though we draw much more widely than that, including
Alaska, Alberta, California, and Montana.
– Richard Gomulkiewicz gomulki@wsu.edu PHONE:
(509) 335-2527 FAX: (509) 335-3184 http://-
www.wsu.edu/˜gomulki/ Department of Mathematics;
P.O. Box 643113 or School of Biological Sciences; P.O.
Box 644236 Washington State University Pullman,
WA 99164 USA
gomulki@wsu.edu gomulki@wsu.edu
Raleigh NorthCarolina Genomics
Jun4-7
The 2008 American Genetic Association Meeting, Ge-
netics and Genomics of Behavior, will be held June
4-7, 2008, at the Raleigh Sheraton Hotel, Raleigh
North Carolina. Details and registration at https://-
www.agasymposium2008.org This meeting’s goal is to
explore and deﬁne the emerging ﬁeld of behavioral ge-
netics and genomics. The 2008 AGA symposium will
feature 18 distinguished speakers, providing a kaleido-
scope of recent discoveries with diﬀerent organisms, en-
compassing laboratory and ﬁeld studies, and ranging
from mechanistic neurogenetic principles through anal-
yses of genetic architecture and evolution of behavior.
Behaviors important for human health and disease will
also be covered. Talks by invited speakers include three
special keynote lectures. There will be poster sessions
and invited short talks selected from submitted ab-
stracts.
Travel fellowships for students and postdoctoral fellows
will be made available on a competitive basis to defray
the costs for airfare and hotel accommodations.
The deadline for abstract submission and advance reg-
istration is April 25, 2008.
agajoh@oregonstate.edu agajoh@oregonstate.edu
ROM Toronto BarcodeOfLife
Apr28-2912 EvolDir April 1, 2008
Canadian Barcode of Life Network 2nd Annual Science
Symposium April 28-29, 2008, at the Royal Ontario
Museum, Toronto, Canada
We are pleased to announce the 2nd Annual Science
Symposium of the Canadian Barcode of Life Network.
This is a two day conference and registration is open
to anyone interested in attending. The conference will
address the key issues involved with a DNA barcode-
based approach to biodiversity recognition, including
recent bioinformatics developments. On day 1, the
conference will address what is known of barcodes for
Canadian and international biodiversity. On day 2, the
conference will focus on the potential impact of this
knowledge by considering emerging technological devel-
opments and the ensuing implications for public policy.
Keynote Speakers: Daniel H. Janzen, DiMaura Profes-
sor, University of Pennsylvania Scott E. Miller, Oﬃce
of the Under Secretary for Science at the Smithsonian
Institution
Network Research Theme Presentations: Spencer Bar-
rett (University of Toronto) - Plants Brian Golding
(McMaster University) - Informatics Paul Hebert (Uni-
versity of Guelph) - Animals Donal Hickey (Concordia
University) - Fungi Gary Saunders (University of New
Brunswick) - Protists
The abstract submission deadline is 28 March
2008. Abstract submission and registration infor-
mation can be found at: http:// www.bolnet.ca/-
scientiﬁc conference 2008.php Organizers: Royal On-
tario Museum University of Guelph Biodiversity Insti-
tute of Ontario Canadian Centre for DNA Barcoding
Department of Integrative Biology Guelph Institute for
the Environment
Inquiries can be directed to:
Robert Hanner, Associate Director Canadian Barcode
of Life Network Biodiversity Institute of Ontario & De-
partment of Integrative Biology University of Guelph
Guelph, ON N1G 2W1 Canada
Phone: 519-824-4120 x53479 Fax: 519-767-1656 Email:
rhanner@uoguelph.ca
robert hanner <rhanner@uoguelph.ca >
ROM Toronto BarcodeOfLife
Apr28-29 2
The 2nd annual symposium of the Canadian Barcodeof Life Network will take place April 28-29, 2008 at the
Royal Ontario Museum in Toronto.
The conference will highlight key advances in a DNA
barcode-based approach to biodiversity recognition, in-
cluding recent bioinformatic developments. Taking
place over two days, the conference will address what is
known of barcodes for both Canadian and global bio-
diversity. The impacts of this knowledge will be exam-
ined in terms of both technology development and the
implications for scientiﬁc and public policy.
Keynote speakers: Daniel H. Janzen, DiMaura Profes-
sor, University of Pennsylvania Scott E. Miller, Oﬃce
of the Under Secretary for Science at the Smithsonian
Institution
With special Network research theme presentations
by: Spencer Barrett (University of Toronto) - Plants
Brian Golding (McMaster University) - Informatics
Paul Hebert (University of Guelph) - Animals Donal
Hickey (Concordia University) - Fungi Gary Saunders
(University of New Brunswick) - Protists
Registration will include access to all sessions on April
28th and 29th, after-hours admission to Darwin: the
Evolution Revolution, reception and dinner April 28th
at the ROM, and refreshments at all breaks and lunches
on both days.
Abstract submission deadline has been extended
until March 28th. Please submit your abstracts
to Sue-Ann Connolly at sujohnst@uoguelph.ca
For more information, read the Call for Abstracts
found at http://www.bolnet.ca/Announcement%20-
%20Call%20for%20abstracts.pdf Please register
for the conference at http://www.bolnet.ca/-
scientiﬁc conference 2008.php Thank you to everyone
who has already registered.
If you wish to assist in spreading the word about the
conference, please print the poster found at http://-
www.bolnet.ca/bolnet-poster.pdf for distribution.
Please do not hesitate to contact Sue-Ann Connolly (su-
johnst@uoguelph.ca) with any questions regarding the
symposium.
Sue-Ann Connolly Information Oﬃcer Biodiversity In-
stitute of Ontario University of Guelph Guelph, ON
N1G 2W1 Phone: (519) 824-4120 x 56393 Fax: 519-
824-5703 Email: sujohnst@uoguelph.ca
sujohnst@uoguelph.caApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 13
UAlberta EvolutionOfButterﬂies
2010
Dear Butterﬂy Evolutionary Biologists,
We are seeking your feedback to allow us to schedule
the best dates for the 6th International Conference on
the Biology of Butterﬂies. As some of you know from
the successfully concluded 5th conference last year in
Rome, we oﬀered to hold the next conference in Al-
berta, Canada, in 2010. For those of you who don’t
know about this conference series, it has been held ev-
ery few years, mainly in Europe but once in Colorado.
The long-standing theme of this conference series fo-
cuses attention on recent developments in biology that
rely on butterﬂies as research models, particularly in
ecology and evolutionary biology. The organization of
these meetings has been quite informal, which is why
we are also soliciting feedback from people who were
not at the previous meeting, but who might want to
attend the next one.
Now we would like to get your opinions on the best
dates for the conference during summer 2010. We have
three weeks available at our University of Alberta con-
ference centre in Edmonton, and we would like you to
vote on which one you would prefer. Would you please
vote for the single best week at the preliminary confer-
ence website, below? We’ll leave the survey up for 10
days.
http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/biobutterﬂy2010/-
survey.php Comments of any sort are welcome.
Although there is a 5-day time period indicated for
each week, we intend to keep the actual conference to
3 or 4 days.
Thank you,
Felix Sperling Jens Roland
Department of Biological Sciences University of Alberta
Felix Sperling, Professor Department of Biological
Sciences cw405a Biological Sciences Centre Univer-
sity of Alberta Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2E9 Canada
Oﬃce: 780-492-3991; Fax: 780-492-9234 http://-
www.biology.ualberta.ca/faculty/felix sperling/ Felix
Sperling <FELIX.SPERLING@UALBERTA.CA >UCalforniaIrvine MEEGID IX
Oct30-Nov1 Moved
01/03/08
Dear Colleagues
the MEEGID IX congress (Molecular Epidemiology
and Evolutionary Genetics of Infectious Diseases),
which was planned to be held in Nairobi (30th October-
1st November 2008), has been rerouted to UC Irvine
due to the political events in Kenya (attachment). UCI
Professor Francisco J. Ayala has provided his full sup-
port, and has accepted to be the main coorganizer. The
congress will keep high priority for infectious diseases
of special interest to developing countries. Thank you
for circulating the information around you ( http://-
www.th.ird.fr/site meegid/doc/MEEGID IXnew.pdf;
http://www.th.ird.fr//site meegid/menu.htm ).
With kind regards,
Michel Tibayrenc, MD, PhD Editor -in-chief In-
fection, Genetics and Evolution (Elsevier) http://-
www.elsevier.com/locate/meegid IRD representative in
Thailand IRD Representative Oﬃce French Embassy
29, Thanon Sathorn Tai, Bangkok 10120, Thailand Tel
: + (66 2) 627 2190 Fax : + (66 2) 627 2194 Cel: + (66
81) 82 64 056 E-mail : Michel.Tibayrenc@ird.fr Website
:http://www.th.ird.fr Michel.Tibayrenc@ird.fr
UIdaho CallForSSB Symposia
Jun13-17 2009
Call for 2009 SSB Symposia
The Society for Systematic Biologists invites proposals
for symposia at the 2009 SSB meeting to be held at the
University of Idaho in Moscow, Idaho 13-17 June 2009.
The meeting will be held jointly with the American So-
ciety of Naturalists and the Society for the Study of
Evolution. Proposals should include (1) a descriptive
title, (2) one or two paragraphs explaining the purpose
of the symposium and its relevance to systematics, (3) a
list of presentations including proposed speakers, their
institutions or aﬃliations, and their presentation titles,14 EvolDir April 1, 2008
(4) an indication of whether the speakers have been
invited and whether they have agreed to participate,
and (5) the proposed length of each talk. Symposia
are restricted to half-day sessions. The society is par-
ticularly interested in symposia whose topics do not
overlap with those from previous meetings, that intro-
duce new ideas or synthesize important concepts, or
those that are particularly good examples of the anal-
ysis of empirical data. Proposals that unite systemat-
ics with other ﬁelds are also desirable. We encourage
participation from young investigators and others typ-
ically under-represented in symposia. Limited funding
is available. The target date for receipt of proposals
is June 1, 2008. Proposals will be discussed and two
will be selected at the SSB Council meeting during
the 2008 annual meeting in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
2009 Symposia will be announced at the SSB business
meeting in Minneapolis. Proposals should be sent by
email to the Program Chairperson, George D. Weiblen,
gweiblen@umn.edu (Department of Plant Biology, Uni-
versity of Minnesota, 1445 Gortner Avenue, Saint Paul,
Minnesota 55108 USA).
Reminder: The deadline for receipt of presenta-
tion titles for Evolution 2008 is April 1, 2008.
Please register at http://www.evolution2008.org SSB
<SSBMembership@BurkInc.com >
UIdahoMoscow SSE2009 Jun13-17
Call for Symposia Proposals
Call for Symposia for 2009Annual Meeting
The 2009 annual meeting of the Society for the Study
of Evolution will be held from June 13-17, 2009 in
Moscow, Idaho and hosted by the University of Idaho.
The Council of the Society invites proposals for the
two Society-sponsored symposia to be held in conjunc-
tion with the meeting. Symposium proposals should
include: (1) a synopsis of the symposium theme (about
one page); (2) a tentative list of speakers, including
institutional aﬃliations, and topics; (3) a rationale for
the symposium explaining why this topic and this group
of speakers are particularly appropriate for a Society-
sponsored symposium; and (4) a budget stating approx-
imate travel (only) costs.
In evaluating symposium proposals, the Council will fa-
vor those proposals whose topics concern newly emerg-
ing ﬁelds, ﬁelds ripe for syntheses, and ﬁelds diﬀerent
from those that have been included in recent Societysymposia. The Council particularly encourages propos-
als that include women, younger investigators and oth-
ers traditionally underrepresented in Society symposia.
The Council will select two proposals for half-day sym-
posia at its meeting in June 2008. All applicants will
be notiﬁed of the Council’s decision in July. The So-
ciety provides partial travel support for organizers and
participants in sponsored symposia. Details are avail-
able on request. To be assured of full consideration,
proposals must be received at the following address by
midnight Eastern Standard Time on May 19, 2007:
Dr. Charles B. Fenster, Executive Vice President The
Society for the Study of Evolution Department of Bi-
ology University of Maryland College Park, Maryland,
20742 USA e-mail: CFenster@umd.edu
Proposals can be sent as paper copies by mail or prefer-
ably as e-mail attachments in Word or RTF format (un-
der subject heading: SSE Symposia Proposal).
Thank you,
Charlie Fenster (EVP, SSE)
Charles B. Fenster Department of Biology BIOL-
OGY/Psychology Bldg. Room 3210
University of Maryland College Park, Maryland 20742
USA phone: 301 405 1640 fax: 301 314 9358
http://www.life.umd.edu/biology/fensterlab/ Charles
Fenster <cfenster@umd.edu >
UIowa Evolution of Sex Jun16-19 2
UPDATES:
We are now accepting applications for student/postdoc
travel awards and for contributed talks. The deadline
for submission is March 16.
http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/sexrec/registration.php
General registration will be open on or before April
1. Check the meeting website for more information.
EVOLUTION OF SEX & RECOMBINATION: IN
THEORY AND IN PRACTICE
June 16-19, 2008, at the University of Iowa, Iowa City,
USA.
http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/sexrec The Roy J.
Carver Center for Comparative Genomics and the De-
partment of Biology at the University of Iowa an-
nounces an international conference on the evolutionApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 15
of sex & recombination. This conference will immedi-
ately precede the 2008 Evolution meeting taking place
in nearby Minneapolis, Minnesota (June 20-24).
Talks will be given by invited speakers at both the ju-
nior and senior level. There will also be opportunities
for contributed talks and posters to be given by con-
ference attendees at all levels of seniority. A number
of travel awards (10-15) will be provided to deserving
students and postdocs.
Topics will include: -Advantages of sexual reproduction
-Experimental evolution of sex -Estimating recombina-
tion rates -Mating types & sex determination -Linkage,
selection & population size -Sex chromosomes -Sex &
pathogenesis -Sexual selection -Sexual conﬂict
Conﬁrmed speakers include: Philip Awadalla Univer-
sity of Montreal Aneil Agrawal University of Toronto
Doris Bachtrog University of California, San Diego Gra-
ham Bell McGill University Bill Birky University of
Arizona Rhona Borts University of Leicester Bernardo
Carvalho Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro
Andy Peters University of Wisconsin-Madison Brian
Charlesworth University of Edinburgh Nick Colegrave
University of Edinburgh Tim Cooper University of
Houston Ursula Goodenough Washington University-
St. Louis Joe Heitman Duke University Michael Hood
Amherst College Alex Kondrashov University of Michi-
gan Curt Lively Indiana University David Mark Welch
MBL, Woods Hole Stephanie Meirmans University of
Bergen Andy Peters University of Wisconsin-Madison
Steve Proulx Iowa State University Bill Rice University
of California, Santa Barbara Isa Sch¨ on Royal Belgian
Institute of N.S. Marcy Uyenoyama Duke University
Jerry Wilkinson University of Maryland Cliﬀ Zeyl Wake
Forest University
Check the conference website for details regard-
ing registration, accommodation, etc.: http://-
ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/sexrec/registration.php A sym-
posium issue to be published in Journal of Heredity is
being planned.
All enquiries are encouraged (including potential spon-
sors) and should be directed to the organizers:
sexrec@uiowa.edu
On behalf of the organizing committee,
John Logsdon
John M. Logsdon, Jr., Ph.D. Associate Professor Direc-
tor, Roy J. Carver Center for Comparative Genomics
University of Iowa Department of Biological Sciences
319 335 1082 oﬃce 310 Biology Building 319 335 1083
lab Iowa City, IA 52242-1324 319 335 1069 FAX
email <john-logsdon@uiowa.edu >web<http:/-/www.biology.uiowa.edu/ccg/ > < http://-
euplotes.biology.uiowa.edu >
john-logsdon@uiowa.edu john-logsdon@uiowa.edu
UIowa Evolution of Sex Jun16-19
Registration
More UPDATES:
1. General registration is now open. Space is limited,
so please register as soon as possible.
http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/sexrec/regform2.php 2.
We are still accepting applications for student/postdoc
travel awards and for contributed talks. The deadline
for submission was extended to April 1.
http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/sexrec/registration.php
3. Information on Venue, Travel and Accommodation
are now available:
http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/sexrec/venue.php 4. The
ﬁnal schedule of talks is being worked out and will be
posted shortly. A tentative schedule of events is avail-
able at:
http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/sexrec/-
SexRecSchedule.pdf General Announcement:
3EVOLUTION OF SEX & RECOMBINATION: IN
THEORY AND IN PRACTICE2
June 16-19, 2008, at the University of Iowa, Iowa City,
USA.
http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/sexrec The Roy J.
Carver Center for Comparative Genomics and the De-
partment of Biology at the University of Iowa an-
nounces an international conference on the evolution
of sex & recombination. This conference will immedi-
ately precede the 2008 Evolution meeting taking place
in nearby Minneapolis, Minnesota (June 20-24).
Talks will be given by invited speakers at both the ju-
nior and senior level. There will also be opportunities
for contributed talks and posters to be given by con-
ference attendees at all levels of seniority. A number
of travel awards (10-15) will be provided to deserving
students and postdocs.
Topics will include: -Advantages of sexual reproduction
-Experimental evolution of sex -Estimating recombina-
tion rates -Mating types & sex determination -Linkage,
selection & population size -Sex chromosomes -Sex &
pathogenesis -Sexual selection -Sexual conﬂict16 EvolDir April 1, 2008
Conﬁrmed speakers include: Philip Awadalla Univer-
sity of Montreal Aneil Agrawal University of Toronto
Doris Bachtrog University of California, San Diego
Graham Bell McGill University Bill Birky Univer-
sity of Arizona Rhona Borts University of Leicester
Christina Burch University of North Carolina-Chapel
Hill Bernardo Carvalho Universidade Federal do Rio
de Janeiro Brian Charlesworth University of Edinburgh
Nick Colegrave University of Edinburgh Tim Cooper
University of Houston Ursula Goodenough Washing-
ton University-St. Louis Joe Heitman Duke Univer-
sity Michael Hood Amherst College Alex Kondrashov
University of Michigan Curt Lively Indiana Univer-
sity David Mark Welch MBL, Woods Hole Stephanie
Meirmans University of Bergen Andy Peters University
of Wisconsin-Madison Steve Proulx Iowa State Uni-
versity Bill Rice University of California, Santa Bar-
bara Isa Sch¨ on Royal Belgian Institute of N.S. Marcy
Uyenoyama Duke University Jerry Wilkinson Univer-
sity of Maryland Cliﬀ Zeyl Wake Forest University
A symposium issue to be published in Journal of Hered-
ity is being planned.
All enquiries are encouraged (including potential spon-
sors) and should be directed to the organizers:
sexrec@uiowa.edu
On behalf of the organizing committee,
John Logsdon –
—————————————————
John M. Logsdon, Jr., Ph.D. Associate Professor Direc-
tor, Roy J. Carver Center for Comparative Genomics
University of Iowa Department of Biological Sciences
319 335 1082 oﬃce 310 Biology Building 319 335 1083
lab Iowa City, IA 52242-1324 319 335 1069 FAX
email <john-logsdon@uiowa.edu >web<http:/-
/www.biology.uiowa.edu/ccg/ > < http://-
euplotes.biology.uiowa.edu >
—————————————————
ULondon SAGE2009 Sep14-17
SAGE2009 - Southeast Asian Gateway Evolution Con-
ference
14-17 September 2009: Royal Holloway University of
London
In September 2009 we are holding an internationalmeeting at Royal Holloway that will focus on the In-
donesian Gateway, the current connection between the
Paciﬁc and Indian Oceans. The meeting is aimed to
bring together Life and Earth Scientists to discuss the
history, development and current state of the region.
We shall run SAGE2009 meeting as two parallel scien-
tiﬁc meetings, with several plenary sessions and keynote
speakers who will be encouraged to explain their sub-
ject and give overviews that can be useful to all scien-
tists who attend.
We welcome contributions on all aspects of the geology,
oceanography, climate, biology and development of this
region, particularly those that cross discipline bound-
aries, and can explain the relevance of their work to
other scientists including non-specialists in the ﬁeld.
Please download the 1st Circular at http://-
sage2009.rhul.ac.uk To register your interest in
attending this meeting, please click on the following
link
http://sage2009.rhul.ac.uk/interest/-
express interest form.html or mail your name
and contact details to
SAGE2009 SE Asia Research Group Royal Holloway
University of London Egham, Surrey TW200EX, UK
Dr Lukas Ruber Department of Zoology The Natural
History Museum Cromwell Road London SW7 5BD UK
Tel: +44 (0)20 7942 6208 Fax: +44 (0)20 7942 5054
e-mail: l.ruber@nhm.ac.uk
www.lukasruber.com www.nhm.ac.uk/zoology Forth-
coming meeting: Southeast Asian Gateway Evolution
(14-17 September 2009) http://sage2009.rhul.ac.uk/
l.ruber@nhm.ac.uk
UMinnesota Evolution 2008
Jun20-24 CallForMentors
For the sixth consecutive year, the Undergraduate Di-
versity at SSE/SSB program, funded originally by the
Undergraduate Mentoring in Environmental Biology
(UMEB) program at NSF, will take place again at the
2008 meeting of the Society of the Study of Evolution
(SSE) and the Society of Systematic Biologists (SSB)
in Minneapolis, MN. This year we have teamed up
with staﬀ at the National Evolutionary Synthesis Cen-
ter (NESCent) to send up to 25 undergraduates to the
meetings to present posters and receive mentoring fromApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 17
graduate students, postdocs and faculty in evolutionary
biology.
In addition to applications from undergraduates, we
hope to hear from graduate students, postdocs and fac-
ulty who wish to serve as undergraduate mentors for the
meetings. Duties will include meeting a pair of under-
graduates in the program, attending and demystifying
a day of talks with them, joining them for a meal, in-
troducing them to colleagues and in general befriending
them in ways that show that evolutionary biology is a
welcoming discipline. No costs for travel, housing or
registration are covered.
If you are interested in serving as a mentor,
please send an email to either Rich Kliman
(rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu) or Scott Edwards (sed-
wards@fas.harvard.edu). Please also indicate your
broad ﬁeld of interest, so that we can pair you with
appropriate students. And please help spread the word
about this very rewarding activity.
Richard Kliman <Rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu >
UMinnesota Evolution 2008
Jun20-24 deadline
Evolution 2008 June 20-24, 2008 University of Min-
nesota - Twin Cities campus
The deadline for presentation titles is April 1,
2008. Please visit www.evolution2008.org <http://-
www.evolution2008.org/ >for more information.
This is the annual meeting of the Society for the Study
of Evolution, the Society of Systematic Biologists, and
the American Society of Naturalists.
The deadline for receipt of presentation titles including
posters and talks is April 1, 2008. Participant regis-
tration should be completed by May 2, 2008 to qualify
for discounted rates. Evolution 2008 is the premier an-
nual opportunity for sharing scientiﬁc research related
to evolution.
We look forward to welcoming you to Evolution 2008
and are eager to answer your questions to make your
participation a productive and memorable experience.
Questions may be directed to Heather Dorr (cce-
conf3@umn.edu <mailto:cceconf3@umn.edu >).
On behalf of the societies, the organizing committees,
and the University of Minnesota, thank you for your
participation.George Weiblen Evolution 2008 Program Chair Asso-
ciate Professor, Department of Plant Biology Herbar-
ium Curator, Bell Museum of Natural History
Carey Madsen <careymadsen@biology.utah.edu >
UMinnesota Evolution 2008
Jun20-24 deadline2
Call for Symposia for 2009Annual Meeting
The 2009 annual meeting of the Society for the Study
of Evolution will be held from June 13-17, 2009 in
Moscow, Idaho and hosted by the University of Idaho.
The Council of the Society invites proposals for the
two Society-sponsored symposia to be held in conjunc-
tion with the meeting. Symposium proposals should
include: (1) a synopsis of the symposium theme (about
one page); (2) a tentative list of speakers, including
institutional aﬃliations, and topics; (3) a rationale for
the symposium explaining why this topic and this group
of speakers are particularly appropriate for a Society-
sponsored symposium; and (4) a budget stating approx-
imate travel (only) costs.
In evaluating symposium proposals, the Council will fa-
vor those proposals whose topics concern newly emerg-
ing ﬁelds, ﬁelds ripe for syntheses, and ﬁelds diﬀerent
from those that have been included in recent Society
symposia. The Council particularly encourages propos-
als that include women, younger investigators and oth-
ers traditionally underrepresented in Society symposia.
The Council will select two proposals for half-day sym-
posia at its meeting in June 2008. All applicants will
be notiﬁed of the Council’s decision in July. The So-
ciety provides partial travel support for organizers and
participants in sponsored symposia. Details are avail-
able on request. To be assured of full consideration,
proposals must be received at the following address by
midnight Eastern Standard Time on May 27, 2007:
Dr. Charles B. Fenster, Executive Vice President The
Society for the Study of Evolution Department of Bi-
ology University of Maryland College Park, Maryland,
20742 USA e-mail: CFenster@umd.edu
Proposals can be sent as paper copies by mail or prefer-
ably as e-mail attachments in Word or RTF format (un-
der subject heading: SSE Symposia Proposal).
Charles Fenster <cfenster@umd.edu >18 EvolDir April 1, 2008
UMinnesota Evolution 2008
Jun20-24 LifeHistoryEvol
SSE SYMPOSIUM, EVOLUTION MEETINGS, Min-
neapolis 2008 (June 20-24, 2008)
MOLECULAR MECHANISMS UNDERLYING LIFE
HISTORY EVOLUTION
Dear Colleague,
We would like to invite you to attend the half-day sym-
posium “MOLECULAR MECHANISMS UNDERLY-
ING LIFE HISTORY EVOLUTION” at the 2008 EVO-
LUTION MEETINGS, the annual meeting of the So-
ciety for the Study of Evolution (SSE) hosted by the
University of Minnesota in Minneapolis (June 20-24,
2008).
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Evolution by natural
selection is due to variation in Darwinian ﬁtness, and
variation in ﬁtness is caused by variation in life his-
tory traits. Life history theory seeks to understand
the causes and consequences of variation in life history
traits within and among species. While the ﬁeld has
witnessed rapid progress in explaining the diversity of
life history strategies among species, our understand-
ing of many fundamental problems in life history evo-
lution remains limited because we lack information on
proximate mechanisms. This interdisciplinary sympo-
sium brings together evolutionary biologists from vari-
ous ﬁelds (life history theory, molecular biology, aging,
phenotypic plasticity, social behavior, and endocrinol-
ogy) who use studies of molecular mechanisms to solve
fundamental problems in life history evolution in a va-
riety of organisms (plants, insects, echinoderms, birds,
and amphibians). Integrating molecular mechanisms
into life history evolution is one of the most exciting
tasks for integrative evolutionary biologists in the near
future; together with the aﬃliated poster session, this
symposium will foster stimulating discussions among
biologists interested in this novel, emerging ﬁeld.
DETAILS on the symposium can be found at:
http://www.cce.umn.edu/conferences/evolution/-
symposia.html or at
http://www.metamorphnet.org/pb/wp f6dd1963.html
INVITED SPEAKERS: Derek Roﬀ (University of Cal-
ifornia), Paul Schmidt (University of Pennsylvania),
Gro V. Amdam (Arizona State University), KathleenDonohue (Harvard University), Peter McCourt (Uni-
versity of Toronto), Michaela Hau (Princeton Univer-
sity), Daniel R. Buchholz (University of Cincinnati),
Andreas Heyland (University of Florida), and Anthony
J. Zera (University of Nebraska).
POSTERS: Please note that there is no speciﬁc af-
ﬁliated poster session to this symposium. How-
ever, we encourage poster submissions (at http:/-
/www.cce.umn.edu/conferences/evolution/ ) which di-
rectly and explicitly deal with molecular (genetic, phys-
iological, developmental, and cellular) mechanisms of
life history evolution, with a particular emphasis on
candidate life history genes and endocrine signaling. If
you think that your poster is relevant to our sympo-
sium, please feel free to contact us with the title and
abstract of the poster and we will add this information
to our symposium page.
FURTHER INFORMATION: The SSE meetings,
jointly held with the American Society of Naturalists
(ASN) and the Society of Systematic Biologists (SSB),
will take place between 20-24 June, 2008, at the Uni-
versity of Minnesota in Minneapolis. Details on reg-
istration, accomodation, program, and online abstract
submission are available at: http://www.cce.umn.edu/-
conferences/evolution/ IMPORTANT DATES AND
DEADLINES: The deadline for presentation titles is
April 1, 2008. The deadline for early bird registration
at discounted rates is May 2, 2008.
SPONSORS: Society for the Study of Evolution, Dean’s
Oﬃce of the Brown University Division of Biology and
Medicine, and Fisher Scientiﬁc.
SUGGESTED READING:
Flatt, T., M. P. Tu, and M. Tatar. 2005. Hor-
monal pleiotropy and the juvenile hormone regulation
of Drosophila development and life history. Bioessays
27:999-1010.
Heyland, A., J. Hodin, and A. M. Reitzel. 2004. Hor-
mone signaling in evolution and development: a non-
model system approach. Bioessays 27:64-75.
Houle, D. 2001. The character problem in life history
evolution. Pp. 109-140 in, The Character Concept in
Evolutionary Biology. G. P. Wagner, ed. Academic
Press.
Roﬀ, D. A. 2007. Contributions of genomics to life-
history theory. Nature Reviews Genetics 8:116-125.
Zera, A. J., and L. G. Harshman. 2001. The physiology
of life history trade-oﬀs in animals. Annual Review of
Ecology and Systematics 32:95-126.
SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS: Thomas Flatt (Brown
University, Department of Ecology and EvolutionaryApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 19
Biology, Providence, USA) and Andreas Heyland (Uni-
versity of Guelph, Department of Integrative Biology,
Guelph, Canada). Contact: thomas ﬂatt@brown.edu
or aheyland@uoguelph.ca
We apologize for multiple posting.
Thomas Flatt, Ph.D. Brown University Division of Bi-
ology and Medicine
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UMinnesota Evolution 2008
Jun20-24 UndergraduateDiversity
For the sixth consecutive year, the Undergraduate Di-
versity at SSE/SSB program, funded originally by the
Undergraduate Mentoring in Environmental Biology
(UMEB) program at NSF, will take place again at the
2008 meeting of the Society for the Study of Evolu-
tion (SSE) and the Society of Systematic Biologists
(SSB) in Minneapolis, MN. This year we have teamed
up with staﬀ at the National Evolutionary Synthesis
Center (NESCent) to send up to 25 undergraduates to
the meetings to present posters and receive mentoring
from graduate students, postdocs and faculty in evolu-
tionary biology.
The deadline for applications this year is May 1, 2008.
However, proposals will be reviewed and accepted on
a rolling basis, SO IT IS ADVANTAGEOUS TO AP-
PLY BEFORE APRIL 15. Applications will consist of
a title, author line and abstract of the poster to be pre-
sented by the undergraduate; and a one-page statement
of academic interests and career goals. The statement
should address how attending the Evolution meetings
will help meet these goals, and should indicate whether
or not the student plans to attend graduate school, if
this is known. A letter of recommendation, ideally from
the undergraduate’s research advisor, should indicate
how inclusion of the student will increase diversity of
the group participants. It is essential that the student’s
contact information (both e-mail and mailing address)
be included in the materials. All materials should be
submitted as pdf ﬁles and emailed to Alison Pirie at
apirie@oeb.harvard.edu. Details on selection criteria
are available at http://www.oeb.harvard.edu/faculty/-edwards/community/application.html . We can only
accept applications from students who are US citizens
or permanent residents. Applications will be accepted
only from students registered or very recently gradu-
ated from U.S. institutions, including Puerto Rico (i.e.,
no later than having ﬁnished classes during the winter
or spring semesters before the meeting) and traveling to
the meeting from within the US. Students demonstrat-
ing a need for funds to attend SSE/SSB will be given
preference, and will be selected so that as a group, they
will maximize cultural diversity among undergraduates
at the meetings.
Contact one of the program organizers for more infor-
mation: Scott V. Edwards (sedwards@fas.harvard.edu)
Richard Kliman (rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu) at NES-
Cent: Brian Wiegmann (brian wiegmann@ncsu.edu)
Jory Weintraub (jory@nescent.org)
Richard Kliman <Rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu >
UMinnesota SSE Jun20-24
LifeHistoryEvolution
SSE SYMPOSIUM, EVOLUTION MEETINGS, Min-
neapolis 2008 (June 20-24, 2008)
MOLECULAR MECHANISMS UNDERLYING LIFE
HISTORY EVOLUTION
Dear Colleague,
We would like to invite you to attend the half-day sym-
posium “MOLECULAR MECHANISMS UNDERLY-
ING LIFE HISTORY EVOLUTION” at the 2008 EVO-
LUTION MEETINGS, the annual meeting of the So-
ciety for the Study of Evolution (SSE) hosted by the
University of Minnesota in Minneapolis (June 20-24,
2008).
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Evolution by natural
selection is due to variation in Darwinian ﬁtness, and
variation in ﬁtness is caused by variation in life his-
tory traits. Life history theory seeks to understand
the causes and consequences of variation in life history
traits within and among species. While the ﬁeld has
witnessed rapid progress in explaining the diversity of
life history strategies among species, our understand-
ing of many fundamental problems in life history evo-
lution remains limited because we lack information on
proximate mechanisms. This interdisciplinary sympo-
sium brings together evolutionary biologists from vari-
ous ﬁelds (life history theory, molecular biology, aging,20 EvolDir April 1, 2008
phenotypic plasticity, social behavior, and endocrinol-
ogy) who use studies of molecular mechanisms to solve
fundamental problems in life history evolution in a va-
riety of organisms (plants, insects, echinoderms, birds,
and amphibians). Integrating molecular mechanisms
into life history evolution is one of the most exciting
tasks for integrative evolutionary biologists in the near
future; together with the aﬃliated poster session, this
symposium will foster stimulating discussions among
biologists interested in this novel, emerging ﬁeld.
DETAILS on the symposium can be found at:
http://www.cce.umn.edu/conferences/evolution/-
symposia.html or at
http://www.metamorphnet.org/pb/wp f6dd1963.html
INVITED SPEAKERS: Derek Roﬀ (University of Cal-
ifornia), Paul Schmidt (University of Pennsylvania),
Gro V. Amdam (Arizona State University), Kathleen
Donohue (Harvard University), Peter McCourt (Uni-
versity of Toronto), Michaela Hau (Princeton Univer-
sity), Daniel R. Buchholz (University of Cincinnati),
Andreas Heyland (University of Florida), and Anthony
J. Zera (University of Nebraska).
POSTERS: Please note that there is no speciﬁc af-
ﬁliated poster session to this symposium. How-
ever, we encourage poster submissions (at http:/-
/www.cce.umn.edu/conferences/evolution/ ) which di-
rectly and explicitly deal with molecular (genetic, phys-
iological, developmental, and cellular) mechanisms of
life history evolution, with a particular emphasis on
candidate life history genes and endocrine signaling. If
you think that your poster is relevant to our sympo-
sium, please feel free to contact us with the title and
abstract of the poster and we will add this information
to our symposium page.
FURTHER INFORMATION: The SSE meetings,
jointly held with the American Society of Naturalists
(ASN) and the Society of Systematic Biologists (SSB),
will take place between 20-24 June, 2008, at the Uni-
versity of Minnesota in Minneapolis. Details on reg-
istration, accomodation, program, and online abstract
submission are available at: http://www.cce.umn.edu/-
conferences/evolution/ IMPORTANT DATES AND
DEADLINES: The deadline for presentation titles is
April 1, 2008. The deadline for early bird registration
at discounted rates is May 2, 2008.
SPONSORS: Society for the Study of Evolution, Dean’s
Oﬃce of the Brown University Division of Biology and
Medicine, and Fisher Scientiﬁc.
SUGGESTED READING:
Flatt, T., M. P. Tu, and M. Tatar. 2005. Hor-monal pleiotropy and the juvenile hormone regulation
of Drosophila development and life history. Bioessays
27:999-1010.
Heyland, A., J. Hodin, and A. M. Reitzel. 2004. Hor-
mone signaling in evolution and development: a non-
model system approach. Bioessays 27:64-75.
Houle, D. 2001. The character problem in life history
evolution. Pp. 109-140 in, The Character Concept in
Evolutionary Biology. G. P. Wagner, ed. Academic
Press.
Roﬀ, D. A. 2007. Contributions of genomics to life-
history theory. Nature Reviews Genetics 8:116-125.
Zera, A. J., and L. G. Harshman. 2001. The physiology
of life history trade-oﬀs in animals. Annual Review of
Ecology and Systematics 32:95-126.
SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS: Thomas Flatt (Brown
University, Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology, Providence, USA) and Andreas Heyland (Uni-
versity of Guelph, Department of Integrative Biology,
Guelph, Canada). Contact: thomas ﬂatt@brown.edu
or aheyland@uoguelph.ca
Thomas Flatt, Ph.D. Brown University Division of Bi-
ology and Medicine Department of Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UOregon EvoDevo Symposium
Apr4-6 deadline extended
UOregon.EvoDevo Symposium.Apr4-6
We have extended the early registration deadline by
two weeks to allow everyone to register!
WEBSITE: http://evodevo.uoregon.edu/-
symposium.html WHERE: Eugene, Oregon at
the Valley River Inn
WHEN: April 4 - 6, 2008.
KEYNOTE SPEAKERS: Jerry Coyne - University of
Chicago Greg Wray - Duke University
SCHEDULED SPEAKERS: Detlev Arendt - European
Molecular Biology Laboratory Bill Cresko - UniversityApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 21
of Oregon Bernie Degnan - University of Queensland
Hopi Hoekstra - Harvard University Mark Martindale
- University of Hawaii Daniel Meulemans - California
Institute of Technology Leonie Moyle - Indiana Univer-
sity Fred Nijhout - Duke University Kevin Peterson -
Dartmouth College Stephan Schneider - University of
Oregon Mike Wade - Indiana University Deneen Wellik
- University of Michigan
The symposium has been organized by the NSF
IGERT-associated graduate students at the University
of Oregon. We are very proud of the invited speakers
and we look forward to an intellectually stimulating and
enjoyable symposium. We hope that you can attend!
Please feel free to contact me with any questions.
Cheers, Conor O’Brien
Cresko Lab / Bradshaw-Holzapfel Lab Center for Ecol-
ogy & Evolutionary Biology University of Oregon co-
brien1@uoregon.edu cobrien1@uoregon.edu
Warsaw Bioinformatics Apr24-27
Dear Colleague,
We would like to remind you that the early bird reg-
istration deadline for the Bioinformatics-2008 is March
24, 2008. Also the abstract submission deadline passed
at the same day.
The conference is organized by SocBiN - Society
for Bioinformatics in the Northern Europe ( http://-
www.socbin.org/ ). It is already the 10th edition. All
previous conferences in this series have been a great suc-
cess with many excellent talks from high-proﬁle speak-
ers and 300-400 participants from Europe and the rest
of the world. The conference will be held in Warsaw,
Poland (24-27 April 2008). The website for the confer-
ence is http://bioinformatics2008.icm.edu.pl/ and we
invite you to take a look at the programme and regis-
ter.
There is a number of bioinformatics activities in
Poland, and we believe that this meeting will attract
many participants from Northern Europe, as well as
Poland and other countries of Central Europe, and
elsewhere. Our ambition is that the meeting should
provide a bridge between biologically-motivated and
mathematically-motivated aspects of bioinformatics.
Life scientists from outside the ﬁeld of bioinformatics
are also encouraged to participate.We have put together a programme with three dis-
tinguished keynote speakers (Janet Thornton, Andrzej
Kolinski, and Gunnar von Heijne), and 20 excellent in-
vited speakers. There will be two additional sessions
with 10-12 talks selected from presented posters. All
participants will have a chance to be selected for a talk
during the meeting, therefore we encourage you to ar-
ticipate and present your work.
We would also appreciate if you could disseminate in-
formation about this conference among your cowork-
ers and collaborators and anybody who might be in-
terested. A pdf ﬂyer is accessible at the conference
page and at the following address: http://tinyurl.com/-
299scb - please print it and post it at a message board
at your institution and send it by email to anybody who
might be interested.
We would like to promote the participation of young sci-
entists, therefore the registration fee for students (incl.
PhD students) has been reduced to a minimum (120
Euro). Additionally, if budget allows, the organizers
will provide travel or accommodation grants for stu-
dents
On Tuesday-Wednesday 22-23 April (just before the
conference) there will be an optional guided tour to
Krak ˜A3w and Wieliczka.
We look forward to see you in Warsaw!
Best regards,
On behalf of the Programme and Local Committees
Janusz Bujnicki (PC Chair) Witold Rudnicki (LC
Chair)
Programme Committee
Janusz M. Bujnicki, Warsaw, Poland Arne Elofsson,
Stockholm, Sweden Mikhail Gelfand, Moscow, Russia
Jan Komorowski, Uppsala, Sweden Ceslovas Venclovas,
Vilnius, Lithuania Witold Rudnicki, Warsaw, Poland
Local Committe
Witold Rudnicki, Warsaw University Janusz Bu-
jnicki, IIMCB Krzysztof Ginalski, University of War-
saw Marek Niezgadka, University of Warsaw Jerzy
Tiuryn, University of Warsaw Piotr Zielenkiewicz, Pol-
ish Academy of Sciences
W.Rudnicki@icm.edu.pl W.Rudnicki@icm.edu.pl22 EvolDir April 1, 2008
Warsaw Bioinformatics Apr24-27
deadline extended
Dear Colleague,
Due to the numerous requests we extend the deadline
for the abstract submission for the Bioinformatics-2008
untill April 5, 2008.
The conference will be held in Warsaw, Poland (24-27
April 2008). The website for the conference is http:/-
/bioinformatics2008.icm.edu.pl/ and we invite you to
take a look at the programme and register.
We have put together a programme with three dis-
tinguished keynote speakers (Janet Thornton, Andrzej
Kolinski, and Gunnar von Heijne), and 20 excellent in-
vited speakers. There will be two additional sessions
with 10-12 talks selected from presented posters. All
participants will have a chance to be selected for a talk
during the meeting, therefore we encourage you to ar-
ticipate and present your work.
We would also appreciate if you could disseminate in-
formation about this conference among your cowork-
ers and collaborators and anybody who might be in-
terested. A pdf ﬂyer is accessible at the conferencepage and at the following address: http://tinyurl.com/-
299scb - please print it and post it at a message board
at your institution and send it by email to anybody who
might be interested.
We would like to promote the participation of young sci-
entists, therefore the registration fee for students (incl.
PhD students) has been reduced to a minimum (150
Euro).
We look forward to see you in Warsaw!
Best regards,
On behalf of the Programme and Local Committees
Janusz Bujnicki (PC Chair) Witold Rudnicki (LC
Chair)
Programme Committee
Janusz M. Bujnicki, Warsaw, Poland Arne Elofsson,
Stockholm, Sweden Mikhail Gelfand, Moscow, Russia
Jan Komorowski, Uppsala, Sweden Ceslovas Venclovas,
Vilnius, Lithuania Witold Rudnicki, Warsaw, Poland
Local Committe
Witold Rudnicki, Warsaw University Janusz Bu-
jnicki, IIMCB Krzysztof Ginalski, University of War-
saw Marek Niezg ˜A3dka, University of Warsaw Jerzy
Tiuryn, University of Warsaw Piotr Zielenkiewicz, Pol-
ish Academy of Sciences
Witold Rudnicki <W.Rudnicki@icm.edu.pl >
GradStudentPositions
Austria HoneyBeeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
DalhousieU FishComparativePhylogeography . . . . . . 23
DurhamU PigPopGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
ETH Zurich MicrobialGeneticDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Kiel Germany DiseaseEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Lisbon ComputationalBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
NorthCarolinaStateU TermitePopGenetics . . . . . . . . . 26
PompeuFabraU Barcelona EvolutionaryGenomics . 26
UArkansas EnvironmentalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
UCalgary CommunityPhylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
UdeLaCoruna PlantGeneticDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27UdeLaCoruna SeaWeedGeneticDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . 28
UExeter AquaticFungiDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
UHull MorphologicalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
UIllinois BeeEvolGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
ULondon TheoreticalBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
UNewOrleans PlantPhylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UOslo MicrobialMolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UWesternOntario InsectSociogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UZurich MouseSocialSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
UZurich PlantFungalInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34April 1, 2008 EvolDir 23
Austria HoneyBeeEvolution
Dear Evoldir members,
Please bring this advert to the attention of potential
applicants.
Best wishes, Gerald Kastberger
Position available from Sept. 2008 for three years:
FWF (Austrian Science foundation)-funded PhD stu-
dentship.
Research topic: Ethological basis of social waves in Gi-
ant honeybees. Giant honeybee research group (group
leader: Gerald Kastberger)
Short summary. This project investigates the phe-
nomenon of social waving in Giant honeybees which is a
main component of colony defence and which has been
termed ’shimmering behaviour’ in literature. While fo-
cussed on its uniqueness in Giant honeybees, the re-
search topic does have relevance for a series of hot
spots of the biology of social systems in general. It
refers, in particular, to ’task partitioning’, to ’collec-
tive decision-making’, to ’social communication’, and to
’social defence’. Shimmering also relies on unexplored
principles of ’information transfer ’and introduces it-
self as a compelling example of ’self organisation’. It
addresses ’proximate’ questions (HOW does shimmer-
ing function?) and ultimate questions (WHY has been
shimmering evolved?) and therefore, it gives rise to dis-
covery of interdependencies between giant honeybees as
prey and its predators as part of a ’co-evolutionary arms
race’.
Reference:
Kastberger G, Raspotnig G, Biswas S, Winder O [1998]
Evidence of Nasonov scenting in colony defence of the
Giant honeybee Apis dorsata. Ethology 104, 27-37; Ol-
droyd BP, Wongsiri S [2006] Asian honeybees. Biology,
Conservation and Human interactions. Harvard Uni-
versity Press, Cambridge; Paar J, Oldroyd BP, Kast-
berger G [2000] Giant honey bees return to their nest
sites. Nature 406, 475.
Additional background information available at http:/-
/www.kfunigraz.ac.at/zoowww/personal/kastberger/-
kastberg.html Enquiries and applications (including
covering letter, CV & contact details of 2 referees) to:
Dr. Gerald Kastberger: email: gerald.kastberger@uni-
graz.at. Applicants ought to have a good degree in a
relevant subject. Interest, enthusiasm, and technical
and methodological background for evolutionarybiology, ethology, sensory ecology would be beneﬁcial.
Applicants need to meet residency criteria of Austrian
Research Councils. Closing date May 31th 2008.
Univ.Prof.Dr. Gerald Kastberger Institut f¨ ur Zoologie
Universit¨ at Graz
Adresse Universit¨ atsplatz 2, A 8010 Graz TEL (0043)
(0)316 380 5612 FAX (0043) (0)316 380 9875 email
gerald.kastberger@uni-graz.at
gerald.kastberger@uni-graz.at
DalhousieU
FishComparativePhylogeography
PhD position in Comparative Phylogeogra-
phy/Conservation Genetics of Patagonian or northern
ﬁshes
Support for a PhD position is expected to become
available at Dalhousie University (Halifax, Nova Sco-
tia, Canada) for research in comparative phylogeogra-
phy and conservation genetics of ﬁsh in Patagonia or in
the north. The student will develop a research project
that uses molecular genetic and phenotypic approaches
to examine issues in phylogeography, adaptive radiation
and/or conservation genetics. The successful candidate
should have experience with molecular techniques and
should have a strong interest in population genetics and
statistics. Fieldwork in Patagonia will take place in
collaboration with scientists from Argentina and Chile.
The position is expected to start in the 2008/2009 aca-
demic year, pending funding approval and is contingent
upon acceptance to the Department of Biology gradu-
ate program. Potential applicants may consult: Ruz-
zante et al 2006 ME 15:2949-2968; Palstra et al 2007
ME 16:4504-4522; and Ruzzante et al 2008 ME avail-
able online.
If interested please send an e-mail application including
CV, names and addresses of two to three referees and
a statement describing the reason(s) for your interest
in this research to: Daniel E Ruzzante, Associate Pro-
fessor and Canada Research Chair in Marine Conserva-
tion Genetics, Department of Biology, Dalhousie Uni-
versity, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada, B3H 4J1.(email:
daniel.ruzzante@dal.ca, http://myweb.dal.ca/ ˜ ruz-
zante )
Daniel Ruzzante, Associate Professor Canada Research
Chair in Marine Conservation Genetics Department of
Biology, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia,24 EvolDir April 1, 2008
Canada, B3H 4J1 phone: (902) 494-1688 fax: (902)
494-3736 e-mail: daniel.ruzzante@dal.ca
http://myweb.dal.ca/ruzzante http:/-
/patagonia.byu.edu Canada Research
Chairs http://www.chairs.gc.ca ruzzante
<Daniel.Ruzzante@Dal.Ca >
DurhamU PigPopGenet
PhD studentship (funded by the Leverhulme Trust)
available starting Oct. 2008
Closing date: April 21, 2008
A PhD studentship - based jointly in the departments
of Archaeology and Biological & Biomedical Sciences
at Durham University (UK) - will investigate wild and
domestic pig population genetics from Europe over the
last 10,000 years using ancient and modern DNA in the
context of Sus population dynamics, patterns of envi-
ronmental change and human dispersal.
This project will form an integral part of a much
broader collaborative and multi-disciplinary research
eﬀort at Durham University (funded by the Wellcome
Trust, AHRC and most recently NERC), which is using
a wide variety of archaeological, anthropological, and
genetic methodologies (including molecular evolution,
population genetics, introgression, and the molecular
basis of phenotypic diversity) to understand the origins
and spread of early farmers around the world.
The studentship will cover the full cost of tuition fees
for UK/EU students, and will pay a tax-free stipend of
£38,755 over a period of three years. Non-UK/EU stu-
dents are encouraged to apply, but will be responsible
for additional University fees charged to international
students. There are also additional funds for related
laboratory consumables and travel.
The studentship will be supervised jointly by Dr.
Greger Larson, Prof. Rus Hoelzel and Dr Keith Dob-
ney.
Applications should be sent electronically to Prof. Rus
Hoelzel and cc to Dr. Greger Larson at the email ad-
dresses given below and should include:
1) Your Curriculum Vitae
2) Course results for undergraduate and any post-
graduate work
3) A cover letter explaining why you are well qualiﬁedfor this project
Please also have two letters of recommendation in sup-
port of you application sent on your behalf.
In addition, please complete the online Uni-
versity postgraduate application form found
at: https://bannerss.dur.ac.uk/blive ssb/-
bwskalog.P DispLoginNon A. Rus Hoelzel School of Bi-
ological and Biomedical Sciences a.r.hoelzel@dur.ac.uk
Greger Larson Department of Archaeology
greger.larson@imbim.uu.se
Durham University, Durham, UK
Related web links: http://www.dur.ac.uk/-
archaeology/research/projects/?mode=project&id=-
260 http://www.dur.ac.uk/archaeology/research/-
projects/?mode=project&id=261 http://-
www.dur.ac.uk/archaeology/research/projects/-
?mode=project&id=258 http://www.dur.ac.uk/-
archaeology/research/projects/?mode=project&id=-
259 http://www.dur.ac.uk/archaeology/staﬀ/?id=-
1221 http://www.dur.ac.uk/archaeology/staﬀ/?id=-
5502 http://www.dur.ac.uk/biological.sciences/staﬀ/-
proﬁle/?username=dbl0arh a.r.hoelzel@durham.ac.uk
ETH Zurich
MicrobialGeneticDiversity
PhD position in Microbial Genetic Diversity
A 3-year PhD position is available at the Forest Pathol-
ogy & Dendrology Group, Institute of Integrative Bi-
ology, ETH Z¨ urich, to study the inﬂuence of genetic
diversity and temperature on the fungal root endohyte
Phialocephala fortinii s.l. Our study organism is a
dominant root colonizer in conifer forests and operates
across a wide range of the symbiontic continuum, rang-
ing from parasitism to mutualism. The project seeks to
understand the role of the genetic diversity of P. fortinii
s.l. in shaping host communities in a changing world.
The work includes inoculation experiments in micro-
cosms, virulence assessments and molecular studies.
The applicant is expected to hold an University de-
gree in Natural Sciences (environmental sciences, envi-
ronmental microbiology, experimental mycology, phy-
topathology or a related discipline, ideally with good
background in molecular biology and statistics) which
allows entering a PhD program, and very good orga-
nizational, analytical and writing skills. ApplicantsApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 25
should submit a letter that summarizes motivation, in-
terests and relevant experienc, a cv including under-
graduate and masters/diploma transcripts, and con-
tact information for 2-3 references (all as pdfs) to:
ottmar.holdenrieder@env.ethz.ch
Yearly salary 38000-44000.-SFr.
Starting date: Ideally by the 1st of April 2008 or ac-
cording to mutual agreement. Review of applications
will continue until the position has been ﬁlled.
Ottmar Holdenrieder
Ottmar Holdenrieder <ottmar.holdenrieder@env.ethz.ch >
Kiel Germany DiseaseEvolution
GENETICS OF GRANULOMATOUS DISEASES
PhD position in Molecular Biology and Genetics at the
Institute of Molecular Biology, Kiel, Germany.
A PhD student position is available at the Institute
for Molecular Biology (IKMB), Christian-Albrechts-
University Kiel, Germany. The position relates to a
scientiﬁc research project in the area of Human ge-
netics, Quantitative genomics and Bioinformatics. The
project deals with systematic genetic studies identifying
susceptibility mechanisms for sarcoidosis and other hu-
man granulomatous diseases (e.g. tuberculosis, Beryl-
liosis) using genome-wide SNP data. The research in-
volves analysis of high density SNP association studies
of large population samples, sequencing, gene expres-
sion and related bioinformatics.
GENERAL INFORMATION We are using state-of-
art DNA technologies, including genome-wide scans
and dedicated follow-up studies to identify and char-
acterize novel susceptibility loci for granulomatous dis-
eases. The candidate will work with an internation-
ally recognized team of scientists in this area of re-
search within IKMB, with the access to high through-
put, state-of-the-art experimental (e.g. SNPlex, next-
generation sequencing, immunological and cell biologi-
cal analytic) and computational facilities and large ge-
nomic databases. The successful candidate will be en-
rolled at the University of Kiel. He/She will be super-
vised by Dr. Sylvia Hofmann at the IKMB. Relevant
project information can be found at the IKMB web-
sitehttp://www.ikmb.de . ELIGIBILITY AND PAY-
MENT A high quality honours or Masters degree or
similar in the ﬁeld of molecular genetics or population
genetics or animal/plant genomics/breeding or bioin-formatics or evolutionary biology or similar ﬁeld is re-
quired. Exceptional B.Sc. students are also encouraged
to apply. Experience in molecular biology methods, a
computer programming knowledge and use of statisti-
cal analysis software is desirable. The position is open
to international applicants but German citizenship or
residencies are preferred. Financing is available for at
least three years. The salary is according to the stan-
dard guidelines of German universities.
APPLICATION Applications including a short CV
(max 3 pages), list of publications, and the names
and contact information including e-mail addresses of
two researchers willing to write a letter of reference
should be sent via e-mail to: s.hofmann@ikmb.uni-
kiel.de (write “HumGen - Granuloma - PhD position”
on the subject line)
Applications close by April 30, 2008. The position will
remain open until ﬁlled.
Dr. S.Hofmann Institute of Clinical Molecular
Biology Christian-Albrechts-University Schit-
tenhelmstrasse 12 24105 Kiel, Germany e-mail:
s.hofmann[at]ikmb.uni-kiel.de http://www.ikmb.uni-
kiel.de/ sylvia.hofmann@zoologie.uni-halle.de
Lisbon ComputationalBiology
Applications are now open for the 2008 academic year
PhD programmes at the Instituto Gulbenkian de Cien-
cia, in Lisbon, Portugal.
The IGC is once again hosting 3 international PhD pro-
grammes:
Gulbenkian/Champalimaud PhD Programme in Neu-
roscience
PhD Programme in Computational Biology
IGC International PhD Programme in Multidisci-
plinary Life Sciences
Information on the programmes and application proce-
dures are available at www.igc.gulbenkian.pt <http:/-
/www.igc.gulbenkian.pt/ >.
The deadline for applications is 4 April 2008.
Henrique Teotonio <teotonio@igc.gulbenkian.pt >26 EvolDir April 1, 2008
NorthCarolinaStateU
TermitePopGenetics
Graduate Assistantship in Molecular Population Genet-
ics of Termites or Bed Bugs
Department of Entomology North Carolina State Uni-
versity
A Graduate Assistantship is available for an MS or
Ph.D. student in the laboratory of Ed Vargo. Re-
search in our lab focuses on colony and population ge-
netic studies of subterranean termites using microsatel-
lite and mtDNA markers, and we are initiating stud-
ies of bed bugs. A variety of thesis projects involving
termites are possible, including phylogeography, com-
parative studies of breeding systems of subterranean
species, population dynamics and intercolonial inter-
actions, eﬀect of inbreeding on disease resistance, and
biology of invasive species. Potential bed bug projects
include identifying source populations of infestations,
mating system, and modes and patterns of dispersal
at varying spatial scales. NCSU has a large and dy-
namic Department of Entomology, with a particularly
vigorous program in Urban Entomology, and is closely
associated with the Keck Center for Behavioral Biol-
ogy, an interdepartmental program focused on the fun-
damental processes governing animal behavior ( http:/-
/www.cals.ncsu.edu/beh bio/). Graduate Fellowships
and Scholarships are available to students working on
structural pests.
For more information, contact:
Ed Vargo Department of Entomology Box 7613 North
Carolina State University Raleigh, NC 27695-7613
Tel. (919) 513-2743 Fax (919) 515-7746 Email:
edvargo@ncsu.edu <http://www.cals.ncsu.edu/-
entomology/vargo/ > http://www.cals.ncsu.edu/-
entomology/vargo/ edvargo@ncsu.edu
PompeuFabraU Barcelona
EvolutionaryGenomics
Funded PhD scholarship in evolutionary genomicsand Systems Biology in Pompeu Fabra University
(Barcelona).
The group of Evolutionary Biology in the Experimental
Sciences and Health Department of the Pompeu Fabra
University oﬀers one PhD scholarship in the ﬁeld of
Evolutionary Genomics. Selected candidate will have
the opportunity to develop novel research lines that
will contribute to the understanding of the biology
of genomes at evolutionary, molecular and biomedical
level. The successful candidate would work on integrat-
ing diﬀerent bioinformatics tools for the identiﬁcation
of network structures of genes and metabolic pathways
under selective forces.
Particular priority will be given to candidates with
background on bioinformatics. Programming and gen-
eral computational skills are desirable, but all candi-
dates will be considered.
If you are interested, please send
your CV to Jaume.bertranpetit@upf.edu
<mailto:Jaume.bertranpetit@upf.edu >
or Haﬁd.laayouni@upf.edu
<mailto:Haﬁd.laayouni@upf.edu >
– Haﬁd Laayouni CIBER Epidemiolog´ ıa y Salud
P´ ublica (CIBERESP). Universitat Pompeu Fabra Parc
de Recerca Biom` edica de Barcelona (PRBB) Depar-
tament de Ci` encies Experimentals i de la Salut Dr.
Aiguader, 88. 08003 Barcelona Tel. (34) 93-316-0845
Fax: (34) 93-316-0901 Spain
haﬁd laayouni <haﬁd.laayouni@upf.edu >
UArkansas EnvironmentalGenomics
Ph.D. Graduate Assistantship, Environmental Ge-
nomics
University of Arkansas
An NSF-funded graduate research assistantship is avail-
able to support a Ph.D. candidate interested in func-
tional genomics of adaptation and evolution. The
project involves laboratory and ﬁeld experiments de-
signed to discover patterns of gene expression in popu-
lations of cactophilic Drosophila mojavensis exposed to
diﬀerent host plants in stressful and non-stressful ther-
mal regimes. Our general goals are to uncover whole-
genome patterns of gene expression in populations ex-
posed to natural abiotic and biotic stress. Ultimately,
we wish to pinpoint clusters of functionally interactingApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 27
genes expressed throughout the life cycle in diﬀerent
environments, and predict limits of phenotypic plastic-
ity and adaptation, particularly in response to stressful
environments and long-term global climate change.
Laboratory experiments involve DNA microarrays to
study gene expression changes due to diﬀerent host
cacti and temperature stresses, as well as diﬀerences
in epicuticular hydrocarbons. Field- related work will
include multiple ﬁeld trips to Mexico to monitor wild
ﬂies, assess demography of wild populations, and ana-
lyze cuticular hydrocarbon and RNA proﬁles. Other re-
lated research projects are also possible. This position
is part of a collaborative project involving the Univ. of
Arkansas, Fayetteville, and the Univ. of Nevada, Las
Vegas.
Applicants must gain admission to the Ph.D. program
in the Department of Biological Sciences at the Univer-
sity of Arkansas. Application information is available
athttp://biology.uark.edu/1251.htm . Full stipend, tu-
ition, and beneﬁts are included. Supplemental funding
is available on a competitive basis for applicants quali-
fying for Doctoral Fellowships at the Univ. of Arkansas
(http:// biology.uark.edu/1255.htm).
William J. Etges Program in Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology Department of Biological Sciences University
of Arkansas Fayetteville, AR 72701 USA 479-575-6358
wetges@uark.edu http://comp.uark.edu/ ˜ wetges/-
wetges.html wetges@uark.edu wetges@uark.edu
UCalgary CommunityPhylogenetics
I am looking for a highly motivated student for Septem-
ber 2008 at the PhD or MSc level who is interested
in studying phylogeography and/or phylogenetic com-
munity structure of predaceous diving beetles. Field
work will take place in western Canada, with most of
the anticipated sampling occurring from coastal BC to
the western edge of the prairies, including montane
sites. I am currently building up facilities for isolat-
ing and amplifying DNA in my laboratory, and an-
ticipate using third party providers for the sequenc-
ing component. Therefore, the ideal candidate will
be equally comfortable in the ﬁeld waist deep in wa-
ter, in the lab with a pipette in hand, or in front of a
computer aligning sequences and running comparative
analyses. The successful candidate will join a group of
graduate students investigating the ecology of tempo-
rary ponds, the role of predation in community struc-ture of diving beetles, and the inﬂuence of larval com-
petition on female ﬁtness in seed beetles. For more,
see:<http://homepages.ucalgary.ca/ ˜ smvamosi/ >.
The Department has a strong EEB group <http://-
www.bio.ucalgary.ca/research/EEB.html >.
Guaranteed funding of at least $20,000 CAD/year for
4 years (PhD) or 2 years (MSc) is available through
a combination of teaching and research assistantships.
Candidates with strong GPAs will ﬁnd themselves eli-
gible to apply for several provincial funding sources, in
addition to federal sources available to Canadian citi-
zens.
Requirements: Potential applicants must have a *mini-
mum* GPA of 3.20 (on a four-point system), and prefer-
ably higher. For students entering an MSc, this is based
on the last two years of the undergraduate degree con-
sisting of a minimum of 10 full-course equivalents. For
those entering a PhD with an MSc, the overall GPA
from the MSc will be considered.
Canadian citizens will be given ﬁrst priority, but I am
open to applications from qualiﬁed international candi-
dates. Please note that proﬁciency in the English lan-
guage is essential for the pursuit and successful comple-
tion of graduate programs at the University of Calgary.
To inquire, submit (via email) a cover letter with a brief
review of your research experience, interests and goals
(~one page), resume, transcripts, and names of three
academic references to:
Dr. Steven M. Vamosi Department of Biological Sci-
ences University of Calgary 2500 University Dr NW
Calgary AB T2N 1N4
smvamosi@ucalgary.ca
UdeLaCoruna
PlantGeneticDiversity
We seek a college graduate interested in using molecular
markers to investigate population structure and genetic
diversity in various endangered plants endemic to NW
Iberian Peninsula and catalogued as priority species by
the Habitats Directive (92/43/CEE). Research will be
conducted in the ´Area de Ecolog´ ıa of the Universidad
de La Coru˜ na, funded by the Environment and Sus-
tainable Development Programme of the Conseller´ ıa de
Innovaci´ on e Industria, Xunta de Galicia. The project
will entail both molecular evolution laboratory activity
and ﬁeldwork. Given the length of this position, it is28 EvolDir April 1, 2008
expected that this research should lead to obtain a PhD
degree.
Eligibility
- College graduate in biology or other similar disci-
plines.
- Commitment to get a PhD degree is important.
- Knowledge of molecular evolution techniques and pre-
vious research experience advantageous but nonessen-
tial.
Details of the position
- 1 research contract for 31 months, full-time from Mon-
day to Friday.
- Monthly stipend of about 1498.15??? gross salary
(1284.13??? net salary).
- Working place: Facultad de Ciencias, Campus A Za-
pateira s/n, Universidad de La Coru˜ na
Application procedure
- Closing date for applications: 11th April 2008.
- Send a CV no longer than 5 pages and a 1-page cov-
ering letter with a description of your background and
goals to Rodolfo Barreiro either by electronic ( rod-
bar@udc.es ) or postal mail (Facultad de Ciencias, A
Zapateira s/n, 15071-La Coru˜ na).
Please, use reference CT-MDS in any correspondence.
Rodolfo Barreiro Lozano ´Area de Ecolog´ ıa Facultad de
Ciencias Universidade da Coru˜ na Campus A Zapateira
s/n 15071-A Coru˜ na Espa˜ na/Spain
Tf.- +34-981167000 x 2053 Fax.- +34-981167065
Correo-e.- rodbar@udc.es
Rodolfo Barreiro <rodbar@udc.es >
UdeLaCoruna
SeaWeedGeneticDiversity
We seek a college graduate interested in using molec-
ular markers to investigate population structure and
genetic diversity in various seaweed species of conser-
vation concern in NW Iberian Peninsula. Research will
be conducted in the ´Area de Ecolog´ ıa of the Univer-
sidad de La Coru˜ na, funded by the Environment and
Natural Resources Programme of the Ministerio de Ed-
ucaci´ on y Ciencia (Spain). The project will entail both
molecular evolution laboratory activity and ﬁeldwork.Eligibility
- College graduate in biology or other similar disci-
plines. - Interest in getting a PhD degree will be ad-
vantageous. - Knowledge of molecular evolution tech-
niques and previous research experience advantageous
but nonessential.
Details of the position
- 1 research contract for 15 months, full-time from Mon-
day to Friday. - Monthly stipend of about 1390.40 ???
gross salary (1191.77??? net salary). - Working place:
Facultad de Ciencias, Campus A Zapateira s/n, Uni-
versidad de La Coru˜ na
Application procedure
- Closing date for applications: 11th April 2008. - Send
a CV no longer than 5 pages and a 1-page covering let-
ter with a description of your background and goals to
Rodolfo Barreiro either by electronic ( rodbar@udc.es )
or postal mail (Facultad de Ciencias, A Zapateira s/n,
15071-La Coru˜ na).
Please, use reference CT-MAR in any correspondence.
Rodolfo Barreiro Lozano ´Area de Ecolog´ ıa Facultad de
Ciencias Universidade da Coru˜ na Campus A Zapateira
s/n 15071-A Coru˜ na Espa˜ na/Spain
Tf.- +34-981167000 x 2053 Fax.- +34-981167065
Correo-e.- rodbar@udc.es
Rodolfo Barreiro <rodbar@udc.es >
UExeter AquaticFungiDiversity
A NERC funded PhD studentship is available at the
University of Exeter to study the molecular diversity
and ecology of aquatic chytrid fungi.
Fungi represent a biochemically and ecologically di-
verse kingdom of eukaryotes with members including
important symbionts, parasites and saprotrophs in all
environments. However many fungal groups, such as
the chytrids (ﬂagellated fungi), remain poorly charac-
terised. This is despite the fact that they are recyclers
of complex compounds such as cellulose, chitin and ker-
atin, making them key agents for carbon and nitrogen
recovery in aquatic ecosystems.
By understanding the habitat range and diversity of
chytrids we can start to better understand their eco-
logical roles in global cycles. This project will de-
velop molecular tools to assess the distribution, diver-April 1, 2008 EvolDir 29
sity and abundance of speciﬁc chytrid lineages in di-
verse aquatic environments. Methods will include envi-
ronmental gene surveys, RNA sampling and ﬂuorescent
in situ hybridization, and the student will receive full
training in these techniques.
The project will be hosted in the Centre for Eu-
karyotic Evolutionary Microbiology (CEEM) http://-
www.projects.ex.ac.uk/ceem/, which includes a total of
10 researchers who work on related themes. In 2009
we will enter a new research centre equipped with mi-
croscopy suites, tissue culture rooms and facilities for
large-scale environmental sample analyses.
Funding is open to UK residents or EU nationals
who have spent the last three years in the UK
for education or employment. Applications should
be made before the 5th of April 2008 CV by and
covering letter saying why you would like to apply
and giving the names of two referees. These should
be sent to Mrs S. Mudge, Postgraduate Secretary,
School of Biosciences, University of Exeter, Ge-
oﬀrey Pope Building, Stocker Road, Exeter EX4
4QD or by email to BS-PGadmissions@ex.ac.uk.
For informal enquiries please contact Bryony
Williams,(B.A.P.Williams@exeter.ac.uk), Tom
Richards (T.A.Richards@exeter.ac.uk) or Mark
van der Giezen (M.vanderGiezen@exeter.ac.uk)
B.A.P.Williams@exeter.ac.uk
B.A.P.Williams@exeter.ac.uk
UHull MorphologicalEvolution
PhD studentship on “Patterns and processes of mor-
phological evolution in vertebrates”.
A NERC-funded PhD studentship supervised by Dr.
Leandro Monteiro, Evolutionary Biology group, De-
partment of Biological Sciences, The University of Hull,
is available to develop a project dealing with a quantita-
tive approach to patterns and processes of morphologi-
cal evolution. The quantitative study of shape variation
of biological structures is essential for the understand-
ing of the evolutionary and developmental processes of
organisms. Shape variation may be associated with
patterns of phenotypic evolution in large scales of time
and space, to genetic and environmental factors causing
variation within and between populations. Our current
research projects deal with macroevolutionary patterns
of morphological divergence and evolutionary integra-
tion in the skulls and mandibles of echimyid rodentsand phyllostomid bats; microevolutionary processes re-
sponsible for body shape diﬀerentiation in recently iso-
lated populations of a livebearer ﬁsh, and evolutionary
processes and patterns of shape variation in otoliths of
sciaenid ﬁshes, which can also be used for otolith-based
stock identiﬁcation in ﬁsheries management.
Further information about published papers and ongo-
ing research projects at Monteiro’s lab and the Evo-
lutionary Biology group at The University of Hull is
available at http://www.hull.ac.uk/evolution/people/-
Monteiro/ Applicants should have a keen interest in
morphological evolution, statistical analysis and mor-
phometrics, and hold at least an upper second class
honours degree in the life sciences. Eligibility for the
NERC studentship depends on the student being a UK
citizen or a UK resident for at least 3 (three) years
for EU citizens (more detailed information on eligibility
can be found in the studentship handbook at http://-
www.nerc.ac.uk/funding/application/studentships/ ).
Informal enquiries should be directed to Dr. Leandro
Monteiro (l.monteiro@hull.ac.uk).
Closing date for applications is 22nd March 2008. In-
terviews will be held in Hull during the second week of
April. The start date is 1st October 2008.
Postgraduate application forms can be downloaded
from our website at: http://www.hull.ac.uk/-
biosci/studying inhull/postgrad courses/-
Application information/ To apply for the stu-
dentship, please ﬁll in the Postgraduate application
form (note that at this stage you don’t need to get
a referee to ﬁll in the red sections of the form) and
submit a cover letter to support your application,
which gives details of your research interests, relevant
experience and skills and why you want the PhD, then
send your application to:
Dr. Leandro R. Monteiro Department of Biolog-
ical Sciences The University of Hull Cottingham
Road, Hull HU6 7RX Tel: 44 1482-466425 E-
mail: L.Monteiro@hull.ac.uk http://www.hull.ac.uk/-
evolution/people/Monteiro/ lrabellom@gmail.com
UIllinois BeeEvolGenomics
Graduate Student Research Assistantships
At least one graduate student assistantship is avail-
able for students interested in one or more ar-
eas of evolutionary research on bees, including sys-30 EvolDir April 1, 2008
tematics/phylogenomics of corbiculate bees, genetic
regulation and ecological determinants of M¨ ullerian
mimicry patterns in bees, and population genet-
ics/phylogeography.
A student interested in phylogenomics and bioinformat-
ics will have access to EST libraries under development
for corbiculate bees (bumble bees, stingless bees, or-
chid bees and honey bees), which can be used both
for assessing phylogeny of these taxa (noted for their
diﬀerences in social evolution) and for discovering ge-
nomic patterns that could help elucidate behavioral dif-
ferences among these distinct lineages.
M¨ ullerian mimicry research would involve laboratory
experiments and/or studies of bumble bees in the wild
to understand some of the underlying regulatory mech-
anisms of color pattern and selective forces that lead to
convergent patterns among multiple species.
Given the threatened status of multiple species of bum-
ble bee pollinators in both Europe and North America,
it is essential to understand the population structure
and gene ﬂow patterns of diﬀerent taxonomic groups of
these bees. Research in this area would include both
ﬁeld and lab work to sample populations across the
ranges of focal species, develop molecular markers (e.g.,
mtDNA and nuDNA fragments, microsatellites, SNPs)
and apply or develop statistical approaches to delim-
iting populations and species, their relationships and
ancestral origins. This research is complimentary to a
larger eﬀort in the lab to determine the current status
and causes of decline in North American bumble bees.
Interested applicants have the opportunity to apply
through the Department of Entomology or the Pro-
gram in Ecology, Evolution and Conservation Bi-
ology (PEEC) at the University of Illinois. Ad-
missions information can be found on the rele-
vant links at http://www.life.uiuc.edu/entomology/-
admissions.html and http://www.life.uiuc.edu/peeb/-
index.htm . Prospective candidates should have strong
academic records and some research experience is pre-
ferred, either at the M. S. level or via undergradu-
ate projects. The assistantship is suited to motivated,
energetic students interested in scientiﬁc careers, who
can work both independently and collaboratively, en-
joy problem solving and are well organized. Review of
applications will begin immediately and continue until
a candidate is selected.
Please send 1) a statement of interest and 2) a CV in-
cluding GPA and GRE scores, research experience and
general research interests, and the names and contact
information for at least three referees familiar with your
work.Application deadline is 1 June 2008 or until suitable
candidates are selected.
– Sydney A. Cameron Assoc. Prof. Department of En-
tomology University of Illinois 320 Morrill Hall 505 S.
Goodwin Ave. Urbana, IL 61801
ofc ph. 217-333-2340 lab ph 217-333-2170
www.life.uiuc.edu/scameron Sydney Cameron
<scameron@life.uiuc.edu >
ULondon TheoreticalBiology
The following 2 PhD studentships are currently adver-
tised in my group:
Project 1: The evolution of pseudogamy and the emer-
gence of diversity and altruism.
Project 2: Lymphocyte homeostasis in man; Measure-
ment and modelling of thymic versus peripheral genera-
tion of na¨ ıve lymphocytes in the maintenance of normal
T-cell pools
Description project 1:
The evolution of pseudogamy and the emergence of di-
versity and altruism.
Main supervisor: Prof. Vincent Jansen, co-supervisor:
Dr Ian Barnes
This PhD Studentship aims to investigate how diversity
of and altruism emerge using mathematical modelling
and simulation studies. The research will be inspired by
the evolution of pseudogamy. Pseudogamy is a form of
reproduction where the males do not contribute genetic
material to the next generation, despite the fact that
the females can only reproduce if they have mated. This
studentship is suitable for candidates with a degree(UK
2.1 degree or higher or equivalent thereof) in biology
and proven skills in mathematical modelling/computer
programming or for applicants with a degree in a quan-
titative subject (e.g. physics, mathematical or com-
puter science) and an aﬃnity for biology. The stu-
dentship will cover fees at UK-EU level and a main-
tenance stipend of approximately £14,000 per annum
for 3 years. We will not consider candidates from out-
side the EU unless the candidate has additional funding
available. The selected candidate will start in or close
to October 2008 wil l work in the research groups of
Jansen (Mathematical Biology) and Barnes (Molecular
phylogenetics and ecology).April 1, 2008 EvolDir 31
If you require further information on this stu-
dentship, see or http://www.rhul.ac.uk/Biological-
Sciences/Vacancies/2008 Jansen.doc contact Vin-
cent.jansen@rhul.ac.uk. The deadline for applications
is 19 March 2008. The interviews are planned
for the week of 21 April 2008. To apply, use
the form on http://www.rhul.ac.uk/Biological-
Sciences/Vacancies/2008 PhDapplicationForm.pdf
or generate your own form using
http://www.rhul.ac.uk/Registry/Admissions/applyonline.html.
Please send the completed form, together with a recent
CV, to Prof. Vincent Jansen, School of Biological
Sciences, Royal Holloway, University of London,
Egham, Surrey TW20 0EX by post or e-mail. If
you use the online application, please make sure
you send a copy of the application form by email to
Vincent.jansen@rhul.ac.uk.
Desrciption project 2: Joint PhDStudentship with
Royal Holloway- St Georges University of London Lym-
phocyte homeostasis in man; Measurement and mod-
elling of thymic versus peripheral generation of na¨ ıve
lymphocytes in the maintenance of normal T-cell pools
Lead Supervisor: Derek Macallan, Professor in Infec-
tious Diseases and Medicine, Centre for Infection, St
George’s, University of London. Co-supervisor: Vin-
cent Jansen, Professor of Mathematical Biology, School
of Biological Sciences, Royal Holloway, University of
London.
Project Description
Lymphocyte populations persist because dying cells are
continually replaced, unless replacement fails, as in HIV
infection, with devastating consequences. Within this
context, some clonal populations must be retained long-
term in order to confer “immunological memory”. How
this is achieved is poorly understood. This project seeks
to extend our understanding of human lymphocyte
physiology by combining in vivo measurements of lym-
phocyte kinetics in human studies in Dr Macallan’s lab-
oratory at St George’s with theoretical modelling and
in silico experiments in Dr Jansen’s group at RHUL.
We will speciﬁcally study the role of na¨ ıve cells (de-
ﬁned by surface markers such as CD31) in regenerating
peripheral na¨ ıve populations and investigate the eﬀect
of ageing on this process. We will compare in vivo
na¨ ıve T-cell labelling data with data on rates of re-
cent thymic emigration from the abundance of T-cell
receptor rearrangement DNA excision circles (TREC).
This combined approach will provide important new
insights by relating new in vivo data with novel mathe-
matical and statistical tools for interpretation in order
to develop new conceptual frameworks. The proposed
project will consist of both laboratory and theoreticalelements. Supervision would be jointly undertaken by
the two supervisors; the student would need to spend
time on both campuses across all three years.
How to apply
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UNewOrleans PlantPhylogenetics
DOCTORAL FELLOWSHIPS IN PLANT PHYLO-
GENETICS, EVOLUTION, & CONSERVATION BI-
OLOGY UNIVERSITY OF NEW ORLEANS
The Department of Biological Sciences at the Uni-
versity of New Orleans announces one Doctoral Fel-
lowships in Plant Phylogenetics, Evolution, & Con-
servation Biology beginning Fall 2008. The fellow-
ships provide support for four years at an annual
stipend of $23-25,000 and include a full tuition waiver.
The Department of Biological Sciences oﬀers exciting
opportunities for graduate student research in ecol-
ogy, evolution, systematics, genetics, reproductive bi-
ology, physiology, and biochemistry. For more infor-
mation on the Department, faculty research interests,
and other resources, please see the departmental web-
site: http://biology.uno.edu/ . Or lab website: http:/-
/www.phylodiversity.net/cbell Applicants must be US
citizens.
Interested applicants should contact:
Dr. Charles Bell Department of Biological Sciences
Email: cdbell1@uno.edu
Charles Bell <valerianaceae1969@gmail.com >
UOslo MicrobialMolEvol
DOCTORAL RESEARCH FELLOWSHIP
Four year PhD position in molecular evolution with
25% compulsory work available from 1. June 2008 at
the Microbial Evolution Research Group (MERG), De-32 EvolDir April 1, 2008
partment of Biology, Faculty of Mathematics and Nat-
ural Sciences, University of Oslo
In this project the community structure of mycorrhizal
fungi and other fungal root symbionts associated with
an alpine plant species will be analyzed. One of the
main aims is to analyze which factors that determine
the diversity and composition of fungal root symbionts,
implementing both experimental and empirical infer-
ences.
The candidate will work together with a group of re-
searchers in the Microbial Evolution Research Group
(MERG) and outside. The research program MERG
has status as a Strategic Research Initiative at the Uni-
versity of Oslo. The vision of MERG is to develop an
internationally leading and dynamic multidisciplinary
research environment focusing on ecological, evolution-
ary and systems biology research on prokaryotic and eu-
karyotic microbes, their communities and interactions.
The candidate will be expected to participate in both
ﬁeld work, generating data, perform data analyzes, to
work cooperatively with other lab members and out-
side collaborators and to actively publish and present
results. 25% of the working time is allocated to du-
ties besides research and project work, and typically in-
cludes lecturing and co-supervision of master students.
The ideal candidate will be enthusiastic, highly moti-
vated, and independent and should have a background
in the area of focus.
Candidates must have a master’s degree (or equivalent)
within microbial ecology, evolutionary biology, molecu-
lar ecology or a related discipline. It will be advanta-
geous to have experience in one or more of the following
ﬁelds; mycology, molecular DNA techniques (PCR, se-
quencing, cloning, etc.), molecular biology, phylogeny,
population genetics, bioinformatics and experimental
ecology.
Please contact Assoc. Prof. H˚ avard Kauserud at the
address below for more details.
The purpose of the fellowship is research training lead-
ing to the successful completion of a PhD degree. The
fellowship requires admission to the research training
programme at the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural
Sciences. The applicants must have obtained under-
graduate (cand.mag., i.e. B.Sc. level) and postgrad-
uate (cand.scient. or siv.ing., i.e. M.Sc. level) de-
grees. This represents approximately ﬁve years of full
time studies after completion of European Upper Sec-
ondary School/International Baccalaureate. For more
information see: http://www.matnat.uio.no/english/-
research/research edu/education.html . Appointment
to a research fellowship is conditional upon admissionto the Faculty’s research training programme. An ap-
proved plan for the research training must be submitted
no later than one month after taking up the position,
and the admission approved within three months.
See the following URL for further details and guidelines
for appointment to research fellowships at the Uni-
versity of Oslo: http://www.uio.no/admhb/reglhb/-
personal/tilsettingvitenskapelig/ansettelsesvilkar/-
guidelines-researchfellow.xml The University of Oslo
(UiO) wishes to achieve a more equal distribution
of scientiﬁc employees between the sexes. Female
applicants are encouraged to apply.
UiO has an agreement for all employers, aiming to se-
cure rights to research results a.o
Contact Person:
Associate professor H˚ avard Kauserud, tlf. +47
99697116, e-mail: haavarka@bio.uio.no.
Pay grade: 43 - 48 (NOK 325 600,- - 355 000,- equals
ca 41 215,- - 44 937,-) depending on qualiﬁcations and
seniority).
Application deadline: 30. april 2008
Ref. No.: 2008/2967
Application (including statement about relevance of
qualiﬁcations), CV (marked Ref. No. 2008/2967), copy
of certiﬁcates and scientiﬁc papers should be sent (in 3
sets) to: Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences,
attn. Senior Executive Oﬃcer Bente Schjoldager, P. O.
Box 1032 Blindern, N-0315 Oslo, Norway. Applicants
may be called in for an interview.
Application papers will not be returned.
– H˚ avard Kauserud Department of Biology University
of Oslo P.O.Box 1066 Blindern N-0316 Oslo, Norway
Phone: +47 22854832 (oﬃce) +47 99697116 (mob)
Web: http://biologi.uio.no/meb/db03-staﬀ/-
Haavard.html
UWesternOntario
InsectSociogenomics
Graduate Position - Insect Sociogenomics
The lab or Dr Graham Thompson at the Univer-
sity of Western Ontario Canada ( http://www.uwo.ca/-
biology/Faculty/thompson/index.htm ) is seeking at
least one highly motivated and creative person to pur-April 1, 2008 EvolDir 33
sue graduate research at the MSc or PhD level. The lab
is launching a new research programme in the ﬁeld of
insect sociogenomics – the study of how genes and gene
networks contribute to variation in social phenotypes.
There are several potential projects available for devel-
opment, including 1) gene-regulation of termite soci-
eties, 2) immunogenetics of termite or honey bee so-
cieties, and 3) gene-regulation of selﬁsh egg-laying be-
haviour, among other related ideas. Applicants would
ideally have some experience in population genetic or
genomic techniques, be willing to work in the ﬁeld and
at the bench, and be mindful of the genetical theory of
social evolution.
For more information on admission to The Depart-
ment of Biology, the graduate scene, core facili-
ties, and living in London Ontario Canada, follow
links from the Biology @ Western homepage http://-
www.uwo.ca/biology/ and Graduate homepage http:/-
/www.uwo.ca/biology/graduate/graduate.htm . Poten-
tial applicants can contact me, or otherwise send a
CV, an unoﬃcial transcript and a brief statement, to-
gether with the names of potential referees, to gra-
ham.thompson@uwo.ca
The anticipated start date is September 2008, though
May 2008 is possible. The position(s) will remain open
until ﬁlled.
Graham Thompson
– Graham J Thompson Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Biology The University of Western Ontario
1151 Richmond Street North London, Ontario, N6A
5B7 CANADA
fax: 519-661-3935 phone: 519-661-2111 ext 86570 mob:
519 615 6066
http://www.uwo.ca/biology/people/faculty.htm gra-
ham.thompson@uwo.ca graham.thompson@uwo.ca
UZurich MouseSocialSelection
Social selection in house mice
PhD position in Animal Behaviour at the University of
Zurich, Switzerland.
A 3-year SNF-funded PhD student position is available
in the Animal Behaviour group of the Zoological Insti-
tute of the University of Zurich, Switzerland to study
the evolution of a cooperative behaviour in wild house
mice. In house mice, females rear their litters cooper-atively, sharing all maternal care of the pups, or alone.
Fitness consequences of cooperative care in wild mice
are not yet known. The project aims to measure se-
lection on cooperative maternal care, identify environ-
mental inﬂuences on trait expression, and unravel the
genetic architecture underlying this trait.
We combine laboratory experiments with ﬁeld work on
a free-living population of wild house mice outside of
Zurich. We are developing an excellent dataset on so-
cial aﬃliations and lifetime reproduction of individual
mice. Currently, we are building a genetic pedigree of
the population for use in animal modelling by the PhD
student.
The research team includes Dr. Anna Lindholm and
Prof. Barbara Koenig at the University of Zurich,
and Dr. Luc Janss of the Bioinformatics and Sta-
tistical Genetics Group, Aarhus University, Denmark.
The University of Zurich oﬀers excellent research fa-
cilities and a rich academic community, see http://-
www.lifesciencezurich.ch . We are looking for an en-
thusiastic, highly motivated student who is interested
in social behaviour and quantitative genetics. Experi-
ence in handling animals is an asset. A high quality
honours or Masters degree or similar in Natural Sci-
ences, with a good background in statistics, is required,
as is a driver’s license. Yearly salary is 38000 - 44000
SFr. The working language is English.
Applicants should submit a letter summarising moti-
vation, research interests and relevant experience, a
short CV (max 2 pages), undergraduate and mas-
ters/diploma transcripts, a list of publications (if
any), and the names and contact information in-
cluding e-mail addresses of 2 researchers willing to
write a letter of reference, all as one pdf ﬁle, to
anna.lindholm@zool.uzh.ch. Please write “PhD posi-
tion” on the subject line.
Review of applications will start on April 15 and will
continue until the position has been ﬁlled. Ideally, the
successful applicant will start in May.
Dr Anna Lindholm Research Associate Animal Be-
haviour / Verhaltensbiologie
University of Z¨ urich Tel: +41 (0)44 6355276 Insti-
tute of Zoology Fax: +41 (0)44 6355490 Winterthur-
erstrasse 190 CH-8057 Z¨ urich Switzerland Email:
anna.lindholm@zool.uzh.ch
anna.lindholm@zool.uzh.ch34 EvolDir April 1, 2008
UZurich PlantFungalInteractions
Phd Project Can plants make decisions? Can they iden-
tify cheats and punish them accordingly? Can they
work together to bring down the system? These ques-
tions form the centre of an exciting PhD project cur-
rently on oﬀer as a collaboration between the University
of Zurich and the University of Basel. The work will
involve a variety of plant species and their interactions
with mycorrhizal fungi: a vital mutualism, crucial to
the health and functioning of ecosystems. The project
is generously funded by Syngenta and co-supervised by
leading experts in their ﬁelds. You will beneﬁt from ex-
pert advice, state-of-the-art facilities and will take part
in ground-breaking experimental work in the plant sci-
ences, including the use of new statistical analyses and
genetic techniques (possibly!). You need to have an ex-
cellent background in ecology and/or evolutionary biol-
ogy, some experience in experimental work (particularly
with plants if possible) and be keen and enthusiastic.
For more information contact Bernhard Schmid (bern-hard.schmid@uwinst.uzh.ch).
Best wishes,
Bernhard Schmid
DR. BERNHARD SCHMID, PROFESSOR OF
ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES Institute of Envi-
ronmental Sciences University of Zurich Winterthur-
erstr. 190 Tel.: ++41 (0)44 635 5205 CH-8057
Zurich FAX: ++41 (0)44 635 5711 Switzerland
http://www.uzh.ch/uwinst/ New e-mail: Bern-
hard.Schmid@uwinst.uzh.ch New Journal of Plant
Ecology: http://jpe.oxfordjournals.org/ Recent open
access articles: http://jpe.oxfordjournals.org/cgi/-
content/full/rtm004? http://jpe.oxfordjournals.org/-
cgi/content/full/rtm006? http://www.plosone.org/-
article/fetchArticle.action?articleURI=-
info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0000846
http://www.blackwell-synergy.com/doi/full/-
10.1111/j.1365-2435.2007.01308.x http:/-
/www.biomedcentral.com/content/pdf/-
1471-2180-6-68.pdf List of publica-
tions: http://hcr3.isiknowledge.com/-
formViewCharacteristic.cgi?table=-
Publication&link1=Search&link2=-
Search%20Results&link3=Biography&id=-
6220&nav=p1 Bernhard Schmid
<bernhard.schmid@uwinst.uzh.ch >
Jobs
BardCollegeNY EvolBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Basel BehaviouralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
BostonU InstrLabDirector . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
CornellU FieldTech WarblerPopulations . . . . . . . . . . . 36
DalhousieU MicrobialMolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Dublin SummerResearch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
DukeU ResearchAssoc PrimateCommunication . . . . 38
Egypt FieldAssist ReptileSurvey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
FairchildTropical BotanicGarden Curator . . . . . . . . . . 39
ImperialCollegeLondon SummerResAssist WildlifeEpi-
demiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
ImperialCollege ResearchAssociate EvolutioaryGenet-
ics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
IthacaNY PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41Montpellier ResAssist ModesOfReproduction . . . . . . 41
Montpellier ResAssist ModesOfReproduction-
Ammended . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
NESCent Programming . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
NewYork PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
NSF EvolBiol ProgramDirectors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
OhioStateU BioInformatics 2 Programer . . . . . . . . . . . 45
OhioStateU RubyXML programmers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
OregonStateU SystematicEntomology . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
OxfordU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
SanDiegoZooSociety Tech MolConservGenetics . . . . 47
Scotland FieldAssistant FishParasiteCoevolution . . 47
Simula Research Lab . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
UCaliforniaLosAngeles ResTech Phylogeography . . . 48April 1, 2008 EvolDir 35
UGeorgia ResTech PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
UHawaii InsectEvolutionaryBiologist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
ULethbridge PopulationBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
ULyon1 EvolDevoVertebrateMorph . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
UMunich SystematicEvolutionaryBotany . . . . . . . . . . 51
UNewBrunswick ResTech ForestGenomics . . . . . . . . . 51
UniAndes Colombia Evolutionary Parasitologist . . . 52
UniAndes Colombia PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . 52UNottingham FrozenArkProject . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
UParis11 EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
UPuertoRico AnimalBehaviorPopulationEvolution . 53
URochester SummerResearch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
WoodsHole ResAssist GenomeEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
WoodsHole ResAssist SymbiontViruses . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
WoodsHole Summer AntBacterialSymbiosis . . . . . . . 55
BardCollegeNY EvolBiology
Visiting Assistant Professor in Evolutionary Biology
The Biology Program at Bard College seeks to ﬁll a po-
sition for a Visiting Assistant Professor in Biology for
the 2008-2009 academic year. The successful candidate
will teach a semester-long introductory course in Evo-
lutionary Biology, develop one or two other topic-based
introductory courses, and may develop an upper-level
research seminar in his or her area of specialty. The
Biology Program emphasizes that students do indepen-
dent and collaborative research throughout their under-
graduate careers, and the successful candidate is also
expected to direct undergraduate research. Applicants
should hold a PhD in Evolutionary Biology, Ecology, or
a related discipline.
Bard College is a highly selective liberal arts college of
1800 students with a strong and growing emphasis on
the sciences. This year the Biology Program moved into
a new 42,000 foot science center that houses a 10,000
square foot research lab, specialized instrument centers,
student project rooms, two model organism facilities,
and teaching-research suites. Bard College stresses ex-
cellent teaching, and the Biology Program is committed
to small class sizes that facilitate extensive interactions
between students and faculty, including at the intro-
ductory level. Bard College is an equal opportunity
employer and welcomes applications from individuals
who contribute to its diversity.
Applicants should send a cover letter, CV, statements
of teaching philosophy and research interests, and three
letters of recommendation by April 11th, 2008 to Hu-
man Resources - 2408, PO Box 5000, Annandale-on-
Hudson, NY 12504, email to hr@bard.edu or fax to
845-758-7826. AA/EOE
johns@bard.edu johns@bard.eduBasel BehaviouralEvolution
Field assistants in Behavioural Evolution
Two ﬁeld assistant positions are available in an inter-
national research project on communication and be-
havioural evolution in nightingales (Luscinia megarhyn-
chos).
Fieldwork will be done in April and May 2008 at the
Research Station Petite Camargue Alsacienne in France
(www.camargue.unibas.ch ). The project is run by Dr.
Valentin Amrhein (University of Basel, Switzerland)
and Prof. Dr. Marc Naguib (Netherlands Institute of
Evolution, NIOO-KNAW).
To investigate vocal communication strategies of
nightingales, we record songs and conduct playback ex-
periments. The ﬁeld assistants will also participate in
systematic surveys of territory settlement and singing
activity, and assist in capturing and banding the birds.
Field work will include nocturnal bicycle trips, and ﬁeld
assistants are expected to work on their own at night.
The ﬁeld site is situated at the Petite Camargue Alsa-
cienne in France, about 10 km north of Basel (Switzer-
land). We cannot cover travel expenses, but we oﬀer
free accommodation and use of the infrastructure at
the research station. Field assistants will receive 400
Euros to cover living expenses.
Applicants are expected to stay for the entire ﬁeld sea-
son from 7 April to the end of May 2008. The language
at the research station will be English.
The positions will be ﬁlled as soon as possible. Appli-
cations should be in English and should include, in one
single pdf or word ﬁle, a curriculum vitae and a letter
of motivation. Please give names and email addresses
of two persons who are willing to write a letter of rec-
ommendation, and send applications by email to the
following address:36 EvolDir April 1, 2008
pca.recherche@orange.fr
valentin amrhein <pca.recherche@orange.fr >
BostonU InstrLabDirector
Boston University is hiring a full-time Instructional
Laboratory Director to begin in June of 2008. The
Director will oversee all administrative, ﬁnancial and
personnel actions related to the teaching laboratories
in biology. Teach laboratory sessions in introductory
biology and supervise and train teaching fellows and
laboratory supervisors to ensure smooth operations of
the labs. Develop instructional materials, conduct re-
search and publish in these ﬁelds.
We require a Ph.D. in biological sciences, broad knowl-
edge base in ecology, behavior, evolution, molecular bi-
ology, cell biology and physiology, some teaching expe-
rience at the college level and two to ﬁve years of re-
lated experience. To apply, please go to BU’s website at
www.bu.edu/hr <http://www.bu.edu/hr >and search
for tracking code 4448/B268.
– Melissa B. McElligott, Ph.D. Instructional Laborato-
ries Director Boston University Department of Biology
5 Cummington Street Boston, MA 02215 617-358-1958
CornellU FieldTech
WarblerPopulations
Paid Field Technician Positions
The Cornell Lab of Ornithology seeks four biological
technicians to conduct ﬁeld studies of Golden-winged
Warblers from early May to 30 June 2008. Two techni-
cians will travel throughout the northern Appalachi-
ans (likely PA, NJ, and southern NY) and two will
be stationed around the Fort Drum area in upstate
NY. The work will focus on surveying Golden-winged
Warblers in a variety of habitats to help understand
population trends and habitat requirements for this
species of conservation concern. Applicants should
be highly motivated, have some experience conduct-
ing standardized bird surveys, possess a valid drivers
license, and be willing to travel extensively (and pos-
sibly camp). A salary/stipend, plus expenses will beprovided and likely a ﬁeld vehicle for the Appalachian
positions. This is a great opportunity to gain valuable
experience in avian sampling techniques and meet bi-
ologists/scientists from academia, state agencies, and
conservation organizations.
For more information, please contact Sara Barker at
607-254-2465 or sb65@cornell.edu.
– Rachel Vallender, Ph.D. Post-doctoral Associate
Fuller Evolutionary Biology Program Cornell Lab of
Ornithology 159 Sapsucker Woods Rd Ithaca, NY
14850 USA
Oﬃce: 607.254.1138 Lab: 607. 254.1128 Fax:
607.254.2486 RF88@cornell.edu
P Save a tree! Don’t print this message unless it can’t
be helped. Pensez ` a l’environnement avant d’imprimer
ce message.
Rachel Vallender <rf88@cornell.edu >
DalhousieU MicrobialMolEvol
DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY
DEPARTMENT OF BIOCHEMISTRY & MOLECU-
LAR BIOLOGY
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR POSITION
The Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology
invites applications for a probationary tenure-track po-
sition at the rank of Assistant Professor to begin July
1, 2008. The ideal candidate will have expertise in
molecular biology or biochemistry with a research em-
phasis on microbial molecular evolution and/or com-
parative genomics. Speciﬁc research areas of interest
include, but are not limited to: molecular biology and
evolution of organelles, microbial genome structure and
function, biochemical/cellular diversity in prokaryotes
and eukaryotes. The candidate must have a research
track record that will be highly competitive in attract-
ing external research funding. The successful candi-
date will join an internationally recognized group of
researchers at Dalhousie working on microbial molec-
ular evolution, comparative genomics, bioinformatics
and biodiversity. The candidate will have the oppor-
tunity to mentor undergraduate honors and graduate
students as well as postdoctoral fellows, and be ex-
pected to teach undergraduate and graduate courses in
molecular biology/biochemistry consistent with her/his
background and interest.April 1, 2008 EvolDir 37
The ability to collaborate across disciplines is encour-
aged. The Department is closely aﬃliated with the
recently established Program in Integrated Microbial
Biodiversity (IMB) of the Canadian Institute for Ad-
vanced Research (CIFAR) and with a newly created
interdisciplinary Centre in Comparative Genomics and
Evolutionary Bioinformatics (CGEB) at Dalhousie Uni-
versity. The successful applicant will be nominated
as a Scholar in the CIFAR IMB program (informa-
tion on this program can be found at www2.cifar.ca).
More details about the research activities of the De-
partment of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology and
the Faculty of Medicine can be found on our web sites:
www.biochem.dal.ca and www.medicine.dal.ca.
Applicants must have a Ph.D., at least 2 years of post-
doctoral experience and a strong publication record.
Please submit curriculum vitae, reprints of several re-
cent publications, one- to two-page statements outlin-
ing teaching and research plans, and arrange for three
references to be sent under separate cover to:
Dr. D.M. Byers Head, Department of Biochemistry &
Molecular Biology Faculty of Medicine Sir Charles Tup-
per Medical Building Dalhousie University Halifax, NS
B3H 1X5.
Closing date for receipt of applications is March 31,
2008. The Academic Planning and Appointments Com-
mittee will commence reviewing applications in March.
All qualiﬁed candidates are encouraged to apply; how-
ever, Canadians and permanent residents will be given
priority.
Dalhousie University is an Employment Eq-
uity/Aﬃrmative Action employer. The University
encourages applications from qualiﬁed Aboriginal peo-
ple, persons with a disability, racially visible persons
and women.
– Andrew J. Roger Associate Professor, Fellow CIFAR
Program in Integrated Microbial Biodiversity, Dept.
of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Dalhousie
University Rm 8B1, 5850 College St., Halifax, N.S.
B3H 1X5 Canada tel:902-494-2620 (oﬃce) tel:902-
494-2881 (lab) fax:902-494-1355 lab webpage: http:/-
/rogerlab.biochem.dal.ca How does evolution impact
on your life? See: http://evolution.berkeley.edu/-
evolibrary/search/topicbrowse2.php?topic idG
Worried about climate change, check out:
Check out: http://www.climatecrisis.net and/or
http://www.realclimate.org
Andrew.Roger@Dal.CaDublin SummerResearch
Dear all,
We would be very grateful if you could circulate this
reminder to all interested students and colleagues.
CoBiD-UREKA Undergraduate Summer Research Pro-
gramme 2008 is currently open to applications from
undergraduate students completing their 3rd (Junior)
year in biological sciences. The deadline for receipt of
completed applications is 30 MARCH 2008. We must
receive all materials by this date, including application
form from student and a reference directly from a mem-
ber of academic staﬀ in the student’s home Institution.
Summer Research in Dublin
Collections-Based Biology in Dublin (CoBiD) Under-
graduate Research Experience & Knowledge Award
This summer programme oﬀers research projects and
activities for students in organismal biology using bio-
logical collections
Research Projects extreme environments |ﬁre ecology
|DNA barcoding |freshwater ecology |biocontrol |en-
vironmental epigenomics |terrestrial ecology |invasive
species |plant evolution and extinction |life history |
genomic imprinting
Requirements completion of the third (junior) year of
an undergraduate biosciences degree |ability to work
independently |strong interest in the project of choice
|career goals in organismal biology
Full funding for the 10-week programme will be pro-
vided for 10 successful candidates, including assistance
with air transportation to and from Dublin, accommo-
dation in Dublin, and a small weekly allowance, as well
as project expenses. Prior experience with museum col-
lections is not required - one of the goals of the pro-
gramme is to expose students to new research skills.
The programme is open to all international as well as
Irish and EU students.
Term dates: June 16th to August 22nd 2008
For application instructions and more information:
http://www.ucd.ie/ureka/ Applications must be re-
ceived by 30 March 2008
Best wishes,
THE UREKA TEAM38 EvolDir April 1, 2008
Collections-based Biology in Dublin Undergraduate Re-
search Experience & Knowledge Award www.ucd.ie/-
ureka ureka@ucd.ie ureka@ucd.ie
DukeU ResearchAssoc
PrimateCommunication
Job Title: ASSOCIATE IN RESEARCH
Occupational Summary: A full-time research position
is immediately available to assist with projects that
combine behavioral, chemical, and genetic approaches
to study olfactory communication in lemurs and man-
drills. The work is to be conducted at Duke Univer-
sity ( http://www.baa.duke.edu/ ) and its Lemur Cen-
ter (http://lemur.duke.edu/ ). Experience in behavioral
observation and genotyping is preferred. Experience in
analytical chemistry is desired, but on-the-job training
is available. The opportunity to develop independent
research is also available. The initial appointment is for
one year, with a second year of funding conditional on
satisfactory performance. Salary will be partly based
on previous experience and includes beneﬁts.
Responsibilities: Collect behavioral data on semi
free-ranging lemurs using hand-held computer Col-
lect semiochemical data on scent marks, in situ, us-
ing portable electronic sensor Download ﬁles into
databases, maintain data records, use various pro-
grams to (a) validate and extract data, and (b) tab-
ulate, calculate, and analyze results Collect biological
material from animals and prepare material for vari-
ous assays Prepare glandular samples from lemurs and
mandrills for gas chromatography,mass spectrometry
(GCMS) or protein analysis Perform GCMS, maintain
data ﬁles, identify and align compounds for analysis
Prepare blood samples for hormone radioimmunoassay
and/or DNA extraction Assist researchers in perform-
ing microsatellite, MHC, and sequencing analyses Pre-
pare collection vials, reagents, and solutions; maintain
suﬃcient inventory of laboratory materials and supplies
for performance of duties; clean and maintain standard
equipment Survey relevant literature and assist in de-
veloping new procedures and techniques Assist in the
training and review of new personnel Perform other re-
lated duties incidental to the work described herein
Qualiﬁcations: Work requires a bachelor’s degree in bi-
ology, zoology, chemistry or related ﬁeld Experience
working with animals and in a laboratory is required
The applicant should work well independently or aspart of a team, and should be enthusiastic and mo-
tivated
Please email an application to Christine Drea
(cdrea@duke.edu), consisting of a CV or resume, a brief
statement of research interests, and the names of three
people who can be contacted for letters of reference.
Evaluation of applicants will begin immediately and
will continue until the position is ﬁlled. Duke University
is an Aﬃrmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer.
Marylene Boulet <marylene.boulet@duke.edu >
Egypt FieldAssist ReptileSurvey
Field Assistant Wanted
To assist a PhD student surveying reptiles, amphibians
and butterﬂies in Egypt
Mid-May until mid-June 2008 Flights, accommodation
and food will be paid for
We are looking for a ﬁeld assistant to help with surveys
of reptile, amphibian and butterﬂy species in Egypt.
These data will be used to ground truth predictions of
species distributions made using climate and habitat-
based models. Sampling will consist primarily of visual
surveys. The visit to Egypt will run (approximately)
from 19th May to 23rd June 2008. Flights, accommo-
dation, food and transport in Egypt will all be paid
for.
The successful applicant will be a dedicated worker with
an interest in evolution and natural history. Because of
the nature of the terrain and the hot climate, a high
level of ﬁtness is required. The ability to speak some
Arabic would be an advantage, although not necessary.
To apply, please send a CV to Tim Newbold
(plxtn@nottingham.ac.uk) before 20th April 2008. Any
enquiries should be sent to the same address.
For more information on the project, see:
http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/ ˜ plztr/groupsite/-
conservationecology.html
Newbold Tim <plxtn@nottingham.ac.uk >April 1, 2008 EvolDir 39
FairchildTropical BotanicGarden
Curator
FTBG.curator.plant.conservation
Fairchild Tropical Botanic Garden (FTBG) invites ap-
plications for the position of Herbarium Curator and
Tropical Plant Conservationist at the Center for Trop-
ical Plant Conservation (CTPC).
This position is available immediately. Fairchild Tropi-
cal Botanic Garden is a conservation, research and ed-
ucation based botanic garden opened to the public in
1938. Fairchild is an independent not for proﬁt institu-
tion with broad community support in south Florida.
The garden has over 100 staﬀ including 7 PhDs. The
garden maintains one of the world’s most comprehen-
sive tropical plant collections with an emphasis on
palms, cycads and tropical fruit. The research focus of
the Center for Tropical Plant Conservation (CTPC) at
Fairchild is on the conservation biology of south Florida
and Caribbean plants, evolutionary biogeography and
the conservation management of tropical plants and
habitats with a special emphasis on palms and cycads.
Fairchild works with partners in over 20 countries with
active ﬁeld programs in the Caribbean, MesoAmerica,
Madagascar, South Africa, and East Africa. Working
in tandem with the CTPC are highly professional ed-
ucation and tropical horticulture teams. As a pub-
lic garden with a high proﬁle in the Miami commu-
nity Fairchild oﬀers unique opportunities to advance
the public understanding of tropical conservation and
science in general.
Fairchild has a strong and active partnership with
Florida International University (FIU), Florida’s State
research university in Miami. FIU has over 38,000 stu-
dents and oﬀers more than 200 bachelors, masters and
doctoral degrees in 21 colleges and schools. The De-
partment of Biological Sciences of FIU has 39 faculty
members, 900 undergraduate majors, and 100 graduate
students. Tropical biology and conservation are major
themes of the department.
Position background. The CTPC has a major regional
herbarium with rich collections from Florida and the
Caribbean and specialist collections of palms and cy-
cads. It is an active herbarium with strong partner-
ships in the USA, the Caribbean and internationally.
The FTG Herbarium holds ca. 180,000 specimens withmore than 84,000 on eFTG the ﬁrst virtualherbarium
in the world www.virtualherbarium.org . Position de-
scription and required qualiﬁcations. The successful
candidate will report to the Head of the CTPC. The
candidate will be working with a highly experienced
herbarium manager and an army of extraordinary vol-
unteers. As a Fairchild staﬀ member he/she will be ex-
pected to oversee the management the herbarium, lead
conservation research projects (for instance conserva-
tion planning in Jamaica) and to develop an externally
funded research program that supports excellence in the
nexus of systematics and conservation biology, teaching
at FIU, and the mentoring of graduate students. We
are looking for a candidate with experience in tropical
biology and botany, an understanding of the manage-
ment of a herbarium (including CITES administration)
and a passion for the conservation of tropical plants and
their habitats. Advancement will be based on papers
published, grants and funding obtained and measurable
conservation delivery.
The position is a full time contract and the salary is
competitive and commensurate with qualiﬁcations and
experience. Minimum of an M.Sc or ideally a Ph.D.
with postdoctoral experience is required that includes
grant writing experience and a record of peer reviewed
publication. Fluency in a second language (ideally
Spanish) will be desirable as is a desire to travel and to
make a diﬀerence in the world of conservation.
To apply, submit by email or mail/courier a curriculum
vitae, statements of research and conservation interests,
and have three letters of reference sent to:
Ms Jan Brown, Assistant to the Executive Director,
Davis House, Fairchild Tropical Botanic Garden, 10901
Old Cutler Road, Coral Gables, FL 33156-4296.
jbrown@fairchildgarden.org
***************
Barbara A. Whitlock Assistant Professor Department
of Biology University of Miami 29 Cox Science Center
Coral Gables, Florida 33124 phone: (305) 284-5412 fax:
(305) 284-3039 www.bio.miami.edu/whitlock
ImperialCollegeLondon
SummerResAssist
WildlifeEpidemiology
ImperialCollegeLondon.ShortResearchProject.WildlifeEpidemiology40 EvolDir April 1, 2008
Summer Research Assistant Based at Imperial College
London and the University of Aberdeen, United King-
dom
Temporal and Spatial Dynamics of a Vector-borne
Wildlife Disease System
Fixed term: 4 months Start date: 1 May 2008 (slightly
ﬂexible) Salary: £1851 per month
We are seeking a graduate or higher level researcher
with good quantitative skills to join a 4 month project
starting May 2008 to investigate the epidemiology of
Louping Ill (LI), a tick-borne wildlife disease aﬀecting
northern areas of the United Kingdom. The LI system
involves a variety of hosts, including red grouse, moun-
tain hares, sheep and red deer, and is of economic im-
portance to sheep and grouse moor management. This
project aims to develop models of the temporal and spa-
tial dynamics of LI transmission between tick vectors
and the hosts of the disease, exploring the impact of
seasonality and host density on LI epidemiology. The
project would be suitable as the placement project for
an appropriate Masters course.
The successful applicant will have an interest in ecology
and epidemiology along with programming skills (for
example in C++, Mathematica or Matlab) and abil-
ity to analyse diﬀerential equations. The applicant will
be based primarily at the Centre for Population Biol-
ogy, Silwood Park Campus, Imperial College London,
and will have opportunities to visit the University of
Aberdeen.
Applications (including CV and cover letter) or
enquiries should be sent to Dr Penelope Han-
cock (p.hancock@imperial.ac.uk) or Dr Steve Palmer
(s.palmer@abdn.ac.uk).
Websites:
http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/cpb http:/-
/www.aces.ac.uk/projects/ http://-
www3.imperial.ac.uk/people/p.hancock http://-
www.abdn.ac.uk/biologicalsci/staﬀ/details.php?id=-
3Ds.palmer&ﬁt
Closing date: 20th March 2008
p.hancock@imperial.ac.uk p.hancock@imperial.ac.uk
ImperialCollege ResearchAssociate
EvolutioaryGeneticsImperial College London
Division of Biology
Faculty of Natural Sciences
Research Associate
Starting Salary: £24,570 per annum
Imperial College is ranked the ﬁfth best university in
the world (Times Higher QS World University Rank-
ings 2007)
This is an exciting opportunity for a Research Associate
with an interest in evolutionary genetics. The success-
ful candidate will carry out cutting-edge research inves-
tigating the molecular evolutionary genetics of colour
pattern variation in the mimetic butterﬂy, Papilio dar-
danus.
The post is funded for 3 years by the Natural Environ-
ment Research Council and will be based at the Natural
History Museum. The successful candidate will work
closely with Professor Vogler and employ advanced ge-
netic, molecular and bioinformatic methodologies to ex-
plore the genetic variation in a genomic region corre-
sponding to the classical mimicry locus, H.
Further details of the research group can be ob-
tained from the research group website: http:/-
/www3.imperial.ac.uk/people/a.vogler/research The
successful candidate must possess a PhD or equiv-
alent qualiﬁcation in evolutionary genetics, molecu-
lar evolutionary biology or a closely related discipline;
show a proﬁciency in evolutionary genetics preferable
in insects; and have experience of working in a multi-
disciplinary context.
Further details and an application form can be ob-
tained from the college employment website: http:/-
/www3.imperial.ac.uk/employment/research . Com-
pleted application forms accompanied by a curriculum
vitae and the name and contact details of two referees
should be sent to: Prof Alfried Vogler, Imperial College
London, SAF Building, Exhibition Road, London, SW7
2AZ, or preferably by email to a.vogler@imperial.ac.uk.
Closing date: 2 April 2008
Valuing diversity and committed to equality of oppor-
tunity
“Thomas, Jenny” <j.thomas@imperial.ac.uk >
IthacaNY PopulationGeneticsApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 41
Population/Quantitative Geneticist
Employer: Nature Source Genetics, Inc Location:
Ithaca, NY Date: March 12, 2008
Nature Source Genetics ( http://-
naturesourcegenetics.com ) is a computational genetics
company dedicated to the development and applica-
tion of new algorithms designed to harness natural
genetic variation in the improvement of plant species.
Located in Ithaca, New York, NSG scientists interact
with a team of distinguished faculty from Cornell
University and other major research institutions to
solve problems related to population and quantitative
genetics, including detection/measurement of genetic
variation, population structure, and optimization of
population design for QTL detection/validation. In
addition to the computational headquarters in Ithaca,
NSG has access to experimental test sites around the
world. This position will work with and support a
team of scientists working in the areas of computa-
tional genomics, statistics and population/quantitative
genetics.
We would look to the successful candidate to work with
the team of other NSG scientists to help develop and
implement new approaches population and quantita-
tive genetics – especially as expanding plant biodiver-
sity and gene discovery. Successful candidate would
also have responsibility for overseeing speciﬁc projects
– including coordinating activities with outside collab-
orators worldwide.
Qualiﬁcations:
. M.S./Ph.D degree in population genetics, quan-
titative genetics, or related discipline . Experience
in population and/or quantitative genetics . Train-
ing/coursework in statistics . Ability to work indepen-
dently . Strong interpersonal skills and demonstrated
ability to eﬀectively communicate with others
Responsibilities
. Working with the NSG management team and the
Scientiﬁc Advisory Board members in problems re-
lated to population and quantitative genetics, including
development and application of tools and algorithms
for measuring genetic diversity, population structure,
and optimization of population design for QTL detec-
tion/validation.
. Work with the management team to advance projects,
including data analysis, reporting to clients, organiza-
tion of data and progress reports, etc.
. Interfacing with worldwide clients on questions per-
taining to projects
. Preparing and contributing to scientiﬁc reports, pub-lications and presentations that clearly convey progress
and challenges
. Attending and participating in research planning
meetings with other NSG employees, the Scientiﬁc Ad-
visory Board, and other scientists (both in academia
and the private sector) related to various NSG project
To Apply or Obtain More Information about this Posi-
tion, Contact:
Dr. Theresa Fulton Director of Operations Na-
ture Source Genetics 95 Brown Road Suite
204; Box 1055 Ithaca, NY 14850 E.mail: tful-
ton@naturesourcegenetics.com FAX: 607-257-0034
Steve Tanksley <sdt4@cornell.edu >
Montpellier ResAssist
ModesOfReproduction
Job Title: Research Assistant
Closing date: 22 March 2008
Salary: 21457 euros per year net, plus travel allowances
Terms & Conditions: Research Staﬀ
Summary
A vacancy now exists for a research assistant to work
with Dr. Yannis Michalakis to investigate the evolu-
tionary balance between sexual and asexual reproduc-
tion in the ostracod /Eucypris virens /using molecu-
lar genetic approaches. This is a component project of
a Marie Curie Research Training Network (see http:/-
/evirens.group.shef.ac.uk/ ). The post will be based
in Montpellier but the appointee will also work in
Sheﬃeld, with Prof. Roger Butlin.
Applicants must have a good grounding in quantitative
PCR and some knowledge of evolutionary biology.
The post is full time for 6 or 7 months. Due to fund-
ing restrictions, only non-French citizens of the EU or
associated states are eligible.
Full post details
*Marie Curie Research training network (MRTN) SEX-
ASEX – Early Stage Researcher position available in
molecular genetics*
Researchers interested in the paradox of sex in evolu-
tionary biology are strongly encouraged to apply for a
research position in the European Union Marie Curie42 EvolDir April 1, 2008
Research Training Network SEXASEX, which is co-
ordinated by Prof. Dr. Koen Martens, RBINSc, Brus-
sels. One predoctoral (’Early Stage Researcher’) posi-
tion is vacant, out of a total of 10 positions supported by
the network. Criteria of eligibility include: EU citizen-
ship, less than 4 years of research experience (deﬁned as
starting when the candidate is awarded a degree that
permits entry to a PhD programme, usually an Hon-
ours or Masters degree), and a willingness to work in a
European country other than the country of origin. We
seek candidates who are enthusiastic about evolution-
ary biology, travelling and living abroad, learning in a
multidisciplinary research environment and working in
teams. This appointment will be for 6 months.
The application of female candidates is especially en-
couraged; detailed information on child care facilities
at the diﬀerent institutions will be provided upon re-
quest. Aid can be sought if accompanying spouses also
require employment abroad.
*Project overview:*
Sex is the queen of evolutionary problems. It will be
tackled by SEXASEX in a multidisciplinary approach,
providing training and transfer of knowledge for a to-
tal of 360 person-months. 10 network researchers (6
young researchers (ESR) and 4 experienced researchers
(ER)) will receive training in 9 institutions across as
many countries. A wide array of research tools will
provide excellent training opportunities, for example
through individual career development plans, individ-
ual tutoring and secondments, which will be supple-
mented by participation in courses and external work-
shops. Network-wide training will exploit the exten-
sive experience of the partner institutions through ﬁve
courses and summer schools for all network researchers.
Complementary skills such as management and com-
munication (verbal, written) will be developed, and
gender awareness will be raised, in two network-wide
meetings. The network’s theoretical and empirical re-
search will apply 13 major approaches, including novel
genetic and cytogenetic approaches, intraspeciﬁc phy-
logeography, ecology, behavioural studies, GIS analyses
and theoretical modelling. With this multidisciplinary
toolkit, SEXASEX will investigate why sex exists at
all, given its evolutionary costs, using the model organ-
ism /Eucypris virens/, a non-marine ostracod species
with both sexual and asexual reproduction. What de-
termines its gender, what are the genomic consequences
of long-term asexuality, what is the cohesiveness of
a species with mixed reproduction, how do asexuals
and sexuals compete and what is their historical zoo-
geography? The pluralistic approach of SEXASEX is
unique and timely, using highly novel methodologies
and dealing with cutting edge science based on Euro-pean excellence and tradition. Please refer to http://-
www.naturalsciences.be/EVIRENS/ for more informa-
tion.
*ESR position*: /consequences of asexual reproduction
on genome size: comparison of //rDNA copy numbers
in sexual and asexual /E. virens/ ./
*Starting date*: 1 ^rst of April or 1 ^st of May 2008
depending on appointee’s availability
*Duration*: 6 or 7 months
*Salary*: 21457 net pa plus travel allowances according
to the appointee’s circumstances
*Scientists in charge*:
Dr. Yannis Michalakis
*Locations*: Montpellier, France, with a secondment
of up to 2 months to Sheﬃeld, UK (Prof. Roger But-
lin).
*Places of work*: 1) G´ en´ etique et Evolution des Mal-
adies Inf´ ectieuses, UMR CNRS – IRD 2724, IRD,
Montpellier, France 2) University of
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Montpellier ResAssist
ModesOfReproduction-Ammended
This position is now open at one of two levels
Job Title: Research Assistant
Closing date: 22 March 2008
Salary: 21457-31330 euros per year net (depending on
experience), plus travel allowances
Terms & Conditions: Research Staﬀ
Summary
A vacancy now exists for a research assistant to work
with Dr. Yannis Michalakis to investigate the evolu-
tionary balance between sexual and asexual reproduc-
tion in the ostracod /Eucypris virens /using molecu-
lar genetic approaches. This is a component project of
a Marie Curie Research Training Network (see http:/-
/evirens.group.shef.ac.uk/ ). The post will be basedApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 43
in Montpellier but the appointee will also work in
Sheﬃeld, with Prof. Roger Butlin.
Applicants must have a good grounding in quantitative
PCR and some knowledge of evolutionary biology.
The post is full time for 6 or 7 months. Due to fund-
ing restrictions, only non-French citizens of the EU or
associated states are eligible.
Full post details
*Marie Curie Research training network (MRTN) SEX-
ASEX – Early Stage Researcher or Experienced Re-
searcher position available in molecular genetics*
Researchers interested in the paradox of sex in evolu-
tionary biology are strongly encouraged to apply for a
research position in the European Union Marie Curie
Research Training Network SEXASEX, which is co-
ordinated by Prof. Dr. Koen Martens, RBINSc, Brus-
sels. The position is open at 2 levels: predoctoral
(’Early Stage Researcher’) or postdoctoral (’Experi-
enced Researcher’). Criteria of eligibility include: EU
citizenship, less than 4 years of research experience for
the ESR level (deﬁned as starting when the candidate
is awarded a degree that permits entry to a PhD pro-
gramme, usually an Honours or Masters degree) or less
than 10 years research experience after obtaining the
degree that gives access to a PhD programme for the
ER level (e.g. BSc, MS, Diploma, Honours), and a will-
ingness to work in a European country other than the
country of origin. We seek candidates who are enthu-
siastic about evolutionary biology, travelling and living
abroad, learning in a multidisciplina ry research envi-
ronment and working in teams. This appointment will
be for 6 or 7 months.
The application of female candidates is especially en-
couraged; detailed information on child care facilities
at the diﬀerent institutions will be provided upon re-
quest. Aid can be sought if accompanying spouses also
require employment abroad.
*Project overview:*
Sex is the queen of evolutionary problems. It will be
tackled by SEXASEX in a multidisciplinary approach,
providing training and transfer of knowledge for a to-
tal of 360 person-months. 10 network researchers (6
young researchers (ESR) and 4 experienced researchers
(ER)) will receive training in 9 institutions across as
many countries. A wide array of research tools will
provide excellent training opportunities, for example
through individual career development plans, individ-
ual tutoring and secondments, which will be supple-
mented by participation in courses and external work-
shops. Network-wide training will exploit the exten-sive experience of the partner institutions through ﬁve
courses and summer schools for all network researchers.
Complementary skills such as management and com-
munication (verbal, written) will be developed, and
gender awareness will be raised, in two network-wide
meetings. The network’s theoretical and empirical re-
search will apply 13 major approaches, in cluding novel
genetic and cytogenetic approaches, intraspeciﬁc phy-
logeography, ecology, behavioural studies, GIS analy-
ses and theoretical modelling. With this multidisci-
plinary toolkit, SEXASEX will investigate why sex ex-
ists at all, given its evolutionary costs, using the model
organism ////Eucypris virens//, a non-marine ostra-
cod species with both sexual and asexual reproduction.
What determines its gender, what are the genomic con-
sequences of long-term asexuality, what is the cohesive-
ness of a species with mixed reproduction, how do asex-
uals and sexuals compete and what is their historical
zoogeography? The pluralistic approach of SEXASEX
is unique and timely, using highly novel methodologies
and dealing with cutting edge science based on Euro-
pean excellence and tradition. Please refer to http:/-
/evirens.group.shef.ac.uk/index.htm for more informa-
tion.
****ESR or ER position**: consequences of asexual re-
production on genome size: comparison of rDNA copy
numbers in sexual and asexual /E. virens/.
****Starting date**: 1st of April or 1st of May 2008
depending on appointee’s availability
****Duration**: 6 or 7 months
****Salary**: 21457 (ESR) or 31330 (ER) net pa plus
travel allowances
according to the appointee’s circumstances
****Scientists in charge**:
Dr. Yannis Michalakis
****Locations**: Montpellier, France, with a second-
ment of up to 2 months to Sheﬃeld, UK (Prof. Roger
Butlin).
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
NESCent Programming44 EvolDir April 1, 2008
Phyloinformatics Summer of Code
2008 http://phyloinformatics.net/-
Phyloinformatics Summer ofCode 2008 *** Please
disseminate this announcement widely to appropriate
students at your institution ***
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NES-
Cent: http:// www.nescent.org/ ) is participating in
2008 for the second year as a mentoring organi-
zation in the Google Summer of Code ( http://-
code.google.com/soc). Through this program, Google
provides undergraduate, masters, and PhD students
with a unique opportunity to obtain hands-on experi-
ence writing and extending open-source software under
the mentorship of experienced developers from around
the world.
Our goal in participating is to train future researchers
and developers to not only have awareness and under-
standing of the value of open-source and collaboratively
developed software, but also to gain the programming
and remote collaboration skills needed to successfully
contribute to such projects. Students will receive a
stipend from Google, and may work from their home,
or home institution, for the duration of the 3 month
program. Students will each have one or more dedi-
cated mentors with expertise in phylogenetic methods
and open-source software development.
NESCent is particularly targeting students interested
in both evolutionary biology and software development.
Project ideas (see URL below) range from visualizing
phylogenetic data in R, to development of a Mesquite
module, web-services for phylogenetic data providers
or geophylogeny mashups, implementing phyloXML
support, navigating databases of networks, topology
queries for PhyloCode registries, to phylogenetic tree
mining in a MapReduce framework, and more.
The project ideas are ﬂexible and many can be ad-
justed in scope to match the skills of the student. If
the program sounds interesting to you but you are un-
sure whether you have the necessary skills, please email
the mentors at the address below. We will work with
you to ﬁnd a project that ﬁts your interests and skills.
INQUIRIES: Email any questions, including self-
proposed project ideas, to phylosoc {at}nescent {dot}
org.
TO APPLY: Apply on-line at the Google Summer
of Code website ( http://code.google.com/soc/2008 ),
where you will also ﬁnd GSoC program rules and el-
igibility requirements. The 1-week application period
for students opens on Monday March 24th and runs
through Monday, March 31st, 2008.
Hilmar Lapp and Todd Vision US National Evolution-ary Synthesis Center
====URLs: == 08 NESCent Phyloinformatics
Summer of Code: http://phyloinformatics.net/-
Phyloinformatics Summer ofCode 2008 Eligi-
bility requirements: http://code.google.com/-
opensource/gsoc/2008/faqs.html#0.1 eligibility
Stipends: http://code.google.com/opensource/-
gsoc/2008/faqs.html#0.1 administrivia To sign
up for quarterly NESCent newsletters: with an-
nouncements about upcoming programs at the
Center: http://www.nescent.org/about/contact.php
hlapp@nescent.org
NewYork PopulationGenetics
ASSISTANT RESEARCH SCIENTIST
Health Research, Inc., a not-for-proﬁt corp., seeks an
Asst. Research Scientist to work in the Vector Biology
& Population Genetics Laboratory at the Wadsworth
Center in Albany, NY. The incumbent will be responsi-
ble for the oversight of the Lab, w/ duties that include
extraction, ampliﬁcation & sequencing of mosquito
DNA; management & organization of frozen mosquito
collections, freezers & other databases, & preparation
of reports. Other related duties as assigned. MINI-
MUM QUALS: BA/BS in Biology, Public Health, Epi-
demiology, Statistics, or a related ﬁeld & 1 yr of rel-
evant experience. 30 grad credit hours leading to an
advanced degree may substitute for the required exp.
PREFERRED QUALS: Grad degree in a relevant ﬁeld;
background in biology or entomology; exp w/ per-
sonal computers & database management; knowledge
of the Spanish language would be helpful. Salary is at
the rate of: $36,229 /yr. Excellent beneﬁts including
health, paid vacation/holidays, retirement, tuition sup-
port, etc. Resume must be received by 3/14/08. Please
use code W713TU when responding. Resume can be e-
mailed to: HRI-mailin@healthresearch.org with a sub-
ject line W713TU, or mailed to Health Research, Inc.,
Riverview Center, 150 Broadway, Suite 560, Menands,
NY 12204-2719 (applicants must include a return ad-
dress and the reference code W713TU on the envelope).
No phone calls or faxes accepted.
www.healthresearch.org/jobs AA/EOE/M/W/D/V
Stacey J. Miller, PHR Human Resource Administra-
tor III Health Research, Inc. Phone: (518) 431-
1270 Fax: (518) 431-1234 sjm06@healthresearch.org
www.healthresearch.org Riverview Center 150 Broad-April 1, 2008 EvolDir 45
way, Suite 560 Menands, NY 12204-2719
“Stacey J. Miller” <sjm06@healthresearch.org >
NSF EvolBiol ProgramDirectors
ANNOUNCEMENT:
The Division of Environmental Biology (DEB) is
searching for three permanent program directors; one in
each of three clusters: Ecosystem Science Cluster, Pop-
ulation and Evolutionary Processes Cluster, and Sys-
tematic Biology and Biodiversity Inventories Cluster.
These individuals will have signiﬁcant input on future
research directions and funding opportunities within
DEB and the Directorate for Biological Sciences, and
on the proposal review and award process at NSF. The
quality of applicants for these positions is therefore of
great importance to you, as a researcher in one or more
of these areas, as well as it is to us.
We ask for your help in our search by encouraging your
well-qualiﬁed colleagues to apply. Time is short; the
position announcement closes on 4 April 2008. Pre-
vious NSF experience is not necessary but applicants
must have at least 6 years of research experience past
their doctorate degree.
Thank you in advance for helping to en-
sure that our applicant pool is of the high-
est quality. http://jobsearch.usajobs.opm.gov/-
getjob.asp?JobId=67754917&AVSDM=2008%2D
01%2D25+08%3A32%3A57
Bette Loiselle Saran Twombly Program Oﬃcer, Pro-
gram Oﬃcer, Population and Evolutionary Processes
Ecological Biology Tel. 703-292-7207 Tel. 703-292-8133
“Loiselle, Bette A.” <bloisell@nsf.gov >
OhioStateU BioInformatics 2
Programer
Subject: Job: ruby and kml developers at Ohio State
UniversityThe Department of Biomedical Informatics
at the Ohio State University seeks two programmers
to work as part of the team developing the supramap
project (supramap.osu.edu) that brings together phy-logenetics and geography with a special emphasis on
infectious disease research.One programmer will con-
centrate on development of a client and user interface
for the project using Ruby on Rails. The user base will
be biologists and public health professionals. Another
programmer will concentrate on improving the gener-
ation of Keyhole Markup Language (KML) ﬁles. The
source data will be large XML ﬁles resulting from phy-
logenetic analysis. Thus the work will require knowlege
of XSLT and KML and a willingness to work with bi-
ologists and phylogenetic software they use.For more
information please contact Daniel Janies
danjanies@hotmail.com
OhioStateU RubyXML
programmers
The Department of Biomedical Informatics at the Ohio
State University seeks two programmers to work as
part of the team developing the supramap project
(supramap.osu.edu) that brings together phylogenetics
and geography with a special emphasis on infectious
disease research.
One programmer will concentrate on development of a
client and user interface for the project using Ruby on
Rails. The user base will be biologists and public health
professionals.
Another programmer will concentrate on improving
the generation of Keyhole Markup Language (KML)
ﬁles. The source data will be large XML ﬁles resulting
from phylogenetic analysis. Thus the work will require
knowlege of XSLT and KML and a willingness to work
with biologists and phylogenetic software they use.
For more information please contact Daniel Janies
danjanies@hotmail.com danjanies@hotmail.com
OregonStateU
SystematicEntomology
Harold E. and Leona M. Rice Professorship in System-
atic Entomology
Applications are invited for the Rice Professorship in46 EvolDir April 1, 2008
Systematic Entomology. This is a full-time, 9-month
tenured position at the Full Professor level in the De-
partment of Zoology. The holder of the chair is ex-
pected to be a midcareer to senior scholar with an
international reputation for scholarship and a distin-
guished record of funding, publication, and teaching
in systematic entomology. The Rice Professor will
participate in teaching, graduate education, and serve
as Director of the Oregon State Arthropod Collec-
tion (OSAC), a major research collection with 3 mil-
lion specimens. The appointment also includes annual
discretionary funds of approximately $100,000 to sup-
port the research and teaching programs of the Rice
Professor, with approximately one-third to be spent
in support of the functions of the OSAC. It is ex-
pected that the Rice Professor will continue to be
a productive scholar and teacher, participate fully in
departmental aﬀairs, contribute to the study of sys-
tematic entomology at Oregon State University, and
take a leadership role in the local systematics com-
munity. The Rice Professor should possess broad
disciplinary interests and welcome collaborative re-
search with colleagues across the university and beyond.
For additional requirements and to apply see http://-
oregonstate.edu/jobs Posting #0002193. For full con-
sideration apply by 15 July 2008. Direct inquires to
Tara Bevandich at bevandit@science.oregonstate.edu or
Rice Search Committee Chair, Stevan J. Arnold at
arnolds@science.oregonstate.edu.
OSU is an Aﬃrmative Action/Equal Opportunity Em-
ployer has a policy of being responsive to dual-career
needs.
Tara Bevandich Administrative Assistant Depart-
ment of Zoology 3029 Cordley Hall Oregon State
University Corvallis, OR 97331 Email: bevan-
dit@science.oregonstate.edu Phone: 541-737-5336 Fax:
541-737-0501
Tara Bevandich <bevandit@science.oregonstate.edu >
OxfordU EvolutionaryBiol
Two permanent lectureships are available in the De-
partment of Zoology, University of Oxford, one at
the interface of Evolutionary Developmental Biology
and Ecology, the other in Quantitative Evolutionary
Ecology. Closing date for applications is 4 April
2008. Please see below for more details, or fol-
low the link: http://www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/news/2008feb/-index.htm . Seb Shimeld Department of Zoology Uni-
versity of Oxford sebastian.shimeld@zoo.ox.ac.uk
Department of Zoology UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD
Oxford, U.K. TWO UNIVERSITY LECTURESHIPS
IN ZOOLOGY:
(1) Development/Ecology and (2) Quantitative Evolu-
tionary Ecology In association with Lady Margaret Hall
and Wadham College
The Department of Zoology, Oxford, proposes to ap-
point two University Lectureships with eﬀect from 1
September 2008 or as soon as possible thereafter. The
successful candidates will be oﬀered an Oﬃcial Fellow-
ship and Tutorship by Lady Margaret Hall (position
1) and Wadham College (position 2), under arrange-
ments described in the further particulars. The com-
bined University and College salary for each post will
be on a scale up to £52,628 per annum.
Preference for position 1 will be given to applicants
working at the interface of developmental biology and
ecology, including evolutionary developmental biology
or ecological/evolutionary genomics. Applications for
position 1 will also be considered from candidates work-
ing at the interface between any two or more of the
Department’s specialist research ﬁelds: behaviour, de-
velopment, disease, ecology, entomology, evolution and
ornithology.
Position 2 is for a quantitative evolutionary ecologist.
The appointees will be required to engage in research,
which will contribute to the Department’s research rep-
utation; to teach, supervise and examine undergraduate
and graduate students; and to contribute to adminis-
tration in the College and Department.
The appointments are intended to be ’permanent’,
meaning that on completion of an initial period of ap-
pointment (normally ﬁve years), a University lecturer
is eligible for reappointment until retiring age, subject
to the provisions of the Statutes and Regulations of
the University. Further particulars, containing details
of the application procedure and of the duties, may
be obtained from paul.harvey.pa@zoo.ox.ac.uk or pe-
ter.holland@zoo.ox.ac.uk. The closing date for appli-
cations is Friday 4th April 2008. The University is an
Equal Opportunities Employer.
sebastian.shimeld@zoo.ox.ac.uk sebas-
tian.shimeld@zoo.ox.ac.ukApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 47
SanDiegoZooSociety Tech
MolConservGenetics
A Research Technician opening is immediately avail-
able with the the molecular genetics group of Genet-
ics Division at CRES (Conservation and Research for
Endangered Species - part of the San Diego Zoo). Ap-
plicants must have experience working in a molecular
biology lab, with training in nucleic acid preparation
(from a variety of source materials) and quantitation
required. Skill with PCR, automated sequencing, and
microsatellite fragment analysis is necessary. Experi-
ence in Mac and/or Windows-based computer programs
is required, and knowledge of data analysis programs
is preferred. The applicant must have the ability to
take direction, work as part of a team, follow through
on assignments, and be neat and well organized. The
job location is at the Beckman Center for Conservation
Reasearch, near Escondido, CA. For more information
and to apply, please see: http://www.sandiegozoo.org/-
jobs/index.html oryder@ucsd.edu oryder@ucsd.edu
Scotland FieldAssistant
FishParasiteCoevolution
Field Assistant Wanted, Scottish Outer Hebrides
To assist on an ongoing project on host-parasite coevo-
lution and adaptive radiation in sticklebacks
1st May until 18th May 2008 Travel, accommodation
and food will be paid for.
I am looking for a volunteer ﬁeld assistant to help with
surveys of parasite occurrence in stickleback ﬁsh popu-
lations in Scotland. The work will consist of trapping
and dissection of ﬁsh from several lochs to record par-
asite and life history data.
Applicants, who should be living in the U.K., should
be outgoing, physically ﬁt, hard working and have a
keen interest in evolutionary ecology and natural his-
tory. Experience of ﬁsh or ﬁsh parasites an advantage.
Ideal for prospective PhD candidates.
Please send a CV to Andrew MacColl (an-
drew.maccoll@nottingham.ac.uk) as soon as possible,and before 14th April 2008.
For more information on the project, see:
http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/ ˜ plztr/groupsite/-
parasitesandspeciation.html Andrew MacColl (an-
drew.maccoll@nottingham.ac.uk)
Andrew.Maccoll@nottingham.ac.uk
Simula Research Lab
Simula Research Laboratory conducts basic research in
the ﬁelds of communication technology, software engi-
neering and scientiﬁc computing. The research in the
Scientiﬁc Computing (SC) department is focused on
the development of numerical methods, algorithms and
software, and large scale biomedical and systems bi-
ology oriented simulation studies applying these meth-
ods. In recent years, the main application area for com-
putational research studies has been the simulation of
the electrical and mechanical activity of the heart. Cur-
rently, we plan to extend our computational research
to simulations of the evolutionary dynamics of genetic
networks controlling the properties of organisms.
The aim of the research project is to study key evolu-
tionary processes such as the adaptation of organisms
to their environment, the splitting up of a species into
multiple species and the development of multicellular
organisms from a single fertilized cells. A key aspect of
the research will be to study how the architecture and
dynamics of genome organization and gene regulatory
network structure inﬂuence the properties of organisms
and hence how they inﬂuence the above mentioned evo-
lutionary processes and how this contrasts with ﬁndings
from more classical population genetics models.
Our understanding of genome organization and gene
regulatory networks has changed dramatically over the
last decade. A large part of DNA that was previously
considered junk turns out the be functional after all,
coding for RNAs that are however not translated into
proteins. These RNAs in turn are often involved in reg-
ulating the expression of genes, which were previously
thought to be exclusively regulated by proteins. Incor-
porating these new insights into our models is another
key aspect of the research project.
Modeling formalisms used will typically be discrete,
individual- based, event-based, and often spatially ex-
tended and will involve the explicit modeling of the
evolution of genes, genomes and gene regulatory net-48 EvolDir April 1, 2008
works determining the properties of simulated agents.
The project will be supervised by a new member of
our research group, Dr. Kirsten ten Tusscher ( http://
www-binf.bio.uu.nl/khwjtuss/).
Simula oﬀers excellent opportunities for doing high
quality research, generous support for travels and
equipment, and competitive salary (around 47.000,-
Euro/69.000,- USD for a Ph.D. position)
We are looking for candidates who fulﬁll one or more of
the following requirements: - a strong interest in evo-
lutionary biological research - a University degree in
computational biology, systems biology, biomedical en-
gineering, artiﬁcial life, artiﬁcial intelligence, computer
science, physics or applied mathematics - experience
with computational modeling, simulation and analysis
of complex (biological) systems.
The position requires excellent English writing skills
and high marks from the BSc and MSc degree. Women
are encouraged to apply. For more information con-
tact Joakim Sundnes (sundnes@simula.no) or Kirsten
ten Tusscher(tentussc@simula.no). To apply, email
a short application letter, curriculum vitae, copies
of transcripts and grades, and a publication list to
jobs@simula.no. The subject of the email must con-
tain 0830 Scientiﬁc Computing.
Application deadline: May 16, 2008
sundnes@simula.no sundnes@simula.no
UCaliforniaLosAngeles ResTech
Phylogeography
RESEARCH TECHNICIAN: UCLA ECOL & EVOL
BIOLOGY
A technician position is available immediately to assist
in projects on landscape genetics, contemporary gene
ﬂow, and phylogeography. The technician will perform
standard laboratory procedure and data management
for research in plant population and conservation ge-
netics. The technician will conduct molecular analyses,
including DNA extraction, PCR, genotyping with mi-
crosatellite DNA and sequencing, using standard meth-
ods and by developing modiﬁcations of standard meth-
ods. Other duties include: oversee day-to-day manage-
ment of laboratory including purchase of supplies and
equipment; insuring proper operation and maintenance
of laboratory equipment; entering and managing elec-
tronic data ﬁles; working with undergraduate researchassistants; and occasional training of students.
Requirements for the position are a bachelor’s degree in
biology, botany, genetics, or chemistry, basic computer
skills, and laboratory experience with PCR, microsatel-
lites, DNA sequencing, or comparable molecular tech-
niques. Interest in population genetics or molecular
ecology will be advantageous.
The position could be ﬁlled as a 6-month or 12-month
position or on- going position, depending on interest of
successful candidate.
Applications will be considered as they arrive. To ap-
ply, please email statement of interest and experience,
curriculum vitae and names of three references to:
Dr. Victoria Sork, vlsork@ucla.edu
Posted by: Victoria Sork UCLA Professor, Dept of Ecol
& Evol Biology Professor, Institute of the Environment
Victoria Sork <vlsork@ucla.edu >
UGeorgia ResTech PlantEvolution
A full-time Research Technician position is available in
the Department of Genetics at the University of Geor-
gia in the laboratory of Dave Moeller. Research in the
lab examines a diverse array of problems in plant evolu-
tionary biology and ecology. Current research includes
projects on the evolution of species’ distributions, the
interface of pollination ecology and plant mating sys-
tem evolution, and ecological genetics of species’ re-
sponses to climate change. This position may be ideal
for a highly motivated person interested in gaining ﬁeld
and laboratory research skills prior to starting graduate
school or other work in the life sciences.
The position involves assisting with ﬁeld research,
greenhouse experiments, and molecular genetics in the
laboratory. Field research will occur in California dur-
ing part of the spring and summer months. It is es-
sential that the candidate can spend approximately
4-6 weeks per year in the ﬁeld conducting research
away from home. Conditions for ﬁeld work can be de-
manding, including working in hot weather on steep
mountain slopes. Responsibilities also include assisting
with basic molecular genetics in the laboratory, includ-
ing PCR, DNA/RNA extraction, gel electrophoresis,
cloning, etc. The position also involves caring for plants
in growth chambers and the greenhouse as well as lab
organization and maintenance.April 1, 2008 EvolDir 49
Candidates are expected to have a Bachelors degree
in Biology or a related ﬁeld. The ideal candidate has
a strong work ethic, positive attitude, excellent com-
munication and organization skills, and the desire to
acquire new ﬁeld and laboratory research skills. Ex-
perience with both ﬁeld research and basic molecular
biology techniques is highly desired, but not essential.
Please contact me directly (dmoeller@uga.edu) to ex-
press interest in the position and with any questions.
Formal application must occur through the UGA Hu-
man Resources website (posting number: 20080351,
www.ugajobsearch.com ). Applicants should submit a
CV, letter describing research background and inter-
ests, and the names of two references. A starting date
of May 1 is desired, but ﬂexible. Applications should
be submitted as soon as possible; applicants will be
reviewed until the position is ﬁlled. Salary is commen-
surate with experience and includes beneﬁts.
The Department of Genetics at UGA
(www.genetics.uga.edu ) is a dynamic place for re-
search in ecological and evolutionary genetics and has
excellent laboratory and greenhouse facilities. The
University of Georgia is located in Athens, a diverse
city of ~100,000 with easy access to Atlanta and the
Appalachian Mountians. Athens has a lively music
and arts scene, aﬀordable living, and nearby parks and
natural areas.
Dave Moeller Dept. of Genetics Davison Life
Sciences University of Georgia Athens, GA 30602
dmoeller@uga.edu (706) 542-5898
dmoeller@uga.edu dmoeller@uga.edu
UHawaii
InsectEvolutionaryBiologist
Insect Evolutionary Biologist
Assistant Professor in Entomology, position number
0085510, UHM C of Trop Agr & Human Res, (Manoa),
Plant & Environmental Protection Sciences, tenure
track, 9 month appointment, to begin January 1, 2009.
Duties: Contribute to an excellent departmental under-
graduate program and Entomology graduate program
by teaching the following courses: PEPS 250 (World of
Insects), General Entomology (PEPS 363 and 363L),
yearly; Foundations of Pest Management (PEPS 421),
every two years; an appropriate graduate course iden-
tiﬁed as meeting program needs, such as Insect Phys-iology, or Insect Identiﬁcation (taxonomy), every two
years; and sharing responsibility periodically for a dis-
cussion/seminar and a departmental graduate seminar.
Contribute to program assessment eﬀorts. Advise and
mentor students.
Develop a successful research program in ﬁelds includ-
ing but not limited to control, ecology, evolution, phys-
iology or behavior of invasive ants / bees or other in-
sect orders. Provide service to the college, university,
and community, and perform other faculty duties as
required. 60% Instruction and 40% Research.
Minimum qualiﬁcations: Earned doctorate with re-
search experience in entomology as evidenced by pub-
lications in peer-reviewed journals. Successful experi-
ence in instruction at the college level, as evidenced
by written or web-based course materials, reports, ref-
erences, and/or positive student evaluations. Desir-
able qualiﬁcations: Research experience with social hy-
menoptera or other insect orders as evidenced by publi-
cations in peer-reviewed journals; experience in course
and/or program development, and assessment; demon-
strated success in obtaining extramural funding; evi-
dence of self-improvement in the area of instruction,
such as participation in relevant courses, seminars, or
other programs. To apply: Send letter of application,
curriculum vitae, oﬃcial transcripts of college training,
and have three conﬁdential letters of recommendation
sent to Search Committee. Application address: Dr.
Ronald Mau, Search Committee Chair, Department of
Plant and Environmental Protection Sciences, College
of Tropical Agriculture and Human Resources, Univer-
sity of Hawaii at Manoa, 3050 Maile Way, Gilmore 310,
Honolulu, HI 96822. Inquiries: Dr. Ronald Mau 808-
956-7063 maur@ctahr.hawaii.edu
Date posted: Mar-17-2008 Closing date: Jul-15- 2008
The University of Hawaii is an equal opportu-
nity/aﬃrmative action institution and is committed to
a policy of nondiscrimination on the basis of race, sex,
age, religion, color, national origin, ancestry, disabil-
ity, marital status, sexual orientation, status as a pro-
tected veteran, National Guard participation, breast-
feeding, and arrest/court record (except as permissible
under State law). Employment is contingent on sat-
isfying employment eligibility veriﬁcation requirements
of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986;
reference checks of previous employers; and for certain
positions, criminal history record checks. In accordance
with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security
Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act, annual cam-
pus crime statistics for the University of Hawaii may
be viewed at: http://ope.ed.gov/security/, or a paper
copy may be obtained upon request from the respective50 EvolDir April 1, 2008
UH Campus Security or Administrative Services Oﬃce.
Dan Rubinoﬀ
Daniel Rubinoﬀ <rubinoﬀ@hawaii.edu >
ULethbridge PopulationBiology
The University of Lethbridge invites applications for
a tenure-track (probationary) faculty position in the
Department of Biological Sciences at the rank of assis-
tant professor in the area of population biology. Ap-
plicants with strength in the areas of population genet-
ics, aquatic or terrestrial ecology, conservation biology,
ecosystem management, evolutionary biology or ecol-
ogy are encouraged to apply. Applicants must have
a Ph.D. and demonstrated potential for excellence in
teaching and research.
The successful candidate will be expected to build an
externally funded research program, supervise gradu-
ate students, and will be encouraged to develop col-
laborations with, and seek funding from, federal and
provincial agencies. The Department of Biological Sci-
ences ( http://www.uleth.ca/fas/bio ), with 24 faculty
and 47 graduate students, oﬀers an exciting environ-
ment with potential for collaborative research in the
areas of molecular ecology and evolution, behavioural
ecology, aquatic ecosystems, conservation biology, plant
systematics, physiological ecology, toxicology and par-
asitology.
The University of Lethbridge has ready access to a di-
verse array of prairie and mountain habitats, including
many lakes, ponds, and rivers. In addition, the uni-
versity will soon be opening a new Water and Envi-
ronmental Sciences building, featuring top-tier aquatic
and terrestrial research as well as analytical laboratory
facilities. The Department maintains a ﬁeld research
station in the foothills of the Rocky Mountains in south-
western Alberta.
The successful candidate will be expected to participate
in teaching at both the junior and senior undergraduate
level.
Candidates should submit: a letter of application, a
CV, transcripts, a one-page summary of research plans,
a statement of teaching interests and teaching philoso-
phy, and reprints of their three most signiﬁcant publi-
cations to Dr. Cam Goater, Chair, Department of Bio-
logical Sciences, University of Lethbridge, 4401 Univer-
sity Drive W., Lethbridge, Alberta, Canada T1K 3M4,preferably electronically via barbara.beckett@uleth.ca.
Applicants must also arrange for three letters of refer-
ence to be sent electronically. Closing date: April 30,
2008.
The University of Lethbridge oﬀers a competitive salary
commensurate with experience and has an excellent
beneﬁts plan. The position is open to all qualiﬁed ap-
plicants, although preference will be given to Canadian
citizens and permanent residents of Canada. The Uni-
versity is an inclusive and equitable campus encourag-
ing applications from qualiﬁed women and men includ-
ing persons with disabilities, members of visible minori-
ties and Aboriginal persons.
theresa.burg@uleth.ca
ULyon1 EvolDevoVertebrateMorph
Dear Colleagues,
In 2008, a Professor level position will be available
at the University Lyon 1. This position will in-
clude research in the Institut de Genomique Fonc-
tionnelle de Lyon at the ENS de Lyon. You
can ﬁnd below a brief summary in French of
the research and teaching requirements (teaching
should be in French). A more detailed pro-
posal can be found at: http://www.univ-lyon1.fr/-
1204632634146/0/ﬁche document/ For more infor-
mation, please do not hesitate to contact Vincent
Laudet (Vincent.Laudet@ens-lyon.fr).
Un poste de professeur intitul´ e “D´ eveloppement et
´ evolution morphologique des vert´ ebr´ es” est disponible
a l’Universit´ e Claude Bernard Lyon 1 pour aﬀectation
a l’Institut de Genomique Fonctionnelle de Lyon. Nous
recherchons un enseignant-chercheur capable d’animer
une ´ equipe de recherche ind´ ependante en interaction
entre pal´ eontologie et biologie du d´ eveloppement des
vert´ ebr´ es. Id´ ealement nous souhaiterions quelqu’un
travaillant sur l’´ evolution des structures min´ eralis´ ees
des vert´ ebr´ es et en premier lieu la denture
Pascale.Chevret@ens-lyon.fr Pascale.Chevret@ens-
lyon.frApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 51
UMunich
SystematicEvolutionaryBotany
Prof. Dr. Susanne S. Renner Chair, Systematic
Botany, University of Munich Research: http://-
www.umsl.edu/˜biosrenn/ Associate lecturer position
in Systematic and Evolutionary Botany Ludwig Maxi-
milians University of Munich
The Institute of Systematic Botany of the University of
Munich is seeking a botanist with an interest in evolu-
tionary research questions. Competence in general bio-
statistical methods and knowledge of the Central Euro-
pean ﬂora are an advantage. The successful candidate
will have basic teaching obligations and is expected to
develop an extramurally funded research program, as
well as collaborating with other staﬀ-members in re-
search projects.
We ( http://www.botanik.biologie.uni-muenchen.de/-
botsyst/home.html ) are actively involved in systematic,
molecular phylogenetic, biogeographical, evolutionary,
and ﬂoristic research. Facilities include an excellent
library, an herbarium of almost 3 million specimens,
cultivation facilities, and a botanical garden with some
14000 living species.
The position is available from 1 July 2008, and appli-
cants should submit a CV, including a summary of
research interests, a listing of publications, and the
names of three potential referees to Susanne Renner
(renner@lrz.uni-muenchen.de) by 13 April 2008.
Contact person: Susanne Renner ( http://-
www.umsl.edu/˜biosrenn/ )
Susanne Renner <renner@lrz.uni-muenchen.de >
UNewBrunswick ResTech
ForestGenomics
Research Technician
Canada Research Chair in Forest and Conserva-
tion Genomics and Biotechnology Faculty of Forestry
and Environmental Management University of New
Brunswick, FrederictonA full-time position of Research Technician is available
immediately in the Forest Genetics and Genomics Lab
at the University of New Brunswick, Fredericton. The
Research Technician will be a member of an active and
well-funded research group of Dr. Om Rajora, con-
sisting of Ph.D., master and undergraduate students,
postdoctoral fellows and research assistants, working
on various aspects of molecular, population, conserva-
tion and evolutionary genetics; structural, functional
and conservation genomics; and biotechnology of for-
est trees. The Forest Genetics and Genomics Lab has
state-of-the-art molecular genetic and genomics facili-
ties, including automated DNA sequencers, robotic sys-
tems. The position is currently funded for three years
and may likely continue. The salary will commensurate
with qualiﬁcations and experience of the successful can-
didate.
Duties and Responsibilities The Research technician
is expected to contribute signiﬁcantly to the Canada
Research Chair research program. The main duties
and responsibilities of the position are as follows. -
Manage and maintain the lab infrastructure to ensure
proper functioning, operation and equitable access of
the equipment. - Develop, improve, optimize and/or
use molecular biology, genetics and genomics technolo-
gies to ensure eﬃcient and timely completion of the
research program. -Conduct research work on various
components of genomics, biotechnology, and molecular,
population and conservation genetics research projects
as directed by Dr. Om Rajora to facilitate achievement
of the research program milestones. -Train students,
postdoctoral fellows, research assistants and other re-
searchers in the use of equipment and research technolo-
gies. - Develop and implement lab policies in consulta-
tion with Dr. Om Rajora. - Procure equipment, con-
sumables and other supplies required for the research
program. - Prepare lab reports as requested by the
Project Principal Investigator from time to time.
Qualiﬁcations - A B.Sc. or M.Sc. degree in molecular
biology, genetics, biochemistry or related ﬁeld or equiv-
alent qualiﬁcations, preferably with lab experience in
plant molecular biology and genomics. In exceptional
cases, people with a Ph.D. degree who wish to further
their career by gaining experience as a technician may
be considered. - Adequate theoretical background and
lab experience in molecular biology, genomics and ge-
netics, preferably in a plant system. Proﬁciency in com-
mon molecular biology techniques, such as DNA/RNA
isolation and puriﬁcation, PCR, RT-PCR, genotyping,
cloning, transformation, sequencing, etc. - Excellent
English writing, communication, interpersonal, organi-
zational, management and leadership skills, and moti-
vation and dedication to research work. - Ability to52 EvolDir April 1, 2008
solve complex problems where analysis of situations
or data requires an evaluation of intangible variables.
- Ability to work in a highly independent and self-
directed as well as team-work environment.
Application Please send your application to Prof. Om
Rajora via e-mail (Om.Rajora@unb.ca), consisting of a
complete CV; letter of application outlining how your
qualiﬁcations and experience ﬁt the position; statement
of research interests; and names, addresses (e-mail and
postal) and telephone numbers of at least three refer-
ees. Evaluation of the applications will commence on
March 31, 2008 and will continue until the position is
ﬁlled.
Om P. Rajora, Ph.D. Professor and Senior Canada Re-
search Chair in Forest and Conservation Genomics and
Biotechnology Faculty of Forestry and Environmental
Management P.O. Box 44555, 28 Dineen Drive, Uni-
versity of New Brunswick Fredericton, NB E3B 6C2
Canada
E-mail: Om.Rajora@unb.ca Phone: (506) 458-7477
Fax: (506) 453-3538
orajora@unb.ca
UniAndes Colombia Evolutionary
Parasitologist
UNIVERSIDAD DE LOS ANDES
The Department of Biological Sciences at the Univer-
sidad de los Andes (Bogot´ a, Colombia) seeks to ﬁll a
position for a full time assistant or associate professor
with formal training and research experience in Para-
sitology. Applicants must have a Ph.D. degree, prefer-
ably with postdoctoral research and teaching experi-
ence. Researchers with experience in Molecular Biology
and Tropical Parasitology are especially encouraged to
apply.
The successful candidate is expected to teach and su-
pervise undergraduate and graduate students, and to
promote and conduct research projects in the proposed
ﬁeld.
Send curriculum vitae, copies of recent publications, a
research program, and two letters of recommendation
by December 15, 2008 to:
Faculty Search Committee Departamento de Cien-
cias Biol´ ogicas Universidad de Los Andes Carrera 1
No. 18A-10 P.O. Box 4976 Bogot´ a, Colombia ccont-bio@uniandes.edu.co
samadrin@uniandes.edu.co samadrin@uniandes.edu.co
UniAndes Colombia
PopulationGenetics
UNIVERSIDAD DE LOS ANDES
The Department of Biological Sciences at the Univer-
sidad de los Andes (Bogot´ a, Colombia) seeks to ﬁll a
position for a full time assistant or associate professor
with formal training and research experience in Popula-
tion Genetics and Biostatistics. Applicants must have
a Ph.D. degree, preferably with postdoctoral research
and teaching experience. Researchers with experience
in the quantitative analysis of molecular data in the
context of evolutionary studies are especially welcome.
The successful candidate is expected to teach introduc-
tory and advanced courses in biostatistics, to supervise
undergraduate and graduate students, and to promote
and conduct research projects in the proposed ﬁeld.
Send curriculum vitae, copies of recent publications, a
research program, and two letters of recommendation
by May 2, 2008 to:
Faculty Search Committee Departamento de Cien-
cias Biol´ ogicas Universidad de Los Andes Carrera 1
No. 18A-10 P.O. Box 4976 Bogot´ a, Colombia ccont-
bio@uniandes.edu.co
samadrin@uniandes.edu.co samadrin@uniandes.edu.co
UNottingham FrozenArkProject
Applications are invited for this post in the Institute
of Genetics and School of Biology at the University
of Nottingham, UK. The successful candidate will be
expected to conduct a research programme of interna-
tional quality, to direct the major initiative in conserva-
tion genetics, and to teach within the School of Biology.
Direction of the Frozen Ark Project will be the main
administrative task, and the person appointed will be
spared other such duties within the School and Insti-
tute.
Applications will be considered from candidates whoApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 53
work in the area of genetics and conservation and whose
research strengthens existing areas within the Institute
and School.
Information about research in the Institute of Ge-
netics is available at: http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/-
genetics Further information about the School of Bi-
ology is available at: http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/-
biology and about the Frozen Ark at: http://-
www.frozenark.org Salary will be within the profes-
sorial scale, minimum £51,095 per annum.
Informal enquiries may be addressed to Pro-
fessor J D Brook, tel: 0115 8230345, Email:
David.Brook@nottingham.ac.uk or to Profes-
sor Bryan Clarke, tel: 01223 245293, Email:
bryan.clarke@nottingham.ac.uk.
For more details and/or to apply on-line please access:
http://jobs.nottingham.ac.uk/JK25526 . If you are un-
able to apply on-line please contact the Human Re-
sources Department, at the University of Nottingham,
tel: 0115 951 3262 or fax: 0115 951 5205. Please quote
ref. JK/25526. Closing date: 18 April 2008.
This post is open until ﬁlled review of applications
from 18 April 2008 onwards.
bryan.clarke@nottingham.ac.uk
bryan.clarke@nottingham.ac.uk
UParis11 EvolBiol
*Application Deadline: March 30, 2008*
Dear Colleagues,
In 2008, a Professor level position will be available at
the University Paris-Sud 11 (Orsay). This position
will include research in the Evolution, Genomes and
Speciation laboratory at CNRS (Centre National de la
Recherche Scientiﬁque) in Gif-sur-Yvette. You can ﬁnd
a description of our main research interests on our lab-
oratory website ( http://www.legs.cnrs-gif.fr/ ).
We are looking for a highly motivated colleague that
will be interested in contributing to the building of a
local Evolution network. An absolute requirement of
the position is teaching of and research in Evolution.
The central theme of the teaching will be evolution
at Licence (BSc), Master and Doctorate (LMD) level.
This will include Population Genetics, Molecular Evo-
lution, Evo-Devo, and Animal Biology. In addition,
new teaching units will be developed. In terms of re-search, the main topics developed will focus on the
relationships between genotype and phenotype. More
precisely, this relationship will be investigated through
the structural and functional plasticity of genomes and
their variability within and between species. This in-
cludes several non-exclusive domains of investigation
such as micro Evo-Devo, Populations Genetics, Epige-
netics and Gene networks. The applicant will work
in one of these areas using arthropods as biological
model(s).
For more information, do not hesitate to con-
tact Pierre CAPY (pierre.capy@legs.cnrs-gif.fr
<mailto:pierre.capy@legs.cnrs-gif.fr >).
Sincerely, Pierre Capy
pierre.capy@legs.cnrs-gif.fr pierre.capy@legs.cnrs-gif.fr
UPuertoRico
AnimalBehaviorPopulationEvolution
The following message is the revised, oﬃcial version of
an earlier post from March 16, 2008.
Position Vacancy in Animal Behavior and/or Popula-
tion Evolution
The Department of Biology, University of Puerto Rico,
Mayag¨ uez (UPRM, wwwuprm.edu/biology) invites ap-
plications for a Tenure-track Position as Assistant Pro-
fessor in Animal Behavior and/or Animal Population
Evolution to begin August 2008 or until position is
ﬁlled. A Ph.D. degree is required, post doctoral expe-
rience desired. Candidates must demonstrate teaching
skills for undergraduate courses in Animal Behavior,
Evolution and General Biology and graduate courses
in Population Ecology and Behavioral Ecology as well
as the ability to design and develop courses in area of
specialty. The successful candidate will be expected to
develop an active research program along with his/her
teaching duties. Research collaboration with other fac-
ulty from Agricultural Sciences and Engineering as well
as both undergraduate and graduate students is desir-
able. External funds, when obtained, will allow eligi-
bility for release time and/or additional compensation
during the academic year and/or summer. UPRM is a
Land-Grant, Sea-Grant, and Space-Grant institution;
interaction with faculty and researchers in these ﬁelds
is encouraged.
Puerto Rico represents a suitable setting to develop re-
search in tropical systems, and the University of Puerto54 EvolDir April 1, 2008
Rico stimulates collaboration with active faculty and
students in a wide range of the Biological Sciences and
Biotechnology. Beneﬁts include health insurance, relo-
cation costs (if applicable), and tuition waivers in the
UPR system for immediate family members. Knowl-
edge of English and Spanish or a willingness to learn is
desirable. Please send Curriculum Vitae, statements of
research interests and teaching philosophy, and contact
information for three references (by e-mail with hard-
copy to follow) by April 14, 2008 to Dr. Lucy Bunkley-
Williams, Director, (lwilliams@uprm.edu) Department
of Biology, University of Puerto Rico, Mayag¨ uez Cam-
pus, P.O. Box 9012, Mayag¨ uez, Puerto Rico 00681-
9012. The University of Puerto Rico is an Equal Op-
portunity Employer.
Approved by the State Elections Commission (#CEE-
C-08-025 submitted December 12, 2007). This adver-
tisement is required by the General Rules of the Uni-
versity of Puerto Rico (#6479) (Certiﬁcation No. 90
Series 2001-02 of the Board of Trustees)
Posted by Nico Franz http://academic.uprm.edu/-
˜ franz/ Antes ahora y siempre COLEGIO University
of Puerto Rico at Mayaguez http://www.uprm.edu
URochester SummerResearch
Undergraduate Summer Research Fellowships
Summer Research Training Fellowships are available to
study the molecular ecology of endosymbiotic bacteria
in insects at the University of Rochester. The fellow-
ships will include travel expenses, a stipend, and hous-
ing for 8 weeks. The summer research training program
will span June to August 2008 (dates are ﬂexible). In-
terest in one of the following areas; entomology, mi-
crobiology, evolution or ecology is required and some
experience in PCR is desirable. During the fellowship
you will learn the methods involved in identiﬁcation of
insect hosts, screening, molecular typing of endosymbi-
otic bacteria (genus Wolbachia), and analysis of data
relating to variation, global distribution and host asso-
ciations of these endosymbionts.
More information is available at:
http://troi.cc.rochester.edu/ ˜ wolb/FIBR/-
education.html For any additional questions regarding
this Summer Training Program contact:
Rachel Edwards at redward2@mail.rochester.edumclark11@mail.rochester.edu
mclark11@mail.rochester.edu
WoodsHole ResAssist GenomeEvol
Full-time Research Assistant position - genome evolu-
tion of bacterial endosymbionts Marine Biological Lab,
Woods Hole, Mass.
The MBL seeks a highly motivated individual to join
Jennifer Wernegreen’s lab as a full time research assis-
tant beginning this summer (2008). The successful ap-
plicant will contribute to our projects exploring mecha-
nisms and outcomes of genome evolution in bacterial
endosymbionts. Speciﬁc projects examine functional
genomics and population dynamics of endosymbionts
within ant hosts. In addition, we’re using computa-
tional approaches to explore genome variation across
diverse host-associated bacteria. Our lab is part of the
MBL’s Josephine Bay Paul Center in Woods Hole, a
collaborative research group centering on microbial di-
versity, molecular evolution, and comparative genomics
(http://jbpc.mbl.edu/ ).
Responsibilities: This position is ideal for someone in-
terested in genomics, evolution, bioinformatics, sym-
biosis, and/or microbiology. Responsibilities will in-
clude high throughput sequencing using ABI and py-
rosequencing (454) technologies, DNA and RNA ex-
tractions, standard and quantitative PCR, in situ hy-
bridization, pulsed ﬁeld gel electrophoresis, microscopy,
assisting with ﬁeld collection and rearing of ants, and
general lab maintenance (ordering, etc.). Opportunities
for data analysis will include DNA sequence alignment,
phylogenetic analysis, design of PCR and sequencing
primers, and extensive use of molecular databases. Ex-
perience with any or all of the above is desirable. Please
seehttp://jbpc.mbl.edu/labs-wernegreen.html for a de-
scription of our projects, and contact Jen Wernegreen
(jwernegreen@mbl.edu) with any questions.
Qualiﬁcations: This position requires a B.A., B.S., or
M.S. in biology or a related ﬁeld and prior experience
in an active research lab. It is essential that applicants
have a genuine drive to perform basic research and prior
experience with molecular techniques, ideally in a re-
search setting. We also prefer a working knowledge of
UNIX/LINUX operating systems and PERL, and com-
puter programming skills. This position requires ex-
cellent written, verbal, and interpersonal skills, excep-
tional organization skills, attention to detail, a superbApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 55
work ethic, and an enthusiastic, determined approach
to research. Position level and salary will depend upon
education and experience.
To apply: Please prepare the following: (i) a cover let-
ter describing your motivation for applying, prior re-
search experience, and speciﬁc experience with the job
responsibilities listed above; (ii) your CV; (iii) names
and contact information for three references, includ-
ing at least one supervisor or advisor who can com-
ment on your independent research skills; and (iv)
transcript of your undergraduate and (when applica-
ble) graduate course work. Please contact Jen (jwerne-
green@mbl.edu) for instructions on how to submit these
items.
Applications will be considered until position is ﬁlled.
However, for full consideration, please apply by April
7.
Jennifer Wernegreen <jwernegreen@mbl.edu >
WoodsHole ResAssist
SymbiontViruses
POSITION: Research Assistant II/III Symbiont
Viruses
A full-time Research Assistant II/III position is avail-
able in the Josephine Bay Paul Center for Compara-
tive Molecular Biology and Evolution at the Marine
Biological Laboratory. This position is part of an
evolutionary genomics research program and will in-
volve interconnections among molecular biology, sym-
biosis, virology, genomics, evolutionary biology, and
phylogenetics. Questions can be addressed to sborden-
stein@mbl.edu and additional information about the
Bordenstein lab can be found at: http://jbpc.mbl.edu/-
labs-bordenstein.html Wolbachia are one of the most
common group of intracellular inherited bacteria on
the planet and span the spectrum of symbiotic asso-
ciations from parasitism in arthropods, to mutualism
in nematodes, and pathogenesis in humans. The bac-
teria have gained increasing interest for their potential
roles in evolutionary processes of invertebrates, arthro-
pod vector control, and human ﬁlarial diseases. Pri-
mary research projects will focus on the genome evo-
lution and function of Wolbachia viruses. Responsi-
bilities include molecular biology activities such as pu-
riﬁcation and enrichment of viruses from insect sym-
bionts, isolation of viral DNA, qPCR, genomic libraryconstruction, DNA sequencing, bioinformatics, and ge-
netic database searching. Skills in some of these du-
ties are required and should be highlighted in the cover
letter. Basic Qualiﬁcations: Bachelor’s or Master’s
degree and training in Microbiology, Molecular Biol-
ogy, Evolution, Genetics, or a related ﬁeld. The ex-
act position will depend upon education and previ-
ous experience. Preferred Qualiﬁcations: Training in
some molecular biology techniques preferred, includ-
ing cloning and sequencing, virus puriﬁcation, sequence
alignments, phylogenetics, or genomics. Familiarity
with computational skills, GenBank, Mac OS, Win-
dows, and Linux/Unix a plus. The successful applicant
is expected to have good team skills, but work with
a high level of independence under broad supervision.
Candidates with interest and experience in Molecular
Biology, Virology, Parasitology, Evolution, Genetics, or
Comparative Genomics may ﬁnd this position partic-
ularly rewarding. Position is available until a suitable
candidate is identiﬁed. Candidates outside the New
England area are encouraged to apply. The position
includes generous beneﬁts and coauthorship on scien-
tiﬁc publications. Physical Requirements Able to lift
20 lbs. Apply online at mbl.simplehire. com An Equal
Opportunity Employer
Marian Padenski Human Resources Assistant Marine
Biological Laboratory 7 MBL St. Woods Hole, MA
02543 phone: 508.289.7422 mpadenski@mbl.edu
Human Resources <humanres@mbl.edu >
WoodsHole Summer
AntBacterialSymbiosis
REU- bacterial symbiosis
The Marine Biological Laboratory in Woods Hole,
MA invites undergraduates to apply for a sum-
mer REU position. The student will explore the
evolution and functional signiﬁcance of an ant-
bacterial symbiosis within the lab of Jen Werne-
green ( <http://jbpc.mbl.edu/labs-wernegreen.html
>http://jbpc.mbl.edu/labs-wernegreen.html). The 10-
week position will include housing at the MBL, travel,
and a summer stipend. The position is contingent upon
funding from the NSF.
Applications are due March 15. For details of the
project and an online application, please see:
< http://www.mbl.edu/hr/employment.html56 EvolDir April 1, 2008
>http://www.mbl.edu/hr/employment.html
Click Search MBL jobs >>Seasonal/Temporary >>
Research Experience for Undergraduates- insect en-
dosymbionts
Please contact Jen Wernegreen ( jwernegreen@mbl.edu )with any questions.
Marian Padenski Human Resources Assistant Marine
Biological Laboratory 7 MBL St. Woods Hole, MA
02543 phone: 508.289.7422 mpadenski@mbl.edu
Human Resources <humanres@mbl.edu >
Other
AFLP ABI . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Antirrhineae leaf samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Ant preservation in silica gel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Applied Biosystems Veritis thermalcycler problems 57
Assignment with triploid ﬁsh . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Bottleneck detection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
CallforEuropean PopGenetics Research Consortia Con-
Gen 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Canadian basic research threatened . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
ChicagoBotanicGarden SummerResearch . . . . . . . . . . 59
Course on Genetic software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Data for Haldanes rule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Double AFLP bands . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Drosophila Song Equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
ESEB2009 call for symposia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Estimating divergence times . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Estimating divergence times answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Estimating founder population size . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
European source N-phenacylthiazolium bromide . . . 63
EvolApplications journal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Evolutionary Bioinformatics Journal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Evolution of Ceratocapnos claviculata . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
GCG seqlab petition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Genetic data simulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Genotype data for graduate students . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
HighMolWeight DNA 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
HighMolWeight DNA answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
High througput plant DNA extraction . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Hintelmann Award for Zoological Systematics . . . . . 66
Incomplete lineage sorting and hybridization . . . . . . 67
Incomplete lineage sorting and hybridization answers
67
Insect Microsat Library Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Insect Microsat Library Development answers . . . . . 68
Inverse PCR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
JournalConference Asilomar DiseaseDynamics Dec1-369
Microsporidian Mosquito DNA extraction . . . . . . . . . 70
Molluskan DNA extraction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Molluskan DNA extraction 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
NESCent ComparativeMethodsInR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
NESCent programming . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
NESCent survey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
No mtDNA divergence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Primer dye . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Program for FStatistics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Roomate for Evolution Symposia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Same mitochondrial genome diﬀerent nuclear genomes
73
Same mitochondrial genome diﬀerent nuclear genomes
answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Scott Williamson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Softare TreeRot BugFix . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Software APE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Software GeoPhyloBuilder bug ﬁx . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Software IDEA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Software IDEA update . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Software MANTiS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Software OrthoMaM Version2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Software PGETtoolbox . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
SouthAfrica Volunteer MammalBehavior . . . . . . . . . . 79
SpeciesDiﬀerences Call for papers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
SSB 3rdWorld Scholarships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
SSB ErnstMayr award competition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
SSB Graduate Student Research Awards . . . . . . . . . . 81
SSB Mini PEET award . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
SSE TravelAwards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Too many haplotypes per individual . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
URochester SummerResFellowships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
WoodsHole MBL REU AntSymbionts . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
YouTube SelﬁshGeneticElements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84April 1, 2008 EvolDir 57
AFLP ABI
Dear EvolDir members,
I have got two questions concerning AFLP analyses on
an ABI 3130xl Genetic Analyzer:
1. Currently we do a sephadex puriﬁcation of the PCR
products before running them on the sequencer. ABI
doesn’t recommend such a puriﬁcation. Does anyone
know if the puriﬁcation does any diﬀerence to the re-
sults? Do you gain much weaker signals after puriﬁ-
cation, do you even loose fragments, or are the peaks
better detectable due to less noise?
2. The injection volume we use is 2 µl multiplexed PCR
products, 0.25 µl ROX and 7.75 µl Hi-Di formamide, so
a total volume of 10 µl per sample. ABI recommends
to use at least 12 µl, or even 20 µl, which simply means
adding more Hi-Di to the sample. They argue that
having a larger volume would prevent loss of fragments
due to evaporation. As the signals we detect are rather
weak, we wonder what would be best to increase peak
size, having a larger volume and/or extending injection
time (now 12 seconds). I am very grateful for any ideas
how to get better signals...
Thanks a lot in advance!
Simone
Simone Steﬀen
Institut f¨ ur Spezielle Botanik und Botanischer Garten
Bentzelweg 9a 55099 Mainz Germany
phone: +49 6131 3922624 fax: +49 6131 3923524 mail:
ssteﬀen@uni-mainz.de
Antirrhineae leaf samples
Does anyone out there have vouchered leaf material
of Pseudorontium cyathiferum (syn: Antirrhinum cy-
athiferum) ? The 2 ITS and 1 trnL sequences on Gen-
Bank give very contrasting placemenmts in a phylogeny
of tribe Antirrhineae, and we would like to conﬁrm
these with our own sequences, as well as new sequences
for extra chloroplast and nuclear markers. Thanks in
anticipation. Dr Alan Forrest Real Jardin Botanico de
MadridAlan Forrest <aforrest@rjb.csic.es >
Ant preservation in silica gel
Hi, I wonder if anyone has experience in drying/storing
ants using silica gel for DNA analysis. Thanks, Alejan-
dro
Alejandro.Nettel-Hernanz@leec.univ-paris13.fr
Applied Biosystems Veritis
thermalcycler problems
Dear colleagues,
I have recently purchased the new model of Applied
thermalcycler (Veritis), but several programs that used
to amplify well in our other thermalcylers (Eppendorf)
simply does not work well (or do not work at all) on
the Veritis.
We even realized that at least in one case, the thermal-
cylcer actually does not follow the times speciﬁed in the
programs (It had to stay 30 minutes at 37 degrees but
if continues for a while at that temperature).
A coalleague told me that the problems may be related
with the faster ramp times capabilities of the Veritis.
Does any of you have similar problems (and solutions)?
You may reply to edutars@icb.ufmg.br, and I will send
a list of helpful comments.
I would like to have the customers perspective before
to contact the Applied technical support.
Thanks Eduardo
– Eduardo Tarazona-Santos Professor Adjunto Insti-
tuto de Ciencias Biologicas Universidade Federal de Mi-
nas Gerais Telefone: ++55 31 34092572 e-mail: edu-
tars@icb.ufmg.br
apache@mail.icb.ufmg.br58 EvolDir April 1, 2008
Assignment with triploid ﬁsh
Dear EvolDir members,
Currently I do population assignments (9 µsat) with
ﬁsh captured in diﬀerent rivers by sportive ﬁshermen.
I have 8 potential source-populations (nP) composed
of pisciculture and wild population strains, but one of
them is triploid. Also, among ﬁsh captured by ﬁsher-
men, a small proportion is triploid too. As population
assigment with triploid individuals is not possible, I
have two problems:
1) to convert my triploid source-population in a diploid
one (because that pisciculture also produced diploid ﬁsh
from the same strain, which could then be found in na-
ture, but it is not possible for me to obtain those 2N
ﬁsh). To do it, I randomly resampled 2 loci out of the
3 possibles loci for each individual and then created
10 populations of diploid ﬁsh. Fst between those pop-
ulations were really low and the population with the
smallest Fst was chosen for the assignment analyses.
Was it OK to do it?
2) to convert my triploid ﬁsh of unknown origin in
diploid ones. Should I use the same method?
Thanks a lot in advance!
Isabel
Isabel Thibault, PhD candidate Biology Department
Laval University, Quebec Quebec, Canada, G1V 0A6
phone: 418-656-2131 #7862 fax: 418-656-2339 mail: is-
abel.thibault.2@ulaval.ca
Bottleneck detection
Dear members,
Recently we assessed whether a genetic bottleneck had
occured in Sheko cattle population (currently classiﬁed
as being endangered) using the BOTTLENECK (Cor-
nuet and Luikart 1996 Genetics 144:2001-2014). How-
ever for our paper the reviewer pointed out that this
method is unlikely to detect a genetic signal, as only
much smaller bottlenecks are likely to show this eﬀect.Furthermore, this method does not always detect even
quite small, recent bottlenecks.
So my question is does any one out there have an idea
of a better and much more powerful method than BOT-
TLENECK that can detect a genetic signal?
Thanking you in advance.
Mwacharo J.M. Doctoral Candidate Tokyo University
of Agriculture
mwacharo@gmail.com
CallforEuropean PopGenetics
Research Consortia ConGen 2
Call for ConGen European Research Consortia
The ESF Research Networking Programme on “Inte-
grating Population Genetics and Conservation Biol-
ogy: merging theoretical, experimental and applied ap-
proaches” (ConGen) aims at providing a venue for con-
certed action in the ﬁeld of conservation genetics com-
bining and integrating theoretical, experimental and
applied approaches. The Programme, which runs until
November 2009, pursues these objectives by training
young scientists through travel, exchange grants and
courses, and by organising workshops.
To ensure long-standing collaborative research in the
ﬁeld of conservation genetics beyond November 2009,
the Steering Committee (SC) has decided to promote
and stimulate the establishment of European Research
Consortia that successfully can apply for research fund-
ing from diﬀerent granting organisations like the EU.
To this end, the SC has decided to provide funding
to organise an initiating discussion meeting between
prospective collaborating researchers. ConGen is oﬀer-
ing a maximum of 7500 EUR for such a 2-3-day meet-
ing. We expect collaboration between researchers from
at least four diﬀerent European countries. The Call is
open for all researchers working within or having aﬃli-
ations to institutions eligiible for support by, or which
are part of, agencies that are Member of the ESF. How-
ever, some preferences may be given to consortia which
include a signiﬁcant number of, or are chaired by, re-
searchers from ConGen contributing countries ( http://-
www.congen.b iz or http://www.esf.org/congen ). The
Consortium itself should be novel, inviting participa-
tion of scientists / laboratories that so far had only
limited cooperation.April 1, 2008 EvolDir 59
Application Procedure
Applications should be submitted online at http://-
www2.esf.org/asp/form/scmeetings/sc form.asp?id=-
82,and should include:
(i) a clear description of the long-term aims of the con-
sortium and the research questions addressed (1 A4
page),
(ii) prospects about the possibility of getting further
funding in a general way
(iii) name and aﬃliation of all participants of the con-
sortium including a short CV providing expertise and
ﬁve recent relevant publications of each participants
(iv) the name of the researcher leading the consortium
(Chair) responsible for the application
(v) and a calculation of the costs of the meeting.
After the meeting it is expected that the coordina-
tors of the funded Consortia should write a summary
of the discussions of the meeting and outline funding
prospects of the Consortium, or alternatively, a sketch
for proposal(s) to be submitted to funding agencies.
Deadline
The deadline for submitting applications online is 1
April 2008.
Contact
Professor Kuke Bijlsma (r.bijlsma@rug.nl) Chair of the
ConGen Programme
Ms. C´ eline Seewald (cseewald@esf.org) ESF Adminis-
trator
Celine Seewald <cseewald@esf.org >
Canadian basic research threatened
Dear Canadian EvolDir members,
As you may be aware, the conservative government has
released the details of its budget as it pertains to sci-
entiﬁc research. Following on their closure of the Na-
tional Science Advisor post, they have decided to funnel
large sums to a small number of individuals working in
particular applied areas. The implications for basic re-
search are not ambiguous. I refer you to news reports
by Science and Nature about the impact of this ad-
ministration on Canadian science, and I encourage you
to inform your colleagues about these recent develop-
ments.http://sciencenow.sciencemag.org/cgi/content/full/-
2008/226/1 http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/-
v451/n7181/full/451866a.html Best wishes,
- Ryan Gregory
Dr. T. Ryan Gregory Assistant Professor Department
of Integrative Biology University of Guelph 50 Stone
Rd. E. Guelph, Ontario N1G 2W1 CANADA
http://www.genomesize.com/gregorylab/ rgre-
gory@uoguelph.ca rgregory@uoguelph.ca
ChicagoBotanicGarden
SummerResearch
National Science Foundation Research Experiences for
Undergraduates Plant Biology & Conservation: From
Genes to Ecosystems
The Chicago Botanic Garden (CBG) and Northwestern
University (NU) collaborate to host a 10-week summer
research experience in Plant Biology & Conservation.
Our program exposes interns to a rich research environ-
ment in a small, friendly institution (CBG), as well as
access to world-class facilities (NU). REU interns expe-
rience all aspects of plant biology and conservation re-
search starting with the experimental design, data col-
lection and analysis, through to presenting the results
in a symposium at the end of the internship. Interns
also participate in ﬁeld trips, workshops, and lectures.
REU interns are paired with CBG and NU scientists to
participate in research ﬁelds including:
Molecular Ecology Soil Biology & Biogeochemistry
Quantitative Genetics Environmental Horticulture Sys-
tematics and Evolution Restoration Ecology
Program Dates: 26th May - 1st August, 2008 2008
Application deadline: Friday March 14, 2008 For
more information and application details, visit http:/-
/labs.corpus-callosum.com/cbg/ Nyree Zerega Direc-
tor of Graduate Program Plant Biology and Conser-
vation Northwestern University Chicago Botanic Gar-
den http://www.plantbiology.northwestern.edu nz-
erega@chicagobotanic.org nzerega@chicagobotanic.org
Course on Genetic software60 EvolDir April 1, 2008
Hi all:
I am a PhD student working in my thesis about quanti-
tative genetic in aquaculture, actually I am start to full
the data base for calculate heritability and genetic cor-
relations. For these reasons I am looking for a practical
course about genetic softwares packages (VCE, dfreml,
ASREML or other). I appreciate if you can give me
some information about some course. Thanks in ad-
vance. Regards Rodrigo Badilla
Atte. Rodrigo Badilla. Biologo Marino. Pro-
grama de Doctorado en Acuicultura. Laborato-
rio de Genetica Marina. IUSA, ULPGC. Las
Palmas, Gran Canaria. Espa˜ na. movil:+34
606237167 www.grupoinvestigacionacuicultura.org ro-
drigo.badilla@gmail.com
Data for Haldanes rule
Dear all,
I am working on compiling studies / datasets of hy-
bridization that report the results of backcrosses be-
tween taxa that show Haldane’s rule. I am looking for
a speciﬁc type of data, but I am still surprised over how
few studies I have been able to ﬁnd so far and suspect
that I am missing quite a few studies. If you are aware
of any studies fulﬁlling the below criteria, or if you know
of anyone that might know, I would greatly appreciate
some help with my quest. Please reply or respond to me
directly at: Goran.Arnqvist@ebc.uu.se These are the
criteria that need to be fulﬁlled for useful data sets: 1.
Crosses between the two taxa in question should show
some degree of Haldane’s rule (for fertility, viability or
both). 2. All possible reciprocal backcrosses should
be reported, such that both types of homogametic F1
hybrids [female hybrids in XY taxa; male hybrids in
ZW taxa] are backcrossed to the heterogametic sex of
both parental species [males in XY taxa; females in
ZW taxa]. This yields four types of backcrosses. 3.
The study should then report measures of fertility or
viability for oﬀspring of the heterogametic sex [males
in XY taxa; females in ZW taxa] from these four types
of backcrosses.
I would be very grateful for any pointers that you could
provide,
/G¨ oran
Prof. G¨ oran Arnqvist Animal Ecology Department
of Ecology and Evolution Evolutionary Biology Cen-tre University of Uppsala Norbyv¨ agen 18d SE - 752 36
Uppsala Sweden
Email: Goran.Arnqvist@ebc.uu.se Phone: +46-
(0)18-471 2645 Cell phone: +46-(0)70-2935032
Fax: +46-(0)18-471 6484 Homepage with PDF
downloads and more at: http://www.ebc.uu.se/-
zooeko/GoranA/GA.html goran.arnqvist@ebc.uu.se
goran.arnqvist@ebc.uu.se
Double AFLP bands
Dear colleagues
I moved some time ago to a new research institute and
had to change to the ABI AFLP core kit for performing
AFLPs. Rather expensive, but handy as this provides a
master mix for PCRs to be mixed just with primers and
DNA (R-L, however, is still performed in the classical
way).
Shortly, I get most of the time double peaks for all frag-
ments present in the gel. They are 1bp diﬀerent in size,
so they seem to be a result of incomplete addition of the
extra nucleotide to the ﬁnal strand. I found out in Vos
(1995) paper that such problems might appear from too
low concentration of dNTPs, but as nobody knows how
much dNTPs is in the secret ABI kit, this surely isn’t
very useful for a scientist. I used previously GoldTaq
and RedTaq and never had this problem. However, I
must mention that I also changed the study organism,
so I can’t exclude diﬀerent components in my extrac-
tions. Lately I was the only one doing AFLPs in the
lab, so unfortunately I can’t check if anybody else using
this kit has similar problems.
The problem appears in classical AFLPs, but also in
its variant MSAP (where two diﬀerent pairs of re-
striction enzymes are used separately, i.e., in my case
the isoschizomers HpaII and MspI in combination with
EcoRI).
Does anybody have any clue what can cause the double
pattern?
Thanks a lot Ovidiu
Ovidiu Paun, PhD Molecular Systematics Sec-
tion, Jodrell Laboratory, Royal Botanic Gar-
dens, Kew, Richmond, Surrey TW9 3DS United
Kingdom Tel: 020 8332 5378 Fax: 020 8332
5310 O.Paun@kew.org <mailto:O.Paun@kew.org >
opaun@networld.at <mailto:opaun@networld.at >April 1, 2008 EvolDir 61
Ovidiu Paun <O.Paun@kew.org >
Drosophila Song Equipment
Hi All,
I’m looking for a microphone or a device for record-
ing and amplifying the songs (the insectavox) of
Drosophila. Does anyone know any information about
it? What software should I use to record the songs?
Thank you very much.
Dr Richard Bailey Evolutionary Biology Cen-
tre (EBC) Uppsala University, SWEDEN Email:
Richard.Bailey[AT]ebc.uu.se Phone: +46 18 471 2662
Gao xiang <gaoxiang.xiao@gmail.com >
ESEB2009 call for symposia
Call for symposia
ESEB-members are invited to propose subjects for sym-
posia during the XII Congress of ESEB. Proposals
should include the following:
1. Title 2. A short description of the subject area and
motivation why the symposium is of interest to Evolu-
tionary Biology. 3. A tentative list of possible invited
speakers. 4. Names and addresses of the organisers
including their aﬃliation and e-mail address.
Symposia proposals should be sent to the follow-
ing e-mail address no later than May 20, 2008:
eseb2009@unito.it Information about the Congress and
Turin will be available soon at: http://www.eseb2009.it
The organizers M. Cristina Lorenzi and Gabriella Sella
The 12th Congress of The European Society for Evolu-
tionary Biology <http://www.eseb.org >will be held
in Turin, Italy, August 24-29, 2009. The structure of
the congress is similar to previous meetings, each day
starting with a plenary keynote speaker, followed by
parallel symposia. About 25 symposia will be accepted.
A symposium will typically consist of two-three invited
talks and 8-10 contributed talks. The congress will
cover the ﬁeld of evolutionary biology in a wide sense,
but with emphasis on processes and mechanisms of evo-lutionary phenomena.
eseb 2009 <eseb2009@unito.it >
Estimating divergence times
Dear EvolDir members,
I’m studying the phylogeography af a sea urchin species
by sequencing the entire mitochondrial gene Cyt b. As-
signment analysis with BAPS revealed the presence of
three sympatric clusters with maximum statistical sup-
port (P=1). To make some considerations about the
origin and spread of the clusters I’d like to estimate
the divergence time among the three clusters. I would
greatly appreciate if someone could suggest me the way
and the software to proceed in this estimation?
Michele Barbieri Ph.D. student Universit` a di Pisa
Dipartimento di Biologia Unit` a di Biologia Marina
ed Ecologia Via A. Volta 6, 56126, Pisa - Italy (I)
tel: +39 050 2211407 fax: +39 050 2211410 mbarbi-
eri@biologia.unipi.it
Michele Barbieri <mbarbieri@biologia.unipi.it >
Estimating divergence times answers
Dear EvolDir members, I’m studying the phylogeogra-
phy of a sea urchin species by sequencing the entire
mitochondrial gene Cyt b. Assignment analysis with
BAPS revealed the presence of three sympatric clus-
ters with maximum statistical support (P=1). To make
some considerations about the origin and spread of the
clusters I’d like to estimate the divergence time among
the three clusters. I would greatly appreciate if someone
could suggest me the way and the software to proceed
in this estimation?
Answers:
- Hi Michele, would suggest MDiv. Please could I have
the summary of replies? thanks and good luck, Ute
- use BEAST (rambaut & drummond et al) Mark
Schultz Charles Darwin University C/- Arafura Timor
Research Facility PO Box 41775 Casuarina NT 0811
Australia Ph: +61 (0)8 8920 9292 Fax: +61 (0)8 8920
922262 EvolDir April 1, 2008
- Ciao Michele, ho letto il tuo post su evoldir; io
lavoro a ferrara e mi sono (e talvolta ancora) oc-
cupato di tempi di divergenza, barcodig e cose del
genere; di solito quando faccio datazioni molecolari
uso Beast (gli autori sono Drummond e Ram-
baut beast.bio.ed.ac.uk/Main Page); altrimenti puoi
provare con Mrbayes (anche se ` e pi` u complicato
gestire l’output) oppure con multidivtime (del
gruppo di Thorne <http://statgen.ncsu.edu/thorne/-
multidivtime.html )>http://statgen.ncsu.edu/thorne/multidivtime.html)
o r8s (di Sanderson http://ginger.ucdavis.edu/r8s/ ))
ma usando questi ultimi due approcci devi avere gi` a
un albero sensato che rappresenti le relazioni tra le
tue sequenze e in generale implementano relaxed clock
models (mentre con mrbayes e beast puo mettere
l’orologio “strict”). Oppure puoi semplicemente calco-
lare le distanze tra gruppi con Mega e avere una idea
di massima della situazione. Spero di esserti stato utile
e se hai bisogno di altre informazioni scrivimi pure.
Ciao, Stefano
- Hi Michele, Without knowing much about your data,
I’d suggest IMa (by Nielsen and Hey) and/or BEAST
(Drummond et al). Are the clulsters very diﬀerent?
Just by stochastic processes you could have the appear-
ance of clades while the population is actually panmic-
tic. In my thesis work I used MDIV, which is like IMa
but simpler, and BEAST to look at divergences among
frogs. see http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2148/-
7/247/abstract good luck, Kathryn
——————————
Kathryn R. Elmer, Ph.D. Humboldt Postdoctoral
Fellow Evolutionary Biology (LS Meyer) Dept. of
Biology University of Konstanz D-78457 Konstanz
Germany phone: +49 (0) 75 31 88 37 10 (from
abroad, no (0)) fax: +49 (0) 75 31 88 30 18 e-
mail: kathryn.elmer@uni-konstanz.de website: http:/-
/www.evolutionsbiologie.uni-konstanz.de/˜kathryn/ -
You really need to have an external marker, like a bio-
geographic event. MtDNA evolution rates can vary
quite a lot and can be very diﬀerent between relatively
closely related lineages. Certainly this is true in insects,
which I work in; perhaps you should look into whether
urchins might be more consistent. However, I would
certainly not assume that a rate obtained for a distant
group will apply to yours. Karl
Karl Magnacca
Postdoctoral Researcher Department of Zoology Trin-
ity College, Dublin 2 Ireland
- ciao Michele riguardo alla tua richiesta su evoldir i pro-
grammi piu’ usati per divergence time siano MrBayes
e Beast. mrbayes e’ facile da usare, mentre Beast for-
nisce molte piu’ opzione, ma e’ piu’ diﬃcle da usare.
consiglio anche Tracer per analizzare gli output di en-trambi i programmi. pero’ se i tuoi cluster sono interni
alla specie (cioe’ stiamo parlando della stessa specie)
allora un approccio cladistico e’ impossibile perche’ ce’
orizzontal transfer. In quel caso, a detta di un mio
collega che studia divergence time, non ce’ ninete da
fare. inoltre lui sottolinea che avresti cmq bisogno di
un grosso numero di sostituizioni nucleotidiche, dici-
amo un centinaio per ramo, ma dubito che cytb per
organismi cosi correlati proti un segnale di questo tipo.
magari ce’ ma qui non lo sappiamo. ciao e in bocca al
lupo.
- Hi Michele, The program r8s (Sanderson, 2002 MBE
19:101; Sanderson, 2003, Bioinformatics 19:301) will al-
low you to do this based on adding another sequence
into your phylogeny for which the divergence time is
known. You then constrain the node that the div time
is known for (fossil records are the best source of this
sort of data) and the remainder of the node ages are
calculated for you Good luck –mark chapman
——————————–
Mark A. Chapman mchapman@plantbio.uga.edu My
webpage: http://markachapman.googlepages.com/
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Estimating founder population size
Dear EvolDir members
I am attempting to estimate founder population size for
a recently introduced population (c. seven years/max
10 generations) of Anolis using microsatellite data.
Standard estimates of eﬀective population size are likely
to be inappropriate in this case since mutation rate can-
not be accurately estimated due to the recent nature of
the introduction.
I have come across a paper (Rasner et al 2004, Molecu-
lar Ecology) that attempts to answer the question using
the number of alleles (n) within the most variable locus
in the introduced population as an absolute minimum
estimate of the founder population size. (Eight gener-
ations were assumed to have passed between founding
and sampling). The paper then uses simulation to re-
sample a speciﬁed number of ’founder individuals’ from
the native population 1000 times and calculates the pro-
portion of times that at least this number (n) of allelesApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 63
are captured in the samples. The smallest number of
founders consistent with the data was taken to be the
number that gave a probability >0.05 of capturing n
observed alleles (Rasner et al 2004).
My questions are
ﬁrst, does anyone know of a method for estimating
founder population size using microsatellite data in
such a recently founded population?
second, is there a program in the public domain that
can handle a simulation such as that described above?
It is presumably relatively easy to write such a program,
unfortunately it is not my expertise!
Many thanks for your anticipated help on this problem,
Jacqui Eales Doctoral candidate, Bangor University,
Wales, UK
bsp030@bangor.ac.uk
European source
N-phenacylthiazolium bromide
Dear colleagues,
Would anyone of you know about a European chemi-
cal manufacturer that would sell N-phenacylthiazolium
bromide (PTB)? To date, I was only able to ﬁnd this
product in N America.
Thank you, and best regards,
Philippe Gaubert.
Philippe Gaubert UR IRD 131 - UMS MNHN
403 D´ epartement Milieux et Peuplements Aquatiques
Mus´ eum National d’Histoire Naturelle 43, rue Cuvier
75005 Paris FRANCE Tel. (33)1 40 79 31 68 / Fax.
(33)1 40 79 37 71 Email: gaubert@mnhn.fr
* Zootaxa website: http://www.mapress.com/-
zootaxa/ gaubert@mnhn.fr
EvolApplications journal
Dear fellow evolutionary biologists,
We are pleased to announce the oﬃcial launch of thehighly anticipated evolution journal, Evolutionary Ap-
plications. The journal is currently freely available
worldwide at:
< http://www.evolutionaryapplications.com
>www.evolutionaryapplications.com
Evolutionary Applications publishes papers that uti-
lize concepts from evolutionary biology to address bi-
ological questions of health, social and economic rel-
evance. Papers are expected to employ evolutionary
concepts or methods to make contributions to areas
such as (but not limited to): agriculture, aquaculture,
biomedicine, biotechnology, conservation biology, dis-
ease biology, ﬁsheries and wildlife management and in-
vasion biology. Theoretical, empirical, synthesis or per-
spective papers are welcome.
We look forward to receiving your papers.
Sincerely,
Louis Bernatchez, Editor in Chief Michelle Tseng, Man-
aging Editor
Associate Editors: Troy Day, George Gilchrist, Jessica
Hellmann, Carol Lee, Isabelle Olivieri, Craig Primmer,
Thomas Smith, Pete Thrall
Editorial Board: Sally Aitken, Spencer Barrett, Norm
Ellstrand, Doug Futuyma, Rosemary Gillespie, Phil
Hedrick, Andrew Hendry, Jeﬀ Hutchings, Philippe
Jarne, Juha Meril¨ a, Yannis Michalakis, Craig Moritz,
Judy Myers, Randolph Nesse, Andrew Read, Loren
Rieseberg, Barb Schaal, Steve Stearns, Sharon Strauss,
Marcel Visser, Joanne Webster.
Louis Bernatchez
Titulaire de la Chaire de recherche du Canada en
G´ enomique et Conservation des Ressources Aquatiques
D´ epartement de biologie Pavillon Charles-Eug` ene
Marchand Universit´ e Laval, Quebec QC G1K 7P4
Canada
T´ el: 418 656-3402 Fax: 418 656-2043 Couriel:
Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca Web: http://-
www.bio.ulaval.ca/louisbernatchez/
Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca
Evolutionary Bioinformatics Journal
Dear colleagues
I am pleased to announce that the open-access jour-64 EvolDir April 1, 2008
nal, Evolutionary Bioinformatics, has been accepted
for coverage in several Thomson Scientiﬁc databases in-
cluding Science Citiation Index Expanded (SciSearch)
and Journal Citation Reports/Science Edition. These
databases will be familiar to many readers as sources
of information on later citations of earlier articles and
related information. The journal also now appears in
several Current Contents databases, which are rapid
alerting services.
EBO is the oﬃcial journal of New Zealand’s Bioinfor-
matics Institute, which is based at the University of
Auckland. The Editor-in-Chief, Dr Mark Pagel, heads
a notable Editorial Board. The journal is published by
Libertas Academica, and submissions are accepted for
the journal on an on-going basis. All articles published
are immediately available to all internet users without
restriction and articles attract substantial readership.
For further information on EBO, please visit
www.la-press.com . Allen Rodrigo Associate Edi-
tor,Evolutionary Bioinformatics Director, The Bioin-
formatics Institute
Allen Rodrigo <a.rodrigo@auckland.ac.nz >
Evolution of Ceratocapnos
claviculata
Dear members of Evoldir.
I am a Ph D student at the University of Giessen and
I have just started my research on the range expan-
sion of Ceratocapnos claviculata (for details see http:/-
/www.uni-giessen.de/fbr09/landschaft/ ). I am search-
ing for vegetation relev´ es from Great Britain containig
the species, because I intend to compare the ecological
requirements of the species in the native region (West-
ern Europe) with those in the newly established ranges
in Brandenburg (Eastern Germany) and South Sweden.
Furthermore I am going to analyze the genetic diver-
sity of the species within this project. For these genetic
analyses I would need freshly collected, dried plant tis-
sues from many sites across the species range. It would
be a great help to me if you could collect plant tissue
(see attachment for sample instructions) of the species
from your region. In case that you can not help me, it
would be nice if you could refer me to somebody else
who could collect material. Thank you very much in
advance!
Kind regards,Nicole Voss
– Nicole Voß
Professur f¨ ur Landschafts¨ okologie und Landschaftspla-
nung Justus-Liebig-Universit¨ at Gießen Heinrich-Buﬀ-
Ring 26-32 35392 Gießen
Tel.: +49-(0)641-99-37188 Fax: +49-(0)641-99-37169
E-mail: nicole.voss@umwelt.uni-giessen.de
http://www.uni-giessen.de/fbr09/landschaft/
Nicole.Voss@umwelt.uni-giessen.de
GCG seqlab petition
Hi all -
I apologize for my multiple cross-group postings but I
feel the importance and urgency of this message war-
rant it.
As many of you are aware, last summer Accelrys an-
nounced that they would be discontinuing support for
GCG and SeqLab this upcoming June. That situation
dismayed me and others and I wanted to do something
about it. I contacted Steven Smith, one of the original
authors of SeqLab, and discussed the situation with
him. He volunteered to contact Accelrys in an attempt
to minimally get SeqLab’s license and code released to
him. I gave Steve several months to try to persuade the
company. Accelrys was not very cooperative. There-
fore, I set about creating a petition in an attempt to
add some leverage. I’ve contacted a few of you earlier
regarding this initiative and appreciate your support.
Anyway, I have created and posted that petition. It’s
at:
http://www.petitiononline.com/gcg/petition.html
And a nicely formatted PDF version is available in my
own Web space:
http://bio.fsu.edu/ ˜ stevet/Accelrys petition.pdf I
would very much appreciate you adding your name to
this petition, if you agree with our sentiment. Thank
you for your time!
Cheers - Steve
Steven M. Thompson stevet@bio.fsu.edu http://-
bio.fsu.edu/˜stevet/cv.html FSU SCS / BioInfo 4U
Florida State University School of Computational Sci-
ence
1st ﬂoor DIRAC 150G Tallahassee, Florida 32306-4120April 1, 2008 EvolDir 65
850-644-4490
2538 Winnwood Circle Valdosta, Georgia 31601-7953
229-249-9751
Steve Thompson <stevet@bio.fsu.edu >
Genetic data simulation
Dear all
I’m looking for a simulation software for genetic data
that allows:
- input genotpypic data - perform random mating sim-
ulation for several generations
Easypop doesn’t allow to input data ﬁle. I’m greateful
to all for any help.
Daniele Porretta
Dep. Gen. and Mol. Biol. University of Rome “La
Sapienza” Via dei Sardi 70 00185 Italy phone/Fax:
+340649917820 email: daniele.porretta@uniroma1.it
Daniele.Porretta@uniroma1.it
Daniele.Porretta@uniroma1.it
Genotype data for graduate students
Hi all,
I am looking for genotype data (microsatellites), with
family structure known. I need this just to make simu-
lations for graduate students with pedigree reconstruc-
tion software. I need to have at least 8 markers. Is
doesn’t matter species or additional information about
it, only genotype data and a know family structure. If
you have such data and you are willing to share them,
i will appreciate. Thanks in advance Regards Rodrigo
rodrigo.badilla@gmail.com
Atte. Rodrigo Badilla. Biologo Marino. Pro-
grama de Doctorado en Acuicultura. Laborato-
rio de Genetica Marina. IUSA, ULPGC. Las
Palmas, Gran Canaria. Espa˜ na. movil:+34
606237167 www.grupoinvestigacionacuicultura.org ro-
drigo.badilla@gmail.comHighMolWeight DNA 2
Dear Evoldir I made an error in my previous posting on
the extraction of high molecular weight DNA, which has
helpfully been corrected by Dr Trina Roberts! Please
see message below, and my apologies for any misleading
that I have caused yours sincerely Tom Gilbert
Begin forwarded message:
>From: Trina Roberts <trina.roberts@uaf.edu > >
>Hi Dr. Gilbert, > > I might be misinterpret-
ing your (3) below, but... unless I’m >completely
wrong, the old Gentra PureGene (now 5’ ArchivePure)
is>not a silica/chaotropic salt method. It uses an
SDS/Tris/EDTA/ >Proteinase K digestion, protein
precipitation with ammonium acetate, >and alcohol
precipitation. It is basically a “salting out” method, >
which essentially makes it a modiﬁcation of the NaCl-
based method >reported by Aljanabi and Martinez, if
I’m remembering all this >correctly. > > We’ve had
great results from the basic PureGene animal tissue >
protocol (on mammals) and an assortment of variations
to it that >seem to increase yield, but we’re not partic-
ularly worried about big >fragments or so I can’t say
whether we are recovering them (or >shearing them).
> > –Trina > > > Trina E. Roberts >Postdoctoral
fellow >University of Alaska Museum >University of
Alaska Fairbanks >907 Yukon Drive >Fairbanks, AK
99775-6960 >(907) 474-1195 >trina.roberts@uaf.edu
mtpgilbert@gmail.com
HighMolWeight DNA answers
Hi evoldir
I posted a comment last month asking for opinions on
the recovery of high molecular weight DNA from tis-
sues. Thanks very much to all who replied, and in par-
ticular Scott McCairns, Eric Parent, Diana Wolf and
Tasha Belﬁore. There is not much variation in the an-
swers, which is a good sign. The following summary
may be of use to readers:
(1) The good old phenol:chloroform method never ap-
pears to disappoint. So that is one option. Can be cou-66 EvolDir April 1, 2008
pled with ethanol or isopropanol precipitation for extra
purity. Intriguingly however, the reason I wrote this
posting originally is that we were getting a lot of degra-
dation in our samples that were P:C puriﬁed. I now
speculate that we must just have very crappy tissue, or
some nasty nuclease contamination in our buﬀers.
(2) A second option is the method reported by Aljan-
abi and Martinez, Nucleic Acids Research 25:4692-4693
(1997). Apparently can be of great use on a number of
tissues. I have the pdf for anyone who would like it.
(3) Lastly some useful info derived from Qiagen. Qiagen
state that their ﬁlter based kits (and by inference other
people’s ﬁlter based kits) shear the DNA more than
alcohol precipitation and spin methods. They recom-
mend therefore the Gentra puregen kit that they sell.
For USA users, these are sold by Fisher under the name
Archivepure. As the method is based on a silica solu-
tion (as far as I can tell), I suspect one could also use
the original protocol published by Boom et al (Rapid
and Simple Method for Puriﬁcation of Nucleic Acids,
J Clin Microbiology 28:495-503 (1990)). Again I have
the pdf if anyone wants it.
Well thanks again to the respondents, and good luck to
anyone out there after the big fragments.
Tom Gilbert
Dr Tom Gilbert Lektor/Associate Professor Institute
for Biology University of Copenhagen Denmark
mtpgilbert@gmail.com
High througput plant DNA
extraction
Please reply to m.stift@bio.gla.ac.uk
Dear members,
For a project estimating outcrossing rates in wild pop-
ulations of Arabidopsis lyrata, we need to do a vast
amount of DNA extractions from dried leaves (up to
5000 samples). We used to do our extractions with a
FastDNA kit, but for thousands of samples this is still
taking too much time (max. 48 on one day).
Is anyone in the community aware of companies that
could do this for us? Any other tips would be helpful
as well.
Thanks a lot, Marc Stift and Barbara Mable.
Marc Stift Division of Environmental & Evolution-ary Biology Graham Kerr Building Molecular Ecology
Group (Room 314c) Graham Kerr Building University
of Glasgow Glasgow G12 8QQ, SCOTLAND Oﬃce:
+44 (0)141 330 5346 m.stift@bio.gla.ac.uk
Hintelmann Award for Zoological
Systematics
10TH R. J. H. HINTELMANN SCIENTIFIC AWARD
FOR ZOOLOGICAL SYSTEMATICS
Established by Mrs. Elisabeth Hintelmann in memory
of her husband Robert J. H. Hintelmann
For outstanding achievements in zoological systemat-
ics, phylogenetics, faunistics or zoogeography the as-
sociation “Freunde der Zoologischen Staatssammlung
M˜A1
4nchen e.V.” has the pleasure to announce the 8th
R.J.H. Hintelmann Scientiﬁc Award. The prize has the
value of Euro 5,000.- and its target group are young
post-graduate scientists. The price was awarded annu-
ally since the year 2000 (see in the internet: http://-
www.zsm.mwn.de/events/wiss preise.htm ).
This prize is awarded not only in appreciation of the
previous scientiﬁc performance of the applicant, but the
prize-winner will also be given the opportunity to con-
tinue his/her research work in coordination with the
Zoologische Staatssammlung M ˜A1
4nchen (ZSM). This
may be carried out either by visiting the ZSM or by
being provided with ZSM materials for work elsewhere.
The 10th R.J.H. Hintelmann Scientiﬁc Award will be
presented in January, 16th, 2009 during a ceremony at
the ZSM in Munich, where the prize-winner has to pro-
vide a short lecture on his/her research topics.
Nominations may name any young post-graduate sci-
entist with outstanding performance in the ﬁelds men-
tioned above. The pertaining proposal or application
should provide an account of the candidate’s scientiﬁc
achievement. In addition, curriculum vitae, list of pub-
lications, and selected reprints (not more than ﬁve)
have to be submitted (please submit in printed as well
as digital form, e.g. on CD-Rom). The submitted doc-
uments remain with the awarding association.
Candidates may be nominated by any zoologist; self-
nomination and repetitive application in several years
are also possible. The prize-holder is elected on ab-
solute majority basis by a jury appointed by the ex-
ecutive committee of the “Freunde der Zoologischen
Staatssammlung e.V.”April 1, 2008 EvolDir 67
Depending on the quality of applications the associa-
tion reserves the right to withhold the award in any
given year.
Please send applications or nominations until July 15th
2008 to the following address:
Freunde der Zoologischen Staatssammlung M ˜A1
4nchen
e.V. R. J. H. Hintelmann-Wissenschaftspreis
M˜A1
4nchhausenstrasse 21 D-81247 M ˜A1
4nchen,
Germany
For further information please contact: schoen-
itzer@zsm.mwn.de Munich, February, 2008
jmpadial@yahoo.com
Incomplete lineage sorting and
hybridization
Dear all,
Are there any methods that can speciﬁcally distinguish
between incomplete lineages sorting from intregressive
hybridization for sequence data. I’m studying two sis-
ter species that are well separated in microsatellites, al-
lozymes, morphology and ecology but share all common
haplotypes in one mitochondrial gene and two nuclear
introns (that also lack a deep divergence between any
haplotypes). MDiv gives maximum likelihood estimates
of M (mNe) upp to 2 in some populations and because
of this divergence time estimates are uncertain (non-
zero ends on the posterior probability distributions).
Due to the high estimates of M we would like to argue
that indeed the sharing of haplotypes is mainly due to
introgression. Nevertheless reviewers to the manuscript
argue that this still could be due to incomplete lineage
sorting and claim that test speciﬁcally designed to dis-
tinguish between these two scenarios do exist (without
mentioning which). I haven’t been able to ﬁns such a
test in the literature so I ask for your help.
Thank you in advance.
Petri Kemppainen, PhD student Tj¨ arn¨ o Marine Biolog-
ical Laboratory, 45296, Str¨ omstad, Sweden Tel: +46
526 686 83 Fax: +46 526 686 07 Mob: +46 709 360 124
petri.kemppainen@tmbl.gu.se
petri.kemppainen@tmbl.gu.seIncomplete lineage sorting and
hybridization answers
Hi all,
I recently posted a question about incomplete lineage
sorting and hybridization and I will here forward all
the relevant and excellent answers (thanks a lot!!) i re-
cieved. I was glad to see that this is a topic that many
of you are thinking about.
Original post: Dear all,
Are there any methods that can speciﬁcally distinguish
between incomplete lineages sorting from intregressive
hybridization for sequence data. I’m studying two sis-
ter species that are well separated in microsatellites, al-
lozymes, morphology and ecology but share all common
haplotypes in one mitochondrial gene and two nuclear
introns (that also lack a deep divergence between any
haplotypes). MDiv gives maximum likelihood estimates
of M (mNe) upp to 2 in some populations and because
of this divergence time estimates are uncertain (non-
zero ends on the posterior probability distributions).
Due to the high estimates of M we would like to argue
that indeed the sharing of haplotypes is mainly due to
introgression. Nevertheless reviewers to the manuscript
argue that this still could be due to incomplete lineage
sorting and claim that test speciﬁcally designed to dis-
tinguish between these two scenarios do exist (without
mentioning which). I haven’t been able to ﬁns such a
test in the literature so I ask for your help.
Thank you in advance.
—–
Answers:
—–
Dear Petri,
Your reviewer is wrong. The IM and Mdiv packages
designed to implement the models described by Nielsen
and Wakely (2001) and by Hey and Nielsen (2004) are
speciﬁcally designed to address exactly this question.
Do you have non-zero tails at both ends of your TDIV
distribution? The right tail in your TDIV posterior will
always be non-zero for analyses of a single locus data,
no matter what your estimate of M is; this is shown in
the original Nielsen and Wakeley paper. If you analyzed
several of your data sets together using IM instead of68 EvolDir April 1, 2008
MDIV, this non-zero tail in Tdiv MIGHT go away.
As far as demonstrating introgression rather than lin-
eage sorting, you could use the posterior distribution of
M to calculate the probability that it is diﬀerent from
some benchmark. In a paper I published in Molecular
Ecology (see refs below), I summed under the curve of
the posterior distribution to show that I could reject the
hypothesis that M was greater than or equal to 1; there
is a boundary condition at zero so I couldn’t calculate
the probability that M was actually diﬀerent than zero,
but I was able to reject panmixia . Depending on the
shape of your posterior distribution you MAY be able
to reject the hypothesis that M is less than one.
If you look at the IM discussion board: http:/-
/groups.google.com/ group/Isolation-with-Migration ,
you can ﬁnd a recent exchange I had with Jody Hey
about using this procedure to test demographic hy-
potheses:
http://groups.google.com/group/Isolation-with-
Migration/browse thread/ thread/64dd7f6187960c1f
Hey, J., and R. Nielsen. 2004. Multilocus Methods for
Estimating Population Sizes, Migration Rates and Di-
vergence Time, With Applications to the Divergence of
Drosophila pseudoobscura and D. persimilis. Genetics
167:747-760.
Nielsen, R., and J. Wakeley. 2001. Distinguishing mi-
gration from isolation: a Markov Chain Monte Carlo
approach. Genetics 158: 885-896.
Smith, C. I., and B. D. Farrell. 2005. Phylogeogra-
phy of the longhorn cactus beetle Moneilema appressum
Leconte (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae): Was the diﬀer-
entiation of the Madrean sky-islands driven by Pleis-
tocene climate changes? Mol Ecol 14:3049-3065.
(Petris comment: this is what I will ﬁrst and foremost
do for my data! thanks a lot Chris!)
—–
Hi Petri,
There are a couple of recent papers that talk about
identifying introgression as inconsistent alleles from
particular genes with respect to (most) other genes.
They do this using IM or IMa, a program that will es-
timate divergence times and ancestral population sizes
under a coalescent model (which will account for incom-
plete lineage sorting). The latter also includes a param-
eter for secondary gene ﬂow following divergence. The
logic is that if a set of genes or alleles gives a signiﬁ-
cantly more recent divergence time estimation than the
combined dataset, or the dataset without those alleles,
they are likely to have been introduced due to intro-
gression. Jody Hey, who co-authored these programs,has a google discussion group as well. The papers are
below. I’d be interested in any other suggestions you
get. Good luck!
Peters et al. 2007. Evolution 61(8): 1992-2006 Carling
& Brumﬁeld. 2008. Genetics 178: 363-377.
——
Hi Petri,
Check out my paper attached. The method has it’s
problems but might be ok in some situations. Also,
you should check out the models of
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Insect Microsat Library
Development
Dear EvolDir
Has anybody out-sourced the development of (insect)
microsatellite primers. Any advice on laboratories that
provide this service would be appreciated.
Kind regards,
Michael McLeish South African National Biodiversity
Institute Kirstenbosch Research Centre Private Bag X7
Claremont, 7735 Cape Town South Africa Tel: +27-
(0)21 799 8860 Fax: +27-(0)21 797 6903
Mcleish@sanbi.org
Insect Microsat Library
Development answers
Thanks to those that replied to my query. Nearly half
of the responses were from those keen to learn of any
helpful replies. Here are the 6 responses that indicated
a facility that would undertake microsatellite library
development.
1. I’ve been using the GIS company ( http://-
www.genetic-id-services.com/index.htm ) to develop li-April 1, 2008 EvolDir 69
braries of microsatellites in 2 bat species and was very
happy with the results. This company also devel-
oppped microsats for many species of insects ( http:/-
/www.genetic-id-services.com/species.htm ) so it might
interest you.
All the best,
Sebastien.
2. Ecogenics are not cheap, but they have always de-
livered what was
requested: http://www.ecogenics.ch/
Best, Christoph
3. I am a graduate student in the Richard Stouthamer
lab at the University of California, Riverside. We out-
sourced microsat. development to a company called
GIS in Chatsworth, California. They are good quality
primers and come with a potential library of over 100
markers. I worked with microsats (for a ﬁsh) from this
company before and mapped close to 130 markers on
the genome. If you have the money ($10000 US); it
might be worth it.
Good luck,
James
4. We can develop the markers for you if you want here
at the GT Genome Center. Let me know if you are
interested.
Seifu Seyoum, PhD GT Genome Center Georgia Insti-
tute of Technology 130 Ferst Drive Atlanta GA 30332
5. Regarding your inquiry on Evoldir, I have very
recently approached a Swiss company to get a quo-
tation for developing a microsatellite library for some
hoverﬂies. I’m attaching (reattached) their generalized
pricelist FYI, which includes diﬀerent options depend-
ing on how far you would like them to go with primer
development and tests of polymorphism. I cannot give
you any advise on the quality of their service since I
haven’t yet decided whether to use them. I would be
interested in any other options, so if you don’t mind
forwarding other replies to me after collating them I
would be very grateful!
Best wishes,
Luc
6. I had Ecogenics in Switzerland develop microsatel-
lites for the comma butterﬂy Polygonia c-album. But-
terﬂies are tricky, but they did it without problem. And
for much less than it would have cost me to hire some-
one to (try) to do it!
CheersSoren
Thanks again to all that replied. Cheers,
Michael
Michael McLeish South African National Biodiversity
Institute Kirstenbosch Research Centre Private Bag X7
Claremont, 7735 Cape Town South Africa Tel: +27-
(0)21 799 8860 Fax: +27-(0)21 797 6903
Mcleish@sanbi.org
Inverse PCR
Does anyone have experience with inverse PCR, and
would like to share their knowledge? I keep getting
stuck at the ligation step, and feel like I’ve tried every-
thing I can think of to correct the problem. I know it’s
a notoriously tricky procedure, but I know others have
mastered it....
If you have any suggestions please reply oﬀ list. Thanks!
Rachel RF88@cornell.edu
– Rachel Vallender, Ph.D. Post-doctoral Associate
Fuller Evolutionary Biology Program Cornell Lab of
Ornithology 159 Sapsucker Woods Rd Ithaca, NY
14850 USA
Oﬃce: 607.254.1138 Lab: 607. 254.1128 Fax:
607.254.2486 RF88@cornell.edu
P Save a tree! Don’t print this message unless it can’t
be helped. Pensez ` a l’environnement avant d’imprimer
ce message.
rf88@cornell.edu
JournalConference Asilomar
DiseaseDynamics Dec1-3
Journal paper and conference abstract submission now
open at http://www.epidemics.elsevier.com
EPIDEMICS - The Journal
EPIDEMICS is a new journal publishing papers on in-
fectious disease dynamics in the broadest sense. Its
scope covers both within-host dynamics of infectious70 EvolDir April 1, 2008
agents and dynamics at the population level, particu-
larly the interaction between the two.
The journal is open for submission of papers which will
be published online as accepted. The ﬁrst print issue
is oﬃcially planned for launch at EPIDEMICS - the
inaugural conference in the ﬁeld.
JOURNAL EDITORS Sebastian Bonhoeﬀer, ETH,
Z˜A1
4rich, Switzerland Neil Ferguson, ImperialCol-
legeLondon, UK Hans Heesterbeek, University of
Utrecht, The Netherlands Eddie Holmes, Pennsylva-
nia State University, USA Gabriel Leung, University
of Hong Kong, Hong Kong
Online manuscript submission is open at <http://-
www.epidemics.elsveier.com/ >
CALL FOR PAPERS: EPIDEMICS1 - The Conference
December 1-3, 2008 Asilomar, CA, USA
This inaugural conference on infectious disease dynam-
ics will be comprised of keynote presentations by invited
speakers supplemented by contributed oral and poster
papers together with interactive round tables and mini
presentations on the following themes:
- Dynamics of infectious diseases of humans - Dynamics
of infectious diseases of livestock - Dynamics of infec-
tious diseases of plants - Dynamics of infectious diseases
of wildlife - Within host dynamics - Ecology and evo-
lution of infectious diseases - Global and public health
aspects of control and prevention - Global change in in-
fectious diseases - Policy, economics and decision mak-
ing - Populations genetics and molecular epidemiology
of infectious agents
Abstracts are now invited for oral and poster presen-
tation at the conference and should be submitted via
<http://www.epidemics.elsevier.com/ >by April 30,
2008. Proposals for symposia and conference sessions
may be sent directly to <#>for consideration.
SCIENTIFIC COMMITTEE Angela McLean, Univer-
sity of Oxford, UK (Chair) Lauren Ancel Meyers, Uni-
versity of Texas, Austin, USA Sebastian Bonhoeﬀer,
ETH, Z ˜A1
4rich, Switzerland Neil Ferguson, Imperial-
CollegeLondon, UK Hans Heesterbeek, University of
Utrecht, The Netherlands Eddie Holmes, Pennsylva-
nia State University, USA Gabriel Leung, University of
Hong Kong, Hong Kong Mark Woolhouse, University
of Edinburgh, UK
For further information visit: http://-
www.epidemics.elsevier.com or contact (for conference
inquiries) em.white@elsevier.com or (for journal
inquiries) b.straub@elsevier.com
Bas Straub Publisher Biotechnology, Microbiology &
Mycology Elsevier Radarweg 29, room 17.008 1043 NXAmsterdam, The Netherlands tel. ++31.20.485.3043
cell.++31.6.1263 9483 fax. ++31.20.485.2696 Working
days: In general I am not in the oﬃce on Fridays <a
title=“” href=“#” >b.straub@elsevier.com </a>
Eddie Holmes Center for Infectious Disease Dy-
namics, Department of Biology, The Pennsylva-
nia State University, Mueller Laboratory, Univer-
sity Park, PA 16802. USA. Tel: (814) 863 4689
Fax: (814) 865 9131 http://www.bio.psu.edu/home/-
http://www.cidd.psu.edu/people/bio holmes.html Ed-
die Holmes <ech15@psu.edu >
Microsporidian Mosquito DNA
extraction
Dear members
I’m working with the microsporidian Vavraia culicis, in
the mosquito host, Anopheles gambiae and I would like
to know if anyone has a reliable method of extracting
DNA from parasite and host together. Likewise, if any-
one can recommend a ﬁxed-copy target gene for qPCR
for either or both species I would be most appreciative.
Any help on this would be great as Im new to molecular
biology! Please contact me at nayna@vyaspatel.co.uk.
Many thanks,
Nayna.
e.harrison06@imperial.ac.uk
e.harrison06@imperial.ac.uk
Molluskan DNA extraction
Dear all
Hello, I am a masters student working on mitochon-
drial DNA analysis of several gastropod species of the
genus *Conus*, in the Faculty of Science of the Uni-
versity of Lisbon. I am e-mailing you to ask for some
advice regarding some technical problems Ive been fac-
ing. My work focuses on the analysis and comparison
of mitochondrial and morphological data, in order to
understand the correlation between genetic and mor-
phological traits.
Although having successfully ampliﬁed DNA fragmentsApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 71
of some of the samples, I continue to face some diﬃ-
culties in the ampliﬁcation process. I am aware that
molluskan tissues are very diﬃcult to work on, due to
its richness in mucopolysaccharides, and have, there-
fore, tried several DNA extraction kits and the phe-
nol:chloroform:isoamylic alcohol method. To enhance
the yield, I tried using liquid nitrogen to grind the tis-
sues (before the enzymatic action) and also tried puri-
fying the samples after the extractions were done but
was unsuccessful for most of the samples. I also tried
diluting the extractions to 1:10 and 1:100 and, again,
the success rate remained minimal. There seems to
be some inhibition but so far haven’t quite understood
what is aﬀecting the PCR.
Up until now, very few samples were ampliﬁed and the
best extraction and ampliﬁcation procedures are yet to
be deﬁned. The optimal conditions seem to be variable
for each specimen.
Do you have any suggestion on the best approach to a
case like this?
Thank you in advance! Best regards, Carla Pereira
shortysquab@gmail.com
Molluskan DNA extraction 2
Dear All,
I would like to start by thanking all for the replies so
far! It was of great use!
Although I had already tried most of the appointed
suggestions, my last resort (and probably the best ap-
proach) will be the CTAB extraction method.
Nevertheless, any further information or suggestion will
be greatly welcomed!
My best regards, Carla Pereira
shortysquab@gmail.com
NESCent ComparativeMethodsInR
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NES-
Cent) is pleased to announce the launch of www.r-
phylo.org, a community resource for people inter-ested in using and developing phylogenetic comparative
methods in R. The wiki currently contains information
on analyses and packages available in R and provides
step-by-step tutorials for those just getting started.
There is also a mailing list, to sign up for it go to
https://stat.ethz.ch/mailman/listinfo/r-sig-phylo . We
strongly encourage new users, experienced users and
developers to both use and modify this resource to cre-
ate a thriving comparative methods in R community.
Samantha Price Postdoctoral Fellow National Evolu-
tionary Synthesis Center (NESCent) 2024 W. Main
Street Suite A200 Erwin Mills Building Durham, NC
27705 USA
sprice at nescent dot org sprice at duke dot edu
NESCent programming
Phyloinformatics Summer of Code
2008 http://phyloinformatics.net/-
Phyloinformatics Summer ofCode 2008 *** Please
disseminate this announcement widely to appropriate
students at your institution ***
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NES-
Cent: http:// www.nescent.org/ ) is participating in
2008 for the second year as a mentoring organi-
zation in the Google Summer of Code ( http://-
code.google.com/soc). Through this program, Google
provides undergraduate, masters, and PhD students
with a unique opportunity to obtain hands-on experi-
ence writing and extending open-source software under
the mentorship of experienced developers from around
the world.
Our goal in participating is to train future researchers
and developers to not only have awareness and under-
standing of the value of open-source and collaboratively
developed software, but also to gain the programming
and remote collaboration skills needed to successfully
contribute to such projects. Students will receive a
stipend from Google, and may work from their home,
or home institution, for the duration of the 3 month
program. Students will each have one or more dedi-
cated mentors with expertise in phylogenetic methods
and open-source software development.
NESCent is particularly targeting students interested
in both evolutionary biology and software development.
Project ideas (see URL below) range from visualizing
phylogenetic data in R, to development of a Mesquite72 EvolDir April 1, 2008
module, web-services for phylogenetic data providers
or geophylogeny mashups, implementing phyloXML
support, navigating databases of networks, topology
queries for PhyloCode registries, to phylogenetic tree
mining in a MapReduce framework, and more.
The project ideas are ﬂexible and many can be ad-
justed in scope to match the skills of the student. If
the program sounds interesting to you but you are un-
sure whether you have the necessary skills, please email
the mentors at the address below. We will work with
you to ﬁnd a project that ﬁts your interests and skills.
INQUIRIES: Email any questions, including self-
proposed project ideas, to phylosoc {at}nescent {dot}
org.
TO APPLY: Apply on-line at the Google Summer
of Code website ( http://code.google.com/soc/2008 ),
where you will also ﬁnd GSoC program rules and el-
igibility requirements. The 1-week application period
for students opens on Monday March 24th and runs
through Monday, March 31st, 2008.
Hilmar Lapp and Todd Vision US National Evolution-
ary Synthesis Center
====URLs: ===2008 NESCent Phyloinformatics
Summer of Code: http://phyloinformatics.net/-
Phyloinformatics Summer ofCode 2008 Eligibility
requirements: http://code.google.com/opensource/-
gsoc/2008/faqs.html#0.1 eligibility Stipends:
http://code.google.com/opensource/gsoc/2008/-
faqs.html#0.1 administrivia
To sign up for quarterly NESCent newsletters: with an-
nouncements about upcoming programs at the Center:
http://www.nescent.org/about/contact.php –
Hilmar Lapp -:- Durham, NC -:- informatics.nescent.org
Hilmar Lapp <hlapp@nescent.org >
NESCent survey
Dear colleagues,
Together with a consortium of journals and scientiﬁc so-
cieties in evolutionary biology and related disciplines,
NESCent and the MRC are studying attitudes and
practices in data sharing among evolutionary biolo-
gists. We are inviting all evoldir readers (including stu-
dents, postdocs, educators and senior researchers) to
help in this eﬀort by completing a short survey: http:/-/datadryad.org/survey/ . We estimate that the survey
will take less than 20 minutes of your time. Your re-
sponses are critical for guiding the design of the next
generation of supplemental data archives for evolution-
ary biology. In addition, the ﬁrst ﬁfty respondents will
be eligible for a drawing for a new 4GB iPod nano.
Responses must be received by April 16th, 2008.
We thank you in advance for your participation, and
look forward to seeing your responses.
Todd Vision Associate Director for Informatics, U.S.
National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent)
http://www.nescent.org Jane Greenberg Director,
Metadata Research Center (MRC) School of Infor-
mation and Library Science University of North Car-
olina at Chapel Hill http://www.ils.unc.edu/mrc/
tjv@bio.unc.edu tjv@bio.unc.edu
No mtDNA divergence
Dear all,
I have a data set from two sister species of marine gas-
tropods that occur sympatrically throughout the whole
distribution range (NE Atlantic). They are well sep-
arated in allozymes (Nei’s D=2.5), mikrosatellites (no
abiquities detected among 320 individuals from very
distant populations in assignment tests), morphology
and ecology. Still no deep divergence in cytochrome b
can be found and all common haplotypes are shared
between the species. Although extensive mitochondrial
introgressions can be common in local populations, only
few examples exist where this is the case in the whole
distribution range. In addition, the examples I have
found are in species that are endemic to restricted ge-
ographic areas in contrast to my species that are dis-
tributed throughout the whole NE Atlantic.
I therefore call for any additional examples with a lack
of mitochondrial divergence in species that are well sep-
arated in nuclear DNA and morphology. I am mostly
interested in examples where the species also have large
distribution ranges.
Thank you in advance,
/Petri
Petri Kemppainen,
PhD student
Tj¨ arn¨ o Marine Biological Laboratory,April 1, 2008 EvolDir 73
45296, Str¨ omstad, Sweden
Tel: +46 526 686 83
Fax: +46 526 686 07
Mob: +46 709 360 124
Primer dye
Dear members of evoldir,
Currently we are using a Spectrumedix 24-capillary se-
quencer. In order to increase the dye set we are using,
we are looking for more dyes that work on this sys-
tem. At the moment we are successfully using (increas-
ing emitting wavelength): FAM (abi), VIC (abi), NED
(abi), TAMRA, PET (abi), ROX and LIZ (abi)
We are speciﬁcally looking for dyes with an emitting
wavelength above that of PET and ROX (600nm) but
lower than LIZ (unknown, 650?). I would be thankful if
you would share any good (or bad) experiences or other
information on dyes you are using.
Suggestions welcome to koen.degelas@inbo.be
<mailto:koen.degelas@inbo.be >
Thanks
Koen De Gelas
Research Institute for Nature and Forest (INBO)
Belgium
Koen.DEGELAS@INBO.BE
Koen.DEGELAS@INBO.BE
Program for FStatistics
Dear EvolDir Members,
Does anyone know of a program that can calculate F
statistics (eg. Fst) from microsatellite allele frequency
data (with or without expected heterozygosity) in the
absence of individual genotype data?
Thanks,
Hania
Hania Lada Postgraduate Research Associate School ofBiological Sciences Monash University Clayton, Aus-
tralia E-mail Hania.Lada@sci.monash.edu.au
Hania.Lada@sci.monash.edu.au Ha-
nia.Lada@sci.monash.edu.au
Roomate for Evolution Symposia
Hi,
I am a PhD student who planned to attend the 2008
evolution meeting in Minneapolis, Minnesota. I just
booked a double dormitory room for June 20th to 23rd
since there is no single dormitory room available now.
I am wondering if someone want to share. Please email
me back by yuguoqin2001@gmail.com if you would like
to.
– Guoqin Yu Schaal Lab EEPB program Wash-
ington University in St. Louis St. Louis, MO.
63130 http://www.biology.wustl.edu/faculty/schaal/-
website/Homepage.htm Phone (Lab): 314-935-6815
Cell phone:314-302-3532
yuguoqin2001@gmail.com
Same mitochondrial genome
diﬀerent nuclear genomes
Dear all,
I have just come across a strange phenomenon that I’m
ﬁnding diﬃcult to explain. I have designed microsatel-
lite primers for an Australian limpet species (genus
Siphonaria). COI sequences of all specimens are nearly
identical, with <1% sequence divergence and no dis-
tinct phylogroups. DNA combind from 3 specimens
was used for the enrichment.
With some of these primers, I’m getting good ampliﬁca-
tion in about 90% of the specimens, and other primers
amplify product only in the remaining 10%, with no
cross-ampliﬁcation. It’s as though we have two diﬀerent
species here whose microsatellite ﬂanking regions are so
diﬀerent that primers designed for the one species do
not anneal to the ﬂanking region of the other. This
seems highly unlikely given that there are no obvious
morphological diﬀences and no mtDNA diﬀerentiation.74 EvolDir April 1, 2008
Extraction method (CTAB) and DNA concentration
(50 ng/ul) are the same for all samples.
Has anyone come across something like this before?
Thanks, Peter Teske Macquarie University Sydney
Dr Peter R. Teske Postdoctoral Researcher Molec-
ular Ecology Lab Dept. of Biological Sciences,
E8C Macquarie University Sydney, NSW 2109
Australia Phone: +61 2 9850 9251 Fax: +61 2
9850 8245 E-mail: Peter.Teske@bio.mq.edu.au Web-
site: http://www.bio.mq.edu.au/molecularecology/-
people.htm Publications: http://www.ru.ac.za/-
academic/departments/botany research/peter/
Peter.Teske@bio.mq.edu.au
Same mitochondrial genome
diﬀerent nuclear genomes answers
Dear list members,
My query about diﬀerent nuclear genomes but the same
mitochondrial genome in Australian limpets got an
overwhelming number of responses, so rather than reply
to everyone in person, I’ve included a list of suggestions
below.
The following explanations were suggested: contam-
ination, convergent evolution, mitochondrial capture,
highly variable ﬂanking regions (more variable than
mtDNA), heteroplasmy, primer annealing sites located
on transposable elements present in only a portion of
the population (resulting in sequence lengths too large
to amplify), and accidental ampliﬁcation of a parasite.
The explanation that I found most convincing was “mi-
tochondrial capture”, where hybridization has resulted
in the introgression of mtDNA haplotypes from one
species to another. This seems to be quite common
in a wide variety of taxa, including mammals, birds
and frogs, and it seems very likely that there would be
hybridization between local and introduced species in
the vicinity of Sydney harbour. There is in fact a re-
cent paper in Molecular Ecology dealing with this that
I completely overlooked (because of the bad habit of
ignoring most papers that don’t deal with marine biol-
ogy): Good et al. 2008, Ancient hybridization and mi-
tochondrial capture between two species of chipmunks.
Mol Ecol 17:1313-1327.
What convinced me was that we’re ﬁnding this strict
segregation in our limpets either the one set of primerswork, or the other. One recent development is that
we seem to have found our ﬁrst non-hybrid specimen it
is morphologically slightly diﬀerent, the same microsat
primers work for it than in the 10% of the samples,
but at the mitochondrial level it seems to be so diﬀer-
ent that the COI gene has repeatedly failed to amplify
using the Folmer primers. I’ve now ampliﬁed it using
some alternative COI primers and am also sequencing
some nuclear introns to see if the patterns we’re getting
from the microsats hold up.
Thanks to everyone for their suggestions, and I hope
those of you who told me that they’ve run into the
same problem can now test whether they’ve got a case
of mitochondrial capture in their species. The lesson
here seems to be that hybrid zones and places where
lots of aliens are likely to have established themselves
are better avoided when selecting samples for designing
microsat libraries. But it seems that what started oﬀ
as a bit of a disaster has now turned into an interesting
challenge.
Best wishes, Peter
Dr Peter R. Teske Postdoctoral Researcher Molecu-
lar Ecology Lab Dept. of Biological Sciences, E8C
Macquarie University Sydney, NSW 2109 Australia
Phone: +61 2 9850 9251 Fax: +61 2 9850 8245
E-mail: Peter.Teske@bio.mq.edu.au Website: http:/-
/www.bio.mq.edu.au/molecularecology/people.htm
Publications: http://www.ru.ac.za/academic/-
departments/botany research/peter/
Scott Williamson
Dear friends and colleagues,
I am saddened to inform you that Scott Williamson
passed away last Friday, March 14, 2008. As many of
you know, Scott and his family fought a heroic battle
against an inoperable brain tumor that was diagnosed
about a year ago. He is survived by his wife, Shannon,
young daughters Emma and Claire, and parents, Brad
and Carol.
A graduate of University of Kansas, Scott was an im-
mensely talented theoretical population geneticist who
did his Ph. D. work under Maria Orive. He was a post-
doc with me and Rasmus Nielsen from 2003 through
2006, and had started as an assistant professor in our
department shortly before his diagnosis. His area of ex-
pertise was in using diﬀusion models for inference of se-April 1, 2008 EvolDir 75
lection and demography in population genetic data. He
will be fondly remembered by all who worked with him
for his brilliance, humble nature, and kindness of spirit.
I feel immensely grateful for the time Scott spent in my
group. I learned much from him, and he was an incred-
ibly giving collaborator and scientist. A man of many
talents, Scott loved the outdoors, cycling, and popu-
lation genetics. He was also a devoted husband and
wonderful father. We, his friends, will miss him, and
the evolutionary genetics community has lost a great
mind.
I am also including a beautiful obituary that Scott’s
sister has written and will appear in the Ithaca Journal
tomorrow. The obituary gives details of memorial ser-
vices which will take place this weekend and of a college
fund that has been established for the girls.
Please feel free to forward this email to those who knew
Scott.
Carlos D. Bustamante
Obituary for Scott Williamson
This week, we revel in the coming of spring and reﬂect
on the well- lived life of Scott Williamson, 32. Scott
had an intense appreciation of the natural world, and
he and his wife, Shannon, and their daughters, Emma
and Claire, loved to explore nature’s woodlands, sea
shores, mountains, and prairies. It is with heavy hearts
that we pay tribute to Scott who passed away on Friday,
March 14 after a courageous battle with glioblastoma.
Scott and his family lived in Trumansburg, NY where
he was a rising star in the ﬁeld of population genetics
and an assistant professor at Cornell University. In the
last year, Scott’s ground-breaking work in evolutionary
biology was featured in the New York Times and listed
in the “Top 100 Science Stories of 2007” by Discover
magazine. Although Scott was an incredibly talented
and gifted researcher, he gracefully balanced his career
with an intense commitment to family and an appre-
ciation of life’s simple pleasures such as walking in the
woods, decorating special cakes for his daughters’ birth-
days, crafting exquisite furniture, making wooden toys,
building a backyard play cottage, watching for birds,
growing vegetables in his garden, playing in the ocean,
listening to bluegrass music, looking for salamanders,
canoeing with his family, and baking his special key
lime pie. Scott embodied kindness, humor, and humil-
ity, and his very presence made everyone around him a
better person.
Although Scott cherished the forests, mountains, and
glacier-fed lakes of New York, he had a deep love for
his native state of Kansas, home to his surviving grand-
parents J Fred Williamson and Lois Patton; parents,Brad and Carol Williamson, in-laws Fran and Cheryl
Herrick, and sister, Erica Reynolds. Scott spent many
of his last days enjoying walks in the prairies, wood-
lands, and sandstone canyons of Kansas. If Scott
were with us today, he would rejoice in the tiny green
shoots of Dutchman’s breeches, trout lilies, and tooth-
wort peeking out of the blanket of last autumn’s leaves
and acorns, and look for the ﬁve-petaled, white ﬂowers
of false rue anemone. These spring wildﬂowers–aptly
named ephemerals–last only through the spring before
the foliage of the more dominant oaks, hickories, and
sycamores develop into the woodland canopy and hoard
the sunlight. The physical world, much like the wild-
ﬂowers, is only ephemeral. But Scott’s inﬂuence on our
world and our love for him is forever.
In honor of Scott, a visitation with friends and fam-
ily will be held on Friday, March 21 from 4 p.m.
to 6 p.m. at Penwell-Gabel, 14275 Blackbob Road,
Olathe, KS ( http://www.penwellgabel.com ). A Trib-
ute to All Things Scott will be held on Saturday,
March 22 from 1 p.m. at the Church of the Resurrec-
tion, Chapel, 13720 Roe Avenue, Leawood, KS 66224
(http://www.cor.org ) with a reception to follow. And
the First Annual Everybody-Loves-Scott Event will be
on Saturday evening at the Prairie Center, 26235 West
135th Street, Olathe KS 66061. The campﬁre will start
at 6 p.m.- dress warm, and bring your binoculars. To
honor Scott’s wishes that his daughters both be able to
fulﬁll their dreams, a college fund has been established
for Emma and Claire
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Softare TreeRot BugFix
Our sincere apologies for the inconvenience, but thanks
to additional reports from users, we’ve identiﬁed and
ﬁxed some additional bugs in TreeRot version 3 (one
of which was inadvertently introduced during that last
ﬁx) . If you use the program for determining decay
indices (Bremer support) and/or partitioned support,
please trash your current version of the program and
download it one more time.
Thanks, Mike76 EvolDir April 1, 2008
http://people.bu.edu/msoren/TreeRot.html Michael
Sorenson Associate Professor Department of Biology
Boston University 5 Cummington St. Boston, MA
02215
(617) 353-6983 FAX: (617) 353-6340
msoren@bu.edu msoren@bu.edu
Software APE
I am pleased to announce that ape’s web pages are back
on-line with a new URI:
http://ape.mpl.ird.fr/ All sections have been updated;
a new document with the API to ape’s C code is now
included (see the development section).
Many thanks to R´ egis Hocd´ e and Yves Pournin at IRD
in Montpellier for technical assistance.
Emmanuel Paradis – Institut de Recherche pour le
D´ eveloppement UR175 CAVIAR France
Emmanuel.Paradis@mpl.ird.fr Em-
manuel.Paradis@mpl.ird.fr
Software GeoPhyloBuilder bug ﬁx
We wish to announce the release of GeoPhyloBuilder
v1.0.2 for ArcGIS 9.2 that creates geophylogenies from
input evolutionary trees and associated distribution
data. This version ﬁxes the bug that resulted in
branches crossing the -180/+180 meridian (line of longi-
tude). It also implements line densiﬁcation so branches
curve when projected into diﬀerent coordinate systems.
Download from http://www.nescent.org/informatics/-
download.php?software id=3 We also invite student
applications for the following NESCent Google Sum-
mer of Code project.
*Freeing Geophylobuilder: Implementing an Internet-
Based Java Client (GeoPhyloBuilder-J) *
Geophylobuilder for ArcGIS ( https://-
www.nescent.org/wg EvoViz/GeoPhyloBuilder )(Kidd
and Liu, 2008) creates geophylogenies from input
evolutionary trees and associated distribution data.
Geophylogenies are spatiotemporally georeferenced
phylogenies (Kidd, submitted) although the the samedata structure can also be used to represent reticulate
spatiotemporal relationships between any type of
geographical entities including, islands, continents,
watersheds and areas of endemism. /Geophylobuilder
for ArcGIS /was developed in .Net using the ESRI
ArcObjects COM library hence an (expensive) soft-
ware license is required. Two online services already
provide services to create geophylogenies, the CIPRIES
tree server ( http://www.treebase.org/getrees/ ) and
SupraMap ( http://supramap.osu.edu/supramap ).
Both these services support the creation of simple
geophylogenies in KML format from a tree ﬁle and
associated tip point. SupraMap is further restricted
by requiring data to be in POY4 format with an
apomorphy list.
Many Thanks David Kidd and Xianhua Liu
Phyloinformatics Summer of Code
2008 http://phyloinformatics.net/-
Phyloinformatics Summer ofCode 2008 *** Please
disseminate this announcement widely to appropriate
students at your institution ***
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NES-
Cent: http://www.nescent.org/ ) is participating in
2008 for the second year as a mentoring organization in
the Google Summer of Code ( http://code.google.com/-
soc). Through this program, Google provides under-
graduate, masters, and PhD students with a unique
opportunity to obtain hands-on experience writing and
extending open-source software under the mentorship
of experienced developers from around the world.
Our goal in participating is to train future researchers
and developers to not only have awareness and under-
standing of the value of open-source and collaboratively
developed software, but also to gain the programming
and remote collaboration skills needed to successfully
contribute to such projects. Students will receive a
stipend from Google, and may work from their home,
or home institution, for the duration of the 3 month
program. Students will each have one or more dedi-
cated mentors with expertise in phylogenetic methods
and open-source software development.
NESCent is particularly targeting students interested
in both evolutionary biology and software development.
Project ideas (see URL below) range from visualizing
phylogenetic data in R, to development of a Mesquite
module, web-services for phylogenetic data providers
or geophylogeny mashups, implementing phyloXML
support, navigating databases of networks, topology
queries for PhyloCode registries, to phylogenetic tree
mining in a MapReduce framework, and more.
The project ideas are ﬂexible and many can be ad-April 1, 2008 EvolDir 77
justed in scope to match the skills of the student. If
the program sounds interesting to you but you are un-
sure whether you have the necessary skills, please email
the mentors at the address below. We will work with
you to ﬁnd a project that ﬁts your interests and skills.
INQUIRIES: Email any questions, including self-
proposed project ideas, to phylosoc {at}nescent {dot}
org.
TO APPLY: Apply on-line at the Google Summer
of Code website ( http://code.google.com/soc/2008 ),
where you will also ﬁnd GSoC program rules and el-
igibility requirements. The 1-week application period
for students opens on Monday March 24th and runs
through Monday, March 31st, 2008.
Hilmar Lapp and Todd Vision US National Evolution-
ary Synthesis Center
====URLs: == 08 NESCent Phyloinformat-
ics Summer of Code: http://phyloinformatics.net/-
Phyloinformatics Summer ofCode 2008 Eligibility re-
quirements:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Software IDEA
Dear Colleagues,
Version 2.4.2 of IDEA (Interactive Display for Evo-
lutionary Analyses) has now been released ( http://-
ideanalyses.sourceforge.net/ ). IDEA provides a graphic
user interface (GUI) to launch some of the most com-
mon PAML analyses, and to view and explore the re-
sults.
IDEA is a “stand alone” program with features that in-
clude: - a GUI to launch PAML’s codeml and baseml; -
integration with PHYLIP for optional tree reconstruc-
tion; - analyses run with multiple starting omega val-
ues, and automatic merging of results; - likelihood ratio
tests of nested models; - a GUI to view and explore re-
sults of codeml pairwise analyses or of codeml analyses
using sites models; - a graphic display of the *.rst out-
put ﬁle, to visualize selective pressure along a protein-
coding gene; - taking advantage of a computer grid, if
one is available, to run multiple datasets.New to this IDEA release: - Mac OS X and 64-bit
Linux are supported, in addition to Unix/Linux 32-bit
- PAML 4 is supported - increased memory eﬃciency
Best regards, Joana
Joana C. Silva, Ph.D. Assistant Professor
University of Maryland School of Medicine Institute for
Genome Sciences & Dept Microbiology and Immunol-
ogy 685 W. Baltimore St., HSF-I Rm 130 Baltimore,
MD 21201
jcsilva@som.umaryland.edu Ph:410.706.6721
Fax:410.706.6777
Software IDEA update
Dear Colleagues.
An updated version of IDEA (Interactive Display for
Evolutionary Analyses), v2.4.3, was released two days
ago and should replace the version released two weeks
ago. A bug present in the previous version, which pre-
vented the graphic display of the rst ﬁle from being
seen, has been corrected.
*** If you have downloaded IDEA in the last two weeks,
please make sure it is v 2.4.3, available at http://-
ideanalyses.sourceforge.net/main.html ***
Brieﬂy, IDEA is a “stand alone” program with features
that include: - a GUI to launch PAML’s codeml and
baseml; - integration with PHYLIP for optional tree
reconstruction; - analyses run with multiple starting
omega values, and automatic merging of results; - like-
lihood ratio tests of nested models; - a GUI to view and
explore results of codeml pairwise analyses or of codeml
analyses using sites models; - a graphic display of the
rst output ﬁle, to visualize selective pressure along a
protein-coding gene; - taking advantage of a computer
grid, if one is available, to run multiple datasets.
Cheers, Joana
Joana C. Silva, Ph.D. Assistant Professor
University of Maryland School of Medicine Institute for
Genome Sciences & Dept Microbiology and Immunol-
ogy 685 W. Baltimore St., HSF-I Rm 130 Baltimore,
MD 21201
jcsilva@som.umaryland.edu Ph:410.706.6721
Fax:410.706.6777
jcsilva@som.umaryland.edu jc-78 EvolDir April 1, 2008
silva@som.umaryland.edu
Software MANTiS
Dear all,
For those interested into comparative genomics in
a phylogenetic framework, MANTiS has been re-
cently updated and is available for download at
www.mantisdb.org Among others, we implemented a
much better gene information window and a completely
new view for over- or under-representation of gene ex-
pression anatomical systems.
MANTiS is an application system that: -builds a
relational database integrating, in an explicit phy-
logenetic framework, all Ensembl genes, correspond-
ing PANTHER molecular functions and biological pro-
cesses, as well as GNF, e-genetics, and HMDEG expres-
sion data; -makes extensively use of the Ensembl or-
tholog/paralog prediction pipeline for identifying gene
duplication events; and -implements a dynamical pro-
gramming approach for the mapping of gene gains, du-
plications, and losses on the phylogenetic tree.
Through a user-friendly interface, MANTiS allows the
user to identify:
1. Gains and losses on speciﬁc branches of the tree,
2. Genome content of ancestral nodes, 3. Statistically
over- or under-represented molecular functions, biolog-
ical processes, and gene expression anatomical systems,
and 4. Tissue speciﬁcity of gained, duplicated, and lost
genes.
Finally, the entire set of information available in MAN-
TiS can be exploited further using an advanced system
of queries by which gene identity, mapping, and func-
tion parameters can be combined using logical opera-
tors.
The original paper is open-access and avail-
able in the journal Bioinformatics http://-
bioinformatics.oxfordjournals.org/cgi/content/-
full/24/2/151 as well as on the MANTiS website
(www.mantisdb.org ).
Reference: MANTiS: a phylogenetic framework for
multi-species genome comparisons Tzika A.C., Helaers
R., Van de Peer Y. & M.C. Milinkovitch Bioinformatics
2008 24(2):151-157
Michel C. Milinkovitch, Laboratory of Evolutionary ge-
netics, Inst. of Molecular Biology & Medicine, Univer-sit´ e Libre de Bruxelles (ULB), cp 300, Rue Jeener &
Brachet, 12, B-6041 Gosselies, Belgium.
Tel: +32-2-650-9956 (my oﬃce), +32-2-650-9967 or
9968 (lab), +32-2-650-9952 or 9953 (students) Fax:
+32-2-650-9950;
e-mail: mcmilink@ulb.ac.be www.ulb.ac.be/sciences/-
ueg “Michel C. Milinkovitch” <mcmilink@ulb.ac.be >
Software OrthoMaM Version2
Dear Evoldir members,
We have just released OrthoMaM version 2: a major
update of our database of orthologous single-copy nu-
clear exons for mammalian phylogenetics.
It can be queried from a new dedicated webserver:
http://www.orthomam.univ-montp2.fr/ The new ver-
sion 2 is based on the EnsEMBL release v48 and now
includes 23 taxa and 4155 candidate markers.
Major changes from the initial version include:
- Requests on 23 taxa (instead of 12). The 11 new
taxa are bushbaby, mouse lemur, tree shrew, Guinea
pig, ground squirrel, pika, cat, little brown bat, hedge-
hog, shrew, and platypus. - Sequence aligment using a
combination of MAFFT and TransAlign - Amino-acid
alignments can be visualized and downloaded
We expect the OrthoMaM database to be useful for fur-
ther resolving the phylogenetic tree of placental mam-
mals at diﬀerent taxonomic levels and for better under-
standing the evolutionary dynamics of their genomes.
The PDF describing the database is freely available
from BMC Evolutionary Biology:
http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2148/7/241 Or-
thoMaM: A database of orthologous genomic markers
for placental mammal phylogenetics Vincent Ranwez,
Frederic Delsuc, Sylvie Ranwez, Khalid Belkhir, Marie-
Ka Tilak and Emmanuel JP Douzery BMC Evolution-
ary Biology 2007, 7:241 (doi:10.1186/1471-2148-7-241)
We hope this will be of use to members of the commu-
nity.
Frederic Delsuc and co-authors
–
Fr´ ed´ eric DELSUC (Charg´ e de Recherches CNRS) Lab-
oratoire de Pal´ eontologie, Phylog´ enie et Pal´ eobiologie -
CC064 Institut des Sciences de l’Evolution - UMR5554-April 1, 2008 EvolDir 79
CNRS Universit´ e Montpellier II Place Eug` ene Batail-
lon 34095 Montpellier Cedex 05 France Tel: (+33)
4 67 14 39 64 FAX: (+33) 4 67 14 36 10 Email:
Frederic.Delsuc@univ-montp2.fr Webpage: http://-
frederic.delsuc.neuf.fr
Software PGETtoolbox
Hello all,
PGEToolbox has recently been updated and the source
code is now available for download.
Abstract: “PGEToolbox is a Matlab-based open-
sourced software package for data analysis in popula-
tion genetics. The main features of this software are as
follows: 1) capability for handling both DNA sequence
polymorphisms and single nucleotide polymorphisms
(SNPs), which include genotype and haplotype data;
2) exhaustive population genetic analyses and neutral-
ity tests based on the coalescent theory; 3) extendibil-
ity and scalability for complex and large genome-wide
datasets; 4) simple yet eﬀective graphic user interfaces
and sophisticated visualization of data and results.”
The software can be obtained from:
http://bioinformatics.org/pgetoolbox Reference: Cai
JJ. PGEToolbox: A Matlab Toolbox for Population
Genetics and Evolution. J Hered. 2008 Feb 29; PMID:
18310616
Best regards,
James J. Cai Stanford University Department of Biol-
ogy Herrin Hall, Petrov Lab, room 352 Stanford, CA
94305 USA
e-mail: jamescai@stanford.edu phone: 1-650-736-2249
fax: 1-650-723-6132
jamescai@stanford.edu jamescai@stanford.edu
SouthAfrica Volunteer
MammalBehavior
Volunteer needed as ﬁeld assistants for the project:
Socio-Evolution of small Mammals in the Succulent Ka-
roo of South Africa>From April 2008 onwards
Project: We study the reasons of group living, pater-
nal care, communal nesting and social ﬂexibility in the
striped mouse. As this species is diurnal and the habi-
tat is open, direct behavioral observations in the ﬁeld
are possible.
What kind of people are needed? Biol-
ogy/zoology/veterinary students with a BSC/
Vordiplom or equivalent are preferred as candi-
dates. Applicants must have an interest in working in
the ﬁeld and with animals. Whereas the research is
mainly non-invasive, this is no job for extreme animal
right persons (we take tissue and blood samples). Hard
working conditions will await applicants, as the study
species gets up with sunrise (between 5 and 6 o‘ clock),
and stops its activity with dusk (19 o‘ clock). Work
during nights might also be necessary. Work in the
ﬁeld will be done for 5-6 days a week. Applicants must
be able to manage extreme temperatures (below 0 at
night, sometimes over 40C during days). Applicants
must both be prepared to live for long periods in the
loneliness of the ﬁeld and to be part of a small group.
Work of ﬁeld assistants: Trapping and marking of mice
and rats; radio-tracking to determine home ranges and
nest sites; direct behavioral observations in the ﬁeld; ex-
periments and observations with captive specimen un-
der natural weather conditions; maintenance and clean-
ing of the research station.
Conﬁrmation letter: Students get a letter of conﬁrma-
tion about their work and can prepare a report of their
own small project to get credit points from their uni-
versity for their bachelor or masters studies.
Costs: Students have to arrange their transport to the
ﬁeld site themselves. Per month, an amount of Rand
750 (around 80 Euro) must be paid for accommoda-
tion at the research station. Students must buy their
own food etc in Springbok (costs of about R 2000 or
200 Euro/month). Including extras, you should expect
costs of about 350 Euros per month. Students get an
invitation letter which they can use to apply for funding
in their home country (eg. DAAD in Germany, SANW
in Switzerland).
Place: The ﬁeld site is in the Goegap Nature Reserve
near Springbok in the North-West of South Africa. The
vegetation consists of Succulent Karoo, which has been
recognized as one of 25 hotspots of biodiversity. It is a
desert to semi-desert with rain mainly in winter (June
to September).
When and how long: Currently we are looking for a vol-
unteer from April 2008. Field assistants are expected
to stay at least 2 months, but longer periods of up to80 EvolDir April 1, 2008
6months are preferred.
How to apply? Send a short motivation letter stating
why and for which period you are interested and your
CV via email to carsten.schradin@zool.uzh.ch.
More information under www.stripedmouse.com Con-
tact via e-mail: carsten.schradin@zool.uzh.ch
Dr. Carsten Schradin Research Assistant, Zoologi-
cal Institute, Department of Animal Behavior, Univer-
sity of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich,
Switzerland. Tel: +41 - (0)44 635 5486
Honorary Researcher at the School of Animal, Plant
and Environmental Sciences, University of the Witwa-
tersrand, South Africa.
Succulent Karoo Research Station, Goegap Nature Re-
serve, Private Bag X1, 8240 Springbok, South Africa.
visit http://www.stripedmouse.com Carsten Schradin
<carsten.schradin@zool.uzh.ch >
SpeciesDiﬀerences Call for papers
CFP: Animal Bodies of Knowledge: Understandings of
Species Diﬀerence Across Disciplines
Over the twentieth century, a number of key works of
cultural theory, social and biological science have eﬀec-
tively exposed and challenged domination on the basis
of race, gender, class, age, and national diﬀerence, as
social and discursive constructs that suit the needs of
the political status quo But what about species diﬀer-
ences? For the hundreds of thoughtful essays, books,
collections on race, gender, nationality, age and other
bases for domination, the academy has been reluctant
to raise similar questions about what we presuppose
to be the diﬀerences, real or imagined, between hu-
man and non-human animals. Although the scientiﬁc
and philosophical discussion of species diﬀerence has
its roots in ancient Western thought, over the course of
the last 150 years or so, this discussion has produced
separate bodies of conﬂicting but also recapitulating
knowledge across the sciences, the humanities and in
creative/imaginative work. At the same time, diﬀer-
ent modes of interrogating what it means to be hu-
man as opposed to what it means to be an animal have
become increasingly estranged from each other, such
that thinkers from a given discipline (biology, philos-
ophy, political science) run the risk of ignoring preva-
lent ideas or important advances in other disciplines.Understanding how these diﬀerent understandings of
species diﬀerence function and to what ends helps us
to raise serious questions about one of the least inter-
rogated bases for the domination of both human and
non-human animals in Western culture. This edited
collection calls for papers across multiple disciplines (bi-
ological and social science, political and philosophical
theory and practice, as well as imaginative work) to bet-
ter understand species diﬀerence and how it functions
in particular ﬁelds of inquiry.
Interested authors should provide 200 word abstracts
and a 100 word biography to Vincent J. Guihan
vguihan@connect.carleton.ca and/or Sinead Collins
(s.collins@ed.ac.uk) by April 15, 2008 for consideration.
– The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body,
registered in Scotland, with registration number
SC005336.
s.collins@ed.ac.uk
SSB 3rdWorld Scholarships
SSB is pleased to announce the availability of schol-
arships for scholars from developing countries to at-
tend workshops and courses in systematics, or to visit
a lab engaged in systematic research for training. The
emphasis of this program is the transfer of knowledge
to the scholar’s home country. Therefore, applicants
should currently be in their home country or have def-
inite plans to return in the near future. Courses such
as the The Summer Institute in Statistical Genetics,
Molecular Evolution Workshop at Woods Hole, and Ap-
plied Phylogenetics Workshop at Bodega Bay are ex-
amples of courses that are appropriate for this funding.
This scholarship can also be used to fund a short term
visit to a laboratory for training in systematic tech-
niques and analyses. It is the applicants responsibility
to arrange lab visits or admission to a class before ap-
plying for this fund. Support for attending a course will
be contingent on admission to the course through the
normal admissions process. This grant does not sup-
port travel to conferences and meetings. Requests for
support may be in any amount up to $3,000.
Please see the website ( http://systbio.org/?q=node/-
25) for details regarding submission requirements.
Applications should be sent to SSB Award Committee,
at ssb apps- mailbox@cornell.edu.
Application deadline is March 31, 2008April 1, 2008 EvolDir 81
Grant and Fellowship Application Committee Society
of Systematic Biologists http://systbio.org/ ssbapps-
mailbox@cornell.edu ssb apps-mailbox@cornell.edu
SSB ErnstMayr award competition
Ernst Mayr Award Announcement
The Society of Systematic Biologists announces the
award competition for The Ernst Mayr Award given
to the presenter of the outstanding student paper in
the ﬁeld of systematics at the annual meetings of the
Society of Systematic Biologists. The award consists of
$1000 and a set of available back issues of Systematic
Biology.
Members of the Society who are students or have com-
pleted their Ph.D. within the last 15 months are eligi-
ble. Applicants may be from any country, but must be
members of SSB, and are advised to join the Society as
soon as possible to be considered (to join go to: http:/-
/systbio.org/?q=node. Previous Mayr award winners
are not eligible.
Applicants should 1) submit their titles for the SSB
Meeting in Minneapolis, Minnesota and indicate at the
time of submission that their talk is a potential com-
petitor for the SSB Ernst Mayr Award; 2) submit a
400-word abstract of their talk to the SSB awards com-
mittee.
Pleas see the SSB website for more details on sub-
mission requirements. http://systbio.org/?q=node/10
Application deadline is 1 April 2008 (same deadline for
title submissions for the conference).
Grant and Fellowship Application Committee Society
of Systematic Biologists http://systbio.org/ ssbapps-
mailbox@cornell.edu ssb apps-mailbox@cornell.edu
SSB Graduate Student Research
Awards
The Society of Systematic Biologists (SSB) announces
the 2008 annual Graduate Student Research Award
competition. The purpose of these awards is to assist
students in the initiation (ﬁrst two years) of their sys-
tematics projects and in the collection of preliminarydata to pursue additional sources of support (e.g., Doc-
toral Dissertation Improvement Grants from the Na-
tional Science Foundation) or to enhance dissertation
research (e.g., by visiting additional ﬁeld collection sites
or museums). Applicants may be from any country,
but must be members of SSB, and are advised to join
the Society as soon as possible to facilitate their appli-
cations (to join go to: http:// systbio.org/). Previous
awardees may not re-apply, but previous applicants who
were not selected for funding are encouraged to re- ap-
ply. Awards will range between $1,000 and $2000 and
approximately six awards will be made.
Systematics is interpreted broadly to include questions
below and above the species level, molecular and mor-
phological approaches, and issues of pattern and pro-
cess. Funding is not limited to any particular as-
pect of research, but rather is available for ﬁeld, mu-
seum/herbarium, and/or laboratory work.
To be considered for this year’s award, application ma-
terials, including letters of recommendation, must be
received electronically no later than March 31, 2008.
For more information, please see the SSB Student
Awards ( http:// systbio.org/?q=node/22)
Grant and Fellowship Application Committee Society
of Systematic Biologists http://systbio.org/ ssbapps-
mailbox@cornell.edu ssb apps-mailbox@cornell.edu
SSB Mini PEET award
SSB Mini PEET award competition:
Society of Systematic Biologists (SSB) is pleased to an-
nounce the availability of awards to enhance the trans-
fer of taxonomic expertise, modeled after the PEET
program at NSF. Unlike the NSF PEET program,
awards will not be limited to taxonomically understud-
ied taxa; the primary purpose of this program is to pass
on taxonomic expertise in general. The awards are de-
signed to allow SSB members (students, post-docs, and
faculty) to spend a summer or semester apprenticed to
an expert in a particular taxonomic group. This would
support the PEET goal of passing on taxonomic exper-
tise before it is lost. Activities can include a trip to the
taxonomist’s laboratory, or pay for the taxonomist to
visit the applicant’s laboratory for a period of time. Re-
quests for support may be in any amount up to $3,000.
A complete application includes a brief description of
the project, justiﬁcation of the importance of the taxon,82 EvolDir April 1, 2008
an itemized budget, the applicant’s CV, and a letter of
support from the taxonomic expert. If the applicant
is a student or post-doc, please also include a letter of
recommendation. Applicants may be from any country,
but must be members of SSB, and are advised to join
the Society as soon as possible to facilitate their appli-
cations (to join go to: http://systbio.org/?q=node/6 ).
The narrative part of the application should be no more
than two pages long, not including the curriculum vitae
and letters of support.
Requests should be sent to the SSB Award Commit-
tee, (ssb apps-mailbox@cornell.edu). E-mail submis-
sions are required, and applicants are encouraged to
use pdf format for all documents. In the subject line of
the email, please indicate the SSB award category.
Please see the SSB website for details of this
award and complete submission requirements ( http://-
systbio.org/?q=node/26 ).
Application deadline is March 31, 2008
SSB Applications <ssbapps@cornell.edu >
SSE TravelAwards
2008 SSE INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL AWARDS
FOR YOUNG SCHOLARS
The Society for the Study of Evolution announces the
establishment of travel awards intended to foster com-
munication between evolutionary biologists from diﬀer-
ent countries, with particular emphasis on young schol-
ars at an early stage of their career.
SSE will sponsor two types of travel awards for young
scientists: 1. Travel awards to non-USA/Canada young
scientists living outside the USA to support attendance
at the annual SSE meeting; 2. Travel awards for young
USA/Canada or non-USA/Canada scientists living in
the USA or Canada to attend non-SSE evolution meet-
ings outside the country where they study or reside.
Description of the awards: 1. Support of up to $700
toward travel and living expenses (15 awards total).
2. Registration fees (the award will not cover late reg-
istration fees). 3. Membership in SSE including an
electronic membership to Evolution for 1 year.
Application guidelines:
1. Applications can be presented by young ( <35 years
old) scientists at various stages of their professional ca-
reer. Applicants from North America, Europe, Aus-tralia or New Zealand should be SSE members. 2. Ap-
plicants may apply several times, but if successful, they
are not eligible for a second award for a period of 5
years. 3. Applicants cannot apply for other SSE spon-
sored travel awards in the same year, but they can seek
support from other sources. 4. The applicant should
submit a CV and a one page cover letter explaining:
a. Why the chosen meeting is important for the de-
velopment of their career. b. How they are going to
ﬁnd additional funds to support their expenses. c. A
support letter from their advisor or mentor. 5. Pro-
posals should be submitted to the chair of the SSE In-
ternational Committee (Dr. Gisella Caccone at adal-
gisa.caccone@yale.edu) by April 15th 2008. 6.Winners
will be notiﬁed in early May 2008.
Decision process: 1. Proposals will be evaluated by the
chair of the International Committee (Adalgisa Cac-
cone), the non-North American VP (Stuart West), and
a council member chosen by the chair of the Interna-
tional Committee (Axel Meyer). 2. Awards will be pre-
sented to the winners at the relevant society’s annual
meeting. 3. Preference will be given to young scholars
presenting a paper or poster on which they are sole or
ﬁrst authors.
For Dr. Dale Clayton clayton@biology.utah.edu Secre-
tary, Society for the Study of Evolution
Carey Madsen careymadsen@bioscience.utah.edu Exec-
utive Secretary Department of Biology University of
Utah 257 So. 1400 E. Room 308 ASB Salt Lake City,
UT 84112-0840
Tel 801-585-1791 Fax 801-581-2174
Carey Madsen <careymadsen@biology.utah.edu >
Too many haplotypes per individual
Dear all,
I am sequencing an intron to arginine kinase in a marine
gastropod. Through cloning a have, on several occa-
sions, managed to consequently sequence more than two
(but typically not more than 4) haplotypes from one
individual (even after re-extraction of template DNA).
Immediately I suspected gene duplication but the hap-
lotypes do not diﬀer from each other by more than a
few mutations (the sequence is only about 300 bp long)
and gene duplications for this gene are not known from
other invertebrates. One explanation might be a very
recent gene duplication, but could there be other ex-April 1, 2008 EvolDir 83
planations as well?
One additional nuclear intron (calmodulin) does not
show this phenomenon.
Thank you in advance, Petri
Petri Kemppainen, PhD student Tj¨ arn¨ o Marine Biolog-
ical Laboratory, 45296, Str¨ omstad, Sweden Tel: +46
526 686 83 Fax: +46 526 686 07 Mob: +46 709 360 124
petri.kemppainen@tmbl.gu.se
petri.kemppainen@tmbl.gu.se
URochester SummerResFellowships
Undergraduate Summer Research Fellowships
Summer Research Training Fellowships are available to
study the molecular evolution of endosymbiotic bac-
teria in insects at the University of Rochester. The
fellowships will include travel expenses, a stipend, and
housing for 8 weeks. The summer research training pro-
gram will span June to August 2008 (dates are ﬂexible).
Interest in one of the following areas; entomology, mi-
crobiology, evolution or ecology is required and some
experience in PCR is desirable. During the fellowship
you will learn the methods involved in identiﬁcation of
insect hosts, screening, molecular typing of endosymbi-
otic bacteria (genus Wolbachia), and analysis of data
relating to variation, global distribution and host asso-
ciations of these endosymbionts.
More information is available at:
http://troi.cc.rochester.edu/ ˜ wolb/FIBR/-
education.html For any additional questions regarding
this Summer Training Program contact:
Rachel Edwards at redward2@mail.rochester.edu
Michael Clark <mclark11@mail.rochester.edu >
WoodsHole MBL REU
AntSymbionts
Attn: students interested in ants, symbiosis, or both.
REU - Ant-bacterial symbiosis
We seek a very motivated undergraduate student to joinus this summer as we explore an ant-bacterial symbio-
sis. Working within Jennifer Wernegreen’s lab at the
MBL, the student will contribute to our ongoing evolu-
tionary and functional studies of an obligate mutualism
between bacteria and ants of the tribe Camponitini.
This 10-week REU (Research Experience for Under-
graduates) position includes housing in Woods Hole,
travel, and a summer stipend. The position is contin-
gent upon funding from the NSF.
Project details: The REU student will help us explore
how bacterial symbiont densities and gene expression
patterns ﬂuctuate within ants, according to the diet
quality and nutritional demands experienced by the
host. You’ll contribute to diverse aspects of this study,
by collecting local ant species, maintaining ants in the
lab, performing diet experiments, and using molecular
approaches (DNA and RNA extractions, quantitative
PCR) to measure symbiont densities and gene expres-
sion within ant hosts. You’ll be involved in data anal-
ysis throughout the project and will present a synthe-
sis of results at the end of the summer. Please see
http://jbpc.mbl.edu/labs-wernegreen.html for more in-
formation about system and publications relating to the
project.
Qualiﬁcations: REU positions are funded by the NSF
and are only open to U.S. citizens or permanent res-
idents who are currently enrolled in an undergradu-
ate institution and have not graduated prior to start-
ing the position (sorry, no graduating seniors). Essen-
tial qualiﬁcations include: attention to detail, excep-
tional organizational and communication skills, abil-
ity to work independently in the ﬁeld and lab, excel-
lent analytical and laboratory skills, a genuine drive to
perform basic research, and enthusiasm for ﬁeld work
under conditions in which mosquitoes, ticks and poi-
son ivy are quite common. Prior research is essential,
ideally involving insect maintenance and/or molecular
techniques. The project is best suited for a student
interested in symbiosis, insect nutritional physiology,
evolution and ecology, functional genomics, or related
ﬁelds.
If interested, please contact Jennifer Wernegreen di-
rectly (jwernegreen@mbl.edu) for details of how to ap-
ply. In general, the application is simply a CV, state-
ment of interest, unoﬃcial transcript, and contact info
for references.
Applications will be reviewed March 21, 2008.
Jennifer Wernegreen <jwernegreen@mbl.edu >84 EvolDir April 1, 2008
YouTube SelﬁshGeneticElements
Dear EvolDir readers,
as assignments in a course on genetic conﬂicts, a bunch
of enthusiastic master students have produced video
material on selﬁsh genetic elements which is made avail-
able on Youtube. You can ﬁnd the videos here:http://youtube.com/user/Genesinconﬂict There are
movies on B-chromosomes, transposable elements, self-
ish sex chromosomes and meiotic drive.
We hope you will enjoy them! Comments and remarks
of any sort are very welcome. You can drop me an
email, add comments to the movies on youtube, or even
“better”, webcam your remarks to youtube!
All the best, Tom Van Dooren and Ken Kraaijeveld
Institute of Biology Leiden Netherlands
t.j.m.van.dooren@biology.leidenuniv.nl
PostDocs
Bristol StatisticalGenetics Bacteria . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
BrownU PlantMolSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
ColoradoStateU EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
EmoryU HostParasiteInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
Harvard ComparativeMethods EvolutionaryAnthropol-
ogy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
ImperialCollegeLondon SpeciationGenomics . . . . . . . 87
Kanagawa Japan PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
LeidenU Bioinformatics ViralRNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
Lisbon Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
LosAngeles GeneticHistory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
MaxPlanckInst Jena MolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
Montpellier ModelingPlantPathogens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
NetherlandsInstEcol BirdPopulations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
NorwegianU FungalMolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
OxfordU StatisticalGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
Paris 1year PopulationModeling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
Paris 1year PopulationModelling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
SanDiegoZooSociety Mammalian Phylogenetics . . . . 94
StonyBrookU DrosophilaEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . 95
TulaneU EvolutionHawaiianFish . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
UArizona EvolabilityTheory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
UArizona MulticellularityEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
UBritishColumbia ComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . 96
UCaliforniaSantaBarbara Phylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . 96UCollegeCork ArabidopsisVariation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
UGreifswald StemCellBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
UIdaho PlasmidHostRangeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
UKonstanz MolEvolGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
ULausanne PlantReproductiveEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 99
ULyon BacterialEndosymbionts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
UManchester YeastBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
UMemphis BioinformaticsComputationalGenomics 101
UNebraska PopulationBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
UNebraska ViralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
UNewBrunswick PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
UOregon MetagenomicInformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
UOslo FungalSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
UOslo TheoreticalBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
UPenn Microbe Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
UPierreMarieCurie AntEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
UWisconsinMadison PlantEvolution TrophicInterac-
tions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
UWyoming EvolutionaryStructuralBioinformatics 107
UWyoming SalmonComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . 107
Valencia ComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
Vienna Zebraﬁsh EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
WilliamMaryCollege Biomath . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108April 1, 2008 EvolDir 85
Bristol StatisticalGenetics Bacteria
A thirty-month position is available immediately to
join a Wellcome Trust funded international multidisci-
plinary collaboration to develop computationally inten-
sive statistical methodology to analyze bacterial evolu-
tion.
New sequencing technology allows complete genome se-
quences to be determined for hundreds or even thou-
sands of bacteria from the same species. The aim of
the project is to develop tools to analyze this new data
in order to understand how bacteria evolve and to re-
late genetic variation to important bacterial phenotypes
such as drug-resistance and pathogenicity. The project
builds on existing software (ClonalFrame and Mauve)
and involves both statisticians (Peter Green) and sta-
tistical geneticists (Daniel Falush, Xavier Didelot and
Aaron Darling) and will involve interacting with various
producers of bacterial sequence data including Julian
Parkhill at the Sanger Institute.
You will develop statistical tools to (1) characterise the
origins of DNA imports and the pattern of DNA ex-
change in bacteria, and (2) understand the ﬁtness in-
teractions between diﬀerent adaptations to particular
environments. The post would suit either statisticians
who wish to move into statistical genetics, or biolo-
gists with a strong quantitative aptitude who wish to
learn cutting-edge statistical methodology. Advanta-
geous qualiﬁcations include: (1) knowledge of MCMC
or similar techniques, (2) good programming skills, (3)
a good publication record, (4) knowledge or interest in
evolutionary genetics.
The statistics group in Bristol is one of the very
strongest in the UK. There are currently 17 faculty,
8 postdocs and 25 graduate research students, with
interests ranging across core methodology and key
application areas. The group is involved in many
interdisciplinary collaborations, across the University
and outside, and there is much activity in cognate
groups including the Centres for Complexity Science
and for Multilevel Modelling, the Department of Social
Medicine, AI in Engineering, and the Heilbronn Insti-
tute.
Contact Daniel Falush (d.falush@ucc.ie) or see https:/-
/www.bris.ac.uk/boris/jobs/ads?ID=71705 for further
details:
“Falush, Daniel” <D.Falush@ucc.ie >BrownU PlantMolSystematics
A post-doctoral research position is available in the Ed-
wards lab in the Ecology and Evolutionary Biology De-
partment at Brown University. We are looking for an
enthusiastic botanist with expertise in molecular sys-
tematics. The successful candidate will take the lead in
ongoing phylogenetic studies of the Portulacineae, an
enigmatic group of plants that includes the cacti, the
Anacampserotae, the Didiereacae, and various lineages
of old “Portulacaceae”. Molecular labwork will include
both ’traditional’ directed-PCR approaches as well as
collection and analysis of EST data from selected taxa.
There is also wide-open opportunity and encourage-
ment for additional research into character/ecological
evolution in the group. Good bioinformatics skills are
not essential but a deﬁnite plus. There is guaranteed
funding for one year, with negotiable extension. We are
aiming for a starting date of summer/fall 2008, but can
be very ﬂexible for the right person.
Brown University is located in Providence, RI. Provi-
dence has recently been dubbed the “Renaissance City”
and is a thriving community. Also home to the Rhode
Island School of Design, it has an active and creative
arts and music scene. It also houses the Johnson and
Wales Culinary Institute, and J&W alumni provide the
city with a truly ridiculous number of great restaurants.
All in all, Providence is a wonderful place to live.
Please send a CV and names/contact info for three
references to erika edwards@brown.edu . Brown is an
equal opportunity employer.
Erika J. Edwards Department of Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology Brown University 80 Waterman St Box
G-W Providence, RI 02912
oﬃce: 401.863.2081 lab: 401.863.6275 fax:
401.863.2166
email: erika edwards@brown.edu
lab website: http://www.brown.edu/Research/-
Edwards Lab/index.php erika edwards@brown.edu86 EvolDir April 1, 2008
ColoradoStateU
EvolutionaryGenetics
Postdoc in Evolutionary Genetics at Colorado State
University
A postdoctoral position in evolutionary genetics and
evolutionary ecology is available in the lab of Dr. Amy
Angert at Colorado State University. The successful
candidate will use molecular markers to study the ef-
fects of gene ﬂow on adaptive divergence between pop-
ulations and the evolution of geographic range limits.
Candidate must have completed his/her Ph.D. or have a
scheduled defense date. A strong background in genet-
ics or evolution is required. Experience extracting and
amplifying DNA from plant tissue and analyzing mi-
crosatellite data is preferred. The successful candidate
will be expected to interact with incoming graduate and
undergraduate students in a growing lab group.
The Department of Biology at Colorado State Univer-
sity is an interdisciplinary group with a strong and
growing group of ecologists and evolutionary biologists.
In addition to the Department of Biology in the College
of Natural Sciences, CSU has four other colleges dedi-
cated to life science research: Applied Human Sciences,
Agricultural Sciences, Veterinary Medicine & Biomed-
ical Sciences, and the Warner College of Natural Re-
sources. In addition, the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention, the United States Department of Agri-
culture, and the United States Geological Survey have
active laboratories in Fort Collins. Fort Collins is a city
of approximately 120,000 people located one hour north
of Denver at the base of the Rocky Mountains.
To apply, please submit the following materials as
a single pdf ﬁle: (1) CV, (2) one-page statement
of research interests, (3) up to three recent publica-
tions, and (4) contact information for three referees to:
angert@mail.colostate.edu. Review of applications will
begin immediately and continue until the position is
ﬁlled. The position is available immediately, and start
date is negotiable. For more information, please con-
tact me by email at angert@mail.colostate.edu.
Amy L. Angert Assistant Professor Department of
Biology Colorado State University Fort Collins, CO
80523 Ph: (970) 491-5947 Fx: (970) 491-0649 Email:
angert@mail.colostate.edu
Amy.Angert@colostate.eduEmoryU HostParasiteInteractions
Insect-Pathogen Postdoctoral Position Emory Univer-
sity, Atlanta, GA USA Laboratory of Dr. Nicole Ger-
ardo
There is funding available for one postdoctoral re-
searcher in the laboratory of Dr. Nicole Gerardo. Our
lab’s focus is on the evolutionary ecology of microbial
host-parasite interactions.
We combine molecular genetics, phylogenetics and ex-
perimentation to study pathogens associated with di-
verse insect systems. Our research is centered on un-
derstanding how insect hosts adapt to defend against
pathogens and how pathogens then adapt to over-
come these host defenses. We also study how mu-
tualistic microbes may play a role in defending their
hosts against pathogens. Initial projects will focus
largely on the interactions of aphids, their bacte-
rial symbionts and microbial pathogens, though there
may be opportunities to work on fungus-growing
ants and other systems as well. For more informa-
tion, go to www.biology.emory.edu/research/Gerardo/-
Gerardohome.html . The lab is part of Emory’s
Population Biology, Ecology and Evolution program,
which has a strong focus on host-parasite interac-
tions and disease ecology. For more information on
the program and the researchers at Emory, go to:
www.biomed.emory.edu/PROGRAM SITES/PBEE/
Candidates should have a background in host-parasite
interactions or symbioses, as well as an interest in
research combining experimental and molecular ap-
proaches to understanding the interaction of insects
and their microbial communities. Background in ex-
perimental biology of insects and or microbes, molec-
ular ecology, and/or bioinformatics strongly preferred.
Postdocs must have strong communication skills and
be willing to help with lab maintenance and training
of undergraduate students. If interested, please send a
CV, along with a brief statement of interests and expe-
riences in the above-mentioned areas, to Nicole Gerardo
by May 15, 2008. Candidates must be able to start the
position no later than December 2008.
Dr. Nicole Gerardo Emory University Department of
Biology nicole.gerardo@emory.eduApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 87
Harvard ComparativeMethods
EvolutionaryAnthropology
Postdoctoral Researcher: Comparative Methods in
Evolutionary Anthropology
Department of Anthropology (Biological Wing) at Har-
vard University
A postdoctoral research position is available to as-
sist with projects that use phylogeny-based compara-
tive methods to address questions in evolutionary an-
thropology. Research activities will potentially include
applying phylogenetic methods to cross-species, cross-
cultural and linguistics data, developing new databases
for comparative studies, and building a website to dis-
seminate comparative databases and methods for evo-
lutionary anthropologists. Speciﬁc research topics will
be determined based on the interests of the successful
candidate.
The research will take place in the Department of An-
thropology (Biological Wing) at Harvard University,
with an anticipated start date of September 2008. The
initial appointment is for one year, with a second year
of funding available conditional on satisfactory perfor-
mance. Salary will be based on previous experience and
includes beneﬁts.
The position requires an independent, enthusiastic and
innovative researcher with an interest in applying com-
parative approaches to real- world questions. Competi-
tive individuals will have previous experience in one or
more of the following areas: phylogenetic comparative
methods, analysis of geographic data, reconstruction
of phylogeny, bioinformatics, and programming experi-
ence (especially, but not limited to, R). Applicants from
diverse ﬁelds are invited to apply, including researchers
from biological sciences, anthropology, and linguistics.
Please email an application to Charles Nunn
(nunn@eva.mpg.de) consisting of a CV, statement of
research interests and qualiﬁcations, and the names of
three people who can be contacted for letters of refer-
ence. Evaluation of applicants will begin on March 31
and will continue until the position is ﬁlled.
Harvard University is an Aﬃrmative Action/Equal Op-
portunity Employer.
Charles L. Nunn website: www.eva.mpg.de/primat/-
staﬀ/charles nunn/index.htm mammal parasites:www.mammalparasites.org phylogeny of sleep:
www.bu.edu/phylogeny/index.html Max Planck Insti-
tute for Evolutionary Anthropology Deutscher Platz 6
04103 Leipzig, Germany email: nunn@eva.mpg.de tel.:
++49 (0) 341 3550 204 fax: ++49 (0) 341 3550 299
and
Department of Integrative Biology University of Cali-
fornia Berkeley, CA USA tel.: ++1 510 643 2579
Eﬀective July 1, 2008:
Department of Anthropology (Biological Wing) Har-
vard University 11 Divinity Avenue Cambridge MA
02138
nunn@eva.mpg.de nunn@eva.mpg.de
ImperialCollegeLondon
SpeciationGenomics
POSTDOC IN SPECIATION GENOMICS AT IMPE-
RIAL COLLGE LONDON
Department of Life Sciences
Faculty of Natural Sciences
Research Associate
Salary: GBP 24,570 - GBP 31,240 per annum
Imperial College is ranked the ﬁfth best university in
the world (Times Higher QS World University Rank-
ings 2007).
This is an exciting opportunity for a Research Asso-
ciate with an interest in Speciation Genomics. The suc-
cessful candidate will carry out cutting edge research
investigating the mechanisms of ecological speciation
in two sympatric palms endemic of Lord Howe Island,
Australia (Nature 441:210, 2006), conducting AFLP
genome scans, BAC probing, DNA sequences and coa-
lescence analyses.
The successful candidate will have practical experience
in population genetics and/or genomics and strong in-
terests in evolutionary biology.
The post is funded for 3 years by the Natural Envi-
ronment Research Council and will be based at Sil-
wood Park Campus. The successful candidate will work
closely with Dr Vincent Savolainen and his research
group, in collaboration with Prof Roger Butlin (Univ.
of Sheﬃeld) and Dr Bill Baker (Rooyal Botanic Gar-
dens Kew).88 EvolDir April 1, 2008
Further details of the research group can be ob-
tained from the research group website: http://-
www3.imperial.ac.uk/people/v.savolainen Application
Form, Job Description and Person Speciﬁcation avail-
able at:
http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/employment/research/-
ns2008059jt Completed application forms accompanied
by a curriculum vitae and the name and contact details
of two referees should be sent to: Diana Anderson,
Imperial College, Silwood Park Campus, Buckhurst
Road, Ascot, Berkshire, SL5 7PY or by email to
d.anderson@imperial.ac.uk
Closing date: 7 April 2008
Valuing diversity and committed to equality of oppor-
tunity
Dr Vincent Savolainen Reader in Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology Imperial College London, and Royal
Botanic Gardens, Kew Silwood Park Campus Buck-
hurst Road, Ascot, Berkshire, SL5 7PY, UK Tel +44
(0)20 7594 2374 Fax +44 (0)20 7594 2339 Email
v.savolainen@imperial.ac.uk or v.savolainen@kew.org
Web http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/people/v.savolainen
’Think before you print’
v.savolainen@imperial.ac.uk
Kanagawa Japan
PopulationGenetics
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN POPULATION
GENETICS AND GENOME EVOLUTION
A POSTDOCTORAL POSITION is available
in the laboratory of Hideki Innan ( http://-
www.sendou.soken.ac.jp/esb/innan/InnanLab/ In-
dexEn.html) at the Graduate University for Advanced
Studies in Japan. The successful candidate will be
expected to work on projects in theoretical population
genetics and genome data analysis. We are looking for
a motivated individual with a strong background in
population genetics and/or computational genomics.
Some programing experience are required.
The initial appointment is for one year, and an exten-
sion will be considered conditional on satisfactory per-
formance. The start date is ﬂexible but the position is
available immediately.
To apply, please send me a CV and a brief statement
of research interests and backgorund. Applications willbe accepted until the position is ﬁlled.
HIDEKI INNAN
Graduate University for Advanced Studies School
of Advanced Sciences Kamiyamaguchi 1560-39
Hayama, Kanagawa 240-0193, Japan Phone: +81-
46-858-1600 Fax: +81-46-858-1544 E-mail: in-
nanhideki@soken.ac.jp
innan hideki@soken.ac.jp
LeidenU Bioinformatics ViralRNA
BIOINFORMATICS POSTDOCTORAL POSITION -
VIRUS RNA STRUCTURE RESEARCH
A postdoctoral position is available at the Leiden In-
stitute of Biology, Leiden University, The Netherlands.
A motivated candidate will work on theoretical anal-
ysis of inﬂuenza virus RNA structures. The position
is in the framework of EU project funded for 2 years.
The candidate is expected to search/predict/study the
conserved RNA structures in inﬂuenza virus genome,
study evolution of found RNA structures and the po-
tential eﬀects of RNA folding on virus replication and
adaptation. This bioinformatic research will be per-
formed in very close collaboration with experimental
research on RNA structure at the Leiden Institute of
Chemistry.
Contact: dr. Alexander P. Gultyaev, Section The-
oretical Biology, Leiden Institute of Biology, Lei-
den University, Kaiserstraat 63, 2311 GP Leiden,
The Netherlands. tel. +31 (0)71 5274814 email
a.p.gultyaev@biology.leidenuniv.nl
Patsy Haccou <p.haccou@biology.leidenuniv.nl >
Lisbon Genomics
Would you be so kind to include in the EvolDir
website, a job announcement for a 5-Years Post-
Doctoral Position in Environmental Genomics, at
the Centre for Environmental Biology of Lisbon,
Portugal? The annoucement may be found at: http:/-
/www.eracareers.pt/opportunities/index.aspx?task=-
global&jobId=8804 Thank you in advance. With kindApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 89
regards Claudia Oliveira Centre for Environmental
Biology
Centro de Biologia Ambiental <cdambiental@fc.ul.pt >
LosAngeles GeneticHistory
Postdoctoral Fellowship in Genetic History. In
conjunction with its Mellon Seminar on Genet-
ics and History (for more information see http:/-
/www.sscnet.ucla.edu/historyandgenetics/ ), the De-
partment of History at UCLA oﬀers a postdoctoral fel-
lowship in Genetic History for the academic year 2008-
09. We desire a scholar with a disciplinary grounding
in history, anthropology, linguistics, archeology, popu-
lation genetics or biostatistics experienced in the use
of genetic data for historical scholarship and interested
in interdisciplinary collaboration. Duties will include
the co- organization of an interdisciplinary faculty sem-
inar and the teaching of one course. The Fellowship
carries a salary of $45,000 plus beneﬁts, a one time
moving allowance of $1,500, and a $1,000 research bud-
get. Applications should send a resume, description of
two possible course oﬀerings, and three letters of ref-
erence by April 15, 2008 to Professor Patrick Geary,
Department of History, UCLA, Los Angeles CA 90095-
1473. For more information contact Professor Geary at
geary@ucla.edu. UCLA is an AA/EOE. All qualiﬁed
applicants are encouraged to apply, including minori-
ties and women.
On Mar 6, 2008, at 1:28 AM, Soraya de Chadarevian
wrote:
>Dear Colleagues > > Please ﬁnd attached the an-
nouncement for the Mellon Foundation >postdoctoral
fellowship in Genetic History for 2008/9. Please pass >
it on to any of your students who might be interested.
We have >posted the announcement an the website
of the American Historical >Association.We would be
grateful for other suggestions where to >post it. >
Many thanks you for your cooperation > > Soraya and
Pat> > Soraya de Chadarevian >Professor >UCLA
Department of History and >Center for Society and
Genetics >Los Angeles, CA > > < Postdoctoral Fel-
lowship in Genetic History.doc >
Carlos D. Bustamante Assistant Professor, Biological
Statistics and Computational Biology 101 Biotechnol-
ogy Building Ithaca, NY 14853 cdb28@cornell.edu of-
ﬁce: (607) 255-1640 fax: (607) 255-4698 dept: (607)
255-5488 cell: (607) 280-3233“Carlos D. Bustamante” <cdb28@cornell.edu >
MaxPlanckInst Jena MolEvol
Molecular/Evolutionary Biologist (PostDoctoral posi-
tion) at the Max Planck Institute for Chemical Ecol-
ogy/Department of Entomology
A Postdoctoral position is available in the Depart-
ment of Entomology (Director: Prof. David G.
Heckel) at the Max-Planck-Institute for Chemical Ecol-
ogy in Jena/Germany ( http://www.ice.mpg.de/hec/-
home/home en.htm?mp=134 ). The institute is inter-
national in character, with English the daily scien-
tiﬁc language. We aim at establishing herbivore model
systems of economic importance to study physiolog-
ical, molecular, evolutionary and genetic adaptations
to host plant compounds and insecticides in the ﬁeld.
We are interested in identifying large-scale physiological
changes of Lepidopteran larvae exposed to plant sec-
ondary metabolites with custom microarrays to iden-
tify toxin-induced genes, general detoxiﬁcation mech-
anisms and a correlation of plant-derived factors with
speciﬁc insect counterdefenses (e.g. detoxiﬁcation, cop-
ing with oxidative stress) in several Lepidoptera. Iden-
tiﬁcation and veriﬁcation of candidate genes by heterol-
ogous expression, biochemical characterizations, evolu-
tionary analysis within and between species will be fol-
lowed by manipulation of these in insects (transforma-
tion and RNAi). Candidates should have the follow-
ing: A PhD in genetics, genomics, biochemistry or a
related ﬁeld. Drive and motivation to solve diﬃcult sci-
entiﬁc problems. Good communication/interpersonal
skills, good experimental skills and thorough experience
in molecular biology or evolutionary biology. A back-
ground in the application of bioinformatic methods to
genome studies and/or microarray analysis or biochem-
istry would be a competitive advantage. E-mail in-
quiries are welcome to Heiko Vogel (hvogel@ice.mpg.de
<mailto:hvogel@ice.mpg.de >). Applications (prefer-
ably by e-mail) should include cover letter, CV, names
and contact info for 2 references, pdf’s of two most sig-
niﬁcant publications or manuscripts. Review will begin
February 2008, and will continue until the position is
ﬁlled.
Dr. Heiko Vogel Max Planck Institute for Chemi-
cal Ecology Department of Entomology Hans-Knoell-
Strasse 8 D-07745 Jena Germany Phone: (+49)
3641-571512 Fax: (+49) 3641-571502 e-mail: hvo-
gel@ice.mpg.de <mailto:hvogel@ice.mpg.de >90 EvolDir April 1, 2008
Heiko Vogel <hvogel@ice.mpg.de >
Montpellier
ModelingPlantPathogens
18-month POSTDOCTORAL POSITION Modelling
the demo-genetics of emergent fungal plant pathogen
species.
A postdoctoral position is available to work with Vir-
ginie Ravign´ e, Jean Carlier (UMR BGPI - CIRAD,
Montpellier, France) and Marie-Laure Loustau (INRA
Bordeaux, France) in the context of a project funded
by the ANR (French national research agency) Biodi-
versity programme (Project EMERFUNDIS - Under-
standing the emergence of fungal plant diseases: a step
towards the assessment of global change risks).
Its overall aim is to identify the factors that contribute
to the emergence of fungal plant diseases in crop and
natural systems and to categorize known pathogens
and agro-ecosystems according to their risk of disease
emergence under the eﬀects of human-induced global
changes such as global warming, increase in pathogen
introductions and agro-ecosystem management.
So far, plant theoretical epidemiology has much im-
proved our understanding of spatio-temporal popula-
tion dynamics processes of disease spread, with much
eﬀort in linking theory and empirical data. Theoreti-
cal tools for understanding the factors that drive plant
disease emergence are far less developed. It is now obvi-
ous that the adaptive potential of pathogens is a major
determinant in disease outbreaks and is inﬂuenced by
factors such as propagule introduction rate, inoculum
size, and population genetics. The post-doctoral re-
searcher will thus develop a simulation tool to model the
population dynamics and genetics of fungal pathogens
clearly integrating into the simplest framework, key-
characteristics of diseases (e.g., mating system) and
ecosystem properties (e.g., hosts distribution and vari-
ability). He/She will then conduct a sensitivity anal-
ysis to look for matches between putative success-
ful pathogen strategies and candidate vulnerable agro-
ecosystems. He/She will also be able to participate in
the building and analysis of a large database gather-
ing relevant information about all pathogens known to
cause emergent fungal plant diseases.
The theoretical approach developed by the postdoc
is central to the ANR Biodiversity Project EMER-FUNDIS that gathers 8 French teams working in the
ﬁeld of phytopathology. The post-doc will thus be part
of a dynamic network of researchers with numerous op-
portunities to establish collaborations.
Requirements for the position include (1) a proven
record of research; (2) a PhD in biology, mathematics,
statistics, or related area; (3) excellent skills in scien-
tiﬁc programming (C/C++, or Delphi). The ideal can-
didate should be well acquainted with demo-genetics
simulations.
Applications are welcome from candidates in any coun-
try. Screening of applicants will begin March 6, 2008.
Starting date: April, 2008. Highly motivated appli-
cants are encouraged to email a statement of research
interests, CV, and contact details for three references
to Jean Carlier (Jean.Carlier@cirad.fr).
Virginie Ravign´ e Chercheuse CIRAD
D´ epartement BIOS UMR Biologie et G´ en´ etique des In-
teractions Plantes-Parasites TA A 54 / K - Campus
International de Baillarguet - Bureau 114 34398 Mont-
pellier Cedex 5 France Tel : + 33 4 99 62 48 10 Fax :
+ 33 4 99 62 48 48 Mail : Virginie.Ravigne@cirad.fr
Virginie Ravign´ e <Virginie.Ravigne@cirad.fr >
NetherlandsInstEcol
BirdPopulations
The Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO) is a top
research institute of the Royal Netherlands Academy
of Arts and Sciences (KNAW). NIOO- KNAW focuses
on excellent fundamental, strategic research into indi-
vidual organisms, populations, ecological communities
and ecosystems. More than 240 staﬀ are employed at
three centres as well as the head oﬃce. The Centre for
Limnology (CL) in Nieuwersluis focuses its research on
freshwater ecology. The Centre for Marine and Estuar-
ine Ecology (CEME) in Yerseke deals with ecosystems
in brackish and salt water and emphasis at the Cen-
tre for Terrestrial Ecology (CTE) in Heteren is put on
land-based ecology.
The Vogeltrekstation ??? Centre for Avian Migra-
tion and Demography is part of the Netherlands In-
stitute of Ecology (NIOO), and jointly led by NIOO,
SOVON Dutch Centre for Field ornithology and the
Ringers Association. Vogeltrekstation (VT), founded
in 1911, coordinates all ringing activities of wild birdsApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 91
in the Netherlands by issuing permits and metal bir-
drings to individual ringers (both volunteer and pro-
fessional), by processing and storing all ringing and re-
covery data and by running a number of standardized
ringing projects. The extensive databank allows de-
tailed analyses of birds??? survival rates, breeding suc-
cess and movements. VT stimulates the use of ringing
data by initializing collaborations with research insti-
tutes and universities as well as conducting her own
research.
The Vogeltrekstation and NIOO are looking for a
POST-DOCTORAL RESEARCHER (m/f) Vacancy
number CTE-VT-08408
Project description Animal movement, i.e. migration
and dispersal, is an important process both from an
evolutionary ecological point of view as well as in more
applied approaches. The analysis of ringing data of in-
dividual birds is a potentially powerful tool to address
questions about the rate of dispersal and the distribu-
tion of animals at diﬀerent times of the year. However,
the distribution of observed recoveries is strongly af-
fected by the spatio-temporal distribution of observers.
One way to correct for this bias is to build State space
models that combine ring recoveries with ringing totals
and an index of relative abundance from census data, or
with data on the distribution of suitable habitat. An-
other way is to use multistate mark recovery models (in
particular M-surge), using separate stages for breeding
and wintering.
We are looking for a Post-doctoral researcher who will
address the question dealing with bias due to observer
distribution in the analysis of ringing data (CTE-VT-
08408) using and developing further the approaches de-
scribed above or similar methods. At NIOO the natal
dispersal and seasonal migration will be analysed using
extensive data on white stork, little owl, barn owl as
well as a suite of other species. The project is funded
by the Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences. Re-
quirements
We are looking for a highly motivated, enthusiastic
and creative person with a PhD in biology, and an ex-
cellent publication record. Experience with capture-
recapture theory and multi-state capture-recapture /
recovery analyses and ﬂuency in English are prerequi-
sites. Experience with Geo Information Systems (GIS)
is a bonus.
Appointment This position involves a temporary ap-
pointment for a period of 2 years.
Salary Depending on training and work experience, the
maximum gross monthly salary coming with a full-
time appointment will amount to ??? 3678,00 scale10, Collective Agreement for Dutch Universities (CAO-
Nederlandse Universiteiten), excluding 8% holiday pay
and a year-end bonus. We oﬀer an extensive package
of fringe beneﬁts.
Location The work location will be at NIOO-CTE, Het-
eren, the Netherlands.
Information Additional information about va-
cancy is available upon request from Dr. H.P.
van der Jeugd (tel. 026-4791233, e-mail:
h.vanderjeugd@nioo.knaw.nl) or Prof. Dr.
A. van Noordwijk (tel. 026-4791258, e-mail:
a.vannoordwijk@nioo.knaw.nl). Information on
the Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO), can
be found at http://www.nioo.knaw.nl Applications
Please send your application before 10 april 2008
including complete curriculum vitae, referees and the
vacancy number to Prof. Dr J.A. van Veen, Centre
Director CTE, NIOO-Centre for Terrestrial Ecology,
P.O. Box 40, 6666 ZG Heteren, The Netherlands or by
e-mail g.giesen@nioo.knaw.nl
“Jeugd, Henk van der”
<H.vanderJeugd@nioo.knaw.nl >
NorwegianU
FungalMolecularEvolution
A three year postdoctoral position in molecular ecology
is available at the Norwegian University of Life Sciences
(UMB).
Project title: Endophytic fungi in boreal forest
bryophytes
Project description: We seek a candidate for a three
year full time postdoctoral position in a project focus-
ing on biodiversity of endophytic fungi and their func-
tional role in boreal forest bryophytes. A main aspect
is to analyze the diversity and composition of fungal en-
dophytes in boreal mosses using molecular techniques.
The project integrates molecular, chemical, mycologi-
cal and ecological competences, and is based on collab-
oration between three universities, i.e. the Norwegian
University of Life Sciences, the University of Oslo, and
the University of British Columbia.
For more information about the position go to:
http://www.jobbnorge.no/visstilling2.aspx?stillid=-
46630&lang=EN havard.kauserud@bio.uio.no
havard.kauserud@bio.uio.no92 EvolDir April 1, 2008
OxfordU StatisticalGenetics
UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD
WELLCOME TRUST CENTRE FOR HUMAN GE-
NETICS
5 x Post Doctoral Research Scientists in Statistical Ge-
netics GRADE 8: SALARY £33,779 - £40,335 or de-
pending on qualiﬁcations and experience GRADE 7:
£26,666 - £32,796 with an appropriate change of du-
ties
An exciting opportunity has arisen for 5 post doctoral
scientists in statistical genetics to work on one of two
cutting-edge projects in human genetics.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have revo-
lutionised our understanding of the genetics of com-
mon human diseases. The Wellcome Trust Case Con-
trol Consortium (WTCCC), chaired by Professor Pe-
ter Donnelly, was the largest of the ﬁrst generation of
these studies. Together with subsequent collaborations
and follow-up, it has led to the discovery of over 50
genetic variants associated with common diseases. Sci-
ence picked this ﬁeld as its “Research Breakthrough”
of 2007, and the WTCCC study won several awards:
from The Lancet (Research Paper of the Year); Sci-
entiﬁc American (Research Leader of the Year); The
American Heart Association (Top Research Advance of
the Year); and was one of Nature’s “Editor’s Picks” for
2007.
Posts 1 and 2 relate to the second phase of the WTCCC,
a major extension of the original study, which includes
association studies for copy number variation in eight
diseases, and resequencing and ﬁne-mapping of asso-
ciated loci across 13 diseases. The postholders will
work in a collaboration between the Donnelly, Holmes,
McVean, Marchini, and Myers groups. Posts 3-5 re-
late to a major new consortium funded by the Well-
come Trust for GWAS for 15 diseases. They will be
based in the Donnelly group, which will take primary
responsibility for methods development and analysis for
these new studies, with extensive collaborations with
the groups above.
The postholders will gain a unique insight and expe-
rience in the design and analysis of GWAS and high-
throughput genetic epidemiological studies. Alongside
the scientiﬁc investigation the postholders will be given
the opportunity and encouragement to follow indepen-dent research lines and methods development, with sup-
port from the PIs, in the context of statistical genetics.
Genetics is one of the most exciting and challenging
application areas in modern statistics. These posts
present a good opportunity for statisticians interested
in moving into this ﬁeld, as well researchers already
working in statistical genetics and related areas. The
Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics is at the
forefront of this ﬁeld, and the successful applicants
would join perhaps the leading international research
grouping in the area, with a focus both on the de-
velopment of new methods and their application. All
the posts will allow considerable individual involvement
and responsibility for the research undertaken.
Candidates should have a strong background in modern
statistics and its application. An existing background
in the application of statistics in genetics would be an
advantage, but candidates wishing to move into the ge-
netics ﬁeld are also encouraged to apply. Good compu-
tational skills are essential, and for several of the posts
candidates should be able to program in a low level
language such as C or C++. Candidates should have
a doctorate or equivalent experience in quantitative ge-
netics, statistics, or a closely related discipline. Posts
1 and 2 are available for 2-3 years and posts 3-5 for 3
years in the ﬁrst instance. All posts are funded by the
Wellcome Trust.
A detailed job description quoting reference H5-08-
18-PD is available from the Personnel Administrator,
(email: personnel@well.ox.ac.uk, tel: +44 1865 287508
or from our web page www.well.ox.ac.uk /vacancies).
Applications, in the form of a full and detailed CV
together with the names and addresses of two refer-
ees, should be sent to the Personnel Administrator at
the Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, Roo-
sevelt Drive, Oxford, OX3 7BN, or by email to person-
nel@well.ox.ac.uk, or fax to +44 1865 287516. Please
quote the reference number on your application. The
closing date for applications is March 7, 2008.
donnelly@stats.ox.ac.uk donnelly@stats.ox.ac.uk
Paris 1year PopulationModeling
Physiologically structured population models for via-
bility analysis One Post-doctoral position 2008-2009
available at the Ecology-Evolution Laboratory (CNRS,
UMR 7625) at the Ecole Normale Sup´ erieure (CERES-
ERTI) in Paris.April 1, 2008 EvolDir 93
Applications are invited for a one-year postdoctoral
position funded by R2DS ( http://www.r2ds.centre-
cired.fr/ ) to investigate the dynamics of small popu-
lations with plastic life histories using physiologically
structured populations models.
Population persistence is notably conditioned by the
degree of individual variation in reproductive success,
which depends on variation in any part of the life cycle.
Yet, the majority of studies that examined population
extinction have tended to ignore life history variation
and plasticity. Here, we wish to use life history models
to inform the dynamics of small populations and ask
how plasticity in life history traits inﬂuences extinction
dynamics. Many aspects of life history can interact
with population dynamics and the project concentrates
on three of them, namely growth, maturation and sur-
vival.
The post-doc will explore this issue by developing mod-
els that account for variation in life history traits us-
ing the theory of physiologically structured populations
(PSP). This theory takes into account that physiologi-
cal development (e.g. growth, maturation) depends on
the current state of the environment (e.g., temperature,
food and predator densities). In turn, the inﬂuence of
the population on the environment closes a feedback
loop between environment, population and life history.
The theory of PSP models is thus particularly well-
suited to study the interaction between population dy-
namics and plastic life history. Small populations are
subject to stochastic ﬂuctuation in abundance. The
project aims to study the feedback of this variability
on life history and the consequences for extinction dy-
namics. The models will be parameterized with esti-
mates from ﬁeld and experimental studies undertaken
with the common lizard, a species with strong thermal
and food plasticity in life history traits.
The post-doc will be based at the Ecology-Evolution
Laboratory (CNRS, UMR 7625) at the Ecole Normale
Sup´ erieure (CERES-ERTI) in Paris, where the appli-
cant will work with David Claessen and Jean-Fran¸ cois
Le Galliard. This post-doc project is part of a research
network on the dynamics of small populations funded
by ANR from 2008 to 2012 and will therefore inter-
act with a larger group of researchers. The post can
start on September 1st or October 1st 2008 and will
run for one year with a possible one year extension by
applying to extended funding from the R2DS network
in spring 2009. Gross salary will be 2500 per month.
The starting date can be postponed in exceptional cir-
cumstances.
References: Claessen, D. (2005). Alternative life-
history pathways and the elasticity of stochastic matrixmodels. American Naturalist 165: E27-E35. Le Gal-
liard, J.-F., Fitze, P. S., Ferri` ere, R. and J. Clobert.
2005. Sex ratio bias, male aggression, and popu-
lation collapse in lizards. Proceedings of the Na-
tional Academy of Sciences USA 102(50):18231-18236.
Claessen, D; Van Oss, C; de Roos, AM; Persson, L.
2002. The impact of size-dependent predation on pop-
ulation dynamics and individual life history. Ecology
83 (6): 1660-1675.
Candidate proﬁle There are no nationality restrictions
and the successful candidate will: (1) Possess a doc-
toral degree in ecology and/or mathematics, dating no
more than 2 years before 1 October 2008, though the
last condition may be negotiated in exceptional circum-
stances. (2) Not have worked in the hosting lab, nor
have prepared his thesis within the hosting lab, except
for a return after a period of absence of at least one
year. (3) Have strong competence in modeling, with an
interest in population dynamics, viability analyses and
conservation biology and knowledge of C programming
or closely related languages. (4) Have personal qualities
needed for group work and inter-disciplinary study.
Contact Application: Chantal Cuisinier, tel.: +33 1
44 27 36 89, email: Chantal.Cuisinier@snv.jussieu.fr,
postal address is CNRS UMR 7625, Universit´ e Paris
6, 7 Quai St Bernard, 75005 Paris Research project:
David Claessen, tel.: +33 1 44 32 27 21, email:
david.claessen@ens.fr
How to apply 1 Applicants have until April 30 2008 to
send a completed application form available at http:/-
/jf.legalliard.free.fr/ to the Application contact point.
2 The lab director and a local jury will select one can-
didate from the application forms and contact the can-
didates from May 31 2008. 3 The regional oﬃce of the
CNRS will be responsible for drawing up the contract.
galliard@biologie.ens.fr galliard@biologie.ens.fr
Paris 1year PopulationModelling
Physiologically structured population models for via-
bility analysis One Post-doctoral position 2008-2009
available at the Ecology-Evolution Laboratory (CNRS,
UMR 7625) at the Ecole Normale Sup ˜Ac/circlecopyrtrieure
(CERES-ERTI) in Paris.
Applications are invited for a one-year postdoctoral
position funded by R2DS ( http://www.r2ds.centre-
cired.fr/ ) to investigate the dynamics of small popu-94 EvolDir April 1, 2008
lations with plastic life histories using physiologically
structured populations models.
Population persistence is notably conditioned by the
degree of individual variation in reproductive success,
which depends on variation in any part of the life cycle.
Yet, the majority of studies that examined population
extinction have tended to ignore life history variation
and plasticity. Here, we wish to use life history models
to inform the dynamics of small populations and ask
how plasticity in life history traits inﬂuences extinction
dynamics. Many aspects of life history can interact
with population dynamics and the project concentrates
on three of them, namely growth, maturation and sur-
vival.
The post-doc will explore this issue by developing mod-
els that account for variation in life history traits us-
ing the theory of physiologically structured populations
(PSP). This theory takes into account that physiologi-
cal development (e.g. growth, maturation) depends on
the current state of the environment (e.g., temperature,
food and predator densities). In turn, the inﬂuence of
the population on the environment closes a feedback
loop between environment, population and life history.
The theory of PSP models is thus particularly well-
suited to study the interaction between population dy-
namics and plastic life history. Small populations are
subject to stochastic ﬂuctuation in abundance. The
project aims to study the feedback of this variability
on life history and the consequences for extinction dy-
namics. The models will be parameterized with esti-
mates from ﬁeld and experimental studies undertaken
with the common lizard, a species with strong thermal
and food plasticity in life history traits.
The post-doc will be based at the Ecology-Evolution
Laboratory (CNRS, UMR 7625) at the Ecole Nor-
male Sup ˜Ac/circlecopyrtrieure (CERES-ERTI) in Paris, where the
applicant will work with David Claessen and Jean-
Fran ˜ALe Galliard. This post-doc project is part of a
research network on the dynamics of small populations
funded by ANR from 2008 to 2012 and will therefore
interact with a larger group of researchers. The post
can start on September 1st or October 1st 2008 and
will run for one year with a possible one year exten-
sion by applying to extended funding from the R2DS
network in spring 2009. Gross salary will be 2500 per
month. The starting date can be postponed in excep-
tional circumstances.
References: Claessen, D. (2005). Alternative life-
history pathways and the elasticity of stochastic matrix
models. American Naturalist 165: E27-E35. Le Gal-
liard, J.-F., Fitze, P. S., Ferri ˜Are, R. and J. Clobert.
2005. Sex ratio bias, male aggression, and popu-lation collapse in lizards. Proceedings of the Na-
tional Academy of Sciences USA 102(50):18231-18236.
Claessen, D; Van Oss, C; de Roos, AM; Persson, L.
2002. The impact of size-dependent predation on pop-
ulation dynamics and individual life history. Ecology
83 (6): 1660-1675.
Candidate proﬁle There are no nationality restrictions
and the successful candidate will: (1) Possess a doc-
toral degree in ecology and/or mathematics, dating no
more than 2 years before 1 October 2008, though the
last condition may be negotiated in exceptional circum-
stances. (2) Not have worked in the hosting lab, nor
have prepared his thesis within the hosting lab, except
for a return after a period of absence of at least one
year. (3) Have strong competence in modeling, with an
interest in population dynamics, viability analyses and
conservation biology and knowledge of C programming
or closely related languages. (4) Have personal qualities
needed for group work and inter-disciplinary study.
Contact Application: Chantal Cuisinier, tel.: +33 1
44 27 36 89, email: Chantal.Cuisinier@snv.jussieu.fr,
postal address is CNRS UMR 7625, Universit ˜Ac/circlecopyrtParis
6, 7 Quai St Bernard, 75005 Paris Research project:
David Claessen, tel.: +33 1 44 32 27 21, email:
david.claessen@ens.fr
How to apply 1 Applicants have until April 30 2008 to
send a completed application form available at http:/-
/jf.legalliard.free.fr/ to the Application contact point.
2 The lab director and a local jury will select one can-
didate from the application forms and contact the can-
didates from May 31 2008. 3 The regional oﬃce of the
CNRS will be responsible for drawing up the contract.
galliard <galliard@biologie.ens.fr >
SanDiegoZooSociety Mammalian
Phylogenetics
A postdoctoral position funded by a collaborative NSF
research award under the Assembling the Tree of
Life competition is immediately available. Conserved
primer sequences will be used to generate large data
sets of orthologous sequences from diverse mammalian
taxa to combine with morphological data for assem-
bling a comprehensive mammalian phylogeny. A Ph.D.
is required. Extensive experience in generating DNA
sequence data and phylogenetic analysis of aligned data
sets is highly desirable. This position is multi-year. ForApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 95
further information and application procedures, please
see:http://www.sandiegozoo.org/jobs/index.html
oryder@ucsd.edu oryder@ucsd.edu
StonyBrookU
DrosophilaEvolutionaryGenetics
Post-Doc Opportunity in Drosophila Evolutionary Ge-
netics
A Post-doctoral research associate position is antici-
pated to become available working in NIH-funded re-
search in the laboratory of Dr. John R. True, Dept.
of Ecology and Evolution, Stony Brook University.
The successful candidate will be involved in molecu-
lar marker assisted quantitative trait locus mapping
of morphological and behavioral trait diﬀerences be-
tween Drosophila species. A Ph.D. in a biological ﬁeld
as well as experience in Drosophila molecular genet-
ics and quantitative genetics are required. Experience
in Drosophila cytogenetics and developmental genetics
are preferred. Duration: two years Salary: $35,000-
40,000/yr
Interested applicants please send c.v. and the names
and contact information of two references to: Evolu-
tionary Genetics post-doc c/o Donna DiGiovanni ddi-
giovanni@notes.cc.sunysb.edu Dept. of Ecology and
Evolution Stony Brook University 650 Life Sciences
Bldg. Stony Brook, NY 11794-5245
jrtrue@life.bio.sunysb.edu
TulaneU EvolutionHawaiianFish
A postdoctoral position is available in the Blum Lab
(www.tulane.edu/˜mjblum ) in the Department of Ecol-
ogy & Evolutionary Biology at Tulane University. The
incumbent will engage in DoD funded research on the
landscape genetics and biogeography of amphidromous
ﬁshes native to the Hawaiian Islands. The research fo-
cuses on (1) development and use of genetic tools for
assessing aquatic environmental condition of oceanic is-
land stream ecosystems (2) assessing metapopulation
dynamics of amphidromous ﬁshes across the Hawaiian
archipelago emphasizing comparison of genetic assaysof dispersal with estimates based on otolith microchem-
istry. The incumbent will be encouraged to develop and
pursue additional research areas that complement these
set objectives.
Preference will be given to candidates experienced with
carrying out ﬁeld based studies of freshwater ﬁshes and
laboratory studies involving modern molecular tech-
niques. An initial appointment will be for one year,
with continuation for up to two additional years de-
pendent upon performance. A start date of June 2008
or a mutually agreeable date early in Summer 2008
is strongly preferred. Salary will be commensurate
with experience and qualiﬁcations. REQUIREMENTS:
Ph.D. in ecology, genetics, or closely related ﬁeld. Send
via email attachment a letter of application, curricu-
lum vitae, statement of research interests, and names
and addresses of three references to Dr. Michael Blum
at mjblum@tulane.edu .Tulane University is an Aﬃr-
mative Action/Equal Employment Opportunity/ADA
Employer. Women and minorities are encouraged to
apply.
mjblum@tulane.edu mjblum@tulane.edu
UArizona EvolabilityTheory
A postdoc position is available to work with PI Joanna
Masel ( http://eebweb.arizona.edu/faculty/masel ) at
the University of Arizona in Tucson. The Masel group’s
main research interests are in evolvability, gene net-
works, canalization, and evolutionary capacitance, us-
ing a mixture of analytical theory, bioinformatic and
simulation approaches. Funding is not tied to a spe-
ciﬁc project, but applications and enquiries that do
not demonstrate substantial familiarity with our work
will not receive a reply. Ph.D. with strong quantita-
tive background and computational and/or modeling
experience is required. A background in evolution-
ary theory is strongly preferred. Funding is secured
and the position is renewable over multiple years, with
a start date in mid-2008. Contact Joanna Masel at
masel@u.arizona.edu for more information and to ap-
ply.
masel@U.Arizona.EDU masel@U.Arizona.EDU96 EvolDir April 1, 2008
UArizona MulticellularityEvol
A POSTDOCTORAL POSITION is available in the
laboratory of Dr. Richard E. Michod ( http:/-
/www.eebweb.arizona.edu/Michod/ ) in the Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at
the University of Arizona (Tucson, AZ; http://-
www.eebweb.arizona.edu/ ). We are looking for a moti-
vated, enthusiastic and independent individual with a
strong background in evolutionary biology and/or ge-
nomics and/or molecular biology to address questions
concerned with the evolution of multicellularity, using
the green algal group, Volvocales, as a model experi-
mental system. Experience working with green algae is
not critical. Current projects in the lab include study-
ing the genetic basis for the evolution of germ-soma dif-
ferentiation, measuring life history trade-oﬀs as colony
size increases, and artiﬁcial selection experiments on
body size in volvocalean green algae.
To apply, please e-mail (shanley@email.arizona.edu)
with the following information: a statement giving your
research interests and qualiﬁcations, a CV, and the
names and contact information of three references.
The initial appointment is for one year, with an addi-
tional two years’ funding available conditional on satis-
factory performance. The position is funded by an NSF
grant, at 35K per year (plus beneﬁts). The start date
is ﬂexible but the position is available immediately.
The University of Arizona is an EO/AA Employer.
michod@u.arizona.edu michod@u.arizona.edu
UBritishColumbia
ComparativeGenomics
Postdoctoral Position in Comparative Genomics
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada
A postdoctoral position is available in the area of com-
parative genomics of conifers. Speciﬁc activities may
include sequence analysis across conifer taxa, associ-
ation genetics of white spruce (combined QTL map-
ping and SNP associations), expression QTL mapping,and inferences about conifer genome structure via tar-
geted BAC sequencing. The person will be member of
a large, interactive forestry genomics group, involved
with many aspects of genomics including EST sequenc-
ing, databasing, microarrays, proteonomics, and SNP
discovery/assay. See www.treenomix.ca for further de-
tails.
This is a multi-investigator grant with PIs Joerg
Bohlmann, and K. Ritland at UBC, and is funded by
Genome Canada and the Province of B.C.
Please send your C.V. to: Email: Ker-
mit.Ritland@ubc.ca. The position is available
immediately.
Kermit Ritland <kermit.ritland@ubc.ca >
UCaliforniaSantaBarbara
Phylogenetics
The Oakley Lab at the University of California-
Santa Barbara seeks a highly motivated and
productive postdoctoral researcher to work on
NSF-funded research ( http://nsf.gov/awardsearch/-
showAward.do?AwardNumber=0643840 ) on the
phylogeny, divergence times, and rates of molecular
and morphological (especially eyes) evolution in
ostracod crustaceans.
The position requires an individual with a PhD and ex-
perience in molecular evolution, phylogenetic systemat-
ics, paleontology, or related ﬁelds. Outstanding molec-
ular, computational and/or quantitative skills are par-
ticularly advantageous.
Funding is available for a minimum of 1 year, and may
be extended upon mutual agreement. Preference will be
given to candidates with a high probability of applying
for (with the help of the PI) and obtaining independent
funding; for example through the University of Califor-
nia Presidents Postdoctoral Fellowship, NIH-NRSA fel-
lowship, NSF Postdoctoral fellowships, or other funding
agencies.
The starting date is ﬂexible, and the position will re-
main open until ﬁlled. For primary consideration, ap-
plicants should apply by April 15, 2008. Informal in-
quiries are welcomed, prior to formal application.
Lab Website: http://www.lifesci.ucsb.edu/eemb/-
labs/oakley/ To apply, please send the following:
1. A curriculum vitae 2. Names of 3 referees willingApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 97
to provide a letter of recommendation upon request 3.
A brief statement of how your research goals ﬁt with
research of Oakley’s Lab 4. A brief statement of inter-
est, ideas, and qualiﬁcations for independent fellowship
and/or grant applications
E-mail applications are preferred: oak-
ley@lifesci.ucsb.edu
Mailed applications are also acceptable to: Todd Oak-
ley Ecology Evolution Marine Biology University of
California- Santa Barbara Santa Barbara, CA 93106
The University of California is an Equal Opportunity /
Aﬃrmative Action Employer.
UCollegeCork ArabidopsisVariation
UniCollegeCork Arabidopsis Reproduction & Natural
Variation
Our lab is seeking applications from highly motivated
postdocs to work on genetics of reproduction in Ara-
bidopsis thaliana polyploids. The successful applicant
will work within a small team of researchers inves-
tigating sexual and asexual reproduction (apomixis).
We seek enthusiastic and highly motivated candidates
with excellent and proven skills in plant genetics, ge-
netic mapping, molecular biology and reproduction (as
demonstrated by their publication record). We par-
ticularly seek candidates with experience of associa-
tion/QTL mapping, DIC/ﬂuorescence microscopy, in
situ hybridisation, cytogenetics and chromatin analysis
in Arabidopsis thaliana. The project is funded for three
years and collaborators include Dr Magnus Nordborg
(Uni of Southern California), Dr Tom Juenger (Uni of
Texas) and Dr Tim Sharbel (IPK Gatersleben). The
successful applicant will work closely with two PhD stu-
dents working within the same funded project.
Prospective applicants should send an e-mail outlin-
ing your research interest and motivations, including;
(a) your C.V. (please list publications and experimen-
tal skills) & (b) contact details and e-mail addresses
for 3 referees to: Dr. Charles Spillane, Genetics &
Biotechnology Lab, Biochemistry Dept & Biosciences
Institute, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland. E-
mail: c.spillane@ucc.ie
Lab website: www.ucc.ie/spillane Deadline: 20th
March 2008 UCC is an equal opportunities employer
“Spillane, Charles” <C.Spillane@ucc.ie >UGreifswald StemCellBioinformatics
Postdoctoral Researcher: Bioinformatics of Stem Cell
data; Bioinformatics Research Group, University of
Greifswald, Germany
A 3-year postdoctoral position is available in the bioin-
formatics group at the University of Greifswald in
northeastern Germany. In a project funded by the Ger-
man research foundation (DFG), methods of machine
learning and evolutionary analysis will be applied to
stem cell data (genome, transcriptome, interactome) to
study the regulatory and interactory circuitry behind
pluripotency (stemness), re-programming and cellular
diﬀerentiation. As the project is part of a German-wide
collaborative eﬀort, interaction with a large number of
leading scientists is anticipated, resulting in a deeper
understanding of some of the processes that are funda-
mental to Life.
The position requires an enthusiastic researcher with
an interest in applying in-silico analyses in a ﬁeld with
exciting prospects, towards a major goal of regenerative
medicine, that is, generating cells that may be trans-
planted in case of disease and that are derived from
somatic cells (e.g. muscle cells) of the patient.
Applicants should hold a doctorate and have previous
experience in data analysis and programming. They
may hold a degree in biology, computer science, physics,
chemistry, mathematics or a related area. A keen in-
terest in science is more important than previous ex-
perience in the ﬁeld, although experience with (high-
throughput) biological data in general and compara-
tive / evolutionary analysis in particular is considered a
plus. Exceptional candidates without a doctorate may
be consided, too. The successful applicant will have ac-
cess to a computer cluster that will be bought during
the next months.
Please email applications to Georg Fuellen (fu-
ellen@alum.mit.edu) (CV, statement of research inter-
ests and qualiﬁcations), quoting “07/B82 / FU583/2-1”
in the subject line. Review of applications will begin
March 30 and continue until the position is ﬁlled.
Greifswald is very close to a major German recreational
area, the Baltic coast, including the islands of Ruegen
and Usedom. It hosts one of the most modern Univer-
sity Hospitals in Germany.
Prof. Dr. Georg Fuellen Bioinformatics Research98 EvolDir April 1, 2008
Group Oﬃce: Institute for Mathematics and Computer
Science Franz-Mehring-Str. 48 Ernst-Moritz-Arndt-
University Greifswald 17489 Greifswald Jahnstr. 15a
Phone +49 3834 86 4618 D-17489 Greifswald Fax +49
3834 86 80026 Germany
http://alum.mit.edu/www/fuellen/ fu-
ellen@alum.mit.edu
fuellen@uni-muenster.de
UIdaho
PlasmidHostRangeEvolution
Postdoctoral Position in Plasmid Host Range Evolu-
tion:
A postdoctoral position is immediately available in the
laboratory of Dr. Eva Top at the University of Idaho
(UI) (lab website: http:// www.uidaho.edu/biology/-
labs/top/ ). He/she will study the adaptive changes
that expand, contract, or shift the host range of a plas-
mid during evolution in various bacterial hosts. In or-
der to evaluate the role of plasmids in the emergence of
highly resistant pathogens, a fundamental understand-
ing of the evolution of plasmid host range is essential.
Our overall hypothesis is that the host range of plas-
mids can evolve, much like that of parasites, to become
wider or narrower over evolutionary time. To test this
hypothesis, the postdoctoral scientist will address at
least one of the following speciﬁc aims: 1) To elucidate
evolutionary changes that permit a narrow-host-range
plasmid to expand or shift its host range, and 2) To
elucidate evolutionary changes that cause host range
contraction of a broad- host-range plasmid as a result
of long-term association with a single host.
The postdoctoral scientist will be part of our IBEST
group at the UI ( http://www.ibest.uidaho.edu/ibest/-
index.html ), a dynamic and interdisciplinary research
group with excellent resources, funded by an NIH Cen-
ter for Biomedical Research Excellence (COBRE).
The successful candidate should have 1. A Ph.D. degree
in molecular biology, microbiology or related discipline.
2. At least one year of experience in working with bac-
terial cultures and in the use of contemporary molecular
biology methods, such as DNA cloning and sequencing.
3. Demonstrated ability to write and publish scien-
tiﬁc papers in English as ﬁrst author in peer-reviewed
journals. 4. Demonstrated ability to present data at
scientiﬁc meetings. 5. A fundamental understanding ofthe ecology and evolution of plasmids 6. Some knowl-
edge of prokaryotic molecular biology or genetics and
molecular evolution
Other requirements are listed in the Position de-
scription posted on the Human Resources website
(see below). Salary will be commensurate with
the qualiﬁcations and experience of the applicant.
For more information candidates can write to
Dr. Eva M. Top (evatop@uidaho.edu). Qualiﬁed
candidates should apply as soon as possible via
the following website: https://www.sites.uidaho.edu/
AppTrack/Agency/Applicant/CurrentOpenings.asp?category=1
(look for Postdoctoral Fellow in Dept. of Biol. Sci.).
Applications should include an uploaded letter and
curriculum vitae. Notice that the deadline is in less
than one week: March 11, 5pm PST !! The University
of Idaho is an equal opportunity/aﬃrmative action
employer
Dr. Eva Top Associate Professor Department of Biolog-
ical Sciences University of Idaho 258 Life Sciences South
Moscow ID 83844-3051 Phone: 1-208-885-5015 Fax:
1-208-885-7905 E-mail: evatop@uidaho.edu http://-
people.ibest.uidaho.edu/ ˜ etop/ evatop@uidaho.edu
evatop@uidaho.edu
UKonstanz MolEvolGenomics
TWO POSTDOC POSITIONS - molecular evolution,
genomics or bioinformatics
At the University of Konstanz we expect to have two
postdoc positions available starting on April 1, 2008
in the lab of Prof. Axel Meyer at the Department of
Evolutionary Biology and Zoology at the University of
Konstanz in Germany.
Due to the funding of the University of Konstanz
through the “excellence initiative” of the German gov-
ernment we are in the process of establishing a ge-
nomics/proteomics center at the university that will
include microarray facilities and second generation se-
quencing technologies. Therefore, we are particularly
interested in postdocs with expertise in molecular evo-
lution, molecular phylogenetics and bioinformatics. We
expect that a “junior professorship” in bioinformat-
ics will be advertised shortly as well. These posi-
tions are aﬃliated with the new graduate school in
chemical biology - for more information visit http://-
www.chembiol.uni-konstanz.de/ . For this new program
we invite applications of qualiﬁed Masters students asApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 99
well as Ph.D. candidates.
The postdoc projects we are interested in have to do
with ﬁsh genomics and in particular comparative ge-
nomics of cichlid ﬁsh. Other projects deal with the
evolution of gene families the evolution of the genome
in early chordates and vertebrates. Candidates should
have a strong interest in bioinformatics, developmental
and evolutionary biology and should be experienced in
molecular techniques and/or computational biology.
Appointments are for up to two years initially with a
salary according to German TVL salary scale that in-
cludes extensive health and retirement beneﬁts. The
initial contract period would be for two years with the
potential for additional years of funding.
Informal inquiries should be addressed to Prof. Axel
Meyer (axel.meyer@uni-konstanz.de). Further informa-
tion on our research can be obtained from our web
page: www.evolutionsbiologie.uni-konstanz.de . For
publications see http://www.evolutionsbiologie.uni-
konstanz.de/index.php?sectionQ Applications should
include a CV, statement of research interests and email
addresses of two references. Review of applications will
commence on March 15th 2008. Starting dates are ﬂex-
ible. Applications should be sent as one pdf ﬁle to
axel.meyer@uni-konstanz.de - or by mail to Prof. Axel
Meyer, Department of Biology, University of Konstanz,
D-78457 Konstanz, Germany. This search will remain
open until the positions are ﬁlled.
– Prof. Axel Meyer, Ph.D. Lehrstuhl f¨ ur Zoologie und
Evolutionsbiologie Department of Biology Building M,
Room M806 University of Konstanz 78457 Konstanz
Germany
fon + 49 7531 88 4163 fax + 49 7531 88 3018
secretary: Ingrid.Bader@uni-konstanz.de tel. + 49
7531 88 3069
www.evolutionsbiologie.uni-konstanz.de Axel Meyer
<axel.meyer@uni-konstanz.de >
ULausanne
PlantReproductiveEvolution
Postdoctoral researcher: Plant reproductive evolution -
Switzerland
A postdoctoral research position is available to col-
laborate with projects focussing on the reproduc-
tive evolution of the dioecious plant Silene latifo-lia (Caryophyllaceae) and its specialist pollinator/seed
predator Hadena bicruris (Noctuidae).
Speciﬁc research topics will be determined based on the
interests of the successful candidate, but may poten-
tially include: applying microsatellite DNA analysis to
investigate the determinants of seed paternity in nat-
ural populations and after experimental pollinations,
and the analysis of traits involved in plant/pollinator
interactions.
Funding is available for one year, starting April 1st 2008
(or later) until March 31st 2009. Prolongation for up to
three years is possible. We oﬀer a competitive salary,
excellent facilities and high quality of life in a histor-
ical town close to lakes and mountains. The position
will be based at the Institute of Biology, University of
Neuchˆ atel, Switzerland ( http://www2.unine.ch/biol/-
page4606 en.html ), which harbours the National Com-
petence Center of Research on Plant Survival ( http://-
www2.unine.ch/nccr/ ).
Candidates should have strong interests in analyz-
ing experimental and molecular data to investigate
plant/pollinator interactions, and a background in one
or more of the following areas: population genetics and
microsatellite DNA analysis, experimental pollination
ecology, quantitative genetics. The ideal candidate will
be independent, highly motivated, and willing to con-
tribute to a productive and friendly work atmosphere.
Please email your application to Giorgina Bernasconi
(giorgina.bernasconi@unil.ch / subject line “Postdoc-
toral position”) as one pdf ﬁle including a CV with
publication list, statement of research interests and ex-
perience, and the names of three people who can be
contacted for letters of reference. Evaluation of appli-
cants will begin March 26th and will continue until the
position is ﬁlled.
Giorgina Bernasconi web: http://www.unil.ch/-
dee/page7005.html http://www.unil.ch/dee/-
page10687 en.html Giorgina Bernasconi SNF professor
Department of ecology and evolution University of
Lausanne Biophore CH-1015 LAUSANNE Switzerland
+41 21 692 41 88 (phone) giorgina.bernasconi@unil.ch
Giorgina Bernasconi <Giorgina.Bernasconi@unil.ch >
ULyon BacterialEndosymbionts
Title : Diversity and epidemiological consequences of100 EvolDir April 1, 2008
bacterial endosymbionts in arthropod vectors of verte-
brate diseases : application to blood-sucking acarian
A post-doctoral position is available immediately at
the University of Lyon (France), to work on symbiotic
bacteria of hematophagous acaria particularly Ticks.
The project is entitle: Diversity and epidemiological
consequences of bacterial endosymbionts in arthropod
vectors of vertebrate diseases : application to blood-
sucking acarian. Aims are the identiﬁcation of en-
dosymbiotic bacteria of Ticks, the measurement of their
prevalence in natural populations, the analysis of mul-
tiple infections looking for possible association or exclu-
sion among symbionts and pathogens. The localization
and colocalization of symbiotic bacteria inside the tick
body will also be analyzed. The second part of the
project has the objective to determine the consequence
of symbiotic bacteria on phenotypic traits of their hosts
and their ability to transmit pathogen agents. The
problem of Rickettsia will be particularly studied. The
objective is to tackle the question of the possible inter-
actions (antagonistic or synergetic) between symbiotic
bacteria and pathogen agents transmitted by ticks.
For this position, a Ph.D. in parasitology, symbiotic in-
teractions, bacterial ecology, host-parasite genetics and
ecology, or related ﬁeld is required. The candidate
should be familiar with molecular biology and have
an interest in applying this knowledge to evolution-
ary & ecological questions about bacterial symbionts
and arthropod vectors. Candidates should have expe-
rience in standard tools of molecular biology, including
standard DNA extraction, PCR set up and sequencing.
He/she should also be willing to interact with the other
group members working on bacterial endosymbiont of
arthropods and he/she would be encouraged to design
and be responsible for independent research that in-
volves the collection, analysis and publishing of data.
Knowledge of the French language is not required.
This position is for one year, with a 40 800 TTC gross
annual income.
Candidate must contact F Fleury
(ﬂeury@biomserv.univ-lyon1.fr ) or Lionel Zenner
(l.zenner@vet-lyon.fr ) as soon as possible and send a
CV with list of publications. We will then send in
return a completed application form which must be
received by the above mentioned resource persons by
March 28 2008.
F. Fleury Equipe G´ en´ etique et Evolution des Interac-
tions Hˆ ote-Parasite Laboratoire de Biom´ etrie et Bi-
ologie Evolutive UMR 5558 - Bat. G. Mendel Uni-
versit´ e Claude Bernard - LYON1 16, rue Rapha¨ el
DUBOIS 69622 VILLEURBANNE Cedex - FRANCE
Tel: 0472431921 Fax. 04 72 43 13 88 Mel:ﬂeury@biomserv.univ-lyon1.fr
Fr´ ed´ eric Fleury <ﬂeury@biomserv.univ-lyon1.fr >
UManchester YeastBioinformatics
Three research positions are available at the University
of Manchester.
The positions will be based in the Faculty of Life Sci-
ences in the recently completed Michael Smith Build-
ing. The Faculty of Life Sciences is one of the largest
and most successful uniﬁed research and teaching or-
ganisations of its kind in Europe. Research spans all
ﬁelds of biology, with a strong emphasis on a collabo-
rative integrative approach. Our uniﬁed structure and
single site location promote collaboration and facilitates
centralised provision of state of the art equipment. Fur-
ther information relating to the Faculty of Life Sciences
and the University of Manchester can be obtained at <
http://www.manchester.ac.uk/lifesciences >.
See<http://www.manchester.ac.uk/bioinformatics >
for further details of our research in the areas of evo-
lutionary and computational biology. Note, the closing
date for applications is Friday 28th March 2008.
INVESTIGATING SPECIFICITY OF YEAST PRO-
TEIN COMPLEXES USING BIOINFORMATICS
METHODS (Ref LS/80100)
Based in the bioinformatics laboratories of Drs Simon
Lovell and David Robertson, we seek a capable and
enthusiastic computational biologist to study protein-
protein interactions, speciﬁcally to investigate determi-
nants of binding speciﬁcity in protein complexes.This
will involve the use of evolutionary and structural infor-
mation to gain insight into the nature of protein inter-
actions in the cellular interactome.The post forms part
of an interdisciplinary project with Dr Daniela Delneri
and a complementary molecular biology post is adver-
tised (see LS/80101). You should have (or expect to
hold shortly) a relevant PhD. Experience of computer-
based research is required and experience in protein
structure analysis and/or molecular evolution an ad-
vantage.
Informal enquiries may be addressed to: Dr. Si-
mon Lovell, Tel.: +44 (0)161275 5748, <E-mail:
simon.lovell@manchester.ac.uk >.
INVESTIGATING SPECIFICITY OF YEAST PRO-
TEIN COMPLEXES USING EXPERIMENTALApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 101
METHODS (Ref LS/80101)
Based in the laboratory of Dr Daniela Delneri, we
seek a capable and enthusiastic molecular biologist to
study protein-protein interactions, speciﬁcally to un-
derstand the eﬃciency with which homologous proteins
from diﬀerent species are able to interact to form com-
plexes.The position will involve the use of substantial
molecular biology and biochemistry including classical
genetic tools, gene targeting, protein puriﬁcation and
analytical techniques.The post forms part of an inter-
disciplinary project with Drs Simon Lovell and David
Robertson and a complementary computational biol-
ogy/ bioinformatics post is also advertised.
Informal enquiries may be addressed to: Dr.
Daniela Delneri, Tel.: +44 (0)161275 5686, <E-mail:
d.delneri@manchester.ac.uk >.
A RATIONAL IN SILICO APPROACH TO MAP-
PING INTERACTOMES, APPLIED TO CANDIDA
GLABRATA (Ref LS/80102)
Based in the bioinformatics laboratories of Drs Simon
Lovell and David Robertson, we seek a capable and
enthusiastic computational biologist to study protein-
protein interactions networks, speciﬁcally to develop
evolutionary and structure-based methods to infer in-
teraction networks between species.The post forms part
of an interdisciplinary project in collaboration with Im-
perial College London. Our combined aim is to develop
a rational and integrated approach to reliably and com-
prehensively predict protein interactions using sophis-
ticated bioinformatics, statistical and comparative ap-
proaches. You should have (or expect to hold shortly)
a relevant PhD. Experience of computer-based research
is required and experience in protein structure analysis,
network analysis and/or molecular evolution an advan-
tage.
Informal enquiries may be addressed to: Dr Si-
mon Lovell, Tel.: +44 (0) 161275 5748, E-mail:
<simon.lovell@manchester.ac.uk >.
FURTHER DETAILS:
All posts are funded by the BBSRC and are tenable
immediately for up to 3 years. Salary range is £26,666
-£32,796 per annum. If appropriate, please apply for
more than one post.
Application forms and further particulars can be
obtained at <http:// www.manchester.ac.uk/-
lifesciences/jobs >or from: The Directorate of
Human Resources, Tel: +44 (0)161 275 8836, E-mail:
<lifesciences- hr@manchester.ac.uk >. Please quote
appropriate reference.
***The closing date for applications is 28 March2008.***
david.robertson@manchester.ac.uk
UMemphis BioinformaticsComputa-
tionalGenomics
Applications are invited for a one-year postdoctoral po-
sition (may be renewed for one additional year) in bioin-
formatics/computational genomics in the laboratory of
Dr. Victor Jin in the Bioinformatics Program, Depart-
ment of Biology at the University of Memphis (Mem-
phis, TN). The research focus will be in the cutting
edge research area of computational genomics. The
successful candidate will be expected to develop new
algorithms and software tools for the identiﬁcation and
characterization of genomic regulatory elements and
networks from the cancer epigenetic and gene regula-
tory data generated from high throughput technologies
such as ChIP-chip, ChIP-Seq, and Micro-array, and to
develop bioinformatics tools for sequence and structural
analysis and build databases for cancer epigenetics and
transcriptional regulation data. The position actively
involves working cooperatively with other lab members
and outside collaborators. The ideal candidate will be
enthusiastic, highly motivated, and independent with
good skills in mathematics and computer science, and
a strong record of accomplishment in research.
Required qualiﬁcations: Ph.D. in bioinformatics, com-
puter science, statistics, molecular biology, applied
mathematics, or a related ﬁeld.
Research experience (with ﬁrst-author publications) in
computational genomics
Proﬁciency in programming, ideally in C/C++ as well
as in scripting languages such as perl/python, or R.
-Should be comfortable in a linux environment, with
large data sets, computer clusters, and database soft-
ware.
To Apply: Submit a CV, a short (roughly one-page) de-
scription of research interests and experience, and con-
tact information for at least two references by e-mail to
hsmith@memphis.edu. Informal inquiries are welcome.
Deadline: Review of applications will begin May 1, 2008
and may continue until the position is ﬁlled.
Victor Jin <jxh123@hotmail.com >102 EvolDir April 1, 2008
UNebraska PopulationBiology
Postdoctoral Fellowship Program (CALL FOR APPLI-
CATIONS NOW OPEN!)
The University of Nebraska Program Of Excellence in
Population Biology announces two-year Postdoctoral
Fellowships in Population Biology. The successful Pop-
ulation Biology postdocs will bring new skills, new
ideas, and new excitement to UNL programs. Two
Postdoctoral positions will be advertised internation-
ally every two years; thus, new highly-qualiﬁed individ-
uals will regularly join the Population Biology group.
Candidates will develop a research project with a fac-
ulty member associated with the Program (see list of
core faculty). These positions will provide recent gradu-
ates the opportunity for independent research in associ-
ation with a growing, integrative, and cross-disciplinary
program. Applicant selection will be based on a re-
search proposal to work with an established Population
Biologist at UNL, but once in residence post-docs will
be expected to interact more broadly with the group
and participate in graduate instruction through courses
and seminars.
New opening for a postdoctoral Fellow: applications
due May 1, 2008, starting date as soon as June 2008.
Qualiﬁed candidates are encouraged to contact po-
tential faculty advisor from the list of core faculty
associated with the program ( http://popbio.unl.edu/-
corefaculty.htm ). A Ph.D. and expertise in any aspect
of population biology is required. To apply, send a
CV, a up to 1-page research proposal, 1 page previ-
ous research/teaching experience and an up to 1 page
description of potential graduate seminars and arrange
for three letters of reference, one of which must be from
the proposed faculty sponsor, to the Population Biology
Post-doctoral Fellowship Selection Committee, School
of Biological Sciences, University of Nebraska- Lincoln,
348 Manter Hall, Lincoln, NE 68588-0118.
Closing date is May 1, 2008. Fellowship position
will remain open until suitable candidates are selected.
UNL is committed to a pluralistic campus community
through Aﬃrmative Action and Equal Opportunity,
and is responsive to the needs of dual career couples.
We assure responsible accommodation under the Amer-
icans with Disabilities Act.
Diana Pilson <dpilson1@unl.edu >UNebraska ViralEvolution
Post doctoral Research Opportunity in Viral Evolution
The Lab of Dr. Charles Wood from the Nebraska Cen-
ter for Virology ( http://www.unl.edu/virologycenter/-
faculty/wood.shtml ), at the University of Nebraksa is
looking for a highly motivated individual to study the
molecular evolution of HIV. The laboratory investigates
HIV and human herpesvirus, and the roles these viruses
play in immunosuppression and cancer development.
Three of the foci of interest in the lab, are the 1- mother
to infant HIV transmission, 2- longitudinal evolution of
patient with diﬀerent rates of disease progression, and
3- the diﬀerences in the development of ART resistance
among patients. The candidate will have ample oppor-
tunities for interaction with other post-docs in the lab,
and there is also the possibility of working on the trans-
mission and evolution Human Herpesvirus 8 (HHV-8),
a virus linked to Kaposi’s Sarcoma, a rare cancer often
found in AIDS patients. Most of our data comes from
collaborative projects being carried out in Africa.
The position requires a highly motivated, enthusiastic,
and independent individual with a background in popu-
lation genetics, phylogenetics, evolutionary biology, and
statistics, or related ﬁelds. Molecular experience is ad-
vantageous but not essential.
For additional information, and applications contact
Charles Wood Nebraska Center for Virology School
of Biological Sciences University of Nebraska Lincoln,
NE 68588 Phone - 402.472.4550 Fax - 402.472.8722
cwood1@unl.edu
“Federico G. Hoﬀmann”
<federico.g.hoﬀmann@gmail.com >
UNewBrunswick
PopulationGenetics
Postdoctoral Fellow Population and Conservation Ge-
netics and Genomics
Faculty of Forestry and Environmental Management
University of New BrunswickApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 103
A postdoctoral fellow position is available immediately
to assist with research projects on population and con-
servation genetics and genomics of forest trees. The
projects aim to examine population genetic diversity,
spatial genetic structure, pollen gene dispersal, min-
imum viable population size, and genetic and evolu-
tionary impacts of forest fragmentation, forest ﬁres and
forest management practices. A combination of molec-
ular, population, conservation and evolutionary genet-
ics, and genomics approaches are applied. The PDF
also will be expected to analyze the data and prepare
the manuscripts from previously completed work and
to help graduate students in solving problems.
The PDF will work in the Forest Genetics and Ge-
nomics lab, as a member of the research team consisting
of Ph.D., masters and undergraduate students, tech-
nical and research assistants and postdoctoral fellows.
The Forest Genetics and Genomics lab has state-of-the-
art molecular, population genetics, genomics and bioin-
formatics facilities, including high throughput DNA
extraction, genotyping and sequencing systems and a
bioinformatics sever. The PDF will also interact with
collaborators from the Canadian Forest Service, On-
tario Ministry of Natural Resources, UNB Biology De-
partment and other national and international organi-
zations. The position will provide with excellent oppor-
tunities for a large number of high impact publications.
The PDF position requires an independent, innovative,
highly motivated and productive
researcher with excellent writing, data analysis and
leadership skills, who has a keen interest in popula-
tion and conservation genetics and genomics of forest
trees. The applicant should have Ph.D. and experience
in relevant population and conservation genetic aspects.
Experience in population genetic modeling will be an
asset.
The PDF position is for one year. It may be renewable
for a second year subject to availability of funds and
satisfactory performance. The fellowship amount will
commensurate with the qualiﬁcation and experience of
the candidate.
Please send your application to Prof. Om Rajora via
e-mail (Om.Rajora@unb.ca), consisting of a letter of
application, statement of research interests and quali-
ﬁcations, complete CV, and names, addresses (e-mail
and postal) and telephone numbers of three referees.
Evaluation of the applications will commence on March
31, 2008 and will continue until the position is ﬁlled.
Om P. Rajora, Ph.D. Professor and Senior Canada Re-
search Chair in Forest and Conservation Genomics and
Biotechnology Faculty of Forestry and EnvironmentalManagement P.O. Box 44555, 28 Dineen Drive, Uni-
versity of New Brunswick Fredericton, NB E3B 6C2
Canada
E-mail: Om.Rajora@unb.ca Phone: (506) 458-7477 or
(506) 458-7475 Fax: (506) 453-3538
orajora@unb.ca
UOregon MetagenomicInformatics
Postdoctoral Positions in Metagenomic Informatics
Microbes play fundamental roles in all biology-
associated processes on the planet. A powerful new tool
in such studies is metagenomics wherein one uses high
throughput DNA sequencing methods on DNA isolated
directly from environmental samples. Metagenomics
has the potential to revolutionize our understanding of
the normally hidden yet incredibly important world of
microorganisms. However this great potential comes
with enormous challenges in the analysis of the se-
quence data, including (i) the fragmentary nature of
sequence data, (ii) the sparse sampling of genomes,
populations and communities, and (iii) the unknown
phylogenetic diversity and ecological structure of the
communities being sampled.
We are seeking ﬁve post-doctoral scientists and a bioin-
formatics engineer to work on methodology for anal-
ysis of metagenomic data as part of a new collab-
orative project: Integrating Statistical, Evolutionary
and Ecological Approaches to Metagenomics (iSEEM).
The iSEEM Project, funded by the Gordon and Betty
Moore Foundation, takes an integrated, interdisci-
plinary approach to metagenomic analysis. We will
be working with the Community Cyberinfrastructure
for Advanced Marine Microbial Ecology Research and
Analysis (CAMERA) to make any methods we develop
available to the broader community. The project spans
three labs, each with diﬀerent areas of focus and two
institutions (UC Davis and U Oregon). Each position
will be associated with one of the PIs at their home
institution.
More information available at: http://iseem.org Quali-
ﬁcations We are looking for people with a demonstrated
interest in working at the interface between the quan-
titative and biological sciences. We will oﬀer a gener-
ous salary and beneﬁts commensurate with experience.
Postdocs: Applicants should have a PhD in a biological,
computational, mathematical, or statistical ﬁeld. Pro-104 EvolDir April 1, 2008
gramming skills are highly desirable. Bioinformatics
Engineer: Applicants should have substantial experi-
ence with database programming (e.g. SQL), scripting
(e.g. Perl or Python), and bioinformatics tools.
Term Appointments will last 2 years beginning in Sum-
mer 2008.
To apply Please complete the appropriate on-
line form at the iSEEM job application website.
Postdocs: http://jobs.genomecenter.ucdavis.edu/-
start app.php?job idw Bioinformatics Engi-
neer: http://jobs.genomecenter.ucdavis.edu/-
start app.php?job idx
You will be requested to upload the following materi-
als: (1) a brief cover letter explaining your background,
career interests, and preferred geographical location
for work (if any), (2) CV (including publications), (3)
names and contact information for three references.
All applications will be evaluated by all PIs. The loca-
tions of hires will be determined mutually by the ap-
plicants and the PIs. We will evaluate applications as
they arrive, until the positions are ﬁlled.
The Labs Jonathan A. Eisen (UC Davis) U. C.
Davis Genome Center Center for Population Biol-
ogy Section of Evolution and Ecology Department
of Medical Microbiology and Immunology http://-
128.120.136.15/mediawiki/index.php/Main Page Jes-
sica L. Green (U Oregon) Center for Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology Department of Biology http://-
biology.uoregon.edu/people/green/index.html Kather-
ine S. Pollard (UC Davis) U. C. Davis Genome Center
Center for Population Biology Department of Statistics
http://docpollard.com/ jlgreen@uoregon.edu
UOslo FungalSpeciation
POST-DOCTORAL RESEARCH FELLOW
Post-doctoral research fellowship in evolutionary biol-
ogy
Available at Microbial Evolution Research Group
(MERG), Department of Biology, Faculty of Mathe-
matics and Natural Sciences, University of Oslo
The position is available from 1. June 2008 for a period
of three years.
In this project, processes and mechanisms involved dur-
ing fungal speciation will be analyzed, employing em-pirical and experimental inferences and using various
fungi (basidiomycetes) as model organisms. The can-
didate will work together with a group of researchers
at the Department of Biology and outside. Periods
abroad (US, Sweden) are to be expected. The fellow-
ship is funded by the Norwegian Research Council. The
research program MERG has status as a “Strategic Re-
search Initiative” at the University of Oslo. The vision
of MERG is to develop an internationally leading and
dynamic multidisciplinary research environment focus-
ing on ecological, evolutionary and systems biology re-
search on prokaryotic and eukaryotic microbes, their
communities and interactions.
The candidate will be expected to participate in both
ﬁeld work, generating data, perform data analyses, to
work cooperatively with other lab members and out-
side collaborators and to actively publish and present
results. The ideal candidate will be enthusiastic, highly
motivated, independent and will have a strong back-
ground in one or more of the areas of focus.
Please contact Assoc. Prof. H˚ avard Kauserud at the
address below for more details.
Candidates must have a PhD in evolutionary biology
or a related discipline, strong experience in molecular
techniques (cloning, DNA-sequencing, ﬁngerprinting-
techniques, etc.) and in handling and analysing DNA
data. Experience in mycology (including culturing of
fungi), speciation, phylogenetics, phylogeography and
molecular evolution will be considered advantageous.
Applicants must hold a degree equivalent to a Nor-
wegian doctoral degree. The main purpose of post-
doctoral research fellowships is to qualify researchers
for work in top academic positions within their disci-
plines. The position is available from 1. June for a
period of three years. No one can be appointed for
more than one speciﬁed period at the same institution.
Applicants should submit a letter of application, a CV,
a list of published and unpublished works, and a doc-
ument summarizing the applicant’s scientiﬁc work and
interests and giving some thoughts on how the appli-
cant would ﬁt into the project, four set of copies of
certiﬁcates, and copies of at most ﬁve publications. Ap-
plicants may be called in for an interview.
Applications should be sent to the Faculty of Math-
ematics and Natural Sciences, (marked with the
REF:NR. 2008/1988), Attn.: Senior Executive Oﬃcer
Bente Schjoldager, P.O.Box 1032, 0315 OSLO, NOR-
WAY.
Please also refer to the regulations pertain-
ing to the conditions of employment for post-
doctoral fellowship positions: http://www.uio.no/-April 1, 2008 EvolDir 105
admhb/reglhb/personal/tilsettingvitenskapelig/-
guidelinespostdoctor.xml The University of Oslo is
an equal opportunity employer and seeks in particular
to increase its number of female scientists. Women
are therefore particularly encouraged to apply. The
University of Oslo also wants more people with an
immigrant background in permanent academic posts.
Such people are encouraged to apply.
The University of Oslo has an agreement for all em-
ployees aiming to secure rights to research results a.o.
Contact Persons: Associate professor H˚ avard
Kauserud, tlf. +47 22854832, e-mail:
haavarka@bio.uio.no.
Pay grade: 54-60 (from NOK 394 700,- to NOK 439
300,- (equals ca 49 300- 54 900) depending on qualiﬁ-
cations and seniority)
Application deadline: 31. March 2008
Ref. No.: 2008/1988
Application, CV (marked Ref. No. 2008/1988), con-
ﬁrmed certiﬁcates etc., up to 5 scientiﬁc papers (4
copies), should be sent to: Faculty of Mathematics
and Natural Sciences, attn. Senior Executive Oﬃcer
Bente Schjoldager, P. O. Box 1032 Blindern, N-0315
Oslo, Norway
Applications which are incomplete and applications per
e-mail will not be considered.
Application papers will not be returned.
– H˚ avard Kauserud Department of Biology University
of Oslo P.O.Box 1066 Blindern N-0316 Oslo, Norway
Phone: +47 22854832 (oﬃce) +47 99697116 (mob)
Web: http://biologi.uio.no/meb/db03-staﬀ/-
Haavard.html havard.kauserud@bio.uio.no
havard.kauserud@bio.uio.no
UOslo TheoreticalBiol
Post-doctoral position in theoretical biology
Available at the Center for Ecological and Evolutionary
Synthesis (CEES), Department of Biology, Faculty of
Mathematics and Natural Sciences, University of Oslo
I want to draw your attention to a three-year postdoc-
toral position available to work on topics in evolution-
ary theory and/or biostatistics/bioinformatics. The
position is to be associated with the project “Selec-tion and Evolvability: Concepts, measurements, and
statistical modeling” headed by Thomas F. Hansen
and Tore Schweder, and involves the collaboration
of David Houle (Florida State University), Hirohiso
Kishino (Tokyo University), and G¨ unter Wagner (Yale
University). The idea behind the project is to explore
how fundamental parameters in evolutionary theory
are deﬁned, measured, and analyzed, and in particular
to explore the relationship between theoretical mod-
els that deﬁne the parameters, and the experimental
and statistical methods that are used to study them.
We will explore conﬂicts between the demands of sta-
tistical models and the need to preserve the theoreti-
cal meaningfulness of the estimates. We will critically
evaluate how concepts such as evolvability, ﬁtness, se-
lection, evolution rates, epistasis, pleiotropy, integra-
tion, etc. are deﬁned and given meaning in a theo-
retical context, and how they are measured and ma-
nipulated during experiment and data analysis. The
successful candidate is expected to participate in the
general discussions and development of the project,
which includes organizing a workshop, and to conduct
original research on topics within the broad outline of
the project. The position oﬀers ample opportunity to
work at the interface between theory and data analy-
sis within a broader group of researchers and students
with strong expertise in theoretical and statistical mod-
eling. The ideal candidate has broad interests in the-
oretical and conceptual issues of evolutionary biology,
and in statistical modeling and analysis. Expertise in
one or more of the following areas is particularly rele-
vant: Biostatistics, bioinformatics, population genetics,
and evolutionary biology. Applicants must hold a de-
gree equivalent to a Norwegian doctoral degree. Please
contact Thomas Hansen or Tore Schweder at the be-
low address for more detail on the project and possible
research topics, and refer to http://www.cees.uio.no/-
about/vacancies/sﬀ2008.html for information on how
to apply. The CEES is a semi-autonomous interdisci-
plinary research group within the Department of Bi-
ology that combines the skills of population ecologists,
evolutionary biologists, geneticists, and statisticians. It
has a strong international ﬂavor, and currently employs
13 faculty, 33 postdocs/researchers, 49 graduate stu-
dents, and 16 associate scientists. The CEES has been
awarded status as centre of excellence by the Norwe-
gian Research Council, and is well funded. See http://-
cees.no/ Contact Person: Professor Thomas F. Hansen,
e-mail: thomas.hansen@bio.uio.no. Tore Schweder,
email: tore.schweder@econ.uio.no. Pay Grade: 54-
62 (NOK394700,-NOK456600, approx. 50000 - 58000,
$71000-$82000 depending on qualiﬁcations and senior-
ity). Application Deadline: March 15. Starting date:
As soon as possible.106 EvolDir April 1, 2008
Thomas Hansen <t.f.hansen@bio.uio.no >
UPenn Microbe Evolution
A postdoctoral position is available in the group of
Dustin Brisson at the University of Pennsylvania to
study evolution of infectious microbes. The position re-
quires a highly motivated, enthusiastic, and enquiring
individual. Competitive individuals will have a strong
background in evolutionary biology (population genet-
ics / population biology), statistics, and quantitative
skills. Molecular and ﬁeld experience would be advan-
tageous.
The University of Pennsylvania has a strong group of
evolutionary biologists and ecologists in the biology de-
partment that frequently interact with each other and
with an accomplished group of microbiologists in the
Medical and Veterinary schools.
The position is available as early as June 2008; the
starting date is ﬂexible and I am willing to wait for an
outstanding candidate.
For informal enquiries and formal applications includ-
ing curriculum vitae, list of publications, a one page
statement of research interests (in a single ﬁle applying
by email), and two letters of recommendation, can be
submitted to:
Dustin Brisson Department of Biology University
of Pennsylvania Leidy Laboratories, 326 433 South
University Avenue Philadelphia PA 19104-6018
http://www.bio.upenn.edu/faculty/brisson/ http:/-
/brisson.bio.upenn.edu/ dbrisson@sas.upenn.edu
V:(215) 746-1731
UPierreMarieCurie AntEvol
A post-doctoral position is opened at the University of
Paris (see below). It should (I hope!) be of interested
to evolutionary biologists.
Many thanks
Thibaud Monnin
REPRODUCTION BY COLONY FISSION IN ANTS
A post-doctoral position is opened at the Laboratory ofEcology, University Pierre and Marie Curie (UPMC),
Paris. The position is funded for 18 months by ANR
(Agence Nationale de la Recherche).
The applicant will work with a team studying the repro-
duction of social insects by colony ﬁssion, at both proxi-
mate and ultimate levels. The subject of the post-doc is
ﬂexible within this general research theme. We aim at
increasing the general knowledge on the production of
new colonies by ﬁssion, using the Mediterranean ants
Cataglyphis cursor and Aphaenogaster senilis. More
speciﬁcally, we seek (i) to analyse the factors that trig-
ger colony ﬁssion, such as colony size, nest densities and
resources availability, (ii) to investigate the trade oﬀ be-
tween number and size of daughter colonies produced,
and (iii) to study the social conﬂicts associated with
colony ﬁssion. For instance, in the highly polyandrous
C. cursor new queens can be produced either sexually or
by parthenogenesis, so that during colony ﬁssion work-
ers may join parthenogenetic queens, sister queens or
half-sister queens.
The applicant will be based at the laboratory of ecology
in Paris, and will participate to experimental works at a
ﬁeld station in Banyuls-sur-mer, southern France. The
applicant should have a formation in Behavioural Ecol-
ogy and in Evolution, and preferentially some knowl-
edge of social insects.
The salary is ca 2,300 per month, depending on the
experience of the post-doc. The post-doc will preferen-
tially start between April and June 2008. The position
will remain opened until it is ﬁlled. Applicants should
submit their CV, a short summary of research interests
and contact information of two references to Thibaud
Monnin (tmonnin@snv.jussieu.fr).
Dr Thibaud MONNIN Laboratoire ´Ecologie &
´Evolution CNRS UMR 7625, Universit´ e Pierre et Marie
Curie 7 quai St Bernard, Bˆ atiment A 7` eme ´ etage, Case
237 75 252 Paris Cedex 05, France
T´ el: (+33) (0)1 44 27 36 10; Fax: (+33)
(0)1 44 27 35 16 e-mail: tmonnin@snv.jussieu.fr
http://ecologie.snv.jussieu.fr/monnin Thibaud Mon-
nin<Thibaud.Monnin@snv.jussieu.fr >
UWisconsinMadison PlantEvolution
TrophicInteractions
Postdoctoral Position
Trophic Interactions, Evolution, Chemical Ecology, andApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 107
Community/Ecosystem Genetics
University of Wisconsin - Madison
A postdoctoral Research Associate position will be
available spring/summer 2008 to work at the interface
of plant evolution, genetics/chemistry, trophic interac-
tions, and community/ecosystem and ecology. Our re-
search program explores the genetic basis of community
dynamics and ecosystem processes, using poplar (aspen
and cottonwood) as a model system. Speciﬁc research
projects can be designed consistent with the interests
of the individual. Research could be integrated with
a large, multi-investigator, multi-institutional project
funded under NSFs Frontiers in Integrative Biological
Research (FIBR) program. (See the feature article on
“genes to ecosystems” by Whitham et al. [2006. Nature
Reviews Genetics 7:510-523].)
Primary responsibilities of the Research Associate are
to develop, coordinate and execute pioneering studies
relevant to the general theme of research in the Lin-
droth group. Speciﬁc areas of research are open, and
candidates will be encouraged to develop new research
avenues.
For more information about our current research, see:
http://entomology.wisc.edu/˜lindroth/
Qualiﬁcations include expertise in any of the following:
plant evolution, chemical analyses, trophic interactions,
community genetics, and/or forest ecosystem dynamics.
Strong interpersonal, laboratory, statistical and writing
skills are essential.
Salary and beneﬁts: $33,000 - 36,000, commensu-
rate with experience. Excellent family medical/dental
health plans available at minimal cost.
Duration of position: two years.
Application: Applications will be accepted through
April 15, 2008, or until a suitable applicant is found.
Send c.v., names/addresses of three references, repre-
sentative reprints, and a letter detailing your ﬁt to the
position to:
Dr. Rick Lindroth lindroth@entomology.wisc.edu
Dept. of Entomology 1630 Linden Dr. University of
Wisconsin-Madison Madison, WI 53706 (608)263-6277
UW - Madison is an equal opportunity employer
–
Richard L. Lindroth, Ph.D. Dept. of Entomology 1630
Linden Dr. University of Wisconsin Madison, WI 53706
U.S.A.
Phone: 608-263-6277 Fax: 608-262-3322 E-
mail: lindroth@entomology.wisc.edu http://-entomology.wisc.edu/˜lindroth/
lindroth@entomology.wisc.edu
UWyoming EvolutionaryStructural-
Bioinformatics
Postdoctoral Researcher in Evolutionary Structural
Bioinformatics
A position is currently available for a postdoctoral re-
searcher in evolutionary structural bioinformatics in the
Liberles Research Group at University of Wyoming.
The position has guaranteed funding for one year, with
extension possible depending upon performance and
available funding. Applicants should have skills in pro-
gramming, knowledge of statistics, knowledge of pro-
tein structure and physical chemistry, as well as in-
terest in evolutionary biology and population genetics.
Research will involve work at the interface of struc-
tural and evolutionary bioinformatics to understand
how structure constrains sequence evolution as well as
how and why the genome-speciﬁc distribution of struc-
tures changes between species.
For more details on research in the Liber-
les Research Group, please see http://-
www.wyomingbioinformatics.org/LiberlesGroup .
To apply, please send a CV, contact information for
three references, and 2 .pdf copies of your favorite
(signiﬁcant) papers you have published together with
a cover letter to liberles@uwyo.edu.
David Liberles <liberles@uwyo.edu >
UWyoming
SalmonComparativeGenomics
Postdoctoral Researcher in Experimental Salmon Com-
parative Genomics
A position is currently available for a postdoctoral
researcher in experimental salmon comparative ge-
nomics in the Liberles Research Group at University of
Wyoming. The position has guaranteed funding for one
year, with extension possible depending upon perfor-
mance and available funding. Applicants should have108 EvolDir April 1, 2008
good skills in molecular biology, including DNA ex-
traction, primer design, sequencing, PCR, and North-
ern and Southern blotting. The applicant will have a
chance to work closely with computational researchers
and will learn about evolutionary theory and poten-
tially about techniques of growing popularity like an-
cestral sequence reconstruction/resurrection.
For more details on research in the Liber-
les Research Group, please see http://-
www.wyomingbioinformatics.org/LiberlesGroup .
To apply, please send a CV, contact information for
three references, and 2 .pdf copies of your favorite
(signiﬁcant) papers you have published together with
a cover letter to liberles@uwyo.edu.
David Liberles <liberles@uwyo.edu >
Valencia ComparativeGenomics
We are seeking a highly motivated postdoctoral re-
searcher to work in our group at the Instituto de
Biomedicina de Valencia (Spain). Lab Website: http:/-
/www.uv.es/ ˜ genomica/eng/index.htm Topic: Com-
parative genomics and bioinformatics of genes involved
in neurodegenerative diseases
The position requires an individual with a PhD and ex-
perience in molecular evolution, comparative genomics
and/or bioinformatics.
The candidate will apply for his/her own funds to
the Juan de la Cierva ( http://www.mec.es/planidi/-
juandelacierva-eng/ )and/or Ramon y Cajal ( http://-
www.mec.es/planidi/ramonycajal-eng/ ) programmes.
Conditions:
For the Juan de la Cierva Programme: PhD obtained
within the last three years or to be obtained within the
next months. Funds can be obtained for three years.
For the Ramon y Cajal Programme: PhD obtained
within the last ten years. Positions funded for 5 years.
To apply, please send the following:
1. Curriculum vitae 2. Names of 2 referees willing to
provide a letter of recommendation upon request 3. A
brief statement of your research goals and interests for
future grant applications
E-mail applications can be sent to Ignacio Marin:
imarin@ibv.csic.es
imarin@ibv.csic.esVienna Zebraﬁsh EvolutionaryBiol
POST-DOCTORAL POSITION: Behavioral Ecol-
ogy/Evolutionary Biology Konrad Lorenz Institute for
Ethology, Vienna - Austria
We seek a highly motivated and interactive scientist
to collaborate with Drs. Sarah Zala and Dustin Penn
on research on zebraﬁsh. Speciﬁc research topics will
be determined based on the interests of the successful
candidate. Applicants must have a strong background
with ﬁsh, behavioral ecology or evolutionary biology
and preferably with some experience with molecular ge-
netics or population genetics. Good English skills are
necessary (our institute operates bilingually, and En-
glish is widely spoken in Vienna). The position is for
two years (with the possibility of extension) and the
salary depends upon experience. Review of applica-
tions begins immediately and the dead line is May 15,
2008.
The Konrad Lorenz Institute for Ethology is located
in the Vienna Woods, on the outskirts of Vienna.
We work with a variety of ﬁsh, bird, mammals and
other vertebrates and have excellent ﬁsh facilities (see
www.oeaw.ac.at/klivv ).
To apply, please send (1) a CV, (2) 2-3 publications, (3)
a brief statement of research interests and (4) names of
three people who can be contacted for letters of refer-
ence to the address below:
Alexandra Katzer, Secretary Konrad Lorenz Institute
for Ethology - Austrian Academy of Sciences Savoyen-
strasse 1a, A-1160 Vienna, Austria Tel: +43 51581
2700, Fax: +43 51581 2800, oﬃce@klivv.oeaw.ac.at
www.oeaw.ac.at/klivv
WilliamMaryCollege Biomath
This position announcement may be of interest to early
career academics who are interested in combing behav-
ioral and evolutionary research with training in under-
graduate mentoring and teaching. Please circulate to
anyone you think may be interested. Thanks - John
Swaddle.April 1, 2008 EvolDir 109
****
The Department of Biology at the College of William
and Mary seeks applications for a one year (which
could be extended to two years) Visiting Assistant
Professor postdoctoral position in biomathematics.
The candidate should be trained in modeling ap-
proaches to population ecology and evolution and ex-
hibit a sincere commitment to undergraduate educa-
tion and research. Speciﬁcally, the biomath post-
doc will mentor undergraduates in quantitative and
modeling projects, related to population ecology and
evolution, and collaborate with faculty in the biol-
ogy, mathematics, and applied science departments on
new and existing research projects. The postdoc will
also help develop lab activities associated with an in-
troductory biomathematical modeling class. There-
fore, some experience of empirical systems is strongly
desired. More information about ongoing projects
can be found on the faculty research pages of the
Biology ( www.wm.edu/biology ), Mathematics ( http:/-
/www.wm.edu/mathematics/index.php ), and Applied
Science departments ( www.as.wm.edu ).
Informal enquiries and requests for more informationshould be directed to Dan Cristol (dacris@wm.edu) or
John Swaddle (jpswad@wm.edu) in the Biology depart-
ment. Review begins April 10, 2008 and will con-
tinue until an appointment is made. Submit a letter
of application, curriculum vitae, statements of research
plans and teaching philosophy, and contact information
for three references to Dan Cristol, Biomathematics
Search, Department of Biology, The College of William
and Mary, P.O. Box 8795, Williamsburg, VA 23187-
8795, or by email to dacris@wm.edu. Electronic appli-
cations are encouraged. The College is an EEO/AA
employer.
Dr. John Swaddle
Before June 2008: Sabbatical Fellow National Center
for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis 735 State Street,
Suite 300 Santa Barbara, CA 93101 Oﬃce: 805-892-
5035 Cell: 757-272-2124 Fax: 805-892-2510
After June 2008: Director of Environmental Science
and Policy Program Biology Department College of
William & Mary Williamsburg, VA 23187-8795 Of-
ﬁce (Biology): 757-221-2231 Oﬃce (Env Sci): 757-221-
2096 http://jpswad.people.wm.edu/ jpswad@wm.edu
jpswad@wm.edu
WorkshopsCourses
Budapest BayesianPhylogeny Jun25-29 . . . . . . . . . . . 109
CornellU MarinePhylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
Guarda EvolBiol Jun21-28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
Kristineberg Sweden MarineGenomics Jul15-24 . . . 111
NESCent Computational Phyloinformatics Jul24-Aug4
111
NESCent GMOD Jul11-13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
Portugal EvolutionaryCellBiol May9-10 . . . . . . . . . . 113Roscoﬀ MarineEvolutionaryGenomics Jun16-27 . . 113
SanDiego DrosophilaGenomics Apr5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114
Singapore ComputationalBiol Aug10-16 . . . . . . . . . . 115
UMassAmherst ComparativeBiol May31-Jun7 . . . . 115
UMuenster EvoluitonaryBiol Summer . . . . . . . . . . . . 116
UVirginia EvolBiology Summer2008 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116
Venezuela AntEvolution Aug9-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
Budapest BayesianPhylogeny
Jun25-29
Dear Colleagues,we would like to cordially invite you, your colleagues
and students to participate in the Bayesian Phylogeny
Workshop, which will be held at the Renyi Institute,
Budapest, Hungary, from the 25th of June till the 29th
of June, 2008.
The goal of the conference is to give a comprehensive
overview of Bayesian phylogeny and its widely used110 EvolDir April 1, 2008
techniques like Markov chain Monte Carlo. Each day
will be dedicated to a speciﬁc topic. The topics will
be introduced by top-qualiﬁed researchers during the
morning sessions, the afternoon sessions are devoted to
discussions, software demos, tutorials and short presen-
tations. We encourage MSc and PhD students to par-
ticipate in this workshop, where they can signiﬁcantly
improve their knowledge and skills in the topic.
There is no registration fee for this workshop; how-
ever, registration is necessary due to the limited space.
Therefore if you would like to participate in the work-
shop, please register as early as possible. Proposals for
short talks are welcome. The homepage of the confer-
ence is
http://www.renyi.hu/conferences/bp2008/ Istvan
Miklos <miklos@stats.ox.ac.uk >
CornellU MarinePhylogenomics
Cornell University, Shoals Marine Labora-
tory, Appledore Island, Maine, USA. http://-
www.sml.cornell.edu/ MARINE PHYLOGENOMICS:
BIOSM 472, is an intensive four-credit laboratory-
and ﬁeld-oriented summer course aimed at helping
motivated undergraduate students and working pro-
fessionals integrate advances in molecular biology and
genomics with ﬁeld-based research in ecology and
evolution. Appledore Island is situated in the Isles of
Shoals archipelago ten miles oﬀ the New England coast
in the heart of the Gulf of Maine. The archipelago
is rich in biological diversity, seabird and marine
mammal breeding areas and has a long and colorful
maritime history. The Shoals Lab hosts a vibrant
and diverse international community of students and
investigators throughout the summer ﬁeld season in an
intimate island setting immersed in natural history and
regional culture. The course enjoys full tech support
from Cornell University, Harvard University, and the
nearby Hubbard Center for Genomics Research at the
University of New Hampshire.
Dates: JULY 21 - AUGUST 4, 2008 Credit Hours:
4 semester credits Total Cost: $3,769 (includes room,
board and tuition)
Prerequisites: One year of college-level biology. Recom-
mended: Genetics and/or cell biology with laboratory
components. Helpful: Evolutionary biology, ecology,
invertebrate or vertebrate zoology.An introduction to basic concepts in systematic biology,
comparative genomics, evolutionary genetics, molecular
ecology, and conservation biology emphasizing the nat-
ural history of marine organisms. Students integrate
ﬁeld sampling techniques, taxonomy, and curation of
specimens from Appledore Island and surrounding wa-
ters with molecular diagnostics and bioinformatics com-
pleted in the laboratory. Standard methods for DNA
puriﬁcation, ampliﬁcation, sequencing and genotyping
are used to address questions about population struc-
ture, kinship, and species phylogeny.
Faculty: Dr. Andrew M. Shedlock Harvard University,
Museum of Comparative Zoology, Depts. Organismic
& Evol. Biol. and Molec. & Cell Biol. Email: shed-
lock@oeb.harvard.edu
Objectives: * Explore the genetic basis of biological
diversity in the Gulf of Maine * Learn basic theory
and applications in the emerging ﬁeld of phylogenomics
* Design and execute ﬁeld sampling of specimens for
molecular research * Extract, purify and curate DNA
samples for comparative analysis * Complete ampliﬁca-
tion, genotyping and sequencing of DNA samples * Use
informatics, model genome databases, and software to
analyze DNA results * Test hypotheses of relationship
and demographics using genetic markers * Summarize
ﬁndings with a research proposal and brief scientiﬁc
communication.
Tentative Guest Lectures: Steve Bogdanowicz (Cor-
nell) - Molecular Markers in Population Analysis Chris
Botka (Harvard Med School) - Bioinformatics and
Genome Databases Jim Coyer (U. Groningen) - Ben-
thic Community Ecol. & Genetics Scott Edwards (Har-
vard) - Seabird Molecular Ecol. & Evol. Akiko Okutsu
(Simmons) - Marine Invertebrate Phylogeography Hal
Weeks (Cornell) - Marine Fisheries Ecol. & Evol.
shedlock@oeb.harvard.edu shedlock@oeb.harvard.edu
Guarda EvolBiol Jun21-28
“Evolutionary Biology in Guarda 2008” is open for reg-
istration.
It is my pleasure to announce this years Guarda work-
shop in Evolutionary Biology. The main aim of this 1
week course is to develop the skills to produce an inde-
pendent research project in evolutionary biology. The
course is for master students and ﬁrst or second year
PhD students with a keen interest in evolutionary biol-
ogy.April 1, 2008 EvolDir 111
Course dates: 21. - 28. June 2008 (Saturday to Satur-
day). Location: The village Guarda in the Swiss Alps.
Course faculty * Dr. David Haig (Harvard University,
USA) * Dr. Bruce Levin (Emory University, Atlanta,
USA) * Dr. Sebastian Bonhoeﬀer (ETH Z¨ urich) * Dr.
Dieter Ebert (Basel University) (course organizer)
For more information: http://-
www.evolution.unibas.ch/teaching/guarda/ Please
communicate this information to interested students.
If you receive this email twice, please excuse me.
With best wishes
dieter ebert
–
Dieter Ebert [ Mailto:dieter.ebert@unibas.ch ] http:/-
/evolution.unibas.ch/ Universit¨ at Basel, Zoologisches
Institut, Evolutionary Biology Vesalgasse 1 4051 Basel,
Switzerland Tel. +41-(0)61-267 03 60 FAX +41-(0)61-
267 03 62
dieter.ebert@unibas.ch dieter.ebert@unibas.ch
Kristineberg Sweden
MarineGenomics Jul15-24
A Marine Genomics Europe summer course Analysing
Biodiversity & Life History Strategies 15th - 24th
of July, 2008 Sven Lov´ en Centre for Marine Science
- Kristineberg (Former Kristineberg Marine Research
Station) Fiskeb¨ ackskil, Sweden
Info doc & application form at www.marine-genomics-
europe.org
Deadline for application is May 19, 2008
Aims to present the diversity of animal life in the ocean
and introduce the latest methods in analyzing this vari-
ation. To foster cross-over between ecological/whole-
organism and molecular approaches.
Topics
Diversity of meiofauna, phylogenomics, phylogeography
of marine species, DNA barcoding and modern taxon-
omy, marine life cycles and larval diversity, reproduc-
tive systems in marine invertebrates, biodiversity in-
dices and marine communities
General outline
The goal of the course is to introduce the participantsto the diverse marine fauna of the Swedish west coast
and debate current topics in biodiversity research and
developmental biology. The course has a rather broad
focus and will concentrate on methods and applications
in these ﬁelds, while less emphasis will be placed on the-
oretical backgrounds. Principally we will use the morn-
ings for lectures given by experts in the ﬁeld and the
afternoons for practical work such as software exercises
and wet labs. The course focuses almost exclusively on
marine invertebrate animals.
Target group
PhD students (at least in their second year) and post
docs with basic knowledge in phylo- and population ge-
netics. This course is open to MGE members as well as
non-members.
Costs; course, accommodation and meals
The course fee is paid by the MGE Network for all aca-
demics (pre and post doc). Lunches and coﬀees are in-
cluded in the course fee as well as the excursion (Sunday
the 20th) and the farewell dinner (Thursday the 24th).
All participants pay their own travel and accommoda-
tion. Participants are oﬀered (and encouraged as there
are no real options around) to be accommodated at the
station. The costs for this is approx 70 ??? in single
room and 60 ??? in double room per night including
breakfast and supper.
Application
To apply, please ﬁll in the application form and e-
mail to Ulrika Hjelm (ulrika.hjelm@kmf.gu.se), to-
gether with a 2-page CV before May 19, 2008. This
information + application form can also be found on
the MGE website: www.marine-genomics-europe.org
<http://www.marine-genomics-europe.org/ >under
Training & Education.
Matthias Obst, PhD G¨ oteborg University Sven Lov´ en
Centre for Marine Sciences Kristineberg 566 450 34
Fiskeb¨ ackskil Sweden Tel: +46 (0) 523 18553 Fax: +46
(0) 523 18502 Email: Matthias.Obst@biology.au.dk or
matthias.obst@zool.gu.se
Matthias Obst <matthias.obst@kmf.gu.se >
NESCent Computational
Phyloinformatics Jul24-Aug4
Computational Phyloinformatics: A Course at NES-
Cent. 24 July - 4 August 2008112 EvolDir April 1, 2008
http://www.nescent.org/courses/2008/comphy/
Course Director: William Piel (piel@treebase.org)
Course Administrator: Jory Weintraub
(jory@nescent.org) Organizing Committee: Hilmar
Lapp, William Piel, Todd Vision, Jory Weintraub
Computational Phyloinformatics is a 10-day summer
course sponsored by and held at the National Evolu-
tionary Synthesis Center (NESCent) in Durham, North
Carolina (USA) that aims to give students practical
knowledge and hands-on skills in phyloinformatics.
SYNOPSIS Biologists are faced with ever-larger
datasets, more complex evolutionary models, and more
elaborate analytical methods. Seldom is it suﬃcient
to run a dataset through an oﬀ-the-shelf program on
a desktop PC; increasingly, biologists need to write
scripts to interface with internet services and databases,
build analytical pipelines, customize analyses, and dis-
tribute computation over multiple processors. This
course is designed for graduate students, postdocs,
and researchers in phylogenetics interested in receiving
practical, hands-on training in the use of Perl, Java, or
R for phyloinformatics applications.
The course is divided into three parts:
- Part I: A tutorial review of either Perl, Java, or R
(while optional, this part is strongly recommended).
- Part II: Students have the choice of pursuing (1) a Perl
track, with focus on BioPerl and Bio::Phylo; (2) a Java
track, with focus on how to write a Mesquite module
and program workﬂows that utilize Mesquite modules;
or (3) an R track, with a focus on comparative phy-
logenetic analysis using the libraries Ape, Ouch, and
Phylobase.
- Part III: Students choose between (1) a database track
(with focus on SQL, BioSQL and database queries of
phylogenetic trees); (2) a HyPhy track (with focus on
scripting molecular evolution hypothesis tests in a phy-
logenetic framework); or (3) an advanced R track (with
focus on automating analyses using vectorized calcula-
tions, advanced plotting and animations, and the R-
LaTex document system using Sweave).
Students in all tracks will learn how to write basic phy-
logenetic or comparative analysis scripts, parse NEXUS
ﬁles, traverse and compute over trees, and make prac-
tical use of phylogenetic software libraries. These skills
will be learned in a biological context, touching on a
diverse array of topics (depending on the track) such
as alignment of large numbers of sequences, ancestral
state reconstruction, testing for positive selection, etc.
INSTRUCTORS James Balhoﬀ, Marguerite Butler, R.
Todd Jobe, Hilmar Lapp, Darin London, David Maddi-son, Spencer Muse, Jeﬀ Oliver, Brian O’Meara, William
Piel, Sergei L. Kosakovsky Pond, Ryan Scherle, Todd
Vision, Rutger Vos
PREREQUISITES Biology: A solid understand-
ing of phylogenetics - for example, having already
taken the Workshop on Molecular Evolution ( http:/-
/www.molecularevolution.org/ ) or equivalent course-
work or experience. Computing: Prior experience with
Perl, Java, or R; or careful study of the suggested read-
ing materials (see web site). Students should have ex-
perience with basic Unix shell commands. All students
are expected to bring their own Mac OSX computer (a
limited number of loaners are available upon request).
FEES Tuition is $600.00. Accommodation is $50/night
for a single occupancy apartment, $26/night for dou-
ble occupancy apartment in housing provided at Duke
University (students are also free to make their own
housing arrangements). Travel awards of up to $450
each are available to subsidize travel expenses for ap-
plicants from underrepresented groups.
HOW TO APPLY Apply through the course web-
site ( http://www.nescent.org/courses/2008/comphy ).
You will be asked to provide a resume, two references,
a brief description of your computational and phylo-
genetic background, and your reasons for taking the
course. Applications are due by April 15, 2008. Inter-
national students may wish to apply for Travel Awards
from the Society of Systematic Biologists (due date:
March 31, 2008, see website for details).
william.piel@yale.edu william.piel@yale.edu
NESCent GMOD Jul11-13
GMOD Summer School July 11-13, 2008 National Evo-
lutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent) Durham, North
Carolina, USA
The ﬁrst GMOD Summer School ( http://gmod.org/-
GMOD Summer School ) will be held July 11-13, 2008
at the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NES-
Cent), in Durham, North Carolina, USA. GMOD is a
collection of interoperable open source software compo-
nents for managing genomic data. GMOD components
are used in diverse contexts, with both emerging and
established model organisms.
The course will provide an overview of GMOD and
cover these popular components in detail: * Chado -
a modular and extensible database schema * Apollo -April 1, 2008 EvolDir 113
genome annotation editor * GBrowse - genome viewer
* CMap - comparative map viewer * Community An-
notation System - GMOD’s most popular components
in a single system
This is a 2 1/2 day hands-on workshop aimed at teach-
ing new GMOD users how to get up and running with
popular GMOD components. There will also be a con-
current 1 day session aimed at principal investigators
that will give decision makers an overview of what
GMOD can do, how the project operates, and what
level of resources are needed to use GMOD.
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NES-
Cent, http://nescent.org ) has joined the GMOD
project with the goal of lowering the barrier to entry
for research communities focused on emerging model
organisms. The GMOD Summer School is a part of this
eﬀort. NESCent is also extending GMOD components,
particularly Chado, to better support comparative and
evolutionary data.
If you are interested in attending the GMOD Summer
School please submit a Statement of Interest before
April 15, 2008. The course is free but enrollment is
limited. For application information and a tentative
program see:
http://gmod.org/GMOD Summer School Please let
me know if you have any questions, comments, or re-
quests.
Thanks,
Dave Clements GMOD Help Desk help@gmod.org
clementsnescent@gmail.com
Portugal EvolutionaryCellBiol
May9-10
Announcing: Workshop in Evolutionary Cell Biology -
May 9 & 10 (2008), Portugal.
Date: May 9th- 10th, 2008 Location: Instituto Gul-
benkian de Ciencia, Oeiras Portugal (a small seaside
village close to Lisbon and its international Airport )
Cost: free
An exploratory workshop on the intersection of evolu-
tion and cell biology, organised in the context of the
PhD Program in Computational Biology.
Conﬁrmed Participants include: -Andrew Murray -
Eugene Koonin -Martijn Huynen -Mark Field, JoelDacks -Patricia Beldade.
The target audience are cell and evolutionary biologists
interested in crossing the boundaries of each other’s dis-
ciplines.
Registration is free but necessary.
Details and registration on www.evocell.org/-
evocell2008 Jose Pereira Leal, PhD Computational
Genomics Laboratory & Bioinformatics and Compu-
tational Biology Unit Instituto Gulbenkian de Ciˆ encia
Apartado 14 P-2781-901 Oeiras Portugal
phone: +351 21 446 4528 fax: +351 21 440 7973
http://www.evocell.org http://-
bioinformatics.igc.gulbenkian.pt
jleal@igc.gulbenkian.pt
Roscoﬀ
MarineEvolutionaryGenomics
Jun16-27
MGE Summer Course Marine Evolutionary & Ecologi-
cal Genomics June 16th-27th, 2008 Station Biologique
de Roscoﬀ, France
Aims: to give an introduction on genomic approaches to
analyze genetic variation and adaptation at the species
and population level in the ocean.
Target group: PhD students (at least in their second
year) and post docs with a solid knowledge in phylo-
and/or population genetics. This course is open to
MGE members as well as non-members.
Topics: The course will consist of lectures, tutorials
and computer based exercises in the following sub-
jects. * Phylogeny - molecular evolution through se-
quences, phylogenetic techniques (clustering, Bayesian
statistics), molecular clock, case studies * Population
genetics - molecular evolution through allele frequen-
cies, population genetic techniques (structure, selec-
tion, gene ﬂow, bottlenecks, assignment), population
dynamics, case studies * Phylogeography - molecular
evolution through networks, phylogeographical tech-
niques, coalescence, population dynamics, case studies
* Environmental, functional and comparative genomics
- 1. Genome structure and architecture. 2. Mark-
ers in the genomics realm. 3. Methods for detecting
structure. 4. Introduction to functional genomics. 5.
What is environmental genomics? 5. Methods for de-
tecting adaptive variation (including selective sweeps)114 EvolDir April 1, 2008
within and among populations; linking hydrographi-
cal/environmental and demographic data to population
structure and local adaptation. 6 Quantitative genet-
ics: evolution of traits. 7. EST libraries: why and
how. 8. Introduction to comparative genomics (whole
genome comparisons, concatenated phylogeny, genome
organization, annotating genomic information) 9. Case
studies * Phylogenomics - 1. What is comparative ge-
nomics? 2. Genomics and genetics of speciation/ what
makes a species from a genome point of view? 3. Com-
parative marine genomics. 4. Case studies
Costs; course, accommodation and meals: * The course
fee is paid by the MGE Network for all academics (pre
and post doc). Lunches and coﬀees are included in the
course fee as well as the excursion (incl dinner) and
farewell dinner. * All participants pay their own ac-
commodation and travel. * Participants are oﬀered to
be accommodated at the SBR guesthouse which is situ-
ated directly at the institute. The cost for this is ???13
per night in double room incl. breakfast. The guest-
house can also oﬀer supper for a cost of ???5.50 per
person and meal.
Application: To apply, please ﬁll in the
application form and e-mail to Ulrika
Hjelm ( <mailto:ulrika.hjelm@kmf.gu.se > ul-
rika.hjelm@kmf.gu.se), together with a 2-paged
CV before April 14, 2008. This information +
application form can also be found on the MGE
website: <http://www.marine-genomics-europe.org/
>www.marine-genomics-europe.org under Training &
Education.
16 participants will be selected by the following criteria:
1. Relation to network 2. Relevance of project for the
course 3. Background and experience of applicant
We aim at mixing people from diﬀerent research areas
and therefore, in the cases of MGE applicants, probably
no more then one person per partner will be considered.
We will also aim at an equal distribution of women and
men.
The selected persons will get a notiﬁcation at the end
of April that has to be conﬁrmed within 7 days. We
will have a waiting list in case of non-conﬁrmations and
cancellations.
Conﬁrmed teachers Sandie Baldauf, Univ of York,
UK Galice Hoarau, Univ of Groningen, NL Michael
M. Hansen, Danish Institute for Fisheries Research,
DK Wiebe Kooistra, SZN, IT Jeanine Olsen, Univ of
Groningen, NL Frederique Partensky, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR
Klaus Valentin, AWI-Bremerhaven, DE Anti Vasem¨ agi,
Univ of Turku, FI Fr´ ed´ erique Viard, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR
Filip Volckaert, KULeuven, BEOrganizing committee Ulrika Hjelm, KMRS, SE H´ el` ene
Huelvan, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR Jeanine Olsen, Univ of
Groningen, NL Arnaud Tanguy, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR
Fr´ ed´ erique Viard, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR Filip Volckaert,
KULeuven, BE
Contact person Ulrika Hjelm Training & Education
Programme Manager Kristineberg Marine Research
Station S-450 34 Fiskeb¨ ackskil Sweden Phone: ++46
(0) 523 18548 Fax: ++46 (0) 523 18502 Mobil: ++46
(0) 70 344 2371 E-mail: ulrika.hjelm@kmf.gu.se
Disclaimer: http://www.kuleuven.be/-
cwis/email disclaimer.htm Filip Volckaert
<Filip.Volckaert@bio.kuleuven.be >
SanDiego DrosophilaGenomics Apr5
Dear colleagues,
Chuck Langley, Chip Aquadro, and I are organizing
a workshop at the annual Drosophila Research Con-
ference in San Diego on “Drosophila Population Ge-
nomics” (Saturday night Apr 5), with emphasis on:
1. complete genome resequencing and targeted regional
sequencing of multiple lines —trade-oﬀ of depth vs.
sample size —eﬃcacy of recovery of frequency spectrum
2. shared recombinant populations, collaborative cross
designs, and RI lines —value of shared genotyping and
phenotyping of such lines 3. genome-wide SNP arrays
- how many SNPs, how to pick them, market size?
A particular emphasis is to identify mechanisms
whereby junior faculty perceive easy and inviting paths
to be part of these projects.
Anyone is invited to speak, very informally, about any
of these topics, with priority for folks with direct ex-
perience and data to show. In order to help organize
things, please email the three of us giving a clue regard-
ing the topics you would like to cover. We will also be
ﬁngering a few people to round things out. We want to
encourage open discussion as well.
Please share this note with other lab members and any-
one else you think might have an interest.
Andy Clark Chip Aquadro Chuck Langley
ac347@cornell.edu ac347@cornell.eduApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 115
Singapore ComputationalBiol
Aug10-16
Dear Colleagues,
We are pleased to inform you about the upcoming work-
shop:
“Computational biology: From genomes to cells & sys-
tems”
in Singapore sponsored by the EMBO World Practical
Course program.
The 7-day workshop (August 10-16th 2008) introduces
advanced methods and applications in computational
biology ranging from molecules to cellular systems.
Participation is restricted to 20 graduate students and
postdocs, who will work on biological problems that
could even lead to scientiﬁc discoveries made during the
course. For all participants, fellowships will be made
available covering housing, subsistence and registration.
No funding are available for travel costs.
Further information and registration:
at http://cwp.embo.org/wpc08-08 Email:
genomes2ecosystems@googlegroups.com
Yours
francesca ciccarelli, for the organizers*
* Organizing Committee of the EMBO Workshop on
Computational biology: “From genomes to cells &
systems” Singapore, Temasek LifeSciences Laboratory,
August 10-16, 2008:
Dr. Peer Bork, EMBL Heidelberg , Germany Dr. Frank
Eisenhaber, Temasek Life Sciences Laboratory, Singa-
pore (Local Organizer) Dr. Francesca D. Ciccarelli,
EIO Milan, Italy Dr. Jan Korbel, Yale University,
New Haven, CT USA Dr. Roland Krause, Max-Planck-
Institute Berlin, Germany
– Francesca D. Ciccarelli, PhD Biocomputing IFOM-
IEO-Campus Via Adamello, 16 20139 Milan, Italy tel
+39-02574303-053 fax +39-02 94375990 web: http://-
ciccarelli.group.ifom-ieo-campus.it/fcwiki/UMassAmherst ComparativeBiol
May31-Jun7
3-Dimensional Model Building for Finite Element Anal-
ysis: A Workshop for Comparative Biologists
Date: May 31st - June 7th, 2008 Location: University
of Massachusetts, Amherst Cost: $800 USD (students),
$1,050 (non-students)
Finite element analysis (FEA) is a technique that uses
3-dimensional computer models to analyze and predict
how structures will behave under physical stresses and
loads. For biologists the method holds great promise for
the analysis of systems such as skeletal bone, arthropod
exoskeleton, or any other system in which behavior un-
der load is of interest. One factor that has limited the
use of FEA for biological research is the overwhelming
shape complexity of most biological structures; the ca-
pabilities of computers and software have often proven
unequal to the task of performing these analyses. Re-
cently, new software and advances in computing power
have greatly improved our ability to perform FEA on
biological systems. This workshop will introduce atten-
dees to the methods and software that have allowed us
to do this, and ideally will allow them to build and an-
alyze their own model from a stack of CT slice images.
You can see the results of last year’s workshop at this
link: FEA workshop 2007 <http://www.biomesh.org/-
workshop07 report.phtml >.
Attendees will learn to use VGStudioMax 1.2, Geo-
magic Studio 10.0, and the Strand7 FEA package to
build, simplify, and analyze a 3-D model of their data,
all in the space of a week! Workshop cost includes
dorm-room lodging and most meals. Space is limited.
Contacts: Betsy Dumont - bdumont@bio.umass.edu
Ian Grosse - grosse@ecs.umass.edu
Learn more about FEA in Biology at:
www.biomesh.org – Dr. Elizabeth (Betsy) Du-
mont Associate Professor Department of Biology -
UMass Amherst 221 Morrill Science Center Amherst,
MA 01003
Phone: 413 545-3565 Fax: 413 545-3243 Website:
www.biomesh.org116 EvolDir April 1, 2008
UMuenster EvoluitonaryBiol
Summer
Dear EvolDir members
please feel free to distribute this information among
Master students and early PhD students that you might
think maybe interested. Thanks a lot!
Ignacio G. Bravo
The school The Bernhard-Rensch Summer School
on Evolutionary Biology is organised by the Insti-
tute of Evolution and Biodiversity ( http:// www.uni-
muenster.de/Evolution/) of the University Muenster
(http:// www.uni-muenster.de/de/index.html ), and
sponsored by the Volkswagen Foundation ( http://-
www.volkswagen-stiftung.de/ ).
The aim The interest of the Bernhard-Rensch Sum-
mer School is Evolutionary Biology, in an open and
broad sense. Interaction between students from diﬀer-
ent ﬁelds/orientations is explicitly wanted and encour-
aged.
The topic The speciﬁc topic this year will be phylo-
genetic reconstruction and deep phylogenetic relation-
ships. Students working in a related topic will be in-
vited to present their research in a short talk.
Evolution and the philosophy of biology The Summer
School also wants to be a meeting point for students
interested in the philosophy of science. Since evolution
is the integrative framework for biology as a science,
we could say that evolution is the philosophy of biol-
ogy. We will discuss and share views on the structure of
science and scientiﬁc theories, the paradigms of evolu-
tion and the position of evolutionary theory in present
times.
The work during the summer school Each student
should bring the own laptop. Tasks will include train-
ing in interdisciplinary components, improving trans-
ferable skills (writing, presenting, planning projects),
team-work, working with scientiﬁc literature, develop-
ing a concept of philosophy of science.
The place The Summer School will take
place at the marine biological station in
Carolinensiel ( http://www.uni-muenster.de/-
Biologie.Zoophysiologie/ Station/), located in the
Wadden Sea National Park in Lower Saxony ( http:/-
/www.nationalpark-wattenmeer.niedersachsen.de/-master/ C5912120 L20D0.html). Carolinensiel is not
too easy to reach by public transportation. We will
try to arrange a bus or to pick you up at Wittmund
(details to be speciﬁed later on with the participants).
The timing From June 30th (Monday) to July 11th (Fri-
day). Arriving date June 29th (Sunday) and leaving
date July 12th (Saturday).
The faculty Herve Philippe (Montreal) Olaf Bininda-
Emonds (Oldenburg) Walter Salzburger (Basel)
Thorsten Reusch (Muenster) Erich Bornberg-Bauer
(Muenster) Joachim Kurtz (Muenster) Ignacio G.
Bravo (Muenster, Summer School coordinator)
The costs There will be a fee of approximately 200
euros per person, including accommodation and food.
Travel expenses are not covered. Exact price will de-
pend on the ﬁnal number of participants, but will not
diﬀer much. Price will be paid in advance. Details will
be later on speciﬁed with the participants.
The students The summer school is open for students
from the MSc in Biologie at the University Muenster
as a Masters Module. Master students and early PhD
students from anywhere else are welcome to apply (ﬁnal
number of students around 22).
The application Deadline is April 30th. Please send
an email including a short description of your scientiﬁc
career and interests to igbravo (removeallexceptat)uni-
muenster.de. Please include all the relevant informa-
tion in the body of the email. Do not include attach-
ments. Shortlisted students will be contacted by May
15th. Deﬁnitive participation will be subject to pay-
ment of course fees.
Ignacio Gonz´ alez Bravo
Experimental Molecular Evolution Institute for Evolu-
tion and Biodiversity Westfaelische Wilhems University
Muenster H¨ uﬀerstrasse 1 48149 M¨ unster Germany
phone +49 251 83 21637 +49 251 83 21027 (Secretary
Ms Hitziger) fax +49 251 83 24668
email address: igbravo removeallexceptat uni-
muenster.de
http://www.uni-muenster.de/evolution/expmolevol/
igbravo@uni-muenster.de igbravo@uni-muenster.de
UVirginia EvolBiology Summer2008
ANNOUNCING: MLBS Summer 2008 Field CourseApril 1, 2008 EvolDir 117
Opportunities Mountain Lake Biological Station
MLBS.org
Dear Colleagues, Students, and Friends,
Mountain Lake Biological Station (University of Vir-
ginia) is pleased to announce its 13-week summer pro-
gram of ﬁeld-based undergraduate and graduate-level
credit courses and workshops oﬀered by nationally re-
cruited faculty. Learn more about the programs, com-
plete an on-line applications, or download a ﬂier to post:
Course web page - http ://mlbs.org/courses.html
Flier to Post -
http://mlbs.org/download/MLBS Poster.pdf Please
forward this information to colleagues or students
you think might be interested. Thanks for your
help! Best wishes, Butch Brodie, Director Eric Nagy,
Associate Director **** Learn all about Mountain
Lake opportunities at MLBS.org ****
Eric S. Nagy, Ph.D. Associate Director, Mountain Lake
Biological Station Research Assistant Professor, De-
partment of Biology University of Virginia / P.O. Box
400327 Charlottesville, VA 22904-4327 USA street ad-
dress: 485 McCormick Road / 219 Gilmer Hall tel: +1-
434-243-4989 (+1-540-626-5227 summer) fax: +1-434-
982-5626 (+1-540-626-5229 summer) cel: +1-434-906-
3122 eml: enagy@virginia.edu
skype: ﬂightofthesandor web: fac-
ulty.virginia.edu/nagy
MLBS web page: mlbs.org
enagy@virginia.edu
Venezuela AntEvolution Aug9-19
ANT COURSE 2008
ANT COURSE 2008, August 9- 19, Estacion Biolog-
ica Alberto Fernandez Yepez, Rancho Grande, Parque
Nacional Henri Pittier, Aragua, Venezuela
In 2008 the courses focuses on the Ants of South Amer-
ica. English and Spanish are the oﬃcial languages.
DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION: April 1, 2008
http://www.antweb.org COURSE OBJECTIVES.
ANT COURSE is designed for systematists, ecologists,
behaviorists, conservation biologists, and other biolo-
gists whose research responsibilities require a greater
understanding of ant taxonomy. Emphasis is on theclassiﬁcation and identiﬁcation of more than 115 ant
genera of South America. Lectures will include back-
ground information on the ecology, life histories and
evolution of ants. The course also addresses the con-
servation of ants and their role as bioindicators and
their importance in agroecoystems such as coﬀee and
cocoa. Field trips are structured to teach collecting and
sampling techniques, and associated lab work provides
instruction on specimen preparation, sorting and label-
ing. Information on equipment, literature, and myrme-
cological contacts are also presented.
COURSE SIGNIFICANCE. Ant Course is a unique op-
portunity to acquire training that is unavailable else-
where. This course will provide students with 1) the
conﬁdence and skills to identify the major ant genera
of South America; 2) an understanding of modern spec-
imen processing and curation techniques; 3) an appre-
ciation for the diversity of ants and their role in ecosys-
tems, and 4) experience keying to the species level.
SPONSORS. California Academy of Sciences, Museum
of Comparative Zoology, with funding in part from Na-
tional Science Foundation.
BACKGROUND INFORMATION. ANT COURSE
will be taught from August 9 19, 2008 at the Estacion
Biologica Alberto Fernandez Yepez, Rancho Grande,
Parque Nacional Henri Pittier, Aragua, Venezuela. The
Station is centered amid one of the richest ant faunas
in South America. This course is oﬀered annually, and
in 2008 the focus is on South American ants.
PARTICIPANT ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA. ANT
COURSE is open to all interested individuals. Priority
will be given to those students for whom the course will
have a signiﬁcant impact on their research with ants.
An entomological background is not required. We aim
to include students with a diverse interest in biology,
including ant systematics, ecology, behavioral biology
and conservation. The high instructor to student ra-
tio will allow students to receive individual attention.
ANT COURSE 2008 will be presented in English as
well as Spanish and is limited to 30 participants.
COSTS. Tuition for the 10-day COURSE is $325 for
current students and $675 for non-students. In addi-
tion Rancho Grande Station fees for this period, cover-
ing dormitory room and board, are estimated at $240.
Transportation costs between home and Maracay or the
nearby airports of Valencia or Maiquetia are to be borne
by all participants.
FELLOWSHIPS. Four fellowships are available for
2008. Two fellowships cover tuition fees and two fel-
lowships cover station fees. Students may apply for
additional fellowships to assist in travel. Those inter-118 EvolDir April 1, 2008
ested in attending the course should seek all possible
avenues to secure funding for the course. You should
only apply for the Ant Course fellowship if you can not
ﬁnd other support and it is essential for your partici-
pation in the course. Beware that if you apply for an
ant course fellowship it implies that fellowship funding
is essential to your participation in the course. Thus,
if you are not selected for a fellowship, you might not
be accepted into the course. Please notify the course if
your funding request status changes before the applica-
tion due date.
COURSE APPLICATION. Find an application form in
pdf or doc format posted on http://www.antweb.org .
Send the COMPLETE application with subject line
Ant Course application to bﬁsher@calacademy.org.
IMPORTANT DATES: Aug. 8 For those arriving to
Maiquetia airport. Aug. 9 Travel to Rancho Grande
ﬁeld station Aug. 19 Graduation and farewell party
Aug. 20 Departure at 8 am to airports (Maiquetia and
Valencia)2008 INSTRUCTORS (tentative): Brian Fisher
(Coordinator), Dept. of Entomology, California
Academy of Sciences, San Francisco, CA, USA,
bﬁsher@calacademy.org John Lattke (Coordinator),
Museo Inst.Zoolog´ ıa Agr´ ıcola, Universidad Central
de Venezuela, Apartado 4579, Maracay 2101-A,
VENEZUELA, piquihuye@fastmail.fm
Inge Ambrecht, Departamento de Biologia, Universi-
dad del Valle, Apartado Aereo 25360, Cali, Colom-
bia Leeanne Alonso, Rapid Assessment Program, Con-
servation International, Washington, DC, USA Beto
Brandao, Museu de Zoologia da Universidade de Sao
Paulo, Av. Nazare 481, Sao Paulo SP, BRASIL 04263-
000 Fabiana Cuezzo, Instituto Superior de Entomolog´ ıa
(INSUE), Facultad de
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here — Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from ‘blackballed’ addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned oﬀ and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf ﬁle.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
‘on vacation’, etc, style messages are automatically ﬁltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail’s your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word ﬁles, as HTML ﬁles, as L ATEX ﬁles, Excel ﬁles, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
“Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:” and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and ﬁlters. If the message is caught by one of the
ﬁlters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.April 1, 2008 EvolDir 119
Afterward
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.