E v o l D i r
November 1, 2009
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same ﬁeld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be “bulletin board” in nature, if there is a “discussion” style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1172 EvolDir November 1, 2009
Conferences
Amsterdam DiseaseEvolution Nov3-5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Aspen PopulationsEvolutionAndPhysics Jan3-9 . . . . . 2
Dahlonega Georgia SEPEEG Oct16-18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
GeorgiaTech Bioinformatics Nov12-14 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
GeorgiaTech GenomeBiologyBioinformatics Nov12-14
4
Ghent Belgium AlgalGenomics Apr7-9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Hinxton CelegansEvolution Jun5-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
KansasCity Genomics Nov13-15 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
KansasCity Genomics Nov13-15 CallAbstracts . . . . . . 7
Lyon SMBE Jul4-8 CallSymposia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Marseilles 14thEvolutionaryBiol Sep21-24 . . . . . . . . . . 8
MexicoCity BarcodeOfLife Nov7-12 CorrectedDates 9
MexicoCity BarcodeOfLife Nov7-12 LastDay . . . . . . 10
Montpellier Evolution of dispersal Jun13-18 . . . . . . . 10NHM London AncientDNAandEvolution Oct14 . . . 11
QueenMaryU DarwinianRenaissance Nov13 . . . . . . . 11
QueenMaryU LanguageEvolution Feb26 . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Trondheim SustainableConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
UCaliforniaBerkeley WesternEvolBiol Dec5 . . . . . . . . 13
UCaliforniaIrvine DarwinColloquium Dec10-12 . . . . 13
UEdinburgh PathogenEvolution Dec8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
ULausanne EvolutionMedicine Nov5-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
ULeuven DaphniaGenomics Mar26-30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
ULiverpool PopulationGenetics Jan5-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
UMichigan ExperimentalEvol Apr17 Call for nomina-
tions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Uruguay VertebrateEvolution Jul26-31 . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Amsterdam DiseaseEvolution
Nov3-5
Dear Colleague,
I thought the following event would be of interest to
you: 10th International Conference on Molecular Epi-
demiology and Evolutionary Genetics of Infectious Dis-
eases (MEEGID X). It will take place in Amsterdam,
November, 3-5, 2010. The organizers are currently call-
ing for abstracts for poster presentations with an ab-
stract deadline of June 4, 2010. Selected submissions
may be oﬀered an oral presentation slot. For further in-
formation see http://www.meegidconference.com Best
regards,
Michel Tibayrenc, MD, PhD Editor -in-chief In-
fection, Genetics and Evolution (Elsevier) http://-
www.elsevier.com/locate/meegid Oﬃcial 2008 Impact
Factor: 2.792 Laboratory of Genetics and Evo-
lution of Infectious Diseases (GEMI) IRD Center
BP 64501 34394 Montpellier Cedex 5 France E-
mail : Michel.Tibayrenc@ird.fr Website : http://-
gemi.mpl.ird.fr Michel.Tibayrenc@ird.frAspen
PopulationsEvolutionAndPhysics
Jan3-9
Dear Colleague,
We are organizing a conference on the topic of
Populations, Evolution, and Physics
at the Aspen Center for Physics, to be held January
3-9, 2010.
The aim of the conference is to bring together exper-
imental biologists, population geneticists, and physi-
cists, to discuss research on the dynamics of evolving
populations. We hope that the combination of excit-
ing science, diverse approaches, and Colorado skiing
will lead to new scientiﬁc insights, and a rewarding ex-
change of ideas.
Speakers (partial list):
Tim Cooper (University of Houston) Michael Desai
(Harvard University) Maitreya Dunham (University ofNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 3
Washington) Daniel Fisher (Stanford University) Philip
Gerrish (University of New Mexico) Alexander Gros-
berg (New York University) Calin G¨ uet (Harvard Uni-
versity & IST Austria) Eugene Koonin (NCBI) Christo-
pher Marx (Harvard University) Alan Moses (Univer-
sity of Toronto) Richard Neher (UC Santa Barbara)
David Nelson (Harvard University) Luca Peliti (Univer-
sit` a di Napoli “Federico II”) Estelle Pitard (Universit´ e
Montpellier) Eugene Shakhnovich (Harvard University)
Daniel Weinreich (Brown University)
Organizers:
Edo Kussell (New York University) Michael L¨ assig
(University of Cologne) Mark Siegal (New York Uni-
versity)
Several conference talks will be invited from submitted
abstracts. Applications to attend are now being ac-
cepted, through October 31st, at www.aspenphys.org
We encourage you to share this information with your
students, post- docs, and colleagues.
mark.siegal@nyu.edu mark.siegal@nyu.edu
Dahlonega Georgia SEPEEG
Oct16-18
Subject: 2009 SEPEEG Conference in Dahlonega, GA
- three days to register!
Text: The 2009 SouthEastern Population Ecol-
ogy and Evolutionary Genetics (SEPEEG) meet-
ing will take place October 16th - 18th at the
beautiful Wahsega 4H Center near Dahlonega,
GA ( http://www.georgia4h.org/public/ facili-
ties/wahsega/default.htm). Mark your calendars!
Keeping with the tradition of SEPEEG, the 2009
meeting will be informal and accommodations will be
on the rustic side. Talk and poster submissions are
encouraged from undergrads, grad students, post-docs,
and faculty. The keynote speaker will be Les Real from
the Emory University.
Early registration is now open through October
2nd on our oﬃcial conference website: http://-
www.sepeeg.com/, and the low registration fee of $130
can be paid using PayPal.
The meeting organizers are Nicole Gerardo and Todd
Schlenke, and the Emory University PBEE Pro-
gram. Please contact any of us with questions at
sepeeg2009@gmail.com. We hope to see you there!Todd
Todd Schlenke Department of Biology Emory Univer-
sity Atlanta, GA 30322 phone: 404-727-0817 fax: 404-
727-2880
Todd Schlenke <tschlen@emory.edu >
GeorgiaTech Bioinformatics
Nov12-14 2
Call for Paper Abstracts is extened
Dear Colleagues
The 7th Georgia Tech - ORNL Conference on Bioinfor-
matics - In silico Biology: Genome Biology and Bioin-
formatics will be held in Atlanta, Georgia, November
12-14, 2009 http://www2.isye.gatech.edu/binf2009/
Georgia Tech continues the tradition of organizing bien-
nial International Conference on Bioinformatics, bring-
ing together leading researchers in genomics, bioinfor-
matics and genome biology to present recent advances
in the ﬁeld and to discuss open problems.
Important Dates
Deadline for poster abstract subsmission: October 11,
2009 Notiﬁcation of acceptance of abstracts: October
20, 2009 Deadline for early registration: October 23,
2009
We invite papers submissions in the following areas *
genomics * transcriptomics * proteomics * reconstruc-
tion and modeling of gene networks * evolutionary bi-
ology
SPEAKERS
Margaret O. Dayhoﬀ lecture:
David Lipman, NCBI/NIH, Bethesda, MD, USA
Plenary Speakers:
Vineet Bafna, University of California at San Diego,
USA Gill Bejerano, Stanford University, Stanford, CA,
USA Jeﬀrey Bennetzen, University of Georgia, Athens,
GA, USA Mark Borodovsky, Georgia Tech and Emory
University, Atlanta, GA, USA Nick Grishin, University
of Texas, Dallas, TX, USA Curtis Huttenhower, Har-
vard University, Boston, MA, USA King Jordan, Geor-
gia Tech, Atlanta, GA, USA Igor Jouline (Zhulin), Uni-
versity of Tennessee - ORNL, Oak Ridge, TN, USA Eu-
gene Koonin, NCBI/NIH, Bethesda, MD, USA Nikos
Kyrpides, DOE Joint Genome Institute, Walnut Creek,4 EvolDir November 1, 2009
CA, USA Boris Lenhard, University of Bergen, Nor-
way Jian Ma, University of Illinois at Urbana Cham-
paign, Urbana, IL, USA Yael Mandel-Gutfreund, Tech-
nion, Israel Insitute of Technology, Haifa, Israel Joanna
Masel, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA Andrey
Mironov, Moscow State University, Russia Andrei Os-
terman, Burnham Institute for Medical Research, La
Jolla, CA USA Karen Nelson, J. Craig Venter Insti-
tute, Rockville, MD, USA Natasa Przulj, Imperial Col-
lege London, UK John Reinitz, State Uiversity of New
York at Stony Brook, NY, USA Pierre Rouze, Gent
University, Gent, Belgium
CONFERENCE CHAIRS Mark Borodovsky, Georgia
Tech and Emory University Eva K. Lee, Georgia Tech
and Emory University
PROGRAM COMMITTEE Nicholas Bergman, Geor-
gia Tech Dmitrij Frishman, Technische Universitaet
Muenchen, Germany Andrey Gorin, Oak Ridge Na-
tional Laboratory Andrzej M. Kierzek, University of
Surrey, UK. Eileen Kraemer, University of Georgia Jun
Liu, Harvard University Hannah Margalit, Hebrew Uni-
versity Andrey Rzhetsky, University of Chicago An-
dre Rogatko, Samuel Oschin Comprehensive Cancer
Institute Gary Stormo, Washington University Lance
Waller, Emory University Ying Xu, University of Geor-
gia and Oak Ridge National Laboratory Soojin Yi,
Georgia Tech Igor Zhulin, Oak Ridge National Labo-
ratory and University of Tennessee
ADMINISTRATION Harry Sharp, Georgia Tech
CONFERENCE LOCATION
The Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts.
Georgia Tech Conference Announcement
<conf@topaz.gatech.edu >
GeorgiaTech
GenomeBiologyBioinformatics
Nov12-14
Dear Colleagues,
The 7th Georgia Tech - ORNL Conference - “Genome
Biology and Bioinformatics” to be held on Novem-
ber 12-14, 2009 is now less than a month away:
http://www2.isye.gatech.edu/binf2009/ The program
of the conference features talks of many leading experts
in the ﬁeld http://www2.isye.gatech.edu/binf2009/-
speakers 2009.php Thanks to ﬁnancial support froma larger group of sponsors we are happy to announce
that the registration fee is reduced to:
$20 student/postdoc $50 - academic $100 - industry
Deadline for poster abstract submission is extended to
November 1
We hope to see you soon in the Georgia Tech Ferst
Center for the Arts
Invited Speakers
Margaret O. Dayhoﬀ Lecture David Lipman,
NCBI/NIH, Bethesda, MD, USA Margaret Day-
hoﬀ and Molecular Evolution in the 21st Century
Vineet Bafna, University of California at San Diego,
USA Proteogenomics
Gill Bejerano, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA
Genomics and the Evolution of Human-Speciﬁc Traits
Jeﬀrey Bennetzen, University of Georgia, Athens, GA,
USA The Hyperevolution of Artifacts and Realities in
the Structure and Function of Higher Plant Genomes
Mark Borodovsky, Georgia Tech and Emory University,
Atlanta, GA, USA Gene Finding in the Era of Next
Generation Sequencing
Nick Grishin, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Uni-
versity of Texas, Dallas, TX, USA Evolutionary Clas-
siﬁcation of Protein Structures
Curtis Huttenhower, Harvard University, Boston, MA,
USA Large Scale Genomic Data Mining
King Jordan, Georgia Tech, Atlanta, GA, USA MIR El-
ements Provide Chromatin Boundaries to the Human
Genome
Igor Jouline, University of Tennessee - Oak Ridge Na-
tional Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN, USA Molecular
Evolution of a Complex Signal Transduction System
in Prokaryotes
Eugene Koonin, NCBI/NIH, Bethesda, MD, USA Sys-
tems Biology and the Prospects of a Post-Modern Evo-
lutionary Synthesis
Nikos Kyrpides, DOE Joint Genome Institute, Walnut
Creek, CA, USA The Future of Microbial Genomics
Boris Lenhard, University of Bergen, Norway Long-,
Short- and Mid-Range Gene Regulation: Lessons from
Genome-Wide Patterns of Sequence Conservation and
Transcription Factor Binding
Jian Ma, University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign,
Urbana, IL, USA Unraveling the Ancestral Mammalian
Genome Yields Insights into the Human Genome
Yael Mandel-Gutfreund, Technion, Israel Institute ofNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 5
Technology, Haifa, Israel Deciphering the Role of Alter-
native Splicing in Modulating the Human Gene Regu-
latory Network
Joanna Masel, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA
The Origin of New Coding Sequences
Andrey Mironov, Moscow State University, Russia
Conserved Intronic RNA Secondary Structures
Karen Nelson, J. Craig Venter Institute, Rockville, MD,
USA Studies of The Human Microbiome
Andrei Osterman, Burnham Institute for Medical Re-
search, La Jolla, CA USA Integrated Genomic Re-
construction of Metabolic and Regulatory Networks in
Bacteria
Natasa Przulj, Imperial College London, UK >From
Network Topology to Biological Function and Disease
John Reinitz, State University of New York at Stony
Brook, NY, USA When Two Plus Two Doesn’t Equal
Four: Modeling Non-Modular Enhancer Behavior in
the Eve Promoter
Pierre Rouze, Gent University, Gent, Belgium >From
Protists to Plants, Fungi and Animals: Eukaryote
Genomes Are Not Born Equal
This email was sent to
brian@helix.biology.mcmaster.ca. You can
instantly unsubscribe from these emails
by clicking the link below: http://-
institutebioengineeringbiosciences.createsend5.com/-
t/r/u/hjljv/jltkkljtd/ Megan McDevitt
<mcdevitt@ibb.gatech.edu >
Ghent Belgium AlgalGenomics
Apr7-9
The 3rd /Ectocarpus/ meeting ˆ a ˆ aA decade of algal ge-
nomicsˆ a will be held in Ghent (Belgium), **April 7-9,
2010.
The meeting marks the release of the assembled /Ecto-
carpus/ genome, the ﬁrst genome of a complex multi-
cellular alga and the publication of the accompanying
paper(s). Previous meetings have served as a forum for
researchers working on /Ectocarpus/ or by extension
brown algae and diatoms to present their ongoing re-
search. For the upcoming meeting we are broadening
up the perspective by inviting leading scientists who
have gone through the process of assembling and anno-tating genomes and are now in the phase of using these
data to address speciﬁc research questions.
Sessions will include presentations providing an
overview and update of - organism and cell biology of
algal model organisms - environmental genomics - com-
parative genomics - systematics / phylogenomics
Conﬁrmed speakers include: - Yves Van de Peer - Pierre
Rouz ˜Ac/circlecopyrt- Chris Bowler - Gareth Pearson
More information and a preliminary programme
are available at http://www.phycology.ugent.be/-
ectocarpus/ Opening of the registration is scheduled
for mid-November.
With kind regards,
Olivier De Clerck & Mark Cock
Olivier De Clerck Onderzoeksgroep Algologie, UGent.
Krijgslaan 281, S8, 9000 Gent; Belgium NEW
TEL. -32-9-2648500 // Fax. -32-9-2648599 http://-
www.phycology.ugent.be/
Hinxton CelegansEvolution Jun5-8
Greetings!
In 2010 those working on evolutionary aspects
of Caenorhabditis nematodes, and nematodes more
broadly, will have their own topic meeting. It will hap-
pen at the Sanger Institute’s Genome Campus in Hinx-
ton (near Cambridge), UK, June 5-8.
Abstract submission deadline: Friday, April 2, 2010
Registration will begin on 7 December, 2009, and re-
main open until the meeting. For further details and
links to registration (when available), visit this link:
https://registration.hinxton.wellcome.ac.uk/-
display info.asp?id=171 Please note that only
the ﬁrst 100 or so applicants can be accommodated
at the meeting site (others will stay in Cambridge
proper).
See you Hinxton!
The Organizers:
Eric Haag (University of Maryland, College Park USA)
Avril Coghlan (University College Cork, Ireland) Ralf
Sommer (Max Plank Institute for Developmental Biol-
ogy, Germany)
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ Eric S. Haag, Ph.D. ~Asso-
ciate Professor, Department of Biology ~~ ~ Direc-6 EvolDir November 1, 2009
tor, BEES Concentration Area, BISI Graduate Pro-
gram ~0256 Biology/Psychology Building ~ ~ Uni-
versity of Maryland ~ ~~ ~ College Park, MD 20742
~ ~ ~ ehaag@umd.edu ~ ~ ~ phone: (301) 405-
8534 fax: (301) 314-9358 http://www.life.umd.edu/-
biology/faculty/haag/index.html “I’d rather be here
now.”
Eric Haag <ehaag@umd.edu >
KansasCity Genomics Nov13-15 4
ECOLOGICAL GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM, Kansas
City, 11/13-15/2009
Deadline to Register at Early-Bird Rates: Tuesday,
10/13/09
Deadline to submit Poster Abstract for oral presenta-
tion consideration: Tuesday, 10/13/09
Deadline to reserve hotel room within room block: Fri-
day, 10/23/09
REGISTRATION: After October 13, we will continue
to welcome your registration to attend the 7th Annual
“Genes in Ecology, Ecology in Genes” Symposium at a
slightly higher cost.
POSTER ABSTRACTS: Please note that if you wish to
have your poster abstract considered for an oral presen-
tation, the deadline for submission is Tuesday, October
13. Abstract submission guidelines for submitting your
poster abstract are available at:
www.ecogen.k-state.edu/symp2009 . Poster sessions
will be held on Friday night and Saturday afternoon.
Poster topics should be related to the ﬁeld of Ecolog-
ical Genomics. A limited number of submitted poster
abstracts will be selected for oral presentations.
PLENARY SPEAKER:
Jonathan F. Wendel, Iowa State University, “Genes,
jeans, and genomes: Exploring the mysteries of poly-
ploidy in cotton”
FEATURED SPEAKERS:
+Andres Aguilar, University of California-Merced,
“Genomic diﬀerentiation and adaptive divergence in
rockﬁsh (genus Sebastes)”
+May R. Berenbaum, University of Illinois at Urbana-
Champaign, “Cytochrome P450 genes in plant-insect
interactions: War and peace?”+Jeﬀrey L. Feder, University of Notre Dame, “Sym-
patric speciation in Rhagoletis: Islands of speciation or
genomic continents of divergence?”
+David C. Queller, Rice University, “The selﬁsh gene
at the genetic level: Cooperation and cheating in social
amoebas”
+Matthew Rockman, New York University, “Causes of
heritable variation in C. elegans”
+Erica Bree Rosenblum, University of Idaho, “The ge-
netics of adaptation: Investigating the functional basis
of phenotypic convergence”
+Jay F. Storz, University of Nebraska, “Genetics of
high altitude adaptation in vertebrates”
+Chris Toomajian, Kansas State University,
“Flowering-time genes as genomic targets of selection
in Arabidopsis thaliana”
+Michael J. Wade, Indiana University, “The evolution-
ary genetics of spatially and temporally plastic pheno-
types”
SYMPOSIUM SCHEDULE: The Ecological Genomics
Symposium will convene in the historic Muehle-
bach/Marriott Hotel in downtown Kansas City Friday
evening at 6:00 p.m. and conclude on Sunday at noon.
For a complete schedule, please visit our Symposium
website, http://ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2009 .
DEADLINES:
10/13/09 Registration deadline at early bird rates.
10/13/09 Poster Abstracts are due for oral presentation
consideration.
10/23/09 Hotel Rooms must be reserved to receive re-
duced group rate.
10/31/09 Poster Abstracts are due if NOT being con-
sidered for oral presentation.
SPONSORS:
Kansas State University Targeted Excellence
National Science Foundation
JMP Genomics
INFORMATION will be posted on our website, eco-
gen.ksu.edu/symp2009, as details are ﬁnalized.
We have an outstanding lineup of speakers for the 2009
Symposium and we encourage you to attend! Please
share this announcement with colleagues and students.
If you have questions, please contact us at (785) 532-
3482 or dmerrill@ksu.edu .
Symposium Organizing Committee:November 1, 2009 EvolDir 7
Michael Herman, Co-Chair, Biology
Loretta Johnson, Co-Chair, Biology
Ted Morgan, Biology
Tim Todd, Plant Pathology
Kun Yan Zhu, Entomology
Lindsey Fallis, Graduate Student Rep, Biology
Doris R. Merrill, dmerrill@k-state.edu
Program Coordinator, Kansas State University
ECOLOGICAL GENOMICS INSTITUTE
Kansas State University
Biology, 104 Ackert Hall
Manhattan, KS 66506-4901
(785) 532-3482, <http://www.ecogen.ksu.edu/ >eco-
gen.ksu.edu
Doris Merrill <dmerrill@ksu.edu >
KansasCity Genomics Nov13-15
CallAbstracts
ECOLOGICAL GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM, Kansas
City, November 13 to 15, 2009
www.ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2009
Hotel Room Block Reservation Deadline is Friday, Oc-
tober 23.
Abstract Deadline for posters is Saturday, October 31.
It’s not too late. You can still register to attend and
submit a poster abstract for presentation at the:
7th ANNUAL ECOLOGICAL GENOMICS SYMPO-
SIUM
November 13 to 15, 2009
Kansas City, Downtown Marriott Hotel
www.ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2009
HOTEL RESERVATIONS: The Muehlebach/Marriott
Hotel in downtown Kansas City has reserved a block of
rooms for symposium participants at a discounted rate.
Call 1-800-810-0850 on or before Friday, October 23,
or book online at http://ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2009/-
hotel.html .
POSTER ABSTRACTS: Abstract submission guide-
lines for submitting your poster abstract are availableat:
http://ecogen.ksu.edu/downloads/-
AbstractGuidelines.pdf . Poster sessions will be
held on Friday night and Saturday afternoon. Poster
topics should be related to the ﬁeld of Ecological
Genomics.
PLENARY SPEAKER:
Jonathan F. Wendel, Iowa State University, “Genes,
jeans, and genomes: Exploring the mysteries of poly-
ploidy in cotton”
FEATURED SPEAKERS:
+Andres Aguilar, University of California-Merced,
“Genomic diﬀerentiation and adaptive divergence in
rockﬁsh (genus Sebastes)”
+May R. Berenbaum, University of Illinois at Urbana-
Champaign, “Cytochrome P450 genes in plant-insect
interactions: War and peace?”
+Jeﬀrey L. Feder, University of Notre Dame, “Sym-
patric speciation in Rhagoletis: Islands of speciation or
genomic continents of divergence?”
+David C. Queller, Rice University, “The selﬁsh gene
at the genetic level: Cooperation and cheating in social
amoebas”
+Matthew Rockman, New York University, “Causes of
heritable variation in C. elegans”
+Erica Bree Rosenblum, University of Idaho, “The ge-
netics of adaptation during convergent ecological speci-
ation”
+Jay F. Storz, University of Nebraska, “Genetics of
high-altitude adaptation: Lessons from deer mouse
hemoglobins”
+Chris Toomajian, Kansas State University,
“Flowering-time genes as genomic targets of selection
in Arabidopsis thaliana”
+Michael J. Wade, Indiana University, “The evolution-
ary genetics of spatially and temporally plastic pheno-
types”
SYMPOSIUM SCHEDULE: The Ecological Genomics
Symposium will convene in the historic Muehle-
bach/Marriott Hotel in downtown Kansas City Friday
evening at 6:00 p.m. and conclude on Sunday at noon.
For a complete schedule, please visit our Symposium
website, http://ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2009 .
DEADLINES:
10/23/09 Reserve your Hotel Room to receive reduced
group rate.
10/31/09 Poster Abstracts are due if NOT being con-8 EvolDir November 1, 2009
sidered for oral presentation.
SPONSORS:
Kansas State University Targeted Excellence
National Science Foundation
JMP Genomics
INFORMATION will be posted on our website,
www.ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2009, as details are ﬁnalized.
We have an outstanding lineup of speakers for the 2009
Symposium and we encourage you to attend! Please
share this announcement with colleagues and students.
If you have questions, please contact us at (785) 532-
3482 or dmerrill@ksu.edu.
Symposium Organizing Committee:
Michael Herman, Co-Chair, Biology Loretta Johnson,
Co-Chair, Biology Ted Morgan, Biology Tim Todd,
Plant Pathology Kun Yan Zhu, Entomology Lindsey
Fallis, Graduate Student Rep, Biology
Doris R. Merrill, dmerrill@k-state.edu Program
Coordinator ECOLOGICAL GENOMICS INSTI-
TUTE Kansas State University Biology, 104 Ackert
Hall Manhattan, KS 66506-4901 (785) 532-3482,
www.ecogen.ksu.edu <http://www.ecogen.ksu.edu/
>
dmerrill@ksu.edu dmerrill@ksu.edu
Lyon SMBE Jul4-8 CallSymposia
SMBE 2010 - call for external symposia
The call for external symposia is now open. If
you are interested in organising an external sym-
posium for the SMBE 2010 conference, please e-
mail a proposal before December 18th, 2009 to
smbe2010symposia@biomserv.univ-lyon1.fr
The conference will be held in Lyon, France July 4-8,
2010. See http://smbe2010.univ-lyon1.fr for the latest
information.
The proposal (1 page maximum) must include: Sympo-
sium title Organisers names Names of 2-3 invited speak-
ers Abstract
We suggest you to pick a title making a trade oﬀ be-
tween reminding the latest hot questions and federating
the sub-community that each symposium represents.
Note that one of the organisers can be invited speaker.
State in the proposal whether speakers are conﬁrmedor not. Invited speakers will not pay registration fees
and will be oﬀered the gala dinner. Travel and accomo-
dation expenses may be partly reimbursed depending
on the meeting income. The abstract should be a brief
description of the symposium, including a justiﬁcation
of your invited speakers.
The scientiﬁc committee will select about 14 external
symposia. To avoid redundancy in the scientiﬁc pro-
gram, we will favour those that complement the locally
developed symposia listed below.
With best regards,
On behalf of the SMBE Scientiﬁc Committee,
Gabriel Marais and Manolo Gouy
Local symposia:
Recombination and genome evolution (L. Duret, M.
Webster) Evolutionary genomics of prokaryotes (E.
Rocha, E. Feil) Plant ecological genomics (S. Glemin,
X. Vekemans) Mathematical and computational phylo-
genetics (O. Gascuel, S. Guindon) Integrative phyloge-
nomics: from genes to organisms history (V. Daubin,
B. Boussau) Patterns of gene and genome duplica-
tion in eukaryotic genomes (F. Brunet, M. Semon,
A. McLysaght) Species life-history traits and molec-
ular evolution (N. Galtier, A. Eyre-Walker) Evolu-
tion of molecular networks (M-F. Sagot, V. Lacroix,
B. Teusink) Modular evolution of biological molecules
and systems (D. Kahn, E. Bornberg-Bauer) Genome,
evolution and development (V. Laudet, M. Robinson-
Rechavi) Cooperation and conﬂict: a molecular per-
spective (S. Charlat, F. Jiggins) Phylogeny and evo-
lution of prokaryotes (G. Perriere, C. Brochier) The
impact of transposable elements on genome evolution
(E. Lerat, C. Vieira) Next generation ancient DNA: ge-
nomic clues about the past (C. Hanni, L. Orlando, T.
Gilbert)
http://smbe2010.univ-lyon1.fr mgouy@biomserv.univ-
lyon1.fr mgouy@biomserv.univ-lyon1.fr
Marseilles 14thEvolutionaryBiol
Sep21-24
Dear All,
We are pleased to inform you that the 14th Evolution-
ary Biology Meeting at Marseilles will take place on
21-24 September 2010, Marseilles, France.November 1, 2009 EvolDir 9
The following subjects will be discussed:
- Evolutionary biology concepts and modelisations for
biological annotation; - Biodiversity and Systematics; -
Comparative genomics and post-genomics (at all tax-
onomic levels); - Functional phylogeny; - Environment
and biological evolution; - Origin of Life and exobi-
ology; - Non-adaptative versus adaptative evolution; -
The/lessmuchminor/greatermuchphyla: their usefulness in evolutionary
biology knowledge.
For more information, do not hesitate to go on: http:/-
/sites.univ-provence.fr/evol-cgr Best regards,
Pierre Antoine Pontarotti
Directeur de Recherche CNRS
UMR 6632 Universit´ e de Aix Marseille/CNRS Equipe
Evolution biologique et Mod´ elisation case 19 3 place
Victor Hugo 13331 Marseille Cedex 03 France Tel:
33491106489
we are organizing the 14th Evolutionary Biology
Meeting at Marseilles http://sites.univ-provence.fr/-
evol-cgr/ Egee@univ-provence.fr
MexicoCity BarcodeOfLife Nov7-12
CorrectedDates
Dear Colleagues:
Two important dates were incorrect in the update
newsletter we sent yesterday (highlighted in red below).
Please note that online registration for the barcode con-
ference closes next Friday, 30 OCTOBER, and reserva-
tions for multi-day excursions must be made two weeks
prior to the tour. The deadline for the ﬁrst multi-day
excursion is Friday, 23 OCTOBER.
My apologies for these errors.
[cid:image001.jpg@01CA5265.7815CE70] < http://-
dnabarcodes2009.org/ >
Third International Barcode of Life Conference Up-
dates Newsletter 5 (22 October 2009)
Conference Website: http://dnabarcodes2009.org Reg-
istration Deadline Approaching
Online registration for the Third International Barcode
of Life Conference will close at midnight CST on Friday,
30 October. If you have not registered by then, you will
have to register on-site, either at UNAM during the pre-
conference workshops or at the conference at the Mex-ican Academy of Sciences. Information about on-site
registration will be posted at the conference website. <
http://dnabarcodes2009.org >The conference fee for
onsite registration will be: * US$300 for delegates, *
US$175 for delegates from developing countries, and *
US$100 for students
The registration fee entitles you to: * Admission to all
the pre-conference workshops and conference sessions;
* Lunches and coﬀee breaks during the pre-conference
workshops and conference meetings * Bus transporta-
tion between the two conference hotels and the pre-
conference and conference venues; * Admission to the
opening reception on Monday evening, 9 November
2009; * Admission to the closing banquet on Wednes-
day evening, 11 November 2009; * Bus transportation
to the opening reception and closing banquet with re-
turn to the two conference hotels; and * Copies of the
conference documents.
We need your input!
Have you ever arrived at a workshop or seminar and
found that the organizers picked a room that was too
small, and there was no room for you (or that you had
to stand through the whole thing)? We want to be sure
that this doesn’t happen to any of you at the barcode
conference.
Please take a few minutes to com-
plete an online survey <http://www.surve-
ymonkey.com/s.aspx?sm=SH 2fe00BQpYhMD 2bQ2 2f88qFw 3d3d>
that will help us make sure that everyone will have
room in the sessions they want to attend. It’s also a
great way to organize your plan for participating in the
conference! You’ll be asked to look through the agenda
for the pre- conference workshops and the afternoon
technical sessions during the conference, and mark the
ones you plan to attend.
Thanks in advance for helping us make sure that there
will be room for you in the sessions you want to attend.
Sign up for Tours
The conference organizers have assembled informa-
tion on half- and full- day tours in and around
Mexico City, and multi-day excursions in Mexico
(see Tour Information <http://dnabarcodes2009.org/-
sidetours.html >). If you are interested in one of the
multi-day excursions, you must sign up two weeks in
advance!
The ﬁrst of these tours begins on Friday, 6 November
so you must sign up by Friday, 23 OCTOBER. Don’t
miss these opportunities to see some of Mexico beyond
the hotel and conference venues!
[cid:image002.jpg@01CA5265.7815CE70]10 EvolDir November 1, 2009
The opening reception will be housed at the beautiful
Ex Hacienda de Tlalpan. Be sure to keep an eye out
for their exotic white peacocks.
Opening Reception
The oﬃcial start of the Third International Barcode
of Life Conference will be an opening reception on
Monday, 9 November 2009 at 7:30pm. Buses will
take conference registrants from the pre-conference
workshops at UNAM and from the two conference
hotels to the Ex Hacienda de Tlalpan <http://-
www.antiguahaciendatlalpan.com.mx/Ingles.aspx >, a
historic country estate on the southern outskirts of
Mexico City. Bus schedules will be posted on the con-
ference website <http://dnabarcodes2009.org >and in
the Conference Program which will be released online
on 2 November 2009.
Conference Website: http://dnabarcodes2009.org
schindeld@si.edu
MexicoCity BarcodeOfLife Nov7-12
LastDay
Last Day for Conference Registration
The online system for advance registration ( https:/-
/secure37.softcomca.com/servimed com mx/bol09/-
registration.htm ) to the Third International Barcode
of Life Conference ( www.dnabarcodes2009.org ) will
close at midnight CST on Friday, 30 October 2009.
After that, people wishing to attend the conference
will have to register on-site. The conference fee for
onsite registration will be:
* US$300 for delegates, * US$175 for delegates from
developing countries, and * US$100 for students
The registration fee entitles you to:
* Admission to all the pre-conference workshops and
conference sessions; * Lunches and coﬀee breaks during
the pre-conference workshops and conference meetings
* Bus transportation between the two conference hotels
and the pre-conference and conference venues; * Ad-
mission to the opening reception on Monday evening, 9
November 2009; * Admission to the closing banquet on
Wednesday evening, 11 November 2009; * Bus trans-
portation to the opening reception and closing banquet
with return to the two conference hotels; and * Copies
of the conference documents.
Final Travel InformationAll conference registrants will be receiving an informa-
tion packet by e-mail during the week of 2-6 November.
This will include information on how to get from the
airport to the hotel and from the hotel to the meeting
venues. This information will also be posted on the
conference website ( www.dnabarcodes2009.org ).
Accompanying Persons
Registrants are welcome to bring traveling compan-
ions to the conference’s opening reception (Monday
evening, 9 November) and closing banquet (Wednesday
evening, 11 November) for a fee of US$100. Tickets
can be purchased at the registration desk during the
pre-conference workshops and the conference.
David E. Schindel, Executive Secretary
Consortium for the Barcode of Life 202/633-
0812; fax 202/633-2938; portable 202/557-1149
Email: SchindelD@si.edu CBOL WEBSITE: http://-
www.barcoding.si.edu
Oﬃce and overnight delivery address:
National Museum of Natural History Room CE-119
10th & Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, DC
20560
Postal mailing address:
National Museum of Natural History Smithsonian In-
stitution P.O. Box 37012, MRC-105 Washington, DC
20013-7012
“Schindel, David” <schindeld@si.edu >
Montpellier Evolution of dispersal
Jun13-18
Dear all,
The FSD2010 meeting will take place from the 13th to
the 18th of June 2010 at the Congress Center, Corum in
Montpellier, France ( http://www.fsd2010.org ). This is
the 5th International Symposium / Workshop on seed
dispersal after those held in Mexico (1985-1990), Brazil
(2000) and Australia (2005). It is therefore a major sci-
entiﬁc event regarding the role and the importance of
seed dispersal by animals or other modes of abiotic dis-
semination on biodiversity and ecosystem functioning.
The aim of this scientiﬁc event is to facilitate inter-
actions and discussions between ecologists around the
world interested in seed dispersal at large.
We propose a symposium entitled “Evolution of dis-November 1, 2009 EvolDir 11
persal”. Dispersal is a ubiquitous trait in living organ-
isms. In plants, adaptations to dispersal are highly di-
versiﬁed, from passive dispersal of seeds to active seed
dispersal involving highly complex chemical or visual
signals designed to attract dispersing agents. Despite
the great diversity of adaptations, only a few selection
pressures favor the evolution of dispersal. The cost of
dispersal structures or the increased mortality risk that
organisms face during the dispersal phase select against
dispersal. In contrast, competition between relatives or
temporal variability of the environment generally fa-
vors dispersal. Since the recent development of tools
in population biology (molecular markers, methods for
analyzing demographic data, etc), it is now possible to
better characterize the features of dispersal and to infer
the drivers of its evolution. Variations in selective pres-
sures arising from global changes, such as habitat frag-
mentation or the spread of a new species in a new geo-
graphic area provide exciting opportunities for studying
the evolution of dispersal in a context where ecological
and evolutionary drivers are more easily identiﬁed. Our
symposium aims at presenting the state of the art in
this topic in order to discuss emergent research themes
based on both theoretical and experimental studies.
Further information is available at http://-
www.fsd2010.org and by contacting the organizers
(Pierre-Olivier Cheptou (CNRS-CEFE) : pierre-
olivier.cheptou@cefe.cnrs.fr, H´ el` ene Fr´ eville (MNHN,
CNRS-CEFE) : helene.freville@cefe.cnrs.fr, Isabelle
Olivieri (ISEM) : Isabelle.Olivieri@univ-montp2.fr)
The organizers, Pierre-Olivier Cheptou, H´ el` ene
Fr´ eville, Isabelle Olivieri
freville@mnhn.fr
NHM London
AncientDNAandEvolution Oct14
CEE Symposium
Ancient DNA and Evolution
14 October 2009 10:30am - 5:30pm Venue: Flett Lec-
ture Theatre, Natural History Museum, London
Organisers: Ian Barnes (RHUL) & Adrian Lister
(NHM)
All welcome. No booking required
For further information, email ian.barnes@rhul.ac.uk
Symposium poster Abstracts How to get to the FlettTheatre
Invited speakers
Robin Allaby (University of Warwick) Cia Anderung
(Natural History Museum, London) Mim Bower (Uni-
versity of Cambridge) Matthew Collins (University of
York) Love Dal´ en (Naturhistoriska riksmuseet, Stock-
holm) Tom Gilbert (Statens Naturhistoriskemuseum,
Copenhagen) Michael Hofreiter (University of York)
Greger Larsen (University of Durham) Adam Powell
(University College London)
Programme details and talk abstracts to follow.
Sponsored by the CEE, the Natural History Museum
and Synthesys
Last updated on 30 September 2009
Dr Amber Teacher School of Biological Sci-
ences Royal Holloway, University of London
Egham, TW20 0EX Tel: +44 (0)1784 443769
Email: amber.teacher@rhul.ac.uk Web: http:/-
/personal.rhul.ac.uk/utba/323 Amber Teacher
<amber.teacher@rhul.ac.uk >
QueenMaryU DarwinianRenaissance
Nov13
Please ﬁnd below details of a one-day symposium ti-
tled “The Darwinian Renaissance in the Humanities
and Social Sciences”, which will be held at Queen Mary
University of London on Friday 13th November 2009
(9.30am - 5pm followed by wine reception).
Speakers and talk titles: Alex Bentley (University of
Durham): “Social inﬂuence and drift in collective be-
haviour”
Mhairi Gibson (University of Bristol): “Applying Dar-
win to contemporary world issues”
Dominic Johnson (University of Edinburgh): “Dar-
winian Security: Evolutionary Lessons for the 21st Cen-
tury”
Stephen Lycett (University of Kent at Canterbury):
“Most beautiful and most wonderful”: those endless
stone tool forms
Alex Mesoudi (Queen Mary University of London):
“Towards a uniﬁed science of cultural evolution”
Daniel Nettle (Newcastle University): “Darwin, Tin-
bergen and behavioural science: The enduring value of12 EvolDir November 1, 2009
the evolutionary perspective”
Ian Penton-Voak (University of Bristol): TBA
Rebecca Sear (London School of Economics and Po-
litical Science): “Darwin and Malthus reunited: the
growth of biological thought in demography”
We would be grateful if you could forward these details
to potentially interested colleagues/postgraduates.
https://eshop.qmul.ac.uk/events/-
eventdetails.asp?eventidS The website is available for
registration (special reduced rates for EHBEA and
Galton Institute members).
Please book soon as the symposium is limited to 100
participants.
Best regards,
Qazi Rahman
Tom Dickins
Dr Qazi Rahman, Lecturer [Assistant Professor] in
Cognitive Biology, Director of Psychology Programmes
(Natural Sciences),
Biological & Experimental Psychology Group, School
of Biological and Chemical Sciences, Queen Mary Uni-
versity of London, Mile End Road, London E1 4NS.
United Kingdom.
Alan McElligott <amcellig1@yahoo.ie >
QueenMaryU LanguageEvolution
Feb26
Symposium “Integrating Genetic and Cultural Ap-
proaches to Language” at Queen Mary University of
London. Date: Friday, 26th February 2010
Description: This symposium will ask how the diverse
and complex languages of today evolved from a non-
linguistic ancestral state, encompassing both genetic
evolution (of the language faculty) and cultural evolu-
tion (of languages themselves). Topics to be addressed
include comparative studies of vocal communication in
birds, ungulates and primates, the genetic and neuro-
biological basis of human speech and language, cogni-
tive inﬂuences on language evolution, and phylogenetic
analyses of language history.
http://sites.google.com/site/cee2010symposium/ The
website is now online for registration and/or poster ab-
stract submission and/or hotel accomodation bookingin nearby Stratford (special reduced rate).
The symposium has generated a lot of interest so we
strongly advise early booking - the symposium is lim-
ited to 100 participants.
Best regards,
Alan McElligott Alex Mesoudi
School of Biological and Chemical Sciences Queen Mary
University of London
CEE 2010 Symposium - Integrating Genetic and Cul-
tural Approaches to Language
Date: Friday, 26th February 2010 (9am-5pm)
Location: The Octagon, Queen Mary University of
London
Speakers and talk titles:
Tecumseh Fitch, University of Vienna - Language Evo-
lution: Testing the Hypotheses with Comparative and
Genetic Data
Simon Fisher, University of Oxford - Molecular win-
dows into speech and language
Chris Petkov, University of Newcastle - Communica-
tion and the primate brain: Insights from comparing
the neuroimaging evidence in humans, chimpanzees and
macaques
Gabriel Beckers, Max Planck Institute for Ornithology
- Mechanisms of bird vocal production, perception and
learning: a comparison to speech and language.
Katie Slocombe, University of York - Primate vocal
communication: links to human language?
Mark Pagel, Reading University - Language as a Cul-
turally Transmitted Replicator
Kenny Smith, Northumbria University - Language evo-
lution in the lab
Fiona Jordan, Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguis-
tics - Kinship terminology and the evolution of semantic
systems
Nick Chater, University College London - Cultural Evo-
lution and Language Acquisition
Dan Dediu, Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics
- Are languages really independent from genes? If not,
what would a genetic bias aﬀecting language diversity
look like?
http://sites.google.com/site/cee2010symposium/
Symposium support: The Centre for Ecology and
Evolution The Galton Institute The Genetics Society
School of Biological and Chemical Sciences, QMUL
Department of Linguistics, QMULNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 13
Send instant messages to your online friends
http://uk.messenger.yahoo.com Alan McElligott
<amcellig1@yahoo.ie >
Trondheim SustainableConservation
The conference Sustainable Conservation: Bridging the
gap between disciplines is arranged by Centre for Con-
servation Biology (CCB) at the Norwegian University
for Science and Technology (NTNU) and is part of the
250th Anniversary of the Royal Norwegian Society of
Sciences and Letters.
The aim of the conference will be to present and dis-
cuss the scientiﬁc basis for a sustainable conservation
of natural resources, in particular focusing on the pro-
cess of extinction. A central goal for the conference
will be to identify common principles for a sustainable
management that also can ensure conservation.
Organizers: Prof. Bernt-Erik Saether and prof. Gunilla
Rosenqvist, CCB, NTNU
Speakers: S. R. Beissinger, H. Caswell, K. Danell, J. M.
Drake, S.P. Ellner, S. Engen, W. F. Fagan, J.M Fryxell,
I. Hanski, S.P. Hubbell, P. Kareiva, R. Lande, G. Mace,
S Pimm, H. Possingham, J. Reid, W.J. Sutherland, D.
Tilman, H. Weimerskirch
Submissions of contributed talk are welcomed. For
further information and registration see: http:/-
/www.biodivconf.ccb2010.no/ – Professor Gunilla
Rosenqvist
Department of Biology Norwegian University of Sci-
ence and Technology N-7491 Trondheim Phone: +47
73596296 Norway FAX: +47 73596100 Mobil: +47
91897147 e-mail: gunilla.rosenqvist@bio.ntnu.no
Gunilla Rosenqvist <gunilla.rosenqvist@bio.ntnu.no >
UCaliforniaBerkeley
WesternEvolBiol Dec5
I’d like to announce a regional meeting, the 3rd annual
WEB (Western Evolutionary Biologists) Meeting. This
year it will be held at UC-Berkeley on Saturday Dec. 5.
The UC organization NERE funds the meeting. EachUC campus has some travel funds available for NERE
members, for more information contact the NERE As-
sociate Director at your UC campus (see website below
for details).
If you’d like to give a (15-20 min) talk or poster, note
the deadline for abstract submission is not too long
from now (Oct 16). The registration deadline is Oct.
29.
The WEB web site and registration is here: http://-
www.lifesci.ucsb.edu/nere-web/ -
Todd H. Oakley Professor Ecology Evolution and
Marine Biology University of California-Santa Bar-
bara Santa Barbara, CA 93106 (805) 893-4715
http://www.lifesci.ucsb.edu/eemb/labs/oakley/ oak-
ley@lifesci.ucsb.edu oakley@lifesci.ucsb.edu
UCaliforniaIrvine
DarwinColloquium Dec10-12
December 10-12, 2009 In the Light of Evolution IV:
The Human Condition Organizers: John C. Avise and
Francisco J. Ayala Beckman Center of the National
Academies, Irvine, CA
The year of Darwinian celebration will close with a
Sackler Colloquium devoted expressly to human evo-
lution. Darwin addressed the topic at length in
“The Descent of Man and Selection in Relation to
Sex” (1871). Much has been learned since then,
not least from the evidence of paleontology, compar-
ative vertebrate biology, and comparative genomics.
This Sackler Colloquium will bring together leading
biologists with special expertise about human evolu-
tion, both biological and cultural. A preliminary pro-
gram can be viewed at http://www.nasonline.org/-
SACKLER Human Condition $300 EARLY REGIS-
TRATION BY NOVEMBER 15, 2009 Attendance at
the Colloquium is limited to 230 registered individuals.
Registrations will be accepted only when the registra-
tion fee is included and in the order in which they are
received. The EARLY registration fee ($300) includes
the cost of meals, reception, and banquet.
$150 STUDENT / POST DOC REGISTRATION BY
NOVEMBER 15, 2009 - TRAVEL/HOTEL AWARDS
AVAILABLE A reduced all-inclusive (meals, reception,
and banquet) registration fee of $150 is oﬀered to Grad-
uate Students and Postdocs who register by November
15, 2009. The NAS has provided funds to supplement14 EvolDir November 1, 2009
the expenses of participating graduate students and
postdocs up to $125 for hotel costs and up to $150 for
air travel (see award qualiﬁcation details on the regis-
tration page). Awards will be approved on a ﬁrst come
basis when accompanied by the registration fee. Re-
imbursements will be paid after the Colloquium, upon
documentation of qualifying expenses.
After November 15, 2009 - All Registrations are $350
Register at http://www.nasonline.org/-
SACKLER Human Condition “Francisco J. Ayala”
<fjayala@uci.edu >
UEdinburgh PathogenEvolution
Dec8
The following one-day symposium may be of interest to
evoldir subscribers. Registration is free, but we do ask
that people register so we have an idea of numbers (see:
http://ciie.bio.ed.ac.uk/ ). Lunch will be provided.
What limits pathogen host range?
Tuesday, December 8th, 2009 University of Edinburgh
Ashworth Laboratories, Lecture Theatre III Kings
Buildings West Mains Road, Edinburgh
Hosted by the Centre for Immunity, Infection, and Evo-
lution ( http://ciie.bio.ed.ac.uk/ )
Organisers: Amy Pedersen (amy.pedersen@ed.ac.uk) &
Tom Little (tom.little@ed.ac.uk)
This is a one-day symposium of The Centre for Immu-
nity, Infection and Evolution (CIIE), a Wellcome Trust-
funded initiative designed to connect Evolutionary Bi-
ology to Immunology and Infection research and gain
an interdisciplinary perspective on challenges to global
health.
The central question what limits host range? i.e. what
are the molecular and ecological constraints that de-
termine why some pathogens are speciﬁc to a single
host, while others can infect many hosts, is a key con-
cern as host shifts and disease emergence threaten hu-
man and wildlife health. In this symposium, we have a
broad programme of speakers, ranging from molecular
epidemiologists to disease ecologists, and working on
systems such as avian ﬂu to fungal pathogens of plants.
Conﬁrmed Speakers Debbie Smith (York University)
Amy Pedersen (University of Edinburgh) Michael Hood
(Amherst College, USA) Dan Haydon (University ofGlasgow) Mike Brockhurst (University of Liverpool)
Roman Biek (University of Glasgow) James Cook (Uni-
versity of Reading) Heather Ferguson (University of
Glasgow) Paul Sharp (University of Edinburgh)
Registration at: http://ciie.bio.ed.ac.uk/ Tom Lit-
tle Wellcome Trust Senior Research Fellow in Basic
Biomedical Sciences Institute of Evolutionary Biology
Kings Buildings University of Edinburgh EH9 3JT UK
+44 131 650 7781
tom.little@ed.ac.uk http://www.biology.ed.ac.uk/-
littlelab – The University of Edinburgh is a charitable
body, registered in Scotland, with registration number
SC005336.
tom little <tom.little@ed.ac.uk >
ULausanne EvolutionMedicine
Nov5-6
Dear Colleagues,
let me bring your your attention a symposium on
the implications of evolutionary biology for medicine
and public health issues (“Evolution & Medicine”),
which takes place in Lausanne (Switzerland) on Novem-
ber 5-6, 2009. The speakers include Randolph Nesse,
Steve Stearns, Ruth Mace, Dieter Ebert, Andrew Read,
Paul Sharp, Rudi Westendorp, Francois Taddei, Wayne
Potts and Carlo Maley, and the topics range from re-
production to aging, from infectious disease to cancer.
For the program and registration, go to www.unil.ch/-
evolmed2009/page67844.html There is no registration
fee, but please do register until October 25 so that we
know how many participants to expect.
Sincerely, Tad Kawecki
– Tadeusz J. Kawecki Associate Professor Department
of Ecology and Evolution University of Lausanne Bio-
phore CH 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland
tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch
ULeuven DaphniaGenomics
Mar26-30November 1, 2009 EvolDir 15
First announcement of the Daphnia Genomics Consor-
tium (DGC) Meeting 2010
When: 26th trough 30th of March, 2010 Where: Leu-
ven, Belgium
http://bio.kuleuven.be/DGCmeeting2010.html . Dear
colleagues and friends,
We are pleased to invite you to the DGC Meeting 2010.
The Daphnia Genomics Consortium (DGC) is an inter-
national network of scientists with a common goal to
foster the freshwater crustacean Daphnia as a premier
model system for genomics in ecology, evolution and
the environmental sciences.
This meeting aims to bring together the members of
the consortium at large, to facilitate the exchange of in-
formation on recent developments and results obtained
from the ongoing investigations into the genome biol-
ogy of Daphnia. Additionally, we welcome researchers
working with Daphnia who are not yet DGC partici-
pants and researchers working with other model or non-
model organisms in the ﬁeld of ecological genomics.
The DGC meeting will have a signiﬁcant impact on the
future development of the research groups involved in
the consortium. By this time, we will have ﬁnalized our
initial investigations of the draft D. pulex genome se-
quence, and we will begin the work of exploring data ob-
tained from the D. magna genome sequencing project.
This upcoming meeting continues the tradition of also
promoting collaborations between researchers working
within related disciplines, including limnology, ecotox-
icology, quantitative and population genetics, system-
atics, molecular biology and evolution, developmental
biology, genomics and bioinformatics.
The meeting will have plenary lectures from keynote
speakers in several research ﬁelds related to Daphnia
and other organisms, and will oﬀer young investigators
the chance to discuss their research with more experi-
enced senior researchers in a relaxed atmosphere.
Our meeting is organized as a series of symposia touch-
ing on several research topics:
* Ecology & Evolutionary Genomics * Toxicology & En-
vironmental Genomics of Natural and Human Stressors
* Genotype by Environment Interactions * Compara-
tive Genomics & Development * Gene Expression and
Gene Function
Plan to also learn about the latest open source bioin-
formatic and high-throughput research tools, includ-
ing databases, expression and genotyping microarrays,
mapping panels for trait locus mapping, molecular ge-
netic protocols and services.The venue is at the ﬁve century-old Katholieke Uni-
versiteit Leuven, in Belgium. Leuven is a beautiful me-
dieval town that combines a rich historical patrimonium
with a cheerful, ﬂourishing city culture and a creative
atmosphere for lively exchanges and debates.
Registration begins on November 15, 2009 Abstracts for
poster and platform presentations are due by January
15, 2010.
Details for registration will be sent with the second an-
nouncement and at the following web-page:
http://bio.kuleuven.be/DGCmeeting2010.html . We
look forward to welcoming you in Leuven
The local organization committee (Luc De Meester,
Luisa Orsini, Ellen Decaestecker, Kevin Pauwels, Mieke
Jansen, Joost Vanoverbeke) and the co-organizers
(Dries Knapen and Wim De Coen (University of
Antwerp), Karel De Schamphelaere and Colin Janssen
(University of Gent), and John Colbourne (Indiana
University)
Luisa Orsini <Luisa.Orsini@bio.kuleuven.be >
ULiverpool PopulationGenetics
Jan5-8
The next (43rd) Population Genetics Group meeting
to be held at the University of Liverpool, 5-8 January
2010. Further information on the programme and on
how to register is available at http://sites.google.com/-
site/popgroup2010/Home . The deadline for submit-
ting titles and abstracts for oral and poster presenta-
tions is 30th November (a £10 surcharge will be levied
for all registrations after this date). You are encouraged
to book accommodation early as the discounted rates
that have been negotiated are guaranteed only till 5th
December.
Thanks Ilik
DR ILIK J. SACCHERI School of Biological Sci-
ences University of Liverpool The Biosciences Building
Crown Street Liverpool L69 7ZB UK
Tel. 44 (0)151 795 4522 Fax. 44 (0)151 795 4408 email
saccheri@liv.ac.uk
“Saccheri, Ilik” <I.J.Saccheri@liverpool.ac.uk >16 EvolDir November 1, 2009
UMichigan ExperimentalEvol Apr17
Call for nominations
CALL FOR NOMINATIONS
SIXTH ANNUAL UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
EARLY CAREER SCIENTISTS SYMPOSIUM:
EXPERIMENTAL EVOLUTION
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
at the University of Michigan invites nominations of
outstanding scientists early in their careers to take part
in a symposium on experimental evolution. This sym-
posium will be held in Ann Arbor, Michigan on Satur-
day, April 17, 2010. Eight scientists will be selected to
present their work. All research involving observation
of long-term changes in controlled populations, investi-
gating response of natural populations to experimental
manipulation, or performing evolution in silico, will be
favorably considered.
Early career scientists are deﬁned as senior graduate
students (who will receive their Ph.D. within one year)
or postdoctoral researchers. Potential speakers can be
nominated by their advisor or a senior colleague.
Nominations must include a brief letter of recommen-
dation addressing the nominee’s scientiﬁc and commu-
nication skills, a copy of the nominee’s curriculum vi-
tae, and a brief abstract of the proposed presentation
(<200 words, written by the nominee). Nominations
can be sent electronically (in a single ﬁle if possible) to
kuhnlein@umich.edu with the subject line: “Nominee
for ECSS.” More information is available at http://-
sitemaker.umich.edu/ecss2010 . All nominations must
be received by December 15, 2009. Selected partici-
pants will be contacted by January 15, 2010.
For more information, contact Gail Kuhnlein (kuhn-
lein@umich.edu).
2010 ECSS organizing committee: Alex Kon-
drashov kondrash@umich.edu, Timothy James ty-
james@umich.edu, Amanda Izzo mizzo@umich.edu, Zhi
Wang zcwang@umich.edu
EEB Web site: http://www.eeb.lsa.umich.edu ty-
james@umich.edu tyjames@umich.edu
Uruguay VertebrateEvolution
Jul26-31Dear Evolutionary Biologists,
We are pleased to announce that, following the re-
quest made by some colleagues, we have extended the
deadline for early registration to the 9 ^th International
Congress of Vertebrate Morphology until November
1^st . This is a golden chance to enjoy the great plea-
sures of morphology in Punta del Este, Uruguay, from
26^th to 31 ^st July 2010, taking advantage of our really
low registration fee, one of the lowest, we proudly claim,
if compared with similarly sized and reputable events,
at: only USD 220 for regular attendees and USD 100
for students
After that date the prices will be still quite aﬀordable:
USD 300 for regular attendees and USD 150 for stu-
dents.
At the same time, we have already said that we are
committed to turn this event into something unforget-
table, and for that well need your kind help. Please
register as soon as possible, using our web page ( http:/-
/icvm-9.edu.uy/ ) or directly in that of Jetmar, our de-
pendable travel agency ( http://www.jetmar.com.uy/-
icvm2010/ ), and let them help you about accommo-
dation and other details. If you have any diﬃcul-
ties or concerns, please write to us at once and well
do our best to overcome them (send an e-mail to:
fari~a@fcien.edu.uy).
The ﬁnal deadline for registration and abstract sub-
mission is February 10 ^th , 2010. After this date, only
posters will be accepted. Once you have registered (and
paid), youll be able to submit your abstract. The web
page will soon be available for this.
We are pleased to inform you that the following scholars
have agreed to give plenary lectures at the congress:
- Arkhat Abzhanov (Harvard University, USA)
- Melina Hale (University of Chicago, USA)
- Peter Wainwright (University of California at Davis,
USA)
- Gabriel Marroig (Universidade de S˜ ao Paulo, Brazil)
and
- Eugenia del Pino (Pontiﬁcia Universidad Cat´ olica,
Ecuador).
Please, feel free to distribute this second circular among
colleagues and students.
passer@fcien.edu.uyNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 17
GradStudentPositions
Buﬀalo CoralAlgalOntogeny . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
CNRS France MolecularAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
ColoradoStateU EvolutionaryGenomicsPhylogenetics
19
DeepFin FishSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
EastCarolinaU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
ETH Zurich Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
GeorgeMasonU PlantSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
GeorgetownU QuantBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
GeorgetownU QuantBiol 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
IowaStateU SexualSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
KansasStateU GrassAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
KansasStateU PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
LouisianStateU AvianSpeciationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . 25
ManchesterU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
MaxPlanckInst Jena InsectBacteriaSymbioses . . . . . 26
MichiganStateU EvolGeneticsDevel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
MichiganStateU GeneExpressionEvolution . . . . . . . . . 27
NorthCarolinaStateU EvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . . 91
OklahomaStateUniversity PlantSystematics . . . . . . . 28
RutgersU TrichopteraPhylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
StockholmU AncientDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
StockholmU InsectHostPlantPreference . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
UAdelaide Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UAdelaide EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UArizona EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UBergen 2 SystematicBotany . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33UBern BeetleEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
UBern PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
UBuﬀalo AngiospermGenomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
UEastAnglia Warbler MHC Diversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
UFlorida HostParasite Coevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
UGeneva FunctionalGenomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
ULaval SprucePopulationGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
ULeipzig HumanOrigins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
UMassachusetts CiliateBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
UMassachusetts CiliateGenomeEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
UNewBrunswick InvertebratePopulationGenetics . . 39
UOklahoma DaphniaEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
UOslo MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
UOsnabrueck ParasitesInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
UOtago Genetics Cryptic Female Choice . . . . . . . . . . 41
UppsalaU Aging ExperimentalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UppsalaU EvolutionaryGeneticsAgeing . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UTasmania ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UTuebingen EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UVermont EvolutionarySociogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
UWisconsinMadison Evolution PlantHerbivore . . . . 45
UWyoming ProteinStructureEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
UZurich PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Vienna Drosophila ExperimentalEvolution . . . . . . . . . 47
VU Amsterdam SexualConﬂict . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
WashingtonStateU PlantEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . 48
Buﬀalo CoralAlgalOntogeny
A PhD position is available in the laboratory of Dr.
Mary Alice Coﬀroth
Description: The PhD student will contribute to an
NSF-funded project that focuses on the ontogenic
change in cnidarian-algal symbioses from a genomic and
ecologic perspective. The overall aim of this projectis to identify the mechanisms and selective processes
that lead to the ﬁnal assemblage of symbionts harbored
by adult hosts. Speciﬁcally, the student will partici-
pate in studies to determine (1) if diﬀerent /Symbio-
dinium /strains diﬀerentially aﬀect ﬁtness of corals as
the adult settles into a mature symbiosis (2) if com-
petition among symbionts or environmental conditions
contribute to the ﬁnal host-symbiont pairing and (3)
how host/symbiont transcriptomes varying as the sym-
biont community within a host is winnowed to the ﬁnal
assemblage found in the adult host.
The student would begin her/his studies in September18 EvolDir November 1, 2009
2010, but will be encouraged to join the lab over the
summer and participate in coral spawning in August
2010
Candidate Experience: Candidates for this position
should have a strong interest in symbiotic relation-
ships, ecology and evolution. Qualiﬁcations speciﬁcally
sought are students with a background in photophysiol-
ogy and/or experience in molecular methods including
knowledge of bioinformatics and microarray analysis.
SCUBA certiﬁcation is beneﬁcial but not required. Pe-
riodic ﬁeld trips to our study sites in Florida and/or
Mexico will occur throughout the year, thus a passport
is necessary.
For consideration, please send a cover letter, cur-
riculum vitae, and a statement of research ex-
perience that explains your background and spe-
ciﬁc interests in the project to Coﬀroth@buﬀalo.edu
<mailto:Coﬀroth@buﬀalo.edu >
NOTE: The selected student is expected to enroll in the
Graduate Program in Evolution, Ecology and Behavior
at the University at Buﬀalo for Fall 2010. Additional
information about policies and entrance requirements
pertaining to university admission are found at: http:/-
/evolutionecologybehavior.buﬀalo.edu/
– PLEASE NOTE NEW PHONE NUMBERS Mary
Alice Coﬀroth, PhD Professor 447 Hochstetter Hall De-
partment of Geology Graduate Program in Evolution,
Ecology and Behavior State University of New York at
Buﬀalo Buﬀalo NY 14260
Phone: 716-645-4871 716-645- 4874 Fax: 716-645-
3999 Email: Coﬀroth@buﬀalo.edu Web page: http://-
www.nsm.buﬀalo.edu/Bio/burr/ Mary Alice Coﬀroth
<coﬀroth@buﬀalo.edu >
CNRS France MolecularAdaptation
PhD position available at the LEGS (Laboratoire Evo-
lution, genomes et sp´ eciation), CNRS, 91198 Gif sur
Yvette cedex, France.
Contact: Dr Jean-Luc Da Lage (jldl@legs.cnrs-gif.fr)
Subject: Adaptation at the molecular level: role of
alpha-amylases in the adaptation of insects to their en-
vironment
Keywords: selection, adaptation, nutrition, digestion,
alpha-amylase inhibitors
Duration: 3 yearsThe PhD position is funded by the Agence Nationale de
la Recherche (ANR), and is part of the project “Adap-
tanthrop”. The project stems from the observation that
anthropization aﬀects ecosystems by decreasing biodi-
versity, by changing landscapes, and also by pollut-
ing the environment with xenobiotics. When popu-
lations are confronted by environmental change, they
can compensate for a decrease in their ﬁtness in three
ways: through plasticity, migration, or genetic evolu-
tion (i.e. by adapting themselves). One of the goals
of the project is to investigate genes and regulation
mechanisms involved in adaptive processes at the pop-
ulation or species level, as a response to a change in
food resources. With this aim in view, we have cho-
sen two animal models of agronomic importance cur-
rently confronted by rapid environmental changes: the
stem borers Busseola in Africa; and the potato moth
Tecia solanivora in the Andes (indeed, a change of host-
plant is a risk for phytophagous insects). We have also
chosen two models of medical importance: Triatoma
and Rhodnius, both vectors of Chagas’ disease in South
America. In addition, we will also use populations of
Drosophila melanogaster and D. simulans, which are ex-
cellent models for investigating scenarios in evolution-
ary genetics.
Within the framework of this thesis, we intend to study
the alpha-amylase gene family. These enzymes should
respond rapidly to natural selection as dictated by the
environmental constraints, in order to maintain optimal
performance. Alpha-amylases are ubiquitous digestive
enzymes, which are responsible for the hydrolysis of
starch and related polysaccharides, into maltose. They
are directly linked to the external environment as they
are required to act readily upon food. Furthermore,
their function is simple and has been well characterized.
Therefore, alpha-amylases are good models in adaptive
molecular evolution, as modiﬁcations of the enzymes
may be rather easily correlated to modiﬁcations of the
environment. One may expect adaptation to the food
substrate itself, since a variety of starches exist. Var-
ious physical and chemical parameters, related to the
host plant or its environment may also exert selective
pressure: pH, local temperature, etc. The possible pres-
ence of alpha-amylase inhibitors may also be a major
problem, and could be a good example of coevolution.
Indeed, plants often produce alpha-amylase inhibitors
as a defense mechanism, preventing the development of
larval pests. Insects must evolve their own amylases to
circumvent this.
The PhD student will endeavour to identify evidence
for the rapid evolution of alpha-amylases in insects sub-
jected to anthropization of their environment (e.g. en-
demic forest vs. cultured ﬁeld, or replacement of tradi-November 1, 2009 EvolDir 19
tional crops by “exogenous” ones), likely to trigger host
change or alternate manifestations of adaptation.
Two approaches will be used: i) detecting positive selec-
tion by analysis of DNA polymorphism at the Amy loci,
or variations of expression level (indirect approach);
and complementary to this, ii) constructs in expression
vectors will be made in order to mimic the variations
observed in nature, the resulting enzymes produced in
vitro will be analyzed enzymologically to test the func-
tional consequences of the variations assumed to play
an adaptive role in nature (direct approach).
Skills required: Throughout the PhD, the candidate
will need to develop knowledge in population genetics,
and enzymology, and will use contemporary tools of
molecular biology, and techniques in biochemistry. A
keen interest in evolution is mandatory, as well as an
enthusiasm for experimental work and analysis. Knowl-
edge in ecology and zoology (particularly entomology)
would be of a distinct advantage.
Send a detailed CV to Dr Jean-Luc Da Lage
(jldl@legs.cnrs-gif.fr)
– Jean-Luc Da Lage
UPR 9034 Laboratoire Evolution, Genomes et Speci-
ation (LEGS) Centre National de la Recherche Scien-
tiﬁque 91198 Gif sur Yvette Cedex France Tel: +33 1
69 82 37 27 Fax: +33 1 69 82 37 01
http://www.legs.cnrs-gif.fr/ Jean-Luc Da Lage <Jean-
Luc.Da-Lage@legs.cnrs-gif.fr >
ColoradoStateU
EvolutionaryGenomicsPhylogenetics
Graduate Student Position Available:
Genome Evolution and Phylogenetic Systematics De-
partment of Biology, Colorado State University
We are seeking a creative and motivated graduate stu-
dent (M.S. or Ph.D.) to join the laboratory of Rachel L.
Mueller in the Fall of 2010. Our lab is currently working
on projects that span three main avenues of research:
mitochondrial genome evolution, nuclear genome evolu-
tion, and phylogenetic methodology. Our labs approach
combines large-scale genomic sequence data, simula-
tions, natural history collections, and ﬁeldwork.
The majority of our current work is focused on
plethodontid salamanders because they have two un-usual genomes; both their nuclear and mitochondrial
DNA is remarkable and illustrative of some funda-
mental processes governing genome evolution. How-
ever, work in the lab is not taxon-limited. Pos-
sibilities exist for graduate students to pursue de-
grees working on, or related to, the following projects
(For more detailed information, please visit the
lab website at http://rydberg.biology.colostate.edu/-
muellerlab/MuellerLab/Home.html ):
Nuclear genome evolution in plethodontid salamanders
Among vertebrates, many of the largest genomes are
found within the Plethodontidae, the most speciose
family of salamanders. Five-fold variation in genome
size exists among plethodontid species, from 14.5 Gb
to 74.5 Gb. These values are larger than all bird, mam-
mal, frog, and reptile genomes, as well as most ﬁsh
genomes. This size variation reﬂects diﬀerent levels of
repetitive DNA, as in most eukaryotes; however, such
repeat elements remain almost completely uncharacter-
ized. We are combining next-generation sequence data
and phylogeny-based modeling analyses to understand
how mutational processes and selection have translated
into extreme genomic expansion through time.
Mitochondrial genome evolution in plethodontid sala-
manders Plethodontid salamanders also have some of
the largest mitochondrial genomes among vertebrates;
these genomes contain novel gene orders, pseudogenes,
and both tandem and non-tandem repeat elements, all
of which are extremely rare among vertebrates. We
are studying the evolutionary history of mitochondrial
genomes in ﬁve plethodontid clades, each of which ex-
perienced an independent duplication event resulting
in genomic reorganization. More generally, we are us-
ing these pseudogene sequences as a model system to
understand the dynamics of neutral mutation in the
mitochondrial genome. Our analyses of deletions may
model the process through which an ancestral bacterial
genome was streamlined into the present-day mitochon-
drial genome.
Phylogenetics and systematics Phylogenies for the same
taxa estimated using diﬀerent genes (even those that
share the same history) are often incongruent, indicat-
ing that genes vary in their ability to yield accurate
estimates of relationships. Therefore, choosing appro-
priate molecular markers is critical to the success of
phylogenetic analyses and to any research that builds
on these results. The characteristics of genes likely con-
tribute to their phylogenetic utility; however, no formal
method exists for selecting loci based on such charac-
teristics. We are using a combination of empirical data
and large-scale simulations to test the eﬀects of diﬀer-
ent gene characteristics on phylogenetic performance.
We are also focusing on branch length and the charac-20 EvolDir November 1, 2009
teristics of datasets and analyses that minimize error in
branch length estimation.
The Department of Biology at Colorado State Univer-
sity is an interdisciplinary group with a strong crew
of evolutionary biologists. Fort Collins is a beautiful
city of 120,000 people located at the base of the Rocky
Mountains. We enjoy easy access to world-class out-
door recreation and 300+ days of sunshine each year.
Please contact Rachel Mueller (rlm@colostate.edu) for
information.
–
Rachel Lockridge Mueller Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Biology Colorado State University Fort Collins,
CO 80523-1878 (970) 491-6717
rlm@colostate.edu rlm@colostate.edu
DeepFin FishSystematics
http://www.deepﬁn.org/studenExchange.php FISH
SYSTEMATICS Student Exchange Program 2009-2010
This program is designed to facilitate communication
between traditionally isolated research groups and to
foster broader educational opportunities to students.
Undergraduate and graduate students with research
activities under the supervision of DeepFin partici-
pants (see www.deepﬁn.org ) will be able to experience
new research environments, not available to them
at their home institutions. For example, a student
working in a molecular systematics lab could acquire
hands-on experience in morphological analysis of living
or fossil ﬁshes (and vice versa). The goal is to help
lower existing barriers between traditionally isolated
disciplines by raising a new generation of scientists
with broad academic training experiences.
CALL FOR APPLICATIONS Proposal Deadline: Ap-
plications should be received by 15 NOVEMBER 2009;
pre-application inquiries are welcome.
Stipends of up to $4,000 will be given to participating
students to cover travel and room and board.
Eligibility: participants have to be aﬃliated to an ac-
credited United States institution of research and/or
education.
To apply for the student exchange program please
provide the following information via email to Terry
Grande attgrande@luc.edu or Guillermo Orti guille-
orti@gmail.com (or both). Electronic submissions arerequired either as a single .pdf or a .doc ﬁle containing
the following sections.
1.Cover sheet with your name, education (undergrad,
grad, postdoc), institutional aﬃliation and research su-
pervisor, the proposed host laboratory and hosting ad-
visor, dates of proposed exchange, title of the project,
and a summary (100 word maximum) describing the
goals of the exchange experience, the type of training
that you will gain via the laboratory exchange, and why
this is important to your research project.
2. A brief description (1 page maximum) of your re-
search project, its goals, and an indication of where
you are in your research time line. Include informa-
tion to make it clear how the project will contribute
to our knowledge of the tree of life for ﬁshes. Please
provide some details of the type of training that you
already have experience with (e.g., morphological, pa-
leontology, molecular) and how the new training sought
will enrich your education.
3. A curriculum vitae no longer than 2 pages listing
educational background, work experience, publications,
and presentations.
Additionally, two letter of recommendation are required
from the academic advisors, one from the current ad-
visor and one from the hosting advisor. These should
be sent directly by the advisors to Terry or Carol via
email. The letters should include statements concern-
ing the following:
- The competence of the applicant - The signiﬁcance
of the new training sought for the applicant’s educa-
tion and the project goal’s - The need for the funds
being requested by the applicant and the availability of
matching funds for the project that could supplement
DeepFin stipends and extend the duration of the train-
ing period. Proposal Deadline: Applications should be
received by 15 NOVEMBER 2009; pre-application in-
quiries are welcomed.
To ensure that applications are not lost in elec-
tronic transfer, conﬁrmation e-mail will be sent to
the applicants. If you do not receive this conﬁr-
mation within three days of your submission, please
re-contact Terry Grande or Guillermo Orti (guille-
orti@gmail.com).Funding decisions will be made within
30 days of the deadline.
Reporting Requirement: Recipients will be expected to
provide a report to DeepFin (1 page) describing the ac-
complishments and value of the exchange experience,
and any product (such as publication or thesis that
might result from this work) within three months of the
end of their exchange. This report should be sent via
email to Terry Grande (tgrande@luc.edu). RecipientsNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 21
might also be invited to contribute Tree of Life pages
(http://tolweb.org/tree/phylogeny.html ) with the phy-
logeny for the focal group of their project.
guilleorti@gmail.com
EastCarolinaU EvolutionaryBiol
GRADUATE STUDIES IN EVOLUTION AND
ECOLOGY AT EAST CAROLINA UNIVERSITY
The Department of Biology at East Carolina Univer-
sity, the third largest campus in the North Carolina
System, invites inquiries and applications from prospec-
tive graduate students for Fall 2010. We have an active
and well-supported group of faculty in Evolution and
Ecology and will guarantee accepted PhD students (in
IDPBS, the Interdisciplinary Doctoral Program in Bi-
ological Sciences) at least two years of support with
no teaching obligations and at least ﬁve years of sup-
port total, at a very competitive level. We also of-
fer two MS programs (TA-ships readily available) and
have students in ECU’s Coastal Resources Management
PhD program. Graduate students will be encouraged to
participate in the newly formed North Carolina Center
for Biodiversity (NCCB) at East Carolina University.
Goals of the NCCB include training graduate students
in biodiversity research and providing them opportuni-
ties to participate in related outreach.
Situated in the attractive and aﬀordable community
of Greenville, we are in easy reach of North Carolina’s
Research Triangle (including the National Evolutionary
Synthesis Center), several marine institutes and labo-
ratories, and the diverse natural communities of the
Coastal Plain and Outer Banks. Thus excellent oppor-
tunities exist for collaboration and to work in terres-
trial, aquatic, wetland and marine systems. A read-
ily available 454 sequencer at ECU’s Brody School of
Medicine facilitates genomic research. Travel is conve-
nient through either Pitt-Greenville or Raleigh-Durham
International Airport and our faculty members are en-
gaged in research on every continent but Antarctica.
Please visit http://www.ecu.edu/biology/ to ﬁnd out
more about our department. Information on our grad-
uate programs is available here: http://www.ecu.edu/-
biology/graduate.cfm Our Evolution and Ecology
faculty ( http://www.ecu.edu/biology/faculty.cfm ) in-
clude:
Jason Bond: Arthropod systematics. Mark Brinson:Wetland restoration ecology, ecosystem ecology. David
Chalcraft: Population and community ecology; ecolog-
ical aspects of biodiversity. Robert Christian: Sys-
tems and network theory; ecology of coastal ecosystems.
Lisa Clough: Marine benthic ecology (Arctic and At-
lantic). Carol Goodwillie: Plant mating system evolu-
tion. Jinling Huang: Evolutionary genomics, bioinfor-
matics; horizontal gene transfer. Claudia Jolls: Plant
evolutionary ecology and conservation. Dave Kimmel:
Plankton ecology. Trip Lamb: Systematics and phylo-
geography. Joe Luczkovich: Food web ecology and ﬁsh
bioacoustics. Jeﬀ McKinnon: Sexual selection, speci-
ation, mainly in ﬁsh. Sue McRae: Behavioral ecol-
ogy and social evolution in birds. Anthony Overton:
Larval ﬁsh ecology, ﬁsheries biology. Enrique Reyes:
Landscape ecology, ecological modeling, coastal man-
agement. Roger Rulifson: Fish ecology and ﬁsheries.
Jean-Luc Scemama: Post-duplication gene evolution.
Matt Schrenk: Microbial ecology, geo-microbiology. Ed
Stellwag: Vertebrate evo-devo and cis-regulatory net-
work evolution. John Stiller: Molecular evolution and
comparative genomics. Kyle Summers: Evolution of
color, behavior in poison frogs; evolutionary medicine.
Heather Vance-Chalcraft: Predation and community
ecology. Terry West: Human impacts on coastal ecosys-
tems. Baohong Zhang: MicroRNA evolution, compar-
ative genomics, and molecular genetics.
In addition to visiting the websites, please contact
prospective mentors directly for more information, or
graduate studies director Terry West: westt@ecu.edu
Jeﬀrey S. McKinnon, Chair Dep. of Biology, N108
Howell Science Complex East Carolina University
Greenville, NC 27858-4353 Phone 252-328-5258; mck-
innonj@ecu.edu http://personal.ecu.edu/mckinnonj/
“McKinnon, Jeﬀrey” <MCKINNONJ@ecu.edu >
ETH Zurich Bioinformatics
PhD position in Bioinformatics/ Molecular Evolution
Three-year Ph.D. studentship is available at the Com-
putational Biochemistry Research Group (CBRG), de-
partment of Computer Science at the Swiss Federal In-
stitute of Technology (ETH Zurich), highly reputable
internationally. CBRG is a member of the Swiss Bioin-
formatics Institute (SIB) and beneﬁts from SIB training
courses and networking.
The research focus will be to study selective pressures
and other patterns in proteins with tandem repeats22 EvolDir November 1, 2009
(which often play role as receptors, implicated in human
disease, and more). The project will involve modeling
the evolutionary process at the codon level and develop-
ing/adapting machine-learning techniques to recognize
patterns in complex multi-facet data. Planned collabo-
rations with structural biologists (CNRS, Montpellier)
promise an exciting case for motivated young scientists.
Successful candidates will have a strong background
in bioinformatics, computer science, statistics, and/or
computational biology. Fluency in a major scripting
language, and experience in software development is a
must. Some background in biology is desirable, but
interest in biology and bioinformatics is required. Can-
didates should be highly motivated and have the ability
to work independently. As the research will involve a
mix of disciplines, candidates with experience in sev-
eral ﬁelds will be preferred (bioinformatics, genetics,
protein structure, computational science, mathematics,
physics, statistics).
ETH Zurich boasts excellent facilities for studying and
recreation. The working language in the laboratory
is English, which is also widely used in Switzerland.
Zurich is located less than one hour from the Alps, and
is a small but vibrant city oﬀering one of the best liv-
ing standards in the world. Zurich is well connected
to major European cities, and has a large international
community.
The successful applicant will be supervised by Dr Maria
Anisimova, whose interests include a variety of topics
in Molecular Evolution and Bioinformatics.
To apply, please send a single PDF ﬁle to
maria.anisimova@inf.ethz.ch containing:
* CV (with publication list if applicable)
* a scanned academic transcript (list of grades in uni-
versity courses)
* a short statement of research interests, mentioning re-
search topics of master/diploma theses (not exceeding
two pages)
* three references
Please mention “PhD position” in the subject of your
e-mail.
The position is open until ﬁlled (but quick response is
recommended).
maria.anisimova@inf.ethz.ch
maria.anisimova@inf.ethz.chGeorgeMasonU PlantSystematics
Graduate Research Assistantship in Systematic Botany
Description: A graduate research assistantship (MS or
Ph.D.) is available in the Department of Environmental
Science and Policy at George Mason University to
study the systematic biology of tropical trees. The
successful candidate will conduct research associated
with the NSF- funded project, $B!H(BPhylogeny,
Diversiﬁcation and Evolutionary Trajectories in the
$B!F(BTerebinthaceae$B!G(B (Anacardiaceae and
Burseraceae).$B!I(B Speciﬁcally, the student will
assist the phylogenetic reconstruction of the myrrh
genus, Commiphora, using DNA sequence data and
the analysis of wood anatomy in Commiphora species
endemic to Madagascar.
Candidates should have strong academic standing, ex-
cellent communication skills, the ability to work inde-
pendently and a genuine passion for systematic botany.
The two-year position is oﬀered starting August 2010
and includes a salary of $18,349 plus health insurance
and in-state tuition.
George Mason University is a large state university lo-
cated in Northern Virginia and is connected to Wash-
ington, DC by metrorail. The University maintains an
excellent research library and regional herbarium, of-
fers a diverse range of graduate coursework, and has
long-term collaborations with nearby governmental and
non- governmental organizations. The ESP department
houses an active graduate student association and com-
prises faculty and students with research interests in
ecology, evolutionary biology, conservation biology and
environmental policy.
Applications: Applicants should submit 1) a letter out-
lining personal research interests, experience and ca-
reer goals, 2) a CV, 3) academic transcripts and GRE
scores, 4) and the names of three professional refer-
ences. Inquiries and all application materials should
be directed to the principal investigator, Dr. An-
drea Weeks (aweeks3@gmu.edu). Students from groups
under-represented in the ﬁeld of science are especially
encouraged to apply. The deadline for application is
12/15/2009. The selected candidate will then be in-
vited to submit a formal application to the university
(http:// admissions.gmu.edu/grad/).
Andrea Weeks <aweeks3@gmu.edu >November 1, 2009 EvolDir 23
GeorgetownU QuantBiol
The departments of Biology and Mathematics at
Georgetown University have an ongoing collabora-
tion involving several research projects that span a
wide spectrum of applications in population genetics,
ecology, immunology, and molecular evolution. The
projects are uniﬁed through their focus on modeling,
analyzing and exploiting genetic data to understand
the interaction of complex systems. Ongoing projects
include the development and application of coalescent
models that better suit ﬁsh populations in order to infer
biological mechanisms acting on genetic polymorphism,
and the development of novel quantitative models to
analyze the evolution of HIV within an infected indi-
vidual.
We are seeking an outstanding student who is interested
in working at the interface of biology and mathematics.
The terminal degree will be a PhD in biology and the
course of study will include classes in biology, mathe-
matics and computer science, with the goal of provid-
ing the student with a ﬁrm background in population
genetics, ecology, statistics, probability, and computa-
tion. The speciﬁc topic of research is ﬂexible and can
favor theory or a particular application depending on
the interest of individual students. The ideal student
should possess a BS degree in biology or mathematics
(with some course work and experience in the alter-
nate ﬁeld) with some experience in computation. Most
importantly, an ideal student will have a strong desire
to engage in interdisciplinary research in quantitative
biology.
Interested students should contact Dr. Sivan Leviyang
via e-mail:
sr286@georgetown.edu
GeorgetownU QuantBiol 2
The departments of Biology and Mathematics at
Georgetown University have an ongoing collabora-
tion involving several research projects that span a
wide spectrum of applications in population genetics,ecology, immunology, and molecular evolution. The
projects are uniﬁed through their focus on modeling,
analyzing and exploiting genetic data to understand
the interaction of complex systems. Ongoing projects
include the development and application of coalescent
models that better suit ﬁsh populations in order to infer
biological mechanisms acting on genetic polymorphism,
and the development of novel quantitative models to
analyze the evolution of HIV within an infected indi-
vidual.
We are seeking an outstanding student who is interested
in working at the interface of biology and mathematics.
The terminal degree will be a PhD in biology and the
course of study will include classes in biology, mathe-
matics and computer science, with the goal of provid-
ing the student with a ﬁrm background in population
genetics, ecology, statistics, probability, and computa-
tion. The speciﬁc topic of research is ﬂexible and can
favor theory or a particular application depending on
the interest of individual students. The ideal student
should possess a BS degree in biology or mathematics
(with some course work and experience in the alter-
nate ﬁeld) with some experience in computation. Most
importantly, an ideal student will have a strong desire
to engage in interdisciplinary research in quantitative
biology.
Interested students should contact Dr. Sivan Leviyang
via e-mail:
sr286@georgetown.edu
IowaStateU SexualSelection
PhD Research in Sexual selection
A 5-year funded PhD position is available under the
supervision of Dr. Clint Kelly at Iowa State Univer-
sity ( http://web.mac.com/clintkelly1/Site/Home.html
) beginning August 2010. I am seeking a motivated stu-
dent to study sexual selection including, but not limited
to, 1) sperm competition and ejaculate expenditure in
ﬁsh or insects; or 2) the physiological and reproduc-
tive trade-oﬀs of investment in immunity. My lab uses
an empirical approach in the ﬁeld and laboratory to
examine a broad set of topics in behavioural and evolu-
tionary ecology and we employ a variety of techniques
and procedures to address research questions, includ-
ing: molecular genotyping, immunological assays, phy-
logenetic comparative studies, geometric morphomet-
rics and meta-analysis. The Kelly research group be-24 EvolDir November 1, 2009
longs to the large, research-active Department of Ecol-
ogy, Evolution & Organismal Biology at ISU ( http:/-
/www.eeob.iastate.edu/ ). If interested in pursuing a
graduate degree in my lab please send a brief descrip-
tion of your research interests and a CV (pdf) to cd-
kelly@iastate.edu .
cdkelly@iastate.edu
KansasStateU GrassAdaptation
PhD Assistantship Available: Ecological Genomics of
Drought Stress in Prairie Grasses
We have a position available for a PhD student to study
the ecological genomics of drought stress. The project
will include studies of the responses of native prairie
grasses to variation in precipitation using the ecologi-
cally dominant prairie grass big bluestem as a model.
The work is part of a project funded by the USDA
Plant Biology Abiotic Stress program. The project will
include common garden transplant experiments and ge-
nomic approaches to test for the signature of adaptive
genetic diﬀerentiation among natural populations of big
bluestem across the precipitation gradient of the Great
Plains.
This collaborative research group assembles investi-
gators with complementary expertise in Plant Eco-
logical Genomics (Johnson www.ksu.edu/johnsonlab/,
Garrett www.ksu.edu/pdecology), Genomics (Ahkunov
eakhunov@ksu.edu), Evolutionary Genetics (Mor-
gan(http://www.ksu.edu/morganlab/ ) and Restora-
tion Ecology (Baer, SIU ( www.plantbiology.siu.edu/-
Faculty/Baer/index.html ) to elucidate the response
and adaptation of prairie grasses to abiotic stresses.
This work will take place in the laboratories of Drs.
Johnson, Akhunov, and Garrett, with close collabo-
ration with Drs. Morgan and Baer. There will also
be opportunities to interact with other researchers
in the context of the Ecological Genomics Institute
(www.ecogen.ksu.edu ).
Applicants should have a demonstrated interest in eco-
logical or evolutionary genomics. Preference will be
given to individuals with experience in modern molec-
ular approaches and genomics tools.
Review of applicants will begin Dec 15, and continue
until the successful applicant is identiﬁed. The start-
ing date is summer 2010.The position oﬀers competitive
salary of $25,000 and beneﬁts.Applications should include a cover letter with a state-
ment of research interests and timing of availability,
a CV, and names and contact information for three
professional references. Please send your application
through e-mail to Loretta Johnson (Johnson@ksu.edu).
To ensure that your application is received, please in-
clude the following in the subject of your e-mail: Ap-
plication for Ecological Genomics Assistantship.
Kansas State University is located in the college town
of Manhattan (population ~45,000) in the Flint Hills
of eastern Kansas, about 2 hours away from Kansas
City. Kansas State University is an equal opportunity,
aﬃrmative action employer and actively seeks diversity
among its employees.
Dr. Loretta C. Johnson Associate Professor Divi-
sion of Biology Ackert Hall Rm 232 Kansas State
University Manhattan, KS 66506 USA email: john-
son@ksu.edu phone: 785-532-6921 FAX: 785-532-6653
http://www.ksu.edu/johnsonlab/ Learn about our
new Ecological Genomics research initiative and stu-
dent and post-doctoral training opportunities by vis-
iting our web page at http://ecogen.ksu.edu Loretta
Johnson <johnson@ksu.edu >
KansasStateU PlantEvolution
I am actually looking for a developmental biologist who
is taking diﬀerent angles to answer biological questions
- including evolutionary studies. We also plan to look
at the occurrence of steryl glucosides across species, al-
though I don’t mention it in the ad.
Kathrin
Ph.D. position in Plant Molecular Biology
The Schrick lab is seeking candidates to ﬁll a Ph.D.
studentship in the Division of Biology at Kansas State
University to begin in the Fall of 2010. We are study-
ing the role of plant sterols in growth and develop-
ment with an emphasis on metabolic regulatory net-
works. Our research is divided into two areas using
Arabidopsis and Pisum sativum as model systems. One
involves the study of candidate lipid/sterol-binding do-
mains that are found in homeodomain transcription fac-
tors. Their occurrence as a plant-speciﬁc domain ar-
rangement corresponds with the evolution of the land
plants, and this work includes comparative analysis
of genome data from diverse species. The other fo-
cus area is on the role of steryl glucosides in cellu-November 1, 2009 EvolDir 25
lose synthesis. Work in our laboratory is interdisci-
plinary, and will involve close interactions with the
Kansas Lipidomics Research Center as well as with
the Biotechnology/Proteomics Core Lab, Bioinformat-
ics Center, Integrated Genomics Facility, and Ecologi-
cal Genomics Institute at Kansas State University. For
more information on the Schrick lab see http://www.k-
state.edu/biology/faculty pages/schrick.html . Addi-
tional information on the Ph.D. program in Biology at
Kansas State University can be found at http://www.k-
state.edu/biology/graduate.html . Qualiﬁed applicants
should submit an email message (with $B!H(BPh.D.
position$B!I(B in the subject line) containing a cover
letter, academic transcript from relevant undergraduate
degree, and CV, including contact information for three
academic references, to kschrick@ksu.edu by November
30, 2009.
Kathrin Schrick Assistant Professor Plant Genomics &
Molecular Biology Division of Biology 116 Ackert Hall
Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506-4901
Tel (oﬃce): +1-785-532-6360 Tel (lab): +1-785-532-
7322 Fax: +1-785-532-6653 Email: kschrick@ksu.edu
http://www.k-state.edu/biology/faculty pages/-
schrick.html Kathrin Schrick <kschrick@ksu.edu >
LouisianStateU
AvianSpeciationGenetics
PhD Position Available in Speciation Genetics of
Streamer-tailed Hummingbirds in Jamaica We are seek-
ing an outstanding doctoral student to pursue a PhD
at the Museum of Natural Science and Department
of Biological Sciences at Louisiana State University.
The student would be co-advised by Robb Brumﬁeld
(Louisiana State University) and Gary Graves (Smith-
sonian Institution). The student’s doctoral dissertation
would use genomics tools and behavioral experiments
to elucidate the mechanisms maintaining reproductive
isolation between two species of Streamer- tailed Hum-
mingbirds that are endemic to Jamaica. The student
would receive support to conduct their research as well
as a teaching assistantship, research assistantship, or
curatorial assistantship. The ideal candidate would
have a M.S., with research experience in molecular ecol-
ogy, population genetics, and/or behavioral ecology, as
well as ﬁeld experience working with birds. Extensive
ﬁeldwork in Jamaica will be required for this position.
The selected student is expected to enroll in the Depart-ment of Biological Sciences at LSU for the Fall 2010
semester. Application materials will be accepted un-
til December 31, 2009 or until a suitable candidate is
found.
Please contact Robb Brumﬁeld (brumﬂd@lsu.edu) for
information
Robb Brumﬁeld, PhD Museum of Natural Science
& Department of Biological Sciences 119 Foster Hall
Louisiana State University Baton Rouge, LA 70803
Robb Brumﬁeld <brumﬂd@lsu.edu >
ManchesterU EvolutionaryBiol
PhD studentship in evolutionary biology / behavioural
ecology starting October 2010
Title: The eﬀects of genetic variation in the social en-
vironment on behavioural and life history
The social environment provided by family or group
members has been shown to be highly inﬂuential for
adult phenotypes and variation in individual ﬁtness,
particularly in early development. Recent research has
highlighted that the social environment is determined
by the genotypes of interacting individuals and can thus
respond to selection and evolve, yet, the signiﬁcance of
this is poorly understood. The aim of the project is
to investigate how important genetic variation in the
social environment is in determining phenotypic varia-
tion in both behavioural and life history traits. What is
the nature and the genetic basis of social interactions,
how do these interactions aﬀect complex traits such as
parental behaviour or sexually selected traits and how
do they diﬀer across taxa and why? The project will ad-
dress these unresolved issues using experimental work
in model (mice) and non-model organisms (insects e.g.
cockroaches and earwigs) combining behavioural, ge-
netical and statistical analyses. There is the opportu-
nity to develop own research projects in conjunction
with ongoing research in the tropics and to contribute
to teaching on ﬁeld courses.
Further Information This studentship is open to all na-
tionalities although no funding is available to cover the
higher tuition fees for non-EU applicants and EU appli-
cants from outside in the UK must have been resident in
the UK for purposes other than education for 3 or more
years to qualify for the living expenses stipend. Appli-
cants should have an excellent undergraduate record
and ideally some research experience. Further infor-26 EvolDir November 1, 2009
mation can be obtained by contacting Reinmar Hager
reinmar.hager@manchester.ac.uk
How to Apply Applications must be submitted
online and accompanied by a number of sup-
porting documents by 7 December 2009: http:/-
/www.ls.manchester.ac.uk/postgraduate/ukoreu/-
research/apply/ AND send an email to open-
day.lifesciences@manchester.ac.uk expressing your
interest in attending the external admissions day on 7
January 2010.
Reinmar Hager <reinmar.hager@cantab.net >
MaxPlanckInst Jena
InsectBacteriaSymbioses
Open PhD Positions in the Insect Symbiosis Research
Group at the Max Planck Institute for Chemical Ecol-
ogy in Jena, Germany
The Insect Symbiosis Research Group at the
Max Planck Institute for Chemical Ecology in
Jena, Germany ( http://www.ice.mpg.de/snwg/home/-
home en.htm ), will be established by the end of this
year to study the evolution and chemical ecology of
insect-bacteria symbioses. Two PhD positions are avail-
able from January 2010 for an initial period of two years
with a prospective third year extension.
PhD Studentship - Molecular ecology of a defensive
insect-bacteria symbiosis Solitary digger wasps of the
genus Philanthus cultivate Streptomyces bacteria that
protect the wasp oﬀspring against pathogen infestation
by producing antibiotics. One PhD position is available
to study the dynamics of antibiotic production and to
identify the genes involved. We are seeking a highly mo-
tivated candidate with strong communication and ex-
cellent organizational skills who can operate in an inter-
disciplinary research environment. The successful can-
didate should have a strong background in evolutionary
biology, genetics and/or molecular biology. Experience
with basic molecular techniques (PCR, cloning, analysis
of sequence data) is required, more advanced techniques
(FISH, qPCR, rt-PCR, rt-qPCR) and basic program-
ming skills (Perl) are advantageous. Applicants should
have an excellent Diploma degree or M.Sc. in evolu-
tionary biology, biochemistry or molecular biology.
PhD Studentship - Nutritional interactions between
insects and actinomycete bacteria Many insects re-
quire symbiotic bacteria for their nutrition. Most ofthese symbionts belong to the gamma-proteobacteria.
The red soldier bug (Pyrrhocoris apterus, Hemiptera,
Pyrrhocoridae) represents one of the few cases in which
an actinobacterium is found as a symbiont in the
midgut of an insect. A PhD position is available to
study the molecular basis and the speciﬁcity of the sym-
biosis. The successful candidate should have a strong
background in biochemistry, entomology and/or molec-
ular biology in addition to a strong motivation and in-
terest for research projects in the evolution and ecology
of insect-bacteria interactions. Experience with molec-
ular techniques (PCR, FISH, sequencing) is a plus. Ap-
plicants should have an excellent Diploma degree or
M.Sc. in biochemistry, molecular biology or entomol-
ogy.
The Max Planck Institute is an equal-opportunity em-
ployer and especially encourages women to apply. Ap-
plications from handicapped persons will be favored
when all other qualiﬁcations are equal.
Please send your applications (including cover letter
with statement of purpose and previous research ex-
perience, CV, and contact information for 2 referees)
until October 31, 2009 to:
Dr. Martin Kaltenpoth Zoological Institute Univer-
sity of Regensburg Universit¨ atsstr. 31 93053 Regens-
burg Germany Email: martin.kaltenpoth@biologie.uni-
regensburg.de
Dr. Martin Kaltenpoth University of Regensburg
Department of Zoology 93040 Regensburg Germany
phone: +49-941-943-3057 fax: +49-941-943-3325
email: martin.kaltenpoth@biologie.uni-regensburg.de
http://www.biologie.uni-regensburg.de/Zoologie/-
Strohm/martin kaltenpoth Martin Kaltenpoth
<Martin.Kaltenpoth@biologie.uni-regensburg.de >
MichiganStateU EvolGeneticsDevel
Four PhD Studentships in Evolutionary Genetics and
Integrative Developmental Biology, Michigan State
University, USA.
Four graduate positions in evolutionary genet-
ics/developmental biology are available in the labora-
tories of Dr. Alex Shingleton and Dr. Ian Dworkin in
the Department of Zoology and Program in Ecology,
Evolutionary Biology and Behavior at Michigan State
University. The positions are funded as part of three
NSF grants working at the interface of evolution, devel-November 1, 2009 EvolDir 27
opment and genetics. The Shingleton and Dworkin lab-
oratories work closely together and employ molecular,
genetic, genomic, physiological and behavioral methods
to address their research questions, using Drosophila
as a model organism. More details on the research
being conducted in the laboratories are available at
www.msu.ed/ ˜ shingle9 and www.msu.edu/ ~idworkin.
Students will be immersed in an integrative and col-
laborative research environment within the diverse and
dynamic life-science community at Michigan State Uni-
versity.
Potential projects for graduate students include:
1) Uncovering the molecular and developmental regu-
lation of morphological scaling relationships. Previous
research in the Shingleton lab has identiﬁed the insulin-
signaling pathway as being diﬀerently regulated in or-
gans that diﬀer in their scaling relationship with body
size. The goal of the project is to elucidate the molec-
ular basis for this diﬀerential regulation.
2) Exploring the evolution of wing-body scaling in
Drosophila populations. This project involves applying
artiﬁcial selection on scaling relationships in Drosophila
and elucidating the genetic and developmental basis for
the selection response.
3) Examining the role of conditional and pleiotropic ge-
netic eﬀects in the evolutionary process, and mapping
genetic modiﬁers that contribute to these eﬀects. Pre-
vious work (Dworkin et al. 2009) demonstrated that a
genetic modiﬁer of the allelic eﬀects of a mutant results
in profound diﬀerence in phenotypes. The student will
ﬁne map the genetic modiﬁer and examine its potential
pleiotropic contributions in natural populations.
4) Explore the eﬀects of diﬀerent genetic backgrounds
on gene interactions and ordering of allelic series for mu-
tations that aﬀect wing development and shape. This
work will examine the eﬀects of a series of mutations in
diﬀerent “wild-type” genetic backgrounds, across sev-
eral rearing environments (manipulations of diet and
temperature).
The projects will suit students with an interest in evo-
lutionary genetics and/or integrative developmental bi-
ology. The ideal candidate should have good general
laboratory skills, with a ﬁrm grasp of basic statistical
methods.
Michigan State University is a large land-grant institu-
tion with an outstanding faculty and inter-disciplinary
programs at the departmental and university levels. In-
terested applicants are encouraged to review additional
background on faculty and graduate programs in Zool-
ogy ( http://www.zoology.msu.edu ), and in the Ecology,
Evolutionary Biology and Behavior (EEBB) program(https://www.msu.edu/˜eebb ).
Applicants should submit a statement of interest, a
CV, GRE scores and their cumulative GPA along with
names and contact information of three references (ev-
erything as one PDF document) to shingle9@msu.edu.
Applications will be accepted until the positions are
ﬁlled. The start date is September 2010, although ap-
plicants who wish to start sooner should also apply.
shingle9@msu.edu shingle9@msu.edu
MichiganStateU
GeneExpressionEvolution
PhD assistantships - Experimental design and statisti-
cal analysis of transcriptional proﬁling experiments.
Statistical Genomics Laboratory, Departments of Ani-
mal Science and Fisheries and Wildlife, Michigan State
University.
We are looking for students to join our group and work
towards a doctoral degree while collaborating with an
interdisciplinary group that includes Statisticians, Im-
munologists, Molecular Biologists, Physiologists and
Animal Breeders.
Empirical data from gene expression experiments will
be available for such studies, including oligonucleotide
microarray and high throughput quantitative PCR
studies. The students’ work will consist of develop-
ment and adaptation of statistical methods to answer
current questions in functional genomics and genetical
genomics of livestock and wildlife species.
Qualiﬁcations: Candidates should be highly motivated
and have an interest in molecular and statistical ge-
netics/genomics. Ability to eﬀectively communicate
in English is essential. A MSc degree or equivalent
in Statistics, Biostatistics, Animal Breeding or similar
ﬁeld is strongly preferred. Exceptional candidates with-
out a MSc degree, but who have completed substantial
coursework in calculus, algebra and statistics will be
considered as well. Experience with programming in
R, C++ and/or Fortran, a plus.
Tentative dissertation topics: 1) Adaptation and appli-
cation of conditionally heteroskedastic hierarchical lin-
ear models to the analysis of gene expression data. 2)
Development of computationally eﬃcient tools based
on statistically powerful models for high-throughput
analysis of gene expression. 3) Designs and models ex-28 EvolDir November 1, 2009
ploiting selective phenotyping in transcriptional proﬁl-
ing studies.
Available projects/datasets: 1) Diﬀerential expression
of genes and pathways in response to Porcine Repro-
ductive and Respiratory Syndrome Virus infection. 2)
Diﬀerential gene expression in Sea Lamprey throughout
its complex life history and in response to pheromone
stimulation. 3) eQTL mapping in crosses of outbred
pig populations.
Contact: Dr. Juan P. Steibel, steibel
–
Juan Pedro Steibel
Assistant Professor Statistical Genetics and Genomics
Department of Animal Science & Department of Fish-
eries and Wildlife
Michigan State University 1205-I Anthony Hall East
Lansing, MI 48824 USA
Phone: 1-517-353-5102 E-mail: steibelj@msu.edu
Juan Pedro Steibel <steibelj@msu.edu >
NorthCarolinaStateU
EvolutionaryEcology
Available Graduate Positions in Evolutionary Ecology
The Langerhans Lab at North Carolina State Uni-
versity is looking for exceptional and enthusiastic
Ph.D. students, and anticipates accepting approxi-
mately two new students starting fall 2010. While
the lab primarily accepts Ph.D. students, exceptional
students wishing to pursue a M.S. will also be con-
sidered. Additional information for prospective stu-
dents can be found here: http://faculty-staﬀ.ou.edu/-
L/Randall.B.Langerhans-1/labopps.html . Research in
the Langerhans Lab investigates a wide range of ques-
tions in evolutionary ecology, with empirical work fo-
cusing on aquatic systems (e.g., ﬁshes, amphibians)
and lizards. Due to this breadth of interests, gradu-
ate students can pursue a variety of research trajecto-
ries. Examples of ongoing research interests in the lab
include: evolutionary consequences of anthropogenic
impacts, ecological speciation, morphological and loco-
motor evolution, predictability of phenotypic evolution,
functional morphology of locomotion, predator-prey co-
evolution, genital evolution in livebearing ﬁshes, phylo-
geography, phenotypic plasticity, adaptive constraintsof gene ﬂow, sensory bias, evolution of sexual dimor-
phism, and links between locomotor, feeding, and life
history evolution.
North Carolina State University is located in Raleigh,
North Carolina’s state capital. The campus is home to
a vibrant research community, and immersed within a
thriving area for ecology and evolutionary biology re-
search (e.g., within a 30-minute drive of Duke Univer-
sity, UNC Chapel Hill, the National Evolutionary Syn-
thesis Center). The city is further conveniently located
approximately 2 hours from both the ocean and the
mountains.
If you are interested in joining the lab, please con-
tact Dr. Brian Langerhans (langerhans@ncsu.edu)
and provide a short description of your research in-
terests and accomplishments, CV (including GPA
and GRE scores), and contact information for three
references. For those subsequently encouraged to
apply, information on the application process can
be found here: http://harvest.cals.ncsu.edu/biology/-
index.cfm?pageID=951 . More information on re-
search in the lab can be found at: http://faculty-
staﬀ.ou.edu/L/Randall.B.Langerhans-1/ More infor-
mation on the Department of Biology at NCSU can
be found at: http://harvest.cals.ncsu.edu/biology/
langerhans@ncsu.edu langerhans@ncsu.edu
OklahomaStateUniversity
PlantSystematics
PhD position: Plant Systematics, Department of
Botany, Oklahoma State University
A PhD position is available to apply genomic ap-
proaches to plant systematics in the laboratory of Dr.
Mark Fishbein at Oklahoma State University. This is
an NSF-funded collaborative project with Dr. Aaron
Liston and Dr. Richard Cronn at Oregon State Uni-
versity. The position involves sequencing the complete
genome of Asclepias syriaca (milkweed) and chloroplast
genomes from ca. 150 species of Asclepias and rela-
tives. Research will involve ﬁeld collecting plant sam-
ples, laboratory preparation of sequencing templates for
the Illumina platform, and phylogenetic analysis. Op-
portunities exist for participation in genome assembly
and annotation, and the development of an indepen-
dent project in the area of genome analysis. A B.S. de-
gree in Botany, Biology, Bioinformatics, or Computer
Science is required; a M.S. degree with specializationNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 29
in phylogenetics, plant taxonomy, or bioinformatics is
desirable.
The position can be ﬁlled as early as January 2010
and is funded by a combination of research and teach-
ing assistantships. The Oklahoma State University
Botany Department ( http://botany.okstate.edu ) has a
core strength in plant systematics and evolution cou-
pled with active collaborations in the areas of system-
atics and molecular biology across many departments,
including Zoology, Plant and Soil Sciences, Biochem-
istry and Molecular Biology, and Microbiology and
Molecular Genetics, among others. Research is sup-
ported by state-of-art core facilities in the areas of Re-
combinant DNA/Protein Resources and Bioinformat-
ics, among many others.
To apply for this position, please email a cover
letter, curriculum vitae, unoﬃcial course tran-
script, and contact information for two references to
mark.ﬁshbein@okstate.edu
Mark Fishbein Oklahoma State University Department
of Botany 104 Life Sciences East Stillwater, OK 74074
USA
ph: +1-405-744-4757 fax: +1-405-744-7074
http://ﬁshbein.okstate.edu mark.ﬁshbein@okstate.edu
mark.ﬁshbein@okstate.edu
RutgersU TrichopteraPhylogenetics
Graduate Assistantship in Trichoptera Phylogenetics
Karl Kjer has a graduate assistantship (G.A.) posi-
tion available at Rutgers University, associated with
an NSF-funded project on Trichoptera phylogenetics.
Position includes health insurance and a stipend of ap-
proximately $25,000/year, funded for two years as a
G.A. on the grant, and then as a T.A. afterward. Rut-
gers is a large research university in New Jersey, be-
tween New York City, and Philadelphia. Please E-mail
me for details. kjer@aesop.rutgers.edu. I will send you
a copy of the grant and we can discuss possible projects.
Applications to Rutgers should be completed by Febru-
ary, 2010, but prior contact by E-mail is highly rec-
ommended. Rutgers requires competitive GRE scores
(if you are unfamiliar with the GRE exam, please ask
about it in your E-mail). I am looking for talent, drive
and initiative, but all these qualities can come from
a variety of disciplines. For example, experience with
Trichoptera is an asset; I can teach you the molecularpart. Or experience with molecular systematics is an
asset; I can teach you about Trichoptera. Bioinformat-
ics, Mathematics, programming skills are all relevant.
In other words, I am not looking for any ONE set of
skills, but I AM looking for skills. The successful appli-
cant must be able to demonstrate some prior interest
in systematics or evolutionary studies, broadly deﬁned.
My website is at http://www.mosquito.rutgers.edu/-
kjer.htm kjer@AESOP.Rutgers.edu
StockholmU AncientDNA
STOCKHOLM UNIVERSITY announces a PhD posi-
tion in Systematics and Evolution (ancient DNA) at the
Department of Zoology, Stockholm University (placed
at the Molecular Systematics Laboratory, the Swedish
Museum of Natural History).
Project title: Population turnover and range dynamics
during the last Ice Age
Final date for applications: November 20, 2009
Project description: The aim of this PhD project is to
investigate the degree of population turnover and range
ﬂuctuation during the Late Pleistocene, and to evaluate
to what extent these processes are related to the envi-
ronmental changes that occurred during this dynamic
period. This will be done through genetic analyses on
fossils up to 50 000 years old. The resulting genetic
data will be integrated with information on past dis-
tributions and climate through back-casted species dis-
tribution models. In addition, molecular analyses on
faeces as well as permafrost sediments will be used to
assess changes in diet through time and across space.
Potential model species for the project include collared
lemming, reindeer and arctic fox. Speciﬁc topics that
will be examined in the project comprise i) the tim-
ing of extinctions and demographic change in relation
to past environmental change, ii) to what extent lo-
cal populations tracked changes in habitat availability
when faced with climate change, and iii) how changes
in plant diversity aﬀected herbivore diet through time.
The long-term aim of the project is to provide increased
knowledge on how habitat change drives the speciation
and extinction processes and, on a more practical level,
to increase the accuracy of models used to forecast the
impact of future climate change on biodiversity. The
project will be done within the ancient DNA research
group at the Molecular Systematics Laboratory (MSL)
in the Swedish Museum of Natural History. A part30 EvolDir November 1, 2009
of the research carried out by the PhD student will
be done within the cross-disciplinary research network
CLIMIGRATE, funded by the European Union’s FP7
ERA-NET program BiodivERsA. The PhD degree will
be awarded in Systematics and Evolution at the De-
partment of Zoology. Dr. Love Dal´ en at the Swedish
Museum of Natural History (MSL) will be the main
supervisor.
Qualiﬁcations: To be qualiﬁed for research studies the
applicant must have completed a research degree (e.g.
Master’s), or have passed at least 120 hp (2 years) of
biological studies, including an approved independent
project of at least 30 hp at advanced level (“exam-
ensarbete”) within systematics and evolution, ecology,
population genetics or a similar subject. Applicants
who have in principle acquired the corresponding com-
petence in Sweden or abroad, are also qualiﬁed.
Criteria for selection: Among qualiﬁed applicants, se-
lection is made according to the ability to proﬁt from
the studies. The criteria to be used are the appli-
cant’s documented knowledge in subjects of relevance
for the research area, ability to master language (in-
cluding both spoken and written English), analytical
ability, creativity, initiative, independence and ability
to cooperate. The basis for judgement of how well the
applicant fulﬁls these criteria is: the relevance of earlier
studies for the research area, grades on courses at the
university level, the quality of the independent project
(master thesis or “examensarbete”), references, inter-
views and the applicant’s letter of intent. Previous
experience in practical genetic analyses is highly de-
sirable, and knowledge in ecology, population genetics,
past climates and environments, and ecological mod-
elling are considered as additional qualiﬁcations.
To be included in the application: Maximum one A4-
page of personal presentation and your reasons for ap-
plying (letter of intent). Curriculum vitae. Copy of
independent project report (master thesis or “examen-
sarbete”). Copy of degree certiﬁcates and transcripts
of academic records (all attested). Also provide a list
of two persons who may act as references (with phone
numbers and e-mail addresses). Provide two copies of
all documents and the thesis. To be considered, the ap-
plication labelled “PhD ref.no. 02/09 LDII” must have
arrived at the address below by November 20, 2009.
Address to which the application should be sent: Stock-
holms universitet Prefekten Zoologiska institutionen
106 91 Stockholm Sweden
Terms of employment: The research education com-
prises 48 months at full time. The position is ﬁnanced
by a fellowship (“utbildningsbidrag”) for the ﬁrst years,
and then continues with PhD-employment until the endof the PhD-program. Up to 20% of teaching may be
included in the position. (If teaching is included, the
position will be extended).
Union representatives: Bo Ekengren SACO Lisbeth
H¨ aggberg ST Gunnar Stenberg SEKO. Phone: + 46
(0)8 16 20 00. PhD student representative e-mail:
do@sus.su.se
For further information about the project, contact:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
StockholmU
InsectHostPlantPreference
STOCKHOLM UNIVERSITY announces a PhD PO-
SITION IN ANIMAL ECOLOGY at the Department
of Zoology, Stockholm University.
Project title: Evolutionary and mechanistic aspects of
insect host plant preference.
Final date for applications: November 20, 2009
Project description: The aim of this PhD project is to
investigate the evolutionary and mechanistic causes of
insect host plant preference. Host preference in insects
is a complex behavioural process where several sensory
modalities interact to produce a series of decisions that
ultimately decides whether a particular plant should be
accepted as a host or not. The project will initially fo-
cus on the butterﬂy Polygonia c-album, which has been
the subject of a long series of host plant-related studies
from the butterﬂy lab at the Department of Zoology.
These studies - ranging from genetics to phylogenetics
- oﬀer a rich context of background knowledge for the
present doctoral project.
In butterﬂies and many other plant-feeding insects the
choice of oviposition site largely determines the feed-
ing site of the oﬀspring, since the ability of the newly
hatched larva to move to another host is very limited.
This means that this choice is also to a large extent
determining the actual host range (host speciﬁcity) of
the insect - a feature that has been shown to inﬂuence
both host shifts and speciation rates in butterﬂies.
In spite of the paramount importance of host plant pref-
erence, we know disturbingly little about the actualNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 31
mechanisms behind host plant choice, and this project
is intended to elucidate how diﬀerent behavioural se-
quences and sensory modalities interact at diﬀerent lev-
els of resolution to produce the ﬁnal choice.
Most of the project will be carried out in the butterﬂy
lab of the Department of Zoology, or at the Tovetorp
Research Station and will mainly consist of behavioural
essays of adult and larval responses to diﬀerent plant-
related cues.
The PhD degree will be awarded in Animal Ecology at
the Department of Zoology. Dr. Niklas Janz at the
Department of Zoology will be the main supervisor.
Qualiﬁcations: To be qualiﬁed for research studies the
applicant must have completed a research degree (e.g.
Master’s), or have passed at least 120 hp (2 years) of
biological studies, including an approved independent
project of at least 30 hp at advanced level (“examensar-
bete”) within ecology or ethology. Applicants who have
in principle acquired the corresponding competence in
Sweden or abroad, are also qualiﬁed.
Criteria for selection: Among qualiﬁed applicants, se-
lection is made according to the ability to proﬁt from
the studies. The criteria to be used are the appli-
cant’s documented knowledge in subjects of relevance
for the research area, ability to master language (in-
cluding both spoken and written English), analytical
ability, creativity, initiative, independence and ability
to cooperate. The basis for judgementof how well the
applicant fulﬁls these criteria is: the relevance of earlier
studies for the research area, grades on courses at the
university level, the quality of the independent project
(master thesis or “examensarbete”), references, inter-
views and the applicant’s letter of intent. Previous ex-
perience in experimental behavioural ecology or ethol-
ogy is highly desirable.
To be included in the application: Maximum one A4-
page of personal presentation and your reasons for ap-
plying (letter of intent). Curriculum vitae. Copy of
independent project report (master thesis or “examen-
sarbete”). Copy of degree certiﬁcates and transcripts
of academic records (all attested). Also provide a list
of two persons who may act as references (with phone
numbers and e-mail addresses). Provide two copies of
all documents and the thesis. To be considered, the ap-
plication labelled “PhD ref.no. 02/09 NJ” must have
arrived at the address below by November 20, 2009.
Address to which the application should be sent: Stock-
holms universitet Prefekten Zoologiska institutionen
106 91 Stockholm Sweden
Terms of employment: The research education com-
prises 48 months at full time. The position is ﬁnancedby a fellowship (“utbildningsbidrag”) for the ﬁrst years,
and then continues with PhD- employment until the
end of the PhD- program. Up to 20% of teaching may
be included in the position. (If teaching is included, the
position will be extended).
Union representatives: Bo Ekengren SACO, Lisbeth
H¨ aggberg ST, and Gunnar Stenberg SEKO. Phone: +
46 (0)8 16 20 00. PhD student representative e-mail:
do@sus.su.se
For further information about the project, contact: As-
sistant professor Niklas Janz + 46 (0)8 16 4048 e-mail:
niklas.janz@zoologi.su.se
Further information on the web: Stockholm Univer-
sity: www.su.se Lab home page: www.zoologi.su.se/-
research/ihp/
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UAdelaide Biodiversity
Postgraduate Opportunities In Environmental Ge-
nomics, Adelaide, Australia
Projects in Forensics, Water, Health, Conservation Bi-
ology, Antarctic biodiversity.
Six PhD projects are available in the ﬁeld of Environ-
mental Genomics, at the University of Adelaide starting
in early 2010, working on an ARC LINKAGE funded
project at the Australian Centre for Ancient DNA
(http://www.adelaide.edu.au/acad/ ). Each project fo-
cuses on the application of targeted metagenomic as-
says to perform rapid biodiversity and taxonomy as-
sessment on complex biological samples in the following
ﬁelds;
Project 1) Forensics: Using the genetic content of soil
samples to predict crime scene/source areas. Focus-
ing on invertebrate, plant and animal signals. Project
partners - Australian Federal Police
Project 2) Water Quality: Analysing the biodiversity of
standard, desalinated and recycled/re-used water sys-
tems, focusing on the detection and identiﬁcation of
novel pathogens. Project partners - SA Water
Project 3) Mining/Conservation biology: Using envi-32 EvolDir November 1, 2009
ronmental genomic methods to rapidly analyse plant,
animal and invertebrate taxonomic biodiversity in soil
samples from survey sites across South Australia.
Project partner - Primary Industries Research South
Australia, and Department of Environment and Her-
itage, SA
Project 4) Health: Developing metagenomic methods
to detect and monitor known and novel pathogens in
medical systems, focusing on point of care. Project
partner - SA Pathology Project 5) Antarctic biodiver-
sity: Using environmental genomic approaches to anal-
yse the biodiversity of Antarctic invertebrates using
existing and ﬁeld collected samples. Project partner:
South Australian Museum
Project 6) Bioinformatics: Designing, programming
and implementing software plug-ins for GENEIOUS,
to allow the interface between environmental metage-
nomic data and end-users, including conservation, wa-
ter and health managers. Project partners - Biomat-
ters, NZ (producers of GENEIOUS)
The PhD projects are available to Australian and NZ
citizens/permanent residents with a 1st class Honours
degree. Applicants will also be encouraged to apply for
Australian postgraduate awards (due Oct 31st) where
applicable, refer to this website for the application
process http://www.adelaide.edu.au/graduatecentre/-
scholarships/postgrad/pgresearch/apa.html . Interna-
tional students are also invited to apply, although
international course fees are likely to be applica-
ble. Other PhD projects are also available at ACAD
-http://www.adelaide.edu.au/acad/ .Please contact
Maria Lekis (maria.lekis@adelaide.edu.au) or Prof.
Alan Cooper (alan.cooper@adelaide.edu.au) for further
details.
–
Prof. Alan Cooper, Federation Fellow
Darling Blg (DP 418), Rm 209b University of Adelaide
North Terrace Campus South Australia 5005 Australia
Email: alan.cooper@adelaide.edu.au Ph: 61-8 -8303-
5950/3952 Fax: 61-8-8303 4364
http://www.ees.adelaide.edu.au/acad/
alan.cooper@adelaide.edu.au
UAdelaide EvolutionaryBiol
Subject line: Ph D scholarships in Evolutionary Biol-ogy - Adelaide, Australia
PH.D Scholarships in Evolutionary Biology - University
of Adelaide
$20 427 per annum tax-free: closing date 31 October.
Australian Postgraduate Awards (APA’s) are available
to Australian residents with a First Class Honours re-
sult or equivalent (e.g. publications), to support their
study towards a Higher Degree by Research. Value:
approximately $20,427 per annum (2009 rate), tax free
for up to 3 years (indexed annually), possible extension
for up to six months. The awards are allocated as part
of the Major Round of applications.
There are also Divisional Scholarships as well as the
APA’s: if an applicant is eligible to enrol, and has a
project and agreed supervisor, a Divisional Scholarship
is likely to be awarded.
See this site for information on how to apply and the
application forms
http://www.adelaide.edu.au/graduatecentre/-
scholarships/postgrad/pgresearch/apa.html See these
sites for information on some potential supervisors:
http://www.adelaide.edu.au/environment/acebb/-
projects/evomol.html http://www.adelaide.edu.au/-
environment/acebb/projects/vertebrates.html Re-
gards,
Michael Lee
Michael Lee <michael.s.lee@adelaide.edu.au >
UArizona EvolutionaryBiol
PhD Studentships in Evolutionary Biology, University
of Arizona
Two NSF-funded graduate positions are available
in the laboratory of Dr Alex Badyaev http://-
www.u.arizona.edu/ ˜ abadyaev in the Department of
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the University of
Arizona.
The ﬁrst project addresses the developmental and ge-
netic basis of convergence in local adaptations across re-
cently established bird populations along northern Con-
tinental Divide of North America. The project com-
bines landscape ecology, population genetics and molec-
ular biology approaches and requires extensive and pro-
longed ﬁeldwork in some of the most remote (and most
beautiful) places in the northwest.November 1, 2009 EvolDir 33
The second project addresses evolution and diversiﬁ-
cation of biochemical pathways for synthesis of diet-
derived pigmentation in animals and requires interest in
either microbiology or biochemistry, and a good grasp
of basic statistical methods.
Students are expected to design their own doctoral
projects under these general umbrellas. For more infor-
mation and to apply, please contact Dr Alex Badyaev
(abadyaev@email.arizona.edu) by 25 November 2009.
Both positions start in August 2010, but an earlier start
for ﬁeld and lab work is available.
abadyaev@email.arizona.edu
abadyaev@email.arizona.edu
UBergen 2 SystematicBotany
2 PhD fellowships in systematic Botany available at
University of Bergen - Museum of Natural History.
See web page for full instructions on how to ap-
ply: http://www.jobbnorge.no/job.aspx?jobid=61843
http://www.jobbnorge.no/job.aspx?jobid=61844 1.
PhD fellowship in Lichenology (Systematic Botany)
Apply: http://www.jobbnorge.no/job.aspx?jobid=-
61843 Closing date for application: 31.10.2009 Refer-
ence number: 09/11885
Applicants must hold a master-/cand. scient.-degree or
equivalent in botanical systematics/taxonomy, prefer-
ably in the ﬁeld of lichenology. The master’s degree
must be completed by the application deadline. Can-
didates with experience with morphological and molec-
ular systematics will be preferred. The research fellow
must take part in the University’s approved PhD pro-
gram leading to the degree within a time limit of 3
years. Hence, applicants must meet the formal admis-
sion requirements for the PhD program. A description
of the proposed research project and a progress plan
for the doctoral studies will be elaborated with the sci-
entiﬁc group. The principal supervisor for the project
must be a scientist with a permanent position at Mu-
seum of Natural History. In total, the fellowship period
is 4 years. For positions with 4-year duration, 25 % of
the period will consist of duties at Museum of Natu-
ral History. The length of the fellowship period may
be reduced if the successful applicant has held previous
research fellow employments.
Starting salaries at salary level 45 (code 1017) on
the government salary scale (corresponding to NOK355.600 per year), following ordinary meriting regula-
tions (wage levels 45-51).
Additional information on the position is obtainable
from Professor Tor Tønsberg, phone +47 55 58 33 33,
e-mail: tor.tonsberg@bm.uib.no.
2. PhD fellowship in Systematic Botany
Apply: http://www.jobbnorge.no/job.aspx?jobid=-
61844 Closing date for application: 31.10.2009 Refer-
ence number: 09/11888
Applicants must hold a master-/cand.scient.-degree in
botanical systematics/taxonomy, or equivalent. The
master’s degree must be completed by the application
deadline. Candidates with experience with morpholog-
ical and molecular systematics will be preferred. The
Arboretum and Botanical garden at Milde has large
living collections of plants that are aimed for research.
Research on the systematics of the Rose family is one
of the main focuses at the Arboretum, and the research
fellow will take part in this research. A main aim will
be to resolve the evolutionary relationship of the genus
Sorbus.
The research fellows must take part in the University’s
approved PhD program leading to the degree within a
time limit of 3 years. Hence, applicants must meet the
formal admission requirements for the PhD program.
A description of the proposed research project and a
progress plan for the doctoral studies will be elaborated
with the scientiﬁc group. The principal supervisor for
the project must be a scientist with a permanent po-
sition at Museum of Natural History. In total, the fel-
lowship period is 4 years. For positions with 4-year
duration, 25 pct of the period will consist of duties at
the Arboretum and Botanical garden. The length of
the fellowship period may be reduced if the successful
applicant has held previous employment as a research
fellow.
Starting salaries at salary level 45 (code 1017) on
the government salary scale (corresponding to NOK
355.600 per year, following ordinary meriting regula-
tions (wage levels 45-51).
Additional information on the position is obtain-
able from associate professor Heidi Lie Andersen,
phone +47 55 58 33 20/+47 55 98 72 57, e-mail:
Heidi.Andersen@bm.uib.no.
Bjarte Henry Jordal <Bjarte.Jordal@zmb.uib.no >34 EvolDir November 1, 2009
UBern BeetleEvolution
Other: Master Thesis Project for the Study of Sociality
and Mutualism in Ambrosia Beetles
We search for highly motivated students to join a study
on haplodiploid Ambrosia beetles showing cooperative
breeding and fungus gardening. Depending on inter-
est, there are several potential projects to choose from
in order to study the ecology, behaviour and microbial
interactions of ambrosia beetles. Experiments will be
performed in the ﬁeld and laboratory, and questions to
be studied include “The functional signiﬁcance of dif-
ferent cooperative behaviours performed by larvae and
adult female helpers”, “The conditions inﬂuencing dis-
persal”, “Interactions among beetles, fungi and bacteria
within their galleries”, and “Male outbreeding tactics”,
among others. The study will be located at the Uni-
versity of Bern, Switzerland, and involve collaborations
with diﬀerent laboratories in Europe and North Amer-
ica.
Competitive funding is available by the University
Bern for excellent international students See appli-
cation: http://www.int.unibe.ch/content/incoming/-
master grant/index eng.html For details about po-
tential projects and a description of the species
see our homepage http://behav.zoology.unibe.ch/-
index.php?pp=55&pF Master projects can start any
time but the application deadline for the University of
Bern Master grants for 2010/11 is 18 December 2009.
Interested? Please contact:
Peter Biedermann, MSc pe-
terbiederm@students.unibe.ch
<mailto:peterbiederm@students.unibe.ch >
Michael Taborsky, Prof michael.taborsky@iee.unibe.ch
<mailto:michael.taborsky@iee.unibe.ch >
Peter Biedermann <peterbiederm@students.unibe.ch >
UBern PopulationGenomics
PhD position in Population Genomics
The CMPG lab ( http://cmpg.iee.unibe.ch ) is lookingfor a highly motivated student to work with Laurent
Excoﬃer and Matthieu Foll on the joint estimation of
selective and demographic processes having occurred in
the recent history of populations.
These investigations will be done by a combination of
theoretical and computational approaches. It will in-
volve the simulation of selective processes in a spatially
explicit and heterogeneous environment. These simu-
lations should be integrated into an inferential frame-
work (e.g. Approximate Bayesian Computations) with
the aim of detecting loci responsible for adaptations to
speciﬁc environments and measuring selective pressures
from genomic data, including next generation sequenc-
ing data in humans and voles.
The successful applicant should have a Masters in Bi-
ology, Bioinformatics, or Statistics, and some previous
experience in population genetics, statistics and pro-
gramming (e.g. in C/C++, Java, or R).
Post-graduate teaching and seminars are held in En-
glish in the Institute of Ecology and Evolution, and it
is also the working language in the CMPG lab. No-
tions of German or French could be helpful but not ab-
solutely necessary for daily life. The CMPG lab is well
equipped with computational tools including a 64 node
Linux cluster, and access to the much larger Ubelix
cluster of the University (1000+ CPUs). Our lab is also
aﬃliated to the doctoral program in Ecology and Evo-
lution ( http://www.unil.ch/ee ), the Swiss NSF ProDoc
program in Population Genomics, and the Swiss Insti-
tute of Bioinformatics ( http://www.isb-sib.ch ), which
all provide access to stimulating and helpful doctoral
training and courses (held in English).
The position is open until ﬁlled, and could start, for a
minimum of 3 years, earliest on 1st January 2010. Gross
salary follows the UniBE scale and is around 40,000
CHF (about 25,000 ) per year.
Applicants should send (before December 1st 2009)
within a single pdf ﬁle, a motivation letter with names
and emails of two referees, a CV, and a publication list
to laurent.excoﬃer@iee.unibe.ch
The city of Bern is listed among those oﬀering the best
quality of life in the world, and it is listed as a UNESCO
world heritage site. The Swiss capital has a broad range
of cultural activities, and is well connected to major
Swiss and European cities. It is conveniently located
near the Swiss Alps, oﬀering a wide range of outdoor
activities. Rents remain very aﬀordable and there is
a vast choice of accommodation. More information is
available on http://www.berninfo.com/en . Relevant
CMPG publications on this topic include:
Currat M, Excoﬃer L, Maddison W, et al. (2006) Com-November 1, 2009 EvolDir 35
ment on “Ongoing adaptive evolution of ASPM, a brain
size determinant in Homo sapiens” and “Microcephalin,
a gene regulating brain size, continues to evolve adap-
tively in humans”. Science 313, 172. Fagundes NJ, Ray
N, Beaumont M, et al. (2007) Statistical evaluation of
alternative models of human evolution. Proc Natl Acad
Sci U S A 104, 17614-17619. Excoﬃer L, Foll M, Petit
RJ (2009) Genetic Consequences of Range Expansions.
Annual Review in Ecology, Evolution, and Systematics
40.481-501 Excoﬃer L, Hofer T, Foll M (2009) Detect-
ing loci under selection in a hierarchically structured
population. Heredity.
Deadline for application is December 1st 2009
– Laurent Excoﬃer
Computational and Molecular Population Genetics
(CMPG) Institute of Ecology and Evolution, Univer-
sity of Bern 6, Baltzerstrasse, CH-3012 Bern, Switzer-
land Tel: +41 31 631 30 31 Fax: +41 31 631
48 88 Email (NEW): laurent.excoﬃer@iee.unibe.ch
http://cmpg.unibe.ch/people/excoﬃer.htm Compu-
tational Population Genetics Swiss Institute of
Bioinformatics (SIB) http://www.isb-sib.ch/groups/-
Computational Population Genetics.htm Laurent Ex-
coﬃer <laurent.excoﬃer@iee.unibe.ch >
UBuﬀalo
AngiospermGenomeEvolution
Graduate Research Assistantship - Basal Angiosperms
Research Assistantship, *pending funding*, 2 years, to
study genome evolution in basal angiosperms. Good
molecular biology background required, and hands-on
experience with advanced microscopy, FISH (Fluores-
cence In Situ Hybridization) or other in situ methods
*strongly* preferred. Interested persons should contact
Prof. Victor A. Albert (vaalbertbuﬀalo.edu; http:/-
/biology.buﬀalo.edu/Faculty/Albert/albert.html ). In-
clude CV and list of 3 references. Target start date
is the beginning of Spring semester, 2010, at the Uni-
versity at Buﬀalo. GREs (TOEFL, if necessary) and
application will be required very soon to be considered.
– Victor A. Albert Empire Innovation Professor of Bi-
ological Sciences University at Buﬀalo (SUNY) http:/-
/biology.buﬀalo.edu/Faculty/Albert/albert.html “Vic-
tor A. Albert” <vaalbert@buﬀalo.edu >UEastAnglia Warbler MHC
Diversity
Evolutionary and Conservation Genetics in the Sey-
chelles Warbler : MHC Diversity
The vertebrate Major histocompatability complex
(MHC) locus, with its central function in detecting
pathogen antigens and triggering the acquired immune
response, plays an important role in individual ﬁtness
and, potentially, the long term viability of populations.
The amazingly high polymorphism usually seen at the
MHC appears to be maintained by pathogen mediated
selection and/or sexual selection. The aim of this study
is to measure the impact of individual MHC variation
on ﬁtness in a system where we have complete infor-
mation on individual survival and fecundity. We have
studied the Seychelles warblers on Cousin Island inten-
sively since 1997; almost all nests and individuals are
monitored and parentage is identiﬁed by DNA proﬁl-
ing. The project will use modern molecular techniques
to identify the MHC characteristics of every individual
within the population, and analyse how these, along
with life-history traits and pathogen infection, eﬀect
individual survival. The data obtained will, therefore,
allow us to investigate the role of pathogen mediated
selection on the maintenance of variation at the MHC.
Importantly the study will also investigate MHC vari-
ation in historical populations (sampled through mu-
seum specimens) and new populations which have been
established as part of the ongoing conservation pro-
gramme for this species. This assessment of historical,
founder and new populations will allow us to investigate
the impact of demographic changes (including those re-
sulting from conservation measures) on levels of MHC
variation, and test if MHC diversity in the new popu-
lations is adequate for their future long-term survival.
The issue of how (and what type of) genetic variation
is maintained in small bottlenecked populations of en-
dangered species is an important question in contem-
porary conservation, hence the involvement of Birdlife
International in this project. Training will be provided
in molecular methods, evolutionary theory, statistical
modelling and ornithological ﬁeldwork.
SUPERVISOR(S) David S Richardson UEA, in con-
junction with Prof . T Burke (Sheﬃeld University) and
Dr Nigel Collar (Birdlife International)
Application Deadline: Please apply as soon as possible36 EvolDir November 1, 2009
to maximize options - but ﬁnal deadline - December 4th
2009
Please contact David S Richardson
(david.richardson@uea.ac.uk) with questions, but
apply via the forms on the UEA web page
http://www.uea.ac.uk/mac/admissions/courses/-
PG#pgr David S Richardson Centre for Ecol-
ogy, Evolution and Conservation School of Bio-
logical Sciences University of East Anglia e-mail:
david.richardson@uea.ac.uk <b.emerson@uea.ac.uk >
Norwich NR4 7TJ ph: (44) 01603 591496 ENGLAND
fax: (44) 01603 592250
http://biobis.bio.uea.ac.uk/biosql/fac show.aspx?ID=
325 “Richardson David Dr (BIO)”
<David.Richardson@uea.ac.uk >
UFlorida HostParasite Coevolution
A PhD position is available in the laboratory of Dr.
David L. Reed, University of Florida, Florida Museum
of Natural History.
Description: The PhD student will contribute to an
NSF-funded project that infers patterns of human evo-
lutionary history from a host- speciﬁc human parasite
(lice). This person will split their time working on the
objectives of the funded proposal as well as develop-
ing their own dissertation research. These parasitic lice
have been cospeciating with their primate hosts for over
25 million years, which provides a great opportunity for
phylogenetic and population level research topics. Be-
cause there is a sequenced and annotated genome for
the human body louse, dissertation projects that utilize
genome- level approaches to address population-level
questions are encouraged. Work underway in my lab
uses coalescent simulation and other tools of popula-
tion genetics to determine the extent to which human
lice can serve as markers of human evolutionary history.
Dissertation questions could relate to the process of the
Peopling of the Americas, interactions between modern
and archaic humans, genes related to the louse’s capac-
ity as a vector of disease (only some types of lice carry
disease), genetic or epigenetic change that induces eco-
phenotypic plasticity, or patterns of migration and gene
ﬂow among host and parasite populations.
Candidate Experience: Candidates for this position
should have a strong interest in host/parasite relation-
ships, evolution, and the use of molecular tools to studypopulations and species. Ideal qualiﬁcations include a
background in population genetics, genomics, and/or
experience in molecular methods including knowledge
of bioinformatics and genome screening techniques. Ex-
tensive travel is expected to work with colleagues in
clinics worldwide who are collecting parasites for this
project. Therefore, a valid passport and an eagerness
to travel are required.
For consideration, please send a cover letter, curricu-
lum vitae, and a statement of research experience that
explains your background and speciﬁc interests in the
project to David Reed (dlreed@uﬂ.edu) The Reed Lab
studies wide ranging projects on mammals and their
parasites. Our lab is highly collaborative and collegial.
You can ﬁnd links to PDFs of publications, public press
coverage of our work, photos, and project descriptions
at the Reed Lab website at http://www.ﬂmnh.uﬂ.edu/-
mammals/ NOTE: The selected student is expected
to enroll in the Graduate Program in the Department
of Biology at UF for Fall 2010. Applications are due
to the Dept. by Dec. 15th; additional information
about admission requirements can be found at: http://
www.biology.uﬂ.edu The Department of Biology guar-
antees funding for 5-6 years through Fellowships, Re-
search Assistantships, or Teaching Assistantships.
best wishes, David Reed
David L. Reed, Ph.D. Associate Curator of Mam-
mals Florida Museum of Natural History University
of Florida Dickinson Hall, Museum Rd & Newell
Dr. Gainesville, FL 32611 (352) 273-1971 (voice)
(352) 846-0287 (fax) e-mail: dreed@ﬂmnh.uﬂ.edu
http://www.ﬂmnh.uﬂ.edu/mammals/ dlreed@uﬂ.edu
dlreed@uﬂ.edu
UGeneva
FunctionalGenomeEvolution
We are looking for a highly motivated and innovative
PhD student candidate ( ~4 years) to explore the wealth
of genomic data from evolutionary perspectives using
bioinformatics approaches. Our group has a broad
range of interests related to the functional evolution
of genomes, and actively contributes to international
genome analysis consortia. The speciﬁc project aims
and objectives will be developed together with the can-
didate to suit interests and skills.
The ideal candidate should have a strong background
in bioinformatics, including programming skills (or theNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 37
willingness and drive to acquire them), and a good
understanding of molecular biology (preferably with
some experience/background in molecular evolution).
A Diploma or MSc degree in Biology or Bioinformat-
ics, practical experience in the Unix environment, and
ﬂuency in English are required.
The project will be supervised by Prof. E. Zdobnov
in the Department of Genetic Medicine and Develop-
ment at the University of Geneva Medical School. We
are also part of the renowned Swiss Institute of Bioin-
formatics, and oﬀer a stimulating research environment
with excellent facilities.
The international city of Geneva, described as ’the
smallest of the large capitals’, oﬀers a vibrant city life
within easy reach of the picturesque lake and stunning
Alps.
Closing date for applications: 15 November 2009.
To apply: send your CV, statement of research interest,
and names and contact details of at least two referees
by e-mail to Evgeny.Zdobnov@isb-sib.ch
Further Information:
Computational Evolutionary Genomics Group, CEGG:
http://cegg.unige.ch Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics,
SIB: www.isb-sib.ch Online version of this adver-
tisement: http://cegg.unige.ch/jobs/phd 2Address:
CEGG, CMU / 9022, Rue Michel-Servet 1, CH-1211
Geneva 4, Switzerland
Robert Waterhouse
Robert Waterhouse <robert.waterhouse@unige.ch >
ULaval SprucePopulationGenet
Hello,
Our group at Laval University in Qu´ ebec City would
like to post an oﬀer for a graduate student scholarship
in Forestry (Population genetics of wood properties in
white spruce).
Graduate assistantship (M. Sc.) Population genetics
of wood properties in white spruce. Center for For-
est Research and Institute for Integrative and Systems
Biology (IBIS) Laval University (Quebec, Canada) A
graduate assistantship is available for a Master’s de-
gree in forest sciences at Laval University to investi-
gate the genetic variability of wood properties among
populations of white spruce trees (Picea glauca). Theproject is a partnership between the Canadian Wood
Fibre Center (CWFC) (Dr J. Beaulieu), Laval Univer-
sity (Dr J. MacKay) and the Ministry of Natural Re-
sources and Fauna of Quebec. The impact of genetics
on the variability of wood properties will be investi-
gated by comparing populations from several distinct
eco-regions. The speciﬁc goals are as follows:
* Quantify the variability of wood ﬁbre traits among
white spruce populations from diﬀerent ecoregions in
Quebec;
* Investigate correlations between wood ﬁbre traits and
growth conditions such as the site index and stand
structure in order to develop predictive models for wood
quality;
* Verify the degree of relatedness between sampled trees
by using DNA markers in order to: i) assess the poten-
tial impact of genetic relatedness on correlations be-
tween traits and growth conditions or ii) use it as a
variable in the models.
Laboratory work mainly includes DNA extractions
and genotyping of several markers to estimate the
degree of relatedness between trees from diﬀerent
ecoregions. Statistical analysis of wood and ﬁbre
property data will assess if signiﬁcant variation can
be attributed to the origin of the trees (ecoregions)
and to develop mathematical models to predict wood
properties. The results will ﬁnd application in applied
tree breeding programs. A stipend of 16000 $ (CAN)
per year is available for a two year period starting
as early as January 2010. Laval University is a
French language institution which welcomes many
international students, and oﬀers high quality graduate
training and access to modern and well-equipped
laboratories in the areas of forest genetics and ge-
nomics within the Institute for Integrative and Systems
Biology (IBIS). Contact Dr John Mackay, by email
john.mackay@sbf.ulaval.ca (Department of wood and
forest sciences, Laval University, Quebec, Quebec,
Canada, G1K 7P4, http://www.arborea.ulaval.ca/-
project team/principal investigators/john mackay/-
index.html ).
If you need any additional information, please do not
hesitate to contact me.
Sincerely yours,
Claudia Careau Administrative assistant Centre for
Forest Research Charles-Eugene-Marchand Building,
oﬃce 2155 1030 avenue de la M´ edecine Laval Univer-
sity Quebec, Quebec G1V 0A6 Phone: 418-656-3703
Fax: 418-656-7493
claudia.careau@sbf.ulaval.ca38 EvolDir November 1, 2009
ULeipzig HumanOrigins
The Leipzig School of Human Origins, an Interna-
tional Max Planck Research School by the University of
Leipzig and the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology, oﬀers a unique interdisciplinary gradu-
ate program to study the evolutionary history of hu-
mans and great apes.
Graduate students are accepted into one of the follow-
ing areas, but are encouraged to take part in courses
and seminars from all three disciplines:
Comparative and Molecular Primatology - focusing on
the evolution of social and cultural systems in the great
apes, as well as other relevant mammals.
Evolutionary and Functional Genomics, Ancient DNA,
Molecular Anthropology and Genome Bioinformatics -
focusing on the evolutionary and functional genomics
of humans and the great apes, as well as the retrieval
of DNA from palaeontological remains.
Human Paleontology, Prehistoric Archaeology and Ar-
chaeological Science - focusing on computational ap-
proaches to the management and analysis of gene ex-
pression data.
We invite applications from all countries. Applicants
must hold a Masters degree or equivalent in biology,
biochemistry, anthropology, or related ﬁelds. If you
hold an excellent BSc/BA (1st class honours) please
contact us about possible accession.
It is not necessary to hold the degree at the point of ap-
plication. However, you must have been awarded your
degree prior to the start of the program in September.
Candidates have to be ﬂuent in written and spoken En-
glish. German is not required but international stu-
dents will be oﬀered opportunities to take German
courses.
Ph.D. students are supported by fellowships which are
provided either by the Max Planck Institute for Evolu-
tionary Anthropology or the University of Leipzig; or
have been obtained by the student.
Term of Appointment: Fall 2010 Application Deadline:
January 31, 2010
The language of the school is English. Visit
www.leipzig.de for information on living in Leipzig,
Germany, in the center of Europe.Contact Information: Sandra Jacob Deutscher Platz
6 Leipzig, 04103, Germany Telephone Number:
++493413550122 Fax Number: ++493413550119 Web-
site: www.leipzig-school.eva.mpg.de E-mail Address:
leipzig-school@eva.mpg.de
–
Sandra Jacob Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology / The Leipzig School of Human Ori-
gins (Ph.D. Programme) Deutscher Platz 6, 04103
Leipzig, GERMANY phone: ++49 (0) 341 3550-122;
fax: ++49 (0) 341 3550-119 http://www.eva.mpg.de/
http://www.leipzig-school.eva.mpg.de/
Sandra Jacob <jacob@eva.mpg.de >
UMassachusetts CiliateBiodiversity
GRADUATE STUDENT POSITION Biodiversity of
Ciliates In Near-Shore Environments Smith College /
UMass Amherst
We are looking for a highly motivated student to join
our project, which aims to elucidate the patterns of di-
versity of ciliates from near-shore environments and to
explore the ecological processes that underlie this diver-
sity. The project is collaborative between Laura Katz’s
lab at Smith College and marine ecologist George Mc-
Manus at the University of Connecticut. Work on the
project combines culture-independent approaches with
analyses of targeted morphospecies. Techniques include
analyses of clone libraries, DGGE, and both light and
ﬂuorescence microscopy.
Graduate students in Laura Katz’s laboratory join ei-
ther through MS program at Smith College or the Ph.D.
program in Organismic and Evolutionary Biology at the
University of Massachusetts Amherst. Interested indi-
viduals should visit the web sites below and contact Dr.
Laura Katz directly (lkatz@smith.edu)
Laura Katz, Smith College http://-
www.science.smith.edu/departments/Biology/-
lkatz/ OEB at UMass Amherst http://-
www.bio.umass.edu/oeb/ http://www.bio.umass.edu/-
oeb/admissions Smith College MS in biology
http://www.science.smith.edu/departments/Biology/-
graduate.html http://www.smith.edu/gradstudy/
Collaborator George McManus, University of Con-
necticut http://microzooplankton.uconn.edu/ Laura
A Katz <lkatz@smith.edu >November 1, 2009 EvolDir 39
UMassachusetts CiliateGenomeEvol
GRADUATE STUDENT POSITIONS Genome Evolu-
tion in Ciliates Smith College / UMass Amherst
We are looking for highly motivated students to work
on genome evolution in ciliates. All ciliates are de-
ﬁned by the presence of both a germline micronucleus
and somatic macronucleus within each cell. Some cil-
iates, including those that are the focus of our work,
extensively process their somatic genomes to gener-
ate gene-sized macronuclear chromosomes. We are
looking at the patterns and processes that under-
lie these developmentally-regulated genome rearrange-
ments. We are also exploring mitochondrial genomes
from diverse ciliates to provide an evolutionary frame-
work for our studies.
Graduate students in Laura Katz’s laboratory join ei-
ther through MS program at Smith College or the Ph.D.
program in Organismic and Evolutionary Biology at the
University of Massachusetts Amherst. Interested indi-
viduals should visit the web sites below and contact Dr.
Laura Katz directly (lkatz@smith.edu)
Laura Katz, Smith College http://-
www.science.smith.edu/departments/Biology/-
lkatz/ OEB at UMass Amherst http://-
www.bio.umass.edu/oeb/ http://www.bio.umass.edu/-
oeb/admissions Smith College MS in biology
http://www.science.smith.edu/departments/Biology/-
graduate.html http://www.smith.edu/gradstudy/
Laura A Katz <lkatz@smith.edu >
UNewBrunswick
InvertebratePopulationGenetics
M.Sc. position: Marine invertebrate population genet-
ics.
I seek a highly motivated and enthusiastic candidate
to ﬁll a fully funded MSc position in the Department
of Biology at University of New Brunswick (Frederic-
ton). The project will use DNA sequence variation to
assess the level of genetic subdivision and patterns of
gene ﬂow among populations of the abundant marineamphipod Corophium volutator. The successful candi-
date will join a multi-disciplinary collaboration between
researchers at UNB, Carleton University, and Mount
Allison University. Our aim is to model the environ-
mental interactions between climate driven processes
and the population dynamics of C. volutator through-
out the mudﬂats in the Bay of Fundy, Canada.
For more information about the Biology Department,
see: http://www.unb.ca/fredericton/science/biology/
For information about Graduate Studies at UNB, see:
http://www.unb.ca/gradschl/ For enquires, or to ap-
ply, email a CV or resume, a letter of interest, unoﬃcial
transcripts and contact information for 3 references to
Jason Addison (jaddison@unb.ca). The review of ap-
plications will begin immediately and will remain open
until the position is ﬁlled. Work could potentially be-
gin anytime, but admittance to the Graduate Studies
program is expected in January, May, or September of
2010.
Jason Addison
Jason Addison <jaddison@unb.ca >
UOklahoma DaphniaEvolution
Graduate Research Assistantship (GRA)/Ph.D. stu-
dent position available: A Ph.D. student position is
available in my laboratory to work on a new 3-year
NSF-funded project entitled, -environment interactions
V impact of cultural eutrophication on Daphnia tracked
by genomics, physiology, and resurrection ecology.
In a planned 36-month project in collaboration with
colleagues at Oklahoma State University and Indiana
University, the PIs will use an integrated approach
involving genetic/genomic, physiological, and ecology
methods to examine how cultural eutrophication (i.e.,
enrichment of freshwater systems with nutrients such
as phosphorus) inﬂuences evolutionary changes in or-
ganisms. The waterﬂea, Daphnia pulex, which plays
a major role in freshwater food webs (i.e. it eats al-
gae/bacteria and in turn is fed upon by ﬁsh), will serve
as the model organism. Daphnia are ideal for such
studies because they produce resting eggs that can lay
dormant in lake sediments for long periods of time.
Decades-old eggs can be induced to hatch (i.e. ecology)
and viable DNA can be extracted from eggs that are
centuries old. Moreover, the D. pulex genome has been
sequenced and genetic/genomic methods (i.e. gene ex-40 EvolDir November 1, 2009
pression) are in place to study how changes in eu-
trophication (phosphorus-level) patterns over the past
century have inﬂuenced how an organism like a daph-
niid can respond to ecosystem/environmental change.
Results from this cross-disciplinary study will provide
an excellent example of how man-made environmental
changes (via eutrophication) inﬂuence natural (fresh-
water) ecosystems.
For more details and information, please contact:
Dr. Lawrence J. Weider, Professor of Zoology Director,
The University of Oklahoma Biological Station (UOBS)
University of Oklahoma Norman, OK 73019 Phone:
1-405-325-4766 or 325-7438 FAX: 1-405-325-0835
ljweider@ou.edu <mailto:ljweider@ou.edu > http://-
www.ou.edu/uobs/weider.html “Weider, Lawrence J.”
<ljweider@ou.edu >
UOslo MicrobialEvolution
Position as Doctoral Research Fellow (PhD-stipendiat)
in microbial ecology/mycology is available at Depart-
ment of Biology, Faculty of Mathematics and Natural
Sciences, University of Oslo, Norway.
The position is aﬃliated to a project initiated by
the Microbial Evolution Research Group (MERG) in
collaboration with Laboratory for microbial dynamics
(LaMDda), University of Oslo. The position is available
from November 1. 2009 for 4 years and includes 25%
compulsory services, which typically includes lecturing
and co-supervision of master students in the Depart-
ment.
We seek a highly motivated and enthusiastic person
with a good academic record and collaborative ability
to work on a project dealing with microbial commu-
nity ecology of mycorrhizal symbiosis. Focuses will be
on the bacteria and fungi associated with the mycor-
rhizal symbiosis and the interplay between the plant
host, fungal symbionts and the associated bacteria and
possibly also transcriptional patterns in the symbionts
in relation to selected, environmental and biotic fac-
tors. Both observational ﬁeld studies and experiments
will be conducted. The experiments will involve the es-
tablishment of an in vitro model system, where eﬀects
of bacterial and fungal species in the symbiotic rela-
tionship will be tested, including soil-borne species of
Bacillus and available single gene mutants.
The project may involve ﬁeld-work, green-house ex-periments, isolation of organisms and culturing, mi-
croscopy, metagenomics, DNA and cDNA libraries, and
pro- and eukaryote transcriptomics. High throughput
sequencing methods (e.g. 454 sequencing) as well as
bioinformatics will play important roles in the project.
The research group has access to a Roche 454 FLX
Genome sequencer and extensive microscopy and bioin-
formatics infrastructures. The PhD student will be sup-
ported by collaborative students and faculty members
within bioinformatics, microbial genomics, taxonomy
and ﬁeld-oriented evolutionary and ecological research.
The applicant must have a master’s degree (or equiva-
lent) within biology or related disciplines and excellent
written and oral communication skills. Experience with
any or all the following topics is highly desirable: mi-
crobiology, mycology, plant biology, molecular biology
and molecular genetic techniques (e.g. PCR, sequence
analysis, DNA-ﬁngerprinting, gene expression studies,
cloning), bioinformatics and microscopy.
For more details about the application, contact
information, etc. see http://www.admin.uio.no/-
opa/ledige-stillinger/2009/vitenskapelige/-
doctoralresearchfellowBiology-2009-14863.html
haavarka@ulrik.uio.no haavarka@ulrik.uio.no
UOsnabrueck ParasitesInteractions
Graduate position: Parasites Interactions (Osnabrueck,
Germany)
The Department of Biology at the University of Os-
nabrueck (Germany), invites applications for a PhD-
position (E13/2), ﬁxed-term position for 3 years on
intra-host parasite interactions
Parasites interact with their host potentially leading to
host-parasite coevolution, but diﬀerent parasite geno-
types infecting the same host may also interact, either
by competition or by cooperation. The PhD project
aims at characterising these interactions using the ne-
matode Caenorhabditis elegans as a host and its bacte-
rial microparasite Bacillus thuringiensis, including ex-
perimental evolution of parasite-parasite-host interac-
tions. The main focus lies in the evolution of cooper-
ation or competition, which in return should inﬂuence
the evolution of virulence, resistance, associated costs
and generation/maintenance of diversity. The project
includes phenotypic and genetic analysis.
The project is funded by the German Science Founda-
tion (SCHU 2522/1-1) and is part of the priority pro-November 1, 2009 EvolDir 41
gramme SPP 1399 on host-parasite coevolution. Thus,
it interacts with other research groups across Germany
and abroad, and in particular with projects using the
same model organisms encouraging contact between
PhD students working on related topics.
The project is supervised by Dr. Rebecca Schulte and it
is based in the Department of Behavioural Biology at
the University of Osnabrueck, Germany (head: Prof.
Dr. Judith Korb). Research topics include conﬂicts
and cooperation within and between species with spe-
cial emphasis on evolutionary aspects.
Requirements
This position requires a Diploma/Master in Biology.
Candidates should have a good background in evolu-
tionary biology and knowledge of host-parasite interac-
tions. Prior laboratory experience is required as well as
handling of complex experiments and data (statistics).
She/he should work well as member of a team and have
good English skills. Knowledge of microbiology and/or
experience with C. elegans is advantageous.
The University of Osnabrueck is committed to equal
opportunity in employment and gender equality in its
working environment. We strongly encourage applica-
tions from qualiﬁed women. Applications from appro-
priately qualiﬁed handicapped persons are also encour-
aged.
Applications
Please send applications with CV, one-page
statement of research interests, and two refer-
ences, as a pdf-ﬁle by email to Rebecca Schulte
(rebecca.schulte@biologie.uni-osnabrueck.de). Alterna-
tively, it can be posted to the Dean of the Department
of Biology/Chemistry, University of Osnabr¨ uck,
Barbarastraße 11, D-49069 Osnabrueck, Germany.
Deadline for applications: 20th November 2009. Start
of position: as soon as possible.
For further information, please contact Rebecca Schulte
(rebecca.schulte@biologie.uni-osnabrueck.de)
Rebecca Schulte, PhD Behavioural Biology University
of Osnabrueck Barbarastr. 11 D-49076 Osnabrueck
Germany e-mail: rebecca.schulte@biologie.uni-
osnabrueck.de phone: +49 541 969 2458 fax: +49 541
969 2862
Rebecca.Schulte@Biologie.Uni-Osnabrueck.DE
Rebecca.Schulte@Biologie.Uni-Osnabrueck.DEUOtago Genetics Cryptic Female
Choice
Ph.D. Project Opportunity Available to Investigate the
Genetic basis of Cryptic Female Choice in Chinook
Salmon
We are currently seeking a student with interests in ge-
netics, evolution, and behavioural ecology to conduct
research into the genetic basis of possible cryptic fe-
male choice in Chinook salmon.
Project Description In many species females can con-
trol fertilisation after mating via behavioural, morpho-
logical, and physiological mechanisms - a process called
cryptic female choice (CFC). While widespread, it is
generally unknown, if and how CFC might be exerted
in external fertilisers, where eggs and sperm are shed
simultaneously into the surrounding water. Recently
we demonstrated in salmon that ovarian ﬂuid, a vis-
cous substance released with eggs during spawning,
diﬀerentially alters male sperm function in a female-
dependent fashion, and thus that females may exert
cryptic control of male reproductive success (Rosen-
grave et al.2008. A mechanism for cryptic female choice
in chinook salmon. Behavioral Ecology 19: 1179-85).
The rationale for this CFC is unknown, but our hy-
pothesis is that ovarian-ﬂuid-mediates sperm selection
promoting favoured genetic combinations that enhance
oﬀspring ﬁtness. We will test this hypothesis using a
novel combination of CASA, compositional analyses,
replicated paired-male competitive in vitro fertilisation
experiments that mimic the gametic microenvironment,
and genetic screens of MHC class I, class II and mi-
crosatellite loci to establish parentage. Using these ap-
proaches we will determine (i) the eﬀects of a given fe-
male’s ovarian ﬂuid on a male’s sperm function, (ii) how
this male x female interaction inﬂuences male reproduc-
tive success, (iii) whether particular male and female
genotype combinations (MHC I, II and microsatellites)
are associated with greater or lesser sperm performance
and male reproductive success, and (iv) whether any
compositional diﬀerences among gametic ﬂuids explain
the patterns we observe. Our expectation is that the
successful PhD student will focus on tasks ii), and iii),
while contributing to the others.
The Ideal Candidate The ideal candidate will possess
experience in molecular genetics, evolutionary genetics
and behavioural ecology. They will be motivated and42 EvolDir November 1, 2009
organised, with a demonstrated capacity to master the
broad skill set necessary for the successful completion of
a research programme. They will be a competent labo-
ratory worker, with experience of all routine molecular
genetic techniques, particularly microsatellite genotyp-
ing and sequencing, and should be computer literate
with familiarity with database management and statis-
tical analyses. Minimum qualiﬁcations: B.Sc. (Hons)
and/or M.Sc. in Genetics, Molecular Biology, Molecu-
lar Ecology or equivalent.
Scholarship and Funding This project has no stipen-
diary award to support the student, but there is am-
ple ﬁnancial support for the research costs for the next
three years via a Marsden grant that commences in
2010. Thus, we are seeeking a high achieving student
with an A- average or better who we expect will be
able to secure a University of Otago or Departmental
scholarship to support their studies. Other avenues of
support such as NZAID and NZIDR awards are also
possibilities, but the deadline for many of these awards
has passed for this year (see http://www.otago.ac.nz/-
study/scholarships/ ).
Eligibility The University of Otago and Depart-
mental scholarships are open to all nationalities.
However, candidates for whom English is not a ﬁrst
language must satisfy the English Language Require-
ments of the University to be eligible for study, see
http://www.otago.ac.nz/international/postgraduate/-
english requirements.html .Other eligibility criteria are
detailed here http://www.otago.ac.nz/international/-
postgraduate/entrance requirements.html . How to
Apply Interested applicants are encouraged to make
informal enquiries to Professor Neil Gemmell, in the
ﬁrst instance. To apply, please send your Curriculum
Vitae, a copy of your academic transcript, a sample
of your written scientiﬁc work and the names of three
referees with a covering letter to:
Professor Neil J. Gemmell Centre for Repro-
duction and Genomics ( www.crg.org.nz ) e-mail:
neil.gemmell@otago.ac.nz
The closing date for the main round of UOtago Schol-
arships is 2 November 2009 so interested applicants
should contact me as soon as possible to avoid miss-
ing this deadline.
Neil J. Gemmell Professor and Director Centre for Re-
production and Genomics Department of Anatomy &
Structural Biology University of Otago, PO Box 913
Dunedin 9054 New Zealand
Phone: +64 3 479 6824 Fax: +64 3 479 7254 e-mail:
neil.gemmell@otago.ac.nz
/This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UppsalaU Aging
ExperimentalEvolution
Graduate position: Upp-
salaU.Aging.ExperimentalEvolution
PhD position in the evolutionary biology of aging is
available at the Department of Animal Ecology, Upp-
sala University, Sweden.
The project will focus on two crucial yet poorly under-
stood issues in the evolutionary biology of aging sex-
speciﬁc selection and condition-dependence using ani-
mals with short generation time, such as the dioecious
nematode worm /Caenorhabditis /remanei/// and the
seed beetles (e.g. Callosobruchus maculatus//), as
main model systems. The project will combine the
experimental evolution with classical behavioural ecol-
ogy approach. The main objective is to understand the
evolution of sex diﬀerences in lifespan and reproductive
aging. ///
/ /
/Applicants should have a MSc (or equivalent) in
biology/ecology and a strong interest in evolutionary
biology and behavioral ecology. Special interest in
the evolution of life-histories and/or sexual selec-
tion is a plus. The project will be supervised by
Alexei Maklakov (see http://www.iee.uu.se/zooekol/-
default.php?type=personalpage&id=87&lang=en <
http://www.iee.uu.se/zooekol/default.php?type=-
personalpage&id=87&lang=en >) and the candidate
will receive her/his postgraduate training within the
postgraduate school at the Evolutionary Biology Cen-
tre (EBC) (see http://www.ebc.uu.se/index eng.php ).
The working atmosphere is international with English
as working language. EBC constitutes an exciting
arena for multidisciplinary research in evolutionary
biology in a broad sense, with research programs
including ecology, systematics, genetics, genomics,
and developmental biology. Uppsala University is
the oldest university in Scandinavia and the city of
Uppsala is a vibrant student town with beautiful
surroundings conveniently situated 40 minutes by train
from Stockholm./
/ /November 1, 2009 EvolDir 43
/This position is ﬁnanced for four full years, and the
successful candidate will receive a postgraduate fellow-
ship the ﬁrst year (15.500 SEK/month) and a postgrad-
uate position year 2-4 (22.000 - 24.500 SEK/month)./
/ /
/Important dates: The position is open until ﬁlled but
all applications submitted by *November 15, 2009* will
be given full consideration. The preliminary starting
date is January 15, 2010, but is ﬂexible./
/ /
/Applications should include: 1) short letter of in-
terest / background (2 pages max); 2) complete
CV; 3) a description of undergraduate training; 4)
a copy of undergraduate degree and 5) the names
and e-mail addresses of 2-3 referees. Applications
should be sent by e-mail to Alexei.Maklakov@ebc.uu.se
<mailto:Alexei.Maklakov@ebc.uu.se >. Alternatively,
send hardcopies to the following address: /
/ /
/Alexei Maklakov /
/Animal Ecology/EBC /
/Uppsala University/
/Norbyv¨ agen 18D, SE-752 36 /
/Uppsala, Sweden. /
/Please feel free to contact me by e-mail or by phone
(+46-18-471 2702) for more information.///
/ /
/Note that there is another PhD position on a re-
lated topic available at EBC in the Department
of Evolutionary Biology under supervision of Urban
Friberg (see http://www.egs.uu.se/evbiol/Persons/-
Urban.html ). This creates opportunities for discussions
and collaborations between the research groups, which
will be greatly encouraged!/
Alexei.Maklakov@ebc.uu.se
Alexei.Maklakov@ebc.uu.se
UppsalaU
EvolutionaryGeneticsAgeing
PhD-position available at the Department of Evolution-
ary Biology at Uppsala University Sweden, within the
project “Genomic distribution of sex-speciﬁc variationin ageing”.
A striking pattern across the animal kingdom is that
males and females of the same species often have diﬀer-
ent lifespan and rate of aging. Genetic variability for
these traits also exists both between as well as within
the sexes. Several theories aimed to explain these pat-
terns have been put forward, but one of particular in-
terest suggests that these diﬀerences are the result of
sexual selection. The aim of the current project is to
study the genomic distribution of sex-speciﬁc genetic
variation in lifespan and ageing, to provide a better un-
derstanding of why and to what extent the sexes diﬀer
with respect to these traits. The project will focus on
a Drosophila melanogaster model system, and will be
conducted using classical Drosophila genetics in combi-
nation with modern systems biology and genomic ap-
proaches.
We are looking for a highly motivated student having
a Master’s degree or equivalent in biology, genetics or
a related ﬁeld, and a strong interest in evolutionary bi-
ology/genetics. Documented interest in statistics and
experience with programming in R as well as Drosophila
lab work is beneﬁcial but not a required. He/she should
work well both as a member of a group as well as
independently, and also be proﬁcient in both written
and spoken English. The successful candidate will join
a research group led by Urban Friberg (see http:/-
/www.egs.uu.se/evbiol/Persons/Urban.html ) and will
receive her/his postgraduate training within the post-
graduate school at the Evolutionary Biology Centre (see
http://www.ebc.uu.se/index eng.php ). This position is
ﬁnanced for four full years by a postgraduate fellowship
the ﬁrst year (15.500 SEK/month) and a postgraduate
position year 2-4 (22.000 - 24.500 SEK/month). Ap-
plications should be written in English and include i)
personal information/background, ii) a description of
research interests (max 1-2 pages), iii) complete CV, iv)
a description of undergraduate training, v) the names
and email addresses of 2-3 referees. Applications should
be sent to Dr. Urban Friberg, Dept. of Evolution-
ary Biology, EBC, Norbyv. 18D, Uppsala University,
SE-752 36 Uppsala, Sweden. For more information
please feel free to contact Urban Friberg by email (Ur-
ban.Friberg@ebc.uu.se) or by phone (+46-18-4716415).
The position is open until ﬁlled, but for full considera-
tion apply by the 20th of November. The ideal starting
date would be January 2010.
The Program in Evolutionary Biology ( http://-
www.egs.uu.se/evbiol/index.html ) is situated in the
Evolutionary Biology Centre in central Uppsala. The
working atmosphere is international with English as
working language. The Evolutionary Biology Centre
constitutes an exciting arena for multidisciplinary re-44 EvolDir November 1, 2009
search in evolutionary biology in a broad sense, with
research programs including ecology, systematics, ge-
netics, genomics, and developmental biology. Uppsala
University is the oldest university in Scandinavia and
the city of Uppsala is a vibrant student town with beau-
tiful surroundings conveniently situated 40 minutes by
train from Stockholm.
Note that there is another PhD position on a related
topic available at EBC in the Department of Ecology
and Evolution under supervision of Alexei Maklakov
(seehttp://www.iee.uu.se/zooekol/default.php?type=-
personalpage&id=87&lang=en ). This creates opportu-
nities for discussions and collaborations between the
research groups, which will be greatly encouraged!
urban friberg <urban.friberg@ebc.uu.se >
UTasmania ConservationGenetics
PhD Scholarship (Australian Postgraduate Award In-
dustry)
Conservation genetics and emerging wildlife disease
Project Title: Evolution, disease and extinction using
ancient and modern Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) to
investigate molecular evolution in the Tasmanian devil
Description:The aims of this project are to use com-
prehensive geographic and temporal genetic analyses to
understand the origin, spread and impacts of an emerg-
ing wildlife disease, facial tumour disease, that threat-
ens Tasmanian devils with extinction. Direct trans-
mission of this unique infectious cancer is both facili-
tated by and likely to further erode already low genetic
diversity in this species. This project involves using
neutral genetic markers to estimate the timing and ex-
tent of loss of genetic diversity in Tasmanian devils and
to evaluate the reasons for this loss. This study will
provide critical genetic data and tools to monitor and
prioritise conservation strategies aimed at preventing
extinction. It will involve close interaction with the
Hobart-based Save the Tasmanian Devil Program. The
candidate should be interested in and capable of com-
plex bioinformatics/data analysis, since large datasets
are already available and new datasets will be used to
address complex questions.
Location: The APAI will be based in the School of Zo-
ology, University of Tasmania, Hobart, Tasmania, Aus-
tralia. The candidate will spend periods of time in the
Australian Centre for Ancient DNA, University of Ade-laide.
Eligibility: Open. Must have Honours 1 / 2A or equiv-
alent.
Supervision and contacts:Primary contact: Dr
Menna Jones, School of Zoology, University
of Tasmania. Phone: 0407 815606. Email:
Menna.Jones@utas.edu.auChris Burridge, School
of Zoology, University of Tasmania. Phone: (03)
6226 7653. Email: chris.burridge@utas.edu.auJeremy
Austin, Australian Centre for Ancient DNA (ACAD),
School of Earth & Environmental Sciences, The
University of Adelaide. Phone: (08) 8303 4557 Mob:
0404 198 493. Email: jeremy.austin@adelaide.edu.au
Kathy Belov, Australasian Wildlife Genomics Group,
Faculty of Veterinary Science, The University of
Sydney. Phone: (02) 9351 3454. Email:
kbelov@vetsci.usyd.edu.au
Menna.Jones@dpipwe.tas.gov.au
UTuebingen EvolutionaryBiology
International PhD Program Tuebingen, Spring 2010
The Max Planck Institute for Developmental Biology
and the Friedrich Miescher Laboratory in Tuebingen,
Germany, invite applications for PhD positions in: Evo-
lutionary Biology, Ecological Genomics, Developmental
Genetics, Animal Development , Plant Development,
Quantitative Genetics, Molecular & Cell Biology, Bio-
chemistry, Structural Biology and Bioinformatics
Highly qualiﬁed applicants from all countries are in-
vited to apply. All applicants must hold or anticipate
receiving a Diploma or Masters degree by the time of
their start as a PhD student at our institutes. Candi-
dates have to be ﬂuent in written and spoken English.
The positions are funded by Max Planck Fellowships.
Application form, evaluation forms (2 needed) and
all details about our online registration are avail-
able at <http://www.eb.mpg.de/phd-program >
www.eb.mpg.de/phd-program Application deadline is
November 25, 2009. After the review of completed ap-
plications selected candidates will be invited for per-
sonal interviews in Tuebingen during February 10-12,
2010.
Thanking you for the posting in advance!
With kind regards,November 1, 2009 EvolDir 45
Carolina M¨ uller
Dr. Carolina M¨ uller, PhD Program Coordinator
Tel: +49 7071 601 1354 Fax: +49 7071 601 1353 E-mail:
carolina.mueller@tuebingen.mpg.de
PhD Program Oﬃce Max Planck Institute for Develop-
mental Biology Spemannstr. 35; 72076 T¨ ubingen
http://www.eb.tuebingen.mpg.de/phd-program Car-
olina Mueller <carolina.mueller@tuebingen.mpg.de >
UVermont
EvolutionarySociogenomics
The Helms Cahan lab at the University of Vermont is
seeking an energetic, motivated PhD student with an
interest in evolutionary genomics, social evolution, or
ecological genetics. We are broadly interested in the
causes, mechanisms, and consequences of transitions in
social structure, using ants as a model system. The stu-
dent will join a brand-new NSF/ARRA-funded project
investigating the genetic architecture of reproductive
caste determination in harvester ants. We will be using
high-throughput transcriptome sequencing and associ-
ation mapping to identify genomic regions underlying
the secondary loss of caste ﬂexibility in ant populations
displaying Genetic Caste Determination (GCD), an ex-
ceedingly rare mode of caste diﬀerentiation in which
workers and queens are derived from genetically dis-
tinct mating crosses. The genomic resources developed
over the course of the project will also be used to ad-
dress evolutionary questions concerning the origin and
causes of transitions in caste regulatory mechanisms.
The student will be expected to develop his or her own
dissertation project within the overall research program
that reﬂect his or her interests; possible directions in-
clude comparative sociogenomics, evolution of develop-
ment, phylogeography/population genetics, hybridiza-
tion dynamics, or speciation. Summer support will be
provided for four years; funding during the academic
year will be in the form of teaching fellowships. Admis-
sion to the PhD program would be for Fall 2010, but
support for summer ﬁeld work could begin as early as
June.
The Biology graduate program at the University of Ver-
mont oﬀers MS and PhD degrees across a wide range of
disciplines from molecular biology to ecology. Our de-
partment has a particularly lively and productive group
in Ecology and Evolution, with a strong focus on theintegrative study of social insects (systematics, behav-
ior, evolution, genetics, and ecology). To inquire about
the position, please send an e-mail to Sara Helms Ca-
han ( scahan@uvm.edu ) indicating your research inter-
ests and experience.
To ﬁnd out more about research in the
Helms Cahan lab, go to: < http://-
www.uvm.edu/ ˜ biology/Faculty/Helms/Helms.html
>http://www.uvm.edu/ ~biology/Faculty/Helms/Helms.html
To ﬁnd out more about the Biology graduate program
and faculty at UVM, go to: <http://www.uvm.edu/-
˜biology/ >http://www.uvm.edu/ ~biology/
Dr. Sara Helms Cahan 307A Marsh Life Sciences De-
partment of Biology University of Vermont Burlington,
VT 05405 Tel: (802) 656-2962 Fax: (802) 656-2914 E-
mail: scahan@uvm.edu
sara.cahan@uvm.edu sara.cahan@uvm.edu
UWisconsinMadison Evolution
PlantHerbivore
Graduate Research Assistantship
Evolutionary Ecology of Plant-Herbivore Interactions
University of Wisconsin, Madison
A Graduate Research Assistantship (M.S. - Ph.D. or
Ph.D. only) is available for work with the research
groups of Rick Lindroth and Eric Kruger at the Univer-
sity of Wisconsin-Madison. Funded by a new, ﬁve-year
NSF grant, this research addresses genetic, ontogenetic
and environmental factors that inﬂuence aspen defense
(chemical resistance, tolerance, escape) against mam-
malian herbivores (e.g., deer). Primary objectives of
the work are to: 1) characterize aspen chemical de-
fense traits, 2) assess costs/beneﬁts of resistance, toler-
ance and escape, and 3) evaluate the selective impact
of browsing on the genetic structure of defense traits in
an experimental population. Applicants must be inter-
ested in investigating both the chemical and population
genetics aspects of plant-herbivore interactions. Appli-
cants should pursue admission to the graduate program
in Zoology (Ecology) or Forest and Wildlife Ecology.
For more information about the Lindroth and Kruger
research groups, visit: http://entomology.wisc.edu/-
˜lindroth/ http://forest.wisc.edu/facstaﬀ/kruger.html
The University of Wisconsin-Madison is a premier in-
stitution for research in ecology and evolution, and has
ranked among the top ﬁve research universities in the46 EvolDir November 1, 2009
United States for each of the past 20 years.
Qualiﬁcations:
Highly motivated individuals with superior academic
credentials and strong communication skills are encour-
aged to apply. Well-developed interpersonal skills are
essential. Candidates must be able to work indepen-
dently as well as part of a collaborative research team.
Stipend/beneﬁts:
50% Research Assistantships currently provide a
stipend of $ $20,184 (12 mo.), tuition waiver, and ex-
cellent medical/dental health plans.
Position available beginning in summer or fall of 2010.
Inquiries: Send preliminary e-mail letter of inquiry, de-
scribing research interests and academic qualiﬁcations,
to:
Dr. Rick Lindroth Lindroth@wisc.edu
237 Russell Labs 1630 Linden Drive University of Wis-
consin Madison, WI 53706 U.S.A.
Phone: 608-263-6277 Fax: 608-262-3322
lindroth@wisc.edu
UWyoming
ProteinStructureEvolution
Ph.D. Position in Protein Structure Evolution
A PhD student position in structural bioinformatics in
the Siltberg-Liberles Research Group at in the Depart-
ment of Molecular Biology at University of Wyoming
is available. Qualiﬁed applicants should have some
skills in programming, knowledge of statistics, pro-
tein structure, biochemistry, and molecular biology,
as well as an interest in evolution. The Siltberg-
Liberles Group works in the ﬁeld of comparative struc-
tural genomics, focusing on protein structure evolu-
tion. In many aspects this research program puts an
emphasis on protein families involved in human dis-
ease but also on identifying general trends within pro-
tein structure evolution. For more details on research
in the Siltberg-Liberles Research Group, please see
http://www.wyomingbioinformatics.org/ . University
of Wyoming is located in Laramie, WY, 2 hours north
of Denver in the Rocky mountains. It is an ideal lo-
cation for those with interests in skiing, rock climbing,
hiking, and mountain biking.To apply, please send a CV, statement of research in-
terests, and contact information for three references, to
jliberle@uwyo.edu. No GRE scores are required with
an M.Sc. degree. Informal inquiries before application
are welcome. Application deadline November 6, 2009.
Jessica Liberles <jliberle@uwyo.edu >
UZurich PlantEvolution
The PhD is quite ecological, but I would very much
like to attract someone who is from an evolutionary
background, as I think this would help the project con-
siderably. Also, within the PhD I would like to ex-
tend the model into host-parasite interactions (hemi-
parasites) and then we can address such questions as
optimal virulence etc. These are very clearly evolution-
ary questions.
Lindsay
Project:
A fully-funded PhD position is available to start imme-
diately at the University of Zurich, Switzerland. http:/-
/www.uzh.ch/uwinst/ http://research.microsoft.com/-
en-us/people/dpurves/ Summary: we are looking to
develop a general model of plant growth and decision-
making which we can test and extend with real data.
Questions include: how do plants invest carbon and
nitrogen in diﬀerent structures, which external factors
inﬂuence these decisions, and what are the implications
of this in terms of community ecology, the evolution of
life-history strategies, and responses to climate change?
This research will involve experiments with all kinds of
plants and a good deal of modelling. Potential exten-
sions include interactions of host plants with parasitic
plants where questions include: what is the best strat-
egy for the host and the parasite? How virulent should
the parasite be and does this change when there are
multiple parasites attached? We hope to include both
ecological and evolutionary themes so that this posi-
tion is suitable for anyone with an interest in both.
The project has a great deal of ﬂexibility, so it is also
well-suited to an independent, imaginative and creative
person who likes to choose their own research direction.
Location: The project will be based in the Institute
of Environmental Sciences at the University of Zurich,
Switzerland. Zurich is a wonderful city to live in, al-
ways features in surveys of cities with the best quality
of life, and is in easy reach of the mountains duringNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 47
the winter. The project is co-supervised by Dr. Lind-
say Turnbull (University of Zurich), Dr Andrew Hector
(University of Zurich) and Dr. Drew Purves (Microsoft
Research, UK) and requires an immediate start.
Qualiﬁcations required: We are looking for a well-
motivated person to conduct this research over a 3-
year period, culminating in a PhD from the Univer-
sity of Zurich, Switzerland. Applicants need to already
hold a Master’s degree and have some experience with
computer modelling and plant ecology. The project is
funded by Microsoft Research, UK and the successful
candidate will receive extensive scientiﬁc and technical
support from this source.
Contact: Please send your CV and application to: lind-
sayt@uwinst.uzh.ch. Please state why you are inter-
ested in the project in your application. Please label
your attached CV ﬁle: “CV.applicant.name.doc”
Lindsay Turnbull Institute of Environmental Sciences
Winterthurerstrasse 190 Zurich CH-8057
Lindsay Turnbull <lindsayt ifu@yahoo.co.uk >
Vienna Drosophila
ExperimentalEvolution
We are looking for an enthusiastic PhD student to work
on experimental evolution in Drosophila. The suc-
cessful candidate will work at the interphase of evolu-
tionary theory of adaptation and experimental popula-
tion genetics. By combining phenotypic and molecular
changes during an experimental evolution the candi-
date will study adaptation from standing genetic vari-
ation. This PhD project is jointly supervised by J.
Hermisson and C. Schl¨ otterer. Candidates with inter-
est in theoretical biology, modeling, phenotyping, and
next generation sequencing are particularly encouraged
to apply. The successful applicant will join the PhD
program in Population Genetics at the VUW ( http://-
i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/pop/PhD/projects.html ).
Further information can be obtained from Joachim
Hermisson: joachim.hermisson@univie.ac.at Christian
Schloetterer: christian.schloetterer@vetmeduni.ac.at
Christian Schl¨ otterer Institut f¨ ur Populationsgenetik
Veterin¨ armedizinische Universit¨ at Wien Josef Bau-
mann Gasse 1 1210 Wien Austria/Europe
phone: +43-1-25077-4300 fax: +43-1-25077-
4390 http://i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/popschlotc@gmail.com
VU Amsterdam SexualConﬂict
PhD-position in evolutionary ecology f/m Full-time (1.0
fte)
A 4-year NWO-funded PhD position is available in the
group of Dr. Joris M. Koene within the section Animal
Ecology of the Faculty of Earth and Life Sciences, VU
University Amsterdam (The Netherlands). Vacancy
number 1.2009.00293.
Project title “Evolutionary signatures of sexual conﬂict
in hermaphrodites: Reproductive morphology and se-
men composition”
Description of the project The goal of the project is to
investigate the role of sexual conﬂict in the evolution
of simultaneous hermaphrodites. Within our integra-
tive approach, this project will focus on comparing the
evolution of reproductive morphology, mating system
as well as seminal ﬂuid composition. The project will
fully exploit the knowledge already obtained with our
model species Lymnaea stagnalis and will therefore con-
centrate on hermaphroditic fresh water snails (Basom-
matophora). The project is funded by the Netherlands
Organisation for Scientiﬁc Research and may start very
shortly.
Tasks - Executing scientiﬁc research as detailed in the
project description. - Publishing results of the research
in scientiﬁc journals as well as in a thesis. - Assisting
in undergraduate courses given within the Department
of Ecological Science. - Following the PhD educational
programme as prescribed by the institute.
Required skills and education - MSc degree in Biology.
- Advanced courses in molecular biology, evolution, an-
imal physiology or equivalent. - Proﬁciency in both
written and spoken English. - Excellent social skills,
ability to work independently and high motivation will
be assets.
Employment details The appointment will initially be
for 12 months. After a successful evaluation the con-
tract will be prolonged with 36 months. Employment
will have to result in a written thesis by the end of
this period. Gross monthly salary, based on experi-
ence, amounts to minimally 2,042 Euro during the ﬁrst
year up to 2,612 Euro during the fourth year. The uni-
versity’s fringe beneﬁts of employment are available at
www.vu.nl/vacatures . Information and applications48 EvolDir November 1, 2009
Further information and the complete project descrip-
tion can be obtained from the project leader, Dr. J.M.
Koene (joris.koene@falw.vu.nl). Please mention the va-
cancy number in all your correspondence. Applications
should include a covering letter motivating your inter-
est (with a brief statement of your personal research
aims and interests), a detailed curriculum vitae, a copy
of your graduate work, reprints of published work (if
available), and two reference names with contact de-
tails. Only complete applications will be considered
and should be sent (preferably in one single ﬁle) by e-
mail to falw-vacatures@falw.vu.nl or (only if necessary)
by regular mail to Dr. J.M.R.M. Neutelings, Managing
Director, Faculty of Earth & Life Sciences, VU Uni-
versity, De Boelelaan 1085, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The
Netherlands. The deadline for application is 30 Octo-
ber 2009.
Dr. Joris M. Koene http://www.jkoene.dds.nl
VU University - Animal Ecology De Boelelaan
1085, 1081 HV Amsterdam, THE NETHERLANDS
tel: +31 (0)20 5987095; fax: +31 (0)20 5987123
joris.koene@falw.vu.nl http://www.falw.vu.nl/-
animalecology University of Antwerp (Visiting Fellow)
- Evolutionary Ecology Groenenborgerlaan 171, B-2020
Antwerp, BELGIUM http://www.ua.ac.be/joris.koene
joris.koene@falw.vu.nl joris.koene@falw.vu.nl
WashingtonStateU
PlantEvolutionaryGenetics
The Busch lab at Washington State University is seek-
ing independent, creative and highly motivated grad-
uate students with interests in genetics, evolutionary
biology, and ecological genetics. At the moment, there
are positions open for two students at both the Ph.D.
and M.S. level. To get an idea of the projects currently
underway, please follow these links:
http://www.sbs.wsu.edu/faculty/?faculty/148
http://sbs.wsu.edu/facultypages/busch lab.html Re-
search in the Busch lab is broadly focused on the evo-
lution and breakdown of self-incompatibility systems inangiosperms. The recurrent loss of self-incompatibility
is a common evolutionary trend with dramatic con-
sequences on the distribution of genetic diversity and
the viability of natural populations. We are currently
studying this question from classical genetic, ecolog-
ical, and population genetic perspectives in a model
genus (Leavenworthia). One current focus of work in
the lab is the identiﬁcation of mutations disabling self-
incompatibility and their natural selection in the wild.
We are also exploring the long-term consequences of
close inbreeding by studying the genetic basis of het-
erosis and incipient speciation in selﬁng species. Other
projects currently underway in the laboratory involve:
modeling the breakdown of self-incompatibility during
bottlenecks or pollinator disappearance, examining the
demographic and ecological factors inﬂuencing selﬁng
rate, and studying the eﬀects of habitat fragmentation
on genetic diversity in endemic species. Following the
expected completion of genome sequencing in our study
organism (Leavenworthia) in 2010, opportunities will
abound for students interested in studying adaptive and
non-adaptive processes using population genomics ap-
proaches.
Washington State University is located in Pullman, WA
in the beautiful Palouse region. Surrounded by rolling
wheat ﬁelds and abundant outdoor opportunities, the
university is found in a small rural setting in the Inland
northwest. The School of Biological Sciences at WSU
has a strong history of training excellent researchers in
ecology and evolution, and has many internal funding
opportunities for students with speciﬁc research inter-
ests in plant biology. The University of Idaho is 8 miles
away and there are many social and scientiﬁc activities
that solidify interactions between these two vibrant re-
search communities.
Students interested in pursuing a Ph.D. or M.S. at WSU
are asked to contact Jeremiah Busch via email to dis-
cuss their interests that could be pursued in the lab-
oratory. For information on the School of Biological
Sciences and guidelines for applying to the program,
please see:
http://www.sbs.wsu.edu/ http://www.sbs.wsu.edu/-
grad-studies/ Jeremiah W. Busch Assistant Professor
School of Biological Sciences Washington State Univer-
sity Pullman, WA 99164 jwbusch(at)wsu(dot)edu)November 1, 2009 EvolDir 49
Jobs
Bergen LabTech MarineComparativeSpecies . . . . . . . 49
CentreCollege PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
CNRS France FieldAssistant LizardPopulationConnec-
tivity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
CornellU Bioinformatics Programmer . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Edinburgh Bioinformatician . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
HarvardU EvolutionOfPrimateBehavior . . . . . . . . . . . 51
India SocialPhenomenaEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
InstForestGenetics Germany Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Marseilles EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
MNHN Paris Systematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
NSFProgramDirector BiologicalInformatics . . . . . . . . 53
OregonStateU ResAssist PopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
PortlandStateU PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
PurdueU StatisticalBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
RoyalBotanicGardens Kew ComparativeMorphology
55
RoyalBotanicGardens Kew MycologySystematics . . 55
RoyalBotanicGardens Kew PlantEvolutionaryBiologist
56
Salem Oregon YuccaEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
SmithCollege ResAssist GenomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . 57
Syngenta Biotech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
UArizona ComputBiol PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . 58
UArizona LabTech MulticellularEvolution . . . . . . . . . 59
UBuﬀalo EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60UCaliforniaLosAngeles DirectorCenter . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
UCaliforniaMerced Computational Evolutionary Ge-
nomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
UCentralFlorida EvolutionaryOrganismal Biologist 61
UChicago 2 Tech ChIP-chip . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UCLondon ResTech SexAntagonismQTL . . . . . . . . . . 62
UEdinburgh LanguageEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
UFlorida DiseaseEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
UFlorida InsectEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
UFlorida LepidopteraCollectionManager . . . . . . . . . . . 65
UKentucky MolEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
UMassachusetts Amherst EvoDevo 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
UMassachusetts MolecularEvolutionBioinformatics 66
UMichigan ComputationalEvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
UMississippi Population Genetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
UNC ResearchTech FlyPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . 68
UNebraska ViralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
UNotreDame ResTech Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Uruguay 4 EvolBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
USouthFlorida DiseaseEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
UWisconsinMadison HumanPopulationGenetics . . . 70
UYork EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
WilliamsCollege EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
YeshivaU ComputationalBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
Yukon 5techs RedSquirrels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Bergen LabTech
MarineComparativeSpecies
Job: Laboratory Department Engineer, Sars Interna-
tional Centre for Marine Molecular Biology, Bergen,
NORWAY
The Sars International Centre is a partner of the Euro-
pean Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL) and a de-
partment of Unifob AS, aﬃliated with the University
of Bergen. The Sars Centre focuses on genome scale
research in vertebrate and invertebrate biology, using
comparative and genetic molecular studies of marine
species.
The Sars Centre has available a full time position as
Laboratory Department Engineer in a new evolution-
ary developmental biology group. The position is ini-
tially for 2 years with the possibility of extension andthe start date is early 2010. Work in this group focuses
on studies of developmental biology of diﬀerent marine
and fresh water invertebrate animals using morpholog-
ical and molecular tools. The person holding this po-
sition will be trained by and work in close association
with the Group Leader. Major tasks will include DNA
cloning, PCR, microinjections, time lapse and confocal
microscopy, in situ hybridization, and tissue section-
ing for histology and electron microscopy, depending
on the evolution of the lab projects. Other responsi-
bilities include the daily management of lab equipment
and consumables and purchasing.
Applicants should have at least an engineering college
degree (høyskole) or equivalent qualiﬁcations based on
education and professional experience. Experience in
molecular biology including cloning and PCR is ex-
pected. Prior experience in cell and developmental bi-
ology with model or non-model animal systems would
be desirable. The salary level for Department Engi-
neer (code 8430) begins at NOK 310.000 and is ne-
gotiable based on prior experience. Unifob has em-50 EvolDir November 1, 2009
ployee insurance and pension agreements and is an
equal opportunity employer. Further information may
be obtained from Andreas Hejnol, Group Leader, at
andreas.hejnol@sars.uib.no, phone +47 55 58 43 28.
Written application in English, including a CV con-
taining all information about education and work ex-
perience and the names and contact information of two
references should be marked 09Sars15 and sent to: Sars
Centre, Head of Administration, Thormøhlensgt. 55,
NO-5008 Bergen, Norway, no later than 10 November
2009. Please note that applications sent by e-mail will
not be considered.
andreas.hejnol@sars.uib.no andreas.hejnol@sars.uib.no
CentreCollege PopulationGenetics
TENURE-TRACK POSITION IN BIOLOGY
CENTRE COLLEGE invites applications for a tenure-
track position for a population geneticist/conservation
biologist at the assistant professor level to start in fall
2010. The successful applicant will have a Ph.D. in
the biological sciences with expertise in population ge-
netics, population ecology and/or conservation biology
and must demonstrate a commitment to excellence in
teaching and scholarship at a nationally-ranked liberal
arts college. Teaching duties include courses in evolu-
tionary genetics, ecology, introductory biology, senior
seminar, and special topics courses in area of specialty.
Collaborative research with undergraduates is expected
and supported. Participation in Centre’s study abroad
program is also encouraged.
Centre College is a highly selective liberal arts college
of 1,200 students, listed by U.S. News in the top ﬁfty
liberal arts colleges in the nation. Classes are small
and academic standards are high. The College is lo-
cated in Danville, Kentucky, a town of 18,000 recog-
nized for its high quality of life. It is within easy
driving distance of Lexington, Louisville, and Cincin-
nati. Centre College is committed to hiring a diverse
faculty of teachers/scholars. For information concern-
ing the college, visit our web site at www.centre.edu .
To apply, please submit letter of application, statement
of teaching philosophy, statement of research interest,
CV, transcripts, and three letters of recommendation
to: Dean Stephanie Fabritius, Vice President for Aca-
demic Aﬀairs, Centre College, 600 West Walnut St.,
Danville, KY 40422. Review of applicants will beginNovember 1, 2009 and continue until position is ﬁlled.
Centre College is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
Margaret G. Richey Professor, Biology and Biochem-
istry/Molecular Biology Centre College Danville, KY
40422 859-238-5319
CENTRE COLLEGE Personal education. Extraordi-
nary success. http://www.centre.edu Peggy Richey
<peggy.richey@centre.edu >
CNRS France FieldAssistant
LizardPopulationConnectivity
Field Assistant Landscape eﬀects on common lizard
population connectivity La Station d’Ecologie Exper-
imentale du CNRS a Moulis.
We seek a ﬁeld assistant to participate in a BiodivERsA
funded project (Tenlamas) starting on the 20 ^th June
2010 until the 20 ^th August 2010. The goal of the
project is to test the utility of current models of popu-
lation connectivity in predicting observed connectivity
between populations of the common lizard. The ﬁeld
assistant will contribute to the collection of data for a
landscape genetic study of population connectivity in
the Cevenne, France. They will also be responsible for
behavioural experiments designed to quantify relative
habitat preferences, the data from which will be used to
parameterise least-cost path models of landscape con-
nectivity. No salary is associated with this position but
accommodation will be provided.
This position is ideal for a candidates who are studying
biology and have an interest in gaining practical experi-
ence of ﬁeld biology and behavioural experimentation.
The ideal candidate should: be self motivated with an
eye for detail; have a reasonable level of physical ﬁtness;
have an interest in behavioural ecology and/or popula-
tion ecology; be able and willing to communicate in
both French and English.
To apply please send a CV and cover letter to the ad-
dress below (preferably by e-mail) describing your qual-
iﬁcations for the position, but most importantly why
you are interested in the position and what you hope
to gain from it. Closing date for applications is the
15^th December 2009. Candidates will be notiﬁed by
the 15 ^th January 2010
Dr Colin Bleay,
Station d’Ecologie Experimentale du CNRSNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 51
09200 Moulis
France.
Colin.Bleay@EcoEx-moulis.cnrs.fr
CornellU Bioinformatics
Programmer
PROGRAMMER POSITION in Computational Biol-
ogy at Cornell
A position is now available for a programmer, to
serve as an integral part of the computational ge-
nomics research laboratory of Jason Mezey ( http://-
mezeylab.cb.bscb.cornell.edu/ ) at Cornell University.
Our group focuses on the development of novel statis-
tical and computational methods for addressing funda-
mental questions in complex trait / disease genomics
and in the application of these methods with our col-
laborators in molecular and medical ﬁelds. The duties
of the position will include implementing and improving
the computational speed of algorithms, building anal-
ysis pipelines, database construction and management,
and software development.
The Mezey group has a dual appointment in the De-
partment of Biological Statistics and Computational
Biology at Cornell University (Ithaca, NY) and in the
Department of Genetic Medicine at Weill Cornell Med-
ical College (New York City), with members at both
locations. We are looking for a programmer who would
primarily be at our Ithaca location.
Ideal candidates will have a computer science back-
ground, proven programming skills in C/C++ and
PERL, experience with relational databases (mysql or
similar), basic knowledge of web programming, famil-
iarity with probability and theoretical statistics, and
experience working with publically available genomic
data. The position is available immediately. To apply,
please go to the following link:
https://cornellu.taleo.net/careersection/10164/-
jobsearch.ftl and search for job #11422 (Programmer
Analyst III; job posting date 09/26/09) If you have
any additional questions please contact Jason Mezey
at jgm45@cornell.edu.
jgm45@cornell.edu jgm45@cornell.eduEdinburgh Bioinformatician
Bioinformatician MRC Human Genetics Unit, Edin-
burgh
The MRC Human Genetics Unit is seeking to recruit
a new member of staﬀ to specialise in the analysis of
high-throughput sequencing data. This post is associ-
ated with the development of the new MRC Regional
Sequencing Hub to be established at the University of
Edinburgh, and will deliver a high-level analysis service
to the Institute of Genetics and Molecular Medicine
(IGMM) research community. It oﬀers an excellent op-
portunity to work with a variety of distinguished scien-
tists on a wide range of cutting edge problems. Fur-
ther information on the research interests of IGMM
groups is available on the IGMM web site ( http://-
www.igmm.ac.uk/ ).
The full advert is at http://www.nature.com/-
naturejobs/science/jobs/114851 Candidates should
hold a PhD in Biology, Bioinformatics, Statistics, Com-
puter Science or a closely related discipline and have
extensive experience in computational biology, genet-
ics, molecular biology or a related ﬁeld. Informal en-
quiries can be made to Personnel@hgu.mrc.ac.uk or to
Colin.Semple@hgu.mrc.ac.uk . Closing Date: 2 Novem-
ber 2009
– Dr Colin A. M. Semple Head of Bioinformat-
ics MRC Human Genetics Unit Institute of Genet-
ics and Molecular Medicine Edinburgh EH4 2XU, UK
Tel: +44 (0)131 332 2471 x4034 Fax: +44 (0)131
467 8456 Email: Colin.Semple@hgu.mrc.ac.uk Web:
http://www.hgu.mrc.ac.uk/Users/Colin.Semple/ col-
ins@hgu.mrc.ac.uk colins@hgu.mrc.ac.uk
HarvardU
EvolutionOfPrimateBehavior
TENURE TRACK JOB IN PRIMATE BEHAVIOR
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
The Department of Human Evolutionary Biology at
Harvard University is seeking to make a full-time
tenure-track appointment at the assistant or untenured52 EvolDir November 1, 2009
associate professor level in the ﬁeld of non-human pri-
mate behavior, and seeks candidates who will com-
plement the current strengths of the program. We
are particularly interested in candidates whose inter-
ests in behavior extend to cognitive evolution, ecol-
ogy, genetics, or physiology, and whose primate be-
havioral studies are explicitly related to human evo-
lution. A strong doctoral record is required and the
Department seeks candidates with exceptional promise
as scholars and teachers to oﬀer courses at the under-
graduate and graduate levels. The Department admin-
isters a large and successful undergraduate concentra-
tion in Human Evolutionary Biology, hence excellence
in undergraduate teaching is a priority. Our Doctoral
program stresses integration of laboratory and ﬁeld re-
search and the cooperative training and mentoring of
Ph.D. candidates. Harvard University is an Equal Op-
portunity/Aﬃrmative Action employer, and applica-
tions from women and minorities are particularly en-
couraged. The appointment is expected to begin on
July 1, 2010. Interested candidates should send a CV,
example publications, teaching evaluations if available,
and the names and addresses of three potential refer-
ences, by November 13, 2009 to: Prof. Richard Wrang-
ham, Search Committee Chair, Department of Human
Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University, 11 Divinity
Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02138 USA, or by email to
mlynch@fas.harvard.edu.
Charles Nunn <cnunn@oeb.harvard.edu >
India SocialPhenomenaEvolution
The Complex Systems group at the Institute of Mathe-
matical Sciences (IMSc), Chennai, has been examining,
in collaboration with the Ecology, Evolution and Be-
haviour Group of the National Institute of Advanced
Studies (NIAS), Bangalore, theoretical approaches to
understand the structure and evolution of social inter-
actions in nonhuman primates. This involves (i) re-
constructing the social networks of such animals from
ﬁeld-observation data using techniques from complex
network theory, and (ii) developing agent-based mod-
els, with individuals following set of “strategies” to in-
teract with other members in the group, which can re-
produce many of the observed features of the empirical
networks. Such a study should not only illuminate how
primate groups work as a cohesive society, but may also
shed light on the evolution of complex societies with hi-
erarchical organisation in humans.We are currently looking for a candidate motivated to
apply mathematical and modeling techniques to un-
derstand evolution of social phenomena to work as
a Project Assistant/Research Assistant on the above
problem. It may also be possible for such a candi-
date to subsequently register for a doctoral degree.
The candidate should necessarily have a background
in mathematical/quantitative sciences, have some ex-
perience in using analytical and computational tech-
niques, and have a strong interest in evolution of bio-
logical systems. Knowledge of MATLAB or equivalent
scientiﬁc software is desirable but not essential. Inter-
ested candidates are requested to contact Dr Sitabhra
Sinha (sitabhra@imsc.res.in) at IMSc, Chennai and
Dr Anindya Sinha (asinha@nias.iisc.ernet.in) at NIAS,
Bangalore.
Debapriyo Chakraborty <boomsthebest@gmail.com >
InstForestGenetics Germany
Genomics
At the Institute of Forest Genetics in Grosshansdorf of
the Johann Heinrich von Th¨ unen-Institute (vTI), Fed-
eral Research Institute of Rural Areas, Forestry and
Fisheries, is a vacancy for the permanent position in
Genomics of a
scientiﬁc employee in part-time (19.5 regular working
hours/week).
Tasks:
. Planning, initialisation and analysis of large
scale DNA-sequencing of genomes of trees and their
pathogens (insects, fungi) using classical Sanger- and
new generation sequencing techniques. . Development
of SNPs in coding and non-coding regions in genomes
of trees and their pathogens (insects, fungi) . Applica-
tion of SNPs for genetic diversity studies, tree breeding
and species identiﬁcation as well as provenance identi-
ﬁcation . Analysis of sequence and population genetic
data . Development and maintenance of data bases on
sequences and population genetic data
Professional requirements:
. PhD in biology, forest science, agricultural science or
related ﬁelds, doctoral thesis on a subject in genomics
or bioinformatics, broad experience in molecular biol-
ogy, bioinformatics and population genetics. . Skills in
programming (C++, Java or Perl).November 1, 2009 EvolDir 53
Personal requirements:
. Ability to analyze complex facts . Ability for team
orientated networking . Very good knowledge of En-
glish and good knowledge of German . Readiness to go
on business trips lasting several days
The employment complies with the terms of the con-
tract for Public Service (TV ¨OD). Payment will be ac-
cording the German pay scale TOVD 13; a bonus can
be granted according to the pay scale 14, when personal
and pay scale conditions exist.
A take over to civil service status is possible later on,
but a claim can not be asserted.
The vTI promotes the professional equality of women
and men and therefore asks specially women to apply.
Severely handicapped persons will be especially consid-
ered by equal aptitude. A minimum of physical apti-
tude is required.
Please submit your application with the usual support-
ing documentation until October 23rd, 2009 to
Dr. Bernd Degen (Phone: 04102-696 101) E-
Mail: bernd.degen@vti.bund.de Johann Heinrich von
Th¨ unen-Institut (vTI) Institut f¨ ur Forstgenetik Sieker
Landstraße 2 D-22927 Grosshansdorf, Germany
Bernd Degen <bernd.degen@vti.bund.de >
Marseilles EvolutionaryBiology
A Position of Professor in evolutionary biology will
open soon at Marseilles (start october 2010) a strong
back ground in animal gentics and bioinformatics is
required The choosen candidate will have to develop
her/his own research in close collaboration with the
other members of the lab
for more information contact : Pierre Pontarotti
Pierre Antoine Pontarotti
Directeur de Recherche CNRS
UMR 6632 Universit´ e de Aix Marseille/CNRS . Equipe
Evolution biologique et Mod´ elisation , case 19 3 place
Victor Hugo 13331 Marseille Cedex 03 France tel
33491106489
we are organizing the 14th Evolutionary Biology Meet-
ing at Marseilles http://sites.univ-provence.fr/evol-
cgr/ Pierre PONTAROTTI <Pierre.Pontarotti@univ-
provence.fr >MNHN Paris Systematics
The Mus´ eum National d’Histoire Naturelle (MNHN) of
Paris will be recruiting researchers from diﬀerent sci-
entiﬁc disciplines beginning in 2010. These disciplines
include but are not limited to systematics and evolution
both in botany and in zoology. For example, between
2010 and 2011, the museum plans to recruit a Professor
specializing in plant systematics and phylogenetics and
an Assistant/Associate Professor specializing in plant
adaptive radiation.
If you are interested in a tenure-track position of Assis-
tant/Associate Professor or Professor at the MNHN of
Paris, please be advised that you must have completed
the French mandatory procedure (qualiﬁcation list) by
2010 in order to be considered.
The initial registration to apply to the qualiﬁcation
list for the position of Professor and/or Assis-
tant/Associate Professor (Maˆ ıtre de conferences) of
MNHN is open from September 15 until October
29, 2009 via the Minist` ere de l’Education Nationale
website ( https://www.galaxie.enseignementsup-
recherche.gouv.fr/ensup/candidats.html ), under the
heading GALAXIE. We are sorry but the website is
written only in French.
We invite all interested researchers to register. About
mid-December, the persons registered will receive an
email asking them to send to two reviewers a CV and
copies of 3 to 5 publications. The deadline to send
this documentation is December 14, 2009. Those who
qualify may apply between 2010 and 2013 for MNHN
positions.
For more information about the opportunities in botany
and the procedure to follow, please contact PH Gouyon
(gouyon@mnhn.fr) or JN Labat (labat@mnhn.fr).
labat@mnhn.fr
NSFProgramDirector
BiologicalInformatics
Dear SSE Member,54 EvolDir November 1, 2009
NSF Announcement for Permanent Program Director
Position in Advances in Biological Informatics
The National Science Foundation (NSF) is looking to
ﬁll a permanent position of Program Director in the
Advances in Biological Informatics (ABI) program,
Division of Biological Infrastructure (DBI). ABI seeks
to encourage new approaches to the analysis and
dissemination of biological knowledge for the beneﬁt
of both the scientiﬁc community and the broader
public. The ABI program is especially interested in the
development of informatics tools and resources that
have the potential to advance, or transform, research
in biology supported by the Directorate for Biological
Sciences at the National Science Foundation. The
Program Director for the ABI Program is responsible
for the planning and administration of the program
within the framework of legislation, agency policies,
missions, objectives, and resources. This is an exciting
opportunity for experienced individuals to have a
profound impact on furthering the biological sciences
in the U.S. Details of the position and its responsibi
lities can be found at http://jobview.usajobs.gov/-
GetJob.aspx?OPMControl=1663370 . Details
about the ABI program can be found at http:/-
/www.nsf.gov/funding/pgm summ.jsp?pims id=-
5444&org=DBI&from=home Deadline for applications
is 15 October 2009.
Please direct questions about the position to Peter
Arzberger, Division Director, DBI, parzberg@nsf.gov
or Peter McCartney, Program Director, ABI, pmc-
cartn@nsf.gov
Judy Stone (Secretary of SSE) and SSE Executive
Council - jstone@colby.edu
Judy Stone via Bill Dahl <wdahl@botany.org >
OregonStateU ResAssist
PopGenetics
Mike Blouin in the department of Zoology at OSU
wants to hire someone to study disease resistance genes
in snails. The position can be hired as a faculty research
assistant, research associate or Post Doc, depending on
the applicant’s degree and qualiﬁcations. The position
may be either part-time (at least a .50 FTE) or full
time (1.0 FTE), 12-month, ﬁxed-term. There is cur-
rently funding for one year of full-time work, but I hope
to extend that.The candidate will conduct molecular biology and pop-
ulation genetics research in Michael Blouin’s laboratory
at OSU ( http://people.oregonstate.edu/ ˜ blouinm/-
index.htm ). We study the genetics of resistance by
snails to infection by parasites. We are using candidate
gene and linkage mapping approaches. The mapping
methods will involve next generation sequencing (Illu-
mina) to develop and score SNPs. Candidate would also
be involved in supervising students and maintaining in-
bred lines of snails. Candidate might also be involved
in Illumina-based studies on gene expression in hatch-
ery and wild salmon. Experience with bioinformatics
or statistical genetics would be desirable.
Search the OSU jobs site ( http://oregonstate.edu/-
jobs/ ) for posting number 0004835. The search closes
10/23/09.
Feel free to contact me if you have questions.
Thanks, Mike
– Michael Blouin Dept. Zoology, Oregon State Univer-
sity Corvallis, OR 97331-2914 http://oregonstate.edu/-
˜blouinm/ Tel: 541-737-2362 Fax: 541-737-0501
blouinm@science.oregonstate.edu
blouinm@science.oregonstate.edu
PortlandStateU PlantEvolution
The Department of Biology at Portland State Univer-
sity invites applications for a tenure-track Assistant
Professor in Plant Biology. We seek an innovative
scientist asking fundamental questions in any area of
plant evolution/ecology. Areas of special interest in-
clude development, phylogenetics, plant-animal inter-
actions, or plant-microbial interactions. Appointment
at a more senior level may be considered for excep-
tional candidates with records of outstanding accom-
plishment. Applicants must have a Ph.D., with prior-
ity given to candidates with postdoctoral experience
and who have demonstrated success in developing a
productive research program. We encourage applica-
tions from individuals whose interests complement ex-
isting departmental strengths in ecology, physiology,
evolution, and genetics (see the departmental web site:
http://www.bio.pdx.edu/ ). The successful candidate
will be expected to develop a strong externally-funded
research program, be eﬀective in teaching at the under-
graduate level, and participate in the training of gradu-
ate students in our growing doctoral program. This is aNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 55
tenure-track 9Vmonth appointment to begin in the fall
of 2010. Review of applications will begin 26 October,
2009, and will continue until the position is ﬁlled. A
curriculum vitae, statements of research and teaching
interests, and three letters of reference should be sent
to: Sarah Eppley, Chair, Plant Biology Search Com-
mittee, Department of Biology, P.O. Box 751, Portland
State University, Portland, Oregon 97207 or via email
(plants@pdx.edu). /Portland// State University is an
Aﬃrmative Action, Equal Opportunity institution and
welcomes applications from diverse candidates and can-
didates who support diversity./
Sarah Eppley Assistant Professor Department of Biol-
ogy Portland State University P.O. Box 751 Portland,
OR 97207
Phone: 503-725-8986 Fax: 503-725-3888
Sarah Eppley <eppley@pdx.edu >
PurdueU StatisticalBioinformatics
The Department of Statistics, Purdue University in-
vites applications for a tenure-track position beginning
August 2010 at the Assistant Professor level in the area
of statistical bioinformatics. This hire will join an excit-
ing and established group in statistical bioinformatics.
The Department of Statistics oﬀers a stimulating
and nurturing academic environment. More than 35
tenured and tenure-track faculty members direct re-
search programs in a broad range of areas complemen-
tary to statistical bioinformatics. Further information
about the department is available at
http://www.stat.purdue.edu All applicants should
hold a Ph.D. in Statistics or a related ﬁeld, be commit-
ted to excellence in teaching, and have demonstrated
strong potential for excellence in research. Salary and
beneﬁts are highly competitive. For all positions in
Statistics, please visit
http://www.stat.purdue.edu/hiring/ to apply.
Review of applications will begin on December 1, 2009,
and will continue until the position is ﬁlled. Pur-
due University is an Equal Opportunity/Equal Ac-
cess/Aﬃrmative Action employer fully committed to
achieving a diverse workforce.
doerge@purdue.eduRoyalBotanicGardens Kew
ComparativeMorphology
Senior Researcher in Morphology/Anatomy (Band E)
The Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew
Job status: Permanent
Salary per annum: starting salary in the region of
£30,742, depending on skills and experience
JOB DETAILS: The Royal Botanic Gardens Kew is
seeking to recruit a researcher based in the Jodrell’s Mi-
cromorphology Section. The new postholder will carry
out comparative research in plant structure to address
key questions in systematic and evolutionary biology,
paying particular attention to morphological trait evo-
lution in relation to conservation and climate change.
http://www.kew.org/about-kew/jobs/ deadline:
November 23 2009
Paula Rudall PhD DSc Head of Micromorphology, Jo-
drell Laboratory, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Rich-
mond, Surrey, TW9 3DS, UK
Paula Rudall p.rudall@kew.org
RoyalBotanicGardens Kew
MycologySystematics
Senior Researcher in Mycology Systematics
The Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew
Job status: Permanent
Salary per annum: up to £40,864
Job Details: The main purpose of this role is to con-
duct research on mycological systematics and/or con-
servation/restoration ecology of fungi consistent with
the mission and objectives of the Royal Botanic Gar-
dens, Kew. In addition the post holder will be expected
to raise funding externally to support research of the
Section and to build the quality of Kew’s collections
through ﬁeld meetings, exchange programmes and ef-
fective herbarium curation.56 EvolDir November 1, 2009
http://www.kew.org/about-kew/jobs/-
refSeniorResearcherMycology.htm “Martin I.
Bidartondo” <m.bidartondo@imperial.ac.uk >
RoyalBotanicGardens Kew
PlantEvolutionaryBiologist
JOB TITLE: Plant Evolutionary Biologist (Band E)
REF: 298
HOURS OF WORK: Full Time (36 hours net)
JOB STATUS: Fixed Term Appointment (3 years)
SALARY PER ANNUM: £30,742 - £34,116
DEPARTMENT AND LOCATION: Jodrell, RBG Kew
JOB DETAILS:
The main purpose of this role is to establish a research
program on the evolution of plants and plant systemat-
ics / classiﬁcation complementing the current strengths
of the Molecular Systematics Section of the Jodrell
Laboratory (see Kew’s Science Directory for cur-
rent projects; http://www.kew.org/science/directory/-
index.html ). In addition you will be expected to raise
funding externally to support research and provide core
relief.
ESSENTIALS:
Ph.D. plus one previous post-doctoral post desirable.
Training in molecular biology techniques/plant system-
atics/evolutionary biology. Previous relevant experi-
ence in plant molecular systematics/evolutionary bi-
ology. Excellent written and oral skills (publication
record and presentations at international meetings).
Must be able to organise own time and research pro-
gramme. Excellent standard skills in computing, plus
phylogenetic analysis expertise. Excellent judgement
and capacity to make independent decisions. Excellent
problem solving skills. Good self motivation (supervi-
sion will be limited). Excellent team working. Good
knowledge of specialist background literature and other
available resources. Knowledge of health and safety
regulations, and good laboratory practice.
CLOSING DATE: Wednesday 4th November 2009
INTERVIEW DATE: Friday 20th November 2009
For full role details and information on how to ap-
ply please visit http://www.kew.org/about-kew/jobs/-
index.htm Felix Forest <F.Forest@kew.org >Salem Oregon YuccaEvolution
Dear Colleagues,
A one-year, NSF-funded research technician/lab man-
ager position is available in the Smith lab at Willamette
University. The project focuses on population genetic
and ecological processes in the Joshua tree / Yucca
moth pollination system. Competitive salary and ben-
eﬁts are available, commensurate with the applicant’s
background and experience. Secured funding is cur-
rently available for one year; the position may be ex-
tended for additional years contingent upon the avail-
ability of funding and satisfactory performance. The
job responsibilities will include (but are not limited to)
genotyping of yucca moth and joshua tree individuals,
and participation in ﬁeld research in the Mojave desert
in the early spring.
Willamette University is a selective, liberal-arts college
located in Salem, Oregon. Salem is a progressive, mul-
ticultural and multiethnic community, located 47 miles
south of Portland. Salem is within an easy drive of
the Oregon coast, Eugene, the Cascade Mountains, Mt.
Hood, and the Columbia River Gorge. Seattle, Wash-
ington, Vancouver, BC, and the Olympic peninsula are
all reachable within a day’s drive.
The oﬃcial position announcement is pasted below, and
can viewed at the Willamette University Human Re-
sources website:
http://www.willamette.edu/dept/hr/employment/-
admin/Biol Research Asst 2009/index.html Christo-
pher Irwin Smith Assistant Professor Department of
Biology Willamette University Salem, OR 97301 ph:
503-370-6181 fax: 503-375-5425
www.willamette.edu/ ˜ csmith/ChrisSmith.htm
email: csmith@willamette.edu csmith@uidaho.edu
chris smith@post.harvard.edu
Research Assistant / Lab Manager in Evolutionary
Ecology - Department of Biology As part of a research
project funded by the National Science Foundation, the
Research Assistant extracts DNA from plant and insect
specimens, genotypes these using microsatellite DNA
markers and DNA sequencing, records the methods
used and experimental results. The Research Assistant
will participate in ﬁeld research, including assisting in
the design and implementation of ﬁeld experiments and
travelling to ﬁeld sites for several weeks. The ResearchNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 57
Assistant analyzes experimental data using computer
software packages for genetic and statistical analysis
and graphing and assists in the preparation of mate-
rial for publication. The Research Assistant manages
and oversees day-to-day laboratory functions, includ-
ing assisting undergraduates completing research in the
Principal Investigator’s laboratory, ordering laboratory
equipment and supplies, arranging for repair of labora-
tory equipment, and maintaining a database of plant
and insect collections and genomic DNA materials.
The Research Assistant plans and performs technical
experiments that require training in certain basic labo-
ratory skills. In addition, the Research Assistant man-
ages the day-to-day operation of the laboratory in a
way that maximizes the number of days dedicated to
collection of research data while ensuring that the phys-
ical components and clerical operations of the labora-
tory are also maintained. Thus the position requires
a degree of organizational skill and an ability to work
independently with a minimal of supervision. The posi-
tion requires a certain knowledge of University policies
and procedures as well as strong interpersonal, written
and verbal communication skills. Completion of job du-
ties includes travel to ﬁeld sites in the Mojave Desert
(Nevada, California, and Arizona), and the completion
of ﬁeld experiment. Thus, the ability to live and work
in semi-primitive conditions is required.
This is a full-time one year position which includes full
beneﬁts. Extension of this position is dependent upon
continuation of funding.
Duties and Responsibilities:
The duties and responsibilities of the Research Assis-
tant include, but are not limited to, the following func-
tions, which are not listed in any particular order of
importance or signiﬁcance:
Research Assistant:
1. Extracts genomic DNA from plant and insect tis-
sues using DNA extraction kits and evaluates DNA
concentrations and quality using a gel electorphoresis
and spectrophotomtery.
2. Genotypes plant and insect samples using mi-
crosatellite genotyping by electrophoresis and analysis
of electropherogram data.
3. Sequences DNA from samples using PCR ampliﬁca-
tion and Sanger sequencing with dye-labeled termina-
tors.
4. Analyzes raw microsatellite and DNA sequence data
using standard softwares, including Gene Mapper and
CodonCode.
5. Participates in weekly lab meetings, including read-ing and discussing current scientiﬁc literature in the
topics of coevolution,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
SmithCollege ResAssist
GenomeEvolution
Research Assistant Position at Smith College
The research technician will use molecular and bioinfor-
matics tools to explore genome evolution within the cil-
iate Chilodonella uncinata, and to elucidate evolution-
ary relationships among ciliates. The technician will
PCR, clone and sequence multiple genes from ciliate
micronuclear and macronuclear genomes. The techni-
cian will also characterize genes from ciliate mitochon-
dria using both traditional and walking PCR. Further,
the technician will track cultures using light microscopy
and ultimately work with the PI to develop ﬂuorescence
microscopy for these systems. Finally, the technician
will need to maintain data in a well-organized database,
with attention paid to details of completeness and qual-
ity, while also supporting general lab functions.
Requirements: Bachelor’s degree plus at least one year
lab and informatics experience.
Skills: Must be highly motivated to collect and cata-
log DNA sequence data, and to perform bioinformatics
tasks. Experience with basic molecular skills, including
PCR, cloning and sequencing; knowledge of biopython,
ClustalW, PAUP, RaxML, and other informatics tools
designed to analyze DNA sequence data would be ide-
als. Also need basic microscopy skills to maintain ciliate
cultures.
This is a full-time, one year grant funded position with
the possibility of renewal. Smith College is an equal
opportunity employer encouraging excellence through
diversity.
Please contact Laura Katz (lkatz@smith.edu) with
questions.
More information on the Katzlab can be found
at: http://www.science.smith.edu/departments/-
Biology/lkatz/ Oﬃcial Job posting can be found at:
https://jobs.smith.edu/ –58 EvolDir November 1, 2009
Laura A. Katz, Elsie Damon Simonds Professor De-
partment of Biological Sciences lkatz@email.smith.edu
44 College Lane Smith College Northamp-
ton, MA 01063 Phone: 413-585-3825 (oﬃce)
413-585-3750 (lab) Fax: 413-585-3786 http://-
www.science.smith.edu/departments/Biology/lkatz/
Loans that change lives: http://www.kiva.org/
Donate free: http://www.hungersite.com Laura A
Katz <lkatz@smith.edu >
Syngenta Biotech
Dear List Members, The following positions are
open at Syngenta Biotechnology in Research Tri-
angle Park, NC. Syngenta was recently named
one of the top biotechnology employers by
Science. http://sciencecareers.sciencemag.org/-
career magazine/previous issues/articles/2009 1002/-
science.opms.r0900079 Genome Annotation Specialist
(#1434): This individual will be responsible for
implementing automated annotation pipelines for
genome, transcript, and proteins sequences. Advanced
knowledge of sequence analysis tools is required.
Experience with modern high throughput sequencing
analytics is desirable. A strong competency with Unix
and scripting in a language such as Perl is required.
Genomic Database Specialist (#1435): This individ-
ual will be responsible for maintaining and optimizing
database systems for genome annotation and related in-
formation. Experience overseeing database systems is
required and experience with Oracle and PostgreSQL is
desirable. The ideal candidate will have a solid under-
standing of genomics and a background in a life sciences
setting. Strong competency with Unix and Perl is re-
quired.
Genomic Platform Technology Team Leader (#1183):
This individual will lead a team of experienced scien-
tists to generate and deliver high quality omics data and
constant platform evolution. The role provides leader-
ship in technical and experimental design, investigation
of new genomic technologies, optimization of selected
technologies and the development/implementation of
regular process improvements. Success will involve col-
laboration with IT/bioinformatics to ensure optimal
data integration and analysis, regular education on
platform capabilities and ensuring platform access by
global R&D scientists. Experience in the management
of Aﬀy and/or Illumina GAIIx platforms is essential.As a team leader, this individual will help deﬁne Inte-
grated Genome Biology group strategy through mem-
bership in the iGB Integration Team.
Lead discovery scientist (#1224): The incumbent
will develop and apply systematic and integrative ap-
proaches to support data mining and analysis of ge-
nomic, transcriptomic, metabolomic, proteomic, ge-
netic and public literature in order to accelerate the dis-
covery of genes and biomarkers for trait improvement.
Ph.D. in biological sciences and hand on experience in
applying statistical and computational methodology to
predict gene functions from complex data sets are re-
quired. Knowledge of plant biology is desirable.
Large Scale Data Analyst (#1433): Apply statisti-
cal and machine learning methods to extract value
from complex integrated “omics” datasets, including
traditional and digital expression, genomic variation,
metabolomic, and phenotypic data.
Read more and apply at http://-
www.syngentacareers.com/listing/
UArizona ComputBiol
PopulationGenomics
STAFF SCIENTIST IN COMPUTATIONAL BIOL-
OGY AND POPULATION GENOMICS, UNIVER-
SITY OF ARIZONA
A Staﬀ Scientist position in computational biology and
population genomics is available in Michael Hammer’s
group at the University of Arizona. The focus of the
position will be on the analysis of genomic-scale pop-
ulation genetic data gathered from humans and non-
human primates; in particular, we are interested in a
computational scientist who can focus on the model-
ing and analysis of next generation sequencing data.
On-going projects in the lab are aimed at distinguish-
ing the forces that shape patterns of genomic variabil-
ity, including demographic processes, sexual selection,
and natural selection. The primary project is a collab-
orative, NIH-funded research project to collect large-
scale DNA sequence data from eight primate species
to study the inﬂuences of mating system, sex-biased
migration patterns, and chromosomal eﬀective popula-
tion size on patterns of polymorphism and rates of di-
vergence. While the NIH-funded research project pro-
vides intellectually exciting and challenging computa-
tional and statistical problems, the candidate will haveNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 59
some ﬂexibility in choosing projects that best match ca-
reer goals. The position is open to masters or PhD level
candidates. The salary will be competitive and based
on level of experience, and may well exceed salary levels
found on the NIH postdoctoral scale.
Our research group hosts geneticists, computational bi-
ologists, applied mathematicians, and anthropologists
under this broad research agenda, and provides a work-
ing interdisciplinary research environment. The project
provides opportunities to work with an active commu-
nity of researchers in Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy, Math, Anthropology, and Computer Science at the
University of Arizona, and with Jeﬀrey Wall and his
collaborators at UCSF.
Preference will be given to applicants who have a PhD
and experience in the following ﬁelds: computational
biology, statistical genetics, evolutionary genetics, com-
puter science, or applied mathematics; and who have
knowledge of probability theory, stochastic processes,
and theoretical/computational statistics. Proﬁciency
in programming is required.
The ideal candidate will have the skills to develop in-
novative statistical and modeling methodology. Addi-
tional capabilities that the lab and project are seeking
include mining publicly available data, and bioinfor-
matic methods to design targeted capture arrays for
large-scale next generation sequencing of both genic
and intergenic regions.
The expected start date is negotiable. This position in-
cludes outstanding UA beneﬁts including health, den-
tal, and life insurance; paid vacation, sick leave, and
holidays; UA/ASU/NAU tuition reduction for the em-
ployee and qualiﬁed family members; access to UA
recreation and cultural activities; state retirement; and
more.
All applicants must apply on-line by completing an
appointed personnel application and include a cover
letter, curriculum vitae, and contact information for
three references. To view the on-line posting and
to apply, go to www.uacareertrack.com/applicants/-
Central?quickFind6097 or go to www.uacareertrack
and search postings using job #44065.
As an equal opportunity and aﬃrmative action em-
ployer, the University of Arizona recognizes the power
of a diverse community and encourages applications
from individuals with varied experiences, perspectives
and backgrounds M/W/D/V.
Michael Hammer <mfh@email.arizona.edu >UArizona LabTech
MulticellularEvolution
A RESEARCH TECHNICIAN POSITION is available
in the laboratory of Dr. Richard E. Michod ( http://-
www.eebweb.arizona.edu/Michod/ ) in the Department
of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the Univer-
sity of Arizona (Tucson, AZ; http://www.eebweb . ari-
zona.edu/).
We are looking for a motivated, enthusiastic and inde-
pendent individual with a strong background in evo-
lutionary biology and/or genomics and/or molecular
biology to address questions concerned with the evo-
lution of multicellularity, using the green algal group
Volvocales as a model-system. Current projects in the
lab address the genetic basis for the evolution of germ-
soma diﬀerentiation, life history trade-oﬀs as a function
of colony size, the role of DNA damage in the evolution
of sex.
Minimal requirements are a bachelor’s degree in biology
or a related ﬁeld or a minimum of four years laboratory
experience. Preferred qualiﬁcations include familiarity
with molecular lab techniques (DNA extraction, PCR,
etc.), sterile technique, basic statistical analyses, and
microscopy. Experience working with green algae is not
critical, but applicants should have experience in and
familiarity with basic laboratory techniques; experience
with the Comet assay is a plus but not a necessity.
To apply, please e-mail Pierre Durand (pdu-
rand@email.arizona.edu) with the following informa-
tion: a statement detailing your research interests and
qualiﬁcations, a CV, and the names and contact infor-
mation of three references. The position is funded by
an NSF grant. Salary range is $22,602 - $28,144, with
speciﬁc salary to be dependent on education and pre-
vious experience. The start date is ﬂexible (as early as
November 1, 2009). The University of Arizona is an
EO/AA Employer.
– Matthew D. Herron Ph.D. candidate Dept.
of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology University
of Arizona mherron@email.arizona.edu http://-
www.eebweb.arizona.edu/grads/mherron/ 520-621-
1844
xprinceps@gmail.com60 EvolDir November 1, 2009
UBuﬀalo EvoDevo
Please note that evolutionarily-oriented developmental
genomicists, working on ANY organismal system, are
encouraged to apply.
—-
Developmental Genomics
The Department of Biological Sciences ( http://-
www.biology.buﬀalo.edu ) at the University at Buﬀalo
is seeking outstanding applicants for a tenure-track As-
sistant Professor position in the ﬁeld of Developmental
Genomics. Applications from candidates with interests
in whole-genome approaches to study fundamental bio-
logical processes including embryonic development, ner-
vous system development, and creation/maintenance
of speciﬁc organs and tissues are encouraged to apply.
This position is oﬀered as part of an ongoing initiative
at UB in the area of Molecular Recognition in Biological
Systems and Bioinformatics.
UB is the largest and most comprehensive campus in
the SUNY system. We oﬀer outstanding research fa-
cilities with opportunities for interdisciplinary interac-
tions within UB, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, and
the NYS Center of Excellence in Bioinformatics and
Life Sciences. A generous startup package will be pro-
vided. The successful candidate will be expected to
maintain an externally funded research program and
to participate in graduate and undergraduate teaching.
Applicants should have a Ph.D. (or other doctorate de-
gree), at least three years of postdoctoral experience, a
scholarly publication record and ﬂuency in both spoken
and written English.
To apply, a curriculum vitae, description of cur-
rent and future research interests, and reprints of at
least three recent or in press publications must be
electronically submitted to: www.ubjobs.buﬀalo.edu/-
applicants/Central?quickFindR921 . In addition, three
reference letters should be sent under separate cover, ei-
ther electronically to devgenomics-search@buﬀalo.edu,
or by mail to Developmental Genomics Search Com-
mittee, Department of Biological Sciences, 109 Cooke
Hall, University at Buﬀalo, Amherst, NY 14260. We
will begin reviewing applications on November 1, 2009
and continue until the position is ﬁlled. Please consult
our website for information about UB, our department
and our community.The University at Buﬀalo is an Equal Opportunity Em-
ployer/Recruiter.
– Victor A. Albert Empire Innovation Professor of Bi-
ological Sciences University at Buﬀalo (SUNY) http:/-
/biology.buﬀalo.edu/Faculty/Albert/albert.html “Vic-
tor A. Albert” <vaalbert@buﬀalo.edu >
UCaliforniaLosAngeles
DirectorCenter
**Evolutionary Biologists, we strongly encourage you
to apply to the following position:
Director, UCLA Center for Society and Genetics
The UCLA Center for Society and Genetics seeks a
highly qualiﬁed candidate to serve in the position of the
Center’s Director. The appointee will hold a full-time
appointment at the Associate or Full Professorial level
in the Center, as well as a joint appointment in a UCLA
department appropriate to the appointee’s disciplinary
research interests. The appointment as Center Direc-
tor will be for a ﬁve-year renewable term, after which
time the appointment will continue as a normal faculty
appointment. Salary is commensurate with education
and experience.
The UCLA Center for Society and Genetics (CSG) is
a Center for Interdisciplinary Instruction with a strong
research and teaching emphasis, 14 core and aﬃliated
faculty, and plans for continued growth. Our multidis-
ciplinary program seeks to understand the burgeoning
biological sciences and their complex interactions with
the social world. The Center thus seeks to generate
new knowledge about the co-evolution of science and
society by promoting innovative and socially relevant
research and education. Applications are welcome from
either life science or human science scholars whose re-
search focuses on the intersection of the biological and
the social. The ideal candidate will be an intellectual
leader, with strong disciplinary grounding, strong ex-
tramural funding record, and the ability to work closely
with colleagues across a variety of ﬁelds in the humani-
ties, social sciences, natural sciences and medicine. The
new Director of the Center should enhance the national
and international proﬁle of the Center, guide the devel-
opment of a new Human Biology and Society Major
housed within CSG, and continue the Center’s strong
commitment to diversity, public education, and out-
reach.November 1, 2009 EvolDir 61
Please send letter of application, C.V., statement of
research and teaching interests, and names of referees
to CSG Director Search Committee c/o Ana Wevill,
CSG Manager, UCLA Center for Society and Genet-
ics, Box 957221, 1323 Rolfe Hall, Los Angeles, CA
90095-7221. Electronic applications will be accepted
at ana@socgen.ucla.edu –please place CSG Director
Search in the subject heading. Posting #:3022-0910-
01. For procedural questions, contact Ana Wevill
ana@socgen.ucla.edu. For all other questions, contact
the Chair of the Search Committee: Soraya de Chadare-
vian (chadarevian@history.ucla.edu), CSG Co-Director
Norton Wise (nortonw@history.ucla.edu) or CSG Co-
Director Ed McCabe (emccabe@mednet.ucla.edu). Ini-
tial review of applications will begin November 9, 2009
and will continue until the position is ﬁlled. UCLA
is an Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer.
The Center has a strong commitment to the achieve-
ment of excellence and diversity among its faculty and
staﬀ. For further information on CSG, visit: http://-
www.socgen.ucla.edu/
Ana Wevill MSO II, Supervisor UCLA Cen-
ter for Society & Genetics 1323 Rolfe Hall
ph: 310-267-4990 fax: 310-206-1880 email:
ana@socgen.ucla.edu www.socgen.ucla.edu Ana
Wevill <Ana@socgen.ucla.edu >
UCaliforniaMerced Computational
Evolutionary Genomics
The Ardell Lab at UC Merced invites applications from
qualiﬁed scientists and engineers for a
Senior Research Associate in Computational Biology
and Evolutionary Genomics
A full-time bioinformatics research associate / systems
administrator position is available to support a small
network of innovative and interdisciplinary computa-
tional biology and genomics laboratories. The individ-
ual Senior Research Associate (SRA) will be responsi-
ble for creative, supervised design, development, and
integration of bioinformatics databases and software —
both alone and in collaboration with computational bi-
ologists. The SRA will be given opportunities to partic-
ipate directly in research and be published. Additional
responsibilities will include administration and main-
tenance of a Mac OS X/UNIX-based workgroup, web
server, and high performance computing cluster with a
user-load of about 8 users or less. For more informationon our groups please see
http://qsb.ucmerced.edu/faculty/dardell/lab/ (Ardell
Lab)
http://granada.ucmerced.edu/ ˜ cfrank/webb/-
Home.html (Frank Lab)
The position is available immediately. Initial appoint-
ment will be one year, with possible renewal on a year-
to-year basis. Renewal of appointment is contingent on
performance and availability of funds.
Qualiﬁcations:
A bachelors degree in Computer Science or related
ﬁelds, Masters preferred, and a minimum of two years
of professional experience in systems administration or
computational research support including Perl, Apache,
MySQL and administration of Mac OS X or UNIX-
based systems and/or networks. Experience with MPI,
XGrid, and SGE is highly desirable. Other technologies
of interest: PHP, CSS, Wordpress, CGI, and Python.
An interest in database and algorithm design and open
source software engineering is essential. Prior experi-
ence in bioinformatics is highly desirable, but not re-
quired. Training in bioinformatics will be provided as
necessary. Demonstrated ability to maintain accurate
database ﬁles and library and script documentation.
To apply:
https://jobs.ucmerced.edu/n/staﬀ/-
position.jsf?positionId=2264 – David Ardell 5200
North Lake Road, School of Natural Sciences,
University of California, Merced CA 95343 oﬃce:
(209) 228-2953 // fax: (209) 228-4675 // dard-
ell@ucmerced.edu
dardell@ucmerced.edu dardell@ucmerced.edu
UCentralFlorida
EvolutionaryOrganismal Biologist
Innovative Approaches to Evolutionary and Organ-
ismal Biology The Department of Biology at the
University of Central Florida (UCF) invites appli-
cations for a tenure-track position at the rank of
Assistant Professor. The candidate’s research will use
innovative molecular approaches to address questions
in evolutionary or organismal biology. Candidates
must have a demonstrated ability or strong potential
to establish and maintain a vigorous, extramurally-
funded research program. Preference will be given to62 EvolDir November 1, 2009
candidates who complement departmental strengths
in conservation biology, ecology, evolution, and or-
ganismal biology, and facilitate collaborations. See
http://biology.cos.ucf.edu/ for department details.
The successful candidate must have an earned Ph.D.
and appropriate post-doctoral training. S/he will con-
tribute to our Ph.D. program in Conservation Biology
and M.S. program in Biology, and teach graduate and
undergraduate courses. UCF has a strong research
emphasis and provides competitive startup funds and
teaching loads. Applicant must ﬁll out an online
job application (please do not upload any materials
here, see below) at: https://www.jobswithucf.com/-
applicants/jsp/shared/frameset/Frameset.jsp?time=-
1255461062403 Then, applicants should send a single
Adobe Acrobat PDF document that includes a letter
of intent, curriculum vitae, a two-page statement of
research plans and a one-page teaching philosophy to:
bio-search@mail.ucf.edu and arrange for three letters
of recommendation to be sent either to the above email
or to: Dr. C. L. Parkinson, Chair, EOB Search Com-
mittee, Department of Biology, 4000 Central Fl. Blvd.,
University of Central Florida, Orlando, FL 32816-2368.
Review of applications will begin December 1, 2009,
with an anticipated start date of August 2010. UCF
is in the top ﬁve national universities in the “Top
Up-and-Coming Schools” list published by U.S. News
& World Report. The University of Central Florida is
an Aﬃrmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer.
Minorities and women are encouraged to apply. As
an agency of the State of Florida, all application
materials and selection procedures are available for
public review.
Christopher L. Parkinson, Ph.D. Dept. of Biology
University of Central Florida 4000 Central Florida
Blvd. Orlando, FL 32816-2368 oﬃce: 407-823-4847
fax: 407-823-5769 http://biology.ucf.edu/˜clp/ E-mail
cparkins@mail.ucf.edu
Chris Parkinson <cparkins@mail.ucf.edu >
UChicago 2 Tech ChIP-chip
We are looking to hire two technicians to help gener-
ate ChIP-chip and ChIP-seq data for the ModEncode
project with molecular biology and Drosophila genetics
experience.
Thanks very much. Rebecca
https://jobopportunities.uchicago.edu/applicants/-jsp/shared/frameset/Frameset.jsp?time=-
1255475504700 Rebecca Spokony, PhD Kevin White’s
Lab Department of Human Genetics CSLC Room 431
920 E 58th St University of Chicago Chicago, IL 60637
Tel. (773)-834-0074
“Spokony, Rebecca [BSD] - HGD”
<rspokony@bsd.uchicago.edu >
UCLondon ResTech
SexAntagonismQTL
Dear all,
I am seeking to hire a high grade research technician
to work on the genetic basis of sexual antagonism in
Drosophila melanogaster. The post is funded by a grant
from the Natural Environment Research Council to my-
self (PI) and Kevin Fowler (Co-I). The position is avail-
able for 3 years, starting in January 2010 (negotiable).
The position is Grade 7 and for a highly qualiﬁed in-
dividual to work in an enabling role but with some
responsibility and independence. We are looking for
somebody who either has experience as a technician or
has worked as a researcher but is looking for an alter-
native career in academia.
The oﬃcial advert is pasted below. For more infor-
mation and to apply, please visit http://tinyurl.com/-
reuter-tech . The application deadline is Wednesday
11th November 2009. Interviews will take place in the
second half of November.
Best regards, Max
RESEARCH TECHNICIAN (GRADE 7)
Analysing quantitative trait loci of sexual antagonism
in fruitﬂies
A research technician post is available at University
College London to work with Max Reuter and Kevin
Fowler on the genetic basis of sexual antagonism in
fruitﬂies. The position is part of a project funded by
the Natural Environment Research Council, the aim of
which is to identify and characterise quantitative trait
loci of sexual antagonism in Drosophila melanogaster.
The project combines evolutionary and molecular ge-
netic approaches to ﬁne-map QTL of sex- speciﬁc ﬁtness
and identify candidate genes underlying sexual antag-
onism. The post-holder will assist a postdoctoral re-
searcher in phenotypic and molecular analyses and will
have primary responsibility for a suite of hemiclonalNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 63
lines and recombinants. Duties will include ﬁtness as-
says, genotyping via SNP genomic markers, resequenc-
ing of genomic regions of interest, data entry/analysis,
insect husbandry and laboratory management. The
project will be based in a thriving research group within
UCL’s GEE. For further information on this project
and the group, see http://www.homepages.ucl.ac.uk/-
˜ucbtmre/Labsite .
This position is an opportunity for a highly motivated,
independent and reliable individual who enjoys work-
ing in a team. The candidate will need good organisa-
tional and research skills and to be positive about using,
developing and troubleshooting new methods. Molec-
ular skills are essential. Experience of large-scale ex-
periments with insects and behavioural assays would
be advantageous. Education to B.Sc. Hons. level or
higher and work experience as a technician or researcher
in a relevant discipline is required. The post is avail-
able from 1st January 2010 (ﬂexible) for 36 months,
with a starting salary at Grade 7, point 29 on the UCL
salary scale: £31,620 ( £28,839 plus £2,781 London Al-
lowance).
Application Process: For more information and to ap-
ply using the online application process please vitis
the post’s page on the UCL HR website, accessible
through http://tinyurl.com/reuter-tech . It is essential
that candidates ensure that their skills and experi-
ence meet the post’s criteria outlined before applying.
In case you have diﬃculties with the online system,
plase email ian.evans@ucl.ac.uk, Ian Evans, Divisional
Staﬃng Oﬃcer, Faculty of Life Sciences, University
College London, Room 122, Darwin Building, Gower
Street, London, WC1E 6BT. Telephone: 020 7679 4486.
The closing date for applications is Wednesday 11th
November 2009, 4:30pm. Interviews will take place in
late November.
Max Reuter
Research Department of Genetics, Evolution and En-
vironment Faculty of Life Sciences University College
London 4 Stephenson Way London NW1 2HE, UK
Phone: +44-20-76795095 Fax: +44-20-76795052
http://www.homepages.ucl.ac.uk/˜ucbtmre/Labsite/
m.reuter@ucl.ac.uk m.reuter@ucl.ac.uk
UEdinburgh LanguageEvolution
THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH COLLEGE OFHUMANITIES AND SOCIAL SCIENCE SCHOOL OF
PHILOSOPHY, PSYCHOLOGY AND LANGUAGE
SCIENCES
LECTURER IN EVOLUTION OF LANGUAGE
SALARY SCALE: £36,532 - £43,622 GRADE: UE08
CLOSING DATE: 4 DECEMBER 2009
VACANCY REFERENCE: 3011813
The University of Edinburgh seeks to appoint a per-
manent, full-time Lecturer in Evolution of Language
within the School of Philosophy, Psychology and Lan-
guage Sciences. More information here:
http://www.jobs.ed.ac.uk/-
vacancies/index.cfm?fuseaction=-
3Dvacancies.furtherdetails&vacancy ref=3011813
n.barton@ed.ac.uk n.barton@ed.ac.uk
UFlorida DiseaseEvolution
The Department of Biology, University of Florida, seeks
a tenure-track faculty member working at the interface
between evolutionary biology and infectious disease,
who will be expected to have an adjunct appointment
in the UF Emerging Pathogens Institute (EPI). We
seek applicants who develop quantitative and theoreti-
cal tools to advance our understanding of the evolution
of emerging pathogen systems (e.g., host-pathogen co-
evolution, drug resistance, pathogen response to global
change), and may also use such tools to inform broader
domains of biological inquiry (e.g. evolutionary ge-
netics, ecology, animal behavior). Host and pathogen
taxonomic foci are open. Instruction at both under-
graduate and graduate levels is expected. The De-
partment of Biology fosters a collegial, collaborative,
interdisciplinary environment with strong ties to EPI,
the Florida Museum of Natural History, the UF Genet-
ics Institute, and other UF centers in biomedical, vet-
erinary, environmental and agricultural sciences. For
more information and to submit an electronic applica-
tion consisting of a cover letter, curriculum vitae, state-
ments of research and teaching interests, three reprints,
and names of three referees, please go to http:/-
/www.biology.uﬂ.edu/Administration/Jobs.aspx (posi-
tion #00025351). The appointment is at the rank of
tenure- track Assistant Professor; however, appoint-
ment at the Associate Professor rank is possible for an
exceptional candidate. Ph. D. or equivalent in a rele-
vant discipline is required; postdoctoral research expe-
rience is preferred. Salary is commensurate with experi-64 EvolDir November 1, 2009
ence. The anticipated starting date is August 16, 2010.
Review of applications will begin on 1 December 2009
and will continue until the position is ﬁlled. The selec-
tion process will be conducted under Florida’s “Gov-
ernment in the Sunshine” and Public Records Laws.
Our department is committed to diversity as a compo-
nent of excellence. Women, minorities and members of
other under-represented groups are encouraged to ap-
ply. The University of Florida is an equal opportunity
institution.
Marta L. Wayne, PhD Associate Professor P.O.
Box 118525 Department of Biology University of
Florida Gainesville, FL 32611-8525 (courier: B30
Bartram Hall) vox: 352-392-9925 fax: 352-392-
3704 http://web.me.com/mlwayne/Wayne Lab/-
TheWayne Lab.html mlwayne@uﬂ.edu ml-
wayne@uﬂ.edu
UFlorida InsectEvolution
We have just posted a new tenure-track job in the En-
tomology and Nematology Department at the Univer-
sity of Florida. The primary focus will be teaching and
undergraduate advising, but there is also a substan-
tial research component. The focus of the candidate’s
research is completely open, as long as it includes in-
sects or other terrestrial arthropods that entomologists
might recognize (e.g., mites, spiders, etc.). The Univer-
sity of Florida has a strong interdisciplinary community
of people studying ecology and evolution that collabo-
rate across several departments including Entomology
and Nematology ( http://www.entnemdept.uﬂ.edu/ ),
Biology (http://www.biology.uﬂ.edu/), Wildlife Ecol-
ogy and Conservation ( http://www.wec.uﬂ.edu/ ), the
UF Genetics Institute ( http://www.ufgi.uﬂ.edu/ ), and
more. Individuals with research interests in evolution
or ecology are encouraged to apply. Please see the oﬃ-
cial advertisement below for more information.
Subject: Faculty position available in Entomology at
the Univiersity of Florida
A faculty position in Entomology, with a pri-
mary emphasis on undergraduate teaching, is
available at the University of Florida. Please see
the job description below. Questions about the
position can be directed to Heather McAuslane
(hjmca@uﬂ.edu <mailto:hjmca@uﬂ.edu >). Applica-
tion should be made online using the UF Jobs web site
(https://jobs.uﬂ.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind=-62552 ).
Job Description: This is a 12-month tenure-accruing
position that will be 80% teaching (College of Agri-
cultural and Life Sciences) and 20% research (Florida
Agricultural Experiment Station) in the Department of
Entomology & Nematology, Institute of Food and Agri-
cultural Sciences, at the University of Florida. The
principal responsibilities will involve teaching under-
graduate non-major courses in insect science, serving
as the coordinator of the undergraduate program, and
actively recruiting and supporting undergraduate ma-
jors. The successful candidate will engage in schol-
arly activities related to instruction, including teaching
undergraduate courses, advising and mentoring under-
graduate students, supervising undergraduate student
research and creative work, participating in curricu-
lum revision and enhancement, seeking funding for the
teaching program, publishing teaching-related scholar-
ship, producing learning tools, and engaging in profes-
sional development activities related to teaching and
advising. The incumbent is also expected to supervise
and advise graduate students, obtain signiﬁcant grant
support for the research program, and publish research
results in refereed journals. Tenure will accrue in the
Department of Entomology & Nematology. This as-
signment may change in accordance with the needs of
the unit. Faculty are encouraged to support and partic-
ipate in the CALS Honors Program, distance education,
and international education. All IFAS faculty are ex-
pected to demonstrate commitment and responsibility
to the three functions of the Land Grant mission.
Minimum Requirements: An earned doctorate in Ento-
mology or a closely related discipline is required. Ex-
perience and demonstrated excellence in undergraduate
instruction is required. Candidates should have demon-
strated skills in verbal and written communication, in-
terpersonal relationships, computer-based instructional
methods, and procurement of extramural funding. The
candidates must be supportive of the mission of the
Land-Grant system. The candidate must also have a
commitment to IFAS core values of excellence, diver-
sity, global involvement, and accountability.
Preferred Qualiﬁcations: Postdoctoral experience is de-
sirable.
Special Instructions to Applicants: To ensure full con-
sideration please apply online and submit additional
materials by December 15, 2009. Position will remain
open until a viable applicant pool is determined. Nom-
inations are welcome. Nominations need to include the
complete name and address of the nominee. This in-
formation should be sent to the address below. Indi-
viduals wishing to apply should go online to https:/-November 1, 2009 EvolDir 65
/jobs.uﬂ.edu (referencing requisition # 0803264) and
submit:
- Faculty Proﬁle - short application - Cover letter that
states applicant’s interest in the position and qualiﬁca-
tions relative to the credentials listed above - Complete
vita (which includes statement of current position and
responsibilities); - Statement of teaching philosophy (as
’References’) - Statement of research or extension inter-
ests (as ’Other Document’) - PDF ﬁles of 2-3 of your
most important publications (as ’Work Sample’)
Also, oﬃcial transcripts showing receipt of the doctoral
degree, and three letters of recommendation should be
sent to:
Heather McAuslane
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UFlorida
LepidopteraCollectionManager
Thanks so much. The announcement is inserted below.
COLLECTION MANAGER FOR LEPIDOPTERA
McGuire Center for Lepidoptera and Biodiversity,
Florida Museum of Natural History, University of
Florida, Gainesville, FL
The Florida Museum of Natural History invites applica-
tions for a collection manager position at the McGuire
Center for Lepidoptera and Biodiversity. The Center
has one of the worldˆ as largest lepidopteran collections
with a large staﬀ and active research programs in sys-
tematics, evolutionary biology, ecology and biodiversity
conservation.
Requirements include a degree in the biological sci-
ences, preferably M.S. or Ph,D., with appropriate ex-
perience in a museum or similar collection-based back-
ground, and a broad knowledge of lepidopteran clas-
siﬁcation. Primary responsibilities will include cura-
tion and management of collections (acquisitions, ac-
cessions, loans, public inquiries, etc.), and supervision
of associated preparators and other staﬀ.
Individuals wishing to apply should visit https://-
jobs.uﬂ.edu (referencing requisition # 0803166) andsubmit an online application which must include a cur-
riculum vitae, three letters of recommendation and a
description of your collections managementexperience
and knowledge of Lepidoptera. The application dead-
line is November 16, 2009 and the anticipated start date
is January 2010.
“celiazar@ﬂmnh.uﬂ.edu” <celiazar@ﬂmnh.uﬂ.edu >
UKentucky MolEvolution
ASSISTANT PROFESSORS OF BIOLOGY UNIVER-
SITY OF KENTUCKY
The Department of Biology at the University of Ken-
tucky seeks 2 tenure- track Assistant Professors inter-
ested in molecular bases of evolution and/or molecu-
lar approaches to environmental response. Other ar-
eas of modern biological thought will be considered.
We are particularly interested in programs that inte-
grate empirical approaches with theoretical, statisti-
cal, or computational methods. Model systems for re-
search are open, ranging from microbes to plants and
animals, as are levels of biological organization stud-
ied, ranging from molecular genetics and epigenetics
of cells to genomics of populations. Applicants must
have an earned doctorate and have completed post-
doctoral training, and previous research by the suc-
cessful applicants must be published in premier sci-
entiﬁc journals. Evidence of an ability to obtain ex-
tramural grant support is preferred. Responsibilities
for the successful candidates include establishment of
an independent research program that is supported by
awards from extramural agencies and contribution to
the teaching mission of the Biology Department. For
more details on the department and the university,
visit our website ( http://biology.uky.edu ) or contact
Dr. Vincent Cassone, Chair, Department of Biology,
vincent.cassone@uky.edu or (859) 257-6766.
Applicants should send a letter of application, a cur-
riculum vitae, statements on teaching philosophy and
experience, and a description of the applicant’s research
program electronically to biosearch@uky.edu. Appli-
cants should also arrange for three signed letters of rec-
ommendation in pdf. format on oﬃcial letterhead to
be sent to the same electronic address. The review of
applications will begin November 1, 2009.
The University of Kentucky is an Aﬃrmative Ac-
tion/Equal OpportunityUniversity that values diversity
and is located in an increasingly diversegeographical re-66 EvolDir November 1, 2009
gion. It is committed to becoming one of the top public
institutions in the country. Women, persons with dis-
abilities, and membersof other underrepresented groups
are encouraged to apply. The University also supports
family-friendly policies.
David Weisrock <dweis2@uky.edu >
UMassachusetts Amherst EvoDevo 2
Assistant Professor Position in Evolutionary Develop-
mental Biology (Evo/Devo)
The Department of Biology at the University of Mas-
sachusetts Amherst ( <http://www.bio.umass.edu/-
biology >www.bio.umass.edu/biology) invites ap-
plications for a tenure-track assistant professorship
in the area of Evolutionary/Developmental Biology
(Evo/Devo). The UMass Biology Department pro-
vides an interactive and broad research environment,
with faculty research spanning levels of biological
organization. Especially strong research clusters
focus on the areas of Neural Developmental, Cell
Biology, Plant Biology, Functional Morphology, and
Evolution. Successful candidates will have a Ph.D.,
postdoctoral experience, and the potential to de-
velop and maintain an extramurally funded research
program. New faculty members will have the op-
portunity to participate in strong graduate training
programs in Molecular and Cellular Biology ( <http://-
www.bio.umass.edu/mcb >www.bio.umass.edu/mcb),
Organismal and Evolutionary Biology ( <http://-
www.bio.umass.edu/oeb >www.bio.umass.edu/oeb),
Plant Biology ( <http://www.bio.umass.edu/plantbio
>www.bio.umass.edu/plantbio), and Neuroscience
and Behavior ( < http://www.umass.edu/neuro
>www.umass.edu/neuro).
The candidate should have a strong record of research
examining molecular/cellular mechanisms of develop-
ment that are of fundamental importance for evolu-
tionary biology. We are interested in candidates whose
research addresses issues such as the origin and diversi-
ﬁcation of body plans, the functional divergence of reg-
ulatory pathways into novel developmental systems, or
the evolution of body structures. Work with model sys-
tems, including nematodes, ﬂies, or ﬁsh is encouraged,
but outstanding applicants who work on other systems
will also be considered. Successful candidates should
compliment and bridge current departmental research
strengths in neural development, evolutionary biology,and functional morphology.
Evaluation of applications will begin on October 26,
2009 (Extended deadline) and continue until the po-
sition is ﬁlled. Position to be ﬁlled contingent upon
University funding.
Please send application materials to: Evo/Devo Search
#R36699, Biology Department, Attn: Karen Nelson,
611 North Pleasant Street, University of Massachusetts,
Amherst, MA 01003. Application materials should in-
clude a curriculum vitae, research plan, teaching state-
ment, plus the names, phone numbers, and email ad-
dresses for 3 referees. 3 letters of recommendation
can either be included in the packet or sent electroni-
cally to: evodevosearch@bio.umass.edu . The Univer-
sity is part of the 5 College Consortium ( <http:/-
/www.ﬁvecolleges.edu/ >www.ﬁvecolleges.edu) in the
beautiful Pioneer Valley in Western Massachusetts, just
2 hours from Boston and 3 hours from New York City.
The University of Massachusetts is an Aﬃrmative Ac-
tion/Equal Opportunity Employer. Women and mem-
bers of minority groups are encouraged to apply. The
Biology Department is aggressive in its eﬀorts to hire
candidates who will enhance the diversity and general
balance of the faculty and the sciences.
Duncan J. Irschick Associate Professor Department of
Biology 221 Morrill Science Center University of Mas-
sachusetts at Amherst Amherst MA 01003
Phone: 413 545 1696; FAX: 413 545 3243 E-mail:
irschick@bio.umass.edu http://www.bio.umass.edu/-
biology/irschick/
Duncan J Irschick <irschick@bio.umass.edu >
UMassachusetts
MolecularEvolutionBioinformatics
MOLECULAR EVOLUTION / BIOINFORMATICS
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR UNIVERSITY OF MAS-
SACHUSETTS BOSTON
The Department of Biology at the University of Mas-
sachusetts, Boston seeks applicants for a full-time
tenure track Assistant Professor who specializes in
molecular evolution, phylogenetics, bioinformatics or a
closely related ﬁeld starting in September 2010. Appli-
cants should be well versed in evolutionary and ecolog-
ical theory. Applications will be particularly welcome
from candidates who utilize creative experimental ap-November 1, 2009 EvolDir 67
proaches that combine molecular biology, genetics and
bioinformatics to address complex environmental prob-
lems and who can participate in an interdisciplinary
Ph. D. program. The research specialty of the appli-
cants could include molecular evolution, phylogeogra-
phy, phylogenetics, modeling or other cross-disciplinary
ﬁelds. The successful applicant is expected to establish
an externally funded research program, direct the re-
search of students at the undergraduate, masters and
doctoral levels, and interact with a dynamic group of
ecologists, environmental, evolutionary and computa-
tional biologists. Excellence in teaching at the under-
graduate and graduate levels is expected. A Ph.D.
and postdoctoral training (or equivalent professional
experience) are required. Members of underrepresented
groups and women are strongly encouraged to apply.
Applicants should send a statement of teaching and re-
search interests and goals, curriculum vitae, 3-5 rep-
resentative reprints, and three letters of reference.
We prefer application material be sent electronically
to biology@umb.edu. If e-ﬁles exceed 15mb, please
break into smaller segments and send as multiple
emails. Hard copies can be sent to Bioinformat-
ics/Molecular Evolution Search, Biology Department,
University of Massachusetts, 100 Morrissey Blvd.,
Boston, MA 02125. For further information, visit the
Biology Department website at www.bio.umb.edu, or
contact Ron Etter, Chair of Search Committee, at
ron.etter@umb.edu or (617)-287-6613. Target date for
receipt of applications is Nov. 15, 2009, but applica-
tions will be reviewed until the position is ﬁlled.
UMass Boston is an Aﬃrmative Action, Equal Oppor-
tunity, Title IX employer.
Ron J. Etter Professor Biology Department Univer-
sity of Massachusetts 100 Morrissey Blvd. Boston,
MA 02125 Voice 617-287-6613 FAX 617-287-6650 email
ron.etter@umb.edu
Ron Etter <ron.etter@umb.edu >
UMichigan ComputationalEvolBiol
Computational Evolutionary Biology Assistant Profes-
sor University of Michigan
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy (EEB) at the University of Michigan invites ap-
plications for a tenure-track assistant professor posi-
tion in computational evolutionary biology. This posi-tion is part of a coordinated eﬀort to enhance existing
strengths in computational sciences across multiple de-
partments. We seek outstanding individuals with pri-
mary research and teaching interests in any area of com-
putational evolutionary biology, including, for example,
molecular evolution, evolutionary genomics, evolution-
ary systems biology, population and quantitative ge-
netics, phylogenetics and phylogeography, and evolu-
tionary theory. Computational biologists with or with-
out an empirical laboratory component to their research
programs are encouraged to apply. Opportunities also
exist for using the large collections of the Museum of
Zoology and Herbarium. For further information about
EEB, please see http://www.eeb.lsa.umich.edu . To ap-
ply, please email cebsearch@umich.edu a single PDF ﬁle
that includes a complete curriculum vitae, a statement
of current and future research plans, a statement of
teaching philosophy and experience, evidence of teach-
ing excellence, and copies of publications. Please also
arrange to have three letters of recommendation sent
directly to the above email address. Review of applica-
tions will begin on November 15, 2009. Women and mi-
norities are encouraged to apply, and the University is
supportive of the needs of dual career couples. The Uni-
versity of Michigan is an equal opportunity/aﬃrmative
action employer.
Jianzhi George Zhang Professor of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology University of Michigan
jianzhi@umich.edu
jianzhi@umich.edu jianzhi@umich.edu
UMississippi Population Genetics
The University of Mississippi, Department of Biology,
invites applications for an Assistant Professor position
(tenure-track) in population genetics. The appointment
requires a Ph.D. in biological sciences or a related dis-
cipline. We seek an individual with strong quantita-
tive skills who uses contemporary mathematical and
molecular techniques in the study of population genet-
ics. Teaching duties will include genetics, population
genetics, and courses in area of specialization. The in-
cumbent will be expected to establish an extramurally
funded research program involving graduate and under-
graduate training.
The Department of Biology consists of 16 faculty and
educates 500 undergraduate biology majors and 36
graduate students (M.S. and Ph.D.). Although the68 EvolDir November 1, 2009
department’s strength historically has been in ecology,
current research interests span all levels of organization
from the cell to the ecosystem. Recent hires include
faculty in the areas of cell physiology, conservation bi-
ology, evolutionary genetics and phylogeography, mi-
crobial ecology, neurobiology, and symbiotic systems.
More detailed information concerning the department
is available at http://olemiss.edu/depts/biology . The
University of Mississippi is located in Oxford, Missis-
sippi, one of the top college towns in the U.S., and a
community known for outstanding educational and cul-
tural opportunities.
To apply, please visit our Online Employment Service
at jobs.olemiss.edu. Applications should include: (1)
cover letter outlining interest and suitability for the po-
sition, (2) curriculum vitae, (3) a one-page statement
of teaching experience and interests, including a list
of potential graduate and undergraduate courses, (4) a
statement of research interests, (5) reprints of up to 5
recent publications or submitted papers, and (6) names
and contact information for three references. Review of
applications will begin November 1 and continue until
the position is ﬁlled or an adequate applicant pool is
established. The University of Mississippi is an EEO/
AA/Title VI/Title IX/Section 504/ADA/ADEA em-
ployer.
Brice Noonan
The University of Mississippi Department of Biology,
Box 1848 University, MS 38677 Ph: 662-915-6705 Fax:
662-915-5144
http://bnoonan.org bnoonan@olemiss.edu
bnoonan@olemiss.edu bnoonan@olemiss.edu
UNC ResearchTech
FlyPopulationGenetics
Research Technician in Fly Population and Evolution-
ary Genetics University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill
I am seeking a full time technician to assist in fruit
ﬂy research addressing fundamental questions in pop-
ulation and evolutionary genetics. Speciﬁcally, we are
developing comparative genomic resources to facilitate
our understanding of the interplay between DNA poly-
morphism, divergence, and recombination. This posi-
tion would begin November 2009 and continue for at
least a year. This is an ideal position for recent grad-
uates interested in taking time oﬀ prior to attendinggraduate school. Chapel Hill, NC is a delightful loca-
tion with a vibrant town center and academic commu-
nity.
Ideal applicants have a BA in biology or related ﬁeld,
prior independent research experience, an understand-
ing of the ﬁelds of genetics and evolution, independence,
motivation, and the ability to work well in a multi-
disciplinary, multi-institutional research team. In addi-
tion, experience working with fruit ﬂies is desirable.
Please note that due to time and institutional con-
straints, only US citizens and permanent residents will
be considered. Also, post- doctoral applications are
strongly discouraged. Preference will be given to local
candidates.
To Apply: Please email a CV, a cover letter describ-
ing your qualiﬁcations and interests, and the names
and contact information for three references to Corbin
Jones cdjones@email.unc.edu If you have any questions
or would like clariﬁcation please feel free to contact be-
fore applying.
Review of applications will begin October 14th and con-
tinue until a successful candidate is found. This project
was made possible by Funds from the ARRA.
Corbin D. Jones, Ph.D. Department of Biology Car-
olina Center for Genome Sciences Campus Box 3280,
Coker Hall UNC-Chapel Hill Chapel Hill, NC 27599-
3280
cdjones@email.unc.edu cdjones@email.unc.edu
UNebraska ViralEvolution
Tenure Track Virologist Position
Tenure track Assistant Professor at the University of
Nebraska-Lincoln Center for Virology and the School
of Biological Sciences. Candidates will be expected to
develop a nationally recognized research program in vi-
rology. Speciﬁc area of research is open; appropriate
examples of research interests include viral evolutionary
genetics, comparative genomics and proteomics, viral-
host interactions, pathogenesis or epidemiology of dis-
eases. Candidates must show excellent capacity to de-
velop and coordinate interdisciplinary collaborative re-
search with other Center and departmental researchers.
Candidates will be expected to teach courses at the un-
dergraduate and graduate levels. A Ph.D. and post-
doctoral experience in related area is required. Salary
is commensurate with qualiﬁcations and experience.November 1, 2009 EvolDir 69
Desired start date is Spring/Summer 2010. The po-
sition will remain open until a suitable candidate is
selected. The University of Nebraska has an active
National Science Foundation ADVANCE gender equity
program, and is committed to a pluralistic campus com-
munity through aﬃrmative action, equal opportunity,
work-life balance, and dual careers.
To be considered for this position go to http:/-
/employment.unl.edu and use requisition #090545
and complete the Faculty/Administrative Information
Form and attach CV; cover letter; statement of teaching
and research philosophy in three separate documents,
up to 3 reprints; and names, addresses, and phone num-
bers of three references. Arrange for three letters of
reference to be sent to Dr. Alan Kamil, School of Bi-
ological Sciences, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, 348
Manter Hall, Lincoln, NE 68588-0118 by October 30,
2009. Review of applications will begin November 2,
2009 and continue until a suitable candidate is selected.
Jay F Storz <jstorz2@unlnotes.unl.edu >
UNotreDame ResTech Genomics
Job: Research Technician Position
Description: A Research Technician position is avail-
able in the Notre Dame Genomics Core Facility in the
Eck Institute for Global Health. The Genomics Core
Facility performs DNA sequencing and microarray ex-
periments. The successful applicant will interface with
Genomics Core users, perform sample preparations for
microarray and DNA sequencing experiments, and op-
erate/maintain microarray and DNA sequencing equip-
ment. In particular, this technician will run full-service
NimbleGen microarray experiments, assist with operat-
ing/maintaining the ABI 3730xl sequencer, and assist
with the operation of next-generation sequencers. Fa-
miliarity with these techniques is desired but candidates
with basic molecular biology experience will be consid-
ered. Applicants must be organized and work well with
others. This is an opportunity to join a team that is
growing into an integral component of Notre Dame’s
research community and aims to bolster it through pro-
viding access to new technologies, methods, and exper-
tise.
Salary range for this position will be $28,000 - $40,000
commensurate with applicant’s genomics experience
level.Information on the Eck Institute for Global Health,
the Department of Biological Sciences, and other
college faculty and facilities can be found at http:/-
/globalhealth.nd.edu/, http://biology.nd.edu and
http://science.nd.edu . Review of applications is
ongoing and will continue until a suitable candidate
is identiﬁed. Qualiﬁed individuals should send (pdf
format requested) a cover letter, curriculum vitae, and
contact information for three references to: John Tan,
jtan1@nd.edu <mailto:jtan1@nd.edu >.
The University of Notre Dame is a private, Catholic
university and is consistently ranked in USN&WR as
a top-twenty national university. The South Bend area
has a vibrant and diverse economy with aﬀordable hous-
ing and excellent school systems, and is within easy
driving distance of Chicago and Lake Michigan. The
University of Notre Dame is an Equal Opportunity, Af-
ﬁrmative Action Employer.
Michael E. Pfrender Associate Professor Department
of Biological Sciences 109B Galvin Life Science Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA
Eck Institute for Global Health ( http://-
globalhealth.nd.edu/ )
Michael Pfrender <Michael.Pfrender.1@nd.edu >
Uruguay 4 EvolBiodiversity
The Universidad de la Rep´ ublica - Uruguay, invites
applications for three positions at the rank of Assis-
tant Professor, and one at the rank of Full Professor,
of the Department of Ecology, Evolution and Biodi-
versity, to be created in the city of Punta del Este
(DEEB - CURE). Candidates are expected to lead an
independent group with a strong research program on
any topic related to biological diversity, at any organ-
isational level and focal system. The areas of coastal
ecology and ﬁsheries are of high priority for one of the
Assistant Professor Positions.
Screening of applications is already under way and the
positions are expected to start between Jaunuary and
March, 2010. For inquiries about these positions and
assistance with the application process, please contact
Dr. Omar Defeo (odefeo@dinara.gub.uy) and include a
curriculum vitae (preferrably in pdf format).
= = = La Universidad de la Rep´ ublica - Uruguay, llama
a postulantes para tres posiciones de Profesor Adjunto
(Asistente) y una posici´ on de Profesor Titular, en el70 EvolDir November 1, 2009
Departamento de Ecolog´ ıa, Evoluci´ on y Biodiversidad,
a ser creado en la ciudad de Punta del Este (DEEB -
CURE). Los aspirantes deber´ an demostrar capacidad
para llevar adelante l´ ıneas de investigaci´ on propias y
para formar recursos humanos en temas relacionados
con la diversidad biol´ ogica, a cualquier nivel de or-
ganizaci´ on y sistema de estudio. Se valorar´ a una de-
mostrada capacidad de trabajo en equipos de investi-
gaci´ on. Las ´ areas de ecolog´ ıa costera y pesquer´ ıas son
de alta prioridad para uno de las posiciones de Profesor
Asistente.
La b´ usqueda de candidatos esta en marcha y se espera
que las posiciones sean ocupadas entre Enero y Marzo
de 2010. Por consultas sobre estos cargos y asisten-
cia con los tr´ amites de inscripci´ on, comunicarse con el
Dr. Omar Defeo (odefeo@dinara.gub.uy), adjuntando
un curriculum vitae (preferentemente con formato pdf).
Dr. Daniel E. Naya Profesor Adjunto (Assis-
tant) de Evoluci´ on Facultad de Ciencias, Universi-
dad de la Rep´ ublica Igu´ a 4225, Montevideo 11400
URUGUAY tel (+598 2) 525 8618 ext (7) 136 http://-
evolucion.fcien.edu.uy/daniel/daniel.html Investigador
Asociado al Centro de Estudios Avanzados en Ecolog´ ıa
y Biodiversidad, Pontiﬁcia Universidad Cat´ olica de
Chile, CHILE http://www.bio.puc.cl/caseb/ “Daniel
E. Naya” <dnaya@fcien.edu.uy >
USouthFlorida DiseaseEvolution
The University of South Florida Department of Inte-
grative Biology ( http://biology.usf.edu/ib/ ) in Tampa,
FL is searching for a tenure track Assistant Professor
of disease biology (broadly deﬁned) with interests in in-
terdisciplinary ecological, evolutionary, and/or environ-
mental questions. We seek a colleague who will comple-
ment our department’s research strengths in environ-
mental microbiology, conservation biology, ecology and
evolution, and marine biology, and who will develop a
vigorous, externally-funded research program. Appli-
cants working with any taxon or on relevant theoret-
ical problems, including epidemiology, are encouraged
to apply. Research interests that complement newly
formed biomedical, global change, or computational re-
search clusters in the School of Natural Sciences and
Mathematics are also desirable.
Duties will include research, mentoring graduate stu-
dents, and teaching graduate and undergraduate
classes. Our strong graduate program oﬀers Ph.D andM.S. degrees in Biology. The Department and Univer-
sity research facilities include an Ecological Research
Area, computing facilities, animal housing facilities,
molecular biology/ microbiology laboratories and ac-
cess to freshwater and marine study sites. Applicants
must have a Ph.D in Biology or related discipline, and
postdoctoral experience is preferred.
To apply, please visit https://employment.usf.edu/-
applicants/Central?quickFind=50882, and have
three recommendation letters emailed to bioib-
searches@cas.usf.edu. Applications will be accepted
until December 11, 2009. University of South Florida
is an Aﬃrmative Action/Equal Opportunity/Equal
Access Institution. Applications from minorities
and women are encouraged. For disability accom-
modations, please call Mary Parrish (813) 974-6210.
According to Florida law, applications and meetings
regarding them are open to the public.
Dr. Gordon A. Fox Voice: (813)974-7352 Fax:
(813)974-3263 Dept. of Biology ((for US mail:)SCA
110) ((for FedEx etc:)NES 107) Univ. of South Florida
4202 E. Fowler Ave. Tampa, FL 33620, USA http://-
foxlab.cas.usf.edu <http://foxlab.cas.usf.edu >“Try-
ing is the ﬁrst step towards failure.” – Homer Simpson
“Fox, Gordon” <gfox@cas.usf.edu >
UWisconsinMadison
HumanPopulationGenetics
I would like to make you aware of our eﬀort to hire
a leading Professor of Human Genetics at the Univer-
sity of Wisconsin-Madison, in the context of the NIH-
supported Institute for Clinical and Translational Re-
search (ICTR). Applications are invited for an Asso-
ciate or Full Professor to develop and direct a human
genetics group. The position will serve as an anchor for
recruitment of up to ﬁve additional hires. Candidates
with expertise in human genetics, population genet-
ics, genetic epidemiology, genomics, or computational
biology, and strong translational interests, are espe-
cially encouraged to apply. Further details are available
under PVL# 62591 at <http://www.ictr.wisc.edu/-
employment >.
For more information, contact Professor
Christina Kendziorski, hiring committee chair, at
<kendzior@biostat.wisc.edu >or 608-262-3146.
Please reply directly to the sender atNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 71
<info@uwictr.wisc.edu >. Thank you.**
Carol Eunmi Lee <carollee@wisc.edu >
UYork EvolutionaryBiology
We are currently advertising for a lecturer in any aspect
of evolutionary biology (a tenured position, equivalent
to assistant professor) here in the Biology Department
at York.
The closing date is 8 October, and details can
be found at https://www22.i-grasp.com/fe/-
tplYorkUni01.asp?newms=jj&id=28579 (sorry
for the short deadline - I have only just become aware
of EvolDir)
Many thanks
Peter Young
– – Prof J P W Young Department of Biology Univer-
sity of York PO Box 373 York YO10 5YW UK
Direct phone: +44 1904 328630 Department: +44 1904
328500 Fax: +44 1904 328505 www.york.ac.uk/depts/-
biol/staﬀ/jpwy/jpwy.htm jpy1@york.ac.uk
Peter Young <jpy1@york.ac.uk >
WilliamsCollege
EvolutionaryGenetics
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR Tenure-Track Faculty Po-
sition in Evolutionary Genetics Biology Department
Williams College
The Biology Department at Williams College, a pre-
mier liberal arts college with a long-standing tradition
of excellence in the sciences, invites applications for a
tenure-track position at the rank of Assistant Professor,
to begin July 2010. We seek an evolutionary geneticist
to teach genetics, evolution and other courses at the
introductory and advanced level that eﬀectively inte-
grate the ﬁelds of molecular evolution, organismal biol-
ogy and genetics. Faculty members teach one course
and two laboratory sections, or the equivalent, each
semester. Start-up funds and internal funding for re-
search are available, and a research program that at-tracts extramural funding and involves talented under-
graduates is expected. A Ph.D., postdoctoral experi-
ence, and a strong research record are required. Ap-
plicants should submit curriculum vitae, brief state-
ments of teaching and research interests, and arrange
for three letters of recommendation to be sent, to:
Judy Uryniak, Academic Assistant, Department of Bi-
ology, Williams College, Williamstown, MA 01267, Ju-
dith.A.Uryniak@williams.edu Applications will be con-
sidered as they are completed with a deadline of Novem-
ber 23, 2009.
– Judy Uryniak Academic Assistant Biology De-
partment 59 Lab Campus Drive Williams College
Williamstown, MA 01267 tel: 413-597-2126 fax: 413-
597-3495
Judith.A.Uryniak@williams.edu Ju-
dith.A.Uryniak@williams.edu
YeshivaU ComputationalBiol
Department of Systems and Computation Biology Al-
bert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University
Multiple Tenure Track Faculty Positions
The Albert Einstein College of Medicine, one of the
leading medical schools in New York City, is seeking to
ﬁll multiple tenure track faculty positions in the newly
formed Department of Systems and Computational Bi-
ology. Established in April 2008, the main goal of the
new department is to advance our understanding of liv-
ing systems by developing theoretical, computational
and experimental approaches to study complex biolog-
ical systems.
The College has 750 medical students, 325 graduate
students and 360 post-doctoral fellows in training and
boasts a strong research faculty covering broad areas of
experimental biology, oﬀering outstanding opportuni-
ties for collaborative interactions. The 200,000 square
foot Center for Genetic and Translational Medicine at
Einstein, which opened in late 2007, locates compu-
tational, systems and experimental scientists in physi-
cal proximity to foster interdisciplinary communication
and collaboration. Highly competitive start-up pack-
ages are available.
Job Requirements
We seek outstanding scientists with broad experience
and demonstrated collaborative interactions with ex-72 EvolDir November 1, 2009
perimental or clinical investigators. Candidates should
have strength in a physical, mathematical or computa-
tional ﬁeld at the Ph.D. or equivalent level. Experience
applying these skills to a biological or biomedical area
(demonstrated through publications or support) is also
required. Areas of interest include, but are not limited
to: Modeling cellular processes, such as signaling, tran-
scriptional regulation and immune response; Pathway
analysis; Genetic networks; Functional proteomics and
genomics; Evolution of structure and function; Com-
putational neuroscience; Mathematical and computa-
tional modeling of complex traits and diseases.
Applicants should send a letter of interest, C.V., state-
ment of research and teaching interests, and names of
three referees, in electronic format to:
Systems and Computational Biology Search Commit-
tee Albert Einstein College of Medicine Jack and Pearl
Resnick Campus 1300 Morris Park Ave. Price Center,
Rm. 153 Bronx, New York 10461 E-mail Address: Sys-
Bio@aecom.yu.edu Subject line should be: SCB Fac-
ulty Search
EOE
Heather Hughes <h.hughes@jobtarget.com >
Yukon 5techs RedSquirrels
Five ﬁeld technicians are needed to work as part of a
long-term project run by researchers at the University
of Alberta, McGill University and University of Guelph,
studying the ecology and evolution of red squirrels near
Kluane Lake, Yukon, Canada. Details on the project
and area can be found at www.redsquirrel.ca . Techni-cians will be responsible for monitoring the survival and
reproduction of red squirrels during the 2010 breeding
season. Duties will include live-trapping, handling and
tagging of red squirrels, assessing reproductive condi-
tion, radio-collaring and telemetry, and performing be-
havioral observations.
Successful applicants will have a biology or wildlife
background, exhibit sound decision making abilities,
and will be prepared to live at our remote ﬁeld camp in
the winter. Field technicians must be prepared to com-
plete ﬁeldwork using snowshoes under northern win-
ter weather conditions. Previous ﬁeld experience with
small mammals and winter ﬁeld experience will be con-
sidered assets. Applicants must be eligible to work in
Canada (i.e., citizens, permanent residents or visa hold-
ers), have up-to-date ﬁrst-aid training, a valid driver’s
license and a clean driving record.
Four technicians are needed between February 22 and
August 27, 2010 and one position is needed between
January 15 and May 10, 2010, but end dates are nego-
tiable. Salary will depend on experience, but will start
at $1,400 per month. In addition, food and accommo-
dation will be provided in the ﬁeld.
Applicants should send a resume and cover letter, in-
cluding references by e-mail to Ainsley Sykes at the
University of Alberta (asykes@ualberta.ca ). Please in-
dicate in your cover letter when you will be available to
start and when you would like to end. Review of ap-
plications will begin immediately. Under-represented
groups are particularly encouraged to apply.
Dr. Andrew G. McAdam Department of Integrative Bi-
ology University of Guelph Guelph, ON, Canada, N1G
2W1
ph: 519-824-4120 ext. 56826 fax: 519-767-1656
www.uoguelph.ca/ ˜ amclab/ www.redsquirrel.ca am-
cadam@uoguelph.ca amcadam@uoguelph.ca
Other
AFLP linkage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
AlleleFreq Fst . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
ALU simulations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73Ant samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Bark beetle samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Bgee GeneExpressionDatabase . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74November 1, 2009 EvolDir 73
Biological domains and kingdoms for kids . . . . . . . . . 75
Determining k in STRUCTURE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
EasternGreySquirrel samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
EvolutionBlog TravelAward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Gel double peaks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Genotyper Windows . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Goby samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
InsectDiversity paper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Linkage disequilibrium calculation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Longworth traps wanted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Methods Ecology Evolution Journal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Pear samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
RFAM alignments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
RFAM alignments answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78Salmonid MHC micros . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Simulated haplodiploid hybrids . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Simulation tool serial sampling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Simulation tool serial sampling answers . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Software Archaeopteryx TreeViewer Editor v0 951 . 80
Software TESS update . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Spagedi Phist vs Fst . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
STRUCTURE HARVESTER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
STRUCTURE log likelihoods . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Transgenic Drosophila . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Trends Evol Biol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
UMichigan Volunteer GeladasConservation . . . . . . . . 82
Used LiCor wanted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
AFLP linkage
I have read several papers that have mentioned that
polymorphic AFLP markers from the same primer com-
bination are often tightly linked on a speciﬁc chromo-
some. However, I can not ﬁnd any of these references
at the moment. If anybody knows of such a reference,
please send it to me.
Thanks, Greg gdouhan@ucr.edu
Greg W. Douhan, Assistant Professor Department of
Plant Pathology and Microbiology Fawcett Lab RM 238
University of California Riverside, CA 92521-0122 Of-
ﬁce (951) 827-4130 Fax (951) 827-4132
Greg Douhan <gdouhan@ucr.edu >
AlleleFreq Fst
I would like to calculate pairwise FST values for a
dataset of around 20 populations for which I only have
the allele frequencies at 6 microsatellite loci, not the
raw genotypic data. All the software programs that I
would normally use to calculate FST (FSTAT, Genepop
etc) require raw genotypes as the input ﬁle, and Ar-
lequin only appears to allow a single locus at a time to
be analysed when frequency data is used. Can anyone
suggest a way around this problem? Thanks, Hilary
Dr Hilary Miller Research fellow, Allan Wilson Centre
for Molecular Ecology and Evolution School of Biolog-ical Sciences Victoria University of Wellington PO Box
600, Wellington New Zealand Ph: +64 4 463 7432 Fax:
+64 4 463 5331 email: hilary.miller@vuw.ac.nz
Hilary.Miller@vuw.ac.nz Hilary.Miller@vuw.ac.nz
ALU simulations
“simulations of microevolutionary scenarios with ALU
data”
We are working on a broad panel of alu loci in hu-
man populations produced by Mark Batzer’s lab. We
would like to apply a simulation approach in order to
test some evolutionary scenarios regarding sub-Saharan
populations. Unfortunately currently available soft-
ware (e.g. simcoal, popABC) do not implement a mu-
tational model ﬁtting that of ALU loci. Therefore
we wonder whether anyone could provide us with info
regarding simulation approaches and software which
could be applied to our particular dataset. Our ideal
target is a software for coalescent simulations allowing
for 100 RFLP-like unlinked loci which follow an inﬁnite
site mutation model.
Giovanni Destro Bisol Universita’ di Roma La Sapienza
Dip.to di Biologia Animale e dell’Uomo sede di
Antropologia P.le A. Moro 5 - 00185 Roma tel 0039
06 49912273 fax 0039 06 49912771
Four stages of acceptance: i) this is worthless nonsense;
ii) this is an interesting, but perverse, point of view; iii)
this is true, but quite unimportant; iv) I always said so.
J.B.S Haldane, Journal of Genetics 1963
Giovanni.Destrobisol@uniroma1.it74 EvolDir November 1, 2009
Ant samples
Dear Colleagues,
My group and I would be extremely interested in just a
few samples of the small black (dark brown) formicine
garden ant Lasius niger (workers e.g.) from Russia,
Kazakhstan, Mongolia, Ukraine, Rumania, Georgia,
Greece, Finland, Portugal, Spain, or Norway.If any one
is in possession of such samples (even just a few work-
ers) and would out of great kindness allow us to have
some, we would immensely appreciate it. Alternatively,
if you know any one who may be in possession of such,
or is likely to be, or might grab a few in spring, or might
know someone who might grab a few (local entomolog-
ical associations?), please let me know. L. niger is very
widespread in meadowlands, grassy areas, parks, lawns,
along pavements, and its colonies are rather large (up
to 50,000 workers, often building soil mounds when in
long grass). It is also a non-aggressive ant, in the sense
that, try as it may, it cannot pierce human skin and
has no sting.Many thanks in advance, for any and all
help,
Best regards,Else Fjerdingstad
else.fjerdingstad@qc.cuny.edu
Bark beetle samples
/lessmuchDear colleagues,
we are looking for bark beetles from Europe and Asia
of two species : Ips typographus and Dendroctonus mi-
cans. We are also interested in the ulstraspeciﬁc preda-
tor Rhizophagus grandis, often found in the galleries of
D. micans.
Would it be possible for you to send me beetles (put
alive in alcohol 100%)?
We can provide the material if necessary (eppendorfs
and ethyl alcohol) and will naturally cover any related
expenses.
We need the location where the samples were collected
and eventually the tree specie attacked (Picea sp.or Pi-
nus sp.).We need around then individuals by country, preferen-
tially catched in diﬀerent sites but we will be grateful
with any beetles found.
Sample could be sent to: Fran¸ cois Mayer
Laboratoire de Lutte biologique et Ecologie spatiale
(LUBIES), CP 160/12
Universit´ e Libre de Bruxelles 50 av FD Roosevelt, 1050
Bruxelles/Brussels
Belgium
Many thanks for
Ir. Fran¸ cois Mayer
Research Fellow, FNRS-FRIA / PhD student Biological
control and Spatial ecology Lab (LUBIES) Universit´ e
Libre de Bruxelles
fmayer@ulb.ac.be
Bgee GeneExpressionDatabase
We would like to introduce to the evolutionary biology
community Bgee, a database for gene expression evolu-
tion:
http://bgee.unil.ch/ Bgee allows you to query expres-
sion patterns of homologous genes in homologous or-
gans between animal species. The latest release in-
cludes human, mouse, xenopus, and zebraﬁsh, as well
as preliminary data for Drosophila.
Bgee is in continuous development, and we welcome all
feedback. Please contact us also if you wish to be in-
formed of future developments.
We hope that Bgee will be useful for animal Evo-Devo,
evolutionary functional genomics, and other compara-
tive studies.
Example query on mouse HoxA5: http://bgee.unil.ch/-
bgee/bgee?page=gene&action=summary&gene id=-
ENSMUSG00000038253 Best regards, Marc, for the
Bgee team
Marc Robinson-Rechavi Department of Ecology and
Evolution Biophore 3219, University of Lausanne, 1015
Lausanne, Switzerland tel: +41 21 692 4220 fax: +41
21 692 4165 http://bioinfo.unil.ch/ Swiss Institute
of Bioinformatics http://www.isb-sib.ch/groups/-
lausanne/evolutionary-bioinformatics-m-robinson-
rechavi.html La liberte ne s’use que quand on ne s’en
sert pasNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 75
marc.robinson-rechavi@unil.ch
Biological domains and kingdoms
for kids
My son’s elementary-school class is learning the ﬁve-
kingdom system of classiﬁcation. His teachers are open
to updating their teaching materials and have asked for
recommendations of books that reﬂect a more modern
taxonomy. I think something along the “six-kingdom”
approach is best ... I’m not sure that kids this young
(6-9 years) need to be able to distinguish among all of
the protists!
Can any of you recommend children’s books along these
lines that would be suitable? The teachers would like
something between the ﬁrst- through ﬁfth-grade read-
ing level.
Thanks! -Leah
– Leah Larkin, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Department
of Biological Sciences University of the Paciﬁc 3601 Pa-
ciﬁc Avenue Stockton, CA 95211 (209) 946-2182 (Of-
ﬁce)
Leah Larkin <llarkin@paciﬁc.edu >
Determining k in STRUCTURE
The STRUCTURE manual describes an “ad hoc”
method of evaluating k by computing the posterior
probability of any given k from the “Estimated Ln Prob
of Data,$B!I(B which is printed out by default in each
run’s output.
This can be a real chore if 1) you are testing a broad
range of possible k or 2) your LnPr (k) absolute values
are large. I hope that this can be worked into a future
release of STRUCTURE.
In the meantime, has anyone out there in the commu-
nity written a simple computer program to do this?
alan.meerow@ars.usda.govEasternGreySquirrel samples
Dear Colleagues,
I have a student student studying genetic variation in
the Eastern Grey Squirrel for his senior thesis. I am
seeking tissue samples or DNA from both the native
and introduced range that he could use for PCR. Please
let me know if you have material that would be usable.
Best regards,
Christopher Irwin Smith Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Biology Willamette University Salem, OR
97301 ph: 503-370-6181 fax: 503-375-5425
www.willamette.edu/ ˜ csmith/ChrisSmith.htm
email: csmith@willamette.edu csmith@uidaho.edu
chris smith@post.harvard.edu
csmith@willamette.edu
EvolutionBlog TravelAward
I’m sending an announcement about a travel fellowship
that may be of interest to the evolutionary biology com-
munity. Please consider posting this to evoldir.
Thank you! -the folks at NESCent
***
Blog about evolution and win $$$ to attend ScienceOn-
line2010 Application deadline: December 1, 2009
Calling all science bloggers: The National Evolution-
ary Synthesis Center (NESCent) is oﬀering two travel
awards to attend ScienceOnline2010, a science commu-
nication conference to be held January 14$B! >(B17th,
2010, in North Carolina$B!G(Bs Research Triangle
Park.
The awards oﬀer the opportunity to travel to North
Carolina to meet with several hundred scientists, edu-
cators, writers and editors to explore how online tools
are changing the way science is done and communicated
to the public. Each winner will receive $750 to cover
travel, lodging, and other expenses to attend the con-
ference. In addition, winners are invited to spend the76 EvolDir November 1, 2009
morning of Friday January 15th interacting with scien-
tists at NESCent, and to attend a lunch in their honor.
The purpose of this contest is to encourage the best
of evolutionary writing on the Web. To apply for an
award, writers should submit a blog post that high-
lights current or emerging evolutionary research.
To learn more about the contest, visit: http://-
www.nescent.org/news/TravelAward.php –
*** Robin Ann Smith, Ph.D. Communications Man-
ager Science Education and Outreach National Evo-
lutionary Synthesis Center 2024 W. Main Street,
Suite A200 Durham, NC 27705 Tel: 919-668-4544
Fax: 919-668-9198 www.nescent.org Robin Smith
<rsmith@nescent.org >
Gel double peaks
I have a question about speciﬁc restriction enzyme ac-
tivity and T-RFLP analysis.
I have a NED marked PCR product which is digested
with one of the three restriction enzymes Cfo I, Hae III
or Taq I and the corresponding buﬀer. The products
are analyzed with an Applied Biosystems 3730xl DNA
Analyzer and the T-RFLP proﬁles analyzed with the
software GeneMapper v4.0.
In the T-RFLP proﬁles the products cut with Cfo I re-
sult in clear single peaks at a certain size. But Hae III
and Taq I sometimes produce a kind of double peaks
(I attached an example). There are two peaks which
are 1 bp away from each other. We ﬁrst thought there
might be variations in the fragment lengths of the PCR
products but as this only appears for two of the three
enzymes it might have an enzyme speciﬁc reason? Had
anyone similar problems or is there an explanation how
this double peaks can evolve? They are repeatable but
their total height varies.
Thanks a lot for your ideas and suggestions!!!
Chrisitin Koch and Svante Holm Department of
natural Sciences, engineering and mathematics
Mid Sweden University 850 71 Sundsvall Sweden
svante.holm@miun.se <mailto:svante.holm@miun.se >
+46 60148537
Svante.Holm@miun.seGenotyper Windows
Dear evoldir members,
I am try to run Genotyper (version 3.7 NT) software
in Windows xp, and windows vista. However, I always
received an error message “Could not start the applica-
tion because there is not enough memory”. I know that
Genotyper software was never tested on the Windows
XP operating system, and that the error states that
there is insuﬃcient memory, but the ﬁx is actually to
reduce the amount of virtual memory on the computer:
(Go to Control Panel >System >Advanced tab >in the
performance options pane, select settings >select ad-
vanced tab >in the virtual memory pane, select change
>select de customize radio button >set initial size to
500>set maximum size to 700.)
This work in my old computer (Microsoft Windows
XP, 3.21Ghz, 1Gb RAM) but not in the new one
(Microsoft Windows XP, 2.33Ghz, 3.49Gb RAM), and
never worked in the computers with Windows vista op-
erating system.
Know anybody the way to run Genotyper software on
Windows XP and/or Windows Vista?
Thank in advance,
Miguel Angel
Dr. Miguel Angel Gonz´ alez P´ erez Departamento de
Biolog´ ıa Universidad de Las Palmas de Gran Canaria
Campus Universitario de Taﬁra 35017 Las Palmas de
Gran Canaria Canary Islands Spain Phone: (+34)
928 454 543 Fax: (+34) 928 452 922 email: mgonza-
lez@proyinves.ulpgc.es
canariensis750@hotmail.com
Goby samples
Dear EvolDir members,
we are currently starting a project on the phylogeog-
raphy of some goby species from the Mediterranean
Sea. For this project, we are looking for tissue sam-
ples of the following species : Pomatoschistus microps,November 1, 2009 EvolDir 77
P. marmoratus and P. knerii. If one of you can pro-
vide us with some samples, please contact me at the
following address.
Best regards, Christelle Tougard.
Christelle Tougard Institut des Sciences de l’Evolution
- UMR CNRS 5554 Equipe “M´ etapopulations, Conser-
vation & Co´ evolution” Universit´ e Montpellier II Place
E. Bataillon - CC065 34095 Montpellier cedex 05
Telephone : +33 (0)4 67 14 47 17 Fax : +33 (0)4 67 14
36 22 E-mail : christelle.tougard@univ-montp2.fr
http://www.isem.cnrs.fr/ http://www.cnrs.fr/inee/-
recherche/actionsincitatives-RTP-Paleogenetique.htm
Christelle Tougard <Christelle.Tougard@univ-
montp2.fr >
InsectDiversity paper
Hi, I was looking for the following paper but my faculty
doesnt have access to this journal. I would very much
appreciate is someone with access it could sent it to me.
Jones, O. et al., 2009. Using taxonomic revision data
to estimate the geographic and taxonomic distribution
of undescribed species richness in the Braconidae (Hy-
menoptera: Ichneumonoidea). INSECT CONSERVA-
TION AND DIVERSITY, 2(3), 204-212.
Please reply to viktor.nilsson@emg.umu.se
Thanks, Viktor Nilsson
–
Viktor Nilsson, PhD student Ecology & Environmental
Science, Ume˚ a University S-901 87 Ume˚ a, Sweden
Phone: +46 90 786 97 77 E-mail: vik-
tor.nilsson@emg.umu.se Mobile: +46 70 293 69
02
viktor.nilsson@emg.umu.se viktor.nilsson@emg.umu.se
Linkage disequilibrium calculation
Hello all,
I am trying to obtain a probability associated witha linkage disequilibrium calculation. I am using the
work of Hill 1974 to calculate LD between a codom-
inant marker and several dominant markers. I have
estimates of LD associated with my data, but I’m not
sure how to determine whether my calculations of LD
are signiﬁcantly diﬀerent from 0. If anyone has solved
this problem before and could give me some advice, I
would greatly appreciate it.
Thanks, Julie
Julie B. H´ ebert PhD Candidate BEES Program (Be-
havior, Ecology, Evolution, and Systematics) Depart-
ment of Entomology University of Maryland 4172 Plant
Sciences 301-405-8919
byrdie@umd.edu byrdie@umd.edu
Longworth traps wanted
Hi, I’m after around 80 Longworth traps to supplement
those I already have for a PhD project involving the
St Kilda ﬁeldmouse. I’m sure there must be hundreds
around the UK sitting unused, if anyone would be will-
ing to put some on long term loan (3 years) I’d be very
grateful.
Thanks, Tom Black
T.W.Black@sms.ed.ac.uk
Wild Evolution Group Institute of Evolutionary Biol-
ogy School of Biological Sciences University of Edin-
burgh West Mains Road Edinburgh EH9 3JT
Tel: +44 (0) 131 651 3612 Fax: +44 (0) 131 650 6564
T.W.Black@sms.ed.ac.uk T.W.Black@sms.ed.ac.uk
Methods Ecology Evolution Journal
Methods in Ecology and Evolu-
tion [ http://bes.homeftp.org:11111/-
www.methodsinecologyandevolution.org/] is a new
online only journal that the British Ecological Soci-
ety have launched in collaboration Wiley-Blackwell.
MEE aims to make full use of online enhance-
ments to papers, such as audio clips, video, ﬂash
video as well as computer code and tutorial ma-
terials. We also host a dedicated blog. MEE is78 EvolDir November 1, 2009
actively seeking submission of manuscripts in the
ﬁeld of evolutionary ecology. For more informa-
tion, please visit our website at Methods in Ecol-
ogy and Evolution [ http://bes.homeftp.org:11111/-
www.methodsinecologyandevolution.org/] . Graziella
Iossa Journal Coordinator,Methods in Ecology and
Evolution
The British Ecological Society 26 Blades Court
Putney London SW15 2NU UKTel. +44
(0)7794 333168 Fax +44 (0)20 88719779 Email
mee@britishecologicalsociety.org Web http://-
www.methodsinecologyandevolution.org/
mee@britishecologicalsociety.org
mee@britishecologicalsociety.org
Pear samples
Dear Colleagues,
I am looking for samples of seed or fruits of Pyrus
calleryana (Callery Pear) from Asia, including the Chi-
nese region around Jingm´ en and Yichang in Hubei
Province. Such samples are needed for a genetic study
comparing genetic diversity of introduced, invasive pop-
ulations in the US with those in the native range. Al-
though I would certainly welcome seed or fruit from any
region of Asia (Japan, Korea, etc.), I am especially in-
terested in China because that is where the seed for this
species was originally obtained by US plant explorers
in the early 1900’s.
If possible, I would like to obtain samples from sev-
eral trees per site, but any number of samples would
be much appreciated. I will provide supplies necessary
for collecting samples and will cover any incurred ex-
penses. Please contact me at theresa.culley@uc.edu for
further information. Thank you.
Sincerely, Dr. Theresa Culley Department of Biologi-
cal Sciences University of Cincinnati 614 Rieveschl Hall
Cincinnati, OH USA 45221-0006
culleyt@ucmail.uc.edu culleyt@ucmail.uc.edu
RFAM alignmentsHi,
I would like to know what are the diﬀerent options for
building trees from ncRNA alignments, like e.g. the
ones in RFAM. Ideally, software that takes into account
the secondary structure of these RNA sequences.
Thanks,
Albert.
Albert Vilella <avilella@ebi.ac.uk >
RFAM alignments answers
Upon request, here is the link with all the RNA phylo-
genetic analysis tools available, updated with answers
to my query email:
http://openwetware.org/wiki/-
Wikiomics:RNA phylogenetics Cheers,
Albert Vilella <avilella@ebi.ac.uk >
Salmonid MHC micros
Hi,
I’m looking for linked microsatellite primers for MHC
class II in salmonids. Can anyone help me? I have
searched extensively through references but only found
linked microsatellite primers for class I.
Many Thanks
Roseanne Miller
Roseanne Miller <roseanne miller@yahoo.com >
Simulated haplodiploid hybrids
Dear Evoldir members,
I wish to simulate hybrids from standard population
genetic multilocus microsatellite genotypes, but my
populations are haplodiploid (bumblebees) rather thanNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 79
diploid. Are there any programs available that can
simulate F1, F2 and backcross hybrid genotypes from
haplodiploid parental populations? Something akin to
Nielsen’s HybridLab ( http://www.dfu.min.dk/ﬃ/uk/-
populationgenetic/hybridlab/ ) would be great.
Kind regards, Tom´ as
Dr. Tom´ as Murray Postdoctoral Fellow Crops Research
Centre Teagasc Oak Park Carlow Ireland
Tel.: +353-59-9170218 Fax: +353-59-
9142423 Email: tomas.murray@teagasc.ie
Web: www.agresearch.teagasc.ie/oakpark/
tomas.murray@teagasc.ie tomas.murray@teagasc.ie
Simulation tool serial sampling
Dear All,
I am looking for a simulation tool with the following
features: - forward in time OR backward in time with
serial sampling (like Serial Simcoal) - has a mutation
model suitable for microsatellites (SMM or GSMM) -
includes recombination - able to simulate complex de-
mographies, including admixture
I know it’s a lot to ask for but if anyone is aware of such
tool please let me know.
Thank you!
Kati
– Katalin Csill´ ery TIMC-IMAG, ´ equipe TIMB, Univer-
sit´ e Joseph Fourier, F 38706 Tel.: + 33 456 52 00 65
Katalin.Csillery@imag.fr
Simulation tool serial sampling
answers
Dear All,
recently, I posted a request “looking for simulation too
with serial sampling”. I had many responses, thank you
all for getting back to me. However, most of you who
wrote back to me, were also looking for such a tool!
Basically, it seems that two possibilities exist to do the
job: i.e. - forward in time OR backward in time withserial sampling (like Serial Simcoal) - has a mutation
model suitable for microsatellites (SMM or GSMM) -
includes recombination - able to simulate complex de-
mographies, including admixture
1. quantiNEMO http://www2.unil.ch/popgen/-
softwares/quantinemo/ Thanks to Samuel Neuen-
schwander, author of quantiNEMO, who wrote back
to me. quantiNEMO was originally developed to
simulate quantitative traits, however, it allows also to
simulate genetic data, including microsatellites. Loci
are placed on a genetic map with any chromosomes.
It is individual-based, forward in time, and allows
to obtain samples from any generations. A very
attractive feature is that parameters can change with
time, thus allowing for sampling from any user deﬁned
generations. quantiNEMO allows to simulate highly
complex demographic histories including selection.
I found it very easy to learn to use. The only drawback
is speed... but we can forgive for the slowness given all
the features!
2. simuPOP A very general and ﬂexible simulation en-
vironment, written in Python. Very attractive, how-
ever, its use requires quite a bit of coding in Python.
The SimuPOP community, however, might be able to
help (see very positive response from Bo Peng below). If
anyone would try and ﬁnds it faster than quantiNEMO
I would be interested to hear from you!
“If you cannot ﬁnd a program that ﬁts your need, you
can use simuPOP, a general-purpose individual-based
population genetics simulation environment, to write
your simulation, provided that you or someone in your
group can program in Python. Please refer to the
simuPOP website (simupop.sourceforge.net) for more
information and feel free to discuss your simulation in
the simuPOP mailing list. We might even be able to
help you implement your simulation if your project is
interesting enough.”
Hope this helps many...
All the best Kati
Katalin Csill´ ery, post-doc TIMC-IMAG, ´ equipe TIMB,
Universit´ e Joseph Fourier, F 38706 Tel.: + 33 456 52
00 65
Katalin.Csillery@imag.fr
Software Archaeopteryx TreeViewer
Editor v0 95180 EvolDir November 1, 2009
Archaeopteryx version 0.951 beta (2009.10.28) has the
following major improvements over previous versions:
* (Re)Introduction of tree topology editing (cut, copy,
paste, delete, new).
* (Re)Introduction of node data editing (covering most
phyloXML data ﬁelds).
* A “New” menu item (under “File”) for manual tree
creation.
* Various display types (rectangular, unrooted, circu-
lar, etc.).
* Interactive overview feature when zoomed in.
See: http://www.phylosoft.org/archaeopteryx/ –
Christian
czmasek@burnham.org
Software TESS update
A new version of TESS by Eric Durand is available on-
line at:
http://www-timc.imag.fr/Olivier.Francois/tess.html
TESS 2.3 implements a Bayesian clustering algorithm
for the inference of spatial population genetic structure.
The new features are:
- an improved admixture model using trend surfaces
and spatial autocorrelation - modeling of dominant
markers - inclusion of geographic distance - possibil-
ity to export to CLUMPP format directly - possibility
to start from a NJ tree - computation of model choice
indices: DIC - better GUI
Speciﬁcally, the new admixture model uses a CAR (con-
ditional autoregression) model based on the Delaunay
tessellation. The new version allows the user to weight
the TESS spatial network by exponentially decreasing
geographic great circle distance. This new model could
be considered more reliable than the TESS 1.x admix-
ture model which was based on an approximation of the
model implemented in STRUCTURE. TESS 2.3 allows
to use dominant markers. It also improves the admix-
ture model implemented in TESS 2.0. Various GUI
bugs have been corrected since 2.0. In addition, TESS
2.3 implements a variant of the CAR model, called the
BYM model. The manual is up-to-date. The without-
admixture model is unchanged.
best regards Eric DurandEric Durand <eric.durand@imag.fr >
Spagedi Phist vs Fst
Hello all.
I’ve been having trouble getting the program Spagedi
to successfully run Phist vs Fst analyses of sequence
data. I’ve tried everything I can think of but have not
been able to get it to run. I was wondering if some-
one would be willing to send me an input ﬁle they have
used successfully for this purpose. I’d like to compare
it with mine, see if I can spot mistakes.
Thanks in advance, Giselle Perdomo
PhD Candidate School of Biological Science Monash
University - Clayton Campus Melbourne, Victo-
ria 3800, Australia Phone: +61-3-9905-5680 email:
giselle.perdomo@sci.monash.edu.au
Gisselle Perdomo <gisselle p@yahoo.com >
STRUCTURE HARVESTER
I have asked the author if I could post the info about
this program on evoldir and he has graciously given
permission. It is a wonderful tool.
Dent A. Earl at UC Santa Cruz has created a
Web-based tool called STRUCTURE HARVESTER
which takes as input a zip ﬁle of your Structure
output (follow instructions online), and plots like-
lihood and variance against K. It can also plot
the Evanno et al. delta K method, and generate
CLUMPP inﬁles for you. Finally it allows you to
download a txt ﬁle with the numbers used to create
the plots. The Web version of the program is found
at: http://taylor0.biology.ucla.edu/struct harvest/
<http://owa.gla.ac.uk/exchweb/bin/redir.asp?URL=-
3Dhttp://taylor0.biology.u cla.edu/struct harvest/ >
. You can download the PERL scripts for local
use at: http://users.soe.ucsc.edu/ ˜ dearl/software/-
struct harvest/ .
There is one small bug on the Web version which Dent
will be ﬁxing soon. The program timer assumes that
your results will be complete in 3 seconds. If the serverNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 81
is under load, or if your data require more time, you
will be directed to an empty page or an HTML error
page. I’ve worked around this by hitting the back but-
ton on my browser, allowing the reloading of the sub-
mission data and then clicking the forward button on
my browser. My results than appear. Your results will
remain on the server for 7 days after they are generated.
Alan
Alan W. Meerow, Ph.D., Research Geneticist and
Systematist USDA-ARS-SHRS, National Germplasm
Repository 13601 Old Cutler Road, Miami, FL 33158
USA voice: 786-573-7075; FAX: 786-573-7110 email:
alan.meerow@ars.usda.gov
Alan.Meerow@ARS.USDA.GOV
STRUCTURE log likelihoods
In some current analyses with STRUCTURE, I am re-
ceiving Ln(Pr) score with absolute values in excess of
30,000, even >50,000. Is it reasonable of me to con-
clude that the information content of my data in these
cases, relative to the model assumptions of the pro-
gram, is abysmal?
Thanks,
Alan
Alan W. Meerow, Ph.D., Research Geneticist
and Systematist USDA-ARS-SHRS, National
Germplasm Repository 13601 Old Cutler Road,
Miami, FL 33158 USA voice: 786-573-7075; FAX:
786-573-7110 email: alan.meerow@ars.usda.gov
<mailto:alan.meerow@ars.usda.gov >
“Meerow, Alan” <Alan.Meerow@ARS.USDA.GOV >
Transgenic Drosophila
Subject: Transgenic Drosophila Species
We would like to call your attention to the availability
of new transgenic stocks of ten species.
Drosophila melanogaster: 38 stocks Drosophila sim-
ulans: 13 stocks Drosophila yakuba: 19 stocks
Drosophila erecta: 14 stocks Drosophila sechellia: 1stock Drosophila pseudoobscura: 15 stocks Drosophila
willistoni: 13 stocks Drosophila mojavensis: 2 stocks
Drosophila mercatorum: 8 stocks Drosophila virilis: 29
stocks
Please visit the stock center website for details
about each stock. https://stockcenter.ucsd.edu/-
index.php?table=Transgenic Therese Ann Markow,
Professor Amylin Chair in Life Sciences Section of Ecol-
ogy Behavior and Evolution Division of Biological Sci-
ences Muir Biology Building 2215 9500 Gilman Drive
University of California at San Diego La Jolla, CA
92093-0116
Email: tmarkow at ucsd.edu Phone: (858) 246 0095
Laboratory: (858) 246 0402 FAX:(858) 534-7108
http://biology.ucsd.edu/labs/markow/ http:/-
/stockcenter.ucsd.edu Therese Markow
<tmarkow@ucsd.edu >
Trends Evol Biol
Trends in Evolutionary Biology is a new online-only
Open Access peer-reviewed journal publishing articles
that span the breadth of modern evolutionary biology.
Articles can range in scope from the origin of life to
the evolutionary diversiﬁcation of life and of biomacro-
molecules, from experimental evolution to evolutionary
bioinformatics. Trends in Evolutionary Biology pub-
lishes original articles, brief reports, editorials and com-
mentaries, review articles, and book reviews.
Trends in Evolutionary Biology has now published
its ﬁrst three pieces, including two articles and a
book review, as listed below. We welcome new
submissions at http://www.pagepress.org/journals/-
index.php/eb . Thank you for considering us for your
next publication.
David Liberles Editor-in-Chief
Table of Contents Articles
Evolution in action across life at ˆ aEvolution Canyonsˆ a,
Israel PDF Eviatar Nevo Trends in Evolutionary Biol-
ogy 2009; 1:e3
Charles Darwin as a theoretical biologist in the mech-
anistic tradition PDF HTML David Penny Trends in
Evolutionary Biology 2009; 1:e1
Book Reviews
Textbook of Structural Biology by Anders Liljas, Lars82 EvolDir November 1, 2009
Liljas, Jure Piskur, G¨ oran Lindblom, Poul Nissen, and
Morten Kjeldgaard PDF HTML Julian Echave Trends
in Evolutionary Biology 2009; 1:e2
UMichigan Volunteer
GeladasConservation
ONE camp manager needed for The University of
Michigan Gelada Research Project, a study of the
behavior, communication, endocrinology, and conser-
vation of wild geladas (Theropithecus gelada) V a close
relative of baboons. All research is conducted at a
ﬁeld station located in the Simien Mountains National
Park of Ethiopia. Directors of the project are Drs.
Thore Bergman and Jacinta Beehner, faculty at the
University of Michigan. The camp manager will be
responsible for (a) collecting basic demographic and
reproductive data as part of routine monitoring of
the well-habituated study population, (b) conducting
focal animal samples and collecting fecal samples from
individually- recognized geladas (for later laboratory
steroid hormone analysis in the USA), (c) record-
ing GPS readings of gelada ranging locations, (d)
managing the computer database, and (e) equipment
upkeep and personnel management. The gelada
population has been studied on a near-daily basis since
2006 and we currently recognize approximately 150
individuals. The camp manager will live in a stone
hut located in the national park with 0-3 graduate
students (depending on the time of year), and 1-2
Ethiopian staﬀ. Our camp includes one stone house
with 3 bedrooms, a full kitchen set-up (including a
propane-powered stove and oven), solar panels to
power computers and lights, a generator (for electricity
during the rainy season), a satellite telephone and
modem (for email), a Mitsubishi 4x4 pickup truck, a
shower tent (hot showers can be had by heating up
water on the stove). There is no running water at
the ﬁeldsite, but fresh water can be fetched from a
nearby spring. Also, there is no refrigeration at the
ﬁeldsite, but we have a project freezer at a nearby
eco-lodge (about a 30-minute drive away) where we
can store things. For more information on the project
directors, the project publications, and some photos
of the ﬁeldsite, please see the following websites:
http://sitemaker.umich.edu/jacinta.beehner/home ,
and http://sitemaker.umich.edu/thore.bergman/home
. Qualiﬁed applicants will have a B.S. or B.A in
Biology, Zoology, Biological Anthropology, or a relatedﬁeld. Prior travel and/or ﬁeld experience in Africa
or mountainous regions of Asia or South America
preferred. Applicants must be ﬂuent in English and
eager to learn Amharic (the national language of
Ethiopia). Good physical ﬁtness is essential - the ter-
rain is hilly, the air is thin (due to the high elevation),
and the temperatures can get quite cold during the
rainy season (nights are sometimes below freezing and
days can be cold). Good organizational skills and
experience with basic database management a must.
Must be able to drive a stick-shift 4x4 truck over rough
terrain. Experience with leadership also a plus V as
you will be managing several graduate students and
ﬁeld assistants.
Salary/funding: Round-trip airfare and living support
provided for the volunteer (travel, meals, lodging). Vol-
unteer will be provided with basic accommodation, food
and other basic supplies while at the ﬁeld site. However,
the volunteer is responsible for any additional expenses
incurred while traveling in Ethiopia. The project will
provide travel health insurance, but the volunteer is re-
quired to acquire the necessary vaccinations prior to
entry to Ethiopia. The volunteer will need to provide
their own winter/alpine condition clothing, footwear
and sleeping bag. Advice about what items are nec-
essary for life in the Simien Mountains will be provided
to the successful applicant.
Appointment: 1-2 years beginning late January 2010.
Because the training process requires 2-4 months, the
successful applicant must be willing to work for a min-
imum of 1 year. Applicants committing to a longer
period will receive one round-trip ﬂight to their home
country halfway through their internship.
Deadline: Position will remain open until ﬁlled.
Application: Please email the following materials to Dr.
Jacinta Beehner at jbeehner@umich.edu: (1) a letter of
interest stating how and why this position satisﬁes your
interest and future career goals, explaining your suit-
ability for this project, plus a time frame during which
you are available to work, (2) a CV or resume detailing
relevant experience, (3) a summary of college courses
taken and the grades received, to be followed by an
oﬃcial transcript, and (4) contact information for at
least two references, preferably at least one academic
reference as well as one person who has worked closely
with you or who has closely supervised your work. The
subject heading of the email message should read: for
ﬁeld research position.
Jacinta C. Beehner Assistant Professor of Psychology
and Anthropology
/November 1, 2009 EvolDir 83
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Used LiCor wanted
Dear Evoldir members,
if you possess a LiCor 4200L automated sequencer,
which is no longer used, please read on. Otherwise
please delete the message. My sincere apologies for the
spam.
We are looking for a used spare part for our LiCor se-quencer. It needs a ’new’ power supply. If you have
such a machine that is out of use or broken down with
a diﬀerent problem, you might wish to contact me di-
rectly. We would take either the spare part or an entire
machine, if it is cheap and shipment is feasible, and
dismantle it ourselves.
Thank you.
Best wishes,
Gregor
Dr. Gregor K¨ olsch Zoological Institute Department of
Molecular Evolutionary Biology University of Hamburg
Martin-Luther-King-Platz 3 20146 Hamburg GER-
MANY Tel. +49 (0)40 42838 3933 Fax +49 (0)40 42838
3937
Gregor.Koelsch@uni-hamburg.de
PostDocs
Bergen Flatworm EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
BigelowLabs Maine Phylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
CNRS Paris ButterﬂyWingPatternEvolution . . . . . . 85
CornellU ComputationalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
CornellU PlantPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
DublinCityU MolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
GeorgiaInstTech BrainEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
HarvardMedSchool Human StatGenomics . . . . . . . . . 87
INRA France IntraspeciﬁcHybridization . . . . . . . . . . . 88
Maryland EvolutionaryBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
MaxPlanckInst EVA PrimateGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
MaxPlanckInst Leipzig HumanOrigins . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
MaxPlanck NematodePopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . 90
NESCent CallForProposals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
NewMexicoStateU ExperimentalEvolution . . . . . . . . . 90
NIST MolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
NorthCarolinaStateU EvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . . 91
Okinawa Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
Okinawa MetabolismEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
RoyalBotanicGarden Edinburgh ConservGenetics . . 93
RutgersU PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
SantaFeInst SocialSystemEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
UArizona EvolutionInsectFlight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
UArizona VertebrateEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
UBarcelona Genomics bioinformatics evolution . . . . 96UChicago EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
UCLondon SexualAntagonismQTL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
UEdinburgh Coevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
UFlorida PathogenMolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
UFribourg PlantEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
UGroningen GeneRegulation Computational . . . . . . 99
UKansas StatisticalGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
UKonstanz MolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
ULeiden LifeHistoryEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
UMelbourne EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
UNebraska-Lincoln Bioinfo MolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
UNevadaLasVegas AvianEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
UOklahoma Daphnia evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
UOxford PlantAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
UParisSud Orsay HumanSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
UtahStateU BeetleEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . 107
UTennessee ComparativeMethods . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
UUtah EvolutionaryGenetics EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . 108
UVermont EvolutionarySocioGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . 109
UWashington HumanExomeAnalysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109
Vanderbilt BioinformaticsHost-MicrobeInteractions
110
Vienna PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
YaleU SexualSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11184 EvolDir November 1, 2009
Bergen Flatworm EvoDevo
Postdoctoral Researcher: Evolutionary Developmental
Biology of acoel ﬂatworms
The Sars Centre in Bergen (Norway) is oﬀering one
postdoctoral position for two years in the Compara-
tive Developmental Biology of Animals group (Group
Leader Andreas Hejnol). The group is interested in the
evolution of the organ systems and studies the develop-
ment of diﬀerent invertebrate taxa at the cellular and
molecular level. Research in the group combines the
use of advanced microscopical techniques with molec-
ular approaches in diverse marine organisms. Primary
focus of the research is on the development of acoels,
marine worms which form the sister group to all remain-
ing bilaterian animals. Their phylogenetic position in
the tree of life makes them key organisms for study-
ing the evolution of body axis formation, germ layer
speciﬁcation and nervous system centralization.
The position/project involves the use of established
molecular methods, as well as the development of func-
tional approaches to address speciﬁc questions regard-
ing organ system evolution and germ layer speciﬁca-
tion. Although the primary focus of the project will be
on acoel development it is not limited to this animal
group. Applicants should have a strong interest in evo-
lutionary developmental biology and a solid background
in molecular and/or cell biology. Prior experience with
the use of experimental methods to manipulate gene
expression such as RNA interference, morpholinos etc.
is desirable. Additional skills in genomics and bioin-
formatics are a clear plus. The position is available
immediately; the start date is negotiable.
The Sars International Centre is a partner of
the European Molecular Biology Laboratory
(EMBL), www.embl.de and a department of Uni-
fob www.unifob.no , aﬃliated with the University
of Bergen www.uib.no . The Centre is focused on
basic research in marine molecular biology, develop-
mental biology and evolution, through genetic and
comparative studies of invertebrates and vertebrates.
Salary for Postdoctoral Researcher (code 8151) start
at NOK 436.800 depending on seniority. Unifob has
employee insurance and pension agreements and is an
equal opportunity employer. For further information
regarding the position and scientiﬁc content of the
project please contact Dr. Andreas Hejnol, Group
Leader: andreas.hejnol@sars.uib.no , or see our web-
sitewww.sars.uib.no . Written application, in English,should include a C.V., a summary of educational and
work experience, a brief statement of research inter-
est and contact information for two references. Please
mark application “09Sars16” and mail to: Head of
Administration, Sars Centre, Bergen High Technology
Centre, Thormøhlensgt. 55, N-5008 Bergen, Norway.
Deadline for applications is 15. November 2009. Please
note that applications sent by e-mail will not be con-
sidered.
hejnol@hawaii.edu hejnol@hawaii.edu
BigelowLabs Maine Phylogenomics
Position Description
Post-doctoral position in phylogenomics / bioinfor-
matics Bigelow Laboratory for Ocean Sciences, West
Boothbay Harbor, Maine
A full-time post-doctoral position is available in the lab
of Dr. Hwan Su Yoon at Bigelow Laboratory for Ocean
Sciences in West Boothbay Harbor, Maine. This posi-
tion involves participation in an NSF-funded project,
“RedToL: Phylogenetic and Genomic Approaches to
Reconstructing the Red Algal (Rhodophyta) Tree of
Life” to study phylogenetic relationships of red al-
gae using multi-gene dataset, and plastid genomes and
transcriptome sequence data. Therefore, a post-doc
with a strong background in evolutionary genomics,
molecular evolution, bioinformatics, or genome anal-
ysis is requested to start in January 2010. Primary
duties include plastid DNA isolation, EST library con-
struction, phylogenomics and bioinformatics analysis.
Candidates with a Ph.D. degree in evolutionary ge-
nomics, computational biology or a relevant ﬁeld is re-
quired. Experience with next generation sequence anal-
ysis (454, Illumina, or SOLiD) is desirable. Salary and
beneﬁts will be commensurate with experience. Fund-
ing is available for three years.
Applicants should send their CV, a letter of intent de-
scribing candidate’s motivation, qualiﬁcations, skills,
and experience relevant to this position, and contact
information for three references to jobs@bigelow.org .
Please reference #PD10-1 in the subject line. For full
consideration, the application should be received by
November 7th, 2009. Bigelow Laboratory is an Equal
Opportunity Employer.
Jane Gardner <jgardner@bigelow.org >November 1, 2009 EvolDir 85
CNRS Paris
ButterﬂyWingPatternEvolution
Postdoctoral position on the evolutionary genetics of
butterﬂy wing patterns.
CNRS / Museum National d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris
Duration: up to 3 years Funding: European
Research Council Net monthly salary: 2200-
2800ˆ a¬Deadlineforapplication : 26November 2009
A postdoctoral position is available to work on the
evolutionary genetics of a balanced polymorphism for
wing-pattern mimicry in the Amazonian butterﬂy He-
liconius numata. The project is devoted to charac-
terise the genomic organisation and annotation of a
wing pattern-determining ˆ asupergeneˆ a locus, and to
understand the evolutionary history of chromosomal re-
arrangements associated with mimicry polymorphism
and balancing selection. The research will involve vari-
ous approaches ranging from linkage mapping to molec-
ular evolution, genomics/bioinformatics and evo-devo,
and will take advantage of a rich comparative frame-
work with closely related species. A rich and rapidly
increasing amount of genomic resources is now available
for this and other Heliconius species. The full genome
sequencing of a closely related species is underway. A
ﬂavour of our current research in Heliconius butterﬂies
can be found here: http://heliconius.zoo.cam.ac.uk/-
joron/ http://www.heliconius.org . The successful can-
didate will join a new team lead by Mathieu Joron and
funded by the ERC and the CNRS at the Natural His-
tory Museum in Paris. A PhD and a strong background
in genetics or evolutionary biology are required. Good
skills in molecular genetics are essential. Fluency in
French is not required. The postdoc will have the op-
portunity to collaborate closely with local evolutionary
biologists, postgraduate students, as well as with in-
ternational collaborators from the Heliconius Genome
Consortium.
The Natural History Museum ( www.mnhn.fr ) is situ-
ated right in the centre of Paris, next to Universit ˜Ac/circlecopyrt
Pierre & Marie Curie (Paris 6 Jussieu), Ecole Normale
Sup˜Ac/circlecopyrtrieure, and Institut Jacques Monod. The Nat-
ural History Museum has recently enjoyed an inten-
sive campaign of recruitment of young researchers in all
aspects of biodiversity and evolutionary research, and
Paris as a whole has a vibrant research community inthe life sciences.
The position is for up to 3 years depending on starting
date (January 2010 or soon thereafter). Net monthly
salary is EUR 2300-2800 depending on experience.
Interested candidates are strongly encouraged to make
informal contact with Mathieu Joron as soon as possible
(joron@mnhn.fr). Applicants should send a 1-2-page
application letter stating research interests and date of
availability, a detailed CV, and the names and contact
details of at least two referees, preferably by email, by
26 November 2009, to Mathieu Joron (joron@mnhn.fr):
Mathieu Joron (joron@mnhn.fr) Mus ˜Ac/circlecopyrtum National
d’Histoire Naturelle, Origins, Structure and Evolution
of Biodiversity lab CNRS UMR 7205, case postale 39,
16 Rue Buﬀon, 75005, Paris, France Tel. +33(0)140-79-
33-27 http://heliconius.zoo.cam.ac.uk/joron/ Mathieu
Joron <joron@mnhn.fr >
CornellU ComputationalGenomics
Multiple postdoctoral positions in the areas of com-
putational and medical genomics are now avail-
able in the laboratory of Jason Mezey ( http://-
mezeylab.cb.bscb.cornell.edu/ ) at Cornell University.
Our group focuses on the development of novel statis-
tical and computational methods for addressing funda-
mental questions in complex trait / disease genomics
and in the application of these methods with our col-
laborators in molecular and medical research.
The Mezey group has a dual appointment in the de-
partment of Biological Statistics and Computational
Biology at Cornell University (Ithaca, NY) and in
the department of Genetic Medicine at Weill Cornell
Medical College (New York City), with members at
both locations. We are currently looking for postdocs
for the Weill location to work in collaboration with
Dr. Ronald G. Crystal ( http://www.med.cornell.edu/-
research/ronaldcrystal/ ). There will be ample oppor-
tunity to collaborate with research groups located at
Cornell and at Weill. Speciﬁcally, we are looking for
people to work in the following areas:
1) Next generation sequence analysis. The successful
applicant will develop algorithms for novel applications
of these data to questions in medical genomics, includ-
ing the causes and consequences of somatic mutation
events. This individual will work on a number of on-
going projects employing next generation sequencing86 EvolDir November 1, 2009
data.
2) Genome-wide association analysis. This individual
will work on the development and assessment of algo-
rithms for GWA analysis. This individual will be ex-
pected to interact with group members working on re-
lated genome-wide feature selection problems.
3) Network discovery and modeling. The successful
applicant will develop graphical modeling approaches
for discovering network structure using a variety of ge-
nomic data. This individual will be expected to work on
existing projects, as well as on their own development
of novel methods and applications.
Ideal candidates will have a statistics, computer sci-
ence, and/or bioinformatics background, strong pro-
gramming skills, and experience working with publi-
cally available data and/or computationally intensive
problems in genomics ﬁelds. The positions are avail-
able immediately. To apply for these positions, please
send an email with a single collated PDF including (1)
CV, (2) names and contact information of three ref-
erences, (3) statement of research interests, to Beatrix
Johnson <bj11@cornell.edu >.
jgm45@cornell.edu jgm45@cornell.edu
CornellU PlantPopulationGenetics
USDA-ARS at Cornell University
Postdoctoral Position in Quantita-
tive/Population/Computational Genetics for Plant
Breeding
Postdoc to analyze data from the Barley Coordinated
Agricultural Project. The Barley CAP is a ground-
breaking eﬀort to apply association genetics to crop
improvement in US elite barley germplasm. Over
2,500 barley lines from ten breeding programs have al-
ready been genotyped at high density ( ~3,000 SNP)
and extensively phenotyped. More data is on the
way. To analyze this data, we are assembling and
adapting methods from plant, human and livestock
genetics. These methods include association map-
ping using single-marker and haplotype block meth-
ods, association-based marker imputation, genomic se-
lection, and GxE analysis. We are a pioneering lab in
many of these methods and look to train postdocs in
the basics and perform research to extend the analy-
ses. Many directions of cutting edge research are open
and with the data in hand can rapidly lead to publica-tions. The environment at Cornell includes nationally
recognized research programs in population genetics,
genomics and plant breeding, which will provide addi-
tional resources and stimulation.
Incumbents will work in the labs of Jean-Luc Jannink
and Peter Bradbury on eﬀorts to
- Identify and make use of haplotypes in SNP data from
barley inbreds, representative of North American elite
and breeding pools. - Scale-up genomic selection meth-
ods to datasets involving possibly tens of thousands of
lines and markers - Extend genomic selection methods
to better design training populations, reduce loss of ge-
netic diversity, and capture epistatic eﬀects - Use exten-
sive existing data to empirically validate genomic selec-
tion Preferred applicants should have a Ph.D. in quan-
titative, population, or computational genetics; knowl-
edge of plant breeding; proven written and spoken com-
munication skills and ability to work collaboratively.
US citizens or Green Card holders are also preferred
(others may apply but initial employment will be de-
layed). An excellent postdoctoral salary will be oﬀered.
Positions are for two years, extendible up to four. The
positions will remain open until good candidates are
identiﬁed.
A letter of interest in the position, C.V., and contact
information for three references should be emailed to
Jean-Luc Jannink and Peter Bradbury at:
JeanLuc.Jannink@ars.usda.gov
Peter.Bradbury@ars.usda.gov
Oﬃcial job posting at:
http://jobview.usajobs.gov/GetJob.aspx?JobID=-
3D84201814 jeanluc.work@gmail.com
DublinCityU MolecularEvolution
Dear Evolutionary Biologists,
The Bioinformatics and Molecular Evolution Group at
Dublin City University, Ireland are inviting interested
parties to contact us regarding postdoctoral fellowships.
These fellowships are competitive and will be awarded
to those applicants with excellent track records. There
are 2 strands for this funding:
(1) EMPOWER: candidates must be within 3
3academic years2from the award of PhD and pro-
pose pursuing their work for 24 months at anNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 87
Irish research laboratory. See http://www.ircset.ie/-
Default.aspx?tabidx And
(2) INSPIRE: These are linked to the Marie Curie In-
ternational Mobility Fellowships. Candidates must be
within 53academic years2from the award of PhD or
equivalent. They must propose pursuing their work
for 18 months at a research laboratory in any coun-
try of their choice worldwide, followed by a 12 month
reintegration period at an Irish research laboratory.
Seehttp://www.ircset.ie/Default.aspx?tabidw Our re-
search group is multidisciplinary, our focus is on mam-
mal protein evolution.
Interested parties please contact Dr Mary O’Connell
(details below), with a brief introduction to yourself,
your research interests, and your CV.
Best wishes,
Mary
– Dr Mary J. O’Connell, Bioinformatics and Molecu-
lar Evolution Group leader, School of Biotechnology,
Dublin City University, Glasnevin, Dublin 9.
Phone: +353 1 700 5112 Fax: +353 1 700 5412 Email:
mary.oconnell@dcu.ie website: http://bioinf.dcu.ie dr
mary o’connell <mary.oconnell@dcu.ie >
GeorgiaInstTech BrainEvoDevo
A POSTDOCTORAL POSITION in evolutionary de-
velopmental biology of the brain is available in the lab-
oratory of Todd Streelman, at the Georgia Institute of
Technology. Candidates for this position will be ex-
pected to carry out independent research contributing
to our understanding of how brains diversify, using the
cichlid ﬁsh model. Experience in developmental biol-
ogy, genetics, and/or high-throughput analyses of gene
expression, is desired.
More information on Streelman’s lab can be found
at the following site: http://www.biology.gatech.edu/-
faculty/todd-streelman/ . The Georgia Institute of
Technology oﬀers exciting avenues for collaboration
with engineers and computational scientists. Georgia
Tech was recently voted one of the best places to work,
and Atlanta is consistently ranked among the top ten
places to live for young professionals.
The start date for this position is ﬂexible; funding is
available for at least two years but is contingent upon
satisfactory progress in year one. The salary will becompetitive and commensurate with experience. Inter-
ested individuals should send informal queries or an ap-
plication consisting of a (i) CV, (ii) a brief description
of research and professional goals, and (iii) the names
and addresses of 2 references to Todd Streelman, by
e-mail (todd.streelman@biology.gatech.edu).
J.T. Streelman Associate Professor School of
Biology Georgia Institute of Technology 310
Ferst Drive Atlanta, GA 30332-0230 404-385-
4435 (oﬃce) 404-385-4436 (lab) 404-385-4440
(fax) E-mail: todd.streelman@biology.gatech.edu
http://www.biology.gatech.edu/faculty/todd-
streelman/ todd.streelman@biology.gatech.edu
todd.streelman@biology.gatech.edu
HarvardMedSchool Human
StatGenomics
A post-doctoral position in human/statistical genomics
is available to be supervised jointly by Dr. Philip de
Jager and Dr. Barbara Stranger, in the Departments
of Neurology and Medicine, Brigham & Women’s Hos-
pital, and Harvard Medical School.
We are looking for an enthusiastic and energetic indi-
vidual to join our research eﬀort investigating the func-
tional consequences of human genetic variation in the
immune system. Speciﬁcally, disease-related genetic
variation and genome-wide CNV and SNP data will be
analyzed in relationship to immunologic proﬁles derived
from RNA expression as well as cytometric and pro-
teomic data generated from several diﬀerent cell types.
The project is an NIH-funded study focusing on the
genetic basis of transcript regulation in diﬀerentiated
immune cell states in large population cohorts compris-
ing multiple ethnicities. The position provides opportu-
nity for integrated analysis of genetic variation (SNPs
and copy number variation) with whole-genome gene
expression data from multiple immune cell lineages.
The qualiﬁed candidate should be highly motivated,
with experience in genomics, bioinformatics, computa-
tional biology, human population genetics, or a related
ﬁeld, with experience in statistics. He or she should
have experience analyzing high-throughput genomic
datasets derived from microarray and/or other high-
throughput technologies (e.g., experience with GWAS,
eQTL, ChIP-Seq, ChIP-chip, or CNVs) and skills in
one programming language (R, Perl, Java, or C/C++).
An excellent understanding of genetics is required. Be-88 EvolDir November 1, 2009
cause our work involves multiple collaborators, a good
balance between independence and team spirit is essen-
tial, and eﬀective communication skills are necessary.
The position oﬀers a stimulating and multi-disciplinary
environment and the opportunity to work with re-
searchers at Harvard Medical School, Brigham and
Women’s Hospital, and the Program in Medical and
Population Genetics of the Broad Institute of MIT and
Harvard.
Requirements: Ph.D. in Biology, computational biol-
ogy, statistics, computer science, or related area.
Application and inquiries should be sub-
mitted by e-mail to Barbara Stranger
(bstranger@rics.bwh.harvard.edu) or Phil de Jager
(pdejager@rics.bwh.harvard.edu). Along with your
CV, please include a cover
For more information please see: http:/-
/dejager lab.bwh.harvard.edu/ and http://-
strangerlab.bwh.harvard.edu/
Barbara Stranger <bstranger@rics.bwh.harvard.edu >
INRA France
IntraspeciﬁcHybridization
Dear all,
We are oﬀering a postdoc position in order to work on
links between intraspeciﬁc hybridization and biological
invasions.
The full description can be found by following this link
:
http://www2.sophia.inra.fr/perso/fauvergue/accueil/-
postdoc.pdf Please do not hesitate to forward this
message to potential candidates.
Thank you,
Xavier
Xavier Fauvergue
Equipe Biologie des Populations en Interaction UMR
IBSV 1301 INRA-UNSA-CNRS 400 Route des Chappes
- BP 167 06 903 Sophia-Antipolis Cedex France
Tel 33 4 92 38 64 63
xavier fauvergue <xavier.fauvergue@sophia.inra.fr >Maryland
EvolutionaryBioinformatics
Post-doc in evolutionary bioinformatics: Origin of pro-
tein folds
Qualiﬁed individuals are invited to apply for a post-
doctoral position at CARB in computer-based anal-
ysis of protein evolution. Apparently novel protein
folds continue to be discovered, undermining the old
conventional wisdom that there are just a few thou-
sand primordial folds. With funding from NIH, we are
developing and applying computer-based approaches
to estimating what fractions of apparently novel folds
are attributable to de novo origins, to sub- domain
chimaerism, to lateral transfer from uncharacterized
genomes, and so on. The successful applicant will join
an energetic and collaborative team led by John Moult
(structural biologist) and Arlin Stoltzfus (evolutionary
biologist).
Applicants must have: a Ph.D. in a relevant ﬁeld, and
at least 2 years experience (at the grad or post-doc
level) in computer-based research (e.g., biooinformat-
ics, statistical data analysis, simulation, phylogenetic
inference). Expertise is desireable in one or more of the
following: developing and applying models of evolution;
testing hypotheses using statistical methods; integrat-
ing sequence, structure, and other data; designing and
implementing web-based data resources.
The position is a renewable one-year appointment (with
probable renewal for a second year), to begin as soon
as possible, and with a salary commensurate with expe-
rience. Women and minority candidates are especially
encouraged to apply.
To apply, email a letter of application (referenc-
ing position #301022), curriculum vitae, and con-
tact information for three personal references to carb-
srch@umbi.umd.edu . Review of applications will begin
November 22 and continue until the position is ﬁlled.
Questions should be directed to:
Dr. Arlin Stoltzfus (stoltzfu@umbi.umd.edu) Center
for Advanced Research in Biotechnology 9600 Gudel-
sky Drive, Rockville, Md 20850 Tel: (240) 314-6208
Arlin Stoltzfus <stoltzfu@umbi.umd.edu >November 1, 2009 EvolDir 89
MaxPlanckInst EVA
PrimateGenetics
MPI-EVA Primate population genetics
Applications are invited for a two-year postdoctoral po-
sition investigating the population histories of wild pri-
mate populations in the molecular genetics lab in the
Primatology department of the Max Planck Institute
for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig, Germany.
The project will involve high-throughput sequencing
and analysis of large DNA sequence datasets, and rele-
vant experience would be advantageous. Starting date
is January 2010 or soon thereafter. Support is provided
in the form of a tax-free stipend; the exact amount
depends upon age and years of post-Ph.D experience.
Leipzig is a charming city with a lively cultural scene
and a low cost of living and the MPI-EVA is an out-
standing place to do research. For more information on
research in this group, see http://www.eva.mpg.de/-
primat/ﬁles/genetics.htm Enquiries and applications
in the form of a cv, brief statement of research inter-
ests, relevant publications and contact information for
three references should be sent via email to Linda Vig-
ilant at vigilant@eva.mpg.de
Linda Vigilant Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology Deutscher Platz 6 04103 Leipzig Ger-
many http://email.eva.mpg.de/%7Evigilant/ Linda
Vigilant <vigilant@eva.mpg.de >
MaxPlanckInst Leipzig
HumanOrigins
The Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropol-
ogy in Leipzig, Germany, oﬀers the position of
*Leader of an Independent Junior Research Group on
*
* *
*The Origin of Human Subsistence.*
Over the last several million years, hominins have de-
veloped diverse strategies to extract energy from their
environment. New questions and models have arisento address the relationship between this evolution and
the evolution of life histories, technological adaptations
and, more broadly, social organization and economy of
ancient humans. From the origin of meat consump-
tion to the intensiﬁcation of the environmental exploita-
tion by late paleolithic hunter-gatherers, subsistence in-
volves the continuous interaction between cultural and
biological changes.
* *
For the new group, multidisciplinary approaches, with
a broad range of methods ranging from classical zooar-
chaeology, to isotopic studies and modelling, are pre-
ferred.
The Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthro-
pology has ﬁve departments, including the Depart-
ment of Human Evolution (Director: Jean-Jacques
Hublin) with which the Independent Junior Re-
search Group will be associated. More informa-
tion may be obtained at http://www.eva.mpg.de/ and
http://www.eva.mpg.de/evolution/.
This is a fulltime research position. The salary will
be at the W2 level on the German university scale,
equivalent to an assistant/associate professor. Funds
for conducting research, including salaries for a second
post-doctoral scientist (13/14 TV¨ oD) and two technical
assistants are available. The appointment will be for a
term of 5 years.
Applicants should have demonstrated outstanding re-
search potential and clear evidence of achievement. Ap-
plicants should have a Ph.D. obtained within the last 5
years.
The Max Planck Society is committed to employing
more handicapped individuals and to increasing the
share of women in areas where they are underrepre-
sented, and therefore expressly encourages applications
from such qualiﬁed individuals.
Applications should include a CV, a detailed research
plan, and the names of three referees and must be
received at the address below by *December **31**,
2009*:
Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology
Personnel Department Deutscher Platz 6 04103 Leipzig
Germany**
rowney@eva.mpg.de rowney@eva.mpg.de90 EvolDir November 1, 2009
MaxPlanck
NematodePopulationGenetics
MAX-PLANCK INSTITUT F ¨UR ENTWICKLUNGS-
BIOLOGIE
Max-Planck Institute for Developmental Biology
The Department for Evolutionary Biology (Director
Ralf J. Sommer) invites applications for a Postdoctoral
Position on Nematode Population Genetics.
The Department has an active research program in
evolutionary ecology and evolutionary developmental
biology studying the nematode model organism Pris-
tionchus paciﬁcus, the genome of which has recently
been sequenced (Dieterich et al., Nature Genetics, 40,
1193-1198 (2008)). Our research aims for an integra-
tion of evo-devo with population genetics and ecology
(see Sommer, Nat. Rev. Genet. 10, 416-422 (2009).
P. paciﬁcus lives in close association with scarab beetles
and feeds on microbes that grow on the carcass of the
dead beetle. Our model species is cosmopolitan and we
have currently more than 160 wild isolates representing
an enormous resource for natural variation.
We are starting a population genetic analysis of P.
paciﬁcus with a particular emphasis on La R´ eunion in
the Indian Ocean. The Max-Planck Institute provides
large-scale sequencing facilities, including next genera-
tion sequencing technology.
Experience in population genetics is absolutely re-
quired.
The position is for two years with a possible extension
for one more year.
Funding would be available from 1. February 2010.
Closing date for applications: 15. November 2009
Please submit applications to:
Ralf J. Sommer Dept. for Evolutionary Biology
Max-Planck Institute for Developmental Biology 72076
T¨ ubingen, Germany ralf.sommer@tuebingen.mpg.de
http://www.eb.tuebingen.mpg.de/dept4/home.html
http://www.pristionchus.org dmerrill@ksu.edu dmer-
rill@ksu.eduNESCent CallForProposals
POSTDOCTORAL FELLOWSHIPS IN EVOLU-
TIONARY BIOLOGY AND RELATED FIELDS We
are now accepting proposals for Postdoctoral Fellow-
ships at The National Evolutionary Synthesis Cen-
ter (NESCent). We are looking to fund innova-
tive approaches to outstanding problems in evolution-
ary biology. Proposals are due December 1. For
more information, please see our website at https://-
www.nescent.org/science/proposals.php . CALL FOR
PROPOSALS - SABBATICAL SCHOLARS AND
COLLABORATIVE WORKING GROUPS Proposals
for Sabbaticals and for collaborative working groups
(Working Groups and Catalysis Meetings) are now be-
ing accepted at The National Evolutionary Synthesis
Center (NESCent). We are looking to fund innovative
approaches to outstanding problems in evolutionary bi-
ology. In particular, proposals that have a clear inter-
disciplinary focus, or involve evolutionary concepts in
non-traditional disciplines, are strongly encouraged, as
are proposals that demonstrate international partici-
pation and a mix of senior and emerging researchers,
including graduate students. Proposals for Working
Groups and Catalysis Meetings are accepted twice a
year, with deadlines on June 10 and December 1. Pro-
posals for Sabbaticals may be one semester to a full
year (deadlines June 10 and December 1) or they may
be for short-term visits (2 weeks to 3 months; dead-
lines on January 1, April 1, July 1 and September 1).
For more information, please see our website at https:/-
/www.nescent.org/science/proposals.php . Craig Mc-
Clain <cmcclain@nescent.org >
NewMexicoStateU
ExperimentalEvolution
The Department of Biology at New Mexico State Uni-
versity invites applications for a postdoctoral research
associate interested in experimental evolution using
evolved Vibrio bacteria involved in a squid beneﬁcial
symbiosis. The position is available for 2 years, (re-
newable up to 3 years). This postdoctoral position is
involved with an NSF funded project to examine theNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 91
eﬀect on both host and environmental selection pres-
sures molding the association between Vibrio bacteria
and sepiolid squids. In addition, the successful can-
didate will be expected to supervise and mentor both
graduate and undergraduate students in the laboratory
and in the ﬁeld. A Ph.D. in biology with emphasis in
microbial evolution or ecology is recommended. Expe-
rience with genome analysis, bioinformatic tools, and
454 sequence technology is desirable. Send a curricu-
lum vitae and contact information for at least three
references to: Dr. Michele Nishiguchi, Biology Depart-
ment MSC 3AF, Box 30001, Las Cruces, NM. 88003.
E-mail: nish@nmsu.edu. Screening of applications will
begin on November 1st, 2009 and will continue until
ﬁlled. New Mexico State University is an equal oppor-
tunity/aﬃrmative action employer. Oﬀer of employ-
ment is contingent upon veriﬁcation of individual’s eli-
gibility for employment in the United States and upon
completion of a criminal history check. Requisition #
2009011521. –
Michele K. Nishiguchi, PhD Professor Department of
Biology - MSC 3AF New Mexico State University
PO Box 30001 Las Cruces, NM 88003-8001 575-646-
3721 (oﬃce) 575-646-4123 (lab) 575-646-5665 (FAX)
email: nish@nmsu.edu http://biology-web.nmsu.edu/-
nish/index.html “Well behaved women rarely make
history” Laurel Thatcher Ulrich
“Michele K. Nishiguchi” <nish@nmsu.edu >
NIST MolecularEvolution
NRC post-doc in molecular evolution
On short notice, a competitive Recovery-Act-funded
fellowship program has opened at NIST. This provides
the opportunity for a 2-year NRC post-doctoral fellow-
ship in computational studies of the evolution of genes,
proteins or genomes. The project area is ﬂexible and
depends on the applicant’s interests and abilities, but
the applicant must be a citizen of the U.S. The base
salary is approximately $63K. The deadline to apply
for the ﬁrst round of awards is November 1– for those
who have a proposal idea ready to go. A second and
ﬁnal round of awards will be made next year, with a
deadline of May 1, 2010.
For further information, contact:
Arlin Stoltzfus (arlin.stoltzfus@nist.gov), Research
Biologist, NIST tel 240 314 6208, fax 240 3146255, www.molevol.org/camel Arlin Stoltzfus
<stoltzfu@umbi.umd.edu >
NorthCarolinaStateU
EvolutionaryEcology
Postdoctoral Research Position in Evolutionary Ecol-
ogy
A postdoctoral position is available in the laboratory of
Dr. Brian Langerhans, in the Department of Biology
at North Carolina State University. The lab’s research
focuses on the importance of major ecological factors
(e.g., predation, competition, abiotic agents) in driving
predictable (and unpredictable) phenotypic evolution
and speciation. While the lab primarily centers on the
evolutionary ecology of ﬁshes and lizards, the selected
postdoc will have great latitude in selecting their spe-
ciﬁc research foci. Rather than being tied to a partic-
ular project, the goal of this postdoctoral position is
to recruit a strong, innovative researcher to investigate
any research topic closely aligned to the focus of the
Langerhans Lab.
The successful candidate will have the opportunity to
contribute to a variety of projects (including both lab
and ﬁeld work), and will be encouraged to develop an
independent research program related to the central
topic of better understanding the causes, consequences,
and predictability of phenotypic evolution. Research
could be empirical (e.g., lab or ﬁeldwork on Gambusia
ﬁshes or other study organisms), theoretical (e.g., sta-
tistical or computational inquiries and developments),
or both.
Requirements: The postdoctoral researcher should have
a Ph.D. in evolution, ecology, behavior, or a closely re-
lated ﬁeld, demonstrate a record of successful publica-
tions, possess excellent analytical and communication
skills, and excel at both independent and collaborative
research. Speciﬁc skills required for this position de-
pend on the research topics chosen by the applicant,
but might include ecological/evolutionary experiments
in aquatic systems, geometric morphometrics, biome-
chanics, multivariate analyses of phenotypic selection,
population genetics, theoretical modeling, or quantita-
tive genetics.
Research Topics: The successful candidate can investi-
gate a wide range of topics under the umbrella of evolu-
tionary ecology, including ecological speciation, evolu-92 EvolDir November 1, 2009
tionary consequences of anthropogenic impacts, mor-
phological and locomotor evolution, predictability of
phenotypic evolution, functional morphology of loco-
motion, predator-prey coevolution, genital evolution in
livebearing ﬁshes, phylogeography, phenotypic plastic-
ity, neutral genetic diversity and adaptive potential,
adaptive constraints of gene ﬂow, sensory bias, evolu-
tion of sexual dimorphism, and links between locomo-
tor, feeding, and life history evolution.
Start Date / Position Details: The position will begin
approximately September 1st, 2010 (negotiable), and
continue for 24 months. Salary will be highly compet-
itive and commensurate with experience and qualiﬁca-
tions ( ~$40K). The position will also include research
funds ($3000 per year), health insurance, and beneﬁts.
Application: To apply, please send a cover letter,
CV, two letters of recommendation, and pdfs of up
to three relevant papers to Dr. Langerhans (langer-
hans@ncsu.edu). In the cover letter, please include a
general description of the proposed research topic(s),
and how the work would ﬁt into the overall focus of the
lab. Review of applications will begin immediately, and
continue until ﬁlled.
Location: North Carolina State University is located
in Raleigh, North Carolina’s state capital. The cam-
pus is home to a vibrant research community, with
faculty members studying related topics within numer-
ous departments (e.g., Biology, Plant Biology, Genet-
ics, Entomology, Statistics), and multiple integrative
research centers (e.g., Keck Center for Behavioral Biol-
ogy, Bioinformatics Research Center). The university
is also conveniently located within a 30-minute drive of
UNC Chapel Hill, Duke University, the National Evolu-
tionary Synthesis Center (NESCent), Research Triangle
Park, and the North Carolina Museum of Natural Sci-
ences. Raleigh is a culturally diverse city with excellent
restaurants, parks, museums, and theaters. The city is
conveniently located approximately 2 hours from both
the ocean and the mountains.
More information on research in the lab can be found at:
http://faculty-staﬀ.ou.edu/L/Randall.B.Langerhans-
1/More information on the Department of Biology at
NCSU can be found at: http://harvest.cals.ncsu.edu/-
biology/ langerhans@ncsu.edu langerhans@ncsu.edu
Okinawa BioinformaticsEvolution of secondary metabolism in bacteria
A postdoctoral researcher position is available in the
Evolutionary Systems Biology Unit at the Okinawa
Institute of Science and Technology (OIST). The
unit’s research focuses on the evolution of secondary
metabolism in bacteria using computational biology as
well as experimental approaches. The aim is to get a
better understanding of evolutionary processes by gen-
erating and analysing data on the systems level. This
will include genome analysis, sequencing, proteomics,
comprehensive phylogenetics, metabolic and regulatory
networks reconstruction, study of protein-protein inter-
actions and modelling.
The successful applicant will be responsible for design-
ing and carrying out analysis of sequence information,
diﬀerent types of “omics” data and modelling of bi-
ological networks. This will include database manage-
ment, application of mathematical and statistical meth-
ods like Bayesian Networks and programming. Candi-
dates should hold a PhD in a relevant discipline (bioin-
formatics, computer science, mathematics or similar)
and have a strong background in computational meth-
ods, mathematics/statistics and programming. Basic
knowledge in biology would be an asset, but is not abso-
lutely necessary. It is more important to have a strong
interest in applying mathematical and computational
methods to molecular biology data.
Initial contracts will be for two years and can be pro-
longed within the project period. Starting dates are
negotiable.
OIST oﬀers competitive salaries and additional al-
lowances for relocation, housing and commuting.
Applications will be reviewed as they arrive, and will
continue until the positions are ﬁlled.
Applications should include a covering letter describ-
ing your scientiﬁc background and interests and stat-
ing when you would be able to start, CV, publication
list, and the names and contact details of three refer-
ences who have agreed to provide a letter of reference.
Please send your application by e-mail to Holger Jenke-
Kodama at
esbpostdoc2009@oist.jp
Dr. Holger Jenke-Kodama Evolutionary Systems Biol-
ogy Unit Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology
holger.jenke-kodama@oist.jp holger.jenke-
kodama@oist.jpNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 93
Okinawa MetabolismEvolution
Evolution of secondary metabolism in bacteria
A postdoctoral researcher position is available in the
Evolutionary Systems Biology Unit at the Okinawa
Institute of Science and Technology (OIST). The
unit’s research focuses on the evolution of secondary
metabolism in bacteria using computational biology as
well as experimental approaches. The aim is to get a
better understanding of evolutionary processes by gen-
erating and analysing data on the systems level. This
will include genome analysis, sequencing, proteomics,
comprehensive phylogenetics, metabolic and regulatory
networks reconstruction, study of protein-protein inter-
actions and modelling.
The successful applicant will be responsible for design-
ing and carrying out experiments using bacteria, in
particular cyanobacteria and myxobacteria. This will
include construction of knockout mutants, metabolite
analysis, sequencing and expression analysis both at the
RNA and protein level. Further projects could com-
prise work with metagenomic libraries and single cell
techniques. Candidates should hold a PhD in a rele-
vant biological discipline. Knowledge in sequence anal-
ysis and computational methods related to molecular
biology and “omics” methods would be an asset.
Initial contracts will be for two years and can be pro-
longed within the project period. Starting dates are
negotiable.
OIST oﬀers competitive salaries and additional al-
lowances for relocation, housing and commuting.
Applications will be reviewed as they arrive, and will
continue until the positions are ﬁlled.
Applications should include a covering letter describ-
ing your scientiﬁc background and interests and stat-
ing when you would be able to start, CV, publication
list, and the names and contact details of three refer-
ences who have agreed to provide a letter of reference.
Please send your application by e-mail to Holger Jenke-
Kodama at
esbpostdoc2009@oist.jp
Dr. Holger Jenke-Kodama Evolutionary Systems Biol-
ogy Unit Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology
holger.jenke-kodama@oist.jp holger.jenke-
kodama@oist.jpRoyalBotanicGarden Edinburgh
ConservGenetics
Conservation Geneticist - Post Doctoral Research As-
sistant
Starting Salary - £23,828 (Pay Band D)
Applications are invited for a 3 year ﬁxed term post-
doctoral position at the Royal Botanic Garden Edin-
burgh. The post is funded by the Natural Environment
Research Council’s ’Knowledge Exchange’ scheme and
the general remit of the post is to improve the inte-
gration of genetic information into conservation pro-
grammes. This will involve the synthesis and com-
munication of existing research data. Speciﬁcally the
post holder will be involved in (a) the development of a
decision-making framework for integrating genetic in-
formation into conservation programmes, (b) trialing
and reﬁning this framework using a selection of UK
Biodiversity Action Plan plant and animal species, (c)
producing user-friendly handbooks that summarise and
communicate key conservation genetics concepts and
terminology for the beneﬁt of conservation practition-
ers, and (d) providing online resources to support prac-
tical conservation management.
Applicants should have a PhD in the ﬁeld of popula-
tion genetics, molecular ecology or conservation genet-
ics. Strong communication skills (written and oral) are
also required.
The post holder will work with Pete Hollingsworth at
RBGE, in collaboration with Raj Whitlock and Terry
Burke (University of Sheﬃeld) and Andrew Pullin (Uni-
versity of Bangor), and the post will involve extensive
dialogue and interactions with conservation practition-
ers and policy makers in the UK.
This post attracts generous holiday entitlement and
civil service pension beneﬁts.
Informal enquires can be directed to
p.hollingsworth@rbge.org.uk
A full job description and person speciﬁcation can
either be downloaded from http://www.rbge.org.uk/-
about-us/vacancies or can be obtained from Irene Mor-
rice on 0131 248 2803 (i.morrice@rbge.org.uk). Appli-
cations should be made by way of CV and a covering
letter and should be sent to Irene Morrice either by e-
mail or by post to the Human Resources Department,94 EvolDir November 1, 2009
20a Inverleith Row, Edinburgh, EH3 5LR. CV’s must
be received no later than Wednesday, 28 October 2009.
Dr Pete Hollingsworth Royal Botanic Garden Inverleith
Row Edinburgh, UK EH3 5LR Tel: +44 (0) 131 248
2883 Fax: +44 (0) 131 248 2901
p.hollingsworth@rbge.org.uk
RutgersU PopulationGenetics
Postdoc in Population Genetics in the Fonseca Lab,
Rutgers University
A two-year USDA-funded postdoctoral position is avail-
able to investigate the population genetics of the in-
vasive and medically important mosquito, Aedes al-
bopictus, the Asian tiger mosquito (ATM). The posi-
tion is inserted in a 5-year USDA-ARS funded coop-
erative agreement between USDA, Rutgers University,
Brandeis University, and two Mosquito Control Pro-
grams in New Jersey, to develop strategies for the Area-
wide management of the Asian tiger mosquito (ATM
project). Dr. Fonseca is the PI at Rutgers. This
position will involve both lab and ﬁeld components,
and there are multiple opportunities to develop inde-
pendent lines of research related to molecular ecology,
genetics of life-history traits, and population genetics
of selection, especially regarding insecticide resistance.
The ATM project involves large-scale surveillance and
active mosquito control using standard and new con-
trol strategies. We are in Year 2 of this project and
have just developed polymorphic genetic markers for
the ATM. I seek a highly motivated individual with
a PhD in Population Genetics or Evolutionary Ecol-
ogy/Epidemiology. Experience with molecular biology
and strong written and oral communication skills are
critical. Salary is $39,800 per year plus beneﬁts with a
cost-of-living increase in the second year. This position
opened unexpectedly (but for happy reasons) and I am
looking to ﬁll it as soon as possible. I will accept in-
complete applications as a way of evaluating the level
of interest. The Fonseca Lab is located within the Cen-
ter for Vector Biology at Rutgers University, integrated
in the Department of Entomology and the NJ Agricul-
ture Experiment Station. Dr. Fonseca is also an active
member of the graduate program in Ecology, Evolu-
tion and Natural Resources and the School of Public
Health at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of
NJ (UMDNJ). Please refer to http://rasp.rutgers.edu/-
fonseca/ and to http://vectorbio.rutgers.edu/ for moreinfo. Currently the lab has one postdoc, six gradu-
ate students, one part time technician, and a clerical
aide. Applications should be sent to Dina Fonseca (di-
nafons@rci.rutgers.edu) and include the following: (1)
a short cover letter describing research interests and
qualiﬁcations, (2) a CV, (3) contact information for
three references (please include phone#s), and (4) up
to three representative publications. Review of appli-
cations will start immediately and continue until the
position is ﬁlled. Informal inquiries are welcome.
Rutgers University is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer.
– Dina M. Fonseca, PhD Associate Professor
Center for Vector Biology Rutgers University 180
Jones Avenue New Brunswick, NJ 08901 Phone:(732)
932 3146 Fax: (732) 932 9257 email: dina-
fons@rci.rutgers.edu
“Dina M. Fonseca” <dinafons@rci.rutgers.edu >
SantaFeInst SocialSystemEvolution
SFI has openings for several “core-funded” postdoctoral
positions this year. These are in the SFI Omidyar Fel-
lows Program. In addition, David Krakauer and I have
an opening for a postdoc on an NSF conﬂict dynamics
grant, also at the Santa Fe Institute. This is a theory
position. Position announcements are below.
Thanks so much Jessica Flack Santa Fe Institute http:/-
/www.santafe.edu/ ˜ jﬂack POSTDOCTORAL POSI-
TION ANNOUNCEMENTS
POSTDOC IN DYNAMICS OF CONFLICT IN BI-
OLOGICAL AND SOCIAL SYSTEMS The Santa Fe
Institute has an opening for a postdoctoral fellowship
in the dynamics of conﬂict. The position is funded
through the National Science Foundation and is for two
to three years.
The postdoctoral researcher will work closely with fac-
ulty Jessica Flack and David Krakauer analyzing large
data sets and developing mathematical models. We ex-
pect the candidate to have a strong background and
publication record in either dynamical systems, and or
statistical physics, applied to biological or social sys-
tems. The work will be grounded in high resolution
conﬂict time series, and involve the application of ideas
from Bayesian statistics, information theory, game the-
ory, dynamical systems, and the theory of collectiveNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 95
phenomena. The postdoc will be required to spend ap-
proximately 80% of his/ her time on conﬂict related
projects. For the remaining 20% of time, the postdoc
is encouraged to collaborate with members of the larger
SFI community.
The postdoc will be joining a research project that seeks
to explain how complex social systems evolve, and how
these systems minimize the dissipative eﬀects of conﬂict
through mechanisms of conﬂict management. In previ-
ous publications this group has made extensive use of
non-parametric statistics, network methods, and infor-
mation theory to study robustness in complex systems.
Strong analytical skills and the ability to work with
both large data sets and parsimonious models will be
favored. The salary for the position will be 55K with
standard SFI beneﬁts, and funds are available to assist
with travel and to bring collaborators to SFI.
To apply for this position, please send an email
containing your CV and a two-page research state-
ment to Drs. Jessica Flack and David Krakauer at
jﬂack@santafe.edu. Please include names of three ref-
erences and ask recommenders to send their letters to
the above email address. The deadline for receipt of
applications is December 15.
The Santa Fe Institute is an equal opportunity em-
ployer. For more information about the institute see
http://www.santafe.edu . SFI OMIDYAR FELLOWS
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION ANNOUNCEMENT
Jessica Flack <jﬂack@santafe.edu >
UArizona EvolutionInsectFlight
U of Arizona. Eco and Evo Physiology of Insect Flight
Postdoctoral Research position at the University of Ari-
zona
A three-year position for a Postdoctoral Researcher
is available in the laboratory of Dr. Goggy David-
owitz in the Department of Entomology at The Uni-
versity of Arizona (start date, January 2010). http:/-
/ag.arizona.edu/ento/faculty/davidowitz/index.html
The research will examine the behavioral and physi-
ological eﬀects of humidity in foraging choice, ﬂight
physiology, ﬂight metabolism and ﬁtness in a natural
population of a hawkmoth (Manduca sexta) from the
scale of an individual ﬂower up to an entire landscape.
This project is in collaboration with Dr. Robert Raguso
of Cornell University.Goggy Davidowitz and his lab study ecological and evo-
lutionary physiology, with an emphasis on the physio-
logical regulation of body size, physiological tradeoﬀs,
and plant-insect interactions.
The successful candidate will have experience in insect
physiology, behavior and ﬁeld research, with research
experience in respirometry preferred.
To apply, please send a letter describing your research
interests and qualiﬁcations, a CV, PDFs of three of
your most signiﬁcant papers, and contact informa-
tion for three references to: Dr. Goggy Davidowitz
(goggy@email.arizona.edu).
The University of Arizona is an Aﬃrmative Action /
Equal Opportunity Employer.
– Goggy Davidowitz Assistant Professor Dept.
of Entomology University of Arizona Email:
goggy@email.arizona.edu Voice: (520) 626-8455
FAX: (520) 621-9190 http://ag.arizona.edu/ento/-
faculty/davidowitz/index.html Goggy Davidowitz
<goggy@email.arizona.edu >
UArizona VertebrateEvolution
George Gaylord Simpson Postdoctoral Fellowship in
Vertebrate Evolution - University of Arizona
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy announces one postdoctoral fellowship position for
Fall 2010, named in honor of G. G. Simpson’s long
tenure at the University of Arizona. Simpson Fellows
are expected to conduct an active research program in
evolutionary biology, especially projects that are fa-
cilitated and complemented by the Department’s ex-
tensive natural history collections in ichthyology, her-
petology, ornithology, and mammalogy. The positions
are part of a renewed commitment to natural his-
tory collections on the University of Arizona campus
and an initiative in biodiversity informatics ( http:/-
/loco.biosci.arizona.edu/bdii/ ). Postdoctoral Fellows
are encouraged to establish research collaborations with
faculty in the Department of Ecology and Evolution-
ary Biology and are expected to teach or contribute
to one course per year in the Fellow’s research spe-
cialty. Salary is $37,500 plus beneﬁts (nine-month ap-
pointment). A research stipend of $5000 will also be
included. The positions are renewable for at least a
second year contingent on satisfactory performance.
Applicants should submit application materials on-96 EvolDir November 1, 2009
line at the University of Arizona Human Resources
website ( https://www.uacareertrack.com; look for job
#44102), including C.V., statement of research and
teaching interests and experience, and two letters
of reference. Reference letters should be emailed
directly to sanderm@email.arizona.edu. Position is
open until ﬁlled, but we anticipate reviewing appli-
cations beginning on Jan. 15, 2010. Contact Dr.
Peter Reinthal (pnr@email.arizona.edu), Dr. Renee
Duckworth (rad3@email.arizona.edu), or Dr. Michael
Sanderson (sanderm@email.arizona.edu) for further in-
formation.
–
Michael J. Sanderson
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Uni-
versity of Arizona Tucson, AZ 85721
Oﬃce: BSW 412 Phone:520-626-6848
lab web site: http://loco.biosci.arizona.edu
UA Biodiversity Informatics Initiative: http:/-
/loco.biosci.arizona.edu/bdii PhyLoTA Browser:
http://loco.biosci.arizona.edu/pb r8s soft-
ware: http://loco.biosci.arizona.edu/r8s san-
derm@email.arizona.edu sanderm@email.arizona.edu
UBarcelona Genomics
bioinformatics evolution
RESEARCH POSITIONS IN GENOMICS, BIOIN-
FORMATICS, AND EVOLUTION
Several openings are available to work on the project
entitled “Evolutionary and functional analysis of poly-
morphic inversions in the human genome”, selected for
5-year funding through an ERC Starting Grant from
the European Research Council. This project aims
to improve our understanding on the impact of inver-
sions in the human genome at multiple levels by com-
bining methods of diﬀerent disciplines, such as next-
generation genomic techniques, bioinformatics, popula-
tion genetics, and molecular evolution. Successful can-
didates will form part of a young, highly dynamic, and
interdisciplinary research team located at the Institute
of Biotechnology and Biomedicine of the Universitat
Aut` onoma de Barcelona ( http://ibb.uab.es/ ).
Available positions:
We are seeking very motivated individuals with a doc-torate or university degree and research experience in
the following relevant ﬁelds:
1. Postdoc expert in high-throughput genomics and
molecular biology techniques.
2. Postdoc with strong background in bioinformatic
analysis of DNA sequences.
3. Postdoc with good knowledge in population genetics
and molecular evolution.
4. PhD student in functional genomics and gene-
expression analysis.
5. Research technician/Lab manager with basic train-
ing in molecular biology.
Conditions:
Salaries will be competitive according to proﬁle and ex-
perience of candidates. Duration of contracts will de-
pend on the speciﬁc position, ranging from 1 to 5 years.
Starting date:
All positions are available from January 2010.
Application:
Send a CV and a one-paragraph summary of pre-
vious research experience to Mario C´ aceres (mcac-
eres@icrea.cat).
Application deadline:
Please send application as soon as possible, preferably
before October 31 2009.
mario.caceres@crg.es
UChicago EvolutionaryGenetics
POSTDOC IN POPULATION GENETICS, UNIVER-
SITY OF CHICAGO
A postdoctoral position in population genetics is avail-
able in Molly Przeworski’s group at the University of
Chicago. The speciﬁc project is ﬂexible. Current
work in the group focuses on a wide range of top-
ics, from the study of natural selection in humans and
other primates to understanding patterns and processes
of recombination. For more information, see http://-
przeworski.uchicago.edu/ . Our group shares space and
weekly lab meetings with those of Jonathan Pritchard
and Matthew Stephens and enjoys close ties with other
members of the Human Genetics and Ecology & Evolu-
tion departments, notably Anna Di Rienzo, Dick Hud-November 1, 2009 EvolDir 97
son and Carole Ober. Moreover, it beneﬁts from the
large and outstanding community of researchers in pop-
ulation genetics, statistics and genomics at the Univer-
sity of Chicago.Applicants for the position must have
either a background in theoretical population genetics,
with experience in data analysis, or come from a quanti-
tative ﬁeld (such as statistics or computer science) and
have a strong interest in genetics and evolution. Pro-
gramming and bioinformatics skills are essential. Infor-
mal inquiries as well as applications (including a CV,
copies of relevant publications and two letters of rec-
ommendation) should be emailed to Molly Przeworski
at<mfp@uchicago.edu >. The starting date is Spring-
Summer 2010.
Molly Przeworski Howard Hughes Medical In-
stitute Dept. of Human Genetics Dept. of
Ecology and Evolution University of Chicago
http://przeworski.uchicago.edu mfp@uchicago.edu
mfp@uchicago.edu
UCLondon SexualAntagonismQTL
Dear all,
I am seeking to hire a postdoctoral associate to work
on the genetic basis of sexual antagonism in Drosophila
melanogaster. The post is funded by a grant from the
Natural Environment Research Council to myself (PI)
and Kevin Fowler (Co-I). The position is available for
3 years, starting in January 2010 (negotiable).
The oﬃcial advert is pasted below. For more infor-
mation and to apply, please visit http://tinyurl.com/-
reuter-pdra . The application deadline is Friday 6th
November 2009. Interviews will take place in the sec-
ond half of November.
Best regards, Max
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSOCIATE
Analysing quantitative trait loci of sexual antagonism
in fruitﬂies
A position is open for a postdoctoral research associate
at University College London to work with Max Reuter
and Kevin Fowler on the genetic basis of sexual an-
tagonism in fruitﬂies. The post is part of a project
funded by the Natural Environment Research Council,
the aim of which is to identify and characterise quan-
titative trait loci of sexual antagonism in Drosophila
melanogaster. The project combines evolutionary andmolecular genetic approaches to ﬁne-map QTL of sex-
speciﬁc ﬁtness and identify candidate genes underly-
ing sexual antagonism. Assisted by a full-time tech-
nician, the post-holder will conduct phenotypic and
molecular analyses, including ﬁtness assays, genotyp-
ing via SNP genomic markers, deﬁciency complementa-
tion tests, resequencing of genomic regions of interest,
statistical analysis (in particular QTL mapping) and
bioinformatics. The project will be based in a thriv-
ing research group within UCL’s GEE. For further in-
formation on this project and the group, see http:/-
/www.homepages.ucl.ac.uk/ ˜ ucbtmre/Labsite . This
position is an opportunity for a highly motivated, am-
bitious and independent individual who enjoys working
in a team. The candidate will have (or be about to ob-
tain) a PhD in a relevant discipline, a strong interest in
evolutionary genetics, proven research skills (as evident
in publication record and prior research ﬁndings), ex-
perience in advanced statistics and excellent verbal and
written communication skills. Experience in the appli-
cation of molecular biology techniques is desired, ex-
perience with high-throughput methods advantageous.
Familiarity with Drosophila would be helpful but is not
required. The post is available from 1st January 2010
(ﬂexible) for 36 months, with a starting salary between
£31,620 ( £28,839 plus £2,781 London Allowance) and
£35,239 ( £32,458 plus £2,781 London Allowance), de-
pending on experience.
Application Process: For more information and to ap-
ply using the online application process please vitis
the post’s page on the UCL HR website, accessible
through http://tinyurl.com/reuter-pdra . It is essen-
tial that candidates ensure that their skills and expe-
rience meet the post’s criteria outlined before apply-
ing. In case you have diﬃculties with the online sys-
tem, plase email ian.evans@ucl.ac.uk, Ian Evans, Di-
visional Staﬃng Oﬃcer, Faculty of Life Sciences, Uni-
versity College London, Room 122, Darwin Building,
Gower Street, London, WC1E 6BT. Telephone: 020
7679 4486. The closing date for applications is Friday
November 6, 2009, 4:30pm. Interviews will take place
during the second half of November.
Max Reuter
Research Department of Genetics, Evolution and En-
vironment Faculty of Life Sciences University College
London 4 Stephenson Way London NW1 2HE, UK
Phone: +44-20-76795095 Fax: +44-20-76795052
http://www.homepages.ucl.ac.uk/˜ucbtmre/Labsite/
m.reuter@ucl.ac.uk m.reuter@ucl.ac.uk98 EvolDir November 1, 2009
UEdinburgh Coevolution
Dear Evoldir member, there is a 2-year post-doctoral
position to study host-parasite coevolution available at
the Institute of Evolutionary Biology, University of Ed-
inburgh. The ad is framed in terms of Daphnia, but we
are interested in other systems as well. The more for-
mal description is below, and can be found at
http://www.jobs.ed.ac.uk/vacancies/-
index.cfm?fuseaction=vacancies.detail&vacancy ref=-
3011819&go=GO Where you will also ﬁnd instructions
on how to apply.
Informal enquiries to tom.little@ed.ac.uk
My lab web page is
http://www.biology.ed.ac.uk/research/groups/tlittle/
Job description:
This is a Wellcome Trust funded post on host-parasite
co-evolution. The project is focused on a model host
parasite system (host is the crustacean Daphnia) and
seeks to gain insight into evolutionary dynamics and
the genetic basis of disease resistance. The project will,
depending on the interests of the successful candidate,
involve culturing Daphnia, ﬁeld sampling, experimental
infections or molecular work. With respect to the lat-
ter. experience with molecular work (e.g. PCR, qPCR,
transcriptomics) will be helpful and preferred.
Fixed Term: 2 years
Vacancy details Vacancy Reference: 3011819 Depart-
ment: Biological Sciences Job Title: Post-Doctoral
Researcher Job Function: Academic Job Type: Full
Time Live Date: 15-Oct-2009 Expiry Date: 05-Nov-
2009 Salary Scale: £29,704 - £35,469 Internal job: No.
Anybody can apply for this position. Further Informa-
tion: Further Information Conditions Of Employment:
View Conditions of Employment
– The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body,
registered in Scotland, with registration number
SC005336.
tom little <tom.little@ed.ac.uk >UFlorida
PathogenMolecularEvolution
Molecular Evolution of Pathogens
The Department of Pathology, University of Florida is
recruiting for a Postdoctoral Associate position in the
laboratory of Dr. Marco Salemi. Dr. Salemi’s lab is
strongly oriented towards computational and molecu-
lar biology, and it is involved in basic as well as clin-
ically relevant research in the area of viral evolution,
neuropathogenesis and molecular epidemiology of RNA
and DNA viruses, with major focus on HIV and HCV.
The lab will consist of DNA/RNA extraction/cloning,
as well as a computational core with a large com-
puter cluster, viral databasing tools and state-of-the-art
phylogenetic and population genetic analysis software.
Two major research areas are pursued: (1) the study of
intra-host viral evolution and the correlation between
viral evolution and pathogenesis; (2) the study of inter-
host viral evolution, focused in particular on the molec-
ular epidemiology of emerging pathogens, such as HIV,
HCV and inﬂuenza.
Candidates must have a PhD in Bioinformatics, Bio-
statistics, Applied Mathematics, Molecular Evolution
or related subject from an appropriately accredited
academic, institution. Minimum requirements include
object-oriented programming skills, and experience
with DNA/protein sequence analysis. Experience with
Phylogenetic analysis, coalescence, Bayesian MCMC
methods and GIS programming is a plus. The success-
ful candidate will be expected to work at the develop-
ment and implementation of algorithms to investigate
the molecular epidemiology and intra-host evolution of
human and animal pathogens, with an emphasis on HIV
and SIV.
The salary is negotiable based on qualiﬁcations and ex-
perience. The position will be ﬁlled as soon as possible.
Please send detailed CV and three letters of recommen-
dation to:
Marco Salemi, Ph.D. Department of Pathology, Im-
munology and Laboratory Medicine PO Box 100275,
University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32610-0275.
salemi@pathology.uﬂ.edu
sellung@pathology.uﬂ.edu sellung@pathology.uﬂ.eduNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 99
UFribourg
PlantEvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoctoral position in plant evolutionary genomics
Project: Ecological & evolutionary genomics of a
porous species boundary in European Populus
Supervision: Christian Lexer, University of Fribourg,
Switzerland
A postdoctoral position is available in the newly estab-
lished lab of Christian Lexer. I am looking for a highly
motivated candidate with a keen interest in evolution-
ary genomics and speciation genetics and prior expe-
rience with/exposure to key methodologies relevant to
these ﬁelds of research. The post is funded by a 3-year
project grant from the Swiss National Science Founda-
tion and involves several collaborating labs in Europe
and the USA.
The research project will address key questions related
to the ecological & evolutionary genomics of a porous’
species boundary between Populus alba and P. tremula,
two ecologically divergent European tree species related
to Populus trichocarpa, the ﬁrst completely sequenced
forest tree. Within a team consisting of 1 other Post-
doc, 2 PhD students, and a lab technician, the chosen
candidate will take the lead role in laboratory and in
silico research to address the role of functionally im-
portant genes in species isolation and adaptive intro-
gression, and the size of genomic islands’ of divergence
between these hybridizing forest trees. In collabora-
tion with other team members, he/she may also be
involved in related research topics in Populus specia-
tion genomics. Participation in ﬁeldwork is possible,
depending on interests. The chosen candidate will par-
ticipate in the supervision of one PhD student active on
the same project, and he/she will interact closely with
collaborating labs in Europe and the USA. Prior ex-
perience with the use of DNA-based molecular genetic
markers to answer evolutionary questions is essential
for this project. Experience with (ultra-) high through-
put DNA sequencing and the design of high-throughput
SNP detection assays would be particularly desirable.
The starting date is negotiable (from February 2010
onwards). Funding is for three years (annual starting
salary is ca. CHF 73’000). Knowledge of French or
German is helpful in every day life, but the working
language in the group is English. A doctoral degreein biology or related subject is required. Fribourg is
a lively town with pleasant surroundings and an excel-
lent quality of life. It is located ca. 30 minutes from the
Alps, close to other cities such as Berne and Lausanne
and just a little over an hour from Geneva.
To apply, please send an e-mail with the application
materials in a single pdf ﬁle to Christian Lexer (chris-
tian.lexer@unifr.ch). Application materials should in-
clude a CV, a list of publications, and a short (less than
one page) statement of research interests. Please give
names and email addresses of two persons who are will-
ing to write a letter of recommendation. Applications
received before 15 November will be given full consid-
eration. Interviews will take place in December.
Further information and address for application: Dr.
Christian Lexer, Associate Professor of Evolutionary
Biology E-mail: christian.lexer@unifr.ch, Tel: +41 26
300 88 68 Web: http://www.unifr.ch/biol/ecology/-
lexer/index.html For more information about Ecology
& Evolution in Fribourg see http://www.unifr.ch/biol/-
ecology/ (all departmental pages currently undergoing
construction)
— Christian Lexer Associate Professor of Evolution-
ary Biology University of Fribourg, Department of Bi-
ology Unit of Ecology & Evolution Chemin du Mus´ ee
10, CH-1700 Fribourg, Switzerland Tel (oﬃce) +41
(0)26 300 8868 Tel (lab): +41 (0)26 300 8895 Fax:
+41 (0)26 300 9698 Mobile: +41-77-4720-789 Email:
christian.lexer@unifr.ch Web: http://www.unifr.ch/-
biol/ecology/lexer/index.html christian.lexer@unifr.ch
christian.lexer@unifr.ch
UGroningen GeneRegulation
Computational
Postdoc position in Molecular Genetics, University
of Groningen, the Netherlands at the Groningen
Biomolecular Sciences and Biotechnology Institute, the
Netherlands
The Postdoc will take part in a large collaborative
project (BetNet) of the GBB with the Institute of En-
vironmental Sciences (CML, Leiden University), the
Mathematical Institute (MI, Leiden University), and
the Leiden institute of Advanced Computer Science (LI-
ACS, Leiden University), funded by the Dutch Science
Foundation (NWO), within the Computational Lif Sci-
ences programme. The goal of this project is to re-
solve the dynamics of gene regulation networks, by us-100 EvolDir November 1, 2009
ing the quantitative demands on the shape of bacterial
bet-hedging strategy distributions that are imposed by
ﬂuctuating selection environments. As a model sys-
tem, we study the adaptation of the distribution of
sporulation-initiation timing in B.subtilis to randomly
changing environments and cue reliability.
The project at Molecular Genetics mainly focuses on
the experimental part, involving the design and exe-
cution of speciﬁc selection experiments in B. subtilis,
the characterization of evolved strains by transcrip-
tome analysis, time lapse microscopy, FACS, and whole
genome resequencing of selected strains. For the mod-
eling, evolution biology and bioinformnatics we will
closely collaborate with the partners in Leiden.
Requirements: PhD degree in Molecular Microbiology
or related disciplines. Preferably experience in working
with Bacillus subtilis.
Appointment We oﬀer a temporary full time position
for a period of 2.5 years. Monthly gross salary is from
2379,- to 3755,- a month depending on qualiﬁcation and
experience of the applicant. Appointment will be under
the term of the Collective Labour Agreement of Dutch
Universities (CAO Nederlandse Universiteiten).
Further information and a full project desciption can be
obtained by mailing o.p.kuipers@rug.nl. Applications:
send a CV + accompanying letter to o.p.kuipers@rug.nl
before October 31. The positions are at the Molecular
Genetics Dept., University of Groningen, Kerklaan 30,
9728 XG Haren, the Netherlands.
Patsy Haccou <haccou@math.leidenuniv.nl >
UKansas StatisticalGenetics
Quantitative Genetics of Gene Expression in
Drosophila
A Postdoctoral Scholar position is available in Stuart
Macdonald’s lab at the University of Kansas to bioinfor-
matically analyze genomewide expression data collected
on a set of 1,500 8-way Recombinant Inbred Lines. The
goal of our lab is to understand the genetic basis of com-
plex trait variation using Drosophila as a model system,
and we are dissecting a number of traits in addition to
gene expression (e.g., stress- and drug resistance, male
genitalia shape). Using the gene expression data we
will map and characterize eQTL and construct gene
expression networks. This position will also provide an
opportunity to develop an independent line of research,and collaborate with our group on a range of problems
in quantitative genetics.
This position requires a Ph.D in evolu-
tionary/computational biology or popula-
tion/quantitative/statistical genetics, and a record
of published, peer-reviewed research in areas related
to population or quantitative genetics, or genome
biology. In addition, since projects will involve very
large phenotype and genotype datasets, demonstrated
competency in programming is required (e.g. Unix,
Perl, MySQL, R). Preference will be given to those
candidates with previous experience in the analysis of
genomewide expression data.
The University of Kansas ( www.ku.edu ) has an active
academic community in the life sciences. The Macdon-
ald lab is aﬃliated with the Department of Molecular
Biosciences (molecularbiosciences.ku.edu) and also
works closely with members of the Department of Ecol-
ogy and Evolutionary Biology (www2.ku.edu/ ~eeb).
The range and number of active research groups
presents many opportunities for fostering academic
and social interactions. The University of Kansas is
in the city of Lawrence ( www.visitlawrence.com,
www.ci.lawrence.ks.us, www.lawrence.com,
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lawrence, Kansas) situated
45 minutes West of Kansas City.
The position is open and review of applications will be-
gin immediately and continue until the position is ﬁlled.
Informal inquires are welcome and can be directed to
Stuart Macdonald (sjmac@ku.edu). To apply, complete
an online application at https://jobs.ku.edu (position
number 00066120). Attach a cover letter (describing
your interest in the position and any relevant exper-
tise), a full CV, and complete contact information for
3 referees. EO/AA Employer.
Dr. Stuart J. Macdonald Department of Molecular
Biosciences 1030 Haworth Hall 1200 Sunnyside Avenue
University of Kansas Lawrence KS 66045
tel: 785-864-5362 fax: 785-864-5321 email: sj-
mac@ku.edu web: http://web.ku.edu/sjmac/ sj-
mac@ku.edu sjmac@ku.edu
UKonstanz MolecularEvolution
ONE POSTDOC POSITION V in molecular evolution,
genomics or bioinformatics. University of Konstanz,
Germany.November 1, 2009 EvolDir 101
At the University of Konstanz in Germany we have
one postdoc position available starting on January
1, 2009 at the Genomic-Proteomics Center http://-
cms.uni-konstanz.de/genomics-center/ in the Depart-
ment of Biology.
Through the funding of the University of Konstanz
by the “excellence initiative” of the German govern-
ment we are in the process of establishing a Genomics-
Proteomics Center that will include second generation
sequencing technologies (Roche GSFLX and Illumina
GA IIX). Therefore, we are particularly interested in a
Ph.D. biologist/ bioinformatics with expertise in molec-
ular evolution, molecular phylogenetics and bioinfor-
matics. We expect that a post for a “junior professor-
ship” in bioinformatics will be ﬁlled shortly as well.
The postdoc projects we are interested in have to do
with ﬁsh genomics and in particular comparative ge-
nomics of cichlid ﬁsh. Other projects deal with the
evolution of gene families and comparative genomics
of chordates and vertebrates. Candidates should have
a strong interest in bioinformatics, developmental and
evolutionary biology and should be experienced in
molecular techniques and/or computational biology.
The person we are looking for should have skills in the
analysis of second generation sequencing technologies
and should be willing to interact with other groups in
the University of Konstanz that would be using the fa-
cilities of the Genomics-Proteomics Center.
The salary is according to the German TVL salary scale
that includes extensive health and retirement beneﬁts.
The initial contract period would be for two years with
the potential for additional years of funding.
Further information on our research can be obtained
from our web page: www.evolutionsbiologie.uni-
konstanz.de . For publications see
http://www.evolutionsbiologie.uni- kon-
stanz.de/index.php?section’ . Applications should
include a CV, statement of research interests and email
addresses of two references. Review of applications will
commence on 1. December 2009. The starting date is
ﬂexible. Applications should be sent as one pdf ﬁle to
axel.meyer@uni- konstanz.de .
This position is aﬃliated with the new graduate school
in Chemical Biology V and the new International
Max-Planck Research School for Organismal Biol-
ogy. For more information visit http:// www.chembiol
.uni-konstanz. de/ and http://cms.uni-konstanz.de/-
organismal-biology/ . For these new programs we in-
vite applications of qualiﬁed Masters students as well
as Ph.D. candidates.
This search will remain open until the postdoc positionis ﬁlled.
Informal inquiries should be addressed to Prof. Axel
Meyer, Ph.D. (axel.meyer@uni-konstanz.de ).
Prof. Axel Meyer, Ph.D. Chair in Zoology and Evolu-
tionary Biology, Department of Biology, University of
Konstanz 78457 Konstanz Germany - fon + 49 7531 88
4163 fax + 49 7531 88 3018 secretary: Ingrid.Bader@
uni-konstanz. de tel. + 49 7531 88 3069
Axel Meyer <axel.meyer@uni-konstanz.de >
ULeiden LifeHistoryEvolution
Post Doc into life history regulation m/f in Leiden (the
Netherlands)
Vacancy number : B.09.JS.06
Position As a post doc you are responsible for carry-
ing forward our research activities on the regulation of
human life histories under adverse conditions. To this
end we have initiated a cohort study in the North-East
of Ghana. This study is part of a greater endeavor
identifying cues that are relevant for early survival and
determine the rate of ageing. Genetics play a key role
but only within the peculiar environmental conditions
to which the participants are exposed. It is a team ef-
fort in which several junior and senior researchers from
(inter)national laboratories are involved. You will be
positioned within the ’LifeSpan’ project, a EU-funded
Network of Excellence that is coordinated in Leiden. As
a member of the management team, you will spend part
of your time on coordinating and running the Network.
The department
You will be positioned within the Department of Geron-
tology and Geriatrics. The focus of this department is
on scientiﬁc research on ageing and longevity, elderly
people in means of patient care for elderly as well as
participation in the medical and biomedical curriculum
of Leiden University and hosting the training for geri-
atricians.
Your proﬁle You have a background and PhD that en-
ables you to study the genetic regulation of human life
histories. You are able to work independently and in
a team, and possess excellent communication skills, in-
cluding ﬂuent written and spoken English. You like
to take initiatives and are driven by scientiﬁc interests.
You are enthusiastic and inquisitive and possess the cre-
ative skills to ﬁnd solutions though with a critical eye102 EvolDir November 1, 2009
for your work. A ﬂexible work approach and ability to
cope with stress is essential and you will be expected to
present and publish your ﬁndings. Experience in and
aﬃnity with scientiﬁc programming is an advantage.
We encourage persons to apply who are enthusiastic
about the LifeSpan initiative and who can contribute
expertise relevant to the network, and are willing to
work in a large multi disciplinary consortium.
We oﬀer You will be employed on the basis of a 36-hour
week and appointment is for two years, until 1 January
2012. Your salary will be a maximum of EUR 4,416
gross per month based on a full time position (accord-
ing to the Collective Labour Agreement for University
Hospitals).
The terms of employment oﬀered by the LUMC are
highly favourable. For example, you will receive an 8%
holiday remuneration, a year-end bonus, a pension ar-
rangement with the National Civil Pension Fund, and,
if applicable, a bonus for unsocial hours. Also, as em-
ployee of one of the University Hospitals in the Nether-
lands, you may join our collective health insurance pol-
icy.
Moreover, the LUMC oﬀers excellent facilities in the
area of education, child-care centres, and career advice.
In addition, you may enjoy various leave arrangements
and other extras.
More information If you have any questions, or if you
want more information about this position, please con-
tact Prof Dr R.G.J. Westendorp, head of the Depart-
ment of Gerontology and Geriatrics, telephone +31
(0)71 526 66 40 or r.g.j.westendorp@lumc.nl
Apply If you are interested in this job and your satisfy
the requirements in the job proﬁle, we encourage you
to apply. You can do so by letter, by e-mail or by using
the application form. You may rest assured that your
details will be treated with strict conﬁdentiality. Af-
ter selecting a number of letters and CVs, one or two
interviews will be conducted. An internal application
procedure is being held for this job. If an internal and
external candidate have matching abilities, our prefer-
ence goes to an internal candidate.
Applying by e-mail Send an e-mail, stating your
reasons for applying and including your CV, to
Div2peno@lumc.nl. Clearly state the job number of
the job you are applying for. You can include annexes
with your e-mail (for example, your CV), provided they
are in MS Word format.
Applying by letter Send your letter of application, stat-
ing your reasons for applying and including your CV,
to:LUMC Attn. Personnel and Organisation Department
Bureau Bedrijfsvoering divisie 2 (K5-S) PO Box 9600
2300 RC Leiden The Netherlands
Please state the vacancy number on both the letter and
the envelope
C.N.van Beuzekom@lumc.nl
UMelbourne EvolutionaryBiol
Dear Evoldir,
I thought I’d alert evoldir readers to the following post-
doc fellowship scheme at the University of Melbourne.
Applicants may be drawn from any ﬁeld in which the
University of Melbourne has research strength, one of
which is evolutionary biology and population genetics.
McKenzie Fellowships The University of Melbourne is
building an ambitious program of research activity and
aims to attract outstanding postdoctoral researchers to
be part of that and to begin to build the next generation
of research activity. The University oﬀers a leading and
lively research environment located in an environment
that is internationally engaged, public-spirited, and
with many outstanding areas of research strength. The
McKenzie Postdoctoral Fellowship Scheme has been es-
tablished to attract outstanding recent doctoral gradu-
ates to the university in areas of research priority for the
university and its faculties, and in particular to recruit
new researchers who have the potential to build and
lead cross-disciplinary collaborative research activities
inside and across faculties.
McKenzie Fellowships are open to applicants
across all ﬁelds. Intending applicants should
consult the guidelines of the program <http:/-
/www.research.unimelb.edu.au/ data/assets/-
word doc/0005/167549/Guide lines.doc >and dis-
cuss their interest with the Faculty in which they
would be located prior to submitting the application
<http://www.research.unimelb.edu.au/ data/assets/-
word doc/0011/167591/Appli cation Form.doc >. In
addition to this scheme, many faculty-based post-
doctoral opportunities are available; and faculties,
research strengths and projects actively encourage
talented applicants to work with them to win support
through the nationally competitive NHMRC and ARC
schemes. University research priorities in terms of
its future programs of research have been nominated
both within faculties <http://www.unimelb.edu.au/-November 1, 2009 EvolDir 103
az/faculties.html >and in an emerging program of
major cross-university research institutes <http:/-
/www.researchinstitutes.melbourne.edu/home/ >
.
The McKenzie Postdoctoral Fellowships are intended
for: * Applicants who are not currently studying or
employed at the University of Melbourne * Applicants
may be drawn from any ﬁeld in which the University
of Melbourne has research strength, but must have an
ability to contribute to new emerging research collab-
orations and programs across faculties or disciplines *
Applicants will require a supporting statement from an
existing faculty in which they would be located if suc-
cessful, but the criteria for selection will be university-
based and judged on demonstrated talent and achieve-
ment and the ability to make a substantial contribu-
tion to an already nominated or an emerging program
of university research priority Two categories of award
will be made. The Program is primarily intended for
applicants who have recently completed or are about to
complete their PhD, and the bulk of awards will be for
fellows in this category. A small number of awards will
be made to outstanding applicants who have completed
already a ﬁrst period of post-doctoral experience. As-
sessment in both cases will take account of achievement
relative to opportunity.
Applications close Sunday 15 November, 2009.
Please send your application via email to
sdureau@unimelb.edu.au marked ’Application for
McKenzie Post-Doctoral Fellowship’
see:
http://www.research.unimelb.edu.au/rgc/grants/-
ﬁnd/schemes/uom/mckenzie fellowships
Charles Robin email: crobin@unimelb.edu.au
FAX: (61) 3 8344 5139 ph: (61) 3 8344
2349 http://www.genetics.unimelb.edu.au/-
research/robin/index.html map: http://-
www.genetics.unimelb.edu.au/images/map bio21.jpg
Charlie Robin <crobin@unimelb.edu.au >
UNebraska-Lincoln Bioinfo MolEvol
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION in Bioinformatics and
Molecular Evolution at University of Nebraska-Lincoln
A postdoctoral position is available immediately in
the Etsuko Moriyama lab at the University of
Nebraska-Lincoln ( http://bioinfolab.unl.edu/emlab/-index.html). This is one year position supported by
NIH stimulus grant. Extension beyond the ﬁrst year
depends on funding situation.
The research project emphasizes developing methods
for protein classiﬁcation and applying them against
wide ranges of genomes. See 7TMRmine website for
more details: http://bioinfolab.unl.edu/emlab/7tmr/-
index.php The target protein families and the research
scope may be expanded.
Our lab has very interdisciplinary research environ-
ment. We regularly collaborate with researchers in
many diﬀerent ﬁelds. The postdoc will have opportuni-
ties to collaborate with researchers with diverse back-
grounds, from computer science, bioinformatics, struc-
tural biology, molecular evolution, population genetics,
to genomics and molecular biology.
Preference will be given to applicants who have expe-
rience in any combination of the following ﬁelds: com-
puter science (especially machine learning), multivari-
ate statistical analysis, bioinformatics (especially pro-
tein classiﬁcation and structural analysis), comparative
genomics, and molecular evolution (especially for pro-
tein functions). Strong background in biology is highly
desired. Proﬁciency in programming (using any lan-
guage) is required. Experience in MySQL database de-
velopment/management will be appreciated.
Please send a cover letter and CV to
emoriyama2@unl.edu. Applications will be re-
viewed as they arrive. Please feel free to contact me
with any questions.
The University of Nebraska has an active National Sci-
ence Foundation ADVANCE gender equity program,
and is committed to a pluralistic campus community
through aﬃrmative action, equal opportunity, work- life
balance, and dual careers.
Etsuko Moriyama, PhD Associate Professor School of
Biological Sciences & Center for Plant Science Innova-
tion University of Nebraska-Lincoln 403 Manter Hall
Lincoln, NE 68588-0118
Email: emoriyama2@unl.edu Phone: 402-472-4979,
Fax: 402-472-2083 (SBS business oﬃce)
Moriyama Lab web page: http://bioinfolab.unl.edu/-
emlab/index.html SBS faculty page: http:/-
/www.biosci.unl.edu/faculty/moriyama/-
index.shtml emoriyama2@unlnotes.unl.edu
emoriyama2@unlnotes.unl.edu104 EvolDir November 1, 2009
UNevadaLasVegas AvianEvolution
POST-DOCTORAL POSITION: Neotropical Or-
nithology –A two-year postdoctoral position is avail-
able in the Klicka lab in UNLV’s Barrick Museum of
Natural History. Here we use molecular methods, com-
bined with ﬁeldwork, to study the evolution of neotrop-
ical birds in Middle America. One current focus of
this research is comparative phylogeography involving
a diverse array of avian taxa. Experienced researchers
(Ph.D. or exceptional Masters students) with an inter-
est in this area of research are encouraged to apply. The
successful candidate will take a lead role in completing
(data analysis and writing) several ongoing phylogeog-
raphy studies while initiating others. Independent re-
search that complements central objectives is encour-
aged, and additional research opportunities related to
the evolution of Middle american birds exist within the
lab. Preference will be given to candidates with experi-
ence in molecular laboratory methods and data analy-
sis and to those who have demonstrated proﬁciency in
scientiﬁc writing. Curatorial skills and the ability to
converse in Spanish are desirable. A start date of Jan
2010 is preferred. Initial appointment will be for one
year, with continuation for an additional year depen-
dent upon performance. Salary will be commensurate
with experience and qualiﬁcations but will likely be in
the range of $40,000 - $45,000 per year. Please send
via email attachment a letter of application, curriculum
vitae, statement of research interests, and names and
addresses of three references to DR. JOHN KLICKA
(EM: klicka@UNLV.nevada.edu). UNLV is an Aﬃr-
mative Action/Equal Employment Opportunity/ADA
Employer. Women and minorities are encouraged to
apply.
John Klicka Curator of Birds Barrick Museum of Natu-
ral History Box 454012, University of Nevada Las Vegas
Las Vegas, NV 89154
e-mail: klicka@unlv.nevada.edu phone:(702)895-2749
fax:(702)895-3094
John Klicka <klicka@unlv.nevada.edu >
UOklahoma Daphnia evolutionPostdoctoral Fellowship position available: A Postdoc-
toral Fellowship position is available in my laboratory
to work on a new 3-year NSF-funded project entitled,
“Organism-environment interactions - impact of cul-
tural eutrophication on Daphnia tracked by genomics,
physiology, and resurrection ecology”.
In a planned 36-month project in collaboration with
colleagues at Oklahoma State University and Indiana
University, the PIs will use an integrated approach in-
volving genetic/genomic, physiological, and “resurrec-
tion ecology” methods to examine how cultural eu-
trophication (i.e., enrichment of freshwater systems
with nutrients such as phosphorus) inﬂuences evolu-
tionary changes in organisms. The waterﬂea, Daph-
nia pulex, which plays a major role in freshwater food
webs (i.e. it eats algae/bacteria and in turn is fed
upon by ﬁsh), will serve as the model organism. Daph-
nia are ideal for such studies because they produce
resting eggs that can lay dormant in lake sediments
for long periods of time. Decades-old eggs can be in-
duced to hatch (i.e. “resurrection ecology”) and viable
DNA can be extracted from eggs that are centuries old.
Moreover, the D. pulex genome has been sequenced
and genetic/genomic methods (i.e. gene expression)
are in place to study how changes in eutrophica tion
(phosphorus-level) patterns over the past century have
inﬂuenced how an organism like a daphniid can respond
to ecosystem/environmental change. Results from this
cross-disciplinary study will provide an excellent ex-
ample of how man-made environmental changes (via
eutrophication) inﬂuence natural (freshwater) ecosys-
tems.
Funding is guaranteed for 2 years. The position would
start August 2010. We are looking speciﬁcally for indi-
viduals who have ample bioinformatics/genomics skills,
including the use of a variety of modeling approaches
to study microevolutionary dynamics using large data
sets.
For more details and information, please contact:
Dr. Lawrence J. Weider, Professor of Zoology Director,
The University of Oklahoma Biological Station (UOBS)
University of Oklahoma Norman, OK 73019 Phone: 1-
405-325-4766 or 325-7438 FAX: 1-405-325-0835 http:/-
/www.ou.edu/uobs/weider.html ljweider@ou.edu
UOxford PlantAdaptationNovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 105
Postdoctoral Research Assistant DEPARTMENT OF
PLANT SCIENCES Grade 7: Salary £28,839 - £35,469
p.a. Applications are invited for a three-year postdoc-
toral position on a NERC-funded project, Genomic ba-
sis of adaptation and speciation in Senecio, led by Dr
Dmitry Filatov, Department of Plant Sciences, Univer-
sity of Oxford. This project is devoted to a genome-
wide analysis of molecular bases of speciation and adap-
tation in plant genus Senecio. In collaboration with
Prof. Hiscock lab in Bristol (UK) we will conduct
functional and evolutionary genetic analyses of cod-
ing and regulatory regions in Senecio genome in or-
der to study their evolution during adaptation to con-
trasting environments of high and low altitudes. The
research will involve high throughput DNA pyrose-
quencing from three Senecio species and population ge-
netic and evolutionary genomic analyses of these se-
quences. Further particulars of the post are avail-
able on http://www.plants.ox.ac.uk/ . It is anticipated
that the successful candidates will begin on 1 February
2010 or soon thereafter. For more details of the Fi-
latov lab see: http://dps.plants.ox.ac.uk/plants/staﬀ/-
DmitryFilatov.aspx .Applications, including applica-
tion form, full curriculum vitae, the names and contact
details of two referees, and clearly quoting reference
AP09014 should be sent to the Departmental Admin-
istrator, Department of Plant Sciences, University of
Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3RB or by
email to recruit@plants.ox.ac.uk. The closing date for
applications is noon on Thursday 19th November 2009.
[Further particulars] Postdoctoral Research Assistant
Ref No.AP09014
Genomic basis of adaptation and speciation in Senecio
This is a 36 month project funded by NERC with ide-
ally a start date of 1 February 2010. The grant holder
is Dr Dmitry Filatov and the successful applicant will
be under his immediate direction in his research lab.
The Plant Evolutionary Genetics Group is led by Dr
Dmitry Filatov and currently comprises four postdoc-
toral researchers and one graduate student, all working
on diﬀerent aspects of plant molecular population ge-
netics and evolutionary genomics.
Project Description Title: Genomic basis of adaptation
and speciation in Senecio
This project is devoted to a genome-wide analysis of
molecular bases of speciation and adaptation in plant
genus Senecio. In collaboration with Prof. Hiscock lab
in Bristol (UK) we will conduct functional and evolu-
tionary genetic analyses of coding and regulatory re-
gions in Senecio genome in order to study their evolu-
tion during adaptation to contrasting environments ofhigh and low altitudes. The research will involve high
throughput DNA pyrosequencing from three Senecio
species and population genetic and evolutionary ge-
nomic analyses of these sequences.
Selection Criteria
Candidates will be assessed in relation to the following
selection criteria.
Strong interest in population genetics of speciation and
adaptation.
Proven research skills and expertise in evolutionary ge-
nomic and population genetic analysis of DNA sequence
data are essential.
Computer programming skills will be essential for pro-
cessing and analysis of massive DNA sequencing data
generated by modern high-throughput sequencing ma-
chines.
Familiarity with the high-throughput sequencing is de-
sirable
A relevant publications record
Ability to work independently as well as a part of the
team
Good writing and communication skills, including abil-
ity to write research articles and present research at
international symposia.
The Department of Plant Sciences The Department of
Plant Sciences is one of the leading science departments
in the UK devoted to teaching and research in Plant Sci-
ences, and is an internationally recognized centre for
research directed towards improving our understand-
ing of all aspects of plant biology at molecular, cellular,
tissue, whole-organism and environmental levels. The
Department is in the process of recruiting to a statu-
tory professorship in addition to 26 university lectur-
ers and senior fellows, some 45 postdoctoral research
workers and some 35 graduate research students, and
is responsible jointly with the Department of Zoology
for teaching some 300 undergraduate students reading
the Honour School of Biological Sciences. General con-
ditions
The appointment will be on the postdoctoral Grade 7
scale for academic-related staﬀ and the starting point
will be within the range of £26,666 - £32,796 p.a. For a
full-time appointment, the annual holiday entitlement
will be 38 days (including 10 days to be taken on ﬁxed
dates at Christmas and Easter, and 8 public holidays).
The appointment is subject to satisfactory completion
of a six month probationary period, during which the
notice period will be one month on either side. Once
the appointment has106 EvolDir November 1, 2009
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UParisSud Orsay HumanSelection
Detection of multilocus selection in genes involved in
alimentary processes in Humans.
We propose a postdoctoral position ﬁnanced by the
French Agence Nationale de la Recherche, project
NUTGENEVOL. This project is a joint collaboration
between the laboratories Ecologie, Syst´ ematique et
Evolution located at the Universit´ e de Paris-Sud in Or-
say near Paris (team of Fr´ ed´ eric Austerlitz) and Eco-
Anthropology located at the National Museum of Nat-
ural History in Paris (team of Evelyne Heyer). This po-
sition is opened for two years, with a beginning before
May 1st 2010 (the postdoc can potentially start later
but will not in that case be funded for two full years).
The NUTGENEVOL project consists in studying the
selection pressures that occurred on genes involved in
alimentary processes. The ﬁrst aim of the postdoctoral
position would be to focus on the multilocus analysis of
selective pressure occurring on these genes. The other
aspect of the project would be to analyse whether the
genes under selection have speciﬁc functions in the gene
networks involved in these processes.
These selective pressures are connected with the
changes in alimentary diets in humans. Indeed, be-
fore the major Neolithic transition ( ~10,000 yBP), our
hunter-gatherer ancestors had a meat-based diet, poor
in carbohydrates and rich in protein. Therefore, genes
favouring insulin resistance and gluconeogenesis were
selected for, in order to constantly maintain suﬃ-
cient level of glucose in the blood. These potentially
thrifty genes may now be detrimental in urbanized so-
cieties, because under the present high carbohydrate
diet, insulin resistance and gluconeogenesis may lead
to metabolic disorders such as type II diabetes, obe-
sity, and hypertension. To detect the selective pres-
sures that occurred on these genes, we have obtained
sequence polymorphism data for 11 candidate genes
involved in these traits in two Central Asian popula-
tions: one pastoralist and one agriculturist population,
for which diﬀerences in diet may have lead to diﬀer-
ent selective pressures on such genes. We are currentlyalso obtaining data on polymorphism of DNA SNPs:
660,000 SNPs (Illumina, Human 660W Quad v1.0) in
these two populations.
All the traits involved in this study are polygenic traits
involved in gene networks, and a multilocus approach to
detect selection would thus seem especially appropriate.
Therefore, the postdoctoral position within this project
would ﬁrst consist in searching for selection that acts
jointly on combination of SNPs in the same or diﬀer-
ent genes, using the data on candidate genes and SNPs.
This will be performed for instance through the study
of linkage disequilibrium between these loci. Other
methodological developments may be considered. Sim-
ilar studies could also be performed in public databases
such as HAPMAP. For validation, the methods may be
also applied to simulated data, using a program devel-
oped by other people from the group.
Another aspect of the postdoctoral position will consist
for the genes under selection in analysing their position
in the network, in order to test whether the position in
the network could inﬂuence the level of selection occur-
ring on these genes. A particular emphasis will be put
on studying the level of pleiotropy of these genes, as
selective pressures may diﬀer for genes involved in one
vs. several diﬀerent functions. This research on gene
networks will be mostly performed through searches in
public databases.
Salary should be around 1900 euros per month. Inter-
ested candidates should send their application prefer-
entially by email to Fr´ ed´ eric Austerlitz (see coordinates
below). Please include a CV, a brief letter explaining
your motivations and the coordinates of two or three
potential references. Applications should be sent be-
fore November 15th. Please also do not hesitate to ask
for further details at this address.
Fr´ ed´ eric Austerlitz Laboratoire Ecologie, Syst´ ematique
et Evolution UMR CNRS/Universit´ e Paris
Sud/AgroParisTech 8079 Universit´ e Paris-Sud,
Bˆ atiment 360 F-91405 Orsay cedex, France Tel :
+33 1 69 15 77 20 / Fax : +33 1 69 15 46 97
frederic.austerlitz@u-psud.fr
webpages : Fr´ ederic Austerlitz: http://www.ese.u-
psud.fr/pages perso/spip.php?article26 Evelyne
heyer: http://www.ecoanthropologie.cnrs.fr/-
spip.php?article300&lang ˆE– Frederic Austerlitz
Charge de Recherche CNRS / CNRS researcher Lab-
oratoire Ecologie, Systematique et Evolution UMR
CNRS/Universite Paris Sud/AgroParisTech 8079 Uni-
versite Paris-Sud, Batiment 360 F-91405 Orsay cedex
FRANCE tel: + 33 1 69 15 77 20 / fax: + 33 1 69 15 46
97 webpage: http://www.ese.u-psud.fr/pages perso/-November 1, 2009 EvolDir 107
spip.php?article26
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UtahStateU
BeetleEvolutionaryGenomics
Position Description
Postdoctoral Researcher: Mountain Pine Beetle Tran-
scriptome Variation
The mountain pine beetle (Dendroctonus ponderosae;
MPB) is an emerging model system for studying the
eﬀects of climate change. Research in this system
is occurring at the interface between applied ecology,
evolutionary genomics, and climate-change modeling.
Utah State University has long been a center for MPB-
related ﬁeld research, climate-based modeling eﬀorts,
and quantitative genetic experiments. USU has re-
cently developed collaboration with the University of
Notre Dame to assess transcriptional variance related to
developmental rates in larvae, using next-generation se-
quencing technology (Roche/454). These developmen-
tal rates vary with latitude and temperature, and total
development time underlies synchronous emergence and
mass attacks characteristic of MPB.
We are seeking a creative and highly motivated post-
doctoral researcher with an interest in the interface be-
tween Applied Ecology and Genomics to ﬁll a unique
position with involvement at two campuses: Utah State
University (USU) and the University of Notre Dame
(ND). The researcher will be based at USU (where tis-
sues will be prepared), but will also spend time at ND
(where transcriptome sequencing will be performed).
The speciﬁc allocation of time and eﬀort among cam-
puses will be decided jointly by the researcher and fac-
ulty at both campuses. Speciﬁc responsibilities will in-
clude: 1) organizing and preparing tissues for analysis
in collaboration with USU faculty and the USDA Rocky
Mountain Research Station, 2) overseeing data gener-
ation at ND, 3) data processing and synthesis, and 4)
publication. The researcher will also be responsible for
leading a semimonthly discussion group at USU on ap-
plied genomics. Candidates for this position must have
earned a PhD in molecular biology, evolutionary genet-ics, or related ﬁeld by the time of appointment. Candi-
dates must demonstrate organizational skills, indepen-
dence, and communication skills (written and verbal).
Preference will be given to candidates with experience
in RNA extraction and the analysis of transcriptome
data. The position is funded for one year, but the
candidate will be encouraged to work collaboratively
through USU and/or ND on grant proposals extending
the position. The successful applicant will beneﬁt from
interactions with USU researchers in the Ecology Cen-
ter (http://www.usu.edu/ecology ), the Center for Inte-
grated BioSystems ( http://biosystems.usu.edu ), and
in the newly established Genomics and Bioinformatics
Core Facilities in the Eck Institute of Global Health at
ND ( http://globalhealth.nd.edu ).
Inquires should be directed to Karen Mock at
USU (karen.mock@usu.edu) or Michael Pfrender at
ND (Michael.Pfrender.1@ND.edu). To apply for
this position go to http://jobs.usu.edu/applicants/-
Central?quickFind=3D54488 orhttp://jobs.usu.edu
(Req ID # 051880). Applicants will be asked to submit
a cover letter detailing their interest and qualiﬁcations
for this position, contact information for three refer-
ences, and up to 2 representative publications.
Salary will range from $45,000 to $60,000 per year,
plus beneﬁts, depending upon experience and qualiﬁ-
cations.? Utah State University is an Aﬃrmative Ac-
tion/Equal Opportunity Employer, and seeks to attract
and retain a highly qualiﬁed and diverse faculty and
staﬀ.
karen.mock@usu.edu
UTennessee ComparativeMethods
Postdoc in developing and applying comparative meth-
ods
PI: Brian O’Meara, U of Tennessee, Knoxville ( http:/-
/www.brianomeara.info )
A 2-year postdoctoral position is available for de-
velopment, implementation, and application of meth-
ods for investigating trait evolution on trees. The
postdoc will be an active member of the trait evo-
lution working group of the iPlant Collaborative
(http://iplantcollaborative.org ), which is developing
approaches to understand trait evolution on plant phy-
logenies with hundreds of thousands of taxa as part
of iPlant’s broader mission to support cyberinfrastruc-108 EvolDir November 1, 2009
ture across the plant sciences (funding for this position
comes from iPlant).
The candidate can anticipate working in a highly col-
laborative, multi- institutional context that entails the
working groups on data set assembly (Doug Soltis (U
Florida), Pam Soltis (U Florida), Michael Donoghue
(Yale)), gene tree reconciliation (Todd Vision (UNC)),
high performance computing and scalable tree con-
struction (Alexandros Stamatakis (Technical Univer-
sity, Munich), Casey Dunn (Brown)), and tree visu-
alization (Michael Sanderson (U Arizona)). The mem-
bers of the trait evolution working group include Joe
Felsenstein (U Washington), David Ackerly (UC Berke-
ley), Rod Page (U Glasgow), and Jeremy Beaulieu
(Yale).
In addition to undertaking basic research in phyloge-
netic methods, the postdoc will be expected to provide
advice to and work in collaboration with cyberinfas-
tructure developers in the iPlant team. Qualiﬁcations
include familiarity with the data, methods, and soft-
ware of phylogenetic analysis, and programming expe-
rience at least at the level of R or Perl scripts. It is
always good to know botany, but this is not expected
for the position.
The position is located at the University of Tennessee,
Knoxville. Attractions of Knoxville include an active
and collaborative Ecology and Evolutionary Biology de-
partment ( http://eeb.bio.utk.edu ), a low cost of living,
a rich natural environment, and the new National Insti-
tute for Mathematical and Biological Synthesis ( http:/-
/www.NIMBioS.org ).
The position is available immediately. For more infor-
mation, please email bomeara@utk.edu or see http://-
www.brianomeara.info/lab .
Brian O’Meara http://www.brianomeara.info Assistant
Professor Dept. Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Uni-
versity of Tennessee, Knoxville
bomeara@utk.edu bomeara@utk.edu
UUtah EvolutionaryGenetics
EvoDevo
EVOLUTIONARY GENETICS AND DEVELOP-
MENT AT THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH
Postdoctoral and graduate student positions are avail-
able in the laboratory of Mike Shapiro in the Depart-
ment of Biology, University of Utah. We seek highlymotivated colleagues to study the genetic and devel-
opmental basis of morphological and behavioral evo-
lution in vertebrates. Our current research focuses
on molecular genetics, population genetics, and devel-
opment of stickleback ﬁsh and domesticated pigeons.
Speciﬁc projects will be tailored to the strengths and
interests of successful candidates. For more informa-
tion about the lab, please visit our website: http://-
www.biology.utah.edu/shapiro .
POSTDOCTORAL CANDIDATES Requirements: 1.
Ph.D. in genetics, developmental biology, evolutionary
biology, bioinformatics, or a related ﬁeld 2. High level
of motivation 3. Demonstrated ability and willingness
to work both independently and collaboratively 4. Ex-
cellent written and oral communication skills
A strong background in statistics, genomics, or analysis
of high- throughput sequencing data is preferred, but
not required.
To apply, postdoctoral candidates should submit the
following materials: 1. CV, including a publication list
2. Statement of research experience and interests 3.
Names of three referees who will be willing to submit
letters of reference upon request
Support is guaranteed for a minimum of one year and
may be extended pending satisfactory progress avail-
able funds. Priority will be given to candidates who
show promise for securing external funding through
postdoctoral fellowship programs from NIH, NSF, or
private foundations.
The position will remain open until ﬁlled. For full
consideration, please submit application materials by
November 15, 2009. A start date of January 2010 or
shortly thereafter is preferred.
Please email application materials in PDF format to
Mike Shapiro: shapiro@biology.utah.edu
While email is preferred, hard-copy applications may
also be sent to: Mike Shapiro Department of Biology
University of Utah 257 South 1400 East Salt Lake City,
UT 84112
GRADUATE STUDENT CANDIDATES Graduate
student candidates should apply for admission
through the Department of Biology ( http://-
www.biology.utah.edu/grad app.php ) and/ or the
campus-wide Molecular Biology Program ( http:/-
/www.bioscience.utah.edu/mb/mbApplications/-
index.html ). Deadlines for both programs are in
early January 2010. Graduate students are funded
for at least 5 years though a combination of research
assistantships, fellowships, and teaching assistantships.
The department pays graduate tuition.November 1, 2009 EvolDir 109
Informal inquiries are welcomed from potential postdoc
and graduate applicants, prior to formal application.
SCIENTIFIC AND CULTURAL ENVIRONMENT
The Department of Biology comprises a highly diverse
and vibrant group of laboratories, with research inter-
ests ranging from environmental biology to biochem-
istry. We count members of the National Academy of
Sciences, HHMI, and a recent Nobel laureate among
our ranks. The genetics and developmental biology
communities are strong on the University of Utah main
campus and medical school and oﬀer numerous oppor-
tunities for collaboration. Campus-wide NIH training
grants support graduate students in both disciplines.
The University of Utah is located in beautiful (and af-
fordable) Salt Lake City, with easy access to world-
class entertainment and recreation. Salt Lake City and
nearby Park City are home to the annual Sundance
Film Festival and a vibrant year-round cinema scene,
as well as outstanding restaurants and brewpubs. Sev-
eral national parks are located within a just few hours’
drive, and the university is within a 40-minute drive of
at least six major alpine skiing and snowboarding re-
sorts, including venues of the 2002 Olympics. Hiking
and mountain biking trails begin essentially on cam-
pus. Indeed, Outside Magazine recently called Salt
Lake City “one of the nation’s most underrated out-
door meccas.” The city is also a major airline hub,
with non-stop ﬂights throughout the U.S. and Canada.
shapiro@biology.utah.edu shapiro@biology.utah.edu
UVermont
EvolutionarySocioGenomics
Post-doctoral Research Associate
A post-doctoral position is available in the Helms Ca-
han lab at the University of Vermont to join a new
NSF/ARRA-funded project on the genetic architecture
of reproductive caste diﬀerentiation and development
in Pogonomyrmex harvester ants. We will be using
high-throughput transcriptome sequencing and associ-
ation mapping to identify genomic regions underlying
the secondary loss of caste ﬂexibility in ant populations
displaying Genetic Caste Determination (GCD), an ex-
ceedingly rare mode of caste diﬀerentiation in which
workers and queens are derived from genetically dis-
tinct mating crosses. The genomic resources developed
over the course of the project will also be used to ad-dress evolutionary questions concerning the origin and
causes of transitions in caste regulatory mechanisms,
with potential applications in phylogeography, ecolog-
ical genetics, development, and functional genomics,
among others. The research associate will work in col-
laboration with graduate and undergraduate students
to collect ﬁeld samples for molecular analyses and mat-
ing crosses, identify SNP markers from comparative
transcriptome data, and conduct association and QTL
mapping. There will be plenty of opportunities for ad-
ditional self-designed projects in the candidate’s area of
interest.
Applicants for the position should have a strong inter-
est in evolutionary sociogenomics and a PhD in a rel-
evant discipline. Familiarity with genomics techniques
and/or bioinformatics would be very helpful, though is
not strictly required as long as the applicant is strongly
motivated to learn. Salary starts at $36,000 per year.
The position is available beginning January 1 for two
years, with the possibility of renewal. To apply, please
send a cover letter detailing your interest and qualiﬁ-
cations for the position, a current CV, and the names
and e-mail addresses of two potential references to Sara
Helms Cahan (scahan@uvm.edu). I will begin review-
ing applications November 20th and continue until the
position is ﬁlled.
To ﬁnd out more about research in the Helms Cahan
lab, go to: http://www.uvm.edu/ ˜ biology/Faculty/-
Helms/Helms.html To ﬁnd out more about the Biology
Department, go to: http://www.uvm.edu/ ˜ biology/
Dr. Sara Helms Cahan 307A Marsh Life Sciences De-
partment of Biology University of Vermont Burlington,
VT 05405 Tel: (802) 656-2962 Fax: (802) 656-2914 E-
mail: scahan@uvm.edu
sara.cahan@uvm.edu sara.cahan@uvm.edu
UWashington
HumanExomeAnalysis
A postdoctoral position is available immediately in the
research group of Joshua Akey in the Department of
Genome Sciences at the University of Washington. The
position is supported by NIH stimulus funds to create
the Northwest Genomics Center and is available for two
years, with the possibility of extension beyond this time
frame.
The Northwest Genomics Center, under the direc-
tion of Debbie Nickerson, Phil Green, Jay Shendure110 EvolDir November 1, 2009
and Mark Rieder, will resequence the exomes of 5,000
genomic DNA samples derived from well-phenotyped
NHLBI cohorts ( http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/recovery/-
media/stimulus.htm ). This exciting data set will pro-
vide rich opportunities for the postdoctoral candidate
to pursue questions related to human evolutionary his-
tory, natural selection, and genotype-phenotype rela-
tionships. The ideal candidate will have a strong back-
ground in population genetics or in relevant areas of
mathematics and statistics, strong computational and
programming skills, experience in analyzing large data
sets, and be self-motivated and independent.
The Department of Genome Sciences oﬀers an out-
standing intellectual environmental for trainees. Re-
search in the department addresses questions in bi-
ology and medicine by developing and applying ge-
netic, genomic, and computational approaches that
take advantage of genomic information. Departmen-
tal faculty are exceptionally distinguished and in-
clude eight members of the National Academy of Sci-
ences and one Nobel laureate. In November 2006
the entire Department of Genome Sciences moved
to the newly constructed, state of the art Foege
Building ( http://www.gs.washington.edu/ and http://
www.gs.washington.edu/faculty/index.htm ).
Joshua Akey University of Washington Department of
Genome Sciences Foege Building S-303 / Box 355065
Seattle, WA. 98195-5065 Phone: (206) 543-7254 Fax:
(206) 685-7301
akeyj@u.washington.edu akeyj@u.washington.edu
Vanderbilt BioinformaticsHost-
MicrobeInteractions
VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY: POSTDOC IN BIOIN-
FORMATICS AND HOST-MICROBE INTERAC-
TIONS
The Bordenstein laboratory at Vanderbilt University
seeks postdoctoral applicants to study patterns of
genome evolution that shape invertebrate-microbe in-
teractions. Eﬀorts will include computational anal-
yses of full-genome-sequences and ﬁne-scale analyses
of molecular evolution, as well as some molecular lab
work. The primary project will examine evolutionary
forces shaping genetic variation in the tripartite sym-
biosis of invertebrates, Wolbachia bacteria, and their
bacteriophages. Sources of genomic data will span
next generation sequencing, Sanger sequencing, andmicroarrays. Demonstrable computational skills pre-
ferred including Linux, Perl,database management, and
molecular evolution analyses. The candidate will have
strong publications, excellent verbal and written com-
munication skills, and the ability and interest in men-
toring junior scientists. Experience of working in multi-
disciplinary teams involving bioinformaticians and bi-
ologists is important.
If interested, please contact Seth Bordenstein immedi-
ately by email (s.bordenstein@vanderbilt.edu) with (i)
a curriculum vitae noting at least three references and
(ii) a statement of intent and experience noting when
you can start. Vanderbilt is located in the cultural and
educational center of Nashville, TN. The position will
be ﬁlled as soon as possible.
Lab: http://bordensteinlab.vanderbilt.edu De-
partment of Biological Sciences: http://-
www.vanderbilt.edu/biosci/ –
Seth Bordenstein Assistant Professor Department of Bi-
ological Sciences Vanderbilt University VU Station B,
Box 35-1634 Nashville, TN 37235
email: s.bordenstein@vanderbilt.edu phone:
1.615.322.9087 fax: 1.615.343.6707 http://-
bordensteinlab.vanderbilt.edu Shipping Address
for Packages: Seth Bordenstein Vanderbilt University
U7215 BSB / MRB III 465 21st Ave South Nashville,
TN 37232
Seth Bordenstein <s.bordenstein@vanderbilt.edu >
Vienna PopulationGenomics
Vienna, Austria: Career Track Postdoc Position In
Population Genomics
A career track postdoctoral position in population ge-
nomics is available at the Institute of Population Genet-
ics at the University of Veterinary Medicine in Vienna.
The deadline is approaching quickly: 30 October 2009.
Research proﬁle: We are searching for an outstanding
candidate with a strong background in population ge-
netics, who is interested in using next generation se-
quencing (NGS) for population genetic inferences. We
encourage experimentalists with a strong aptitude for
NGS data analysis as well as theoreticians to apply for
this position. Preference would be given to candidates
with interest in population genetics of epigenetic pro-
gramming.November 1, 2009 EvolDir 111
Background about the position: The University of Vet-
erinary Medicine in Vienna (Vetmeduni Vienna) oﬀers
a new funding scheme to attract outstanding postdocs
to Vienna. The position has two funding phases. In
the ﬁrst phase the candidate is expected to carry out
preparatory work for a full research grant application
to be submitted to the FWF (Austria’s major funding
body for basic research). Based on a successful eval-
uation after two years, the postdoc will be promoted
to a group leader with approx. 80k base funding for
research/year. After 2-3 years the group leader will be
reviewed and upon positive review s/ he could be of-
fered a tenured faculty position at the university.
The post will be based at the Institute of Popu-
lation Genetics ( http://i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/pop/-
index.html ). The Institute hosts research groups in ex-
perimental population genetics (C. Schl¨ otterer), func-
tional population genetics/evodevo (A. McGregor), life
history evolution and aging (T. Flatt), conservation ge-
netics (P. Burger) and evolutionary modeling (C. Ko-
siol). The Vienna research area oﬀers many additional
possibilities for collaborations in population genetics:
Nick Barton, Reinhard B¨ urger, Andreas Futschik, Ines
Hellmann, Joachim Hermisson, Magnus Nordborg, and
Claus Vogl.
Deadline for application: The closing date for appli-
cations is 30 October 2009. Please submit a cover
letter, CV, statement of research interests, and the
names and contact details of three academic references
as a single pdf ﬁle by e-mail to Dr. Thomas Flatt:
thomas.ﬂatt@vu-wien.ac.at
Dr. Thomas Flatt Institut f¨ ur Populationsgenetik Vet-
erin¨ armedizinische Universit¨ at Wien Veterin¨ arplatz 1
A-1210 Wien Austria/Europe
VOX +43-1-25077-4334 FAX +43-1-25077-4390 E-mail:
Thomas.Flatt@vetmeduni.ac.at
http://i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/pop/Flatt website/-
ﬂatt home.html ﬂatt.thomas@gmail.comYaleU SexualSelection
Postdoctoral Position To Study Sexual Selection and
Social Evolution
A NSF-funded postdoctoral position is currently avail-
able in the lab of Suzanne Alonzo (PI) at the Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at Yale Uni-
versity to develop theory on how individual social or be-
havioral interactions aﬀect evolutionary dynamics. The
postdoctoral researcher will work independently and in
collaboration with the PI to determine the precise ques-
tions to be addressed. A Ph.D. in evolution, ecology,
or mathematical biology is required. A background in
sexual selection, social evolution or evolutionary ecol-
ogy is preferred. Applicants should have a background
in evolutionary or ecological theory and have previous
experience developing mathematical models. Individu-
als with experience using adaptive dynamics, game the-
ory or quantitative genetics are especially encouraged
to apply.
Application deadline is November 1, 2009. Position
will remain open until ﬁlled. In the cover letter, ap-
plicants are asked to describe their theoretical back-
ground and experience with mathematical modeling ex-
plicitly. Please submit a curriculum vitae, brief state-
ment of research interests, up to 3 relevant manuscripts
and contact information for 3 references to Suzanne
H. Alonzo by email(Suzanne.Alonzo@Yale.edu). Please
put: “Sexual Selection and Social Evolution Postdoc”
in the subject line.
Yale University is an Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative
Action Employer. Men and women of diverse
racial/ethnic backgrounds and cultures are encouraged
to apply.
“Suzanne H. Alonzo” <Suzanne.Alonzo@Yale.edu >
WorkshopsCourses112 EvolDir November 1, 2009
Lyon ComparativeGenomics Jan18-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
Nicaragua Biodiversity Jan1-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
SanDiego ConservationGenomics Jan9-13 . . . . . . . . 113
SanDiego ConservationGenomics Jan9-13 CallAb-
stracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113
SanDiego PopulationGenomics Jan9-13 FinalCallAb-stracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114
Santiago ConservationGenetics Jan12-22 . . . . . . . . . 114
UColorado PlantEvoDevo Jan29-31 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115
USheﬃeld GenomicsOfSpeciation Jan10-13 . . . . . . . 115
Lyon ComparativeGenomics
Jan18-29
Dear all,
We are happy to announce that the registration for the
3rd edition of our European Course on Comparative
Genomics in Lyon (France) is now open.
Our course will be held at ENS Lyon from January 18
to 29, 2010.
It will cover the following topics: Transposable elements
and genome evolution, The origin of new genes, Com-
parative epigenomics, Evolutionary genomics of the ori-
gin of humans, Genome and phenotype, Recombination
and genome evolution, Sex chromosomes and sex deter-
mination, From phylogenetics to phylogenomics, Micro-
bial genomics
Conﬁrmed speakers include D Charlesworth, M Schartl,
L Duret, S Glemin, M Gouy, E Douzery, E Green,
L Quintana Murci, M Joron, M Robinson-Rechavi, E
Lerat, JN Volﬀ, A McLysaght, E Rocha, G Fischer, G
Yvert, V Colot.
All teaching is in English.
We will accept 30 students. Priority will be given to
Master students. The course is open to students from
all the European universities.
Registration is free but required and will close on
November 27. Results will be released a couple of days
later.
More details at http://lbbe-dmz.univ-lyon1.fr/-
spip cg/ Best regards,
Gabriel Marais & Jean-Nicolas Volﬀ
Dr Gabriel Marais
Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Genomics Biometry
and Evolutionary Biology Dpt. (UMR 5558) Univer-
sity of Lyon 1 Mendel’s building, 16 rue Raphael Dubois
69622 Villeurbanne cedex France
Tel: (+33) (0) 4 72 43 29 09 Fax: (+33) (0) 4 72 43 1388
Email: marais@biomserv.univ-lyon1.fr Web
site: http://lbbe.univ-lyon1.fr/ Gabriel Marais
<gabmarais@gmail.com >
Nicaragua Biodiversity Jan1-10
Dear community,
a colleague asked me to distribute this:
Freshwater Tropical Biology: Field Techniques in Bio-
diversity Monitoring
1-10 January, 2010
FUNDECI/GAIA ( www.gaianicaragua.org )
Topics covered:
1. What is important about wild plants and animals?
2. Vegetation monitoring - structure and composi-
tion 3. Biology of tropical freshwater ﬁshes 4. Fish
identiﬁcation tools and techniques 5. Fish monitoring
techniques-netting and in situ observation 6. Fish di-
etary analysis 7. Aquatic invertebrates 8. Biodiversity
calculation methods and their interpretation 9. Con-
servation issues and actions
Field work, including netting and observations using
SCUBA, will be conducted in Lake Apoyo and in
Lake Xiloa, Nicaragua. We will also visit Lake Man-
agua and Lake Nicaragua, important freshwater ﬁsh-
eries resources and habitats for dozens of endemic ﬁsh
species. The course coordinator, Dr. Jeﬀrey Mc-
Crary, has published dozens of research papers on
natural resources of Nicaragua, including discoveries
of several ﬁsh species. For more information, con-
tact us at apoyo@gaianicaragua.org or call 011-505-
8882-3992. Updates on the course will be provided at
www.gaianicaragua.org/course1-2010.html . Sincerely,
Jeﬀrey McCrary
Matthias Felix Geiger <matthias.f.geiger@stud.uni-
muenchen.de >November 1, 2009 EvolDir 113
SanDiego ConservationGenomics
Jan9-13
Plant and Animal Genome XVIII International Confer-
ence Population and Conservation Genomics Workshop
http://www.intl-pag.org/18/18-pag.html January 9-13,
2010 Town and Country Convention Centre, San Diego,
California
A workshop on Population and Conservation Genomics
will be held at the Plant and Animal Genome XVIII In-
ternational conference. You are invited to attend this
Workshop and submit abstracts for oral presentations
on any population and conservation genomics aspect
of both plants and animals. The topics may include:
population genomic diversity and structure; molecular
evolution; adaptive molecular genetic variation; selec-
tion signatures; candidate-gene and genome-wide as-
sociation studies; application of genomics in conserva-
tion and management of genetic resources; genomic ef-
fects of domestication, management practices, fragmen-
tation, bottlenecks, climate and environment change,
and transgenic deployment; and gene conservation; etc.
Six oral presentations will be selected from the submit-
ted abstracts. Each of the ﬁrst six speakers will receive
a $100 discount in their registration fees. Please send
your abstract of no more than 250 words by e-mail to
Om Rajora (Om.Rajora@unb.ca) as an attached Word
ﬁle no later than October 24, 2009. You will be noti-
ﬁed by October 30th whether your abstract has been
selected for an oral presentation. Authors whose ab-
stracts are not selected for oral presentations are highly
encouraged to present a poster at the conference.
Inquiries and Abstract Submission
For information and questions regarding the Population
and Conservation Genomics workshop, please contact
Om Rajora at the following coordinates. Dr. Om P. Ra-
jora, Canada Research Chair in Forest and Conserva-
tion Genomics and Biotechnology, Faculty of Forestry
and Environmental Management, University of New
Brunswick, Fredericton, NB E3B 6C2, Canada. Tel:
(506) 458-7477 or (506) 458-7475 Fax: (506) 453-3538
E-mail: Om.Rajora@unb.ca
Om Rajora <Om.Rajora@unb.ca >SanDiego ConservationGenomics
Jan9-13 CallAbstracts
Plant and Animal Genome XVIII International Confer-
ence Population and Conservation Genomics Workshop
http://www.intl-pag.org/18/18-pag.html January 9-13,
2010 Town and Country Convention Centre, San Diego,
California
A workshop on Population and Conservation Genomics
will be held at the Plant and Animal Genome XVIII In-
ternational conference. You are invited to attend this
Workshop and submit abstracts for oral presentations
on any population and conservation genomics aspect
of both plants and animals. The topics may include:
population genomic diversity and structure; molecular
evolution; adaptive molecular genetic variation; selec-
tion signatures; candidate-gene and genome-wide as-
sociation studies; application of genomics in conserva-
tion and management of genetic resources; genomic ef-
fects of domestication, management practices, fragmen-
tation, bottlenecks, climate and environment change,
and transgenic deployment; and gene conservation; etc.
Six oral presentations will be selected from the submit-
ted abstracts. Each of the ﬁrst six speakers will receive
a $100 discount in their registration fees. Please send
your abstract of no more than 250 words by e-mail to
Om Rajora (Om.Rajora@unb.ca) as an attached Word
ﬁle no later than October 24, 2009. You will be noti-
ﬁed by October 30th whether your abstract has been
selected for an oral presentation. Authors whose ab-
stracts are not selected for oral presentations are highly
encouraged to present a poster at the conference.
Inquiries and Abstract Submission
For information and questions regarding the Population
and Conservation Genomics workshop, please contact
Om Rajora at the following coordinates. Dr. Om P. Ra-
jora, Canada Research Chair in Forest and Conserva-
tion Genomics and Biotechnology, Faculty of Forestry
and Environmental Management, University of New
Brunswick, Fredericton, NB E3B 6C2, Canada. Tel:
(506) 458-7477 or (506) 458-7475 Fax: (506) 453-3538
E-mail: Om.Rajora@unb.ca
“Rajora, Om” <orajora@unb.ca >114 EvolDir November 1, 2009
SanDiego PopulationGenomics
Jan9-13 FinalCallAbstracts
Plant and Animal Genome XVIII International Confer-
ence Population and Conservation Genomics Workshop
http://www.intl-pag.org/18/18-pag.html January 9-13,
2010 Town and Country Convention Centre, San Diego,
California
A workshop on Population and Conservation Genomics
will be held at the Plant and Animal Genome XVIII In-
ternational conference. You are invited to attend this
Workshop and submit abstracts for oral presentations
on any population and conservation genomics aspect
of both plants and animals. The topics may include:
population genomic diversity and structure; molecular
evolution; adaptive molecular genetic variation; selec-
tion signatures; candidate-gene and genome-wide as-
sociation studies; application of genomics in conserva-
tion and management of genetic resources; genomic ef-
fects of domestication, management practices, fragmen-
tation, bottlenecks, climate and environment change,
and transgenic deployment; and gene conservation; etc.
Six oral presentations will be selected from the invited
and submitted abstracts. Each of the ﬁrst six speakers
will receive a $100 discount in their registration fees.
Please send your abstract of no more than 250 words
by e-mail to Om Rajora (Om.Rajora@unb.ca) as an at-
tached Word ﬁle no later than October 24, 2009. You
will be notiﬁed by October 30th whether your abstract
has been selected for an oral presentation. Authors
whose abstracts are not selected for oral presentations
are highly encouraged to present a poster at the con-
ference.
Inquiries and Abstract Submission
For information and questions regarding the Population
and Conservation Genomics workshop, please contact
Om Rajora at the following coordinates. Dr. Om P. Ra-
jora, Canada Research Chair in Forest and Conserva-
tion Genomics and Biotechnology, Faculty of Forestry
and Environmental Management, University of New
Brunswick, Fredericton, NB E3B 6C2, Canada. Tel:
(506) 458-7477 or (506) 458-7475 Fax: (506) 453-3538
E-mail: Om.Rajora@unb.ca
Om.Rajora@unb.caSantiago ConservationGenetics
Jan12-22
*****VERSION EN CASTELLANO ABAJO*****
NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS for the sixth in-
tensive course oﬀered by the Red de Gen´ etica de la
Conservaci´ on (ReGeneC): “VI Taller de Gen´ etica para
la Conservaci´ on: procesos microevolutivos en especies
silvestres,” 12-22 January, 2010.
COURSE CONTENT: This unique 11-day intensive
course in conservation genetics, oﬀered in Spanish, is
designed for Latin American graduate students and
young professionals embarking on projects of their own
applying genetic tools to conservation problems. Com-
bining lectures, computer labs, hands-on data analy-
sis, discussions, and student presentations, the course
provides a survey of genetic, evolutionary, ecological,
and statistical theory and applications, as well as the
philosophical, ethical, practical, and legal issues rel-
evant to conservation projects. Student evaluations
from previous years consistently rate the high student-
faculty ratio as a particular course asset, allowing in-
depth formal and informal interactions that focus on
individually-tailored improvement of student projects.
Detailed content is available at http://regenec.ula.ve/-
taller/ene2010/ PARTICIPATING FACULTY: To of-
fer a wide array of locally-relevant perspectives and
examples in a uniﬁed course format, professors come
from ﬁve Latin American countries (Argentina, Brazil,
Chile, Mexico, and Venezuela), and have experience
with a wide array of taxonomic groups. See http:/-
/regenec.ula.ve/taller/ene2010/invitados.html for this
year’s faculties.
APPLICATIONS: All documents must be received
by October 18, 2009. Please see “Preinscrip-
ciones,” http://regenec.ula.ve/taller/ene2010/-
preincripcion.html for details and scholarship availabil-
ity.
COURSE HOST: This year’s course is hosted by Insti-
tuto de Ecolog´ ıa y Biodiversidad y la Universidad de
Chile (Santiago, Chile) in collaboration with ReGeneC
members. It is mainly supported by Ministerio de Plan-
iﬁcaci´ on, from Chile, and ReGeneC.
For more information, please send an email to re-
genec@gmail.com or regenec@ula.ve.
VERSI ´ON EN CASTELLANONovember 1, 2009 EvolDir 115
ABIERTO EL PER ´IODO DE POSTULACI ´ON para
el sexto curso intensivo latinoamericano, ofrecido por
la Red de Gen´ etica para la Conservaci´ on (ReGeneC):
“*VI** **Taller** de Gen´ etica para la Conservaci´ on:
**procesos microevolutivos en especies silvestres*,” a
celebrarse del 12-22 de enero 2010.
CARACTER ´ISTICAS DEL CURSO: Es de tipo inten-
sivo, con una duraci´ on de 11 d´ ıas. Se dicta en espa˜ nol,
con algunos elementos en portugu´ es. Est´ a dise˜ nado
para estudiantes de postgrado y profesionales j´ ovenes,
que comienzan a desarrollarse en el ´ area de la gen´ etica
para la conservaci´ on y cuyos proyectos de investigaci´ on
se centran en especies silvestres de Am´ erica Latina. Su
´ enfasis va dirigido a la aplicaci´ on de herramientas de
gen´ etica y evoluci´ on para el entendimiento y apoyo a la
soluci´ on de problemas en conservaci´ on.
Mediante la combinaci´ on de clases te´ oricas y pr´ acticas
(bioinform´ atica y an´ alisis de datos), discusiones y la
presentaci´ on de proyectos por parte de los estudiantes,
el curso proporciona una visi´ on amplia sobre la teor´ ıa y
pr´ actica de gen´ etica, evoluci´ on, ecolog´ ıa y estad´ ıstica,
as´ ıcomo aspectos relevantes desde el punto de vista ﬁ-
los´ oﬁco, ´ etico, de manejo y legal para proyectos de con-
servaci´ on. La evaluaci´ on del curso, por parte de los
estudiantes que han participado en ediciones previas,
consistentemente resalta como un aspecto muy posi-
tivo la interacci´ on estudiantes/profesores que tenemos
en el curso, lo que permite profundizar en los diferentes
aspectos tratados en el curso y en el an´ alisis detallado
de los proyectos de cada estudiante. Esto incide sus-
tancialmente en la comprensi´ on y mejoramiento de los
proyectos postulados en el proceso de pre-inscripci´ on.
El contenido del curso est´ a disponible en: http://-
regenec.ula.ve/taller /ene2010/programa.html
PROFESORES PARTICIPANTES: Para ofrecer
una perspectiva amplia sobre los diferentes enfoques
aplicados en gen´ etica para la conservaci´ on en Am´ erica
Latina, esta edici´ on del curso cuenta con profesores,
miembros de ReGeneC ( http://regenec.ula.ve ),
provenientes de cinco pa´ ıses (Argentina, Brasil,
Chile, M´ exico y Venezuela), con experiencia en difer-
entes grupos taxon´ omicos, tal como puede verse en:
http://regenec.ula.ve/taller /ene2010/invitados.html <
http://web1.ula.ve/portales/regenec/taller/ene2010/-
invitados.html >
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.htmlUColorado PlantEvoDevo Jan29-31
The Leaf: Integrating Evolution, Development, and
Function The NSF Molecular and Organismic Research
in Plant History (MORPH) Research Coordination
Network is hosting the third in a series of evo- devo
workshops. This intensive workshop will provide an
opportunity for a select group of doctoral students and
distinguished investigators in plant evolutionary devel-
opmental biology to interact. Each participant will out-
line critical issues associated with his/her evolutionary,
developmental, and/or functional research program and
there will be extensive discussion. MORPH will pay all
travel, accommodation, meal expenses.
Application Deadline: November 6, 2009
Workshop dates: Jan 29th-31st, 2010
For more information, please see our website:
http://www.colorado.edu/eeb/MORPH/MORPH/-
Workshop 2010.html or contact William (Ned)
Friedman: ned@colorado.edu
“Robert L. Baker” <Robert.Baker@Colorado.EDU >
USheﬃeld GenomicsOfSpeciation
Jan10-13
“Genetics and Genomics of Speciation” Workshop
Sheﬃeld, Great Britain 10-13 January 2010 A work-
shop funded by the EU Marie Curie Initial Training
programme SPECIATION
Organisers: Roger Butlin, Rhonda Snook, Claudius
Kerth and Allan Debelle, on behalf of the Marie Curie
Initial Training Network: SPECIATION
With current large scale SNP genotyping and next gen-
eration sequencing technologies huge amounts of ge-
netic variation can be scored accross the genome of
non-model organisms. This oﬀers new opportunities
for powerful tests of evolutionary models and to ﬁnd
the genetic basis of population divergence, ecological
adaptation and the origin of species. This workshop
will mainly focus on the detection of genomic regions
under selection and restricted gene ﬂow between diverg-
ing populations using data of genomic variation. The
invited speakers are some of the leading scientists in this116 EvolDir November 1, 2009
ﬁeld and include Wolfgang Stephan (University of Mu-
nich, Germany), Chris Wheat (University of Helsinki,
Finland), Terry Burke (University of Sheﬃeld), Jon
Slate (University of Sheﬃeld) and Stuart Baird (CBGP
Montpellier).
15 free places for participation in the workshop are now
open for application. Applications are invited from
early career stage researchers and should include a CV
and short statement indicating why you are interested
in this workshop. There is no registration fee and ac-
commodation as well as catering will be provided free,
but participants will have to pay for their own travel
costs. There are no nationality restrictions. The appli-
cation deadline is the 27th of November.
Please send applications and enquiries to Angela
Wright: a.p.wright@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
Venue: Losehill Hall, Derbyshire (between Sheﬃeld
and Manchester), we hope to provide transport from
Manchester Airport and Sheﬃeld train station to the
conference centre.
More information on the workshop and updates can
be found at http://speciation.group.shef.ac.uk/ The
workshop follows this year’s Population Genetics Group
conference, Liverpool, 6-9 January, see: http://-
sites.google.com/site/popgroup2010/Home .Provisional workshop programme:
Monday, 11 January
Morning - Wolfgang Stephan (University of Munich,
Germany): Genetic signatures of natural selection’
Afternoon - Chris Wheat (University of Helsinki, Fin-
land): New generation sequencing approaches for ﬁnd-
ing genes under selection’
Evening - Terry Burke (University of Sheﬃeld): What
comes after “Next Generation Sequencing”?’
Tuesday 12 January
Morning - Jon Slate (University of Sheﬃeld): Choosing
and using SNPs’
Afternoon - Stuart Baird (CBGP Montpellier): Genes
under selection in hybrid zones’
Evening - Tim Birkhead (University of Sheﬃeld): Re-
search ethics’
Wednesday 13 January
Morning - speaker to be announced: Experimental de-
sign’
Afternoon - outing into the Peak District National Park
c.kerth@sheﬃeld.ac.uk c.kerth@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here — Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from ‘blackballed’ addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned oﬀ and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf ﬁle.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
‘on vacation’, etc, style messages are automatically ﬁltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail’s your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word ﬁles, as HTML ﬁles, as L ATEX ﬁles, Excel ﬁles, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
“Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:” and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.November 1, 2009 EvolDir 117
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and ﬁlters. If the message is caught by one of the
ﬁlters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.