E v o l D i r
March 1, 2015
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in the
same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary. The
nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you would
like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .19
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .68
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .130
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 146
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1472 EvolDir March 1, 2015
Conferences
Asilomar ASN Jan10-14 SympCall . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
Bainbridge WA ChromosomeEvolution Awards . . . . . 3
Cairns GeneticsBehaviour Aug9-14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Calgary Canada ComparativeMorphologyDev May25-29
4
Cambridge EvolutionaryGeneticsGenomics Mar17 . . 4
Cambridge VolvoxEvolution Aug19-22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Chicago Astrobiology Jun15-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Guaruja Brazil Evolution Jun26-30 MinorityTrav-
elAward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
Guaruja Brazil Evolution Jun26-30 MSI FacultyTravel
6
Guaruja Brazil SocSystBiol Jun26 GradTravelAwards 7
KansasStateU ArthropodGenomics Jun17-19 Registra-
tionOpen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
London StudentQuantitativeGenomics May29 . . . . . . 8
MexicoCity ComputBiolAlgorithms Aug4-6 . . . . . . . . .9
Montpellier CancerEvolution Mar19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
RoyalSociety London DatingSpeciesDivergence Nov9-10
11Saskatoon CanSocEcolEvol May22-24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Scotland EMPSEB StudentEvolBiol Sep8-12 . . . . . . 11
Stockholm MammalBiol Aug16-22 AbstractSubmission
12
Toulouse BehaviorEvolution May18-21 CallAbsts . . 12
UCalifornia Berkeley EvoDevo Aug5-9 . . . . . . . . . . . . .13
UNewEngland EvolutionaryGenomics Jul12-17 . . . . 13
UOxford Systematics Aug26-28 StudentBursaries . .14
Vienna SMBE2015 AbstractDeadline reminder . . . . 14
Vienna SMBE2015 Jul12-16 AbstDeadlineSunday . 15
Vienna SMBE2015 Jul12-16 EarlyBird ClosingSoon 15
Vienna SMBE2015 Jul12-16 OralContributions StillAc-
cepted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Vienna SMBE July12-16 AdaptiveEvolution . . . . . . . 16
Vienna SMBE SpeciationGenomics Jul12-16 . . . . . . . 17
WashingtonDC PteridologySystematicsEvolution Jun1-
5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17
Yosemite Symbiosis May1-3 RegistrationExtended . 18
Zurich EvolutionaryMedicine Jul30-Aug1 . . . . . . . . . . 19
Asilomar ASN Jan10-14 SympCall
The American Society of Naturalists Call for Symposia
ASN meeting at Asilomar, California 10-14 Jan 2016
A stand-alone meeting of ASN will be held at Asilomar
in Monterey, California 10-14 January 2016. The Exec-
utive Council of the Society invites proposals for two
half-day symposia to be held at the meeting.
Proposals should include (1) a title; (2) a description
of the symposium topic (one page); (3) a tentative list
of six speakers, including institutional aliations; (4)
a justication for the symposium explaining why thetopic and speakers are appropriate for an ASN meeting,
keeping in mind the broader goals of the society ( http://-
www.amnat.org/about/about-the-society.html); and (5)
a statement that all proposed invited speakers have
agreed to participate.
Proposals must be submitted by midnight Eastern
Standard Time on March 31, 2015 by email (jes-
sica.gurevitch@stonybrook.edu) as a single pdf attach-
ment, under subject heading: ASN Asilomar Sympo-
sium Proposal. Proposals that include women, young
investigators and individuals from underrepresented
groups are especially encouraged.
Please note that as with the 2014 Asilomar meeting,
ASN does not have funding allocated to support these
symposia, although there may be opportunities to seek
external symposium funding. Speakers should assumeMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 3
that they are likely to have to cover their own travel
costs.
The Society's selection committee will evaluate propos-
als based on the likelihood of attracting a substantial
audience, the signicance and timeliness of the topic,
and on it being substantively dierent from recent sym-
posia sponsored by the Society. All applicants will be
notied of the decision by late April 2015.
<http://twitter.com/SnellRoodLab >
emilies@umn.edu
Bainbridge WA
ChromosomeEvolution Awards
Student travel awards are available for the American Ge-
netic Association 2015 meeting, Chromosome Evolution:
Molecular Mechanisms and Evolutionary Consequences
(http://www.theaga.org), to be held at IslandWood
http://islandwood.org/ on Bainbridge Island near Seat-
tle, WA.
Awards will cover registration, room and board for
graduate students who would like to attend the meet-
ing and present a poster. Applicants should submit a
PDF of their poster abstract (see template at http://-
www.theaga.org) and have their PhD advisor submit a
letter describing their qualications, research progress,
and the availability of funds for the student to attend
the meeting.
Email the abstract and the letter to Anjanette Baker
(AGAJOH@oregonstate.edu) by March 15, 2015. Deci-
sions will be made before general registration opens for
the meeting on April 1, 2015.
AGAJOH@oregonstate.edu
Cairns GeneticsBehaviour Aug9-14
Conference: Cairns Australia.GeneticsBehaviourInvasion.Aug9-
14
Have you heard that Behaviour 2015
(www.behaviour2015.org) will be held in Cairns,
Australia and will combine meetings of the Interna-
tional Ethological Conference, the Australasian Societyfor the Study of Animal Behaviour, Australasian
Evolution Society, and Australasia, New Zealand and
Africa Region of Applied Ethology?
We are hosting a symposium on ?Genetic and epigenetic
drivers of behaviours inuencing invasiveness and native
species response to invaders?. Abstracts are due on
March 16th.
Description: Invasive species are a major and increasing
environmental challenge worldwide, threatening biodi-
versity and causing substantial economic damage. Be-
haviours such as the long-distance dispersal or boldness
have a direct impact on an organism?s ability to become
a successful invader, while native species often have
to evolve novel response to deal with invasive species.
However, the genetic and epigenetic bases of these traits
remain poorly understood. We propose a symposium to
showcase emerging studies of behaviours that inuence
invasiveness, and the response of native species to ex-
otic species, with a particular emphasis on the genetics
and/or epigenetics underlying these behaviours.
Please consider attending Behaviour 2015 and selecting
our symposium if you have a relevant abstract for this
topic. We hope to see you there!
Dr. Lee Ann Rollins and Dr. Craig Sherman Cen-
tre for Integrative Ecology Deakin University Australia
Lee.rollins@deakin.edu.au
Dr. Lee Ann Rollins Research Fellow School of Life and
Environmental Sciences Faculty of Science, Engineer-
ing and Built Environment Deakin University, Pigdons
Road, Geelong VIC 3217
+61 3 5227 2084
lee.rollins@deakin.edu.au www.deakin.edu.au Deakin
University CRICOS Provider Code 00113B
Lee Rollins <lee.rollins@deakin.edu.au >
Calgary Canada
ComparativeMorphologyDev
May25-29
The Comparative Morphology & Development (CMD)
section of the Canadian Society of Zoologists (CSZ) in-
vites you to attend the following symposia at the annual
CSZ meeting:
May 25-29, 2015, in CALGARY, ALBERTA; GATE-
WAY TO THE CANADIAN ROCKIES4 EvolDir March 1, 2015
MAIN SYMPOSIUM: \Ten Years of the Triple Helix:
Development, Morphology, Evolution" (May 27, 2015)
(Celebrating the 10th anniversary of the founding of the
CMD section)
JEAN BERNARD CARON (Royal Ontario Musuem)
\Early body plan evolution and the Burgess Shale
menagerie"
SALLY LEYS (Alberta) \Complexity and loss of com-
plexity in the evolution of early metazoan body plans"
TIM HIGHAM (UC Riverside) \Morphological complex-
ity and functional integration: New angles in biome-
chanics"
[organized by Rich Palmer, University of Alberta]
RUSSELL SYMPOSIUM: \From head to toe: Integra-
tive vertebrate morphology and evolution" (May 26,
2015) (A symposium honouring Tony Russell's many
contributions to Zoology)
ANTHONY RUSSELL (Calgary) \Back to basics: The
origin of adhesion in geckos"
MATTHEW VICKARYOUS (Guelph) \Scar-free wound
healing and regeneration: Coordinating cells and envi-
ronment"
AARON BAUER (Villanova) \Size, shape, function and
phylogeny: Evolutionary diversity in the gekkotan skull"
HILLARY MADDIN (Carleton) \Re-evaluation of the
homology of the bones of the tetrapod cranial vault"
[organized by Tim Higham, UC Riverside]
STUDENT SATELLITE SYMPOSIUM: \Techniques
and technologies for better visualizing and quantifying
morphology and development" (May 27, 2015)
Lead speaker: HEATHER JAMNICZKY (Calgary)
\Considering the WHOLE phenotype: Emerging ap-
proaches to 3D quantitative morphology in eco-evo-
devo"
[organized by U Calgary graduate students: Larry Pow-
ell, Ramon Nagesan, Leah Sparrow, Matthew Szostaki-
wskyj, Alexander Tinius]
FOR MORE DETAILS ABOUT THESE SYMPOSIA,
SEE:
http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/CMD/home.htm TO
REGISTER, OR TO LEARN MORE ABOUT THE
CSZ ANNUAL MEETING, SEE:
http://ucalgary.ca/csz2015/ EARLY REGISTRATION
DEADLINE: Friday, March 6, 2015
CONTRIBUTED PAPERS: Spaces are also available
for contributed papers in sessions organized by the CMD
section. The deadline for submitting abstracts is barely10 days away, so don't delay:
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE: Friday, March
6, 2015
FINAL REGISTRATION DEADLINE: Friday, May 1,
2015
{
A. Richard Palmer, FRSC Systematics and Evolution
Group Department of Biological Sciences University
of Alberta Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2E9 CANADA
phone: (780) 492-3633 message: (780) 492-3308
FAX: (780) 492-9234 http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/-
palmer/palmer.html Secretary-General Comparative
Morphology & Development section Canadian Society
of Zoologists: http://www.biology.ualberta.ca/CMD/-
home.htm rich.palmer@ualberta.ca
Cambridge
EvolutionaryGeneticsGenomics
Mar17
The 2015 Evolutionary Genetics & Genomics
Symposium (EGGS), a Genetics Society (http://-
www.genetics.org.uk/) sponsored sectional interest
group will be taking place in Cambridge (UK) on
Tuesday 17th March 2015. The meeting is free to attend
and no registration is required. The meeting aims to
bring together people working on various aspects of
evolutionary genetics, and has previously attracted an
international line up of speakers and attendees.
We have three invited speakers:
-Josephine Pemberton, University of Edinburgh
http://pemberton.bio.ed.ac.uk/josephine-pemberton
-Nathan Bailey, University of St Andrews http://-
www.exiblephenotype.org/ -Aoife McLysaght, Uni-
versity of Dublin http://www.gen.tcd.ie/molevol/ Ab-
stract registration for talks closes in a few weeks-
please email your name, institution, position (stu-
dent/postdoc/PI) and abstract by the 19th Feb 2015 to
eggs.symp@gmail.com
Full details can be found on the meeting website: http:/-
/www.evolutionarygenetics.group.cam.ac.uk/eggs/
eggs.symp@gmail.comMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 5
Cambridge VolvoxEvolution
Aug19-22
Hello evoldir community,
Registration for the third International Volvox Confer-
ence (August 19-22, CMS, Cambridge, UK) as well as
abstract submission for posters and oral presentations
are now open! Focusing on the green alga Volvox and its
close relatives, this conference revolves around an impor-
tant model system for the evolution of multicellularity,
development, and cellular dierentiation.
Conference website: http://www.damtp.cam.ac.uk/-
user/ah659/volvoxindex.html Registration deadline:
May 15, 2015
Abstract deadline: June 15, 2015
Conference highlights: - Talks and posters on the tax-
onomy, ecology, development, genetics/genomics, bio-
physics, and evolution of Volvox and its relatives - Punt-
ing along the river Cam - Field-trip and excursion -
Aordable registration ( ^A$250 regular, ^A$180 student,
includes accommodation and meals)
Thank you!
Erik R Hanschen PhD Candidate, Michod Lab Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology University
of Arizona
http://www.eebweb.arizona.edu/grads/hanschen \Our
truth is the intersection of independent lies." - Richard
Levins 1966
hanschen@email.arizona.edu
Chicago Astrobiology Jun15-19
Dear colleagues,
The Astrobiology Science Conference 2015 (AbSciCon
2015) is taking place in Chicago, IL from *June 15-
19, 2015*. The conference will convene scientists from
all over the world who work in the interdisciplinary
eld of astrobiology ^ a the study of the origin, evolu-
tion, distribution, and future of life in the universe
^ a to report on research ndings and plan future en-deavors. The theme for AbSciCon2015 is \Habitability,
Habitable Worlds, and Life." For more information on
the purpose and scope of the conference, *click here*
<http://www.hou.usra.edu/meetings/abscicon2015/-
about/purpose/ >.
We invite abstract submissions to session titled \Chance
and Necessity: >From Molecules and Viruses to
Cells and Populations". Researches wishing to sub-
mit abstracts should do so through the *AbSciCon
2015 website* <http://www.hou.usra.edu/meetings/-
abscicon2015/ >. The deadline for abstract submission
is *March 4, 2015.* Please contact session organizers
for your specic questions or concerns.
*Summary:* Scientists have limited means with which
to infer the exact evolutionary events that occurred to
produce contemporary living systems. This historical
limitation obscures our ability to condently assess the
relative impacts of chance and necessity upon life's ori-
gins and subsequent radiation across Earth. Are the
evolutionary paths of living systems inherently random
and subject to completely dierent outcomes if repeated
under identical initial conditions? Or are the shapes
of these paths predominantly constrained by internal
or external controlled processes? This session will fo-
cus on inferring how evolutionary mechanisms such as
chance events, population bottlenecks, genetic drift, the
virus-host arms race, or environmental selection pres-
sure aect evolutionary outcomes at the level of nucleic
acids, proteins, viruses, cells, and populations. We in-
vite studies that include perspectives from nucleic acid
or protein evolution, virology, bioinformatics, molecular
and synthetic biology, and culture-based analyses, with
the common goal of elucidating the evolutionary mecha-
nisms of life at both the molecular and population levels.
By exploring the molecular mechanisms that led to life,
as we now know it, we ultimately hope to arrive at a
better understanding of why life on Earth is the way
it is and how it may have developed elsewhere. This
session is co-organized by Betul Kacar (NASA Post-
doctoral Program/Harvard University), Rika Anderson
(NASA Postdoctoral Program/University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign), Jim Cleaves (Earth Life Science In-
stitute), Gustavo Caetano-Anolles (University of Illinois
at Urbana-Champaign), and Ken Stedman (Portland
State University).
Bet ul Kacar <betulkcr@gmail.com >6 EvolDir March 1, 2015
Guaruja Brazil Evolution Jun26-30
MinorityTravelAward
Evolution 2015 (Brazil) - Minority Graduate Student
Travel Award
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent)
and the Society for the Study of Evolution (SSE), are
teaming up to provide airfare and conference registration
for minority graduate students attending the Evolution
2015 conference in Guaruj a, S~ ao Paulo, Brazil from June
26-30, 2015. Please note that all other expenses (food,
lodging, ground transportation, costs associated with
visa procurement) are the responsibility of the traveler.
Applicants must be graduate students at the time of
the conference (June 26-30, 2015), working towards a
Masters or PhD in evolutionary science, evolutionary
ecology, biogeography, evolutionary informatics, evo-
lution education or some other eld appropriate for
the focus of the Evolution 2015 conference (http://-
www.evolution2015.org <http://www.google.com/-
url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.evolution2015.org&sa=-
D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNHqYIKUOlFYzJJKck1saTZys39aQg
>).
Applicants must be members of under-
represented/under-served racial/ethnic groups,
as dened by the National Science Foun-
dation (http://www.nsf.gov/statistics/-
wmpd/ < http://www.google.com/url?q=-
http%3A%2F%2Fwww.nsf.gov%2Fstatistics%2Fwmpd%2F&sa=
D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNHsqWMdhCsH6w9Cj87FiK6RV pfVA
>).
Applicants must be US citizens, permanent residents,
or foreign nationals currently enrolled in US-based grad-
uate programs. All applicants must be free of any re-
strictions which would prevent them from traveling out
of the US, to Brazil over the dates of the conference.
The application package consists of basic information, a
one-page Statement of Academic Interests and Career
Goals, a brief biosketch, and a Letter of Recommenda-
tion from your academic advisor.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: MARCH 15TH, 2015,
5:00 PM PST
AWARDS WIL BE ANNOUNCED BY MARCH 20TH,
2015
For more information and to apply, please visit http:/-/bit.ly/16hefaq .If you have questions, please contact
Jory Weintraub (jory@nescent.org).
Jory P. Weintraub, PhD Assistant Director, Education
& Outreach National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) 2024 West Main St., Suite A200, Durham,
NC 27705 Phone: 919.668.4578 Fax: 919.668.9198 Email:
jory@nescent.org Skype: jory.weintraub
\Weintraub, Jory P" <lviscrst@live.unc.edu >
Guaruja Brazil Evolution Jun26-30
MSI FacultyTravel
NESCent/SSE 2015 MSI Faculty Travel Award - Evolu-
tion 2015 (Brazil)
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent)
and the Society for the Study of Evolution (SSE), are
teaming up to provide airfare and conference registration
for faculty from Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs) to
attend the Evolution 2015 conference in Guaruj a, S~ ao
Paulo, Brazil from June 26-30, 2015. Please note that
all other expenses (food, lodging, ground transporta-
tion, costs associated with visa procurement) are the
responsibility of the traveler.
If you are a faculty member at an MSI, HBCU or
other institution with signicant enrollment of under-
represented minority students, you are encouraged to
apply.
This award is intended to provide MSI faculty with an
opportunity to present original research in evolution,
systematic biology, evolutionary genomics/informatics,
evolution education/outreach or other disciplines typi-
cally represented at the Evolution meetings. As such,
your application must include a talk/poster title and ab-
stract. In addition, you will be asked to provide a brief
(1 page) statement describing how this award will con-
tribute to your professional/scientic development, as
well as provide benet to your students and institution.
Depending on your nationality and immigra-
tion status, A VISA MAY BE REQUIRED
TO ENTER BRAZIL. More information can
be found at the conference website (http://-
www.evolution2015.org <http://www.google.com/-
url?q=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.evolution2015.org&sa=-
D&sntz=1&usg=AFQjCNHqYIKUOlFYzJJKck1saTZys39aQg
>). ALL AWARD RECIPIENTS ARE RESPONSIBLE
FOR FOR OBTAINING AND PAYING FOR THEIRMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 7
OWN VISA, and the conference organizers advise that
it could take up to a month (or possibly longer) to
obtain a visa.
For more information, or to apply, please visit
http://bit.ly/1vsYWYt. If you have any questions
about this program, please contact Jory Weintraub
(jory@nescent.org).
APPLICATION DEADLINE: MARCH 15TH, 2015,
5:00 PM PST
AWARDS WIL BE ANNOUNCED BY MARCH 20TH,
2015
Jory P. Weintraub, PhD Assistant Director, Education
& Outreach National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) 2024 West Main St., Suite A200, Durham,
NC 27705 Phone: 919.668.4578 Fax: 919.668.9198 Email:
jory@nescent.org Skype: jory.weintraub
\Weintraub, Jory P" <lviscrst@live.unc.edu >
Guaruja Brazil SocSystBiol Jun26
GradTravelAwards
The Society of Systematic Biologists (SSB) invites grad-
uate students to apply for travel awards to attend a
Model-based Molecular Systematics workshop on Fri-
day, June 26 at Evolution meetings in Guaruja, Brazil.
Taking place the day before the meeting starts, this
workshop will feature two parallel sessions, one focused
on phylogenetics and comparative methods and the
other focused on phylogeography and ABC approaches.
Instructors for the former include Stacey Smith, Tracy
Heath, Samantha Price, and Matt Pennell. Instructors
for the latter include Bryan Carstens, Manolo Perez,
and Brian O'Meara. In addition, there will be a spe-
cial session on open data access presented by Karen
Cranston. With generous support from the National
Science Foundation, SSB will provide awards of $1750 to
support travel to this meeting for 20 graduate students.
Applicants must be U.S. citizens to be eligible and under-
rrepresented groups are particularly encouraged to apply.
To apply, please go to the ^ ahow to apply' tab on the work-
shop website: http://2015nsfssbworkshop.weebly.com/
Applications are due by February 20th.
Bryan C. Carstens Department of Evolution, Ecology,
& Organismal Biology The Ohio State University 318
W. 12th Avenue Columbus, OH 43210-1293
web: http://carstenslab.org.ohio-state.edu/OSU/-Carstens Lab.html <http://carstenslab.org.ohio-
state.edu/ >blog: https://u.osu.edu/carstens.12/
publications: http://carstenslab.org.ohio-state.edu/-
OSU/Publications.html spedeSTEM: http://-
spedestem.asc.ohio-state.edu/ skype: bryan carstens
oce: 614.292.6587 cell: 734.474.8527 fax: 614.292.2030
Bryan Carstens <bryan.c.carstens@gmail.com >
KansasStateU ArthropodGenomics
Jun17-19 RegistrationOpen
Registration is now OPEN for the Arthropod Genomics
Symposium and IGT-RCN Workshop!
*-*-*-*-* Ninth Annual Arthropod Genomics
Symposium*-*-*-*-*- June 17, 2015 to June 19,
2015 K-State Alumni Center, Kansas State University
Manhattan, Kansas
REGISTRATION Please register online at the Sympo-
sium website, www.ksu.edu/agc! ABSTRACT DEAD-
LINES IN 2015: Monday, March 9 V If you DO wish
your abstract to be considered for an oral presenta-
tion/General Session talk.
Wednesday, May 20 - If you do NOT wish for your
poster abstract to be considered for oral presentation
and DO want to present a poster.
SPEAKERS Keynote Speaker: David A. OBrochta, In-
stitute for Bioscience and Biotechnology Research &
Department of Entomology, University of Maryland Col-
lege Park
Featured Speakers: + Michelle Cilia, USDA-ARS, Boyce
Thompson Institute for Plant Research, Cornell Univer-
sity, USA + Martin J. Donnelly, Liverpool School of
Tropical Medicine and the Wellcome Trust Sanger Insti-
tute, UK + Rosemary G. Gillespie, University of Califor-
nia, Berkeley, USA + Sijun Liu, Iowa State University,
USA + Frank Lyko, German Cancer Research Center,
Heidelberg, Germany + Duane McKenna, University of
Memphis, USA + Armin P. Moczek, Indiana Univer-
sity, USA + Amanda J. Moehring, Western University,
Ontario, Canada + Daniel E. Neafsey, Broad Institute
of MIT and Harvard University, USA + Greg Ragland,
Kansas State University, USA + Anne-Nathalie Volko,
INRA (UMR1333), Montpellier 1 University, France
The symposium focuses on new insights gleaned from
analyzing arthropod genomes and is designed for scien-
tists interested in genomic studies of Arthropods, both8 EvolDir March 1, 2015
model organisms and those of agricultural or health rele-
vance. The program will include platform presentations,
a welcome reception, a gene annotation workshop us-
ing WebApollo and arthropod genomics-related poster
sessions. A few poster abstract submissions will be
selected for platform presentations. Postdoctoral, grad-
uate, and undergraduate students are also encouraged
to attend. Sessions conclude Friday evening, followed
by an optional evening meal.
*-*-*-*-* Pre-Symposium Workshop *-*-*-*-*- INSECT
GENETIC TECHNOLOGY workshop June 17, 2015
(Wednesday morning and afternoon) Robust proto-
cols to manipulate genes and genomes have not yet
been developed for most insects other than Drosophila
melanogaster, and this shortfall is limiting research
progress in many aspects of arthropod genomics. The
NSF-RCN on Insect Genetic Technologies (IGTRCN:
2014-2019; igtrcn.org) seeks to remedy this problem by
facilitating the communication of best practice and new
techniques among arthropod genomicists.
This IGTRCN-sponsored workshop will comprise (1)
talks that showcase the latest genetic technologies, (2)
discussion sessions for exchange of ideas and solutions
for eective insect genetic engineering, and (3) posters.
Proposals from the workshop will be integrated into
the IGTRCN program of hands-on practical workshops,
fellowships, and the IGTRCN KnowledgeBase. Early-
career researchers are particularly encouraged to present
their research at this workshop. A limited number
of travel grants to attend the workshop are available
for early stage investigators. Additional information
on poster abstract and travel grant submission for
the workshop will be posted soon on the Workshop
link<http://www.k-state.edu/agc/symposium level/-
workshop/index.html >of the symposium website.
TENTATIVE PROGRAM for SYMPOSIUM & WORK-
SHOP Wednesday, June 17 V Workshop: Insect Genetic
Technology Research Coordination Network (IGT-RCN)
Wednesday evening, June 17, 7:30 pm - Arthropod Ge-
nomics Symposium begins with keynote presentation
and welcome reception
Thursday, June 18 V Symposium Platform and Poster
Sessions
Thursday evening, June 18, 7:00 to 9:00 pm V Workshop:
Gene Annotation using WebApollo
Friday, June 19 V Symposium Platform and Poster
Sessions, tentatively concluding at 5:00 pm
Friday evening, June 19 V Optional dinner at
Konza Prairie Biological Station <http://kpbs.konza.k-
state.edu/ >with nature hikes, bison viewing, andopportunity to collect insects.
VENUE: The 2015 Symposium is being hosted by the
Arthropod Genomics Center at Kansas State University
in Manhattan, Kansas. Symposium sessions will be held
at the K-State Alumni Center on campus.
HOTEL/DORM ROOMS: A block of rooms has been
reserved at the Holiday Inn Manhattan at the Campus.
Reservation deadline for the room block discounted
price is May 20. Campus dormitory rooms will also be
available.
QUESTIONS: Contact Doris Merrill at dmer-
rill@ksu.edu.
If you would like to join the ArthropodNews to ensure
receiving future notices, please send an e-mail with your
name and e-mail address to dmerrill@ksu.edu.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
London
StudentQuantitativeGenomics
May29
Quantitative Genomics 2015
Friday 29 May 2015
Wellcome Trust Headquarters, London
We are excited to announce Quantitative Genomics 2015
(QG15), a conference for students in quantitative ge-
nomics that will take place on Friday 29th of May at
the Wellcome Trust Headquarters at Euston square in
the very heart of London.
The conference will focus on giving early-career re-
searchers (Master's and PhD students) working at the
forefront of mathematical and quantitative genomics
a chance to present their work and learn from their
peers. The conference will feature talks by Professor
Brian Charlesworth <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/-
Brian Charlesworth >from the University of Edin-
burgh and Nicole Soranzo <https://www.sanger.ac.uk/-
research/faculty/nsoranzo/ >from the Wellcome Trust
Sanger Institute. Our renowned speakers represent the
two sides of the spectrum of topics QG15 aims for:March 1, 2015 EvolDir 9
from evolutionary theory and mathematical models to
new omics tools applied in biomedical research. It will
provide an ideal opportunity to build international net-
works with current and future leaders in the eld in an
informal and relaxed environment. Registration costs
have been kept to a minimum to ensure that QG15 is
accessible to all interested students.
Please refer to the QG15 website <http://-
quantgen.soc.srcf.net/qg15/ >for more information and
do not hesitate to contact us for further information
(quantgen@damtp.cam.ac.uk). We encourage you to
pre-register (open now <http://quantgen.soc.srcf.net/-
qg15/sign-up/pre-registration/ >) so we can keep you
updated regarding deadlines and steps for abstract sub-
mission and registration.
We hope to see you in London,
QG15 Organising Committee
Kaur Alasoo - PhD in Computational Biology, Well-
come Trust Sanger Institute/University of Cambridge,
Cambridge, UK-
Rajbir Batra - Wellcome Trust PhD in Mathematical
Genomics and Medicine, Cancer Research UK Cam-
bridge Institute/University of Cambridge, Cambridge,
UK-
Moises Exposito-Alonso -PhD in Evolutionary Ge-
nomics; Max Planck Institute,T1bingen Germany-
Tiphaine Martin - DPhil in Genetics and Molecular
Medicine; Kings College London, London, UK-
Hannah Meyer - PhD in Bioinformatics, EBI/University
of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK-
Sarah Morgan - PhD in Genetics of Neurodegeneration
using Next-Generation Sequencing, University College
London, London, UK-
Matthias Thurner - DPhil in Genomic Medicine and
Statistics, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK-
{ Moises Exposito-Alonso
PhD student Weigel Lab - Department of Molecular Bi-
ology Max Planck Institute for Developmental Biology
Spemannstrasse 37-39 72076 Tuebingen (Germany)
moisesexpositoalonso@gmail.com moises.exposito-
alonso@tuebingen.mpg.de
Twitter: @MoisesExpositoA Personal web:
sites.google.com/site/moisesexpositoa/ Lab web:
www.weigelworld.org/members/mexposito/ Oce tel:
+49 7071601 1417
Moiss Expsito Alonso
<moisesexpositoalonso@gmail.com >MexicoCity ComputBiolAlgorithms
Aug4-6
2nd INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON ALGO-
RITHMS FOR COMPUTATIONAL BIOLOGY
AlCoB 2015
Mexico City, Mexico
August 4-6, 2015
Organized by:
Centre for Complexity Sciences (C3) School of Sciences
Institute for Research in Applied Mathematics and Sys-
tems (IIMAS) Graduate Program in Computing Science
and Engineering National Autonomous University of
Mexico
Research Group on Mathematical Linguistics (GRLMC)
Rovira i Virgili University
http://grammars.grlmc.com/alcob2015/ AIMS:
AlCoB aims at promoting and displaying excellent re-
search using string and graph algorithms and combina-
torial optimization to deal with problems in biological
sequence analysis, genome rearrangement, evolutionary
trees, and structure prediction.
The conference will address several of the current chal-
lenges in computational biology by investigating algo-
rithms aimed at: 1) assembling sequence reads into a
complete genome, 2) identifying gene structures in the
genome, 3) recognizing regulatory motifs, 4) aligning
nucleotides and comparing genomes, 5) reconstructing
regulatory networks of genes, and 6) inferring the evolu-
tionary phylogeny of species.
Particular focus will be put on methodology and sig-
nicant room will be reserved to young scholars at the
beginning of their career.
VENUE:
AlCoB 2015 will take place in Mexico City, the oldest
capital city in the Americas and the largest Spanish-
speaking city in the world. The venue will be the main
campus of the National Autonomous University of Mex-
ico.
SCOPE:
Topics of either theoretical or applied interest include,
but are not limited to:10 EvolDir March 1, 2015
Exact sequence analysis Approximate sequence analysis
Pairwise sequence alignment Multiple sequence align-
ment Sequence assembly Genome rearrangement Regu-
latory motif nding Phylogeny reconstruction Phylogeny
comparison Structure prediction Compressive genomics
Proteomics: molecular pathways, interaction networks
... Transcriptomics: splicing variants, isoform inference
and quantication, dierential analysis Next-generation
sequencing: population genomics, metagenomics, meta-
transcriptomics ... Microbiome analysis Systems biology
STRUCTURE:
AlCoB 2015 will consist of:
invited lectures peer-reviewed contributions
INVITED SPEAKERS:
Julio Collado-Vides (National Autonomous University of
Mexico, Cuernavaca), >From Curation of Information
to Knowledge Encoding
Gaston Gonnet (Swiss Federal Institute of Technology,
Zurich), Human-Dog-Mouse, Probably and Provable
Non-trivial Evolution Close to the Root of the Mam-
malian Clade
Peter D. Karp (SRI International, Menlo Park), Algo-
rithms for Metabolic Route Search and Determination
of Reaction Atom Mappings
PROGRAMME COMMITTEE:
Stephen Altschul (National Center for Biotechnology
Information, Bethesda, USA) Yurii Aulchenko (Russian
Academy of Sciences, Novosibirsk, Russia) Pierre Baldi
(University of California, Irvine, USA) Daniel G. Brown
(University of Waterloo, Canada) Yuehui Chen (Univer-
sity of Jinan, China) Keith A. Crandall (George Wash-
ington University, Washington, USA) Joseph Felsen-
stein (University of Washington, Seattle, USA) Michael
Galperin (National Center for Biotechnology Informa-
tion, Bethesda, USA) Susumu Goto (Kyoto University,
Japan) Igor Grigoriev (DOE Joint Genome Institute,
Walnut Creek, USA) Martien Groenen (Wageningen
University, The Netherlands) Yike Guo (Imperial Col-
lege, London, UK) Javier Herrero (University College
London, UK) Karsten Hokamp (Trinity College Dublin,
Ireland) Hsuan-Cheng Huang (National Yang-Ming Uni-
versity, Taipei, Taiwan) Ian Korf (University of Califor-
nia, Davis, USA) Nikos Kyrpides (DOE Joint Genome
Institute, Walnut Creek, USA) Mingyao Li (University
of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA) Yun Li (University
of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, USA) Jun Liu (Harvard
University, Cambridge, USA) Rodrigo L opez (European
Bioinformatics Institute, Hinxton, UK) Andrei N. Lu-
pas (Max Planck Institute for Developmental Biology,
T ubingen, Germany) B.S. Manjunath (University ofCalifornia, Santa Barbara, USA) Carlos Mart n-Vide
(chair, Rovira i Virgili University, Tarragona, Spain)
Tarjei Mikkelsen (Broad Institute, Cambridge, USA)
Henrik Nielsen (Technical University of Denmark, Lyn-
gby, Denmark) Zemin Ning (Wellcome Trust Sanger
Institute, Hinxton, UK) Christine Orengo (University
College London, UK) Modesto Orozco (Institute for
Research in Biomedicine, Barcelona, Spain) Christos
A. Ouzounis (Centre for Research & Technology Hellas,
Thessaloniki, Greece) Manuel Peitsch (Philip Morris
International R&D, Neuch^ atel, Switzerland) David A.
Rosenblueth (National Autonomous University of Mex-
ico, Mexico City, Mexico) Julio Rozas (University of
Barcelona, Spain) Alessandro Sette (La Jolla Institute
for Allergy and Immunology, USA) Peter F. Stadler
(University of Leipzig, Germany) Guy Theraulaz (Paul
Sabatier University, Toulouse, France) Alfonso Valen-
cia (Spanish National Cancer Research Centre, Madrid,
Spain)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Montpellier CancerEvolution Mar19
<http://mike.hochberg.free.fr/ >*Evolution and Can-
cer conference - Montpellier, March 19th 2015*
Please join us at a one day conference on \Evolution and
Cancer" at the Universit e de Montpellier 2. The con-
ference is sponsored by the CNRS research consortium
DarEvCan (http://www.darevcan.univ-montp2.fr/).
The objective of the conference is to foster discussion on
evolutionary perspectives to understanding cancer emer-
gence, progression and therapies. The conference will in-
clude speakers from the Centre for Evolution and Cancer
( http://www.icr.ac.uk/news-features/latest-features/-
the-centre-for-evolution- and-cancer).
The preliminary programme can be found at this link:
*Programme* <http://www.darevcan.univ-montp2.fr/-
?page id=221 >
If you wish to attend, then please register by email
(please put: \ Registration DarEvCan" in the subject
header) to mhochber@univ-montp2.fr -* Registration
closes on February 16th.*March 1, 2015 EvolDir 11
Scientic committee: Pr Eric Solary (Institut Gus-
tave Roussy), Pr. Ula Hibner (Institut de G en etique
Mol eculaire de Montpellier) and Pr. Michael Hochberg
(Institut de Sciences de l'Evolution)
Michael Hochberg <mhochber@univ-montp2.fr >
RoyalSociety London
DatingSpeciesDivergence Nov9-10
Dear All,
This meeting is free, but registration is required. Reg-
istration, at the web site, is now open. The scientic
programme will be posted at the web site later.
best wishes,
ziheng yang
Royal Society discussion meeting \Dating species di-
vergence using rocks and clocks" 9:00 am on Monday
09 November 2015 ' 5:00 pm on Tuesday 10 November
2015 at The Royal Society, 6-9 Carlton House Terrace,
London
Organisers: Professor Ziheng Yang FRS, UCL, UK Pro-
fessor Philip Donoghue, University of Bristol, UK
https://royalsociety.org/events/2015/11/dating-species-
divergences/ The molecular clock hypothesis provides
the only viable framework for integrating molecular
sequence and fossil age data to establish an evolutionary
timescale. However, even after ve decades since its
proposal, the hypothesis remains controversial. This
meeting will bring together scientists from molecular
systematics, palaeontology, comparative genomics, and
computational biology to discuss recent breakthroughs
in the eld and highlight future research directions.
This event is intended for researchers in relevant elds
and is free to attend. There are a limited number of
places and registration is essential. An optional lunch
is oered and should be booked during registration (all
major credit cards accepted).
z.yang@ucl.ac.ukSaskatoon CanSocEcolEvol
May22-24
We invite you to the 10th Annual Meeting of the Cana-
dian Society for Ecology and Evolution (CSEE) to be
held in Saskatoon (SK, Canada)on 22-24 May 2015.
This year, the theme of the conference is: 'Ecology and
Evolution of Managed Landscapes'. We have an exciting
program of symposia, invited speakers, and eld trips.
Please see the conference website for details: http://-
csee2015.usask.ca/index.php. Conference registration
and the call for presentations are now open. Early bird
fees and the presentation call end March 15th!
Nous vous invitons  a Saskatoon (SK, Canada), du 22 au
24 mai 2015 pour la 10e rencontre annuelle de la SCEE
tenue par l'Universit e de la Saskatchewan. Cette ann ee,
le th eme de la conf erence est : ~Acologie et  evolution
des paysages am enag es . Une gamme passionnante
de symposia, conf erenciers invit es et excursions sur le
terrain ont  et e organis es. Pour plus de d etails, veuillez
consulter le site internet de la conf erence : http://-
csee2015.usask.ca/fr/. L'inscription  a la conf erence et
l'appel de pr esentations sont maintenant ouverts. Les
frais d'inscription h ~Ative et l'appel de pr esentations se
terminent le 15 mars 2015!
Ciee Icee <Ciee-Icee@uregina.ca >
Scotland EMPSEB StudentEvolBiol
Sep8-12
The 21st Meeting for PhD Students in Evolutionary
Biology
Organized by the University of Edinburgh Location:
University of Stirling - Stirling, UK Date: September
8-12th, 2015 Website: http://empseb21.bio.ed.ac.uk
EMPSEB provides a platform for PhD students study-
ing Evolutionary Biology to present their work and to
meet their peers from across Europe. Joining the par-
ticipants are 8-10 senior scientists who are invited to
give plenary talks, run discussion groups, and to pro-
vide guidance about starting your scientic career. The
meeting provides the unique opportunity for students12 EvolDir March 1, 2015
to hear the latest research being conducted in Europe,
meet future international collaborators, and to present
their own work to peers.
Registration and abstract submission: opening in spring
(see updates on website)
Plenary Speakers: Rebecca Kilner, University of Cam-
bridge Pat Monaghan, University of Glasgow Sasha
Dall, University of Exeter Hannah Dugdale, University
of Sheeld Jane Reid, University of Aberdeen Tiina
Sarkinen, Royal Botanical Garden Edinburgh
Follow us on Facebook! https://www.facebook.com/-
EMPSEB21 And on Twitter! @EMPSEB
For further information or questions, please visit the
conference website: http://empseb21.bio.ed.ac.uk If
you have any questions, please feel free to email the
EMPSEB21 committee president, Kim Prior at presi-
dent.empseb21@gmail.com.
We are looking forward to welcoming you to Stirling in
September 2015!
rebecca.eileen.buttereld@gmail.com
Stockholm MammalBiol Aug16-22
AbstractSubmission
The abstract submission is now open for the 7th Euro-
pean Congress of Mammalogy (ECM7) in Stockholm,
on 16-22 August 2015. To submit an abstract for a
talk or a poster, please visit the conference's webpage
at: www.zoologi.su.se/ecm7 The aim of the European
Congresses of Mammalogy is to foster communication
between researchers working on issues of mammalian
biology in the European arena, as well as providing a
venue for the broad dissemination of European mammal
research. The relaxed and friendly atmosphere of these
congresses provides an excellent opportunity to hear the
latest developments in various elds of mammalogy, to
share research experience and expertise, and to develop
new and closer contacts with colleagues from dierent
countries.
The conference will cover a broad range of topics in
mammal biology, including Species Interactions, Popu-
lation Genetics, Conservation Biology and Ecology &
Landscapes.
Early Registration will between mid-February until
April 15, and Late Registration will be between 16
April and 16 June.Love.Dalen@nrm.se
Toulouse BehaviorEvolution
May18-21 CallAbsts
11th Ecology & Behaviour meeting May 18th-21th, 2015
Toulouse, France http://eb2015.sciencesconf.org/ Re-
minder: only 5 days before the deadline
We are pleased to announce the call for abstracts for
the 11th Ecology and Behaviour meeting that will take
place in Toulouse (France) from May 18th to May 21st
2015.
This international meeting is an excellent place of ex-
change for young researchers (Master students, PhD
students and post-docs) working in the eld of ecology,
evolutionary biology and animal behaviour. Every year
the conference gathers about a hundred participants
from all over Europe and the high success of the previ-
ous editions has been the best proof of its high scientic
quality.
Six thematic sessions have been dened for this 11th
edition: (1) Movement ecology, (2) Cognition: mem-
ory and learning, (3) Social and sexual selection, (4)
Interspecic interactions and coevolution, (5) Popula-
tion ecology and individual variability, (6) Biodiversity
facing global changes.
Currently, the conrmed invited speakers are: (1) Philip
D. McLoughlin & Michel Baguette, (2) Randolf Menzel
& Valrie Dufour, (3) Hanna Kokko & Alexis Chaine,
(4) Philipp Heeb & Dennis Murray, (5) Jean-Michel
Gaillard & Niels Dingemanse, and (6) Rgis Crghino.
In order to facilitate the participation of young re-
searchers in this conference the Association of the Ecol-
ogy and Behaviour Meeting will provide accommodation
and lunches to the attendees. The registration for the
participants presenting their work as a poster or oral
communication will be either free (Master and PhD
students) or for a reduced fee (post-docs).
Submit an abstract
We invite you to submit the abstract of your poster
or oral communication on our website : http://-
eb2015.sciencesconf.org/. The deadline for online ab-
stract submission is on Friday, February 13th 2015 (for
luck purposes).
Additional informationMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 13
Our website (http://eb2015.sciencesconf.org/) is regu-
larly updated and contains all the information regarding
the submission of abstracts, the registration for the con-
ference, the scientic program, the invited lecturers, the
location of housing' In case of any questions, please
contact us by email: eb2015@sciencesconf.org.
Feel free to forward this message to any people that
might be interested in attending the 11th edition of the
Ecology and Behaviour meeting.
Looking forward to meeting you in Toulouse!
The organizers.
Arthur Kocher <arthur.kocher@gmail.com >
UCalifornia Berkeley EvoDevo
Aug5-9
Registration for the inaugural meeting of the Pan Amer-
ican Society for Evolutionary Developmental Biology is
open! Mark your calendars for the meeting dates, 5-9
August, 2015, and be sure to register before all 350 slots
are lled!
The registration deadline is April 1, 2015. To reg-
ister, go to http://www.evodevopanam.org/meetings{
events.html . Join us in Berkeley, California for the
rst EvoDevo meeting in the Americas sponsored by
a new professional society dedicated to supporting the
EvoDevo eld!
A few meeting highlights:
- Conrmed speakers: Chris Amemiya, Alexa Bely, Sean
Carroll, Rachel Collin, Kim Cooper, Tamara Franz-
Odendaal, Matt Gibson, Angela Hay, Vivian Irish,
Catherine Linnen, Mark Martindale, Jose Xavier Neto,
Natalia Pab on-Mora (Early Career Award Recipient),
Richard Palmer, Rudy Ra (Pioneers Award recipient),
Bob Reed, Matt Rockman, Neelima Sinha, Stacey D.
Smith, Ralf Sommer, Mansi Srivastava, James Umen
- Additional speakers will be selected from submitted
abstracts
- Posters will be on display throughout the entire meet-
ing
- Poster prizes for PhD students and postdocs
All details about registration, accommodation op-
tions, child care services, and the conference pro-
gram are available at the following website: http:/-/www.evodevopanam.org/meetings{events.html Sup-
port the Society and Become a Member!! To learn more
about PASEDB, visit the following website: http://-
www.evodevopanam.org/ The Organizing Committee
and the PanAm SEDB Executive Council look forward
to welcoming you to Berkeley in August!
Chelsea D. Specht, PhD Associate Professor; De-
partments of Plant and Microbial Biology & Inte-
grative Biology Curator of Monocots; University and
Jepson Herbaria University of California, Berkeley
111 Koshland Hall, MC 3102 Berkeley, CA 94720
510.642.5601
cdspecht@berkeley.edu http://spechtlab.berkeley.edu/
cdspecht@berkeley.edu
UNewEngland
EvolutionaryGenomics Jul12-17
Applicants Now Being Accepted - See Link Below!
Ecological and Evolutionary Genomics Gordon Research
Conference July 12-17 2015 at University of New Eng-
land, Biddeford, ME ^A
>From Genomes to Biomes: ^AUsing Biodiversity to
Explore Biocomplexity.
>From genomes to biomes, from microbes to plants
and animals, the 2015 Gordon Research Conference on
Ecological and Evolutionary Genomics will highlight
how genome-enabled approaches are helping to rapidly
advance our understanding of the complicated relation-
ship between genotype, phenotype and the environment.
Topic areas such as population genomics, adaptation
& speciation, symbiosis and interacting organisms, bio-
diversity & phylogenomics, community & ecosystem
genomics, genetic and ecological networks, methods &
non-model organisms, genomics & animal behavior, and
applications of ecological and evolutionary genomics,
will highlight how biodiversity can be used to illuminate
complex biological relationships and inform ecological
and evolutionary processes and molecular mechanisms
of adaptation to changing environments. The conference
will also feature emerging approaches and technologies
to aid further exploration of the genomes from organ-
isms that span the tree of life. Gordon Conferences are
famous for fostering in depth interactions that yield new
insights in a collegial atmosphere.
Co-chairs, Jack Werren (University of Rochester) and
Michael Herman (Kansas State University) along with14 EvolDir March 1, 2015
Vice-chairs Felicity Jones (Max Plank Institute, Tubin-
gen) and Michael Pfrender (University of Notre Dame)
invite you to join us on the ocean-side campus of the
University of New England in Biddeford, Maine for a
stimulating conference. We are assembling a diverse
group of established and early career investigators to
discuss their latest work.
Discussion leaders and symposium speakers for \Young
Investigators: Advances in Eco and Evo Genomics" ses-
sion will be chosen from among the registrants. The
organizers are actively seeking funds to assist students
and others attend the meeting. Applications for atten-
dance will be accepted until the meeting is full, so don't
delay!
Applications to attend are now open and information can
be found at ^Ahttps://www.grc.org/programs.aspx?id=-
13135 Symposim Topic Areas & Speakers - Advances
in Computational and Genomic Approaches to Non-
Model Organisms (Steven Salzberg, Wes Warren, Beth
Shapiro) - Applications of Ecological and Evolution-
ary Genomics (John Colbourne, Sherry Flint-Garcia,
Joseph Shaw) - Behavioral Ecology Meets Genomics
(Laurent Keller, Amy Toth, Todd Schlenke) - Biodi-
versity and Phylogenomics (Holly Bik, Casey Dunn,
Davide Pisani) - Community and Ecosystem Genomics
(Jack Gilbert, Blake Matthews, Jenn Schweitzer) - Net-
works: From Genes to Ecosystems (Karoline Faust,
Cedric Feschotte, Alvaro Sanchez, Patricia Wittkopp)
-^APopulation Genomics, Adaptation and Speciation
(Andrew Clark, Asher Cutter, Elodie Ghedin, Josephine
Pemberton) - ^ASymbiosis and Interacting Organisms
(Siv G. Andersson, Angela Douglas, Takema Fukatsu,
Wayne Potts) - Young Investigator Presentations: Ad-
vances in Ecological and Evolutionary Genomics (TBA,
from submitted abstracts)
Please plan on joining us in Biddeford in 2015!
Michael Herman Professor Division of Biology Kansas
State University 266 Chalmers Hall Manhattan, KS
^A66506 Oce: (785) 532-6741 Lab: (785) 532-6773
FAX (785) 532-6653 Email : ^Amherman@ksu.edu http:/-
/www.k-state.edu/hermanlab mherman@ksu.edu
UOxford Systematics Aug26-28
StudentBursaries
A number of bursaries are available for students to at-
tend the forthcoming Systematics Association biennial
conference 'Systematics - the science that underpinsbiology' that will be held at the University of Oxford
from 26-28 August 2015.
This three-day meeting comprises four thematic ses-
sions (The value of long term monitoring plots for plant
systematics and ecology in the tropics; Comparative
approaches to the origin of biodiversity; Accelerating
the pace of taxonomy; Rooted in deep time: Palaeon-
tological contributions to systematics) and contributed
papers on any aspect of systematics.
Five bursaries of $200 sponsored by the Linnean Society
of London are open to students wishing to present a
contributed talk or poster.
In addition, the British Ecological Society Tropical Ecol-
ogy Group (BES-TEG) have sponsored bursaries for
students wishing to attend the symposium on 'The value
of long term monitoring plots for plant systematics and
ecology in the tropics'. Two bursaries of $1500 are
available for PhD students from tropical forest countries
and 5 bursaries of $200 are open to all PhD students.
Applicants are expected to attend the entire meeting as
well as the specic symposium, and are encouraged to
oer a contributed talk.
The deadline for bursary applications is midnight (23:59
GMT) 30th April. The closing date for contributed
papers is (23:59 GMT) 1st July.
Further details can be found on the Systematics Associ-
ation website at http://www.systass.org/biennial2015/
Dr Mark Carine Plants Division, Department of Life
Sciences The Natural History Museum Cromwell Road
London SW7 5BD United Kingdom
Tel: 020 7942 5541
M.Carine@nhm.ac.ukMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 15
Vienna SMBE2015
AbstractDeadline reminder
Hello evoldir community,
abstract submission for oral presentations at SMBE 2015
(July 12-16) in Vienna, Austria, closes on February 8.
Join us in one of the most beautiful cities at the spectac-
ular Imperial Palace (Hofburg) in the heart of Vienna!
A few meeting highlights:
- All posters will be on display throughout the entire
meeting.
- At least four poster sessions
- 27 symposia on cutting edge topics suggested by SMBE
members and one Open Symposium for which 5 featured
speakers will be selected though the Local Organising
Committee (LOC).
- Plenary speakers: Doris Bachtrog (UC Berkeley), Joe
Felsenstein (Univ. of Washington), Johanna Schmitt
(UC Davis) and Diethard Tautz (MPI for Evolutionary
Biology).
- Heavily subsidized child care
- many awards (https://www.smbe.org/smbe/-
AWARDS.aspx): | Poster prize for postdocs and PhD
students | Fitch prize | Young investigator travel
awards | Junior and mid career research awards |
Child Care Travel Awards
- aordable accommodation (starting from euro 19,-
/night. Also many double rooms are available for euro
60,- /night incl. breakfast)
Early bird registration by March 1 will also benet from
up to 30% reduced registration fee and full consideration
of submitted abstracts.
All details about registration, accommodation options
and travel discounts are available at the conference
website: www.smbe2015.at The Local Organising Com-
mittee is looking forward to welcome you to Vienna in
July!
julia.hosp@gmail.comVienna SMBE2015 Jul12-16
AbstDeadlineSunday
Hello evoldir community,
abstract submission for oral presentations at SMBE 2015
(July 12-16) in Vienna, Austria, closes THIS SUNDAY.
Join us in one of the most beautiful cities at the spectac-
ular Imperial Palace (Hofburg) in the heart of Vienna!
A few meeting highlights:
- All posters will be on display throughout the entire
meeting.
- At least four poster sessions
- 27 symposia on cutting edge topics suggested by SMBE
members and one Open Symposium for which 5 featured
speakers will be selected though the Local Organising
Committee (LOC).
- Plenary speakers: Doris Bachtrog (UC Berkeley), Joe
Felsenstein (Univ. of Washington), Johanna Schmitt
(UC Davis) and Diethard Tautz (MPI for Evolutionary
Biology).
- Heavily subsidized child care
- many awards (https://www.smbe.org/smbe/-
AWARDS.aspx): | Poster prize for postdocs and PhD
students | Fitch prize | Young investigator travel
awards | Junior and mid career research awards |
Child Care Travel Awards
- aordable accommodation (starting from 19,- /night.
Also many double rooms are available for 60,- /night
incl. breakfast)
Early bird registration by March 1 will also benet from
up to 30% reduced registration fee and full consideration
of submitted abstracts.
All details about registration, accommodation options
and travel discounts are available at the conference
website: www.smbe2015.at The Local Organising Com-
mittee is looking forward to welcome you to Vienna in
July!
julia.hosp@gmail.com16 EvolDir March 1, 2015
Vienna SMBE2015 Jul12-16
EarlyBird ClosingSoon
Hello evoldir community,
don't miss the early bird deadline - register by the end of
the month to save up to 30% on the registration fee for
SMBE 2015, held in one of the most beautiful cities at
the spectacular Imperial Palace (Hofburg) in the heart
of Vienna!
A few meeting highlights:
- All posters will be on display throughout the entire
meeting.
- At least four poster sessions
- 27 symposia on cutting edge topics suggested by SMBE
members and one Open Symposium for which 5 featured
speakers will be selected though the Local Organising
Committee (LOC).
- Plenary speakers: Doris Bachtrog (UC Berkeley), Joe
Felsenstein (Univ. of Washington), Johanna Schmitt
(UC Davis) and Diethard Tautz (MPI for Evolutionary
Biology).
- Heavily subsidized child care
- many awards (https://www.smbe.org/smbe/-
AWARDS.aspx): | Poster prize for postdocs and PhD
students | Fitch prize | Young investigator travel
awards | Junior and mid career research awards |
Child Care Travel Awards
- aordable accommodation (starting from euro 19,-
/night. Also many double rooms are available for euro
60,- /night incl. breakfast)
All details about registration, accommodation options
and travel discounts are available at the conference
website: www.smbe2015.at The Local Organising Com-
mittee is looking forward to welcome you to Vienna in
July!
julia.hosp@gmail.comVienna SMBE2015 Jul12-16
OralContributions StillAccepted
Dear evolDir community,
one last unforeseen chance to submit your abstract to
be considered for an oral contribution at SMBE 2015 in
Vienna (July 12-16):
The abstract system caused delays due to the required
separate registration. Therefore, we will accept submis-
sions for oral contributions until Sunday, Feb 15!
Register for SBME 2015 here: http://-
smbe2015.univie.ac.at/home/ Please register separately
for the abstract system (the link to abstract submission
will be sent to you in the conference registration
conrmation).
The Local Organising Committee is looking forward to
welcome you to Vienna in July!
A few meeting highlights:
- All posters will be on display throughout the entire
meeting.
- At least four poster sessions
- 27 symposia on cutting edge topics suggested by SMBE
members and one Open Symposium for which 5 featured
speakers will be selected though the Local Organising
Committee (LOC).
- Plenary speakers: Doris Bachtrog (UC Berkeley), Joe
Felsenstein (Univ. of Washington), Johanna Schmitt
(UC Davis) and Diethard Tautz (MPI for Evolutionary
Biology).
- Heavily subsidized child care
- many awards (https://www.smbe.org/smbe/-
AWARDS.aspx): | Poster prize for postdocs and PhD
students | Fitch prize | Young investigator travel
awards | Junior and mid career research awards |
Child Care Travel Awards
- aordable accommodation (starting from 19,- /night.
Also many double rooms are available for 60,- /night
incl. breakfast)
Early bird registration by March 1 will also benet from
up to 30% reduced registration fee and full consideration
of submitted abstracts.
julia.hosp@gmail.comMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 17
Vienna SMBE July12-16
AdaptiveEvolution
Dear evoldir members,
I would like to remind you that the abstract submission
deadline for the Annual Meeting of the SMBE is on
Sunday February 8th, at the end of this week. Please
do not hesitate to contact us if you need any informa-
tion about the symposium \Adaptive and non-adaptive
evolution of gene expression and regulation".
Original announcement below:
#####
As a part of the Annual Meeting of the Society for
Molecular Biology and Evolution (SMBE), that will be
held in Vienna on July 12-16 2015, we are pleased to
announce a symposium on the topic \Adaptive and non-
adaptive evolution of gene expression and regulation".
Abstract submissions for oral presentations are open
until February 8th.
Symposium summary:
Identifying the substrate of adaptive evolution is a key
question in evolutionary biology. It was proposed early
on that much of adaptive evolution may occur at the
level of gene expression, by means of positive selection
acting on the genetic variation naturally occurring at
regulatory elements. Comparisons of gene expression
patterns and regulatory mechanisms are now possible
within and between species, allowing evolutionary biolo-
gists to reveal the genetic mechanisms of adaptations.
However, non-adaptive forces are also expected to shape
the genetic variation of regulatory modules and to drive
the evolution of gene expression. Therefore, mechanisms
such as genetic drift, biased gene conversion, variability
in mutation rates have to be carefully taken into account
when reconstructing the evolutionary history of gene ex-
pression and regulation. In this symposium we propose
to bring together researchers from the elds of popula-
tion genetics, functional and evolutionary genomics and
systems biology to discuss issues related to the func-
tional characterization of the genetic variation within
regulatory elements and the statistical inference of evo-
lutionary forces driving the evolution of gene expression.
We encourage submissions that examine adaptive and
non-adaptive mechanisms underlying dierent aspects of
gene expression evolution, including alternative splicing,
non-coding RNA expression, as well as transcriptionaland post-transcriptional regulation.
Invited speakers: Prof. Laurent Duret (http://-
lbbe.univ-lyon1.fr/-Duret-Laurent-.html?lang=en) and
Prof. Yoav Gilad (http://giladlab.uchicago.edu/).
Please note that travel awards and childcare support are
available to allow young scientists and parents to attend
the conference. Please go to http://smbe2015.at/ for
additional information and registration.
For more details, please don't hesitate to contact us.
Stefan Laurent stefan.laurent@ep.ch Jerey
Jensen jerey.jensen@ep.ch Anamaria Nec-
sulea anamaria.necsulea@ep.ch Mehmet Somel
msomel@metu.edu.tr
{ Anamaria Necsulea SNSF-Ambizione fellow Swiss Insti-
tute for Experimental Cancer Research (ISREC) Ecole
Polytechnique F ed erale de Lausanne (EPFL) EPFL-SV-
ISREC-UPDUB SV2842 Station 19 CH-1015 Lausanne
Switzerland
Phone +41 21 693 06 05 anamaria.necsulea@ep.ch
Vienna SMBE SpeciationGenomics
Jul12-16
SMBE Speciation genomics - Vienna, July 12-16th 2015
Dear colleagues
We would like to invite you to join a symposium on Spe-
ciation genomics at the next SMBE meeting in Vienna.
PLEASE NOTE: Abstracts for oral presentations can
still be submitted until 8th of February. Deadline for
abstracts for poster presentations 29th March.
Speciation is a fundamental evolutionary process: this
process involves every living organism and its rates mir-
ror atmospheric and geological changes on Earth, but its
mechanisms are still largely a mystery. Usually, specia-
tion is dened by mating barriers, which can arise ether
slowly, due to growing divergence between geographi-
cally or ecologically separated groups, or immediately,
due to ploidy change.
Speciation research covers a broad array of scientic
elds, starting from molecular and cellular biology to
evolutionary biology. A rapidly growing amount of as-
sembled genomes and transcriptomes make possible to
study speciation in much more detail than before. Look-
ing at patterns of genomic divergence, identifying foot-
prints of selection, or mapping genes that are involved18 EvolDir March 1, 2015
in reproductive isolation are just a few of the powerful
genomic approaches that recently become available to
study speciation. Today it is not rare that speciation
research pushes the existing knowledge to frontiers of
technologies and advanced algorithms.
This symposium will welcome research in model and non-
model species integrating emerging themes and novel
approaches, together with a reassessment of more tradi-
tional methodologies in order to understand why and
how organisms diversify.
The invited speakers that will open the symposium
are Luca Comai (UC Davis) and Christian Lexer (Uni-
versity of Fribourg). We encourage submissions from
researchers active in this area working on any system.
Students and postdocs are particularly welcome. Check
submission details on the SMBE 2015 webpage http://-
smbe2015.at/ Please contact us with any questions.
Polina Novikova (polina.novikova@gmi.oeaw.ac.at)
and
Ovidiu Paun (ovidiu.paun@univie.ac.at)
ovidiu.paun@univie.ac.at
WashingtonDC
PteridologySystematicsEvolution
Jun1-5
Registration is now open and abstracts are currently
being accepted for:
Next Generation Pteridology: An International Confer-
ence on Lycophyte & Fern Research
1-5 June 2015 in Washington D.C. National Museum of
Natural History & United States Botanic Garden
http://botany.si.edu/sbs/ The past decade has seen
remarkable advances in our understanding of fern and
lycophyte biology. New sources of data have emerged
and novel methods for analyzing these data are being de-
veloped. At the same time, many traditional approaches
have been revitalized as their unique and specic contri-
butions are more fully realized. With a recent inux of
students and early career researchers, the international
pteridological community continues to grow. Through
more widespread and far-reaching collaborations, the
pace of scientic discovery is accelerating, new parts of
the globe are being included, and the conservation of
these important species in a rapidly changing world is be-ing investigated. This conference aims to bring together
the world's pteridologists to celebrate the progress to
date and to forecast developments still on the horizon.
The early registration and abstract submission deadline
is 1 April 2015. If you have questions, or would like to
be added to the distribution list for conference-related
announcements, please email sbs@si.edu
Eric Schuettpelz Research Botanist National Museum
of Natural History Smithsonian Institution Department
of Botany MRC 166 PO Box 37012 Washington DC
20013-7012 Telephone 202.633.0914 Fax 202.786.2563
E-mail schuettpelze@si.edu
\Schuettpelz, Eric" <SchuettpelzE@si.edu >
Yosemite Symbiosis May1-3
RegistrationExtended
EARLY BIRD REGISTRATION EXTENDED FOR
ONE MORE WEEK:
REGISTRATION link: http://snri.ucmerced.edu/-
symbiosis Dear Colleagues,
The Fifth annual Symbiosis Workshop will take place on
May 1-3, 2015 at the Sierra Nevada Research Station,
Yosemite National Park.
This has become a great venue for a diversity of sym-
biosis researchers, so we hope to continue to attract a
diverse group
Keynote speaker 2015: Dr. Ellen L. Simms from the
University of California, Berkeley.
Information about our meeting:
Why: Our goal is to better integrate scientists that fo-
cus on symbiosis research. We plan to continue annual
workshops at Yosemite as this site is both beautiful and
secluded. This will be our 5th annual meeting and we
are now attracting scientists from all over the country
and overseas.
Who: The meeting is small by design ( ~50 participants)
and we seek to focus on scientists interested in both
cooperation and symbiosis. In the past we have covered
a range of symbiosis topics from ecology and evolution
to molecular mechanisms in dierent model and non-
model systems. We would like to make room for a
diverse group of people so we will initially accept up to
3 lab members per group (including the PI) on a rst
come rst served basis.March 1, 2015 EvolDir 19
When: The talks and formal meeting will be held May 2-
3, 2015, though we make accommodation arrangements
available for attendees to arrive on Friday the 1st to
provide opportunities to enjoy the park. Since time at
the conference is limited, we ask attendees to submit an
abstract and a preference (talk versus poster). Priority
will be given to those presenting. Abstract and early
bird registration are due on January 31st, 2015.
Where: SNRS has a set of cabins in Wawona and all
within a short walk of the conference room. Costs: See
details in the registration page. We will only be able to
accept credit card payments this year.
Link to meeting information: http://-
www.sachslab.com/symbiosis-2015.php=-
3D0ARegistration REGISTRATION link: http:/-
/snri.ucmerced.edu/symbiosis Please direct any
questions to the organizers: Joel Sachs joels@ucr.edu A.
Carolin Frank cfrank3@ucmerced.edu Becca Fenwick
(SNRS Director) bfenwick@ucmerced.edu
Joel L. Sachs Associate Professor #310 Science Labs I
Department of Biology University of California River-
side, CA 92521
Mailing Address: Sachs Lab UC Riverside 3401 Watkins
Dr. 1229 Spieth Hall Riverside, CA 92521
Oce (951) 827-6357 Fax (951) 827-4286 www. sach-
slab.com http://www.biology.ucr.edu/people/faculty/-
Sachs.html=3D0A joel.sachs@ucr.edu
Zurich EvolutionaryMedicine
Jul30-Aug1
Dear colleaguesMay I draw your attention towards the Evolutionary
Medicine Conference 2015 (30. July - 01. August) at
the Institute of Evolutionary Medicine (IEM).
This international conference will bring together distin-
guished keynote speakers (2008 Nobel Laureate Har-
ald zur Hausen and others, see attachment) as well
as experts from dierent research areas (including
medicine, anthropology, molecular/evolutionary biology,
paleopathology, archaeology, epidemiology, and other
elds) to debate the evolutionary origins of diseases and
on how the knowledge of the past informs the present
and the future. Furthermore, the specic implications
of interdisciplinary research in the understanding and
management of human health issues will be addressed.
- Registration open now - Deadline for mini-symposia:
Feb 16, 2015 - Deadline for abstracts: Mar 30, 2015
Find all relevant information on http://-
www.iem.uzh.ch/evolmedconf2015.html Best regards,
Kaspar Staub\
Dr. Kaspar Staub Institute Manager, Senior Research
Assistant Morphology/Imaging Group Institute of Evo-
lutionary Medicine (IEM) University of Zurich Win-
terthurerstrasse 190 CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland Oce
Y42 G88a Phone +41 44 635 05 13, Mobile +41 79
473 83 55, Fax: +41446355702 kaspar.staub@iem.uzh.ch
http://www.iem.uzh.ch/people/kasparstaub.html Kas-
par Staub <kaspar.staub@iem.uzh.ch >
GradStudentPositions20 EvolDir March 1, 2015
BangorU SoilBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
Bonn InsectSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
CharlesU Prague LepidopteraPollinationCameroon 21
CNRS Nice DevelopmentalPlasticity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .22
Europe 13 Biocontrol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
KAUST SaudiArabia MarineBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . 24
NewcastleU 2 PlantAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
NewZealand YersiniaEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
NHM Oslo PlantSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .56
OklahomaStateU GrassTilleringGenetics . . . . . . . . . . 26
OxfordBrookesU 2 EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .27
OxfordBrookesU ButteryEmbryos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Paris6U BioinformaticsMetagenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . .28
QueensU 2 SeabirdAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Rennes UWuerzburg FishEvolutionSex . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Sherbrooke SexualSelectionKangaroos . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
SLU Alnarp PlantHerbivore ParasitoidInteractions 30
SwanseaU MicrobialGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
TrentU AmphibianPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31
TromsoUMuseum Metabarcoding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .32
UAlaska Fairbanks SedgeGeneticDierentiation . . . .32UCologne 3 ArabidopsisAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
UFlorida InsectEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .34
UHawaii Manoa CaveshEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
UHudderseld 5 EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
UIceland PopGenParallelEvolutionCharr . . . . . . . . . . 36
UKonstanz 2 EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
UMontreal EvolutionaryPhysiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
UNevada Reno 2 Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
UOttawa 2 FungalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .39
UPretoria FlyLongevity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
UPuertoRico GenomicsBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
UQueensland Australia AlgalGenomicsBioinformatics
125
USaskatchewan RedSquirrelPhenology . . . . . . . . . . . . .42
USaskatchewan WildHorses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UZurich ExperimentalBiodemography . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UZurich Macroevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .44
Vienna PlantGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Vienna PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
BangorU SoilBiodiversity
A fully funded PhD studentship focusing on soil biodi-
versity is available at Bangor University, UK, closing
date March 1st, 2015.
Does Soil Biodiversity Matter? Soil biodiversity is at a
true scientic frontier and unravelling its complexities
lies at the heart of understanding how ecosystems work
and how they can be eectively managed and restored.
In this context, we are looking for an enthusiastic and
committed PhD candidate to work in the area of soil
biology in relation to soil functioning and the delivery
of ecosystem services. The work aligns with eorts in
Defra and the European Commission to better manage
soils and to understand their response and resilience to
anthropogenic perturbation (in terms of both degrada-
tion and restoration), and is linked to a agship research
programme which has been responsible for the metabar-
coding of >1000 soil samples to date. Uniquely, we
are also capturing a vast array of other data associated
with these samples including above-ground biodiversity
(plants, birds, insects), land management, surface water
quality and a range of soil quality indicators (e.g. pH,
total C and N, texture, available P, water repellency).
Hence, this PhD studentship will focus on examining
the relationship of key soil organisms (bacteria, fungi,archaea, protists) with other components of the ecosys-
tem (birds, insects, vegetation, climate), land use and
management regime, and other soil quality indicators.
You will use a combination of both bioinformatics and
laboratory analysis of soil microbial communities. The
studentship directly aligns with NERC's recent Most
Wanted Skills in UK Science Review thereby providing
the candidate with training for life in an area with great
career potential. The studentship is based at Bangor
University and will be co-supervised by the Centre for
Ecology and Hydrology, as well as Welsh Government.
You will contribute to a growing and enthusiastic multi-
disciplinary research team and to the next generation
of soil scientists within the NERC Doctoral Program
STARS team.
The necessary links for the project, details and NERC
DTP are available here:
http://mefgl.bangor.ac.uk/news/new-funded-phd-
studentship-available-does-soil-biodiversity-matter-
21810 http://www.starsoil.org.uk/portal/projects/-
002426/does-soil-biodiversity-matter Funding Notes:
Applicants should be a UK resident and hold a minimum
of an UK Honours Degree at 2:1 level (or equivalent
Masters) in a subject area such as microbiology, ecology,
biology, environmental or natural sciences. The student
should be statistically numerate, have experience in
carrying out laboratory practical work, bioinformatics
and have a passion for understanding ecosystem
biodiversity.March 1, 2015 EvolDir 21
Funded by the Natural Environment Research Council
(NERC), Lancaster University leads the STARS initia-
tive, which brings together eight institutions with an
excellent track record in soil science: the Universities
of Nottingham, Bangor, and Craneld, the Centre for
Ecology and Hydrology, the British Geological Survey,
the James Hutton Institute, and Rothamsted Research.
For informal enquiries, please contact either Si
Creer (s.creer@bangor.ac.uk), or Davey Jones
(d.jones@bangor.ac.uk) for further details.
Cheers and best wishes
Si Creer
Simon Creer Senior Lecturer Molecular Ecology and
Fisheries Genetics Laboratory School of Biological Sci-
ences Environment Centre Wales Bangor University
Gwynedd LL57 2UW Tel: +44(0)1248 382302 Fax:
+44(0)1248 382569 web: http://mefgl.bangor.ac.uk/-
si.php Skype: spideycreer Twitter: @spideycreer
Rhif Elusen Gofrestredig 1141565 - Registered Charity
No. 1141565
Simon Creer <s.creer@bangor.ac.uk >
Bonn InsectSystematics
A PhD student position funded by the European Union
(European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innova-
tion programme under the Marie Sk3odowska-Curie acts)
is available in the Diptera Section of the Zoologisches
Forschungsmuseum Alexander Koenig (ZFMK). The fel-
low will investigate the genera Asarkina and Allobaccha
(Diptera: Syrphidae), both occurring in the Afrotropical,
Oriental and Australasian Regions. The project aims to
perform a taxonomic revision, as well as to resolve phylo-
genetic placement of these taxa with the development of
a workow for Ultra-Conserved Elements or Anchored
Hybrid Enrichment technique. The main academic ad-
visor is X. Mengual, but the project is co-advised by
F. Ronquist (Swedish Museum of Natural History) and
N. Wahlberg (Lund University). At the same time all
students will be part of the BIG4 international cross-
disciplinary training consortium (BIG4: 'Biosystematics,
Informatics and Genomics of the 4 big insect groups')
funded by the European Union Marie Sk3odowska-Curie
Innovative Training Network Program. The project com-
bines classical methods of systematics with innovative
techniques and approaches and it involves travels and
eld work. The position is for 3 years (36 months) at theZFMK with very competitive salary, additional family
allowance for married students, and sucient research
funds.
We are looking for a highly motivated candidate with
an excellent academic track record. A MSc degree (or
equivalent) in a related discipline is desirable. The
successful candidate is expected to be able to demon-
strate some previous experience with evolutionary or
taxonomic studies. Experience with next generation
sequencing methodology and/or Diptera taxonomy are
a plus, but excellent organization and communication
skills are a must. Due to the requirements of the Marie
Sk3odowska-Curie Program applicants should not hold
PhD degree and, at the time of enrollment in the PhD
program in Germany, should have less than 4 years of
research experience (counted as time of employment in
research since receiving a degree allowing enrollment in
the PhD program). Additionally, at the time of recruit-
ment applicants must not have resided or carried out
his/her main activity (work, studies, etc.) in the coun-
try of the host (Germany in this case) for more than 12
months in the 3 years before his/her recruitment for the
PhD project. The working language in our laboratory
is English; however, German skills will be helpful for
everyday life in Bonn.
BIG4 stands for "Biosystematics, Informatics and Ge-
nomics of the 4 big insect groups'. It is an international
training consortium funded by the European Union-
based Marie Sk3odowska-Curie Innovative Training Net-
work Program (EU ITN) that mainly targets PhD ed-
ucation. BIG4 unites established researchers from 7
academic institutions with 3 business companies in Eu-
rope and 11 other support institutions around the globe.
The main idea of BIG4 is to bring together experts with
complementary taxonomic and methodological strengths
for training a lucky cohort of young systematic entomol-
ogists in broad sense. BIG4 targets the biggest insect
groups such as Coleoptera, Hymenoptera, Diptera and
Lepidoptera. It tackles a long standing problem of amal-
gamation classical systematics with innovative methods
in phylogenetics, bioinformatics, genomics, advanced se-
matic biodiversity publishing, and Citizen Science into
competitive cross- disciplinary proles. For every BIG4-
based PhD student attached to either of the core BIG4
organizations, the consortium opens learning opportuni-
ties additional to their respective academic advisor or
home lab. Secondments are planned from a few weeks
to a few months to other BIG4 partner labs, and a series
of thematic workshops held for all BIG4-based PhDs.
Non-academic members of BIG4 bring opportunities in
science-related business or industry and give students
additional skills to succeed there, since not every PhD
graduate lands in academia.22 EvolDir March 1, 2015
To be considered please send your application per email
to x.mengual@zfmk.de including your CV, a two pages
letter of motivation describing why are you personally
interested in this position, and the names and contacts
of three academic referees. Incomplete applications will
be disregarded. Screening of applications will begin im-
mediately and we will try to assess all applicants within
2-3 weeks after the deadline. The latest preferred start
date is April 1st, 2015.
Dr. Ximo Mengual Head of the Diptera Section Zoolo-
gisches Forschungsmuseum Alexander Koenig Leibniz
Institut f ur Biodiversit at der Tiere Phone: 0049 (0)228
9122 292 x.mengual@zfmk.de https://www.zfmk.de/en/-
zfmk/ximo-mengual Zoologisches Forschungsmuseum
Alexander Koenig - Leibniz-Institut f ur Biodiversit at
der Tiere - Adenauerallee 160, 53113 Bonn, Germany
www.zfmk.de
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
CharlesU Prague
LepidopteraPollinationCameroon
A Ph.D. studentship
*Butteries and moths as pollinators along an Afrotrop-
ical altitudinal gradient*
We are seeking a highly motivated Ph.D. student to join
a project assessing studies of plant-pollinator relation-
ships between butteries and moths (Lepidoptera) with
selected groups of owering plants (Rubiaceae and Acan-
thaceae) on Mt. Cameroon. The student will process
already collected material, as well as actively participate
on eld sampling (at least two times during the study)
of data and their subsequent processing in collaboration
with international specialists. The length of the study
is 4 years.
The successful applicant will be supervised by Dr.
Robert Tropek and Dr. Stepan Janecek as a part of the
multidisciplinary team at the Faculty of Science, Charles
University of Prague with a close collaboration with the
Institute of Entomology and Institute of Botany, Czech
Academy of Sciences.
*Oered*- attractive scientic topic in an established international
team
- standard university scholarship (up to 114,000 CZK
annually according to discharging of the study responsi-
bilities) together with the support of the STARS project
(120,000 CZK annually; http://www.stars-natur.cz) for
four years, it suciently covers living expenses in the
Czech Republic
*Required*
- enthusiasm in nature and ecological science
- ability to lead a eld research in challenging conditions
of tropical environments
- uency in English
- a MSc degree in biology or related elds
Desirable (but not necessary)
- previous experience of collaboration in scientic
projects evidenced by a (co)authorship of research pa-
pers or conference contributions
- previous experience with insects and/or plants
- basic knowledge of French
All applicants will apply for the position online through
http://www.stars-natur.cz/. The deadline for applica-
tion is the 28th February 2015, the successful candidate
will be selected till early April. The position is available
from the beginning of 2015/2016 academic year.
All questions should be sent directly to Robert Tropek
(robert.tropek@gmail.com).
Robert Tropek <robert.tropek@gmail.com >
CNRS Nice DevelopmentalPlasticity
Graduate position: Developmental plasticity and evo-
lution of the germline in Caenorhabditis nematodes
(CNRS, Nice, France)
A PhD fellowship is available in the Braendle lab at
the Institute of Biology Valrose in Nice. The candidate
will be involved in one of our on-going research projects
aiming to integrate mechanistic and evolutionary under-
standing of how gene-environment interactions shape
development and evolutionary processes. We address
this problem using the nematode Caenorhabditis ele-
gans, focusing on molecularly well-characterized systems,
such as the development of the hermaphrodite germline.March 1, 2015 EvolDir 23
These analyses combine developmental and quantitative
genetic approaches and are further complemented by
experimental evolution assays and ecological studies. A
current key research focus is the mapping of natural
genetic variation in C. elegans developmental plasticity.
Applicants are expected to be highly motivated and par-
ticipate in the planning of the project. Candidates with
a background in quantitative genetics, bioinformatics, or
C. elegans biology are particularly encouraged to apply.
This 3-year position is open to all nationalities and will
start in October 2015.
Our team belongs to the Institute of Biology Valrose
(IBV), an international research institute hosting over
20 research groups working on diverse topics in develop-
ment, genetics and cell biology. The institute, located
in the city centre, has excellent research facilities and
provides an interactive, stimulating scientic environ-
ment.
To apply, send a summary of your research motiva-
tion and interests, CV, names and contact informa-
tion for three references to Christian Braendle (braen-
dle@unice.fr) in a single PDF le. Application deadline:
March 20, 2015.
For more information, please visit: http://-
www.braendlelab.net http://ibv.unice.fr Christian
Braendle Institute of Biology Valrose CNRS UMR7277
- INSERM U1091 Universite Nice Sophia Antipolis Parc
Valrose 06108 NICE cedex 2 France Tel +33 (0) 4 92
07 68 97 Fax +33 (0) 4 92 07 68 34 braendle@unice.fr
http://www.braendlelab.net http://ibv.unice.fr
Christian.BRAENDLE@unice.fr
Europe 13 Biocontrol
13 Graudate positions in Europe for Biocontrol
|{
Graduate position: Bre-
menU.WaspVariationReproductiveTraits
A PhD student position within the EU-funded Marie
Sk3odowska-Curie Innovative Training Network BINGO
(Breeding Invertebrates for Next Generation Biocontrol)
is available at the Population & Evolutionary Ecology
Laboratory at Bremen University, Germany. The candi-
date will work on clutch size, sex ratio, and dierential
mortality in the Bracon hebetor / B. brevicornis species
complex. Probably due to global warming, the Euro-pean corn borer recently became able to produce two
generations per year instead of just one, thereby drasti-
cally increasing its destructive potential in some areas.
Wasps of the genus Bracon are very promising addi-
tional biocontrol agents against this important pest. By
quantifying and mapping genetic variation for impor-
tant traits, such as clutch size or sex ratio produced,
we will be able to select for the most suitable Bracon
populations.
The main objectives of this project are (i) to analyse
the natural variation and heritability in the above men-
tioned traits, (ii) to map the genomic variation for under-
standing phenotype/genotype links (SNP), to analyse
dierential developmental mortality using transmission
ratio-distorting loci (TRDLs) and (iv) to analyses the
trade-os involved in phenotype expression. For more
details on this position, see http://bit.ly/1BgIUmm
We seek a bright, highly motivated, and enthusiastic
person able to work both as part of a team and indepen-
dently. The ideal candidate shall have a master degree
in natural science, preferably with a good background in
entomology, ecology, genetics and/or biological control.
Good skills in statistical data analysis (R) are a plus,
but training will be provided. The language in the lab
is English, and a high standard of spoken and written
English is required. Basic knowledge of the German
language and a valid driving license will be useful for
the eldwork.
Candidates must be, at the time of recruitment by the
host organisation, in the rst four years (full-time equiv-
alent) of their research careers and have not yet been
awarded a doctoral degree. This is measured from the
date when they obtained the degree which would for-
mally entitle them to embark on a doctorate. Eligible
candidates may be of any nationality but must not, at
the time of recruitment have resided or carried out their
main activity (work, studies, etc) in Germany for more
than 12 months in the 3 last years immediately prior to
the recruitment date.
The BINGO-ITN is funded by the EU Horizon 2020
programme and involves 12 partners from academia,
non-prot organizations and biocontrol industry located
in the Netherlands, Germany, France, Spain, Czech
Republic, Austria, Switzerland, Greece and Portugal.
BINGO's approach is multidisciplinary, encompassing
a broad range of scientic disciplines, including the ap-
plication of state-of-the-art population genomics. The
BINGO programme combines integrated training work-
shops and internship opportunities across the network,
with career opportunities in academia, public or the
private sectors.
You will work in close cooperation with PhD students24 EvolDir March 1, 2015
and researchers involved in related BINGO research
projects. Secondments are planned to other BINGO
participants. For more information about the BINGO
project and other PhD vacancies see www.bingo-itn.eu
To apply, please provide a letter of motivation and a
detailed CV by e-mail to: 1. Dr. Andra Thiel, thiel@uni-
bremen.de 2. CC to: info@bingo-itn.eu 3. Add subject:
BINGO-Application RP4 We will be considering appli-
cations until 31 March 2015, the envisaged starting date
is 1 May 2015
Margreet Bruins jinfo@bingo-ITN.nl j
|{
Graduate position: CABI.Switzerland.BiocontrolWaspRiskAssesment
A PhD student position within the EU-funded Marie
Sk3odowska-Curie Innovative Training Network BINGO
(Breeding Invertebrates for Next Generation Biocontrol)
is available at the CABI Centre in Del emont, Switzer-
land. The candidate will work on the benets and risks
of using native parasitoids for augmentaive biological
control of the invasive pest Halyomorpha halys in Eu-
rope. The invasive heteropteran pest Halyomorpha halys
is a rising threat to fruit crops in Europe but control
measures are lacking. Native European egg parasitoids
have started to adopt the new host H. halys and thus,
show potential for augmentative biological control. The
main objective of the project is to develop an innovative,
environmentally safe control strategy such as biological
control.
A thorough risk-assessment strategy and subsequent
monitoring of the released organisms are key compo-
nents of modern and environmentally safe biological
control procedures. The PhD candidate will conduct
laboratory and eld experiments to quantify the risk of
direct and indirect
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
KAUST SaudiArabia
MarineBiodiversity
Ph.D. Fellowship Opportunity at the Red Sea Research
Center, KAUST, Saudi Arabia.**Impacts of UVB Radiation on Red Sea biota - Ph.D.
Thesis to be co-supervised by Profs. Susana Agusti,
Carlos M. Duarte, and Christian R. Voolstra
The Red Sea is an ultraoligotrophic environment charac-
terized by highly transparent waters to damaging UVB
radiation along with very high temperatures. Recent
evidence suggests that Red Sea biota is highly vulner-
able to UVB radiation, which is exacerbated by high
temperature. However, UVB impacts have yet been
assessed only for zooplankton and picoautotrophs. This
project will characterize the impacts of UVB radiation
on key Red Sea biota, encompassing keystone species in
benthic (such as seagrass and corals) and pelagic (such
as phyto and zooplankton and meroplankton) habitats.
It will do so through eld observations and eld and lab-
oratory experiments assessing impacts of UV radiation
at multiple levels: molecular, cellular, physiological, or-
ganismal, holobiont and population levels. The project
will also assess complex interactions mediated by UV for
selected model species, including UV-driven constraints
on organismal life history mediated by ontogenetic vari-
ability in their vulnerability to UV radiation as well
as possible benets of UV radiation on Red Sea biota
driven by antagonistic eects resulting from UV impacts
on pathogens, parasites, and predators.
Key qualications (in addition to general KAUST re-
quirements, see below): Prior research experience ideally
including publications in international journals, SCUBA
diving, solid underpinnings in marine and molecular
ecology.
**About KAUST and the Red Sea Research Center
King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
(http://www.kaust.edu.sa) has been established as a
world-class international graduate-level research uni-
versity dedicated to inspiring a new age of scientic
achievement in Saudi Arabia that will also benet the
region and the world.
Inaugurated in early 2011, with the striking blue wa-
ters visible from its laboratory windows, the Red Sea
Research Center (http://rsrc.kaust.edu.sa <http:/-
/rsrc.kaust.edu.sa/ >) is well-positioned and well-
equipped to study the Red Sea with state-of-the-art
facilities and world-class researchers. The Red Sea Re-
search Center has delved into the volume of research
necessary to formulate a comprehensive understanding
of the Red Sea to conserve its rich ecology. The incredi-
ble biodiversity of the Red Sea holds untapped potential
and serves as a model for understanding biological sys-
tems and adaptation to extreme environments.
Successful students should apply to KAUST, indicating
that they already have an oer from their supervisorsMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 25
(see below), as these positions are contingent on the
students being admitted to KAUST. The application
term is open and incoming applications are reviewed
three times per year (see http://www.kaust.edu.sa/-
application-form-kaust.html for details on the applica-
tion process).
All students admitted to KAUST will receive a very
generous fellowship for the duration of their graduate
studies. The benets of the KAUST Student Fellowship
include:
- Full tuition support - Monthly living allowance (rang-
ing between $20,000-30,000 annual) - Free housing -
Medical and dental coverage - Relocation support - One
return ticket home every year
**Application
Applicants for this position are expected to have a high
GPA ( >3.5 of a maximum of 4), experience and back-
ground knowledge in the eld and impeccable English
(oral and writing).
Please send - CV - List of Publications - Letter of Moti-
vation (why you wish to conduct a Ph.D., what is your
understanding of what a Ph.D. involves, why you want
to undertake this project) - Names of 2 References
by March 30, 2015 to christine.nelson@kaust.edu.sa
Christian R Voolstra <christian.voolstra@kaust.edu.sa >
NewcastleU 2 PlantAdaptation
The School of Biology has an exciting opportunity for a
PhD studentship, starting Oct 2015. The strongest stu-
dent applying to any of the eight proposed plant-based
projects will be given the RB Cook studentship. The
studentship covers fees and maintenance for UK/EU
students.
Two of the proposed projects are in the area of evolu-
tion and ecology, complementing ongoing research in
the research group of Kirsten Wol.
Living on the edge: can adaptation at the edge of a
species range accommodate rapid climatic change in
a long-lived species? http://www.ncl.ac.uk/biology/-
study/postgrad/projects/adaptation.htm Genetic diver-
sity and evolution of nuclear restorer genes in gynodioe-
cious Plantago species http://www.ncl.ac.uk/biology/-
study/postgrad/projects/plantago.htm For how to ap-
ply: http://www.ncl.ac.uk/biology/study/postgrad/-
phds.htm Deadline: 20 March 2015.Further enquiries about these two projects: please email
with kirsten.wol@ncl.ac.uk
Dr Kirsten Wol Reader in Evolutionary Genetics New-
castle University, School of Biology Devonshire Building
5th oor Newcastle NE1 7RU, UK Phone: 0191 2084852
(internally 84852) email: kirsten.wol@ncl.ac.uk
www.sta.ncl.ac.uk/kirsten.wol/ http://-
research.ncl.ac.uk/tiliageneticsresearch/ Kirsten
Wol <kirsten.wol@newcastle.ac.uk >
NewZealand YersiniaEvolution
A graduate position is available in New Zealand to
work on the ecological and evolutionary genetics of a
curiously fascinating insecticidal species of Yersinia
and its grubby host. Applicants need to be highly
skilled in thinking, writing and communicating.
Being a whiz at the bench helps. Details here:
https://careers.sciencenewzealand.org/jobdetails/ajid/-
67Vw7/PhD-Studentship-in-Disease-Dynamics-of-a-
Novel-Insect-Pathogen,10532.html Paul Rainey
paul.rainey@espci.fr
NHM Oslo PlantSpeciation
Natural History Museum Doctoral Research Fellowship
in Evolutionary Biology (Plant Speciation)
One 4-year PhD position (SKO 1017) is available at the
Natural History Museum (NHM), University of Oslo.
The Natural History Museum, University of Oslo, is the
largest of its kind in Norway and has approximately
150 employees engaged in research, teaching, curating
of collections and public outreach in botany, mycology,
zoology, paleontology and geology. The museum is lo-
cated in the beautiful Botanical Garden close to the city
centre of Oslo.
Job Description
The position is connected to the project SpArc (High spe-
ciation rates in Arctic plants: genomic mechanisms and
relevance to the latitudinal diversity gradient), funded
by the Research Council of Norway for four years from
2015. The successful applicant will be part of a strong26 EvolDir March 1, 2015
project team including researchers at the University of
Oslo and international collaborators with long relevant
experience. We will design the PhD project to contain
a reasonable balance between high- and low-risk com-
ponents, and between relatively independent work and
work conducted in close collaboration with two postdocs.
The successful applicant is expected to carry out part of
the research in the laboratory of one of our international
collaborators.
The SpArc project follows up recent discoveries in arc-
tic diploid plants, showing that there are many cryptic
biological (i.e. reproductively isolated) species within
what has traditionally been recognized as well-dened,
single taxonomic species. In this project, we will identify
the genomic mechanisms of postzygotic reproductive
isolation in two arctic systems, and test whether more
southern oras contain similarly high, but hitherto un-
detected, cryptic biological species diversity. Based
on crossing experiments and high-throughput DNA se-
quencing we will address whether selfers contain more
cryptic species than outcrossers when controlled for
lineage age, and whether polyploid formation from a
diverse pool of recently diverged, cryptic diploid species
can help explain why the Arctic harbours one of the most
polyploid-rich oras on Earth. The project will provide
new and potentially ground-breaking insights into both
the dynamics of the latitudinal diversity gradient and
the fundamental process of species divergence.
The PhD fellow will participate in work to identify the
genetic mechanisms resulting in frequent reproductive
isolation using genome sequencing and high-throughput
QTL mapping approaches. She/he will also participate
in work to test whether the Mediterranean ora contains
high cryptic biological species diversity, with eldwork
to be carried out in 2015 in Spain and Greece.
The purpose of the PhD fellowship is research train-
ing leading to the successful completion of a PhD de-
gree. The fellowship requires admission to the PhD
programme at the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural
Sciences. Appointment to a PhD research fellowship
is conditional upon admission to the Faculty's research
training programme. A plan for the research training
must be submitted no later than two months after tak-
ing up the position, and the admission approved within
three months. Compulsory service, duty work, shall
represent 25% of the total hours of the PhD fellow's
work.
Requirements
We seek a person with strong collaborative skills and
motivation and ability to dene own research questions.
Applicants must hold a Master's degree or equivalent inrelevant elds in biology. She/he needs hands on experi-
ence with molecular laboratory work. Applicants should
preferably have competence in plant systematics. Skills
in computing and bioinformatics will be of advantage.
We oer
a challanging and friendly working environment salary
based on salary level 50 - 55 (NOK 429 700 - 466 800 per
year) favourable pention arrangement attractive welfare
arrangements workout during hours, 1,5 h pr week
Evaluation of the application
In assessing applications, particular emphasis will be
placed upon the academic and personal ability of the
PhD candidate to complete the project within the given
timeframe and write a thesis under supervision.
Interviews with selected candidates will be arranged.
We also refer to the English translation of regula-
tions pertaining to the conditions of employment
for PhD research fellowship positions: http://-
www.uio.no/english/research/doctoral-degree-and-
career/phd/application/ https://www.uio.no/english/-
about/regulations/personnel/academic/regulations-
employment-conditions-postdoc.html A good command
of English is required:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
OklahomaStateU
GrassTilleringGenetics
Research focus: We are seeking a highly motivated
student to conduct research on evolutionary and quan-
titative genetics of branching in grasses, as part of an
NSF Plant Genome grant focused on tillering in pani-
coid grasses (in collaboration with researchers at West
Virginia University, Brigham Young University, and the
University of California at Berkeley). The primary ob-
jective of this research is to use three panicoid grasses,
maize, sorghum, and Setaria, to identify components of
the gene regulatory network controlling branching. Our
lab is focused on Setaria, combining traditional QTL
mapping with expression QTL studies, mutant analysis,
and modeling to understand the genetic components ofMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 27
branching and their responses to environmental stimuli
such as shading. There is considerable exibility for
graduate projects within this broad theme.
Essential qualications include successfully completed
masters degree in genetics and/or molecular biology, ex-
perience in molecular lab techniques including working
with RNA, experience in growing plants, and excellent
writing skills. Desirable qualications include experience
with quantitative and phylogenetic analysis software,
next generation sequence library construction and data
analysis, and programming in R and/or Python.
Salary: Stipend will be $21,504 per calendar year plus
tuition and health benets. A mixture of TA and RA
positions over the course of the Ph.D. will allow you
to balance valuable teaching experience with research
time.
Application deadline: February 13th, 2015; but applica-
tions will be reviewed as they arrive.
Application materials: Please send a brief cover letter,
resume, transcripts, GRE scores, and contact informa-
tion for two references to andrew.doust@okstate.edu by
the deadline to be considered for this position.
Andrew Doust Botany Department Oklahoma State
University Physical Sciences 301 Stillwater, OK 74078
Phone: 405-744-9559 Email: andrew.doust@okstate.edu
Websites: http://botany.okstate.edu/people research/-
Doust/index.html http://tillering.okstate.edu/ http://-
osubioret.okstate.edu/ andrew.doust@okstate.edu
OxfordBrookesU 2 EvoDevo
Two fully funded 3 year studentships starting in Septem-
ber 2015 in the McGregor and Nunes labs:
Project 1: The development and evolution of organ size
Project 2: Investigating the contribution of genitalia
divergence to reproductive isolation and speciation in
Drosophila
For informal enquires please contact Alistair McGregor
(amcgregor@brookes.ac.uk) or Daniela Santos Nunes
(msantos-nunes@brookes.ac.uk).
For more information about the projects and the
host labs see: http://mcgregor-evo-devo-lab.net/-
McGregor lab/home.html http://bms.brookes.ac.uk/-
sta/maria-santos-nunes Start Date: 14th September
2015Closing date for applications: 15th March 2015
Value p.a.: Bursary of $13,863 for 2015/16 and fees
Applicants require a good Honours degree level equiva-
lent to a UK degree BSc (minimum 2.1 or higher).
EU Applicants must provide IELTS certicate minimum
score level 6 in each of the four areas of reading, writ-
ing, listening and speaking with overall minimum score
7.0 or undergraduate degree awarded by UK university
within the last two years. IELTS certicate must not
be older than two year.
Please note that only UK/EU applicants can apply
Please download application form at: http:/-
/www.hls.brookes.ac.uk/images/research/phd-
studentship-application-form-jan-14.doc Applications
will only be accepted by email to the Research
Administrator at the following address: hlsapplica-
tions@brookes.ac.uk
Please additionally submit a CV and if appropriate
IELTS test score certicate
As part of the studentship, any successful applicant will
be required to undertake up to 6 hours undergraduate
teaching per week during the 12 week semesters with-
out further remuneration. This may include supporting
the teaching of statistics. You will also be expected to
participate in a course to develop your teaching skills.
Dr. Alistair P. McGregor Reader in Biology Evolution of
Animal Development and Morphology Department of Bi-
ological and Medical Sciences Oxford Brookes University
Gipsy Lane Oxford OX3 0BP United Kingdom Tel: +44
(0)1865484191 Fax: +44 (0)1865483242 www.mcgregor-
evo-devo-lab.net { Dr. M. Daniela S. Nunes Lecturer
in Evolutionary and Developmental Biology Evolution
of Animal Development and Morphology Department of
Biological and Medical Sciences Faculty of Health and
Life Sciences Oxford Brookes University Gipsy Lane
Oxford, OX3 0BP UK Tel. +44 (0)1865 482741
Daniela Santos Nunes <msantos-nunes@brookes.ac.uk >
OxfordBrookesU ButteryEmbryos
A fully funded PhD opportunity is available in the lab of
Dr Casper J. Breuker (Oxford Brookes University):\How
does a buttery embryo cope with environmental stress?"
(Breuker lab: http://www.researchgate.net/prole/-
Casper Breuker) Collaboration with Dr Melanie Gibbs
Centre for Ecology and Hydrology (Wallingford)28 EvolDir March 1, 2015
Relevant Recent blogpost about our buttery em-
bryo research: http://cehsciencenews.blogspot.co.uk/-
2014/10/buttery-tennis-balls.html For enquiries
about the position please email Casper Breuker:
cbreuker@brookes.ac.uk
Details: Full details (and how to apply) can
be found at: http://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=3D61476ronmental stress?
at Oxford Brookes University
Funding notes: Competitive three year full time stu-
dentship Eligibility: Only(!) UK/EU applicants can
apply Closing date for applications: 15th March 2015
Start Date: 14th September 2015Value p.a.: Bursary of
$13,863 for 2015/16 & fees
EU ApplicantsRequire IELTS certicate minimum score
level 6 in each of the four areas of reading, writing, lis-
tening and speaking with overall minimum score 7.0. Or
undergraduate degree awarded by UK university both
not older than two years. Applicants required a good
Honours degree level equivalent to a UK degree BSc
(minimum 2.1 or higher)
Please download application form at: http:/-
/www.hls.brookes.ac.uk/images/research/phd-
studentship-application-form-jan-14.doc Ap-
plications will only be accepted by email to
the ResearchAdministrator at the following ad-
dress:hlsapplications@brookes.ac.uk
casper jbreuker@yahoo.co.uk
Paris6U
BioinformaticsMetagenomics
Hello,
Please nd below the description of a PhD position to
'Search for unknown environmental sequences of med-
ical/biological interest using large sequence similarity
networks'**
Our knowledge on the evolution of important gene fam-
ilies etc. have so far largely relied on the comparative
analysis of sequences from cultured microbial organisms
and their MGE, both from a medical and from a more
fundamental perspective. For example,the drug resis-
tance genes we know, or the DNA and RNA polymerases,
or ribosomal subunits we know, were mostly studied
in organisms with cultured genomes, which represent
a fraction of Life on Earth. The conservation, rate oftransfer, mutation or recombination rates, and Ka/Ks
ratio of these sequences have notably been investigated,
suggesting which gene families are more conserved, and
which ones are more evolvable. Importantly, the growing
amount of molecular data from environmental samples
or single cells (with the current development of single cell
metagenomics) is now providing important additional
data to test whether genetic diversity in environmental
sequences is signicantly larger than genetic diversity
in the gene families of cultured organisms (and their
MGE). A positive answer, indicating a potential greater
evolvability of environmental gene families than cur-
rently known, would thus challenge much of our current
biological inferences, because it would show to which ex-
tent the complexity of genes and genomes evolutionary
history had been underestimated.
Sequence similarity networks oer a promising comple-
mentary approach to phylogenetics to analyze metage-
nomic and genomic data and to investigate highly diver-
gent gene forms and relationships of distant homology.
These graphs allow for mathematical analyses of genetic
diversity and similarities over dozens of millions of se-
quences, providing a powerful framework to address the
evolution of composite genes and genomes.
Our lab is now looking for a PhD student in evolutionary
bio-informatics, who will be funded for three years by
an ERC grant (for a salary of 35,000 euros/year; approx-
imately 1753 euros/ month after taxes). The candidate
will take advantage of graph properties and algorithms
from the graph theory, inspired from the study of social,
regulatory, and interaction networks, and apply them
on publically available and original environmental data
toaddress questions such as:
- Can we detect new forms of polymerases/restriction
enzymes in temperate or cold environments ?
- Can we detect highly divergent drug resistance genes
in the environment?
- Can we identify divergent environmental homologs of
usually strongly conserved gene families in each/all do-
main(s) of life (such as ribosomal protein coding genes)?
The observation of conserved divergent groups of envi-
ronmental sequences may suggest the existence of still
undetected deep-branching microbial lineages in nature
He/she will also identify environments rich in divergent
gene forms and design original primers to look for mi-
crobes with highly unusual genes through single cell
genomic studies.
The PhD candidate will work within a consortium
of friendly bioinformaticians (Philippe Lopez), evolu-
tionary biologists (Eric Bapteste), and graph theorists
(Michel Habib, Laurent Viennot), and be hosted in theMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 29
University Pierre and Marie Curie in the center of Paris,
France. The current team description and publications
can be found at:http://www.evol-net.fr/ The candi-
date should have a good background in bio-informatics,
and/or a strong interest for evolutionary biology.The
position will start as soon as possible, ideally as early as
June 2015. Applicants are requested to send a detailed
resume, a motivation letter, a pdf copy of their masters
thesis, and the names of two scientic referees to:
eric.bapteste@snv.jussieu.fr
A rst round of applications will be closed by May 15,
2015.
Eventually, a second round of applications will be con-
sidered for a start in September/October 2015.
eric.bapteste@snv.jussieu.fr eric.bapteste@snv.jussieu.fr
QueensU 2 SeabirdAdaptation
I am looking for one or two PhD or MSc students or
a post-doctoral fellow to join my research team study-
ing adaptation in seabirds. We have two main study
systems:
1) Band-rumped storm-petrels represent an exciting case
of repeated parallel evolution of sympatric allochronic
races (populations separated by breeding time - basi-
cally, feathered sticklebacks). Initial studies in my lab
documented the pattern of divergence. We are now
investigating the mechanisms of parallel adaptation and
speciation using genomic methods. The new project will
entail combination of molecular data with an existing
large data set to estimate heritability of various mor-
phological and life history traits. Other projects within
this study system are possible. Field work on barren
tropical islands will be required.
2) Thick-billed Murres breed throughout the north At-
lantic, Pacic and Arctic Oceans, and are increasingly
challenged by climate change. The need, and the po-
tential, for a species to adapt to anthropogenic change
depends on the plasticity of key traits such as breeding
time and heat tolerance. I am looking for a new student
to combine genetic data with an existing large dataset
to study the tness eects and heritabilities of several
physiological and life history traits. Field work on a re-
mote arctic island will be required. This student will be
co- supervised by Dr. Kyle Elliott (McGill University).Applicants must have some background in evolutionary
genetics. Practical experience with genomics and bioin-
formatics is an asset. The successful applicant(s) will
join a dynamic group of faculty and students studying
ecology and evolution at Queen's University. Please
send a resume or curriculum vitae, informal transcript,
and contact information for two academic references to
Dr. Vicki Friesen (address below). Acceptance is con-
ditional on scholarship funding through either Queen's
University or an external agency. Positions are not re-
stricted to Canadians. Please contact vlf@queensu.ca
for further information.
Dr. Vicki Friesen, Professor Department of Biology,
4443 Biosciences, 116 Barrie Street, Queen's University,
Kingston, ON K7L 3N6, Canada Tel: 613-533-6156 Fax:
613-533-6617
Haida Saying: Treat the Earth well: it is not given to
us by our parents, it is loaned to us by our children.
Vicki Friesen <vlf@queensu.ca >
Rennes UWuerzburg
FishEvolutionSex
Evolution of sex determining regulatory networks
Sex can be determined by a plethora of mechanisms
and the dierent mechanisms do not follow a phyloge-
netic pattern. Moreover sex determination is highly
variable, sometimes even among closely related groups
of organisms. The current understanding is that the
primary signal, which triggers the genetic sex determi-
nation cascade, diers between the various groups of
organisms, while the downstream regulatory network
remained evolutionarily highly conserved. Our recent
results and a detailed re-examination of previous work
indicate however, that also downstream of the primary
sex determiner a great variety of molecular mechanisms
exist. This is in stark contrast to the molecular control
of other vertebrate organ systems. So far, no explana-
tion has been oered how such a variety in the molecular
pathways of sexual development is possible and why it
exists. Teleost sh show a particular wide variety of
sex determination mechanisms were even sister species
can have totally dierent modes how the male vs female
decision during embryogenesis is made. We use sh
of the genus Oryzias (medakas and related species) as
models to approach three major questions:
1.) Are dierent SD mechanisms triggering the same,30 EvolDir March 1, 2015
related or totally specic molecular pathways during the
process of the fate dierentiation of the gonad anlage?
2.) How stable are SD mechanisms in evolutionary
terms?
3.) What is the evolutionary meaning of the high vari-
ability of sex determination mechanisms?
The PhD project will focus on the identication of
chromosomal sex determination mechanisms in dierent
species of the genus and a comparative molecular char-
acterization of regulatory interactions of a known sex
determining genetic network from the medaka Oryzias
latipes in related species with similar or divergent sex de-
termining mechanisms. On the methodological level the
project will include up to date new sequencing technolo-
gies (RAD-tags, RNA-seq, ChIP-seq) and the tool-box
for functional analyses in evolutionary developmental bi-
ology (in-vivo bioimaging, conventional transgenesis and
genome editing by CRISPR/Cas9). The PhD project
is embedded in a binational collaboration between the
INRA institute for Fish physiology and Genomics in
Rennes, France and the Biocenter of the University in
Wuerzburg, Germany. The PhD student will be enrolled
at the International Graduate School of Wuerzburg and
work at both locations according to the experimental
plan during the progress of the project.
For more details and practical information, please con-
tact: Dr. Amaury Herpin (aherpin@rennes.inra.fr)
at Rennes and Prof. Dr. Manfred Schartl
(phch1@biozentrum.uni-wuerzburg.de) at Wuerzburg.
Amaury Herpin <amaury.herpin@rennes.inra.fr >
Sherbrooke
SexualSelectionKangaroos
Ph.D.: sexual selection in kangaroos. I am looking for a
student interested in exploring the determinants of mat-
ing skew and reproductive success in male eastern grey
kangaroos. The project will combine two three-months
seasons of eldwork in southern Victoria, Australia,
with analysis of an existing 7-year database including
ecological and morphological measurements and over
500 identied paternities in two populations. Over 1200
kangaroos have been marked and sampled, they are ha-
bituated and easy to observe. Nearly all individuals are
recaptured each year, to measure changes in mass and
size in this species with indeterminate growth. Appli-
cants should have a M.Sc. degree, strong quantitativeskills and experience in eldwork. Previous experience
with DNA analyses and quantitative genetics would be
an asset. A scholarship of Can$ 19,000 a year for 3.5
years is available. Holders of or strong candidates for
external scholarships will be preferred. The research will
be conducted in collaboration with Dany Garant at the
Universit e de Sherbrooke and Graeme Coulson at the
University of Melbourne. The Universit e de Sherbrooke
is a francophone institution, therefore either some knowl-
edge of French or an interest in learning it are essential.
If you are interested, e-mail me explaining why you want
to do this research and why I should be interested in
you, with a CV and the e-mails of two people able to
evaluate your potential as a researcher. The program
could start in May or in September 2015.
Marco Festa-Bianchet m.festa@Usherbrooke.ca See
http://marco.recherche.usherbrooke.ca/marco.htm and
http://marco.recherche.usherbrooke.ca/advice.htm for
more information
m.festa@USherbrooke.ca
SLU Alnarp PlantHerbivore
ParasitoidInteractions
A 4-year PhD position is available at SLU on the topic
\Plant Resistance Ecology: A new tool to engineer bio-
logical control of herbivores"
Several plant traits are important for plants' interactions
with herbivores and parasitoids. One very important
plant trait is resistance against herbivores. A general
question to investigate is how herbivore-parasitoid in-
teractions are aected when resistance in wild plants
evolves, and when domestic plants are bred for increased
resistance.
Horticultural plants are often dependent on biological
control of herbivores provided by parasitoids. This
ecosystem service may be aected if resistance increases
or declines during plant breeding. Knowledge regard-
ing such plant eects opens up novel opportunities to
actively breed for improved biocontrol. Similarly, plant
resistance evolution in natural populations may lead to
altered trophic interactions which could aect the level
of herbivory experienced by the plant.
The aim of this PhD project is to investigate how plant
resistance against herbivores aects plant-herbivore-
parasitoid interactions in woodland strawberry (Fra-
garia vesca). The PhD student will have access to aMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 31
large common garden with 100 wild plant genotypes,
that dier in their resistance against herbivores.
The full ad can be downloaded here: http://www.slu.se/-
sv/om-slu/fristaende-sidor/aktuellt/lediga-tjanster/las-
mer/?eng=1&Pid=1701 Johan
Johan A. Stenberg Associate Professor
Sveriges lantbruksuniversitet Swedish University of Agri-
cultural Sciences
Department of Plant Protection Biology PO
Box 102, SE-230 53 ALNARP Visiting address:
Sundsv agen 14 Mobile: +46 70 622 00 42 jo-
han.stenberg@slu.se, www.slu.se/stenberg Johan A
Stenberg <Johan.Stenberg@slu.se >
SwanseaU MicrobialGenomics
PhD studentship in Immunology and Evolutionary Mi-
crobial Genomics (Swansea University, UK)
General description: Research will be conducted un-
der the direct supervision of Dr. Thomas Wilkinson
and Professor Samuel K. Sheppard, and based in the
Department of Medical Microbiology and Infectious Dis-
eases at the College of Medicine of Swansea University
(United Kingdom). The successful student will join
a team of multi-disciplinary scientists working in the
MRC Cloud Infrastructure for Microbial Bioinformatics
(CLIMB) Centre and the BBSRC-funded medical mass
spectrometry team. More information on the research
group can be found on http://www.sheppardlab.com/
. Project details: Early and rapid detection of infec-
tion is a major goal of Clinical Microbiology. In par-
ticular an ability to dierentiate between sepsis and
other non-infectious causes of systemic inammation
such as Systemic Inammatory Response Syndrome
(SIRS) is particularly pertinent as it will determine
antibiotic administration. Recently, we and others
have identied 25-hydroxycholesterol as an important
inammatory mediator regulating the production of
pro-inammatory IL-1 driven responses. To date these
studies have linked inammation with the antiviral in-
terferon response. In this context less is known about 25-
hydroxycholesterol and bacterial infection. This project
will investigate whether major bacterial pathogens, in-
cluding Staphylococcus aureus, Campylobacter and Es-
cherichia coli generate unique metabolic signatures of
25-hydroxycholesterol and its degradation products. We
will use the whole genome data of over 5,000 bacterialisolates organised in our online databases to select the
major disease causing clones for host / pathogen whole
blood modelling prior to Mass Spectrometry analysis of
isolated sera.
The project will focus on two major areas of host
pathogen interactions: i) the cellular response of the
organism and host; ii) the population genomics of mi-
crobes so that host responses specic to a species or
evolutionary conserved lineages of pathogens can be
identied.
Requirements: Enthusiasm and practical experience in
immunology, microbiology, molecular techniques and
computer-based genetic analysis is necessary but train-
ing and support will be provided to strengthen these
areas. The successful candidate will be highly moti-
vated, creative, independent and have a good degree in
immunology, molecular biology, microbiology, bioinfor-
matics, genetics or ecology (BSc or MSc, 2:1 or 1st only).
Previous experience in a molecular biology/immunology
laboratory or in bioinformatics research is also strongly
desirable. Good English writing and oral skills are es-
sential.
Details: - The duration of the studentship is 3 years
(2015-2018). - The position is open until lled, but a
preferred deadline for application is 31st July 2015, to
allow for registration to start in the Fall semester. - The
position is fully open for UK and EU students. - Salary
will be commensurate with regular UK postgraduate
stipends, i.e. $13,863/year ( ~euro 18,425/year), tax-
free. - Tuition fees are fully covered by the studentship. -
Students will also have opportunities to attend national
and international conferences during their candidature
and a chance to compete for internal College of Medicine
travel bursaries.
Application: Please contact us (sheppard-
lab@gmail.com) for applications (please attach
CV and describe motivation). More details: http://-
www.sheppardlab.com/ Dr. Guillaume M eric NISCHR
Health Research Fellow Medical Microbiology and
Infectious Diseases Swansea University, College of
Medicine ILS1 Building Room 531 (Floor 5) Singleton
Park, Swansea SA2 8PP United Kingdom ~E-mail:
g.meric@swan.ac.uk Phone: +44(0)1792-606672 ~
Sheppard Laboratory: http://www.sheppardlab.com/
MRC CLIMB Consortium: http://www.climb.ac.uk/
Guillaume M eric <g.meric@swansea.ac.uk >32 EvolDir March 1, 2015
TrentU AmphibianPopGenetics
MSc, PhD, and PDF positions available V Amphibian
occupancy patterns, population genetics, and disease
dynamics
Funded by a Strategic NSERC grant (2014), we are
building a team of 4 PhD students, 2 MSc students, and
2 post-doctoral fellows, to work on research related to
the detection and monitoring of amphibians and their
pathogens (chytrid fungus, ranavirus) in Canada.
Using environmental DNA as a basis for the research,
the team will conduct: 1) Habitat occupancy model-
ing for amphibians and their pathogens; 2) Analysis of
the evolutionary dynamics of pathogens and amphibian
hosts; 3) Assessment of potential synergistic interactions
between pathogens and aquatic contaminants; and 4)
Modeling the drivers of amphibian population decline.
We may also include a component assessing host and
pathogen epigenetics and gene expression.
Students will develop research projects that t within
the context of the broader program, such as: Valida-
tion of eDNA for detecting amphibians; Assessment of
ranavirus pathogenicity; Chytrid fungus evolutionary
dynamics; and Modeling drivers of amphibian occupancy
and pathogen-induced gene expression. We are seeking
students to initiate their research in Spring or Fall 2015,
with the research to be conducted across southern On-
tario. At least 2 PhD students are needed by May 1,
2015.
Interested applicants should submit a letter of inter-
est, CV, unocial transcripts and names of 3 refer-
ences to: Dennis Murray, Trent University, dennismur-
ray@trentu.ca (www.dennismurray@trentu.ca). Because
several positions must be lled urgently, postings will be
closed as soon as qualied applicants are found. There-
fore, interested applicants should apply early.
Individual research team members also can be con-
tacted and include: Craig Brunetti, Trent University
craigbrunetti@trentu.ca (www.brunettilab.com); Chris
Kyle, Trent University christopherkyle@trentu.ca
(http://kylelab.nrdpfc.ca); David Green,
McGill University david.m.green@mcgill.ca
(http://redpath-sta.mcgill.ca/green/-
David%20Green's%20Home%20Page%20frames.htm);
David Lesbarreres, Laurentian University dles-
barreres@laurentian.ca (http://gearg.jimdo.com/-people/head/); Marie-Josee Fortin, Univer-
sity of Toronto mariejosee.fortin@utoronto.ca
(//labs.eeb.utoronto.ca/fortin); Chris Wil-
son, Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources
and Forestry chris.wilson@ontario.ca (http://-
web.nrdpfc.ca/cwilson.htm); Christine Bishop,
Environment Canada cab.bishop@ec.gc.ca (http://-
christinebishop.blogspot.ca)
dennis murray <dennismurray@trentu.ca >
TromsoUMuseum Metabarcoding
PhD Candidate in metabarcoding at Troms Univer-
sity Museum, Norway Application deadline: 10.03.2015
Ref.no: 2015/399 Troms University Museum has a
PhD position vacant from 1st of July 2015 for appli-
cants who wish to obtain the degree of Philosophiae
Doctor (PhD). The position is attached to the research
group in taxonomy and biodiversity. The appointment
is for a period of four years.
The PhD position will be connected to two ongoing
projects. 1) The Norwegian Barcode of Life project
(NorBol, http://www.norbol.org/en/) is a national net-
work of research institutions collaborating on DNA bar-
coding of organisms in Norway and a regional node in
the International Barcode of Life Project (iBOL). For
vascular plants, we do low coverage shotgun sequencing
of genomic DNA and assemble the whole plastid DNA,
nuclear rDNA and large parts of mitochondrial genome.
2) The After Ice DNA Metabarcoding project (http://-
en.uit.no/ansatte/inger.g.alsos) explores the occurrence
of boreal species at northern latitudes by ancient DNA
analyses using the P6 loop of the plastid DNA trnL
(UUA) intron. Lake sediments have been collected at
key sites for palaeoenvironmental reconstructions in
Norway and Svalbard.
The PhD candidate will bridge these projects by de-
veloping laboratory and bioinformatic tools to apply
shotgun sequencing on the ancient samples. This will
provide valuable data which the candidate will use to
explore eects of past climate change on e.g. species
turnover, dispersal, extinction, and phylogenetic diver-
sity. In both projects, we collaborate with colleges at
the University Joseph Fourier in Grenoble, who run
similar projects focused on the Alps, and the candidate
is expected to spend a 3-6 month research stay there.
See: http://www.jobbnorge.no/ledige-stillinger/-
stilling/110289/phd-candidate-in-metabarcoding-at-March 1, 2015 EvolDir 33
tromsoe-university-museum Best wishes, Inger
Prof. Inger Greve Alsos Troms University Mu-
seum P.O.Box 6050 Langnes NO-9037 Troms Nor-
way Telephone: +47 77 62 07 96 Telefax: +47 77
64 51 05 Email: inger.g.alsos@uit.no http://en.uit.no/-
ansatte/inger.g.alsos http://svalbardora.net/ Alsos
Inger Greve <inger.g.alsos@uit.no >
UAlaska Fairbanks
SedgeGeneticDierentiation
We have 2 years of funding for an MS or PhD student,
beginning this summer or later, to help determine levels
of genetic dierentiation between two sedge species. The
project would involve setting up and caring for common
gardens in remote parts of Alaska, carrying out lab work
(microsatellites or next-gen sequencing), data analysis
and paper writing.
The goal of the research is to determine whether the
common circumpolar sedge, Carex subspathacea, and
the less common C. ramenskii are genetically distinct.
Natural populations of the two taxa are morphologically
distinct, with one being tall and the other short. It has
been suggested that C. subspathacea and C. ramenskii
are actually a single species, and that the short stature
of C. subspathacea is maintained by heavy goose graz-
ing. In an experiment excluding geese on the YK Delta
where the two species co-occur, C. subspathacea reverted
to the tall form resembling C. ramenskii, while C. ra-
menskii reverted to the short-statured C. subspathacea
when grazed, suggesting that the two species are actu-
ally grazing morphs of the same species However on the
north slope of Alaska, C. ramenskii does not occur, and
C. subspathacea maintains its short growth form even
when excluded from grazing. This poses the questions
as to whether there is genetic dierentiation among pop-
ulations of C. subspathacea at the regional scale, and
whether C. subspathacea and C. ramenskii are indeed
grazing morphs of the same species.
If interested, please contact Diana Wolf
<dewolf@alaska.edu > and/or Roger Ruess
<rwruess@alaska.edu >
Diana Wolf phone:(907)474-5538 Associate Professor
fax:(907)474-7666 Institute of Arctic Biology Dept. of
Biology and Wildlife 311 Irving I 902 N Koyukuk Drive
University of Alaska Fairbanks Fairbanks, AK 99775-
7000http://raven.iab.alaska.edu/ ~dewolf/ de-
wolf@alaska.edu
UCologne 3 ArabidopsisAdaptation
The University of Cologne invites applications from mo-
tivated and committed candidates for a PhD position
in the research group of Prof. Juliette de Meaux in the
faculty of Natural Sciences.
Genetic adaptation is often shown to proceed by the
appearance of a mutation with a large eect that gets
quickly xed in the population. But these mutations do
not explain the whole of adaptation. We believe that a
signicant part of adaptation occurs by the accumula-
tion of small eect mutations, akin to those postulated
by Fisher in his innitesimal model. Can we understand
new aspects of adaptation if we dissect the molecular
origin of these mutations? This is the question we are
addressing in our laboratory.
In this project, the PhD candidate will decipher the
molecular basis of adaptive plastic responses in Ara-
bidopsis lyrata. Physiological responses to environmen-
tal stimuli are poorly known in the outcrossing A. lyrata,
despite its close relatedness to A. thaliana. Using a
quantitative-genetics crossing scheme, the candidate
will quantify cis-regulatory and dominance variation in
gene expression in environmental conditions reecting
regional climatic dierences. This approach will ex-
tend F1 hybrid studies pioneered by our lab. It aims
at highlighting the polygenic basis of local adaptation
in this species. This approach allows drawing the dis-
tribution of cis-regulatory mutations throughout the
genome. Molecular systems (e.g. GO categories, or
clusters of co-expressed genes) regionally enriched in
cis-acting mutations are likely target of region-specic
selection. These targets can subsequently be validated
in the lab, or in the eld. With this project, the PhD
candidate will acquire skills ranging from genomics to
molecular genetics and ecology.
The applicant must hold a Master degree in Biology or
Bioinformatics and prove interest in plant molecular,
population or ecological genetics. Experience in statis-
tical analysis of quantitative data is welcome. Some
background in Evolutionary Biology is a must. This
position is open to applicants of all nationalities but the
language in the lab is English. Applications or ques-
tions regarding the position should be sent by mail to
jdemeaux@uni-koeln.de, with the following subject line34 EvolDir March 1, 2015
~A euro \ PhD application Polygenic adaptation lyrata ~A
euro " de Meaux lab. A letter of motivation, a CV and
the contact to at least 2 independent referees should
be provided, all in a single pdf le. Revision of appli-
cations will begin on April 7th and continue until the
position is lled. Funding is for 3-4 years starting in
Summer/Fall 2015. For more information on our lab
and research visit our website http://www.botanik.uni-
koeln.de/1146.html Interested students currently com-
pleting their Master thesis are encouraged to informally
contact the PI if they have questions concerning the
position.
Cologne is Germany's vibrant Metropolis on the Rhine.
The city is well known for its wild carnival, its famous
Kolsch beer, its Cathedral and its vivid contemporary
art and musical scene. Cologne is the fourth biggest
city in Germany with over a million inhabitants from
all over the world and an interesting mix of restored his-
toric buildings and modern post-war architecture. Most
importantly, Cologne University is one of the oldest
and largest Universities in the Country. Our research
group is hosted at the Biological Center of the University
of Cologne and associated to the Excellence Research
Cluster CEPLAS (http://ceplas.eu/de/), which fosters
active interactions between plant scientists of the Uni-
versities of Cologne, Dusseldorf and the Max Planck
Institute of Plant Breeding Research. In this context,
our PhD students are assured to start their scientic
career in a world-class scientic environment.
|{
The University of Cologne invites applications from mo-
tivated and energetic candidates for a PhD position in
the research group of Prof. Juliette de Meaux in the
faculty of Natural Sciences. Genetic adaptation is often
shown to proceed by the appearance of a mutation with
a large eect that gets quickly xed in the population.
But these mutations do not explain the whole of adap-
tation. We believe that a signicant part of adaptation
occurs by the accumulation of small eect mutations,
akin to those postulated by Fisher in his innitesimal
model. Can we understand new aspects of adaptation
of we dissect the molecular origin of these mutations ?
This is the question we are addressing in our laboratory.
In this project, the PhD candidate will decipher the
molecular basis of adaptive plastic responses in the
model species A. thaliana. Using classical Qst/Fst ap-
proaches, the candidate will evaluate the importance of
several plastic responses for regional adaptation. This
approach will be complemented by an analysis of re-
gional cis-regulatory divergence with
/This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UFlorida InsectEvolution
Call for applications: PHD ASSISTANTSHIP AVAIL-
ABLE in the Lucky Lab at the University of Florida.
Research Focus: Insect systematics, speciation, biodi-
versity, ecology, population genetics, evolution and/or
citizen science. Focus on ants is preferred, but not
required.
Qualications: * Demonstrated ability to complete
projects and publish results. * Master's degree in en-
tomology, ecology and evolutionary biology or relevant
biological science. Applicants with intellectual interest
in ants and evolutionary processes are especially en-
couraged to apply. * Demonstrated ability to complete
projects and publish results. * Excellent written and
oral communication abilities. * Minimum GPA of 3.5
and competitive GRE scores. * Experience with the
following is an asset: insect classication, collections
management, morphological and molecular systematics,
bioinformatics, eldwork.
Interested candidates should send an email to Dr. An-
drea Lucky at alucky@u.edu with the subject header
PHD POSITION IN ANT BIOLOGY. Please include
CV, statement of interest and names and contact infor-
mation of three references. Applications will be consid-
ered on a rolling basis, but the suggested submission
deadline is March 6. Start date is Fall 2015.
Dr. Andrea Lucky. University of Florida Entomol-
ogy/Nematology. Gainesville, FL 32611-0620, USA.
Email: alucky@u.edu. Website: www.andrealucky.com
alucky@u.edu
UHawaii Manoa CaveshEvoDevo
UHawaiiManoa.EvoDevo Neuroscience Cavesh Two
Graduate students positions (EvoDevo and Neuro-
science) from 2015 Fall University of Hawaii Manoa,
Honolulu, HawaiiMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 35
We are looking for two graduate students who will work
on the elds of \EvoDevo" or \Neuroscience".
Our group mainly works on the evolution of behavior
and its underlying nervous system in Mexican blind
cavesh (Astyanax mexicanus). Besides its regressed
traits including eyes and pigments, cavesh evolved
multiple enhanced sensory systems to guides itself in
the perpetual darkness. However, its genetic/genomic
bases and the mechanism to integrate the extra sen-
sory information remain to be unknown. Our group
will thus investigate the molecular and genetic mecha-
nism to build constructive traits through evolution. The
successful candidates have experiences with standard
molecular techniques such as DNA/RNA extraction,
PCR etc. Research will require rearing and handling of
sh embryos and larvae and the experiences with these
will be signicantly considered.
Application details are described in http://-
manoa.hawaii.edu/graduate/content/zoology Ap-
plication deadline for 2015-2016 has already passed (Jan
15th) but applications will be considered up until Feb
23rd. Please contact the PI, Assistant Prof. Masato
Yoshizawa (yoshizaw@hawaii.edu) as soon as possible if
you have questions and/or consider this position.
Masato Yoshizawa Ph.D. Assistant Professor Laboratory
for Evolutionary Biology in Development and Behavior
Department of Biology University of Hawaii Manoa 2538
McCarthy Mall, EDM 216 Honolulu, HI 96822, USA
Tel: 1-808-956-6682 Fax: 1-808-956-4745 email:
yoshizaw@hawaii.edu
yoshizaw@hawaii.edu
UHudderseld 5
EvolutionaryGenetics
THE UNIVERSITY OF HUDDERSFIELD: DEPART-
MENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES, SCHOOL OF
APPLIED SCIENCES
The Leverhulme Trust Doctoral Scholarship Centre in
Evolutionary Genomics
Supervisors: Professor Martin B. Richards, Dr Maria
Pala, Dr Martin Carr, Dr Stefano Vanin
Five PhD Studentships in Evolutionary Genomics
Closing date for applications: March 31st, 2015
Funding availability: Funded PhD projects for UK/EUstudents
We are seeking the rst cohort of ve PhD scholars in
Evolutionary Genetics for the new Leverhulme Trust
Centre at Hudderseld, to begin in October 2015. The
scholars will receive training from leading experts in
their respective elds and undertake cutting-edge re-
search in archaeogenetics, palaeogenetics, bioinformatics,
genomics, next-generation DNA sequencing, phylogenet-
ics, population genetics, human evolution and forensic
analysis.
We envision openings this year in the archaeogenetics of
Europe, Southeast Asia/ Pacic and Native Americans,
working with mitochondrial DNA, Y-chromosome and
genome-wide variation (including ancient DNA), and in
forensic analysis on molecular insect identication from
South American and European archaeological burials.
In eukaryotic evolution, research work will include the
evolution of fungal genomes and transposable element
families.
The students will work in the new molecular biol-
ogy/ancient DNA facilities at Hudderseld, alongside
existing students in all of these areas and two research
fellows who will provide day to day guidance, along with
the academic sta.
Applicants should hold a good rst degree (and prefer-
ably also an MSc or MA) in Genetics, Molecular Biology,
Statistics, Computing, Bioarchaeology, Biological An-
thropology, or other relevant subject, and ideally have
experience of generic biological lab techniques such as
DNA extraction and PCR. For the insect-related project,
a general knowledge of general entomology/zoology and
invertebrate morphology is required. Although training
and hands-on supervision will be provided, it is essential
that the candidates can operate independently and take
the initiative to direct their research.
The studentship will cover the full cost of tuition fees
for UK/EU students, and will pay an annual tax-free
bursary of $14,057 for three years (RCUK rates). There
are additional funds available for laboratory consum-
ables and travel for conferences, visits to collaborating
laboratories and sample procurement.
To apply, please go to: http://halo.hud.ac.uk/-
pgronlineapps/ and complete the on-line application,
ensuring you select full-time PhD Biology. Please type
'Leverhulme Trust' in the 'Personal Statement' eld.
Please then email your CV, transcripts and two let-
ters of recommendation in support of your application
to Professor Richards (email: m.b.richards@hud.ac.uk).
Please indicate in your email which supervisor and kind
of project you are interested in, and why you believe
you are well-qualied for that project.36 EvolDir March 1, 2015
For informal enquiries please contact: Archaeogenet-
ics: Professor Richards on +44 (0)1484 471676 (email
m.b.richards@hud.ac.uk) or Dr Maria Pala on +44 1484
472273 (m.pala@hud.ac.uk) Eukaryotic evolution: Dr
Martin Carr on +44 (0)1484 471608 (m.carr@hud.ac.uk)
Forensic entomology/funerary archaeology: Dr Stefano
Vanin on +44 (0)1484 473179 (s.vanin@hud.ac.uk)
Related web links: http://www.hud.ac.uk/research/-
researchcentres/egrg/ http://www.hud.ac.uk/research/-
biologicalsciences/ http://www.examiner.co.uk/news/-
west-yorkshire-news/hudderseld-university-secures-1m-
funding-8557938 University of Hudderseld inspiring
tomorrow's professionals. [http://marketing.hud.ac.uk/-
HOSTED/EmailSig2014/EmailSigFooter.jpg] This
transmission is condential and may be legally priv-
ileged. If you receive it in error, please notify us
immediately by e-mail and remove it from your system.
If the content of this e-mail does not relate to the
business of the University of Hudderseld, then we do
not endorse it and will accept no liability.
M.B.Richards@hud.ac.uk
UIceland
PopGenParallelEvolutionCharr
*Ph.D. Scholarship: Population genomics of parallel
evolution in Icelandic Arctic charr *
What are the molecular underpinnings of parallel evo-
lution? Do the same pathways, genes or even alleles
contribute to divergence in multiple isolated populations
within a species?These and related questions will be ad-
dressed by a team of researchers, and a capable Ph.D.
student responding to this advertisement. The Ph.D.
project utilizes the parallel evolution of a small benthic
variety of Arctic charr /(Salvelinus alpinu/s) in Iceland
and is designed to investigate the genetics of this recent,
rapid and repeated diversication.
Project outline
Many key questions of evolutionary genetics can now be
investigated in detail due to theoretical advances and
high throughput molecular techniques. The project is
built on extensive ecological work on Arctic charr, a cold
adapted salmonid that invaded Icelandic freshwaters af-
ter the last ice age (about 12,000 years ago). In multiple
habitats, especially spring fed streams and lakes, charr
have diversied into limnetic and benthic forms, and in
some cases they coexist in sympatry. *The principalobjective of the research is to identify key genes and
pathways that associate with ecological specialization
(e.g. morphology, life history characteristics) in Arctic
charr.*The Ph.D. projects aims are to: i) Identify SNPs
that associate with dwarsm and/or morphotype and
assess if and how variation at these loci correlates with
ecological specializations across multiple populations. ii)
Test whether genes that associate repeatedly with eco-
logical specializations are under positive selection or if
they have experienced relaxation of purifying selection.
Ideal candidate and requirements
We are seeking a student with dedication, drive and
good theoretical background in population genetics and
evolution and an interest in the genetics of divergence.
The work involves planning and executing sampling in
the eld, acquisition and analysis of high-throughput
sequencing data and numerical analyses. The position
will be at the University of Iceland and the work will
take place there.Experts at the University of Guelph,
Canada, the University of Aarhus, Denmark, and the
Hlar University College, Iceland, will also participate in
the project.
Qualications
The applicant must have completed a M.Sc. degree in
Biology or related elds from a University approved by
the University of Iceland's Graduate School. Those with
an advanced degree including at least a 60 ECTS credits
thesis project will be given precedence.
Terms of employment
The PhD study should be completed within four years
of full time study. The PhD-student may be involved
in teaching, for two semesters maximum.
Application
Applicants should send a letter of intent (maximum
two pages) explaining your interest in working on this
project, why they want to pursue a Ph.D., what they
hope to gain and learn during their PhD studies and
what makes them suitable for this project. They should
also send a CV, transcripts of university diplomas,
courses taken at bachelor and masters level, degree
project thesis and names and contact information of
two persons that could provide letters of references. Ap-
plications should be sent before March 15th, 2015, to
sigsnor@hi.is <mailto:sigsnor@hi.is >.
University of Iceland
The student will join the Arctic charr group at the In-
stitute of Life and Environmental Sciences, under the
supervision of Sigurdur S. Snorrason, Arnar Palsson and
Zophonias O. Jonsson. The Arctic charr group consists
of several Ph.D. students and senior personnel, and hasMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 37
collaborators in Iceland, Denmark and Canada. The
combined expertise covers population ecology and genet-
ics, molecular biology and bioinformatics. At the insti-
tute we have well equipped molecular biology labs, and
instruments and computer pipelines for high through-
put sequencing, are accessible there or at collaborating
centers.
The University of Iceland strives to work against work-
place discrimination and to oer equal opportunities to
everyone.
For further information contact: Sigurdur S. Snorrason
(sigsnor@hi.is <mailto:sigsnor@hi.is >), Arnar Palsson
(apalsson@hi.is <mailto:apalsson@hi.is >) or Zophonias
O. Jonsson (zjons@hi.is <mailto:zjons@hi.is >).
Further information on Arctic charr group at the Uni-
versity of Iceland: http://luvs.hi.is/en/arctic-charr-
development-and-genomics Best regards, Arnar
{ Arnar Palsson - Associate Professor in Bioinformatics
Faculty of Life and Environmental Sciences University of
Iceland Sturlugata 7, 101 Reykjavik, Iceland Tel: +(354)
525 4265 Fax: +(354) 525 4632 E-mail: apalsson@hi.is
uni.hi.is/apalsson/en/
Arnar Plsson <apalsson@hi.is >
UKonstanz 2 EvolutionaryEcol
The Ecology lab at the University of Konstanz (the
group of Mark van Kleunen) and the lab of Biodiver-
sity Research/Systematic Botany (the group of Jasmin
Joshi) at the University of Potsdam are seeking to ll
two 3-year PhD positions in a DFG-funded project on
the role of epigenetic inheritance in rapid evolutionary
adaptation of invasive plants. The PhD students will
do common-garden experiments and molecular-marker
studies using plants from invasive /Solidago canadensis
/and /Solidago gigantea/ populations, and will do recip-
rocal transplant experiments with multiple invasive and
native species. One of the PhD students will be based
in Konstanz and the other one in Potsdam
Applicants should have a deep interest in plant inva-
sions, plant evolutionary ecology and evolution and hold
a Master degree (or equivalent) in the relevant research
elds (e.g. plant ecology, evolution). Applicants are
expected to have relevant laboratory experience, and an
interest in the design and analysis of ecological exper-
iments. This position requires strong communication
skills and strong writing and statistical skills (preferablyin R).The salary will be at 65% of scale 13 TV-L. The
latest starting date is 1 May 2015.
The University of Konstanz <http://www.uni-
konstanz.de/index.php?lang=en >is one of the Uni-
versities of Excellence in the Federal Republic of Ger-
many, and is located on a small campus just outside
the beautiful university town of Konstanz <http:/-
/en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Konstanz >, which is at the
shore of Lake Constance. The Ecology group <http:/-
/cms.uni-konstanz.de/vkleunen/ >is young and very
international, and works on a diverse set of topics, in-
cluding among others mating system evolution, plant
responses to global change and determinants of plant
invasiveness.
The University of Potsdam <http://www.uni-
potsdam.de/en/university-of-potsdam.html >is a
young and dynamic university and an equal op-
portunity employer. Potsdam is a beautiful and
green city close to the German capital of Berlin.
The Biodiversiy Research/Systematic Botany group
<http://www.uni-potsdam.de/en/ibb/researchgroups/-
fullprofessors/biodiversity.html >works on a diverse set
of topics such as plant adaptation to novel environmental
conditions, coexistence mechanisms in plant populations
and the relationship between biodiversity and ecosystem
functions.
If equally qualied, disabled applicants will be consid-
ered preferentially. We aim at increasing the number
of female researchers and encourage qualied women to
apply. The University of Potsdam and the University
of Konstanz make an eort to assist its members in
family-related issues. The University of Potsdam has
been repeatedly awarded the Total E-quality award, and
the University of Konstanz has been certied by the
Hertie Foundation to be a family-friendly institution.
If you are interested in one of these positions, please,
send a letter of motivation (also indicate whether you
would prefer the position in Konstanz or the one in
Potsdam or do not have a preference), a CV, a writing
sample (for example part of your MSc or Bachelor thesis
or a paper), and the contact details of two references
to marc.stift@uni-konstanz.de. Please, merge all these
documents into *a single PDF* le, and include your
name in the le name. The *application deadline *is
*15 March 2015*.
Mark van Kleunen
Mark van Kleunen <mark.vankleunen@uni-
konstanz.de >38 EvolDir March 1, 2015
UMontreal EvolutionaryPhysiology
*MSc/PhD Position in evolutionary physiology in Mon-
treal**
An opportunity is available for an MSc or PhD position
in the research group of Dr Sophie Breton at the Univer-
site de Montreal, to work on the only animal group that
diverges from the Strict Maternal Inheritance (SMI) of
mtDNA rule, i.e. bivalves with their radically dierent
Doubly Uniparental Inheritance (DUI) system.
Project: DUI is a mother-to-daughter & son and father-
to-son mtDNA inheritance system where females trans-
mit their mtDNA to all ospring, and males transmit
their highly divergent mtDNA to only their sons (M vs.
F DNA divergence >40%). However, the mechanisms
underlying DUI are still unknown and the cause of devi-
ation from the \SMI rule" in bivalves remains an open
question. This FRQNT-funded project aims to test
the hypothesis that has been proposed to explain the
function of the M genome in bivalves, i.e. that it could
increase the tness of sperm. Therefore, the successful
applicant should have experience or a strong interest in
evolutionary biology and physiology.
Qualications: MSc or PhD applicants should have (or
expect to complete) a BSc or MSc degree, respectively.
PhD applicants should have publications in PubMed-
listed journals. Applicants will be expected to apply for
scholarship funding support if selected for the position.
Full funding is available to support the successful can-
didate for two or three years in addition to a limited
travel budget. Expected start date is between June
and September 2015. The Universit de Montral is a
French language institution where graduate work may
be undertaken in English or French.
Interested students should contact
s.breton@umontreal.ca *before March 6* and at-
tach a CV, academic transcript, contact details of
two academic referees, and a brief description of their
research interests.
Please note that only those selected for an interview
(Skype or telephone) will be contacted. Preference will
be given to Canadian citizens and permanent residents.
{ Sophie Breton Professeure adjointe Universit de Mon-
tral Pavillon Marie-Victorin, Facult des Arts et des
Sciences CP 6128, Succursale Centre-Ville Montral QCH3C 3J7 514-343-7460 (tel)
sophie breton <breton.sophie@gmail.com >
UNevada Reno 2 Biodiversity
Two motivated PhD student applicants are sought to
work on projects related to a recently funded, highly
collaborative, NSF Dimensions of Biodiversity project
at the University of Nevada Reno. The research is fo-
cused on a well-studied, tropical system involving plants
in the genus Piper (Piperaceae), associated herbivores,
and parasitoid wasps and ies. Research will utilize
transformative and innovative approaches to quantify-
ing biodiversity that will allow us to link measures of
interaction diversity at an ecologically relevant scale to
genetic diversity, population genetic structure, and plant
chemical diversity. The research includes work in ge-
nomics, physiology, and phytochemistry laboratories, as
well as eld experiments and sampling in Mexico, Costa
Rica, Ecuador, Peru, Argentina, and Brazil. We are
looking for students broadly interested in evolutionary
biology and ecology, with specic interests in the evo-
lution of tri-trophic interactions, population genomics,
and the ecological and evolutionary consequences of phy-
tochemical variation. We are an interdisciplinary group
of ecologists, evolutionary biologists, and chemists; more
information about representative research activities can
be found at webpages for the various faculty participants
(Dyer, Forister, Jerey, Parchman, Richards, Smilanich;
http://www.unr.edu/eecb/people).
UNR has a strong interdisciplinary PhD program in
Ecology, Evolution, and Conservation Biology (http:/-
/environment.unr.edu/eecb/). Graduate students ac-
cepted into the EECB program are guaranteed nan-
cial support through Teaching Assistantships (TAs)
which includes health insurance and an out-of-state
tuition waiver. In addition, funds associated with this
project are available for summer support, Research As-
sistantships (RAs), and for eld work and data collection
associated with specic doctoral dissertation projects.
University of Nevada, Reno (UNR) is a Tier I research
university located in a spectacular environment at the
conuence of the Great Basin and the Sierra Nevada
Mountains. The faculty and graduate students at UNR
are highly interactive and include an internationally
known group of evolutionary biologists and ecologists.
We are equipped with cutting edge molecular and com-
putational resources for modern genome sequence anal-March 1, 2015 EvolDir 39
ysis, and a state of the art facility for phytochemical
and metabalomic research. In addition to the tropical
research, we are also located in an ideal setting for eld-
based science in the Great Basin and Sierra Nevada
regions, allowing enviable access to spectacular montane
and desert ecosystems. Reno is 45 minutes from Lake
Tahoe, oers a high quality of living, an excellent cli-
mate, and is a large enough city to oer diverse activities
and amenities. World class rock climbing, skiing, and
mountain biking opportunities are in extremely close
proximity.
Those interested should contact us via email
(tparchman@unr.edu, nolaclimber@gmail.com, mforis-
ter@unr.edu, etc.) with a description of your interests,
qualications and preliminary application materials (CV,
GRE scores, names and contact information for three
references).
Thomas L. Parchman Assistant Professor Department
of Biology, MS 314 University of Nevada, Reno Max
Fleishman Agriculture Building 1664 N. Virginia Street
Reno, NV 89557-0314 tparchman@unr.edu
Thomas L Parchman <tparchman@unr.edu >
UOttawa 2 FungalGenomics
Two Graduate Student Positions (MSc or PhD) in Com-
parative and Population Genomics of Symbiotic and
Pathogenic Fungi - Corradi Lab
The Corradi Lab is currently seeking two talented grad-
uate students (MSc or PhD level). Students will be
supervised by Dr. Nicolas Corradi within a CIFAR
(Canadian Institute for Advanced Research) - aliated
laboratory located in the Department of Biology of the
University of Ottawa, Canada. Lab Website: http:/-
/mysite.science.uottawa.ca/ncorradi/index.html The
candidates are expected to contribute to some of the
ongoing large-scale projects that focus on the Com-
parative and Population Genomics of two evolutionary
unrelated groups of fungi: the Arbuscular Mycorrhizal
Fungi (AMF) and the Microsporidia. Enquiries about
specic projects can be sent to Dr. Nicolas Corradi
(ncorradi@uottawa.ca).
Applicants are expected to have some background in
comparative genomics or populations genetics/genomics.
Prior experience in either Population Genetics, Environ-
mental Genomics, Metagenomics, genome annotation,
Environmental Sampling and Strain cultivation (AMFspores), Fungal taxonomy and programming will be seen
as an asset for the nal selection of the candidate. Basic
knowledge of Linux is desired. The lab is bilingual (En-
glish and French). For international applicants, uency
in French is considered as an asset, but is not required.
A complete application package includes 1) a CV, 2) a
short description of past research accomplishments and
future goals, and 3) the names and e-mail addresses of
at least 2 references. Evaluation of applications starts
immediately and suitable candidates are expected to
join the lab before September of 2015.
The University of Ottawa is a large, research-intensive
university, hosting over 40.000 students and located in
the downtown core area of Canada's capital city (http:/-
/www.science.uottawa.ca/fac/welcome.html). Ottawa is
a vibrant, multicultural city with a very high quality of
life (http://www.ottawatourism.ca/fr/)
Applications can be sent to Dr. Nicolas Corradi (ncor-
radi@uottawa.ca).
Representative publications:
- Parisot N. *, Pelin A. * et al. 2014.. Microsporid-
ian genomes harbour a diverse array of transposable
elements that demonstrate an ancestry of horizontal ex-
change with metazoa. Genome Biology and Evolution.
6 (9): 2289-2300. *Contributed equally.
- Riley R. et al. 2014. Extreme Diversication of the
MATA-HMG Gene Family in the Plant - Associated
Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi. New Phytologist. 201:
254-268
- James T.Y et al. 2013. Shared signatures of para-
sitism and phylogenomics unite the Cryptomycota and
Microsporidia. Current Biology. 23 (16), 1548-1553
- Tisserant E. et al. The arbuscular mycorrhizal Glomus
genome provides insights into the evolution of the oldest
plant symbiosis. Proceedings of the National Academy
of Sciences - USA. 110 (50), 20117-20122R576-R577
- Pombert J.F. *, Selman M.* et al. 2012. Gain and loss
of multiple functionally- related horizontally transferred
genes in the reduced genomes of two microsporidian par-
asites. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
- USA 109(31):12638-43
- Selman M. et al. 2011. Acquisition of an animal
gene by two microsporidia. 2011. Current Biology 21:
R576-R577
Nicolas Corradi Professeur Agr eg e / Associate Pro-
fessor Boursier de l'Institut canadien en recherches
avanc ees / Fellow of the Canadian Institute for Ad-
vanced Research Universit e d'Ottawa / University of
Ottawa D epartement de biologie / Department of Bi-40 EvolDir March 1, 2015
ology Pavillon Gendron / Gendron Hall Bureau 257 /
Room 257 30 Marie Curie Priv. Ottawa ON Canada
K1N 6N5 Tel. +1 (613) 5625800 # 6563 Website:http://-
mysite.science.uottawa.ca/ncorradi/index.html Nicolas
Corradi <ncorradi@uottawa.ca >
UPretoria FlyLongevity
PHD PROJECT AVAILABLE: AGEING, NUTRITION
AND OXIDATIVE DAMAGE
Funding is available to test the prediction that longevity
in ies is associated with patterns of reproductive ef-
fort, and that these patterns are linked to evolutionary
history and the cellular processes that may underpin
ageing.
Key to the project are selection lines that we have al-
ready established. We select for age of reproduction
by permitting female marula ies, Ceratitis cosyra, to
lay eggs into articial oviposition substrates at dierent
ages: 5, 15 and 25 days after adult emergence. Selection
will continue for at least 20 generations before testing
for dierences in nutrient intake and ageing mechanisms,
but longevity and reproductive eort is determined in-
termittently as the selection regime progresses.
An opportunity is available for an enthusiastic and mo-
tivated student to become involved with this project on
the evolution of ageing and work towards the degree
of Doctor of Philosophy. The PhD candidate will de-
termine how selection for age of reproduction aects
nutritional intake targets, accumulation of oxidative
damage and antioxidant capacity in the marula fruit y,
Ceratitis cosyra. This work will involve maintenance of
replicate selection lines, the setting up and maintenance
of food intake assays coupled with records of fecundity
and survival, assays of oxidative damage to proteins
(protein carbonyl group formation) and total antioxi-
dant protection, and assays of body composition (body
water, total carbohydrates, glycogen, lipids, protein).
Minimum requirements - Completed tertiary studies
equivalent to an MSc degree in Biochemistry, Biological
Sciences, Entomology, Genetics, Physiology, or Zoology -
Commitment to accuracy and ethical research behaviour
- Highly-developed skills in the use of SPSS, Statistica
or R, and interpretation of their output - Excellent
written and oral communication skills in academic En-
glish - South African citizen or permanent resident, or
a meritorious International applicantAll interested persons that meet the minimum require-
ments are encouraged to apply.
The successful applicant will receive a tax-free stipend
of R80000/year for three years. The project also in-
cludes funds for the PhD student to attend at least one
international scientic meeting, as well as meetings in
South Africa.
Applications must include an application letter that
provides evidence for the minimum requirements for the
position, a CV including the names and contact details
of two academic referees including the MSc supervi-
sor, and copies of academic transcripts that indicate
eligibility for the award of an MSc degree.
The project will be based in the Department of Zoology
and Entomology on the Hateld Campus of the Univer-
sity of Pretoria, and supervised by Dr. Chris Weldon,
Dr Ruth Archer (Max Planck Institute for Demographic
Research, Rostock, Germany) and Prof. Sue Nicolson.
The University of Pretoria is a research-intensive uni-
versity with campuses in Pretoria, its surrounds, and in
the country's economic hub, Johannesburg. Pretoria is
the administrative capital of South Africa and as such is
home to many international embassies. It is also located
centrally to large natural areas including the Kruger
National Park and several UNESCO World Heritage
sites.
Queries and written applications should be di-
rected by email to Dr. Chris Weldon (cwwel-
don@zoology.up.ac.za).
Applications close: 2 March 2015
Dr. Chris Weldon Senior Lecturer - Entomology
FliESjFlies of Economic Signicance Research Group
Department of Zoology and Entomology University of
Pretoria Private Bag X20 Hateld 0083 South Africa
http://www.up.ac.za/zoology/?q=user/156/research
http://sites.google.com/site/cwweldon/ Chris Weldon
<cwweldon@zoology.up.ac.za >March 1, 2015 EvolDir 41
UPuertoRico
GenomicsBioinformatics
*Joint MS/PHD program in Evolutionary Genomics
and Bioinformatics at the University of Puerto Rico at
Mayaguez and Penn State University*
The Caribbean Genome Center at the University of
Puerto Rico at Mayaguez (UPRM) in collaboration with
MCIBS Graduate Program Option in Bioinformatics
and Genomics <http://www.huck.psu.edu/education/-
bioinformatics-and-genomics >of the The Huck Insti-
tutes of the Life Sciences <http://www.huck.psu.edu/
>at the Pennsylvania State University (Penn State)
announces a new joint graduate program track in Ge-
nomics and Bioinformatics.
Successful candidates will in this program will rst be
admitted to the Masters of Science program in Biology
degree at UPR-M with the preferential placement in the
Bioinformatics and Genomics at Penn State conditional
after the successful completion of MS requirements de-
fense of the thesis at UPR-M. Graduate student support
will be available at both institutions (TA and RA).
Our joint graduate program promotes an interdisci-
plinary training in the biological sciences, that takes
advantage of our diverse faculty between the two insti-
tutions, joint laboratory, sequencing and computational
infrastructure, and a beautiful Caribbean location for
your research.
We are looking for enthusiastic, dynamic, and inde-
pendent students broadly interested in studying the
interface between genomics, molecular biology, evolu-
tion and bioinformatics. Candidates should ideally have
a B.S. degree in Biology or related discipline from an
university in Puerto Rico or the United States, and
must be procient in English with a good knowledge
of Spanish. Candidates with computer science and/or
bioinformatics skills are encouraged to apply. Partici-
pants are required to have good communication skills,
and the ability collaborate as part of a team to serve as
a link between faculties at both institutions. Potential
research projects will combine elements of molecular
biology, biochemistry, next generation sequencing, bioin-
formatics, physiology, and molecular evolution with an
emphasis on the Caribbean region.
More information on the research at the Caribbean
Genome Center research is available at the CGCwebsite (http://www.oleksyk.com), and the Huck In-
stitute for Life Sciences (http://www.huck.psu.edu/-
content/research). Potential candidates will be re-
quired to rst apply directly to the Graduate Pro-
gram in the Department of Biology at UPR-M
( https://app.applyyourself.com/AYApplicantLogin/-
ApplicantLogin.asp?id=UPR-GMAYA). At the same
time, please apply directly to the program at http://-
www.oleksyk.com/apply/ to be considered for the joint
program. Please provide a brief description of your
background, your research interests, and your reasons
for considering the Caribbean Genome Center at UPRM
for graduate training.
The application deadline for the 2015-2016 academic
year is February 15, 2015.
Please email your questions to Taras Oleksyk (UPR-M)
and Cooduvalli Shashikant (PSU)
*Dr. Taras K Oleksyk*
Associate Professor of Biology
Director of the Caribbean Genome Center
Unievristy of Puerto Rico at Mayaguez
Mayaguez, PR 00680
Dna.lab@upr.edu
*Dr. Cooduvalli S Shashikant* Associate Professor of
Molecular and Developmental Biology Department of
Animal Science, College of Agricultural Sciences Pro-
gram Director, CBIOS Predoctoral Training Program <
http://www.huck.psu.edu/content/graduate-programs/-
computation-bioinformatics-statistics >Co-Director,
MCIBS Graduate Program Option in Bioinformatics
and Genomics <http://www.huck.psu.edu/education/-
bioinformatics-and-genomics >The Huck Institutes of
the Life Sciences <http://www.huck.psu.edu/ >The
Pennsylvania State University
css13@psu.edu
Taras K Oleksyk <taras.oleksyk@upr.edu >42 EvolDir March 1, 2015
UQueensland Australia
AlgalGenomicsBioinformatics
A PhD studentship opportunity is available with Profes-
sor Mark Ragan and Dr Cheong Xin Chan in the Aus-
tralian Research Council funded project \Symbiodinium:
the evolutionary transition to coral reef symbiont", at
The University of Queensland's Institute for Molecular
Bioscience. Enthusiastic, qualied Masters or Honours
graduates are encouraged to apply.
The successful candidate is likely to have advanced skills
in molecular or evolutionary bioscience, bioinformatics
and/or computational biology. Knowledge and interest
in coral reef biology would be an advantage.
This position is created within a Discovery Projects
grant funded by the Australian Research Council to
understand the evolutionary transition of the dinoagel-
late algae Symbiodinium to coral reef symbiont. Coral
reefs are sustained by symbiosis between Symbiodinium
and the coral host, and breakdown of this symbiosis un-
der environmental stress results in coral bleaching and
eventual death. Through genome sequencing of eight
Symbiodinium isolates from reef corals plus two free-
living relatives, the Project aims to identify genes that
have been gained, lost or shared, or are under adaptive
selection, along the trajectory from free-living forms to
symbionts.
The University of Queensland's Institute for Molecular
Bioscience is a leading global research institute. IMB
was established in 2000 as UQ's rst research institute
and is the cornerstone of one of the largest bioscience
research precincts in Australia.
Acceptance is contingent on the candidate (a) being ex-
empt from registration fees, or securing a full fee waiver
from the University of Queensland; and (b) securing at
least 50% scholarship support for living stipend.
Please email enquiry to: Professor Mark Ragan
(m.ragan@uq.edu.au) The University of Queensland In-
stitute for Molecular Bioscience
More info about Ragan group: http://imb.uq.edu.au/-
mark-ragan More info about postgraduate stud-
ies at the IMB: http://postgraduate.imb.uq.edu.au/-
index.php?id=1 c.chan1@uq.edu.auUSaskatchewan
RedSquirrelPhenology
I am currently advertising one Ph.D. student opening in
my lab in the Department of Biology at the University
of Saskatchewan (www.lanelab.ca) to begin September,
2015. Funding will be provided through a departmental
or university-level teaching assistantship or scholarship.
Competition for these funding sources is approaching
quickly (one scholarship deadline is March 2 and another
is a couple of weeks later). If you are interested in this
position, therefore, please apply ASAP.
The Project: Reproductive phenology of North Amer-
ican red squirrels (Ph.D.) The Kluane Red Squirrel
Project (KRSP) was initiated in the late 1980s and
now represents one of the longest running and most-
comprehensive studies of a wild mammal in the world.
Researchers from multiple universities are involved and
exciting collaborations have produced many important,
interdisciplinary ndings. A clear strength of this
project stems from our ability to quantify the primary
food resource for individual red squirrels (white spruce
seed, cached as cones). This project will investigate
the causes and consequences of phenological variation
of individual red squirrels. Phenological shifts are now
the most often cited ecological responses to climate
change and can have substantial consequences for in-
dividual tness and population viability. Quantitative
genetics analyses will be used to estimate heritabilities
and genetic correlations (i.e., evolutionary potential)
in phenological traits and opportunities are available
to collaborate with other researchers in energetic phys-
iology, population ecology, endocrinology and animal
behaviour. All eldwork will occur in the spectacular
southwest Yukon Territory at KRSPs eld camp.
Relevant literature: Lane, J.E., L.E.B. Kruuk, A. Char-
mantier, J.O. Murie and F.S. Dobson. 2012. Delayed
phenology and reduced tness associated with climate
change in a wild hibernator. Nature 489: 554-557.
Williams, C.T., J.E. Lane, M.M. Humphries, A.G.
McAdam and S. Boutin. 2013. Reproductive phenol-
ogy of a food-hoarding mast-seed consumer: resource-
and density dependent benets of early breeding in red
squirrels. Oecologia 174: 777-788.
Boutin, S. and J.E. Lane. 2014. Climate change and
mammals: evolutionary versus plastic responses. Evolu-March 1, 2015 EvolDir 43
tionary Applications 7: 29-41.
Graduate student funding at the UofS is quite com-
petitive so the successful applicant will have a GPA
>80% (converted to the UofS 1-100 scale) over the past
two years of schooling and a degree in a relevant disci-
pline (i.e., Ecology, Evolutionary Biology, Physiology,
Environmental Biology). Of note, while I certainly ap-
preciate the hard work that is put into obtaining a
degree in Biotechnology, I do not view this as relevant
experience for these positions. In addition, a passion for
eldwork (in a beautiful, but remote, place), strong sci-
entic communication skills (both written and oral) and
statistical prociency (or a willingness to gain it) is nec-
essary. Evidence of scientic productivity (manuscripts
published or in preparation, conference attendance and
presentation) is also expected.
If you are interested in applying for this position, please
submit a cv (including names and contact details of
references), a short (1 pg) description of research in-
terests and an unocial copy of your transcripts to
jerey.lane@usask.ca. Applications will be accepted up
to May 31, 2015, but will be evaluated as theyre re-
ceived. To ensure full consideration of your application,
therefore, please submit asap. Any questions can be
directed to Je Lane (email above).
\Lane, Jerey" <jerey.lane@usask.ca >
USaskatchewan WildHorses
Ph.D. applications to work with the wild (feral) horses
of Sable Island, Nova Scotia: focus on ecology and evo-
lution and/or conservation.
Location: University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan, Canada
Closing: Will need to contact me as soon as possible to
put together an application for internal scholarship, due
Thursday, March 5, 2015. Start date is negotiable, but
ideally students would be available July 1 or August 1
for immediate eld work. Application for the scholar-
ship will require an application to the U of S College
of Graduate Studies and Research (online) well ahead
of time, and to meet the deadline for the scholarship
applications should be submitted asap (small online fee),
i.,e., by early February. Students must have a record
of publication in mainstream peer-reviewed journals
and GPA of 3.8 or higher (to be competitive for this
scholarship opportunity).Apply: Email me a CV and pdf copies of both
undergrad and graduate transcripts. Email to
philip.mcloughlin@usask.ca. Please write Island PhD
as the subject line.
Description: We are developing a long-term, collabo-
rative individual-based program of research into the
ecology and evolution of the feral horses living on Sable
Island, Nova Scotia. As part of this initiative, I am look-
ing to recruit a Ph.D. student to ask fundamental ques-
tions of the population ecology, life history, behaviour,
conservation, and/or evolution of the feral horse pop-
ulation. I am particularly looking for a mature M.Sc.
student that is interested in developing a Ph.D. program
that will contribute to and make use of the long-term
dataset my lab is collecting on the life histories of the
horses on the island, and collaborate with geneticists
aligned with our program. This summer was the seventh
year of data collection, which includes summer censusing
and identication of all individuals on the island using
digital photography, and documentation of individual
life histories with the goal of constructing whole-island
pedigrees. Sample sizes are large, with 552 horses alive
on the island in Aug 2014. Ph.D. students with 2V3
years of further data collection will be in a position
to ask interesting questions regarding the populations
mating system, landscape and conservation genetics,
individual-based dynamics, band dynamics and disper-
sal, behaviour and dominance, habitat selection, social
networks, sex ratios and sexual selection, and questions
involving traits such as intestinal parasite communities,
body size and coloration patterns. Trends in the above
will likely be related to a very strong and interesting
gradient in habitat quality along the length of Sable
Island from west to east, associated with availability of
preferred forage and access to fresh water (horse den-
sity drops by half from west to east). We are also very
interested in students with a background in conserva-
tion biology as we are currently developing a research
theme examining the risks inherent to small populations
like that on Sable, including inbreeding depression and
demographic stochasticity.
Field work on Sable Island is a team eort, and all
students must be prepared to contribute to common
aspects of eld work and assist others with their projects
in addition to working on their own research program.
The former will include daily walking censuses and pho-
tography of horses, identifying individuals from digi-
tal photographs, database management, and collection
of samples. All projects on the island ow from the
individual- based study of the horse population, and
contributing to the overall success of each eld season
is a requirement. For this particular application we
are looking for a eld team leader, and a demonstrated44 EvolDir March 1, 2015
ability to ll such a role will be considered an asset.
The successful student must work well in teams, deal
well with life in a remote research station, be able to
travel for eld work for up to 2 months per summer
by small airplane, shing trawler, helicopter, or frigate;
accept the limited diet available in remote eld camps
(with communal cooking), and be reasonably t (as
walking censuses require lots of hiking). Courses on rst
aid and driving All Terrain Vehicles will be provided
prior to eld work. Field work will occur principally
in late summer on Sable Island; further information on
this eld site can be found at my lab website, http:/-
/mcloughlinlab.ca/lab/ It is important for applicants
to be mature enough to develop their own insightful
questions. That said, our lab is following several lines of
research that potential students may want to build on.
Current students are studying or have studied spatial
heterogeneity in horse population growth on the island,
stress as it relates to band structure and dynamics from
cortisol (from hair), parasites, dispersal, body size, con-
dition, patterns in vegetation and successional dynamics,
and
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UZurich
ExperimentalBiodemography
Subject: PhD position in Experimental Biodemography
at University of Zurich (March 23rd deadline)
We are looking for an enthusiastic PhD student with
quantitative skills to work in experimental biodemog-
raphy at University of Zurich. Details of the position
can be found at http://www.popecol.org/phd-position/
Potential candidates can get in touch with me for more
information. The application deadline is March 23rd.
Arpat Ozgul
Assistant Professor of Population Ecology
Institute of Evolutionary Biology and Environmental
StudiesjUniversity of Zurich Oce: 34-J-24 j+41 (0)44
63 *54746*jarpat.ozgul@ieu.uzh.ch jwww.popecol.org
Arpat Ozgul <arpat.ozgul@ieu.uzh.ch >UZurich Macroevolution
Graduate position in macro-evolution / systematics /
macro-ecology in Zurich.
The Cape ora of South Africa is arguably the most
species-rich temperate ora, and this richness is ex-
pressed at both local (alpha-diversity) and regional
(gamma-diversity) level. Much of this diversity was
generated in a small number of radiations, conse-
quently many closely related species co-exist. We
will explore the traits that allow such co-existence.
This research involves, inter alia, phylogeny reconstruc-
tions (in order to explore phylogenetic community as-
sembly and phylogenetic beta-diversity), anatomical-
morphological research (to compare the traits of co-
existing species), eco-physiological experimentation, and
eld work. The work will be supervised by Peter Lin-
der (peter.linder@systbot.uzh.c), and will be based in
the Institute of Systematic Botany of the University
of Zurich (http://www.systbot.uzh.ch/index en.html ).
These projects are part of a research program using the
Cape ora as test case to investigate the evolution of
plant diversity.
Successful candidates will have a Masters degree in
botany / plant sciences and a valid drivers licence. In-
terested candidates should send Peter Linder their CV's,
the names of three potential referees, and a motivativion
letter detailing why you are interested in this research.
Peter Linder Institute of Systematic Botany University
of Zurich Zollikerstrasse 107 CH-8008 Zurich Switzer-
land
Email: peter.linder@systbot.uzh.ch
Peter Linder <peter.linder@systbot.uzh.ch >
Vienna PlantGenomics
A PhD student position funded by the Austrian Science
Fund (FWF) is available in the group of Plant Eco-
logical Genomics (http://plantgenomics.univie.ac.at) at
the University of Vienna, Austria within the project
\Understanding evolution through recurrent allopoly-
ploidization". The fellow will be investigating the im-March 1, 2015 EvolDir 45
pact of polyploidization on adaptation in wild European
orchid allopolyploids (see www.botanik.univie.ac.at/-
systematik/projects/dactylorhiza/). We will combine
the most recent genomic and transcriptomic technolo-
gies with eld experiments to investigate the nature
and adaptive value of the molecular diversity produced
by iterative allopolyploidizations to result in rapid eco-
logical diversication. The research will also involve
working with environmental data, both climatic data
and metagenomic biotic data. Field work across large
European areas will be undertaken by the team yearly.
We are looking for a highly motivated candidate with an
excellent academic track record. A MSc degree (or equiv-
alent) in a related discipline (e.g., molecular ecology,
genetics, bioinformatics, evolution) is desirable. The
successful candidate is expected to be able to demon-
strate some previous experience with evolutionary or
ecological studies. Experience with next generation se-
quencing methodology and/or knowledge of R are a plus,
but excellent organization and communication skills are
a must.
The position oers a competitive salary (of ca. euro
28,000 per year before tax according to FWF regulations,
including social and health security), the opportunity to
attend two workshops/summer schools and two interna-
tional conferences, and to shortly visit a collaborating
lab abroad. According to performance, the fellow may
become associated with the Vienna Graduate School of
Population Genetcs (http://www.popgen-vienna.at/),
with additional benets.
The working language in our laboratory is English; how-
ever, German skills will be helpful for everyday life in
Vienna. Vienna is a highly attractive city in beauti-
ful surroundings, with a multinational population, and
many educational and recreational opportunities. The
presence of several outstanding research groups (see
www.univie.ac.at/evolvienna/) make Vienna a hot spot
of evolutionary research and oers ample opportunities
for interactions with peers.
To be considered please send your application per email
to ovidiu.paun@univie.ac.at including your CV, a two
pages letter of intent describing why are you personally
interested in this position and why is polyploidy impor-
tant for plant evolution, and the names and contacts of
three academic referees. Incomplete applications will
be disregarded. Screening of applications will begin
immediately and will continue until the position is lled.
The latest preferred start date is April 1st, 2015.
Dr Ovidiu Paun Department for Botany and Biodi-
versity Research University of Vienna Rennweg 14,
A - 1030 Vienna http://plantgenomics.univie.ac.at
ovidiu.paun@univie.ac.atVienna PopulationGenetics
PhD positions in Population Genetics
Over the past years, Vienna has developed into one
of the leading centres of population genetics. The Vi-
enna Graduate School of Population Genetics has been
founded to provide a training opportunity for PhD stu-
dents to build on this excellent on site expertise.
We invite applications from highly motivated and out-
standing students with a background in one of the follow-
ing disciplines: bioinformatics, statistics, evolutionary
genetics, functional genetics, theoretical and experimen-
tal population genetics. Students from related disci-
plines, such as physics or mathematics are also welcome
to apply.
Topics include:
| Characterizing piRNA content in D. melanogaster
and D. simulans | Population history and adapta-
tion in natural Arabidopsis populations | Population
trees and polymorphism-aware phylogenetic models |
Episodic selection histories and co-evolution | Wol-
bachia infection dynamics in evolving Drosophila popu-
lations | Functional characterization of benecial al-
leles in Drosophila | Genomic signature of migration
between populations adapted to dierent environments
| Identication and characterization of naturally oc-
curring variation aecting reproductive diapause in D.
melanogaster | Modied evolve and re-sequence design
| Convergent and adaptive evolution during ecotype
formation in Arabidopsis arenosa | Convergent and
adaptive evolution during high-alpine ecotype formation
in Heliosperma (Cariophylaceae | The role of epistasis
for the invasion, establishment, and survival of locally
benecial mutations
Only complete applications (application form, CV, mo-
tivation letter, university certicates, indication of the
two preferred topics in a single pdf) received by May 03,
2015 will be considered. Two letters of recommendation
need to be sent directly by the referees.
All information about the about available topics, the
training program and the application procedure can be
found at www.popgen-vienna.at Regards, Julia
{ Dr. Julia Hosp Vienna Graduate School of Pop-
ulation Genetics Coordinator www.popgen-vienna.at
c/o Institut f ur Populationsgenetik Vetmeduni46 EvolDir March 1, 2015
Vienna Veterin arplatz 1 A-1210 Vienna http://-
www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/population-genetics/ Tel:
+43 1 25077 4338 Fax: +43 1 25077 4390SMBE 2015 in Vienna http://smbe2015.at ju-
lia.hosp@gmail.com
Jobs
Africa WildlifeProjectCoordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
AMNH NewYork CuratorComparativeBiology . . . . . 46
CheetahConservationFund Namibia LabTech ConsGe-
netics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
ChineseU HongKong ResAssociate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
ColoradoStateU GuppyBehavior SummerREU . . . . .48
CornellU FieldAssist PlantPollinatorEvolution . . . . .48
GoetheU Frankfurt Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
HarvardMedSchool 2 LabTech ancientDNA . . . . . . . .50
HarvardU Herbaria BiodiversityInformatics . . . . . . . .51
ImperialCollege London ResAssoc EvolutionaryGe-
nomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
ImperialCollege London ResAssoc EvolutionaryGe-
nomics 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
INRA France 30 EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Kunming ResAssist EvolutionCooperation . . . . . . . . .54
MaxPlanckInst Ornithology FieldAssist BlueTits . . 54
MountainLakeBiologicalStation UndergradSummer 55
NCMuseum Raleigh EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
NHM Oslo PlantSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .56Rennes ResAssist PopulationModeling . . . . . . . . . . . . .57
RoyalBCMuseum VictoriaCanada EntomologyCurator
58
Sacramento California Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Sweden 6 Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Taipei EvolutionaryBiologist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Taipei PlantBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .60
TulaneU 2 ResAssist Hawaii . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .60
UAlabama Director MuseumResearch Collections . .61
UCLondon Independent Fellowships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UHawaii Hilo EvolutionBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UKent Tech BlastocystisAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
ULondon Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
UMainz EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .64
UMinnesota PlantEvolGenetics SummerREU . . . . . . 65
UOregon ResAssist AgingBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .66
UReading EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .66
USussex EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Vienna ComputationalBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Africa WildlifeProjectCoordinator
Job Title African Wildlife forensics: project coordinator.
Salary Up to 35,000 GBP per annum
Start date: April / May 2015
Role A two-year full-time post is available for a projectcoordinator to help deliver wildlife forensic capacity
to Southern and Southwestern Africa. The project,
funded under the UK Illegal Wildlife Trade Challenge
Fund, aims to coordinate the development of a regional
wildlife DNA forensics network with hubs in Botswana
and Gabon. The successful applicant will have expe-
rience of forensic science, evolutionary genetics and
project management, and ideally experience of working
in developing countries. The post will involve extensive
independent travel, principally in Africa but also world-
wide; uent written and spoken English is essential andMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 47
French language ability is desirable.
TRACE Wildlife Forensics Network is a UK based spe-
cialist NGO working primarily in Southeast Asia and
Africa to build capacity for the application of forensic
science to wildlife law enforcement. This project will
be undertaken in collaboration with the United Nations
Oce on Drugs and Crime.
For further information please contact: Dr. Rob Og-
den, Programme Director, TRACE Wildlife Forensics
Network. Email: rob.ogden@tracenetwork.org;
Applicants should email a C.V. and letter of application
as word documents or pdfs to info@tracenetwork.org
Closing date: 21st of February 2015.
Ross McEwing <ross.mcewing@tracenetwork.org >
AMNH NewYork
CuratorComparativeBiology
Senior Search: Curator, Professor, and Director of Com-
parative Biology Initiative, American Museum of Natu-
ral History
The American Museum of Natural History (AMNH) in
New York invites applications and nominations for an
outstanding scholar at the Full Curator & Full Professor
level with internationally-recognized research and leader-
ship credentials, and demonstrated, ongoing high-impact
research productivity and grantsmanship, to provide in-
novative leadership for a new museum-wide initiative in
comparative biology. This initiative will incorporate the
work of multiple investigators at the Museum and at col-
laborating institutions in genomics (including eukaryotic
[including microbial] genomics, metagenomics, phyloge-
nomics, transcriptomics, etc.), phenomics (large-scale
phenotypic analysis) and bioinformatics/computational
biology, aimed at understanding the evolution and rela-
tionships of organisms in ways that clarify and illumi-
nate the architecture of life. The successful candidate
for this position should show experience and interest
in managing large-scale, interdisciplinary, collaborative,
multi-institutional projects and is expected to qualify
for and be appointed as a tenured full curator in ei-
ther the Division of Invertebrate Zoology or Vertebrate
Zoology, and as a full professor in the Richard Gilder
Graduate School at the AMNH. We seek a creative,
active, broad-based researcher and dynamic academic
leader who interacts well with others and who will uti-
lize the extensive resources the Museum has to oerin the way of collections, research instrumentation and
laboratories, interactions with Museum colleagues and
collaborations with area organizations (including the
New York Genome Center, area universities, New York
Botanical Garden, and others), teaching and mentoring,
exhibition, and public education.
We particularly seek applications from, or nominations
of, candidates with a compelling vision for the future
trajectory of their science, and for comparative biology
in general, and whose research addresses fundamental,
cross-disciplinary questions. In addition to the above-
noted expectations for high productivity and grants-
manship, the successful candidate will have outstanding
communication skills in engaging diverse communities
and demonstrated capabilities in management of col-
laborative projects and decision-making. Experience in
interacting with governmental and non-governmental
agencies and in fundraising are highly desirable, as are
collection-based, eld-based and/or computational re-
search. Other responsibilities or opportunities include
advising graduate students and postdoctoral fellows,
oering courses in the Comparative Biology Ph.D. Pro-
gram of the Museum's Richard Gilder Graduate School,
institutional service, development activities, and partic-
ipating in Museum-sponsored exhibits and educational
programs.
In addition to applications, we invite recommendations
or nominations of potential candidates, and request that
these include a resume and contact information for the
nominee. Nominations or applications can be submitted
to seniorcuratorsearch@amnh.org. Applicants should
submit the following materials electronically, preferably
as PDF les, via a single email message to seniorcura-
torsearch@amnh.org (Subject line: 2015 Senior Curator
IZ-VZ Search Committee: your name): 1) a cover letter
in which you indicate your interest, experience, and
qualications for the position; 2) a curriculum vitae;
3) PDF les of up to ve recent publications; and 4)
names and contact information for ve referees who can
comment on leadership, scientic and other skills and
accomplishments noted above (to be contacted by the
Museum only at the time of arranging an interview or
for the process of tenure review in the case of a poten-
tial appointment). Inquires should be directed to John
Flynn, Chair of the Search Committee and Dean of the
Richard Gilder Graduate School: dean-rggs@amnh.org.
Applications or nominations should be received by April
2, 2015.
Employer Information: The American Museum of Nat-
ural History is one of the world's preeminent scientic
and cultural institutions. Since its founding in 1869,
the Museum has advanced its global mission to discover,
interpret and disseminate information about human cul-48 EvolDir March 1, 2015
tures, the natural world and the universe through a
wide-ranging program of scientic research, education
and exhibition. The Museum's research collections in-
clude more than 33 million natural history and cultural
objects, and AMNH scientists undertake more than 100
expeditions annually. Science at the Museum includes
ve academic divisions, the Richard Gilder Graduate
School, Sackler Institute of Comparative Genomics, 1
million specimen-capacity Ambrose Monell Cryo Collec-
tion, Center for Biodiversity and Conservation, high per-
formance computational facilities, Microscopy and Imag-
ing Facility, Southwest Research Station, the largest
independent natural
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
CheetahConservationFund Namibia
LabTech ConsGenetics
Genetics Laboratory Technician or Manager Cheetah
Conservation Fund, Namibia
The Cheetah Conservation Fund (CCF), Namibia, is cur-
rently looking for a highly motivated individual to join
its genetics laboratory sta in the position of Laboratory
Technician or Manager.
The specic title and remuneration are dependent on the
applicant's level of experience. The successful applicant
is expected to start in early March 2015. Applicants
should send their CV, letter of motivation, and tran-
scripts to genetics@cheetah.org.
The successful candidate should have a strong back-
ground in best laboratory practices in molecular biology,
and have excellent organizational and communication
skills. His/her main responsibilities will include main-
tenance and operation of our genetic analysers and
supervision of interns and students, ensuring that good
laboratory practices and protocols are followed. Other
responsibilities will be curation of databases, develop-
ment of laboratory services, writing of permit applica-
tions and reports, and keeping the laboratory adequately
stocked at all times. Prior experience in these particular
tasks is not required; however, willingness to learn and
attention to detail are essential. This position will alsoprovide opportunities for direct participation in research
projects as time permits.
The genetics laboratory is located at the CCF research
centre, about 40 km east of Otjiwarongo, Namibia. Sta
members live on CCF property and housing is provided.
Meals are prepared by CCF kitchen sta and are eaten
communally. Further information regarding CCF and
its mission to conserve cheetahs in the wild may be
found at www.cheetah.org . Anne Schmidt-K untzel,
DMV, PhD Assistant Director for Animal Health and
Research Life Technologies Conservation GeneticsLabo-
ratory Email: genetics@cheetah.org Tel: +264 67 306
225 Fax: +264 67 306 247 Cheetah Conservation Fund
(CCF) www.cheetah.org
genetics@cheetah.org
ChineseU HongKong ResAssociate
*Post: CUHK Research Associate/Assistant in animal
microRNA evolution*
Description: We are inviting applications for one to two
vacancies of Research Assistant/Research Associate in
animal microRNA evolution.
For Research Associate, applicants should have a
PhD, or Master's degree plus four years' relevant post-
qualication experience. For Research Assistant, appli-
cants should have a Bachelor's degree in Life Science or
relevant discipline. Work experience in either molecular
biology or bioinformatics is preferred.
Appointments will be made on contract basis for one
year commencing as soon as March or April 2015, and
renewable subject to mutual agreement.
Interested candidates can contact Dr. Jerome Hui
(jeromehui@cuhk.edu.hk).
Jerome Hui <hui.jerome@gmail.com >
ColoradoStateU GuppyBehavior
SummerREU
The Guppy Group in the Dept. of Biology at Colorado
State University is seeking applicants for an NSF Re-
search Experience for Undergraduates (REU) position inMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 49
summer 2015 to study the eects of gene ow on guppy
behavior. The successful applicant will work closely
with Drs. Lisa Angeloni and Chris Funk and PhD stu-
dents John Kronenberger and Dale Broder to develop
an independent research project centered around our
ongoing gene ow experiment. The primary objective
will be to assess how our experimental treatments dier-
entially aect behavior and how this, in turn, impacts
tness. This REU will provide invaluable experience
in study design, behavioral assays, molecular genetic
techniques, data analysis, and dissemination of results,
and will thereby prepare the student for graduate school
and/or a career in inquiry-based scientic research.
This position lasts for 12 weeks (beginning mid- to late-
May) and allows for two weeks o if the student so
desires. A stipend of $2,000/month will be provided to
cover housing and other expenses, and additional funds
are available for travel to a scientic conference. The
student must be a U.S. citizen or permanent resident
and should be enrolled as an undergraduate in Fall 2015.
Applications from women, underrepresented minorities,
and persons with disabilities are especially encouraged.
To apply, please email the following applica-
tion materials as PDFs to John Kronenberger
(john.kronenberger@colostate.edu) by Friday, March
20th: 1) A cover letter including the following: - Why
you are interested in this position? - What previous
experience do you have that is relevant for this position?
- When are you available to start and end this position?
- What are your future plans?
2) A resume including contact information for at least
two references
3) A transcript (unocial is acceptable)
For more information about the experiment
referred to above, please visit: http://-
johnkronenberger.weebly.com/ John A. Kronen-
berger PhD Student Graduate Degree Program
in Ecology Department of Biology Colorado State
University 770-355-1855 Check out my website! <
http://johnkronenberger.weebly.com/ >
j.kro365@gmail.com
CornellU FieldAssist
PlantPollinatorEvolution
The Geber lab at Cornell University seeks a highly mo-
tivated, detail-oriented assistant for summer 2015 eldresearch in the Southern Sierra Nevada (May-July) and
lab work in Ithaca, NY (July-August). We are studying
four species of annual plants in the genus Clarkia and
their specialist bee pollinators. Our current eldwork
focuses on how pollinators may impact plant species
coexistence.
Our research sites are located in Kern County, Califor-
nia. The lab rents a house on a property where other
labs working in this system are also based in the sum-
mer. This eld assistant would have a private bedroom,
access to a shared bathroom and a communal kitchen,
and wireless internet access. Frequent trips are made
into town (Lake Isabella and Kernville) for groceries
and other supplies.
Successful applicants are expected to assist in data col-
lection, data entry, and ower, seed, and bee collection
in the eld; work in Ithaca will consist of sample pro-
cessing and data analysis. The assistant will work a 39
hour work week. Weather conditions in the Sierras can
be very hot and dry (100+ degrees F) in the summer, so
assistants should be prepared to work in hot conditions.
Applicants must be able to hike up and steep hills for
up to 1 mile at a time, stoop or kneel for extended peri-
ods of time, and work in proximity to bees and snakes.
The work can be very physically demanding and tiring,
and the research team typically collects data 7 days a
week. A good sense of humor and a positive attitude
are essential.
Qualications: 1) some undergraduate education in biol-
ogy, ecology, or related eld, or equivalent experience; 2)
experience hiking and working outdoors and or previous
eld research experience; 3) ability to perform repetitive
tasks with a cheerful attitude and with attention to
detail; 4) willingness to live and work in close quarters
with other researchers in a house. Previous experience
working with plants, bees, or insects is preferable but not
required. Applicants must be available from early May
through late August although exact start/end dates are
exible.
Compensation: transportation to and from California, a
private room with internet access in the eld house, and
salary will be provided. Applicants will be responsible
for securing their own housing in Ithaca for July and
August.
The deadline for applications is March 20. Applicants
should submit: 1) a short (1 page maximum) cover
letter describing their qualications as well as future
academic/professional goals; 2) a resume or CV outlining
previous work experience, relevant courses (completed
or in progress), extracurricular activities; and 3) contact
information for two references.50 EvolDir March 1, 2015
Email to: Monica Geber, Professor of Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology mag9@cornell.edu
kee39@cornell.edu
GoetheU Frankfurt Bioinformatics
Evolutionary Bioinformatics A position in evolution-
ary bioinformatics is available in the lab of Prof. Imke
Schmitt at the Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate
Research Centre and Goethe University Frankfurt. The
successful candidate will support ongoing projects on
the evolution and adaptation of lichen-forming fungi
and fungal communities by assisting with next genera-
tion sequencing data analysis. Depending on the candi-
date's preferences, he/she can also develop his/her own
projects. We are looking for applicants with a Bach-
elor (or similar degree) in biology or computational
biology, and expertise in de novo genome assembly,
genome annotation, or metabarcoding. Experiences
with python, perl, bash, or R are necessary; knowledge
of unix, parallelization on clusters and massive RAM
computers is advantageous. Additional tasks will be
supporting the lab members in computer administra-
tion, data archiving, and data organization. The ideal
candidate works well in a team, is highly motivated
to work independently, communicates well, and speaks
uent English. My lab and the entire institute provide
a very supportive atmosphere. The broader research en-
vironment at Senckenberg and Goethe University oers
chances for collaboration with experts in elds ranging
from molecular ecology and evolution, phylogenetics,
to macroecology and climate change biology (modeling
and statistics). Attractive computing infrastructure is
available (high-RAM computers, clouds, and clusters).
Frankfurt, a vibrant city in the center of Germany, pro-
vides ample cultural and recreational opportunities and
excellent infrastructure for travel. Salary will be TV-
H E11, according to the German public service pay
scale. We oer full benets, and training opportunities.
The position is available from April 1st 2015, with a
exible start date. The initial contract will be for two
years, but it can be extended indenitely. To apply,
please send a cover letter detailing research interests
and experience, a C.V., a copy of your bachelor certi-
cate, and a list of two professional references. Please
email your application to Prof. Dr. Katrin B ohning-
Gaese, c/o Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung,
Senckenberganlage 25, 60325 Frankfurt am Main, re-
cruiting@senckenberg.de, indicating reference number#8.2 before February 28.2015. Informal inquiries to
Imke Schmitt (imke.schmitt@senckenberg.de), before
the application are welcome.
Dr. Imke Schmitt Goethe University Frankfurt and
Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre BiK-F Senck-
enberganlage 25 60325 Frankfurt am Main Germany
Tel.: +49 6975421855 email:
imke.schmitt@senckenberg.de website: www.bik-
f.de/root/index.php?page idC4 oce: Mertonstr.
17-21, J ugelhaus 421C
Imke Schmitt <Imke.Schmitt@senckenberg.de >
HarvardMedSchool 2 LabTech
ancientDNA
Research Technician I
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts /
Howard Hughes Medical Institute
Reports To: David Reich, PhD
A web-based version of this job advertisement can be
found a http://www.hhmi.org/careers/2333
We oer an opportunity to support a cutting
edge ancient DNA laboratory at Harvard Medi-
cal School (http://genetics.med.harvard.edu/reich/-
Reich Lab/Welcome.html) that is studying the impact
of human history on biology and disease.
The successful candidate will assume a research tech-
nician position and will work closely with scientists
studying DNA from human remains dating back over
the last 20,000 years.
Principal Responsibilities:
Conduct experiments in support of critical core ancient
DNA project in the laboratory
Carry out protocols and propose method options with
goal of facilitating successful completion of research aims
Receive samples of ancient teeth and bones and en-
sure that they are handled and stored in a way that
minimizes contamination
Clean and drill artifacts in clean room environment to
prepare for release of DNA
Extract DNA and prepare for next generation sequenc-
ing in clean room environment
Perform PCR, DNA purication and quantication, so-March 1, 2015 EvolDir 51
lution hybrid capture, and sequencing
Analyze data to identify best samples for further analysis
Maintain meticulous records of experiments and analy-
ses in both lab notebook and tracking databases
Return unused samples to collaborators
Provide laboratory-specic training for incoming re-
search fellows, technicians, graduate students and in-
terns
Order laboratory supplies on timely basis and re-
ceive/place all supplies in proper location
Maintain laboratory equipment and oversee repairs
Maintain cleanliness and orderliness in the laboratories
Communicate experimental results in weekly meetings
Preferred Qualications:
B.A./B.S. in the life sciences with hands-on research
experience in basic laboratory techniques and under-
standing of molecular biology principles
Familiarity with genetics, PCR and, ideally, NGS library
preparation/sequencing
Training in sterile laboratory techniques
Strong communication and computer skills, including
demonstrated prociency with Microsoft Word, Excel
and, ideally, UNIX.
Strong organizational skills and ability to employ good
judgment in prioritizing tasks
Experience in ancient DNA and/or sterile techniques is
a great advantage
Additional Information:
Please submit a cover letter and three references with
your resume. Please include \008-200 Research Techni-
cian" in the subject line of your email.
To Apply:
To apply for this position, please email your resume to:
Nadin Rohland Boston, Massachusetts 02115 Email:
nrohland@genetics.med.harvard.edu
Application Deadline: Open Until Filled
David Reich <reich@genetics.med.harvard.edu >HarvardU Herbaria
BiodiversityInformatics
oEB HR at Harvard University
Business Title: Biodiversity Informatics Manager
The Harvard University Herbaria (HUH), with more
than ve million specimens, comprise the world's largest
University herbarium. Research at HUH in evolution,
biodiversity, and conservation revolves around the sci-
entic collections and libraries. In recent years, several
ambitious projects to digitize the entire HUH holdings
have been initiated. At present, 10% of the collections
are digitized.
The HUH is seeking to hire a Biodiversity Informatics
Manager that will provide leadership, management, and
stewardship of the informatics collections and initiatives.
The successful candidate will be responsible for address-
ing the needs of the academic and scientic community
engaged with HUH collections, and the natural history
collections more broadly. To meet these needs, the
candidate will work with the HUH Director and sta,
including a three member biodiversity informatics team,
to set priorities and develop plans and initiatives. This
may additionally involve interacting with FAS Science
Division Research Computing to develop and implement
technical solutions.
The Biodiversity Informatics Manager will oversee the
development, maintenance, and enhancement of the
databases that document the collections and support
HUH activities, including library related goals. The
candidate will supervise and manage HUH's digitization
activities and oversee the management and sharing of
the resulting digital assets. With database and informat-
ics support from Research Computing, the successful
candidate will initiate, develop, implement, and man-
age scientic and academic applications and informatics
projects and initiatives to ensure access to and sharing
of biodiversity data with the world. Tasks include, but
are not limited to: collecting, organizing, and analyz-
ing natural history specimens, spatial modeling, and
databasing. The candidate will work with the Direc-
tor and HUH sta to develop grant proposals for the
funding of informatics projects by external agencies,
including the National Science Foundation. The person
in this position will also act as a liaison to organizations
and projects internally, nationally and internationally,52 EvolDir March 1, 2015
including the Harvard Museums of Science & Culture,
in which acquisition and delivery of biodiversity infor-
mation is central.
The basic qualications for this position are as follows:
Masters Degree in botany or a related discipline and
ve or more years experience in planning, development,
and implementation of biodiversity informatics projects.
Fluency in at least one programming language is a re-
quirement. Previous experience with highly technical
and collaborative projects, including digitization of bio-
logical collections and digital media access to collections
via databases, digital tools, and websites. Familiarity
with at least some of the following: UNIX, HTML, XML,
CSS, PHP, SQL, MySQL, ArcGIS, Mac OS X, Windows
7/8, Microsoft Oce, Adobe Photoshop, WordPress.
The ideal candidate will also have these additional qual-
ications: Proven ability to lead, manage, and engage
a broad constituency is required. Demonstrated knowl-
edge of museum collections and biodiversity informat-
ics preferred. Superior communications skills required.
Must be able to work with people with varying degrees of
IT expertise. In order to be considered for this position,
all candidates must apply through the Harvard Univer-
sity employment website at employment.harvard.edu.
Please reference position requisition number: 34999BR.
When applying for this position please submit your re-
sume and cover letter in our preferred format as one
combined document (resume followed by cover letter).
EEO Statement: We are an equal opportunity employer
and all qualied applicants will receive consideration
for employment without regard to race, color, religion,
sex, national origin, disability status, protected veteran
status, gender identity, sexual orientation or any other
characteristic protected by law.
\Lee, Morgan" <morganlee@fas.harvard.edu >ImperialCollege London ResAssoc
EvolutionaryGenomics
Imperial College London
Department of Life Sciences
Faculty of Natural Sciences
Research Associate in Evolutionary Genomics
Salary: $33,410 - $42,380 per annum (maximum start-
ing salary $33,410)
This is an exciting opportunity for a Research Associate
with an interest in Speciation Biology, Plant Biology
and Evolution. The successful candidate will carry out
cutting edge research in evolutionary genomics, largely
analysing existing data and writing up publications. You
will have a solid background in population genetics and
genomics, statistics and modelling with a strong interest
in evolutionary biology. The aim of the project is to
determine the relative contribution of pre- versus post-
zygotic isolation in the evolution of sympatric Howea
palms and to identify those loci underlying speciation.
The post is funded by the Natural Environment Research
Council, and will be based at the Silwood Park Campus.
The successful candidates will work closely with Profes-
sor Vincent Savolainen and his research group. Further
details of the research group can be obtained from the
research group website: http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/-
people/v.savolainen . You must have a PhD or equiv-
alent qualication in evolution, ecology, genetics or a
closely related discipline. The successful candidate will
have expertise in population genomics, prociency in
statistics and knowledge of and in depth experience of
working in evolutionary biology. Experience of manage-
ment and analysis of complex genetic data and excel-
lence in working in a multi-disciplinary environment are
essential.
You must have experience of working in a team, be able
to develop and apply new concepts and have a creative
approach to problem-solving. You must also have ex-
cellent verbal and written communication skills and be
able to write clearly and succinctly for publication.
This is a full-time, xed term appointment available for
up to 3 years.
Our preferred method of application is online via
our website http://www.imperial.ac.uk/job-applicants/March 1, 2015 EvolDir 53
(please select \Job Search" then enter the job title or
vacancy reference number including spaces - NS 2015
038 JT into \Keywords"). Please complete and upload
an application form as directed.
Alternatively, if you are unable to apply online, please
contact Mrs Christine Short on 020 7594 2276 or email
c.j.short@imperial.ac.uk to request an application form.
Closing date: 26 March 2015 (midnight GMT)
Committed to equality and valuing diversity. We are
also an Athena SWAN Silver Award winner, a Stonewall
Diversity Champion, a Two Ticks Employer and are
working in partnership with GIRES to promote respect
for trans people.
\Thomas, Jenny" <j.thomas@imperial.ac.uk >
ImperialCollege London ResAssoc
EvolutionaryGenomics 2
Imperial College London
Department of Life Sciences
Faculty of Natural Sciences
Research Associate in Evolutionary Genomics
Salary: $33,410 - $42,380 per annum (maximum start-
ing salary $37,070 per annum)
This is an exciting opportunity for a Research Associate
with an interest in Speciation Biology, Plant Biology
and Evolution. The successful candidate will carry out
cutting edge research in evolutionary genomics, largely
analysing existing data and writing up publications.
You will have a solid background in population genetics
and genomics, statistics and modelling with a strong
interest in evolutionary biology. The aim of the project
is to micropropagate red-stemmed mutant Howea palms
from the wild that stably and consistently display the
red characteristic, and are therefore t for plant breeder
rights/patenting and commercialisation.
The post is funded by the European Research Coun-
cil Proof of Concept Scheme, and will be based at the
Silwood Park Campus. The successful candidate will
work closely with Professor Vincent Savolainen and his
research group. Further details of the research group
can be obtained from the research group website: http:/-
/www3.imperial.ac.uk/people/v.savolainen . You must
have a PhD or equivalent qualication in evolution, ecol-
ogy, genetics or a closely related discipline. The success-ful candidate will have expertise in population genomics,
prociency in statistics and knowledge of and in depth
experience of working in evolutionary biology. Experi-
ence of management and analysis of complex genetic
data and excellence in working in a multi-disciplinary
environment are essential.
You must have experience of working in a team, be able
to develop and apply new concepts and have a creative
approach to problem-solving. You must also have ex-
cellent verbal and written communication skills and be
able to write clearly and succinctly for publication.
This is a full-time, xed term appointment available for
up to one year.
Our preferred method of application is online via
our website http://www.imperial.ac.uk/job-applicants/
(please select \Job Search" then enter the job title or
vacancy reference number including spaces - NS 2015
040 JT into \Keywords"). Please complete and upload
an application form as directed.
Alternatively, if you are unable to apply online, please
contact Mrs Christine Short on 020 7594 2276 or email
c.j.short@imperial.ac.uk to request an application form.
Closing date: 30 March 2015 (midnight BST)
Committed to equality and valuing diversity. We are
also an Athena SWAN Silver Award winner, a Stonewall
Diversity Champion, a Two Ticks Employer and are
working in partnership with GIRES to promote respect
for trans people.
\Thomas, Jenny" <j.thomas@imperial.ac.uk >
INRA France 30 EvolutionaryBiol
Ranked the number one agricultural institute in Europe
and number two in the world, INRA (National Institute
for Agricultural Research - France) carries out mission-
oriented research for high-quality and healthy foods,
competitive and sustainable agriculture and a preserved
and valorised environment.
Every year, INRA seeks researchers from all disciplines
to reinforce laboratory and eldwork teams. Researchers
will be heavily involved in scientic networks and tackle
environmental, economic and social issues. They are
expected to strive for excellence and come up with use-
ful, concrete applications for the real world. Individual
research projects will go hand in hand with group eorts
in a bid to further knowledge and innovation, in order54 EvolDir March 1, 2015
to produce sustainably, preserve the environment, and
improve human nutrition.
INRA is recruiting 30 Research Scientists (PhD or equiv-
alent) through open competitions and oering perma-
nent positions.
Positions are open in a wide range of scientic disci-
plines such as animal quantitative genetics, quantitative
genetics and plant development, agrifood sciences and
techniques, metabolism and physiology, genetic mecha-
nisms of adaptation, physico-chemistry of interfaces and
biological processes for the environment, functional ecol-
ogy and modelling, evolutionary ecology and modelling,
ecology, genetics, pathogens, veterinary and agrifood
sciences (microbiology, molecular protozoology and im-
munology), applied mathematics and informatics, com-
promise and uncertainty in the evaluation and man-
agement of ecosystem services, economics and many
more.
Applications are available until to March 2, 2015.
All useful information to apply is available on:
http://jobs.inra.fr/eng/oers/emploi perm/open-
competitions/cr2/?campagne=23129&intitule=-
open+competitions&concours=24348 For further
details: concours chercheurs@paris.inra.fr
[INRA] <http://www.inra.fr/ >
Corinne NICOLAS
Assistante RH en charge de la mobilit e, des  etudes et
de la communication de recrutement
corinne.nicolas@paris.inra.fr
DRH - Service Recrutement et Mobilit e
T el. : +33 (0)1 42 75 94 55
Fax : +33 (0)1 42 75 90 39
147 rue de l'Universit e
75 338 Paris Cedex 07
France
wwww.inra.fr Corinne Nicolas
<Corinne.Nicolas@paris.inra.fr >Kunming ResAssist
EvolutionCooperation
Assistant Researcher
Behaviour and Evolution of Cooperation
Kunming Institute of Zoology, China
http://english.kiz.cas.cn/ An assistant will be employed
from March 2015 at the Kunming Institute of Zool-
ogy, China. The position is for a few months and will
be funded by a National Science Foundation of China
(NSFC) research grant to Dr. Riccardo Pansini and Prof.
Rui-Wu Wang (Kunming Institute of Zoology), and Prof.
Lei Shi (Yunnan University of Finance and Economics,
Kunming). The post-holder will join a research team
working on the evolutionary roots of cooperation empir-
ically on humans as model species.
The work will involve the modelling of cooperative be-
haviour and evolutionary game theory.
Ideal candidates will have a Master in Evolutionary biol-
ogy, Anthropology or related disciplines. The candidate
should have excellent skills in the implementation of the
scientic method, have a keen interest in behaviour, and
have acquired previous experience in statistical mod-
elling (R and SPSS).
The candidates should have excellent English language
skills and very good Chinese ones.
The salary will be up to 5,000 RMB per month including
allowances for when travelling outside town.
If required, housing, visa and work permit enabling the
successful candidate to live and work in China will be
arranged by our institute.
Depending on the successful completion of the assis-
tantship, the position will be upgraded to a paid PhD
(working on the same or dierent model species) in the
following academic year.
Interested candidates shall send by the end of February
a full English CV including the contact details of two
referees, and a few lines explaining why they want the
position, to Riccardo Pansini r.pansini@gmail.com
Experimental and Theoretical Ecology Group
Kunming Institute of Zoology
Chinese Academy of SciencesMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 55
Jiaochang Donglu East road 32, 650223 Kunming -
China
http://rpansini.altervista.org/ http://159.226.149.45/-
demo/ Riccardo Pansini <r.pansini@gmail.com >
MaxPlanckInst Ornithology
FieldAssist BlueTits
The Department of Behavioral Ecology and Evolution-
ary Genetics at the Max Planck Institute for Ornithology
in Seewiesen, Germany, is seeking a eld assistant to
work from 1st April to 31st May 2015. The assistant
will participate in a study on the reproductive biology
of a blue tit population in a protected forest site in
Southern Germany. Specically, the assistant will help
carrying out an experiment in which provisioning eort
by one parent will be manipulated (by exposing it to
begging playbacks) in order to examine its eects on
provisioning behavior of the other parent. The work
will primarily consist of recording nest visits from a hide
and controlling the playback device. This will include
long days (up to 8 hours) in a hide and thus require a
lot of patience and endurance. In addition, the assistant
will help with preparations of the experiment, as well
as with maintaining the long term data on breeding
behavior of the blue tits through regular nest checks.
Successful candidate must have experience with eld
work, with working long hours under all weather con-
ditions and with collecting detailed observational data.
Applicants should be highly motivated, dependable, well
organized and have the ability to collect data accurately.
Field work hours will be long and tiring, and applicants
must be prepared to work at any time (including week-
ends and holidays), with no days o during the peak
experimental period.
The working language at the Institute is English, so
good knowledge of the language is required. Appli-
cants should be aware that Lyme disease spread by ticks
is common in the area, and should inform themselves
about the disease in advance.
The payment would be in accordance with the collec-
tive agreement for public employees up to pay group 6
TV oD.
The Max Planck Institute for Ornithology employs a dy-
namic, dedicated, and international group of researchers
who are focused on exploring the elds of evolution,
ecology, genetics, and neurobiology.The Max Planck Society is committed to increasing the
number of individuals with disabilities in its workforce
and therefore encourages applications from such quali-
ed individuals. Furthermore, the Max Planck Society
seeks to increase the number of women in those areas
where they are underrepresented and therefore explicitly
encourages women to apply.
For inquiries, please contact Dr. Santema, Tel.: 08157
932-234, E-Mail: petersantema1@gmail.com
Review of applications will start immediately until the
position is lled. If you are interested in applying for
the eld assistant position as described above, please
apply (including your CV) by latest 13st February 2015
by E-Mail to:
cdobus@orn.mpg.de
Peter Santema <petersantema1@gmail.com >
MountainLakeBiologicalStation
UndergradSummer
**
*Summer 2015 REU Opportunities Mountain Lake Bio-
logical Station www.MLBS.org* **
Dear Colleagues and Friends,
*Mountain Lake Biological Station* (University of Vir-
ginia) announces its 2015 summer *NSF REU undergrad-
uate research internship program*,**now in its 23 ^th
year.**
**
REU participants are recruited from around the country
for a unique 10-week learning and living research experi-
ence in the southern Appalachian Mountains. Students
conduct independent research in eld ecology, evolution,
behavior and physiology under the supervision of station
scientists. REUs are paid internships that include all
station costs, travel, and a *$5,250 stipend*.
*Application deadline February 20.*
**
*2015 REU Internships:http://mlbs.org/reuprogram*
Please forward this information to colleagues or students
you think might be interested.
Thanks for your help!
*//*56 EvolDir March 1, 2015
*/**** Learn all about Mountain Lake opportunities at
www.MLBS.org ****/*
**
*Eric Nagy*, Associate Director and REU Coordinator
{
Eric S. Nagy, Ph.D. Associate Director Mountain
Lake Biological Station & Department of Biology Uni-
versity of Virginia P.O. Box 400327 Charlottesville,
VA 22904-4327 ofc: 434-243-4989 j540-626-5227
cel: 434-906-3122 eml: enagy@virginia.edu web: vir-
ginia.edu/biology/faculty/nagy.htm jmlbs.org
Eric Nagy <enagy@virginia.edu >
NCMuseum Raleigh
EvolutionaryBiol
Position: Natural Science Research Curator III Working
Title: Director, Evolutionary Biology Research Labora-
tory Vacancy Number: 65010170 Salary Range: $48,195-
$125,000 Hiring Range: $48,195-$125,000 Department:
NC Department of Environment and Natural Resources
Division: NC Museum of Natural Sciences Type of Ap-
pointment: Permanent Full-Time Location: Raleigh
Posting Date: 2/23/2015 Closing Date: 3/23/2015
Division Information: This position is located in Raleigh,
North Carolina at the NC Museum of Natural Sciences,
an award-winning major institution with a prominent
State-wide, national and international prole. This key
position works in the Evolutionary Biology Research
Laboratory, a unit within the Museum's Research &
Collections section. This position is a joint-appointment
between the NC Museum of Natural Sciences and the
UNC system (specically, with the North Carolina State
University College of Sciences). The employee will have
non-tenure track faculty status and associated teach-
ing and service requirements as a Research Professor
with the College of Sciences, Department of Biological
Sciences.
Description of Work: The NC Museum of Natural Sci-
ences and the Department of Biological Sciences in the
College of Sciences at North Carolina State University
jointly announce a search to recruit an evolutionary biol-
ogist with experience in and a commitment to engaging
the public in the study of evolution. The position is
jointly split between the NC Museum of Natural Sciences
(55%) and the Department of Biological Sciences at NCState (45%). This position includes research, outreach,
teaching and service responsibilities at both institutions.
Given existing strengths in NC's Triangle area (includ-
ing museum/university partnerships in public science,
the launch of a new center in evolutionary medicine:
TriCEM, https://tricemdotorg.wordpress.com/about/,
and the land-grant mission of NC State University),
candidates with experience in or interest in applied
evolution are particularly encouraged.
The successful candidate will have an outstanding record
of scholarly publications, research support and engage-
ment. This position has several areas of responsibility,
including:
1. Development of an original scientic research pro-
gram in some aspect of evolutionary biology; research
programs may have local, regional, and/or interna-
tional focus and will include pursuit of external research
funding, data generation and analyses, and publica-
tion/dissemination of results. Some aspects of this re-
search should be suitable for display in the NC Museum
of Natural Sciences' Evolutionary Biology Research Lab-
oratory (a glass-walled laboratory 'on-exhibit' in the
Nature Research Center wing of the Museum); 2. Op-
erational management and administration of the Evo-
lutionary Biology Research Laboratory, including su-
pervision of laboratory with oversight of equipment,
budgets, personnel, research programs, and volunteer
programs; 3. Teaching, at NCSU's Department of Bio-
logical Sciences, one class per year related to evolution;
4. Training/mentoring undergraduate and graduate stu-
dents and/or postdoctoral researchers, with a particular
focus on training that bridges museum/university goals;
5. Engaging the public in understanding the study of
evolution and participation in science communication
initiatives, including active participation in Museum
education and outreach programs, participation in Mu-
seum special events, interaction with Museum visitors,
serving as a role model for students and citizen scien-
tists, and creating programmatic themes that raise the
science literacy of visitors;
Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities: **To receive credit
for your work history and credentials, you must list the
information on the application form. Any information
omitted from the application form, listed under the text
resume section, or on an attachment will not be consid-
ered for qualifying credit** A successful candidate will
have the following knowledge, skills and abilities:
(1) Considerable knowledge of many aspects of evolu-
tionary biology (2) Experience applying principles and
practices of research, with special expertise in some
aspect of evolutionary biology (3) A demonstrated mas-
tery of materials, equipment, and techniques used inMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 57
laboratory practices and in eldwork (4) Experience
in teaching undergraduate and/or graduate courses in
evolution or related subjects (5) A demonstrated track
record of eective and creative science communication to
diverse public audiences (6) Experience writing and/or
administering grants to fund biological research
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
NHM Oslo PlantSpeciation
Natural History Museum Researcher in Evolutionary
Biology (Plant Speciation)
One 3-year position is available at the Natural His-
tory Museum (NHM), University of Oslo, as Researcher
(SKO 1109).
The Natural History Museum, University of Oslo, is the
largest of its kind in Norway and has approximately
150 employees engaged in research, teaching, curating
of collections and public outreach in botany, mycology,
zoology, paleontology and geology. The museum is lo-
cated in the beautiful Botanical Garden close to the city
centre of Oslo.
Job description
The position is connected to the project SpArc (High spe-
ciation rates in Arctic plants: genomic mechanisms and
relevance to the latitudinal diversity gradient), funded
by the Research Council of Norway for four years from
2015. The successful applicant will be part of a strong
project team including researchers at the University of
Oslo and international collaborators with long relevant
experience. The NHM has already hired one 4-year post-
doctoral fellow who will work full-time on this project
together with a PhD fellow to be hired, and together
with the researcher announced here. The successful ap-
plicant is expected to carry out part of the research in
the laboratory of one of our international collaborators.
The SpArc project follows up recent discoveries in arc-
tic diploid plants, showing that there are many cryptic
biological (i.e. reproductively isolated) species within
what has traditionally been recognized as well-dened,
single taxonomic species. In this project, we will identify
the genomic mechanisms of postzygotic reproductiveisolation in two arctic systems, and test whether more
southern oras contain similarly high, but hitherto un-
detected, cryptic biological species diversity. Based
on crossing experiments and high-throughput DNA se-
quencing we will address whether selfers contain more
cryptic species than outcrossers when controlled for
lineage age, and whether polyploid formation from a
diverse pool of recently diverged, cryptic diploid species
can help explain why the Arctic harbours one of the most
polyploid-rich oras on Earth. The project will provide
new and potentially ground-breaking insights into both
the dynamics of the latitudinal diversity gradient and
the fundamental process of species divergence.
The researcher will participate in work to identify the
genetic mechanisms resulting in frequent reproductive
isolation using genome sequencing and high-throughput
QTL mapping approaches. A main focus will be to test
the hypothesis that diploid cryptic biological species
have contributed to the high diversity of arctic poly-
ploid species using high-throughput sequencing.
Requirements
We seek a person with strong collaborative skills and
motivation and ability to dene own research questions.
The candidate should be an active scientist with a PhD
in a relevant eld in evolutionary biology and have hands-
on experience with high-throughput DNA sequencing.
In addition, she/he should preferably have competence
in speciation genetics, bioinformatics and genome as-
sembly.
We oer
Salary based on salary level 57 - 65 (NOK 482 800 -
559 600 per year depending on qualications) A chal-
lenging, supportive and friendly working environment.
Membership in the Norwegian Public Service Pension
Fund. Attractive welfare benets.
Evaluation of the application
In assessing applications, emphasis will be placed upon
academic track record as well as personal ability.
Interviews with selected candidates will be arranged.
A good command of English is required: http://-
www.mn.uio.no/english/research/doctoral-degree-and-
career/regulations/prociency-requirements.html The
application must include:
Application letter CV (summarizing education, positions
and academic work, scientic publications and other rel-
evant activities) Copies of educational certicates and
letters of recommendation Copies of scientic publi-
cations and academic work that the applicant wishes
to be considered by the evaluating committee A two-
to three-page description of previous research, future58 EvolDir March 1, 2015
research plans and research interests Names and con-
tact details of 2-3 referees (name, relation to candidate,
e-mail address and telephone number)
The application with attachments is to be delivered
in our electronic recruiting system EasyCruit. Foreign
applicants are advised to attach an explanation of their
University's grading system. Please remember that all
documents should be in English or a Scandinavian lan-
guage.
The University of Oslo has an agreement regarding ac-
quisition of rights to work results for all employees, with
the aim to secure rights to research results, etc.
The University of Oslo has a goal of recruiting more
women in academic
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Rennes ResAssist
PopulationModeling
Permanent assistant engineer at the French Na-
tional Institute for Agricultural Research; Posi-
tion based at the Institute of Genetics, Environ-
ment and Plant Protection (IGEPP) in Rennes,
France, starting summer 2015. Salary: 1700
^ a:permonthdependingonexperience; plusextrasalarybenefitsandcomputingbonus:Applicationbeforethe 19thMarch 2015:
|{
Application developer in population modeling and geo-
matics
|{
General proposal
|{
Mathematical and algorithmic models developed at the
Institute of Genetics, Environment and Plant Protection
(IGEPP) contribute to understand, infer and predict the
evolutionary and ecological dynamics of plant species,
bioaggressors and their natural enemies and competitors
in agro-ecosystems. We also use our models with exper-
imental data to indirectly characterize biodiversity and
to infer ecological and evolutionary processes driving
species. The numerical solution of our spatiotemporaldemogenetic models in explicit landscapes are nally
used to infer new cultural practices and guide possible
actions to limit the impacts of crop pests. The successful
candidate will join the Modeling Group ( ~ten people)
in our institute. Based on the projects and models for-
malized by the Group, the candidate will be in charge
of the rapid prototyping, code optimization and routine
operations of model predictions. To parameterize mod-
els and to validate the predictions, he (she) will also
automate the handling of geomatics and temporal data
from agro-ecosystems studies. The recruited assistant
engineer (Level 6, European Qualications Framework
E \Bachelor" or \Licence-applied Master" level) will
contribute to the modeling scientic programs in IGEPP
and participate in advancing knowledge in ecology and
evolution of populations and communities linked to agro-
ecosystems. He (she) will work with researchers using
common mathematical and algorithmic objects on vari-
ous scientic topics ranging from population genetics to
ecology of communities. To do this, he (she) will man-
age and use a bunch of computing servers and software
licenses, suitable for intensive numerical computation.
Job standard summary |{ The application developer
realizes the code development required by scientic pro-
grams and ensures the maintenance of computer applica-
tions components in compliance with current standards.
Tasks ||{ - Ensure coding, numerical computation
and testing of a subset of a software application based on
a mathematical formalization or an algorithmic scheme
- Perform and automate management operating pro-
cedures and make user interfaces - Develop test cases
- Support all or part of the operational implementa-
tion of the application - Write technical documentation
for developed computer codes - Maintain the software,
diagnose and correct malfunctions
Ocial requirements |{ Minimum Bachelor or Licence
in Computer Sciences or Mathematics. - Thorough
knowledge of programming methodology; Good knowl-
edge of algorithms, numerical computations and how to
apply a programming methodology; Good knowledge
in applied mathematics, or the will to acquire a math-
ematical training - General knowledge of an operating
system, of object programming, of computer security
rules - General knowledge of the application domain
(population genetics and dynamics, agroecology) and of
mathematics (dynamic systems, discrete and continuous
mathematics, probabilities) - Knows at least a compiled
language (typically C++ / C), a scripting language
(Python, Shell) and a domain specic language suited
to mathematical/statistical modeling (R, Scilab, MAT-
LAB) - Capable of developing portable applications
for Linux and Windows, and communicate with users -
Minimum level B2 in written and spoken English andMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 59
French - Appreciate team work and development, able
to organize work and account for progresses of his/her
work, to participate in the technical support of trainees
and to watch on technological developments and tools
for numerical computation - Basic knowledge in ecology
and / or biological evolution would be an asset; Ex-
perience in the treatment of geomatic data would be
appreciated.
Contacts |{ Nicolas PARISEY, +33(0)2 23
48 51 52, nicolas.parisey@rennes.inra.fr Syl-
vain POGGI, +33(0)2 23 48 51 52, syl-
vain.poggi@rennes.inra http://www6.rennes.inra.fr/-
igepp eng/ Call for applications |{ http://jobs.inra.fr/-
eng/oers/emploi perm/open-competitions/ce-
it/?campagne#129&intitule=open+competitions&concours5069
Job description (French language as to be mastered
at level B2 minimum, see http://www.coe.int/t/dg4/-
linguistic/Cadre1 en.asp ) |{
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
RoyalBCMuseum VictoriaCanada
EntomologyCurator
ENTOMOLOGY CURATOR - ROYAL BRITISH
COLUMBIA MUSEUM - DEADLINE MARCH 24
The Royal British Columbia Museum, in Victoria, BC,
is hiring a new entomology curator. For detailed infor-
mation about the position and how to apply, please go
to: http://royalbcmuseum.bc.ca/assets/Posting3.pdf
The Entomology Collection is among the most active
and growing collections in the Royal BC Museum hold-
ings: containing approximately 600,000 specimens and
specimen lots. It is estimated that there are 35,000
insect species in British Columbia, yet fewer than half
have been recorded. The ideal candidate will have a min-
imum of 4 years' museum experience (or similar) proven
experience conducting original research in entomologi-
cal systematics. Knowledge of exhibition development
methodology and knowledge of museum practices, in-
cluding documentation standards, is required. Excellent
communication skills and comfort delivering presenta-
tions and providing information, identications and ex-
pertise relating to Entomology across a wide diversity ofaudiences is necessary. Must be Canadian and/or have
landed immigrant status in Canada.
stevep@uvic.ca
Sacramento California
Bioinformatics
Bioinformatics Scientist II YOUR TASKS AND RE-
SPONSIBILITIES
* To provide scientic and computational support to
multiple functional groups within Biologics and provide
transcriptomics, comparative genomics, and potentially
other omics solutions for controlling pests and diseases
in plant and promoting plant health using microbes;
* Proactively identifying and incorporating new algo-
rithms and technology to automate the analysis of mi-
crobial genomes and plant- microbe interactions;
* Managing next-generation sequencing (NGS) data and
NGS analyses using custom scripts and open source
tools;
* Working with other bioinformatics team members to
understand their roles and to serve as backups as needed;
* To analyze NGS data including performing compara-
tive genomics, transcriptomics, metagenomics analyses
for controlling pests and diseases in plant and promoting
plant health using microbes.
* Generate custom scripts to handle NGS data analy-
sis in Python or Perl and work on a high performance
cluster;
* To conduct statistical analysis that integrates genomic
analyses with phenotypic data, as well as provide statis-
tical support to dierent functional groups;
* Communicating eectively through listening, documen-
tations and presentations, especially using compelling
visualization tools to share analysis and interpretation
of data;
* Proactively identifying and incorporating new algo-
rithms and technology to automate the analysis of mi-
crobial genomes and to extend the features of existing
analysis pipeline;
Reference Code
0000112165
WHO YOU ARE60 EvolDir March 1, 2015
The candidate is required to possess the following:
* M.S. and 5+ years of experience, or a Ph.D. in Ge-
nomics, Microbiology, Computational Biology, Bioinfor-
matics or Ecology and Evolutionary Genetics, with 3+
years of postgraduate experience;
* Ability to handle a large data set eciently using
scripts, particularly in the analysis of NGS data;
* Genome assembly of microbial genomes;
* In-depth familiarity with various public genomic
databases;
* Familiar with commercial and open-source bioinfor-
matics tools;
* Experiences working in the biotech sector focusing on
plant health and crop protection;
* Knowledge of statistical software tools and packages;
* Fluent in Python, Perl or other scripting languages;
* Familiar with SQL and some knowledge of using rela-
tional databases such as PostgreSQL;
* In-depth knowledge of secondary metabolite produc-
tion in microbes;
* Knowledge of bacterial and plant genetics is preferred.
* Working with high performance computing clusters.
Dilara Ally Senior Bioinformatics Scientist Biologics
Bayer CropScience LP 890 Embarcadero Drive.,
Sacramento, CA. 95605, U.S.A. Direct: +1 (916)
661-3332 Mobile: +1 (619) 481-8726 Email: di-
lara.ally@bayer.com www.bayercropscience.us Dilara
Ally<dilara.ally@bayer.com >
Sweden 6 Bioinformatics
Call for interest: Six (6) permanent positions providing
advanced bioinformatics support, located at SciLifeLab
Bioinformatics Platform nodes across Sweden.
The bioinformatics platform at SciLifeLab
(www.scilifelab.se) is a national infrastructure in
rapid growth and development, now looking for 6
permanent sta members to join the Bioinformatics
Long-term Support team, preferably placed at bioin-
formatics nodes in Ume a, Link oping, Gothenburg, or
Lund. Together with other national bioinformatics sta,
the new recruits will aid the build-up of the national
platform by establishing local platform nodes. Thesuccessful candidates have a PhD or similar relevant
working experience from advanced studies within bioin-
formatics. We are looking for candidates experienced
in providing analyses, software solutions, database
design and/or user interfaces in areas like whole genome
variant discovery, statistical genetics, population
genetics, transcriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics,
systems biology and integrative bioinformatics.
Note that the formal recruit process at the respec-
tive university will be started once this call for inter-
est has been evaluated. The deadline for this call is
February 27th 2015. More info about the positions
http://www.scilifelab.se/vacancies/ Contact: Thomas
Svensson, thomas.svensson@scilifelab.se Bj orn Nystedt,
bjorn.nystedt@scilifelab.se Managers, SciLifeLab Bioin-
formatics Long-term Support
bjorn.nystedt@scilifelab.se
Taipei EvolutionaryBiologist
Evolutionary Biologist
The Biodiversity Research Center, Academia Sinica (BR-
CAS, homepage: http://biodiv.sinica.edu.tw/), Taipei,
Taiwan, invites applications for a tenure track position
in Evolutionary Biology. The rank is open, though ju-
nior scientists are preferred. Candidates with a research
interest in evolutionary biology are encouraged to apply.
Candidates who use molecular and genomic approaches
and have a good postdoctoral research experience are
preferred.
BRCAS is still in an expansion mode. The center pro-
vides each PI with some internal support and a good
start-up. BRCAS is strong in marine biodiversity and
molecular and genomic evolution. It is in charge of a
sequencing core with two HiSeq2500s, one MiSeq and
one 454, and Academia Sinica is well equipped with
modern research facilities. The position will be open
until lled; however, the rst review will be conducted in
mid March 2015. An applicant should submit the names
and e-mail addresses of three references along with CV
(including a list of publications), 3 representative papers
(pdf les), and a statement of past achievements and
future research interests to Ms. Miao-Suey Lin (zom-
slin@gate.sinica.edu.tw). Please indicate the rank to
which you want to apply: our 'assistant research fellow'
is equivalent to 'assistant professor'
Wen-Hsiung LiMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 61
Wen-Hsiung Li <wli@uchicago.edu >
Taipei PlantBiodiversity
Plant Biodiversity Researcher
The Biodiversity Research Center, Academia Sinica (BR-
CAS, http://biodiv.sinica.edu.tw/), Taipei, Taiwan in-
vites applications for a scientist whose research is eld
collection-based, addressing fundamental questions in
vascular plant systematics, taxonomy, phylogenetics,
biogeography, and/or related elds. Qualied candi-
dates must have a strong postdoctoral research track
record. While we anticipate the appointment at the
tenure-track Assistant Research Fellow level (equivalent
to an Assistant Professor), extraordinary candidates at
higher levels may be considered.
BRCAS provides each PI with annual internal fund-
ing and good start-up for new PIs. Faculty members
have opportunities to mentor graduate students through
Academia Sinica's \Taiwan International Graduate Pro-
gram" (TIGP). The successful candidate is expected
1) to conduct fundamental research; 2) to curate and
to grow our research museum collection (about 140,000
botanical and 45,000 zoological specimens); and 3) to
support museum outreach. Candidates are expected to
establish an internationally recognized program. We
encourage applicants with at least part of the research
focused in Taiwan and the Asia Pacic region.
Deadline for application is March 15, 2015. The appli-
cant should submit names and e-mail addresses of three
references along with CV (including a list of publica-
tions), 3 representative papers (pdf les), and a state-
ment of past achievements and future research interests
to Ms. Miao-Suey Lin (zomslin@gate.sinica.edu.tw).
Wen-Hsiung Li <wli@uchicago.edu >
TulaneU 2 ResAssist Hawaii
The Blum Lab in the Department of Ecology & Evolu-
tionary Biology at Tulane University invites applications
for 2 full-time research associate positions to start in
Spring 2015. We are looking for enthusiastic, conscien-
tious and highly self-motivated individuals to work on aproject investigating the consequences of aquatic inva-
sive species (AIS) removal for native Hawaiian stream
shes.
Both incumbents, who will be based on Oahu in Hawaii,
will participate in eld surveys and related work to sup-
port genes-to-ecosystem assessments of at-risk species
responses to AIS removal. Incumbents also will con-
tribute to data analysis for project reports and peer-
review publications.
Prior experience participating in or leading eld research
is desired. Successful applicants will be expected to work
independently and collaboratively as an active member
of a large research group. Incumbents must be able to
conduct stream-based eld work, such as snorkel surveys,
in sometimes remote locations and in variable weather
conditions. Incumbents also must be able to perform
detailed data analyses with a high level of precision.
We are particularly interested in applicants that have
experience with Hawaiian stream ecosystems, including
but not limited to AIS and native amphidromous fauna.
Strong written, verbal and analytical skills are essential.
A Bachelor's degree or higher in ecology or a related
eld is also desired.
We highly encourage Hawaiian residents and Pacic Is-
landers to apply. An initial appointment will be for one
year, with continuation dependent upon performance
and funding. Salary will be commensurate with experi-
ence and qualications.
A PDF-format application package including (1) a let-
ter of interest; (2) a curriculum vitae detailing past
research experience and educational training; and (3)
contact information for three professional references
should be submitted via e-mail to Ms. Shelley Meaux
(cbr@tulane.edu). Please write \Hawaii research asso-
ciate position" in the subject line. For earliest consid-
eration, apply by 15 March 2015. Applications will be
accepted until the position is lled.
Tulane University is an Armative Action/Equal Em-
ployment Opportunity/ADA Employer. Women and
minorities are encouraged to apply.
Michael J. Blum
Associate Professor, Dept of Ecology & Evolutionary
Biology Eugenie Schwartz Professor of River & Coastal
Studies Director, Tulane-Xavier Center for Bioenvi-
ronmental Research Tulane University New Orleans,
LA 70118 504-862-8295 (phone) 504-862-8706 (fax)
www.tulane.edu/~mjblum cbr.tulane.edu
<http://www.tulane.edu/%7Emjblum >
\Blum, Michael J" <mjblum@tulane.edu >62 EvolDir March 1, 2015
UAlabama Director
MuseumResearch Collections
Director of Museum Research and Collections at the
University of Alabama
Note to Applicants: Submit a letter of interest, resume,
and names, addresses and phone numbers of at least
three references when applying.
Job Summary: The Director of Museum Research and
Collections is responsible for facilitating and promoting
the pursuit, discovery and dissemination of knowledge
through museum-based research conducted by Univer-
sity faculty, curators, and students as well as outside
researchers. The Director will provide oversight for the
acquisition of objects for the UA Museums collections
and for the management of the collections, including
necessary and appropriate documentation, conservation,
preservation, protection, preparation, research, exhibi-
tion, and interpretation of collections objects belonging
to or in the temporary custody of UA Museums.
Additional Department Summary: The Director will
facilitate the activities of the UA Museums Council of
Curators as the Chief Curator and will encourage col-
laborative research eorts and interdisciplinary grant
proposals by Museum Curators. The Director is ex-
pected to develop and conduct research in his/her own
academic discipline and secure external grant funds. Re-
sults of research/scholarly work should be published, dis-
seminated in peer-reviewed journals, and/or presented
at conferences or symposiums. The Director will serve
as a Curator in a museum-related discipline such as
paleontology, biology, geology, or archaeology.
The Director will supervise sta in carrying out collec-
tions care and management. The Director is expected
to remain current with regard to developments in the
eld including relevant state and federal statutes and
professional ethical standards.
Required Minimum Qualications: Doctorate in Biology,
Geology, Anthropology, Archaeology, or related eld and
extensive experience in collections-based research and
museum collections management.
Additional Required Department Qualications: Valid
U.S. driver's license. Must be at least 21 years of age and
have an acceptable motor vehicle report as determined
by the insurance carrier.Skills and Knowledge: Must have strong record of
scholarly research and publication in high-quality peer-
reviewed academic journals. Must have knowledge and
skills in collections management policies and procedures
and collections database management. Must have good
organizational skills to maintain collections data, loans,
general inventory, condition reports, and conservation
needs. Ability to organize and direct the work of others
and train sta for program specic requirements.
Background Investigation Statement: Prior to hiring,
the nal candidate(s) must successfully pass a pre-
employment background investigation. A prior convic-
tion reported as a result of the background investigation
DOES NOT automatically disqualify a candidate from
consideration for this position. A candidate with a prior
conviction will receive an individualized review of the
prior conviction before a hiring decision is made.
Equal Employment Opportunity: The University of
Alabama is an Equal Employment/Equal Educational
Opportunity Institution. All qualied applicants will
receive consideration for employment without regard to
race, color, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orienta-
tion, age, genetic information, disability, or protected
veteran status, and will not be discriminated against
because of their protected status. Applicants to and
employees of this institution are protected under Federal
law from discrimination on several bases. Follow the
link below to nd out more. \EEO is the Law" Poster
For complete details and to apply go to http://-
stajobs.ua.edu/? jobI8895
jpfriel@bama.ua.edu
UCLondon Independent Fellowships
Excellence Fellowships in Evolution and Ecology
University College London
UCL's Department of Genetics, Evolution and Environ-
ment (GEE) is looking to recruit promising early-career
researchers. GEE is a world class Department with a
broad research portfolio. We are aiming to strengthen
research in the general areas of evolution and ecology
and are particularly encouraging applicants in the fol-
lowing broad areas: - Biodiversity and ecology (Prof
Georgina Mace) - Statistical and computational genetics
(Prof Nick Luscombe) - Ecological genetics of disease
(Prof Fran cois Balloux) - Origins of eukaryotic complex-
ity (Dr Nick Lane) - Deep-time evolutionary analysisMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 63
(Prof Max Telford and Dr Anjali Goswami)
Recruitment opportunities are available through the
UCL Excellence Fellowship scheme run by the School of
Life and Medical Sciences (deadline 13 May 2015) and
through externally funded Fellowship schemes (ERC,
Royal Society, NERC, BBSRC, Wellcome Trust). The
UCL Excellence Fellowship oers salary and research
funding, as well as generous funding supplements for
individuals bringing externally funded fellowships to
UCL http://www.ucl.ac.uk/slms/research/excellence-
fellowship/ Candidates are required to identify a spon-
sor in GEE. They should get in touch with any of the
contacts listed above for informal discussions as soon as
possible (CV and cover letter). Alternatively contact
Dr Max Reuter (m.reuter@ucl.ac.uk) who is in charge
of fellowship support or Prof Andrew Pomiankowski
(ucbhpom@ucl.ac.uk) the Head of Department.
The Department has a track record of supporting fel-
lowship applicants from initial application to securing
subsequent permanent employment within the depart-
ment. You can nd more information about the depart-
ment at http://www.ucl.ac.uk/gee . A note for non-UK
applicants: Fellowships are an integral part of the UK
academic system. Externally funded grants covering
salary and research expenses are open to non-UK appli-
cants from a range of funding agencies. These awards
allow early- and mid-career scientists to concentrate on
their work unhindered by teaching and administrative
loads.
Max Reuter
Research Department of Genetics, Evolution and En-
vironment Faculty of Life Sciences University College
London Darwin Building Gower Street London WC1E
6BT, UK
Phone: +44-20-76792201 (internal 32201)
Lab: http://www.homepages.ucl.ac.uk/ ~ucbtmre/-
Labsite/ Department: http://www.ucl.ac.uk/gee Centre
for Ecology and Evolution: http://www.ceevol.org.uk
m.reuter@ucl.ac.uk
UHawaii Hilo EvolutionBiol
Dear EvolDir community, The University of Hawaii Hilo
is looking to ll an open position of Assistant Professor
of Biology. Women and individuals from groups under-
represented in the sciences are especially encouraged to
apply. Aloha, Elizabeth|{
*Assistant Professor (Biology), *position number 82322,
UH Hilo, College of Arts & Sciences, tenure-track, full-
time, general funds, nine-month appointment to begin
approximately August 2015, pending position clearance
and availability of funding.
*Duties*: Teach undergraduate courses in Genetics and
Cell and Molecular Biology. Develop an independent
research program in area of expertise that is supported
by extramural funding; advise students; participate in
departmental governance and related University and
community service. The University of Hawai`i at Hilo
also oers the opportunity for participation in graduate
programs.
*Minimum Qualications*: Ph.D. from an accredited
college or university in a biological science discipline
appropriate to the position, teaching experience in bio-
logical sciences, research experience in area of expertise
in Genetics, and demonstrated ability to work with
students from diverse cultural backgrounds.
*Desirable Qualications*: Demonstrated teaching expe-
rience at the college or university level in undergraduate
courses in areas related to Genetics, Genomics, Cell Bi-
ology, and Molecular Biology. Demonstrated record of
student advising and training; a successfully funded re-
search program in area of expertise in genetics, and the
ability to develop a research program in the Hawaiian
or Pacic region that complements existing department
strengths in plant biology and evolution, with the po-
tential to obtain extramural funding.
*Salary Information:* Commensurate with qualications
and experience.
*To Apply*: Submit a cover letter indicating the po-
sition title and position number and how you satisfy
the minimum and desirable qualications, a curriculum
vitae, academic transcripts, and statements of research
and teaching interests. Please note that copies of tran-
scripts are acceptable for application; however, original
documents issued by a university registrar are required
upon hire. Provide contact information for three (3)
references. Electronic submissions are preferred.
*Mail Application To*: Dr. Elizabeth Stacy, Biology De-
partment, University of Hawai`i at Hilo, 200 W. K Awili
St., Hilo, Hawai`i, or electronically to estacy@hawaii.edu.
Please refer to position number 82322.
*Inquiries*: Dr. Elizabeth Stacy, Biology Department,
University of Hawai`i at Hilo, 200 W. K Awili St., Hilo,
Hawai`i. estacy@hawaii.edu <awayaj@hawaii.edu >
*Closing Date*: March 15, 2015
UH Hilo is an EEO/AA Employer64 EvolDir March 1, 2015
M/W/Disability/Veterans.
{ Elizabeth Stacy Associate Professor of Biology and
TCBES University of Hawaii Hilo 200 West Kawili Street
Hilo, HI 96720 Phone: 808-932-7715 Fax: 808-932-7295
estacy@hawaii.edu
UKent Tech BlastocystisAdaptation
Part-time (50%) Laboratory Techinician: Revealing the
anaerobic adaptations of the mitochondrion-related or-
ganelles of Blastocystis.
We are seeking to appoint a Laboratory Technician for
a xed term period of 3 years and Part-time. The main
purpose of this position is to assist and support the
various science activities associated with the on-going
work in the Laboratory of Molecular and Evolution-
ary Parasitology (PI: Dr. Anastasios Tsaousis) at the
School of Biosciences. The primary aim of this BBSRC
project is to investigate the anaerobic adaptations of
the mitochondrion-related organelles of Blastocystis.
Project: Blastocystis is a human intestinal parasite,
recently considered to be a stramenopile, with a contro-
versial pathogenicity, mainly because of lack of knowl-
edge around its life cycle and function of its organelles.
Since Blastocystis is a strict anaerobe, it was thought
that lacked of canonical mitochondria, and instead it
had hydrogenosomes, anaerobic organelles related to
mitochondria. Recent genomic and transcriptomic data
generated from Blastocystis demonstrated the presence
of 700 putative mitochondrial and hydrogenosomal pro-
teins. Amongst these only a few so far have been shown
to localise into the organelles. The organelles are pre-
dicted to have additional mitochondrial characteristics,
including pathways for amino acid metabolism, pyruvate
metabolism and an incomplete tricarboxylic acid cy-
cle. The Blastocystis mitochondrion-related organelles
(MROs) have metabolic properties that are found in aer-
obic and anaerobic mitochondria but also in hydrogeno-
somes. The purpose of this project is to understand
the evolutionary adaptations of Blastocystis and es-
pecially its mitochondrion-related organelles (MROs)
under dierent environmental conditions. This work will
identify the signicance of the evolutionary important
of mitochondrion-related organelles for the organism,
but in addition will discover novel functions that can
potentially be used in systems biology, or targeting par-
asitic and even mitochondrial diseases. The project willinvolve purifying the MROs under dierent environmen-
tal conditions, followed by proteomic and biochemical
analyses of the dierent novel pathways.
The candidate will be responsible for specic duties
involved in the day-to-day running of the project in
Dr. Tsaousis' laboratory, as well as providing practical
help for other lab members including undergraduate
students. He/she will work under the supervision of
Dr. Anastasios Tsaousis and the PDRA working on
the project, and may help in technical, non-academic
aspects of supporting other lab members.
Closing date for applications is February 22, 2015.
For any questions or clarications, please contact Dr.
Anastasios Tsaousis at: a.tsaousis@kent.ac.uk
Further information about the post and the application
procedure can be found at: https://jobs.kent.ac.uk/-
fe/tpl kent01.asp?s=3D4A515F4E5A565B1A&jobid=-
3D39022,2386213498&key=42771961&c=-
255856466547&pagestamp=secipgmlphnaydengd
Kind regards,
Anastasios Tsaousis
Dr. Anastasios D. Tsaousis (PhD) Lecturer in Bio-
sciences University of Kent, School of Biosciences, Room:
Ingram 220 Canterbury, CT2 7NJ, UK tel: +44 (0) 1227
827007
email: tsaousis.anastasios@gmail.com
A.Tsaousis@kent.ac.uk
Webpage: http://www.kent.ac.uk/bio/proles/sta/-
tsaousis.html Personal webpage: www.adtsaousis.com
A.Tsaousis@kent.ac.uk
ULondon Bioinformatics
Hi all,
We're recruiting a Lecturer* or Senior Lecturer* in
Bioinformatics
http://www.jobs.qmul.ac.uk/5436 (will include some
teaching in china)
The ad is worded broadly for a number of reasons - don't
be scared of applying.
We're based in the best part of London; would love to
interact with someone with strengths in evolutionary or
behavioural genomics.
I am happy to answer informal questions by mail orMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 65
skype/Hangouts - I am not directly on the recruitment
panel.
Kind regards,
Yannick
* UK equivalent to assistant prof; these are \permanent"
jobs; generally 3 years probation.
Yannick Wurm - http://wurmlab.github.io Ants,
Genomes & Evolution ^ a y.wurm@qmul.ac.uk ^ a
skype:yannickwurm 5.03A Fogg ^ a School of Biological &
Chemical Sciences ^ a Queen Mary, University of London
^ a Mile End Road ^ a E1 4NS London ^ a UK
Yannick Wurm <y.wurm@qmul.ac.uk >
UMainz EvolutionaryGenomics
Reminder! Deadline closing soon!
Job announcement
In the Faculty 10 Biology, Zoological Institute, Depart-
ment of Evolutionary Biology at the University of Mainz
is looking for an
Assistant Professor / Junior group leader
(Akademischer Rat at a University / Bes.Gr. A 13
BBesG)
Field: Evolutionary Genomics / Behavioral Genomics
from April 15st 2015 on.
The contract is initially for 3 years with the possibility
of extension to up to a total of nine years depending on
previous employment at German universities (12-year
rule). In case the prerequisites of civil service law are
not fullled, an engagement as a Scientic Assistant
(EG 13 TV-L) is possible. More information on poten-
tial contract length and position can be given on an
individual basis.
We invite applications for an Assistant Professor
(Akademischer Rat / A 13) position in the Depart-
ment of Evolutionary (Prof. Dr. Susanne Foitzik) at
the Institute of Zoology at Johannes Gutenberg Univer-
sity of Mainz, Germany. This young international re-
search team focusses on the evolution, behavior, genetics,
chemical ecology of social insects (http://www.bio.uni-
mainz.de/zoo/evobio/index ENG.php). Collaboration
with other groups of in the department of Evolution-
ary Biology are desirable. Excellent research conditions
are available at the newly renovated and well-equippedgenetic and chemical laboratories in Mainz. Further-
more, new climate chambers are available for animal
maintenance. A NextGen sequencing facility is avail-
able on campus. For further information, please contact
foitzik@uni-mainz.de.
We are seeking a highly motivated young researcher
with a strong background in evolutionary genomics or
behavioral genomics to establish a junior research group
within Department of Evolutionary Biology. Candidates
must hold a Ph.D. and postdoctoral experience is nec-
essary. The successful candidate should address evolu-
tionary or behavioral questions in social insects or other
arthropods and should preferentially apply the newest
genomic methods including the necessary bioinformatics
(e.g. next-gen sequencing and transcriptomics).
The successful candidate should have an excellent pub-
lication record. Experience with grant acquisition and
teaching is advantageous. The candidate should set-
up an independent, competitive research group and is
encouraged to apply for grants in Germany or the EU
(e.g., DFG, ERC). The position comes with a teaching
requirement of 4 h per week during the semester in the
Master and Bachelor programme. Some basic zoology
classes are preferably taught in German. Consequently,
a willingness to learn German is required. The candi-
date has the option to acquire a \Habilitation". The
working language of the lab is English.
Requirements of appointment:
- University degree and a PhD in biology (or related
eld) - a full-time employment of at least two years and
six month after Master or PhD
The Johannes Gutenberg-University Mainz is interested
in increasing the number of women in science. Appli-
cations from female scientists are strongly encouraged.
Similarly, qualied candidates with disabilities will be
preferred.
The University of Mainz hosts many excellent sci-
entic institutions (http://www.uni-mainz.de/eng/)
and Mainz is a historic city located on the Rhine
River with many students and a rich social and
cultural life (http://www.mainz.de/WGAPublisher/-
online/html/default/hpkr-5nkek8.en.html).
Interested candidates should send an application (as a
single e-mail pdf attachment) containing a CV, a list of
publications (including reprints of the three most im-
portant publications), research and teaching statements,
and contact information for two potential referees to:
Prof. Dr. Susanne Foitzik Evolutionary Biology
Institute of Zoology Johannes-v.- M uller-Weg 6 55099
Mainz66 EvolDir March 1, 2015
Germany foitzik@uni-mainz.de
Closing date for the application is February 28th, 2015
Starting date for the position is negotiable, earliest pos-
sible date is April 15st 2015
Prof. Dr. Susanne Foitzik Evolutionsbiologie Institut
f ur Zoologie Johannes Gutenberg Universit at Mainz
Johannes von M uller Weg 6 55099 Mainz
Tel: +49 (0) 6131 39 27 840 Fax: +49 (0)6131 39 27
850 Email: foitzik@uni-mainz.de
\Foitzik, Susanne" <foitzik@uni-mainz.de >
UMinnesota PlantEvolGenetics
SummerREU
Ruth Shaw's Research Group in the Dept. of Ecology,
Evolution & Behavior at the University of Minnesota
is seeking applicants for an NSF Research Experience
for Undergraduates (REU) position in summer 2015 to
study the process of ongoing adaptation in experimental
populations of partridge pea (*Chamaecrista fascicu-
lata*) in prairie habitat. The student will work closely
with Dr. Ruth Shaw and Dr. Seema Sheth to develop
an independent project in the area of plant evolution-
ary genetics, with possibilities ranging from estimating
heritability and phenotypic selection on various plant
traits to conducting studies of pollination ecology. The
student will gain invaluable experience in performing
eld work and in conducting an independent research
project, from hypothesis formulation through oral and
written dissemination of results, thereby preparing the
student for a career in inquiry-based scientic research.
The student must be a U.S. citizen or permanent res-
ident and should be enrolled as an undergraduate in
Fall 2015. The ideal candidate should enjoy working
outdoors and have an interest in learning about the
evolution and ecology of plants in the Midwest prairies,
and candidates planning to pursue a graduate career
in evolution, ecology, or conservation biology are par-
ticularly well-suited for this position. The REU intern
will receive a stipend of $5,000 and room and board
in the Twin Cities (with occasional overnight travel to
eld sites). Costs of travel to and from the Twin Cities
will also be provided. The deadline to apply for this
position is March 9, 2015, and the 10-week internship
will begin on Monday, June 8 and end on Friday, August
14. Please contact Seema Sheth (snsheth@umn.edu) for
more information. The University of Minnesota pro-vides equal access to and opportunity in its programs,
facilities, and employment without regard to race, color,
creed, religion, national origin, gender, age, marital sta-
tus, disability, public assistance status, veteran status,
sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression.
Individuals of underrepresented groups are especially
encouraged to apply. Please spread the word to any
interested and qualied undergraduates.
To apply, please e-mail the following application materi-
als to Seema Sheth (snsheth@umn.edu) with the subject
line \REU" no later than March 9, 2015:
1) a statement explaining the following:
- Why you are interested in this position?
- What previous experience do you have that is relevant
for this position?
- What are your future plans?
- What dates are you available to start and end this
position?
- conrm eligibility for the REU program
- the name of the person who will serve as your reference
- your e-mail address and phone number
2) resume
3) transcript (unocial is acceptable)
4) 1 letter of recommendation (sent by your reference)
For more information about Ruth Shaw's research group,
visit: ruthgshaw.wordpress.com
Seema N. Sheth
Postdoctoral Associate Dept. of Ecology, Evo-
lution and Behavior University of Minnesota E-
mail: snsheth@umn.edu Phone: (612) 625-5709
seemasheth.weebly.com
Seema Sheth <snsheth@umn.edu >
UOregon ResAssist AgingBiology
RESEARCH ASSISTANT. A full-time research position
conducting drug screens leading to extended lifespan is
available in the Phillips Lab at the University of Ore-
gon, Eugene. Candidates having a B.A, B.S. or M.S.
are invited to apply. We seek a highly motivated and
responsible individual who enjoys participating in an
interactive intellectual environment to join us in our
studies of genetics and genomics using the nematodeMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 67
Caenorhabditis elegans and its relatives as model sys-
tems. The candidate will be responsible for working
with a team conducting large scale longevity and tness
assays, as well as performing general laboratory tasks.
Previous experience with basic molecular techniques
and/or the genetics of model organisms is preferred.
Further details regarding ongoing research is available
at http://www.uoregon.edu/ ~pphil. Salary is commen-
surate with education and experience. Please send CV
and names of three references to: Patrick Phillips, Ph.D.,
via ie2jobs@uoregon.edu or c/o Search # 15045AB, In-
stitute of Ecology and Evolution, 5289 University of
Oregon, Eugene, OR 97403-5289.
The successful candidate will support and enhance a
diverse learning and working environment. To ensure
consideration, please submit applications by February
16, 2015, but position will remain open until lled.
EO/AA/ADA Institution committed to cultural diver-
sity. The University encourages all qualied individuals
to apply, and does not discriminate on the basis of any
protected status, including veteran and disability status.
Patrick C. Phillips, Ph.D. Professor of Biology Institute
of Ecology and Evolution Email: pphil@uoregon.edu
Phone: (541) 346-0916 jFAX (541) 346-2364 Address:
5289 University of Oregon Eugene, OR 97403-5289 USA
Web: Lab http://www.uoregon.edu/ ~pphil IEE http:/-
/evolution.uoregon.edu
pphil@uoregon.edu
UReading EvolBiol
Eight academic jobs in the School of Biological Sciences,
University of Reading including four (one Associate
Professor and three lecturer positions) within the
\Ecology & Evolutionary Biology" section of the school
(EEB). Follow http://www.jobs.ac.uk/enhanced/-
linking/university-of-reading/biological-sciences/
for the particulars. The School values inclusivity
and encourages applications from women and other
under-represented groups.
\Julie A. Hawkins" <j.a.hawkins@reading.ac.uk >USussex EvolutionaryBiol
The University of Sussex is looking to appoint an out-
standing biologist at the level of lecturer/senior lecturer
working on topics in evolution, behaviour or conservation
biology to join its Evolution, Behaviour and Environ-
ment (EBE) subject group within the School of Life
Sciences. The position forms part of a programme of
recruitment in Evolution, Behaviour and Environment.
The successful candidate will join ~15 other sta who
work in EBE, and will also benet from the School's
strengths in Neuroscience and Genome Biology, and its
support for cross-disciplinary research. An overview
of research within the EBE theme can be found at
http://www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/ebe/research . The suc-
cessful candidate will be a scientist who is outstanding
at the level applied for, with an established or devel-
oping international research prole. We will consider
all outstanding candidates, and particularly encourage
those who use plant or vertebrate study systems. The
individual will also have a track record of delivering
high quality teaching. The key quality for appointment
will be research and teaching excellence. Applicants for
Senior Lecturer must have a demonstrable ability to
attract appropriate research funding. Potential candi-
dates are strongly encouraged to make informal contact
with the Subject Chair for Evolution, Behaviour and
Environment (Professor Jeremy Field), or the Head of
the School of Life Sciences (Professor Laurence Pearl),
before applying.
Applications should be accompanied by a full CV, a
statement of research interests and aspirations (not more
than 4 pages), and the names of three academic referees.
Closing date for applications: 1 March 2015
For full details and how to apply see www.sussex.ac.uk/-
jobs a.c.eyre-walker@sussex.ac.uk68 EvolDir March 1, 2015
Vienna ComputationalBiol
Independent Group Leader Computational Biosciences
6-8 years, 1.6 Mio Euros.
The position (see below) should t perfectly for a theoret-
ical evolutionist at advanced postdoc stage. Application
is highly competitive.
More information: www.wwtf.at/programmes/ls/-
index.php?lang=EN#c4567h Vienna is a great place
for evolution, and in particular theory. Evolutionists in
Vienna: see www.evolvienna.at Interested candidates
should not hesitate to get in tough with one of us.
Joachim Hermisson.
{ Joachim Hermisson Professor for Mathematics and
Biosciences University of Vienna Department for Math-
ematics Oskar-Morgenstern-Platz 1, 1090 Vienna, Aus-
tria and Max F.Perutz Laboratories Dr.-Bohrgasse 9,
1030 Vienna, Austria phone: +43 (0) 1 4277 50648
email: joachim.hermisson@univie.ac.at www.mabs.at
Vienna Research Groups for Young Investigators Call
2015 (currently open)
Computational Biosciences
This call is issued for one to two positions as part of
WWTFs Life Sciences funding programme. It addressesVienna-based research institutions that intend to hire
an excellent young researcher from abroad for the set-
up and management of an independent research group.
WWTF takes unconventional research careers into con-
sideration. WWTF in total grants up to 1.6 Mio. 
per research group for six to eight years. Full proposal
have to be submitted by 15 July 2015, 2pm. Decisions
are planned for December 2015. Hearings of selected
candidates will take place in Vienna 9th or 10th of
December.
A Vienna Research Group is an assembly of researchers
that launches individuals in their post-doc phase onto
their next career step. Typically it is the rst genuine 
group led by such a young researcher who undertakes
leadership responsibility for several group members. Vi-
enna Research Group leaders usually are two to eight
years after PhD; care duties may extend this period
by up to four years. WWTF intentionally aims this
initiative at very young researchers.
Vienna Research Groups operate for six to eight years.
Key milestones are: (i) an interim evaluation after three
to four years; and (ii) the end of the rst phase, chiey
nanced by WWTF, after ve years. The second phase
will depend on the framework and opportunities avail-
able at the home institutions and will run for one to
three years. Funding by WWTF is supplemented, par-
ticularly in the second phase (i.e. years 6, 6-7 or 6-8),
by a signicant rise in nancing by the host institution.
Vienna Research Group leaders are to be independent in
designing their research work and recruiting their sta.
joachim.hermisson@univie.ac.at
Other
ABI 3130sequencer PC answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
AGA awards deadline Apr15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Alberta VolFieldAssist GroundSquirrel . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Bedtime PictureBook About Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 69ChicagoBotanicGarden UndergradResearchExperience
70
CostaRica VolFieldAssist StreamBiotaEvolution . . . 70
DiseaseEvolution exchanges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71March 1, 2015 EvolDir 69
ESEB outreach fund deadline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
Ethanol replacement query . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
Ethanol replacement query answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
EvoDevo UndergraduateSummerInternship . . . . . . . . 73
Evolution videos answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
GCWilliams Prize EvolMedPublHealth . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
GraduateUndergrad Funding PlantEvoDevo . . . . . . . 75
Italy VolFieldAssist BeetleConservation . . . . . . . . . . . 76
LandscapeGenomics call . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .77
MountainLake EarlyCareer Fellowships . . . . . . . . . . . .77
NESCent 2015 VideoContest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
NewPhytologist EvolutionMycorrhizas . . . . . . . . . . . . .78
PeerJ CompSci . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .79
Pruning phylogeneetic trees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Pyrenees VolFieldAssist EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .81Sample Management Software 2 answers . . . . . . . . . . 81
Sample management software answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Software HybridAllopolyploid GeneExpression . . . . .83
Software Microsatellite simulation inR . . . . . . . . . . . . .84
Software TREEFINDER license change . . . . . . . . . . . 84
SouthAfrica VolResAssist SocialMolerats . . . . . . . . . . 85
SSE HamiltonAward DeadlineFeb20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
SystematicBiology SpecialIssue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
T H Huxley Award . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .86
UMaryland VolFieldAssist PlantInsectInteraction . .86
UMBS UMichigan funding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
UTexas Austin UndergradSummerReserach . . . . . . . .87
UToledo UndergradResearch PaidInternship Summer 88
ABI 3130sequencer PC answers
Thank you to everybody who answered my query re-
lating to buying a replacement PC for an ABI 3130
sequencer. We have managed to successfully replace our
old ABI PC with a similar computer. The following
instructions describe how we managed to do this.
Thanks
Robert
robert.donnelly@plymouth.ac.uk <mailto:robert.donnelly@plymouth.ac.uk >
1. A second-hand computer was purchased that met the
minimum computer requirements specied by ABI:
- Hardware: Pentium ^A IV Processor,
2.00 GHz Processor
- Operating System: Windows XP ^A
Professional Edition
- Installed RAM: 1 GB
- Hard Disk Storage: Dual 36 GB hard
drives
- Peripheral: CD/RW
2. A network card was added to the PC (3Com 3C905CX
TX M 10 100 PCI Ethernet Network Interface Card)
3. The computer was booted from the original Win-
dows XP CD-Rom. At this stage both hard-drives were
partitioned. This created a total of four partitions.
4. After installation of Windows XP, the partitions were
formatted in Disk Manager.5. Network card drivers were then installed.
6. The network card was connected to the Sequencer
via an Ethernet cable.
7. A new network connection was created using the IP
address 192.168.0.1 and Subnet Mask 255.255.255.0
8. After the sequencer successfully connected to the PC,
the data collection software was installed. This required
a conguration le to be supplied.
9. With the data collection software installed and run-
ning, both the Genemapper and Gene sequencing soft-
ware was installed
Robert Donnelly <robert.donnelly@plymouth.ac.uk >
AGA awards deadline Apr15
The American Genetic Association grants awards each
year for support of special events that advance the mis-
sion of AGA, particularly to support students to attend
the event. Eligible events include specialized workshops
and short courses in topical areas of organismal genetics
and genomics, but any event relevant to AGA's purpose
will be considered.
Events that could lead to an article in the AGA's Journal
of Heredity will receive special consideration. Awards
are usually between $5,000-$20,000.
Please visit the AGA website, www.theaga.org, or con-
tact Anjanette Baker (agajoh@oregonstate.edu) for ap-
plication forms and further details.
Anjanette Baker^ a Managing Editor, Journal of Hered-70 EvolDir March 1, 2015
ity http://jhered.oxfordjournals.org/ Manager,^ a Ameri-
can Genetic Association http://www.theaga.org/ 2030
SE Marine Science Dr Newport, OR 97366 https://-
www.facebook.com/AmericanGeneticAssociation AGA-
JOH@oregonstate.edu
Alberta VolFieldAssist
GroundSquirrel
Field Assistants Required-Columbian ground squirrels
Kananaskis, Alberta, Canada
We are looking for 2 volunteers to assist with eldwork
for the period of April 10 to Aug 31, 2015. The project
investigates the ecology of Columbian ground squirrels.
As a member of the study, assistants will be involved
with monitoring the phenology (when animals emerge
from hibernation), reproduction and survival of individ-
uals. Fieldwork will involve live-trapping and handling
of animals, radio-telemetry, behavioural observation
and assistance with the measurement of physiological
(metabolism) traits on free-ranging animals. This is an
excellent opportunity to gain experience working with
a collaborative research team on a long-term study of a
wild mammal.
All eldwork is carried out in the spectacular Rocky
Mountains of southwestern Alberta, Canada, home to
some of the most majestic wildlife in North America. We
will be staying at the University of Calgarys R.B. Miller
and Barrier Lake research stations in Kananaskis, Al-
berta (http://bgs.ucalgary.ca/facilities/facilities). You
will interact with other researchers working with ground
squirrels on a diversity of projects in behavioural and
population ecology. Additionally, the eld stations are
home to a number of other researchers working on a
variety of projects, ranging from insects to large mam-
mals.
Food and accommodation are provided. Volunteers are
required to provide for their own travel to either Calgary,
Alberta or Saskatoon, Saskatchewan. Travel between
the eld station and Calgary or Saskatoon is provided.
Training will be provided and specic experience is not
necessary, but candidates should have an interest in a
number of the following (the more the better!): ecology,
evolutionary biology, wildlife, eld biology, and animal
behaviour. Periods of time will be spent camping and,
as such, successful applicants need to enjoy the out-
doors, be up-beat, positive, responsible and work well
as a member of a team.If you wish to apply for one of these posts then please
send a CV with a cover letter and contact details for
three references (with e-mail addresses), by email to Je
Lane (contact info below). Applications will be accepted
until by Mar 9, 2015, but will be evaluated as they are
received. To ensure full consideration for one of these
positions, therefore, it is best to apply ASAP.
Contact: Dr. Je Lane Department of Biology Univer-
sity of Saskatchewan u.columbianus@hotmail.com
\Lane, Jerey" <jerey.lane@usask.ca >
Bedtime PictureBook About
Evolution
Hi there,
I just published a bedtime picture about evolution. This
story is meant to be a small introduction to the very
simple requirements of evolution. The reader (small
kids, their parents, everyone else) follows the life of
Hopfs and encounters variation, heritability and selec-
tion. The book is available for free* in dierent digital
formats (iBook, pdf, online) and languages (English,
Spanish, German and Portuguese) on the project web-
site: http://www.heuschele.com/worldofhopfs/ This
project would not have been possible without the sup-
port of the European Society for Evolutionary Biology
(eseb).
I hope you like it, and if you do please share it with
your friends and colleagues.
Best wishes, Jan Heuschele
*but also in a \support the author version" in case you
want to see more books like this.
janheuschele@gmail.com
ChicagoBotanicGarden
UndergradResearchExperience
Information at www.cbgreu.org
The Chicago Botanic Garden, with colleagues from part-
ner institutions, hosts a ten-week summer research expe-
rience. This program oers undergraduate participantsMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 71
an opportunity to explore a diverse array of scientic
elds related to plant biology and conservation. Travel,
room and board, and research costs are covered by the
program. Participants also receive a $5,000 stipend.
Now accepting applications. The deadline has been
extended through to February 8th, 2015.
The Summer program will run from Monday 8th June
to Friday 14th Aug (There is some exiblity with start
dates)
For more information please visit our website
www.cbgreu.org Jeremie Fant and Dan Larkin Chicago
Botanic Garden Glencoe Il 60022
Lab@chicagobotanic.org
CostaRica VolFieldAssist
StreamBiotaEvolution
Stream Biomonitoring Intern Position Available
Asociacion ANAI, an award-winning Costa Rican NGO
working in the La Amistad area of Costa Rica and
Panama, has a volunteer intern position available im-
mediately (due to a last minute cancellation) in our
innovative Stream Biomonitoring Program.
The opportunity is to participate in a program, linked
to ANAI's other work best encapsulated in our slogan
\protecting biodiversity on a full stomach". The urgent
need is during our main eld monitoring season of mid-
February to mid-May. The work involves assisting (6
days a week) with monitoring sh and benthic macroin-
vertebrate assemblages and instream habitat. The sh
work includes both sampling using electroshers and
visual censusing with mask and snorkel in the river sys-
tems draining the huge binational La Amistad World
Heritage Site.
Much of the eld time will be spent in remote indigenous
and campesino communities working with and training
local parataxonomists to help them deal with regional
environmental isses, including proposed hydro dams.
The volunteer will also be expected to assist in oce
and maintenance work, including data management and
preparation for courses and meetings.
In addition to being available for the season, applicants
should: - Be prepared to endure dicult conditions
including long hikes, wading in swift owing rivers, ex-
treme weather (heat, rain, mud) and biting insects. -
Have an interest in biology and conservation issues. - Bein good physical health - Know how to swim. - Have at
least moderate capability in spoken Spanish. - Driver's
license and ability to drive standard transmission is
desirable.
The volunteer will be expected to pay his or her own way
to Costa Rica plus basic food costs. We will cover all
transportation within Costa Rica and Panama, housing
in San Jose and at our eld oce in Hone Creek, lunch
during eld work days, food and lodging expenses on
overnight or longer expeditions to remote sites, and all
necessary equipment.
Our facilities in Hone Creek include dormitory style
housing, with separate bath (cold water), kitchen and
laundry facilities and 24 hour security. There are 2
grocery stores and 2 modest restaurants within walking
distance. The situation varies from year to year, but
there is often the opportunity to economize by collabo-
rating in meal preparation at the oce.
If interested, or with further questions, reply to my
personal email billmclarney@gmail.com, or either of my
colleagues, Maribel Maa (mmaa@anaicr.org) and Ana
Maria Arias (anamaria@anaicr.org).
Bill McLarney Director, ANAI Stream Biomonitoring
Program
billmclarney@gmail.com
DiseaseEvolution exchanges
Dear colleagues,
We invite applications for research exchanges as part of
an NSF-funded Research Coordination Network (http:/-
/ideas.princeton.edu ). Our research exchanges are in-
tended to allow researchers the opportunity to spend ~3
weeks working intensively away from their home insti-
tution, within a group with complementary expertise,
to investigate the evolutionary biology of infectious dis-
eases.
Two examples of possible research exchanges: 1) a theo-
retician visiting an empiricist's lab to learn more about
how data are collected, integrate that knowledge into
models they have already developed, run in silico exper-
iments to test competing hypotheses, and jointly design
the next experiment to be undertaken by the empiricist.
2) two empiricists bringing new datasets from dierent
systems to a theoretician's lab to provide a reality check
for models, jointly test the t between model and data72 EvolDir March 1, 2015
and answer new questions about biology across systems.
We request a concise application to include: your pro-
posed research, with whom you propose collaboration
and why, where the work will take place and an esti-
mated budget (travel/subsistence).
Eligibility: Anyone is eligible, however exchanges will
be awarded preferentially to meritorious PhD students
and postdocs. International participants are welcome,
though the host institution must then be in the US.
Quarterly application deadlines for 2015: 15 March, 15
June, 15 Sept and 15 Dec
Where to submit an application: Please visit our web-
site in order to submit an application electronically
or for further information: http://ideas.princeton.edu/-
research-exchanges/ Thanks and all best wishes, Andrea
algraham@princeton.edu
ESEB outreach fund deadline
**ESEB Outreach Fund**
The European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB)
welcomes applications to the ESEB Outreach Fund for
projects that promote evolution-related activities. The
goal of this initiative is to improve public knowledge
about evolution globally.
Applications for funding will be accepted for educational
initiatives that promote evolution, development of evo-
lutionary material (books, lms, web sites) intended
for a general audience, public outreach seminars, public
exhibitions, etc. While most projects will be nanced
for a sum between 1000-1500 Euros, exceptions can be
made if a strong argument is provided for additional
funds.
The application form can be found on www.eseb.org
(click on the \Outreach Fund" link). Applications will
be accepted twice yearly (deadlines March 15, September
15) and should be submitted by email to Ute Friedrich
(oce@eseb.org; Subject: Outreach).
<http://www.eseb.org >
Dr. Ute Friedrich ESEB Oce Manager Email: of-
ce@eseb.org European Society for Evolutionary Biology
- www.eseb.org
oce@eseb.orgEthanol replacement query
Dear All
We have recently identied a need to rationalise the
amount/volume of ethanol preserved specimens in the
laboratory. In addition to regular housekeeping, rational-
isation and outsourcing, one solution could be draining
the existing ethanol, air drying and then replacing with
either a DMSO (EDTA, NaCl), or RNAlater style solu-
tions. Therefore, I would be really keen to nd out from
the community if any laboratories had been through this
process and road tested the samples long term following
the downstream preservation approaches. Alternatively,
if anyone could identify the molecular biological reasons
why this would not be a good idea, it would be good to
nd out. As always, I will collate and repost emerging
solutions for the benet of the community.
Many thanks to EvolDir and hope to hear from you
regarding identifying solutions to what could be a de-
veloping issue for many of us.
Cheers and best wishes
Si
Simon Creer Senior Lecturer Molecular Ecology and
Fisheries Genetics Lab Environment Centre Wales Build-
ing School of Biological Sciences Bangor University Ban-
gor Gwynedd LL57 2UW UK
e-mail: s.creer@bangor.ac.uk Tel: +1248 382302 Fax:
+1248 382569 Home Page: http://mefgl.bangor.ac.uk/-
si.php Skype: spideycreer Twitter: @spideycreer
Simon Creer <s.creer@bangor.ac.uk >
Ethanol replacement query answers
Dear All
Many thanks to all who responded and apologies if I
did not get back to everyone (some mails bounced), but
here is a summary of the soundbites I received from the
community.
Briey, at least one very reputable lab had replaced
EtOH with RNA later or similar non-branded productMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 73
and the genetic material was/is ne for subsequent anal-
ysis. There were many other queries and suggestions, of
which drying was a popular choice, especially for tissues
such as sh n clips. I think that the comments pro-
vide really interesting reading and thanks to everyone
who responded. Certainly food for thought for future
strategies. Please see below.
Cheers and best
Si Creer
my experience the RNAlater solutions are fantastic for
both RNA and DNA preservation at RT and lower tem-
peratures. Tissue tend to become \rubbery" or \hard"
in ethanol. My yields and quality of DNA was also
much higher compared to ethanol storage. Dry storage
also worked acceptably.
kinds of tissues are you trying to preserve and what
are your downstream plans for them? DNA-based work
only? Beware that because of its EDTA content and low
pH, RNAlater will dissolve some mineralized tissues and
may form crystals around small, soft-bodied specimens
(I work on marine worms) or small tissue samples.
Invertebrate Systematics, 2013, 27, 81V86 http://-
dx.doi.org/10.1071/IS12067 DNA preservation: a test
of commonly used preservatives for insects Corrie S.
Moreau A,D, Brian D. Wray A, Jesse E. Czekanski-Moir
A,C and Benjamin E. R. Rubin A,B
preferred method of preserving the samples and DNA
is air drying. Briey, we take a small n clip (this can
be done non-lethally) and place between a small piece
of lter paper to absorb the moisture. The samples
are then put into a desiccator (or warm dry area) for
3-5 days or until completely dry. We have found that
the key to preserving high quality DNA is to begin the
drying process immediately after the tissue is removed
from the sh. Once fully dry, the samples can be stored
for years at room temperature. As a bonus, this is a
highly space-ecient method, and we can store a large
number of samples in a small area, no reagents required.
also handle some ethanol-preserved tissue. When pos-
sible, we transfer ethanol samples to a dried state for
long-term storage. This process involves blotting as
much excess ethanol as possible with a lab wipe or blot-
ter paper, overnight evaporation in a fume hood, and
then ~3 days in a desiccator.
have recently extracted DNA from samples that have
been stored at room temp on our sample shelf for about
10 years, and got good microsatellite and SNP genotype
data from them. In my experience, the majority of
the DNA degradation takes place in the rst few hours
following: 1) removal of the n clip from the sh, 2)thawing of frozen samples, or 3) death of the animal,
as with carcass samples from stream surveys. Once
the tissue has dried, enzymatic activity ceases, so the
quicker you can get the sample dry, the better. Most of
the data-poor samples that I deal with are from salmon
carcasses, and there seems to be a strong negative cor-
relation between data quality and amount of time the
carcass has been decomposing on the stream bank!
should mention that each tissue sample gets its own en-
velope, on which all the relevant sample info is written
(and later entered into an electronic database). We use
small coin envelopes that are about 9 x 5.5 cm. I buy
\#1 coin brown" envelopes from envelopes.com in the
US, but I'm sure there is a similar retailer in the UK.
The blotter paper is Whatman 1 lter/blotter paper 46
x 57 cm, which we cut into ~2.5cm squares.
RNA later for ethanol is ne for n clips
Simon Creer Senior Lecturer Molecular Ecology and
Fisheries Genetics Laboratory School of Biological Sci-
ences Environment Centre Wales Bangor University
Gwynedd LL57 2UW Tel: +44(0)1248 382302 Fax:
+44(0)1248 382569 web: http://mefgl.bangor.ac.uk/-
si.php Skype: spideycreer Twitter: @spideycreer
Rhif Elusen Gofrestredig 1141565 - Registered Charity
No. 1141565
Gall y neges e-bost hon, ac unrhyw atodiadau a anfon-
wyd gyda hi, gynnwys deunydd cyfrinachol ac wedi eu
bwriadu i'w defnyddio'n unig gan y sawl y cawsant eu
cyfeirio ato (atynt). Os ydych wedi derbyn y neges e-
bost hon trwy gamgymeriad, rhowch wybod i'r anfonwr
ar unwaith a dilewch y neges. Os na fwriadwyd anfon y
neges atoch chi, rhaid i chi beidio a defnyddio, cadw neu
ddatgelu unrhyw wybodaeth a gynhwysir ynddi. Mae
unrhyw farn neu safbwynt yn eiddo i'r sawl a'i hanfon-
odd yn unig ac nid yw o anghenraid yn cynrychioli barn
Prifysgol Bangor. Nid yw Prifysgol Bangor yn gwarantu
bod y neges e-bost hon neu unrhyw atodiadau yn rhydd
rhag rysau neu 100% yn ddiogel. Oni bai fod hyn wedi
ei ddatgan yn
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html74 EvolDir March 1, 2015
EvoDevo
UndergraduateSummerInternship
Dear Colleague,
This email is to remind you that the upcoming dead-
line for UNDERGRADUATE SUMMER INTERNSHIP
funding from the Evo-Devo-Eco Network (EDEN) is
March 11, 2015. EDEN is a program funded by the
National Science Foundation of the USA. The goal of
this program is to train undergraduates in the eld of
Evo-Devo-Eco, with an emphasis on emerging model
systems.
Eligible students should be undergraduates of any na-
tionality at any college or university, including liberal
arts colleges, community colleges, and universities, both
within and outside of the U.S.. Eligible host labs should
be conducting research using new and emerging model
organism and must be at a U.S.-based institution. If
the proposed host lab is working on a well-established
model organism, your application must explain how the
techniques or skills that you learn in the host lab will be
applied to work on new or emerging model organisms
at your home institution.
Students may apply to work in a lab that is at their
home institution, as long as the proposed research in-
volves new and emerging model organisms. However, in
cases where all other aspects of applications are consid-
ered to be equally competitive, preference will be given
to applicants who propose to travel to a lab that is not
at their home institution.
Please visit http://edenrcn.com/funding/-
ugrad internships.html for complete program details.
For examples of previous undergraduate projects sup-
ported by EDEN, please visit http://edenrcn.com/ree/-
undergrad.html . Please note that the updated eligibility
for EDEN funding is as follows:
Students based anywhere in the world can apply for
funding to visit labs in the US.
Students based in the US are eligible for funding to visit
labs anywhere in the world.
Please feel free to email edenrcn@fas.harvard.edu with
questions about the program, and forward this email to
colleagues who you think would be interested in EDEN.
Best wishes,Cassandra Extavour
\Perlo, Barbara" <perlo@fas.harvard.edu >
Evolution videos answers
I received about 30, really useful responses to my query
about good videos for a 2nd year evolution course. Many
people wanted to hear what I heard back, so I have
pasted the responses below. 'Thank you' to everyone
who took the time to share their insights.
Dr. Vicki Friesen, Professor Department of Biology,
4443 Biosciences, 116 Barrie Street, Queen's University,
Kingston, ON K7L 3N6, Canada Tel: 613-533-6156 Fax:
613-533-6617
Haida Saying: Treat the Earth well: it is not given to
us by our parents, it is loaned to us by our children.
The \Stated Clearly" animations are short but very
good.
Cheers,
Julia
Dr Julia D Sigwart
This youtube video is extremely lucid and well produced
& comes with a simulator associated.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SeTssvexa9s ps
Part II goes into quite advanced issues on mutational
load.
Richard Nichols
I hope this is useful
http://www.torontopubliclibrary.ca/detail.jsp?Entt=-
RDM2702731&R=2702731 Pedro
{
Pedro Fernandes
This site, while focused on ecology, had several good
ones for evolution.
https://dynamicecology.wordpress.com/2013/10/08/-
videos-for-teaching-ecology/ Best wishes,
Sam [Zehelo]
I am teaching an Evolutionary genetics/populations ge-
nomics course at Master level, and I am always starting
with a course on the scientic theory of evolution based
on J Coyne great 2009 book, it might be too general
but I think it really gives a great overview of ideasMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 75
and context for any evolution course, so I make my
students watch J Coyne video on Youtube: https://-
www.youtube.com/watch?v=hqGX08Og4CE that you
may know, but just in case
all the best Pauline [Garnier-Gere]
This is not a movie - rather a computer dynamic illus-
tration a bit in the game category - but it might be of
help.
http://www.cals.ncsu.edu/gn/ex/mit-eve.html Best
wishes, {henry [Schaer]
I use short ( <10min) clips from the following documen-
taries
1st choice:
What Darwin didn't know (BBC Documetary) Armand
Marie Leroi This is a DVD that you can borrow/buy.
Currently not available on you tube, removed for copy-
right issues. Occasionally shows-up in YouTube, for a
while.
http://www.imdb.com/name/nm2001160/ http:/-
/eweb.furman.edu/ ~jfoltz/Courses/BIO102/lect/-
Videos/WDDK transcript.pdf Not really as good... in
my opinion:
Evolution - What Darwin Never Knew - NOVA PBS
Documentary https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-
AYBRbCLI4zU Best,
Pedro
{
Pedro Fernandes
I saw your Evoldir note. I have a series of videos,
based on the style of the Khan Academy (http://-
www.khanacademy.org/ ), that could possible serve your
needs. Khan has pioneered the reverse classroom ap-
proach, where the students rst watch a short video then
come to class to discuss it. My videos are aimed at high
school and early college students. There are 54 short
(15 min) videos, and a growing series of circa 1 hour
lectures on a variety of topics (http://post.queensu.ca/-
~forsdyke/videolectures.htm). Kingston, of course, has
much to do with the development of evolutionary ideas,
Darwin's research associate, George Romanes, being
born here in 1848! My attempts to get the new medical
school building south of Earl Hall named Romanes Hall
have so far been unsuccessful. Should the students be
interested, more can be found in my textbook (Evolu-
tionary Bioinformatics, 2nd edition 2011), and there
are my earlier historical works (The Origin of Species
Revisited, McGill Queen's Press 2001, and a biography
of William Bateson 2008).Don [Forsdyke]
The HHMI BioInteractive Evolution series is absolutely
wonderful. I use almost all of them in my teaching
2nd/3rd year Evolution students. In particular, the
series of short lms in The Making of the Fittest series
are great (see link below). There are also interactive
activities that go along with the videos, although I have
never used those.
Best of luck, Jannice
http://www.hhmi.org/biointeractive/making-ttest
http://www.hhmi.org/biointeractive/explore-evolution
Jannice Friedman
The american public broadcasting company (PBS; equiv
to BBC) did a series several years ago called 'Evolution'
(as part of their NOVA
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
GCWilliams Prize
EvolMedPublHealth
The International Society for Evolution, Medicine and
Public Health is proud to announce the launch of the
George C. Williams Prize. The $5,000 Prize will be
awarded to the rst author of the most signicant arti-
cle published in 2015 in the Society's agship journal,
*Evolution, Medicine and Public Health*. Oxford Uni-
versity Press publishes the journal open access. Stephen
Stearns is the editor. Author's fees are waived for 2015.
All articles published in 2015 will be automatically con-
sidered for the Prize.
The Prize recognizes the contributions of George C
Williams to evolutionary medicine, and aims to encour-
age and highlight important research in this growing
eld. In a seminal 1957 paper, Williams initiated work
on several problems central to medicine, including an
evolutionary theory of aging and life history traits in-
cluding menopause. He did important work on the
problem of why sex exists. Perhaps his most lasting
contribution is his 1966 book Adaptation and Natural
Selection, a critique of group selection that transformed
how biologists think about the evolution of sociality.
In the 1990's he collaborated with Randolph Nesse on76 EvolDir March 1, 2015
a series of papers and a book that inspired much on-
going work on how evolutionary biology can help us
understand disease and improve human health.
The Society's Publications Committee, chaired by An-
drew Read, will appoint the Prize Committee. The
Prize Committee will interpret the criterion of 'most
signicant article' with attention to the focus on major
unanswered questions that characterized the work of
George Williams. Articles by members of the Prize
Committee and their students and close colleagues are
not eligible for the prize. Members of the Publications
Committee and their students and close colleagues are
eligible with special restrictions.
For full information see http://evolutionarymedicine.org
or http://emph.oxfordjournals.com .For information
about the Society's inaugural meeting March 19-
21 see http://evmedmeeting.org Randolph Nesse
<nesse@asu.edu >
GraduateUndergrad Funding
PlantEvoDevo
Cross-Disciplinary Visits and Training Grant
The microMORPH RCN promotes and fosters cross-
disciplinary training and interaction through a series of
small grants that allow graduate students, post-doctoral
researchers, and early career faculty to visit labs and
botanical gardens. Being listed on the microMORPH
community web page is required of all successful appli-
cants (and encouraged for everyone else!).
Award Amount: Each Year, microMORPH is able to
fund ve graduate student, post-doctoral, or early career
faculty cross-training research opportunities for up to
$3,500 to cover travel, lodging, and pier diem.
Submission Deadline: The next microMORPH Cross
Disciplinary Training Grant deadline is 11:30 pm March
1st, 2015.
Eligibility: To be eligible for a microMORPH training
grant you must fulll one or more of the following re-
quirements: 1) you must be a U.S. citizen or, 2) you
must be aliated with a U.S. university or institution
(in a graduate program or working as a post-doc or
faculty member), or 3) the lab you plan to visit for
your training experience must be at a U.S. university of
institution.
How to Apply: For full application instructions (includ-ing list of required documents) and to submit applica-
tions, please visit the microMORPH website(http://-
projects.iq.harvard.edu/micromorph).
Proposal Evaluation: Two members of the steering com-
mittee (one organismic and one molecular) and a third
individual from outside the core participants (chosen
by the steering committee) are charged with evaluating
applications.
Questions or Comments?: Contact Becky Povilus at
RCNmicromorph@gmail.com
*****
Undergraduate Summer Internships/Training Grants
The microMORPH RCN promotes and fosters cross-
disciplinary training and interaction through a series of
small grants that allow undergraduates to visit labs and
botanical gardens as well as gain invaluable laboratory
experience while contributing to scientic discovery.
Award Amount: Each year, microMORPH is able to
fund ten 10-week research internships/training grants
for undergraduates. $5,000 is available per grant, which
can be used for travel and housing for the period of the
internship.
Submission Deadline: Undergraduate training grant
proposals are due on 11:30 pm on March 1st, 2015
Eligibility: To be eligible for a microMORPH undergrad-
uate training grant you must fulll one or more of the
following requirements: 1) you must be a U.S. citizen or,
2) you must be aliated with a U.S. college, university,
or institution (in an undergraduate program), or 3) the
lab you plan to visit for your training experience must
be at a U.S. university of institution.
How to Apply: For full application instructions (includ-
ing list of required documents) and to submit applica-
tions, please visit the microMORPH website(http://-
projects.iq.harvard.edu/micromorph).
Proposal Evaluation: Two members of the steering com-
mittee (one organismic and one molecular) and a third
individual from outside the core participants (chosen
by the steering committee) are charged with evaluating
applications.
Questions or Comments?: Contact Becky Povilus at
RCNmicromorph@gmail.com
Pamela Diggle
Professor Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology University of Connecticut
860-486-4788
\Diggle, Pamela" <pamela.diggle@uconn.edu >March 1, 2015 EvolDir 77
Italy VolFieldAssist
BeetleConservation
FIELD ASSISTANTS for monitoring SAPROXYLIC
PROTECTED BEETLES in the LIFE-MIPP Project.
Website: www.lifemipp.eu . Reference Institutions:
CFS, National Forest Service (project coordinator);
CRA ABP, Council for Agricultural Research and Eco-
nomics Research Center for Agrobiology and Pedology.
The eld assistants will help in eldwork for the mon-
itoring of 5 species of saproxylic beetles (*Cerambyx
cerdo*, *Rosalia alpina*, *Morimus asper/funereus*,
*Osmoderma eremita* and *Lucanus cervus*) in ve
protected areas in Central and Northern Italy (Appen-
nines and Alps). The sampling seasons will be from May
to August 2015 (eld assistants are expected to join the
project for at least 2 weeks). The aim of the research is
to develop standard monitoring protocols for the saprox-
ylic beetles listed in the Habitats Directive, as required
by the European Community. The eld assistants will
work with a team consisting of master students, PhD,
post-docs and researchers. The work will consist in not-
invasive methods as the count of animals in transects,
capture/mark/recapture, photographic identication,
interception traps, collection of remains. Moreover, the
project also benets from an innovative technique by the
use of a snier dog. Duties will include insects handling
(marking, measuring), data entry and data management.
The eldwork will be demanding and will be organized
in 4-5 day sessions.
Qualications/Experience Candidates must have expe-
rience with eldwork in general and interest in insect.
Field work hours will be long and tiring and applicants
should be prepared to work at any time including week-
ends and holidays.
No nancial compensation will be provided but accom-
modation and meals will be covered by the project.
Candidates should have at least a BSc in Biology or
in Natural Science or a related eld. Ideal candidates
are highly motivated, well organized and able to work
independently, while at the same time able to work in a
group.
Applications Review of the applications will begin Mid-
February and continue until the positions are available.
To apply, please send (1) a statement of relevant experi-
ence and motivation, (2) a very short resume or CV toboth Dr. Alessandro Campanaro (ale.naro@gmail.com)
and Dr. Fabio Mosconi (fabio.mosconi@gmail.com).
Best regards, Alessandro Campanaro and Fabio Mosconi
alessandro.campanaro@uniroma1.it
LandscapeGenomics call
\The least cost path from landscape genetics to land-
scape genomics: challenges and opportunities to explore
NGS data in a spatially explicit context" is the title of
a Research Topic for Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution
to explore a number of critical challenges and oppor-
tunities for the transition from landscape genetics to
landscape genomics.
We invite the submission of papers (original research,
general commentary, opinion article, etc.**) related to
the transition from landscape genetics to landscape ge-
nomics. The papers may include : a) data and analysis
of spatial analysis of empirical NGS data to identify
markers under selection and quantify eects of envi-
ronmental factors and heterogeneity on gene ow and
selection; b) simulation and modeling to explore the
application of spatially explicit, individual-based mod-
eling in a NGS context; c) experimental genomics in
common garden and gene-line selection experiments to
discuss the challenges and opportunities of integrating
experimental genetics with emerging genomic data;
See the full text of the call for papers here: http://-
journal.frontiersin.org/ResearchTopic/3790 Deadline
for abstract: March 27, 2015 (declaration of intent, not
compulsory) *Deadline for submission: September 25,
2015*
The topic editors,
Samuel Cushman, Andrew Shirk, Glenn Howe, Melanie
Murphy, Rodney Dyer, St ephane Joost
**More information on Frontiers Research Top-
ics: http://www.frontiersin.org/about/RTGuidelines
stephane.joost@ep.ch78 EvolDir March 1, 2015
MountainLake EarlyCareer
Fellowships
The University of Virginia's Mountain Lake Biological
Station (MLBS) in the southern Appalachians is ex-
cited to oer a limited number of fellowships to support
station and residency costs for researchers to explore
new projects or collect preliminary data. This is a rare
opportunity to make an extended stay of up to 2 months
at one of North America's premier eld stations at no
cost to the researcher. Preference will be given to in-
dividuals and projects with the potential to develop
into long-term research activities at the Station. We
especially encourage applications from individuals in the
postdoctoral or early faculty phases of their careers, but
will not exclude other individuals from consideration.
For more information about the fellowship program,
research opportunities or Mountain Lake Biological
Station (mlbs.org), please contact the Director Butch
Brodie (bbrodie@virginia.edu).
Interested individuals should submit a single pdf le in-
cluding CV and a 2-3 pp proposal outlining the proposed
research and planned dates of residence (or duration of
stay) to MLBS@virginia.edu. Review of proposals will
begin March 20, 2015.
bbrodie@virginia.edu
NESCent 2015 VideoContest
NESCent 2015 Evolution Film Festival/Video Contest
Scientists and science educators of all stripes - students,
postdocs, faculty, and full- or part-time science commu-
nicators - are invited to enter the Fifth Annual Evolution
Video Competition, sponsored by the National Evolu-
tionary Synthesis Center (NESCent) and the Society for
the Study of Evolution (SSE). To enter, please submit
a video that explains a fun fact, key concept, com-
pelling question, or exciting area of evolution research
in THREE MINUTES OR LESS.
Entries may be related or unrelated to your own research,
and should be suitable for use in a classroom (K-12, un-
dergraduate, graduate...your choice). Videos should beboth informative and entertaining. (In other words, no
taped lectures or narrated Powerpoint presentations!)
Animations, music videos, and mini documentaries are
all fair game.
The nalists will be screened at the 2015 Evolution
meeting in Guaruj a, Brazil. (You do not need to attend
the conference in order to enter a video.)
First- and second-place winners will receive up to $1,000
and $500, respectively.
The deadline to submit your video(s) is SUNDAY, MAY
31st, 2015 (11:00 PM, EST).
For more information (and to see entries from previ-
ous years) please visit lmfestival.nescent.org or contact
Jory Weintraub (jory@nescent.org).
Jory P. Weintraub, PhD Assistant Director, Education
& Outreach National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) 2024 West Main St., Suite A200, Durham,
NC 27705 Phone: 919.668.4578 Fax: 919.668.9198 Email:
jory@nescent.org Skype: jory.weintraub
\Weintraub, Jory P" <lviscrst@live.unc.edu >
NewPhytologist
EvolutionMycorrhizas
I wanted to make you aware of the online publication
of a Special Issue of New Phytologist on the Ecol-
ogy and evolution of mycorrhizas. The Editorial by
Dickie et al. 'Evolving insights to understanding mycor-
rhizas' introduces the special issue and can be read for
free here: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/-
nph.13290/full The special issue's full table of contents
can be found here: http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/-
10.1111/nph.2015.205.issue-4/issuetoc and in summary
below:
Forum Editorial
Evolving insights to understanding mycorrhizas (pages
1369-1374) Ian A. Dickie, Ian Alexander, Sarah Lennon,
Maarja ~Apik, Marc-Andr e Selosse, Marcel G. A. van
der Heijden and Francis M. Martin
Commentary
Priorities for research on priority eects (pages 1375-
1377) David Johnson
Moving beyond the black-box: fungal traits, commu-
nity structure, and carbon sequestration in forest soilsMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 79
(pages 1378-1380) Christopher W. Fernandez and Peter
G. Kennedy
Letters
How harmonious are arbuscular mycorrhizal symbioses?
Inconsistent concepts reect dierent mindsets as well
as results (pages 1381-1384) F. Andrew Smith and Sally
E. Smith
Plant root and mycorrhizal fungal traits for understand-
ing soil aggregation (pages 1385-1388) Matthias C. Ril-
lig, Carlos A. Aguilar-Trigueros, Joana Bergmann, Erik
Verbruggen, Stavros D. Veresoglou and Anika Lehmann
Parsing ecological signal from noise in next generation
amplicon sequencing (pages 1389-1393) Nhu H. Nguyen,
Dylan Smith, Kabir Peay and Peter Kennedy
Fungal associations of basal vascular plants: reopening
a closed book? (pages 1394-1398) William R. Riming-
ton, Silvia Pressel, Jerey G. Duckett and Martin I.
Bidartondo
The fungal perspective of arbuscular mycorrhizal colo-
nization in 'nonmycorrhizal' plants (pages 1399-1403)
Ylva Lekberg, S ~Aren Rosendahl and P ~Al Axel Olsson
Prole
Francis M. Martin (pages 1404-1405)
Review Tansley reviews
Mycorrhizal ecology and evolution: the past, the present,
and the future (pages 1406-1423) Marcel G. A. van der
Heijden, Francis M. Martin, Marc-Andr e Selosse and
Ian R. Sanders
Tansley insights
Towards a holistic understanding of the benecial inter-
actions across the Populus microbiome (pages 1424-1430)
St ephane Hacquard and Christopher W. Schadt
Phytohormones as integrators of environmental signals
in the regulation of mycorrhizal symbioses (pages 1431-
1436) Mar a J. Pozo, Juan A. L opez-R aez, Concepci on
Azc on-Aguilar and Jos e M. Garc a-Garrido
Partner selection in the mycorrhizal mutualism (pages
1437-1442) Gijsbert D. A. Werner and E. Toby Kiers
Ectomycorrhizal fungi - potential organic matter decom-
posers, yet not saprotrophs (pages 1443-1447) Bj orn D.
Lindahl and Anders Tunlid
Interplant signalling through hyphal networks (pages
1448-1453) David Johnson and Lucy Gilbert
Research reviews
Local-scale biogeography and spatiotemporal variability
in communities of mycorrhizal fungi (pages 1454-1463)Mohammad Bahram, Kabir G. Peay and Leho Tedersoo
Research Rapid reports
Endogone, one of the oldest plant-associated fungi, host
unique Mollicutes-related endobacteria (pages 1464-
1472) Alessandro Desir ~A2, Antonella Faccio, Andres
Kaech, Martin I. Bidartondo and Paola Bonfante
Full papers
Mycorrhizal phenotypes and the Law of the Minimum
(pages 1473-1484) Nancy Collins Johnson, Gail W. T.
Wilson, Jacqueline A. Wilson, R. Michael Miller and
Matthew A. Bowker
Host diversity aects the abundance of the extraradi-
cal arbuscular mycorrhizal network (pages 1485-1491)
Daniel J. P. Engelmoer and E. Toby Kiers
From mycoheterotrophy to mutualism: mycorrhizal
specicity and functioning in Ophioglossum vulgatum
sporophytes (pages 1492-1502) Katie J. Field, Jonathan
R. Leake, Stefanie Tille, Kate E. Allinson, William R.
Rimington, Martin I. Bidartondo, David J. Beerling and
Duncan D. Cameron
Preferential allocation, physio-evolutionary feedbacks,
and the stability and environmental patterns of mutu-
alism between plants and their root symbionts (pages
1503-1514) James D. Bever
Order of arrival structures arbuscular mycorrhizal col-
onization of plants (pages 1515-1524) Gijsbert D. A.
Werner and E. Toby Kiers See also the Commentary by
David Johnson
Carbon sequestration is related to mycorrhizal fungal
community shifts during long-term succession in boreal
forests (pages 1525-1536) Karina E. Clemmensen, Roger
D. Finlay, Anders Dahlberg, Jan Stenlid, David A. War-
dle and Bj orn D. Lindahl See also the Commentary by
Christopher W. Fernandez and Peter G. Kennedy
Exploring the transfer of recent plant photosynthates
to soil microbes: mycorrhizal pathway vs direct root
exudation (pages 1537-1551) Christina Kaiser, Matt R.
Kilburn, Peta L. Clode, Lucia Fuchslueger, Marianne
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html80 EvolDir March 1, 2015
PeerJ CompSci
PeerJ aims to speed up the pace and openness of Com-
puter Science publishing with launch of new journal
PeerJ Computer Science
San Francisco, CA and London, UK Tuesday February
3rd 2015
Award winning open access publisher PeerJ today an-
nounces the launch of PeerJ Computer Science, a
cross-disciplinary open access journal publishing articles
across all elds of computer science. PeerJ PrePrints
will start accepting computer science preprints on Tues-
day February 3rd and the peer-reviewed journal will
open for submissions on Thursday February 12th, which
is also PeerJ's two-year anniversary of publishing in the
biological and medical sciences.
From February 3rd interested authors can visit https://-
peerj.com/computer-science to nd out more about the
journal, and its 322 strong Editorial and Advisory Board
(which includes a number of high prole computer scien-
tists including Vint Cerf, Wendy Hall, David Patterson
and Mary Shaw for example). PeerJ is oering free
publication to all those who register their email at this
page, and also to their colleagues simply by providing
their email details.
Jason Hoyt, Co-founder and CEO of PeerJ said \We've
received a constant stream of requests to bring our
unique lifetime publishing model and user design philos-
ophy to other disciplines ever since we launched PeerJ
two years ago for the life sciences. We feel now is the
right time to build upon our success by oering PeerJ's
services to the computer science community, who have
been looking for a modern and improved publishing
experience.
Tim O'Reilly, founder of O'Reilly Media and a member
of the PeerJ Board, added "Open source software has
transformed the practice of software development. So
it is about time for an open access computer science
journal to bring computer science research publishing
into the 21st century. It's great to be part of helping
make that happen.\ PeerJ's existing connections with
Tim O'Reilly places PeerJ well to build deeper connec-
tions within the computer science community and to
understand how best to serve their needs.
The landscape for academic publishing within computerscience is ripe for change. There are very few open
access journals currently serving the computer science
community, and authors in this eld are mainly pub-
lishing their work either at academic conferences or in
subscription journals. The traditional journal route can
be very slow for authors in this eld with lengthy review
processes, which is one of the reasons why authors often
nd that disseminating their work at a conference is a
much faster route to obtaining a decision. The current
system for publishing in computer science is in need of
some fresh innovation, and by opening up submissions
for computer scientists PeerJ is aiming to bring a 21st
century publishing platform to computer scientists.
PeerJ Computer Science will operate in exactly the
same way as PeerJ articles will be published through
CC BY licensing ensuring that the content is freely ac-
cessible to the world. The business model also remains
the same with authors paying a low cost fee to publish
their article, starting at $99 for lifetime publication.
Although it remains to be seen how fast the new jour-
nal will be, PeerJ's life science and medicine authors
currently receive a rst decision in a median time of 22
days, which would help to address the need for quick
turnaround times for computer scientists. By publishing
cross-disciplinary research across the full spectrum of
computer science, PeerJ Computer Science hopes to
engender more cross-fertilisation between elds and to
become a hub for the computer science community as
a whole to interact. PeerJ intends to work closely with
the computer science community from the outset to help
shape the journal as it grows.
Peter Bineld, Co-founder and Publisher of PeerJ added
We built PeerJ with the scientic community in mind,
and our technologies enable better ways to publish ar-
ticles. We want our Authors, Reviewers and Editorial
Board to help us shape the journal as it grows, so we'll be
listening intently and taking on board their suggestions
and recommendations. We know computer scientists
want a better way to publish their research, and we will
aim to provide that by shaping the platform to meet
their requirements. We're excited to see how we can
move publishing in computer science forward and better
serve the needs of this community.
Full list of Advisory Board Members for PeerJ Computer
Science
Chieko Asakawa, IBM Japan Grady Booch, IBM
Francine Berman, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
Christine Borgman, UCLA Vint Cerf, Google Krish-
nendu Chakrabarty, Duke University Jennifer Chayes,
Microsoft Research Lynn Conway, University of Michi-
gan Peter Denning, Naval Postgraduate School Ian
Foster, University of Chicago Martin Fowler, Thought-March 1, 2015 EvolDir 81
Works Wendy Hall, University of Southampton Jim
Hendler, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Pruning phylogeneetic trees
Dear Colleagues,
Microbial epidemiologists often need to determine how
new isolates of pathogens are related to known isolates.
Today that means constructing phylogenetic trees based
on whole genome sequences. The practice has been to
use all the available genome sequences plus new isolates
as the data set. New genome sequences are being added
to the data bases at an astonishing rate, and a sample
of new genomes of interest can be obtained so quickly
that there are often 50-100 new genomes to consider.
That means that the sizes of data sets are exploding,
sometimes beyond the capacity of the software to han-
dle. We are no faced with so much of a good thing that
analyzing the data is becoming increasingly dicult.
In fact, we dont REALLY need to know where each new
isolate ts in with every previously known strain in one
tree. It would be quite sucient to be able to assign
new isolates to major clades, and then in a second pass
to use only the members of that clade to make a tree of
those isolates that r into that clade, using all known
members of that clade for the second pass.
In eect, what we want to be able to do is to prune
a large (200-300 genomes) phylogenetic tree so that
every important clade is represented and a representa-
tive set of members of each is included. If a set of 150
genomes could be trimmed down to a representative
30-50 genomes for the rst pass that would be ideal.
The problem is how to rationally prune a tree. We
want every important node represented, but how to
choose the important nodes? How many representative
genomes of each clade? How to ensure that they ade-
quately represent the phylogenetic diversity within that
clade?
Are you aware of software designed for such tree prun-
ing? Can you point me to useful papers on the subject?
Thanks for taking the time to read this plea for help,and thank you in advance for any advice or suggestions
you might have.
Barry
Barry G. Hall Director, Bellingham Research Institute
Je suis Charlie
\Barry G. Hall" <barryghall@gmail.com >
Pyrenees VolFieldAssist EvolBiol
Field assistants summer 2015: Volunteer positions in
evolutionary biology
Nick Barton's group at the Institute of Science and Tech-
nology (IST) Austria requires volunteers to assist with
eld work on plant speciation in the Pyrenees (Spain)
this coming summer (June - August).
The project: We are studying the evolutionary dynam-
ics underlying species diversication in the genus Antir-
rhinum (snapdragons). A major focus of this research
involves eld work on natural hybrid zones between
two subspecies with dierent ower colours. Most of
the eld work is contributing to a long-term pedigree
project aimed at establishing a direct link from genotype
to phenotype to tness. With 14,000 samples collected
over ve generations (so far), this provides an excit-
ing and powerful system to examine many outstanding
questions in speciation and quantitative genetics in wild
populations. We are seeking volunteers to assist with
the eld work, which involves working in teams map-
ping the location of individual plants (GPS), tagging
and sampling them for leaves and owers, measuring
quantitative traits, phenotyping them for ower pigmen-
tation and processing material for later DNA extraction.
There may also be opportunities to be involved in other
projects we are doing on plant-pollinator interactions,
pollen fertility and community ecology surveys. Most
of the work is outdoors, however we do spend some
time indoors processing samples. The work is highly
team orientated, typically in groups of 2-3 in the eld
and larger groups processing samples back at the re-
search station. This is a great opportunity for anybody
looking to obtain experience in eld work relating to
evolutionary biology, plant ecology and plant-animal
interactions. You will also be part of a large multidis-
ciplinary team including researchers from IST Austria
(Vienna), John Innes Centre (Norwich, UK) and the
University of Toulouse.
The eld site is located near Ripoll in a beautiful part82 EvolDir March 1, 2015
of the Pyrenees of North Eastern Spain (Catalonia).
We stay in comfortable apartments overlooking a pic-
turesque valley, with close access to hiking trails and
small villages. All food, accommodation and travel
(within Europe) are covered. However, we cannot oer
any further stipend.
For these positions we are looking for hard working and
enthusiastic biology students with a strong interest in
working outdoors with plants. You must be meticulous
with recording data and also be comfortable working
as part of a team. Experience with eld-based projects
and plants is preferred but not essential.
We require assistance between early June and the end
of July. Depending on the year and the plants, we may
extend our time into August. Length of stay is exible
but a minimum stay of 3 weeks is required.
Please send any questions to the email address below.
How to apply? By the closing date of March 31st, please
send a statement of your background, CV, why you are
interested and the length of time you would be available
via email to:
david.eld@ist.ac.at
*Dr. David Field*
Postdoctoral Fellow
Barton Group
IST Austria
AMCampus 1
Klosterneuburg3400
Phone: +432243 9000 3008
Web: http://ist.ac.at/research-groups-pages/-
barton-group/team/david-eld/ Web: https://-
sites.google.com/site/davideldresearch/home David
Field <david.eld@ist.ac.at >Sample Management Software 2
answers
Hi again,
After my return of answers to my initial question (see
below) I received a few more answer, which I share in my
updated answers. I number the new answers starting
with 12, because 1-11 are printed beow for your records.
Thanks again, community!
Cheers, Robert
12. If you do use an SQL set up, you might
be interested in using the refox add-on to access
the database (https://addons.mozilla.org/en-us/refox/-
addon/sqlite-manager/). There is also a good introduc-
tory tutorial on sql here: http://software-carpentry.org/-
v5/novice/sql/index.html 13. We curate a sample collec-
tion of 15 000 tissue samples, and more DNA extractions
(as you sometimes end up extracting DNA more than
once). About 20 years ago I created the rst data base
for this (and all the lab work, we record every PCR etc.)
in a proprietary relational database (e.g., like FileMaker,
ACCES etc.). We are now (well for a few years) hit-
ting the limitations of \proprietary" (simply too many
records and restrictions in terms of software, plugins,
operating systems etc.). This have led me to the open
source SQL databases, in our case mySQL/MariaDB.
Incredibly simple and capable. Works on any oper-
ating system and remote access is dead easy to set
up in a secure manner (e.g., using SSH tunnels and
key-based log in). You can make entry forms, etc. in
HTML using PHP so users can access from anywhere.
The degree of control, e.g., who has access to what
database/tables/elds is truly staggering.
These databases (postgresql is another well-known) have
been around for eons, most serves and web sites runs
on mysql/portgresql and mariadb, which means that
your database software will NOT become obsolete and
the number of scripts and code and plugins to all kinds
of programming languages etc. is equally extensive. It
is also the choice databases for much of the genomic
bioinformatics (e.g., STACKS for RAD sequencing) for
all the above reasons. Records are saved in plain text,
making it easy to recover in case of database corruption
(not so for many proprietary database softwares).
Depending on your experience the learning curve mayMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 83
be a bit steep, but in these cases you know it will be
worthwhile the investment for many years to come. As
it is a generic system that implies you can congure any
way you want and not have to rely upon some schema
devised for somebody else's needs and purposes.
14. We are currently also looking into options to orga-
nize our databases better - one thing I came across is
WILDBOOK:
http://www.wildme.org/wildbook/doku.php 15: I was
forwarded your message by XXX at XXX, who thought
our company's data management technology might be
of interest to you. It is called Ref It Technology, which
you can read about in some detail on our website:
www.rettech.com . This technology uses Excel as an
interface for Microsoft SQL Server databases. It is a
dierent way to use the SQL software package, so that a
single table-type can be used to store data for any type
and number of variables and formats. Therefore, teams
of people, who each might have some dierent and some
identical variables, can store and share their data in a
single SQL table-type. Also, because a single table-type
is used for all types of data, it makes meta-studies, con-
solidation of databases, and divisions of databases by
topic for various special purposes simple.
There is no database programming required. You simply
need to own a copy of Microsoft SQL (the free 'Express'
version works ne). The Ref It software congures the
SQL database for you. And once the software is in-
stalled, a new ribbon shows up in your Microsoft Excel
program, which allows you to interact with the uniquely
congured SQL database, for sending, browsing, and
retrieving data by search criteria, all the new ribbon in
Excel.
Please let me know if you'd be interested in discussing
this further. I could meet with you to show you a demon-
stration, even using examples of the types of data you
will be storing.
AND HERE MY PREVIOUS POST WITH ANSWERS
1-11:
On 07.02.2015 09:46, evoldir@evol.biology.mcmaster.ca
wrote: Dear EvolDir community!
I asked for sample management software a few days ago.
Here is the original post:
|{
we are searching a way to get rid of Excel tables of our
samples in Dropbox or network drives. Would you be so
kind and suggest solutions regarding the management
of samples? Our samples are regular molecular ecology
stu. Sometimes we have multiple samples from the
same individuum, and also multiple samples types. Oth-erwise we do not need anything special. It would be
nice if the sample management could be
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Sample management software
answers
Dear EvolDir community!
I asked for sample management software a few days ago.
Here is the original post:
|{
we are searching a way to get rid of Excel tables of our
samples in Dropbox or network drives. Would you be so
kind and suggest solutions regarding the management
of samples? Our samples are regular molecular ecology
stu. Sometimes we have multiple samples from the
same individuum, and also multiple samples types. Oth-
erwise we do not need anything special. It would be
nice if the sample management could be online etc. To
be honest: We do not exactly know what we need We
rather wish to explore some options. If you can suggest
a software/system, would you as well very briey let me
know which are the pro and cons in your daily use, and
for what applications you have it? I'll of course repost
all collected info here on EvolDir in a few days.
|{
And these are the answers that reached me. I will return
all answers to you without actually sorting out the ones
that I think would not work so well. That is because
your idea of such a software may be dierent from mine.
Hope this is useful!
Cheers, Robert (robert.kraus@uni-konstanz.de)
1. We increasingly rely upon Google Spreadsheets. It's
all saved in the cloud as part of Google Drive, is free,
and it is of course very easy to share with multiple peo-
ple such that certain lists of people can view the data
and others can edit it. I suggest backing up regularly to
a private spreadsheet, though, because if someone with
edit access erases it, it's gone (same as for documents
shared on networks.)
2. we purchased a FileMaker server license and ve84 EvolDir March 1, 2015
client licenses installed on lab computers. We then cre-
ated our own Filemaker database. It works great. The
server software takes care of the backups and allows
multiple users to modify the database while enforcing
integrity of the data. You can publish the database on
the web and restrict access. There is a bit of a learning
curve though.
3. we have been looking into options to use a MySQL
database for sample management. It has the exibil-
ity that you can add any type of metadata you want
provided you organise the database carefully from the
begin on. However, I'm interested in any feedback you
get from your query and would appreciate it if you could
forward it to me.
4. we have established in our molecular lab a SQL
database managed by the system OpenBIS from the
ETH (http://www.cisd.ethz.ch/software/openBIS). Pos-
sibly it is a very big hammer on your data but it is very
exible and extensible over time. The simplest setting
would be: Store your samples in the database and add
observations as attachments (excel tables, etc.) to it.
The next step would be to create database entries for the
dierent experiments and you could link the samples to
this (and could also backtrack from experiments to the
samples afterwards, which is quite nice for supervisors
or if you try to remember what you have done month
ago).
The management/installation is not very easy but with a
little knowledge about databases, SQL and linux doable
in at least 2 weeks. A complete and sophisticated setup
might need 4 weeks or even some month while learning
the system better and better to get the whole workow
optimized.
5. Perhaps our VoSeq database would be of use to
you? https://github.com/carlosp420/VoSeq and http:/-
/nymphalidae.utu./cpena/VoSeq docu.html 6. I would
very much recommend JMP (www.jmp.com) as the data
management and analysis platform. It's a popular statis-
tical package and it's great as such (not cheap, though),
but it is particularly good at data management. It al-
lows to easily summarize data by any combination of
columns, merge les by matching values two or more
columns (with or without retaining non-matches or drop-
ping multiples in either table), split and stack columns
by specied values, etc. More expensive ProJMP ver-
sion includes the same functions in the form of database
management tool. Even more expensive JMP Genomics
version includes all kinds of sequence, genotype an ex-
pression data analysis tools, but this maybe more than
what you are looking for and it is expensive.
7. We do the things you mention with our software
www.earthcape.com Please let me know if you want tohave more details about it. Perhaps a skype call. It
would be interesting to learn details of your needs and
tell you about what we can oer.
8. We use Lab Collector, it has all the capabilities that
you probably need and is user friendly and web based.
Can be a little clunky for entering large quantities of
data, but it is great when you have a whole team needing
access to shared information.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Software HybridAllopolyploid
GeneExpression
Hi everyone,
This is a quick announcement of HyLiTE, a new soft-
ware package to study gene expression in hybrid and
allopolyploid species.
Hybrids and allopolyploids are often an evolutionary
short-cut to speciation. Although well studied in plants,
they are also surprisingly common in animals and fungi.
Hybrids and allopolyploids carry at least two nearly-
identical copies of each gene, which makes it challenging
to determine the expression level of each gene copy
(\homeolog"). Gene expression (either for individual
genes or genome-wide) is usually measured by stringent
read mapping, but this method has a very high error
rate.
We have just released HyLiTE, a exible, easy-to-use
program with high read assignment accuracy that was
specically designed for bench biologists to explore pat-
terns of gene expression following genome merger:
http://hylite.sourceforge.net The accompanying paper
is available here:
Duchemin, W., P.-Y. Dupont, M.A. Campbell, A.R.D.
Ganley and M.P. Cox. 2015. HyLiTE: Accurate and
exible analysis of gene expression in hybrid and al-
lopolyploid species. BMC Bioinformatics 16:8.
http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2105/16/8
HyLiTE can be used on hybrids or allopolyploids with
any number of parent species, particularly non-model
organisms. Given the prevalence of hybrids andMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 85
allopolyploids in evolutionary studies (and limited
genome resources for these mostly non-model species),
we think that the HyLiTE software may be of interest
to some in this community.
-Murray Cox
Murray Cox, Ph.D. jAssociate Professor jRutherford
Fellow Institute of Fundamental Sciences jMassey Uni-
versityjNew Zealand
+64-6-356 9099 x84747 jm.p.cox@massey.ac.nz jhttp:/-
/massey.genomicus.com murray.p.cox@gmail.com
Software Microsatellite simulation
inR
Hello all.
I just posted on GitHub a new R package (microsimr
version 0.0.1) that simulates microsatellite data under
the coalescent. At the moment, the package allows one
to simulate microsat data under a diverse range of de-
mographic scenarios, taking advantage of Hudson's ms
coalescent simulator. There is a function that will save
your simulated data as an input le for Migrate-N, so
you can study the power of Migrate-N to estimate pa-
rameters of interest under the constraints of your study.
Also, I take a slightly dierent approach to simulating
the alleles from that of Murray Cox's microsat (details
in the vignette), so it is possible to study rates of ho-
moplasy in microsatellite data too, and how they might
aect your downstream parameter estimates.
Current limitations:
1. Only outputs to Migrate-N, if there is interest in
other programs I can certainly nd the time to add
output for additional formats.
2. Only simulates microsats using a symmetrical strict
stepwise mutation model. This can easily be added to
if there is interest.
3. I need to add an example to demonstrate how the
data can be transformed to a GENIND object and thus
be used with the adegenet package, and other R pop
gen packages.
4. ms options must be entered manually, but could
potentially be made easier.
5. No function to output degree of homoplasy.
If you have interest in the package, and would like to see
any of these issues dealt with, or you have additionalsuggestions, please contact me directly or post a request
in the Issues section of the GitHub page.
To get the package go to:
https://github.com/andersgs/microsimr And, follow
the instructions.
The package is not yet available on CRAN.
Best.
Anders.
andersgs@gmail.com
Software TREEFINDER license
change
Dear All!
Please note that I have changed the license agreement
of my TREEFINDER software (www.treender.de):
Starting from 1st February 2015, I do no longer per-
mit the usage of my TREEFINDER software in the
USA. For all other countries, the old license agreement
remains valid.
This is in accordance with the license agreement stated
in the TREEFINDER manual since the earliest ver-
sions, which reserves me the right to change the license
agreement at any time.
My reasons:
(1) I want to protest against American imperialism,
which I regard as the cause of most of all evil in the
world: wars, tyranny, poverty, migration.
(2) I want to protest against EU tyranny, which is mostly
the result of US imperialism.
(3) I want to demonstrate my sovereignty, something I
would welcome to see much more often in science and
politics.
In particular, I dislike that the USA and the EU aggres-
sively promote a way of life that conicts with my own
way of life.
After so many years of hard work on TREEFINDER, I
have still not been paid any reward.
I want to stress that this license change is not against
my colleagues in the USA, but against a small rich elite
there that misuses the country's power to rule the world.
On the TREEFINDER download website I have col-86 EvolDir March 1, 2015
lected many links to background information, including
some in English language.
Regards,
Gangolf Jobb
Gangolf Jobb <gangolf@treender.de >
SouthAfrica VolResAssist
SocialMolerats
SouthAfrica.ResearchAssistant.SocialMolerats
Cooperative breeding in Damaraland mole-rats
(Fukomys damarensis), South Africa.
2 Positions:
15th of March 2015 to 14th of June 2015.
Mid-June 2015 to mid-September 2015.
We are looking for two voluntary eld research assis-
tants to conduct eld research on the completely sub-
terranean, highly social Damaraland mole-rat (Fukomys
damarensis). Specically, this project investigates the
group augmentation hypothesis and how benets of liv-
ing large groups can generate selection for altruism in
animals. We plan a large scale capture-mark and re-
capture experiment running over one year in which the
voluntary research assistant would play an important
role. Field work takes place in the southern Kalahari,
Northern Cape province of South Africa. Entire groups
of mole-rats will be captured and individually marked.
Morphological measurements and tissue samples will be
obtained before the release of the animals. The work is
physically extremely demanding (long hours, heavy dig-
ging to capture mole-rats) and weather conditions are
very challenging (heat during the day, very cold during
the night). Field work will make trapping during the
night necessary. The assistant will mostly be working
along one more experienced scientist but will need to
work independently at times.
Applicants should be enthusiastic, willing to work hard
and keen to get involved in an ecological research project
in the African bush. Research assistants are expected
to be willing to work at night when trapping schedules
require it and need to be t as capturing mole-rats re-
quires the capacity to do hard physical work (digging) in
a challenging environment. Applicants must be holders
of a driving license. A zoology related degree and/or
previous eld experience will be considered an asset.The successful applicants will work in a small team of 2
persons and hence need to be a team player and gener-
ally a person that enjoys collaboration under sometimes
challenging and isolated circumstances.
Accommodation is provided, and research assistants are
paid a monthly allowance to cover their food.
Applications received until the 12th of February 2015
are ensured full consideration. Later applications can
be considered (particularly for the second time period).
Dates for the second period are more exible and appli-
cants can indicate if they wish to commit for a longer
period.
Further Information:
http://bit.ly/1zG67hJ To apply (CV + cover letter) or
enquire further information contact:
Dr Markus Z ottl
Research associate
University of Cambridge
+441223336673
Mz338@cam.ac.uk
http://www2.zoo.cam.ac.uk/larg/-
MARKUSZOETTL.html Markus Zoettl
<mz338@cam.ac.uk >
SSE HamiltonAward DeadlineFeb20
www.evolutionsociety.org SOCIETY FOR THE
STUDY OF EVOLUTION
Dear SSE Colleagues:
Just a reminder that applications for the Hamilton
Award are due Friday, February 20. The W.D.
Hamilton Award (http://www.evolutionsociety.org/-
index.php?module=content&type=user&func=-
view&pid=15) for Outstanding Student Presentation
will be given to a student who has presented an
outstanding talk at the annual meeting. You must
submit a 400-word abstract and talk title. Finalists
will be notied by March 13. Finalists will present
their papers during a day-long symposium of Hamilton
award candidate talks. This year, nalists will receive
a registration waiver and a $500 travel stipend from
the SSE. Learn more and nd the link to apply HERE
(http://www.evolutionsociety.org/index.php?module=-
content&type=user&func=view&pid=15)March 1, 2015 EvolDir 87
Please make note of another award deadline that is
upcoming. Rosemary Grant Research Award (http://-
cms.gogrid.evolutionsociety.org/index.php?module=-
content&type=user&func=view&pid=16) - April
1
SSE Business Oce PO Box 299 jSt. Louis Mis-
souri, 63166 314-577-9566 www.evolutionsociety.org
Society for the Study of Evolution
<hcacanindin@evolutionsociety.org >
SystematicBiology SpecialIssue
Special Issue of Systematic Biology, after MCEB2013
http://sysbio.oxfordjournals.org/content/current This
issue, after the \Mathematical and Computational Evo-
lutionary Biology" conference (MCEB), held at Mont-
pellier in June 2013, contains three review papers that
are freely available:
Cancer Evolution: Mathematical Models and Com-
putational Inference Syst Biol (2015) 64 (1): e1-e25
doi:10.1093/sysbio/syu081 Niko Beerenwinkel, Roland
F. Schwarz, Moritz Gerstung, and Florian Markowetz
Phylogenetics and the Human Microbiome Syst Biol
(2015) 64 (1): e26-e41 doi:10.1093/sysbio/syu053 Fred-
erick A. Matsen IV
The Inference of Gene Trees with Species Trees Syst
Biol (2015) 64 (1): e42-e62 doi:10.1093/sysbio/syu048
Gergely J. Sz oll Asi, Eric Tannier, Vincent Daubin, and
Bastien Boussau
Olivier Gascuel <gascuel@lirmm.fr >Olivier Gascuel
<gascuel@lirmm.fr >
T H Huxley Award
The SSE Education Committee is pleased to announce
the T. H. Huxley award, named in honor of Darwin's
very public supporter, which provides funding for an
SSE member to present at the National Association
of Biology Teachers (http://www.nabt.org/ <http://-
www.nabt.org/websites/institution/index.php?p=10 >)
annual conference. If you have an interesting project or
educational activity to share with high school, commu-
nity college or undergraduate faculty, consider applyingfor this award. Graduate students and postdoctoral
fellows are encouraged to apply.
This years conference will be held Nov 11-14, in Provi-
dence, Rhode Island. The deadline for applying for the
Huxley award is March 4. Apply here:
http://tinyurl.com/php87w4 Questions? Contact
Louise Mead (lsmead@msu.edu) or Kristin Jenkins
(kristin.jenkins@bioquest.org)
{ Kristin P. Jenkins, PhD Director BioQUEST Curricu-
lum Consortium bioquest.org
Kristin Jenkins <kristin.jenkins@bioquest.org >
UMaryland VolFieldAssist
PlantInsectInteraction
Other: volunteer eld assistance on plant insect interac-
tions in eastern USA, summer 2015
Volunteer eld assistance needed for research in eastern
USA from June 15 V September 15, 2015, potential
bachelor/master thesis.
Within my PhD project I am quantifying the interac-
tion between the native plant species Silene stellata
(Caryophyllaceae) and its specialized pollinating seed
predator Hadena ectypa (Noctuidae) along a north-
south gradient of their range and the implications of
climate change on this interaction. I am oering a
bachelor or master student to accompany my eld work
in summer 2015 with the potential to conduct his/her
bachelor or master thesis within the project.
Details can be found under the follow-
ing link: https://drive.google.com/le/d/-
0BzsO6ofdzOXZajc5cHljamhyM0E/view?usp=sharing
For further information or any questions please contact:
Nicola Seitz, seitz@umd.edu, phone: +49-157-52114695
<tel:%2B49-157-52114695 >
Nicola Seitz <seitz@umd.edu >
UMBS UMichigan funding
The University of Michigan Biological Station
(UMBS) has funding opportunities for graduate88 EvolDir March 1, 2015
students who conduct research at the Station.
Our fellowships page (http://www.lsa.umich.edu/-
umbs/students/studentresearchopportunities/-
studentresearchfellowships) has all of our fellowship
information, including eligibility requirements, the
application process and deadline (February 13, 2015),
and contact information.
Prospective applicants should browse our Research Gate-
way (http://umbs.lsa.umich.edu/research/) to learn
about the breadth of research that takes place at the
Biological Station, the variety of habitats and research
sites we have access to, and our specialized facilities.
The Station has over a century of data in many elds
and an equally long history of supporting regionally and
nationally important eld work. A nice visual overview
of the Station is available here.
Interested students should direct questions to UMBS
Associate Director Karie Slavik, (slavik@umich.edu).
{ Alicia Farmer, Communications Coordinator University
of Michigan Biological Station 734-764-5212
www.lsa.umich.edu/umbs/ < https://-
www.facebook.com/umichBIOSTATION > < https://-
twitter.com/UMBS > < https://www.youtube.com/-
channel/UC978qYs4y5YCLSmt1QZkbig >
farmeral@umich.edu
UTexas Austin
UndergradSummerReserach
Dr. Tom Juenger's research group is currently seek-
ing undergraduates interested in conducting research
in Switchgrass biology. We are seeking undergraduate
applicants for the The University of Texas at Austin
Switchgrass Summer Research Program. This program
is an opportunity for undergraduate students to partici-
pate in mentored independent research on the biology
of Switchgrass. The program is funded through the
NSF Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU)
program and is associated with our ongoing interdisci-
plinary work on the ecology, physiology, and genomic
responses of switchgrass to future climate change.
Summer students will be immersed in research and learn
basic and applied biology through active participation.
Working as part of our research team, they will con-
tribute to group research projects, design short research
projects, and present their work in an end-of-summer
student symposium.Who Should Apply? Undergraduates in the second or
third year. Each REU position is supported for ten
weeks, with a stipend of $4,500. The program runs from
the rst week in June until the rst week of August
2013. Students will be housed in a UT dormitory, and
the costs of the dormitory and meal plan are included
in the program. Some funds will be available to help
defray the cost of traveling to Austin.
Applications The application deadline is February 15,
2015. Applicants should submit a cover letter describing
experience, interests and future career plans, along with
a copy of their transcripts. Applicants should also en-
sure that two letters of recommendation are submitted
on their behalf. Only applications that are complete will
be considered. If acknowledgement of receipt is required,
please request this in the application. Applications and
requests for further information should be directed to:
Dr. Brandon Campitelli e-mail: bran-
don.campitelli@utexas.edu Subject: Switchgrass
REU 2015 Mail: 1 University Station CO930, Austin
78712
For current information regarding ongoing re-
search in the Juenger lab, please visit https://-
w3.biosci.utexas.edu/juenger lab/ { Brandon E
Campitelli, PhD Postdoctoral Fellow, Dept. of Inte-
grative Biology College of Natural Sciences Research
Educator, Biology of Biofuels Freshmen Research
Initiative University of Texas at Austin
brandon.campitelli@utexas.edu
UToledo UndergradResearch
PaidInternship Summer
Join our Land-Lake Ecology Team This Summer! Paid
NSF Summer Research Experience for Undergraduates
at the Lake Erie Center, The University of Toledo, OH
$5000 Stipend, 9 weeks, June 1 - July 31 plus paid dorm,
roundtrip transportation & research expenses
- Fun, Exciting, Meaningful Field & Lab Research -
Build the skills for your dream career - Fields: Envi-
ronmental Sciences, Biology, Engineering, Chemistry,
Geography, GIS - Develop life-long connections with
top scientists, faculty, engineers, grad students & agen-
cies - Study and help combat environmental problems:
- Harmful Algal Blooms - Water Quality - Use & Ap-
ply Top Technology: Sensor networks, water quality,
environmental DNA, next-gen sequencing, GeographicMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 89
Information Systems, ROVs, drones, etc. - Field trips:
canoeing, lake sampling, wetlands - Social: Cedar Point,
Mudhens baseball, concerts, kayaking - Rising college
Juniors & Seniors preferred (rising Sophomores ok) -Must be U.S. citizen or permanent legal resident
Apply by Friday, March 27: http://www.utoledo.edu/-
nsm/lec/reu.html \Klymus, Katy Elizabeth"
<Katy.Klymus@UToledo.Edu >
PostDocs
AustralianNationalU SpatialPhylogeneticBiodiversity
89
Brest France RayPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
BrownU EvolutionaryMorphology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
CambridgeU EvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
DFO Halifax 2 SalmonPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . .91
EBD Sevilla 5 EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .92
ECWP Morocco PostCopulatorySexualSelection . . . 92
EMBL Barcelona ComputationalBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
GoetheU Frankfurt FungalEvolutionaryGenomics . .95
HarvardU BacterialVariation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
ImperialCollege London 2 SpeciationGenomics . . . . 96
KielU EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
LouisianaStateU 2 Phylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
LSUMuseum CollectionsVertEvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . .99
McMasterU IntegratingGenomicsCognition . . . . . . . . 99
Milan Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
MNHN Paris EcolFuncMorphPaleobiology . . . . . . . .100
MNHN Paris EvolFuncMorphology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .101
MNHN Paris EvolutionFunctionalMorph . . . . . . . . . 101
MonashU EvolutionaryEcol FairyWrens . . . . . . . . . . 102
Montpellier DomesticationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103
Munich EvolutionaryNeuronalBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103
NorthCarolinaStateU Biocomplexity . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
Otago EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
Otago EvolutionaryGenomics updatedURL . . . . . . .104
PennStateU PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .105
QueensU PhD PDF SeabirdAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . 105
RJB Madrid PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
Singapore ViralGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
SLU Alnarp PlantHerbivore PollinatorInteractions 107
SpelmanCollege Georgia 3 EvolBiology TeachingEm-phasis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .107
Stockholm MeiofaunaTaxonomy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .108
TorontoScarborough FishPopulationGenomics . . . . 109
UAgder Norway EvolutionaryMarineGenomics . . . 109
UAlabama Bee PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
UAlabama PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
UArizona 2 GenomicsInvasiveSpecies . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
UBern 2 Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .112
UCalifornia Berkeley 2 Drosophila . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .113
UCambridge Phylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113
UCanterbury EvolutionNetworks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114
UConnecticut PlantComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . 114
UFlorida AppliedEvolutionaryPhysiology . . . . . . . . .115
UHeidelberg BioinformaticsGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 116
UMemphis BeetlePhylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
UMichigan Herpetology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
UMinnesota ComputationalMicrobialEvolution . . . 118
UNebraska Lincoln POEFellowPopulationBiology 118
UNewEngland Australia PlantSpeciationGenomics 119
UOregon MicrobialEcologyEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
UOulu Bioarcheologal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
UOulu PopulationStatisticalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 122
UPM Spain PlantVirusCoevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .122
Uppsala Sweden PlantGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 123
UppsalaU ComputationalMolecularEvolution . . . . . 124
UPretoria LifeHistoryEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 124
UQueensland Australia AlgalGenomicsBioinformatics
125
USDA ARS Gainesville PopulationGenomics . . . . . 126
USheeld UK EcoEvoResistance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .126
UToledo FishGenomics eDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .127
UUtah HerbivoreMicrobiomeBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . 12890 EvolDir March 1, 2015
UUtah PlantAnimalMolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128
Vienna 2 ExpEvolutionDrosophila . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .129
Vienna 3 Population Genetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
AustralianNationalU
SpatialPhylogeneticBiodiversity
*Postdoctoral Fellow in Biodiversity (one year)*
*Location:* Australian National University, Canberra,
Australia *Classication: *Academic Level A *Salary
package: *$64,386 - $81,672 *Fixed Term: *12 Months
The Research School of Biology (RSB) of the Australian
National University are seeking a Postdoctoral Fellow to
work on an Australian Research Council funded project
combining phylogenetic and spatial biodiversity data
to investigate the evolution and diversication of the
plant family Proteaceae. The Postdoctoral Fellow will
carry out research towards the goals of this project,
based in the Macroevolution & Macroecology Group
(www.macroevoeco.com). The Postdoctoral Fellow will
take a lead role in species distribution modelling, spatial
and phylogenetic analyses, and the design and imple-
mentation of analyses to test aspects of biogeographic,
ecological and evolutionary theory. The research will be
entirely computer-based.
Applicants should have a PhD in evolution, ecology,
biogeography, or a related eld. Applicants should have
demonstrated expertise in the analysis of phylogenetic
and spatial biodiversity data. Applicants should be pro-
cient in the use of a computer platform (preferably R)
to handle data and perform high-level statistical analy-
ses. Demonstrated ability to write scientic papers is
essential.
For more information about the project, please
contact marcel.cardillo@anu.edu.au or lin-
dell.bromham@anu.edu.au
To apply, and to see the Position Description and
Selection Criteria, go to the ANU Jobs page (http:/-
/jobs.anu.edu.au/cw/en/job/492878/postdoctoral-
fellow).
Applications close March 11, 2015
marcel.cardillo@anu.edu.auBrest France
RayPopulationGenomics
A 18 months Post-Doc is proposed within the frame of
the GenoPopTaille ANR project, to perform a popula-
tion genomics study of the thornback ray, Raja clavata.
The GenoPopTaille consortium consists in the collabo-
ration of the EMH, HGS and LGPMM Ifremer laborato-
ries (Nantes, La Tremblade), the LEMAR (UMR 6439,
University of Western Brittany) and the APECS (Asso-
ciation pour l'Etude et la Conservation des S elaciens).
Background and scientic context: A number of ray
and shark species have severely declined since the the
20th century. The biology of these species is still poorly
known and traditional sheries stock assessment meth-
ods using sheries catches and scientic survey data are
often expensive and inapplicable for estimating their
abundance due to the small numbers of observed indi-
viduals. Recently, a new method based on the genetic
identication of parent-ospring pairs has been devel-
oped to estimate the absolute size of small populations.
This method relies on the principle of capture-mark-
recapture using genetic marking of parents and recap-
ture via their ospring. The rapid progress of genomic
methods during the last decade now allows for high-
throughput sequencing and genotyping of large samples
for several hundreds or thousands of genetic tags. The
GenoPopTaille project will rst use the RAD sequenc-
ing approach to evaluate the genetic structure and gene
ow in thornback ray populations from the northeast
Atlantic based upon several thousand of SNP (Single
Nucleotide Polymorphism) tags. The most informative
SNPs for the Bay of Biscay population will then be cho-
sen to be genotyped for a large sample ( ~7000) of adults
and juveniles for a large number ( ~200) of SNPs. These
genetic data will be used to identify parent-ospring
pairs. The number of parent-ospring pairs will be
used in a population dynamics model for estimating the
abundance of spawners in the Bay of Biscay.
Detailed Post-Doc project: The Post-Doc will be in
charge of the RAD sequencing task. About 500 indi-
viduals, stemming from two-three sampling sites in theMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 91
Bay of Biscay and from 10-11 regions covering the en-
tire geographic distribution range of the thornback ray,
will be sequenced on thousands of SNPs. This genomic
study will aim at addressing two issues: 1. Firstly, the
population genetic structure of thornback ray will be
investigaed over the whole distribution range of the
species, from Iceland to the Mediterranean Sea. The
goal of this rst task will be to assess the level of ge-
netic divergence and connectivity among the R. clavata
populations. 2. Secondly, the most informative SNPs
will be selected for conducting parentage analysis in
the Bay of Biscay population. The best suited set of
192 SNPs will be dened, consisting in the loci with
the highest statistical power to accurately identify the
parent-ospring pairs. RAD libraries and sequencing
will be performed at LGPMM (Ifremer La Tremblade),
and bioinformatics will be conducted at LEMAR.
Prole of the candidate: The candidate must have a
strong background in RAD sequencing and bioinformat-
ics.
Expected starting date: as early as possible during the
Spring 2015
Contacts: Sylvie Lap egue (sylvie.lapegue@ifremer.fr;
LGPMM, Ifremer La Tremblade), Gr egory Charrier
(gregory.charrier@univ-brest.fr; LEMAR, University of
Western Brittany, Brest)
gregory.charrier@univ-brest.fr
BrownU EvolutionaryMorphology
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH AND TEACHING AS-
SOCIATE IN VERTEBRATE MORPHOLOGY
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
at Brown University is seeking a Postdoctoral Associate
to join the teaching sta of a highly collaborative, team-
taught medical school human anatomy course, and to
conduct research in vertebrate morphology. The pri-
mary teaching responsibility is in the Human Anatomy
course for rst-year medical students, with additional
duties teaching advanced medical students and prepar-
ing anatomical teaching materials. Brown oers many
opportunities for research collaborations with faculty
in evolutionary morphology and excellent facilities for
research. Applicants should contact a morphology fac-
ulty member to discuss potential research collabora-
tions (Professors Elizabeth Brainerd, Stephen Gatesy,
Thomas Roberts, and Sharon Swartz).This position is available for the 2015-2016 academic
year (anticipated start date is July 1, 2015) with a
possibility for annual renewal for a maximum of three
years total. Applicants must have potential for excel-
lence in teaching and research, and all requirements for
a doctoral degree completed before start of the posi-
tion. Prior experience in a cadaver-based gross anatomy
course preferred, but not required. Salary is NIH scale.
Applicants should submit a CV, statements of teach-
ing philosophy and research interests, up to three
representative publications, and names of three refer-
ences. Application materials should be sent by e-mail to
Ms. Kimberly Abbott (Kimberly Abbott@Brown.edu).
General questions about the position may be ad-
dressed to the course director, Dr. Dale Ritter
(Dale Ritter@Brown.edu). Application review will be-
gin March 16, 2015.
Brown University is an Equal Opportunity Employer
Elizabeth Brainerd Professor, Department of Ecology
& Evolutionary Biology Brown University, Box G-B210
Providence RI 02912 o: 401-863-9261
Beth Brainerd <elizabeth brainerd@brown.edu >
CambridgeU EvolutionaryEcology
POST-DOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSOCIATE IN
EVOLUTIONARY ECOLOGY
A post-doctoral research associate position, funded by
the ERC, is available to work with Prof Rebecca Kil-
ner in the Department of Zoology at the University of
Cambridge, UK.
The post-doc will work on a project investigating
whether parental care can drive evolutionary change,
using burying beetles Nicrophorus spp as our model
experimental organisms.
For further information about our research visit our
website at nicrophorus.zoo.cam.ac.uk.
Duties will include:
Running a large-scale selection experiment; running or
supervising complementary experiments in the lab or
eld; assisting in monitoring of beetle numbers at local
eld sites; collection and analysis of microsatellite data
(or similar); data collection, analysis and interpretation;
preparation of manuscripts for publication.
Essential knowledge, skills and experience for the role:92 EvolDir March 1, 2015
A PhD in evolutionary ecology or behavioral ecology or
closely related subjects;
Ability to organise time, plan ahead and to work eec-
tively independently;
Excellent data handling and data analysis skills;
Excellent communications skills (written and oral);
Ability to work in a team and strong interpersonal skills.
Desirable knowledge, skills and experience for the role:
Some post-doctoral experience;
Any relevant laboratory experience, particularly in carry-
ing out selection experiments or experimental evolution;
Experience in collecting and analysing microsatellite
data;
Experience of eldwork with insects;
Background knowledge (e.g. from your undergraduate
training) in entomology and microbiology;
Interest in natural history;
Some experience of managing others.
The post is available for up to 28 months, with a start
date of 1 July 2015. The starting salary is $28,695 -
$37,394 per annum.
Further information about the position, along with de-
tails about how to apply can be found here:
http://www.jobs.cam.ac.uk/job/6065/ The deadline
for applications is 5pm GMT Thursday 5 March 2015.
Interviews will be held during week beginning 23 March
2015.
Informal enquiries are welcomed and should be sent to
Rebecca Kilner at
rmk1002@cam.ac.uk
Rebecca Kilner <rmk1002@cam.ac.uk >
DFO Halifax 2
SalmonPopulationGenomics
Population genomics of Atlantic salmon and the impact
of escape of farmed salmon
We are currently recruiting two postdoctoral fellows to
start early spring or fall 2015 working on population
genomics of Atlantic salmon in eastern Canada. The
positions will be associated with Dr. Ian Bradbury, De-partment of Fisheries and Oceans Canada and based
out of Halifax, NS.
PDF #1. Escapes of farm salmon are both an economic
loss and an environmental concern. Their eects on
wild salmon populations will be a function of: (1) the
presence of escapes and subsequent interbreeding (fre-
quency and magnitude); (2) dierences in traits that
aect survival, competition and reproduction; (3) abil-
ity of natural systems to buer against escapes through
natural selection; and (4) our ability to mitigate im-
pacts. The PDF will work collaboratively with other
researchers (e.g., Dr. Ian Fleming, MUN) and students
using population genomics, experimental crosses, and
transplants to quantify the ecological and evolution-
ary impacts of escaped salmon and design mitigation
measures.
PDF #2. SNP based identication of Atlantic salmon
in North America. Atlantic salmon migrate from local
rivers to northern feeding areas o West Greenland or
the Labrador Sea. Genetic assignment of salmon caught
at sea using the current microsatellite baseline allows
only regional assignment and is insucient for many
management and conservation questions. This PDF will
work collaboratively other researchers (e.g., MUN, Laval
University) and use genome scans based on large SNP
arrays and RAD sequencing to explore the genomic ba-
sis of ne scale adaptive variation and quantify homing
/ straying rates in this species. This information will
ultimately be used to build a SNP panel for ne scale
North American assignment and sheries management.
There is exibility and scope within both projects for
the successful candidates to develop and address ad-
ditional questions. PDFs should be prepared to share
their enthusiasm for research and associated skills openly
within and among the research groups, and by doing so,
contribute to a dynamic research environment. While
they will be based at DFO Halifax, candidates should
be prepared to travel temporarily to Newfoundland for
research.The ideal start date would be either May or
August 2015.
Qualications: The ideal candidates will possess a PhD;
have research interests and training in the areas of pop-
ulation genomics, sh ecology and behaviour, and sh
rearing; be capable of designing and undertaking both
eld and laboratory research; and have reasonable fa-
cility with the analysis of large data sets. Prospec-
tive candidates should email a cover letter, and CV to
ian.bradbury@dfo-mpo.gc.ca. Review of applicants will
begin March 1 2015 and continue until the positions are
lled.
Ian Bradbury <ibradbur@me.com >March 1, 2015 EvolDir 93
EBD Sevilla 5 EvolutionaryBiology
POLL FOR POSTDOCTORAL POSITIONS AT
DO~NANA BIOLOGICAL STATION (EBD-CSIC),
SPAIN Funded by the \Severo Ochoa" Excellence Pro-
gram awarded by the Spanish Ministry of Economy and
Competitiveness
The Do~ nana Biological Station ( <http://-
www.ebd.csic.es/ >) seeks 5 Postdoctoral fellows
for a one year contract with possibilities to be extended
to the end of the project (June 30th, 2017) with the
aim to conduct research in one of the following research
lines:
Conservation biology Biological invasions Ecological syn-
thesis Molecular ecology Evolutionary ecology Plant-
animal interactions Wetland ecology
Applicants should have a Ph.D., a high publication
record, and excellent writing and oral communication
skills. Starting date: Summer 2015 Salary: 39,000 EUR
approx. per yr. before taxes
Interested candidates should send the following doc-
uments: 1) Curriculum vitae, 2) cover letter with a
description of research accomplishments and statement
of overall scientic goals and interests (approximately
1000 words), 3) indication of the researchers at EBD
with whom you have professional anities, and 4) con-
tact information for three references. All documentation
in one pdf should be sent to rosa@ebd.csic.es or Fax: 34
954621125
The specic job positions will be announced in due
course at http://www.ebd.csic.es Deadline for inter-
ested applicants: March 6th, 2015
If interested in Plant-Animal Interactions with an epi-
genetic component please contact Conchita Alonso
<conalo@ebd.csic.es >
Dr. Conchita Alonso Phone: +34 954466700 Estaci on
Biol ogica de Do~ nana, CSIC Fax: +34 954621125 Avda
Am erico Vespucio s/n e-mail: conalo@ebd.csic.es E-
41092 Sevilla http://www.plant-animal.es SPAIN
Conchita Alonso <conalo@ebd.csic.es >ECWP Morocco
PostCopulatorySexualSelection
Postdoctoral Position: post-copulatory sexual selection
04/02/2015
We are seeking applicants for a two-year postdoctoral po-
sition to work on a project dealing with post-copulatory
sexual selection in the houbara bustard. The houbara
bustard is an endangered bird species living in semi-
desert areas in North Africa and central Asia. The
Emirates Center for Wildlife Propagation (ECWP) has
promoted a captive breeding program in Morocco aim-
ing at producing houbara bustards to reinforce natural
populations in North Africa. The captive breeding in-
volves a large number of adult birds of known age and
pedigree. Reproduction is based on the collection of
sperm and the articial insemination of females. This
oers a unique opportunity to address experimentally
a number of issues related to post-copulatory sexual
selection (sperm competition and cryptic female choice)
in a non-domesticated species. The houbara bustard is
an excellent model species to study sexual selection for
several reasons. The houbara bustard has a lek-based
mating system and females have been shown to copu-
late with dierent males in nature as witnessed by the
high frequency of multiple paternity. Males have elab-
orate secondary sexual traits that are supposed to be
used by females during mate choice. Traits describing
sperm quality (number of sperm per ejaculate) have
been shown to be heritable and can therefore respond
to selection. Finally, sperm traits (but to a lesser extent
secondary sexual traits) decline with male age.
The postdoc will run and supervise experiments aiming
at testing the potential eect of sperm competition and
cryptic female choice when females mate promiscuously
with mates that vary in their levels of relatedness and
in their age. In addition to the fundamental interest of
investigating post-copulatory sexual selection in relation
to kinship and aging, the results gathered will prove ben-
ecial to optimize the management of the large number
of birds involved in the captive breeding.
All the experiments are run at the ECWP in Missour
(Morocco) where the post-doc will be based most of the
time (the breeding season lasts from February to June).
To ensure the necessary communication with the local
sta in Morocco, the applicant must be able to commu-94 EvolDir March 1, 2015
nicate in French. Regular meetings will be organized
with the project supervisors in Abu Dhabi, U.A.E (Yves
Hingrat and Lo c Lesobre) and France (Michel Saint
Jalme and Gabriele Sorci).
Applicants should have a PhD in evolutionary biology
and a strong background in sexual selection. Appli-
cants who are already familiar with the techniques of
quantication of sperm quality will be given the priority.
The position will start in March 2015. Applicants
are requested to send as soon as they wish a CV
(with list of publications) and an application let-
ter including the name of three referees to Yves
Hingrat (yhingrat@reneco-hq.org) and Gabriele Sorci
(Gabriele.sorci@u-bourgogne.fr). Review of applications
will be conducted as soon as we receive them and will
stop when we nd a suitable candidate. The postdoc
will be based in Morocco, at ECWP (at least during
the breeding season and experiments). The breeding
season of Houbara in the captive breeding in Morocco
extends from January to June. During the rst year
(2015) the successful applicant will mainly learn ECWP
breeding management and analyze the existing database
which will allow her/him to design proper experiments
for the 2016 season. The two year period is extendable
with regards to preliminary results and the need for
complementary experiments.
The successful applicant will be under contract with
Reneco Wildlife Preservation (PoBox 61741, Abu Dhabi,
UAE), the consulting company managing ECWP. Food
and accommodation are provided when on the project
ECWP. Salary: commensurate with experience and
qualications.
Some recent literature that has been produced on this
system
Preston, B.T., Saint Jalme, M., Hingrat, Y., Lacroix,
F., Sorci, G. 2015. The sperm of aging male bustards
retards their ospring's development. Nature Commu-
nications 6: 6146.
Charg e, R., Sorci, G., Saint Jalme, M., Lesobre, L.,
Hingrat, Y., Lacroix, F., Teplitsky, C. 2014. Does recog-
nized genetic management in supportive breeding pre-
vent genetic changes in life-history traits? Evolutionary
Applications 7: 521-532.
Charg e, R., Teplitsky, C., Hingrat, Y., Saint Jalme, M.,
Lacroix, F., Sorci, G. 2013. Quantitative genetics of
sexual display, ejaculate quality and size in a lekking
species. Journal of Animal Ecology 82: 399-407.
Charg e, R., Sorci, G., Hingrat, Y., Lacroix, F., Saint
Jalme, M. 2011. Immune-mediated change in the ex-
pression of a sexual trait predicts ospring survival inthe wild. PLoS ONE 6: e25305.
Preston, B., Saint Jalme, M., Hingrat, Y., Lacroix, F.,
Sorci G. 2011. Sexually extravagant males age more
rapidly. Ecology Letters 14: 1017-1024.
Charg e, R., Saint Jalme, M., Lacroix, F., Cadet, A.,
Sorci, G. 2010. Male
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
EMBL Barcelona
ComputationalBiol
*Postdoctoral Position for a Computational Biologist at
the EMBL/CRG Systems Biology Unit*
Our laboratory, at the EMBL/CRG Systems Biology
Unit in Barcelona, is looking for an excellent and highly
motivated computational postdoc to investigate the func-
tional and evolutionary impact of transcriptomic diver-
sication in vertebrates. The major goal of the project -
funded by the European Research Council (ERC) - is to
identify and characterize the transcriptomic novelties as-
sociated with the origin and evolution of the vertebrate
brain.
The research will involve comparative genomic and tran-
scriptomic analysis of the dierent processes involved
in transcriptomic diversication (alternative splicing,
alternative polyadenylation, alternative promoters and
RNA editing), using RNA-seq from multiple vertebrate
and invertebrate species. The study of neuronal-specic
microexons (see Cell 2014, 159:1511-23 for details), ex-
pected to be crucial for terminal neurogenesis and synap-
tic function, will be particularly relevant. In addition
to these questions, the candidate will be encouraged to
develop his/her own scientic ideas and participate in
multiple intra- and inter-group collaborations.
The applicant is expected to be passionate about evo-
lution and transcriptomics. Extensive experience in
RNA-seq analyses and good programming skills (prefer-
ably in perl or python, and R) are required. Previous
experience in alternative splicing analysis and a strong
background in statistics would be an advantage. The
applicant should be able to work rigorously, indepen-
dently and exibly. The candidate will be responsibleMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 95
for his/her own project within the research group, in-
cluding carrying out experiments, data analysis and
interpretation. Fluency in English (spoken and written)
is expected. The position has a fully covered, competi-
tive salary for up to ve years, but the applicant will
also be encouraged to apply for independent funding.
*The Institute* The Centre for Genomic Regulation
(CRG) is an international biomedical research institute
of excellence, based in Barcelona, Spain, whose mission
is to discover and advance knowledge for the benet of
society, public health and economic prosperity.
The breadth of topics, approaches and technologies at
the CRG permits a broad range of fundamental issues in
life sciences and biomedicine to be addressed. Research
at the CRG falls into four main areas: gene regulation,
stem cells and cancer; cell and developmental biology;
bioinformatics and genomics; and systems biology.
With more than 350 scientists from 41 countries, the
CRG's excellence is based on an interdisciplinary, moti-
vated and creative scientic team that is supported by
high-end and innovative technologies.
The centre's other main strategic goals are: to translate
basic scientic ndings into benets for health and eco-
nomic value for society; to provide advanced and high
quality training to our scientists; and to communicate
and establish a bilateral dialogue with society.
For further information: www.crg.eu *Requirements*
*Studies*:
- PhD in Biology-related areas
*Technical skills required:*
- Experience in RNA-seq analyses. - Programming pro-
ciency (ideally in perl or python, and R).
*Additional benecial skills:*
- Good background in statistical analyses. - Experience
in research on alternative splicing.
*Languages*:
- Fluent level of English
*Soft skills:*
- Passion for evolutionary molecular biology. - A highly
motivated and organized candidate, capable of dealing
with multiple ongoing projects. - Capable of working in
a group, and with a high degree of work autonomy.
*The Oer*
- Duration: 1 year renewable contract up to 5 years. -
Estimated annual gross salary: A competitive salary
will be provided, which will be well matched relative to
the cost of living in Barcelona, and adjusted accordingto experience. - Starting date: as soon as possible from
April 2015.
We oer work in a highly stimulating environment with
state-of-the-art infrastructure, providing the successful
applicant with unique opportunities to develop a strong
technical portfolio.
*Application Procedure* All applications must include:
1. A cover letter.
2. A full CV including contact details.
3. Two contacts for further references.
All applications must be addressed to Dr. Irimia
and be submitted to the following email address: mir-
imia@gmail.com. Please include as email subject the
reference \Postdoc-Bioinfo1".
*Deadline:* Please submit your application by *28th
February 2015*
Centre de Regulaci o Gen ~A2mica (CRG) Doctor
Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona (Spain)
Manuel Irimia <mirimia@gmail.com >
GoetheU Frankfurt
FungalEvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoc Fungal Evolutionary Genomics
A postdoctoral research position in fungal evolutionary
genomics is available in the lab of Prof. Imke Schmitt
at the Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research
Centre and Goethe University Frankfurt. The success-
ful candidate will investigate genomic evolutionary pro-
cesses in fungal communities, species or populations
as a response to environmental factors. He or she will
be involved in projects related to the study of envi-
ronmental adaptation in fungal communities and/or
lichen-symbiotic fungi.
The applicant should hold a Ph.D. in evolutionary or
computational biology, genetics, mycology, ecology or
a related eld. The ideal candidate has a biological
training, background in bioinformatics with skills in
programming (scripts and analysis pipelines), next gen-
eration sequence analysis, genome assembly and annota-
tion. Competitive candidates will have a strong record
of prior publication, preferably in genome scale data
analysis (including comparative genomics, population
genomics, metagenomics/metabarcoding or molecular96 EvolDir March 1, 2015
evolution), and speak uent English.
My lab and the entire institute provide a very support-
ive atmosphere. The broader research environment at
Senckenberg and Goethe University oers postdoctoral
fellows chances for collaboration with experts in elds
ranging from molecular ecology and evolution, phylo-
genetics, to macroecology and climate change biology
(modeling and statistics). Attractive computing infras-
tructure is available (high-RAM computers, clouds, and
clusters). Frankfurt, a vibrant city in the center of
Germany, provides ample cultural and recreational op-
portunities and excellent infrastructure for travel. We
oer a competitive salary (TV-H E 13 according to the
German public service pay scale), full benets, and train-
ing opportunities. The position is available for three
years starting May 1 ^st 2015.
Please send your application before March, 15th 2015
preferably by e-mail (attachment in a single pdf docu-
ment), mentioning the reference of this position (Ref.
#8.3) and including a cover letter detailing research
interests and experience, a C.V., a copy of your PhD
certicate, and a list of three professional references.
Please be sure to highlight skills and experience related
to genome assembly, statistics, bioinformatics, or pro-
gramming and send your application to the address
below
Prof. Dr. Katrin B ohning-Gaese
c/o Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung
Senckenberganlage 25
60325 Frankfurt
E-Mail:recruiting@senckenberg.de
Informal enquiries to Imke Schmitt
(imke.schmitt@senckenberg.de) before the appli-
cation are welcome.
Prof. Dr. Imke Schmitt Goethe Universit at Frankfurt
and Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung Biodi-
versity and Climate Research Centre Senckenberganlage
25 60325 Frankfurt Germany
Tel. 0049 (0)6975421855 email:
imke.schmitt@senckenberg.de website: http://-
www.bik-f.de/root/index.php?page id=434 Imke
Schmitt <imke.schmitt@senckenberg.de >HarvardU BacterialVariation
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH FELLOW
STREPTOCOCCUS PNEUMONIAE ANTIGENIC
VARIATION
LIPSITCH LABORATORY
DEPARTMENTS OF EPIDEMIOLOGY AND IM-
MUNOLOGY & INFECTIOUS DISEASES
HARVARD T.H. CHAN SCHOOL OF PUBLIC
HEALTH
POSTED 22 FEBRUARY 2015
A postdoctoral research fellowship is available for work
in the Lipsitch Laboratory at Harvard T.H. Chan School
of Public Health to study phenotypic and antigenic ef-
fects of sequence variation in surface proteins of Strep-
tococcus pneumoniae.
Genomic analysis has indicated extensive sequence vari-
ation and hotspots of recombination in surface proteins
of S. pneumoniae (1, 2). Two lines of evidence sug-
gest that these phenomena result from selection for
escape from host immune responses: concentration of
nonsynonymous changes within identied antibody tar-
gets and, among these, within epitope regions (3); age-
specic variation in gene content, such that nonessential
surface proteins (or common alleles of conserved sur-
face proteins) are more common among isolages from
younger (presumably immunologically na ve) carriers of
S. pneumoniae (2, 4). Such results would be expected if
these genes or their common alleles are net-benecial in
younger/more na ve hosts but are subject to immune
responses that select against their presence in more im-
munologically experienced persons. However, there is
little direct, mechanistic evidence for hypothesis that
losing or diversifying these antigens produces an immune
escape benet for the bacteria.
As part of an interdisciplinary R01-funded project in-
volving (a) mathematical transmission modeling, (b)
population genomics, (c) analysis of human sera from a
pneumococcal carriage study for comparison with the
sequences of subsequently carried pneumococci, and (d)
mechanistic studies in the laboratory of the specicity of
anti-protein immunity in pneumococci, we are seeking
a postdoctoral fellow to design and carry out assays to
measure the impact of allele-specic immunity against
particular surface proteins on bacterial tness, as well asMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 97
assays of allele-specic variation in the function of these
proteins. The aim is to test the hypothesis that varying
or losing these proteins is benecial in the presence of
specic antibodies. Studies will include characteriza-
tion of allele-specic antibody binding specicity and
function (eg opsonization, adhesion-blocking). They
will also include functional assays of the allelic variants
of the surface proteins in the presence and absence of
antibody.
The postdoctoral fellow will be part of a larger multi-
disciplinary research team within the Center for Com-
municable Disease Dynamics (which Dr. Lipsitch di-
rects), including researchers in population genomics
and transmission dynamics of multiple infectious dis-
eases. For more information about the group see http:/-
/www.hsph.harvard.edu/marc-lipsitch/ . Opportunities
for projects in some of these areas may be available
depending on interests.
Applicants should have a doctorate and publication
record in experimental microbiology, immunology, molec-
ular biology and/or biochemistry and an interest in evo-
lutionary problems. Interested candidates should send
a letter of inquiry and CV with 2+ references to Marc
Lipsitch, mlipsitc@hsph.harvard.edu.
REFERENCES
1. Croucher NJ, Harris SR, Fraser C, Quail MA,
Burton J, van der Linden M, McGee L, von Got-
tberg A, Song JH, Ko KS, Pichon B, Baker S, Parry
CM, Lambertsen LM, Shahinas D, Pillai DR, Mitchell
TJ, Dougan G, Tomasz A, Klugman KP, Parkhill
J, Hanage WP, Bentley SD. 2011. Rapid pneumo-
coccal evolution in response to clinical interventions.
Science 331:430-434. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/-
pmc/articles/PMC3648787/ 2. Croucher NJ, Finkel-
stein JA, Pelton SI, Mitchell PK, Lee GM, Parkhill
J, Bentley SD, Hanage WP, Lipsitch M. 2013. Pop-
ulation genomics of post-vaccine changes in pneumo-
coccal epidemiology. Nat Genet 45:656-663. http:/-
/www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3725542/
3. Li Y, Gierahn T, Thompson CM, Trzcinski K,
Ford CB, Croucher N, Gouveia P, Flechtner JB, Mal-
ley R, Lipsitch M. 2012. Distinct eects on di-
versifying selection by two mechanisms of immunity
against Streptococcus pneumoniae. PLoS Pathog
8:e1002989. http://journals.plos.org/plospathogens/-
article?id=10.1371/journal.ppat.1002989 4. Regev-
Yochay G, Hanage WP, Trzcinski K, Rifas-Shiman
SL, Lee G, Bessolo A, Huang SS, Pelton SI, McAdam
AJ, Finkelstein JA, Lipsitch M, Malley R. 2010. Re-
emergence of the type 1 pilus among Streptococcus
pneumoniae isolates in Massachusetts, USA. Vaccine
28:4842-4846./
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ImperialCollege London 2
SpeciationGenomics
2 postdocs in Speciation Genomics on Lord Howe Is-
land's Palms in Savolainen Lab, Imperial College Lon-
don
http://www.imperial.ac.uk/people/v.savolainen The
main research objective is to analyse genetic data and
infer:
postdoc 1:
To identify candidate loci for speciation
To validating candidate loci from above by rescuing
wild-type phenotypes in Arabidopsis mutants by intro-
ducing orthologous palm genes
To evaluate the strength of post-zygotic isolation
postdoc 2:
To disentangle the underlying genetics controlling the
mutant red- stemmed phenotype
FOR MORE DETAILS AND TO APPLY, FOLLOW
THESE LINKS:
https://www4.ad.ic.ac.uk/OA HTML/OA.jsp?page=-
/oracle/apps/irc/candidateSelfService/-
webui/VisVacDispPG&OAHP=-
IRC EXT SITE VISITOR APPL&OASF=-
IRC VISVAC DISPLAY&akRegionApplicationId=-
821&transactionid=1856497030&retainAM=-
Y&addBreadCrumb=RP&p svid=45647&p spid=-
1713236&oapc=15&oas=9Er CvHXgG4kBYRochRxnQ.
. https://www4.ad.ic.ac.uk/OA HTML/-
OA.jsp?page=/oracle/apps/irc/candidateSelfService/-
webui/VisVacDispPG&akRegionApplicationId=-
821&transactionid=1957440653&retainAM=-
Y&addBreadCrumb=S&p svid=45668&p spid=-
1714184&oapc=7&oas=4LVYRH-iBmziPuWw7ZHQBg.
. Prof. Vincent Savolainen Deputy Head, Department
of Life Sciences Imperial College London, Silwood Park
Campus Buckhurst Road, SL5 7PY Ascot, Berks, UK
Tel: +44 (0)20 7594 2374 Fax: +44 (0)20 7594 233998 EvolDir March 1, 2015
v.savolainen@imperial.ac.uk skype vincent.savolainen1
www3.imperial.ac.uk/people/v.savolainen
\Savolainen, Vincent" <v.savolainen@imperial.ac.uk >
KielU EvolutionaryEcol
Although it is mainly a Postdoc position in Ecology,
applicants with an evolutionary background are partic-
ularly welcome!
*****
Postdoc in Vegetation Ecology
The Institute for Ecosystem Research of Kiel University,
Germany, announces a vacancy for a Postdoc position
in the eld of vegetation ecology starting on April 1st.
The position will run for 3 years with the possibility of
prolongation for another 3 years (TVL E 14, 100%)
We are looking for a highly qualied and motivated post-
doctoral fellow with a keen interest in research in vegeta-
tion ecology and with ambition to stay in academia. The
ideal candidates prole should imply a focus on com-
munity ecology or evolutionary ecology that ts into
the scope of the newly established Geobotany group
(including research in biodiversity ecosystem function,
global environmental change and plant invasion ecology).
Eligible candidates must hold an outstanding university
degree (MSc) and PhD in ecology/botany, environmen-
tal sciences or related disciplines. Previous postdoctoral
research would be advantageous.
We expect knowledge in ecological statistics with strong
analytical and data handling skills and profound ex-
perience in the R environment. Knowledge of Central
European vegetation and ora and previous experience
of eld or experimental work is advantageous. Excellent
writing skills in English, good work ethic, and creative
thinking are desired.
Candidates are supposed to teach in German in courses
on plant identication, excursions and lab courses in
vegetation ecology in the programs of BSc and MSc
of Biology (4 contact hours). The successful candi-
date is encouraged to initiate new research projects and
to supervise bachelor, master and doctoral students.
This position permits and supports the development of
independent research ideas and further qualications
(habilitation). We oer a stimulating working environ-
ment at the interface between Biology and Geography
with plenty of possibilities for collaborations within KielUniversity. The group is involved in the international
research platform BEF-China (DFG Research Unit 891)
and has established active international collaborations
that can be integrated into new research.
Kiel University is an equal opportunity employer and
aims to increase the number of women in research and
teaching. Applications by females are most welcome.
Kiel University has been certied by the Hertie Founda-
tion as a family-friendly institution and is committed to
further the compatibility of work and family life. The
university supports the employment of disabled per-
sons. Persons with disabilities will, with appropriate
qualications and aptitudes, be employed preferentially.
Applications by people with a migration background
are particularly welcome.
Applications in English should include a letter of in-
terest with a description of relevant experience, CV,
a list of publications, a short description of the pro-
posed research (max. 2 pages), authenticated docu-
ments and the names and email addresses of two ref-
erences. Applications should be sent as one pdf le
to aerfmeier@ecology.uni-kiel.de by February 28, 2015.
The selection of the postdoctoral candidate will be based
on his or her academic record and proposed research
project.
For more information please contact Prof. Dr. Alexan-
dra Erfmeier, Institute for Ecosystem Research, Geob-
otany, Kiel University, Olshausenstr. 75, 24118 Kiel,
Germany, Tel +49-431-880-1010; aerfmeier@ecology.uni-
kiel.de, http://www.ecosystems.uni-kiel.de . Alexandra
Erfmeier <aerfmeier@ecology.uni-kiel.de >
LouisianaStateU 2 Phylogenetics
Two postdoctoral researcher positions are available in
the computational evolutionary biology lab of Jeremy
M. Brown at Louisiana State University. Research in
the Brown lab is broadly centered on the use of phyloge-
netic approaches to understand organismal history and
molecular evolution.
Position 1 is part of a project funded by the National Sci-
ence Foundation to develop and apply a suite of related
statistical approaches for assessing the t of stochastic
models to sequence and trait data. The Brown lab is
collaborating extensively on this project with the lab of
Bob Thomson at the University of Hawaii V Manoa, as
well as the developers of RevBayes and the authors of
various R packages.March 1, 2015 EvolDir 99
Position 2 is not tied to a specic project, but research
connected to other areas of active inquiry in the Brown
lab will be strongly preferred. These areas include
the development of new techniques for extracting in-
formation from large collections of phylogenetic trees,
the exploration of new models and priors for Bayesian
phylogenetics, and the investigation of genome-wide
phylogenetic and evolutionary patterns.
Review of applications for both positions will begin on
Feb. 16th. Applicants are asked to submit a cover letter
describing their research interests and background, a
CV, and the names of three references.
Informal inquiries are strongly encouraged and can
be directed to jembrown@lsu.edu. More informa-
tion on the Brown lab is available at http://-
www.phyleauxgenetics.org/ . LSUs Dept. of Biological
Sciences has a particular strength in computational evo-
lutionary genetics. LSU continues to invest heavily in
the computational sciences, with a recent focus on com-
putational biology. Outstanding resources are available
through the Center for Computation and Technology
(http://www.cct.lsu.edu/home) and the Louisiana Op-
tical Network Initiative (http://www.loni.org/).
Baton Rouge is located in South Louisiana, one of the
most culturally unique locations in the United States
(http://louisianatravel.com/). The surrounding area
has excellent food, music, festivals, and outdoor recre-
ation. LSUs campus is just over an hours drive from
New Orleans and allows easy access to much of the Gulf
Coast.
Details for Position 1:
Responsibilities: Work with a computational biologists
to write software, in collaboration with developers of
RevBayes and various R comparative methods packages.
Also responsible for testing new methods by analyzing
exemplar data sets. Required Qualications: Ph.D. or
equivalent degree in Evolutionary Biology, Computer
Science, Statistics, Applied Mathematics or a related
discipline; A.B.D. candidates will be considered, but
must have Ph.D. by May 31, 2015; previous experience
with programming and phylogenetic analyses. Addi-
tional Qualications: Previous software development
experience as part of a team; programming experi-
ence using C++ and R; previous experience writing
and publishing scientic manuscripts in peer reviewed
journals. An oer of employment is contingent on a
satisfactory pre-employment background check. Appli-
cation deadline is February 16, 2015, or until a can-
didate is selected. Apply online and view a more de-
tailed ad at: https://lsusystemcareers.lsu.edu Position
#032424 Quicklink: https://lsusystemcareers.lsu.edu/-
applicants/Central?quickFind=58866 Details for Posi-tion 2:
Responsibilities: Conduct novel, cutting-edge research
in phylogenetics and/or molecular evolution. Required
Qualications: Ph.D. or equivalent degree in Evolu-
tionary Biology, Computer Science, Statistics, Applied
Mathematics or a related discipline; A.B.D. candidates
will be considered, but must have Ph.D. by May 31,
2015; previous experience with programming and phy-
logenetic analyses. Additional Qualications: Previous
software development experience; programming expe-
rience using C++, Java, Python, and/or R; previous
experience mentoring younger researchers; previous ex-
perience writing and publishing scientic manuscripts in
peer reviewed journals. An oer of employment is contin-
gent on a satisfactory pre-employment background check.
Application deadline is February 16, 2015, or until a
candidate is selected. Apply online and view a more de-
tailed ad at: https://lsusystemcareers.lsu.edu Position
#032333 Quicklink: https://lsusystemcareers.lsu.edu/-
applicants/Central?quickFind=58879 Jeremy M. Brown
Assistant Professor Louisiana State University Dept. of
Biological Sciences 202 Life Sciences Building Baton
Rouge, LA 70803
(225) 578-1745
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
LSUMuseum
CollectionsVertEvolBiol
Postdoctoral Position in Collections-based Vertebrate
Evolutionary Biology
The Museum of Natural Science at Louisiana State Uni-
versity is seeking an enthusiastic and highly motivated
Postdoctoral Researcher/Lab Manager to join our mul-
tidisciplinary research team working on various aspects
of collections-based vertebrate systematics, phylogeog-
raphy, and population genetics using massively parallel
sequencing.
Candidate will conduct collections-based research in co-
ordination with one or more of the Curators. The candi-
date will also be responsible for managing the Museum's
shared molecular genetics laboratory and helping with100 EvolDir March 1, 2015
the laboratory supervision of graduate, undergraduate,
and high school research assistants. Ongoing projects
in the lab include systematics, phylogeography, and
population genetics studies of birds, sh, mammals, rep-
tiles and amphibians. The person in this position will
be part of the Museum's vibrant academic community,
attending seminars, participating in journal clubs, etc.
More information about the position and in-
structions for applying can be found at this
web site: https://lsusystemcareers.lsu.edu/applicants/-
Central?quickFind=58972 Required qualications:
Ph.D. in Biology or related discipline; A.B.D. candidates
will be considered as long as the degree is conferred by
the eective date of the appointment; experience in
molecular methods, evolutionary biology, GIS, and com-
putational biology; strong publication record; strong
interpersonal skills; ability to manage an active labora-
tory.
Review of applications will begin 3 March 2015. LSU is
an Equal Opportunity-Armative Action employer.
Questions about the position can be emailed to Robb
Brumeld (robb at lsu.edu)
Robb Brumeld <robb@lsu.edu >
McMasterU
IntegratingGenomicsCognition
We are looking for a prospective postdoc who is in-
terested in applying genetic and genomic approaches
for research on the evolution of animal cognition and
behaviour.
We are part of a large and highly interactive group work-
ing at the interface of genetic, genomics, cognition and
behaviour. We consist of about a dozen faculty, several
postdocs and three dozen graduate students.
Prospective candidates are invited to read relevant mate-
rial on our web sites (https://www.msu.edu/ ~idworkin/
and http://psych.mcmaster.ca/dukas/) and then con-
tact either of us via email (dworkin@mcmaster.ca or
dukas@mcmaster.ca) by February 15, 2015. Please in-
clude a CV and eprints in pdf format.
The position is open to Canadian citizens and perma-
nent residents within ve years of completing their PhD
who have a strong publication record.
McMaster University is located in Hamilton, Ontario,
a culturally diverse city of 500,000 people, located lessthan an hour from Toronto. Hamilton oers a great
quality of life and is experiencing a post-industrial re-
vival. Resources include easy access to natural wonders
such as Niagara Falls and the Niagara Escarpment, an
expanding network of bike paths, seasonal climate, and
a burgeoning food and nightlife scene.
Ian Dworkin Department of Biology McMaster Univer-
sity dworkin@mcmaster.ca
Ian Dworkin <dworkin@mcmaster.ca >
Milan Bioinformatics
Post V Doctoral Position in Bioinformatics (Centro
Mafalda Luce V Milan V Italy)
Description A post-doctoral position for a biologist with
a strong background in bioinformatics is available in the
Laboratory of Molecular Psychiatry and Neurogenetics
at the Mafalda Luce Center for Pervasive Developmental
Disorders (Milan). In tight conjunction with its homol-
ogous laboratory at University Campus Bio-Medico in
Rome, this team investigates the genomic, transcrip-
tomic and functional bases of autistic disorder and of
other neuropsychiatric disorders of childhood. Bioma-
terials are obtained primarily from patients diagnosed,
clinically characterized and treated at the same Center
or at the Child and Adolescent Neuropsychiatry Unit
at University Campus Bio-Medico, which encompasses
both laboratories. In reference to clinical neurogenetic
testing, after a training period the Candidate will be
responsible for the bioinformatic analysis of clinical
array-CGH data performed using the Agilent platform
(180K) and genome-wide transcriptomics, while second
generation sequencing and RNA-seq will also soon be
implemented.
Qualications Candidates must possess a PhD in biology
with a strong background in bioinformatics applied to
molecular biology and to large microarray-based data
sets (mandatory: array-CGH and genome-wide tran-
scriptomics; very useful: second generation sequencing
and RNA-seq). Some seniority and a demonstrated
capacity to work independently are a clear advantage.
Fluency in spoken and written English is mandatory.
Salary will be based on age and prior experience.
Estimated starting date: May 1, 2015
Location: Milan (Italy)
Address inquiries with a complete CV by email to Prof.
Antonio Persico at a.persico@unicampus.it:March 1, 2015 EvolDir 101
Antonio M. Persico, M.D. Assoc. Prof. in Child & Ado-
lescent NeuroPsychiatry Lab. of Molecular Psychiatry
& Neurogenetics Univ. Campus Bio-Medico Via Alvaro
del Portillo 21 I-00128 Rome Italy
Ignazio Stefano Piras <I.Piras@unicampus.it >
MNHN Paris
EcolFuncMorphPaleobiology
Postdoctoral researcher in functional morphology and
paleobiology
Project title: Morphological convergence and functional
inferences: an integrative study of the masticatory ap-
paratus in rodents and extinct notoungulates.
Supervisors: Guillaume Billet (UMR7207; bil-
let@mnhn.fr), Anthony Herrel (UMR7179; an-
thony.herrel@mnhn.fr) and Raph ael Cornette
(UMR7205; cornette@mnhn.fr).
Location: Mus eum National d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris,
France
Salary: 2500Euro/month ( 2000 Euro net) depending
on experience.
We are looking for a postdoctoral researcher in func-
tional morphology and paleontology to work on a project
investigating a typical case-study of repeated morpho-
logical convergence in the masticatory apparatus of
mammals. The project focuses on the rich mosaic of
resemblances found in several groups of extant rodents
and extinct notoungulates. The postdoctoral researcher
will quantify the shape of the masticatory apparatus
and identify areas of mechanical constraints based on
3D models and using geometric morphometric and -
nite element approaches. Moreover, the postdoctoral
researcher will evaluate the main chewing directions by
examining dental microwear patterns and will use in-
vivo cineradiographic studies in order to characterize the
kinematics associated with variation in muzzle shape in
selected extant rodents. The goal of this project is to in-
tegrate these results within a comprehensive framework
in order to characterize the convergence observed in the
masticatory apparatus of rodents and notoungulates,
and to provide more robust functional inferences for the
latter.
Expertise in the anatomy and functional analysis of the
masticatory apparatus and solid knowledge of its evolu-
tion within mammals are requirements for the position.Experience with geometric morphometric methods and
the interpretation of fossil material is considered as an
additional plus for the project.
Candidates should send (1) a letter of motivation, (2) a
full CV, and (3) two letters of recommendation to the
following e-mail address: billet@mnhn.fr DEADLINE
to send your application: March 16, 2015.
Please contact Guillaume BILLET, or any of the other
supervisors for additional information.
{ Anthony Herrel Associate Editor Herpetological Jour-
nal, The European Journal of Anatomy & Functional
Ecology Branch Editor Functional anatomy of amphib-
ians and reptiles Zookeys Editorial board member J.
Zoology & Zoology
UMR 7179 C.N.R.S/M.N.H.N. D epartement d'Ecologie
et de Gestion de la Biodiversit e, 55 rue Buon,
Bat Anatomie Comparee, CP 55, 75005, Paris
Cedex 5, France e-mail: anthony.herrel@mnhn.fr -
phone: ++33-140798120 - fax: ++33-140793773 URL:
www.anthonyherrel.fr anthony.herrel@mnhn.fr
MNHN Paris EvolFuncMorphology
Postdoctoral researcher in evolutionary functional mor-
phology
Project title: Form-function relationships and the evo-
lution of arboreal locomotion in mammals
Supervisors: Anthony Herrel (UMR7179; an-
thony.herrel@mnhn.fr), Marc Herbin (UMR7179;
herbin@mnhn.fr), Raph ael Cornette (UMR7205;
cornette@mnhn.fr) and St ephane Peign e (UMR7207;
peigne@mnhn.fr).
Location: Mus eum National d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris,
France
Salary:2500Euro/month ( 2000 Euro net) funded
by the LabEx BCDiv. Salary
will vary with experience based on national salary scales
dened by the CNRS. We are looking for a postdoc-
toral researcher in functional morphology to work on
a project investigating the evolution of arboreal loco-
motion in mammals. The postdoctoral researcher will
quantify the functionally relevant properties of the mus-
culature of the limbs (muscle mass, physiological cross
sectional area) using specimens from the comparative
anatomy collections at the MNHN. Moreover, the post-102 EvolDir March 1, 2015
doctoral researcher will quantify the shape of limb bones
in arboreal mammals based on 3D surface scans and
using geometric morphometric approaches. One of the
goals of this study will be to make better inferences
on the locomotor ecology and life-style in extinct ani-
mals. As such the project will focus more specically
on carnivorans and primates given the presence of well
preserved fossil material.
Expertise in geometric morphometrics and experience
with dissection are requirements for the position. Expe-
rience with comparative methods and the interpretation
of fossil material is considered as an additional plus for
the project.
Candidates should send (1) a letter of motivation, (2) a
full CV, and (3) two letters of recommendation to the
following e-mail address: anthony.herrel@mnhn.fr
The deadline for submission of applications is May 1st,
2015.
Please contact Anthony Herrel, or any of the other
supervisors for additional information.
{ Anthony Herrel Associate Editor Herpetological Jour-
nal, The European Journal of Anatomy & Functional
Ecology Branch Editor Functional anatomy of amphib-
ians and reptiles Zookeys Editorial board member J.
Zoology & Zoology
UMR 7179 C.N.R.S/M.N.H.N. D epartement d'Ecologie
et de Gestion de la Biodiversit e, 55 rue Buon,
Bat Anatomie Comparee, CP 55, 75005, Paris
Cedex 5, France e-mail: anthony.herrel@mnhn.fr -
phone: ++33-140798120 - fax: ++33-140793773 URL:
www.anthonyherrel.fr anthony.herrel@mnhn.fr
MNHN Paris
EvolutionFunctionalMorph
Postdoctoral researcher in evolutionary functional mor-
phology
Project title: Form-function relationships and the evo-
lution of arboreal locomotion in mammals
Supervisors: Anthony Herrel (UMR7179; an-
thony.herrel@mnhn.fr), Marc Herbin (UMR7179;
herbin@mnhn.fr), Raph ael Cornette (UMR7205;
cornette@mnhn.fr) and St ephane Peign e (UMR7207;
peigne@mnhn.fr).
Location: Mus eum National d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris,France
Salary:2500Euro/month ( 2000 Euro net) funded
by the LabEx BCDiv. Salary will vary with experience
based on national salary scales dened by the CNRS.
We are looking for a postdoctoral researcher in func-
tional morphology to work on a project investigating
the evolution of arboreal locomotion in mammals. The
postdoctoral researcher will quantify the functionally rel-
evant properties of the musculature of the limbs (muscle
mass, physiological cross sectional area) using specimens
from the comparative anatomy collections at the MNHN.
Moreover, the postdoctoral researcher will quantify the
shape of limb bones in arboreal mammals based on
3D surface scans and using geometric morphometric
approaches. One of the goals of this study will be to
make better inferences on the locomotor ecology and
life-style in extinct animals. As such the project will fo-
cus more specically on carnivorans and primates given
the presence of well preserved fossil material.
Expertise in geometric morphometrics and experience
with dissection are requirements for the position. Expe-
rience with comparative methods and the interpretation
of fossil material is considered as an additional plus for
the project.
Candidates should send (1) a letter of motivation, (2) a
full CV, and (3) two letters of recommendation to the
following e-mail address: anthony.herrel@mnhn.fr
The deadline for submission of applications is May 1st,
2015. Please contact Anthony Herrel, or any of the
other supervisors for additional information.
{ Anthony Herrel Associate Editor Herpetological Jour-
nal, The European Journal of Anatomy & Functional
Ecology Branch Editor Functional anatomy of amphib-
ians and reptiles Zookeys Editorial board member J.
Zoology & Zoology
UMR 7179 C.N.R.S/M.N.H.N. D epartement d'Ecologie
et de Gestion de la Biodiversit e, 55 rue Buon,
Bat Anatomie Comparee, CP 55, 75005, Paris
Cedex 5, France e-mail: anthony.herrel@mnhn.fr -
phone: ++33-140798120 - fax: ++33-140793773
URL: www.anthonyherrel.fr Anthony Herrel
<anthony.herrel@mnhn.fr >March 1, 2015 EvolDir 103
MonashU EvolutionaryEcol
FairyWrens
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH FELLOW: Quantita-
tive molecular ecologist to study telomere dynamics in
fairy-wrens
ORGANISATION: Monash University
LOCATION: Melbourne, Australia
Start date: between April and Sep 2015
Prof Anne Peters at Monash University, Melbourne,
Australia, in collaboration with Prof Simon Verhulst,
Groningen University, The Netherlands, is seeking an
experienced Quantitative Molecular Ecologist to explore
the ecology of molecular senescence (telomere attrition).
Telomeres shorten as organisms age and short telomeres
are associated with greater predisposition to diseases,
accelerated organismal senescence and shorter lifespan.
Telomere shortening rate is known to vary with external
inuences and individual quality. This project will use
longitudinal sampling of telomere length in individual
fairy-wrens, of known age and pedigree. The telom-
ere information will be combined with state of the art
statistical methods to study telomere dynamics in rela-
tion to life-history and ecology, to disentangle eects of
senescence and selective disappearance, and to assess
environmental and genetic eects on telomere attrition
rate.
As the successful candidate, you will join Anne Peters
group studying behavioural and evolutionary ecology of
fairy-wrens, based at Monash University (Melbourne,
Australia). You will be expected to optimise and imple-
ment existing qPCR protocols for use in fairy- wrens
and apply these to blood/DNA samples ( 2000 longitudi-
nal samples). You will further be expected to maintain
consistently high research output in the form of quality
publications, supervise and train students, develop and
submit grant proposals to external funding agencies,
contribute more generally to research activities of the
group, and participate in appropriate career develop-
ment activities. The position (Level A, starting salary
~$75 p.a. with annual increments) is for three years
subject to satisfactory annual progress.
Requirements: - A PhD in molecular ecology, with ex-
tensive experience in qPCR, preferably of telomeres - A
publication track record in high-quality journals that
clearly reects the ability to conduct and publish re-search in the eld of molecular ecology - Demonstrated
evidence of a strong interest in applying state-of-the-
art molecular methods to current evolutionary and eco-
logical questions with meticulous attention to detail and
high quality lab work. - Strong quantitative skills in
the R-environment are highly advantageous, especially
animal modelling framework - Ability to work indepen-
dently - Enthusiastic about collaborative research - Have
the ability to communicate eectively with other scien-
tists at the interface of lab and eld ecology - Have a
strong command of English
For further details about the host and institution
see: https://sites.google.com/site/petersresearchgroup/
http://monash.edu/science/about/schools/biological-
sciences/ and http://www.rug.nl/sta/s.verhulst/
Send a letter of interest about your research
achievements and interests to Anne Peters
(anne.peters@monash.edu). This call for expres-
sions of interest will shortly be followed by a call for
application through an online application system with
a short deadline (t.b.a.). Interested suitable candidates
are strongly encouraged to contact Anne for further
information.
Anne Peters <anne.peters@monash.edu >
Montpellier DomesticationGenomics
Postdoctoral position in plant domestication, 2 years.
RESEARCH TOPICS:
The post-doctoral will investigate plant domestication
in the African continent. Original genomic datasets
of 4 dierent species with wild and cultivated forms
will be available to address their evolutionary history,
place of origin and identifying genes associated with
crop adaptation to dierent environments. The
postdosctorate will analyze and modelize domestication
processess, with the aim to develop geographical
modelisation. Dierent social science datasets will be
also available and we will use them to also test specic
hypotheses associated with domestication history.
The position will be jointly supervised by Prof. O
Fran cois from TIMC-IMAG <http://www.google.fr/-
url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=-
2&ved=0CCsQFjAB&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww-
timc.imag.fr%2FOlivier.Francois%2Fteaching.html&ei=
YbbMVOLHOMLqUqOshIgF&usg=-
AFQjCNEnbWrLpvvM7hrG2Agzp7pEEF97Hw&sig2=-104 EvolDir March 1, 2015
eB7GBQx4wqsWMug-Fsw9wQ&bvm=-
bv.85076809,d.d24 >in Grenoble and Dr Yves
Vigouroux, IRD, Montpellier. The post-doctoral will
be located in Montpellier, France
Start of the postdoctoral position: September, 2015.
Earlier or later starting dates are possible.
REQUIRED OF CANDIDATES:
PhD degree obtained in population genetics or evolution-
ary biology. Experience or desire to develop expertise
in population genetic modeling. Experience with NGS
data is expected, but not require.
APPLICATION MATERIALS:
CV; statement of academic interests and goals (1 page
max.); two academic references.
FUNDING:
The initial position is available for one year, with ex-
tension already funded up to two years. The project
is funded by the Agence Nationale de la Recherche,
France.
{ Yves Vigouroux Responsable de l'Equipe Anthropisa-
tion et Dynamique de la Diversit e G en etique -DYNADIV
IRD - Institut de Recherche pour le D eveloppement
911 avenue AGROPOLIS BP 64501, 34394 Montpellier
cedex 5 France Tel : 33 (0)4 67 41 62 45 ; Fax : 33 (0)4
67 41 62 22 Email : yves.vigouroux@ird.fr
Web : https://sites.google.com/site/-
plantbiodiversityadaptation/ yves.vigouroux@ird.fr
Munich EvolutionaryNeuronalBiol
The Parmenides Center for the Conceptual Foundations
of Science is oering a research stipend for a candidate
with a Ph.D (preferably with successful postdoc experi-
ence) to investigate the possible links among evolution-
ary biology, neuronal dynamics and insight psychology.
Within the advertised topic the successful candidate
is free to pursue an individual, high-quality research
programme, also possibly including concepts and meth-
ods of statistical physics. Writing and communication
skills in English are mandatory and some command of
German is welcome.
The stipend is up to 2.500 EUR per month for a maxi-
mum of one year.
Applicants should send their CV, a motivation letterand a research plan of up to 3 pages to Prof. Eors
Szathmary (szathmary.eors@gmail.com), the Director
of the Center by the 15th of February. The fellowship
begins on the 1st March the earliest.
Thank you in advance!
Best regards,
Carsten
Carsten Freitaeger Parmenides Foundation Kirch-
platz 1 82049 Pullach Tel +49.89.4520935.0 Fax
+49.89.4520935.31 Skype: Parmenides.Foundation
carsten.freitaeger@parmenides-foundation.org
Carsten Freit ager <carsten.freitaeger@parmenides-
foundation.org >
NorthCarolinaStateU Biocomplexity
NC State University Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellow
in Biological Complexity
North Carolina State University is embarking on a new
university-wide interdisciplinary initiative in biological
complexity encompassing systems genetics, behavioral
neurogenetics and neurogenomics, genome-environment
interactions, ecological genetics, systems ecology, cli-
mate change, and computational biology and bioinfor-
matics.
Associated with the new initiative in biological complex-
ity is a distinguished postdoctoral fellowship program.
Applicants are expected to be near completion of a ter-
minal doctorate degree, have a strong research record
with evidence of exceptional scholarship, and embrace
interdisciplinary research. Fellows will receive competi-
tive stipends and independent research funds to initiate
an innovative research program with guidance from a
multidisciplinary mentoring committee in areas covered
by the initiative in biological complexity.
To apply for a fellowship, go to https://jobs.ncsu.edu/-
postings/48719. Provide a cover letter, curriculum vitae,
a three-sentence statement of the most signicant scien-
tic problem(s) to be addressed in the near future, and
statements of research interests. Three letters of recom-
mendation should be sent to trudy mackay@ncsu.edu.
Review of applications will begin immediately, and con-
tinue until the position is lled. The start date can be
as soon as June 1, 2015.
NCSU is an AA/EO employer. All qualied applicantsMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 105
will receive consideration for employment without re-
gard to race, color, national origin, religion, sex, age,
veteran status or disability. In its commitment to diver-
sity and equity, NC State University seeks applications
from women, minorities, and persons with disabilities.
NC State welcomes all persons without regard to sex-
ual orientation. ADA Accommodations: please call
919-515-3148.
Melissa Robbins <merobbi3@ncsu.edu >
Otago EvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoctoral Fellow Department of Zoology Division of
Sciences UNIVERSITY OF OTAGO
Applications are invited for the 3-year, xed-term posi-
tion of Postdoctoral Fellow at the Univeirsity of Otago.
We seek an energetic and dedicated scientist to carry out
evolutionary and developmental genomic research on
alpine insects. The successful candidate will be working
on a Marsden-funded research project titled 'Use it or
lose it: unravelling the genetic basis of ight-loss in New
Zealand's alpine insects'. The project is led by Professor
Jon Waters and Associate Professor Peter Dearden.
The research will combine evolutionary and developmen-
tal genomic approaches. A PhD and research experience
in evolutionary or developmental genetics is essential.
Experience in bioinformatics would be an advantage.
The appointment is expected to start within the period
July-October 2015.
https://otago.taleo.net/careersection/2/-
jobdetail.ftl?lang=en&job=1500256 Specic en-
quiries may be directed to Professor Jon Waters,
Principal Investigator of the Mardsen funded project,
Department of Zoology, Tel 03 479 5847 email
jon.waters@otago.ac.nz. http://www.otago.ac.nz/-
Zoology/sta/otago008938.html Applications close 23
February 2015.
Professor Jon Waters Associate Dean of Research,
Sciences Department of Zoology University of Otago
Dunedin, New Zealand Ph NZ-3-4795847 http://-
www.otago.ac.nz/Zoology/sta/otago008938.html
jon.waters@otago.ac.nzOtago EvolutionaryGenomics
updatedURL
Postdoctoral Fellow - Evolutionary Genomics Depart-
ment of Zoology Division of Sciences UNIVERSITY OF
OTAGO
Applications are invited for the 3-year, xed-term posi-
tion of Postdoctoral Fellow at the University of Otago.
We seek an energetic and dedicated scientist to carry out
evolutionary and developmental genomic research on
alpine insects. The successful candidate will be working
on a Marsden-funded research project titled 'Use it or
lose it: unravelling the genetic basis of ight-loss in New
Zealand's alpine insects'. The project is led by Professor
Jon Waters and Associate Professor Peter Dearden.
The research will combine evolutionary and developmen-
tal genomic approaches. A PhD and research experience
in evolutionary or developmental genetics is essential.
Experience in bioinformatics would be an advantage.
The appointment is expected to start within the period
July-October 2015.
Postdoctoral Fellow - Zoology < https://-
otago.taleo.net/careersection/2/jobdetail.ftl?lang=-
en&job=1500256 >
Specic enquiries may be directed to Professor Jon
Waters, Principal Investigator of the Marsden-funded
project, Department of Zoology, Tel 03 479 5847 email
jon.waters@otago.ac.nz.
Applications close 23 February 2015.
Professor Jon Waters Associate Dean of Research,
Sciences Department of Zoology University of Otago
Dunedin, New Zealand Ph NZ-3-4795847 http://-
www.otago.ac.nz/Zoology/sta/otago008938.html
jon.waters@otago.ac.nz
Jonathan Waters <jon.waters@otago.ac.nz >106 EvolDir March 1, 2015
PennStateU PopulationGenetics
The DeGiorgio lab (http://www.personal.psu.edu/-
mxd60/) at The Pennsylvania State University is re-
cruiting a highly motivated postdoctoral scholar. The
position requires a PhD degree in biology, genetics,
bioinformatics, statistics, computer science, or a related
eld. Our lab uses mathematical and computational
approaches to study evolutionary relationships within
and among species. We work on both theoretical and ap-
plied problems in statistical population genetics, human
evolutionary genomics, and phylogenetics. Candidates
interested in research projects within these three broad
research categories are encouraged to apply. Our lab
is solely computational, and so candidates should have
knowledge of at least one programming language (C,
C++, Java, Perl, Python, etc), familiarity with either
R or Matlab, and experience using a Unix or Linux
environment. A complete application must be submit-
ted electronically at https://app2.ohr.psu.edu/Jobs/-
External/EVMS2 External/currentap1.cfm#55772 and
will include a current CV, a cover letter describing your
research interests, copies of copies of three representative
publications, and contact information for three refer-
ences. Review of applications will begin immediately
and continue until position is lled. This is a xed-term
appointment funded for one year from date of hire with
possibility of re-funding.
CAMPUS SECURITY CRIME STATISTICS: For more
about safety at Penn State, and to review the Annual
Security Report which contains information about crime
statistics and other safety and security matters, please
go to http://www.police.psu.edu/clery/ , which will
also provide you with detail on how to request a hard
copy of the Annual Security Report. Penn State is an
equal opportunity, armative action employer, and is
committed to providing employment opportunities to
minorities, women, veterans, disabled individuals, and
other protected groups.
mikedegiorgio@gmail.comQueensU PhD PDF
SeabirdAdaptation
I am looking for one or two PhD or MSc students or
a post-doctoral fellow to join my research team study-
ing adaptation in seabirds. We have two main study
systems:
1) Band-rumped storm-petrels represent an exciting case
of repeated parallel evolution of sympatric allochronic
races (populations separated by breeding time - basi-
cally, feathered sticklebacks). Initial studies in my lab
documented the pattern of divergence. We are now
investigating the mechanisms of parallel adaptation and
speciation using genomic methods. The new project will
entail combination of molecular data with an existing
large data set to estimate heritability of various mor-
phological and life history traits. Other projects within
this study system are possible. Field work on barren
tropical islands will be required.
2) Thick-billed Murres breed throughout the north At-
lantic, Pacic and Arctic Oceans, and are increasingly
challenged by climate change. The need, and the po-
tential, for a species to adapt to anthropogenic change
depends on the plasticity of key traits such as breeding
time and heat tolerance. I am looking for a new student
to combine genetic data with an existing large dataset
to study the tness eects and heritabilities of several
physiological and life history traits. Field work on a re-
mote arctic island will be required. This student will be
co- supervised by Dr. Kyle Elliott (McGill University).
Applicants must have some background in evolutionary
genetics. Practical experience with genomics and bioin-
formatics is an asset. The successful applicant(s) will
join a dynamic group of faculty and students studying
ecology and evolution at Queen's University. Please
send a resume or curriculum vitae, informal transcript,
and contact information for two academic references to
Dr. Vicki Friesen (address below). Acceptance is con-
ditional on scholarship funding through either Queen's
University or an external agency. Positions are not re-
stricted to Canadians. Please contact vlf@queensu.ca
for further information.
Dr. Vicki Friesen, Professor Department of Biology,
4443 Biosciences, 116 Barrie Street, Queen's University,
Kingston, ON K7L 3N6, Canada Tel: 613-533-6156 Fax:
613-533-6617March 1, 2015 EvolDir 107
Haida Saying: Treat the Earth well: it is not given to
us by our parents, it is loaned to us by our children.
Vicki Friesen <vlf@queensu.ca >
RJB Madrid PlantEvolution
A postdoctoral research fellowship is available in the
lab of Dr. Pablo Vargas (RJB, Royal Botanical Garden
of Madrid, Spain) to participate in a variety of highly
collaborative projects related to the phylogeny and evo-
lution of plant genomes. They are collaborative projects
with the lab of Dr. Toni Gabald on (CRG, Centre for
Genomic Regulation, Barcelona, Spain).
The successful candidate will work with collaborators
to analyse comparative genomics and phylogenomics of
seven genomes using a reference genome or reference as-
sembly. The projects primarily include analyses of bioin-
formatics, phylogenomics, and comparative genomics
involving extensive data at a genome-scale. Transcrip-
tomes will serve for comparative genomics. The position
is based at the Royal Botanic Garden of Madrid and
includes opportunities for travel to Barcelona to work
with the CRG team. The initial appointment is for one
year.
The position oers a salary subject to experience. Start
date as soon as possible. Review of applications will
begin on March 15, 2015; however applicants will be
considered until the position is lled.
Required Qualications:
- A Ph.D. in computational biology, evolutionary genet-
ics/genomics, phylogenomics, bioinformatics and related
elds. - Experience with manipulating and analyzing
genomic, transcriptomic and NGS sequence data. -
Some record of prior publication in genome-scale data
analysis, including bioinformatics pipeline construction,
phylogenomics, and/or genome structure and evolution
- Strong communication and interpersonal skills, includ-
ing a proven ability to work both independently and as
part of a team
Desired Qualications: (ideal applicant; applicants with-
out these skills will be also considered)
- Prociency in computer programming - Experience
with standard molecular laboratory techniques - Expe-
rience with the analysis of traditional molecular phylo-
genetic data sets
The successful applicant will be expected towork/collaborate with another postdocs and graduate
students in Madrid and Barcelona.
To apply, submit a cover letter stating your research
accomplishments and interests, qualications relevant
to the position (especially in reference to the required
and desired qualications listed above), a curriculum
vitae, and the names and contact information for three
references.
Inquiries about the position may be directed to Pablo
Vargas (vargas@rjb.csic.es).
Pablo Vargas Ph.D. Senior Scientist Royal Botan-
ical Garden of Madrid (CSIC) Plaza de Murillo 2,
28014 Madrid http://www.rjb.csic.es/jardinbotanico/-
jardin/contenido.php?Pag=413&tipo=cientico&cod=-
96&len=es Toni Gabald on Ph. D. Senior Scientist
Centre for Genomic Regulation Calle C/ Dr. Aiguader,
88 (PRBB Building) 08003 Barcelona, Spain http://-
big.crg.cat/comparative genomics Pablo Vargas G omez
<vargas@rjb.csic.es >
Singapore ViralGenomics
*Postdoctoral Opportunity at Duke-NUS Graduate Med-
ical School, Singapore*
We are currently recruiting a post-doc to work with Prof.
Mariano Garcia-Blanco in the Emerging Infectious Dis-
ease program (https://www.duke-nus.edu.sg/content/-
garcia-blanco-mariano). The group studies host factors
of /avivirus/ infection (primarily dengue and yellow
fever viruses) in human tissue culture and mosquitoes.
The group is located in a dynamic, well-funded and well-
equipped environment (https://www.duke-nus.edu.sg/),
with access to cutting-edge genomic and proteomic fa-
cilities.
The project is to study the interaction of non-coding
/aviviral/ RNA and the host innate immune response.
Using proteomics, cell culture and molecular biology
techniques, the researcher will characterize the interac-
tion between viral non-coding RNA and proteins, de-
termine the role of the interaction in infection, identify
interacting immune factors, and search for drugs dis-
rupting those interactions. The project should provide a
basic understanding of how viral non-coding RNA alters
the host immune response during infection and result
in identication of drugs targeting these interactions.
The ideal candidate will have experience with cell and
molecular biology techniques, virology and protein bio-108 EvolDir March 1, 2015
chemistry. The candidate will also have a track record
of publications, a high level of intellectual engagement
and excellent problem-solving skills. The ability to work
independently without supervision is essential.
Singapore is a safe, lively and stimulating country with
a profound commitment to supporting cutting edge sci-
entic research. Salary is attractive and will depend
upon experience. The position is a one-year contract
renewable for up to 3 years. Only selected candidates
will be invited for interview.
Please send a CV and cover letter to:
Julien.pompon@duke-nus.edu.sg
alex.ward@duke-nus.edu.sg
{ Julien Pompon, PhD jSenior Research Fellow Emerg-
ing Infectious Diseases jDuke-NUS Graduate Medical
School 8 College Road, Singapore 169857 jwww.duke-
nus.edu.sg Julien Pompon <julien.pompon@duke-
nus.edu.sg >
SLU Alnarp PlantHerbivore
PollinatorInteractions
A 2-year postdoc position is available at SLU, Alnarp:
In strawberries herbivore-damaged plants deter pollina-
tors, leading to reduced pollination success. However,
wild plant genotypes, as well as domesticated varieties,
dier in their resistance against herbivores.
The aim of this postdoc project is to investigate whether
pollination success is improved when wild strawberries
evolve stronger resistance, and during plant breeding
for improved resistance in domesticated varieties. The
postdoc will have access to a large common garden with
100 wild plant genotypes (Fragaria vesca) that dier in
several plant traits , including their resistance against
herbivores.
The full ad can be downloaded here: http://www.slu.se/-
sv/om-slu/fristaende-sidor/aktuellt/lediga-tjanster/las-
mer/?eng=1&Pid=1700 Johan
Johan A. Stenberg Associate Professor
Sveriges lantbruksuniversitet Swedish University of Agri-
cultural Sciences
Department of Plant Protection Biology PO
Box 102, SE-230 53 ALNARP Visiting address:
Sundsv agen 14 Mobile: +46 70 622 00 42 jo-
han.stenberg@slu.se, www.slu.se/stenberg Johan AStenberg <Johan.Stenberg@slu.se >
SpelmanCollege Georgia 3
EvolBiology TeachingEmphasis
I would like to share these three postdoctoral posi-
tions with the evodir community. The positions are
broadly dened but we are looking people with evolu-
tionary/bioinformatics training that are interested to
integrate research and teaching in an undergrad liberal
art college environment.
Thanks,
Yonas
CURE Postdoctoral Fellowships
(Three Positions)
Spelman College is piloting a postdoctoral fellowship pro-
gram that combines a traditional principal-investigator
directed postdoctoral research experiences with men-
tored teaching experiences. Founded in 1881, Spelman
College is a private four-year liberal arts college located
in Atlanta, GA. The oldest historically Black college for
women in the United States, Spelman is a member of
the Atlanta University Center Consortium and Atlanta
Regional Consortium for Higher Education.
Eligibility:
(1) Graduate students that will complete their require-
ments for the Ph.D. prior to the Fellowship start date
of June 1, 2015, or Ph.D. scholars who have completed
their dissertation within the last three years (on or after
August 1, 2012);
(2) Ph.D. must be in an eligible research-based eld in
STEM to include: Biology, Biochemistry, Chemistry,
Computer Science, Mathematics, Physics, or a related
science discipline. Preference will be given to candidates
with interdisciplinary training.
Qualications: Commitment to a career in teaching
and research, experience working with underrepresented
groups and interest in the scholarship of undergraduate
teaching and learning are highly valued.
Responsibilities: Conduct research within a specic
eld guided by a designated PI; publish scientic
manuscripts under the direction of the PI; help develop
investigative-based modules for existing undergraduate
science courses; and contribute to the training and men-
toring undergraduate research students.March 1, 2015 EvolDir 109
Term: Postdoctoral awards may be up to three years
(36 consecutive months), given continued successful
progress.
Review of applications will begin immediately with a
materials received and closing deadline of March 13,
2015.
Competitive salary and an excellent benets program
are available. To apply for the position, please upload: a
letter of interest, including job code, which identies the
position sought; curriculum vitae (with contact infor-
mation); a one-page statement of teaching philosophy;
statement of scholarly, creative or research interests.
Applicants selected for further review will be required
to provide ocial undergraduate and graduate school
transcripts, as well as three letters of recommendation
sent directly from the referee or dossier. Address all
referee or dossier letters to: Spelman College, Provost
Faculty Human Resources Oce, Attn: Ms. Karla H.
Williams, Manager of Faculty Human Resources, 350
Spelman Lane, SW, Box 1209, Atlanta, GA 30314.
PLEASE APPLY BELOW
Spelman College is an
EOE/Minority/Female/Disabled/Veteran/Title
IX Employer and participates in E-Verify
Yonas Tekle <yonastekle@gmail.com >
Stockholm MeiofaunaTaxonomy
Post-doctoral researcher
A postdoc position is available in the research group of
Ulf Jondelius at the Swedish Museum of Natural History,
Stockholm.
We are looking for a highly motivated postdoc with
interest in animal diversity and taxonomy for a project
aiming to survey the diversity of the atworm group
Macrostomorpha with emphasis on the Swedish fauna.
Macrostomorphs are free-living microscopic worms that
live predominantly in the marine environment, but also
in fresh water. They are an abundant component of the
littoral meiofauna.
Live specimens will be collected, documented and pre-
served for histology and DNA-sequencing. Sequence
data will be used to delimit named and newly discov-
ered species, which will be taxonomically described. The
phylogeny of various groups within Macrostomorphawill be reconstructed. Sediment samples for a metage-
netic study of several meiofauna groups will be collected
and analyzed within the project aiming to provide new
insights into meiofauna distribution and abundance pat-
terns.
Qualications The ideal candidate has a recent PhD in
zoology or marine biology, an interest in marine and
limnic eldwork, experience in taxonomy of microscopic
animals, prociency in analysis of DNA sequence data
and a record of publishing in scientic journals.
Criteria for selection Selection will be based on scien-
tic merits including the quality of the PhD thesis and
published scientic work, the applicants documented
competence in subjects of relevance for the research
eld, prociency in English and teamwork skills. The
PhD degree should have been received no more than
three years before the deadline for applications.
Starting date is May 1, 2015, although this is negotiable.
Initial appointment is for one year with the possibility
of extension for a further two years. The project will
be carried out in cooperation with colleagues at the
University of Basel.
For more information, please contact professor Ulf Jon-
delius (ulf.jondelius@nrm.se). Union representative is
Bodil Kajrup, SACO-S. Both can be reached at tele-
phone number + 46 8 519 540 00.
How to apply Applicants should submit (1) a cover let-
ter describing your research interests and background,
(2) a detailed CV (including publications), and (3) the
contact details of three references as a single pdf docu-
ment to rekrytering@nrm.se or to Swedish Museum of
Natural History, P.O. Box 50007, SE-104 05 Stockholm,
Sweden, no later than February 27, 2015. Mark your
application with dnr 2.3.1-49-2015
Ulf.Jondelius@nrm.se
TorontoScarborough
FishPopulationGenomics
Postdoctoral position in population genetics at Univer-
sity of Toronto Scarborough
A one year postdoctoral position is available to carry
out a next generation sequencing study on the role of
waterfalls as geographic barriers for Great Lakes shes.
The project has important conservation implications,
particularly with respect to the ability of invasive species110 EvolDir March 1, 2015
to cross physical barriers.
Applicants are expected to have some background in
genomic approaches to population studies.
A complete application package includes a CV, a short
description of past research accomplishments and future
goals, and the names and e-mail addresses of at least
2 references. Evaluation of applications starts imme-
diately and will continue until a suitable candidate is
found. Application materials should be sent via email
to Nathan Lovejoy at lovejoy@utsc.utoronto.ca
This fellowship is a joint project sponsored by the Uni-
versity of Toronto and Fisheries and Oceans Canada.
lovejoy@utsc.utoronto.ca
UAgder Norway
EvolutionaryMarineGenomics
Post-doctoral Research Fellow in Evolutionary Marine
Genomics at the Faculty of Engineering and Science.
Ref 5/15
The University of Agder (UiA) invites applications for
a full-time, xed-term appointment as Post-doctoral
Research Fellow in Evolutionary Marine Genomics at
the Faculty of Engineering and Science, Department of
Natural Sciences for a period of two years. The position
will mainly be located in Kristiansand, Norway. How-
ever, the appointee may be required to stay for a period
at the Institute of Marine Research, Fl cdevigen (IMR).
The preferred start date is 1 May 2015 (negotiable with
the Department).
The marine group at the Department of Natu-
ral Sciences comprises around 20 people including
Professors, Professors II, Researchers II, Post-doc
and PhD fellows. The Post-doctoral Fellow will
also benet from the recently established Center
for Coastal Research <https://www.facebook.com/-
marinecenternorway?ref=hl >(CCR) in cooperation
with University of Oslo, Institute of Marine Research,
GRID-Arendal, NIVA and Telemark University College.
The postdoctoral-fellow will primarily work in an ongo-
ing international project entitled Adaptation or plastic-
ity as response to large scale translocations and harvest-
ing over a climatic gradient in the marine ecosystem? 
funded by the Research Council of Norway (RCN) under
the Havkyst programme. This project aims at improving
our understanding of adaptive processes in marine shin response to human and climatic stressors. During its
development, large datasets will be generated by means
of Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS) approaches, fo-
cusing the analysis on Rads and transcriptomics data.
The candidate will also have the opportunity to get
involved in other ongoing projects at CCR as well as to
develop own initiatives.
The Post-doctoral Fellow will be expected to take part
in a binding cooperation with the research group and
contribute to an active research environment that will
give opportunities for personal and professional devel-
opment. The appointee must have the ability to work
in a goal-oriented, organised, focused, and independent
manner. During the assessment process emphasis will be
placed on the applicants PhD work, examination results
as well as any other previous research and development
work. Relevant practical experience, personal suitability
and good teamwork skills will also be emphasised.
The successful candidate should hold a PhD in a rele-
vant eld such as ecology, evolution, genetics/genomics,
aquaculture or bioinformatics. Applicants with a PhD
in medical science and experience in NGS data analysis
are also welcome. The qualied candidate should have
strong computational skills and/or experience with the
major techniques in Bioinformatics. In addition, he/she
will be familiar with Linux/Unix systems as well as
programming in script-based language, e.g. Phython
and/or Perl. Experience with laboratory protocols in
molecular biology and rearing sh in tanks is an advan-
tage, but not required.
Information about the appointment criteria for a Post-
doctoral Research Fellow can be found in the Regula-
tions Concerning Terms and Conditions of Employment
for the Post of Post-doctoral Research Fellow, Research
Fellow, Research Assistant and Resident, available for
download here <http://www.uia.no/en/vacancies2 >.
The Norwegian public service is committed to reect the
diversity of society and the personnel policy of the Uni-
versity of Agder aims to achieve a balanced workforce.
All qualied persons are therefore encouraged to ap-
ply for the position irrespective of cultural background,
gender, age or disability.
Short-listed applicants will be invited for interviews and
with permission from the applicant the University will
also conduct a reference check before appointment.
Appointment is made by the University of Agders Ap-
pointments Committee for Teaching and Research Po-
sitions. The successful applicant will have rights and
obligations in accordance with the current regulations
for the public service.
The position is remunerated according to the StateMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 111
salary scale, salary plan 17.510, code 1352 Post-doctoral
Research Fellow, salary grade 60 -72 (NOK 509.100-
639.500). A 2 % compulsory pension contribution to
the Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund is deducted
from the pay according to current statutory provisions.
Applicants are asked to submit their application and
CV online. Please use the link Send application .
The following documentation should be submitted on-
line:
* Copies of diplomas, transcripts and letters of reference
* Complete list of scientic publications * A description
of research interests, background for the problem that
the applicant wishes to study and its relevance for the
above mentioned project * Summary
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UAlabama Bee PopulationGenomics
A NSF-funded postdoctoral research position in the eld
of landscape genomics is available in Je Lozier's lab in
the Department of Biological Sciences at the University
of Alabama (http://bama.ua.edu/~jlozier).
The available position will involve the study of evolu-
tionary and functional genetics of local adaptation in
North American bumble bees. In addition to interacting
with the Lozier lab, the selected applicant will work
closely with Michael Dillon (University of Wyoming;
http://www.uwyo.edu/mdillon/) and James Strange
(USDA-ARS Pollinating Insect Research Unit and Utah
State, Logan, UT; http://goo.gl/uJFqxS) on an inter-
disciplinary eort to understand the consequences of
abiotic heterogeneity on morphological, physiological,
and genomic variation across complex mountain land-
scapes of CA, OR, and WA.
The open position is for a highly motivated postdoctoral
research associate whose primary objective will be to
oversee next generation population genomic and tran-
scriptomic analyses of eld-collected and experimental
samples.
Responsibilities will include participating in eldwork,
laboratory work, and will be especially focused on
computational and statistical analysis of genomic andRNAseq data. The ideal candidate should have expe-
rience with next generation sequencing, ideally with
emerging methods for population-level genomic (e..g,
RADseq, Pool-seq) or RNAseq analysis, and possess
laboratory genetics skills, excellent computational skills
(e.g., familiarity with GIS, UNIX, R, or other program-
ming languages, as well as open-source genetics soft-
ware), and the ability to eectively manage large data
sets. The applicant should be creative and indepen-
dent, have excellent organizational, communication, and
writing skills, and a publication record in evolutionary
biology, population genetics, molecular ecology or other
related elds. A general interest in pollinator biology
and related eld experience would be advantageous,
but applicants with diverse research backgrounds are
encouraged to apply
. Candidates must have received a Ph.D. in a relevant
eld by the start date.
Funding is available for at least two years, potentially
longer, with annual renewal dependent on performance
evaluation, and will include a competitive salary and
full benets. The University of Alabama oers a range
of professional development opportunities. Application
review will begin in late February, 2015 and will con-
tinue until the position is lled. Start date is negotiable,
but the successful applicant should ideally be able to
begin working in the position by summer (May 1-Sept
1) 2015.
Applicants interested in the position are encouraged
to contact Je Lozier (jlozier@ua.edu) when applying.
Applicants must ocially apply by submitting an appli-
cation to the Spring 2015 Biological Sciences Departmen-
tal postdoctoral pool at facultyjobs.ua.edu (requisition
number 0809316): https://facultyjobs.ua.edu/postings/-
36373 . Materials should include: 1. Cover letter men-
tioning the \Pollinator Landscape Genomics" position, a
description of past research accomplishments and future
research goals, and the names and contact information
for 3 references (maximum of two pages). 2. Curriculum
vitae
About the University of Alabama: The University of Al-
abama is the agship campus of the University System
of Alabama, with an enrollment of over 35,000 students.
The University is committed to achieving excellence as
one of the country's primary centers of research and
education. It is located in the vibrant college town of
Tuscaloosa, AL, which boasts many cultural and ath-
letic activities. The campus also benets from the close
proximity to the Birmingham metropolitan community.
The University of Alabama is an Armative Ac-
tion/Equal Opportunity Employer. Women and mi-
norities are encouraged to apply.112 EvolDir March 1, 2015
jlozier@ua.edu
UAlabama PopulationGenomics
A NSF-funded postdoctoral research position in the eld
of population genomics is available in Je Lozier$B!G(Bs
lab in the Department of Biological Sciences at the Uni-
versity of Alabama (http://bama.ua.edu/ ~jlozier). Note
that this is a repost of an earlier ad for this open position,
containing just a few clarication on dates below.
The available position will involve the study of evolu-
tionary and functional genetics of local adaptation in
North American bumble bees. In addition to interacting
with the Lozier lab, the selected applicant will work
closely with Michael Dillon (University of Wyoming;
http://www.uwyo.edu/mdillon/) and James Strange
(USDA-ARS Pollinating Insect Research Unit and Utah
State, Logan, UT; http://goo.gl/uJFqxS) on an inter-
disciplinary eort to understand the consequences of
abiotic heterogeneity on morphological, physiological,
and genomic variation across complex mountain land-
scapes of CA, OR, and WA.
The open position is for a highly motivated postdoctoral
research associate whose primary objective will be to
oversee next generation population genomic and tran-
scriptomic analyses of eld-collected and experimental
samples.
Responsibilities will include participating in eldwork,
laboratory work, and will be especially focused on
computational and statistical analysis of genomic and
RNAseq data. The ideal candidate should have expe-
rience with next generation sequencing, ideally with
emerging methods for population-level genomic (e..g,
RADseq, Pool-seq) or RNAseq analysis, and possess
laboratory genetics skills, excellent computational skills
(e.g., familiarity with GIS, UNIX, R, or other program-
ming languages, as well as open-source genetics soft-
ware), and the ability to eectively manage large data
sets. The applicant should be creative and indepen-
dent, have excellent organizational, communication, and
writing skills, and a publication record in evolutionary
biology, population genetics, molecular ecology or other
related elds. A general interest in pollinator biology
and related eld experience would be advantageous, but
applicants with diverse research backgrounds are encour-
aged to apply. Candidates must have received a Ph.D.
in a relevant eld by the start date.
Funding is available for at least two years, potentiallylonger, with annual renewal dependent on performance
evaluation, and will include a competitive salary and
full benets. The University of Alabama oers a range
of professional development opportunities. Applications
received will be reviewed by the end of next week (March
6) and applicants will be contacted by the second week
of March, however review of applications will continue
until the position is lled. Start date is negotiable, but
the successful applicant should ideally be able to begin
working in the position by summer/fall 2015.
Applicants interested in the position are encouraged
to contact Je Lozier (jlozier@ua.edu) when applying.
Applicants must ocially apply by submitting an ap-
plication to the Spring 2015 Biological Sciences Depart-
mental postdoctoral pool at facultyjobs.ua.edu (requi-
sition number 0809316): https://facultyjobs.ua.edu/-
postings/36373 . Materials should include: 1. Cover
letter mentioning the $B!H(BPollinator Landscape Ge-
nomics$B!I(B position, a description of past research
accomplishments and future research goals, and the
names and contact information for 3 references (maxi-
mum of two pages). 2. Curriculum vitae
About the University of Alabama: The University of Al-
abama is the agship campus of the University System
of Alabama, with an enrollment of over 35,000 students.
The University is committed to achieving excellence as
one of the country's primary centers of research and
education. It is located in the vibrant college town of
Tuscaloosa, AL, which boasts many cultural and ath-
letic activities. The campus also benets from the close
proximity to the Birmingham metropolitan community.
The University of Alabama is an Armative Ac-
tion/Equal Opportunity Employer. Women and mi-
norities are encouraged to apply.
Jerey D. Lozier Assistant Professor Department of Bi-
ological Sciences Box 870344 University of Alabama,
Tuscaloosa AL 35487 jlozier@as.ua.edu
jlozier@ua.edu
UArizona 2
GenomicsInvasiveSpecies
Two postdoctoral research positions funded by the
United States Department of Agriculture are avail-
able to work with Dr. Katrina Dlugosch (http:/-
/dlugoschlab.arizona.edu/) and Dr. David Baltrus
(http://cals.arizona.edu/research/baltruslab) at theMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 113
University of Arizona on the ecological genomics of
microbial interactions with the invasive plant yellow
starthistle (Centaurea solstitialis). We are investigat-
ing the evolution of species interactions during range
expansion and their impact on the spread of invading
populations, and we are seeking postdoctoral researchers
with interests and experience in these areas.
One successful candidate will be responsible for next-
generation genomic sequence generation and bioinfor-
matic analyses, particularly by 1) surveying plant-
associated microbial communities in the native (Eu-
ropean) and invaded (North American) ranges of yellow
starthistle, using 16S metagenomics and culture-based
sequencing of eld-collected specimens, and 2) quanti-
fying rates of gene ow across the genome in invading
plant populations using a high-throughput RADseq next-
generation approach. Preferred start date in May 2015.
To apply, submit a statement of interest and curriculum
vitae to job #57623 at https://www.uacareertrack.com
A second successful candidate will be responsible for
1) mapping QTL associated with the genetic basis of
variation in resistance to bacterial pathogens using large-
scale greenhouse experiments and genome-wide RADseq
markers, and 2) quantifying population-level impacts of
infection using phenotypic data collection in combina-
tion with existing demographic models in collaboration
with Dr. Sarah Swope (Mills College). Preferred start
date in late 2015 or early 2016. To apply, submit a state-
ment of interest and curriculum vitae to job #57624
at https://www.uacareertrack.com Positions are for
one year, with reappointment for up to two additional
years subject to satisfactory performance. Review of
applications will begin March 2, 2015 and continue until
lled.
Minimum qualications *PhD in Biology or a related
eld *Authorship of peer-reviewed publications of re-
search in a eld related to the position *Strong commu-
nication skills *Ability to work independently and in a
team
Preferred Qualications (Applicants without these skills
will be considered): *Experience producing and analyz-
ing molecular genetic data, particularly next-generation
genomic data *Experience culturing bacterial colonies
*Experience rearing plants under standard greenhouse
conditions *Experience collecting and documenting eld
specimens
Inquiries about the positions may be directed to Dr.
Katrina Dlugosch (kdlugosch@email.arizona.edu).
Katrina M. Dlugosch, Assistant Professor Ecol-
ogy & Evolutionary Biology, University of
Arizona kdlugosch@email.arizona.edu jhttp://-
dlugoschlab.arizona.edu katrina.dlugosch@gmail.comkatrina.dlugosch@gmail.com
UBern 2 Biodiversity
*Two Postdoctoral Researchers, Biodiversity Synthesis,
University of Bern*
Applications are invited for two, 3-year, post-
doc positions conducting ecological synthesis in the
Biodiversity Exploratories ( http://www.biodiversity-
exploratories.de ). One postdoc will be supervised by
Prof. Markus Fischer and the other by Prof. Eric Allan,
both at the University of Bern in Switzerland.
The Biodiversity Exploratories project involves collabo-
ration between over 50 research groups and examines
relationships between environmental change (land-use
intensication), biodiversity and ecosystem functioning
in forests and grasslands. It has generated uniquely com-
prehensive biodiversity and ecosystem function datasets,
including detailed land-use data, diversity data from
a wide range of groups such as bacteria, fungi, arthro-
pods, plants and vertebrates and data on many dierent
ecosystem services. The synthesis project aims to utilise
these data for combined analyses and therefore to create
synergies between the dierent research groups, thus
providing added value for the whole project.
We are seeking highly motivated applicants interested
in the causes and consequences of biodiversity change,
community ecology and/or ecosystem service research.
As well as conducting synthesis analyses, applicants are
expected to interact frequently with members of the
Biodiversity Exploratories community and to organise
workshops.
Applicants should have a PhD in ecology, or related dis-
cipline, and strong analytical skills, including familiarity
with advanced statistical techniques and manipulation
of large datasets (preferably using R). The positions
will be based at the Institute of Plant Sciences in Bern,
which oers a stimulating, international research envi-
ronment and excellent facilities ( www.botany.unibe.ch/-
planteco ). Bern is also a beautiful city with a high
quality of life.
Please send your application by email (as a single PDF
by email) to eric.allan@ips.unibe.ch . Applications
should include a CV, names and addresses of two refer-
ences, a one page description of your research interests
and a list of publications. Applications will be reviewed
from 5 ^th March 2015 until the position is lled.114 EvolDir March 1, 2015
For queries on the application process or more informa-
tion on these positions, please contact Prof. Eric Allan
eric.allan@ips.unibe.ch
{ Dr. Eric Allan, Institute of Plant Sciences Uni-
versity of Bern Altenbergrain 21 CH-3013 Bern
email: eric.allan@ips.unibe.ch phone: +41 31 631
4992 http://www.ips.unibe.ch/content/biodiversity/-
index eng.html http://www.researchgate.net/prole/-
Eric Allan Eric Allan <eric.allan@ips.unibe.ch >
UCalifornia Berkeley 2 Drosophila
UC Berkeley, Two Postdoctoral Positions in Evolution-
ary and Functional Genomics
Two postdoctoral positions are available in the group of
Doris Bachtrog at the University of California, Berkeley.
One project focuses on the formation of heterochromatin
on evolving Y chromosomes in Drosophila, using func-
tional genomics and computational analysis, combined
with developmental biology approaches. The second
project focuses on the evolution of reproductive barriers
in incipient Drosophila species, using both experimental
evolution and population genomics approaches. Our
group shares space and weekly lab meetings with other
members of the Center for Theoretical Evolutionary
Genomics at UC Berkeley (http://cteg.berkeley.edu/).
Applicants for the position must have either a
background in high-throughput genomics techniques,
Drosophila genetics and husbandry, and/or computa-
tional population and evolutionary genomics analysis.
Programming and bioinformatics skills are required.
Funds are available to support these positions for up
to three years. The positions are immediately available
and the search continues until the positions are lled.
To apply, please submit (by email) a CV, a brief descrip-
tion of research interests (no more than one page), and
the names and contact information for three references
to Doris Bachtrog (dbachtrog@berkeley.edu).
For further information about our research program,
please visit our website (http://ib.berkeley.edu/labs/-
bachtrog/).
Doris Bachtrog University of California, Berkeley De-
partment of Integrative Biology Center for Theoretical
Evolutionary Genomics Berkeley, CA 94720-3140 phone:
(510)-325-9547Doris Bachtrog <dbachtrog@berkeley.edu >
UCambridge Phylogenetics
*** Postdoc in Phylogenetics & Biodiversity, Cambridge
***
The Ecosystems and Global Change Group in the
Department of Plant Sciences at the University of
Cambridge (http://www.plantsci.cam.ac.uk/research/-
andrewtanentzap) is seeking a full-time Research Asso-
ciate with interests in plant and animal diversication,
biogeography, and computational phylogenetics. Based
in central Cambridge, the postholder will join an existing
project focused on mapping the evolutionary potential
of the world's biodiversity. They will be responsible for
generating time-calibrated phylogenetic trees and using
them to estimate evolutionary rates.
Applicants should have a PhD in evolutionary biology,
ecology, or a closely related eld, and strong skills in
phylogenetic and macro-evolutionary modelling. A track
record of publication in leading peer-reviewed journals is
essential. Laboratory experience with DNA sequencing
is desirable, as is experience with tools such as DPPDiv,
BEAST, and MrBayes. Interest in conservation science
is helpful.
Fixed-term: The funds for this post are available for 22
months in the rst instance.
To apply online for this vacancy, please click on the 'Ap-
ply' button at http://www.jobs.cam.ac.uk/job/6094/.
This will route you to the University's Web Recruitment
System, where you will need to register an account (if
you have not already) and log in before completing the
online application form.
Applicants should provide a CV, the lename of which
should be \CV-followed by your name", including con-
tact details of two academic referees, and a covering
letter addressing the selection criteria.
For further information see http://-
www.jobs.cam.ac.uk/job/6094/ Please quote reference
PD05272 on your application and in any correspondence
about this vacancy.
The University values diversity and is committed to
equality of opportunity.
The University has a responsibility to ensure that all
employees are eligible to live and work in the UK.March 1, 2015 EvolDir 115
{ Andrew J. Tanentzap Head of Ecosystems and
Global Change Group Department of Plant Sciences
University of Cambridge Downing Street Cambridge,
UK CB2 3EA http://www.plantsci.cam.ac.uk/-
research/andrewtanentzap \A.J. Tanentzap"
<ajt65@cam.ac.uk >
UCanterbury EvolutionNetworks
*Postdoctoral research fellowship* Stouer Lab, School
of Biological Sciences, University of Canterbury,
Christchurch, New Zealand
We invite applications for a postdoctoral research fel-
lowship to study the structure, dynamics, and evolution
of ecological networks in the Stouer Lab <http://-
stouerlab.org/ >(School of Biological Sciences, Uni-
versity of Canterbury, New Zealand).
Requirements: The ideal candidate has a strong quan-
titative background, demonstrated research excellence,
and a PhD in ecology, engineering, applied mathematics,
physics, computer science, or related elds. Program-
ming experience in both a compiled language (C or C++
preferred) and one or more scripting languages (such as
Python or R) is highly desirable.
Position details: The position is part of a Fast-Start
grant from the Marsden Fund Council, administered by
the Royal Society of New Zealand. The salary will be
in the range of NZ$55,000-65,000 per year (depending
on experience), and the starting date is negotiable. The
initial appointment will be made for 1.5 years, with
renewal dependent on progress, mutual agreement, and
funding availability.
How to apply: Applicants should submit (1) a cover
letter describing their research interests and back-
ground, (2) a detailed CV (including publications),
and (3) the contact details of three references to
daniel.stouer@canterbury.ac.nz. The cover letter
should also include possible starting dates.
Review of applications will start immediately and will
continue until the position has been lled.
Dr. Daniel B. Stouer Senior Lecturer School of Bio-
logical Sciences University of Canterbury Christchurch,
New Zealand
http://stouerlab.org @StouerLab
daniel.stouer@canterbury.ac.nzUConnecticut
PlantComparativeGenomics
The Wegrzyn lab invites applications for a post-doc po-
sition in the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology at the University of Connecticut. We focus
on developing computational approaches that integrate
next generation sequence data to address questions in
comparative genomics in non-model plants, particularly
forest trees. The lab has the following ongoing projects:
1) Understanding the evolution of alternative transla-
tion initiation using RNA-seq data 2) Developing new
approaches to gene prediction to improve annotation
of complex genomes 3) Comparative analysis of conifer
specic gene families
REQUIREMENTS:
Ph.D in Genetics, Evolutionary Biology, Bioinformatics,
Computational Biology, or other related eld.
Track record of publications in comparative genomics.
Programming skills in Python, Perl, Java, C++, R or
other language.
Experience with Linux and high performance computing
environments.
Demonstrated ability in developing/applying statistical
or machine learning methods in computational biology.
Experience in genome scale data analysis including RNA-
Seq data, network analysis, biological sequence analysis
or other relevant computational genomics experience.
Highly motivated for interdisciplinary research, excellent
communication skills, and the ability to work indepen-
dently as well as within a research group.
HOW TO APPLY:
Initial appointment is one year, with possible extension.
Interested applicants should send their C.V., research
statement, available start date, and contact information
for three references to jill.wegrzyn@uconn.edu.
jillylee@gmail.com116 EvolDir March 1, 2015
UFlorida
AppliedEvolutionaryPhysiology
A postdoctoral position in applied ecological and evolu-
tionary stress physiology is available in Dan Hahn's lab
at the University of Florida.
Our work takes a vertically integrated approach to un-
derstanding both the plastic mechanisms that organisms
use to rapidly respond to environmental perturbation,
and the consequences of this rapid physiological plastic-
ity for organismal performance from evolutionary and
applied perspectives.
The initial appointment will be for 2 years starting as
early as summer 2015, with extension for additional
years based on performance. The postdoctoral asso-
ciate is expected to spend 2/3-3/4 of their time on a
project centered around understanding how exposure
to hypoxic and/or hypercapnic atmospheres can alter
the physiology of insects to promote cross-resistance to
other stressors (i.e., hormesis). The remaining 1/3-1/4
of time will be available for other creative activities
related to the postdoctoral associates interests, particu-
larly if they pertain to other projects in our lab group
(see Additional Projects Section below).
The Main Project: Exposure to low-oxygen environ-
ments can be damaging in the long term, but many
insects are highly resistant to short-term exposures to
hypoxia and hypercapnia. In fact, short term exposures
to modied atmospheres can promote cross-tolerance to
other stressors, including oxidative stressors. Here we
will investigate how exposure to modied atmospheres
can aect insect physiology to impart resistance to irra-
diation stress (from gamma sources or x-rays). Speci-
cally, the postdoc will: 1) study the eects of modied
atmospheres on irradiation tolerance on several insect
pests, 2) investigate the fundamental physiological mech-
anisms that are associated with enhanced resistance to
irradiation stress, and 3) use this knowledge in a physi-
ologically guided approach to developing biomarkers for
irradiation stress and resistance. Applications for this
work include expanding the use of low-dose irradiation
as an alternative to chemical pesticides to prevent the
movement of insect pests in fresh fruits and vegetables.
This work is a recent area of inquiry in our lab that
has implications for both our basic understanding of
ecological and evolutionary physiology and applications
to agriculture and international trade. Although wehave not published much in this area yet, two related
papers from our lab on irradiation biology in the context
of sexual selection and biological control by the sterile
insect technique and one general review of irradiation
as a phytosanitary treatment are listed below.
Lopez-Martinez, G., and D.A. Hahn. 2012 Short-term
anoxic conditioning hormesis boosts antioxidant de-
fenses, lowers oxidative damage following irradiation,
and enhances male sexual performance in the Caribbean
fruit y, Anastrepha suspensa. Journal of Experimental
Biology, 215:2150-2161.
Lopez-Martinez, G. and D.A. Hahn. 2014. Early-life
hormetic treatments decrease irradiation-induced oxida-
tive damage, increase longevity, and enhance sexual per-
formance during old age in the Caribbean fruit y. PLoS
One 9(1): e88128. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0088128
Hallman, G.J., N.M. Brilz, L.J. Zettler, and I.C Win-
borne. 2010. Factors aecting ionizing radiation phy-
tosanitary treatments, and implications for research and
generic treatments. Journal of Economic Entomology.
103:1950-1963.
The postdoctoral fellow must be interested in working
at the boundary between basic and applied sciences and
must be interested in working in a multidisciplinary
and collaborative atmosphere. Knowledge of physiology,
respirometry, biochemistry, multivariate data analysis,
and high-throughput screening, or strong interest in
learning these techniques is needed. International appli-
cants are encouraged to apply, but a strong command
of spoken English is a must for this position in addi-
tion to demonstrating the ability to eectively write
peer-reviewed manuscripts in English.
The Setting: The University of Florida is located in
Gainesville and oers a rich scientic community for evo-
lution, ecology, physiology/cell biology, and genomics
that spans many departments including Entomology
and Nematology (the academic home for this appoint-
ment), Biology, Wildlife, Forestry, the Genomics Insti-
tute, the US Department of Agriculture, and the College
of Medicine. Our lab currently includes 3 postdoctoral
associates, 3 PhD students, and 9 undergraduates with
which you would interact daily. There will be substan-
tial opportunities for interdisciplinary training across
units at our institution and within our network of col-
laborators, as well as additional training opportunities
in teaching/instruction and scientic outreach to the
public. Our group has an excellent record of career
development with former postdocs and students placed
in tenure-track academic positions, biotech industry po-
sitions, and government science. We strongly recognize
the valueMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 117
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UHeidelberg
BioinformaticsGenomics
BIOINFORMATICS POSTDOC IN FUNCTIONAL
EVOLUTIONARY GENOMICS
Center for Molecular Biology of the University of Hei-
delberg (ZMBH), Heidelberg, Germany
A postdoctoral position (2 years with possible exten-
sions) is available immediately in the evolutionary ge-
nomics group of Henrik Kaessmann.
We are seeking highly qualied and enthusiastic ap-
plicants with strong skills in computational biol-
ogy/bioinformatics, preferably also with experience in
data mining and comparative or evolutionary genome
analyses.
We have been interested in a range of topics related to
the functional evolution of genomes across mammals. In
the framework of our research, we are generating com-
prehensive sets of RNA-seq data for a large collection of
germline and somatic tissues from representatives of all
major mammalian lineages (placental mammals, marsu-
pials, and the egg-laying monotremes) and evolutionary
outgroups (e.g., birds). In conjunction with various high-
throughput genomic and epigenomic datasets, we are
using these transcriptome data to study the functional
(expression) evolution of mammalian genomes across
gene types, lineages, tissues, developmental stages, chro-
mosomes and sexes.
The postdoctoral fellow will perform integrated evolu-
tionary/bioinformatics analyses based on data produced
in our lab and available genomic data. The specic
project will be developed together with the candidate.
The language of the institute is English, and its mem-
bers form a highly international group. The ZMBH is
located in Heidelberg, a beautiful international city next
to the Odenwald forest and Neckar river.
For more information on the group and our institute
more generally, please refer to our website at the ZMBH
(http://www.zmbh.uni-heidelberg.de/Kaessmann/) andalso our website at the University of Lausanne (Switzer-
land, http://www.unil.ch/cig/kaessmann), where our
lab is currently located (before moving to Heidelberg
October 1, 2015).
Please submit a CV, statement of research interest,
and names of three references to: Henrik Kaess-
mann (h.kaessmann@zmbh.uni-heidelberg.de or Hen-
rik.Kaessmann@unil.ch).
{ Henrik Kaessmann, Ph.D. Full Professor ZMBH Im
Neuenheimer Feld 282 69120 Heidelberg, Germany
Selected recent publications:
Cortez, D., Marin, R., Toledo-Flores, D., Froidevaux,
L., Liechti, A., Waters, P.D., Gr utzner, F., and Kaess-
mann, H. (2014) Origins and functional evolution of Y
chromosomes across mammals. Nature 508: 488-493.
Necsulea, A., Soumillon, M., Warnefors, M., Liechti, A.,
Daish, T., Zeller, U., Baker, J.C., Gr utzner, F., and
Kaessmann, H. (2014) The evolution of lncRNA reper-
toires and expression patterns in tetrapods. Nature 505:
635-640.
Necsulea, A. and Kaessmann, H. (2014) Evolutionary
dynamics of coding and noncoding transcriptomes. Nat.
Rev. Genet. 5: 734-48.
Meunier, J., Lemoine, F., Soumillon, M., Liechti, A.,
Weier, M., Guschanski, K., Hu, H., Khaitovich, P., and
Kaessmann, H. (2013) Birth and expression evolution of
mammalian microRNA genes. Genome Res. 23: 34-45.
Julien, P., Brawand, D., Soumillon, M., Necsulea, A.,
Liechti, A., Sch utz, F., Daish, T., Gr utzner, F., and
Kaessmann, H. (2012) Mechanisms and evolutionary
patterns of mammalian and avian dosage compensation
PLoS Biol. 5:e1001328.
Brawand, D., Soumillon, M., Necsulea, A., Julien,
P., Cs ardi, G., Harrigan, P., Weier, M., Liechti, A.,
Aximu-Petri, A., Kircher, M., Albert, F.W., Zeller, U.,
Khaitovich, P., Gr utzner, F., Bergmann, S., Nielsen, R.,
P a abo, S., and Kaessmann, H. (2011) The evolution of
gene expression levels in mammalian organs. Nature
478: 343-348.
Henrik.Kaessmann@unil.ch118 EvolDir March 1, 2015
UMemphis BeetlePhylogenomics
A 2-year postdoctoral research fellowship is available in
the lab of Dr. Duane McKenna (University of Memphis)
to participate in a variety of highly collaborative projects
related to the phylogeny and evolution of beetles and
beetle genomes.
The successful candidate will work with collaborators
to establish a bioinformatic pipeline for the NSF-funded
1K Weevils Project (anchored phylogenomics, compara-
tive genomics), analyze beetle data in association with
the 1KITE Beetle Subproject (phylogenomics, transcrip-
tomes), and contribute to beetle genome and compar-
ative genomics projects in the McKenna Lab, e.g., in
collaboration with the Insect 5000 Genomes Project.
These are primarily bioinformatics, phylogenomics, and
comparative genomics projects involving extensive anal-
ysis of genome- and transcriptome-scale data sets. The
position is based at the University of Memphis, but
includes opportunities for travel to work with collab-
orators. The initial appointment is for one year, re-
newable for one additional year provided the rst year
review shows satisfactory progress. The position oers
a competitive salary plus benets. Start date is ex-
ible, though interested individuals are encouraged to
apply immediately. Review of applications will begin on
February 9, 2015; however applicants will be considered
until the position is lled.
Required Qualications:
- A Ph.D. in computational biology, evolutionary ge-
netics/genomics, phylogenomics, bioinformatics, or a
related eld. Advanced ABDs may be considered if
degree completion is imminent - Experience with manip-
ulating and analyzing genomic and transcriptomic NGS
sequence data - A strong record of prior publication
in genome-scale data analysis, including bioinformatics
pipeline construction, phylogenomics, and/or genome
structure and evolution - Strong communication and
interpersonal skills, including a proven ability to work
both independently and as part of a team
Desired Qualications: (Ideal applicant; applicants with-
out these skills will be considered)
- Prociency in computer programming - Experience
working with arthropods (especially insects) - Experi-
ence with standard molecular laboratory techniques -
Experience with the analysis of traditional molecularphylogenetic data sets
The successful applicant will be expected to
work/collaborate with another postdoc and with gradu-
ate students in the McKenna Lab.
To apply, submit a cover letter stating your research
accomplishments and interests, qualications relevant
to the position (especially in reference to the required
and desired qualications listed above), a curriculum
vitae, two representative publications, and the names
and contact information for three references (submit
at: http://workforum.memphis.edu/postings/8680). In-
quiries about the position may be directed to Duane
McKenna (dmckenna@memphis.edu).
Duane D. McKenna Ph.D. Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences Associate, Program in Bioin-
formatics Associate, W. Harry Feinstone Center for
Genomic Research University of Memphis 3774 Walker
Avenue Memphis, TN 38152
phone: (901) 678-1386 email: dmckenna@memphis.edu
website: https://umdrive.memphis.edu/dmckenna/-
public/index.html \Duane McKenna (dmckenna)"
<dmckenna@memphis.edu >
UMichigan Herpetology
Postdoctoral position in the ecology, evolution, and
systematics of squamate reptiles
A two year postdoctoral research position is available in
the Rabosky Lab at the University of Michigan. Multi-
ple projects are available, including:
(1) Comparative evolutionary ecology of squamate rep-
tile communities, particularly Australia, the southwest-
ern United States, and the Neotropics. This project
will potentially involve eld studies of squamates and
the collection of ecological and phenotypic data from
a broad range of species in some of the world's most
species-rich squamate communities. We are particu-
larly interested in novel and innovative approaches to
acquiring ecological data about a broad range of dicult-
to-observe and/or rare species (e.g., many snakes). Such
approaches potentially include stable isotope ecology, re-
mote sensing, radio/satellite telemetry, and population
genomics.
(2) Systematics of Australian skinks: phylogenetics,
species delimitation/discovery, and taxonomy.
(3) Comparative analyses of macroevolutionary dynam-March 1, 2015 EvolDir 119
ics (speciation, extinction, and phenotypic evolution)
across evolutionary radiations of squamate reptiles, to
understand how and why major squamate lineages vary
in species richness and morphological / ecological diver-
sity. Expertise in computational biology and/or assem-
bly of large ecological, morphometric, or phylogenetic
datasets is desirable.
(4) Speciation and biogeography in Australian squa-
mates, particularly from arid and semi-arid regions of
the continent. This project requires experience with
the generation and analysis of high- throughput DNA
sequence data (e.g., RADseq).
The ideal candidate will have a keen interest in the
ecology and evolution of squamate reptiles and skills
compatible with one or more of the projects outlined
above. A strong publication record relevant to one of
the areas listed above is essential. The position oers ex-
ceptional opportunities for independent research, career
development, and quantitative skills training.
Applications should be sent to drabosky at umich.edu.
Please include a detailed cover letter describing your
research interests and background, a C.V., and con-
tact information for three references. Review of
applications will begin on March 9, 2015 and will
continue until the position is lled. Any ques-
tions about the position can be directed to Dan Ra-
bosky (http://www.lsa.umich.edu/eeb/people/faculty/-
ci.raboskydaniel ci.detail).
Dan Rabosky Assistant Professor & Curator of Her-
petology Museum of Zoology & Department of Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology University of Michigan Ann
Arbor, MI 48109-1079 USA
drabosky@umich.edu http://www-personal.umich.edu/-
~drabosky http://www.lsa.umich.edu/ummz/ dra-
bosky@umich.edu
UMinnesota
ComputationalMicrobialEvolution
Postdoctoral Position Metabolic modeling of microbial
species interactions
BioTechnology Institute/Department of Ecology, Evolu-
tion and Behavior
University of Minnesota
The Harcombe lab invites applicants for a postdoctoral
position to develop computational approaches to quanti-tatively predict the dynamics of microbial communities.
We use genome-scale metabolic models to investigate
the mechanistic basis of social interactions and Eco-
Evolutionary processes (see PMID 24794435). We strive
to connect intracellular metabolism to emergent commu-
nity behavior in systems ranging from simple communi-
ties that have been engineered in the lab, to complex
communities associated with pathogen suppression in
agricultural soils. We are particularly interested in im-
proving ability to simulate the evolutionary dynamics
that arise from antibiotic production in spatially struc-
tured environments.
We are seeking motivated candidates that are interested
in connecting microbial physiology to evolutionary ecol-
ogy. Candidates should have experience with Matlab,
Python, and Java. Previous work with constraint-based
modeling of metabolic networks, microbiology, and evo-
lutionary ecology are benecial. Candidates should be
comfortable interacting with computational biologists,
microbiologists and evolutionary ecologists.
Please submit a CV and cover letter with references
by March 1. The initial appointment will be for one
year, with the option for extension. Candidates should
have a PhD (or be close to completion) in a relevant
eld, and have a demonstrated record of productivity.
The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity
employer.
For further details please contact William Harcombe
(harcombe at umn dot edu).
harcombe@umn.edu
UNebraska Lincoln
POEFellowPopulationBiology
POPULATION BIOLOGY POSTDOCTORAL RE-
SEARCH FELLOWSHIP
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA-LINCOLN is
seeking applications for a 2-year postdoctoral position
in the Population Biology Program of Excellence.
The goal of the Population Biology-POE Postdoctoral
Fellowship is to stimulate synergistic interactions be-
tween faculty and postdoctoral scholars interested in the
broad area of Population Biology. Qualied candidates
are required to develop a single, coherent 2-year research
project under the guidance of two or more faculty ad-
visors, one of whom must be in the Ecology, Evolution
& Behavior (EEB) section in the School of Biological120 EvolDir March 1, 2015
Sciences (http://biosci.unl.edu/research-specializations).
The second advisor may be in the School of Biologi-
cal Sciences (including EEB), the Institute of Agricul-
ture and Natural Resources (ianrhome.unl.edu/colleges),
Mathematics (http://www.math.unl.edu) or in another
UNL department. While in residence, the postdoctoral
fellow will be expected to teach a graduate seminar on a
topic of his/her choice (Year 1), and to help organize a
local symposium (Year 2). Applications must include a
CV, a 1-page description of previous or current research
and a 2- 3 page description of proposed research as well
as a brief description of possible seminar and sympo-
sium topics. In addition, the applicant must arrange for
two recommendation letters from non-UNL faculty, and
one from each of the proposed UNL faculty sponsors
(a total of 4 letters) to be emailed to the address be-
low. The expected salary will be $45,000. The position
does not include research funds so it is anticipated that
these needs, if modest, can be met through contributions
from the faculty sponsors and should be addressed in
the proposal.
Application materials should be emailed to: Dr. Gwen
Bachman at: gbachman1@unl.edu. The subject line
should read 'Population Biology Post-doc application'.
Applications should be received by 15 April 2015 in
order to ensure full consideration. We strongly encour-
age applications from women and members of minority
groups. The University of Nebraska is committed to
a pluralistic campus community through armative
action, equal opportunity, work-life balance, and dual
careers. We assure responsible accommodation under
the Americans with Disabilities Act.
Kristi Montooth Associate Professor of Biology Univer-
sity of Nebraska kmontooth2@unl.edu
Kristi Montooth <kmontooth2@unl.edu >
UNewEngland Australia
PlantSpeciationGenomics
Postdoctoral Research Fellow (Plant Speciation Ge-
nomics)
We are seeking a highly motivated postdoctoral re-
searcher to ll an ARC Discovery-funded postdoctoral
position. The project will involve whole-genome shotgun
sequencing of many individuals across 10 woodland Eu-
calyptus species. This widespread genus of Australian
trees includes several hybridising species that co-occurin woodlands across large portions of Eastern Australia,
oering an unusual degree of replication for studying
comparative landscape genomics and the role of inter-
specic gene ow in local adaptation. A second aim
of the project is landscape genomic association stud-
ies on thousands of trees to identify environmentally
adaptive loci. A third aim will be to validate adaptive
loci segregating in hybrid progeny by growing seedlings
in climate chambers phenotyping stress response with
plant phenomics.
To be considered for this position applicants must have
a PhD in Evolutionary Genetics, Genomics or a related
area, with an excellent research record relative to oppor-
tunity, including articles in high quality, peer-reviewed
journals. In addition the successful applicant will have
research experience in population genomics, admixture
analysis and/or landscape genomics.
This is a full-time xed-term position available for 2
years, with the possibility of further appointment, sub-
ject to the availability of funding. The successful can-
didate will be expected to participate actively in the
School and to interact with undergraduate and postgrad-
uate students in the research group. The research fellow
will join Dr Rose Andrew's research group at UNE,
which conducts genome-enabled research on adaptation
and speciation in a range of organisms (e.g. orchids,
sunowers, feral cats). This project is a collaboration
with Professor Justin Borevitz at the Australian Na-
tional University, who specialises in plant genomics for
climate adaptation and high-throughput phenotyping.
Informal enquiries may be directed to Dr Rose
Andrew, phone: +61 2 6773 3160 or email
rose.andrew@une.edu.au. To nd out more about the
school visit: https://www.une.edu.au/about-une/-
academic-schools/school-of-environmental-and-rural-
science About UNE and Armidale: The University of
New England, as Australia's oldest regional university,
has a long history of excellence in research across many
major elds of study, including Ecology and Botany.
The School of Environmental and Rural Science is home
to the N.C.W. Beadle Herbarium and has strengths in
animal and plant genetics, and evolutionary biology.
Armidale a vibrant university city recognized as a
centre fo culture, is well served with art, music, theatre,
sport and public and private education. To explore
our region visit: www.armidaleregion.com.au/ and/or
www.experiencethehighs.com.au/ * 2 years xed-term,
full-time * $75,717 Salary to $81,196 Salary per annum
(Level A) * Plus up to 17% employer superannuation
contribution. Optional salary packaging is available.
Closing Date: 15 March 2015 Reference No: 215020
Applicants must provide a response to each of the se-March 1, 2015 EvolDir 121
lection criteria contained in the position statement at
www.un.edu.au/jobs-at-une, where applications are also
to be lodged. Equity principles underpin all UNE poli-
cies and procedures.
Dr Rose Andrew Lecturer in Molecular Ecology
School of Environmental and Rural Science Univer-
sity of New England Armidale, NSW, 2351 AUS-
TRALIA Ph: +61 2 6773 3160 rose.andrew@une.edu.au
http://www.une.edu.au/sta-proles/randre20 https:/-
/sites.google.com/site/roseandrewresearch/
randre20@une.edu.au
UOregon MicrobialEcologyEvolution
Postdoctoral Research Scholar Institute of Ecology and
Evolution Posting: 14431 Location: Eugene Closes:
Open Until Filled
Revised Posting
Postdoctoral Position in Microbial Ecology and Evolu-
tion
Jessica Green at the University of Oregon (http://-
pages.uoregon.edu/green/) is currently seeking a post-
doctoral researcher to collaborate on the Seagrass Mi-
crobiome Project (http://seagrassmicrobiome.org). Ap-
plicants should have a Ph.D. in a biological, compu-
tational, mathematical, or statistical eld and strong
writing skills. The ideal candidate will have experi-
ence developing and applying models to understand the
ecology, evolution, and/or function of complex systems.
Experience in the analysis of environmental sequence
data is highly desirable, but not required.
The successful candidate will have the opportu-
nity to creatively and independently tackle one
or more of the science questions outlined in the
Seagrass Microbiome Project grant proposal (http:/-
/seagrassmicrobiome.org/2014-grant-proposal/),
funded by the Gordon and Betty Moore Foun-
dation. The successful candidate will interact
regularly with team members Jonathan Eisen (http://-
phylogenomics.wordpress.com), Jay Stachowicz http://-
www-eve.ucdavis.edu/stachowicz/stachowicz.shtml, and
Jenna Lang (http://jennomics.com/) at the University
of California, Davis through weekly tele-conferencing
and also through regular visits to the UC Davis
campus. At the University of Oregon, the candidate
will benet from ongoing microbiome research programs
including the Microbial Ecology and Theory of AnimalsCenter for Systems Biology (http://meta.uoregon.edu/)
and the Biology and Built Environment Center
(http://biobe.uoregon.edu/).
The position is available for 1 year with the possibility
for renewal depending on performance. The start date
is exible. Please email questions regarding the position
to Jessica Green (jlgreen@uoregon.edu).
To apply
A complete application will consist of the following ma-
terials:
(1) a brief cover letter explaining your background and
career interests
(2) CV (including publications)
(3) names and contact information for three references
Submit materials to ie2jobs@uoregon.edu. Subject:
Posting 14431
To ensure consideration, please submit applications by
March 10, 2015, but the position will remain open until
lled.
Women and minorities encouraged to apply. We invite
applications from qualied candidates who share our
commitment to diversity.
The University of Oregon is an equal opportunity, af-
rmative action institution committed to cultural di-
versity and compliance with the ADA. The University
encourages all qualied individuals to apply, and does
not discriminate on the basis of any protected status,
including veteran and disability status.
{ INSTITUTE OF ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION 5289
University of Oregon, Eugene OR 97403-5289 F (541)
346-2364 http://IE2.uoregon.edu EO/AA/ADA insti-
tution committed to cultural diversity. The University
encourages all qualied individuals to apply, and does
not discriminate on the basis of any protected status,
including veteran and disability status.
ie2jobs@uoregon.edu
UOulu Bioarcheologal
The Faculty of Humanities of the University of Oulu, Fin-
land, announces a three-year Postdoctoral Researcher
Position in bioarcheological research community to start
at the beginning of May, 2015.
Description122 EvolDir March 1, 2015
Bioarchaeological research community (BARC) at Uni-
versity of Oulu, Finland, is looking for a talented and
research-oriented postdoctoral researcher. This posi-
tion is for three years. The postdoctoral researcher is
expected to make a contribution to multidisciplinary
research of this research community by bringing in ex-
pertise in at least one of its areas of research.
This research community was rated as outstanding (6/6)
in the most recent research assessment exercise at the
University of Oulu in the category on the threshold of
international breakthrough in 2013. It examines the
eects of environmental and cultural changes on both
humans and animals in northern Europe focusing on
Finland and neighboring regions. The eects of ne-
olithization, modernization and urbanization are under
particularly close scrutiny. The main study materials
include archaeological materials (biological and non-
biological materials), museum collections and clinical
samples. A broad range of methods and techniques
are thus utilized from those used in archaeological and
historical research to those used in bone imaging and
biomolecular research. Due to this multidisciplinary
research, this research community includes four research
teams divided between three faculties. The four research
teams are as follows:
The Post-Pleistocene Evolution of Human Skeleton (Do-
cent Markku Niskanen, Archaeology, Faculty of Human-
ities) utilizes osteometric and bone imaging techniques
to examine temporal and geographic variation in human
body size, body shape and skeletal robusticity and how
these are related to environmental and cultural changes.
Bioarchaeology of human-animal interactions: biomolec-
ular and osteoarchaeological analyses of human and ani-
mal bones (Prof. Jouni Aspi, Biology, Faculty of Science)
explores human-animal relationships (e.g. domestica-
tion) through ancient DNA (aDNA), stable isotope and
osteological analyses. Material culture and the modern-
ization of the north (Dr. Timo Ylimaunu, Archaeology,
Faculty of Humanities) examines the development of
society from the medieval period to the present. The
focus is on examining the dynamics of modernization,
globalization and consumption processes and human-
environmental relationship in Northern Fennoscandia
as a part of the globalizing world. Human Biology
and Comparative Anatomy (Prof. Juha Tuukkanen,
Anatomy and Cell Biology, Faculty of Medicine) concen-
trates on functional relationship in morphology between
temporally distinct populations. The main research fo-
cus is temporal trends in overall skeletal morphology,
bone microstructure and biomechanical properties.
The postdoctoral researcher is expected to carry out
research and participate in publishing research results
in peer-reviewed journals. Some teaching and/or admin-istrative duties may be included, but would take 10% of
the working hours at the maximum. It is our hope that
this position would help the postdoctoral researcher to
develop his/her own scientic networks through research
collaboration, and that this position would be a step
towards a position as a more senior and independent
researcher able to develop his/her own projects.
This position is ocially based at the Faculty of Hu-
manities, University of Oulu, Finland. In practice, the
postdoctoral researcher will work in facilities, which best
suit his/her actual work for this research community.
Qualications
The candidates research should interface with re-
search conducted in one or more of the four research
teams. He/she must have earned his/her doctorate
no more than seven years before the application dead-
line. This doctoral degree should be in archaeol-
ogy (including historical archaeology, osteoarchaeology,
biomolecular archaeology), biological anthropology, biol-
ogy, biomedicine or a related eld. In addition, he/she
should have a record of scientic achievements (e.g.
peer-review publications). International mobility and
experience of teaching and/or academic supervision are
advantages. In addition, we appreciate ability for inde-
pendent research, high motivation and eciency, as well
as ability to co-operate and work as a research team
member.
We are primarily (but not exclusively) searching for a
researcher, who is familiar with bioinformatics and com-
putational genomics. Previous experience in handling
NGS data using scripts and analysis pipelines is desir-
able. Other highly useful skills and/or experiences in-
clude computer programming, population genetics, wet
lab analysis, genome assembly and annotation, and/or
paleodietary studies (e.g. stable isotope analyses).
Representatives of other elds of research (general ar-
chaeology, historical archaeology, osteoarchaeology, etc.)
are, however, strongly
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 123
UOulu
PopulationStatisticalGenomics
Post doc in population and statistical genomics at the
University of Oulu
Post doctoral position for two years available in the
Population and statistical genomics (PSG) research
team http://www.oulu./popstatgen at the University
of Oulu, in the Genetics and Physiology unit.
The team consists of ve dierent research groups, deal-
ing with genomics of adaptation of plant populations
(Outi.Savolainen at oulu.), with conservation genetics
of especially large carnivores (Jouni.Aspi at oulu.), of
statistical genomics, especially variable selection meth-
ods (Mikko.Sillanpaa at oulu.), systematics and evo-
lutionary genetics of Lepidoptera and of social insects
(Marko.Mutanen at oulu.) and human cancer func-
tional genomics (Gonghong.Wei at oulu.).
The post doc will be associated with one of these groups
to conduct research on topics studied in the group. Some
10-20 % of the time will be allocated to shared interests
of the whole team. We seek a highly motivated Ph.D.
with interest in the topics represented by the groups,
expertise in population genomics and bioinformatics and
international experience. The position will be based on
the Linnanmaa campus, where all groups except for the
cancer biology group are based. Applications should
include a letter describing your interest, your CV and
list of publications, and names of three possible persons
to ask for letters of reference. All the materials should
be submitted as one single pdf to kirjaamo@oulu., by
March 23rd, 2015.
For the ocial announcement, please see
https://www.saimanet.com/certiahome/-
open jobview.html?did=5600&jc=1&id=-
0000863&lang=en . For information, please be
in touch with Outi.Savolainen@oulu. and/or the other
PIs.
Outi Savolainen <Outi.Savolainen@oulu. >UPM Spain PlantVirusCoevolution
*POSTDOCTORAL POSITION AVAILABLE *
In *Plant-Virus Interaction and Co-Evolution*
*Research topics *: The long-term goal of the group is
to understand*the evolution of plant-virus interactions*.
Within this broad eld of research the post-doctoral
scientist to be recruited will participate in dening a
specic programme of research on the*Evolutionary
Ecology of Virus Emergence, specically on how ecosys-
tem simplication aects infection patterns, host range
evolution and virulence of multihost plant viruses.*
**
*Period *: Two years starting any time from now.
*Conditions *: Contract conditions will be equivalent
to those of the Spanish \Juan de la Cierva" Postdoctoral
Programme.
(http://www.idi.mineco.gob.es/portal/site/MICINN/-
menuitem.dbc68b34d11ccbd5d52eb801432ea0/-
?vgnextoid=bf96e5b0a21f9410VgnVCM1000001d04140aRCRD&vgnextchannel=
67a04939e6b42410VgnVCM1000001d04140aRCRD)
**
*Requisites *: Experience in evolutionary biology of
host-parasite interactions or/and virus evolution or/and
plant evolutionary ecology or/and population genetics
of plants.
*INTERESTED CANDIDATES PLEASE CONTACT*
Prof. *FERNANDO GARC IA-ARENAL *fer-
nando.garciaarenal@upm.es
BEFORE *FEBRUARY 28 ^th * 2015
For further information about the group: http://-
www.cbgp.upm.es/plant virus.php * *
*Recent publications of the group related to the above-
specied topics: ***
****
Fraile A. /et al/. (2011). Rapid genetic diversication
and high tness penalties associated with pathogenicity
evolution in a plant virus*. /Molecular Biology and
Evolution/*/./ 28: 1425-1437.
Pag an I. /et al./ (2012). Eect of biodiversity changes
on disease risk: Exploring disease emergence in a plant-
virus system. */PLoS Pathogens/ *8:e1002796.124 EvolDir March 1, 2015
Rodelo-Urrego M. /et al. /(2013). Landscape hetero-
geneity shapes host-parasite interactions and results
in apparent plant-virus co-divergence. */Molecular
Ecolog/**/y/*22: 2325 -2340.
Garc a-Arenal F. & Fraile A. (2013). Trade-os in host
range evolution of plant viruses. */Plant Pathology/*62
- S1: 2 - 9.
Betancourt M. /et al./ (2013). Virulence evolution of a
generalist plant virus in a heterogeneous host system*/.
/**/Evolutionary Applications/*6: 875 - 890
Elena S.F. /et al./ (2014). Evolution and emergence of
plant viruses. */Advances in Virus Research/*88: 162 -
191.
Fraile A. /et al/ (2014). Host resistance selects for traits
unrelated to pathogenicity that aect tness in a plant
virus. */Molecular Biology and Evo/**/lution/*31: 928
- 939.
Pag an I. /et al/. (2014). Vertical transmission selects for
reduced virulence in a plant virus and for increased re-
sistance in the host. */PLoS Pathogens/* 10: e1004293.
Hily J. M. /et al/. (2014). The relationship between host
lifespan and pathogen reservoir potential: An analysis
in the system /Arabidopsis thaliana-Cucumber mosaic
virus/. */PLoS Pathog/ens *10: e1004492.
**
*For additional information on CBGP, please visit
**http://www.cbgp.upm*** fernando garcia arenal
<fernando.garciaarenal@upm.es >
Uppsala Sweden PlantGenetics
Dear colleagues,
We have a vacant Postdoc stipend in plant genetics
and genomics with particular focus on sex chromosome
turnover in willows
Where: Department of Plant Biology, Swedish Univer-
sity of Agricultural Sciences, Uppsala, Sweden
Project description: We are looking for a postdoc that
will work with research on the genetics of sex determi-
nation and sex chromosome turnover in willows (Salix;
Salicaceae). Species in this family can be dioecious with
male and female owers on dierent individuals and
among these species dierent sex determination mecha-
nisms have evolved. The main task for the postdoc is
to study sex determination mechanisms in willows tolearn about the rate of sex chromosome turnover in the
Salix genus. We are mainly working with the basket wil-
low Salix viminalis for which we have several mapping
populations, an association mapping population, a draft
genome sequence assembly, RNA-seq data from several
individuals and tissues and genotyping-by-sequence data
both from one mapping population and the association
mapping population. The postdoc will have access to all
these resources. Duties include genome wide association
mapping, RNA-seq analyses, work with whole genome
sequence data, PCR amplication of sex linked markers
and RNA and DNA-extractions. However, as there are
dierent ways to study these issues and we would be
happy to design the specic subprojects to match the
skills and interests of the successful candidate.
Qualications: We are looking for a highly motivated
candidate with a PhD degree in evolutionary genetics,
population genetics, genomics, bioinformatics or in simi-
lar subjects. Documented scientic qualications within
the research eld are required. Good collaborative skills
are necessary. The applicant should have the ability to
work independently, to take own initiatives and to have
a strong interest in producing high quality research and
writing scientic publications. The ranking of the candi-
dates will be based on the proven scientic competence
within the research area of the position.
Type of employment: Postdoc stipend, one year with
(excellent) possibility to extend up to two years.
Employment: Full time (100 %)
How to apply: The application should include: 1) de-
scription of previous and current research interests es-
pecially in evolutionary genetics, genomics and bioinfor-
matics (1-2 pages) 2) CV including list of publications
3) a copy of your PhD-degree diploma 4) names and
contact details (address, email address and phone num-
ber) to at least two reference persons. The application
should be written in English.
Starting date as soon as possible or as agreed upon.
For further information contact: Soa Berlin Kolm
soa.berlin@slu.se +4618673375.
We welcome your application marked with Ref no. SLU
ua SLU ua 319/2015. Please submit your application to
the Registrar of SLU, P.O. Box 7070, SE-750 07 Upp-
sala, Sweden or registrator@slu.se no later than March
2, 2015.
The ad can also be found at: http://www.slu.se/sv/om-
slu/fristaende-sidor/aktuellt/lediga-tjanster/las-mer/-
?eng=1&Pid=1757 Kind regards, Soa
Soa Berlin Kolm, Associate Professor Department of
Plant Biology Uppsala BioCenter, SLU, Box 7080, S-750March 1, 2015 EvolDir 125
07 UPPSALA, SWEDEN
Phone: +46-18 67 33 75 E-mail: soa.berlin@slu.se
Soa Berlin Kolm <Soa.Berlin@slu.se >
UppsalaU
ComputationalMolecularEvolution
Investigating insertion and deletion in genomic inference
| A post-doctoral fellowship in molecular evolution is
available working with Simon Whelan at Uppsala Uni-
versity, Sweden. The postdoc will join a project working
on the development and application of phylogenetic
methods for studying insertion and deletion both within
protein families and on the genome scale.
The project has two broad aims. The rst is to apply
probabilistic methods weve been developing for studying
insertion and deletion rates from aligned or unaligned
sets of sequences. We will use these estimated rates
to study how patterns of insertion and deletion vary
through the genome, both in genes and intergenic DNA,
and how evolutionary forces aect these fundamental
processes. The second aim of the project is to use this
acquired knowledge of insertion and deletion to lter
or rearrange multiple sequence alignments to better re-
ect the true homologous relationships between bases
or residues. These approaches will be assessed through
their ability to correctly estimate sequence divergence,
natural selection and phylogeny using both empirical
and simulation data sets. There is also the possibility
for the fellow to develop their own research interests,
providing they t within the broad scope of the project
outlined above.
The fellowship will be located at the Evolutionary Bi-
ology department at the Evolutionary Biology Centre
(EBC), Uppsala, Sweden. Uppsala is a leading centre
for evolution and ecology research, with a large number
of research groups in the subject area. The Evolutionary
Biology department (http://www.ebc.uu.se/Research/-
IEG/evbiol/?languageId=1) is a diverse and multi-
cultural department, with interests both computational-
and laboratory-based research groups working on evolu-
tionary genomics, speciation, population genetics and
phylogenetics. The fellowship will be supported by the
Carl Tryggers Stiftelse (CTS) and will be initially for
one year, with the possibility of extending for an ad-
ditional year. Details of this fellowship are available
(in Swedish; Google Translate works reasonable well) athttp://www.carltryggersstiftelse.se/ and CTS make the
nal appointment of the fellow based on the conditions
outlined there. The fellowship would be expected to
start as soon as possible after the beginning of April'15.
If you have any questions regarding the research project
or anything else about the fellowship please contact me.
Please send your application to simon.whelan@ebc.uu.se
in a single pdf le containing the following information:
* Cover letter; * CV, including publication record; * A
brief statement (max. 2 page) outlining your research
interests, experience, and ambitions; and * Contact
information (name/address/phone/e-mail) for 2-3 refer-
ees.
The recruitment will be ongoing until a suitable candi-
date is found, with the rst round of decisions being
made around March 1st.
Regards,
Simon Whelan
Simon WhelanjEvolutionary Biology Centre, Uppsala
University T: +46-(0)18-4716483
simon.whelan@ebc.uu.se
UPretoria LifeHistoryEvolution
POST-DOCTORAL PROJECT AVAILABLE: TELOM-
ERE SHORTENING IN RELATION TO LIFE HIS-
TORY CHANGES
Funding is available to test the prediction that longevity
in ies is associated with patterns of reproductive ef-
fort, and that these patterns are linked to evolutionary
history and the cellular processes that may underpin
ageing.
Key to the project are selection lines that we have al-
ready established. We select for age of reproduction
by permitting female marula ies, Ceratitis cosyra, to
lay eggs into articial oviposition substrates at dierent
ages. Selection will continue for at least 20 genera-
tions before testing for dierences in nutrient intake and
ageing mechanisms, but longevity and reproductive ef-
fort is determined intermittently as the selection regime
progresses.
We are seeking a Post-Doctoral Researcher to coordinate
the maintenance of the selection lines central to this
project, to test how accumulation of oxidative damage
and telomere shortening aects ageing and reproduction126 EvolDir March 1, 2015
in this species, and to assist with training postgraduate
students.
We have secured funding for the Post-Doctoral Re-
searcher to be trained to assay telomere length and
oxidative damage by Dr Jon Blount at the University of
Exeter in the UK, as well as attendance of local and in-
ternational scientic meetings. However, the successful
candidate will now need to apply for a UP Postdoc-
toral Fellowship to fund living expenses in South Africa
(R150000/year for two years plus once-o relocation
allowance). The successful candidate will be assisted to
develop a strong application.
Minimum requirements - A PhD in Biochemistry, Bio-
logical Sciences, Entomology, Genetics, or Zoology - A
record of publication in international, ISI-listed journals
- Proven track record of collaborative research - Com-
mitment to accuracy and ethical research behaviour -
Experience in the use of appropriate statistical analyses
- Excellent written and oral communication skills in
academic English
A background in ageing research, biochemical analyses,
molecular genetics, or working with insect models are
all highly advantageous.
All interested persons that meet the minimum require-
ments are encouraged to apply. Applications must in-
clude an application letter that provides evidence for
the minimum requirements for the position, a CV with
the names and contact details of two academic referees
including the PhD supervisor, and copies of academic
transcripts that indicate eligibility for the award of a
PhD degree.
The Post-Doctoral Researcher will be based in the De-
partment of Zoology and Entomology on the Hateld
Campus of the University of Pretoria, and mentored by
Dr. Chris Weldon, Dr Ruth Archer (Max Planck In-
stitute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany),
Dr. Jon Blount (University of Exeter), and Prof. Sue
Nicolson.
Queries and written applications should be di-
rected by email to Dr. Chris Weldon (cwwel-
don@zoology.up.ac.za).
Applications close: 30 March 2015
Dr. Chris Weldon Senior Lecturer - Entomology
FliESjFlies of Economic Signicance Research Group
Department of Zoology and Entomology University of
Pretoria Private Bag X20 Hateld 0083 South Africa
http://www.up.ac.za/zoology/?q=user/156/research
http://sites.google.com/site/cwweldon/ Chris Weldon
<cwweldon@zoology.up.ac.za >UQueensland Australia
AlgalGenomicsBioinformatics
** Research Ocer / Senior Research Ocer **
A postdoctoral research-focused position is available
at the University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia.
The University of Queensland's Institute for Molecular
Bioscience is a leading global research institute. IMB
was established in 2000 as UQ's rst research institute
and is the cornerstone of one of the largest bioscience
research precincts in Australia.
This position is created within a Discovery Projects
grant funded by the Australian Research Council to
understand the evolutionary transition of the dinoagel-
late algae Symbiodinium to coral reef symbiont. Coral
reefs are sustained by symbiosis between Symbiodinium
and the coral host, and breakdown of this symbiosis un-
der environmental stress results in coral bleaching and
eventual death. Through genome sequencing of eight
Symbiodinium isolates from reef corals plus two free-
living relatives, the Project aims to identify genes that
have been gained, lost or shared, or are under adaptive
selection, along the trajectory from free-living forms to
symbionts.
The person appointed to this position will be responsi-
ble for assembly, analysis and interpretation of genome-
scale sequence data from Symbiodinium and related
species within the Discovery Project. The successful
applicant will collaborate as appropriate in the identi-
cation of potential genomic signatures of symbiosis and
adaptive selection. There are opportunities to address
individually-developed and collaboratively-generated re-
search questions, and to supervise honours, masters
and/or doctoral students.
This is a full-time, xed term appointment for 2 years
(with the possibility of renewal pending funding) at Aca-
demic Research Level A or B. The level of appointment
will be commensurate with the successful applicant's
qualications and experience.
For Level A, the remuneration package will be in the
range AUD 76864 - 82510 per annum, plus employer su-
perannuation contributions of up to 17% (total package
AUD 89930 - 96536 per annum).
For Level B, the remuneration package will be in the
range AUD 86853 - 103138 per annum, plus employer su-
perannuation contributions of up to 17% (total packageMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 127
AUD 101618 - 120671 per annum).
Applicants should possess a PhD in molecular biol-
ogy, microbiology, marine biology, genomics, bioinfor-
matics or a related discipline, with signicant data-
management, computational and statistical components.
He or she should have at least three years' full-time
experience (during the PhD and/or otherwise), or its
equivalent, in a relevant area of molecular biology, mi-
crobiology, genomics, bioinformatics or a related eld.
Experience in scientic programming and/or scripting
and familiarity with working under UNIX environment
are essential. Applicants should also have excellent
knowledge of a modern scripting language and Bayesian
and frequentist statistics, and of the R package or simi-
lar. A demonstrated high-level ability to write scientic
papers in clear, grammatically correct English is also
essential.
Contact Information Professor Mark Ragan
(m.ragan@uq.edu.au) The University of Queens-
land Institute for Molecular Bioscience
More info: http://jobs.uq.edu.au/caw/en/job/-
497083/research-ocer-senior-research-ocer
c.chan1@uq.edu.au
USDA ARS Gainesville
PopulationGenomics
Two postdoctoral research positions in population ge-
nomics are available in the laboratory of DeWayne
Shoemaker, Agricultural Research Service, Gainesville,
Florida.
Our current research program largely focuses on func-
tional, population and evolutionary genomics studies
of re ants (genus Solenopsis). Examples of current
projects include the use of population genetic and ge-
nomic tools and approaches to understand the genetic
underpinnings of re ant social behavior, the patterns of
genome-wide gene ow and introgression among re ant
species, the genetic architecture of species dierences,
the consequences of recent invasions of re ants into new
environments and reproductive biology and life history
of re ants and other ants.
We are looking for someone to join us on a project
that uses NGS methods (particularly genotyping-by-
sequencing) to investigate population structure, gene
ow, introgression, and species delimitation in re ants.
Successful candidates will be encouraged to work onadditional projects, depending on personal interests
and demonstrated abilities. The lab is located within
the Fire Ant Research Unit at the Center for Medical,
Agricultural and Veterinary Entomology in Gainesville,
Florida and maintains close interactions with labs that
work on insect genetics at the University of Florida. Ini-
tial appointments are for one year with the possibility of
extension based on performance and available funding.
Desired qualications: Ph.D. in genetics, evolutionary
genomics or related eld, interest and expertise in popu-
lation and evolutionary genomics, bioinformatics experi-
ence of managing and analyzing large-scale genomic data
sets, programming experience in any scripting language
(e.g. PERL or Python), and evidence of excellence in
research and high productivity.
To apply, please send a brief description of research
interests (1-2 pages), a CV, and contact information for
three references to dewayne.shoemaker@ars.usda.gov.
Start date is exible and can be immediate. Positions
are open until lled.
\Shoemaker, Dewayne" <Dewayne.Shoemaker@ARS.USDA.GOV >
USheeld UK EcoEvoResistance
We have a 3-year post doc position available for an evolu-
tionary ecologist with strengths in population modelling
and evolutionary theory.
*** Deadline 4th March *** Application Portal: http://-
bit.ly/1Kdbpkb *** Informal enquiries to Dylan Childs:
d.childs@sheeld.ac.uk ^A
The position is part of a collaborative BBSRC LoLa
funded project (http:// www.bgri.info) examining the
evolution of multiple herbicide resistance (MHR) in
Alopecurus myosuroides (\black-grass"). The LoLa com-
prises ve interlinked work packages studying MHR at
scales from molecular genetics through to farm-scale
modelling of the environmental consequences of resis-
tance evolution and management. The consortium is
led by Prof. Rob Edwards (University of Newcastle),
with Co-investigators Dr Dylan Childs (University of
Sheeld), Prof Rob Freckleton (University of Sheeld),
Dr Paul Neve (Rothamsed Research) and Prof Ken
Norris (Zoological Society of London). We are an in-
ternationally leading team of researchers with comple-
mentary expertise in the biotransformation of synthetic
compounds, weed ecology and evolution, quantitative
population biology, and environmental risk assessment.128 EvolDir March 1, 2015
The role requires familiarity with eco-evolutionary the-
ory and modelling, as well as working as part of a multi-
disciplinary team. We are interested in developing both
general and system-specic models for the evolution
of resistance. Based at the University of Sheeld, the
successful applicant will be responsible for modelling
the eco-evolutionary dynamics of multiple resistance at
the within- and among-eld scales, both in our model
black-grass system and more general contexts. The
overarching question is, what are the genetic, life his-
tory and ecological factors that promote or constrain
the evolution of MHR? This research will be used to:
1) determine the key drivers of MHR evolution across
dierent agroecosystems; 2) generate predictions about
local and regional patterns of resistance; and 3) act as a
platform for other studies with the project collaborators.
The University of Sheeld has strong commitment to
science underpinning sustainable food production. The
Department of Animal and Plant Sciences (APS) is
one of the largest departments in the UK devoted to
the study of whole organism biology, with 45 perma-
nent academic sta, over 50 research fellows/associates
and approximately 50 research students from dier-
ent nationalities. The department contains the largest
concentration of organismal biologists in the UK, and
is ranked 5th in the UK (2014 REF results) for biol-
ogy research with 70% of its research activity judged
as \world-leading" or \internationally excellent". The
project is allied to a new translational research centre at
the University of Sheeld, entitled \Plant Production
and Protection (P3). The main focus of this centre is to
exploit knowledge from fundamental research in plant bi-
ology for development of innovative tools in sustainable
crop production and protection.
d.childs@sheeld.ac.uk
UToledo FishGenomics eDNA
Postdoctoral Researcher: Fish environmental DNA and
NGS
Great Lakes Genetics/Genomics Laboratory, University
of Toledo Lake Erie Center, Toledo, OH Closing Date:
February 28, 2015 http://www.utoledo.edu/nsm/lec/-
research/glgl/index.html Description: The research
project is to help develop, test, and publish a Next-
generation sequence assay for detecting and identifying
all Great Lakes native and invasive sh species, includ-
ing those anticipated to invade, from environmentalDNA and plankton samples. The postdoctoral research
associate will organize large DNA sequence databases,
train and co-supervise students and technicians, and
be thoroughly competent and experienced in bioinfor-
matics, DNA extraction, PCR, DNA sequencing, and
population genetic and systematic evolutionary data
analyses.
Qualications: Ph.D. degree required in hand. Pub-
lication of Ph.D. results in peer-reviewed journals re-
quired. Excellent recommendation from former advisors
required. Teaching and supervisory experience preferred.
Grant funding record preferred. Data management ex-
perience, bioinformatics, and data analysis experience
in molecular phylogenetics and population genetics re-
quired. DNA extraction, PCR, DNA Sequencing (both
Sanger and Illumina MiSeq), sequence alignment and
GenBank experience required. Familiarity with QIIME,
Unix/Linux operating systems and writing script in Perl
is a plus. Strong communication (written, oral) skills
required. Experience in working with shes strongly
preferred. Strong personnel interaction skills and expe-
rience in training others required. Oral research presen-
tation experience at national or international scientic
conferences required. Fish specimen collection experi-
ence Vstrongly preferred.
How to Apply: Send (1) cover letter, (2) CV, (3) copies
of graduate and undergraduate transcripts (unocial
are ne) and (4) 2 letters of reference. Please com-
bine items (1), (2) and (3) together as a single PDF.
Have letters of reference sent by writers, separately.
Have all application materials sent to: Dr. Stepien at
carol.stepien@utoledo.edu.
Competitive salary, full benets. Beautiful well-funded
lab (by NSF, USEPA, ARS, Sea Grant) on Lake Erie
(with view) at Lake Erie Center eld station 20-25 min-
utes from main University of Toledo campus. The Great
Lakes Genetics Laboratory currently has another post-
doc, 3 Ph.D. students, a full-time technician, and 2
undergraduate researchers.
The University of Toledo is an Equal Access, Equal
Opportunity, Armative Action Employer and Educa-
tor and is committed to increasing the diversity of our
campus.
For questions or inquiries contact Carol Stepien Distin-
guished University Professor and Director Lake Erie Cen-
ter and Dept. Environmental Sciences 6200 Bayshore
Rd. Toledo, OH 43615 Phone: 4195308362 Fax:
4195308399 carol.stepien@utoledo.edu
\Klymus, Katy Elizabeth"
<Katy.Klymus@UToledo.Edu >March 1, 2015 EvolDir 129
UUtah
HerbivoreMicrobiomeBiodiversity
*Biodiversity and Metagenomics of the Herbivore Mi-
crobiome*
The Dearing lab at the University of Utah invites ap-
plications for a postdoctoral fellow to participate in a
collaborative study to understand the gut microbiome
of mammalian herbivores with respect to detoxication
of plant defensive compounds. Our investigations sug-
gest 1) the microbiome in the foregut of woodrats is
critical for the ingestion of dietary toxins, 2) microbial
biodiversity is important in this process and 3) previous
exposure to toxins shapes the microbiome. For more
information on previous research, see:
http://biologylabs.utah.edu/dearing/Lab/-
publications.html This postdoctoral position will
focus on the inuences of host evolutionary history
and diet in sculpting the diversity and function of the
mammalian microbiome. One component of this will
be a broad survey of microbiomes and phylogeny across
the woodrat genus (*Neotoma). *The ideal candidate
will have a strong interest and experience in microbial
ecology and metagenomics, with experience in gut
systems preferably of vertebrates. Basic bioinformatic
and molecular skills are required. Fieldwork for small
mammal collection will be necessary; prior experience
preferred but not required. The candidate should have
a demonstrated record of publication with at least
one rst authored publication in press, and will be
expected to work well in a collaborative environment.
The Dearing lab provides a strong training and career
development environment for candidates interested in
academic positions.
*Applications will be reviewed as they are received until
the position is lled*. The preferred start date is June
15, 2015. Please send cover letter, C.V., statement of
research experience and interests that includes career
goals (1-2 pgs), pdfs of papers, and contact information
(emails, phone numbers and professional relationship)
for at least 3 professional references to Dr. Denise Dear-
ing, denise.dearing@utah.edu; please put 'Microbiome
Postdoctoral Applicant' in the Subject Line.
jaelmalenke@gmail.comUUtah PlantAnimalMolEvol
*Postdoctoral Fellowship: **Molecular Evolution of
Plant-Animal Interactions*
*Plant-Animal Interactions*: The Dearing lab at the
University of Utah invites applications for a postdoctoral
fellow to participate in a study to understand the co-
evolution of mammalian herbivores and plant defensive
compounds. This collaborative project will investigate
the role of a subfamily of detoxication enzymes with
respect to dietary strategy. Few mammalian herbivores
are capable of dietary specialization. Our preliminary
data suggest the cytochrome P450 2B subfamily is crit-
ical in the biotransformation of plant secondary com-
pounds, particularly terpenes. These enzymes may play
a key role in dietary specialization since substrate speci-
city and catalytic eciency of CYP2B enzymes can be
greatly aected by small changes in amino acid sequence.
The change of even a single amino acid, particularly
in critical regions such as a substrate recognition site,
can have notable eects on metabolism of substrates.
Thus, the structure and copy number of CYP2B genes
may be key in an herbivore's ability specialize on a
terpene-rich diet. The future work consists of charac-
terizing and comparing the amino acid sequences of
CYP2B enzymes of specialist and generalist woodrats
(*Neotoma spp.*) and possibly other terpene feeders.
We are currently sequencing the genome of *Neotoma
lepida* with assembly expected by April 1, 2015. The
successful applicant will use this new genomic infor-
mation to amplify and sequence CYP2B genes from a
variety of wild mammalian species, compare predicted
protein sequence with respect to degree of dietary spe-
cialization, and characterize the function of the proteins
puried from heterologous expression systems to de-
termine the structural basis of functional dierences.
The applicant may also conduct enzyme assays. This re-
search is a collaborative project with Dr. James Halpert,
UConn and provides possibilities for interactions with
his research group.
For more information on previous research, see:
http://biologylabs.utah.edu/dearing/-
Lab/pdf/2012 journal pone.pdf http:/-
/biologylabs.utah.edu/dearing/Lab/pdf/-
2009 expression biotrans magnanou.pdf The ideal
candidate will have experience accessing and evaluating
genomic data, using molecular techniques, experience130 EvolDir March 1, 2015
with biochemical analyses and have an interest in
addressing questions of molecular evolution, molecular
ecology or plant-animal interactions. Animal collection
eldwork is possible. The candidate should have at least
one rst authored publication in press. The Dearing
lab provides a strong training and career development
environment for candidates interested in academic
positions.
Applications will be reviewed as they are received. The
preferred start date is July 6, 2015, with an earlier start
date possible. Please send a cover letter, C.V., state-
ment of research interests that includes career goals (1-2
pgs), pdfs of papers, and contact information (emails
and phone numbers) for at least 3 professional refer-
ences to Dr. Denise Dearing, *denise.dearing@utah.edu
*; please put '*Postdoctoral Applicant CYP2B*' in the
Subject Line.
jaelmalenke@gmail.com
Vienna 2 ExpEvolutionDrosophila
Experimental Evolution in Drosophila
2 postdoctoral positions are available at the Institute of
Population Genetics, Vetmeduni Vienna (Austria). The
research focus of the Institute of Population Genetics
is on understanding the genetics of adaptation. This
central question in evolutionary biology is being tackled
using up-to-date methods and a variety of approaches,
including experimental evolution, quantitative genet-
ics, functional genetics, empirical population genetics,
bioinformatics and statistics.
The successful candidate will be part of a team of sci-
entists studying adaptation of experimental Drosophila
populations to temperature stress. Since our experi-
mental evolution study is performed under controlled
environmental conditions with a high level of replica-
tion we have a powerful system to successfully employ
a combination of DNA sequencing, RNA-Seq and Chip-
Seq to characterize the architecture of adaptation in an
out-crossing species. With some of our populations hav-
ing already evolved up to 100 generations, this project
provides the opportunity to follow adaptive trajectories
through time.
We are looking for a candidate with a good quantitative
training and experience in handling large data sets. A
background in population genetics and/or experience
with the analysis of RNA-Seq and Pool-Seq data are abonus.
The positions are available for at least two years start-
ing April 2015 , but the exact starting date is nego-
tiable. The application should be emailed to chris-
tian.schloetterer@vetmeduni.ac.at as a single pdf con-
taining CV, list of publications, a statement of research
interests, and the names of three references with contact
details. While the search will continue until the position
is lled, applications should be received by 5.3.2015 to
ensure full consideration.
Background: 1: Franssen, S.U., et al. (2015) Patterns
of linkage disequilibrium and long range hitchhiking in
evolving experimental Drosophila melanogaster popu-
lations. Molecular Biology and Evolution 32, 495-509
2: Orozco-terWengel, P., et al. (2012) Adaptation of
Drosophila to a novel laboratory environment reveals
temporally heterogeneous trajectories of selected alle-
les. Molecular Ecology 21, 4931-4941 3: Schl otterer, C.,
et al. (2015) Combining experimental evolution with
next-generation sequencing: a powerful tool to study
adaptation from standing genetic variation. Heredity in
press 4: Schl otterer, C., et al. (2014) Sequencing pools
of individuals - mining genome-wide polymorphism data
without big funding. Nature Reviews. Genetics 15, 749-
763 5: Tobler, R., et al. (2013) Massive habitat-specic
genomic response in D. melanogaster populations during
experimental evolution in hot and cold environments.
Molecular Biology and Evolution 31, 364-375
Julia Hosp <Julia.Hosp@vetmeduni.ac.at >
Vienna 3 Population Genetics
Dear all:
We would like to draw your attention to up to 3 postdoc-
toral positions available in the Institute of Population
Genetics at the Vetmeduni in Vienna. The positions
are for up to 4 years, and are awarded on a competitive
basis by the university.
The groups at the Institute of Population Genetics com-
prise an international group of researchers applying
cutting-edge statistical and molecular methods to evo-
lutionary questions, including using experimental evo-
lution to uncover the nature of genetic basis of adap-
tive phenotypic variation, population genetic inferences
about the process of adaptation, and phylogenetic tree
reconstruction. English is the common language spoken
at the institute.March 1, 2015 EvolDir 131
Potential supervisors are Christian Schl otterer,
Carolin Kosiol, and Andrea Betancourt: See http:/-
/www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/population-genetics/-
research/research-groups/ for additional infor-
mation on their research interests, and http://-
www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/research/young-scientists/-
postdoc-programme/ for proposed research topics and
other details.
Informal inquires can be directed to the potential
supervisor directly at (rst name).(last name) at
vetmeduni.ac.at (with Schl otterer spelled 'schloetterer'
in this case).
Formal applications should be sent directly to the
university, following the instructions here: http://-
www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/research/young-scientists/-
postdoc-programme/ Vienna provides and excellent
environment for young researchers. It is home to a num-
ber of research groups working in population genetics
and related areas (see http://www.univie.ac.at/-
evolvienna/ ), many of whom participate in a traininggrant funding Ph.D. students working in population
genetics http://www.popgen-vienna.at/ Vienna is
particularly attractive to Drosophila researchers, as it
is home to the VDRC Stock Center, and a high-prole
Drosophila research community, most notably at
the IMP (http://www.imp.ac.at/) and the IMBA
(http://www.imba.oeaw.ac.at/).
In addition to a stimulating scientic environment, Vi-
enna also oers an extraordinarily high quality of life.
Aordable housing, excellent public transport, great
restaurants, a range of international schools, two operas,
two music centers, many theaters and museums in com-
bination with a pleasant climate make Vienna one of
the most attractive cities in Europe.
Cheers, Christian Schl otterer, Carolin Kosiol, and An-
drea Betancourt
{ Institute of Population Genetics Department of Biomed-
ical Sciences Vetmeduni Vienna Veterin arplatz 1 A-1210
Wien Austria/Europe
Andrea Betancourt <andreajbetancourt@gmail.com >
WorkshopsCourses
Arizona Lepidoptera Aug16-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131
AuburnU BioinformaticBootcamp May11-15 . . . . . .131
Barcelona NetworkTools Apr20-24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131
Cairns Behaviour2015 Animations Aug9-14 . . . . . . .132
Cameroon UndergraduateFieldResearch Jun21-Jul15
133
CostaRica Coleoptera Jun5-24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 133
FloridaKeys GenomicAnalysisMethods Jun30-Jul14 134
Florida SpongeBiodiversity Aug9-16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .134
FridayHarborLabs UWashington ComparativeInvertEm-
bryology Jun15-Jul17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 135
HarvardU PhenotypicPlasticity May1-3 . . . . . . . . . . 136
HarvardU PlantBiologyEvolution Jun22-Jul3 . . . . . 137
InstGenomeSciences UMaryland 5omics . . . . . . . . . . 137
LakeheadU PracticalDNA Apr-Jun . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .138Leipzig NGSDataAnalysis Mar9-13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .138
MichiganStateU EvolutionSoftware Jun4-6 . . . . . . . 138
Montreal GeometricMorphometrics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .139
Portal Arizona AntEvolution Aug6-16 . . . . . . . . . . . .139
Raleigh Bioinformatics May18-22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .139
Rosco France MarineEvolutionaryGenomics May31-
Jun12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .140
SCENE Glasgow RGeneticDataAnalysis Aug3-7 . . 140
Swiss Alps EvolutionaryBiol Jun19-25 DeadlineEx-
tended . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 141
SwissAlps PopulationGenetics Jun17-20 . . . . . . . . . . 142
Sydney Hawkesbury RNASeq May4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 142
Sydney Hawkesbury RNASeq May4 Correction . . . 142
Taormina Italy SystemsBiology Jul5-9 . . . . . . . . . . . .143
UBirmingham EnvironmentalGenomics Mar23-27 144132 EvolDir March 1, 2015
UBremen EvolutionStatisticsUsingR . . . . . . . . . . . . . 145
UTennessee Knoxville EvolutionWarfare Sep16-18 145
WoodsHole Immune selection 19-22April . . . . . . . . . 145
Arizona Lepidoptera Aug16-25
Announcing the Sixth Annual Lepidoptera Course, 16
V 25 August, 2015.
Held at the Southwestern Research Station (SWRS) in
the Chirichahua Mountains in SE Arizona (a 2 1/2 hour
drive from Tucson), the focus of the Lep course is to
train graduate students, post-docs, faculty, state and
federal employees, and serious citizen-scientists in the
classication and identication of adult Lepidoptera and
their larvae. Topics to be covered include the biology
and systematics of major families of Lepidoptera, an in-
troduction to adult and larval morphology with a focus
on taxonomically-important traits, extensive eld work
that concentrates on both collecting and photographing
adults and larvae, collecting and curatorial techniques,
genitalic dissection, larval classication, use (and abuse)
of DNA barcoding, and general topics in Lepidoptera
systematics, ecology, and evolution.
With its extensive series of Sky-Island mountain ranges,
SE Arizona has the highest Lepidoptera diversity in the
US. With low desert scrub, oak and mixed oak-pine
woodland, lush riparian, juniper, Douglas r, and moun-
tain meadow habitats all within a 40 minute drive from
the station, the SWRS is an ideal location from which
to sample this diversity (of both habitats and species).
If you want to interact with other Lepidoptera enthusi-
asts, see a spectacular Dysschema, identify the Organ
of vom Rath, sort through trap samples with hundreds
of species, learn about diversity of Lepidoptera , and
enjoy the vistas of the SE Arizona, then this course will
provide a unique experience.
Partial list of Invited instructors (subject to change)
Rich Brown (Mississippi Entomological Museum), Jen-
nifer Bundy (RD4AG), Chris Grinter (Illinois Natural
History Survey), Don Harvey (Smithsonian), Sangmi
Lee (Arizona State University), Chris Schmidt (Cana-
dian National Collection), Bruce Walsh (University of
Arizona)
For more information, see http://research.amnh.org/-
swrs/education/lepidoptera-course or
www.lepcourse.org or contact Bruce Walsh at jb-
walsh@u.arizona.edu You can also see photos andcomments from students in the 2011 course at their
facebook site, \2011 Lep Course, SWRS SEAZ".
\Walsh, James Bruce - (jbwalsh)"
<jbwalsh@email.arizona.edu >
AuburnU BioinformaticBootcamp
May11-15
Second Annual Bioinformatics Bootcamp
High throughput sequencing technology has rapidly
changed life sciences. As such the need for bioinfor-
matics skills has become critical. From May 11th to
15th, a Bioinformatics Bootcamp will be held at Auburn
University introducing researchers to basic bioinformat-
ics skills related to high throughput sequencing data.
Previous experience is not required and the course will
cost $350.
The workshop will be run by Drs. Scott Santos, Les Go-
ertzen, and Ken Halanych. Topics will include: 1) Work-
ing in the unix command-line environment 2) Sequence
assessment and quality control 3) Genomic and transcrip-
tomic assembly 4) Annotation methodologies 5) Dieren-
tial expression among genes/transcriptomes/treatments
6) Identication of SNPs in genomic and transcriptomic
assemblies 7) Phylogenomics
Additionally we will have a keynote lecture by Dr. Paul
Stothard of the University of Alberta.
Information for applications can be found at
www.auburn.edu/bioinformatics .Questions can be ad-
dressed to bioinformatics@auburn.edu.
ken@auburn.edu
Barcelona NetworkTools Apr20-24
Dear colleague,
This is the last call for the workshop \NET-
WORK TOOLS IN BIOSCIENCES". Webpage:March 1, 2015 EvolDir 133
http://www.transmittingscience.org/courses/syst-bio/-
networks/ INSTRUCTORS: Dr. Diego Rasskin-
Gutman (Institut Cavanilles de Biodiversitat i Biologia
Evolutiva, Spain) and Dr. Borja Esteve-Altava (Institut
Cavanilles de Biodiversitat i Biologia Evolutiva, Spain).
DATES: April, 20-24, 2015. 34 teaching hours.
PLACE: Facilities of the Centre de Restauraci o i Inter-
pretaci o de Els Hostalets de Pierola, Els hostalets de
Pierola, Barcelona (Spain).
Many features and processes of biological systems can
be well represented by networks of interacting elements.
In the last decades, network analysis has provided new
insights into the organization and functioning of com-
plex biological systems such as brain wiring, genetic
regulation, or ecological dynamics. A basic knowledge
on network modelling and network analysis will pro-
vide biologists a better understanding of cutting-edge
research in their elds. This course will introduce par-
ticipants into the analysis of complex biological systems
using network models. Students will learn the basics
of network analysis: gathering information, building
network models, and interpret the outcomes of their
analysis. This course combines theoretical introduction
and computing practices using the free software envi-
ronment R. Previous knowledge in R is not required.
Participants are encouraged to bring their own data for
practicing. Emphasis is placed on oering participants
a wide overview of network modelling in biology and
the many available software tools to do it.
Organized by: Transmitting Science, the Institut Catal a
de Paleontologia Miquel Crusafont and the Council of
Hostalets de Pierola.
Please feel free to distribute this information between
your colleagues if you consider it appropriate.
With best regards
Soledad De Esteban Trivigno, PhD.
soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org
Cairns Behaviour2015 Animations
Aug9-14
Are you interested in the \Virtual Reality"-Symposium
at Behaviour2015 in Cairns this summer?
Then also consider to participate in the following work-
shop about VR-systems and computer animations:.....
Announcement for a workshop at Behaviour2015 in
Cairns, Australia (9-14th August 2015)
\Virtual Reality systems and computer animations in
animal behavior research"
Date: Friday 14th August 2015 Time: TBC Room:
TBC
Virtual reality (VR) systems and computer animations
are promising but yet possibly underestimated meth-
ods for the use in behavioral research. Sharing many
advantages, both methods are ideal for standardized,
repetitive testing of behavior. Computer animations
allow replacing experimental animals by their virtual
counterparts that can be manipulated in any way and
who behave totally predictable. The same counts for vir-
tual environments that are created according to specic
and predened landmarks for testing navigational skills
or discrimination abilities in a certain animal. Both
methods inevitably combine aspects of biology and com-
puter science which leaves many scientists reluctant to
use them. Fear of possibly high technical requirements
and the lack of know-how are the main reasons.
This workshop will be discussion based, oering intro-
ductions to the dierent methods with two step-by-step
tutorials and a more detailed look at DOs and DON'Ts:
- Introduction to VR systems for freely moving model
organisms and discussion of possible ways of imple-
mentation in research and constraints to keep in mind
depending on dierent experimental animals.
- Short overview of useful techniques and software to
create and animate virtual animals.
- Step-by-step tutorial for creating a 2D computer ani-
mation of a spider with Adobe products. This method
is not restricted to the use with spiders but might also
be applied with other animals.
- Introduction to the novel and free software tool /any-
Fish/ with a tutorial describing its functions. /AnyFish/
was developed to create 3D animations of sh for the
use in behavioral experiments.
Participation is recommended for early stage scientists
(PhDs and early PostDocs). Participants can follow the
step-by-step tutorials with their own laptops (software
and additional les needed). Specics are given after
registration. By the end of this workshop, participants
should have a better idea of existing programs and tools
and how to implement them in their research. The work-
shop also serves to form a network of scientists using
VR and computer animations to share future knowledge
and advice.134 EvolDir March 1, 2015
To participate please contact Stefanie Gierszewski
via email: gierszewski@chemie-bio.uni-siegen.de
<mailto:gierszewski@chemie-bio.uni-siegen.de >
This workshop is a supplement to the \Virtual Reality"-
Symposium held at Behaviour2015: http://iec2015-
symposium.wix.com/virtual-reality Dipl.-Biol. Ste-
fanie Gierszewski Department of Chemistry & Biology
Institute of Biology Research Group Ecology & Be-
havioral Biology University of Siegen Adolf-Reichwein-
Str. 2 D-57068 Siegen phone: +49(0)271-740-2093 Fax:
+49(0)271-740-4182
JOIN our \Virtual Reality"-Symposium at Be-
haviour2015 in Australia!
gierszewski@chemie-bio.uni-siegen.de
Cameroon
UndergraduateFieldResearch
Jun21-Jul15
Drexel University and the Central African Biodiversity
Alliance (www.CABAlliance.org) are oering an under-
graduate eld research course in Cameroon from June
21 - July 15, 2015.
This 3.5 week course will pair US students with
African students in eld-based research projects focused
on a suite of diverse taxa to inform conservation
practice under climate change in central Africa. The
course will be team-taught, including lectures and
eld-instruction by professors from Drexel, UCLA, U.
Hong Kong, U. Halle Wittenberg (Germany), U. Buea
(Cameroon), The Higher Institute of Environmental
Sciences (Cameroon) and the National University of
Equatorial Guinea. Lectures will take place in Yaounde,
the capitol of Cameroon. Students will carry out eld
research projects at Mbam & Djerem National Park
and Ebo Forest, both with excellent opportunities
for viewing some of Africas most iconic wildlife.
Detailed information about the course is available
at www.CABAlliance.org . The course is heavily
subsidized by an NSF-PIRE award. Space is very
limited, and spots are lling quickly. All US students
should apply through Drexel Study Abroad (http:/-
/studyabroad.drexel.edu/index.cfm?FuseAction=-
3DPrograms.ViewProgram&Program ID=47722).
Applications from US students will be accepted
through March 15, 2015. African students should
apply for the course by contacting Dr. Eric Fokam(efokam@daad-alumni.de), a professor at the University
of Buea, Cameroon.
Please contact Katy Gonder (gonder@drexel.edu) or
Matt Mitchell (mwmitchell@drexel.edu) for more infor-
mation.
katy.gonder@gmail.com
CostaRica Coleoptera Jun5-24
Hello all,
I am writing to ask a favor of you in distributing the
following information. We are currently oering a Spe-
cialty Course titled Ecology and Evolution of Coleoptera.
Although the deadline has passed, we are still have some
spaces available.
Ecology and Evolution of Coleoptera (Beetles)
This three week course is oriented towards graduate
students interested in intense training in the collection,
identication and inquiry-based research on the largest
order of insects, Coleoptera. Single site diversity in trop-
ical rain forests, such as those in Costa Rica, has been
estimated to be as high as 14,000 species. The study of
beetles (including some of the largest and most beautiful
of all insects) is not only fascinating, but economically
important because the order includes numerous harm-
ful as well as benecial species that aect agriculture,
forestry and man.
Coordinators: Christopher Carlton <http://-
www.lsuagcenter.com/en/communications/authors/-
ccarlton.htm >, Richard Leschen <http://-
www.landcareresearch.co.nz/home >, Nathan Lord,
and Victoria Bayless.
Course duration: 3 weeks (June 5-24, 2015)
Credits: 2.0
Application Deadline: February 3, 2015 for priority
consideration, followed by rolling admission until fully
enrolled.
Thank you,
Andr es Santana Graduate Program Coordinator Or-
ganization for Tropical Studies San Pedro, Costa
Rica. 676-2050 (506) 2524-0607 ext. 1511
Skype: andres.santana otscro www.ots.ac.cr twitter:
@ots tropicaledu <https://twitter.com/ots tropicaledu
>March 1, 2015 EvolDir 135
andres.santana@ots.cr
FloridaKeys
GenomicAnalysisMethods
Jun30-Jul14
Dear colleagues -
We are pleased to announce the next year of our hands-
on intensive workshops in ecological genomics. We will
be teaching RAD and RNA-seq in the rst two weeks
of July. For now, please email us (all three of us) to
indicate your interest (RAD, RNAseq, or both) and how
likely you are to attend. Please respond by March 25,
putting \MEGA2015" (Methods in Ecological Genomics
Analysis 2015) in the subject. First come - rst served,
classes are limited to 12 students each.
For additional general info, please see the last
year's workshop's website: http://www.bio.utexas.edu/-
research/matz lab/matzlab/MEGA2014.html cheers
Mikhail Matz, matz@utexas.edu Groves Dixon,
grovesdixon@gmail.com Marie Strader, strader-
marie@gmail.com
|{
Methods in Ecological Genomics Analysis (MEGA) 2015
Intensive workshops for the uninitiated at the Mote
Tropical Research Laboratory, Florida Keys
Instructor-in-chief: Mikhail V. Matz, TAs: Groves
Dixon and Marie Strader
|{
Whole-genome genotyping with 2bRAD (June 30 - July
7)
2bRAD is the avor of Restriction site Associated DNA
genotyping methods. It is one of the easiest RADs to
implement due to a very streamlined protocol, initially
published in Nature Methods. The current protocol al-
lows for simultaneous processing of hundreds of samples
and removal of PCR duplicates prior to the analysis.
Bioinformatics pipelines for 2bRAD oer genotyping
quality assessment based on replicates and advanced
variant call ltering adopted from the GATK pipeline
used in human genetics. The class has four parts: (1)
DNA isolation and library preparation (wet lab), (2)
data processing and variant calling using LINUX-based
high performance computing (HPC) cluster, (3) popu-
lation genetic analysis including population structureand demographic modeling, and (4) population genomic
analysis to identify loci under selection.
2bRAD paper: http://www.bio.utexas.edu/research/-
matz lab/matzlab/Papers les/wang12%202b-RAD.pdf
|{
Global gene expression proling with tag-based RNA-
seq (July 7 - July 14)
Tag-based RNA-seq is a low-cost alternative ($50/sam-
ple) to conventional RNA-seq for quantifying the abun-
dances of polyadenylated (protein-coding) transcripts.
Low cost and ease of implementation allows for experi-
mental designs involving extensive biological replication,
leading to very high power and possibility to apply
network-based approaches of gene expression analysis.
The class has ve parts: (1) RNA isolations and library
preparation (wet lab), (2) initial data processing using
LINUX-based high performance computing (HPC) clus-
ter, (3) identifying dierentially expressed genes using
generalized linear models (DESeq2 package) and net-
work approach (WGCNA package), (4) summarizing
the data in terms of biological functions involved, (5)
de novo assembly and annotation of transcriptomes.
Tag-based RNA-seq paper: http://-
www.bio.utexas.edu/research/matz lab/matzlab/-
Papers les/Meyer11%20budget%20coral%20rnaseq.pdf
|{
Cost: $2,000 each, $3,700 both. Class size: 12
stradermarie@gmail.com
Florida SpongeBiodiversity Aug9-16
Dear Colleagues,
I am happy to announce an opportunity for training
in sponge biodiversity. Please distribute this announce-
ment to individuals that you think will benet from this
course.
Thanks, Bob thacker@uab.edu
Sponge Biodiversity in a Changing Ocean: Species,
Ecosystems, Processes August 9-16, 2015 Mote Marine
Laboratory, Summerland Key, Florida
A 7-day intensive course consisting of lectures, eldwork,
and laboratory experiments will be oered at Mote Ma-
rine Laboratory, Tropical Research Lab, Summerland
Key, Florida, from August 9 to 16, 2015. The course is
organized by Cristina Diaz, Shirley Pomponi, and Bob136 EvolDir March 1, 2015
Thacker; other instructors include Janie Wul, Thierry
Perez, John Stevely, and Charles Bigger.
The course is open to graduate students, researchers,
and resource managers who have a primary interest
in the role of sponges as key components of tropical
ecosystems in a changing ocean.
Sponges constitute an essential component of coral reefs,
mangroves, and seagrass beds. Their high diversity and
biomass in most benthic marine ecosystems and their
unique physiology makes them important targets to
understand, manage, and protect those ecosystems.
Through this course, students will learn how to identify
and describe common sponge species from Florida Keys
seagrass, mangrove, and coral reef ecosystems. They
will also gain experience using sponges as models to
address questions related to biodiversity, biotechnology,
and climate change.
Apply by mailing a letter of intent, your CV, and
a letter of recommendation (sent separately) to tax-
ochica@gmail.com. Your letter should state why it is
important for you to participate in this course, and how
your work, education, and/or research will benet from
it. The deadline for applications is March 31, 2015.
Applicants will be notied of acceptance by April 30,
2015. Space is limited to 12-14 students.
Tuition is $1000 and includes accommodation, break-
fast/lunch, eld trips (scuba and snorkeling), and labo-
ratory fees. Tuition assistance may be available.
Participants planning to scuba dive must meet the certi-
cation and training requirements of Mote Marine Lab-
oratory: https://mote.org/locations/details/tropical-
research-laboratory/tropical-research-laboratory-
scuba-requirements-training Application instructions
are available at: http://thackerlab.weebly.com/-
spongecourse2015.html Information that must be
included in the application:
Name Address Phone number Email
CV (should include education, research and eld experi-
ence)
One letter of recommendation
Brief description of why you want to take the course
and how you intend to use what youve learned
Dive experience: - Are you a scuba diver? - Do you in-
tend to scuba dive? Participants planning to scuba dive
must meet the certication and training requirements of
Mote Marine Laboratory: https://mote.org/locations/-
details/tropical-research-laboratory/tropical-research-
laboratory-scuba-requirements-training - Current
diving certication - Indicate if you are currently certi-ed to dive under the auspices of an AAUS-aliated
institution.
Bob Thacker <thacker@uab.edu >
FridayHarborLabs UWashington
ComparativeInvertEmbryology
Jun15-Jul17
Course: Comparative Invertebrate Embryology
Location: Friday Harbor Laboratories, University of
Washington
Dates: June 15 - July 17, 2015 (5 weeks)
Comparative Invertebrate Embryology will use hands-
on lab experience to introduce students to the great
diversity of developmental modes and processes found
among marine invertebrates. The course will bridge cell
and molecular approaches with ecological and evolution-
ary approaches to provide an integrated view of animal
development. The course is intended to serve both bi-
ologists who wish to understand diversity in modes of
development for ecological and evolutionary studies, and
cell and developmental biologists who wish to broaden
their knowledge of embryos beyond the standard model
systems.
This course provides extensive laboratory experi-
ence with fertilization, embryonic and larval develop-
ment, and metamorphosis of diverse animals. Phyla
represented usually include the Porifera, Cnidaria,
Ctenophora, Platyhelminthes, Nemertea, Mollusca, An-
nelida, Brachiopoda, Phoronida, Bryozoa, Echinoder-
mata, Chordata, Chaetognatha, and Arthropoda.
In addition to the basics of invertebrate reproduction
and development, lectures will also include analysis of
morphogenetic processes, evolutionary changes in devel-
opment, and functional consequences of dierent modes
of development.
Lab time will be devoted to obtaining, observing and
documenting stages of embryogenesis. Lecture and lab
practice will also introduce various techniques including
(but not limited to) time-lapse microscopy, immunouo-
rescence, confocal microscopy or in situ hybridization,
and biomechanical methods. Field collecting trips to
diverse habitats will acquaint students with the envi-
ronments in which reproduction and development occur
and diverse sources of embryos.
The application deadline for this course has been ex-March 1, 2015 EvolDir 137
tended to March 1, 2015.
For application procedures please see:
http://depts.washington.edu/fhl/-
studentApplicationInfo.html Additional information is
available here:
http://depts.washington.edu/fhl/-
studentSummer2015.html#SumA-4 Yale Passamaneck,
PhD Kewalo Marine Laboratory Pacic Biosciences
Research Center University of Hawaii Honolulu, HI
96813 yale athawaii.edu
yale@hawaii.edu
HarvardU PhenotypicPlasticity
May1-3
Dear Colleagues,
microMORPH is pleased to announce our second inter-
disciplinary workshop, \Phenotypic Plasticity: evolution
at the intersection of ecology, genetics, and development"
to be held at the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard Univer-
sity in Boston, MA on May 1st - 3rd, 2015.
We are soliciting participation of graduate students and
post docs interested in exploring plant phenotypic plas-
ticity from the perspective of development and microevo-
lution. microMOPRH is an NSF funded Research Co-
ordination Network (RCN). The goal of the RCN is
to promote interdisciplinary interactions in evolution-
ary developmental biology at the emerging interface
between developmental biology and the study of natural
intraspecic and interspecic variation.
microMORPH INTERDISCIPLINARY WORKSHOPS
bring together small groups of graduate students, post
docs, and faculty with very dierent interests and exper-
tise to interact and discuss critical concepts, intellectual
objectives, emerging technologies, and analytical ap-
proaches that have the potential to advance our under-
standing of the evolution of plant form. All participants
give presentations on their research and there is ex-
tensive discussion following each presentation. These
workshops provide students and faculty with unique
opportunities to explore new and challenging frontiers
of knowledge.
SPEAKERS AND FACULTY PARTICIPANTS IN-
CLUDE: Sally Assmann (Pennsylvania State Univer-
sity), Ben Blackman (University of Virginia), David
Des Marais (Harvard University, Arnold Arboretum),Michael Donoghue (Yale University), Lisa Donovan (Uni-
versity of Georgia), Andrew Doust (Oklahoma State
University), Cynthia Jones (University of Connecticut),
Neelima Sinha (Univeristy of California, Davis), Mark
van Kleunen (Universit at Konstanz), John Stinchcombe
(University of Toronto), Sonia Sultan (Wesleyan Uni-
versity), William (Ned) Friedman (Harvard University,
Arnold Arboretum), and Pamela Diggle (Univeristy of
Connecticut).
APPLICANT INFORMATION: We encourage appli-
cations from graduate students (at all stages of their
dissertation research) and post doctoral researchers now
through February 28th, 2015. Eight student or post
doctoral participants will be chosen to attend and give
presentations on their research. microMORPH will fund
travel, accommodations, and meals for selected partici-
pants who are US-citizens or currently at US institutions
(although non-US citizens not currently associated with
US institutions are encouraged to apply, we cannot sup-
ply funding for them).
HOW TO APPLY: Please visit the microMORPH web-
site (http://projects.iq.harvard.edu/micromorph) for
full instructions on how to submit applications. Ap-
plicants are asked to submit a CV, research statement
that includes a description of the proposed talk, and
letter of endorsement from their major advisor or super-
vising principle investigator.
For additional information, contact Becky Povilus at
(RCNmicromorph@gmail.com)
Sincerely,
Pamela Diggle (University of Connecticut) (micro-
MORPH CO-PI)
William (Ned) Friedman (Harvard University, Arnold
Arboretum) (microMORPH CO-PI)
Becky Povilus (Ph.D. Candidate, Harvard University)
(microMORPH RA)
microMORPH Contact information: email:
RCNmicromorph@gmail.com website: http://-
projects.iq.harvard.edu/micromorph Pamela Diggle
Professor Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology University of Connecticut
860-486-4788
\Diggle, Pamela" <pamela.diggle@uconn.edu >138 EvolDir March 1, 2015
HarvardU PlantBiologyEvolution
Jun22-Jul3
Short Course in Organismic Plant Biology 2015 Plant
Anatomy: Development, Function, and Evolution At
the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University June 22 ~ n
July 3, 2015
The NSF-sponsored Research Coordination Network
(RCN) microMORPH and the Arnold Arboretum of
Harvard University are pleased to announce our third
summer short course, Plant Anatomy (with an empha-
sis on woody plants), June 22 ~ n July 3, 2015. This
short course will be taught by experts from around the
world as an intense, two-week lecture, laboratory, and
living collections learning experience. The course will be
based at the Weld Hill Research Building at the Arnold
Arboretum, which oers a state-of-the-art microscopy
laboratory for teaching and sits amid the 15,000+ living
specimens of more than 2,200 species at the Arnold
Arboretum. We invite applications from graduate stu-
dents and postdoctoral researchers who wish to gain a
solid foundation in plant anatomy from an organismic
perspective, with a special focus on wood anatomy.
COURSE INSTRUCTORS: Pieter Baas (Naturalis Bio-
diversity Center) William (Ned) Friedman (Harvard
University) Peter Gasson (Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew)
Elisabeth Wheeler (North Carolina State University)
COURSE SYLLABUS: Week 1: Basics of Plant
Anatomy, Primary Tissues Week 2: Anatomy of Woody
Plants
APPLICATION INFORMATION: Applications from
graduate students and postdoctoral researchers must
be received by March 31, 2015 at 11:30 pm. Under-
graduates in their nal year of study, who have been
admitted to a graduate or professional program for the
fall of 2015, may also apply. Twelve participants will be
chosen to attend. Funding for travel, accommodations,
and meals will be provided by the microMORPH RCN
and the Arnold Arboretum. Non-US participants are
welcome!
HOW TO APPLY: Please visit the microMORPH
website (http://projects.iq.harvard.edu/micromorph/-
summer-course-2015) for full instructions on how to
submit an online application. Applicants will need to
submit a short essay detailing their interest in the course
and in plant biology, and two letters of recommendation.microMORPH is an NSF funded Research Coordination
Network (RCN). The goal of this RCN is to promote
interdisciplinary interactions in evolutionary develop-
mental biology at the emerging interface between de-
velopmental biology and the study of intraspecic and
interspecic variation.
For additional information, contact Becky Povilus at
(RCNmicromorph@gmail.com)
Pamela Diggle
Professor Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology University of Connecticut
860-486-4788
\Diggle, Pamela" <pamela.diggle@uconn.edu >
InstGenomeSciences UMaryland
5omics
The Institute for Genome Sciences (IGS) is an interna-
tionally known research center located at the University
of Maryland School of Medicine in Baltimore. IGS oers
ve dierent workshops as part of a professional devel-
opment program organized by Dr. Michelle Giglio, a
faculty member at IGS with over 17 years of experience
in genomics and bioinformatics. Dr. Giglio has recruited
IGS faculty and sta to form a highly experienced in-
struction team to provide workshop participants with
the knowledge and skills needed to engage in numerous
`omics applications. All IGS workshops are hands-on,
providing attendees with real-world challenges and ex-
perience.
Please see our workshop dates listed below.
IMPORTANT DATES:
Metagenome Analysis * March 3rd - 6th, 2015 (Open
Enrollment Ends February, 27, 2015) * October 13th -
16th, 2015
Introduction to Programming for Bioinformatics *
March 16th - 20th, 2015
Transcriptome Analysis * May 18th - 20th, 2015
Prokaryotic Comparative Genomics * September 29th -
October 1st, 2015
Introduction to Genomics and Bioinformatics * Novem-
ber 2nd - 6th, 2015
FOR MORE INFORMATION & REGISTRATION:
www.igs.umaryland.edu/workshops EMAIL: Ren eeMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 139
Nathaniel Workshop Administrative Coordinator
rnathaniel@som.umaryland.edu
\Nathaniel, Renee" <rnathaniel@som.umaryland.edu >
LakeheadU PracticalDNA Apr-Jun
Practical DNA Training Program:
A two-week (9 business days) intensive laboratory-based
training program designed to teach participants the
fundamentals of molecular techniques including DNA
extraction, amplication (using PCR), sequencing and
interpretation.
This training program is oered at various times through-
out the year and we will work with you to nd a suitable
time for training.
The next scheduled times for the Practical DNA Train-
ing Program are: April 14 - 24, 2015, May 5 - 15, 2015,
May 25 - June 4, 2015, June 15 - 25, 2015
For more information please contact us at 807-343-8877
or email paleodna@lakeheadu.ca or visit our website at
www.ancientdna.com and click on 'Training Programs'.
Thank you.
Karen.
Karen Maa Administrative Assistant Paleo-DNA Lab-
oratory 1294 Balmoral Street, 3rd Floor Thunder Bay,
Ontario P7B 5Z5 Telephone: 1-866-DNA-LABS or 1-
807-343-8616
Karen Maa <kmaa@lakeheadu.ca >
Leipzig NGSDataAnalysis Mar9-13
A Beginner's Guide to NGS Data Analysis Quality Con-
trol, Read Mapping, Visualization and Downstream
Analyses
Scope and Topic
The purpose of this workshop is to get a deeper under-
standing in Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS) with
a special focus on bioinformatics issues. Additionally,
all workshop participants should be enabled to perform
important tasks of NGS data analysis tasks themselves.The rst workshop module is an introduction to data
analysis using Linux, assuring that all participants are
able to follow the practical parts. The second module di-
cusses advantages and disadvantages of current sequenc-
ing technologies and their implications on data analysis.
The most important NGS le formats (fastq, sam/bam,
bigWig, etc.) are introduced and one proceeds with
rst hands-on analyses (QC, mapping, visualization).
You will learn how to read and interprete QC plots, clip
adapter sequences and/or trim bad quality read ends,
get bioinformatics backgrounds about the read mapping
and understand its problems (dynamic programming,
alignment visualization, NGS mapping heuristics, etc.),
perform your own mapping statistics and visualize your
data in dierent ways (IGV, UCSC, etc.). The last
two modules adress two specic applications of NGS:
RNA-seq of model organisms and RNA-seq of non-model
organisms.
Key Dates
Opening Date of Registration: November 10th 2014
Closing Date of Registration: March 1st 2015 Work-
shops: March 9-13 2015 (8am - 5pm)
Attendance
Location: iad Pc-Pool, Rosa-Luxemburg-Strae 23,
Leipzig, Germany Language: English Available seats:
24 (rst-come, rst-served)
Registration fees:
Industry rate: 900-1,950 EUR Academic rate: 700-1,450
EUR
Contact
ecSeq Bioinformatics Brandvorwerkstr.43 04275 Leipzig
Germany Email: events@ecSeq.com
David Langenberger <david.langenberger@ecseq.com >
MichiganStateU EvolutionSoftware
Jun4-6
*Active LENS Train-the-Trainers Workshop on Digital
Evolution Educational Software*: We invite applica-
tions for an intensive residence workshop at Michigan
State University on teaching evolution and the nature
of science using the software package Avida-ED to be
held June 4-6, 2015 in East Lansing, MI. Avida-ED
is an award-winning, free, user-friendly version of the
Avida research platform that was developed specically140 EvolDir March 1, 2015
for educational purposes, with a graphical user inter-
face and visualizations that allow students to observe
evolution in action and conduct their own evolutionary
experiments. Teams of two will learn to use Avida-ED
in their own classrooms and how to train other educa-
tors.Travel and expenses will be covered as part of an
NSF-funded IUSE grant for the 20 applicants selected
for the workshop and funds are available for subsequent
training projects.For further information see the Avida-
ED home page: http://avida-ed.msu.edu/.Application
deadline: March 2, 2015.If you have any questions or
diculties with the application, contact Michael Wiser
(mwiser@msu.edu).
Louise S. Mead, PhD Education Director BEACON
Center for the Study of Evolution in Action 567 Wilson
Ave, BPS 1441 East Lansing, MI 517-884-2560
Louise Mead <lsmead@msu.edu >
Montreal GeometricMorphometrics
Drs. Clint Kelly and Pedro Peres-Neto (D epartement
des sciences biologiques, UQ AM) are pleased to
announce that they will be hosting a Geometric
Morphometrics Workshop at the Universit e du Qu ebec
 a Montr eal through the Canada Research Chairs
program. Please see below or visit our website
for further details: http://uqamgreca.weebly.com/-
geometric-morphometrics-workshop-2015.html
KELLY.CLINT@uqam.ca
Portal Arizona AntEvolution
Aug6-16
ANT COURSE 2015 August 6-16, 2015 Southwest-
ern Research Station (SWRS), Portal, AZ, USA
http://www.calacademy.org/scientists/ant-course .
DEADLINE FOR APPLICATION: April 1, 2015.
Application form: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/-
1Z5Fu8DHxqW5EGFkiLbxi4mHWpnc2Tn0vzmN5ctvXj1g/-
viewform?c=0&w=1 . ANT COURSE will be taught
at the Southwestern Research Station (SWRS) in
Portal Arizona (http://research.amnh.org/swrs/). The
Station is centered amid the richest ant fauna in North
America.PARTICIPANT ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA. - ANT
COURSE is open to all interested individuals. Priority
will be given to those students for whom the course
will have a signicant impact on their research with
ants. An entomological background is not required. We
aim to include students with a diverse interest in bi-
ology, including ant systematics, ecology, behavioral
biology, genetics, and conservation. The high instructor
to student ratio will allow students to receive individual
attention. ANT COURSE is presented in English and
limited to 30 participants.
COSTS. - Tuition for the 10-day COURSE is $475 for
current students and $675 for non-students (including
postdocs). In addition, the Southwestern Research Sta-
tion (SWRS) fee for this period, covering dormitory
room and board, is $670. Transportation costs between
home and Tucson (air) or SWRS (auto) are to be borne
by all participants.
SPONSORS. - California Academy of Sciences and Mu-
seum of Comparative Zoology.
2015 INSTRUCTORS: Brian Fisher (Coordinator), Cal-
ifornia Academy of Sciences; Stefan Cover, Museum of
Comparative Zoology; Bob Johnson, Arizona State Uni-
versity, Tempe; Josh King, University of Central Florida;
John LaPolla, Towson University; Jack Longino, Univer-
sity of Utah; Corrie Moreau, Field Museum of Natural
History; Scott Powell, George Washington University;
Andrew Suarez, University of Illinois; James Trager,
Shaw Nature Reserve; Walter Tschinkel Florida State
University Tallahassee; Phil Ward, University of Califor-
nia Davis; Special Guests: Raymond Mendez, Howard
Topo.
bpescador@gmail.com
Raleigh Bioinformatics May18-22
Spring workshop in Bioinformatics
Raleigh, North Carolina May 18 - 22, 2015
The handling of large datasets has become intractable
without some level of bioinformatic literacy. Many bi-
ologists nd that there is a steep learning curve to de-
velop the condence required to explore their genomics
datasets eectively. This bioinformatics short course
includes a rich collection of hands-on instruction and
lectures specically intended to help novice users be-
come comfortable with a range of tools currently used
to analyze next-generation data. There is no prereq-March 1, 2015 EvolDir 141
uisite for this course other than a willingness to learn
and to work hard throughout the week. All workshop
exercises will be implemented via VirtualBox and focus
on Illumina data.
Course participation is limited to to 25 students to en-
sure an intimate learning environment. Course tuition
is $1000 and is open to graduate students, postdocs,
sta, faculty, and industry researchers on a rst come
basis.
Full course information, contact, instructor
info and application instructions at https://-
biodatatraining.wordpress.com nblouin69@gmail.com
Rosco France
MarineEvolutionaryGenomics
May31-Jun12
SUMMER COURSE ON MARINE GENOMICS
AT THE MARINE BIOLOGICAL STATION OF
ROSCOFF (F)
First announcement
>From May 31st - June 12th, 2015 the 11th Summer
Course on Marine Evolutionary & Ecological Genomics
takes place at the Station Biologique de Rosco, Rosco,
France.
Aims: Genomic knowledge is crucial for understanding
the marine environment and for an ecient use of its
resources. State of the art NGS methods have revolution-
ized the eld, spawning applications in basic research
and environmental management. The course will give in-
sight into population, environmental, biodiversity, com-
parative, evolutionary and functional genomics through
lectures, case studies and computer labs. It takes place
at the Biological Station, a vibrant research community
of 273 scientists and support personnel, located in the
old town and shing port of Rosco, Brittany, France.
The course includes lectures, tutorials and computer
based exercises on the following topics. * Genomics -
next generation sequencing, database searching, basic
skills in data handling and bioinformatics * Popula-
tion genomics - diversity, structure, connectivity and
gene ow, assignment, eective population size, pop-
ulation dynamics, adaptive variation, genotyping by
sequencing * Environmental genomics - environment -
genome interactions, ecogenomics, metagenomics and
metagenetics * Functional genomics - genome structure,molecular evolution at the functional level, genomic ar-
chitecture, functional networks * Comparative genomics
- whole genome comparisons, concatenated phylogenies,
genome organization, annotating genomic information,
co-evolution
The course covers all aspects of life in the ocean.
Target group: PhD students (at least in their second
year) and junior postdocs with a solid knowledge in phy-
logenetics and/or population genetics. 18 participants
will be selected on the following criteria: 1. Relevance
of the course for their PhD or post-doc project 2. Back-
ground and experience 3. We aim at training people
with dierent research backgrounds; not more than one
person per institute will be considered. We implement
a gender policy.
The selected persons will be notied by March 25th and
will have to conrm attendance within 7 days. There is
a waiting list in case of non-conrmations and cancella-
tions.
Teaching sta : Jonas Coll en, SB-Rosco, FR Simon
Creer, Univ. Bangor, UK Yves Desdevises, OO-Banyuls,
FR Jakob Hemmer-Hansen, DTU-Aqua, DK Erica
Leder, Univ. Turku, Fi Fr ed eric Partensky, SB-Rosco,
FR Daniel Vaulot, SB-Rosco Filip Volckaert, Univ.
Leuven, BE Mathias Wegner, AWI-Sylt, GE
Organizing committee Jonas Coll en, SB-Rosco, FR
Damien Guiant, SB-Rosco, FR Matthias Obst, Univ.
Gothenburg, SE Sarah Bourlat, Univ. Gothenburg, SE
Nic Blouin, Univ. Rhode Island, USA Nathalie Turque,
EMBRC-France, FR Filip Volckaert, Univ. Leuven, BE
For information, a yer and application please check
http://meeg2015.sciencesconf.org . The application
deadline is March 10 2015.
Filip Volckaert <Filip.Volckaert@bio.kuleuven.be >
SCENE Glasgow
RGeneticDataAnalysis Aug3-7
Genetic data analysis in R (statistics course)
Overview: This course is ideal for evolutionary biolo-
gists that deal with various types of genetic data. The
course will provide an extensive overview of exploratory
methods for the analysis of genetic data using the R
software. It will address a number of key problems in
population genetics, such as: How to examine genetic
diversity using phylogenetic trees as well as multivariate142 EvolDir March 1, 2015
methods, identify genetic clusters, and unravel spatial
genetic patterns. Participants will be provided with
the theoretical background and statistical methodology
necessary to approach each problem from a number of
dierent angles. Hands-on practical sessions will then
provide an opportunity to highlight the pros and cons
of methods introduced by the lectures, while conferring
to participants advanced knowledge of the R packages
adegenet, ape, and phangorn.
The course will run from 3rd - 7th of August 2015
at SCENE (the Scottish Centre for Ecology and the
Natural Environment), Glasgow. The cost is ^A$490
including lunches and course materials. An all-inclusive
option is also available at ^A$665; this includes break-
fast, lunch, dinner, refreshments, accommodation, and
course materials.
The course is being delivered by Dr. Thibaut Jombart
who has contributed towards a number of R packages
(adegenet, adephylo, geography, outbreaker, Outbreaker-
tools, bmmix, episerve (author) and ade4 and phylobase
(contributor) and Caitlin Collins (Imperial College Lon-
don) who also contributes to the R packages adegenet,
Outbreakertools and episerve)
Curriculum is as follows;
Day 1: Intro to phylogenetic reconstruction Lecture
1a: Reconstructing phylogenies from genetic sequence
data. Three main approaches covered: distance-based
phylogenies; maximum parsimony; and likelihood-based
approaches. Lecture 1b: Short R refresher. Practical
1: Phylogenetic reconstruction using R. Three main
approaches plus rooting a tree; assessing/testing for a
molecular clock; and bootstrapping. Main packages:
ape, phangorn.
Day 2: Intro to multivariate analysis of genetic data
Lecture 2: Key concepts in multivariate analysis. Focus
on using factorial methods for genetic data analysis.
Practical 2: Basics of multivariate analysis of genetic
data in R. Topics include: data handling, population ge-
netic tests of population structure (PCA, PCoA). Main
packages: adegenet, ade4, ape.
Day 3: Exploring group diversity Lecture 3: Approaches
to identifying and describing genetic clusters. Topics
include: hierarchical clustering, K-means, population-
level multivariate analysis (between-group-PCA, DA,
DAPC). Practical 3: Applying the approaches covered
in morning lecture and emphasising their strengths and
weaknesses. Main packages: adegenet, ade4.
Day 4: Genome-Wide Association Studies (GWAS) Lec-
ture 4: Intro to GWAS study design and statistical
approaches: univariate, regression-based and multivari-
ate analysis. Practical 4: Applying each class of meth-ods covered in morning lecture, with emphasis on their
strengths and weaknesses. Main packages: adegenet,
glmnet.
Day 5: Spatial genetic structures Class 1: Discussing
the origin and signicance of spatial genetic patterns,
and how to test for them. Practical: Visualising and
analysing spatial genetic data. Topics: spatial density
estimates, Moran/Mantel tests, mapping principal com-
ponents in PCA, spatial PCA. Main packages: adegenet,
adehabitat, ade4.
Please send inquiries to oliverhooker@prstatistics.co.uk
oliverhooker@prstatistics.co.uk
Swiss Alps EvolutionaryBiol
Jun19-25 DeadlineExtended
Dear Colleagues, we still have places available for this
years edition of Evolutionary Biology Workshop in the
Alps (19-25 June 2015, Riederalp, Switzerland)
Target participants: PhD students, advanced Master
students
We have extended application deadline until March 8.
Faculty: Judith Mank (University College London)
Andrew Read (Pennsylvania State University) Tanja
Schwander (University of Lausanne) John Pannell (Uni-
versity of Lausanne) Tadeusz Kawecki (University of
Lausanne)
The main goals of this annual workshop, based on a con-
cept developed by Stephen Stearns and John Maynard
Smith, are to develop the following skills: - developing
your scientic ideas through discussions in groups; -
thinking critically and expressing oneself clearly; - turn-
ing a general idea into a research project; - writing a
research proposal and defending it.
The workshop will take place in Villa Cassel (http://-
www.pronatura-aletsch.ch/home-en), at 2000 m of al-
titude, a >100 year old villa where Winston Churchill
once stayed, amid the magnicent mountain landscape
of a UNESCO World Heritage Site, walking distance
from the largest glacier of the Alps.
Costs: CHF 530.- for room and board. 3 ETSC credit
points
To apply, send a single le (pdf or rtf) contain-
ing a short motivation letter including a brief sum-
mary of your research interest, a cv, and theMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 143
name of your scientic advisor to Caroline Betto-
Colliard <ecologie-evolution@cuso.ch >, with Cc to
tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch .
{ Tadeusz J. Kawecki Department of Ecology and Evolu-
tion University of Lausanne Biophore, oce 3111 CH
1015 Lausanne, Switzerland
tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch
SwissAlps PopulationGenetics
Jun17-20
We are organizing a workshop in the Swiss Alps in June
2015 on the theme \Theoretical and empirical evidence
of adaptation". The format of the symposium is pretty
informal and the plan is to have it in a remote (but
beautiful) location in the Swiss Alps called La Fouly.
The aim is to allow Swiss and international PhD stu-
dents and postdocs to gather, present their work, and
have close interactions with internationally renowned
scientists in the eld, all in a relaxed atmosphere.
For further information on the workshop, including reg-
istration details, please see:
http://www.cuso.ch/activity/?p=3D1128&id=3D2243
Jerey D. Jensen School of Life Sciences Ecole Poly-
technique F ed erale de Lausanne (EPFL) http://-
jensenlab.ep.ch/ jerey.jensen@ep.ch
Sydney Hawkesbury RNASeq May4
The Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment is
pleased to announce a Next Generation Sequencing and
Analysis workshop on the topic of transcriptomics for
non-model species.
http://www.uws.edu.au/hie/events andseminars/-
next generation sequencing andanalysis workshop
This bioinformatics course will be delivered Brian Haas
(the Broad Institute, MIT, USA; of Trinity RNA-Seq
fame) and will be geared towards biologists who are
working on RNASeq data from species with smaller
genomic communities and are interested in further
understanding how to analyse these types of data.
The course will be run over the course of one week andwill be focused on hands-on exercises on transcriptome
assembly, structural and functional annotation and dif-
ferential expression experiments.
Everyone with an interest is encouraged to ap-
ply.Attendees are expected to have a solid understanding
of the BASH command line, bring their own laptops
and are strongly encouraged to bring their own data so
that they can use the opportunity to discuss their anal-
yses with the lecturers and other attendees.Registration
for this course is rst by Expression Of Interest to en-
sure that we have a small group of(ca 20)enthusiastic
attendees that are on a similar level and have similar
expectations.
Venue: Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment Uni-
versity of Western Sydney College Drive Richmond NSW
2754
Dates: Monday 4th May to Friday 8th May
2015 9.00am to 5.00pm daily Costs: $200 plus
GST.Includesmorning/afternoon tea and lunch every
day. Excludes travel, accommodation, hotels transfers,
breakfasts and dinners.
For all inquiries please contact Dr Alexie Papanicolaou
on (02) 4570 1385 or emaila.papanicolaou@uws.edu
Dr. Alexie Papanicolaou
Phone: +61(0) 2 4570 1385 jMobile: +61 (0) 46 85 81
247 Lecturer in Bioinformatics jHawkesbury Institute
for the Environment University of Western Sydney j
Hawkesbury Campus, Richmond NSW 2753, Australia
Postal address:Locked Bag 1797, Penrith, NSW 2751,
Australia www.uws.edu.au/hie Alexie Papanikolaou
<A.Papanicolaou@uws.edu.au >
Sydney Hawkesbury RNASeq May4
Correction
Dear all Apologies my address was missing the .au bit,
please resend any emails you may have sent.
NB: Feel free to send queries to
a.papanicolaou@uws.edu.au but to apply ll out
the Expression of interest form via the link available on
the website.
thanks a
|
The Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment is
pleased to announce a Next Generation Sequencing and144 EvolDir March 1, 2015
Analysis workshop on the topic of transcriptomics for
non-model species.
http://www.uws.edu.au/hie/events andseminars/-
next generation sequencing andanalysis workshop
This bioinformatics course will be delivered Brian Haas
(the Broad Institute, MIT, USA; of Trinity RNA-Seq
fame) and will be geared towards biologists who are
working on RNASeq data from species with smaller
genomic communities and are interested in further
understanding how to analyse these types of data.
The course will be run over the course of one week and
will be focused on hands-on exercises on transcriptome
assembly, structural and functional annotation and dif-
ferential expression experiments.
Everyone with an interest is encouraged to apply. Atten-
dees are expected to have a solid understanding of the
BASH command line, bring their own laptops and are
strongly encouraged to bring their own data so that they
can use the opportunity to discuss their analyses with
the lecturers and other attendees. Registration for this
course is rst by Expression Of Interest to ensure that
we have a small group of (ca 20) enthusiastic attendees
that are on a similar level and have similar expectations.
Venue: Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment Uni-
versity of Western Sydney College Drive Richmond NSW
2754 Dates: Monday 4th May to Friday 8th May 2015
9.00am to 5.00pm daily Costs: $200 plus GST. Includes
morning/afternoon tea and lunch every day. Excludes
travel, accommodation, hotels transfers, breakfasts and
dinners.
For all inquiries please contact Dr Alexie Papanicolaou
on (02) 4570 1385 or email a.papanicolaou@uws.edu.au
{ Dr. Alexie Papanicolaou
Phone: +61(0) 2 4570 1385 jMobile: +61 (0) 46
85 81 247 Lecturer in Bioinformatics jHawkesbury
Institute for the Environment University of West-
ern SydneyjHawkesbury Campus, Richmond NSW
2753, Australia Postal address: Locked Bag 1797,
Penrith, NSW 2751, Australia www.uws.edu.au/hie
A.Papanicolaou@uws.edu.auTaormina Italy SystemsBiology
Jul5-9
Call for Participation (apologies for multiple copies)
Synthetic and Systems Biology Summer School - 2nd
Edition Taormina - Sicily, Italy, July 5-9, 2015
http://www.taosciences.it/ssbss2015/ ss-
bss.school@gmail.com
*News: New Speaker! Ron Weiss, MIT, USA
** Deadlines ** Student Application: February 15, 2015
Oral/Poster Submission: February 15, 2015
** List of Speakers ** * Adam Arkin, University of
California Berkeley, USA * Jef Boeke, New York Univer-
sity, USA * Angela DePace, Harvard University, USA *
Forbes Dewey, MIT, USA * Karmella Haynes, Arizona
State University, USA * Richard Kitney, Imperial Col-
lege London, UK * Timothy Lu, MIT, USA * Philip
Maini, Oxford University, UK * Steve Oliver, Cam-
bridge University, UK * Velia Siciliano, MIT, USA *
Greg Stephanopoulos, MIT, USA - TBC * Ron Weiss,
MIT, USA * Nicola Zamboni, ETH, Switzerland
** Industrial Panel ** * Jon D. Chesnut, Life Sciences So-
lutions Group -Thermo Fisher Scientic, USA * Carlos
Olguin, Autodesk Inc., USA * Zach Serber, Zymergen,
Inc. USA
School Directors Jef D. Boeke, New York University,
USA Giuseppe Nicosia, University of Catania, Italy
Mario Pavone, University of Catania, Italy Giovanni
Stracquadanio, University of Oxford, UK
** Short Talk and Poster Submission ** Students may
submit a research abstract for presentation. School di-
rectors will review the abstracts and will recommend
for poster or short-oral presentation. Abstract should
be submitted by February 15, 2015. The abstracts will
be published on the electronic hands-out material of the
summer school.
http://www.taosciences.it/ssbss2015/-
index.html#applicationForm http://-
www.taosciences.it/ssbss2015/ ssbss.school@gmail.com
Apologies for multiple copies. Please forward to any-
body who might be interested.
cfp.ssbss@dmi.unict.itMarch 1, 2015 EvolDir 145
UBirmingham
EnvironmentalGenomics Mar23-27
NERC-MDIBL Environmental Genomics Course, 2015
Online Registration Site: www.birmingham.ac.uk/-
EnGen Dates: March 23-27, 2015
Location: University of Birmingham, UK
Number of Places: Between 25 and 50
Open to: Participation is open to everyone.
Priority is given to NERC-funded PhD students and
early-career postdocs. Conrmation to attend will be
announced March 2, 2015.
Course Leaders: John Colbourne, Joseph Shaw, Mark
Viant, Xin Zhou
Research Organizations Involved: University of Birm-
ingham (UK), BGI China National GeneBank (Shen-
zhen, China), Mount Desert Island Biological Labora-
tory (USA)
Online Registration Site: www.birmingham.ac.uk/-
EnGen Description This training opportunity in En-
vironmental Genomics is the second European/UK in-
stalment of a successful annual course originating from
Mount Desert Island Biological Laboratory. It trains
PhD students and early career postdoctoral scientists
to investigate how gene function is inuenced by en-
vironmental conditions while accounting for variation
that exists within and among natural populations. The
course is built on the paradigm that the multidisciplinary
research eld encompassing ecology, evolution, toxicol-
ogy, biostatistics and informatics will most eectively
grow by training early career environmental scientists to
properly design comprehensive, large-scale, experiments
enabled by drastically increased sample-throughput and
lower costs. Most importantly, the challenges of manip-
ulating and analysing population-level genomics (big)
data must be addressed.
The course provides intensive training in seminar and
laboratory formats, especially around expression prol-
ing by RNA-Seq. Topics covered include bioinformatics
using sequence analysis workows and R statistical anal-
ysis tools, plus experimental design for environmental
genomics research. For the laboratory, participants
will be introduced to automated sample preparation as
well as preparing their own RNA-sequencing libraries.
The course provides a signicant introduction and somehands-on training experience so that participants can
initiate their own environmental genomics study and
network with others in the eld to launch Environmental
Scientist careers in academia and industry.
Course Content Participants are taught using open-
source analysis tools and existing OMICS data.
Course Presentations - Library construction methods
and QC - Introduction to automation systems - Introduc-
tion to the sequence data workow - Software solutions
for the sequence and metabolomics data workows &
their applications for environmental research - Review
of sequencing technology, its strengths and weaknesses
- RNA-Seq alignment to individualize transcriptomes
- Statistical considerations for analysing genome-scale
data
Bioinformatics Training - Introduction to R - Visual-
ization of sequence and metabolomics data for quality
assurance - Visualization of complex data - Navigating
the command line - Data analysis workshop using R to
analyse Tuxedo output - Gene set enrichment analysis
- Exploring genome sequence variation - Help desk to
explore participants research questions
Synthesis Sessions - Models in search of ecology vs ecol-
ogy in search of models - What can I extract from the
sequence data for my investigations - Integrating omics
data - How do I obtain funding for my Environmental
Genomics project
Evening Lecture Series There will be four evening lec-
tures designed to highlight environmental omic applica-
tions that draw on the expertise of our guest faculty.
Daphnia is used for training because of their growing
use as model systems for environmental genomics and
for improving environmental health protection, yet the
skills learned during the course will be applicable to all
study systems with mature genomics resources.
School of Biosciences, The University of Birmingham
Birmingham, B15 2TT, United Kingdom
Mount Desert Island Biological Laboratory Old Bar
Harbor Rd., Salisbury Cove, ME 04672
j.k.colbourne@bham.ac.uk146 EvolDir March 1, 2015
UBremen EvolutionStatisticsUsingR
*BRESSS V BRemen Ecological Statistics Summer
School 2015*
*Date: June 02 V 05, 2015*
*Place: University of Bremen, Germany*
Application deadline: 17th of April, 2015
Data obtained in research in ecology and evolution are
often not normally distributed. Within the workshop
we will use the unifying concept of generalized linear
models (GLM) to deal with such data. Besides short
lectures, exercises will be oered using the open source
software R.
*For further information please visit our website: *
*https://sites.google.com/site/statisticsbremen/* Top-
ics covered: Linear Models, Generalized Linear Mod-
els (Poisson, Negative binomial, Gamma and Binomial
distribution), Zero-inated/-truncated Models, General-
ized Linear Mixed Models
Thanks to the funding of the *Deutsche Zoologische
Gesellschaft*, registration is free for all DZG members
(The course fee for non-members is 20 $ a/50$ a for PhD
students/PostDocs).
We hope to welcome you soon in Bremen!
The organizing committee,
Katharina Merkel, Mareike Koppik and Thomas
Homeister
Statistics Bremen <statisticworkshopbremen@gmail.com >
UTennessee Knoxville
EvolutionWarfare Sep16-18
*Topic:* Evolutionary approaches to the understanding
of decentralized warfare
*Meeting dates:* September 16-18, 2015
*Location*: NIMBioS at the University of Tennessee,
Knoxville
*Organizers:* Biology: Michael L. Wilson <http://-www.cbs.umn.edu/explore/departments/eeb/faculty-
research/directory/michael-wilson >, Univ. of
Minnesota Anthropology: Luke Glowacki <http://-
scholar.harvard.edu/glowacki >, Harvard Univ. Defense
Analysis: Anna Simons <http://faculty.nps.edu/-
asimons/ >, Naval Postgraduate School Modeling:
Sergey Gavrilets < http://www.tiem.utk.edu/-
%7Egavrila/ >, Univ. of Tennessee, Knoxville
*Webpage*: http://www.nimbios.org/workshops/-
WSwarfare *Application deadline:* May 17, 2015.
Participation in the workshop is by application only.
Individuals with a strong interest in the topic are
encouraged to apply, and successful applicants will be
notied within two weeks of the application deadline. If
needed, nancial support for travel, meals, and lodging
is available for workshop attendees.
Sergey Gavrilets Department of Ecology and Evolution-
ary Biology Department of Mathematics National Insti-
tute for Mathematical and Biological Synthesis (NIM-
BioS) University of Tennessee Knoxville, TN 37996
phone: (865) 974-8136 fax: (865) 974-3067 e-
mail: gavrila@tiem.utk.edu web: www.tiem.utk.edu/-
~gavrila NIMBioS: www.nimbios.org Sergey Gavrilets
<gavrila@tiem.utk.edu >
WoodsHole Immune selection
19-22April
Workshop: Immune selection on protozoan & metazoan
parasites
We invite applications to participate in our NSF-funded
workshop on immune selection, to be held in conjunction
with the 2015 Woods Hole Immunoparasitology (WHIP)
Conference, 19-22 April in Woods Hole, Massachusetts,
USA.
Natural selection operates on the ecological dynamics of
parasites both within hosts and across host populations.
Our NSF-funded Research Coordination Network (RCN)
integrates theoretical and empirical tools to study these
cross-scale dynamics and explain heterogeneities in par-
asite life cycles, virulence and ecacy of control.
A major challenge is to identify relevant and tractable
immune parameters to inform our understanding of
within-host dynamics. The main objective of this work-
shop is therefore to characterize dynamics of immune
killing in relation to the eectors that target parasites,
from vector-borne trypanosomes and malaria to directly-March 1, 2015 EvolDir 147
transmitted helminths and trophically-transmitted tox-
oplasmosis. By embedding ourselves in WHIP, we will
tap into broad and deep immunoparasitological exper-
tise in an informal and highly interactive setting on
lovely Cape Cod.
Primary questions that we will consider during the work-
shop: Do parasite species that dier in mode of transmis-
sion experience dierential types/strengths of immune
selection? How heterogeneous are the immune responses
induced by dierent parasite strains within species?
When does cross-reactivity of immune responses lead to
apparent competition versus competitive release of dif-
ferent parasite genotypes? What are the most relevant
yet tractable metrics that predict strength and timing
of immune selection? What are the appropriate func-
tional forms for understanding and modelling immune
selection?
Workshop participants are expected to present relevant
data and/or theory in short formal presentations, and
(even more importantly!) to participate fully in dis-
cussions and the real-time development of statistical,
mathematical and experimental approaches to studying
the evolution of infectious diseases. We will support
WHIP registration, travel and subsistence for up to 20
workshop participants.
If you are interested in attending the 2015 workshopand WHIP conference, please apply via this link: http:/-
/ideas.princeton.edu/workshop-for-2015/ We require
a 250-word (max) abstract describing the work you
propose to present as a talk or poster to the WHIP
audience, plus a brief justication of your interest in
the workshop. Please note that WHIP especially fa-
vors oral presentations by postdoctoral and predoctoral
researchers.
Workshop applications will be considered on a rolling,
rst-come, rst-served basis until the workshop lls or
15 March 2015, whichever comes rst.
For more information on this RCN, please see: http://-
ideas.princeton.edu/ For WHIP, please search \WHIP
2015" & follow the rst Marine Biological Laboratory
link.
All best, Andrea
{ Andrea L. Graham Department of Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology Princeton University Princeton, NJ
08544 USA
Tel: (+1) 609-258-6703 E-mail: algra-
ham@princeton.edu
Graham Group URL: http://algraham.princeton.edu/
ISI Researcher ID: http://www.researcherid.com/rid/A-
8808-2010 algraham@princeton.edu
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a once
monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.148 EvolDir March 1, 2015
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope), but
should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain old
ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better chance
of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.