E v o l D i r
May 1, 2016
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in the
same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary. The
nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you would
like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .66
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .124
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 137
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1382 EvolDir May 1, 2016
Conferences
Ankara EcolEvolBiology Aug31-Sep3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Asilomar California LocalAdaptation Jul14-17 . . . . . . 3
Asilomar California LocalAdaptation Jul14-17 Stu-
dentAwards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
AustinTX UndergradTravelAward Jun17-21 . . . . . . . . 4
ColoradoStateU GenomicsOfAdaptation Jul30 . . . . . . 4
CornellU EEID EvolutionDisease Jun3-5 . . . . . . . . . . . 4
DurhamNC EvolutionaryMedicineSociety Jun22-25 . 5
Edinburgh TelomereDynamics 31Oct . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
FloridaStateU EcolEvolutionEthologyFish Jun14-16 7
Girona EvolutionMarineMicrobes Jun18-24 . . . . . . . . . 7
GoldCoast Australia SMBE AncientDNA and HumanIn-
novation Jul3-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8
Gold Coast Australia SMBE StructuralVariation Jul3-7
9
Gotland PhDStudentsEvolBiol Sep11-15 . . . . . . . . . . . . 9Hinxton UK VirusGenomicsEvolution Jun8-10 . . . . 10
Ilhabela Brazil AmoebaeSystematics Sep12-15 . . . . . 11
Kew UK PlantEvolution May11-12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
London EvolutionaryConict Jun8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Manchester MolGenomeEvolution Jun20 . . . . . . . . . . 12
MNHN Paris HumanDNApolymorphism Dec7-10 . . 12
Montpellier EcolEvolutionModels Jun6-7 . . . . . . . . . . 13
Montreal RECOMB ComparativeGenomics Oct11-14
13
Novosibirsk BioinformaticsGeneRegul Aug29-Sep2 . 14
Perugia Italy ComputLandscapeGenetics Oct12-14 15
UBraunschweig Adaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
UGoettingen Germany ConservationGenetics Oct5-7
Reminder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Ankara EcolEvolBiology Aug31-Sep3
Dear Colleagues,
The 3nd Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Symposium
Turkey 2016 (August 31 - September 3, Ankara) is
now accepting abstract submissions at http://bit.ly/-
eebst abstract Please nd more information at http://-
bit.ly/eebst2016 We invite talks and poster presenta-
tions in all areas of evolutionary biology and ecology. All
presentations will be in English and we heartily welcome
international participation.
This year's keynote speakers will be Judith Mank (Uni-
versity College London, UK), A. Townsend Peterson
(The University of Kansas), John L. Quinn (University
College Cork), and Nadia D. Singh (NC State Univer-
sity).Deadline for abstract submissions is May 30. Early
registration closes by June 30.
The organizers of the symposium have arranged with
Evolutionary Ecology Research for EER to seriously
consider the publication of groups of papers from the
symposium as special issues.
We look forward to seeing you in Ankara!
On behalf of the administration board of the Society of
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology (Turkey)
Ysmail Bekar General Secretary
For contact with organising committee:
eebst2016@gmail.com
ismailbekar53@gmail.comMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 3
Asilomar California
LocalAdaptation Jul14-17
EARLYBIRD REGISTRATION CLOSES MAY 1ST
TheAmerican Genetic Association President's Sympo-
sium, 'Local adaptation: from phenotype to genotype
to tness', will be held July 14-17, 2016, at beautiful
Asilomar, CA (http://www.visitasilomar.com/).
Inthe past, many studies dealt only with pheno-
types/traits, but today the connection to genotype is
becoming feasible for more and more organisms. Our
speakers are a blend of established and new investiga-
tors, working on a variety of organisms, and who are
taking diverse approaches to the question.
TheAGA will provide several travel awards to cover reg-
istration for graduate students who would like to attend
and present posters. Six abstracts will be selected for
oral presentations, and the students will receive $500
awards. DEADLINE TO SUBMIT ABSTRACTS IS
APRIL 25TH.
Detailsand registration are available at the AGA website:
http://www.theaga.org Invitedspeakers: KeyDistin-
guished Lecture by Victoria Sork (Dean of Life Sciences,
UCLA) SallyAitken University of British Columbia Jil-
lAnderson University of Georgia ZachCheviron Uni-
versity of Illinois EmilyDittmar Michigan State Uni-
versity SuzanneEdmands University of Southern Cal-
ifornia DavidField Inst. Science and Tech, Austria
LilaFishman University of Montana JanniceFreidman
Syracuse University SteveKeller University of Vermont
JohnKelly University of Kansas BrianLangerhans North
Carolina State University CurtisLively Indiana Univer-
sity RobertReed Cornell University DouglasSchemske
Michigan State University RenaSchweizer UCLA Ker-
ryShaw Cornell University PeterTin University of Min-
nesota
Lynda Delph, AGA President
AGAJOH@oregonstate.eduAsilomar California
LocalAdaptation Jul14-17
StudentAwards
***** DEADLINE EXTENDED UNTIL MONDAY,
APRIL 25TH *****
Student awards are available for the American Genetic
Association 2016 meeting, 'Local adaptation: from phe-
notype to genotype to tness', to be held July 14-17,
2016, at beautiful Asilomar, CA.
Several awards are available to cover registration for
graduate students who present posters. Six abstracts
will be selected for oral presentations, and these students
will receive $500 awards. Details and registration are
available at the AGA website: http://www.theaga.org
APPLY BY Monday, APRIL 25TH
Contact Anjanette Baker at agajoh@oregonstate.edu
with any questions.
Invited speakers: Key Distinguished Lecture by Victoria
Sork (Dean of Life Sciences, UCLA)
Sally Aitken University of British Columbia Jill An-
derson University of Georgia Zach Cheviron University
of Montana Emily Dittmar Michigan State University
Suzanne Edmands University of Southern California
David Field Inst. Science and Tech, Austria Lila Fish-
man University of Montana Jannice Friedman Syracuse
University Steve Keller University of Vermont John
Kelly University of Kansas Brian Langerhans North
Carolina State University Curtis Lively Indiana Univer-
sity Robert Reed Cornell University Douglas Schemske
Michigan State University Rena Schweizer UCLA Kerry
Shaw Cornell University Peter Tin University of Min-
nesota
We look forward to seeing you! Lynda Delph, AGA
President
AGAJOH@oregonstate.edu4 EvolDir May 1, 2016
AustinTX UndergradTravelAward
Jun17-21
Reminder: Travel Award - Undergraduate Diversity at
Evolution 2016
Applications for the undergraduate travel award to
bring talented and diverse undergraduates to the
Evolution meetings this June 17-21 in Austin, TX
(www.evolutionmeetings.org) are due in less than two
weeks on April 18th. Application form and more infor-
mation at http://beacon-center.org/ude/ Details: For
the 13th year a cohort of undergraduates from through-
out the U.S. and Puerto Rico will be funded to (1)
present a poster at the meetings, (2) receive mentoring
from graduate students, postdocs and faculty, and (3)
participate in a career-oriented 'Undergraduate Futures
in Evolutionary Biology' panel and discussion. The pro-
gram is sponsored by SSE/BEACON and covers the
costs of travel, registration, food and accommodation
at the meetings. The application deadline is Monday,
April 18th, and decisions will be announced by Tuesday,
April 26th.
Applications are welcomed from all undergraduates, and
the admissions goal is to create a diverse pool of students.
An overview of the program and the online application
can be found at: http://beacon-center.org/ude/ .Appli-
cations consist of a short statement of interest, a letter
of recommendation, and the title and abstract of the
poster to be presented.
Two events organized by the program on June 20th, the
Undergraduate Futures Lecture and Panel Discussion
(11:30AM) and Undergraduate Ice Cream Social (8PM),
are open to ANY attending undergraduates or post-
baccalaureates, regardless of award status/eligibility, as
well as their advisors/mentors.
We are also looking for mentors for the program. Please
email Dr. Kliman or indicate your interest in being a
mentor on the Evolution 2016 conference registration
form.
For inquires, please contact one of the organiz-
ers: Alexa Warwick awarwick@msu.edu Richard Kli-
man - rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu Scott Edwards - sed-
wards@fas.harvard.edu
\awarwick@msu.edu" <awarwick@msu.edu >ColoradoStateU
GenomicsOfAdaptation Jul30
We are pleased to announce a symposium on Genomics
of Adaptation to Human Contexts will be held at Col-
orado State University on July 30, 2016. This sympo-
sium will highlight exemplar research that uses large
genomic datasets to investigate ecology and evolution
in the Anthropocene, featuring keynote talks by Regina
Baucom (UMichigan) and Robert Wayne (UCLA). The
symposium will be paired with a Software Carpentry
workshop (July 28-29, 2016) to train early career re-
searchers in the essential programmatic tools needed to
analyze such datasets. The symposium and accompany-
ing workshop are jointly funded by the American Genetic
Association and the Genetics Society of America. Please
see our website (https://adapt2humans.wordpress.com/)
for information on how to register and more!
Registration is required but free for both the workshop
and symposium. Space in the workshop is limited, and
we will be oering limited travel funds for workshop
attendees traveling from outside of the local area. Reg-
istration closes on May 15.
See you in July! Brook Moyers (moyers@colostate.edy)
Kathryn Turner (kathryn.g.turner@gmail.com) Chris
Schell (chris.schell@colostate.edu)
brook.moyers@gmail.com
CornellU EEID EvolutionDisease
Jun3-5
Dear Friends and Colleagues,
*There is one week left to Register and Submit an Ab-
stract for the Ecology and Evolution of Infectious Dis-
ease meeting to be held at Cornell University June 3-5.*
Registration and Abstract Submission will close on May
2.
For those of you who may be interested in presenting
a poster, we will be working with a professional poster
printing service that accept your electronic les and
credit card payments and deliver the posters to me theMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 5
day before the conference. I will the posters printed
through this service available on the rst day of the con-
ference - no carrying your poster on the plane! Details
on this service will be sent with the formal poster assign-
ments shortly after the abstract submission deadline.
Registration fees are $100 for Students and $175 for Fac-
ulty/Sta. On-campus lodging is also modestly priced.
Link for Registration: http://blogs.cornell.edu/eeid/-
eeid-2016-registration/ Link for Abstract Submission:
http://blogs.cornell.edu/eeid/eeid-2016-abstracts/ Link
for Travel and Lodging: http://blogs.cornell.edu/eeid/-
eeid-2016-travel-and-lodging/ There are four primary
themes for the meeting, with both theoretical and em-
pirical work in plant and animal systems to be included
under all themes:
1) Polymicrobial Infection and Disease 2) Pathogen
Dynamics within the Host 3) Pathogen Genomics, Evo-
lution, and Selective Constraints 4) Disease Outbreaks
on the Landscape Scale
We have an excellent lineup of invited speakers and will
draw additional oral presentations from the submitted
abstracts.
Invited Speakers: Samuel Alizon (CNRS) Raul Andino
(UC San Francisco) Greg Dwyer (University of Chicago)
Nicole Gerardo (Emory University) Eric Harvill (Uni-
versity of Georgia) Eileen Hofmann (Old Dominion Uni-
versity) Britt Koskella (UC Berkeley) Kevin Laerty
(UC Santa Barbara) Alex Perkins (Notre Dame)
On behalf of the organizing committee, we look forward
to welcoming you to Cornell for EEID 2016.
Brian P. Lazzaro, Ph.D. Professor, Department of En-
tomology Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853 USA
tel: 607-255-3254 fax: 607-255-0939 http:/-
/www.lazzaro.entomology.cornell.edu bplaz-
zaro@gmail.com
DurhamNC
EvolutionaryMedicineSociety
Jun22-25
The 2016 annual meeting of the International Society
for Evolution, Medicine and Public Health (ISEMPH)
will take place from June 22-25, 2016 in Durham, North
Carolina.
All interested scientists, scholars, students and cliniciansare welcome.
The program features 6 plenary talks, 100 oral presen-
tations and 43 poster presentations, and plenty of time
to talk with others who share interests in using evolu-
tionary biology to better understand, prevent and treat
disease...and those who study disease to advance basic
evolutionary biology.
The program for the June 22-25th meeting of the Interna-
tional Society for Evolution, Medicine & Public Health is
now available at http://easychair.org/smart-program/-
ISEMPH2016/ REGISTRATION FEES INCREASE
ON MAY 1ST.
For full information see: https://-
evolutionarymedicine.org/isemph2016/ To go directly
to registration go to: https://www.regonline.com/-
register/checkin.aspx?EventId62428&MethodId=-
0&EventSessionId=&startnewreg=1 Plenary speakers
include:
-Andrea Graham (Princeton University),
-Carl Zimmer (New York Times),
-Helen Ball (Durham University, UK),
-Joshua Schiman (University of Utah),
-Marion Koopmans (Erasmus University) and
-Martin Blaser (New York University).
{Wednesday Sessions{
EvMed Director's Meeting
EvMed Student's Meeting
{Thursday Plenaries{
Joshua Schiman
Topic: Evolution and Cancer
Helen Ball
Changing UK guidance and practice around maternal-
infant sleep'did an evolutionary perspective help?
{Thursday Sessions{
Cancer
Human evolution and paleopathology
Selection, stress and homeostasis
Behavior and vulnerability
Sleep
Somatic cell mutation, selection and evolution in health
and disease
Immune response
Reproductive ecology of human health6 EvolDir May 1, 2016
{Friday Plenaries{
Carl Zimmer
Evolutionary Medicine and the Media: Engaging Stories
and Tricky Concepts
Martin Blaser
Human Evolution 201: Our early life microbial
metagenome guides developmental phenotypes
{Friday Sessions{
Genetics, vulnerability and selection
Lessons from our primate cousins: Evolutionary
medicine in nonhuman primate studies
General evolution and medicine
Human evolution, adaptation and disease in Africa
Selection, stress and homeostasis
Microbiome and evolutionary medicine
Translating evolutionary medicine to the clinic{practical
lessons for patient care
Life history
{Saturday Plenaries{
Andrea Graham
Why do immune systems harm their bearers? The evo-
lutionary biology of \friendly re"
Marion Koopmans
Topic: Evolution and infectious disease
{Saturday Sessions{
Evolutionary medicine: A comparative cross species
perspective
Metabolism and mismatch
Early nutrition
Human Evolution
Omenn Prize Award Winner
Williams Prize Award Winner
Frontiers of evolutionary medicine
Pathogen evolution
{Sunday Excursions{
Duke Lemur Center
Museum of Natural Sciences
Randolph Nesse <nesse@asu.edu >Edinburgh TelomereDynamics 31Oct
We are pleased to announce an international conference
on \Understanding diversity in telomere dynamics" in
Edinburgh, 31st Oct - 3rd November.
In recent years, there has been a burgeoning of interest
in how telomere dynamics vary across species and in
whether this variation has its roots in, or constrains, the
evolution of life histories. The aim of this meeting is
to bring together biologists from dierent backgrounds,
and at dierent career stages, with research interests
in the causes and consequences of variation in telomere
length. The meeting forms part of a workshop series
conducted as part of an international network on telom-
ere dynamics, funded by the Leverhulme Trust. The
organisers are Pat Monaghan (University of Glasgow)
and Dan Nussey (University of Edinburgh). Topics to
be covered will include:
How best to measure variation in telomere length
across species and individuals Environmental and ge-
netic sources of variation in telomere length Telomeres
and the ageing process How variation in telomere loss
and restoration relates to life history variation
Plenary speakers: Vera Gorbunova (University of
Rochester, USA) Pat Monaghan (University of Glas-
gow, UK) Jerry Shay (University of Texas Southwestern
Medical Centre, USA) Abraham Aviv (Rutgers New
Jersey Medical School, USA)
Timing and Location of the Meeting: The conference
will take place at the Best Western Kings Manor Hotel,
on the outskirts of Edinburgh. The conference will be
residential, with costs including full bed and board over
the two days of the meeting. We will start with dinner,
followed by talks/discussion on the evening of Monday
31st October 2016, followed by two full days of talks
and discussion, ending with breakfast and departure on
the morning of Thursday 3rd November.
Costs: The cost of attending the meeting (which will in-
clude all registration costs, overnight accommodation for
3 nights (Mon, Tues & Wed) plus breakfast, lunch and
dinner for the duration of the meeting) is 375 per per-
son. Some assistance with travel costs may be available,
particularly for PhD students - contact the organisers
for more information.
Presenting at the Meeting: Slots will be available for
short talks (15 min + 5 mins questions) and highlightMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 7
presentations (5 mins, maximum 2 slides). Abstracts
can be submitted via the registration site below.
Registration: Spaces at the conference are limited to 80
and the registration deadline is 30th June. Please note
that we will allocate space on a rst come - rst served
basis and registration will close early if all spaces are
lled. You can register via our EventBrite webpage:
http://telomerediversity.eventbrite.co.uk For
more information, please contact Mary Ryan:
mary.ryan@glasgow.ac.uk
We look forward to seeing many of you there!
Best Wishes,
Dan Nussey & Pat Monaghan.
{ The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, reg-
istered in Scotland, with registration number SC005336.
\dnussey@stamail.ed.ac.uk"
<dnussey@stamail.ed.ac.uk >
FloridaStateU
EcolEvolutionEthologyFish
Jun14-16
Florida State University (FSU) in Tallahassee, Florida,
is pleased to host the 20th Biennial Ecological and Evo-
lutionary Ethology of Fishes (EEEF) Meeting. The
meeting will be held on the Florida State campus,
with hotel accommodations nearby. Please see https://-
marinelab.fsu.edu/eeef/ for more information.
Early Registration deadline is 29 April 2016. Graduate
student travel grants are available.
The meeting is organized around four primary themes:
Population genomics of shes (Organizer: Joe Travis);
Sensory ecology, movement patterns, and behavior (Or-
ganizer: Nathan Putman); Species Interactions (Orga-
nizer:Chip Cotton); Biodiversity: Discovery, Variation
& Conservation (Organizer: Colette St. Mary). While
you're here, you'll experience Florida's local seafood
and microbreweries. Social events include a welcome
reception, a Cocktail & Posters Session, and a closing
reception at a local watering hole. We hope that you
will also consider hanging around for a while either be-
fore or after the meeting to take advantage of some
of the wonderful natural areas of this region. E. O
Wilson describes the Florida panhandle as one of the
richest biodiversity hotspots in North America. It abso-lutely is like nowhere else in the state, with incredible
National Natural Landmarks that include the Florida
Caverns, Wakulla Springs, and Torreya State Park along
the Apalachicola River. For those seeking more rigor-
ous activities, you can hike the Florida Trail, paddle
the pristine Wacissa River, or bike the Tallahassee-St.
Marks Historic Railroad State Trail. There are countless
outdoor adventures in the region. Beach goers might
want to visit St. George Island State Park and visit
historic Apalachicola.
Kimberly A. Hughes Professor Department of Biologi-
cal Science Florida State University 319 Stadium Drive
Tallahassee, Florida 32306-4295
Ph: 850-645-8553 FAX: 850-645-8447 Oce: 4062 King
Life Sciences Building http://www.bio.fsu.edu/-
faculty-hughes.php \kahughes@bio.fsu.edu"
<kahughes@bio.fsu.edu >
Girona EvolutionMarineMicrobes
Jun18-24
Announcing the 2016 Gordon Research Conference and
Seminar on Marine Microbes:
Marine Microbes GRC The Evolution, Nature and Func-
tion of Microbial Interactions
The theme of this Conference is \Evolution, nature and
function of microbial interactions". Marine/aquatic mi-
crobes live in diverse environments and individual cells
and communities face strong ecological and evolutionary
pressures on dierent spatial and temporal scales. In
such a complex world, microbial interactions critically
drive the evolution of diverse life styles, genome struc-
ture, and cellular response that shape their ecology and
impact on biogeochemical cycles. The Conference will
present and rigorously discuss concepts and ideas at the
forefront of molecular microbial ecology and evolution
in order to elucidate the nature and role of diverse in-
teractions among microbes in all three domains of life
(Archaea, Bacteria and Eukarya) and how it shapes
the functioning of complex biological systems in diverse
marine (oceans, seas) and aquatic (lakes, rivers, ice)
environments. The Conference also aims to include
cutting-edge research from diverse elds (biomedical,
mathematics, modeling) relevant to the broad diversity
of marine microbes (bacteria, archaea, phytoplankton,
protists, and viruses). The Conference will feature pre-
sentations of unpublished work by investigators at the
forefront of the eld in and will provide opportunities8 EvolDir May 1, 2016
for junior scientists, postdocs, and graduate students to
present their work in poster format and exchange ideas
with leaders in the eld. A collegial atmosphere will be
fostered through extensive discussion sessions and daily
opportunities for informal gatherings in the afternoons
and evenings, providing an ideal setting for scientists
from dierent disciplines to exchange ideas, brainstorm
and discuss cross-disciplinary collaborations.
June 19-24, 2016 PGA Catalunya Business and Conven-
tion Centre Girona, Spain
Chair: Catherine Legrand
Web site: http://www.grc.org/programs.aspx?id=-
13275 Online application: http://www.grc.org/-
application.aspx?id=13275 |
Additionally, a Gordon Research Seminar will be held
in conjunction with the above GRC. What is a GRS?
Gordon Research Seminars (GRS) are a series of unique
2-day meetings held in conjunction with an associ-
ated GRC that enable graduate students, post-docs,
and other scientists with comparable levels of expe-
rience to come together in a highly-stimulating and
non-intimidating environment to discuss their current
research and build informal networks with their peers.
The seminars are organized by young investigators with
the support of leading scientists from the associated
GRC.The Marine Microbes GRS is scheduled to take
place from June 18-19, 2016 at PGA Catalunya Business
and Convention Centre, Girona, Spain.
Marine Microbes GRS Microbe Coexistence and Coevo-
lution in a Changing Ocean
The Gordon Research Seminar on Marine Microbes is
a unique forum for graduate students, post-docs, and
other scientists with comparable levels of experience
and education to present and exchange new data and
cutting edge ideas.
Marine microorganisms interact constantly among them-
selves and with other members of the trophic network.
These interactions dene their evolutionary fate and
underlie the biogeochemical uxes that will drive ecolog-
ical processes in current and future oceans. The seminar
will bring together microbial ecologists and evolution-
ary biologists to discuss and debate about where, when
and why marine microbes interact, who are the main
players mediating these processes, and what will be the
resulting evolutionary and ecological outputs.
Chairs: Javier del Campo & Bryndan Durham
Web site: http://www.grc.org/programs.aspx?id=-
15346 Online application: http://www.grc.org/-
application.aspx?id=15346 |
Applications for this meeting must be submitted byMay 21, 2016. Please apply early, as some meetings
become oversubscribed (full) before this deadline. Note:
Applications for oversubscribed meetings will only be
considered by the Conference Chair if more seats become
available due to cancellations.
Javier del Campo <javier.delcampo@botany.ubc.ca >
GoldCoast Australia SMBE
AncientDNA and HumanInnovation
Jul3-7
SMBE2016: Ancient DNA and the eects of human
innovation on genomes - Gold Coast, Australia, July
3rd-7th 2016
Dear colleagues ,
We would like to invite you to join a symposium on
ancient DNA and the eects of human innovation to
be held at Annual Meeting of the Society for Molecular
Biology and Evolution (SMBE) in Gold Coast, Australia
this July. PLEASE NOTE that the abstract submis-
sion deadline and the early bird registration deadline
have been extended to April 29 ^th midnight (Eastern
Australian time).
Invited speakers of the symposium are Christina Warin-
ner (University of Oklahoma) and Wolfgang Haak (MPI-
SHH Jena/University of Adelaide).
Symposium description:
Human innovation - such as the invention of the wheel,
the use of boats and the Neolithic revolution - led to ma-
jor migrations as well as changes in lifestyle throughout
history. Humans encountered new ecosystems, domes-
ticated plants and animals, and were faced with new
pathogens. These changes did not just aect the genome
of our species, but also the genomes of a number of the
species around us. Examples of such eects include the
development of domesticated species, the extinction of
wild fauna, the strong selective sweep causing lactase
persistence, and human population growth as well as
admixture among populations during secondary contact.
Inferring past events from modern populations has its
limitations, but the technological revolution in the eld
of ancient genomics oers the unique opportunity to
study populations before, during and after these events.
Using the temporal data provided by ancient DNA, a
population's demographic history, the general develop-
ment of genetic diversity as well as allele frequencies at
particular candidate loci can be studied. This sympo-May 1, 2016 EvolDir 9
sium will gather researchers working on the population
history of humans, animals, plants and other organ-
isms as well as their interactions using ancient DNA.
Bringing these people together will start fruitful discus-
sions among researchers who study the same processes
but who approach them from dierent angles. Particu-
larly abstracts addressing the following questions will
be selected:
(i) What migration routes were taken and how did these
population movements shape the modern day population
diversity?
(ii) Were domesticated animals and plants accompany-
ing the movements?
(iii) Has human innovation caused specic changes in
the genomes of the species involved?
(iv) What impact did the migrants have on wild ora
and fauna?
(v) How did pathogens shape the genetic setup of human
and animal populations?
Looking forward to see you in Australia,
Cristina Valdiosera (La Trobe University, Australia)
Emma Svensson (Uppsala University, Sweden)
Helena Malmstr om (Uppsala University, Sweden)
Torsten G unther (Uppsala University, Sweden)
//
tguenther@zoho.com
Gold Coast Australia SMBE
StructuralVariation Jul3-7
Dear colleagues,
We are pleased to announce the symposium \Struc-
tural variation in the light of new sequencing technolo-
gies" as part of the July 2016 SMBE meeting in Gold
Coast, Australia. We encourage you to submit your
abstracts for oral presentations before April 22 (http:/-
/smbe2016.org/).
INVITED SPEAKERS: Esther Betr an (The University
of Texas at Arlington) Tomas Marques-Bonet (Institut
Biologia Evolutiva, Universitat Pompeu Fabra/CSIC,
Barcelona)
ORGANIZERS: Arcadi Navarro, Diego Hartasanchez,
Marina Bras o-Vives and Josephine Daub (Institut Bi-ologia Evolutiva, Universitat Pompeu Fabra/CSIC,
Barcelona, Spain) Hideki Innan (The Graduate Uni-
versity for Advanced Studies, Hayama, Japan)
SUMMARY: Structural variation, including segmental
duplications, copy-number variation and inversions, con-
stitute a substantial part of variation in the genomes of
humans and other species. Structural variation plays a
signicant role in evolution, since it can lead to large-
scale functional innovation. A better knowledge of the
way structural variants arise and evolve, is helping us
to understand how they relate to phenotypes that are
relevant for both human health and the evolution of
our lineage. For this reason, mapping the position of
structural variants, obtaining their sequences, annotat-
ing their functional contents and understanding their
dynamics has gained much interest in the scientic com-
munity. Until recently, questions regarding structural
variation have been dicult to answer given the limita-
tions of short-read technologies and the relative scarcity
of theoretical and numerical tools. New sequencing
methods, such as single molecule real time sequencing
(SMRT), allow us to gain more insight into the molecular
evolution of structural variation. Novel approaches to
exploit long-read technologies and data sets have already
produced various results on intra and inter-specic copy-
number variation and on dierences within structural
variants themselves. Additionally, recent methodologi-
cal advances allow novel insights into data. With this
symposium we aim to address how the latest sequencing
methods, analytical approaches and data sets can fur-
ther improve our understanding of the role of structural
variation in evolution.
We look forward to seeing you in Australia!
Josephine Daub Postdoctoral Researcher
Evolutionary Genomics Lab Institut de Biologia Evolu-
tiva (UPF- CSIC) c/ Dr Aiguader 88 08003 Barcelona
email: josephine.daub@upf.edu
\josephine.daub@upf.edu" <josephine.daub@upf.edu >
Gotland PhDStudentsEvolBiol
Sep11-15
The 22nd Meeting for PhD Students in Evolutionary
Biology, organized by Uppsala University Location: Got-
land, Sweden Date: September 11-15th, 2016 Website:
http://empseb22.org/ EMPSEB provides a platform for
PhD students studying Evolutionary Biology to present10 EvolDir May 1, 2016
their work and to meet their peers from across Eu-
rope. Joining the participants are 8 senior scientists
who are invited to give plenary talks, run discussion
groups, and to provide guidance about starting your
scientic career. All of this will be conducted on the
beautiful Baltic island of Gotland. The meeting pro-
vides the unique opportunity for students to hear the
latest research being conducted in Europe, meet fu-
ture international collaborators, and to present their
own work to peers. Registration and abstract submis-
sion: Is now open and will close on the 15th of May.
Plenary Speakers: Hanna Kokko, University of Zurich;
Katerina Guschanski, Uppsala University, plus more
speakers to be announced in the coming days on our
website, Facebook and Twitter. Follow us on Face-
book! https://www.facebook.com/empseb22/?fref=ts
and on Twitter! @EMPSEB22 For further information
or questions, please visit the conference website: http://-
empseb22.org/ If you have any questions, please feel free
to email the EMPSEB22 committee president, William
Jones at empseb22@gmail.com. We are looking forward
to welcoming you to the wonderful island of Gotland in
September 2016!
\william.jones@ebc.uu.se" <william.jones@ebc.uu.se >
Hinxton UK
VirusGenomicsEvolution Jun8-10
AdvancedCourses and Scientic Conferences
VirusGenomics and Evolution
8-10June 2016
WellcomeGenome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, UK
LastCall for Abstracts: Deadline 26 April http://-
dmtrk.net/t/2SUU-7OBK-SPQ6L-2T844-0/c.aspx Fi-
nalabstracts are invited for this new conference. This
meeting will provide a multidisciplinary forum for scien-
tists interested in the genomics and evolutionary analysis
of viruses and will address the fundamental questions
of viral origins, transmission and pathogenesis.
Theprogramme will cover the genomics of epidemic
and non-epidemic viruses, emerging viral infections and
pathogen discovery. A draft programme is now avail-
able: http://dmtrk.net/t/2SUU-7OBK-SPQ6L-2T845-
0/c.aspx Scienticsessions
^ aViral genome sequencing: diagnostics and public health
^ aVirus discovery^ aEpidemics
^ aEvolution of pathogenesis
^ aRe-emerging viral infections
Wewelcome abstracts from all areas relevant to the main
themes of the meeting. Several oral presentations will
be chosen from the abstracts submitted.
Allabstracts must be received by 26 April. The registra-
tion deadline is 10 May.
Forfurther information, please visit the website: http:/-
/dmtrk.net/t/2SUU-7OBK-SPQ6L-2T846-0/c.aspx Sci-
enticprogramme committee
JudithBreuer (University College London, UK)
AndrewRambaut (University of Edinburgh, UK)
EmmaThompson (University of Glasgow, UK)
Keynotespeakers
IanGoodfellow (University of Cambridge, UK)
IanLipkin (Columbia University, USA)
Conrmedspeakers
KristianAndersen (Scripps Research Institute, USA)
EllieBarnes (University of Oxford, UK)
SarahCobey (University of Chicago, USA)
JanFelix Drexler (University of Bonn Medical Centre,
Germany)
JenniferGardy (University of British Columbia, Canada)
EddieHolmes (University of Sydney, Australia)
PaulKellam (Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, UK)
PhilippeLemey (Rega Institute, Belgium)
MarionKoopmans (Erasmus Medical Center, The
Netherlands)
NickLoman (University of Birmingham, UK)
OliverPybus (University of Oxford, UK)
Anne-MiekeVandamme (Rega Institute, Belgium)
MarcoVignuzzi (Institut Pasteur, France)
Datesfor your diary
Abstractdeadline: 26 April
Registrationdeadline: 10 May
ViewFull Details:
http://dmtrk.net/t/2SUU-7OBK-SPQ6L-2T846-0/-
c.aspx Pleasefeel free to forward this information to
your colleagues.
Ourupcoming events poster is also available for down-May 1, 2016 EvolDir 11
load: http://dmtrk.net/t/2SUU-7OBK-SPQ6L-2T847-
0/c.aspx Updatescan be followed on Twitter: http://-
dmtrk.net/t/2SUU-7OBK-SPQ6L-2T848-0/c.aspx and
Facebook: http://dmtrk.net/t/2SUU-7OBK-SPQ6L-
2T849-0/c.aspx Pleasedo not reply to this email.
For further information, please contact coursesand-
confs@wellcomegenomecampus.org (use \unsubscribe"
in the subject line if you no longer wish to receive up-
dates on courses and conferences).
Usethe following link to unsubscribe from all Wellcome
Trust Communications: http://dmtrk.net/t/2SUU-
7OBK-58SPQ6L97/uns.aspx TheWellcome Genome
Campus is operated by Genome Research Limited
(GRL), a subsidiary of The Wellcome Trust. GRL is a
charity registered in England with the number 1021457.
Treasa Creavin <treasa.creavin@wellcomegenomecampus.org >
Ilhabela Brazil AmoebaeSystematics
Sep12-15
Dear colleague,
It is with great pleasure that we invite you to the 8th
International Symposium on Testate Amoebae, during
the days of September 12-15th, in Ilhabela, S~ ao Paulo,
Brazil.
The Symposium is promoted every two years by the
International Society for Testate Amoebae Research
(ISTAR). It typically gathers participants from more
than 20 countries, presenting projects on all aspects of
research in Testate Amoebae - taxonomy, systematics,
ecology, paleontology among others. This year, it is
the rst time in history that ISTA will be held in the
Americas, this was made possible by the logistical and
structural help of the Brazilian Society of Protozoology
(SBPz).
A very special feature of this symposium is the rst-
ever, ISOP (International Society of Protistologists)
sponsored Young Testate Amoebae Investigator Award
(ISOP/YoTAR). Six young scientists will be awarded
with this prize and have the opportunity to present
in a special session during the conference. A nancial
reimbursement will be provided to help these young
scientists to attend the conference. More details are
available at the symposium website.
Keynote presentations will be made by:
Dr. Laura Katz Smith College, MA, USA Dr. Mar-iusz Lametowiczs Adam Mickiewicz University, Poznan,
Poland Dr. Anush Kosakyan University of S~ ao Paulo,
SP, Brazil Dr. Susannah Porter Department of Earth
Science, University of California at Santa Barbara
Registration is open until May 20th. More details are
available at the website:
www.ista8.com.br With kind regards,
The ISTA8 organizing committee.
daniel.lahr@gmail.com
Kew UK PlantEvolution May11-12
Last chance to submit an abstract and register for the
inaugural State of the World's Plants Symposium: 11-12
May, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.
Dr Mimi Tanimoto MRSB
Senior Science Ocer - Education and Communication
Oce of the Science Directorate Royal Botanic Gardens,
Kew Richmond, Surrey TW9 3AE
020 8332 5102
m.tanimoto@kew.org
www.kew.org State of the World's Plants Symposium
11-12 May 2016, Kew Gardens
SOTWP landscape banner 1005x405
Mimi Tanimoto <M.Tanimoto@kew.org >
London EvolutionaryConict Jun8
Dear colleagues,
Registration for 2016 CEE (Centre for Ecology & Evo-
lution) Summer symposium 2016 entitled: \War and
peace: the dynamics of evolutionary conict" is now
live.
We are delighted to welcome 9 speakers (info on website)
from leading UK research institutions (UCL, Edinburgh,
Exeter, Liverpool, Oxford, Sheeld and Sussex) who
will cover four main research themes:
- Intralocus and interlocus sexual conicts12 EvolDir May 1, 2016
- Intragenomic conicts
- Genomics of sexual dimorphism
This one-day conference will be held in the Sir Alexander
Fleming Building at Imperial College London, South
Kensington, on June 8th.
As well as these 9 invited talks we also invite applica-
tions from PhD students to give 3 short talks during the
conference, and present posters as well. This symposium
is an excellent opportunity for younger researchers to
network and present their current work.
To attend and/or submit a talk or if you have any further
enquiries please visit the event website, linked below.
Deadline for registration and abstract submission is May
20^th.
We look forward to seeing you on the 8 ^th June!
On behalf of the CEE Summer Symposium organisation
committee.
(Brian Hollis, Kevin Fowler, Mark Hill, Filip Ruzicka)
Event website: http://ceesymposium2016.weebly.com
[7356472.jpg?1458915307] CEE Summer Symposium
2016 ceesymposium2016.weebly.com The 2016 CEE
(Centre for Ecology & Evolution) Summer Symposium
will be held in the Sir Alexander Fleming Building at
Imperial College London, South Kensington, on June
8th. The topic of...
Twitter updates: #ceess2016
\Hill, Mark" <mark.hill.13@ucl.ac.uk >
Manchester MolGenomeEvolution
Jun20
Registration and abstract submission are now open for
Manchester's Molecular and Genome Evolution Sympo-
sium (#MaGE2016) on Monday 20th June!
The remit of the symposium is broad, including all
aspects of molecular and genome evolution, rang-
ing from genomic analyses or computational algo-
rithm development, to molecular ecology, population
genetics, and experimental evolution (see https://-
manchestermage.wordpress.com/)
MaGE 2016 will be a day-long event in Manchester's
Michael Smith Building including two plenary lectures,
a series of contributed talks, and a poster session. Ple-
nary lectures will be given by Mary O'Connell (whohas recently set up a Computational & Molecular Evo-
lutionary Biology Group at the University of Leeds:
http://mol-evol.org) and Jonas Warringer (known for
his work on genotype-phenotype relationships at the
University of Gothenberg).
MaGE is free to attend, but places are limited so please
register at https://goo.gl/aAKlq9 and submit a title
if you would like to present a talk or poster. We are
particularly keen to give PhD students and post-docs a
chance to present their work. All contributed talks and
posters will also be considered for a prize, presented at
the drinks reception following the symposium.
Hope to see you in June!
MaGE 2016 Organisers
dannagiord@gmail.com
MNHN Paris
HumanDNApolymorphism Dec7-10
CONFERENCE ANNOUNCEMENT
The 6th international conference of the series DNA
POLYMORPHISMS IN HUMAN POPULATIONS will
be held in Paris (France), 7-10 December 2016 at the
Musee de l'Homme.
The conference has a general topic: (Cross-Disciplinary)
Human Population Genetics. The conference will be
hybrid, allying plenary sessions and four specialized
workshops.
A *call for abstracts* is now open until the *27 ^th of
May, 2016*. Registrations will start in September.
You can submit abstracts concerning posters, talks in
plenary sessions or talks in the frame of the workshops.
Multiple abstracts are accepted. To submit, just send
an abstract through the conference website. There is
room for one more workshop. If you want to organize it
(scientically), please send a proposal.
Conference website:
http://ecoanthropologie.mnhn.fr/DPHP2016/-
DPHP2016.htm Contact:
dnaparis2016@gmail.com
Franz MANNI <fmanni@mnhn.fr >May 1, 2016 EvolDir 13
Montpellier EcolEvolutionModels
Jun6-7
Hi everyone,
We are pleased to invite you to the seventh edition of
the seminar for students \Models in Ecology and Evolu-
tion" (MEE). The seminar will be held in Montpellier
on Monday, June 6 and Tuesday, June 7 at the Institut
de botanique.
This seminar, organized by PhD students, is intended
for masters, PhD students and post-doctoral researchers
with interests in theoretical and modeling approaches
in ecology and evolution. The aim is threefold: - Give
an overview of the current modeling techniques used
in ecology and evolution: which tools for which ques-
tions? - Highlight the similarities and complementarities
between the dierent approaches through stimulating
debates. - Discuss how models contribute to scientic
knowledge and how their outcome is of use to society.
This seminar consists of a series of talks by both in-
vited researchers and students, and aims at promoting
exchanges between the participants. Everyone will be
invited on Monday evening to chat over a beer in down-
town Montpellier.
Registration is free and lunches will be provided by the
organization. We encourage participants to register as
quickly as possible and to submit talks (15 minutes +
10 minutes for discussion). The deadline for registration
is the 2nd of May, 2016.
Link for registration and submission of abstracts: http:/-
/www.mee.univ-montp2.fr/registration-3/ The invited
speakers are: Calcagno Vincent (INRA, Nice) Casenave
C eline ( INRA, Montpellier) Dutreuil S ebastien (U Sor-
bonne, Paris) Fra sse Christelle (IST, Vienne, Autriche)
Gidoin Cindy (CREEC, Montpellier) Llaurens Violaine
(MNHN, Paris)
We look forward to seeing many of you in June in Mont-
pellier!
The organization team, Yoann Anciaux, Thomas Aubier,
Alain Danet, Marion Jourdan, Thomas Koel, Mar-
jolaine Rousselle http://www.mee.univ-montp2.fr/
Yoann ANCIAUX PhD (2nd Year) at ISEM (Institut
des Sciences de l'Evolution de Montpellier).
+ 33 (0)6 19 86 58 90 anciaux.yoann@gmail.com
Anciaux Yoann <anciaux.yoann@gmail.com >Montreal RECOMB
ComparativeGenomics Oct11-14
RECOMB COMPARATIVE GENOMICS 2016, CALL
FOR PAPERS
SCOPE The annual RECOMB Comparative Genomics
Satellite Conference (RECOMB-CG) brings together
leading researchers in the mathematical, computational
and life sciences to discuss cutting edge research in
comparative genomics, with an emphasis on computa-
tional approaches and the analysis of novel experimental
results. The program will include keynote talks, con-
tributed talks, and a poster session.
The 14th RECOMB-CG conference will be held in
Montr ~A^A ©al, Canada, October 11-14 2016. With this
Call for Papers we invite high-quality original full pa-
pers on topics related to the conference theme. The
conference will also have a poster session. A detailed
call for posters will be published later on the conference
web page.
TOPICS Papers are solicited on, but not limited to,
the following topics: - genome evolution - genome rear-
rangements - genome variation, diversity and dynamics
- phylogenomics - comparative tools for genome assem-
bly - population genomics - comparison of functional
networks - comparative epigenomics - paleogenomics -
cancer evolution genomics - epidemiology - gene identi-
cation and/or annotation
IMPORTANT DATES Paper Submission Deadline:
June 6, 2016 Author Notication: July 8, 2016 Final
Version Due: July 22, 2016 Conference: October 11-14,
2016
DETAILS ON SUBMITTING MANUSCRIPTS Submit-
ted papers must have not been published or be currently
under consideration for publication in any other journal
or conference with formal proceedings. All accepted
papers will have to be presented by one of the authors
at the conference.
Accepted papers will be published in one of three jour-
nals: - a special issue of BMC Genomics, edited by
a RECOMB-CG PC chair, - a special issue of BMC
Bioinformatics, edited by a RECOMB-CG PC chair,
- a special section of a regular issue of Bioinformatics
(Oxford University Press), edited by a RECOMB-CG
PC chair and a Bioinformatics Associate Editor.14 EvolDir May 1, 2016
As BMC Genomics and BMC Bioinformatics are Open
Access journals, there will be an author fee of ~A922 (922
Pounds Sterling) for publication in the event that an
article is accepted in one of these two journals.
Papers accepted for presentation at the conference and
considered for publication in Bioinformatics will be sub-
ject to an extra round of reviewing to ensure they meet
the usual standards of the journal. Papers appearing
in Bioinformatics will be subject to the regular fees of
Bioinformatics for extra pages and colour gures for
example.
Authors will need to indicate upon submission their
preferred publication option (BMC Genomics, BMC
Bioinformatics, Bioinformatics). This preference should
be stated in the Abstract section of the Easychair sub-
mission page. However, the nal decision about the
journal for each paper will be taken by the RECOMB-
CG PC chairs and communicated to the authors upon
acceptance.
Papers must be submitted in PDF format according
to the guidelines for authors of the respective journal:
https://bmcbioinformatics.biomedcentral.com/-
submission-guidelines/preparing-your-manuscript
http://www.oxfordjournals.org/our journals/-
bioinformatics/for authors/general.html Papers
submitted in BMC format must be within 10 pages,
while papers submitted in Bioinformatics format must
be limited to 7 pages. In both cases a clearly marked
appendix can be added to the submission that contains
supplementary material made available to the reviewers.
All submissions must be made online, through
the EasyChair submission system, at the follow-
ing address: https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=-
recombcg2016 Authors need to register on that web
site before submitting. A standard PDF le must be
received by midnight on June 6, 2016 (any time zone) in
order for a submission to be considered. Re-submission
of already submitted papers will be possible until mid-
night June 8, 2016 (any time zone).
KEYNOTE SPEAKERS Guillaume Bourque (McGill
University and Genome Quebec) Jos ~A^A ©e Dostie
(McGill University) Edward Marcotte (University of
Texas at Austin) Rebekah Rogers (University of Cali-
fornia at Berkeley) Sohrab Shah (University of British
Columbia and BC Cancer Agency)
PROGRAM COMMITTEE Max Alekseyev (George
Washington University) Lars Arvestad (Stockholm
University) Anne Bergeron (UQAM) Marilia Braga
(Bielefeld University) Cedric Chauve (Simon Fraser
University, co-chair) Leonid Chindelevitch (Simon
Fraser University) Mikl ~A^A3s Cs ~A^Ar~A^A(Universityof Montr ~A^A ©al) Ingo Ebersberger (Goethe Uni-
versity Frankfurt) Nadia El-Mabrouk (University of
Montr ~A^A ©al, co-chair)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Novosibirsk
BioinformaticsGeneRegul
Aug29-Sep2
Download the information letter in PDF for-
mat (Eng): http://conf.bionet.nsc.ru/bgrssb2016/-
wp-content/uploads/sites/2/ 2016/03/2016 0330Info-
letter 2.pdf
Download the information letter in PDF for-
mat (Rus): http://conf.bionet.nsc.ru/bgrssb2016/-
wp-content/uploads/sites/2/ 2016/03/2016 0330Info-
letter-2 rus.pdf
Second information letter
BGRS \SB-2016
10th anniversary International Multiconference
Bioinformatics of Genome Regulation and Structure
Systems Biology
Novosibirsk, Russia, 29 August - 2 September, 2016
http://conf.bionet.nsc.ru/bgrssb2016 Dear colleagues!
Registration to 10th anniversary International Multi-
conference \Bioinformatics of Genome Regulation and
Structure \Systems Biology" - BGRS \SB-2016 contin-
ues!
The Institute of Cytology and Genetics of the Siberian
Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences (ICG SB
RAS) will organize this meeting 29 August - 2 September
2016 in Novosibirsk, Russia.
Since 1998 the conference of BGRSSB series are held
every two years. In 2014, Multiconference BGRS \SB-
2014 was attended by 483 researchers and students from
27 countries. More than 300 reports were presented
(materials are available at: http://conf.bionet.nsc.ru/-
bgrssb2016/archive/)
Multiconference BGRS \SB-2016 will include the follow-
ing research sections and meetings:May 1, 2016 EvolDir 15
- Section \Genomics, transcriptomics and bioinformat-
ics"
- Symposium \Proteomics"
- Section \Systems biology"
- Section \Evolutionary bioinformatics"
- Section \Computational pharmacology"
- Section \Bioinformatics and systems biology of cell
death"
- Symposium \Neuroinformatics"
- Section \Bioinformatics and molecular biology syner-
gism in DNA damage response studies"
- Section \Paleogenetics"
- Section \Systems biology of aging"
- Symposium \Human genetics"
- Section \Animal genetics"
- Section \Bioinformatics and systems biology of plants"
- Symposium \Mathematical modeling and high perfor-
mance computing in bioinformatics, biomedicine and
biotechnology"
Series of collateral events in the frames of the multicon-
ference:
- Open Russian-German workshop on bioinformatics
network \Systems computational biology".
- Young Scientists School \Systems Biology and
Bioinformatics", SBB-2016: 22-25 August 2016.
http://conf.bionet.nsc.ru/bgrssb2016/young-scientists-
school-3/?lang=en - Sino-Russian Symposium on
systems and computational biology with Chinese
universities (BRICS countries).
- The seminar \Systems biology programmed cell death".
- Pre-conference tour to Altai mountains: August 25-28,
2016: http://conf.bionet.nsc.ru/bgrssb2016/tour-altai/
- Social Events (Novosibirsk sightseeing tour).
The conference participants have opportunity to pub-
lish full-text papers in special issues of international
science journals (BioMed Central series, see details at
conference website)
The conference language is English
Registration details: http://conf.bionet.nsc.ru/-
bgrssb2016/?lang=en Important dates:
- Registration and abstracts submission for BGRS \SB-
2016 and Young Scientists School SBB-2016 - May 20,
2016
- Notication of inclusion of the reports to the conferenceprogram and to the School program - June 10, 2016
- Young Scientists School: 22-25 August, 2016
- Tour to Altai mountains: 25-28 August, 2016
- The multiconference: 29 August - 2 September, 2016
Sincerely yours BGRS \SB-2016 Program Committee
Our contacts: bgrs2016@icg.sbras.ru,
BGRS \SB-2016 website: http://conf.bionet.nsc.ru/-
bgrssb2016/?lang=en ICG SB RAS website:
www.bionet.nsc.ru BGRS2016 Organizing Com-
mittee <bgrs2016@icg.sbras.ru >
Perugia Italy
ComputLandscapeGenetics Oct12-14
*Open computational landscape genetics* session
at the
*Open Source Geospatial Research & Education Sym-
posium (OGRS) 2016* http://2016.ogrs-community.org
*October 12-14*, 2016 Perugia, Italy
- Organizer: OGRS 2016 steering committee (http://-
2016.ogrs-community.org) led by Dr Ivan Marchesini,
National Research Council, IRPI, Italy - Conveners of
the session on Open computational landcape genetics:
St ephane Joost, Solange Duruz
Goals of the session: - Gather together people involved
in the development of open software applications used
in the eld of population and landscape genetics or in
other subelds of evolutionary biology with a geographic
dimension. - Unique opportunity for the scientic com-
munity active at the intersection of computer science,
evolutionary biology and geographic information science
to present recent or previous works, to share knowledge
and to discuss the main advantages and drawbacks of
developing open source software solutions. - Take stock
of the situation as regards dierent challenges for open
computational landscape genetics (e.g. whole genome
sequence data, training of biogeoinformaticians, eec-
tive use of computational landscape genetic solutions in
conservation programmes)
Invited speakers: *Dr Olivier Fran cois*, Laboratory
TIMC-IMAG, CNRS, UniversityJoseph Fourier, Greno-
ble France *Dr Thibaut Jombart*, Department of In-
fectious Disease Epidemiology, Imperial College, Lon-
don *Dr Ezechiel Nicolazzi*, Parco Tecnologico Padano16 EvolDir May 1, 2016
§Statistical Genomics and Bioinformatics group
The call for short papers (1000-1500 words) is now open
until *June 15, 2016*. All publications will be released
in collaboration with the PeerJ Open Access publisher.
Symposium proceedings will be published within a ded-
icated PeerJ Collection and the best papers will be
seleted for submission to the PeerJ Computer Science
journal.
All information and instructions for submission are
available here: - http://2016.ogrs-community.org/-
submission-of-short-papers Initial short paper submit-
ted by the conveners of the session and describing the
context of open computational landscape genetics. -
https://peerj.com/preprints/1721/ *Important Dates*
- Deadline for submission of short papers (1000 to 1500
words): June 15, 2016 - Decision: August 26, 2016 -
Program published: September 5, 2016 - Deadline for
early registration: September 19, 2016
*Registration* - http://2016.ogrs-community.org/-
registration *Additional information*:
stephane.joost[at]ep.ch
On behalf of the OGRS steering committee, Dr St ephane
Joost, EPFL, Switzerland
stephane.joost@ep.ch
UBraunschweig Adaptation
Adaptation in nature \from ecology to genomes Envi-
ronmental conditions change constantly and individuals
have to adapt in order to persist. Adaptation therefore
plays a central role in evolutionary processes. How-
ever, there are considerable gaps between ecological
and genetic perspectives on adaptive evolution. Despite
revolutionary changes in data acquisition in molecular
biology, our current knowledge about trait evolution
in natural systems is scarce. A holistic view on evo-
lutionary processes is typically hampered by a lack of
knowledge about the threads connecting molecular ge-
netic traits with higher-level phenotypes. Filling these
gaps has been considered a key challenge for biologists
of the 21st century.
Research towards these goals must be highly integrative
and cover results from organismal biology as well as
molecular biology. The summer school "Adaptation in
nature\ from ecology to genomes" from September 27th
- 28th 2016, held at the Technische Universit at Braun-
schweig, brings together scientists and students studyingadaption in natural systems. It is a joint meeting of
the Society of Genetics together with the DIP research
unit (Gene expression underlying parallel habitat adap-
tation in salamanders) funded by the German Research
Foundation (DFG) organized by Sebastian Steinfartz
(Braunschweig) and Arne Nolte (Oldenburg). The meet-
ing covers a broad range of topics in the context of
adaptation, such as convergent and parallel evolution,
phenotypic plasticity, ancient adaptation, the ecological
context of evolutionary processes and adaptive radia-
tions. It is the goal of the meeting to highlight studies
that reveal the interplay between molecular evolution,
organismal biology and ecological conditions.
Format and registration: Selected invited speakers will
present their results, but abstracts for additional oral or
poster contributions can be submitted by email to Se-
bastian Steinfartz (s.steinfartz@tu-bs.de). An extended
poster session will be organized such that the presen-
tation of posters takes a prominent spot in the con-
ference schedule. If you are interested in joining the
meeting, please send an email to Sebastian Steinfartz
(s.steinfartz@tu-bs.de) before May 31st 2016. Further
details on the conference and registration will be sent
upon registration.
Awards: The GfG will award the Elisabeth-Gate-Preis
and Anders-Preis to outstanding young researchers dur-
ing the conference.
When: 2 days, Sept. 27th 9:00 am Sept. 28th 16:00 pm.
Where: Technische Universit at Braunschweig (Haupt-
geb aude).
Fee: Admission fee of 40 euro for members of the GfG
otherwise 80 euro. Admission for students is free. Pay-
ment details will be communicated upon ocial regis-
tration.
Conference Dinner: Location tba. Conference dinner
can be attended for a fee of 25 euro. Payment details
will be communicated upon registration.
Accomodation: Attendees are requested to book their
own accommodation. We can provide information on
the conference venue, traveling and accommodation in
and around Braunschweig to those who registered.
Conrmed speakers:
Key Notes: Leif Andersson (Uppsala) Functional ge-
nomics Michael Hofreiter (Potsdam) Evolutionary adap-
tive genomics Axel Meyer (Konstanz) Parallel adapta-
tion in cichlid shes
Invited Speakers Lutz Becks (Pl on) Eco - evolutionary
dynamics Kathryn Elmer (Glasgow) Colour variation
in salamanders Thomas Flatt (Lausanne) Genomics
of adaptation in Drosophila Florian Leese (Essen) Sig-May 1, 2016 EvolDir 17
natures of selection in aquatic invertebrates Juliette
de Meaux (Cologne) Arabidopsis ecological genomics
Markus Pfenniger (Frankfurt) Fish adaptation to toxic
hydrogen-sulphide Karl Schmid (Hohenheim) Adapta-
tion and drift in Arabidopsis relatives Kai St olting (Fri-
bourg) Hybridisation and evolution of Populus
\nolte@evolbio.mpg.de" <nolte@evolbio.mpg.de >
UGoettingen Germany
ConservationGenetics Oct5-7
Reminder
REMINDER: May 1st is the deadline for submission ofabstracts for the '2nd Annual Meeting in Conservation
Genetics - From Research to Applications'
See
www.landscapegenetics.info/consgen16 for details.
The conference will take place October 5th to 7th, 2016
in Goettingen, Germany.
We look forward to seeing you at the meeting!
The organizing committee Niko Balkenhol (University of
G ottingen, Germany) Rolf Holderegger (WSL Birmens-
dorf and ETH Z urich, Switzerland) Gernot Segelbacher
(University of Freiburg, Germany) Janine Bolliger (WSL
Birmensdorf, Switzerland) Axel Hochkirch (Trier Univer-
sity, Germany) Felix Gugerli (WSL Birmensdorf, Swiz-
erland) Frank Zachos (Natural History Museum Vienna,
Austria) Jan Engler (University of G ottingen, Germany)
\niko.balkenhol@forst.uni-goettingen.de"
GradStudentPositions
Bordeaux GenomicsLocalAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
BrandonU EvolutionSoybeanPathogens . . . . . . . . . . . .18
CardiU SheepGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
CharlesU Prague EvolutionOfVisionCichlidFishes . .19
CharlesU Prague HomologyOfSexChromsomes . . . . .20
ClarkU PlasticityLedEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Copenhagen ComputationalPalaeogenomicsMicro-
biomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
DeakinU EvolutionPlasticity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
ETHZurich HostParasiteCoevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
France 15 EnvironmentalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
France DeepSeaGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Grenoble Oxford 2 BacterialGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
London InsectFungalInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
LundU MaternalEectsEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Lyon France Evolutionary genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
MasseyU PolyploidGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
MaxPlanck Tuebingen 5 BioinformaticsEvolutionaryGe-nomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
MelbourneU GenomeDynamics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
MNHN Paris EvolutionWings OrthopteraInsects . . 29
MonashU EvolutionaryTheory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30
MonashU EvolutionSexDierences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31
MonashU EvolutionSexualDimorphism . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
MonashU MitoNuclearEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
NordU Norway EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
NordU Norway NonModelNGS May31-Jun10 . . . . . . 34
SouthernIllinoisU PoisonFrogEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
StockholmNHM Conservation Palaeogenomics . . . . . 35
StockholmU PlantInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .36
Tahiti MarineGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
TrentU WildlifeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
UArkansas EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
UBasel 2 SpeciesRanges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
UBasel 2 SticklebackAdaptationGenomics . . . . . . . . . 39
UCork 3 EvolutionaryEcolCognition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4018 EvolDir May 1, 2016
UGuelph EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
UHudderseld 3 EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UHudderseld EukaryoteEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UIdaho ConservationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
ULille ClimateAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
ULille IFREMER France ExtremophilicNematodes 45
ULondon EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .45
UMelbourne Evolution postgrads postdocs exchange 46
UOslo Mycology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46UOtago NewZealand ConservationGenomics . . . . . . .47
UppsalaU EvolutionHostAdaptedBacteria . . . . . . . . . 47
USouthernMississippi FishPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
UTrento InsectNeuroimaging StartingNovDeadline-
May10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
UZurich ComputEvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
VrijeU Brussel AntarcticSeaStars . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Bordeaux GenomicsLocalAdaptation
Dear all,
We have opened a PhD position at the University of Bor-
deaux doctoral school to work on 'Ecological genomics of
local adaptation in maritime pine' at INRA-BIOGECO
(see www.bordeaux-aquitaine.inra.fr/biogeco). The
PhD topic is associated with two well-funded projects,
one from the Initiative of Excellence of Univ. Bordeaux
and another one, GenTree, a H2020 European project
that will give an international dimension to the student
research.
This is a very nice setting for a young researcher to do
its PhD and we are searching for enthusiastic candidates
that would like to join our team at Bordeaux.
A full description of the PhD project can be
found at https://ed-environnements.u-bordeaux.fr/-
content/download/11451/99751/version/1/le/-
BIOGECO %202016 Gonzalez.pdf Deadline to deposit
candidatures is very short (May 9th) and we would
appreciate maximum diusion of this oer.
Thank you and have a good w-e,
Santiago
{ Santiago C. Gonzalez-Martinez Research Director
INRA, UMR1202 BIOGECO: Biodiversity, Genes &
Communities 69, route d'Arcachon F-33610 Cestas,
France Tlf: ++33(0)557122757
email: santiago.gonzalez-martinez@pierroton.inra.fr
skype/gmail: santiago.c.gonzalez.martinez web:
www.bordeaux-aquitaine.inra.fr/biogeco personal
web: sites.google.com/site/santiagocgonzalezmartinez
***updated October 2015***
santiago.c.gonzalez.martinez@gmail.comBrandonU
EvolutionSoybeanPathogens
Funded MSc Position in Soybean Diseases
We are seeking a highly motivated MSc student to work
on projects related to the evolution of pathogen diver-
sity in soybean. Projects include examining natural co-
infection rates and sequence divergence among strains.
The research is highly integrative; combining eld work,
bioinformatics and cutting-edge molecular biology tools.
Interested students are encouraged to contact Dr. Bryan
Cassone (cassoneb@brandonu.ca). Please include a brief
description of your interest and a CV in your email.
Closing Date: Open until lled
Start Date: Summer 2016 preferred
Founded in 1899, Brandon University is a small but
thriving institution located in southwestern Manitoba.
Students have access to fully renovated labs, greenhouses
and growth chambers, as well as state-of-the-art molec-
ular and computational equipment.
Bryan Cassone <CassoneB@BrandonU.CA >
CardiU SheepGenomics
PhD studentship (Cardi University, United Kingdom)
- Genome-wide analysisof maternal ability in the Lleyn
sheep
Project Description: This project will be carried out
at CardiUniversity (CU) using cutting edge genomicsMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 19
tools to identify the genetic basisof key valuable produc-
tion characteristics of the Lleyn breed, especiallymater-
nal ability and prolicacy. The Lleyn is a very successful
and productivebreed that has grown rapidly for the last
15 years throughout the UK. Lleyn breedimprovement
has been possible through keeping detailed performance
recordingusing powerful statistical tools, but characteris-
ing the breed's genome-widegenetic variation will speed
up this process).
This project will assess allelic variation across
~700,000markers spread across the sheep genome and a
Genome-Wide Association Study(GWAS) will be car-
ried out to identify genes associated with maternal abil-
ityand prolicacy and to estimate Genomic Breeding
Values (GEBVs) forimprovement. The GWAS statistical
approaches will take into considerationenvironmental,
phenotypic and production variables accounting for rel-
evantfactors and their interactions. Further gene-based
analyses will be carried outon the basis of regions iden-
tied in the GWAS analysis to develop a test forthe
Society to be able to screen animals of interest for breed
improvement.
This project will provide excellent training in moderna-
gricultural technology, including genomics, statistical
analysis andexperimental design. It will be carried out in
close collaboration betweenCardi University, the Lleyn
Breed Society (LBS) and Signet FBC performancere-
corders, and will include substantial on-farm research.
Supervisory Team: Professor Michael Bruford (CU su-
pervisor)& Dr Pablo Orozco-terWengel (CU supervisor),
Dr John Adams (collaborator LBS) & Signet FBC (col-
laborator)
Eligibility: Eligible students must have a home of work
addressin the West Wales and the Valleys Convergence
area of Wales* at the time oftheir application to Cardi
University, and at the time they enrol for studies.
As for minimum academic entry conditions for postgrad-
uate research studyat Cardi University
^A Applicants for research PhDs at Cardi University
will be expected to have one or both of the following:
- a rst degree, normallywith class 2:1 or higher, or
equivalent in a relevant subject;
- a relevant Master'squalication or equivalent
^A Start Date: 1st October 2016
Funding: the PhD project is funded by theEuropean
Social Fun (ESF Convergence West Wales and the Val-
leys) by externalpartners from the private and third
sectors, and by Cardi University. ESF funding has not
been formally awarded atthe time of advertising this
studentship - Cardi University will meet anyshortfallin funding if the ESF award is not secured. ^A
^A The Convergence area covers West Wales and the Val-
leys, and is made upof the following 15 local authorities:
Isle of Anglesey, Gwynedd, Conwy,Denbighshire, Ceredi-
gion, Pembrokeshire, Carmarthenshire, Swansea, Neath
PortTalbot, Bridgend, Rhondda Cynon Taf, Merthyr
Tydl, Caerphilly, Blaenau Gwentand Torfaen.
If you are selected for a scholarship, original documen-
tary evidence ofyour eligibility, qualications and income
will be requested prior toconrming our oer of funding.
Application: Applicants shouldapply following the usual
PGR Online application process, specifying theirinterest
in this studentship.
^A The selected candidate will be asked to complete a
'Participant Proposal'form, provided by University su-
pervisors when appropriate, to conrm theirapplication
and eligibility for this studentship.
^A
Pablo Orozco-terWengel
<orozco terwengel@yahoo.com > Pablo Orozco-
terWengel <orozco terwengel@yahoo.com >
CharlesU Prague
EvolutionOfVisionCichlidFishes
Last call: Ph.D. position at Department of Zoology,
Charles University in Prague, Czech Republic.
Topic: Evolution of vision in West African cichlid shes
We are seeking a highly motivated Ph.D. student to join
a project on adaptive molecular evolution of functional
genes in freshwater shes.
The selected Ph.D. candidate will be focused on adap-
tation of photoreceptor genes in endemic cichlid shes
distributed in deep crater lakes and rivers in Africa
(mainly Cameroon). Evolution of visual sensory system
will be approached by genomics and transcriptomics.
The selected Ph.D. student will process already col-
lected material, as well as has an option to actively
participate in the eld sampling in Cameroon.
Start: October 2016. Duration: 4 years.
Salary is composed of the full-time project position
(192'000 CZK annually) + standard university schol-
arship (will start at 75'600 annually and raise up to
115'000 CZK together with the progress of the study
duties), which in total corresponds to the average na-20 EvolDir May 1, 2016
tional salary and suciently covers living costs in the
Czech Republic.
Required: enthusiasm in biology, nature and science;
uency in English; a M.Sc. degree in biology or related
elds (or expected to be nished until September 2016).
Desirable (but not necessary): previous experience with
laboratory work, especially molecular genetic meth-
ods; experience with research projects evidenced by
a (co)authorship of research papers or conference con-
tributions.
Deadline: already 20th April 2016 (last call).
All questions and applications (CV + half-page
motivation letter) should be sent directly to
Zuzana Musilova (zuzmus@gmail.com - preferred ,
zuzana.musilova@natur.cuni.cz).
More info about the Biodiversity Research Group and
the Department of Zoology: http://web.natur.cuni.cz/-
zoologie/biodiversity/index.php?page=3Dmusilova zuz-
mus<zuzmus@gmail.com >
CharlesU Prague
HomologyOfSexChromsomes
CharlesU Prague.HomologyofSexChromosomes
PhD position in Transcriptome analysis and homology
of sex chromosome in reptiles
A position for a PhD candidate is currently open in the
laboratory of Assoc. Prof. Lukas Kratochvil, Depart-
ment of Ecology, Charles Universityin Prague, Czech
Republic. The successful PhD candidate will join our
current projects on the study of the evolution of sex
chromosomes in reptiles with molecular and cytogenetic
methods.
Project description: Recently, we revealed the gene
content of the lacertid lizard Takydromus sexlineatus
through a novel approach combining transcriptomics
and quantitative PCR methodology, and further tested
the homology of the sex chromosomes across other lac-
ertid species. Our results demonstrated thatthe gene
content of the Z chromosome of the lacertids is not
homologous to any reptile including birds, but instead
homologous to the X-conserved region of viviparous
mammals. It is possible that this part of the vertebrate
genome was independently co-opted for the function of
sex chromosomes in viviparous mammals and lacertids
because of its content of genes involved in gonad dif-ferentiation. Therefore, we seek for a motivated PhD
student to further analyze the lacertid sex chromosome
gene content in a comparative framework and to use
this unique system to test hypothesis on the evolution
and co-option of sex chromosomes, using a variety of
molecular genetics and genomic methods.
More information please check ourrecent publications:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26980341 http:/-
/www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27037610 Qualica-
tions: The applicant should possess Master degree (or
equivalent title) and proven expertise in a related eld
of biology: evolutionary biology, cytogenetics, phyloge-
netics, genomics and/or bioinformatics. Previous expe-
rience in herpetology is not necessary. Good knowledge
of the English language is required.
Application: The applicant should send a letter
explaining his/herprevious research experience,
a full CV and contact information for two ref-
erences to both lukas.kratochvil@natur.cuni.cz;
michail.rovatsos@natur.cuni.cz.
The PhD position will be nancially supported with
stipend for maximum time of 4 years, starting from
October 2016.
The deadline for submission of applications is April 24,
2016.
Lukas Kratochvil
Associate Professor Department of Ecology Charles Uni-
versity in Prague Faculty of Science Vinicna 7, 128 43
Praha 2 www.natur.cuni.cz/en Tel.: +420 221 95 1745
e-mail: lukas.kratochvil@natur.cuni.cz
Rovatsos Michail
Biologist, PhD Department of Ecology Faculty of Sci-
ence Charles University in Prague Vinicna 7, 12843
Praha 2
\Michail Rovatsos, Ph.D."
<michail.rovatsos@natur.cuni.cz >
ClarkU PlasticityLedEvolution
Two PhD positions are available in the laboratory of
Susan Foster and John Baker at Clark University in
Worcester MA USA beginning late August 2016 as fol-
lows:
The idea that novel trait expression induced by environ-
mental change (phenotypic plasticity) could inuenceMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 21
the course of evolution, has re-emerged as a core issue
in evolutionary biology in recent years. A central ques-
tion associated with this issue is whether environmental
inuences on plastic phenotypes accelerate evolutionary
rates by exposing previously cryptic genetic variation to
selection, or instead buer populations from evolution-
ary change by producing phenotypes that are adaptive
under the novel conditions. Assessment of these alter-
natives has proven exceptionally dicult.
Research in the Foster-Baker laboratory, involving the
unusual adaptive radiation of the threespine stickleback
sh, Gasterosteus aculeatus, will evaluate these alterna-
tives on both phenotypic and genomic levels by exam-
ining patterns of gene expression in relation to salinity
challenge in oceanic (ancestral) and derived (freshwa-
ter), post-glacial populations in the Pacic northwest
of North America. Our primary, general goals are to
understand whether high levels of ancestral plasticity
are associated with accelerated evolutionary rates both
at the levels of individual candidate loci and in genomic
regions of divergence.
This research is funded by, and is part of, a > $8 million
multinational grant from the John Templeton Foun-
dation involving 49 investigators and 8 leading aca-
demic institutions. The research is designed to examine
the role of plasticity in evolution. The project is led
by Kevin Laland and Tobias Uller (http://synergy.st-
andrews.ac.uk/ees/the-project/). Collaborators on the
Clark component of the research are William Cresko
(University of Oregon), John Gibbons (Clark Univer-
sity), Kevin Laland (St. Andrews University), Juha
Meril a (University of Helsinki), and Matthew Wund
(The College of New Jersey).
Successful applicants will be engaged in this research
project, and so should have an interest in evolution,
genomics and bioinformatics, but also will have the
opportunity to conduct eld research and to design their
own research related to that ongoing in our laboratory.
We are looking for creative, engaged applicants who are
interested in becoming accomplished scholar-mentors,
and who would enjoy the collaborative environment of
our laboratory and also that of our small but active
and highly-respected research university (http://-
wordpress.clarku.edu/foster-baker-lab/). Students
will have the opportunity to participate in workshops
associated with the research at Clark University
(http://www.clarku.edu/articles/clark-university-
biologist-co-lead-87-million-grant-evolutionary-biology),
and also in the larger workshops associated with
Templeton Grant.
Interested students should apply to the Biology Gradu-
ate program through ocial channels at Clark Univer-sity, and submit a single PDF with relevant application
information to Susan Foster sfoster@clarku.edu. The
positions will remain open until lled.
John John A. Baker Research Associate Professor De-
partment of Biology & Environmental Science Pro-
gram Clark University 950 Main Street Worcester, Mas-
sachusetts, USA 01610 Voice: (508) 793.7609 Fax:
(508) 793-7174 Web: http://wordpress.clarku.edu/-
foster-baker-lab/ John Baker <JBaker@Clarku.edu >
Copenhagen Computational-
PalaeogenomicsMicrobiomics
The Natural History Museum, Faculty of Science at
University of Copenhagen is oering a 3 year PhD schol-
arship as part of the ArchSci2020 European Joint Doc-
torate Program (www.archsci2020.eu). The broad topic
is computational palaeogenomics, and is in the group
of Professor Tom Gilbert (http://geogenetics.ku.dk/-
research groups/gilbert groups/), starting ca. Novem-
ber 1st 2016. The ArchSci2020 network oers the
rst European Joint Doctorates in Archaeological Sci-
ences, and was created in recognition that there is
a need to promote international, intersectoral, and
multi/inter-disciplinary collaboration in doctoral-level
training. Thus at the large level, ArchSci2020 will train
a new cohort of bioarchaeological scientists.
Project description Genetic analysis of historic and an-
cient samples through second generation sequencing
platforms is an increasingly powerful means with which
to study the past. In recent years, considerable develop-
ments have been made in the laboratory with regards
to the generation of genomic and proteomic data from
both host organisms and their associated microbes. As-
sociated development in computational tools for the
analysis as well as synthesis of such data is lagging. We
are searching for skilled bioinformaticians who wish to
both contribute to the development of palaeogenomics
through the development of new computational tools,
as well as analyse bioarchaeological datasets.
For more information on the position, including how to
apply, please see: http://jobportal.ku.dk/phd/?show=-
3D823007 The closing date for applications is June 1st.
Please direct any questions to
Tom Gilbert Professor of Palaeogenomics Centre
for GeoGenetics Section for Evolutionary Genomics
Natural History Museum of Denmark University of22 EvolDir May 1, 2016
Copenhagen ster Voldgade 5-7 1350 Copenhagen
tgilbert@snm.ku.dk
M Thomas P Gilbert <tgilbert@snm.ku.dk >
DeakinU EvolutionPlasticity
The evolution of plasticity during a biological invasion
A PhD scholarship on invasion ecology is available in
the Rollins lab in the Centre for Integrative Ecology at
Deakin University.
Project: Organisms can deal with novel challenges by
changing their phenotype in response to environmental
cues (plasticity) and/or by longer-term changes in gene
frequencies within a population (adaption). Plasticity
itself can be adaptive; so how does it evolve? Invasive
species oer a unique opportunity to answer that ques-
tion, because a founding population (with typically mod-
est genetic variation) must deal with novel challenges
in its new environment. Using the cane toad invasion
in Australia as our model system, this project will ex-
amining the roles of plasticity and evolution in invasion
using an experimental framework to study phenotypic
traits important to invasion (dispersal ability, immune
function and personality). Further, we aim to determine
whether epigenetic changes drive plasticity in this sys-
tem. This project is part of a larger research program
investigating the molecular mechanisms (genetic and
epigenetic) that underlie invasion. The larger project
is well-resourced and multi-disciplinary, combining the
eorts of molecular ecologists at Deakin University with
invasion ecologists (Professor Rick Shine and his team)
from the University of Sydney.
Selection criteria: This PhD project will be primarily
based at our collaborator's eld station in the Northern
Territory but will also include time at the Deakin Uni-
versity Geelong campus. We seek an ecologist who will
work closely with team members who are conducting
genetic/epigenetic analyses. There will be exibility to
tailor the PhD project to your specic interests and
the project can be framed as purely ecological or can
incorporate a molecular component.
We seek a hard-working and enthusiastic student with
some eld experience, a demonstrated ability to work
independently and well-developed organisational skills.
Preference will be given to applicants with at least one
rst-authored publication.
Scholarship/application details: The successful candi-date will be awarded a PhD stipend of AUD $26,288
per annum (tax-free) over three years. Applicants
should send an email to Dr. Lee Ann Rollins
(lee.rollins@deakin.edu.au) including: 1) a CV; 2) aca-
demic record (subjects and marks); 3) a one-page sum-
mary of your research interests and career goals; and
4) details of 3 referees (including any previous research
supervisors). Closing date for applications is 1st May
2016.
lee.rollins@deakin.edu.au
ETHZurich
HostParasiteCoevolution
http://www.ae.ethz.ch/jobs.html Thegroupof Aquatic
Ecology at ETH Z urich / Eawag hasan open Ph.D. Po-
sition
tostudyepidemiological, ecological and molecular drivers
of co-evolutionarydynamics between hosts and parasites.
The study system isthe New Zealand freshwater snail
Potamopyrgus antipodarum and its trematodeparasite
Microphallus sp. The goal of the project is to under-
standhow spatial variation in host infection risk (\hot"
and \cold"spots of infection ) contributes to parasite
adaptation and hostresponse. The work includes eld
work in New Zealand and laboratory infectionexperi-
ments. Subsequent SNP genotyping of the parasite and
host individualsallows for population genetic studies on
parasite genetic structureand tracking of evolutionary
change in the host population.
Workingindependentlyas well as part of our team are nec-
essary qualicationsfor an ideal candidate. You would
need to work under sometimesharsh eld conditions,
cope with long^ amaintenance ofexperiments and lab cul-
tures and ideally you have some molecular geneticslab
experience. You also need excellent communication
(writing, presentating)and data analysis skills. Working
language is English.
Generalinformationabout the research group can be
found at http://www.ae.ethz.ch/ . Candidatesmustqual-
ify for admission to the Ph.D. programme of ETH
(https://www.ethz.ch/en/doctorate.html).The duration
of the position isthree years, starting not earlier than
September 2016. Salary is accordingto ETH-scale start-
ing from 47 kchf/year. Suitablequalied personsare
invited to apply by email. Please attach a single PDF
le includinga letter of motivation, C.V. and names
plus addresses of two references.Subject line shouldMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 23
read \PHD-Position 2016". Email addressto use is
jukka.jokela@env.ethz.ch.
Evaluationofapplications starts May 2016, and continues
until the positionis lled.
JukkaJokela professorofaquatic ecology ETHZurich
www.ae.ethz.ch Jukka.Jokela@eawag.ch
France 15 EnvironmentalGenomics
Sorry for the short notice, the deadline to apply is this
Friday.
15 PHD/RESEARCH POSITIONS ON PROMOT-
ING SINGLE CELL GENOMICS TO EXPLORE
THE ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION OF HIDDEN
MICROEUKARYOTES http://www.singek.eu/call-for-
positions/ Extended application deadline: 17:00 GMT
on the 29th April 2016
*Microbial eukaryotes*cover the widest phylogenetic
diversity in the eukaryotic tree of life and are essen-
tial components of all Earth's ecosystems. Paradoxi-
cally, they remain largely unknown, hiding a wealth of
genes and genomes that are key to understand the ecol-
ogy and evolution of microbial ecosystems.*SINGEK*is
a*H2020 Marie-Sk Aodowska-Curie Innovative Training
Network (MSCA-ITN)*project aimed at providing a
unique and structured*training programme*to*15 Early
Stage Researchers (ESRs)*to study*microeukaryotes at
the single-cell level*. ESRs will be trained in the use of
an array of laboratory methods (cell sorting and molecu-
lar tools for nucleic acid amplication and high through-
put sequencing), bioinformatic techniques (genome and
transcriptome assembly and functional gene annota-
tions), and will work on scientic questions in the elds
of microbial ecology and evolution in order to investigate
microeukaryotes in unparalleled detail. The*training
structure*is a central part of SINGEK project and will
include:*local and network-wide activities, secondments
to other network.*
All positions are for*3-years *contracts starting
in*October 1st, 2016,* most of them leading to a PhD
degree. Specic conditions may apply to individual
positions depending on local regulations.
Top-level graduates (master degree or equivalent) in
biology, bioinformatics, microbial ecology, molecular bi-
ology, evolutionary biology, biodiversity, biotechnology,
physics, nanoscience, engineering or computer science
are encouraged to apply. No discrimination will bemade on the basis of nationality, gender, race, religion
or disability.
H2020 EU funding imposes*strict eligibility criteria*:
At the time of recruitment the researcher must not have
resided or carried out his/her main activity (work, stud-
ies, etc^ a e) in the country of the host institute for more
than 12 months in the 3 years immediately prior to
his/her recruitment under the project.The researcher
should also be in the rst four years of their research ca-
reers at the time of recruitment by the host organisation
and have not been awarded a doctoral degree.
The successful candidate will be employed for 3
years and receive a nancial package plus an ad-
ditional mobility and family allowance according
to the rules for Early Stage Researchers (ESRs)
in an EU Marie Sk Aodowska-Curie Actions In-
novative Training Networks (ITN): - Living al-
lowance* - 3110^ a :(permonth ) Mobilityallowance  
600^a:(permonth ) Familyallowance    
500^a:(permonth ifapplicable )
The living allowance is a gross EU contribution
to the salary costs of the researcher. The net
salary will result from deducting all compulsory
(employer/employee) social security contributions as
well as direct taxes from the gross amounts, according
to the law applicable to the agreement concluded with
the ESR. Additional information about the funding
provided by the ITN projects can be foundhere <
http://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/data/ref/-
h2020/wp/2014 2015/main/h2020-wp1415-msca en.pdf
>.
Candidates may apply through the*SINGEK applica-
tions system (http://www.singek.eu/registration-form/)
, which will request the following information:
*1.*An application form, including a CV overview, ESRs'
positions of interest (up to 3), and a statement of their
motivation for applying.
*2.*A full CV.
*3.*An academic record, with a scan of the degree qual-
ications.
*4.*Two recommendation letters.
Each project supervisor will revise the candidates' doc-
umentation and, on the basis of the completeness and
adequacy of the requested material and quick eligibility
check, will score candidates based on: (1) academic pro-
le; (2) personal motivation; (3) scientic skills and rele-
vant experience; and (4) English prociency. Shortlisted
candidates will be invited to teleconference interviews
with the relevant project supervisor(s).
*Extended application deadline: 17:00 GMT on the 29th24 EvolDir May 1, 2016
April 2016 *
Candidates are invited to contact the supervisors to get
more details.
Olivier Jaillon <ojaillon@genoscope.cns.fr >
France DeepSeaGenomics
*PhD title:* *Reevaluating marine biodiversity in deep-
sea ecosystems and the drivers of its distribution through
metagenomics approaches*
*Dead-line for application: 30th of June 2016*
A PhD position is proposed under the joint supervi-
sion of two teams in France: UMR MARBEC Marine
Biodiversity, Exploitation and Conservation, Universit e
de Montpellier (Sophie Arnaud-Haond) et Laboratoire
Environnement Profond/Etude des Ecosyst emes Pro-
fonds, IFREMER Brest Plouzan e (Daniela Zeppili), in
the context of the project \Pourquoi Pas les Abysses"
(Ifremer, France). The candidate will be based in S ete
and register at Montpellier University.
To apply, the form to be lled and returned before June
30th to the scientic contacts for application is avail-
able at : http://wwz.ifremer.fr/Travailler-a-l-Ifremer/-
Bourses-de-recherche/Bourses-de-theses-2016-2017 *
Reevaluating marine biodiversity in deep-sea ecosystems
and the drivers of its distribution through metagenomics
approaches
Supervisor* : Sophie Arnaud-Haond (Dr, HDR,
sp ecialit e: g en etique des populations; So-
phie.Arnaud@ifremer.fr) *Co-supervisor *: Daniela
Zeppilli (Dr, sp ecialit e : taxonomie et  ecologie,
m e ofaune; Daniela.Zeppilli@ifremer.fr))
Marine Biodiversity, owing to its dicult access, is still
largely unknown. The use of New Generation Sequenc-
ing tools (NGS) oers new perspectives to appraise its ex-
tent and better understand the biotic and abiotic factors
inuencing its distribution. The expectations relative to
metagenomics and metabarcode tools are of particular
importance in remote and hard to access environments
such as those characterizing deep sea ecosystems. This
PhD proposal is part of a project which ambition is to
contribute to the large scale characterization of deep-sea
biodiversity through metabarcode, jointly with morpho-
logical approaches that will allow appraising strength
and weaknesses of those methods in these remote and
largely unknown environment. Species inventories ob-tained in contrasted environments will be analyzed in
terms of richness and distribution across distinct bio-
geographical areas and ecosystems, and the existence
of biotic assemblages tested through cooccurence net-
work analysis. Finally, the inuence of physico-chemical
parameters on the distribution of genomic diversity at
intra specic scale and on connectivity among ecosys-
tems and oceans regions will be tackled through the
genome scan analysis of two main taxa, vesicomiids
bivalves and shrimp of the genus Alvinocaris present
across distinct and distant ecosystems.
*Key words:* Marine biodiversity, Abyss, metabarcod-
ing, environmental genomics, metagenomics, connectiv-
ity, evolution.
* **Background:* Strong background in evolutionary
ecology, marine ecology. Basic knowledge on marine
meiofauna, as well as strong skills in molecular biology
and bioinformatics required. Good relational capacities
to work in a collaborative a multidisciplinary context.
Good level in English (spoken, written).
{
Sophie Arnaud-Haond Ifremer UMR MARBEC (Marine
Biodiversity, Exploitation and Conservation) Bd Jean
Monnet, BP 171, 34203 S ete Cedex - France Tel: +33 4
99 57 32 61 Adresse secondaire: Station M editerran eenne
de l'Environnement Littoral (SMEL) 2 rue des Chantiers
34200 S ete Tel: +33 4 67 46 33 93
{
Sophie ARNAUD-HAOND <s-arnaud@univ-
montp2.fr >
Grenoble Oxford 2
BacterialGenomics
The New Diagnostics for Infectious Disease (ND4ID)
consortium is advertising two PhD studentships to be
held at the bioMrieux Innovation Unit in Grenoble,
France, with secondment to the University of Oxford,
UK.
The projects are titled
Bioinformatics tools for sequencing-based characteriza-
tion of the resistome and virulence proles of P. aerugi-
nosa: http://www.nd4id.eu/esr15/ and
Laboratory approaches for sequencing-based characteri-
zation of the resistome and virulence proles of P. aerug-May 1, 2016 EvolDir 25
inosa: http://www.nd4id.eu/esr14/ Infectious diseases
are a major burden to public health and the global econ-
omy, not in the least due to antimicrobial resistance.
Rapid point of care (POC) in vitro diagnostics (IVD)
are key tools in the eective clinical management of
patients with infectious diseases.
Yet there is still a large unmet clinical need for more
rapid POC IVDs generating more clinically relevant,
actionable information. Eectively addressing this need
requires a change in the current approach in training
researchers on IVDs, generating a new breed of IVD re-
searchers capable of closing the gap between the clinical
and technological perspective.
ND4ID takes up this challenge by oering ESRs a world-
class rst of its kind training programme where they
will be exposed to the full breadth of disciplines span-
ning clinical, technological and market-oriented view-
points, from both the academic and non-academic sector.
Through a set of synergistic research projects on novel
POC assays, targeting the most important and urgent
clinical needs at world leading academic or private sector
research groups, the ESRs are oered a holistic training
program, preparing them to be lead players in the future
IVD eld. This training through research is augmented
by a unique comprehensive network-wide training pro-
gramme covering clinical, technical and translational
knowledge and skills of relevance to IVD research, devel-
opment and exploitation. As such, ND4ID will deliver
ESRs that will be in high demand serving as an exam-
ple for other academic and non-academic actors active
in training IVD researchers and further strengthening
Europes position in the internally competitive arena of
IVD technology.
Interested candidates should contact Sonia Chatel-
lier (sonia.chatellier@biomerieux.com) or Pierre Mahe
(pierre.mahe@biomerieux.com) in the rst instance.
{ Dr Daniel Wilson Wellcome Trust/Royal So-
ciety Sir Henry Dale Fellow Associate Profes-
sor Nueld Department of Medicine University
of Oxford www.danielwilson.me.uk Daniel Wilson
<daniel.wilson@ndm.ox.ac.uk >London InsectFungalInteractions
PhD studentship available: London, UK The role of
bark beetles in the dispersal of tree-pathogenic fungi
Project description: Bark beetles (Scolytinae) form as-
sociations with pathogenic fungi that are poorly under-
stood, but are of great concern to forest health. This
project aims to clarify the role of wood-boring beetles in
the dispersal of tree-pathogenic fungi in the UK. High-
throughput sequencing of entire fungal communities can
be performed directly on the DNA extracted from indi-
vidual beetles, which gives unprecedented resolution of
fungal species diversity and association with particular
beetle species, host trees, climatic conditions or biogeog-
raphy. Beetles are easily caught in traps and can be
used as sentinels for detection of pathogens. This is an
exciting opportunity to work at the interface of ecology,
taxonomy and genomics.
This full-time studentship is funded by the John
Spedan Lewis Foundation. The student will be
supervised by Drs Alfried Vogler (Imperial College
London / NHM), Daegan Inward (Forest Research),
Martin Bidartondo (Imperial College London / Kew
Gardens) and Max Barclay (NHM). This studentship
is open to UK and EU nationals only. A Master's
degree in ecology or evolutionary biology is required.
For informal inquiries please contact A. Vogler at
a.vogler@imperial.ac.uk <mailto:a.vogler@imperial.ac.uk >.
Closing date for applications is April 30, 2016.
Online applications can be made via http://-
www.nhm.ac.uk/our-science/courses-and-students.html
. \A.Vogler@nhm.ac.uk" <A.Vogler@nhm.ac.uk >
LundU MaternalEectsEvolution
A 4-year PhD position is available in the laboratory of
Tobias Uller at Lund University, beginning September
2016.
The aim of the project is to test the theoretical pre-
diction that parental eects can facilitate adaptation
to novel environments, and that natural selection can
convert stress-induced parental eects to adaptive mech-
anisms of information transfer in variable environments.26 EvolDir May 1, 2016
The research project will study the mechanisms and
adaptive functions of non-genetic inheritance of toler-
ance to biotic or abiotic stressors in water eas, Daphnia,
using a combination of eld- and lab-based experiments.
These involve eld sampling, large experimental set-ups
and a suite of molecular methods, including analyses
of gene expression and its epigenetic regulation. It is
expected that the PhD student will actively drive the
direction of her/his research and there is thus intentional
exibility within the project to encourage theory-driven
research. To this end, we oer excellent training in
evolutionary theory and in the generation and analyses
of molecular and phenotypic data at Lund University
and through our international project partners.
This research is funded by, and is part of, a > $8 million
multinational grant from the John Templeton Founda-
tion involving 49 investigators and 8 leading academic
institutions. The research is designed to examine the
role of development in evolution. The project is led
by Kevin Laland and Tobias Uller (http://synergy.st-
andrews.ac.uk/ees/the-project/).
Successful applicants will be engaged in this research
project, and so should have a very strong interest in
evolutionary biology - in particular the relationships
between development, ecology, and evolution. The can-
didate should also have good knowledge and practical
experience of experimental research on invertebrate lab-
oratory model organisms. An understanding of aquatic
ecosystems and zooplankton biology are desired qual-
ications, and experience of work with algal or Daph-
nia cultures, DNA sequence analysis and programming
(within bioinformatics) are an additional merit. We are
looking for someone who is enthusiastic, creative, good
at problem-solving, a team-worker, independent, and
demonstrate excellent personal organisation skills and a
strong work ethic.
More information about the group and our research can
be found at http://ullergroup.se/. Further information
on the position and how to apply can be found at https:/-
/lu.mynetworkglobal.com/en/what:job/jobID:97878/ .
Dr Tobias Uller Senior Lecturer & Wallenberg Academy
Fellow Department of Biology Lund University
Tobias Uller <tobias.uller@biol.lu.se >
Lyon France Evolutionary genomics
The Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Genomics group
(University of Lyon, France) invites applications fora PhD position. The position is funded by the ANR
and available from September 2016 or later (applica-
tion deadline: May 15 2016). We are looking for highly
qualied students with a strong interest in evolutionary
biology and genomics. Applicants should ideally have a
background in evolutionary genomics and/or population
genetics and practical skills in bioinformatics/statistics.
We oer a PhD position for three years within a highly
competitive multidisciplinary and international research
environment. The position is open to both French and
international candidates.
|{ PhD Project:
Exploring the dark side of recombination: mutation,
conversion and evolution of metazoan genomes
Meiotic recombination is a key aspect of our biology. By
ensuring proper chromosome segregation during meiosis
and maintaining genome integrity, it plays a crucial role
in our fecundity. Recombination also has an essential
long-term evolutionary function, facilitating adaptation
through linkage dissipation. However, recent progress
in our understanding of the underlying molecular mech-
anisms suggests that recombination also has a dark
side. Intra-genomic conicts, mediated by a particular
forms of meiotic drive called GC-biased gene conversion
(gBGC), causing transmission biases at the level of the
population, are now suspected to stand at the core of
the dynamics of recombination. Such intra-genomic con-
icts have a strong impact on the proper functioning of
recombination and meiosis, as well as on genome-wide
tness landscapes, potentially contributing a substantial
genetic load.
We have previously shown that gBGC has a major im-
pact on the evolution of mammalian genomes [1] and
that it aects many other eukaryotes [2]. It appears
however that the intensity of gBGC varies widely across
species. For instance, gBGC is very strong in honey bees
[3], but weak (or null) in drosophila [4]; similarly, gBGC
appears to be much stronger in mammals and birds
than in other vertebrates [5]. Why is gBGC eective in
some taxa but not in others? What is the 'raison d'^ etre'
of this process?
To try to answer these questions, we propose to quan-
tify the intensity of gBGC, and of several other key
genomic parameters (recombination rate, mutation rate,
mutation pattern) in a large set of animal species. We
will thus explore the relationships between these dier-
ent parameters, and their co-variations with life history
traits (longevity, body mass, mating system, ^ a e) to try
to understand the constraints driving the evolution of
gBGC.
The project relies on bioinformatics and statistical anal-May 1, 2016 EvolDir 27
ysis of large-scale sequencing datasets. The student
will have to get acquainted with concepts of population
genetics and evolutionary genomics, to quantify gBGC
and mutational patterns from allele frequency spectra.
|{
Interested students should send a CV with a let-
ter of interest and two letters of recommendation to
Laurent.Duret@univ-lyon1.fr. The position will remain
open until lled.
Supervisor: Laurent Duret (LBBE, Villeurbanne). Con-
tact: Laurent.Duret@univ-lyon1.fr Host laboratory:
Laboratoire Biom etrie et Biologie Evolutive, UMR
CNRS 5558, Universit e Lyon 1, 43 Bld du 11 Novem-
bre 1918, 69622 Villeurbanne cedex. http://lbbe.univ-
lyon1.fr/ References: [1] Duret & Galtier (2009). Ann.
Rev. Genom. Hum. Genet. 10:285311. [2] Pessia
et al. (2012). Genome Biol. Evol, 4:67582. [3] Kent
et al. (2012). Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U S A 109,
1801218017. [4] Robinson et al. (2014). Mol. Biol.
Evol. 31, 42533. [5] Escobar et al. (2011). Mol. Biol.
Evol. 28, 25612575. [6] Mancera et al. (2008). Nature,
454:47985. [7] Williams et al. (2015). eLife 4, 1-21.
Laurent Duret Laboratoire Biom etrie et Biologie
Evolutive UMR CNRS 5558, Universit e Lyon 1 43 Bld
du 11 Novembre 1918 69622 Villeurbanne cedex France
Phone : +33 (0) 4 72 44 62 97 e-mail :
Laurent.Duret@univ-lyon1.fr Web page: http://-
lbbe.univ-lyon1.fr/-Duret-Laurent-.html?lang=3Den
MasseyU PolyploidGenomics
A Ph.D. position is available in the Tate lab (http:/-
/www.massey.ac.nz/ ~jtate/index.htm ) at Massey
University (Palmerston North, New Zealand) to investi-
gate the genomic basis of cytonuclear compatibility in
Tragopogon (Asteraceae) allopolyploids. The project
will involve both computational and wet lab work to
reconstruct and evaluate plastid genomes and their
interacting nuclear gene components. This position will
be funded by a Massey University Doctoral Scholarship
(http://www.massey.ac.nz/massey/admission/-
scholarships-bursaries-awards/other-scholarships/-
search-results/search-results home.cfm?page=-
award display&scholarship id=1191) for which
the successful applicant will need to have an out-
standing academic record. An MSc in Plant Biology,Genetics, or a similar eld is required. This project
is in collaboration with Prof. Murray Cox at Massey
University, Dr. Dan Sloan at Colorado State University,
and the Soltis lab at the University of Florida.
To apply, please send a letter of interest, CV, academic
transcript (unocial is ok) and the names and contact
details for three references to j.tate@massey.ac.nz with
'PhD scholarship' in the subject line. International ap-
plicants are welcomed. For full consideration, materials
must be received by May 15th. The starting date is
exible but must be no later than 1 November 2016.
Please feel free to email Jen with any questions about
the scholarship or the project.
This position oers an opportunity to experience New
Zealand's unique natural and cultural environment. Lo-
cated in Palmerston North, a university town with a
large international community which oers a range of
social and cultural amenities, the city is located close
to mountains, rivers and the sea, and presents regular
opportunities for hiking, skiing, surng, and adventure
sports.
Jennifer A. Tate, Ph.D. Senior Lecturer in Plant Sys-
tematics and Evolution Curator, Dame Ella Camp-
bell Herbarium (MPN) <http://www.massey.ac.nz/-
herbarium >Plant Science major leader Massey Uni-
versity Institute of Fundamental Sciences Private Bag
11222 Palmerston North New Zealand
Phone: 64-6-350-5515 ext. 84718 FAX: 64-6-350-5682
Homepage <http://www.massey.ac.nz/ ~jtate/-
index.htm >
j.tate@massey.ac.nz
\Tate, Jennifer" <J.Tate@massey.ac.nz >28 EvolDir May 1, 2016
MaxPlanck Tuebingen 5 Bioinfor-
maticsEvolutionaryGenomics
*5* PhD positions available in Bioinformatics and Evo-
lutionary Genomics
The Jones and Chan labs at the Friedrich Miescher
Laboratory at the Max Planck Campus, T ubingen, Ger-
many, are oering *up to ve* PhD projects for tal-
ented students aspiring to become skilled bioinformati-
cians/computer scientists/evolutionary genomicists to
work on cutting edge genomics projects. Full funding is
provided for the duration of the projects.
We work at the cross-section between functional ge-
nomics and evolutionary genetics with the aim of un-
derstanding the molecular basis of phenotypic variation
in mice and stickleback sh. Both labs are funded by
the Max Planck Society (MPG) and hold prestigious
European Research Council Grants.
We are looking to recruit talented and motivated team
members to analyse existing datasets (including DNA-,
RNA-, ChIP-, ATAC-Seq). You will work closely with
other wet-lab members with a focus on development of
pipelines and analysis of exciting genomic datasets for
the projects outlined below (please visit our websites
for more details). Where applicable you may also par-
ticipate actively in wet-lab data generation using our
established high-throughput robotics platforms.
1. Recombination Hot- and Coldspots and Adaptive
Evolution (JONES - ERC)
By shuing parental alleles to produce novel haplo-
types, recombination impacts the strength of selection
on nearby polymorphisms and can inuence the rate of
adaptation in natural populations. We are using pedi-
gree & population genetic methods to quantify variation
in recombination hot- and coldspots across the genome,
among individuals, sexes & divergent species and inter-
sect these maps with adaptive loci to investigate how
recombination shapes adaptive evolution.
2. Population Genomics: Rapid Adaptation from Stand-
ing Genetic Variation (JONES - MPG & DFG)
The type, source and availability of genetic variation can
promote or constrain the speed of adaptation, and inu-
ence the future evolutionary trajectory a population. We
are combining empirical population genomic analyses
with theoretical population genetic models of selection-migration balance and selective sweeps from standing
genetic variation in order to identify and quantify key
factors that inuence rapid adaptation in natural stick-
leback populations.
3. Comparative Functional Genomics and Genome Evo-
lution (JONES - MPG) We are identifying and compar-
ing functional genomic elements contributing to adaptive
divergence and speciation by creating de novo assemblies
and functional annotations from ChIP-seq, captureC,
RNAseq, mapping panels and signatures of selection
from hundreds of whole genome datasets from sequenced
families and wild-caught individuals.
4. Systems biology of evolution in mice (CHAN - MPG
& ERC) We have a number of mapping panels and re-
sources, ranging from large Faroese wild mice, including
whole-body morphometrics measurements, to innova-
tive \in vitro" crosses derived from mouse interspecic
hybrid stem cells. Using these resources we aim to un-
derstand the genetic architecture for adaptive traits and
the evolution of gene regulatory networks.
5. Genomics of selection response in Longshanks mice
(CHAN - MPG) Dr. Campbell ROLIAN at the Univ. of
Calgary has performed 21 generations of articial selec-
tion for increased tibia length in mice (2 \Longshanks"
selection lines & 1 control line, >6000 individuals). We
will study the selection response from multiple angles,
ranging from trait mapping, population genomics, the-
ory (in collaboration with Nick BARTON, IST Austria)
to developmental genetics. With this dataset we aim to
establish the dynamics of the genotype-phenotype map
under strong selection.
Requirements: We invite applications for the above po-
sitions at the PhD level. You will have, or are about to
complete your MSc or 4-year BSc or equivalent degree.
You will have training in genomics, bioinformatics or
statistical genetics and hands-on research experience
in these elds. You should demonstrate expertise and
prociency in one or more of the following areas:
^ a handling and analysis of NGS datasets (whole genome,
single-cell/molecule sequencing, RNASeq, ChIP-seq,
3C/4C)
^ a advanced skills in statistical genomics (e.g. QTL
or GWAS approaches, genotype imputation, Hidden
Markov Models, and haplotype phasing of whole genome
data
^ a de novo genome assemblies and comparative genomics.
^ a empirical and theoretical population genetics
^ a familiarity with parallel computing, visualisation
of genomic datasets and associated toolkits (e.g.
UCSC/Ensembl genome browsers, prociency with web-May 1, 2016 EvolDir 29
based programming and SQL relational databases desir-
able)
Experience with UNIX and uency in statistical and/or
programming languages is essential (R, Python or Perl,
required; C++, SQL, java knowledge desirable). Wetlab
skills and experience in other types of data
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
MelbourneU GenomeDynamics
Genome dynamics following chloroplast endosymbiosis
The Verbruggen lab at Melbourne University, Australia,
is looking for a motivated PhD candidate to work on a
project investigating genome dynamics following chloro-
plast endosymbiosis.
You will study two algal groups, chlorarachniophytes and
the green dinoagellates, both of which have undergone
eukaryote-eukaryote (secondary) chloroplast endosym-
biosis. Comparative analyses will be carried out to char-
acterise and quantify the changes that occur in the host
and endosymbiont genomes during and following sec-
ondary endosymbiosis. The project involves generation
of genome and transcriptome data, as well as bioinfor-
matic analyses such as genome assembly/annotation,
molecular phylogenetics, and modelling of genome evo-
lution.
To be successful you will:
- satisfy the requirements for a PhD degree at
the University of Melbourne ( http://science-
courses.unimelb.edu.au/study/degrees/doctor-of-
philosophy-science/overview#overview ) - have expe-
rience in generating and managing DNA sequences
- have a strong interest in evolutionary biology and
mathematical modeling - have strong oral and written
communication skills
You will be living and working in Melbourne, named
as the world's most liveable city for the fth year run-
ning in 2015. The Verbruggen lab is located within
Melbourne University's School of Biosciences (http://-
biosciences.unimelb.edu.au/), providing a vibrant and
supportive working environment. To nd out more
about the lab, go to http://www.phycoweb.net . Toapply, please send your CV, a representative piece of
English writing (e.g. MSc thesis), and the names and
contact information of two or more references (at least
one previous supervisor) to jackson.c@unimelb.edu.au.
Informal enquiries are welcome. Cut-o date is 30th
April 2016.
cjackson1245@gmail.com
MNHN Paris EvolutionWings
OrthopteraInsects
MNHN Paris EvolutionWingsOrthopteraInsects
Funded PhD project :**Wings for what? Evolution of
forms and functions of the orthopteran wings
The Ecole Doctorale of the MNHN supports a three-year
PhD project on the evolution of the form and the func-
tion of the wings in Orthoptera insects. This project
will be located in the Mus ^A^Aum national d' ^AHistoire
naturelle, Paris (France), in the CNRS team ISYEB (In-
stitut de Syst ^A^Amatique, Evolution et Biodiversit ^A^A).
It will be supervised by Andr ^A^A Nel (MNHN Professor)
and Laure Desutter (MNHN Professor). We are look-
ing for a highly motivated and inquisitive student, who
will explore the diversity of the wings in both modern
species and fossils taxa of Orthoptera, using 3D imag-
ing. The student will collaborate to molecular projects
about Orthoptera phylogeny to test hypotheses of wing
evolution.
**
Scientic context :
The relation form - function is crucial in evolutionary
biology. It allows understanding the adaptation of the
organisms thanks to the modication of the structures or
their maintaining with acquisition of dierent functions.
The structure of the orthopteran wings is a remark-
able model because they are the most diversied ones
among fossil and recent insects, and because they are
implied in key functions (ight, communication, repro-
duction). After recent hypotheses, their evolutionary
history seems to be complicate, implying structural and
functional convergencies and parallelisms. But none of
these hypotheses is well-funded on refutable homologies
of wing characters, either for modern species, or for fos-
sil taxa, which are numerous and well-preserved among
Orthoptera. Six models of venation is currently used,
rendering unstable the systematic of the clade and mak-
ing problems for the reconstruction of its evolutionary30 EvolDir May 1, 2016
history.
Because they are long and very thin structures, the
wings have always been studied in two dimensions, by
simplication. Microtomography X-rays allowed us to
restore the diversity of wings in three dimensions despite
their low thickness and to ll these gaps: established
for some taxa, these results provide the tools needed
to review the orthopteran wing venation. As for the
relation between the venation and the function, it can
be explored by multivariate analyzes of forms (ongo-
ing study on a Permian leaf-like wing of katydid). In
parallel, recent phylogenetic developments provide the
necessary basis of the phylogeny of modern Orthoptera
(Muggleston et al 2013, Song et al 2015, Chintauan-
Marquier et al 2016): An extensive molecular phylogeny
of Orthoptera is underway, with Recent developments
in NGS (Chintauan-Marquier et al, in progress).
The aim of the PhD is to test hypotheses on the evolution
of wings (venation) and functions (forms) in Orthoptera,
reviewing the venations of living and fossil taxa. The
phylogenetic framework of reference established by the
molecular tool, will be complemented with wing char-
acters for modern and fossil species: the student will
be in charge of the morphological part and will partic-
ipate in molecular developments without work at the
bench. The inuence of environmental changes, in par-
ticular the emergence of the modern ora, on patterns
of diversication will be tested.
Our team is ideally located for the realization of the
subject: we have established a new method of study of
the wing pattern; we propose a new pattern of venation,
established on some taxa, but tested on fossils; and we
have an extensive knowledge of the modern and fossil
diversity of the clade. Finally, we participate in devel-
opments on the molecular phylogeny of the Orthoptera,
for our own work and through collaborations already
well underway.
Prole :
The student will work with both fossils and modern
species of Orthoptera. He will be or agree to train to
become independent for the reconstruction of 3D seg-
mentation cuts. He must also have a thorough knowl-
edge of the concepts of phylogenetic analysis, in order
to complete molecular data set with morphology, and
to test patterns of diversication.
Schedule :
The PhD will start in october 2016. Application le
should contain a CV, a cover letter, Master score sheets,
and two recommendation letters. Complete applica-
tion les must be sent to anel@mnhn.fr and desut-
ter@mnhn.fr before May 10th. Selected candidates willbe interwiewed around May 20th.
Laure Desutter-Grandcolas
Institut de Syst ^A^Amatique, Evolution et Biodiversit ^A^A
(UMR 7205 CNRS/MNHN/UPMC/EPHE)
Mus^A^Aum nationald' ^AHistoire naturelle, Sorbonne Uni-
versit ^A^A
45 rue Buon
75005 Paris
desutter@mnhn.fr
+33 1 40 79 34 02
Laure DESUTTER <desutter@mnhn.fr >
MonashU EvolutionaryTheory
An opportunity is available for a PhD student to join
Tim Connallon's research group in the School of Bio-
logical Sciences at Monash University, in Melbourne,
Australia. We are seeking creative and motivated stu-
dents who wish to carry out original research in evo-
lutionary theory. Individuals with strong interest in
evolutionary biology, and a background in biology or
other relevant eld (e.g., mathematics, physics, com-
puter science), are invited to apply. Strong quantitative
and/or computational skills are essential.
Specic projects are exible, and may potentially ad-
dress (but are not limited to) topics in: sexual dimor-
phism, tness tradeos, the genetics of adaptation, the
maintenance of genetic variation, sex chromosome evolu-
tion, gene duplication, gene expression evolution, and/or
the evolution of genome organization. Research plans
will be developed in collaboration with the successful
candidate, and tailored to match their individual inter-
ests and strengths.
Successful candidates will be fully funded for the du-
ration of the PhD, and with no teaching requirements.
The annual stipend is $26,288 per year (tax free). Addi-
tional expenses for research, coursework, and conference
attendance will also be covered. Both Australian/NZ
domestic and international students are eligible to apply.
Monash University is a member of Australia's Group
of Eight coalition, and is internationally recognized for
excellence in research and teaching. The School of Bi-
ological Sciences ( http://monash.edu/science/about/-
schools/biological-sciences/) is home to a collegial andMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 31
interdisciplinary research environment, with strengths
in ecology, genetics and evolutionary biology. Monash
is located in Melbourne, one of the most liveable cities
in the world and a cultural and recreational hub.
To apply, please send a CV, academic tran-
script, and a brief outline of research interests to
tim.connallon@monash.edu. Informal inquiries are wel-
come. Applicants must hold a Bachelor's degree with
rst-class honours, or a master's degree. Review of
applications will begin immediately, and short-listed
candidates will be contacted to set up phone/Skype
interviews.
tim.connallon@monash.edu
MonashU EvolutionSexDierences
PhD on the evolution of sex dierences
A fully-funded position (salary and research costs) is
available in the research group of Dr Damian Dowl-
ing, to pursue a project pertaining to the evolutionary
basis of sex dierences in life histories. The project
will involve experiments that unravel the genetic and
environmental factors that facilitate (or constrain) the
evolution sex dierences in traits such as fertility and
longevity. Experiments will use natural populations of
the fruit y (*Drosophila melanogaster*).
The project will integrate techniques of experimental de-
sign drawn from evolutionary biology, ecology, genomics
and physiology. There will be full exibility for the
successful applicant to pursue their own academic ideas
and interests within the scope of the project.
The successful applicant will be highly motivated, and
passionate about evolutionary biology; familiar with ba-
sic evolutionary concepts, understand the core tenets of
experimental design, and have strong quantitative skills.
Some expertise or interest in evolutionary genomics is
desirable, but not essential.
The applicant will join a vibrant research group com-
prised of PhD students and postdoctoral researchers,
perfect for the pursuit of academic excellence and pro-
fessional development, with access to state-of-the-art
technology platforms for the study of evolutionary ecol-
ogy and genomics.
The position includes funding for international and na-
tional conference visits, and for all research costs. The
successful applicant will be awarded a scholarship that
covers salary (current rate is $26,288 tax-free per year),and full waiver of fees, and can choose to supplement
their salary through teaching assistance during under-
graduate lab courses run by Dowling and colleagues.
Monash University is a member of Australia's Group
of Eight a coalition of research-intensive universi-
ties, and is internationally recognized for excellence
in research and teaching. The School of Biological
Sciences (http://monash.edu/science/about/schools/-
biological-sciences/) is home to a collegial and world
class research environment, with key strengths in evolu-
tionary ecology and genomics.
Monash is located in Melbourne, a vibrant cultural and
recreational centre, and is consistently rated one of the
world's most liveable cities (http://en.wikipedia.org/-
wiki/World's most livable cities).
Application process
Interested candidates should send their CV, academic
transcript, and a cover letter outlining their research
interests to damian.dowling@monash.edu
Your initial applications need to be received before 1st
May 2016
For further information on these scholarships
and Monash application procedures, please visit
http://monash.edu/science/about/schools/biological-
sciences/postgrad/ For further information on the
research group of Damian Dowling, visit http://-
damiandowlinglab.com Review of applications will
commence immediately, with applications closing on
1st May 2016
Damian Dowling
Email: damian.dowling@monash.edu
Website: damiandowlinglab.com
Google scholar: http://scholar.google.com.au/-
citations?user=QwJLmTgAAAAJ&hl=en Twitter:
@DK Dowling
\damian.dowling@monash.edu"
<damian.dowling@monash.edu >32 EvolDir May 1, 2016
MonashU
EvolutionSexualDimorphism
An opportunity is available for two PhD students to join
Tim Connallons research group in the School of Biologi-
cal Sciences at Monash University, in Melbourne, Aus-
tralia. We are seeking creative and motivated students
who wish to carry out original research on the evolution
of sexual dimorphism. Individuals with a background in
biology or a related eld are invited to apply, and those
with strong quantitative and computational skills are
particularly encouraged. Specic projects are exible,
potentially interdisciplinary, and include opportunities
to carry out new research in theoretical, experimental,
or computational evolutionary biology. Specic research
plans will be developed in collaboration with each suc-
cessful candidate, and tailored to match their individual
interests and strengths.
Successful candidates will be fully funded for the du-
ration of the PhD, and with no teaching requirements.
The annual stipend is $26,288 per year (tax free). Addi-
tional expenses for research, coursework, and conference
attendance will also be covered. Both Australian/NZ
domestic and international students are eligible to apply.
Monash University is a member of Australias Group
of Eight coalition, and is internationally recognized for
excellence in research and teaching. The School of
Biological Sciences (http://monash.edu/science/about/-
schools/biological-sciences/) is home to a collegial and
interdisciplinary research environment, with strengths
in ecology, genetics and evolutionary biology. Monash
is located in Melbourne, one of the most liveable cities
in the world and a cultural and recreational hub.
To apply, please send a CV, academic tran-
script, and a brief outline of research interests to
tim.connallon@monash.edu. Informal inquiries are wel-
come. Applicants must hold a Bachelors degree with
rst-class honours, or a masters degree. Review of
applications will begin immediately, and short-listed
candidates will be contacted to set up phone/Skype
interviews.
tim.connallon@monash.eduMonashU MitoNuclearEcol
PhD in mito-nuclear ecology
A fully-funded position (salary and research costs) is
available in the research group of Dr Damian Dowling,
to investigate the evolutionary coevolution between mi-
tochondrial and nuclear genomes, and the ramications
for ageing, speciation, and sexual conict.
\Mito-nuclear ecology" is a rapidly emerging eld, which
has grown from the realization that the genes inside of
our energy-producing mitochondria, may make surpris-
ingly large contributions to the evolutionary dynamics
of populations.
The project will integrate techniques of experimental de-
sign drawn from evolutionary biology, ecology, genomics
and physiology. There will be full exibility for the
successful applicant to pursue their own academic ideas
and interests within the scope of the project.
Successful applicants will be highly motivated, and pas-
sionate about evolutionary biology; familiar with basic
evolutionary concepts, understand the core tenets of
experimental design, and have strong quantitative skills.
Some expertise or interest in evolutionary genomics is
desirable, but not essential.
The applicant will join a vibrant research group com-
prised of PhD students and postdoctoral researchers,
perfect for the pursuit of academic excellence and pro-
fessional development, with access to state-of-the-art
technology platforms for the study of evolutionary ecol-
ogy and genomics.
The positions include funding for international and na-
tional conference visits, and for all research costs. The
successful applicant will be awarded a scholarship that
cover s salary (current rate is $26,288 tax-free per year),
and full waiver of fees, and can choose to supplement
their salary through teaching assistance during under-
graduate lab courses run by Dowling and colleagues.
Monash University is a member of Australia's \Group
of Eight" a coalition of research-intensive universi-
ties, and is internationally recognized for excellence
in research and teaching. The School of Biological
Sciences (http://monash.edu/science/about/schools/-
biological-sciences/) is home to a collegial and world
class research environment, with key strengths in evolu-
tionary ecology and genomics.May 1, 2016 EvolDir 33
Monash is located in Melbourne, a vibrant cultural and
recreational centre, and is consistently rated one of the
world's most liveable cities (http://en.wikipedia.org/-
wiki/World's most livable cities).
Interested candidates should send their CV, academic
transcript, and a cover letter outlining their research
interests to damian.dowling@monash.edu
Your initial applications need to be received before *1st
May 2016*
For further information on these scholarships
and Monash application procedures, please visit
http://monash.edu/science/about/schools/biological-
sciences/postgrad/ For further information on the
research group of Damian Dowling, visit http://-
damiandowlinglab.com Review of applications will
commence immediately, with applications closing on
1st May 2016
Damian Dowling
Email: damian.dowling@monash.edu
Website: damiandowlinglab.com
Google scholar: http://scholar.google.com.au/-
citations?user=QwJLmTgAAAAJ&hl=en Twitter:
@DK Dowling
\damian.dowling@monash.edu"
<damian.dowling@monash.edu >
NordU Norway
EvolutionaryGenomics
PhD fellowship (3 years) in Evolutionary Genomics
A three-year PhD fellowship in Evolutionary Genomics is
available at the Faculty of Biosciences and Aquaculture,
Nord University (Bod ~A, Norway) from 1 September
2016.
About the PhD fellowship |{ FBA invites applications
from outstanding candidates for a three-year PhD fellow-
ship within the project \Genomics of speciation, what
can we learn from an algae".
The macroalgal genus Fucus (Phaeophyceae, Het-
erokonta) is an ideal taxonomic group in which to study
mechanisms of speciation. Three hybrid zones involving
Fucus serratus and F. distichus have been identied in
the Central/East Atlantic. The zones consisted of a
natural zone in Northern Norway (ca. 10,000 yrs ofsympatry), and two others resulting from the introduc-
tion of either species. A recent study of the F. serratus
/ F. distichus contact zones has found strong evidence
for reinforcement of prezygotic isolation. The central
aim of this project is to understand how reinforcement
and the underlying mechanisms of selection promote
speciation at the molecular level in Fucus using Next
Generation Sequencing technologies to identify 'specia-
tion genes' within allopatric and sympatric distributions
of populations and species for which the ages of contact
are known to vary in spans of 100s to 10,000 years
Qualications and requirements |{ The candidate
should have an MSc degree (or equivalent) in Biology
in one of the following elds: ^AGenomics ^AEvolutionary
Biology ^AMolecular Ecology
The grades at the qualifying MS examination needs to
be C or better (ECTS scale from A-E) with exam date
preferable no later than 15 July 2016.
Hands-on experience with genomics, next-generation
sequencing and bioinformatics are required. Prociency
in oral and written English is essential and must be
documented either by the Norwegian Higher Education
Entrance Qualication or internationally recognized cer-
ticates, such as TOEFL, IELTS, APIEL or similar.
Knowledge of a Scandinavian language will be benecial
for the position.
The successful candidate will join the PhD programme
in Aquatic Biosciences at Nord University and is ex-
pected to complete a doctorate within the three-year
project period. The candidate should fulll the admis-
sion requirements of this PhD programme at FBA and
participate in the training components stipulated in
regulations of the PhD programme. Application for
admission to the programme must be submitted within
three months after taking up the position. For admission
requirements and regulations, see our web page. We
are looking for highly motivated, creative and ambitious
applicants with an excellent academic record and the
ability to collaborate with other members of a multi-
disciplinary team whilst developing their own research
project.
Salary and Working Conditions |{ The salary for PhD
candidates is set at wage level 50 in the Norwegian State
Salary Scale (approximately NOK 430 500 per year).
As an employee at the Nord University you become a
member of the Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund
and you will also get access to other social benets.
A statutory amount to the Norwegian Public Service
Pension Fund will automatically be deducted from the
salary.
The successful person must abide by the laws, agree-34 EvolDir May 1, 2016
ments and directives that apply to the position at any
time. According to the employment policy of the insti-
tution, our sta should reect the population in general.
We encourage candidates with minority background to
apply for the position. The University practices mod-
erate allocation according to sex quotas in accordance
with the Basic Agreement for the Civil Service.
Contact Information ||||||- For further infor-
mation about the position, please contact professor Gal-
ice Hoarau e-mail: Galice.g.hoarau@nord.no). Ques-
tions related to the application process should be ad-
dressed to the oce manager Irene Stork Wisth (e-mail:
irene.s.wisth@nord.no; telephone +47 75 51 74 42).
The Faculty has as policy to evaluate relevant enclosed
documentation. The evaluation will be done by the
Norwegian Agency for Quality Assurance in Education
- NOKUT. The evaluation will be used in connection
with admission to a PhD program. Applicants with
foreign education have to ll in and sign a consent form
from NOKUT.
Application |{ Applications must be submitted elec-
tronically by Monday, 9 May 2016. Applicants for this
position are requested to include the following informa-
tion:
Cover letter outlining the candidate's suitability for this
position, relevant experience and how she/ he will con-
tribute to the successful implementation of the project
(maximum 1 page)
Curriculum vitae, including a list of publications (maxi-
mum 3 pages)Certied copies of academic degree tran-
scripts and any other relevant qualicationsContact de-
tails for at least two refereesSigned consent form
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
NordU Norway NonModelNGS
May31-Jun10
PhD course: High throughput sequencing of non-model
organisms
Faculty of Biosciences and Aquaculture, Nord University,
Norway. May 31 - June 10, 2016High throughput sequencing (HTS) technologies are
being applied to a wide range of important topics in
biology. However, the analyses of non-model organisms,
for which little previous sequence information is avail-
able, pose specic problems. This course will address the
specic strengths and weaknesses of alternative HTS
technologies, the computational resources needed for
HTS, and how to analyze non-model species using HTS.
The course consists of practical training in preparing and
running fragment libraries, HTS bioinformatics training,
and lecturing/seminars of HTS approaches specically
targeting non-model organisms.
Please nd a course description and application form
here: http://www.nord.no/en/news-events/calender/-
Pages/PhD-course-High-throughput-sequencing-of-non-
model-organisms.aspx We will accept a maximum of 10
students. The closing date for applications is April 29.
If you have questions regarding the course, please con-
tact Prof. Truls Moum at truls.b.moum@nord.no
Jeanett Kreutzmann <jeanett.kreutzmann@nord.no >
SouthernIllinoisU
PoisonFrogEvolution
Evolutionary Ecology of South American Poison frogs
(genus Ameerega) Zoology Department, Southern Illi-
nois University Carbondale, Carbondale, IL.
A graduate position (either Masters or PhD) is avail-
able to study the evolutionary ecology of S. American
poison dart frogs (genus Ameerega). Neotropical poi-
son frogs are a species-rich family (Dendrobatidae) that
exhibit a diversity of mating systems, parental care
strategies and phenotypes. The Brown lab is looking for
a student to develop a research program studying ANY
core aspect of the lab's research. Topics could include
color/pattern evolution, breeding ecology, phylogeogra-
phy/ biogeography, systematics and speciation (to name
a few). The ideal student will be prepared to conduct
eld-based research, have some experience in molecular
ecology/population genetics and/or geospatial analyses.
For more information on the Brown Lab please visit
the lab website at: http://www.jasonleebrown.org
and the Zoology Department at SIUC http://-
www.zoology.siu.edu. Students will nd all the brains
of a nationally ranked research university and all the
heart of a small college at SIUC.
Carbondale is located in Southern Illinois and provides aMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 35
close link to many forested areas and lakes. The regional
landscapes varies from bottomlands to uplands with
rolling hills, blus, and rugged topography. This makes
it perfect home for outdoor lovers (when they are not in
the rainforest's of S. America). For more info on the city
of Carbondale go to http://explorecarbondale.com In-
terested students are encouraged to contact Dr. Brown
(jason.brown@siu.edu). Please include a brief descrip-
tion of your research interests, a CV, and names of
two references (with contact info). Competitive funding
options are available for both US students as well as
international students. Start date of position is August
2016 (or earlier).
Jason Brown <jason.brown@siu.edu >
StockholmNHM Conservation
Palaeogenomics
PhD student position in Conservation Palaeogenomics
Swedish Museum of Natural History & Stockholm Uni-
versity
PROJECT DESCRIPTION Species that today are
threatened by extinction have typically gone through se-
vere declines in population size during the last 100 years.
These demographic declines have likely been accompa-
nied by losses of genetic variation, increases in inbreeding
levels, as well as increases in the frequency of deleteri-
ous alleles. Yet, there is no strong relationship between
these genetic parameters and current population sizes
in endangered species. This is because levels of genome-
wide diversity in species appear to be more strongly
aected by their life histories and ancient demographic
events compared to recent changes in population size.
The aim of this PhD project is to circumvent this issue
by using a palaeogenomic approach to directly quantify
the rate of change in genome-wide diversity in declining
populations. This will be done through comparisons of
complete genome sequences from modern-day samples
and from museum samples that are hundreds of years
old, which thus predate the demographic declines. The
studies will comprise critically endangered carnivores,
primates, birds and rhinos and will involve the use of
state-of-the-art ancient DNA technology, advanced com-
putational genomics, as well as an opportunity to take
an active part in inuencing current policies and guide-
lines in conservation biology. For this project, good
knowledge in population genetics, bioinformatics as well
as experience of laborative DNA analysis are importantqualications. The PhD project will be supervised by
Professor Love Dal en at the Department of Bioinformat-
ics and Genetics, Swedish Museum of Natural History.
For more information about the research group, please
visit www.palaeogenetics.com/adna ENVIRONMENT
The PhD student will be employed by Stockholm Uni-
versity (Department of Zoology), but will be based at
the Department of Bioinformatics and Genetics at the
Swedish Museum of Natural History (SMNH). The mu-
seum is located in Stockholm, which by many is regarded
as one of the most beautiful capitals in the world and
is home to a vibrant scientic community with several
leading research institutes, including the Science for Life
Laboratory. The SMNH has a strong mission in natu-
ral history research, and its research division has more
than 170 employees. The department of Bioinformatics
and Genetics hosts three research groups, focused on
ancient DNA and population genetics (PI: Prof. Love
Dal en), avian systematics and biogeography (PI: Dr.
Martin Irestedt), and phylogenomics (PI: Prof. Fredrik
Ronquist).
QUALIFICATIONS To be qualied for this PhD stu-
dentship, the applicant must have completed a research
degree (e.g. Master's), or have passed at least 120 hp
(2 years) of biological studies, including an approved
independent project of at least 30 hp at advanced level
within systematics and evolution, ecology, population
genetics, bioinformatics or a similar subject. Applicants
who have in principle acquired the corresponding com-
petence in Sweden, or abroad, are also qualied. Only
a person who will be or has already been admitted to
a third-cycle programme may be appointed to a doc-
toral studentship. The primary assessment criteria in
appointing a doctoral student should be the capacity to
benet from the training. In order to meet the general
entry requirements, the applicant must have completed
a second-cycle degree, completed courses equivalent to
at least 240 higher education credits, of which 60 credits
must be in the second cycle, or have otherwise acquired
equivalent knowledge in Sweden or elsewhere.
SELECTION Among qualied applicants, selection is
made according to the ability to prot from the stud-
ies. The criteria to be used are properly documented
competence within the described research area, capabil-
ities with regards to speaking and writing in English,
analytical thinking, creativity, initiative, independence,
and team work performance. The applicant's earlier
experience within the eld of research can be of rele-
vance especially when further documented by university
courses, independent research works, personal references,
interview and an application indicating the applicant's
motivations in written form.
TERMS OF EMPLOYMENT The four year PhD pro-36 EvolDir May 1, 2016
gram includes three years of research and one year of
course work. Salary follows the agreement for PhD
positions at Stockholm University.
CONTACT For questions about the position and fur-
ther information about the project, contact Prof. Love
Dal en, Email: love.dalen@nrm.se
HOW TO APPLY Applications should be done us-
ing Stockholm University's online application system.
Please follow the link below to obtain further informa-
tion about how to write your application and how to
access the online application system:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
StockholmU PlantInteractions
Dear colleagues,
We seek two highly motivated PhD-students to join the
long-term research on the pedunculate oak / coee.
1. The interactions among fungal pathogens, insects
and endosymbionts on oak: http://www.su.se/-
english/about/vacancies/vacancies-new-list?rmpage=-
job&rmjob=1334&rmlang=UK 2. PhD student
in Plant Ecology: Pest and Pathogens on Coee
at the Agro-ecological Interface http://www.su.se/-
english/about/vacancies/vacancies-new-list?rmpage=-
job&rmjob=1306&rmlang=UK The positions are in
the Department of Ecology, Environment and Plant
Sciences at Stockholm University. The closing date for
applications is May 2.
Please don't hesitate to contact us directly by email,
My best,
Ayco Tack & Kristoer Hylander ayco.tack@su.se
kristoer.hylander@su.se
1. PhD student in Plant Ecology: Interactions between
Plants, Microbes and Insects The position will be associ-
ated with the long-term research on insect and pathogen
dynamics on wild plants in the research group of Ayco
Tack. The overall aim of the research is to understand
the role of plant-microbe-insect interactions in structur-
ing plant-based communities in nature. The core of the
PhD project is to investigate the role of insect microbes(endosymbionts) and plant-based microbes (endophytes,
pathogens) in understanding the spatial and temporal
dynamics of the diverse insect and pathogen community
on the oak tree Quercus robur. The main tasks include
eld work (eld sampling and surveys, dataloggers) and
laboratory work (molecular identication of the endo-
phytes and insect endosymbionts). The work may also
involve experiments where the microbial community on
the leaves or roots is manipulated. The exact direction
of the project will depend on the skills and interest of
the applicant.
2. PhD-position in Plant Ecology at Stockholm Uni-
versity (coee, pests, Ethiopia) The position will be
associated with the project \Managing coee to increase
farmer's livelihood and biodiversity in Ethiopia" with
is nanced by SIDA. The aim of the project is to in-
crease the knowledge of how to manage coee systems
for positive synergies between biodiversity and farmer's
incomes. The core of the project is to investigate plant-
fungal interactions of major coee pathogens along a
gradient in management intensity. Along this gradient
we will investigate fungal infestation rates, coee yields,
coee genetic variation and various measures of biodi-
versity and management. The eld work will take place
in Ethiopia but the position is placed at Stockholm
University.
Ayco Tack Assistant professor Department of Ecology,
Environment and Plant Sciences
Stockholm University SE-106 91 Stockholm, Sweden Vis-
iting address: Svante Arrhenius V ag 20A, room N420
Phone: + 46-(0)8-163959 Mobile: + 46-(0)70-4942557
ayco.tack@su.se
www.plantmicrobeinsect.com www.su.se/proles/atack
www.su.se/proles/atack
Tahiti MarineGenomics
*PhD position in marine genomics*
- Project title: Diversity and color variation in the pearl
oyster Pinctada margaritifera: characterisation of the
phenome, genome and epigenome.
- Location: Ifremer, Centre du Pacique, Vairao, Tahiti,
French Polynesia.
- Project description: The color diversity of marine
mollusks'shells has been intriguing both scientists and
non-scientists for a long time. Marine mollusks areMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 37
an important part of the ecosystem and are a major
economical resource in many countries. In French Poly-
nesia, the production of cultured pearls through the
aquaculture of Pinctada margaritifera represents the
second biggest economical resource of the country (the
rst being tourism). There is a growing interest in op-
timizing this aquaculture through the improvement of
the pearl quality, and the use of color-selected oysters
families to control the nal color of the pearl.
Previous investigations demonstrated a link between
the shell color of the donor oyster and the color of the
pearl subsequently harvested from the recipient oyster.
The environment (e.g. depth of cultivation) also has
an impact on the intensity of the color of the pearl
being produced. Despite these recent discoveries, the
molecular mechanisms involved in the expression of the
color phenotype, as well as the heterogeneity in the
distribution of the color phenotypes in wild populations
are still not understood.
In this context, we propose to investigate this question
using data at the genomic, transcriptomic and epige-
netic level, using individuals within cultivated and wild
populations. The student will mostly work with NGS
generated data, but the project also has an experimental
component (epigenetic aspects) and a eld component
to sample natural populations.
- Research environment: Ifremer (French Research In-
stitute for Exploitation of the Sea) contributes to the
knowledge of the ocean and their resources, through the
monitoring of marine and coastal environments and the
sustainable development of marine activities. Ifremer
performs targeted applied research to address the ques-
tions posed by society (climate change eects, marine
biodiversity, pollution prevention, seafood quality...).
The Ifremer Pacic Center (COP) is based in Vairao
in Tahiti, French Polynesia. With 40 agents mobilized
onsite, the French Polynesia Marine Resources (RMPF)
research team focuses on the sustainable development
of marine exploitation in French Polynesia. The largest
research project is linked to a partnership with the per-
liculture professionals in order to improve the quality of
cultured pearls, and study the adaptative response of the
pearl oyster facing changing environmental conditions
(temperature, ocean acidication, pollution).
The successful candidate will be integrated in a dynamic
and young joint research unit, the UMR 241 \EIO"
(Oceanian Island Ecosystems) gathering researchers
from Ifremer, UPF (University of French Polynesia),
IRD (French Research Institute for Development), and
ILM (Louis Malard?? Institute).
- Candidate's prole We encourage applications fromcandidates with solid knowledge in at least two of the
following disciplines: population genetics, evolutionary
genetics, bioinformatics, biostatistics, genomics, tran-
scriptomics, epigenetics. Knowledge of the R language
is strongly advised, and other scripting languages (for
NGS pipelines implementation) are a plus.
- Application instructions: To apply, please send a moti-
vation statement describing your interests in applying
for the position, a resume, and contact details for at
least two references to Celine.Reisser@ifremer.fr before
the 1st June 2016. Interviews will be hold mid-June.
Celine REISSER <Celine.Reisser@ifremer.fr >
TrentU WildlifeGenomics
PhD Position in mountain goat evolution and ecology
Location: Trent University (Peterborough, Ontario,
Canada) We are seeking a motivated PhD student with
interests in ecological genomics, wildlife conservation
and management. The candidate will be working in a col-
laborative project between the lab of Dr. Aaron Shafer
at Trent University and the Alaska Department of Fish
and Game. The project will use cutting-edge genetic and
genomic data to better understand population-level pro-
cesses in mountain goats: see https://en.wikipedia.org/-
wiki/Mountain goat. The successful candidate will un-
dertake research in bioinformatics, wildlife genomics,
and population genetics, with sampling in remote areas
of Alaska likely to occur.
Applicants with experience/interest in dierent com-
puter languages (UNIX, perl, R) and seeing the study
species in the eld are desirable.
The student will be enrolled in the Environmen-
tal Life Science Graduate Program at Trent Univer-
sity and join the laboratory of Dr. Aaron Shafer
(www.aaronshafer.ca). Trent University is located in
Peterborough, Ontario, which is also home to the main
oce of the Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources. Pe-
terborough is nicely situated south of Algonquin Park
and east of Toronto, and has a vibrant cultural and
emerging food scene (http://www.designsponge.com/-
2016/04/peterborough-on-city-guide.html).
Application information: Funding is available for Cana-
dian students. International students are welcome to
apply, but restrictions may apply. Please consult: http:/-
/www.trentu.ca/graduatestudies/ . If you wish to apply,
please send a one-paragraph cover letter describing your38 EvolDir May 1, 2016
background and interests to: aaronshafer@trentu.ca.
Please attach to the email your Curriculum Vitae, aca-
demic transcripts (unocial is acceptable), and contact
information for two references. Review of applications
will begin 01 May 2016 and continue until the position
is lled. Anticipated start date is Fall 2016. Informal
and MSc inquiries are also welcome.
{ Aaron Shafer, Assistant Professor Trent University
aaron.shafer@ebc.uu.se aaron.shafer@ebc.uu.se
UArkansas EvolutionaryBiology
Ph.D. positions, Program in Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology, Department of Biological Sciences, University
of Arkansas
Several Ph.D. positions are available for motivated stu-
dents interested in the study of genomic variation in
Drosophila species, transcriptomes, and inversion poly-
morphism. In collaboration with colleagues at Stan-
ford University, University of Iowa, and other interna-
tional scientists, the positions are centered in the lab
of William J. Etges (http://comp.uark.edu/ ~wetges/-
EtgesHP/Etges Lab.html).
Project 1) Diapause genetics of Drosophila robusta and
D. americana. The genetic basis and transcriptome
proling of natural populations of these two broadly
overlapping North American species will reveal the ge-
nomic basis of overwintering in temperate climates, ex-
tension of lifespan under diapause conditions, and help
to decipher recent genetic responses to climate change.
The project includes genome (re)sequencing of these two
species, comparative gene mapping, and assessment of
linkage disequilibrium patterns to document the conse-
quences of inversion polymorphism, recombination rate
variation, and nonrandom associations of gene arrange-
ments on genome evolution.
Project 2) Life history genomics. We will study how life
histories and their evolution are shaped by the dynamic
interaction of genes and environments over the life cycle.
Genomic variation underlying life histories is composed
of dynamic genetic networks that change over the course
of ontogeny, and often determines correlations between
traits across the life cycle. We will identify dierences
in gene networks that give rise to dierent life histories
and expression of networks that change with stage and
age. Assessing multiple, sequenced genomes of diverged
populations of D. mojavensis will aid in understandingtranscriptional plasticity.
Relevant publications include: Carson, H. L., and H. D.
Stalker. 1948. Reproductive diapause in Drosophila ro-
busta. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
(USA) 34:124-129.
Etges, W. J., C. de Oliveira, S. Rajpurohit, and A.
G. Gibbs. 2016. Preadult life history variation de-
termines adult transcriptome expression. Molecular
Ecology 23:741-763.
Etges, W. J., C. C. de Oliveira, M. A. F. Noor, and M.
G. Ritchie. 2010. Genetics of incipient speciation in
Drosophila mojavensis. III. Life history divergence and
reproductive isolation. Evolution 64:3549-3569.
Etges, W. J., M. V. Trotter, C. C. d. Oliveira, S.
Rajpurohit, A. G. Gibbs, and S. Tuljapurkar. 2015.
Deciphering life history transcriptomes in dierent envi-
ronments. Molecular Ecology 24:151-179.
McAllister, B. F., S. L. Sheeley, P. A. Mena, A. L. Evans,
and C. Schl otterer. 2008. Clinal distribution of a chro-
mosomal rearrangement: a precursor to chromosomal
speciation? Evolution 62:1852-1865.
Reis, M., F. B. Valer, C. P. Vieira, and J. Vieira. 2015.
Drosophila americana diapausing females show features
typical of young ies. PLoS ONE 10:e0138758.
Students with interests and experience in programming
(Linux, Perl), genome assembly, transcriptomics, and
a desire to merge natural history, evolutionary biology,
and genomics are encouraged to apply. For more details
and questions, email wetges (at) uark.edu.
William J. Etges Program in Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology Department of Biological Sciences SCEN 632
1 University of Arkansas Fayetteville, AR 72701 USA
voice: (479) 575-6358 lab: (479) 575-7437 FAX (479)
575-4010
Lab: http://comp.uark.edu/ ~wetges/EtgesHP/-
Etges Lab.html ResearchGate: https://-
www.researchgate.net/prole/William Etges
Google Scholar: http://scholar.google.com/-
citations?update op=verify email&hl=-
en&user=KXeh3m0AAAAJ&email forop=
wetges%40uark.edu&citsig=-
AMstHGQMVYq4dJnVZnYtBLi09mXTijslCw
Program in Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy http://comp.uark.edu/ ~wetges/EtgesHP/-
E%26E Program.html \William J. Etges"
<wetges@uark.edu >May 1, 2016 EvolDir 39
UBasel 2 SpeciesRanges
2 PhD positions on species range limits
University of Basel, Switzerland
* Research topic
Why do species have restricted distributions? - A so
far overlooked reason is that range edge populations
are commonly small or have a history of serial bottle-
necks from previous range expansions. Both scenarios
are predicted to lead to the accumulation of deleterious
mutations. This genetic load may badly position range
edge populations to react to climate change because
population growth rates are too low.
* Approaches
The research will involve a crossing experiment with
plants of the North American Arabidopsis lyrata from
populations at the distribution edges and center. We
will assess performance in garden experiments at both
range edges and core areas. This part of the work will be
done at ve places in the eastern USA, in collaboration
with local Universities and Botanical Gardens.
* Your prole
Candidates should have an enthusiastic interest in plants
and their evolution and a strong background in quanti-
tative thinking, experimental design, statistical analysis,
and rearing plants. Applicants must have a univer-
sity degree in the natural sciences that allows entrance
to a PhD program (ideally in evolutionary biology or
ecology), and very good organizational, analytical, and
scientic writing skills.
* We oer
The project is based at the Department of Environ-
mental Sciences, University of Basel, Switzerland. The
Department oers a stimulating environment, including
a rich spectrum of research activities in life sciences
(plant ecology, population genetics, evolutionary biol-
ogy, plant physiology and molecular and cell biology).
PhD students will be enrolled in the PhD program of
the Zurich-Basel Plant Science Center. Finally, Basel
is a mid-sized Swiss city, well connected and oering a
broad range of cultural and recreational activities.
* Further information and application
For more information, contact Yvonne Willi
(yvonne.willi@unibas.ch). Motivated applicantsshould submit (1) a one-page letter that summarizes in-
terests and relevant experience, (2) their CV, (3) copies
of undergraduate and masters/diploma transcripts,
and (4) contact information of two references (all as
a ***single PDF***) to: franziska.grob@unibas.ch.
Applications are welcome until the position is lled and
will be reviewed starting on May 27, 2016.
Yvonne Willi <yvonne.willi@unibas.ch >
UBasel 2
SticklebackAdaptationGenomics
2 PhD positions in evolutionary genomics at the Uni-
versity of Basel
OVERVIEW The research group of Dr. Daniel Berner
at the Zoological Institute of the University of Basel
oers two PhD positions focusing on the genomic basis
of adaptive diversication in threespine stickleback sh.
The three-year positions are fully funded by the Swiss
National Science Foundation (SNF) known for generous
salaries, and can start as soon as the candidates have
been chosen.
FOCUS The successful candidates will investigate molec-
ular signatures of natural selection and the genetic basis
of adaptive phenotypic variation in natural populations
of threespine stickleback adapted to ecologically dier-
ent habitats. This work, making use of one of the top
model systems in evolutionary genomics, will involve
molecular bench work (for RAD and full genome se-
quencing) and extensive bioinformatic data analysis. In
addition, depending on individual interests and skills,
the projects might be developed to further include eld,
lab and in-silico experiments, and functional genetic
analysis.
PROFILE OF CANDIDATES Students applying for
the positions should hold a master degree in biology,
possess excellent verbal and written English expression
skills, enjoy theory-driven empirical work, and be highly
motivated to acquire programming competence. Expe-
rience in molecular bench work and/or programming
(e.g., R, Python) is considered an asset but is not re-
quired; applications from diverse research backgrounds
are encouraged.
APPLICATION Applications and queries should be sent
to daniel.berner@unibas.ch. The application should be
prepared as a single pdf document including a concise
letter of motivation ( <1 page), your CV (including40 EvolDir May 1, 2016
the contact details of 2-3 referees), and a copy of your
academic transcripts. The evaluation of applications
will start on April 18 and will continue until suitable
candidates have been found.
Dr. Daniel Berner Group leader Zoological Institute
University of Basel daniel.berner@unibas.ch http://-
salzburgerlab.org/team/daniel berner/ Daniel Berner
<daniel.berner@unibas.ch >
UCork 3 EvolutionaryEcolCognition
Up to 3 PhD positions in Animal Evolutionary Ecol-
ogy: \The evolutionary ecology of cognition across a
heterogeneous landscape"
Why do individuals vary in their cognitive abilities?
EVOECOCOG, an ERC funded project, takes the dis-
ciplines of cognition and evolutionary biology into a
natural setting to answer this question. It aims to do
this by investigating a variety of proximate causes and
population-level consequences of individual cognitive
variation using a great tit Parus major population.
Three objectives capture the projects broad scope:
1. To characterise proximate causes of variation in cog-
nitive and other associated traits
2. To examine links between these traits, key functional
behaviours and trade-os
3. To examine the consequences of this variation for life
histories, tness, natural and sexual selection.
State of the art observational (radio tracking and auto-
mated self-administration trials of learning in the wild),
chemical (stable isotope analysis of diet), physiologi-
cal (stress, energetics, immunocompetence), molecular
(DNA ngerprinting and metabarcoding) and analytical
(reaction norm, quantitative genetic) techniques will be
used. The chosen study system, the great tit Parus
major, is one of the most widely used in Europe, and
will consist of 12 subpopulations across deciduous and
conifer woodland fragments in Co. Cork, Ireland, and a
recently established larger population in Killarney Na-
tional Park, World Heritage Site. An existing aviary at
the School of BEES will be replaced by a new aviary on
the same site, funded with a Science Foundation Ireland
ERC support grant.
This advert is for up to three 4-year PhD stu-
dentships. The successful students will be based
in the UCC Ornithology lab at the School ofBEES http://ornithology.ucc.ie. They will join a re-
search team led by Prof. John L. Quinn, consist-
ing of ve early career biologists working on this
project (see http://ornithology.ucc.ie/current-projects/-
evolutionary-ecology-of-cognition/), a Research Support
Ocer, and a range of other students and postdocs
working on a variety of dierent projects in behavioural
and applied ecology.
PhD 1:oCognitive plasticity: social, environmental
and microbial causes of individual variation . The aim
of this studentship will be to characterise proximate
causes of variation in cognitive and other associated
traits (e.g. personality), among wild birds, all of which
can inuence ecologically important behaviour. Quanti-
tative genetic, social, parasite-mediated, microbial, and
a range of physiological causes are among the factors
that may be explored.
PhD 2:oThe functional signicance of cognitive varia-
tion for individuals in the wild . The aim here will be
to assay cognitive abilities (e.g. spatial and temporal
memory) to understand how individual dierences in
cognition and other closely related traits (e.g. innovative-
ness/personality) might inuence functional behaviour,
including foraging routines, anti-predation behaviour,
and energetic trade-os during reproduction.
PhD 3:oSexually and naturally selected cognitive
traits. This PhD studentship position will focus on
the interplay between cognition, sexual selection and
natural selection. The student will investigate links
between cognitive traits measured in the wild, physio-
logical traits, and mate attractiveness, including sexu-
ally selected signal variation, reproductive success and
extra-pair paternity.
The studentships will be cosupervised by Prof. J. Quinn,
Dr Michael Reichert, Dr Gabrielle Davidson, and Dr
Ipek Kulahci.
Candidates should possess a 2.1 BSc (Hons) degree or
higher in a relevant discipline (e.g. Ecology, Zoology,
Evolution, Physiology, Psychology). Applicants must
be self-motivated with good numerical, communication,
organisational, experimental design, and writing skills.
Students with an MSc and direct experience working in
relevant research areas are likely to have a strong advan-
tage. A full, clean driving license will be essential early
in the PhD (own car advantageous), and experience
working with birds in captivity or in the wild would also
be advantageous. A willingness to spend long periods
of time in the eld, and to travel and work across dif-
ferent research sites is important. This position covers
EU fee rates (5,750 p.a.; non-EU members may apply
but would need to cover extra international rate fees
themselves), plus a tax-free stipend of 16,000 p.a.May 1, 2016 EvolDir 41
Please direct informal inquiries to Prof. John L. Quinn
at j.quinn@ucc.ie
Application: To apply please send by email to Prof.
John Quinn, j.quinn@ucc.ie a CV, details of 2 referees,
and an accompanying 1 page letter. The letter should
state which specic PhD(s) you are applying
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UGuelph EvolutionaryEcol
*PhD Opportunity: Evolutionary Ecology of Icelandic
Arctic Charr*
H olar University College, Iceland (Dr. Camille Leblanc),
and University of Guelph, Canada (Prof. Moira Fergu-
son), seek a Ph.D. student to study *Microevolutionary
processes in small populations of Arctic charr *(*Salveli-
nus alpinus*).
Numerous ecological and evolutionary processes con-
tribute to the generation of biodiversity, and the com-
plexity of their interactions has presented a challenge to
our understanding of nature. Our knowledge of the roles
of development, natural selection, genetic drift, and gene
ow in shaping biodiversity is complicated by the spatial
and temporal variability inherent in natural systems. A
powerful approach to better understand such processes
involves monitoring wild populations over generations
and obtaining data including pedigrees, phenotype, and
tness, so that we can directly infer evolutionary param-
eters, particularly those describing selection and genetic
variation. We are seeking a talented PhD student to
apply such an approach to wild populations of Icelandic
Arctic charr, in order to further our understanding of
the complex interplay among genes, phenotypes, and
ecology, in natural environments.
The successful PhD student will test important mi-
croevolutionary theories with individual-based pheno-
typic records, molecular genetic (SNP) data, and ecolog-
ical data from 20 populations of Arctic charr residing
in a spatially replicated system of lava caves in the
M~A1
2vatn area of northern Iceland. The monitoring of
these populations began in 2012 and will now continue
until 2018, providing an impressive long-term datasetfor novel insights. Advanced analytical techniques will
be used to understand spatial and temporal patterns
of genetic variation, natural selection, and ecological
covariates. The student will be based at the University
of Guelph with Prof. Moira Ferguson but will spend
considerable time at H olar University College with Dr.
Camille Leblanc (including annual eldwork). Our ideal
candidate will have interests in evolution, ecology, and
genetics, and will have strong quantitative skills - neces-
sary for the advanced analytical techniques used in this
eld. The student will be able to work independently
and as part of a larger team, both in the laboratory
and in the eld. An MSc degree is preferred and the
working language is English.
The project is a long term collaboration between the
University of Guelph, Canada (Prof. Moira Ferguson),
H olar University College (Prof. Bjarni K. Kristj ansson,
Prof. Sk ~Aoli Sk ~Aolason and Dr. Camille Leblanc), the
University of Iceland (Prof. Sigur ~Aour S. Snorrason,
and Prof. ~Arni Einarsson), EAWAG, Switzerland (Dr.
Katja R as anen), and the University of St Andrews (Dr.
Michael Morrissey). The project is funded by The Ice-
landic Science Foundation - Rann s. The position will
be lled as soon as a good candidate is found (target
date 1. June 2016).
Applicants should send an application letter with a
max. 1 page statement of research interests and rele-
vant experience, a curriculum vitae with a list of publica-
tions (if any), copies of academic qualications including
copies of unocial transcripts and the names and e-mail
addresses of three referees, as a single pdf le to Dr.
Camille Leblanc ( camille@holar.is) before *April 30th
2016*.
For further information contact Dr. Camille Leblanc,
Associate Professor at H olar University College, Iceland.
camille@holar.is
{
Camille Leblanc, lektor (Associate Professor) H olar Uni-
versity College Department of Aquaculture and Fish
Biology H aeyri 1, 550, Saud arkr okur Iceland
Tel: +00 354 455 6387/ mobile +00 354 868 3689
Camille Leblanc <camille@mail.holar.is >42 EvolDir May 1, 2016
UHudderseld 3
EvolutionaryGenomics
UHudderseld. EvolutionaryGenomics
THE UNIVERSITY OF HUDDERSFIELD
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES in the
SCHOOL OF APPLIED SCIENCES
The Leverhulme Trust Doctoral Scholarship Centre in
Evolutionary Genomics
Supervisors: Professor Martin Richards, Dr. Maria Pala
& Dr. Ceiridwen Edwards
Three PhD Studentships in Evolutionary Genomics
Closing date for applications: April 30th, 2016
Funding availability: Funded PhD projects for UK/EU
students
We are seeking three PhD students in archaeogenet-
ics/palaeogenetics as part of the second cohort of PhD
scholars in Evolutionary Genetics for the new Lever-
hulme Trust Centre at Hudderseld, to begin in Septem-
ber 2016. The successful scholars will receive training
from leading experts and undertake cutting-edge re-
search in archaeogenetics, palaeogenetics, bioinformatics,
genomics, next-generation DNA sequencing, phylogenet-
ics, population genetics and human evolution.
There are openings this year in the following subjects:
1. Archaeogenetics and palaeogenetics in Southeast Asia
and the western Pacic
2. Archaeogenetics and palaeogenetics of southern and
eastern Europe
3. Archaeogenetics and palaeogenetics of Native Ameri-
cans
The students will work in the new molecular biol-
ogy/ancient DNA facilities at Hudderseld, alongside
existing students in these areas, a research fellow who
will provide day to day guidance, and the academic sta.
Applicants should hold a good bachelor's degree (and
preferably also an MSc or MA) in Genetics, Molecular
Biology, Statistics, Computing, Bioarchaeology, Biologi-
cal Anthropology, or other relevant subject, and ideally
have experience of generic biological lab techniques such
as DNA extraction and PCR. Although training and
hands-on supervision will be provided, it is essential
that the candidates can operate independently and takethe initiative to direct their research.
The studentship will cover the full cost of tuition fees for
UK/EU students, and will pay an annual tax-free bur-
sary of ????14,057 for three years (RCUK rates). There
are additional funds available for laboratory consum-
ables and travel for conferences, visits to collaborating
laboratories and sample procurement.
To apply, please go to: http://halo.hud.ac.uk/-
pgronlineapps/ and complete the on-line application,
ensuring you select full-time PhD Biology. Please
type ???????Leverhulme Trust' in the ???????Personal
Statement' eld. Please also email your CV, tran-
scripts and two letters of recommendation in sup-
port of your application to Professor Richards (email
m.b.richards@hud.ac.uk) and copy to PGR Adminis-
trator Fiona Cross (email f.cross@hud.ac.uk). Please
indicate in your email which supervisor and kind of
project you are interested in, and why you believe you
are well-qualied for that project.
For informal enquiries please contact Prof. Richards on
+44 (0)1484 471676 (email m.b.richards@hud.ac.uk), Dr.
Maria Pala on +44 1484 472273 (m.pala@hud.ac.uk) or
Dr. Ceiridwen Edwards (c.j.edwards@hud.ac.uk)
Related web links:
http://www.hud.ac.uk/research/researchcentres/egrg/
http://www.hud.ac.uk/research/biologicalsciences/
http://www.examiner.co.uk/news/west-yorkshire-
news/hudderseld-univers ity-secures-1m-funding-
8557938
University of Hudderseld inspiring tomorrow's profes-
sionals.
Ceiridwen Edwards <C.J.Edwards@hud.ac.uk >
UHudderseld EukaryoteEvolution
I am seeking a PhD student in eukaryotic evolu-
tion for the new Leverhulme Trust Centre at the
University of Hudderseld, to begin in September
2016. The successful scholar will join Dr Mar-
tin Carr's group (http://www.hud.ac.uk/research/-
researchcentres/egrg/eeg/) and receive training and
undertake research in bioinformatics, genomics, high-
throughput sequencing, phylogenetics, population ge-
netics and transcriptomics.
The project will focus on the evolutionary biology of
choanoagellates, a group of protists that are the closestMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 43
known relatives of animals (Carr et al., 2008, PNAS 105:
16641-16646). The choanoagellates are aquatic organ-
isms, found in both marine and freshwater environments.
Published phylogenies suggest that the group evolved in
the oceans and has invaded freshwater habitats on only a
small number of occasions. This project aims to increase
the known diversity of freshwater choanoagellates in
order to study marine: freshwater transitions. Transcrip-
tomes will be generated from newly isolated freshwater
species, for phylogenetics and comparative genomics
studies; this work will identify freshwater clades in the
choanoagellate evolutionary tree and uncover genes
that are unique to freshwater species. The proposed re-
search will cover novel species isolation, transcriptomics,
environmental DNA sequencing, phylogenetics and pop-
ulation genetics. The successful applicant will also be
encouraged to devise their own research projects during
the course of the PhD.
The student will work in new molecular biology facilities,
alongside existing students in protist research who will
provide day-to-day guidance, along with the supervisor.
There will be a strong emphasis on data analysis and in-
terpretation, as well cutting-edge laboratory work, and
on producing world-class research papers.
Applicants should hold, or be expected to gain, a good
bachelor ^As degree (and preferably also an MSc or MA)
in Genetics, Molecular Biology, Statistics, Computing,
or other relevant subject, and ideally have experience
of computer programming, as well as generic biological
lab techniques.
The studentship will cover the full cost of tuition fees for
UK/EU students, and will pay an annual tax-free bur-
sary of ^A £14,057 for three years (RCUK rates). There
are additional funds available for laboratory consum-
ables and travel for conferences, visits to collaborating
laboratories and sample procurement.
To apply, please go to: http://halo.hud.ac.uk/-
pgronlineapps/ and complete the on-line application,
ensuring you select full-time PhD Biology. Please type
^ALeverhulme Trust ^A in the ^APersonal Statement ^A eld.
Please also email your CV, transcripts and two letters
of recommendation in support of your application to
Leverhulme Centre coordinator Prof Martin Richards
(email m.b.richards@hud.ac.uk) and copy to PGR Ad-
ministrator Fiona Cross (email f.cross@hud.ac.uk).
For informal enquiries please contact Martin Carr
(m.carr@hud.ac.uk, +44 (0)1484 471608)
Dr. Martin Carr Senior Lecturer in Molecular Bi-
ology http://www.protist.org.uk Telephone: 01484
471608 Email: M.Carr@hud.ac.uk Web Address :
www.hud.ac.uk School of Applied Sciences Universityof HudderseldjQueensgatejHudderseldjHD1 3DH
Martin Carr <martcarr74@gmail.com >
UIdaho ConservationGenomics
Graduate Student Position: Genetic Monitoring of
Pygmy Rabbits
We are recruiting a graduate student to conduct a con-
servation genetics/genomics projects on the Columbia
Basin pygmy rabbit (Brachylagus idahoensis). This
species was extirpated in Washington, and captive breed-
ing, translocation, and reintroduction eorts have been
conducted to re-establish a wild population of this fed-
erally endangered population. To date, on-site breeding
has produced a large number of rabbits for release, how-
ever, relatively few have been detected surviving and
reproducing in the wild. Our team has worked collabora-
tively with the USFWS and the Washington Department
of Fish & Wildlife to develop and apply genetic tools
to inform management decisions during the breeding,
translocation, and initial releases. This graduate stu-
dent project has 3 main objectives that build on these
eorts: 1) to conduct non-invasive, genetic monitoring
of the captive breeding and released populations, 2)
to develop and evaluate an index of rabbit abundance
and density using data from winter surveys of active
burrows that can be used for long-term monitoring and
3) to develop a single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)
dataset and methods for monitoring Columbia Basin
pygmy rabbits. The graduate student will conduct eld
work and laboratory work on this species and lead an
experiential learning course to involve undergraduate
students in the winter burrow monitoring. Our faculty
research team includes Lisette Waits and Janet Rachlow
(Dept Fish and Wildlife Sciences University of Idaho),
Paul Hohenlohe (Dept of Biological Sciences University
of Idaho), and Lisa Shipley (Washington State Univer-
sity). This project could be a MS or PhD level project
and students can choose to obtain a graduate degree in
Natural Resources or Bioinformatics and Computational
Biology at the University of Idaho. We would like the
student to start between August 2016 and November
2016. If interested, please send the following in a single
PDF: 1) Letter of interest, 2) resume, 3) GRE scores
and course transcripts (unocial ne), and 4) names
and contact information for 3 references to Lisette Waits
lwaits@uidaho.edu by May 10th.
Lisette Lisette Waits, PhD Distinguished Professor44 EvolDir May 1, 2016
Department Head Dept Fish and Wildlife Sciences
University of Idaho 875 Perimeter Drive MS 1136
Moscow ID 83844-1136 Phone: (208) 885 7823 http:/-
/www.uidaho.edu/cnr/faculty/waits \Waits, Lisette
(lwaits@uidaho.edu)" <lwaits@uidaho.edu >
ULille ClimateAdaptation
PhD position: Dispersal and maternal transfer of im-
munity in Capitella capitata: assessing trait association
syndromes and the eects of climate change
Deadline: Review of applications will begin immediately
and continue until the position has been lled.
Location: Unit e Evolution, Ecologie & Pal eontologie
(EEP), CNRS UMR 8198, Universit e de Lille, B ~Atiment
SN2, F-59655 Villeneuve d'Ascq cedex, France
Theme: Climate change aects all ecosystems on the
planet. The identication of general eects of tempera-
ture warming on species traits is of paramount impor-
tance in order to anticipate future changes of ecosys-
tems. These eects, based either on genetic variability
or phenotypic plasticity, can aect the functioning and
stability of ecosystems and thus aect expected ecosys-
tem services. For instance, temperature rise is expected
to favor eventually smaller but more rapidly growing
poikilotherms over larger slowly growing ones (the so-
called temperature-size rule). In marine organisms, this
could potentially aect the dispersal of larvae, and hence
the genetic homogeneity of populations, as the size of
passively dispersing larvae is bound to aect the dura-
tion and scale of dispersal. Immune defenses are also
expected to be aected by the selective pressures asso-
ciated with such a shift.
This PhD is an opportunity to study the association
of dispersal ability and immune defense capacities in
marine poikilotherms with larval dispersal. Through the
study of developmental mode polymorphism in Capitella
capitata, a littoral polychaete that can display either di-
rect or indirect development, this project will endeavor
to understand how developmental mode and maternal
investment in immune protection are linked and thus
how an increase in sea surface temperature can aect
this trait association, especially through changes in en-
countered microbial communities.
Overall, this PhD project will address three important
questions: (i) are there dierential immune transfers
among ospring within and among clutches, and, if so,are these dierent investments related to the dispersal
ability of future larvae/juveniles? (ii) How do bacterial
community shift with increases in water temperature
and will these shifts aect the immunological perfor-
mance of worms currently living on the littoral of the
Hauts-de-France region? (iii) What will be the eects
of an increase in water temperature on developmen-
tal strategy and transgenerational immunity transfer
from mother to ospring in the marine annelid Capitella
capitata? To answer these questions, the PhD student
will develop lab-based evolution and acclimation experi-
ments as well as theoretical models to predict expected
eects resulting from changes in temperature.
Key words: climate change; eco-immunology; experi-
mental evolution; larval dispersal; poecilogony; trans-
generational immunity transfer
PhD supervisor(s):
* Fran cois Massol (francois.massol@univ-lille1.fr), CR
CNRS, HDR, Species Interactions and Comparative
Immunology group, Evo-Eco-Paleo unit, CNRS UMR
8198, University of Lille, SN2 building, F-59655 Vil-
leneuve d'Ascq cedex, France. * Virginie Cuvillier-Hot
(virginie.cuvillier@univ-lille1.fr), MCF Lille 1, Species
Interactions and Comparative Immunology group, Evo-
Eco-Paleo unit, CNRS UMR 8198, University of Lille,
SN2 building, F-59655 Villeneuve d'Ascq cedex, France.
Funding: ^A1
2region Hauts-de-France fellowship, ^A1
2
Uni. Lille 1 presidency allocation
Doctoral school: ED \Sciences de la Mati ere, du Ray-
onnement et de l'Environnement" (\SMRE" ; ED 104),
Universit e de Lille, Sciences et Technologies ; Fili ere doc-
torale : G eosciences Ecologie Pal eontologie Oc eanologie
Prole: We are looking for a highly motivated candidate
having a strong interest in both evolutionary ecology
and eco-immunology. The ideal candidate will have good
capacities for experimental evolution, rearing animals
in the lab and setting up experimental treatments, as
well as experience in molecular biology, immunological
assays and/or biochemistry-related techniques. Prior
experience with ecological modeling will be appreciated.
Finally, the candidate should have obtained good marks
and ranking at the master's degree.
Because of the project's interdisciplinary nature, we are
open to applicants from all elds of biology.
Interested applicants should have a look at the SPICI
group website ( http://spici.weebly.com) for information
about the project and our research group.
Contact: Please send your application to Fran cois
Massol (francois.massol@univ-lille1.fr) and Virginie
Cuvillier-Hot (virginie.cuvillier@univ-lille1.fr). ThisMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 45
should include (1) a detailed CV, (2) a cover letter
putting forward relevant training, (3) a copy of grades
and rank for the master degree (rst and second-year
marks), (4) name and
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ULille IFREMER France
ExtremophilicNematodes
PhD title: Search for new antibiotics in extremophilic
worms and studying their adaptation and functions in
extreme habitats
*Dead-line for application: 1st of June 2016*
A PhD position is proposed under the joint supervision
of two teams Unit e EvoEcoPaleo/Ecoimmunology group,
Universit e de Lille CNRS, UMR8198, France and Labo-
ratoire Environnement Profond/Etude des Ecosyst emes
Profonds, IFREMER Brest Le Plouzan e, France, in the
context of the PIONEER program funded by Fondation
Total (2016-2019).
To apply: Please send a motivation letter together with
your CV to Aur elie Tasiemski (aurelie.tasiemski@univ-
lille1.fr), associate professor, EEP lab, PhD super-
visor and Daniella Zeppilli researcher IFREMER
(Daniela.Zeppilli@ifremer.fr), LEP, PhD co-supervisor
before the 1st of June 2016
We are looking for a motivated candidate interested in
identifying new antibiotics produced by newly found
species of extremophilic nematodes and studying the
role played by these peptides in the interactions of the
nematodes with their surrounding microbial commu-
nities. The discovery of abundant and well-adapted
nematode communities in several extreme environments
has opened new frontiers in the ecology and biology of
the species thriving in such ecosystems. Invertebrates
adapt to extreme environments through the establish-
ment of chemotrophic and/or detoxifying microbial sym-
bioses. This obligatory interaction is presumably con-
trolled by an ecient immune system based, among
other factors, on the production of AntiMicrobial Pep-
tides (AMPs). There is no consensus sequences of AMPs,
with a higher AMP diversity in marine than in terres-
trial species and peculiar sequences in extremophilespecies. The objectives of this thesis are to isolate and
biochemically characterize novel AMPs produced by new
discovered nematode species living in coastal and deep
extreme environments and to (ii) understand the AMP
based interactions between nematodes and prokaryotes
in extr^ emophiles habitats by using multiple approaches.
This research will accommodate basic, as well as applied,
research (patents are envisaged).
Location: The PhD will take place at the EEP lab, Lille,
France and at the LEP lab Brest, France. Cruises for
sampling can be envisaged.
Doctoral school : ED \Sciences de la Mati ere, du Ray-
onnement et de l'Environnement" (\SMRE" ; ED 104),
Universit e de Lille, Sciences et Technologies ; Fili ere doc-
torale : G eosciences Ecologie Pal eontologie Oc eanologie
Funding: Co-funding between Total Fondation and the
doctoral School of Lille. CV supporting the motivation
and the qualication of the candidate are prerequisites
for an application at the doctoral school of Lille.
Applicant prole: Application to this program is open
for all students, whatever their nationality, with the
equivalent of a master's degree either in microbiology
or in immunology or in ecology. An experience of exper-
imental work in the laboratory is strongly required. In-
terests for biochemistry and interdisciplinary approaches
are necessary as well as mobility.
Francois Massol <francois.massol@univ-lille1.fr >
ULondon EvolutionaryEcol
I am seeking an enthusiastic and hard-working PhD
student for a funded 3-yr position to work on the pre-
dictability of evolution using livebearing shes (family
Poeciliidae) in the School of Biological Sciences at Royal
Holloway, University of London. To be eligible, the stu-
dent should have at least a good 2.1 BSc degree or
higher in a relevant subject area (or equivalent thereof),
with evidence for interest in Animal Behaviour, Ecology,
and/or Evolutionary Ecology. Preference will be given
to candidates with a Masters degree and a demonstrated
interest in the topic.
The application deadline is 15th April 2016, and the
successful student is expected to start in Septem-
ber/October of this year. For project and scholarship
details please see https://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=57014&LID=1359 .That
page will also direct you to the online portal for46 EvolDir May 1, 2016
applications.
For questions about this scholarship, the project, or the
application, please contact me (R udiger Riesch: rudi-
ger.riesch@rhul.ac.uk).
Best wishes, R udiger Riesch
R udiger Riesch, PhD Lecturer in Evolution-
ary Biology School of Biological Sciences
Royal Holloway, University of London Email:
rwriesch.evolutionarybiology@gmail.com home-
page: https://sites.google.com/site/ruedigerriesch/-
home Book on Extremophile Fishes: http://-
www.springer.com/life+sciences/ecology/book/978-
3-319-13361-4 \The most exciting phrase to hear in
science, the one that heralds the most discoveries, is
not "Eureka\ but "That's funny...\ {Isaac Asimov
R udiger Riesch <rwriesch.evolutionarybiology@gmail.com >
UMelbourne Evolution postgrads
postdocs exchange
*** Short postdocs, exchange visits, and PhD/Masters
projects in the Holman lab, University of Melbourne
***
Later this month (April 2016), the \Endeavour Schol-
arships and Fellowships program" will begin asking for
applications. This program has a number of options
for bringing talented early career researchers to Aus-
tralia, which are summarized here: http://tinyurl.com/-
ongqbkp . Firstly, they provide funds that cover tuition
fees and living expenses for non-Australians to conduct
an entire 2-year Masters degree, or a PhD of up to
4 years, in Australia. Secondly, they fund 4-6 month
research visits to Australia by people currently under-
taking a Masters or PhD in a dierent country. Thirdly,
these 4-6 month visits can be used to partially fund a
short post-doc (typically these are awarded to recent
PhD graduates). Thus, the scheme allows PhD students
to undertake a funded ^ a' or exchange visit to conduct
research at an Australian university, or to fund a short
post-doc.
I have recently joined the School of Biosciences at the
University of Melbourne, and am keen to recruit addi-
tional lab members. I am interested in sexual selection,
social evolution, selsh genetic elements, animal behav-
ior, and a variety of other topics united by the common
theme of evolution (see my webpage below). I use a mix-ture of approaches including experiments with insects,
bioinformatics, quantitative genetics and theoretical
modeling. A lot of the work I am currently planning
uses \omics" methods, including RNA-seq studies of
gene expression, ddRAD studies of genetic variation
in non-model organisms, and bisulphite sequencing to
characterize DNA methylation.
I would be very happy to support applicants wishing
to join my lab via the Endeavour program, and am
prepared to work closely with good candidates on draft-
ing a competitive application and designing an exciting,
fundable project. I am interested in recruiting good can-
didates at all levels covered by the Endeavour program:
Masters, PhD, and postdoc. Desirable skills include
bioinformatics, manuscript writing, and broad knowl-
edge of evolutionary biology, though I am interested
to hear from anyone who learns quickly, can work well
unsupervised, and is passionate about research.
If interested, please contact me directly to discuss possi-
bilities, and enclose a short CV and a brief description
of your research interests and expertise.
Luke Holman
|{
Senior lecturer and ARC DECRA Fellow
School of Biosciences, University of Melbourne
website: https://sites.google.com/site/lukeholman/-
home email: luke.holman@unimelb.edu.au
UOslo Mycology
PhD Research Fellowship in Mycology/Microbiology
available at the University of Oslo, Norway
Most fungi reside in natural habitats, but some species
have expanded their habitats into buildings, causing
adverse health eects as well as damages to the con-
structions. The main aim in this project is to improve
the knowledge about indoor fungal communities (i.e.
the indoor mycobiome) by implementing state-of-the-
art high throughput DNA sequence (HTS) analyses.
Using DNA metabarcoding and other DNA based ap-
proaches we will analyze the spatiotemporal variation
in the indoor mycobiome within single buildings and
on broader geographic scales and identify the main de-
terminants of the indoor mycobiome. We also want to
improve reference DNA sequence collections for indoor
fungi and improve and adapt existing bioinformaticsMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 47
tools for DNA metabarcoding analyses of the indoor
mycobiome.
The fellowship will be for a period of 4 years, with
25% compulsory work. Starting date no later than
01.10.2016. For more information and for applying,
see http://uio.easycruit.com/vacancy/1618189/-
96323?iso=3Dno \havard.kauserud@ibv.uio.no"
<havard.kauserud@ibv.uio.no >
UOtago NewZealand
ConservationGenomics
Evolution and conservation of the world's rarest wading
bird
A PhD position in conservation genomics is available to
study the evolution and conservation of New Zealand
bird species with Dr Michael Knapp at the University
of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand.
The New Zealand bird fauna is under threat from intro-
duced predators as well as from non-native competitors
and interbreeding with closely related introduced species.
This project will evaluate the impact of interbreeding
between the world's rarest wading bird, the Black Stilt,
and its more common, non-native relative, the Pied Stilt.
The research will include analyses of modern and ancient
DNA and conduct genome wide analyses of both species.
Based on the results from these studies, the project will
develop conservation strategies for the Black Stilt. The
project is part of our new, Royal Society funded research
programme, which uses genomic data to address key
questions of bird evolution and conservation in New
Zealand's unique environment.
The ideal PhD student will have skills in molecular
ecology/population genetics and/or bioinformatics and
genome data analyses.
The University of Otago is one of the most research-
intensive Universities in New Zealand with a world-class
reputation in the life sciences. It provides an envi-
ronment that allows its students to undertake interna-
tionally recognised research, in a diverse and vibrant
postgraduate environment and has been ranked as one of
the 15 most beautiful campuses in the world. The PhD
student will be hosted by the Department of Anatomy, a
diverse and research-oriented department with expertise
ranging from genomics to biomedical sciences.
For details and instructions on how to apply, please visit
http://anatomy.otago.ac.nz/phd-opportunities, whereyou will nd all our currently available PhD positions
in genomics and biomedical sciences along with applica-
tion details. The project advertised here is listed under
\Evolution and conservation of the world's rarest wading
bird'.
Please apply by 17/May/2016.
Dr Michael Knapp Rutherford Discovery Fellow Se-
nior Lecturer in Biological Anthropology Department
of Anatomy University of Otago Dunedin New Zealand
Michael Knapp <michael.knapp@otago.ac.nz >
UppsalaU
EvolutionHostAdaptedBacteria
A PhD student position is available in my group:
http://www.uu.se/en/about-uu/join-us/details/-
?positionId=99188 PhD position in Microbiology
Uppsala University is an international research univer-
sity focused on the development of science and education.
Our most important assets are all the individuals who
with their curiosity and their dedication make Uppsala
University one of Swedens most exciting work places.
Uppsala University has 40,000 students, 7,000 employees
and a turnover of SEK 6,5 billion.
The Department of Medical Microbiology is a very
strong and international research and teaching environ-
ment, hosting a sta of over 250 scientists, among which
over 40 PhD students. In 2015, researchers from the
department published over 150 articles in peer-reviewed
journals. Research focuses on three domains: Biochem-
istry/Molecular Cell Biology, Genomics, and Microbiol-
ogy/Immunology.
Project description: The research group where the can-
didate will be working studies the evolution of host-
adapted (intracellular) bacteria. The overall goal is to
better understand the precise molecular mechanisms
underlying long- and short-term evolution of host adap-
tation in bacteria and to identify critical genetic innova-
tions that allow free-living bacteria to adapt to, and then
prot from, or live in symbiosis with, eukaryotic hosts.
To obtain unprecedented precision about the nature and
function of the genes involved in host-adaptation, the
successful candidate will establish a Long-Term Experi-
mental Evolution (LTEE) experiment with Legionella
pneumophila in several hosts. The LTEE will also help
understand the molecular nature of tness trade-os48 EvolDir May 1, 2016
occurring when switching from a generalist (many hosts)
to a specialist (single or a few hosts) strategy.
Duties: The successful candidate will primarily engage
in research work and doctoral studies. Other duties at
the institution comprised of administration and teaching
may be included in the employment at a maximum lever
of 20 %. Salary is subject to established local guidelines.
Qualications: The candidate must hold a M.Sc. degree
(or equivalent, corresponding to 240 credits) in Evolu-
tionary Biology, Genetics, Microbiology or a related eld.
They should have a strong interest in basic research in
microbiology and molecular evolution. Previous prac-
tical experience in microbiology and molecular biology
is desired. Since the project requires interacting with
dierent research groups, an established ability to work
independently and to take initiatives is an asset.
To be employed as a PhD student, the applicant must be
accepted in the postgraduate programme. Information
concerning doctoral education, requirements and rules of
admission can be found http://www2.medfarm.uu.se/-
utbildning/forskarniva/. The length of the study pe-
riod for full time employment is a maximum of four
years. Terms for graduate studies can be found in
H ogskolef orordningen 5 kap §§1-7.
For further details: please contact Lionel Guy, li-
onel.guy@imbim.uu.se, phone +46 18 471 4366 or Dan
Andersson, dan.andersson@imbim.uu.se, phone: +46 18
471 4175.
Application: Please submit a CV, a letter describing
your research interest and skills, publications or a copy
of master thesis or equivalent, contact information of
three referees (phone number and e-mail address) and
three reference letters.
You are welcome to submit your application online no
later than May 27, 2016 at http://www.uu.se/en/about-
uu/join-us/details/?positionId=99188 { Lionel Guy,
PhD, Assistant Professor Department for Medical Bio-
chemistry and Microbiology, Uppsala University, Upp-
sala, Sweden
lionel.guy@imbim.uu.se
USouthernMississippi
FishPopGenetics
A graduate assistant position (M.S. or Ph.D) is avail-
able in our laboratory to work on population genet-ics/genomics of marine and coastal shes exploited in
the Gulf of Mexico region. Current lab projects include
application of genome scans generated by genotyping by
sequencing to linkage mapping and population genomics,
controlled breeding of marine species and development
of experimental approaches to study the genetic basis
of phenotypic traits.
The successful applicant will be provided a 12-month
full-time Research Assistantship with a tuition waiver.
Candidates should possess a Bachelor's degree in a rele-
vant eld (e.g. Biology, Ecology & evolutionary biology,
Fisheries science, GPA >3.5) when applying for this
position. The position is available starting fall 2015.
Interested individuals should send a CV, GRE scores,
and unocial transcripts to:
Eric Saillant, Ph.D Associate Professor Department of
Coastal Sciences The University of Southern Mississippi
Gulf Coast Research Laboratory 703 East Beach Drive
Ocean Springs, MS, 39564 Tel. (1) 228-818-8007 Fax
(1) 228-872-4204 E-mail: eric.saillant@usm.edu
Eric Saillant <eric.saillant@usm.edu >
UTrento InsectNeuroimaging
StartingNovDeadlineMay10
The Center of Mind/Brain sciences @ Trento, Italy
oers 14 PhD fellowships commencing in November
2016. Among which one within a project on Insect neu-
roimaging For an overview of our work visit our group's
website: http://r.unitn.it/en/cimec/nphys and contact
me to discuss possible projects: albrecht.haase@unitn.it
For the application: https://webapps.unitn.it/Apply/-
en/Web/Home/dott The deadline for applications is
Tuesday May 10, 2016 at 4:00 p.m. Some information
on the CIMeC PhD program - CIMeC ranked 1st in
Italy for Quality of Research 2013 - 2014-2015 University
of Trento ranks 1st in Italy in the rankings of THE -
Times Higher Education - 3-yr program (Nov. 1, 2016-
Oct. 31, 2019) - all courses are given in English
{ Dr. Albrecht Haase Assistant Professor Laboratory
for Nonlinear Bioimaging, Department of Physics &
Neurophysics Group, Center for Mind/Brain Sciences
University of Trento
Piazza Manifattura 1, Building 14, 38068 Rovereto (TN),
Italy Tel oce: +39 0464 808699 http://r.unitn.it/-
en/cimec/nphys Albrecht <albrecht.haase@unitn.it >
Albrecht <albrecht.haase@unitn.it >May 1, 2016 EvolDir 49
UZurich ComputEvolutionaryBiol
PhD thesis in computational evolutionary biology
A three-year Ph.D. studentship in evolutionary biology
is available in the laboratory of Andreas Wagner at the
University of Zurich. We are looking for a researcher to
study the origins of evolutionary innovations and phe-
notypic diversity in genetic systems, such as metabolic
networks, regulatory circuits, and enzymes. Lab mem-
bers are a group with very diverse backgrounds and
research projects, unied by their interests in evolution
and life's fundamental organizational principles. Ongo-
ing work in the lab ranges from the directed evolution
of enzymes to laboratory evolution in E.coli and com-
putational analyses of genetic networks (e.g., Hayden
et al., Nature 2011; Payne and Wagner, Science 2014).
A sample of the laboratory's research can be found at
http://www.ieu.uzh.ch/wagner/ . The successful can-
didate will have a strong background in bioinformatics
and computational biology. Fluency in a major script-
ing language such as perl, and experience in software
development is a must. Also desirable is a strong back-
ground in biology. Applications without a demonstrated
interest and research history in evolutionary biology will
not be considered further. We are looking for an in-
dividual with a Masters Degree or equivalent, who is
highly self-motivated and can work independently.
The working language in the laboratory is English. Ger-
man skills, although helpful, are not essential. Zurich is
a highly attractive city in beautiful surroundings, with
a multinational population, and many educational and
recreational opportunities.
To be considered, please send a single (!) PDF
le merged from the following parts to an-
nette.schmid@ieu.uzh.ch: CV including publication
list, academic transcripts, a statement of research
interests not exceeding three pages, and three academic
references. Please include the word \PEVOLPHD16" in
the subject line. Applications will be considered until
April 22, 2016, or until the position is lled, whichever
comes rst. The position is available from the fall of
2016.
Annette Schmid Administrative Assistant of Prof. A.
Wagner University of Zurich Institute of Evolutionary Bi-
ology and Environmental Studies Wagner lab, Y27-J52
Winterthurerstrasse 190 CH-8057 Z urich Switzerland
Mail to: annette.schmid@ieu.uzh.ch Phone +41 (0)44635 61 42 Fax +41 (0)44 635 61 44 at the oce on
Monday and Thursday
\annette.schmid@ieu.uzh.ch"
<annette.schmid@ieu.uzh.ch >
VrijeU Brussel AntarcticSeaStars
PhD scholarship (4 years) in molecular ecology at the
Vrije Universiteit Brussel (VUB), Department of Biology,
Marine Biology Lab, Belgium.
We are searching for a highly motivated PhD student
that will work on evolution, population genetics and
connectivity in Antarctic sea stars utilising a genomics
approach (DNA barcoding, microsatellites and next
generation sequencing) in the framework of the interdis-
ciplinary project
Refugia and Ecosystem Tolerance in the Southern Ocean
(RECTO).
Because of its long history and geographic isolation,
the Southern Ocean (SO) provides a natural labora-
tory for research on evolution and biodiversity. Con-
fronted with fast-paced environmental changes, biota
in Antarctic ecosystems are strongly challenged and
face three possible outcomes: adaptation, migration or
extinction. Past glaciation periods have already forced
marine zoobenthos of the SO into refugia, being either
ice-free continental shelf areas, the deep sea or sub- or
peri-Antarctic regions, followed by recolonization when
the ice retreated. In a multidisciplinary approach and
involving all major Belgian research groups studying
evolution and diversity of SO faunas, RECTO will strive
at understanding how such past events have driven di-
versication and adaptation in dierent animal groups
and how these can be applied as proxies to understand
the contemporary situation and predict future scenarios.
The Marine Biology Lab at the VUB specialises in re-
search on molecular ecology of marine fauna from the
poles to the tropics and from invertebrates to shes. In
the new collaborative research project RECTO the evo-
lutionary history of Antarctic sea stars will be studied.
Prole of the PhD student:
- Master in (marine) biology with excellent study results
- Experience in genomics (lab work and bioinformatics)
- Interest in the ecology and evolution of Antarctic sea
stars50 EvolDir May 1, 2016
- Excellent oral and written English skills (for mini-
mum requirements see www.vub.ac.be/en/studying-at-
the-vub/language-requirements)
- Willingness to participate in long sampling campaigns
under extreme conditions in the Southern Ocean
- Obligation to nalise a doctoral thesis within 4 years
The marine biology lab oers excellent coaching in an
inspiring research environment with up-to-date research
facilities in the international and multilingual capital ofEurope.
Interested candidates are requested to submit their ap-
plication (motivation letter, address of three referees,
summary of master thesis, MSc certicate with grades,
proof of prociency in English and curriculum vitae)
with the subject line 'RECTO PhD scholarship appli-
cation' to the head of the Marine Biology Lab, Prof.
Dr. Marc Kochzius (marc.kochzius@vub.ac.be) before
01. May 2016. Expected starting date is 01.06.2016.
Marc Kochzius <vub.marine.biology@gmail.com >
Jobs
AdamMickiewiczU Poland Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . 50
Alberta GroundSquirrelHeadTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
CaryInst US EvolutionZoonoticDiseases . . . . . . . . . . . 52
ImperialCollege London EvolutionChytridFungi . . . 52
IthacaCollege NewYork 1yr TeachingEvol . . . . . . . . . 53
LANGEBIO Mexico 4 GenomicsBioinfomatics . . . . .54
Monsanto CA VegetableGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
OregonStateU CuratorFisheriesWildlife . . . . . . . . . . . .55
StanfordU HopkinsMarineStation ResTech DNAbarcod-
ing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .56
StockholmU BioinformaticsEvolutionaryGenomics . 57
StockholmU EvolOrganismalBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .57
TrinityU Texas 9mnth TeachingEvolution . . . . . . . . . 58
UCyprus ConservationBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59UKansas DrosophilaHostPathogen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .59
UKansas ResAsst EvolGenomics RNASilencing . . . .60
UKonstanz 3 EvolutionaryBiol 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
UMunich 2 ResAssoc EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . .62
UNewMexico GreenhouseManager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .63
UNorthCarolina Greensboro 3yr Teaching . . . . . . . . . 63
UOregon ResAsst MicrobialEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .63
UWestAlabama AquaticBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .64
UZurich Paleogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .65
Victoria Australia ResFellow PopGenetics . . . . . . . . . 65
WestAustralia 5FieldTeam GnaralooTurtleConservation
65
AdamMickiewiczU Poland
Bioinformatics
Research Group Leader in Bioinformatics
Adam Mickiewicz University in Pozna A (AMU) andInternational Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology
in Warsaw (IIMCB) invite applications for Research
Group Leader
We seek a talented, motivated and dynamic scientist,
preferentially (but not limited to) at the early in his/her
career to establish a joint AMU & IIMCB research
group located at the Institute of Molecular Biology and
Biotechnology, Faculty of Biology, Adam Mickiewicz
University (IBMIB-AMU) in Pozna A, Poland.May 1, 2016 EvolDir 51
IIMCB (http://iimcb.gov.pl) and Faculty of Biology
AMU to which IBMIB-AMU ( http://ibmib.amu.edu.pl)
belongs are among Poland's top-ranked academic insti-
tutions in the eld of biology, working together based on
a bilateral agreement. Research topics at both institutes
cover a wide spectrum of molecular and cellular biology,
biotechnology, structural and computational biology.
Both institutes are involved in various national and in-
ternational research projects and provide cutting-edge
equipment and facilities for wet-lab work and bioinfor-
matics. IBMIB-AMU, where the group will be located,
is situated at a modern academic Morasko campus in
Pozna A and provides outstanding research opportunities
for their scientists in a stimulating environment.
For the Research Group Leader position we will consider
candidates with a strong scientic track record in bioin-
formatics and clear evidence of leadership as well as an
ability to attract extramural funding. The successful
candidate will be expected to develop an independent
research program in bioinformatics to complement re-
search activities in IBMIB-AMU and IIMCB, and will
be responsible for teaching a course in bioinformatics
and training of young scientists within the framework
of MSc and PhD studies at AMU.
The startup package includes the salary of the group
leader, two PhD student positions, start-up funding, fur-
nished laboratory and oce space at IBMIB-AMU and
access to all shared equipment of both institutions. The
initial contract will be for 5 years, with a possible exten-
sion dependent on the results of periodic evaluation(s).
The starting date is negotiable.
Deadline for application is April 30, 2016. Ap-
plications should be submitted by email to rekru-
tacja@iimcb.gov.pl
Applicants should prepare a single pdf le including:
^ a a cover letter explaining reasons for application, ^ a a
Curriculum Vitae including a list of publications, ^ a a
statement of scientic achievements (up to 1 page), ^ a
a summary of the applicant's future research plans (2
pages) including potential for prospective collaboration
with particular groups at IBMIB-AMU and IIMCB, ^ a
addresses of two academic reference persons, ^ a copies
of three most important papers, ^ a one page description
of candidate's experience in teaching and a summary of
proposed MSc and PhD-level courses in bioinformatics
The application must contain the following statement:
\In accordance with the personal data protection act
from 29th August 1997, I hereby agree to process and to
store my personal data by the Institution for recruitment
purposes".
Ciomborowska Joanna <joannac@amu.edu.pl >Alberta GroundSquirrelHeadTech
Head Field Technician Required ASAP - Columbian
ground squirrels Kananaskis, Alberta, Canada
We are looking for a head eld technician to assist
with, and coordinate, eldwork on the ecology of a wild
population of Columbian ground squirrels. The head
technician will supervise 3 volunteers for the period of
May 1 to Aug 31, 2016 (preference may be given to ap-
plicants who can start up to a week earlier (i.e., ~Apr
23-24). Duties will include monitoring the phenology
(when animals emerge from hibernation), reproduction
and survival of individuals, data entry and data verica-
tion. Fieldwork will involve live-trapping and handling
of animals, behavioural observation, radio-telemetry (to
locate natal burrows) and assistance with the measure-
ment of physiological (metabolism) traits on free-ranging
animals. The successful candidate will have previous
eldwork experience, ideally in a eld camp/station set-
ting, have experience in data entry and management and
show a high level of responsibility. Good organizational,
multi-tasking and supervisory abilities are essential. Ap-
plicants who have experience working with terrestrial
vertebrates will be given priority. Additionally, you
should have an interest in a number of the following
(the more the better!): ecology, evolutionary biology,
wildlife, eld biology, and animal behaviour. All work
is conducted out of eld stations and, as such, success-
ful applicants need to enjoy the outdoors, be up-beat,
positive, responsible and work well as a member of a
team.
Fieldwork is carried out in the spectacular Rocky Moun-
tains of southwestern Alberta, Canada, home to some of
the most majestic wildlife in North America. You will
be staying at the University of Calgary's Barrier Lake
research station in Peter Lougheed Provincial Park, Al-
berta (http://bgs.ucalgary.ca/facilities/facilities). You
will interact with other researchers working on a diver-
sity of projects in behavioural and population ecology,
ranging from insects to large mammals.
Salary is $1800/month. Food and accommodation are
provided. The successful candidate will be required to
provide for their own travel to Saskatoon, Saskatchewan.
Travel between the eld station and Saskatoon is pro-
vided. If you wish to apply for this position, please
send a CV with a cover letter and contact details of
three references (with e-mail address), by email to Je52 EvolDir May 1, 2016
Lane (contact info below), ASAP. Applications will be
reviewed as they are received and, to receive full consid-
eration, we thus encourage applicants to submit their
materials ASAP. Please indicate in your application that
you are applying for the head technician position (we
are also posting for 1 volunteer). Note that only those
eligible to work in Canada (Canadian citizens or landed
immigrants, American citizens eligible for TN status or
foreign nationals with work permits or working holiday
visas) will be considered.
We thank everyone for applying, but only those selected
for interview will be contacted. Only applicants avail-
able for the entire period will be considered.
Contact: Dr. Je Lane Department of
Biology University of Saskatchewan jef-
frey.lane@usask.ca www.lanelab.ca \Lane, Jerey"
<jerey.lane@usask.ca >
CaryInst US
EvolutionZoonoticDiseases
Lab/Data Manager Opportunity at Cary Institute of
Ecosystem Studies
We are seeking a full time data and laboratory manager
to support research activities in computational ecology
of zoonotic diseases. Main duties will include the collec-
tion and curation of data from diverse sources including
published literature, the web, and existing repositories
and online databases. This main task will require some
programming prociency (R preferred). Additional du-
ties include standardizing metadata across curated data
les, and managing multiple data streams from distinct
collaborative projects. The applicant should possess
previous training in the biological sciences, and research
experience with infectious diseases and ecology is pre-
ferred. In addition to R programming experience, pro-
ciency with ArcGIS (or equivalent open access software)
is desirable. The successful candidate will be collab-
orative with good verbal and written communication
skills; detail- oriented; and enjoy a high degree of in-
dependence. This position oers the opportunity to
engage in ongoing lab research projects, and to develop
independent side projects exploring questions related to
infectious disease.
This is a fully benetted position for one year, subject to
annual renewal contingent on performance and available
funding.The nal candidate will be required to successfully com-
plete a post- oer, pre-employment screening and back-
ground check. All candidates must be authorized to
work in the U.S.
To apply, visit our website at www.caryinstitute/who
we are/jobs and complete our online job application.
Interested applicants should send a 1-page cover letter
detailing their interest and qualications for the position,
and the contact info for 3 references. Please include job
code 16022-I in your correspondence.
The Cary Institute is an Equal Employment Opportu-
nity (EEO) and Armative Action (AA) employer. It is
the policy of the Company to provide equal employment
opportunities to all qualied applicants without regard
to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, national origin, age, familial status, protected
veteran or disabled status, or genetic information.
Patricia Jones <jonesp@caryinstitute.org >
ImperialCollege London
EvolutionChytridFungi
Imperial College London
Research Assistant
Reference number: SM095-16KO closing date 22nd May
2016 http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/employment Depart-
ment of Infectious Disease Epidemiology; Imperial Col-
lege London, School of Public Health
Salary Range: 29,800 - 31,360 per annum
The Fisher Lab is seeking an experimentalist to join a
research group investigating the evolutionary ecology
of chytrid fungi causing global amphibian extinctions.
Continuously funded since 2003 by UK Research Coun-
cils, we are investigating the patterns and processes
that are leading to disease-driven amphibian declines
by utilising population genomics, experimental ecology
and eldwork. Our work has been key to identifying the
fungal lineages and species that are emerging to cause
amphibian declines, and the vectors that are leading to
the spread of these invasive pathogens. The project will
focus on discovering new lineages of amphibian-infecting
fungi from around the world, comparative genomics of
the dierent lineages, and will seek to identify the re-
gions from which contemporary infections originate.
Funded by the Leverhulme Trust, the project's primary
objective is to investigate the spatial epidemiology andMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 53
molecular evolution of panzootic amphibian chytridiomy-
cosis by linking patterns of host-specicity, competition
and virulence to the spatial origins of infecting lineages.
An initial focus of the project will be the amphibian bio-
diversity hotspot of Madagascar, and the candidate will
be expected to spend some time co-ordinating surveys
in that country.
Our ultimate goal is to increase our awareness of evo-
lutionary ecology of these pathogens, and the risk that
they pose to species worldwide.
Applicants should have a BSc or MSc or equivalent in one
of the following areas: biology, genetics, epidemiology
or related quantitative disciplines. You will also have
strong knowledge of, and interest in, pathogen epidemi-
ology and knowledge of research methods in genetics
and genomics and the ability to work with animals. The
post may require work in challenging eldwork settings.
This is a full time post for a xed-term of one year.
The candidate will join a vibrant department of over
130 epidemiologist at Imperial College London, recently
ranked joint 2nd in the QS world University rankings.
Our preferred method of application is online via
our website http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/employment.
Please complete and upload an application form as di-
rected.
For informal enquiries please contact Professor Matthew
Fisher: matthew.sher@imperial.ac.uk
\Fisher, Matthew" <matthew.sher@imperial.ac.uk >IthacaCollege NewYork 1yr
TeachingEvol
Dear colleagues,
Ithaca College seeks applications for a one-year term
position at the assistant professor level, to begin in
August. The position emphasizes teaching ecology &
evolutionary biology at the introductory undergraduate
level. Applications are due April 22nd, which is only two
weeks away. The ocial position description appears
below. With my best regards ~Brooks Miner Assistant
Professor, Department of Biology Ithaca College
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR - 001217
Organization : Biology
Primary Location : United States-New York-Ithaca
Description : The Biology Department at Ithaca College
invites applications for a full time, one-year, non-tenure-
eligible faculty appointment at the Assistant Professor
level to begin August 16, 2016. The primary responsi-
bility is to coordinate and teach the Spring 2017 Funda-
mentals of Biology II: Ecology and Evolution, a large
introductory course and associated labs for allied health
students. In Fall 2016, the faculty member will teach a
lecture course primarily for non-science majors as well
as laboratory sections of Fundamentals of Biology I:
Cells and Bodies. Responsibilities will amount to 12
teaching contact hours each semester.
Qualications : Preference will be given to individuals
with prior undergraduate teaching experience, and to
individuals who have completed a PhD in an appropri-
ate eld by August 2016. Successful candidates will
demonstrate the ability to teach in ways that value
the varied learning needs and interests of a culturally
diverse student population, and that reect a commit-
ment to encouraging the success of all students. We also
seek candidates who have relevant experience and/or a
record of professional engagement with groups and com-
munities underrepresented in the academy. Candidates
from underrepresented groups whose exclusion from the
academy has been longstanding are strongly encouraged
to apply.
Department Description: The Biology department is
housed within the school of Humanities & Sciences,
which consists of approximately 2,500 undergraduates.
The department oers both a B.A. and a B.S. in Biology,54 EvolDir May 1, 2016
a B.A in Biology teacher education, and a B.S. in Bio-
chemistry (in collaboration with the Chemistry depart-
ment). The department teaches a variety of courses for
Biology/Biochemistry majors, general education classes
for non-science majors, and service courses for other
programs in the Health Sciences. With the major focus
at Ithaca College on teaching, excellence in teaching is
a critical factor in evaluation of faculty.
College Introduction: At Ithaca College, a comprehen-
sive residential campus community of 6,500 students,
we strive to be at the forefront of the higher education
landscape. Our strategic plan, IC 20/20, positions us
to oer a distinct integrative learning experience that
makes students ready for the personal, professional, and
global challenges of our age. We seek candidates who
embrace integrative learning and want to be a part of
this exciting time in Ithaca College history. We encour-
age creative collaboration and innovation in our faculty
and sta, providing support and resources for them to
grow in their elds and lead students to their own in-
novative ideas and achievements. We welcome dierent
ways of thinking and look for candidates with unique
points of view and life experiences. We are inclusive
of individuals with a wide range of cultural, personal,
and professional backgrounds, talents, and skills. Our
campus is a vibrant and rewarding community where
diverse minds can learn, succeed, and excel. When re-
viewing candidates, we are looking for indicators of a
number of core competencies. Prospective candidates
must be adaptable, collaborative, inclusive, respectful,
responsive, results driven, and sustainable. They must
communicate eectively, demonstrate leadership, exhibit
professional integrity and ethics, take initiative, value
personal and professional development, and show that
they will engage in the college. Nestled in the heart
of New York State's scenic Finger Lakes region, Ithaca
College sits atop South Hill overlooking picturesque
Cayuga Lake and is just minutes away from the city cen-
ter. Combining small town warmth and charm with the
vibrancy of a college community, the thriving and cultur-
ally diverse city of Ithaca has been rated by Kiplinger's
as one of the top 10 places to live in the United States.
To learn more about Ithaca College, visit us at
ithaca.edu.
Instructions for submitting your application: Interested
applicants must apply online at ithaca.edu/jobs/ and at-
tach a cover letter, curriculum vitae, and a statement of
teaching philosophy that includes approaches to teach-
ing large lecture courses. Two letters of recommendation
should be emailed directly to Leann Kanda, Chair of
Search Committee, at lkanda@ithaca.edu. Questions
about the online application may be directed to the
Oce of Human Resources/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
LANGEBIO Mexico 4
GenomicsBioinfomatics
?LANGEBIO-Mexico (http://-
www.langebio.cinvestav.mx/) is opening 3 young
researcher and 1 head of services position.
1. Catedras CONACyT (CONACyT Research Fellows).
We are seeking 3 young investigators aiming at develop-
ing independent research lines in: 1) Paleogenomics, 2)
Bioinformatics, or 3) Plant genomics
\Catedras" are research positions intended for Mexicans
looking forward to come back to Mexico or foreigners
living in Mexico. Competitive salary, modest startup
package and benets provided. Short driving distance
from Guanajuato, a UNESCO World Heritage site.
Open call (in Spanish) is here:
http://langebio.cinvestav.mx/doctos/-
ccatedras langebio 2016.pdf More info about
Catedras Conacyt: http://www.conacyt.mx/-
index.php/el-conacyt/convocatorias-y-resultados-
conacyt/convocatoria-catedras/convocatorias-catedras-
conacyt-para-jovenes-investigadores-2016 2. Head of
Bioinformatics Services. We are seeking a computa-
tional scientist to become the Head of Bioinformatics
Services at LANGEBIO's Genomics Core Facility. The
research component of this position is optional.
More information: http://www.morenolab.org/pdf/-
Bioinformatics services open call2016 ENGLISH.pdf
Kind regards,
Selene
Selene L. Fernandez-Valverde Ph.D.
CONACYT Research Fellow - LANGEBIO Cinvestav
Irapuato, M exico
sfernandezv@langebio.cinvestav.mx
slfernandezva@conacyt.mx?
Selene Lizbeth Fernandez Valverde
<s.lizbethfernandez@uq.edu.au >May 1, 2016 EvolDir 55
Monsanto CA VegetableGenomics
 > Vegetable Genomics Scientist Location: Woodland,
CA Req# 018Y8 Monsanto is seeking a highly motivated
and talented genomics scientist who will perform and
guide analyses using biostatistical methods, including
population genetics, quantitative genetics, and bioinfor-
matics, to support global discovery genetics research
across multiple vegetable crops. ^A The role will be posi-
tioned within the discovery genetics team and located
at our R&D site in Woodland, California, USA. ^A The
scientist will manage, analyze and interpret phenotypic
data and large scale genomic data, as well as develop
new scripts and tools to enable routine and non-routine
analyses. ^A The candidate should be capable of eec-
tively communicating results and providing statistical
training and consulting to interdisciplinary teams.
Responsibilities: 1. Leverage world-class genomic
datasets to perform statistical genetic analyses and de-
velop scripts that will support Monsanto's vegetable
trait discovery pipeline.
2. Implement statistical methods to identify associa-
tions between trait phenotypes and genetic markers in
structured and unstructured populations (e.g. linear re-
gression, ANOVA, mixed eects models, QTL mapping,
genome-wide association mapping, genomic selection).
3. Combine phenotypic and genotypic data to assess
diversity and structure in vegetable germplasm.
4. Generate and update consensus genetic linkage maps
for various types of mapping populations. Construct
reference maps that successfully integrate both genetic
and bioinformatics data.
5. Conduct analyses to support evaluation and improve-
ment of genotyping platforms.
6. Communicate results concisely and accurately in
written and oral form to stakeholders.
7. Provide statistical training and consulting with sci-
entists and research associates.
8. Direct research associates to meet business goals and
identify development opportunities.
9. Pursue intellectual property opportunities around
project responsibilities, in collaboration with patent
science and legal functions.
Required Skills/Experience: Master's degree or higherin population genetics, statistical genetics, biostatis-
tics, computational biology, bioinformatics, breeding or
related eld of study.
Broad and extensive knowledge of theoretical and ap-
plied statistics, with strong skills in statistical modeling,
data quality control and data mining.
Experience constructing genetic linkage maps.
Prociency with one or more common statistical analysis
software environments (e.g. R, SAS).
Experience with at least one scripting language com-
monly used in genomics research (e.g. Python, Perl)
Self-motivation and strong initiative.
Ability to balance workloads from multiple compet-
ing tasks, excellent organization and time management
skills.
Outstanding written and verbal communication skills.
Desired skills: PhD degree in population genetics, sta-
tistical genetics, biostatistics, computational biology,
bioinformatics, breeding or related eld of study.
Applied knowledge of plant breeding Experience devel-
oping interactive interfaces for data analysis and visual-
izations (e.g. R Shiny, JavaScript) Prociency querying
enterprise level databases ^A
To apply for this role please visit \http://-
www.monsanto.com/careers/Vegetable Genomics Sci-
entist" type in Req #018Y8.
lisa.a.power@monsanto.com
lisa.a.power@monsanto.com
OregonStateU
CuratorFisheriesWildlife
Dear Colleagues,
Oregon State Universitys Department of Fisheries and
Wildlife (http://fw.oregonstate.edu) invites applications
for a full-time Instructor / Curator. We seek an ener-
getic, enthusiastic colleague with a passion for biological
collections to help advance our nationally and inter-
nationally recognized teaching, research and outreach
programs. Our interdisciplinary, collaborative depart-
ment works throughout the Pacic Northwest and the
world in diverse environments, and has long focused on
understanding vertebrate biology and biodiversity as a
foundation of eective conservation and management.
Our Corvallis location aords easy access to Oregons56 EvolDir May 1, 2016
diverse habitats and natural resources, including the
Pacic Ocean, the deepest lake in the United States,
extensive networks of rivers and streams, progressive ur-
ban and agricultural areas, mountains and high deserts.
The successful candidate will teach three to four
Ecampus or summer session courses per year on top-
ics related to zoology, taxonomy, systematics, ecol-
ogy, evolution, natural history, conservation and cu-
ration; manage and curate OSUs collections of shes
(http://ichthyology.oregonstate.edu), mammals, birds
and aquatic Invertebrates, train and direct undergradu-
ate collections assistants, produce scholarly work related
to research, curation or outreach using natural history
collections, and provide service to the department, uni-
versity and profession.
To apply, please submit a cover letter, curriculum vi-
tae, brief statements detailing your interest and expe-
rience in teaching, curation, and promoting diversity
(one page each), and contact information (email and
telephone) for three professional references at http://-
oregonstate.edu/jobs/ (posting number P00199UF). The
position requires a masters degree in vertebrate zoology,
ichthyology, mammalogy, ornithology, museum studies,
or a related eld. A more detailed position description,
including other minimum and preferred qualications,
also appears on that site. Applications must be received
on or before Sunday, May 8th to be considered.
Questions about the position can be directed to the
chair of the search committee, Dr. Brian Sidlauskas, at
brian.sidlauskas@oregonstate.edu.
Link to posting: https://jobs.oregonstate.edu/postings/-
24008 { Brian Sidlauskas Associate Professor and Cu-
rator of Fishes Department of Fisheries and Wildlife
Oregon State University 104 Nash Hall Corvallis, OR
97331
brian.sidlauskas@oregonstate.edu 541-737-6789 (oce)
541-224-3850 (cell) http://ichthyology.oregonstate.edu
http://people.oregonstate.edu/ ~sidlausb/ https:/-
/www.facebook.com/brian.sidlauskas https://-
twitter.com/briansidlauskas \Sidlauskas, Brian"
<Brian.Sidlauskas@oregonstate.edu >
StanfordU HopkinsMarineStation
ResTech DNAbarcoding
Research Technician- 70505
DescriptionResearch technician at Stanford University's Hopkins
Marine Station, in Pacic Grove, CA. Under the di-
rection of the Principal Investigator the technician will
assist with research related to genetic characterization
of marine communities using DNA barcoding of kelp
forest and sh market samples in the context of ongo-
ing research into marine conservation and management.
The position will also include grant reports and data
analysis.
Research duties include:
*Extracting DNA and documenting genetic variation.
This will include processing samples in the lab for DNA
extraction and sequencing as well as entering, managing,
and analyzing the resulting data. This will require the
use (or development) of many research skills using a va-
riety of molecular genetic tools. These include, but are
not limited to DNA extraction, PCR, gel electrophore-
sis, next generation DNA sequencing and bioinformatics.
*Laboratory maintenance including maintaining the lab
and taking responsibility for ordering some of the general
supplies.
There is potential for extension of the technician position
to other research projects.
Qualications
The successful applicant will be highly organized, have
attention to detail, be able to work as an independent
part of a team, have a basic understanding of and fa-
cility with standard computer software programs, and
have practical experience with a variety of standard
molecular tools (for example, DNA extraction, PCR,
gel electrophoresis, DNA sequencing, etc). In addition
to these basic requirements, we desire an applicant with
an interest in marine ecosystems and their ecological
functioning.
Application
Submit applications online at https://-
stanford.taleo.net/careersection/2/jobdetail.ftl?job=-
3D150870&src=JB-10064 A cover letter may be
included in the additional attachments section.
Review of applications will continue until the position
is lled.
Final oers of employment are contingent upon success-
ful completion of national criminal background check,
national sex oender registry search and, where appli-
cable, driving record.
Stanford is an equal opportunity employer and all quali-
ed applicants will receive consideration without regard
to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, national origin, disability, veteran status, or
any other characteristic protected by law.May 1, 2016 EvolDir 57
Jenny Giles <jlgiles@stanford.edu >
StockholmU BioinformaticsEvolu-
tionaryGenomics
Position in Bioinformatics / Evolutionary Genomics at
Science for Life Laboratory and Stockholm University
* A 2-year position in bioinformatics/evolutionary ge-
nomics, with possibility for extension, is available in the
research group of Dr. Tanja Slotte, a SciLifeLab Fel-
low in Ecological Genomics (https://tanjaslottelab.se).
* We address fundamental biological and evolutionary
questions using advanced combinations of laboratory
work and computational analyses - for recent examples
of our work, see e.g. Slotte et al. 2013 Nature Genetics,
Douglas et al 2015 PNAS, Steige et al 2015 MBE.
The position * For us, bioinformatics is central to stay-
ing at the forefront at our eld, and you will have a
key position in our team, working closely together with
group members all the way from planning experiments
to nal analyses and visualizations of results. * You will
be part of a tight interdisciplinary team working with
large- scale data analyses based on NGS sequencing and
omics data from multiple technology platforms. * You
will be part of the vibrant and growing bioinformatics
community at SciLifeLab, and for knowledge transfer
within SciLifeLab, you will also be aliated with the
National Bioinformatics Infrastructure Sweden (NBIS;
www.bils.se, www.nbis.se).
Qualications * We seek a candidate with a PhD in bioin-
formatics or a related eld who has strong competence
in analyses of next-generation sequencing (NGS) data,
and who has the ability to drive projects and collabo-
rate productively with team members. * You need to be
procient in one or more scripting languages (e.g. Perl,
Python, Ruby) and familiar with Unix environments.
* Basic understanding of statistics and probability, or
a background in population genomics/comparative ge-
nomics is benecial, as this is a strong component of
our work. * Experience of working with PacBio data is
a merit. * Excellent organizational skills and commu-
nication skills in both written and spoken English are
required.
The environment * We are located at Science for Life
Laboratories in Stockholm (http://www.scilifelab.se),
which harbors world-leading expertise in high-
throughput sequencing technology and bioinformatics. *The working atmosphere is international with English as
the working language. The city of Stockholm is known
for its beauty, its buildings and architecture and its
abundant clean and open water.
Application * Please apply online through the
Stockholm University application system no later
than April 30th: http://www.su.se/english/about/-
vacancies/vacancies-new- list?rmpage=job&rmjob89
* For questions about the position, please contact Dr.
Tanja Slotte (tanja.slotte@su.se)
Tanja Slotte, SciLifeLab Fellow in Ecological Genomics
Department of Ecology, Environment and Plant Sciences
Stockholm University
Email: Tanja.Slotte@su.se; Tanja.Slotte@scilifelab.se
Visiting Address: SciLifeLab Stockholm Tomtebodav.
23 a 171 65 Solna SWEDEN
\tanja.slotte@su.se" <tanja.slotte@su.se >
StockholmU EvolOrganismalBiology
Associate Professor in Zoological Organism Biology
Ref. No. SU FV-3365-15 Closing date: 16 May 2016.
The Department of Zoology has a long history of basic
and applied research on animals ranging from insects
to large mammals, at ve divisions: Ecology, Ethology,
Population genetics, Functional morphology and Sys-
tematics and evolution. The Department holds a sta
of around 100 employees, of which 16 are permanent
Lecturers/Professors and 40 PhD students. The De-
partment keeps a research station (Tovetorp) south of
Stockholm with facilities for various eld- and labora-
tory experiments. The advertised position in Zoological
organism biology will be aliated to the Division of
Functional morphology that has a long tradition of
research in neuroscience, endocrinology, reproductive
biology, and also more recently insect sensory physiology
and behavior, as well as genomics and evolution of life
history traits of insects. At present the organisms under
study are insects, including Drosophila, the water ea
Daphniaand sh, for all of which rearing facilities are
available. Access to state of the art imaging equipment,
as well as genomics and bioinformatics resources are
provided by aliated core facilities. Researchers at the
division actively collaborate with scientists at several of
the other divisions in the Department in projects such
as \Insect life cycle genomics and adaptations in the58 EvolDir May 1, 2016
wild" and \Insect - host plant interactions".
Subject description Organism biology encompasses func-
tional morphology and experimental physiology.
Main responsibilities Research, supervision and teaching.
The teaching is primarily in animal diversity, compara-
tive anatomy and physiology.
Qualication requirements In order to qualify for em-
ployment as associate professor, the applicant must have
demonstrated good teaching skills and have a doctoral
degree, or equivalent research expertise, of relevance to
the subject area and the main responsibilities of the
position.
All teaching positions at Stockholm University require
the ability to collaborate and the general ability and
suitability to perform one's duties.
Assessment criteria In the appointment process special
consideration will be given to scientic and teaching
prociency, which will be weighted equally. Assessment
of scientic prociency will primarily focus on merits
within the subject area of the position.
Additional information Female applicants are particu-
larly welcome, as most associate professors at the de-
partment are men.
The Faculty's criteria for assessment of research and
teaching skills: www.science.su.se The language of in-
struction for introductory courses and programmes is
in Swedish. If the successful candidate does not speak
Swedish at the time of appointment, there are many
higher level courses that could be taught in English.
Stockholm University strives to be a workplace free from
discrimination and with equal opportunities for all.
Contact Further information about the position can
be obtained from the Head of the Department, Profes-
sor Birgitta Tullberg, telephone: +46 8 16 40 36, Bir-
gitta.Tullberg@zoologi.su.se or Professor Dick N assel,
telephone: +46 8 16 40 77, Dick.Nassel@zoologi.su.se.
For questions regarding the application process, please
contact administrator Carina Nymark, telephone: +46
8 16 17 67, Carina.Nymark@su.se.
Union representatives Anqi Lindblom-Ahlm (Saco-S)
and Lisbeth H aggberg (Fackf orbundet ST), telephone:
+46 8 16 20 00 (operator), and Gunnar Stenberg (SEKO),
telephone: +46 70 316 43 41.
Application Apply for the position at Stockholm Uni-
versity's recruitment system by clicking the \Apply"
button. It is the responsibility of the applicant to en-
sure that the application is complete in accordance with
the instructions in the job advertisement, and that it is
submitted before the deadline.We would appreciate it if your application is written
in English. Since it will be examined by international
experts, English is the working language.
The University's rules of employment and instructions
for applicants are available at:Instructions - Applicants.
You are welcome to apply!
We are one of Europe's leading universities in one of
the world's most dynamic capitals. A relationship with
Stockholm University delivers quality outcomes whether
you are an employee, student, researcher or stakeholder.
Our education and research produce results.
Closing date: 16/05/2016 URL to this page http:/-
/www.su.se/english/about/vacancies/vacancies-
new-list?rmpage=job&rmjob=1125&rmlang=UK
Christopher W. Wheat, Ph. D.
Associate Professor, Senior Lecturer Population Genet-
ics Department of Zoology Svante Arrheniusv ag 18 B,
Room D 551 Stockholm University S-10691 Stockholm
Sweden
chris.wheat@zoologi.su.se
Oce: +46 816 4020
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
TrinityU Texas 9mnth
TeachingEvolution
Visiting Faculty in Biology
The Department of Biology at Trinity University invites
applications for a temporary, full-time, 9-month Visiting
Assistant Professor position in the areas of evolutionary
or organismal biology, to begin in August 2016. We
seek outstanding candidates that possess a Ph.D. and
are enthusiastic to teach in our integrative introductory
biology courses and additional courses as needed by the
Department. Applicants with the ability to teach ad-
vanced undergraduate lecture and lab courses on topics
such as evolution or vertebrate/invertebrate biology and
who are comfortable teaching in the eld will be highly
competitive.
Trinity University is a top-ranked, small, private lib-
eral arts and sciences university that values high qualityMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 59
undergraduate teaching and supports high impact under-
graduate research. The Department of Biology (https:/-
/new.trinity.edu/academics/departments/biology), lo-
cated in Trinity's state-of-the-art Center for Sciences
and Innovation, has 13 highly collaborative faculty
and serves majors in Biology, Neuroscience, Biochem-
istry and Molecular Biology, and Environmental Studies.
Trinity is located in San Antonio, a large, vibrant, cos-
mopolitan city located in south central Texas. San Anto-
nio's cost of living is relatively low for a major metropoli-
tan area. More information on the city of San Antonio
can be found athttp://visitsanantonio.com/ . Appli-
cants should electronically submit a cover letter, cur-
riculum vitae, statement of teaching philosophy and con-
tact information for three references to Prof. Jonathan
King, Chair of Search Committee, Department of Biol-
ogy, Trinity University, One Trinity Place, San Antonio,
TX 78212. Email applications are welcomed at Biol-
ogy@trinity.edu. Review of applications will begin im-
mediately and continue to position is lled. Women and
minority candidates are strongly encouraged to apply.
Trinity University is an Equal Opportunity/Armative
Action Employer. https://inside.trinity.edu/human-
resources/employment-opportunities/fac ulty/7131
Michele A. Johnson, Ph.D. Associate Professor Trinity
University Department of Biology One Trinity Place
San Antonio, TX 78212 michele.johnson@trinity.edu
oce phone: 210-999-8918 lab phone: 210-999-
8914 www.trinity.edu/mjohnso9/ Michele Johnson
<mjohnso9@trinity.edu >
UCyprus ConservationBiol
ANNOUNCEMENT OF ACADEMIC POSITION
The University of Cyprus invites applications for one (1)
tenure-track academic position at the rank of Lecturer
or Assistant Professor.
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
One position at the rank of Lecturer or Assistant Pro-
fessor in the eld of:
Ecology of terrestrial biota (Includes molecular ecology,
population ecology, community ecology, ecosystem ecol-
ogy, mathematical ecology, ecological modeling, macroe-
cology, biogeography, behavioral ecology, conservation
ecology, invasion ecology and global change ecology, as
well as any other relevant eld).
For all academic ranks, an earned Doctorate from arecognized University is required.
Requirements for appointment depend on academic rank
and include: prior academic experience, research record
and scientic contributions, involvement in teaching and
in the development of high quality undergraduate and
graduate curricula.
The minimum requirements for each academic rank can
be found at the webpage:
http://www.ucy.ac.cy/hr/el/-
recruitmentsupportocacadresearch/20-gr-art
icles/recruitment-support-oc-acad-research/55-
guidesproceduresacadmpe rsn
Applications must be submitted by Friday, 8th of July
2016.
For more information and details concerning the an-
nouncement (documents needed, salary levels etc), ,
candidates may refer to the website of the Department
of Biological Sciences: http://www.ucy.ac.cy/biol/en/
Spyros Sfenthourakis
Associate Professor Department of Biological Sciences
University of Cyprus P.O. Box 20537 1678 Nicosia
Cyprus
tel: +357 22893998 mobile: +357 99055691 home: +357
22335677 fax: +357 22895331
Email: sfendour@ucy.ac.cy
Website: http://biodiversitylab.ucy.ac.cy Spyros
Sfendourakis <sfendour@ucy.ac.cy >
UKansas DrosophilaHostPathogen
The Department of Molecular Biosciences, University
of Kansas, seeks an assistant researcher with interests
and experience in molecular biology and Drosophila
husbandry. The successful candidate will work with
a research group that addresses the broad themes of
host-pathogen interaction and genetic conict using
Drosophila. This position consists of an initial 2-yr ap-
pointment beginning in mid-August 2016. The applicant
should be extremely organized, work well with others,
have a willingness to learn, and be able to participate
at many levels in the laboratory. Required qualica-
tions include a B.S. in Biology or closely related eld
and experience with molecular biological techniques as
evidenced by application material.
For a complete announcement and to apply online, go60 EvolDir May 1, 2016
to https://employment.ku.edu/sta/5919BR .A com-
plete online application includes the following materials:
CV, Cover letter, contact information for two reference
letters. Initial review of applications begins 05/15/2016
and continues as needed to ensure a large, high qual-
ity, and diverse applicant pool. For rst consideration,
please apply before 05/15/2016.
The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination <
http://policy.ku.edu/IOA/nondiscrimination >on the
basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national
origin, age, ancestry, disability status as a veteran, sex-
ual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender
identity, gender expression, and genetic information in
the universitys programs and activities. Retaliation
is also prohibited by university policy. The following
persons have been designated to handle inquiries regard-
ing the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX
coordinators for their respective campuses: Executive
Director of the Oce of Institutional Opportunity &
Access, IOA@ku.edu, 1246 West Campus Road, Room
153A, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for
the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka
campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Oce, Mail
Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS
66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina,
and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses).
\Unckless, Robert Lewis" <unckless@ku.edu >
UKansas ResAsst EvolGenomics
RNASilencing
A research assistant position is immediately available
for a highly motivated individual with an interest in
genomics and evolutionary genetics in the laboratory
of Dr. Justin Blumenstiel, Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology, University of Kansas. The fo-
cus of the research project is to study the co-evolution
between selsh DNA and genome defense by RNA si-
lencing. More information about the lab can be found
at http://www.blumenstiellab.org/ . Required qualica-
tions include a Bachelor's degree in Biology or related
eld and at least 6 months of laboratory experience in
molecular biology, as evidenced by application materials.
The initial appointment is for one year with the possibil-
ity of renewal. The position is contingent upon funding.
The position is expected to begin as early as June 1,
2016. Inquiries can be sent to: jblumens@ku.edu.
For a complete announcement and to apply online, go tohttps://employment.ku.edu/sta/5997BR .A complete
online application includes the following materials: CV,
Cover Letter with description of most recent research
experience and contact information for three references.
Initial review of applications begins 05/20/2016 and
continues as needed to ensure a large, high quality, and
diverse applicant pool. For rst consideration, please
apply before 05/20/2016.
The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination <
http://policy.ku.edu/IOA/nondiscrimination >on the
basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national
origin, age, ancestry, disability status as a veteran, sex-
ual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender
identity, gender expression, and genetic information in
the universitys programs and activities. Retaliation
is also prohibited by university policy. The following
persons have been designated to handle inquiries regard-
ing the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX
coordinators for their respective campuses: Executive
Director of the Oce of Institutional Opportunity &
Access, IOA@ku.edu, 1246 West Campus Road, Room
153A, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for
the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka
campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Oce, Mail
Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS
66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina,
and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses).
Justin Blumenstiel Associate Professor
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Uni-
versity of Kansas 1200 Sunnyside Avenue Haworth Room
7026 Lawrence, KS 66045
jblumens@ku.edu 785-864-3915 http://www2.ku.edu/-
~eeb/faculty/blumenstiel.shtml \No Drosophila female
could conceivably lay two billion eggs in her lifetime." -
R.C. Lewontin and J.L. Hubby
\Blumenstiel, Justin P" <jblumens@ku.edu >May 1, 2016 EvolDir 61
UKonstanz 3 EvolutionaryBiol 2
- Please contact me, if you would like to know more
about those three full professorships in Konstanz
Axel.Meyer@uni-konstanz.de Tel. + 49 7531 88 4163
Three Full professorships (W3-salary scale) at the Uni-
versity of Konstanz
1. Professorship (Job Add 2016/054)
The University of Konstanz, with its \Institutional Strat-
egy to promote Top-Level Research", has been receiving
continuous funding since 2007 within the framework of
the Excellence Initiative by the German Federal and
State Governments.
The Movement Ecology Cluster is a joint venture of the
University of Konstanz and the Max Planck Society to
decode the general mechanisms and principles of move-
ment and collective behavior from the cellular to the
population level.
For this cluster, the University of Konstanz is lling as
soon as possible the following position:
W3-Professor of Organismal Interactions
(Job Add 2016/054)
We seek applicants who are internationally recognized
for their research in the eld of Organismal Interac-
tions and who address fundamental questions in ecol-
ogy, behaviour or evolution. We are particularly inter-
ested in researchers who have made important concep-
tual advances and have worked across, or integrated,
levels of biological organisation and complexity (e.g.
genes and social behaviour, individual interactions and
group or population dynamics). This could involve be-
havioural studies, experimental evolution, microbiomics,
co-evolution, plant-insect interactions or the study of
mechanisms of interactions among organisms.
All application materials (curriculum vitae, publication
list, a list of grants and awards, details of teaching expe-
rience, as well as statements of current research topics,
future research directions and interests) should be sent
as one pdf le and in English to Prof-2016-054@uni-
konstanz.deuntil the 15th of April 2016.
Further information is available on our website:
http://www.uni-konstanz.de/stellen or by contacting
Hanns Fahlbusch, phone +49(0)7531/88-2413, e-mail:
hanns.fahlbusch@uni-konstanz.de.For further information of all Job Oers please visit our
website: http://www.uni-konstanz.de/stellen . |{
2. Professorship (Job Add 2016/055)
The University of Konstanz, with its \Institutional Strat-
egy to promote Top-Level Research", has been receiving
continuous funding since 2007 within the framework of
the Excellence Initiative by the German Federal and
State Governments.
The Movement Ecology Cluster is a joint venture of the
University of Konstanz and the Max Planck Society to
decode the general mechanisms and principles of move-
ment and collective behavior from the cellular to the
population level.
For this cluster, the University of Konstanz is lling as
soon as possible the following position:
W3-Professor of Limnology/Aquatic Ecology
(Job Add 2016/055)
We seek applicants who are internationally recognized
for their research in the eld of Organismal Interac-
tions and who address fundamental questions in ecol-
ogy, behaviour or evolution. We are particularly inter-
ested in researchers who have made important concep-
tual advances and have worked across, or integrated,
levels of biological organisation and complexity (e.g.
genes and social behaviour, individual interactions and
group or population dynamics). This could involve be-
havioural studies, experimental evolution, microbiomics,
co-evolution, plant-insect interactions or the study of
mechanisms of interactions among organisms.
All application materials (curriculum vitae, publica-
tion list, a list of grants and awards, details of teaching
experience, as well as statements of current research top-
ics, future research directions and interests) should be
sent as one pdf le and in English toProf-2016-55@uni-
konstanz.deuntil the 15th of April 2016.
Further information is available on our website:
http://www.uni-konstanz.de/stellen or by contacting
Hanns Fahlbusch, phone +49(0)7531/88-2413, e-mail:
hanns.fahlbusch@uni-konstanz.de.
For further information of all Job Oers please visit our
website: http://www.uni-konstanz.de/stellen . |{
3. Professorship (Job Add 2016/056)
The University of Konstanz, with its \Institutional Strat-
egy to promote Top-Level Research", has been receiving
continuous funding since 2007 within the framework of
the Excellence Initiative by the German Federal and
State Governments.
The Movement Ecology Cluster is a joint venture of the62 EvolDir May 1, 2016
University of Konstanz and the Max Planck Society to
decode the general mechanisms and principles of move-
ment and collective behavior from the cellular to the
population level.
For this cluster, the University of Konstanz is lling as
soon as possible the following position:
W3-Professor of Genetic Adaptations in Aquatic Sys-
tems
(Job Add 2016/056)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UMunich 2 ResAssoc
EvolutionaryGenetics
Research Associate Position in Evolutionary Genetics
at Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit????t M????nchen
Two six-year (3+3) research associate positions
(Akademischer Rat auf Zeit A13) are available in the
Department of Evolutionary Biology at the Ludwig-
Maximilians-Universit????t M????nchen (LMU) with a
payment scale comparable to a Senior Lecturer/Reader
salary in the UK.
The position. We seek a highly motivated, mature
researcher with a proven publication record in evo-
lutionary genetics and related elds (comparative ge-
nomics, population genetics, experimental evolution,
molecular ecology). For candidates actively seeking
funding, this position provides a great opportunity
to develop one's own research agenda and start an
independent research group. Scientic co-operations
within and outside the department are explicitly en-
couraged (http://www.en.biologie.uni-muenchen.de/-
forschung/topics/index.html).
The position comes with 5 hours of teaching duties
during the semester (approx. 145 hours per annuum) in-
cluding lecturing, course administration and student su-
pervision. With both the Graduate School for Evolution,
Ecology and Systematics (EES http://ees.bio.lmu.de/)
and the European Erasmus Mundus Program in Evolu-
tionary Biology (MEME http://www.evobio.eu/) you
will meet an international and highly motivated group
of students.The environment. The successful candidate will be
based in the Department of Evolutionary Biology where
we take an integrative approach to the study of evolu-
tionary processes (http://www.evol.bio.lmu.de/). We
apply a large range of methodology including eldwork,
population genetic modelling, large genomic approaches,
to experimental evolution work and functional charac-
terization at the single cell level. With the retirement
of Prof.
Wolfgang Stephan and the recent appointment of Prof.
Jochen Wolf the Department currently undergoes a tran-
sition, which is not reected on the website yet. There-
fore, please consult (http://www.ieg.uu.se/evolutionary-
biology/wolf/) for information on Prof. Wolf's research.
Munich University (LMU) and Munich Technical Uni-
versity (TUM) are both recognized among Europe's
premier academic and research institutions being con-
sistently ranked among the top Universities worldwide.
In particular the life science branch with its newly inau-
gurated campus oers excellent technical facilities and
many interaction possibilities including the Gene Cen-
tre, several Max-Planck-Institutes and the Helmholtz
Centre (http://www.campusmartinsried.de/en/336-2/).
With the highest concentration of supercomputing in
Germany the Leibniz Supercomputing Centre and its lo-
cal partners provide access to state-of-the art computing
facilities (https://www.lrz.de/english/) for genome-scale
analyses. Munich is Bavaria's capital, a vibrant, yet
relaxed city with many traditions still alive and a high
quality of living.
In contrast to the current funding climate in many other
European and non-European countries, funding rates
are relatively high in Germany, and there are several
sources to apply from, see e.g.
http://www.research-in-germany.org/en/research-
funding.html or http://www.dfg.de/en/-
research funding/programmes/index.jsp. In addition,
transnational European funding schemes oer attractive
opportunities (https://erc.europa.eu/funding-and-
grants).
How to apply. Applicants holding a PhD with a proven
publication record are encouraged to apply. Teaching
experience is benecial.
Applications including a statement of motivation includ-
ing relevant expertise, a CV and the contact details of at
least two references should be sent as a single .pdf le to
jochen.wolf@ebc.uu.se subject term 'research associate'.
The position remains open until lled.
Preferred start date is August 1st 2016 but can be
negotiated depending on the applicant's situation.May 1, 2016 EvolDir 63
Jochen B. W. Wolf, PhD, Professor Department of Evo-
lutionary Biology Evolutionary Biology Centre Uppsala
University Norbyv????gen 18D SE-752 36 Uppsala Swe-
den
phone: ++46 18 471 4120 fax: ++46 18 471 6310 http:/-
/www.ebc.uu.se/Research/IEG/evbiol/research/Wolf/
Jochen Wolf <jochen.wolf@ebc.uu.se >
UNewMexico GreenhouseManager
Greenhouse Manager
The Department of Biology at the University of New
Mexico is searching for a full-time greenhouse manager
who will be responsible for maintaining plants and in-
frastructure in the research, teaching, and public green-
houses on the UNM main campus. The manager will
work closely with faculty and students and will be heav-
ily involved in research, undergraduate and graduate
education, and public outreach.
For more information, and to apply:
unmjobs.unm.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind025
You may also contact Dr. Ken Whitney, whit-
neyk@unm.edu, for more information.
Ken Whitney
Associate Professor Department of Biology University
of New Mexico Albuquerque, NM 87131
whitneyk@unm.edu
http://biology.unm.edu/whitney/ Kenneth Whitney
<whitneyk@unm.edu >
UNorthCarolina Greensboro 3yr
Teaching
Please post the following job ad on evoldir. I'm hoping
to attract someone with evolutionary biology interests.
Thanks,
Malcolm
|{
Position Title: Academic ProfessionalDepartment: Biology - 12204
Job Description:
The Department of Biology at UNC-Greensboro is
searching for a full time Academic Professional to de-
velop and implement contemporary, evidence-based in-
structional approaches within our introductory level
(General Biology; GB) courses (classrooms and labs),
develop a GB teaching assistant training and assessment
program, participate in external STEM grants and re-
search, engage in community-based STEM activities,
and teach and advise students in our undergraduate
program. We are seeking an energetic and well-trained
individual with evidence of experience and dedication
to improving STEM education at the introductory Col-
lege/University level and the retention and recruitment
of undergraduate students in STEM elds.
This is a 10-month position from August 15, 2016 to
June 15, 2017 with an initial contract period of 3 years
that is renewable upon review. Starting salary is $57,000
per 10-month appointment. Submit your cover letter,
a personal statement on teaching philosophy that ad-
dresses the challenges listed above, your curriculum
vitae, and three reference letters to UNCG's Job Search
website position #950.
You may view the posting as a search commit-
tee member by visiting the following link: http://-
jobsearch.uncg.edu/hr/postings/3641 . You may view
documentation and videos on how to use the UNCGjob-
search system at the UNCGjobsearch Support Portal.
Please contact Helen Sedwick in Biology - 12204 at
336-334-4405 if you have any questions.
Malcolm Schug <schugmd@icloud.com >
UOregon ResAsst MicrobialEcol
Announcement and Advertisement Posting 16046 Career
Research Assistant Institute of Ecology and Evolution
Ocer of Research (12-month appointment, funding
contingent), 1.0FTE Closing: Application review begins
April 15, 2016; position open until lled
The Institute of Ecology and Evolution at the Univer-
sity of Oregon currently has an opening for a full time
Research Assistant to work in the area of microbial
ecology. The successful candidate will play a key role in
the Biology and the Built Environment (BioBE) Cen-
ter (http://biobe.uoregon.edu/), funded by the Alfred64 EvolDir May 1, 2016
P. Sloan Foundation. The BioBE Center is engaged
in research focused on the built environment micro-
biome the diversity of microbial life indoors, where
humans spend roughly 90 percent of each day. The
vision of this national research center is to understand
buildings as complex ecosystems and to explore how
architectural design mediates urban microbial ecology
and evolution. For a description of partner projects
see http://www.microbe.net/ . Extensive experience
using molecular techniques is required, including some
combination of skills in DNA/RNA extraction, PCR,
qPCR, library preparation for high-throughput DNA
sequencing, bioinformatics, and phylogenetic analysis.
Ability to work in a team atmosphere is a must. A
Master's degree in biology is desirable, but individu-
als with a bachelor in biology or a related eld from
an accredited institution and extensive experience are
also encouraged to apply. The successful candidate
will be responsible for conducting laboratory research
under the direction of BioBE Center Director Jessica
Green (pages.uoregon.edu/green). Salary will be com-
mensurate with education and experience. We invite
applications from qualied candidates who share our
commitment to diversity.
The initial appointment is for one year, with the possi-
bility of renewal dependent on funding and satisfactory
performance. The University of Oregon is located in Eu-
gene, Oregon, recently rated in the top \100 Best Places
to Live"15 (http://www.livability.com/or/eugene) with
plentiful outdoor recreational activities and a vibrant
running and bicycling community.
Please e-mail a cover letter and current CV with names
and contact information of three references as a single
attachment to: ie2jobs@uoregon.edu Subject: Posting
16046
Or mail to: Posting 16046, 5289 University of Oregon,
Eugene, OR 97403-5289.
To ensure consideration, please submit applications by
April 15, 2016, but the position will remain open until
lled. Position subject to criminal background check.
EO/AA/Veterans/Disability Institution committed to
cultural diversity.
{ INSTITUTE OF ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION 5289
University of Oregon, Eugene OR 97403-5289 F (541)
346-2364 http://IE2.uoregon.edu EO/AA/ADA insti-
tution committed to cultural diversity. The University
encourages all qualied individuals to apply, and does
not discriminate on the basis of any protected status,
including veteran and disability status.
\ie2jobs@uoregon.edu" <ie2jobs@uoregon.edu >UWestAlabama AquaticBiodiversity
The Laboratory of AQuatic Evolution (LAQE) at the
University of West Alabama is a new research group
focused on the evolution and conservation of aquatic bio-
diversity. We are seeking a research associate/lecturer
to assist with ongoing projects including, but not limited
to: 1) Speciation in ancient lakes (Lake Baikal, Siberia);
2) Adaptation to extreme aquatic environments (black-
water and caves) in the southeastern United States; 3)
Functional genomics of mitochondria.
The University of West Alabama is a small, public
Master's-granting institution located within commut-
ing distance of Meridian, MS and Tuscaloosa, AL. The
University oers an attractive benets package and com-
petitive salaries. Aordable housing is available in Liv-
ingston, Alabama, within walking distance of campus.
Duties and responsibilities: - Maintain a small sh fa-
cility. - Assist with lab research projects. - Instruct
undergraduate laboratory sections. - Purchase, inven-
tory, and organize lab supplies. - Participate in lab
meetings. - Help train new lab members.
Qualications: - Master of Science degree in biology
or a related eld. - Experience with phylogenetic sys-
tematics and NGS bioinformatics. - Experience with
general molecular biology techniques (DNA extraction,
PCR, electrophoresis). - Prociency with Microsoft Ex-
cel (required) and R (preferred). - Highly organized and
detail-oriented.
Interested candidates should compile an application con-
taining; 1) cover letter 2) curriculum vitae 3) transcripts
of all college work 4) contact information for three pro-
fessional references.
Application Deadline: Review of applications begins
immediately and continues until position is lled. Com-
plete applications (pdf) should be attached to an email
with the header \Research associate application" and
sent to: msandel@uwa.edu
The position is pending federal funding, which is secured
through July 2019. Questions can be addressed to:
Michael Sandel Assistant Professor Department of Bio-
logical and Environmental Sciences The University of
West Alabama 205-652-3475 msandel@uwa.edu
The University of West Alabama does not discriminate
on the basis of race, color, national origin, gender, reli-May 1, 2016 EvolDir 65
gion, age, disability or sexual orientation in employment,
or the provision of services. Applications from members
of minority groups are encouraged.
\Sandel, Michael" <msandel@uwa.edu >
UZurich Paleogenetics
Assistant Professorship in Paleogenetics: Zurich,
Switzerland The Faculty of Medicine at the University
of Zurich invites applications for an Assistant Profes-
sorship in Paleogenetics The position is available at the
Institute of Evolutionary Medicine (Director: Prof. Dr.
Frank Ruhli).
We are looking for a young and dynamic personality
at an early stage in his/her career, exible and will-
ing to contribute signicantly to this dynamic research
area. Successful candidates will have demonstrated abil-
ity to independently conceive novel research projects
and bring them to successful completion. We seek indi-
viduals with the following qualications: - Training in
the eld of biomedicine (MD and/or PhD) - Expertise
in molecular biology and DNA sequencing; experience
with the analysis of ancient remains - Internationally
recognized scientic track record - Interdisciplinary net-
working with translational research prospects - Excellent
social skills; open and integrative personality - Interest
for modern teaching methods Knowledge of the German
Language is not mandatory, however to acquire some
prociency in German over time is expected.
The University of Zurich is an equal opportunity em-
ployer. The Faculty of Medicine implements specic
measures in the selection process to increase the propor-
tion of women with a faculty position.
Please hand in your application for this posi-
tion at https://www.recruiting.med.uzh.ch/position/-
5046272 by April 30st 2016.
For additional information, please contact the president
of the search committee, Prof. Dr. Anita Rauch: Tel.
+41 44 556 33 00, anita.rauch@medgen.uzh.ch.\
Dr. Kaspar Staub Institute Manager, Senior Research
Assistant Morphology/Imaging Group Institute of Evo-
lutionary Medicine (IEM) University of Zurich Win-
terthurerstrasse 190 CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland Oce
Y42 G88a Phone +41 44 635 05 13, Mobile +41 79 473
83 55, Fax: +41 44 635 57 02 kaspar.staub@iem.uzh.ch
http://www.iem.uzh.ch/people/kasparstaub.html Kas-
par Staub <kaspar.staub@iem.uzh.ch >Victoria Australia ResFellow
PopGenetics
We are advertising for a Research Fellow (Population
Geneticist) to join a research laboratory located in the
Parkville Precinct a Biomedical Research Hub in Vic-
toria, Australia. The position involves a large-scale
cross-institutional population genomic/genetic research
programme that utilises advanced genomic sequencing
and bioinformatic technologies to explore the evolution
and population biology of parasitic worms of major hu-
man health importance, including Schistosoma. The
Research Fellow will have a track record in bioinfor-
matics, genomics and/or population genetics to assess
genetic variation within and among populations of at-
worms on a genome-wide scale, and characterise drug
and vaccine targets and essential molecules involved in
host-pathogen interactions. As there are no eective vac-
cines for atworm parasites, current control relies largely
on a handful of drugs, making drug resistance a constant
threat. Therefore, this project provides a unique av-
enue toward developing radically new approaches for the
control of atworms, built on a deep knowledge and un-
derstanding of atworm molecular biology and evolution.
Link to the position http://jobs.unimelb.edu.au/caw/-
en/listing/ (Use the position number 0040676 under Job
Keyword Search).
If you require more information, please contact Neil
Young (nyoung@unimelb.edu.au)
All the best,
Neil
Neil David Young <nyoung@unimelb.edu.au >
WestAustralia 5FieldTeam
GnaralooTurtleConservation
*Gnaraloo Turtle Conservation Program, Australia, 5x
Positions available*
We are seeking a Program Assistant to be part of the
program *from 26 September 2016 to 30 May 2017.*
The Program Assistant manages the GTCP eld team66 EvolDir May 1, 2016
and works onsite as part of the team to undertake daily
surveys of turtle nesting and feral animal activities in
the monitored rookeries, community and school par-
ticipation with the program, data analysis, scientic
reporting and other oce work.
The GTCP Program Assistant works in Perth (*Septem-
ber*), Gnaraloo (*October February*) and in re-
gional and metropolitan locations in Western Australia
(*March May*).
For details on how to apply, see the GTCP Program
Assistant Ad:
https://drive.google.com/le/d/-
0B7QHaDm8nv0WSkJjQkhJR1hFN3c/view?usp=-
3Dsharing The PA Application Form can be found
here:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/-
1UIshSN3beSYENsMvk u8GTuZzg6YYTXcUv25rT8n3js/-
edit?usp=sharing *Internship Opportunities 2016/17*
We will appoint interns from Australia and overseas to
be part of the program *from 15 October 2016 to 15
April 2017*.
The interns work, under direction and guidance, as part
of the GTCP eld team to undertake daily surveys of
turtle nesting and feral animal activities in the mon-
itored rookeries, community and school participation
with the program, data analysis, scientic reporting
and other oce work. Work is undertaken on Gnaraloo
(*October February*) and in regional and metropolitanlocations in Western Australia (*March April*).
The GTCP *does not charge a participation fee* and pro-
vides interns with accommodation, meals and required
travel within Western Australia for program commit-
ments. *The internships are volunteer and not paid
positions.*
For details on how to apply, see the GTCP Scientic
Intern Ad:
https://drive.google.com/le/d/-
0B7QHaDm8nv0WX2FxejM1Vi1YR1k/view?usp=-
3Dsharing The Internship Application Form can be
found here:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1juq-k-
S39z83KtgQoO1x9anfmtachyFmBKUkY7LGZDU/-
edit?usp=sharing *Applications close 5pm (AWST) 30
May. Late applications will not be accepted.*
Gnaraloo Recruitment
Please consider the environment before printing this
e-mail or its attachments
Gnaraloo Turtle Conservation Program (Facebook)
Ningaloo Coast World Heritage Area
+ 61 8 9942 5927
*www.gnaraloo.com.au* PO Box 99 Carnarvon Western
Australia 6701
gtcprecruit@gmail.com
Other
AGA award student article . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
ASN RegionalMeetings Awards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .67
Australia Cairns VolFieldAssistant FairyWrens . . . . 68
Australia Melbourne VolFieldAssistant FairyWrens 68
Cause and Eect . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
ESEB2017 CallSymposia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70ESEB FundingForEqualOpportunities . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
EuropeanSocEvolBiol Funding CallApplications
NewDeadline Apr30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
Evolution2016 FilmVideo Contest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
FieldMuseum Chicago NSF REU BiodiversityEvolution
72May 1, 2016 EvolDir 67
ISBE2016 TravelAward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Island Conservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Nominations MolEcolPrize . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Passer Sparrow Blood Samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Rick Harrison InMemoriam . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
RoyalSociety EvolBiol PhotographyCompetition . . . 75
Science Videos Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
SocialInsect Mating ColongFounding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75Software DAMBE update . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Software Genesis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Software LinkageMapping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Software SLiM2 0 ForwardGeneticSimulation . . . . . . 77
SpeciesAtRisk Fellowships Call . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
SSE 2017 SymposiumProposals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .78
Submit trees to OpenTreeofLife . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
AGA award student article
American Genetic Association Presents the Annual
Stephen J. O'Brien Award
The American Genetic Association has granted the
2016 Stephen J. O'Brien Award for best article lead-
authored by a student to Genevieve Metzger for the
article, 'Genetic Structure across Broad Spatial and
Temporal Scales: Rocky Mountain Tailed Frogs (Asca-
phus montanus; Anura: Ascaphidae) in the Inland Tem-
perate Rainforest <http://jhered.oxfordjournals.org/-
content/106/6/700.full >(Metzger et al. 2015. J Hered
106(6):700-710). The award includes a $2,000 prize, up
to $1,500 reimbursement to attend the AGA Sympo-
sium, and an AGA membership and subscription to
Journal of Heredity.
The Award Committee had the following comments:
'This study is an excellent comprehensive analysis of
genetic structure of an ancient amphibian species in-
habiting a unique ecosystem of North America. It in-
corporates an impressive dataset (and information from
previous mtDNA phylogeography) with thorough and in-
tegrative analyses. The article is well-written and clear
in examining the roles of climatic factors, landscape
ecology, phylogeography, and genetic diversity.'
The article is available with free access at http://-
jhered.oxfordjournals.org/content/106/6/700.full We
congratulate this emerging researcher on her achieve-
ment.
Scott Baker Editor, Journal of Heredity
agajoh@oregonstate.eduASN RegionalMeetings Awards
*DEADLINE April 1st: ASN Awards for Support of
Regional Meetings in Ecology, Evolution and Behavior*
The American Society of Naturalists solicits proposals
from organizers of regional meetings in the elds of
ecology, evolution and behavior. The purpose of these
small awards is to promote increased participation in
regional meetings that fall along the research interests
supported by the ASN and to use this support as a
way of recruiting new membership to ASN. The awards
typically provide subsidized registration for ASN mem-
bers at these regional meetings. Please note that these
awards are not intended to support workshops. Organiz-
ers of regional meetings should submit a brief proposal
describing the research focus of the meeting for which
funds are requested as well as details of the meeting such
as anticipated number of participants, meeting venue
and dates.
/Instructions:/Proposals should clearly describe (1) over-
lap of the regional meeting with ASN research interests,
(2) extent that the support would reach out to new
audiences to grow ASN's membership, (3) potential size
of the impact on ASN membership, and (4) a brief bud-
get justifying the amount requested and how the funds
will be used. To standardize the applications, there is
a strict one-page limit (US Letter size paper, 1-inch
margins, standard [e.g., Times] 12-point font, and no
more than six lines per inch) for each component (i.e.,
proposal, budget description). We anticipate funding
4-6 awards, typically valued at $2000- $3000.
Please send proposals to the ASN Regional Soci-
ety Liaison Committee Chair Renee Duckworth at
rad3@email.arizona.edu by April 1st.
Renee Duckworth <rad3@email.arizona.edu >68 EvolDir May 1, 2016
Australia Cairns VolFieldAssistant
FairyWrens
Volunteer eld assistants
We are looking for two eld assistants to help moni-
tor a colour-banded population of Lovely fairy-wrens
in Cairns, Australia, for a research project on female
ornamentation from University of Melbourne.
Time period: From early July or mid September to
end of November. Assistants are expected to stay for
a minimum of 10 weeks, but a period of 5 months is
preferred.
Duties: Regular mist-netting, censusing of colour-
banded birds, searching for and monitoring nests, record-
ing song, behavioural observations, territory mapping,
video analysis, data proong and assisting in behavioural
experiments. Working days are long, with early starts
six days a week. Enthusiasm, self-motivation and organ-
isation, and a strong work ethic are a must.
Qualications: mist-netting, banding, experience mon-
itoring colour-banded birds and nest-searching. Must
also be early riser, physically t, able to work in ex-
treme weather conditions (hot, humid, and occasional
tropical rain), maintain a positive attitude and enjoy
shared living conditions. Good knowledge of English
is a requirement. Having experience in behavioural
observations and a driving licence is a plus but not a
requirement.
Compensation: Free onsite accommodation is pro-
vided, but assistants cover travel to the site and their
own food costs. The project will reimburse up to
AUD $500/month (5 months= $2500) or week $125/week
(10 weeks= $1250) towards receipted food and travel ex-
penses.
Assistants will have the opportunity to enjoy the unique
wildlife of North Queensland and leisure time to visit
Cairns, the Great Barrier Reef or the world heritage
rainforests.
For more information contact: Ana Leitao
(anamvleitao@gmail.com). To apply, please email
a letter outlining previous relevant eld research
experience, availability (5 months or 10 weeks and
start time) and a CV including names and contact
information for 3 referees. Applications received until
the 23th of April 2016 will receive full consideration.Later applications may be considered.
anamvleitao@gmail.com
Australia Melbourne
VolFieldAssistant FairyWrens
We are looking for eld assistants to help monitor a
colour-banded population of superb fairy-wrens near
Melbourne, Australia for a study on animal personali-
ties.
Time periods: Four-month minimum, commencing early
September, or early January.
Duties include catching birds for personality testing be-
fore and after the breeding season (Oct-Jan), and regular
censusing of colour-banded birds during the breeding
season, searching for and monitoring nests, behavioural
observations, video analysis, and data proong. Work-
ing days are long, with early starts six days a week.
Enthusiasm, self-motivation, and a strong work ethic
are a must.
The study is based at Serendip Sanctuary, a small reserve
with abundant birdlife on the outskirts of Melbourne.
Qualications: experience monitoring colour-banded
birds, nest-searching, and mist-netting. Must also
be early riser, physically t, able to work in extreme
weather conditions, and enjoy basic shared living condi-
tions.
Onsite accommodation in a house with shared dorm-
style room is provided, but assistants cover travel to the
site and their own food costs. The project will reimburse
up to AU $750/mo towards receipted food and travel
expenses.
For more information contact: Timon van Asten
(t.van@unimelb.edu.au). To apply, please email a letter
outlining previous relevant eld research experience, and
a resume including names and contact information for 3
referees that are familiar with your mist-netting and/or
nest-searching experience.
\timonv@student.unimelb.edu.au"
<timonv@student.unimelb.edu.au >May 1, 2016 EvolDir 69
Cause and Eect
dear and reputable members of the evoldir,
over the last few years i have exchanged several emails
with elliott sober about the \nature of selection". Dur-
ing the last bout of exchanges last fall, an issue about
relative tness arose that epistemologically looks termi-
nally damning to current relative-tnessical modelling
of natural selection (NS), but about which i have not
been able to nd literature.
already in that occasion, elliott found in page 17 of his
1984 masterpiece \the nature of selection" a possibly rel-
evant citation of a passage from a 1974 book by michael
t.ghiselin (\the economy of nature and the evolution of
sex"), to which i have no access.
i would like to kindly ask you, dear and reputable mem-
bers, to point out published materials and informal
remarks made by anybody that may be relevant to this
issue (presented below; excerpts of the emails further
below). All replies will be shared back with evoldir
unless you request otherwise. I recommend that you
focus on the gist of the arguments below and in the
emails, rather than on the awed examples that i use.
the main issue is why NS's relative-tnessical story
telling and modelling are allowed to mention causally
non-interacting elements just to satisfy the prurient
\who's winning" narrative attractor. To put it more
colorfully, i have long wanted to mention the beloved
paddington bear in say my papers on molecular evo-
lution, but i have refrained from doing it because the
concededly adorable bear does not play any causal role
in the issues discussed in my papers.
why then do NS story telling and NS modelling mention
by default, e.g. in an asexual case, all \competing clones"
of a \species" even though some of them may not be in-
volved in any way in an eventual favoring or disfavoring
by NS of some other clone(s), i.e., even though some of
the \competing" clones may be causally totally irrele-
vant to the NS process at stake and may be persisting
across generations without any change in numbers and
trophic appropriation spectrum?
some interesting aspects of this epistemologically most
crass violation of perhaps the most fundamental axiom
of scientic narratives are: i) how should a criterion for
inclusion of elements in NS narratives look (even if only
for the asexual case), one that would make it impossibleto include causally irrelevant bystander elements? ii)
how can one deal with bystander elements that increase
in frequency in reaction to decreases in other element(s)
driven by NS (e.g., due to predation on the latter) but
are not involved in causing the decreases in any way? iii)
which research on NS and evolution has been stymied
and which artifactual confusions exist in the literature
that may be due to the fact that current NS modelling
does not restrict itself strictly to studying only cause
and eect?
an example of (iii) is perhaps the lack of progress in
overcoming the circularity accusations levied against NS
studies, i.e., in fending o such accusations with more
than anti-scientic conjurings of the epistemological sin-
gularity of NS narratives. Where could NS research
go if it respected strictly the principle that all winners
and losers in NS stories must show correspondingly al-
tered (even if not globally so) biosynthetic gains and
losses (for reproduction and metabolism as well as for
clonal and single-cell growth), be these alterations due
to \zero-sum" trophic give-and-take or to trophic-niche
expansions and contractions? Gene genealogies could be
stamped brute-force onto life's cytoplasmic tree whose
branches extend forwards in time (reticulated when
lineages are sexual) with pulsating thickness reecting
their realized instantaneous biosynthetic footprint, in
order to so correlate the strategies of trophic appropri-
ation and trophic persistence of cytoplasmic lineages
with the red-queen-like turnover of the gene coalitions
that are dierentially sucked forward in time inside the
branches as they contribute to generate the branches'
contractions and dilatations.
similarly, researchers could look at how inter-specic
competition sets limits within species to mutant inva-
sions and polymorphism maintenance, and also look at
how, e.g., males \winning" in sexual selection mediate
how genes and gene coalitions prot from the biosynthe-
sis payos brought to the table by the choosing females
(literally for the biosynthesis of progeny).
maybe this mountainous epistemological aw will give
birth to no more than a murinely trivial revival of
community-matrix antics expanded perhaps to include
intra-specic trophic polymorphisms and their micro-
niches, but one thing appears certain: Violating the
principle that scientic narratives are only then legit-
imate when they restrict themselves to shedding light
on cause and eect is guaranteed to have pernicious
short- and long-term eects in any scientic discipline,
unless the violations cease, are studied, and their past
consequences are purged.
/70 EvolDir May 1, 2016
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ESEB2017 CallSymposia
*ESEB 2017 Groningen - CALL FOR SUBMISSION
OF SYMPOSIUM PROPOSALS*
The 16th Congress of the European Society for Evolu-
tionary Biology (ESEB) will take place in Groningen
(The Netherlands), August 20-25, 2017. Submissions for
symposium proposals are now open. Information about
the symposia can be found at http://www.eseb2017.nl/
. Symposium proposals should be proposed via http:/-
/www.eseb2017.nl/scientic-programme/symposium/
You will be asked to provide:
(1) The names and email addresses of the primary
organiser (for all communication) and max. two co-
organiser(s) (as a replacement), who must be committed
to attend the whole meeting.
(2) The proposed symposium title.
(3) A summary of max 200 words explaining why you
think this makes a good and timely subject for the
ESEB Congress.
(4) The names of two invited speakers (please check
beforehand whether they are indeed available).
The deadline for submission is June 30, 2016.
Proposals will be evaluated by the Scientic Committee,
and the selected list will be communicated in September
2016.
Ute Friedrich Oce Manager European Society for Evo-
lutionary Biology
ESEB Oce: oce@eseb.org ESEB Website:
www.eseb.org oce@eseb.orgESEB
FundingForEqualOpportunities
PLEASE NOTE THAT THE DEADLINE HAS BEEN
EXTENDED UNTIL 30 APRIL 2016!!
The European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB)
welcomes applications for the newly introduced Equal
Opportunities Fund. Applications are not limited to
European countries. This is the rst call for proposals
for activities that increase awareness of the problem and
possible solutions. Such proposals can include, but are
not limited to, short workshops (for instance, on uncon-
scious bias) and/or seminars (with invited speakers) at
your home organization, data collection, data collection
and publication activities and similar events. It must
be clear from the proposal how the activity will improve
our knowledge and awareness of unequal opportunities,
or how the activity will improve equal opportunities
directly, in the ESEB specically, or Evolutionary Biol-
ogy as a eld in general. There are two calls per year,
with the next upcoming deadline being the 30th of April
2016.
More information about the Equal Opportunities Ini-
tiative is available at http://eseb.org/prizes-funding/-
equal-opportunities-initiative/ ELIGIBILITY
* Applicants must be ESEB members (for becoming a
member of ESEB, please visit http://eseb.org/society/-
membership/) * Applications can be submitted by sci-
entists at any stage of their professional career (e.g.,
Masters and PhD students, postdocs, and lecturers). *
Applicants must provide proof of support of the host
institution where the activity should take place (letter
from head of department) * Applicants must explain
explicitly how their activity will improve our knowl-
edge, awareness of unequal opportunities, or how the
activity will improve equal opportunities directly, in
ESEB specically, or Evolutionary Biology as a eld
in general. * Applicants must detail which group of
people, and how many, will benet from this activity
(for instance, 50 undergraduates, 10 graduate students,
15 faculty members) * Budgets should be reasonable
(usually not exceeding 1000,- EUR), and detail costs
per person (that benet from this event).
HOW TO APPLY
The application should be no more than 3 pages long
(excluding CV and support letter) and include:May 1, 2016 EvolDir 71
* Name of the applicant(s) * A proposal of the activ-
ity * A short summary to be published on the website
(100-150 words) * An justication of how the activ-
ity will improve our knowledge, awareness of unequal
opportunities, or how the activity will improve equal
opportunities directly, in ESEB specically, or Evolu-
tionary Biology as a eld in general. * Which group
of people will benet (students, sta, general public),
and how many * A detailed, justied budget (including
cost per beneciary) * A time schedule * CVs of the
applicants * A letter of support of the host institution?s
head of the department
Please submit the application as a single PDF-le by
email to Ute Friedrich <oce@eseb.org; Subject: EO
Fund >at the ESEB Oce and take care to limit the
size of attachments (total <10 MB) in any one email.
Successful applications must hand in a report about
the activity and including details how funds were spent
within 3 months after the event.
Kind regards, Ute Friedrich {
ESEB Oce Manager Email: oce@eseb.org Website:
eseb.org
julia.schroeder@gmail.com
EuropeanSocEvolBiol Funding
CallApplications NewDeadline
Apr30
PLEASE NOTE THAT THE DEADLINE HAS BEEN
EXTENDED UNTIL 30 APRIL 2016!! |{
The European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB)
welcomes applications for the newly introduced Equal
Opportunities Fund. This is the rst call for proposals
for activities that increase awareness of the problem and
possible solutions. Such proposals can include, but are
not limited to, short workshops (for instance, on un-
conscious bias) and/or seminars (with invited speakers)
at your home organization, data collection, publication
activities and similar events. It must be clear from the
proposal how the activity will improve our knowledge
and awareness of unequal opportunities, or how the ac-
tivity will improve equal opportunities directly, in the
ESEB specically, or Evolutionary Biology as a eld
in general. There are two calls per year, with the next
upcoming deadline being the 30th of April 2016.
More information about the Equal Opportunities Ini-tiative is available at http://eseb.org/prizes-funding/-
equal-opportunities-initiative/ ELIGIBILITY
* Applicants must be ESEB members (for becoming a
member of ESEB, please visit http://eseb.org/society/-
membership/) * Applications can be submitted by sci-
entists at any stage of their professional career (e.g.,
Masters and PhD students, postdocs, and lecturers). *
Applicants must provide proof of support of the host
institution where the activity should take place (letter
from head of department) * Applicants must explain
explicitly how their activity will improve our knowl-
edge, awareness of unequal opportunities, or how the
activity will improve equal opportunities directly, in
ESEB specically, or Evolutionary Biology as a eld
in general. * Applicants must detail which group of
people, and how many, will benet from this activity
(for instance, 50 undergraduates, 10 graduate students,
15 faculty members) * Budgets should be reasonable
(usually not exceeding 1000,- EUR), and detail costs
per person (that benet from this event).
HOW TO APPLY
The application should be no more than 3 pages long
(excluding CV and support letter) and include:
* Name of the applicant(s) * A proposal of the activ-
ity * A short summary to be published on the website
(100-150 words) * An justication of how the activ-
ity will improve our knowledge, awareness of unequal
opportunities, or how the activity will improve equal
opportunities directly, in ESEB specically, or Evolu-
tionary Biology as a eld in general. * Which group
of people will benet (students, sta, general public),
and how many * A detailed, justied budget (including
cost per beneciary) * A time schedule * CVs of the
applicants * A letter of support of the host institution?s
head of the department
Please submit the application as a single PDF-le by
email to Ute Friedrich <oce@eseb.org; Subject: EO
Fund >at the ESEB Oce and take care to limit the
size of attachments (total <10 MB) in any one email.
Successful applications must hand in a report about
the activity and including details how funds were spent
within 3 months after the event.
Kind regards, Ute Friedrich {
ESEB Oce Manager Email: oce@eseb.org Website:
eseb.org
Julia Schroeder <julia.schroeder@gmail.com >72 EvolDir May 1, 2016
Evolution2016 FilmVideo Contest
2016 Evolution Film Festival/Video Contest (#evolm-
fest) Scientists and science educators of all stripes
???????? students, postdocs, faculty, and full- or part-
time science communicators ???????? are invited to
enter the Sixth Annual Evolution Video Competition,
sponsored by the Duke Initiative for Science & Society,
the Howard Hughes Medical Institute (HHMI), the Soci-
ety for the Study of Evolution (SSE) and the BEACON
Center for the Study of Evolution in Action.
To enter, please submit a video that explains a fun fact,
key concept, compelling question, or exciting area of
evolution research in THREE MINUTES OR LESS.
Entries may be related or unrelated to your own research,
and should be suitable for use in a classroom (K-12,
undergraduate, graduate???????your choice). Videos
should be both informative and entertaining. (In other
words, no taped lectures or narrated Powerpoint presen-
tations!) Animations, music videos, and mini documen-
taries are all fair game.
The nalists will be screened at the 2016 Evolution
meeting in Austin, TX. (You do not need to attend
the conference in order to enter a video.) First- and
second-place winners will receive up to $1,000 and $500,
respectively.
The deadline to submit your video(s) is TUESDAY,
MAY 31st, 2016 (11:00 PM, EST).
For more information (and to see entries from previous
years) please visit evolutionlmfestival.org, #evolmfest
or contact Jory Weintraub (jory@duke.edu)
Jory Weintraub <jory.weintraub@gmail.com >
FieldMuseum Chicago NSF REU
BiodiversityEvolution
NSF Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU)
in the Evolution of Biodiversity across the Tree of Life
We are looking for 8 undergraduate students to partic-
ipate in hands-on research in biodiversity science and
receive training in cutting-edge techniques and analysisin evolutionary biology for 10 weeks during the summers
of 2016-2018.
Applications close April 22, 2016.
Students will learn research techniques that include
DNA sequencing and computational analysis of ge-
netic and genomic data, morphological measurements
and phylogenetic analysis, and microbiology and next-
generation microbial sequencing. Scientic projects to
be conducted by the students include the evolution of
morphological variation in extinct therapsids, tropical
bird biogeography, population genetics of sharks, in-
uence of disease on bird genetic diversity in urban
environments, quantitative analysis of meteorites, the
inuence of hydrostatic pressure on morphological diver-
sity in octopuses, and co-diversication of ants and their
gut bacterial communities. In addition students will
receive career mentoring in a diversity of STEM elds,
gain experiences in public outreach and science commu-
nication, receive training in ethics/responsible conduct
of research, and participate in a diversity workshop to
help overcome bias in science.
https://www.eldmuseum.org/reu https://-
www.eldmuseum.org/2016-reu-program-oerings
Students will be provided a stipend, dormitory housing,
and assistance with travel costs.
Participants must be U.S. citizens or permanent resi-
dents, and an undergraduate during the entire period.
We especially encourage students from groups tradition-
ally underrepresented in science to apply.
To apply, please send complete the online applica-
tion: https://www.eldmuseum.org/2016-reu-program-
oerings Applications close April 22, 2016.
Please direct any questions to Jonathan Hense
(jhense@eldmuseum.org).
Please share widely.
Thank you, Corrie Moreau
Corrie Saux Moreau, Ph.D. jMacArthur Associate
Curator - Insects jIntegrative Research Center jDe-
partment of Science and Education jField Museum
of Natural History j1400 South Lake Shore Drive
jChicago, IL 60605 USA jOce: (312) 665-7743 j
Fax: (312) 665-7754 jEmail: cmoreau@eldmuseum.org
jMoreau Lab website: http://www.moreaulab.org/-
jFMNH website: http://eldmuseum.org/users/-
corrie-moreaujField Museum Women in Science:
http://eldmuseum.org/womeninscience Corrie Moreau
<cmoreau@eldmuseum.org >May 1, 2016 EvolDir 73
ISBE2016 TravelAward
Travel funds have been made available by the National
Science Foundation to provide partial travel support for
early career investigators to attend the 16th Congress
of the International Society for Behavioral Ecology in
Exeter, UK (http://www.isbe2016.com). Applicants
must be US citizens or permanent residents currently
working at US institutions who are graduate students,
postdoctoral researchers, or pre-tenure faculty.
To apply for a travel award, please submit the following
items as a single PDF document <5 pages in length:
(a) a short curriculum vitae (2 pages or less);
(b) a brief description of up to 3 of your most signif-
icant contributions, including research (published or
not), teaching, or service (i.e., outreach, departmental
committees, society oce, etc.);
(c) a brief diversity statement;
(d) a brief description of what you would gain from
participating in ISBE 2016;
(e) the oral or poster presentation abstract that you
have submitted or will submit to ISBE; and
(f) a travel budget including the actual or estimated
costs for airfare and accommodation for the conference
and a list of other sources of funding.
The document should be named
$B!H(BLastName TravelAwardApp $B!I(B and
submitted via email to travelaward2016@gmail.com by
Monday May 23, 2016. We will emphasize diversity in
awardees (including, but not limited to, membership in
underrepresented groups, gender, and career stage).
We intend to notify all applicants of the outcome of
their applications by June 15, 2016. Awardees will
be expected to develop and publish a Data Nugget
based on their own research or that seen at ISBE 2016
(http://datanuggets.org) and to submit their travel re-
ceipts for reimbursement. Eligible expenses include
costs for travel and attendance (e.g., ights, lodging,
taxi, train, meals) but not registration or conference-
provided meals. To be reimbursed, ights must follow
these policies (http://www.nsf.gov/pubs/policydocs/-
pappguide/nsf16001/aag 6.jsp#VIF). Application ma-
terials and travel receipts may be made available to NSF
upon request.Any questions can be directed to the Selection Commit-
tee (Drs. Alycia Lackey, Michael Martin, and Robin
Tinghitella) at travelaward2016@gmail.com.
Robin M. Tinghitella
Assistant Professor Department of Biological Sciences
University of Denver 2050 E Ili Avenue Denver, CO
80208
Oce: Boettcher West 243 Lab: Boettcher
West 13 Phone: (303)871-3658 Web: http:/-
/tinghitellalab.weebly.com Robin Tinghitella
<Robin.Tinghitella@du.edu >
Island Conservation
Dear friends,
Already is available another outreach video from our
Lab, focused in explain the environmental danger of
pets and feral cats on islands: <https://vimeo.com/-
140250256 >
In this case we focused on the problem of the intro-
duction of pets in island ecosystems (we have worked
this issue in the National Park of the Atlantic Islands
of Galicia in Spain). Aware of the problems that we
the ecologist have, to make the population aware about
this problem, we believe this video could be used to
raise public awareness about this complex environmen-
tal problem. You are free to share it in your social
networks, if you want. PD: By clicking on the button
CC (choose captions) it is possible to choose subtitles
in several languages
Sincerely yours,
Luis Navarro
Luis Navarro phone 1: (+34) 986 812619 Depto.
Biolog a Vegetal phone 2: (+34) 647 343097 Fac-
ultad de Ciencias fax: (+34) 986 812556 As
Lagoas-Marcosende email: lnavarro@uvigo.es Univer-
sidad de Vigo http://webs.uvigo.es/lnavarro 36200-
Vigo http://webs.uvigo.es/plantecology Spain http://-
www.divulgare.net Luis Navarro <lnavarro@uvigo.es >
Luis Navarro <lnavarro@uvigo.es >74 EvolDir May 1, 2016
Nominations MolEcolPrize
I am soliciting nominations for the annual Molecular
Ecology Prize.
The eld of molecular ecology is a young and inherently
interdisciplinary research area. As a consequence, re-
search in molecular ecology is not currently represented
by a single scientic society. Likewise, there is no body
that actively promotes the discipline or recognizes its
pioneers. To help ll this void, the editorial board of
the journal *Molecular Ecology* created the Molecular
Ecology Prize to recognize signicant contributions to
this area of research.
The prize will go to an outstanding scientist who has
made signicant contributions to Molecular Ecology.
Presumably these contributions would mostly be scien-
tic, but the door is open for other kinds of contributions
that were crucial to the development of the eld. Pre-
vious winners are: Godfrey Hewitt, John Avise, Pierre
Taberlet, Harry Smith, Terry Burke, Josephine Pem-
berton, Deborah Charlesworth, Craig Moritz, Laurent
Excoer, Johanna Schmitt, and Fred Allendorf.
Please send your nominations with a short supporting
statement (no more than 150 words) by 15 May 2016
directly to me (fred.allendorf@gmail.com).
Thanks on behalf of the Molecular Ecology Prize Se-
lection Committee. We look forward to hearing from
you.
Fred Allendorf
fred.allendorf@gmail.com
Fred Allendorf <fred.allendorf@gmail.com >
Passer Sparrow Blood Samples
Dear list members,
I am a researcher at the University of Oslo, Norway
working on reconstructing the phylogeny of Passer spar-
rows using whole genome sequencing. I would be very
interested to hear from anyone that had blood samples
or isolated DNA from any of the following species. Iwould also be interested in hearing from anyone sam-
pling bird species in the regions that these species occur
in.
* Grey-headed sparrow - P. griseus - found across Sub-
Saharan Africa * Parrot-billed sparrow - P. gongonensis
- Eastern Central Africa, particularly Kenya, Ethiopia
and Somalia * Golden sparrow - P. luteus - across the
southern Sahara, Burkina Faso, Niger, Mali, Sudan,
Mauritania, Senegal * Cape sparrow - P. melanurus -
Cape of Africa - Namibia, South Africa * Great sparrow
- P. motitensis - Cape of Africa - Namibia, South Africa
* Desert sparrow - P. simplex - Northern Africa - Alge-
ria, Tunisia, Libya, Niger, Mauritania - also Iran and
Turkmenistan (likely two separate lineages) * Dead Sea
sparrow - P. moabiticus - Middle East - Israel, Jordan,
Turkey, Pakistan (separate lineage?) * Sind sparrow - P.
pyrrhonotus - Pakistan, India and Eastern Iran * Cin-
namon sparrow - P. rutilans - Eastern Asia - China and
Japan in winter * Iago sparrow - P. iagonensis - Cape
Verde Islands * Saxual sparrow - P. amodendri - Kaza-
khstan, Uzbekistan, China, Mongolia * Pegu sparrow -
P. aveolus - Myanmar, Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam
I am also interested in samples from the following sub-
species of the House Sparrow, Passer domesticus
* P. d. indicus - India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Myanmar,
Southern Iran,
* P. d. hufufae - Oman, United Arab Emirates
If you do have samples and are interested in contribut-
ing/collaborating, I would be very happy to hear from
you.
All the best
Mark
Mark Ravinet Researcher CEES Oslo
mark.ravinet@ibv.uio.no
Mark Ravinet <mark.ravinet@ibv.uio.no >
Rick Harrison InMemoriam
Dear Evoldir community:
It is with great sadness that we note the recent unex-
pected passing of Richard 'Rick' Harrison, professor of
ecology and evolutionary biology at Cornell University.
Rick was well known for his studies of hybrid zones
and speciation in addition to his leadership roles in the
evolution community. Rick served as editor-in-chief forMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 75
the journal Evolution during a period of growth for
the journal. He also was a tremendous mentor to un-
dergraduates, graduate students, and postdocs and in
collaboration with this group worked on a wide range
of systems and questions in evolutionary biology.
Here is a memorial notice published by the Cornell
Chronicle:
http://www.news.cornell.edu/stories/2016/04/-
evolutionary-biologist-rick-harrison-dies-70 A sympo-
sium was held in 2010 to celebrate the contributions
of Rick to the eld of evolutionary biology and the
community that Rick helped to mentor. Here is a link
to an article from this symposium that gives a summary
of Rick's scientic contributions:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/-
PMC3736974/ Rick will be greatly missed.
Chris Willett (willett4@email.unc.edu)
RoyalSociety EvolBiol
PhotographyCompetition
The 2016 Royal Society Publishing photography compe-
tition is now underway. This competition is split into
4 categories - behaviour; ecology and environmental
science; evolutionary biology; and micro-imaging - and
is free to enter. The overall winner will receive a prize
of^A £500 (or currency equivalent) and winners of the
categories not chosen as the overall winner will receive
^A £250 (or currency equivalent). The closing date for
entries is 1 June.
Visit https://royalsociety.org/journals/photo-
competition for further details and to submit
your photograph.
Felicity Davie Royal Society Publishing T +44 20 7451
2647 http://royalsocietypublishing.org The Royal So-
ciety 6-9 Carlton House Terrace London SW1Y 5AG
Registered Charity No 207043
\Davie, Felicity" <Felicity.Davie@royalsociety.org >Science Videos Training
Subject line: New class - creating science videos with
your smartphone
Dear colleagues, Are you interested in creating videos to
connect the public with your research? If so, you're in
luck. SciFund Challenge, an outreach-focused nonprot,
is running a video training class for scientists. You are
invited!
The class will be running for ve weeks, from May 15 to
June 18, 2016. The class is intended for scientists that
are new to outreach and to video creation, but would
like to get started with it. The class is open to scientists
at any level, in any discipline. The class will be online,
so all countries are welcome.
Video production often requires a lot of additional equip-
ment, but our class doesn't. We focus our class on using
the smartphones that we carry in our pockets for shoot-
ing great video.
The deadline to apply is May 14th, but our classes
usually ll up early. Act soon if you are interested!
Here's the link to learn more: http://bit.ly/1V296KS
Questions? Comments? Please send them my way!
Cheers, Jai Ranganathan jai@scifund.org
Jai Ranganathan <ranganathan@nceas.ucsb.edu >Jai
Ranganathan <ranganathan@nceas.ucsb.edu >
SocialInsect Mating ColongFounding
Hello everyone,
I, along with Nicole Fischer and Jenny Jandt are work-
ing on a review comparing the behavior of social insects
in lab vs. eld conditions. As I am sure many are aware,
there are numerous papers that corroborate behavioral
patterns in both contexts but also papers that show
signicant discrepancies. Our hope is to reconcile some
of these dierences. One aspect that is of particular
interest to us is mating behavior and colony founding.
Anecdotally, we have heard many researchers describe
their eorts to observe or initiate mating or colony
founding events with widely varied success. However,76 EvolDir May 1, 2016
these attempts are often unpublished (especially if these
attempts were unsuccessful), and therefore dicult to
access for people not involved.
Here, we request that if you have any experience with
social insect mating behavior or colony founding, please
respond to the linked survey. It should take less than 5
minutes and would be incredibly helpful. If you study
multiple species or multiple systems, please take the
survey as many times as you are willing with one survey
focused on a single species/group.
https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/MLR56RQ Addi-
tionally, if you have any anecdotal experience regarding
methodology, patterns you have observed (e.g. species
that have mating swarms are easier to observe than
species with male leks), how long it took to successfully
observe a mating/founding event, etc., we would appre-
ciate these stories. They can be emailed directly to me
at:
sarah.bengston@rochester.edu
We appreciate your time and eort.
Best wishes,
Sarah Bengston, University of Rochester
Nicole Fischer, University of Arizona
Jenny Jandt, University of Otago
Sarah E. Bengston, PhD NSF Postdoctoral Fellow Uni-
versity of Rochester 860-575-4534
sbengsto@gmail.com
Software DAMBE update
Dear All,
I have uploaded a new version of DAMBE with the
following improvements:
1. Improved handling of les with multiple data sets:
If you have simulated les containing multiple sets
of sequences, click 'File jOpen le with multiple data
sets' where you will have options to align multiple les
and analyze them by distance/MP/ML methods. For
alignment, you may use the internal aligner or use ex-
ternal programs such as MAFFT or MUSCLE (you
should download these programs for windows and save
them to a directory), or analysis with ML, you may
use the internal ML method or run external PhyML
or PHYLIP's DNAML/DNAMLK/PROML/PROMLK(again you should download these programs for windows
and save them to a directory). These functions of run-
ning external alignment/phylogenetic programs can also
be accessed when you read in a le with a single set
of sequences, e.g., click 'Alignment jAlign by external
MAFFT' or 'Alignment jAlign by external MUSCLE'
2. I have also added some function to improve running
the external programs.
a. PHYLIP: people often wish to run PHYLIP's
DNAML/PROML to have the alpha (of gamma distri-
bution) and transition/transversion ratio (R) estimated,
but PHYLIP programs require you to input these values.
I have added a simplex method to run these programs
to estimate alpha and R. If you need to estimate only
alpha or only R, then a brent method is used.
b. PhyML: People often wish to root the resulting tree
with node support but PhyML does not provide this
convenience. After you have run PhyML, either from
DAMBE or separately, just copy and paste the tree into
DAMBE by click 'Phylogenetics jPaste tree into tree
panel' and then click 'Tree jreroot'.
(you should download these programs for windows and
save them to a directory. You can access these functions
in two ways. One is when you have read in a le with a
single set of sequences, e.g., VertCOI.fas included with
DAMBE. You can click 'Phylogenetics jRun external pro-
grams'. The other is when you have read in a le with
multiple sets of sequences. You can read in such a le
by click 'FilejOpen le with multiple data sets'. These
functions are available only in the Windows version of
DAMBE)
3. Anticodon identication: identify the anticodon and
anticodon stem-loop. This function has been improved
in accuracy, and I have identied quite a number of
misannotation of tRNA in bacterial genomic sequences
using the function.
4. Index of translation elongation (I TE): this is an
improvement over CAI by taking into consideration the
background mutation bias (Xia, X. 2015. A Major Con-
troversy in Codon-Anticodon Adaptation Resolved by
a New Codon Usage Index. Genetics 199:573- 579).
DAMBE includes codon tables for highly and lowly
expressed genes for a number of species to facilitate
computation of I TE.
5. Protein isoelectric point: this is for measuring what
net electric charge a protein will carry. Useful when one
is interested in studying coevolution between protein
and its substrates (including nucleotide sequences).
6. The function for building phylogenetic tree based on
pairwise alignment is substantially improved.May 1, 2016 EvolDir 77
7. Robinson-Foulds distances: 1) all pairwise distances
from all input trees or between one tree and all other
trees.
8. Some functions are probably too specialized to men-
tion here, such as those identifying Shine-Dalgarno (SD)
sequences and anti- SD sequences. If you are curious
about some menu items DAMBE, please let me know.
Not all functions have been tested thoroughly. I look
forward to your feedback.
Best Xuhua http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca <
http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca/ > http://-
science.uottawa.ca/biology/people/xia-xuhua Xuhua
Xia<Xuhua.Xia@uottawa.ca >
Software Genesis
Dear Community,
For those of you using the RAxML Evolutionary Place-
ment Algorithm (EPA) or Erick Matsen's pplacer tool
there is now a toolkit available at http://genesis-lib.org/
to
-Read, manipulate and write .jplace les -Extract, lter
and merge placements -Calculate distance measures
(e.g., Earth Movers Distance) -Visualize read abun-
dances on the branches of the tree
Cheers,
Alexis
{ Alexandros (Alexis) Stamatakis
Research Group Leader, Heidelberg Institute for The-
oretical Studies Full Professor, Dept. of Informatics,
Karlsruhe Institute of Technology Adjunct Professor,
Dept. of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University
of Arizona at Tucson
www.exelixis-lab.org Alexandros Stamatakis
<alexandros.stamatakis@gmail.com >Software LinkageMapping
Dear evol community,
Please note my new free software, Lep-MAP2, for link-
age map construction for single and multiple full-sib
(and similar) crosses. I can be used for very large num-
bers of ospring and markers and can be run parallel
on typical computer clusters.
For more info, there is an article out on Lep-MAP2:
http://gbe.oxfordjournals.org/content/8/1/78.full The
software can be obtained from sourceforge, https://-
sourceforge.net/projects/lepmap2/ Cheers, Pasi Rastas
Research Associate Buttery Genetics Group Depart-
ment of Zoology University of Cambridge United King-
dom
\pmr47@cam.ac.uk" <pmr47@cam.ac.uk >
Software SLiM2 0
ForwardGeneticSimulation
Hi everyone. We would like to announce the release of
SLiM 2.0, a forward genetic simulation package (http:/-
/messerlab.org/slim/). Its features include:
- complete scriptability of simulations, allowing immense
exibility and power - interactive development and ex-
ecution of simulations in a graphical user interface,
SLiMgui - support for complex genetic structure, popu-
lation structure, types of selection, mating systems, etc.,
etc.
Because of its scriptability, you can do pretty much
whatever you can write in a script. The manual weve
written for SLiM gives example \recipes" for all kinds
of models, such as:
- a model of human evolutionary history (following
Gravel et al. 2011) - a model of a CRISPR/Cas9
\gene drive" sweeping through a linear island chain -
a model of social learning of a culturally inherited trait
that inuences tness - a model of gametophytic self-
incompatibility and S-locus evolution in plants - a model
of xation probabilities under Hill-Robertson interfer-
ence78 EvolDir May 1, 2016
And on and on; you can really do almost anything, be-
cause of the exibility of its scripting language, and you
can see each model's dynamics unfolding graphically as
it runs in SLiMgui. SLiM is open source, and runs on
Mac OS X and Linux (although the SLiMgui graphical
user interface runs only on Mac OS X). For more info,
you can:
- Read a blog post about it at http://-
ecoevoevoeco.blogspot.com/2016/04/announcing-
slim-20-exible-fast.html - Download it from http://-
messerlab.org/slim/ We hope people nd this useful,
both in research and in the classroom!
Cheers,
Ben Haller and Philipp Messer Cornell University
bhevoldir@sticksoftware.com
SpeciesAtRisk Fellowships Call
We are pleased to announce that ZSL's EDGE of Ex-
istence Programme is now accepting applications for
2017-19 EDGE Fellowships. We would be very grateful
if you would forward the details below to anyone that
you feel may be interested in submitting an application.
Please note, this year the Fellowship is only accepting
applications on EDGE species found on our curated
list of mammals, amphibians, birds, reptiles and coral
species. We are particularly interested in focussing on
African species but are accepting applications on all of
the species found on the list. Please nd the Fellowship
advert and list of eligible species attached.
EDGE Fellowships
The Zoological Society of London's EDGE of Existence
programme (www.edgeofexistence.org) is the only global
conservation initiative focusing specically on threat-
ened species that represent a signicant amount of
unique evolutionary history. One of the most eec-
tive ways in which the programme is working to secure
the future of EDGE species is by awarding two-year Fel-
lowships to future conservation leaders \EDGE Fellows"
working on poorly-known EDGE mammal, amphibian,
bird, reptile or coral species. We are now accepting appli-
cations for the 2017-19 Fellowship Programme. EDGE
Fellows follow a comprehensive two-year training pro-
gramme comprising:
* A 4-week Conservation Tools training course at the
beginning of the programme to provide Fellows withessential training in techniques to plan and implement
their project; * A grant of £10,000 to undertake a 2-year
project on a top-priority EDGE species; * Ongoing tech-
nical support/mentoring (achieved via online modules,
web- based tutorials/seminars, and eld visits) through-
out the Fellowship; * A 2-week Conservation Leadership
training course in London on successful completion of
Fellowship to help Fellows prepare for the next stage of
their career.
The application form, guidelines, and eligibility criteria
are available to download on the EDGE of Existence
website (http://www.edgeofexistence.org/conservation/-
fellows.php) or can be requested from the EDGE Fellows
Co-ordinator (olivia.couchman@zsl.org). We strongly
encourage applicants to discuss their projects with us
before applying, and are happy to give feedback on a
draft of the application before the deadline. The appli-
cation deadline is 15th June 2016. All applications will
be reviewed by a panel of experts. Successful applicants
will be informed by the end of August 2016.
The Zoological Society of London is incorporated by
Royal Charter Principal Oce England. Company Num-
ber RC000749 Registered address: Regent's Park, Lon-
don, England NW1 4RY Registered Charity in England
and Wales no. 208728
Rikki.Gumbs@zsl.org
SSE 2017 SymposiumProposals
Call for Symposia for the 2017 Annual Meeting
The 2017 annual meeting of the Society for the Study
of Evolution is planned for June 23-27, 2017 at the
Oregon Convention Center in Portland, OR. The SSE
Council invites proposals for the two Society-sponsored
symposia to be held in conjunction with the meeting.
Symposium proposals should include: (1) a synopsis of
the symposium theme (about one page); (2) a tentative
list of speakers, including institutional aliations, and
topics; (3) a rationale for the symposium explaining why
this topic and this group of speakers are particularly
appropriate for a Society- sponsored symposium; and
(4) a statement that all potential speakers have been
contacted and agree to participate in the symposium.
In evaluating proposals, SSE Council seriously considers
the diversity of participants as a major qualication.
Symposium organizers are expected to take into account
gender, seniority, nationality, and other aspects tra-May 1, 2016 EvolDir 79
ditionally underrepresented in Society symposia when
preparing proposals. In addition, Council will favor
those proposals whose topics concern newly emerging
elds, elds ripe for syntheses, and elds and partici-
pants dierent from those that have been included in
recent Society symposia.
The Council will select two proposals for half-day sym-
posia at the annual meeting in June 2016. All applicants
will be notied of the Council's decision in August. The
Society provides travel support for organizers and partic-
ipants in sponsored symposia. Details are available on
request. To be assured of full consideration, proposals
must be received by midnight Eastern Standard Time
on June 6, 2016.
Proposals should be sent by email
(bbrodie@virginia.edu) as a single attachment in
PDF format (under subject heading: SSE Symposia
Proposal). Please expect and request conrmation of
receipt of the proposal.
\Brodie, Edmund Darrell (Butch) (edb9j)"
<edb9j@eservices.virginia.edu >Submit trees to OpenTreeofLife
Open Tree of Life recently released version 5.0 of the
synthetic tree of life, a summary of published phyloge-
netic trees and publicly-available taxonomic hierarchies.
You can browse and download the tree at https://-
tree.opentreeoife.org This tree is dynamic - we update
the tree by incorporating nominated phylogenies submit-
ted to the site. It is also incomplete, lacking much of our
current knowledge from published phylogenetic studies.
We invite you to improve the tree by contributing your
own published phylogenies, uploading phylogenies avail-
able elsewhere online, or curating existing phylogenies,
at https://tree.opentreeoife.org/curator We can take
trees in newick, NEXUS, or NeXML format, or by direct
import from TreeBASE.
Instructions on importing trees and nominat-
ing trees for synthesis are available at https:/-
/github.com/OpenTreeOfLife/opentree/wiki/-
Submitting-phylogenies-to-Open-Tree-of-Life
Thank you, The Open Tree of Life team https:/-
/tree.opentreeoife.org/contact Emily Jane McTavish
<ejmctavish@gmail.com >
PostDocs
BangorU RisingStarFellowships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
ColbyCollege InsectWingPolyphenism . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
CornellU EvolutionGenomicMechanismsBehavior . . 81
CSIC UPF Barcelona Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Faro Portugal LandPlantPhylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
FieldMuseum Chicago EvolutionLichenFungi . . . . . . 84
FreieU EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84GeorgiaTech MarineMicrobiomes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Glasgow FishEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
IISER-TVM India Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
ImperialCollegeLondon MicrobialAdaptationToWarm-
ing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .87
IndianaU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
IowaStateU ReptileEvolutionaryPhysiology . . . . . . . . 8880 EvolDir May 1, 2016
JohnInnesCentre Norwich EvolutionaryGenomics . . 88
JohnInnesCentre UK EvolutionaryGeneticsGenomics 89
KielU Celegans HostMicrobiotaInteractions . . . . . . . .90
LundU EvolutionPhylogenyThermal Adaptation . . .91
MaxPlanck Tuebingen 5 BioinformaticsEvolutionaryGe-
nomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
McGillU Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93
Nanaimo BritishColumbia FishBarcoding . . . . . . . . . .93
NHM KingsCollegeLondon 2 EvolutionaryVenomics 94
OkinawaInstSciTech 2 MoleculariToolsMuseum Insect-
Behaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .94
OxfordU GuppyEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
OxfordU StatisticalGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
Paris6U MicrobialBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
PennStateU 2 AntFungalInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
PennStateU EcologicalEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . .98
PennState UMichigan EvolutionaryMedicine . . . . . . .99
PennsylvaniaStateU AncientDNA Archaeogenomics 100
QueensU EvolutionaryEndocrinology . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
SGN Frankfurt PhylogenomicsBioinformatics . . . . .101
Stockholm BayesianBiodiversityAnalysis . . . . . . . . . 102
SwanseaU EpigeneticChangesDomestication . . . . . . 103
TechnicalU Denmark FishPopulationGenomics . . . 104
TexasAMU SocialInsectPhylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
TGAC England EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . 105
UAberdeen DeepSeaEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . 106
UAuckland NZ AdaptivePotential . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107UCalifornia LosAngeles ConservationEbony . . . . . . 107
UCalifornia Merced MicrobialEvolutionaryBiology 108
UDenver EvolTeaching . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109
UEssex ComputationalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
UFribourg PDF PhD EvolutionaryInvasionEcol . . 111
UHawaii PhylogeneticsBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
UHeidelberg Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
UHelsinki EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .113
UInnsbruck SpeciationPhylogeography . . . . . . . . . . . 114
ULausanne TheoEvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115
ULeicester EvolutionGenomicImprinting . . . . . . . . . 115
ULille France Coevolution MatingSystems Models 116
UMichigan YeastEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . 116
UMontana EvolutionSymbiosis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
UNevada Reno EvolutionaryPhysiology . . . . . . . . . . 117
UUtah EvolutionaryGenomicsDevBio . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
UVermont SocialInsectGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
UWashington StatisticalGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119
VirginiaTech MolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119
WageningenU DynamicModellingSystemsBiology . 120
WashingtonStateU ComputationalEvolutionaryGe-
nomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121
WashingtonStateU LandscapeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . 121
WashingtonStateU PlantMicrobes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122
WashingtonStateU TasmanianDevilGenomics . . . . .122
WoodsHole EvolutionaryConservationAgeing . . . . . 123
BangorU RisingStarFellowships
'Rising Star' fellowships will be very prestigious and
highly competitive positions, designed to attract the
very best 'rising stars' of academic research. 'Rising
star' packages will be funded at approximately £0.2m
per annum and can involve collaboration with relevant
commercial or third sector organisations
'Rising Star' applications can be submitted at any time.
http://businesswales.gov.wales/expertisewales/rising-
stars https://www.bangor.ac.uk/biology/ Eligibility
Criteria
Rising Star Fellowships applicants should meet the eli-
gibility criteria set out below:
Applicants should have over 7 years of experience since
completion of PhD (or equivalent degree) and scientic
track record showing great promise Applicants should
have an excellent research proposal Applicants can be
of any nationality Applicants must submit a completedapplication form and associated documents (supervisor
form, ethics form, and CV) Applications must comply
with the fundamental ethic principles as detailed in the
ethics section Applicants must have the support of their
chosen host institution Applications that do not meet
the eligibility criteria or do not adhere to the guidelines
given here will be rejected by the management team.
Application Process
Applicants will need to propose a suitable project to
be carried out in a Welsh host institution in the list.
Projects should be described in no more than 18 pages
for Rising Star fellowships using the appropriate appli-
cation form that can be downloaded here
The research project will be created by the applicant
but they must discuss this with their potential host in-
stitution before submission. A completed 'partner form'
is required from a host institution to say that they are
willing to host the fellow, should they be successful.
All projects will be subject to ethical scrutiny and ap-
plicants will need to provide a completed ethical issues
form with their application.
Applicants should also submit a copy of their most recent
CV, no more than three pages in length. This shouldMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 81
include information about their education, previous em-
ployment and other relevant experience, information
about any career breaks taken for maternity or caring
responsibilities etc, and a list of all their publications
and grants awarded. Applicants should also give the
names of two referees who know their work and the
proposed area of research.
Dr John Mulley School of Biological Sciences Bangor
University Deiniol Road Bangor Gwynedd LL57 2UW
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1248 383492 Email: j.mulley@bangor.ac.uk
Web: www.johnmulley.com Twitter: @johnmulley <
https://twitter.com/JohnMulley >
Rhif Elusen Gofrestredig 1141565 - Registered Charity
No. 1141565
John Mulley <j.mulley@bangor.ac.uk >
ColbyCollege
InsectWingPolyphenism
Dear friends and colleagues,
My lab at Colby College has an opening for a postdoc,
supported by NSF funding through April 2019. The
project takes an integrative set of approaches to
examine the developmental mechanisms and evolution
of wing polyphenism is soapberry bugs. This species has
a rich and well described natural history of adaptation
to an introduced host plant and is amenable to modern
methods of molecular developmental biology. The
position will involve functional genetics (via RNAi),
gene expression (via in situ hybridization, qPCR and
RNAseq), morphometrics, bioinformatics and other
tools of developmental biology. I am hoping to nd
someone with a strong interest in eco/evo-devo and
experience with at least some of these methods. Colby
College is a selective undergraduate institution located
in Waterville, Maine, about one hour from Portland,
Acadia National Park and excellent skiing. We are
about 3 hours from Boston by car or bus. While this
is a research position, I encourage applicants with an
interest in teaching and mentoring undergraduates.
It will be possible during the postdoc to teach as
instructor-of-record in Colby's January term. More
background on the project is available at our outreach
website, https://www.bugsinourbackyard.org/bug-
story/ Please contact me with any questions if you
are interested. Applications should be submittedthrough Colby's HR oce http://www.colby.edu/-
administration cs/humanresources/employment/-
postdoc research 42016.cfm Thank you, Dave
David R. Angelini Assistant Professor, Department
of Biology, Colby College Secretary, Pan-American
Society for Evolutionary Developmental Biology Di-
rector, Bugs In Our Backyard Project, http://-
www.bugsinourbackyard.org/ 5734 Mayower Hill, Wa-
terville, ME 04901, USA - oce phone: 207-859-5734
http://web.colby.edu/aphanotus/ Twitter: @Aphan-
otus @Jhaematoloma
\drangeli@colby.edu" <drangeli@colby.edu >
CornellU EvolutionGenomicMecha-
nismsBehavior
I anticipate evolutionary biologists will be the best pool
of applicants for this position, since they tend to be
sophisticated in genomic and bioinformatic techniques
and often are interested in natural variation in genes
and behavior. The desired candidates will be interested
in the evolution of genomic mechanisms of behavior.
Many thanks!
Alex
Postdoctoral opportunity: Genomic mechanisms of ani-
mal personality, Cornell University
The Ophir Lab (www.ophirlab.com) at the Cornell Uni-
versity is looking for a postdoctoral candidate with
strong bioinformatics skills to investigate the individual
variation in behavior and genomic proles of a non-
model system, the African giant pouched rat. The
project seeks to identify genetic signatures that corre-
late with behavioral proles (or behavioral syndromes)
assessed in these wild-caught, laboratory housed rodents
of unusual size. Individuals with experience performing
genome-wide association studies, RNA-seq, single nu-
cleotide polymorphism identication (e.g., double digest
RADseq), and prociency with standard methods of
bioinformatics are particularly desired. The candidate
should be familiar with conducting traditional labora-
tory behavioral tests including open eld, elevated plus
maze, Barnes maze, defensive burying tests, etc, and
comfortable with working with large exotic rodents. The
project oers a unique opportunity to begin to under-
stand the genetic architecture that underlies animal
personality.82 EvolDir May 1, 2016
Cornell University oers a vibrant community of re-
searchers working at the interface of brain, behavior and
evolution, an outstanding Biotechnology Resource Cen-
ter that hosts excellent sequencing and bioinformatics
facilities, and the University-wide Center for Vertebrate
Genomics, among other wonderful resources.
Applications should include a current CV along with
a cover letter that provides a short statement of re-
search interests and contact information for three ref-
erences. Applications should be submitted by email to
ago25@cornell.edu, with the subject line: Postdoc.
Applications are being accepted immediately and ocial
review will begin April 30, 2016, and will continue until
the position is lled.
The position will be supported for at least one year
at NIH postdoc rates (http://grants.nih.gov/grants/-
guide/notice-les/NOT-OD-16-047.html), with the op-
tion for continued funding contingent on performance
and available funds. A start date of June 2016 is ideal,
but exible.
Alexander G. Ophir, PhD 224 Uris Hall Cornell Univer-
sity Department of Psychology Behavioral & Evolution-
ary Neuroscience Ithaca, NY, 14853, USA
Phone: (607) 255-3714 Fax: (607) 255-8433
http://ophirlab.com \Alexander G. Ophir"
<ophir@cornell.edu >CSIC UPF Barcelona Bioinformatics
The Evolutionary and Functional Genomics Lab led
by Josefa Gonzalez is seeking a highly motivated post-
doctoral researcher to join our research team at the
Institute of Evolutionary Biology (CSIC-UPF). The
postdoctoral researcher will work on a project funded
by a European Research Council Consolidator Grant
that aims at identifying the genetic basis, the molecu-
lar mechanisms, and the functional traits relevant for
environmental adaptation.
The postdoctoral researcher will be responsible for the
in silico characterization of candidate adaptive muta-
tions identied in natural populations of Drosophila
melanogaster. Among others, the tasks involved in the
postdoctoral research project will be to identify path-
ways under selection, and to analyze the expression and
the epigenetic changes of genes nearby the candidate
adaptive insertions.
A PhD in Populations Genetics or a related eld, good
programming skills, and goodwriting skills are required.
Previous postdoctoral experience will be considered. We
oer a full-time position for 2 years with the possibility
of extension. Salary will depend on the experience of
the candidate. Starting date: September 2016 but alter-
native dates can be discussed. Application: Please send
your CV and a brief letter of motivation before the 5th
May 2016 to: josefa.gonzalez@ibe.upf-csic.es
Dr Jordi Lanuza Masdeu Communication manager Insti-
tut de Biologia Evolutiva (IBE) (CSIC-UPF) Despatx
P85, Edici CMIMA Passeig Mar ~Atim de la Barceloneta
37-49 08003 Barcelona comunicacio@ibe.upf-csic.es Tel.
932309645 (Ext. 6050) Web: http://www.ibe.upf-csic.es
Follow us on Twitter: @IBE Barcelona Follow us on
Facebook: IBEvolutiva Follow us on LinkedIn
Jordi Lanuza Masdeu <comunicacio@ibe.upf-csic.es >
Faro Portugal
LandPlantPhylogenetics
{ Post-Doctoral Research Fellowship V 1 vacancy (3 years
total)May 1, 2016 EvolDir 83
*\Determining the causes of inter-genomic conict in
the land plant phylogeny"*
*Fellowship Reference: *CCMAR/BPD/0007/2016
The Centre for Marine Sciences (CCMAR) in the Al-
garve, Portugal, opens a position for a Post-doctoral Re-
searcher (BPD) in the project \Determining the causes
of inter-genomic conict in the land plant phylogeny"
nanced by the Portuguese Foundation for Science and
Technology - FCT/MCTES (PIDDAC) under the fol-
lowing conditions:
*Project description:* The project will determine the
causes of the conict among the current best phylogenies
derived from each of the three genomes of land plants
and their algal ancestors. Because the substitution pro-
cess can vary both among sites (data heterogeneity)
and among lineages (time heterogeneity), heterogeneous
substitution models will be used in a Bayesian phyloge-
netic context to test the adequacy of model t through
posterior predictive simulations. The fellowship holder
will be expected to use bioinformatic tools to determine
phylogenetic relationships.
*Scientic orientation:* Cymon J. Cox (CCMAR) - Plant
Systematics and Bioinformatics Research group.
*Work place:* Building 7, Campus de Gambelas, Uni-
versidade do Algarve, Faro, Portugal.
*Requirements:*
1. The applicant must be uent in spoken and written
in English (the latter to be assessed from the motivation
letter to be submitted with the application);
2. The applicant must have a PhD and publications in
an area related to the work plan.
*Evaluation criteria:*
1. Experience in the analysis of molecular sequences
and knowledge of phylogenetic methodologies V 70%
2. Competency in bioinformatic techniques includ-
ing prociency with Unix-based systems and program-
ming/scripting languages (in particular Python) V 30%
The selection jury will exercise the right to contact and
interview candidates should they require further infor-
mation or clarication about their application. In the
event that no applicant has the necessary prole the
jury reserves the right to close the call without any
recruitment.
During the fellowship, and in the event that the fellow-
ship holder should resign, the jury reserves the right,
upon convenience and opportunity, to assign the fel-
lowship to the next applicant in accordance with the
ranking position of the selection jury.*Grant conditions:* The grant will have an initial du-
ration of 12 months, starting in 1st August 2016 even-
tually renewed for 2 additional 12 month periods un-
til the end of the research project. The fellowship
must be undertaken exclusively (full time) according
to the Portuguese law 40/2004, of 18 of August (Scien-
tic Research Fellowship holder statutes), Fellowship
Regulation of the Portuguese Foundation for Science
and Technology in force (www.fct.pt/apoios/bolsas/-
docs/RegulamentoBolsasFCT2015.pdf) and the rules of
CCMAR research grants http://www.ccmar.ualg.pt/-
home/assets/les/Outros/Reg bolsas.pdf . *Monthly
maintenance allowance: *Net 1495.00 £ a/per month V
tax free (in accordance with the grant amounts set by
the Portuguese Foundation for Science and Technology).
*Application deadline:* Applications will be accepted
until *Friday 13th May 2016*.
*Application documents:* Applicants should submit a
letter of motivation (written in English, and explaining
the experience in each evaluation criteria), a photocopy
of their PhD certicate, a detailed Curriculum Vitae,
a photocopy of their national identity card or passport
(face-page only), and the email contacts of 3 persons
who can provide academic references.
*Submission of applications:* Applications should be
submitted by email to ccmar@ualg.pt indicating the
reference CCMAR/BPD/0007/2016 (note that we can
only accept applications sent through this email). You
should only consider your application as validated after
receiving conrmation from CCMAR by email.
*Results:* The results will be communicated in writing
within 30 working days after the application deadline.
*Selection jury members:* Cymon J. Cox (Chairperson),
Gareth Pearson, and Filipe de Portugal S.T. de Sousa.
*Informal contact:* Cymon J. Cox <cymon@ualg.pt >
CCMARs non-discrimination and equal access opportu-
nities policy V No candidate can be privileged, beneted,
jeopardised or private of any right or exempt of any claim
in regards to descendent, age, gender, sexual orienta-
tion, marital status, economic situation, origin, social
economy, genetic heritage, disability, chronic disease, na-
tionality, ethnicity, territory of origin, language, religion,
politics and ideological beliefs and union membership.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html84 EvolDir May 1, 2016
FieldMuseum Chicago
EvolutionLichenFungi
Postdoc:
Postdoctoral Research Associate, Evolutionary Biology
of Lichenized Fungi
Location: Chicago, IL
The Science and Education Department (Integrative
Research Center) at The Field Museum is currently
looking for a full-time Postdoctoral Research Associate
position focusing on diversication of lichenized fungi.
We are looking for an individual with a strong interest
and background in evolutionary biology. The position
is for a term of 24 month, with possibility for extension.
The research entails studies on molecular evolution and
diversication of lichenized fungi. The successful appli-
cant will be involved in various aspects of lichen diver-
sication, including studying diversication dynamics,
resolving species complexes and species delimitation.
Preferably, candidates should be able to demonstrate
experience in phylogenetic analyses, generating and an-
alyzing genomic datasets, competency with at least one
scripting language (e.g., Perl, Python, R), and interest
in applying new statistical approaches. Experience with
fungal or lichen systematics is a plus. Well-developed
communication (verbal and written) and organizational
skills are essential. The successful candidate will also
demonstrate leadership ability to assist the PI with the
direction and training of graduate students.
The successful applicant is expected to publish at least
one research paper as lead author within a year and
collaborate as co-author in at least two further research
papers. Guidance will be provided following the Post-
doctoral Mentoring Plan.
Please upload application data, including a cover let-
ter highlighting experience in aspects relevant to the
research, curriculum vitae, and publication list at:
https://www.eldmuseum.org/about/careers Contact
Thorsten Lumbsch for additional information: tlumb-
sch@eldmuseum.org
sleavitt@eldmuseum.orgFreieU EvolutionaryBiology
Please note: The position is available at Freie Univer-
sit at Berlin, Fachbereich Biologie, Chemie, Pharmazie,
Institut f ur Biologie, Botanik, not \Botanischer Garten
und Botanisches Museum". Sorry for this mistake!
Kind regards, Eva H aner
Auszug aus dem Stellenanzeiger der Freien Universit at
Berlin vom 25.04.2016 Fachbereich Biologie, Chemie,
Pharmazie, Institut f ur Biologie, Botanik
Wiss. Mitarbeiterin / Wiss. Mitarbeiter (Postdoc)
befristet bis zu 5 Jahre Entgeltgruppe 13 TV-L FU
Kennung: 21224600/11/16
Aufgabengebiet:
§Mitarbeit in der Forschung auf dem Gebiet der
Populationsgenetik/- genomik der Bl utenpanzen
§Erwartet wird die Mitarbeit an (bestehenden)
Forschungsprogrammen, die integrativ zwischen der Ar-
beitsgruppe am Institut f ur Biologie und dem Botanis-
chen Garten und Botanischen Museum Berlin-Dahlem
realisiert werden
§Mitarbeit in der Lehre und bei allgemeinen Institut-
saufgaben der AG Prof. Borsch
§Der Aufbau einer eigenen Nachwuchsgruppe und die
Habilitation sollten angestrebt werden
Einstellungsvoraussetzungen:
§Promotion in Biologie Berufserfahrung: §Erfahrung in
der Lehre und Betreuung der Masterkurse Erw unscht:
§~Aberdurchschnittliche Promotion §Einschl agige Ken-
ntnisse in populationsgenetischen/genomischen Arbeit-
stechniken einschlielich des Next Generation Sequenc-
ing sowie gentechnischer Methoden §Vertiefte Kennt-
nisse auf den Gebieten Bioinformatik sowie Conserva-
tion Genetics und Evolution der Bl utenpanzen §Gute
Englischkenntnisse
Bewerbungen sind mit aussagekr aftigen Unterlagen bis
zum 16.05.2016 unter Angabe der Kennung im Format
PDF und elektronisch per E-Mail zu richten an (Herrn
Prof. Dr. Thomas Borsch): systbot@zedat.fu-berlin.de
Mit der Abgabe einer Onlinebewerbung geben Sie als
Bewerber/in Ihr Einverst andnis, dass Ihre Daten elek-
tronisch verarbeitet und gespeichert werden.
\H aner, Eva" <E.Haener@bgbm.org >May 1, 2016 EvolDir 85
GeorgiaTech MarineMicrobiomes
Postdoc in Microbiome Research
Georgia Tech is looking for a postdoctoral scholar to
apply metagenomic and metatranscriptomic methods
to study environmental and animal-associated micro-
biomes. The postdoc will be based in the lab of Dr.
Frank Stewart in the School of Biology, but will work
jointly between the Stewart lab and the lab of Dr. Nicole
Lopanik (Earth and Atmospheric Sciences) on a collab-
orative NSF-funded project. The work will involve a
blend of experimental, molecular, and bioinformatic
analyses, with a strong focus on comparative meta-
omic analyses to test new computational approaches for
quantifying microbial gene expression in marine bacteria.
The postdoc will be encouraged to develop independent
lines of research within the broader goals of the project,
and will work collaboratively with Dr. Stewart, Dr.
Lopanik, and external collaborators at Georgia State
and the University of Connecticut to perform research
and synthesize results for publication.
The ideal candidate will be enthusiastic, motivated by
experimental and analytical challenges, procient in
genomic/meta-omic analyses and comfortable with a
range of molecular microbiology techniques. Candidates
should have a Ph.D. in one of these elds (or a related
topic). Prociency in Python/Perl coding, command
line interfaces, and database management is highly de-
sirable.
The School of Biology at Georgia Tech is a dynamic
research environment with a strong core of researchers
interested in microbial systems research and bioinfor-
matics. The Institute oers exceptional resources for
biomolecular analysis and high-performance computing,
and exciting opportunities for cross-departmental collab-
oration, including with schools of engineering. Georgia
Tech was recently voted one of the best places to work,
and Atlanta is consistently ranked among the top ten
places to live for young professionals.
This position begins in fall 2016. Funding is available
for at least one year, with continuation contingent upon
satisfactory progress in year one; applicants should ex-
press their ability to commit to the project for at least
two years. Application materials should be emailed to
Frank Stewart at frank.stewart@biology.gatech.edu and
should include a cover letter (describing your interest
in the position, work experience, and availability), CV,and contact information (name, email, phone number)
for at least three references. Please include the word
\Postdoc" in the subject line. Salary will be competi-
tive and commensurate with experience and will include
fringe benets. Review of applications will begin on
June 1 and continue until the position is lled.
Informal inquiries about the position can be sent to
Frank Stewart at frank.stewart@biology.gatech.edu. Ad-
ditional details about the Stewart lab can be found
at http://marine-micro.biology.gatech.edu/ and the
Lopanik lab at http://www.eas.gatech.edu/content/-
lopanik-dr-nicole Georgia Tech is a unit of the Univer-
sity System of Georgia and an Armative Action/Equal
Opportunity Employer and requires compliance with
the Immigration Control Reform Act of 1986.
{ Frank J. Stewart, Ph.D. Assistant Professor School
of Biology Georgia Institute of Technology ES&T
building, oce #1242 311 Ferst Drive Atlanta, GA
30332-0230 oce: 404-894-5819 www.fjstewart.org
\frank.stewart@biology.gatech.edu"
Glasgow FishEvolution
We are seeking a postdoctoral scientist to join with a
project entitled 'The predictability and limits of evo-
lution in response to increased temperature: insights
from a natural 'experiment", funded as a major initia-
tive from the Natural Environment Research Council
(NERC) to Kevin J. Parsons, Neil B. Metcalfe, Jan
Lindstr om and Shaun S. Killen. The conceptual focus
of the PI is centred on an emerging eco-evo-devo view,
while the overall aim of this integrative project will
be to examine the genetic, epigenetic, morphological,
physiological, behavioural and developmental changes
that occur in response to temperature, using freshwa-
ter populations of stickleback sh that inhabit natural
geothermally heated water bodies.
You will have or be near to completing a relevant PhD
and be the main person in charge of executing lab ex-
periments, conducting physiological, behavioural and
morphological assays, and taking growth measurements
on populations of three-spined sticklebacks derived from
contrasting thermal origins. Interest and experience
with questions surrounding phenotypic plasticity would
be an asset, while experience with aspects of develop-
mental biology would also be desirable but not necessary.
As part of a team funded by this NERC grant, you will
work closely with another postdoctoral scientist who86 EvolDir May 1, 2016
will focus on molecular genetic analyses, and a full-time
technician who will aid in the running of the sh exper-
iments and in maintaining the breeding programme.
Passion for research, team spirit and enthusiasm are
essential. Our team is multidisciplinary with additional
major projects funded by the European Research Coun-
cil (ERC) and NERC. Additional PhD student projects
in the lab of the PI involve collaborations with engineers,
statisticians, and physicists demonstrating how the Uni-
versity of Glasgow is a highly active and collaborative
research environment.
Informal inquiries should be made to:
Kevin.Parsons@glasgow.ac.uk
Formal applications should be directed to the following
address by May 22nd (job reference# 013068):
http://www.gla.ac.uk/about/jobs/vacancies/ Dr.
Kevin Parsons Lecturer, Institute of Biodiversity,
Animal Health, and Comparative Medicine University
of Glasgow
http://www.gla.ac.uk/researchinstitutes/bahcm/-
sta/kevinparsons/ personal webpage: https://-
sites.google.com/site/kevinparsonslab/home Kevin
Parsons <Kevin.Parsons@glasgow.ac.uk >
IISER-TVM India Evolution
Anumber of postdoctoral positions in biology are avail-
able with the School of Biology, IISER Thiruvanan-
thapuram (www.iisertvm.ac.in), including in the broad
eld of Ecology and Evolution (www.vanasiri.in/eco-
evo). Currently there are two research groups in Ecol-
ogy and Evolution. Collaborations with candidates who
can design projects that complement ongoing work are
welcome, but we also welcome collaborations with candi-
dates through projects on new kinds of questions, and/or
new model organisms, which will enrich research in the
School of Biology. The permanent campus of IISER
Thiruvananthapuram is an outstanding location (see
www.vanasiri.in/facilities) for ecological and evolution-
ary studies.
DEADLINE:15 May 2016.
RESEARCHAREAS: 1)Hema Somanathan:
(Behavioural Ecology and Evolution Lab:
www.iisertvm.ac.in/faculties/hsomanathan): We
study plant-animal mutualisms especially those between
plants, their pollinators and dispersers. Some of ourcurrent work involves understanding adaptations in
pollinator visual systems in the context of angiosperm
oral displays. For this, we study learning and
memory in Indian honey bees and stingless bees
using a combination of eld studies, behavioural
approaches in the lab and sensory visual models.
In another project we are examining the nature of
plant-pollinator-disperser interactions in small and
isolated populations to understand how species persist
in these populations. In yet another current study, we
are examining plant-pollinator interactions in modied
landscapes.
2)Ullasa Kodandaramaiah (Vanasiri Evolutionary Ecol-
ogy Group: www.vanasiri.in): Ourresearch group works
on various questions within evolutionary ecology in-
cluding prey-predator interactions, insect-hostplant co-
evolution, parasite-host co-evolution, biogeography, phy-
logeography, population genetics, etc. More information
at www.vanasiri.in/research. Currently used model sys-
tems include insects (primarily butteries), plants and
reptiles.
Youare encouraged to contact the PIs informally (hso-
manathan@iisertvm.ac.in, ullasa@iisertvm.ac.in) to dis-
cuss your ideas and their feasibility before sending in
your formal application. Candidates interested in re-
search areas other than Ecology and Evolution can
contact respective research groups which are accepting
Fellows during this round (see http://iisertvm.ac.in/-
news/read news/298/1)
DURATION:2 years, extendable by up to one more year
on the basis of performance. The preferred start date is
August 2016.
FELLOWSHIP:Rs 40,000/- per month for the rst two
years and INR 45,000/- per month in the third year,
with no other allowances. There will be a contingency
grant of INR 75,000/-per year for attending confer-
ences/workshops, etc. Candidates who have submitted
their thesis and have not defended at the time of joining
will be provided the Extended Senior Research Fellow-
ship for one year.
APPLICATIONPROCEDURE AND SELECTION: Se-
lection will be based on the scientic credentials of the
applicant, quality of the research proposal and feasibil-
ity of carrying out the research proposal. The formal
advertisement, including details about how to apply
is here http://iisertvm.ac.in/news/read news/298/1
LIFEIN KERALA AND THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
(TRIVANDRUM): The coastal city of Thiruvanantha-
puram is the capital of Kerala, and has a rich cultural
heritage. It is within a stone's throw away from world-
famous beaches such as Kovalam and Varkala, and lovely
backwater tourism areas such as Poovar. Several hill sta-May 1, 2016 EvolDir 87
tions (e.g Ponmudi) and wildlife sanctuaries are close by.
Being a major medical tourism destination, the city has
excellent medical care facilities. Since it is a relatively
small city, the cost of living tends to be considerably
lower than in bigger Indian cities. A 2-bedroom apart-
ment can be had for Rs 8,000 - 10,000 per month. There
are plenty of options for dining out - a meal at a decent
local restaurant can start from Rs 50, but a good meal
with a drink even in a ve-star hotel does not necessarily
cost more than Rs 1000. Costs for groceries and other
daily needs can be looked up here (www.kada.in). Taxis
can be hired from Rs 10 per km (with a minimum fare
of Rs 50), while the cost of driving your own small car
(not for the faint-hearted!) is about Rs 5 per kilometer
(petrol: ca. Rs 65/litre, diesel: ca. Rs 52/litre).
HemaSomanathan: hsomanathan@iisertvm.ac.in Ul-
lasaKodandaramaiah: ullasa@iisertvm.ac.in
ullasa@iisertvm.ac.in
ImperialCollegeLondon
MicrobialAdaptationToWarming
Aquatic microbial ecology postdoc (3.5 years) at Im-
perial College London Application deadline: 25th May
2016
This is an exciting opportunity to join a multi-institute
consortium that is investigating how food webs re-
spond to warming in geothermally-warmed streams
around the Arctic. This component of the project is
based in the laboratory of Dr. Thomas Bell (https://-
bellmicrobelab.wordpress.com/), and will focus speci-
cally on the microbial communities, whose role in Arctic
food webs is virtually unknown. The position, funded
by a NERC Large Grant (pounds 3.7M) led by Prof
Guy Woodward in collaboration with researchers from
the University of Essex, Queen Mary University, and
Imperial College London and others. The successful can-
didate will join a large microbial ecology group based at
the Silwood Park Campus, near Ascot. Previous work
in the laboratory has shown that adaptation to warming
(and other factors) crucially depends on the makeup
of the surrounding community. The post holder will
focus on understanding adaptation in complex communi-
ties, concentrating specically on the interplay between
ecological and evolutionary processes in response to a
warming environment.
For details, visit: http://www.jobs.ac.uk/job/ANN425/-research-associate-in-aquatic-microbial-ecology/ { Dr.
Thomas Bell Imperial College London Silwood Park
Campus Buckhurst Road, Ascot, Berkshire, SL5 7PY
thomas.bell@imperial.ac.uk https://-
bellmicrobelab.wordpress.com/ +44 (0)20 7594
2268
\thomas.bell@imperial.ac.uk"
<thomas.bell@imperial.ac.uk >
IndianaU EvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoc in Evolutionary Genomics
An NSF-funded postdoctoral position is available in the
lab of Matthew Hahn in the Department of Biology
and School of Informatics and Computing at Indiana
University, Bloomington. The work will examine the
evolution of gene gain and loss through the study of
gene families in a phylogenetic context. Our lab has
developed the statistical and computational tools nec-
essary to study these phenomena, and we are looking
for a motivated individual to extend these methods to
studies involving hundreds to thousands of genomes.
The postdoctoral candidate will also be encouraged to
carry out independent work in the lab.
There is a wide variety of research going on in the lab
in addition to the current project. For a summary of
work in the lab, please see: http://www.indiana.edu/-
~hahnlab/ The candidate must have a Ph.D., preferably
in phylogenetics, population genetics, statistical genet-
ics, or computer science. The position requires skills in
the more computational areas of biology, and a strong
record of research in these areas.
To apply, please submit (i) a letter of application, (ii) a
full CV, (iii) a brief statement of research interests, and
(iv) contact information for three references electron-
ically to http://indiana.peopleadmin.com/postings/-
2382. Review of applications will start immediately
and will continue until the position is lled. The
exact start date is exible, but best consideration
to those applying before May 15, 2016. Inquiries
about the position can be directed to Matthew Hahn
(mwh@indiana.edu <mailto:mwh@indiana.edu >; 812-
856-7001; 1001 E. 3rd St., Bloomington, IN 47405).
Indiana University has a large and active group in evo-
lutionary genetics, and considerable resources compu-
tational resources. Bloomington is situated in scenic,
hilly southern Indiana, near several parks and wilderness88 EvolDir May 1, 2016
areas. The cultural environment provided by the Uni-
versity is exceptionally rich in art, music, and theater.
Indiana University is an Equal Employment and Ar-
mative Action employer and a provider of ADA services.
All qualied applicants will receive consideration for em-
ployment without regard to age, ethnicity, color, race,
religion, sex, sexual orientation or identity, national
origin, disability status, or protected veteran status.
Matthew Hahn Professor Department of Biol-
ogy & School of Informatics and Computing
1001 E. 3rd St. Indiana University Blooming-
ton, IN 47405 Phone: (812)856-7001 http:/-
/www.bio.indiana.edu/facultyresearch/faculty/-
Hahn.html http://www.indiana.edu/ ~hahnlab \Hahn,
Matthew William" <mwh@indiana.edu >
IowaStateU
ReptileEvolutionaryPhysiology
IowaState.Reptiles.Physiology
Postdoctoral Position in Evolutionary Physiology at
Iowa State
A Postdoctoral position is available in the laboratory of
Anne Bronikowski at Iowa State (www.eeob.iastate.edu)
to help lead projects on the comparative physiology
of mitochondrial, endocrine, and immune phenotypes
in diverse reptile species, examining the roles of cli-
mate, phylogeny, genotype, and plasticity in accounting
for variation. These evolutionary physiology studies
are part of an overarching goal to understand the in-
tegration of physiology and life-history in nature. The
post-doc will coordinate sampling with a network of
collaborators including evolutionary ecologists, herpetol-
ogists, wildlife biologists, and animal scientists. The
postdoc will be central to most aspects of the projects
and thus strong laboratory, mentoring, communication,
and writing skills are essential. In addition to facilitat-
ing goals of these projects, the successful candidate will
have abundant opportunities to develop her/his own
independent research. The ideal applicant should have
solid experience in physiology of non-model organisms,
including expertise in at least one of: mitochondrial
biology, evolutionary endocrinology, or immunology, as
well as a strong background in ecology, evolution, and
statistics.
A Ph.D. in evolutionary biology or physiology is neces-
sary. Current funding for the position is available for asmany as three years, with annual renewal contingent on
performance, emphasizing progress on methods devel-
opment, data collation and analysis and writing. The
successful candidate must be available no later than 1
July 2016.
Examples of recent publications related to these projects
include:
Ganglo et al. (2015) PBZ 88: 550-563. McGaugh et al.
(2015) PNAS 112: 7055-7060 Refsnider et al. (2015) J
Exp Zool A 323: 160-168 Alper et al. (2015) Exp Geron
71: 109-117 Schwartz & Bronikowski (2013) Molec Ecol
22: 739-756 Palacios et al. (2013) PBZ 86: 547-558
Palacios et al. (2012) GCE 175: 443-448
To apply, e-mail Anne Bronikowski
(abroniko@iastate.edu) with (1) a brief ( <1 page)
cover letter explaining your research interests, (2) a
CV, and (3) contact information for three references.
Review of applicants will begin immediately and end
on 15 May 2016, at which point a suitable candidate
will be selected.
\Bronikowski, Anne [EEOBS]" <abroniko@iastate.edu >
JohnInnesCentre Norwich
EvolutionaryGenomics
Genome duplication, gene ow, and adaptation at the
John Innes Centre-
We seek big-question-oriented postdocs to join us to
work on fundamental problems in evolutionary genomics.
We oer a highly interdisciplinary environment with re-
markable institutional support and robust grant funding.
Two ERC grants have just been won by the Yant lab
and our very close collaborators, the Bomblies lab (also
at JIC). This greatly enhances an ambitious programme
in evolutionary genomics in Norwich. Additionally, we
have many collaborations with diverse European groups,
oering you outstanding potential for professional de-
velopment.
Current projects have an explicitly phenotype-rst ori-
entation, aiming to determine the genetic basis and evo-
lutionary repeatability of adaptation to intense, quanti-
able selection pressures, both environmental and intra-
cellular. We do this by applying large-scale population
genomics to wild plant populations that have evolved
to overcome demonstrable hazards. We currently fo-
cus on adaptation to genome duplication as well asMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 89
adaptation to highly challenging, quantiable environ-
mental stressors in species ranging from Arabidopsis
arenosa, to Chamerion angustifolium, to Mimulus gutta-
tus and back throughout the Brassicaceae to A. lyrata
and A. thaliana. See http://yant.jic.ac.uk for more. We
strongly encourage applicants to suggest project ideas
that harmonize with these general aims and we are fully
committed to helping successful applicants develop their
ideas for the eventual formation their own independent
research groups.
Applicants with evolutionary genetic, computational,
or molecular interests in adaptation are encouraged
to apply. We seek candidates with initiative, mature
analytical skills, and a drive to push forward on new
problems in evolutionary genomics. Successful candi-
dates will perform independent, novel analyses and will
have demonstrated clear innovation during or following
their PhD. To begin a meaningful conversation, we ask
that you include a cover letter and a statement that
indicates which research topics you are particularly in-
terested in, and why your qualications make you a
good t with our research.
For further information and details of how to ap-
ply, please visit our web site, http://jobs.jic.ac.uk/-
Details.asp?vacancyID=3D11465. As a user of the dis-
ability symbol, we guarantee to interview all disabled
applicants who meet the minimum essential criteria for
this vacancy.
Early application is encouraged, but the deadline for
application is 10 May 2016.
Essential Skills: Demonstrated clear innovation during
or following your PhD.
Excellent communications skills.
Good interpersonal skills and ability to work with di-
verse team members.
A cover letter and a statement that indicates which
research topics you are particularly interested in, and
why your qualications make you a good t with our
research.
Levi Yant Project Leader John Innes Centre Norwich
Research Park Colney Lane Norwich NR4 7UH United
Kingdom http://yant.jic.ac.uk jTel: +44 (0)7490
253006
\Levi Yant (JIC)" <Levi.Yant@jic.ac.uk >JohnInnesCentre UK
EvolutionaryGeneticsGenomics
How can constrained system evolve to meet new chal-
lenges such as climate or genome change? Many core
essential systems in cells and organisms (many of which
are commonly thought of as \house-keeping" processes)
may at rst blush seem like things that should not evolve,
and thus should lie outside the interests of evolutionary
geneticists. Yet many essential processes are sensitive to
perturbation, and can lead to catastrophic consequences
when they are disrupted. Thus, for an organism to
evolve to meet new challenges, such systems must be
adjusted. But these \core" processes are often essential,
and in many cases quite constrained, so how can they
change at all? How the \basic biology' ^A of organisms
can be retuned during adaptation is an exciting and
almost completely open set of questions.
Consider meiosis for example 'V the meiotic segrega-
tion of chromosomes is essential for fertility of sexual
eukaryotes and therefore for the propagation of popu-
lations. The three dimensional structures and general
progression of meiosis are strongly conserved even across
kingdoms. Yet challenges that lineages encounter very
regularly, such as changes in genome architecture and
shifts in temperature, can seriously challenge the reliable
progression of meiosis. This can lead to chromosome
mis-segregation and infertility. It is clear from the evo-
lutionary literature that for many known challenges to
meiosis there is a species or population that is resilient
to that stress, showing that it can evolve. In some cases
these shifts are associated with signatures of selection
having acted on core meiosis proteins. Thus it is clear
that meiotic systems do evolve to cope with new chal-
lenges, and that they do so by modifying some of the
essential core constituents of meiosis. But how do they
do that while yet maintaining the complex multiprotein
interactions and progression of three-dimensional struc-
tures that are essential for fertility? In other words, how
can you change a constrained system without breaking
it? Do you modify protein stability, shape, or interac-
tions? Do changes require compensatory evolution in
other proteins or systems? How many ways can meiosis
be retuned as organisms face novel challenges?
In my group, we combine complementary genomic, ge-
netic, and in-depth molecular and cytological studies
to understand how organisms evolve to meet new chal-90 EvolDir May 1, 2016
lenges. We currently focus primarily on meiosis and how
it evolves in response to genome change and climate
shifts, but we also digress to core transcription, cell
cycle control and other processes.
The lab recently received a 5-year European Research
Council to fund this work ("Adaptive evolution of meio-
sis in response to genome and habitat change\) that
opens several postdoc opportunities to creatively tackle
novel questions under the broader aim of understanding
the causes and consequences of the evolution of meiosis
and recombination. There is room for creative individu-
als to join the group and develop their own projects or
build on those already ongoing in the lab.
The broad focus will be on evolutionary genetics and
genomics, and we seek to build a group in which peo-
ple with dierent talents complement and inspire one
another to think outside their present comfort zones.
Successful applicants will have the opportunity to build
their own novel research areas with which to ultimately
found their own independent research careers.
Finally, the John Innes Centre is a world class research
institution with excellent facilities and colleagues and
Norwich England is a lovely place to live with easy ac-
cess to beautiful natural areas as well as London. Our
local airport provides direct connections to Amsterdam
and thereby easy access to the rest of the world.
For information and to apply (by May 2): http://-
jobs.jic.ac.uk/Details.asp?vacancyID=11464 Also see:
http://bomblies.jic.ac.uk If interested but wish to apply
later, please contact Kirsten.Bomblies@jic.ac.uk
Kirsten Bomblies Project Leader John Innes Centre
Norwich Research Park Colney Lane Norwich NR4 7UH
United Kingdom
"Kirsten Bomblies (JIC)\
<Kirsten.Bomblies@jic.ac.uk >KielU Celegans
HostMicrobiotaInteractions
Postdoc Position on the Evolution, Genetics, and Ge-
nomics of C. elegans-microbiota interactions
Basic Information
Postdoctoral Scientist position for 3-4 years, with an
extension possible thereafter, salary at level TV-L E13
Area of Work
Evolution of C. elegans-microbiota interactions, using
evolution experiments, phenotypic analysis, and genome
analysis of both nematode and bacterial populations.
The project aims at understanding the importance of
associated microbes on evolutionary adaptation of the
host and the entire association as a whole, including
characterization of the underlying genetic and genomic
processes. There is explicitly space and also time for
bringing in own ideas and thus the opportunity to de-
velop a new and original research agenda. The project
is part of a larger research initiative on host-microbiota
interactions (www.metaorganism-research.com), includ-
ing several additional projects with the model organism
C. elegans, thus providing an interactive environment
for an exciting new eld of research.
Expectations and Requirements
University degree and PhD in evolutionary biology
and/or genomics and/or microbiota-host interactions or
any related eld. High competence in statistics, experi-
mental design, and English writing is a must. Ideally
comprehensive experience in genome analysis and/or
work with C. elegans and/or performance of evolution
experiments and/or microbiota-host analysis and/or
population genetics and/or meta-analysis.
Kiel University aims at a higher proportion of women
in research and education, and, therefore, specically
encourages qualied female scientists to apply. Female
scientists will be preferentially considered in case of
equivalent qualication, competence and achievements.
Kiel University specically supports employment of
severely handicapped people. Therefore, severely hand-
icapped applicants will be preferentially considered in
case of suitable qualication.
Kiel University specically welcomes application from
people with migration background.May 1, 2016 EvolDir 91
Location
The position will be based in the Schulenburg group at
the University of Kiel, Northern Germany. The depart-
ment provides an international and interactive atmo-
sphere, while Kiel University and connected institutes
(e.g., Max Planck Institute in Ploen) oer a stimulating
research environment with a particular focus on evolu-
tionary biology and also C. elegans genetics. The city
of Kiel is a medium-sized town located at the coast of
the Baltic Sea. It is the capital of the most Northern
state of Germany, Schleswig-Holstein. It oers many
opportunities for leisure activities, including theatres,
an opera, the Schleswig-Holstein classical music festival,
the heavy metal festival in Wacken, sailing, surng, cy-
cling, and the famous festivities of the \Kieler Woche" -
one of the largest sailing events in Europe.
Applications
Applications should include a motivation letter (max.
2 pages long), CV, publication list, names and contact
details of two referees (who are familiar with the ap-
plicant's work), and copies of certicates. Deadline for
applications is 25.05.2016. Applications should be sent
as a single pdf-document by Email to Hinrich Schulen-
burg (hschulenburg@zoologie.uni-kiel.de).
Deadline for applications
25 May 2016
Starting date for the position
As soon as possible, ideally sometime during the sum-
mer, at the latest by December 2016
Further questions
Send an Email to Hinrich Schulenburg
(hschulenburg@zoologie.uni-kiel.de).
{ Hinrich Schulenburg
Zoological Institute Christian-Albrechts-Universitaet
zu Kiel Am Botanischen Garten 1-9 24118 Kiel Ger-
many Tel: +49-431-880-4143/4141 Fax: +49-431-880-
2403 Email: hschulenburg@zoologie.uni-kiel.de Web:
www.uni-kiel.de/zoologie/evoecogen/ Hinrich Schulen-
burg <hschulenburg@zoologie.uni-kiel.de >LundU EvolutionPhylogenyThermal
Adaptation
Postdoc in evolution, phylogeny and thermal adaptation
(Lund University, Sweden)
I have an opening for a postdoc with background and
experience in phylogenetic comparative methods for a
project on micro- and macroevolution of thermal adapta-
tion and thermal plasticity (start date: October 1 2016).
This is a perfect opportunity for somebody who is inter-
ested in combining phylogenetic comparative methods
and experiments, theory and empirical work.
I am seeking a qualied candidate anywhere from the
world, as long as (s)he ts the required qualications
and criteria and is interested to work in my lab and
in a friendly, collaborative and creative international
research environment in Lund (Sweden). Please do not
hesitate to contact me if you have any further ques-
tions and spread the information about this position to
suitable members in your lab and in your international
networks.
Information about the position and applica-
tion procedure can be found here: https://-
lu.mynetworkglobal.com/en/what:job/jobID:99355/
Sincerely, Erik Svensson
Erik Svensson Professor Department of Biology, Evo-
lutionary Ecology Unit Lund University SE-223 62
Lund SWEDEN Phone: +46 46 222 38 19 Fax:
+46 46 222 47 16 E-mail: erik.svensson@biol.lu.se
Webpage: http://www.biology.lu.se/erik-svensson Lab
blog: http://exeblund.blogspot.se Researcher ID:
http://www.researcherid.com/rid/E-8324-2010 New
book: \The Adaptive Landscape in Evolutionary
Biology" Edited by Erik Svensson and Ryan Cals-
beek Available through all good bookshops, or di-
rect from Oxford University Press at: http://-
ukcatalogue.oup.com/product/9780199595389.do Erik
Svensson <erik.svensson@biol.lu.se >92 EvolDir May 1, 2016
MaxPlanck Tuebingen 5 Bioinfor-
maticsEvolutionaryGenomics
*5* Postdoctoral positions available in Bioinformatics
and Evolutionary Genomics
The Jones and Chan labs at the Friedrich Miescher
Laboratory at the Max Planck Campus, T ubingen, Ger-
many, are looking for *up to ve* talented bioinformati-
cians/computer scientists/evolutionary genomicists to
work on cutting edge genomics projects. The positions
are available for an initial 2 years with the possibility
of extension.
We work at the cross-section between functional ge-
nomics and evolutionary genetics with the aim of un-
derstanding the molecular basis of phenotypic variation
in mice and stickleback sh. Both labs are funded by
the Max Planck Society (MPG) and hold prestigious
European Research Council Grants.
We are looking to recruit talented and motivated team
members to analyse existing datasets (including DNA-,
RNA-, ChIP-, ATAC-Seq). You will work closely with
other wet-lab members with a focus on development of
pipelines and analysis of exciting genomic datasets for
the projects outlined below (please visit our websites
for more details). Where applicable you may also par-
ticipate actively in wet-lab data generation using our
established high-throughput robotics platforms.
1. Recombination Hot- and Coldspots and Adaptive
Evolution (JONES - ERC)
By shuing parental alleles to produce novel haplo-
types, recombination impacts the strength of selection
on nearby polymorphisms and can inuence the rate of
adaptation in natural populations. We are using pedi-
gree & population genetic methods to quantify variation
in recombination hot- and coldspots across the genome,
among individuals, sexes & divergent species and inter-
sect these maps with adaptive loci to investigate how
recombination shapes adaptive evolution.
2. Population Genomics: Rapid Adaptation from Stand-
ing Genetic Variation (JONES - MPG & DFG)
The type, source and availability of genetic variation can
promote or constrain the speed of adaptation, and inu-
ence the future evolutionary trajectory a population. We
are combining empirical population genomic analyses
with theoretical population genetic models of selection-migration balance and selective sweeps from standing
genetic variation in order to identify and quantify key
factors that inuence rapid adaptation in natural stick-
leback populations.
3. Comparative Functional Genomics and Genome Evo-
lution (JONES - MPG) We are identifying and compar-
ing functional genomic elements contributing to adaptive
divergence and speciation by creating de novo assemblies
and functional annotations from ChIP-seq, captureC,
RNAseq, mapping panels and signatures of selection
from hundreds of whole genome datasets from sequenced
families and wild-caught individuals.
4. Systems biology of evolution in mice (CHAN - MPG
& ERC) We have a number of mapping panels and re-
sources, ranging from large Faroese wild mice, including
whole-body morphometrics measurements, to innova-
tive \in vitro" crosses derived from mouse interspecic
hybrid stem cells. Using these resources we aim to un-
derstand the genetic architecture for adaptive traits and
the evolution of gene regulatory networks.
5. Genomics of selection response in Longshanks mice
(CHAN - MPG) Dr. Campbell ROLIAN at the Univ. of
Calgary has performed 21 generations of articial selec-
tion for increased tibia length in mice (2 \Longshanks"
selection lines & 1 control line, >6000 individuals). We
will study the selection response from multiple angles,
ranging from trait mapping, population genomics, the-
ory (in collaboration with Nick BARTON, IST Austria)
to developmental genetics. With this dataset we aim to
establish the dynamics of the genotype-phenotype map
under strong selection.
Requirements: We invite applications for the above po-
sitions at the postdoctoral level. You will have obtained
or close to completing your PhD in the near future. You
will have training in genomics, bioinformatics or statis-
tical genetics and in-depth research experience in these
elds. You should demonstrate expertise and prociency
in one or more of the following areas:
^ a handling and analysis of NGS datasets (whole genome,
single-cell/molecule sequencing, RNASeq, ChIP-seq,
3C/4C)
^ a advanced skills in statistical genomics (e.g. QTL
or GWAS approaches, genotype imputation, Hidden
Markov Models, and haplotype phasing of whole genome
data
^ a de novo genome assemblies and comparative genomics.
^ a empirical and theoretical population genetics
^ a familiarity with parallel computing, visualisation
of genomic datasets and associated toolkits (e.g.
UCSC/Ensembl genome browsers, prociency with web-May 1, 2016 EvolDir 93
based programming and SQL relational databases desir-
able)
Experience with UNIX and uency in statistical and/or
programming languages is essential (R, Python or Perl,
required; C++, SQL, java knowledge desirable). Wetlab
skills and experience in other types of data analysis (e.g.,
image processing) will be an advantage.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
McGillU Biodiversity
TheNSERC CREATE Biodiversity, Ecosystem Services,
and Sustainability seeks applicants for a 2-year post-
doctoral fellowship at McGill University in association
with UQ ~Aand Universit e Laval. Candidates could be
based at any of these institutions, but would be ex-
pected to spend some time at McGill University where
the program is hosted. Preference will be given to can-
didates with bold ideas, demonstrated research ability,
and strong communication skills. A working knowledge
of Spanish is essential and applicants must have obtained
their PhD within the last four years.
Applicantswill be evaluated on the quality of their re-
search proposal, their leadership and collaboration abil-
ities, communication skills, academic excellence, and
their vision to contribute to the BESS program. The
successful candidate will be expected to conduct original
research on core problems in the neotropical environ-
ment, foster interactions within BESS, run a seminar
series, and organize a retreat.
BESSprovides partial funding for this position
(~ $27,000) with the rest expected to come from other
sources, most often the collaborating faculty supervisor.
Thus, potential applicants need to rst contact one of
the BESS co-PIs, in consultation with whom the appli-
cant will prepare the following supporting documents.
1.Cover letter 2.Curriculum vitae 3.Two letters of ref-
erence 4.Scientic goals and research plan relevant to
BESS - MAXIMUM TWO PAGES 5.A funding plan
agreed upon with you and your proposed faculty super-
visor - MAXIMUM ONE PAGEHowto apply: Please submit your application to victo-
ria.reed@mail.mcgill.ca before June 5th, 2016.
Forfurther information please visit our website
(www.mcgill.ca/bess/bess)
FelipeP erez-Jvostov BESSProgram Coordinator http:/-
/www.mcgill.ca/bess/bess RedpathMuseum, room 205
859rue Sherbrooke, Montreal, QC.
bess@mcgill.ca
Nanaimo BritishColumbia
FishBarcoding
Developing metabarcoding tools for environmental DNA-
based biomonitoring in aquatic ecosystems Fisheries and
Oceans Canada: Pacic Biological Station, Nanaimo,
British Columbia
A post-doctoral fellow with an interest in applied ecologi-
cal and evolutionary genomics and aquatic ecosystems is
being sought to lead the development of metabarcoding-
based biomonitoring approaches to meet federal regula-
tory needs.
Multiple projects are underway. The successful candi-
date will play a lead role in a multi-disciplinary project
on validating the use of environmental DNA (eDNA)-
based metabarcoding (targeting meoifauna) for benthic
impact assessments of salmon farms in coastal British
Columbia. Salmon aquaculture causes organic enrich-
ment of surrounding sediments which aects biodiversity
and biomass of benthic fauna concomitant with sedi-
ment chemical changes. Existing environmental impact
assessments rely on manual morpho-taxonomy or abi-
otic proxies of organic loading with uncertain accuracy.
The project aims to develop an ecient and reliable
lower-cost alternative based on cataloging the diver-
sity and abundance of benthic communities through
metabarcoding of environmental DNA (eDNA).
The successful candidate will also play a key collabora-
tive role within two other projects aimed at developing
metabarcoding based eDNA biosurveillance of aquatic
invasive species (AIS). Aquatic invasive species (AIS)
pose a major threat to freshwater aquatic ecosystems
and sheries in BC; detecting new invasions early and
accurately assessing existing AIS distributions are impor-
tant to maximize the chance for eective management
intervention.
The successful candidate will have a PhD in ecological94 EvolDir May 1, 2016
and/or evolutionary genomics or another relevant area
and will demonstrate well-developed bioinformatics and
computational skills (including programming, e.g. Perl,
R, Unix, Python) as applied to the analysis of next-
generation sequencing data. Experience in the prepara-
tion of samples for NGS (Illumina) and knowledge of
barcoding, metabarcoding, and/or environmental DNA
sampling in aquatic systems would be an asset but not
a requirement. Candidates should demonstrate a strong
track record of publication and be willing to work as
part of a collaborative team.
A 2 year Postdoctoral Fellowship position starting
by January 2017 is available with stipend funding
at NSERC Visiting Fellowship rates. Applications
from international candidates will be accepted. For
more information and to review eligibility criteria, see:
http://www.nserc-crsng.gc.ca/Students-Etudiants/-
PD-NP/Laboratories-Laboratoires/index eng.asp To
be considered for this position, please send your CV
and brief email text explaining your suitability to
cathryn.abbott@dfo-mpo.gc.ca
Cathryn Abbott, Ph.D. Research Scientist, Pacic Bio-
logical Station
\Cathryn.Abbott@dfo-mpo.gc.ca"
<Cathryn.Abbott@dfo-mpo.gc.ca >
NHM KingsCollegeLondon 2
EvolutionaryVenomics
Posdoc:NHM andKingsCollege London.EvolutionaryVenomics
Postdoctoral Research Assistants in Cnidaria and Myx-
ozoa Venomics (2 posts) Grade 6 point 32 from £33,357
- £34,753 p.a Expected start date 20th June 2016
Two Postdoctoral Research Assistant positions are avail-
able on a 3 year xed term Leverhulme Trust funded
tripartite project between Dr Paul Long (King's College
London), Prof Beth Okamura (Natural History Mu-
seum, London) and Prof Antonio Marques (University
of S~ ao Paulo, Brazil). There is a lack of venom evolution
studies within Cnidaria compared to other venomous
animals, and our current picture of cnidarian venom
evolution is highly imbalanced because almost nothing is
known about myxozoan venoms. Characterising venom
toxins in parasitic myxozoans and then comparing these
to the toxins in free-living (non-parasitic) cnidarians will
be signicant because it will enable insights into how
venoms have been co-opted for parasitic lifestyles. Onepost will be based at King's College London and it is
expected that the applicants will have a PhD in bioinfor-
matics and signicant research experience in generating
and analysing genomic, transcriptomic and proteomic
experiments. Familiarity working with free-living cnidar-
ians and eld collection experience is desirable. The
second post will be based at the Natural History Mu-
seum, London and it is expected that the applicants
will have a PhD in a relevant biology subject includ-
ing signicant eld collection and research experience
working with aquatic or parasitic organisms, together
with a proven track record of phylogenetic analysis and
the generation and analysis of genomic and transcrip-
tomic data. Experience in research in one or more of
the following areas is also desirable: Myxozoa, ven-
oms, ISH (in situ hybridisation), immunohistochemistry,
confocal microscopy, transmission electron microscopy,
proteomics. In addition, it is expected that the appli-
cants have an excellent record of research productivity,
excellent oral and written communication skills, together
with excellent time management skills, and an ability
to work under pressure to deadlines. The deadline for
application is 29th April 2016, with interviews for both
positions to be held by 6th May 2016. Applications and
informal enquiries can be sent in advance of the formal
advertisement directly to paul.long@kcl.ac.uk
Hanna.Hartikainen@eawag.ch
OkinawaInstSciTech 2
MoleculariToolsMuseum
InsectBehaviour
Are you excited about the untapped potential of next-
generation sequencing? Do you enjoy making new tools
for molecular biology? If so, this postdoc if for you. The
Ecology and Evolution Unit at the Okinawa Institute
of Science and Technology (OIST) is looking for some-
one to drive the development of novel techniques for
high-throughput molecular and bioinformatic popula-
tion genomics analysis of non-model museum specimens.
Our goal is to make reproducible and aordable tools
for using historical material to study microevolutionary
patterns. To this end, we are particularly focused on de-
veloping reduced representation sequencing techniques
for samples with small amounts of heavily degraded
DNA. We have a fully funded (for ve years) laboratory
with state of the art equipment. A MiSeq down the
hall lets you prototype your constructs. A couple of
oors down, a high-powered sequencing center can giveMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 95
you massive data yields, which you can analyze on one
of the world's top cluster computers.The postdoc will
have opportunities to interact with researchers from
other disciplines, and will involve mentoring rotation
students and interns, as well as additional opportunities
to contribute to graduate teaching.
Contract: The postdoc will have a two year term with
potential for renewal. Salary depends on the number
of years since Ph.D. but ranges from 4.4 to 5.2 million
yen (approximately 40 - 50 thousand US $). In addition,
there are housing and commuting allowances. Relo-
cation costs will be covered for successful candidates.
While we prefer that you start some time in late August,
some exibility is possible.
About OIST: Though located in Japan, OIST is a highly
international graduate university with English as its lin-
gua franca, and students, faculty and research sta from
around the world. Knowledge of Japanese is not re-
quired for work at OIST, or for life in Okinawa. OIST
has a dynamic multicultural environment, and is an
equal opportunity employer.
Requirements: A Ph.D. program completed by July
2016, with a track record of previous publication, as
well as relevant research experience. Due university-
level restrictions, only candidates within ve years of
their Ph.D. are eligible to apply to this position.
To apply: Please send a letter of interest, and a CV to
alexander.mikheyev at oist.jp. After an initial screen-
ing over Skype, successful candidates will be asked to
provide a writing sample, two letters of reference, and
invited for an on-site interview in Okinawa to take place
in June 2016, with all expenses for travel and accom-
modation paid for by the Ecology and Evolution Unit.
Applications are due by May 20th, 2016, with Skype
interviews to take place later that week.
Alexander (Sasha) Mikheyev Associate Professor Ecol-
ogy and Evolution Unit (http://ecoevo.unit.oist.jp) Oki-
nawa Institute of Science and Technology 1919-1 Tancha
Onna-son, Kunigami-gun 904-0495 Japan
|{
Are you interested in the genetic architecture of behav-
ioral traits? Do you have experience in quantitative
trait mapping, or setting up insect behavioral experi-
ments? If so, this job will be an excellent opportunity to
develop your existing skills and acquire new ones. The
Ecology and Evolution Unit at the Okinawa Institute of
Science and Technology (OIST) has recently started a
fully funded multi-year project dissecting genes involved
in social behavior, using experimental crosses of honey
bees as a model. The major goal is to use computer
vision to characterize individual behavior, and to under-stand genes that underly behavioral traits. Although
our principle work is on bees, we are open to the possi-
bility of hiring someone unfamiliar with this system, and
even having the postdoc work part-time on the study
system of their choosing. As long as we have the crosses,
we may map some non-behavioral traits as well.
Contract: The postdoc will have a two year term with
potential for renewal. Salary depends on the number
of years since Ph.D. but ranges from 4.4 to 5.2 million
yen (approximately 40 - 50 thousand US $). In addition,
there are housing and commuting allowances. Relo-
cation costs will be covered for successful candidates.
While we prefer that you start some time in late August,
some exibility is possible.
About OIST: Though located in Japan, OIST is a highly
international graduate university with English as its lin-
gua franca, and students, faculty and research sta from
around the world. Knowledge of Japanese is not re-
quired for work at OIST, or for life in Okinawa. OIST
has a dynamic multicultural environment, and is an
equal opportunity employer.
Requirements: A Ph.D. program completed by July
2016, with a track record of previous publication, as
well as relevant research experience. Due university-
level restrictions, only candidates within ve years of
their Ph.D. are eligible to apply to this position.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
OxfordU GuppyEvolution
Post-doc, for up to three years: We seek a post-doc to
participate in a US National Science Foundation sup-
ported project entitled \The Paradox of Coexistence:
The Evolution of Ontogenetic Interactions". This re-
search is a continuation of an ongoing experimental
study of the interactions between ecology and evolution
in natural streams in the Northern Range Mountains on
the island of Trinidad. Our project is built around four
experimental introductions of guppies into previously
guppy-free tributaries that contain only one other sh
species - the killish Rivulus hartii. Our prior research
has characterized how each of these species evolves in
response to the other and to the way the ecosystem96 EvolDir May 1, 2016
changes after the guppy introduction. One discovery is
that their interactions include bi-directional intra-guild
predation. Theory predicts that such an interaction
is very unlikely to be stable, yet it proves to be reli-
ably stable in all four introductions and in all natural
streams where these sh coexist. This apparent anomaly
is the basis for an exploration of factors not included
in theory that could lend to this stability, including the
contemporary evolution of both participating species
and how these interactions change with the age and
size of individuals in both species. Our project is an
integration of the development of new theory, new exper-
iments to be performed in natural and articial streams
in Trinidad and the continued study of the four in-
troductions in natural streams. The post-doc's home
base will be with Joseph Travis (PI) at Florida State
University but will include extensive periods of time
in Trinidad, where he/she will execute experiments in
natural and articial streams. The successful applicant
must have a completed PhD, publication record and
extensive eld experience. You can learn more about
our project at our website <CNAS.UCR.EDU/guppy >.
To apply, please send a CV and arrange to have at
least three letters of reference sent to David Reznick at
david.reznick@ucr.edu.
Cheers, Ron
Ronald Bassar <ronald.bassar@zoo.ox.ac.uk >
OxfordU StatisticalGenetics
Applications to be received by 12pm on Friday 6th of
May 2016
Grade 7: 30,738 - 37,768 p.a.
We are seeking a Postdoctoral Scientist in Statistical
Genomics to join an established multi-disciplinary team
as part of Modernising Medical Microbiology (MMM)
consortium.
The aim of the role is to develop and apply statisti-
cal methods, including genome-wide association stud-
ies, for discovering rare and common genetic variants
underlying antimicrobial resistance in Mycobacterium
tuberculosis. You will be given an exciting and rare
opportunity to work with global Mycobacterium tuber-
culosis (TB) experts from ve continents, statistical
geneticists, clinicians, medical statisticians and software
engineers; integrating statistical genetics, bioinformatics
and machine learning methods with the aim of uncover-ing all genomic variants causing at least 1% resistance
to rst line anti-TB drugs.
You will hold a PhD in statistical genomics, evolutionary
biology, statistics or a related subject. You will have
strong statistical skills and a background in biological
sequence analysis, together with an enquiring and exi-
ble attitude and an interest in working collaboratively
with researchers from dierent disciplines.
The post is full-time and xed-term for up to 3 years
initially.
Applications from candidates who have not yet com-
pleted their PhD may be considered, and would be
appointed initially at Grade 6 (27,328 - 32,600 p.a.)
with amended duties and responsibilities.
Applications for this vacancy are to be made online.
You will be required to upload a supporting statement
and CV as part of your online application.
To apply or for more details, please visit http://-
www.ndm.ox.ac.uk/current-job-vacancies/vacancy/-
122909-Postdoctoral-Scientist-in-Statistical-Genomics
Only applications received before 12.00 midday on
Friday 6 May 2016 will be considered.
Danny Wilson
{ Dr Daniel Wilson Wellcome Trust/Royal Soci-
ety Sir Henry Dale Fellow Associate Professor
Nueld Department of Medicine University of Oxford
www.danielwilson.me.uk \daniel.wilson@ndm.ox.ac.uk"
<daniel.wilson@ndm.ox.ac.uk >
Paris6U MicrobialBioinformatics
Hello,
Please nd below the description of a postdoctoral po-
sition to 'Search for common 'genetic goods' in gene
families and microbial communities'.
We are oering a 14 months post-doctoral position,
starting on September the 1rst 2016 (see also http://-
www.evol-net.fr/index.php/fr/postes-a-pourvoir).
The theory of 'genetic public goods' recently postu-
lated that genetic sequences can be exploited in various
combinations, even by distantly related or unrelated
evolving entities, i.e. microbial communities benet-
ing from the sharing of genes between their members,
such as photosynthesis genes between cyanophages and
cyanobacteria, or such as drug resistance genes withinMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 97
multispecies biolm. Yet, the nature, size and diversity
of microbial communities sharing such 'genetic goods' re-
main poorly known. Moreover, the rules of gene sharing
also remain to be described.
A wealth of molecular data from metagenomic, single
cell metagenomic, and microbial genomes projects is
now available to tackle these fundamental issues. Fur-
thermore, sequence similarity networks oer a promising
complementary niche to phylogenetic methods to ex-
ploit the complexity of these data. These graphs allow
for mathematical analyses of genetic diversity and simi-
larities over dozens of millions of sequences, providing
novel ways to detect 'clubs' of genomes, which have not
necessarily evolved from a single last common ancestor
yet exploit some common genetic material. Likewise,
these networks allows for the detection of some 'sets'
of gene families that exploit common pools of genetic
fragments/domains.
To further develop the detection strategies of genetic
public goods, our lab is now looking for a post-doctoral
fellow in bio-informatics, who will be funded for up to
three years by an ERC grant (for an approximate salary
of 2197 euros/ month after taxes, i.e. 57 350euro before
taxes for the entire post-doc). The candidate will take
advantage of graph properties and algorithms from the
graph theory:
-1) to improve the identication of 'clubs' of genomes
/'sets' of gene and their pool of genetic goods in com-
plex networks with a few millions nodes and dozens of
millions of edges;
- 2) to analyze domains combinations in genes and gene
sharing in communities, using bipartite graphs;
-3) He/she will then analyze the functions of these 'ge-
netic goods' and their distribution across genes and
genomes to test what lifestyles favors their sharing.
The candidate will work within a consortium of friendly
bioinformaticians (Philippe Lopez, Eduardo Corel), evo-
lutionary biologists (Eric Bapteste), and graph theorists
(Michel Habib, Laurent Viennot), and be hosted in the
University Pierre and Marie Curie in the center of Paris,
France. Ideally, the candidate should have a strong
interest for evolutionary biology, microbial evolution
and a good background in bio-informatics, or graph
theory. The position will start by September 2016, but
interested candidates are invited to apply immediately.
He/she should be early in his/her carreer (i.e. holding
a PhD degree for less than 2 years).
Applicants are requested to send a detailed resume,
a motivation letter, a pdf copy of their PhD the-
sis, and the names of two scientic referees to :eric.bapteste[at]snv.jussieu.fr
The rst round of applications will be closed June 1rst,
2016.
epbapteste@gmail.com
PennStateU 2
AntFungalInteractions
The Hughes Lab has two open positions on the mecha-
nism by which fungi control ant behavior (the extended
phenotype of parasites using the zombie ant system).
Postdoctoral Announcement:
The Hughes Lab is seeking a post-doctoral research to
work on ant behavior and fungal parasites that aect
ant behavior to enable transmission (parasite extended
phenotypes). The position is available in the Center for
Infectious Disease Dynamics (www.cidd.psu.edu), The
Pennsylvania State University, University Park Campus
but the majority of the work will take place at our eld
site associated with the Federal University of Vicosa,
Minas Gerais, Brazil. At this eld site we have accessible
ant colonies and manipulated ants. The ideal candidate
will be able to locate ant colonies from the wild and
study ants under natural conditions. The ants are noc-
turnal so the work requires working in the rainforest
at night, observing trails. We will also conduct exper-
imental infections so the ideal candidate should have
experience with injecting either ants or insects using
standard microinjection protocols. The goal of the study
is to measure changes of the fungal colony inside the
ant and we will prepare samples for Serial Block Face
SEM, transcriptomics and metabolomics. We are seek-
ing a person who has experience with transcriptomics
on the Illumina platform and metabolomics. Candidates
should have extremely strong organizational, written,
and oral communication skills; and be able to work
both independently and as part of a collaborative team.
Since the work is based in Brazil the candidate should
be able to speak Portuguese. For further information,
please feel free to contact Dr Hughes (dph14@psu.edu;
+1 814- 863-6073). Interested applicants should upload
a curriculum vitae, a 1-2 page statement of research
interests that explicitly describes professional quali-
cations for this position, and contact information for
three referees. Review of applicants is ongoing and the
position will begin when a suitable candidate is selected.
About David Hughes: Hughes, is a behavioral ecolo-98 EvolDir May 1, 2016
gist who has studied social insects and their diseases
in 11 countries on 5 continents. He has worked with
diverse diseases as well as the behavior of healthy and
infected ants under eld (rain- and temperate forests)
and laboratory conditions. In recent years he has be-
come interested in plant diseases. www.hugheslab.com
This is a xed-term appointment funded for one year
from the date of hire with good possibility of re-funding.
This work is funded thorough an NIH R01 program
Modeling social behaviors.
Postdoctoral Announcement:
The Hughes Lab is seeking a post-doctoral research to
work on ant behavior and fungal parasites that aect
ant behavior to enable transmission (parasite extended
phenotypes). The position is available in the Center for
Infectious Disease Dynamics (www.cidd.psu.edu), The
Pennsylvania State University, University Park Campus.
The goal of the study is to measure changes in the fungal
colony inside the ant and we will prepare samples for Se-
rial Block Face SEM, transcriptomics and metabolomics.
We are seeking a person who has experience with dif-
ferent histology approaches; ideally SEM. Experience
with transcriptomics is a distinct advantage. The work
requires embedding and staging samples for processing,
as well as downstream data handling. The ideal can-
didate would also be able to do confocal microscopy.
The work requires injecting ants with fungal inocula so
experience using standard techniques in microinjection
is a plus. The job also requires eld work in South
Carolina and Brazil. Candidates should have extremely
strong organizational, written, and oral communication
skills; and be able to work both independently and as
part of a collaborative team. For further information,
please feel free to contact Dr Hughes (dph14@psu.edu;
+1 814- 863-6073). Interested applicants should upload
a curriculum vitae, a 1-2 page statement of research
interests that explicitly describes professional quali-
cations for this position, and contact information for
three referees. Review of applicants is ongoing and the
position will begin when a suitable candidate is selected.
David Hughes: Hughes, is a behavioral ecologist who has
studied social insects and their diseases in 11 countries
on 5 continents. He has worked with diverse diseases
as well as the behavior of healthy and infected ants
under eld (rain- and temperate forests) and laboratory
conditions. In recent years he has become interested
in plant diseases.www.hugheslab.com This is a xed-
term appointment funded for one year from the date of
hire with good possibility of re-funding. This work is
funded thorough an NIH R01 program Modeling social
behaviors.
David Hughes CIDD, Dept Entomology & Biology/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
PennStateU
EcologicalEvolutionaryGenomics
A postdoctoral position is available in the lab of Jesse
R. Lasky (laskylab.org) in the Department of Biology
at The Pennsylvania State University, State College,
PA. Lab goals are to understanding the processes that
generate and maintain biodiversity.
In particular, the lab studies genetic and ecological
mechanisms of local adaptation to environment. We are
focusing on adaptation to climate and interactions be-
tween climate and biotic factors. We aim to understand
the genetic basis of adaptation and the role of ecological
and evolutionary dynamics in response to environmental
change.
Our approach is integrative and involves patterns and
processes at molecular and ecological levels. Candi-
dates with an integrative background and interest in
quantitative approaches are sought. The primary study
organisms are plants; currently including forest trees,
Arabidopsis, and sorghum.
Relevant recent publications include (full list: http://-
www.personal.psu.edu/jrl35/psu/pub.html) Lasky JR,
Des Marais DL, McKay JK et al. (2012) Character-
izing genomic variation of Arabidopsis thaliana: the
roles of geography and climate. Molecular Ecology, 21,
5512V5529. Lasky JR, Des Marais DL, Lowry DB et
al. (2014) Natural variation in abiotic stress respon-
sive gene expression and local adaptation to climate
in Arabidopsis thaliana. Molecular Biology and Evolu-
tion, 31, 2283V2296. Lasky JR, Uriarte M, Boukili V,
Chazdon RL (2014) Trait-mediated assembly processes
predict successional changes in community diversity of
tropical forests. Proceedings of the National Academy
of Sciences, 111, 5616V5621. Verslues PE, Lasky JR,
Juenger TE, Liu T-W, Kumar MN (2014) Genome-Wide
Association Mapping Combined with Reverse Genetics
Identies New Eectors of Low Water Potential-Induced
Proline Accumulation in Arabidopsis. Plant Physiology,
164, 144V159. Lasky JR, Upadhyaya HD, Ramu P et
al. (2015) Genome-environment associations in sorghum
landraces predict adaptive traits. Science Advances, 1.May 1, 2016 EvolDir 99
Penn State University has research strengths in ge-
nomics ( https://www.huck.psu.edu/content/people/-
area-of-interest/Bioinformatics%20and%20Genomics ),
plant biology (https://www.huck.psu.edu/content/-
people/area-of-interest/Plant%20Biology), infectious
disease dynamics (http://cidd.psu.edu/), and ecol-
ogy (https://www.huck.psu.edu/content/people/area-
of-interest/Ecology) across departments and colleges.
The postdoc will have freedom to develop new projects
in the lab and to build collaborations with other labs.
The ideal candidate will have expertise including popula-
tion genetics, quantitative genetics, evolutionary ecology,
genome-wide association studies, statistics, and compu-
tation (R, python, shell, HPC cluster). Experience in
molecular genetics, host-parasite coevolution, ecophysi-
ology and population and community ecology are also
of interest. Excellent communication skills, including
writing, are required, as is a strong publication record.
The position requires a PhD and is initially funded for
one year. Applications must be submitted electronically.
A complete application will include a cover letter de-
tailing experience and research interests, a current CV,
and contact information for three professional references.
The start date is exible. Review of applications will
begin immediately and continue until the position is
lled.
Apply here: https://psu.jobs/job/62448 CAMPUS SE-
CURITY CRIME STATISTICS: For more about safety
at Penn State, and to review the Annual Security Report
which contains information about crime statistics and
other safety and security matters, please go to http://-
www.police.psu.edu/clery/, which will also provide you
with detail on how to request a hard copy of the Annual
Security Report. Penn State is an equal opportunity,
armative action employer, and is committed to provid-
ing employment opportunities to all qualied applicants
without regard to race, color, religion, age, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability
or protected veteran status.
\Jesse R. Lasky" <jrl35@psu.edu >
PennState UMichigan
EvolutionaryMedicine
EVOLUTIONARY RISK ANALYSES IN HUMAN
HEALTH
Post-doctoral Scholars Research AssociatesThe evolution of drug resistance is one of the major
challenges for 21st Century Medicine. One approach
is to discover new drugs to replace those that are fail-
ing, but a much cheaper approach is to use the drugs
we already have in ways which slow or prevent resis-
tance emergence (stewardship). We are interested in
hiring up to four people who are passionately interested
in giving stewardship science a rigorous grounding in
modern evolutionary theory. Projects include experi-
mental work with drug resistance in malaria and with
bacteria present in US hospitals, epidemiological and
genomic analyses of hospital infections, statistical anal-
yses of electronic health records, and the development
and application of evolutionary models in health-care
settings. There may also be options in cancer. Ideal
candidates will have a PhD in cognate subjects (such as
evolutionary biology, ecology, mathematics, statistics,
epidemiology, public health, bioinformatics, genomics,
microbiology). Post-Doc candidates must have up to 4
years postdoctoral experience, and a signicant publica-
tion record. Research Associate candidates must have
a proven record of extensive research accomplishments
through publication, conference presentations, and sem-
inars and will be expected to submit research proposals
for self-support in due course.
We are looking for people whose interests coincide
with ours but with skill sets that add to those
already in our groups (www.thereadgroup.net,
http://www.uofmhealth.org/prole/3610/robert-james-
woods-md). Experience with evolution in health
care settings is desirable, but more critical is a keen
interest in the application of basic science to improve
real-world health outcomes and the capacity to
operate in a highly interdisciplinary and collaborative
environment. These positions are based primarily
at Penn State, but hospital-motivated projects may
involve substantial time at the University of Michigan
Health System http://www.uofmhealth.org/ and at the
Geisinger Health System https://www.geisinger.org/.
Applications must be submitted electronically at
https://psu.jobs/job/62574 or https://psu.jobs/job/-
62580 and must include a cover letter describing
research experience, interests and ambitions, a CV,
and contact information for three references. Informal
inquiries to Andrew Read PhD (a.read@psu.edu) or
Robert Woods MD PhD (robertwo@med.umich.edu).
Review of applicants will begin immediately and
continue until the position is lled.
CAMPUS SECURITY CRIME STATISTICS: Penn
State and State College are among the safest places
to live and work in America. Federal and Pennsylvania
State mandates require that all Higher Education insti-
tutions collect and publish crime statistics. For more100 EvolDir May 1, 2016
about safety at Penn State, and to review the Annual
Security Report which contains information about crime
statistics and other safety and security matters, please
go to http://www.police.psu.edu/clery/, which will also
provide you with detail on how to request a hard copy
of the Annual Security Report.
Penn State is an equal opportunity, armative action
employer, and is committed to providing employment op-
portunities to all qualied applicants without regard to
race, color, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, national origin, disability or protected veteran
status.
{ Andrew Read, Director, Center for Infectious Disease
Dynamics, Evan Pugh University Professor of Biology
and Entomology, Eberly Professor in Biotechnology,
Penn State
www.thereadgroup.net Andrew Read
<a.read@psu.edu >
PennsylvaniaStateU AncientDNA
Archaeogenomics
Postdoctoral scholar in ancient DNA and archaeoge-
nomics
The Department of Anthropology at The Pennsylvania
State University (http://anth.la.psu.edu/) is seeking
applications for a postdoctoral scholar in ancient DNA
and archaeogenomics. The postdoctoral scholar will
have opportunities to lead and participate in research at
the intersection of archaeology, biological anthropology
and human ecology. We are particularly interested in
developing projects focused on human interaction with
the environment and health. Please contact Douglas
Kennett, George Perry or Tim Ryan with questions
regarding this postdoctoral opportunity.
Candidates for this position should be experienced in
both ancient DNA laboratory techniques and genomics
data analysis. The position will start between July 1
and December 1, 2016 and may be renewed annually. A
qualied candidate must hold a Ph.D. degree or have
completed all of the requirements for a Ph.D. by the
time of appointment.
To apply for this position, submit 1) a cover letter, 2)
your CV, 3) the names and contact information of three
people who can be contacted for letters of reference, and
4) up to three of your publications. Review of applica-
tions will begin immediately and will continue until theposition is lled. Apply online at https://psu.jobs/job/-
62870 CAMPUS SECURITY CRIME STATISTICS:
For more about safety at Penn State, and to review
the Annual Security Report which contains informa-
tion about crime statistics and other safety and security
matters, please go to http://www.police.psu.edu/clery/,
which will also provide you with detail on how to request
a hard copy of the Annual Security Report.
Penn State is an equal opportunity, armative action
employer, and is committed to providing employment op-
portunities to all qualied applicants without regard to
race, color, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, national origin, disability or protected veteran
status.
grgperry@gmail.com
QueensU
EvolutionaryEndocrinology
We are immediately seeking a talented and highly moti-
vated postdoctoral associate for work on an NSF-funded
study on the role of glucocorticoids in mediating re-
sponses to environmental challenges and life history
tradeos in birds. The successful candidate will become
a member of the Department of Biological Sciences at
Virginia Tech in Blacksburg, Virginia, and will work
closely with Ignacio Moore, Fran Bonier (Queen's Uni-
versity), and Mark Haussmann (Bucknell University),
with opportunities for visits to each of the PI's labs.
The postdoc will be based in the Bonier lab at Queen's
University in Kingston, Ontario, Canada.
The project will require that the postdoc spend ~3
months in the eld at the Queen's University Biological
Station in Ontario, Canada from May until late July,
working with a team comprised of undergraduate eld
assistants and graduate students. The postdoc will co-
ordinate activities at the eld sites and supervise the
eld team. The project will involve large-scale eld ex-
periments (manipulations of glucocorticoids, parasites,
and/or reproductive eort) and measurement of eects
on reproductive investment, parental behavior, immune
function, and markers of oxidative stress. The postdoc
will have the opportunity to be involved in all aspects
of the project, and thus will receive broad training in
eld and laboratory methods.
*Required Qualications: *Must have completed a PhD
degree in Biology or related elds prior to the startMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 101
date. Strong publication record, communication skills,
organizational skills, teamwork, and leadership ability
required.
*Preferred Qualications: *Previous relevant eld and
lab research experience and some postdoctoral experi-
ence preferred.
This is a one-year position with possibility of renewal
for an additional year. *Start date May 1, 2016.*
To apply, please send cover letter, CV, and contact in-
formation for 2 professional references to Fran Bonier:
bonierf@queensu.ca
{
Fran Bonier Assistant Professor Queen's University Bi-
ology Department Biosciences Complex 3523 Kingston,
ON K7L 3N6 Canada
phone: 613-533-6000 x77024 email: bonierf@queensu.ca
http://post.queensu.ca/ ~bonierf/index.html
fbonier@gmail.com
SGN Frankfurt
PhylogenomicsBioinformatics
The Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ~A^A1
4r Naturforschung
(SGN) is a member institution of the Leibniz Associa-
tion. With almost 800 employees and its headquarters
in Frankfurt am Main, Senckenberg conducts natural
history research with research institutions in six federal
states of Germany. As an interdisciplinary institute, the
Senckenberg Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre
(BiK-F) focuses on the interactions between biodiversity
and climate.
The working group of Prof. Dr. Axel Janke invites
applications for a
Postdoc Bioinformatics Scientist in Phylogenomics
(m/f)
(Full time)
There is an exciting opportunity for a talented and mo-
tivated bioinformatics scientist to join our group. The
successful individual will assemble and analyse mam-
malian genomes from various NGS data and dissect ge-
nomic data for phylogenomic analyses. The individual
is encouraged to develop own research driven activities,
implement the latest methodology, and actively apply
for third party funding.Your tasks
- Understand scientic goals and identify and realize
informatics solutions
- Deliver impactful bioinformatics support
- Work with MSc, PhD students and Postdocs to trans-
late new hypotheses into phylogenomic analyses
- Engage proactively in knowledge sharing and peer
support to build expertise in the tools and techniques
critical to phylogenomic bioinformatics
- Maintain and expand the necessary hardware
Your prole
- PhD degree in the area of biology/bioinformatics, ge-
netics or a related eld
- Prior research experience in genomics analysis is a
denite plus (minimum 3 years)
- Expertise in gene ow and selection analyses in mam-
mals
- Expertise in genome and transcriptome assembly from
mammals
- Awareness of NGS (Next Generation Sequencing) tech-
nologies and experience of NGS data interpretation
- A thorough understanding of mammalian phylogenetics
or population genetics
- Strong command of programming languages for data
analysis (Python / Pearl)
- Skilled in eective communication of complex genomic
data to non-experts
- An excellent publication track record
- Well networked within bioinformatics communities,
expertise processing and interpreting next generation
sequencing data
- Very good English skills
Salary and benets are in accordance with a public
service position in Germany (TV-H E13). The con-
tract shall start as soon as possible and will be initially
limited to a 2-year term. The Senckenberg Research
Institute supports equal opportunity of men and women
and therefore strongly invites women to apply. Equally
qualied handicapped applicants will be given prefer-
ence. The duty station will be Frankfurt am Main,
Germany (exceptions might be possible due to business
trips). The employer is the Senckenberg Gesellschaft
f~A^A1
4r Naturforschung.
Please send your application before May 3 ^d, 2016
preferably by e-mail (attachment in a single pdf docu-102 EvolDir May 1, 2016
ment), mentioning the reference of this position (Ref. #
6.4.16) and including a letter outlining your suitability
for the post, a detailed CV, contact details of 2 ref-
erences, and, if available, publications to the address
below:
Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ~A^A1
4r Naturforschung
Senckenberganlage 25
60325 Frankfurt am Main
recruiting@senckenberg.de
For scientic enquiries please contact Prof. Dr. Axel
Janke, axel.janke@senckenberg.de.
Mit freundlichen Gr ~A^A1
4~Aen /Best Regards
Isabel Gajcevic, M.A.
Personalsachbearbeiterin
SENCKENBERG Gesellschaft f ~A^A1
4r Naturforschung
Zentralabteilung Verwaltung (ZAV) - Gruppe Personal
& Soziales
Senckenberganlage 25 60325 Frankfurt/Main
Telefon/Phone: 0049 (0)69 / 7542 -
Leiterin Personal & Soziales
- 1458 Loke, Uta
Stellv. Leiterin Gruppe Personal & Soziales
- 1319 Elsen, Carina
Mitarbeiter/in Personalbeschaung (Recruiting)
- 1313 di Biase, Maria
- 1313 Bast, Isabell
- 1478 Gajcevic, Isabel
Fax: 0049 (0)69 / 7542-1467 Mail: recruit-
ing@senckenberg.de Homepage: www.senckenberg.de
SENCKENBERG Gesellschaft f ~A^A1
4r Naturforschung
(Rechtsf ~A^Ahiger Verein gem ~A^A~A - 22 BGB) Sencken-
berganlage 25 60325 Frankfurt am Main Direktorium:
Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. Volker Mosbrugger, Prof. Dr. An-
dreas Mulch, Stephanie Schwedhelm, Prof. Dr. Katrin
B~A^A-Gaese, Prof. Dr. Uwe Fritz, Prof. Dr. Ingrid
Kr~A^APr~A^Asidentin: Dr. h. c. Beate Heraeus Auf-
sichtsbeh ~A^A: Magistrat der Stadt Frankfurt am Main
(Ordnungsamt)
P Before printing, think about the environment
recruiting <recruiting@senckenberg.de >Stockholm
BayesianBiodiversityAnalysis
TWO POSTDOCS in BAYESIAN BIODIVERSITY
ANALYSIS
The Ronquist lab at the Swedish Museum of Natural His-
tory focuses on interdisciplinary research in systematics
and evolutionary biology, usually with a strong com-
putational or methods-development component. Our
software for Bayesian phylogenetic and phylogenomic
inference, MrBayes (http://mrbayes.net) and RevBayes
(http://revbayes.com), is widely used across the life
sciences. The lab is a major partner in the Marie
Sklodowska Curie Innovative Training Network BIG
4 - Biosystematics, informatics and genetics of the four
major insect orders (http://big4-project.eu). Local stu-
dents work with automated identication of insects using
deep learning algorithms, metabarcoding methods devel-
opment with applications to large-scale studies of island
biogeography, and metabarcoding and phylogenomic ap-
proaches to the evolution of gall induction in gall wasps.
Other current research themes in the lab include size
and composition of insect faunas, dating of phylogenies
with fossils, probabilistic models of morphological evo-
lution, and novel algorithms for Bayesian phylogenetic
and phylogenomic analysis.
This project, funded by the Swedish Research Coun-
cil, focuses on analyses of data from massively parallel
sequencing eorts using RevBayes, our R-like comput-
ing environment, and its programming language Rev.
RevBayes is based on graphical model concepts, and
is primarily intended for Bayesian analysis of complex
evolutionary models. The successful candidate will have
great freedom in formulating her or his project within
this general context and the research themes of the lab.
The project can be focused on method development
or empirical analyses, but should include a substantial
computational component.
The ideal candidate should have a doctoral degree in evo-
lutionary biology, bioinformatics, mathematics, statis-
tics, or computer science. Regardless of your back-
ground, you should be familiar with biological research
problems, be comfortable with mathematical and sta-
tistical reasoning, and have solid computational and
programming skills. We will pay particular attention to
scientic talent and potential.May 1, 2016 EvolDir 103
The positions are for two years each, with preferred
starting date in the early fall of 2016.
The Swedish Museum of Natural History (NRM) is one
of the leading institutions of its kind in Europe. It com-
bines a venerable tradition and unique collections with
cutting-edge research in geology, paleontology and biol-
ogy. The museum is close to Stockholm University, the
Royal School of Engineering (KTH) and the Karolinska
Institute. The Stockholm Phylogenomics Group (http:/-
/phylogenomics.se) engages research groups from all of
these institutions.
The Department of Bioinformatics and Genetics at NRM
runs a DNA sequencing facility and hosts several na-
tional and international infrastructure projects. The
research includes phylogenomic, paleogenomic and pop-
ulation genomic studies of the evolution and population
biology of mammals and birds in the labs of Love Dal en
and Martin Irestedt, in addition to the research in the
Ronquist lab.
The application should consist of a personal letter, a de-
scription of the planned research project (max 5 pages),
and a CV. Mark your application with dnr 2.3.1-254-
2016 and send it to rekrytering@nrm.se no later than
May 30, 2016.
Fredrik Ronquist Professor, Dept. Bioinformatics and
Genetics Swedish Museum of Natural History, Stock-
holm
email: fredrik.ronquist@nrm.se
Fredrik.Ronquist@nrm.se
SwanseaU
EpigeneticChangesDomestication
Research Fellow position working on Epigenetic basis of
sh domestication at Swansea University
Institutions: Swansea University, Cardi University and
Aberystwyth University
Collaborators: Natural Resources Wales (NRW), Cardi
Harbour Authority (CHA), Wye & Usk Foundation
(WUF), Natural Aptitude, Fishgen, Skillsh, Pontus
Aqua, CIBIO
We are looking for 1 Research Fellow to work on an
exciting project using a multidisciplinary, cutting-edge
approach to:
1. bridge, for the rst time, the behavioural, geneticand environmental (epigenetic) components of sh un-
dergoing domestication
2. disentangle the role of domestication in disease re-
sistance in response to stress and temperature change,
and
3. model pathways of introduction and dispersal of
aquaculture-related invasive species (AIS) under dier-
ent environmental conditions, combining state-of-the-art
methods for early detection (environmental DNA) and
citizen science.
Worldwide demand for sh and shellsh has increased
9% annually over the last few decades and is expected
to reach c. 180 million tons by 2015, most of which will
have to come from farmed sh, as the majority of wild
sheries are either stagnant or grossly over-exploited.
However, to achieve long-term sustainability and meet
food security demands, aquaculture needs to diversify
and to step-up the domestication of aquatic species,
which will have to thrive on less food, less space, and
less water, all compounded by warmer temperatures
and disease.
The AquaWales Research Cluster (http://-
aquawales.wix.com/aquawalescluster) combines
academic (Swansea, Cardi and Aberystwyth Uni-
versities) and non-academic participants, including
stakeholders and local government involved in policy
and regulation, and will target these challenges
by capitalising on the diverse and complementary
expertise of the group (from behavioural ecology to
genomics, citizen-science and sheries policy). We use
a multidisciplinary approach to disentangle the basis
of domestication and the response to crowding (stress
and parasite susceptibility), an aspect often neglected
in breeding programs, and to investigate the potential
eects of climate change on the risk of expansion and
establishment of non-native aquatic species associated
with aquaculture and sheries using state-of-the-art
methods.
A Research Fellow position is available from 1st July
2016 until 30 November 2018. Applicants are expected
to match the following criteria:
- Have a PhD in a relevant eld (e.g. Biology, Ecology,
Genetics).
- Not be awarded their rst PhD less than 2 years and
more than 8 years prior to the starting date of the
position.1
- Have published, conrmed accepted or in press, at least
5 papers in ISI accredited peer-reviewed journals by the
starting date of the position. (Applicants with longer
periods of postdoctoral experience will be expected to104 EvolDir May 1, 2016
have proportionally higher numbers).
Desirable criteria are: experience working on sh be-
haviour, genetics/genomics background, experience pro-
gramming in R/Python. The RF will be working on
behavioural and epigenetic basis of sh domestication.
mainly based at Swansea University in close collabora-
tion with postdocs and PhD students at Cardi and
Aberystwyth Universities. To apply follow this link:
http://www.swansea.ac.uk/the-
university/work-at-swansea/jobs/-
details.php?nPostingId126&nPostingTargetIdT52&id=-
QHUFK026203F3VBQB7VLO8NXD&lg=UK
Informal enquiries to: Sonia Consuegra
(s.consuegra@swansea.ac.uk) or Carlos Garcia de
Leaniz (c.garciadeleaniz@swansea.ac.uk).
Sonia Consuegra
Professor in Biosciences
College of Science
Swansea University
Singleton Park SA2 8PP
Swansea
Tel. +44 (0) 1792 602931
Email. S.Consuegra@swansea.ac.uk
http://www.swansea.ac.uk/sta/science/biosciences/-
s.consuegra https://www.researchgate.net/-
prole/Soa Consuegra \Consuegra S."
<s.consuegra@swansea.ac.uk >
TechnicalU Denmark
FishPopulationGenomics
POSTDOCTORAL FELLOWSHIP IN FISH POPULA-
TION GENETICS/GENOMICS
Within the research area \Population Genetics"
at The National Institute for Aquatic Resources,
at the Technical University of Denmark (DTU
Aqua) (http://www.aqua.dtu.dk/english/Research/-
Population genetics), we oer a 3-year post-doctoral fel-
lowship in the eld of sh population genetics/genomics.
The starting time is negotiable, but preferably between
July 1st and September 1st 2016.
The successful candidate will work on several externally
funded projects within the topic sheries genomics. The
position encompasses genomic analysis of 1) archivedmaterial (scales and otoliths) from marine and anadro-
mous shes to describe and understand historical ge-
netic changes. 2) Development of genomic resources and
description of population structure in key commercial
marine species. 3) Fisheries genetics, applying genetic
tools to provide advice on pertinent sheries manage-
ment questions. A main crosscutting theme will be
application of reduced representation sequencing (RAD
sequencing and DNA capture) and related bioinformat-
ics analyses. For more specic project information,
please see the home page.
Qualications We invite applications from post doc
level researchers with a background in population ge-
netics/genomics. As we aim to expand the group's com-
petences with respect to genomic analysis, we strongly
encourage applicants with previous bioinformatics ex-
perience in relation to handling and analysing genomic
data. The candidate will be selected based on previous
scientic track record and qualications of relevance to
the described projects. Candidates should have a PhD
degree or equivalent.
Further information For further information please con-
tact the Population Genetics research coordinator, pro-
fessor Einar Eg Nielsen (een@aqua.dtu.dk), tel +45 3588
3115.
Please do not send applications to Principal Investiga-
tors, instead apply online as described below.
Application procedure: We must have your online
application by 1 June 2016. Go to: http://-
www.dtu.dk/english/career/job?id=3D211308e7-fc95-
4c03-acf4-a096168abdae Please open the link \apply
online" and ll in the application form and attach the
following documents:
* A letter motivating the application (cover letter) *
Your application * Curriculum vitae with publication
list * Diploma * Two letters of recommendation * Other
material that you would like to be included in the eval-
uation.
Applications and enclosures received after the deadline
will not be considered. All interested candidates irre-
spective of age, gender, race, disability, religion or ethnic
background are encouraged to apply. The purpose of
DTU Aqua is to provide research, advice and education
at the highest international level within the sustainable
exploitation of living marine and freshwater resources,
the biology of aquatic organisms and the dynamics of
ecosystems as well as their integration in ecosystem-
based management. DTU Aqua has 260 employees, of
whom a third are scientic sta. The institute is or-
ganised into eight scientic sections which carry out
the research, educational and advisory activities. InMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 105
addition, the institute has a number of scientic and
administrative support functions, including the research
vessel DANA. DTU Aqua has employees in Charlotten-
lund, Hirtshals, Silkeborg as well as on Dana.
DTU is a technical university providing internationally
leading research, education, innovation and public ser-
vice. Our sta of 5,800 advance science and technology
to create innovative solutions that meet the demands
of society; and our 10,300 students are being educated
to address the technological challenges of the future.
DTU is an independent academic university collaborat-
ing globally with business, industry, government, and
public agencies.
Einar Eg Nielsen
Professor/Reseach Coordinator DTU Aqua Coordinator
of EU 7FP AquaTrace: http \aquatrace.eu Technical
University of Denmark National Institute of Aquatic
Resources Vejls ~Avej 39 8600 Silkeborg Denmark
Direct +45 40210231
een@aqua.dtu.dk
www.aqua.dtu.dk Einar Eg Nielsen
<een@aqua.dtu.dk >
TexasAMU
SocialInsectPhylogenetics
Postdoc Position in social insect molecular ecology and
phylogenomics in the Vargo Lab at Texas A&M Univer-
sity
The Vargo Lab in the Department of Ento-
mology at Texas A&M University (http://-
urbanentomology.tamu.edu/) is seeking highly qualied
candidates for a Postdoctoral Research Associate in
social insect molecular ecology and phylogenomics. We
are searching for a motivated individual to perform
independent and team-oriented studies on population
genetic structure and ecological genomics of insect
pests of the urban environment using microsatellite
markers, SNPs and DNA sequence data. A major focus
of this work will be termite and ant colony breeding
structure and phylogenomics of invasive pest species,
including the tawny crazy ant, Nylanderia fulva, the
eastern subterranean termite, Reticulitermes avipes,
the Formosan subterranean termite, Coptotermes for-
mosansus, and the common bed bug, Cimex lectularius.
In addition, there will be opportunities to developindependent research projects. The successful candidate
should have experience in microsatellite and/or SNP
genotyping for population genetic studies, including
knowledge of population genetic analysis, especially
Bayesian approaches to analyzing population genetic
structure. Other desirable skills include knowledge of
NextGen sequencing technologies, sequence assembly,
data processing and analysis. Prociency with R
statistical software and experience writing Python
scripts will be an advantage.
The full position description and instructions for ap-
plication can be found at the Texas A&M jobs web
site (https://greatjobs.tamu.edu/, search for NOV no.
09347).
For further information, please contact Ed Vargo
(ed.vargo@tamu.edu).
{
Ed Vargo
Professor and Endowed Chair in Urban and Structural
Entomology Department of Entomology 2556 F&B Rd.,
Building 1804 2143 TAMU Texas A&M University Col-
lege Station, TX 77843-2143, U.S.A.
Email: ed.vargo@tamu.edu Tel.: 979-845-5855 Fax.:
979-845-5926 Skype: ed.vargo Web page: http:/-
/urbanentomology.tamu.edu/ \Vargo, Edward L"
<ed.vargo@tamu.edu >
TGAC England
EvolutionaryGenomics
The Genome Analysis Centre (TGAC) currently has an
exciting opportunity for a Postdoctoral Researcher join
our Vertebrate and Health Genomics Group to work
with Dr Wilfried Haerty.
We use comparative genomics and population genetics
as well as data integration approaches to tackle the evo-
lution of functional elements with a specic focus on
those that are non-protein-coding, as there is mounting
evidence that these elements are enriched for disease
and trait-associated variants.
The post holder will be responsible for executing re-
search tasks and participating in data interpretation
associated with the annotation and study of functional
elements within Vertebrates genomes. The main goal of
the project is to investigate the evolution of functional
noncoding sequences (transcribed and non transcribed)106 EvolDir May 1, 2016
across hundreds of genomes. A specic focus will be
to better understand the impact of nucleotide variation
within these functional sequences and their regulatory
targets both at the intraspecic and interspecic levels.
To be considered for the post, it is essential that you
possess the following skills, qualications and experi-
ence:
- PhD in Computational Biology, Population Genetics,
Biology or related subject - Experience in genomics data
handling and interpretation - Procient in programming
languages such as Perl, Python or R - Excellent problem
solving skills with the ability to solve problems with
numerous and complex variables - Experience with next
generation sequencing and interpretation - Experience
with genomics projects - Experience with molecular
evolution and population genetics - Experience with
non-coding elements annotation (desirable) - Excellent
oral and written skills - Able to communicate with an
interdisciplinary group including data analysts, com-
puter scientists, proteomics specialists, clinicians and
laboratory biologists
As a user of the disability symbol, we guarantee to in-
terview all disabled applicants who meet the minimum
essential criteria for this vacancy.
TGAC is a vibrant, contemporary research institute
and a UK hub for innovative Bioinformatics through
research, analysis and interpretation of data sets. We
hosts one of the largest computing hardware facilities
dedicated to life science research in Europe and our aim
is to ensure that biological science in the UK has access
to a skill base in genomics and bioinformatics to deliver
programmes leading to improved food security, advances
in industrial biotechnology and improved human health
and wellbeing.
At TGAC we oer competitive salaries, excellent dened
contribution pension scheme, life assurance, tailored
learning and development and onsite sports facilities
that are available to all sta and their guests.
For further information, including a full job descrip-
tion and details of how to apply, please visit http://-
jobs.tgac.ac.uk/Details.asp?vacancyID=3D11437 Wil-
fried.Haerty@tgac.ac.ukUAberdeen
DeepSeaEvolutionaryGenomics
A research fellow is required to work with Professor Stu-
art Piertney, Dr Alex Douglas and Dr Alan Jamieson
on a 3 year NERC-funded project that will provide the
rst genome-wide insights into the evolutionary adapta-
tions that have occurred in deep-sea amphipods to cope
with high hydrostatic pressure. The project will exploit
a globally unprecedented sample set, use state-of-the-
art analytical 'omics approaches and utilise a unique
high-pressure environmental manipulation system to
characterise variation in RNA sequence and secondary
structure from the transcriptomes of multiple species of
amphipods that cover the complete bathymetric range
from surface waters to full ocean depth.
The project will involve both laboratory and bioinfor-
matic components, and require expertise in RNA extrac-
tion and library preparation, RNAseq, phylogenetics,
identifying signatures of selection from DNA sequence
data, and analysis of structural polymorphism.
As this post is funded by NERC it will be oered for a
period of 36 months. This appointment will be made
subject to the usual terms and conditions of employment
of the University.
Salary will be paid on the Grade 6 scale ( £31,656 per
annum), with placement according to qualications and
experience. Consideration will be given to making an
appointment at Research Assistant, Grade 5 level in
the rst instance ( £26,537 - £29,847 per annum) for
individuals in the very nal stages of completing their
PhD.
Informal enquiries are welcome and should be made
to Professor Stuart Piertney (s.piertney@abdn.ac.uk).
Applications can only be made online at:
https://www.abdnjobs.co.uk/vacancy/research-fellow-
256589.html Professor Stuart B Piertney Institute
of Biological and Environmental Sciences University
of Aberdeen Zoology Building Tillydrone Avenue
Aberdeen AB24 2TZ
Tel: +44 (0)1224 272864 (Oce) Tel: +44 (0)1224
272892 (Lab) Email: s.piertney@abdn.ac.uk Web:
www.abdn.ac.uk/sbs/people/proles/s.piertney Twit-
ter: @Piertney
The University of Aberdeen is a charity registered inMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 107
Scotland, No SC013683. Tha Oilthigh Obar Dheathain
na charthannas cl araichte ann an Alba, Air. SC013683.
\Piertney, Professor Stuart B."
<s.piertney@abdn.ac.uk >
UAuckland NZ AdaptivePotential
*Predicting the adaptive potential of the endangered
New Zealand hihi (stitchbird; Notiomystis cincta)*
We are pleased to oer an 18 month postdoctoral fellow-
ship, funded by a Marsden Fund Grant, with Dr Anna
Santure in the School of Biological Sciences, University
of Auckland, New Zealand. This project is an exciting
opportunity to use statistical genetic approaches to un-
derstand and predict the evolutionary potential of the
endangered New Zealand hihi (stitchbird; *Notiomystis
cincta*), and is a collaboration with Dr Patricia Brekke
and Dr John Ewen at the Institute of Zoology, Zoologi-
cal Society of London, see www.hihiconservation.com .
Determining the adaptive potential of wild populations
requires that we understand the genetic basis of traits
that are important for survival and reproduction in these
populations. We are developing a genomic toolkit to
characterise the genetic basis of morphological and life
history traits in the reintroduced Tiritiri Matangi Island
population of hihi, in order to understand the potential
of the species to respond to changing environmental
pressures, including anthropogenic climate change. Hihi
are an ideal study system because, in addition to being
a wonderful example of eccentric New Zealand wildlife,
a reintroduced population of birds on Tiritiri Matangi
Island has been intensively monitored since introduction
and we have a wealth of data on morphological and life
history traits, social and genetic relationships, DNA
samples and environmental variables. The postdoctoral
fellow will be responsible for quantifying selection on
morphological and life history traits, and investigating
heritabilities and genetic trade-os between traits that
may constrain the adaptive potential of the species. The
postdoc will also have the opportunity to contribute to
linkage mapping and association analysis, and there is
potential to examine signatures of selection in the draft
hihi genome and test the impact of drift versus selection
on the population.
We are looking for a candidate with a strong background
in quantitative and / or theoretical population genetics,
as well as a passion for evolution and conservation biol-
ogy and a track record of publishing in leading journals.Candidates with experience in comparative genomics,
statistics, bioinformatics, mathematics, computer pro-
gramming or similar are also encouraged to apply.
The postdoctoral fellowship is available with a salary
range of approximately NZD $79,159- $84,931 de-
pending on experience, the start date is negotiable
but ideally before September 2016. We welcome
informal enquiries, please contact Anna Santure at
a.santure@auckland.ac.nz.
Applications should be made through
the Auckland University Careers site at:
https:/ / www.opportunities.auckland.ac.nz/
psp/ ps/ EMPLOYEE/ HRMS/ c/
HRS HRAM.HRS CE.GBL?languageCd=ENG
(select Research Fellow - School of Biological Sciences)
The University has an equity policy and welcomes appli-
cations from all qualied persons. International appli-
cants are welcome to apply. The University is committed
to meeting its obligations under the Treaty of Waitangi
and achieving equity outcomes for sta and students.
asanture@gmail.com
UCalifornia LosAngeles
ConservationEbony
Postdoc UCLA- Ecology and Sustainability of West
African Ebony
University of California, Los Angeles, Center for Tropi-
cal Research, Institute of the Environment and Sustain-
ability and Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology
We seek a highly qualied and enthusiastic individual
with a background in the ecology of tropical rainfor-
est trees or their dispersers/pollinators and an interest
in the conservation and sustainability of African hard-
woods to join our team. The goal of the project is to
develop sustainable approaches for the production of
ebony that contributes to the economic well being of
local communities in Central Africa. The successful can-
didate will focus his/her work on 1) the ecology and life
history of ebony, such as the identication of pollinators
and dispersers and information important to its natural
reproduction and dispersal and 2) ways to leverage this
information to test alternative restoration approaches
to determine the most successful methods of cultivating
ebony to support local communities.108 EvolDir May 1, 2016
The candidate will split his/her time between UCLA
(25%) and the Congo Basin Institute's Yaounde
campus in Cameroon (75%)as well as the princi-
pal eld site for ecological studies in the Dja Bio-
sphere Reserve where CTR has conducted long-
term research (seehttp://www.environment.ucla.edu/-
ctr/research/djabiosphere.html).
The successful candidate will collaborate with scien-
tists from UCLA, the International Institute of Trop-
ical Agriculture (IITA), the International Bilingual
Academy/Higher Institute of Environmental Sciences
(IBAY SUP) and help mentor Cameroonian PhD and
MS studentsworking on other elements of the project.
These include: 1) creating a scalable program for the sus-
tainable production and stewardship of ebony seedlings
in rural areas 2) generation of GIS/remote sensing mod-
els of West African ebony distributions to identify suit-
able harvesting and planting areas and 3) testing al-
ternative production approaches, including vegetative
propagation from juvenile cuttings and tissue culture
laboratory experiments to identify ecient processes
and optimal conditions for cultivating ebony.
We seek a candidate with an outstanding academic
background, uency or basic knowledge of French and
a passion for conservation and for nding win-win op-
portunities for people and biodiversity.
The postdoc will work under the supervision
of Thomas B. Smith, tbsmith@ucla.edu, (http://-
www.environment.ucla.edu/ctr) at UCLA, but will be
expected to collaborate closely with other members of
the team.The postdoc will also be encouraged to de-
velop her/his own research focus on some aspect(s) of
the project.
Application: Please send a single PDF containing a
CV, a statement of research interests, and contact
information for three references to Christa Gomez,
cgomez@lifesci.ucla.edu; with the subject line Ebony
Postdoc. Review of applications will begin August 1 ^st,
2016. The postdoc is for two years with the possibil-
ity that the project maybe renewed. Salary will be
determined based on experience level.
Kevin Y Njabo <kynjabo@hotmail.com >UCalifornia Merced
MicrobialEvolutionaryBiology
The University of California, Merced is a dynamic new
university campus in Merced, California, which opened
in September 2005 as the tenth campus of the University
of California and the rst American research university
in the 21st century. In keeping with the mission of
the University to provide teaching, research and public
service of the highest quality, UC Merced oers research-
centered and student-oriented educational opportuni-
ties at the undergraduate, master's and doctoral levels
through three academic schools: Engineering, Natural
Sciences and Social Sciences/Humanities/Arts.
The Sistrom Lab seeks a Postdoctoral Scholar to par-
ticipate in several projects investigating evolutionary
processes in microbial systems. We work broadly across
many organismal systems, with a common thread of
using high throughput sequencing to investigate evolu-
tionary processes. Our projects range from RNA virus
metagenomics in plants, to microbiome studies in gas-
tropods to comparative genomics in multi-resistant noso-
comical bacteria, to experimental evolution. We seek
a Postdoctoral Scholar who will build on our strengths
in bioinformatics by adding microbiological laboratory
experience to our group.
The Postdoctoral Scholar will be expected to contribute
to existing projects in the lab, as well as developing
new research. As we are a newly established lab, there
is signicant scope for the successful candidate to de-
velop their own research - especially in the context of
experimental evolution. The successful candidate will
be expected to publish their research, assist in grant
preparation, attend at least one conference annually and
collaborate within and outside of the lab group.
The University of California, Merced is an armative
action/equal opportunity employer with a strong insti-
tutional commitment to the achievement of diversity
among its faculty, sta, and students. The University is
supportive of dual career couples.
PhD in Evolutionary biology, Microbiology or a related
eld; experience in microbiological laboratory techniques
and analysis of resultant data; a demonstrated record
of research and publication. The ideal candidate would
also have experience in bioinformatics and high through-
put sequence analysis and/or experience in designingMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 109
and conducting evolutionary experiments in viral and
bacterial systems.
Salary is based on the University of California Academic
Salary Scales.
Review of applications will begin May 6, 2016. Re-
cruitment will remain open until the position has been
lled.
Interested applicants are required to submit 1) a cover
letter 2) curriculum vitae 3) a list of two references with
contact information including mailing address, phone
number and e- mail address 4) Diversity Statement.
Apply at: https://aprecruit.ucmerced.edu/apply/-
JPF00347 For more information, please contact Mark
Sistrom msistrom@ucmerced.edu.
Mark Sistrom <msistrom@ucmerced.edu >
UDenver EvolTeaching
The postdoc fellowship listed below is broad, but we
particularly are interested in applicants who study evo-
lution or evolution education.
E-STEAM (Equity in STEAM) Postdoctoral Fellowship
at the University of Denver
The University of Denver Interdisciplinary Research
Incubator for the Study of (In) Equality or IRISE
(www.du.edu/irise) is seeking a two-year postdoctoral
research fellow beginning September 1, 2016. We are
looking for ways to assist transforming the culture of
STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Art and
Math) towards an inclusive environment that integrates
with societal issues. Our focus is on the national level
possibly using on-campus projects and interventions as
a mechanism for research study as well as transforming
internal culture.
We seek candidates capable of bringing together in-
sights from some subset of the STEAM disciplines to
inform the interdisciplinary study of the relationship be-
tween racial, ethnic, and socio-economic inequality and
how these factors intersect with the STEAM disciplines.
More specically, we are seeking a scholar working on
issues of how to increase participation (access) and per-
sistence of underrepresented college students in one or
more of the STEAM areas. Example areas of interest:
1. Create and study the ecacy of research-based and
activism-based curriculum that broadens our ideas of
what science is and does. Specically the fellow will helpcreate a curriculum that privileges socially meaningful
problems and then studies whether such an approach
helps to attract and retain women and students of color.
2. Study the ecacy of various models of sustained men-
torship at the K12 and postsecondary level. While many
\camps" have been created, and these camps clearly do
provide inspiration, women and students of color still
often do not matriculate or persist in STEM areas. How
should continued mentorship after such experiences be
structured?
3. Many have advocated for moving STEM to STEAM
by integrating the Arts. How does such an integration
increase participation and persistence? What aspects
of art integration are responsible for attracting and
retaining students of color - design, aesthetics, social
activism?
The three above area examples are meant only to be
illustrative of the types of scholarship questions we hope
to address and should not be viewed as limiting the
scope of research areas we will consider supporting.
Depending on the fellow's background they will be
housed in one of our STEAM departments, fbiology,
chemistry, physics, computer science, engineering,
art/emergent digital practices, mathematics g, with co-
supervision and mentorship by faculty from multiple
other STEAM departments. Many of our STEAM fac-
ulty are working on research and outreach experiences
guided towards broadening participation in STEAM.
These faculty members will provide guidance and sup-
port throughout the fellowship period.
The fellow will spend the majority of time engaged in in-
dependent research, scholarship, or creative work under
the guidance of departmental faculty members. Fellows
will also be expected to be active in the DU community
of scholars engaged in research and teaching relating to
the study of inequality locally and nationally. Fellows
will teach one course in their specialty the rst year
and two courses in their specialty the second year. The
successful candidate will also be expected to attend and
contribute to a weekly seminar and support other ini-
tiatives of the IRISE, such as promotion of conferences
and symposia.
The ideal candidate would have training or a strong
interest broadening participation in STEAM as well as
disciplinary knowledge in one of the STEAM areas. Can-
didates should be committed to working with diverse
student and community populations. We do not expect
the candidate to have experience in all areas of the fel-
lowship, as training will be provided by the mentors.
In addition, because of the value of lived experiences
in the investigation and understanding of inequality,110 EvolDir May 1, 2016
we especially encourage applications from historically
underrepresented groups.
Qualications:
- PhD in Biology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Engi-
neering, Environmental Science, Mathematics, Physics
or MFA/PhD in Art, Dance, Music, Theater, or related
elds.
- Applicants must have completed all requirements for
their terminal degree by June 30, 2016. Candidates
must also be no more than 3 years from the awarding
of their degree (i.e., September 2013).
- Interest or experience addressing inequality concerns
in STEAM.
- Strong methodological training and a record of success-
ful publication in the related eld(s).
Responsibilities:
- The appointment term is September 1, 2016 - August
31, 2018; however, the initial term may be renewed for
an additional year.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UEssex ComputationalGenomics
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN COMPUTA-
TIONAL GENOMICS
We are looking for an enthusiastic postdoctoral re-
searcher to work in microRNA computational genomics,
in the group of Antonio Marco (http://amarco.net/) at
the University of Essex.
THE PROJECT: MicroRNAs are gene regulators
that bind to gene transcripts by pairwise complemen-
tarity. MicroRNA target sites are often conserved
and subject to purifying selection. Recently, we
found that selection against target sites is prevalent
(doi:10.1534/g3.115.019497). The current project aims
to explore the impact of this type of selection in humans,
and its application to understand regulatory networks
of complex diseases.
WHAT WE EXPECT: The postdoc will contribute to
the development of new methods and software to anal-yse human polymorphisms at microRNA target sites.
The postdoc will also analyse extensive collections of
human variation data and explore complex-disease gene
networks in collaboration with experimental scientists.
WHAT WE PROVIDE: The project is funded by a grant
from the Wellcome Trust and will cover the salary of the
successful applicant for two years ( ~A31,655 per annum).
We provide a vibrant and stimulating environment, men-
toring schemes, advanced training programmes, and sup-
port for travelling to conferences and workshops. Our
recently established Genomics Group at the University
of Essex is form by seven labs with diverse interests
and expertises(http://genomics.essex.ac.uk/). We have
state-of-the art labs (both dry and wet), a sequencing
machine and a high-performance computer cluster.
ABOUT ESSEX: The School of Biological Sciences at
University of Essex has a broad-based structure, provid-
ing a strong multidisciplinary environment. Colchester
campus is located at Wivenhoe Park, a picturesque and
historic 200 acres parkland. It is a vibrant and interna-
tional campus, hosting more than 9,000 students from
more than 130 dierent nationalities. The campus is
only two miles from the historic centre of Colchester -
England's oldest recorded town, and just one hour from
London.
APPLICATION: Closing date for applications: 1st June
2016 Interviews for sortlisted candidates: Week of the
20th June 2016 Expected start date: 1st September
2016
Please include in your application a cover letter (PDF,
1 page), a CV (PDF, 2-pages maximum) and contact
details for three references.
For any question regarding this application please
contact Antonio Marco (amarco@essex.ac.uk;
amarco.bio@gmail.com).
Apply to this position from the University of
Essex jobs webpage: https://jobs.essex.ac.uk/fe/-
tplessex01.asp?s=4A515F4E5A565B1A&jobid=-
86428,1212614836 amarco.bio@gmail.comMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 111
UFribourg PDF PhD
EvolutionaryInvasionEcol
A PhD position in Dept. Biology/Ecology&Evolution at
University of Fribourg, Switzerland, is available in the
frame of the recently granted project on \Demographic
history and recent selection in novel environments: an
innovative approach to assess benets and risks of a
potential biological control agent".
PhD Position in Evolutionary Invasion Ecology Ratio-
nale: Besides their great relevance for the environment,
biological invasions have been recognized as unprece-
dented bio-geographical experiments to study fundamen-
tal ecological and evolutionary processes, such as local
adaptation to the novel conditions in the introduced
range.The proposed study capitalizes on ongoing studies
in the framework of the EU-COST Action FA1203 on
\Sustainable management of Ambrosia artemisiifoliain
Europe" (SMARTER; ragweed.eu), and will specically
focus on the recently and accidentally introduced rag-
weed leaf beetle Ophraella communa into Europe. This
North-American insect has also been introduced into
Asia where it is successfully used as a biological control
agent. The planned study complements our ndings on
host impact and specicity of Ophraella made so far by
including genetics and genomics. It is focusing on the
potential of this biological control candidate to rapidly
evolve and adapt to novel abiotic (temperature: spread
potential) and biotic (host plants: non-target eects)
conditions in view of rendering risk-benet assessments
in biological control more predictive.
We seek a highly motivated person to perform plant-
insect herbivore experiments under controlled and eld
conditions, do lab work and prepare samples for genomic
analyses and enjoy bioinformatics and statistics analyses
jointly with the PostDoc. Indeed, the project is tightly
linked to a PostDoc position within the same project
(cf. separate advertisement).
Requirements: Basic knowledge of experimental design
and statistical data analysis is a prerequisite, and knowl-
edge of, and experience in one or several of the following
areas of research is highly desirable: population ecol-
ogy, population genetics, plant-herbivore interactions,
molecular techniques, genomics, bioinformatics. Good
writing skills in English is a must and familiarity with-or
interest to learn-French and/or Germana plus. Drivers
license.Salary and conditions: Salary dependent on age and
status (gross salary in the rst year about 42'000 euro).
Start date: preferentially on 1 September 2016. The
PhD positionis for 3 years.
Applications: Applicants should send their CV, includ-
ing publication list, a short motivation letter with a
summary of research experience and interests, and the
names of 3professional referees to the email address
below as a single pdf-le before 22May 2016.
For further information, please contact:Heinz Muller-
Scharer, Dep.Biology, University of Fribourg, CH-1700
Fribourg, Switzerland.
Tel: + (41) (0) 26-300 88 35 or : + (41) (0)79-
787 35 71 E-mail: heinz.mueller@UNIFR.CH, http://-
www.unifr.ch/ecology/groupmueller/home specically
check out\SNSF-Summary" on: http://www.unifr.ch/-
ecology/groupmueller/student-opportunities A PhD po-
sition in Dept. Biology/Ecology&Evolution at Univer-
sity of Fribourg, Switzerland, is available in the frame of
the recently granted project on \Demographic history
and recent selection in novel environments: an innova-
tive approach to assess benets and risks of a potential
biological control agent".
PostDoc position in Evolutionary Invasion Ecology Ra-
tionale: Besides their great relevance for the environ-
ment, biological invasions have been recognized as un-
precedented bio-geographical experiments to study fun-
damental ecological and evolutionary processes, such
as local adaptation to the novel conditions in the in-
troduced range.The proposed study capitalizes on on-
going studies in the framework of the EU-COST Ac-
tion FA1203 on \Sustainable management of Ambrosia
artemisiifoliain Europe" (SMARTER; ragweed.eu), and
will specically focus on the recently and accidentally
introduced ragweed leaf beetle Ophraella communa into
Europe. This North-American insect has also been in-
troduced into Asia where it is successfully used as a
biological control agent. The planned study comple-
ments our ndings on host impact and specicity of
Ophraella made so far by including genetics and ge-
nomics. It is focusing on the potential of this biological
control candidate to rapidly evolve and adapt to novel
abiotic (temperature: spread potential) and biotic (host
plants: non-target eects) conditions in view of render-
ing risk-benet assessments in biological control more
predictive.
We seek a highly motivated person to explore the genetic
basis of successful species invasions and subsequent local
adaptation. He/she
/112 EvolDir May 1, 2016
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UHawaii
PhylogeneticsBioinformatics
Postdoctoral position in phylogenetics and bioinformat-
ics at the University of Hawaii
The Thomson Lab is looking for a postdoctoral re-
searcher to participate in an NSF funded project that
seeks to build an archive of Bayesian phylogenetic output
and examine the performance of Bayesian estimation
of phylogeny for large datasets. The project is a col-
laboration between the Thomson Lab and the Moore
Lab at UC Davis and aims to improve MCMC perfor-
mance, assess goodness of t of phylogenetic models,
and contribute to the eld's ability to carry out robust
Bayesian phylogenetic inference by developing new sci-
entic resources and educational tools. The candidate
should have demonstrated experience in phylogenetics
and bioinformatics, including programming with SQL,
R and/or Python. The selected candidate will join a lab
that focuses on phylogenetics, bioinformatics, and con-
servation in UH's Department of Biology. The position
is based in Honolulu, a vibrant city that is consistently
recognized for its diversity, outdoor recreation, and high
quality of life.
The start date is exible, but ideally will be on or be-
fore 1 August 2016. Funding is available for two years
( $54,000/year, with an additional stipend for health
insurance). Application review will begin 1 May. Mini-
mum PhD in Evolutionary Biology (or related eld) is
required. The University of Hawaii is an Equal Oppor-
tunity/Armative Action employer.
To apply, please send CV and names and contact in-
formation for three reference to Bob Thomson: thom-
sonr@hawaii.edu
Robert C. Thomson Assistant Professor Department of
Biology University of Hawaii at Manoa Honolulu, HI
96822
808.956.6476 http://thomsonlab.org/ \thom-
sonr@hawaii.edu" <thomsonr@hawaii.edu >UHeidelberg Bioinformatics
BIOINFORMATICS POSTDOC IN EVOLUTIONARY
GENOMICS
Center for Molecular Biology of the University of Hei-
delberg (ZMBH), Heidelberg, Germany
A postdoctoral position (2 years with possible exten-
sions) is available immediately in the evolutionary ge-
nomics group of Henrik Kaessmann.
We are seeking highly qualied and enthusiastic ap-
plicants with strong skills in computational biol-
ogy/bioinformatics, ideally also with experience in data
mining and comparative or evolutionary genome analy-
ses.
We have been interested in a range of topics related
to the functional evolution of mammalian genomes, in-
cluding those of humans and other primates. In the
framework of our research, we are generating compre-
hensive sets of RNA-seq data for a large collection of
tissues from representatives of all major mammalian lin-
eages (placental mammals, marsupials, and egg-laying
monotremes) and evolutionary outgroups (e.g., birds).
In conjunction with various high-throughput \omics"
(e.g., epigenomic, metabolomic, proteomic) datasets, we
perform integrated analyses to study the functional (ex-
pression) evolution of mammalian genomes across gene
types, lineages, organs, cell types, developmental stages,
chromosomes and sexes.
The postdoctoral fellow will be funded by a recently
awarded ERC Consolidator Grant and perform inte-
grated evolutionary/bioinformatics analyses based on
data produced in our lab and available genomic data.
The project will focus on analyses of new ontogenetic
datasets generated in the framework of the ERC Grant,
but the precise project will be developed together with
the candidate.
The language of the institute is English and its members
form a highly international group. The ZMBH is located
in Heidelberg, a picturesque international city next to
the large Odenwald forest and Neckar river. The city
oers a very stimulating, diverse and collaborative re-
search environment, with the European Molecular Biol-
ogy Laboratory (EMBL), German Cancer Research Cen-
ter (DKFZ), Heidelberg Institute of Theoretical Studies
(HITS), and the Max Planck Institute for Medical Re-
search located in close proximity to the University.May 1, 2016 EvolDir 113
For more information on the group and our institute
more generally, please refer to our website at the ZMBH
(http://www.zmbh.uni-heidelberg.de/Kaessmann/).
Please submit a CV, statement of research interest,
and names of three references to: Henrik Kaessmann
(h.kaessmann@zmbh.uni-heidelberg.de).
{ Prof. Dr. Henrik Kaessmann Group leader in the
DKFZ-ZMBH Alliance ZMBH - Center for Molecular
Biology Heidelberg University Im Neuenheimer Feld 282
69120 Heidelberg Germany {
Selected recent publications:
Carelli, F.N., Hayakawa, T., Go, Y., Imai, H., Warne-
fors, M., and Kaessmann, H. (2016) The life history of
retrocopies illuminates the evolution of new mammalian
genes. Genome Res. 26: 301-314.
Cortez, D., Marin, R., Toledo-Flores, D., Froidevaux,
L., Liechti, A., Waters, P.D., Grutzner, F., and Kaess-
mann, H. (2014) Origins and functional evolution of Y
chromosomes across mammals. Nature 508: 488-493.
Necsulea, A., Soumillon, M., Warnefors, M., Liechti, A.,
Daish, T., Zeller, U., Baker, J.C., Grutzner, F., and
Kaessmann, H. (2014) The evolution of lncRNA reper-
toires and expression patterns in tetrapods. Nature 505:
635-640.
Necsulea, A. and Kaessmann, H. (2014) Evolutionary
dynamics of coding and noncoding transcriptomes. Nat.
Rev. Genet. 5: 734-48.
Meunier, J., Lemoine, F., Soumillon, M., Liechti, A.,
Weier, M., Guschanski, K., Hu, H., Khaitovich, P., and
Kaessmann, H. (2013) Birth and expression evolution of
mammalian microRNA genes. Genome Res. 23: 34-45.
Julien, P., Brawand, D., Soumillon, M., Necsulea, A.,
Liechti, A., Schutz, F., Daish, T., Grutzner, F., and
Kaessmann, H. (2012) Mechanisms and evolutionary
patterns of mammalian and avian dosage compensation
PLoS Biol. 5:e1001328.
Brawand, D., Soumillon, M., Necsulea, A., Julien,
P., Csardi, G., Harrigan, P., Weier, M., Liechti, A.,
Aximu-Petri, A., Kircher, M., Albert, F.W., Zeller, U.,
Khaitovich, P., Grutzner, F., Bergmann, S., Nielsen, R.,
Paabo, S., and Kaessmann, H. (2011) The evolution of
gene expression levels in mammalian organs. Nature
478: 343-348.
Henrik Kaessmann <Henrik.Kaessmann@unil.ch >Hen-
rik Kaessmann <Henrik.Kaessmann@unil.ch >UHelsinki EvolutionaryGenomics
Post-doc position in Evolutionary Genomics (1.5 years)
at University of Helsinki
The postdoctoral researcher will be a part of the
Ecological Genetics Research Unit (EGRU; http://-
www.helsinki./biosci/egru/index.html) lead by Prof.
Juha Merila. The assignment can start in June 2016
(start date is exible - early start preferred) and continue
until end of December 2017.
The post-doctoral fellow to be employed is expected
to work with projects addressing broad and generally
interesting problems relating to processes of population
dierentiation and genetics of adaptation as inferred
from already available whole genome sequence datasets.
The model system in these studies is the nine-spined
stickleback (Pungitius pungitius) and its relatives, and
their computational genome analysis is a collaboration
with the bioinformatics group of Dr. Ari Loytynoja
(http://www.biocenter.helsinki./bi/loytynoja).
An ideal candidate for this position would have a broad
interest in evolutionary biology and a background in
one or several of the following elds: bioinformatics,
evolutionary genomics, statistical or population genet-
ics/genomics, animal or plant breeding sciences. We are
looking for an individual who is highly motivated and
can work both independently and in a team. Capacity
to face intellectual challenges, willingness to learn new
skills, and to explore new intellectual territories are qual-
ities expected from a strong candidate. A demonstrated
track-record in research, and experience in bioinformat-
ics analysis of next- generation sequencing data are
required.
An appointee to the position of post-doctoral researcher
shall hold a doctoral degree, have the ability to conduct
independent scholarly work.
The working language will be English. An overview of
our past and current research can be found at http:/-
/www.helsinki./biosci/egru/publications/index.html
The salary will be based on level 5 of the demands
level chart for teaching and research personnel in the
salary system of Finnish Universities. In addition, the
appointee will be paid a salary component based on
personal work performance (total salary will be approx-
imately 3050-3400 EUR per month).
The application should include (i) CV, (ii) Publication114 EvolDir May 1, 2016
list, (iii) statement of research interests and motivation
for applying this position not exceeding two pages and
(iv) contact information of two reference persons who
have agreed to provide a written statement on behalf of
the applicant.
Applications should be addressed to the Department
of Biological Sciences, P. O. Box 65 (Viikinkaari
1), FIN-00014 University of Helsinki, and sent to
juha.merila@helsinki. The deadline for applications
is May 15 2016. More information on this posi-
tion is available from Prof. Juha Merila (e-mail:
juha.merila@helsinki.).
Juha Merila Ecological Genetics Research Unit Depart-
ment of Biosciences PO Box 65 (Biocenter 3, Viikinkaari
1) FIN-00014 University of Helsinki Finland E-mail:
juha.merila@helsinki. Gsm: +358-(0)50-416 0561 Fax:
+358-9-19157694 www: http://www.helsinki./biosci/-
egru/ ResearchGate: https://www.researchgate.net/-
prole/Juha Merilae?ev=3Dhdr xprf Publons: https://-
publons.com/author/341551/juha-merila#prole Juha
Meril a <juha.merila@helsinki. >
UInnsbruck
SpeciationPhylogeography
PostDoc: UInnsbruck.EcologicalNicheModelling
MOLECULAR ECOLOGY, INSTITUTE OF ECOL-
OGY, UNIVERSITY OF INNSBRUCK PostDoc po-
sition We have an open position to be lled ASAP
for a PostDoc with extensive training in ecological-
niche modelling (ENM). The position is for 9 to 11
months at the Molecular Ecology group of the Institute
of Ecology, ending in March 2017. Centering on the
Alpine Space, the group's mission is interdisciplinary
research, embedded in international collaboration net-
works. A list of research topics and projects can be
found at: http://www.uibk.ac.at/ecology/forschung/-
molecular ecology.html.en The successful candidate will
be involved in several projects (see link above) dealing
mainly with invertebrate taxa. These projects are cur-
rently in an advanced state, with extensive genomic,
morphometric, and distributional data already acquired
and data analysis in progress. The candidate will be-
come part of an established team as ENM specialist
and, due to the extensive groundwork, gather momen-
tum rapidly. Papers on topics related to the successful
candidate's tasks include: Wachter et al (2016) Molecu-
lar Ecology, doi:10.1111/mec.13634; Dejaco et al (2016)Systematic Biology, doi:10.1093/sysbio/syw003; Schlick-
Steiner et al (2010) Annual Review of Entomology 55:
421-438; Schlick-Steiner et al (2006) Molecular Phyloge-
netics and Evolution 40:259-273.
***Responsibilities*** 1. ENM for several multidisci-
plinary projects (speciation, phylogeography, integra-
tive species delimitation) 2. participation in manuscript
writing 3. contact and collaboration with a range of
scientists at the Faculty of Biology in Innsbruck, at
other Austrian research facilities, and internationally
***Selection criteria*** A. PhD degree in biology B.
published research experience and excellent skills in
ENM C. ability to work as part of a multi-disciplinary
team D. ability to work independently E. very good
knowledge of English
***Salary*** The annual gross salary is about Euro
50,260. The contract includes health insurance and
vacation. Details upon request.
***How to apply*** To apply, please submit by E-mail
to<birgit.schlick-steiner@uibk.ac.at >: a cover letter,
systematic point-by-point replies as to your readiness
for the responsibilities and how you meet the selection
criteria, brief statement of research interests, curriculum
vitae, and complete list of publications. Also, arrange
for at least one letter of recommendation to be sent to
<birgit.schlick-steiner@uibk.ac.at >Applications must
be written in English. Review of applications will begin
immediately and continue until a suitable candidate has
been found. The University of Innsbruck is striving to
increase the percentage of female employees and there-
fore invites qualied women to apply. In the case of
equivalent qualications, women will be given preference.
An oer of employment is contingent on a satisfactory
pre-employment background check.
***The research institution and its environment***
Detailed information about the Molecular Ecology
group can be found at http://www.uibk.ac.at/ecology/-
forschung/molecular ecology.html.en. The University
of Innsbruck has a long-standing and internationally
renowned tradition in life sciences and oers a vibrant
research atmosphere. The university has more than
28,000 students and 4,500 sta members. Innsbruck
is situated in the heart of the Alps and very close to
Switzerland, Germany and Italy; scenery and outdoor
recreation are fantastic.
***More information needed?*** For more information,
please contact: Birgit Schlick-Steiner <birgit.schlick-
steiner@uibk.ac.at >
Birgit C. Schlick-Steiner Professor of Molecular Ecology
Institute of Ecology University of Innsbruck Techniker-May 1, 2016 EvolDir 115
str. 25 6020 Innsbruck, Austria Phone: +43 512 507-
51750 Fax: +43 512 507-51799 http://www.uibk.ac.at/-
ecology/forschung/molecular ecology.html.en \Schlick-
Steiner, Birgit" <Birgit.Schlick-Steiner@uibk.ac.at >
ULausanne TheoEvolutionaryBiol
1 postdoctoral position in Lausanne: Theoretical evolu-
tionary biology, social evolution, and human evolution
A theoretical evolutionary biology postdoctoral position
for 1 year (extensible for 2 more years) is open in the
research group of Laurent Lehmann at the Department
of Ecology and Evolution of the University of Lausanne
(https://www.unil.ch/dee). We study social evolution
from a mathematical and computational point of view
with a current focus on human evolution and address
the following type of questions:
How did large-scale stratied human societies emerge
from small-scale egalitarian societies? Is this the result
of an increase in the technologies of production and
exchange (invention of agriculture and trading) or in
the technology of appropriation (intensication of war-
fare)? What are the selection pressures on increased
lifespan and cognition in the human lineage? Is this the
result of an ecological or a social pressure? How does
the determinants of behavior evolve in social environ-
ments? Should behavior be genetically driven, acquired
by social learning, or is free choice of actions delegated
to the individual?
Applicants with a strong interest in these research ques-
tions are encouraged to apply. Applicants should have a
Ph.D. in a relevant area (e.g. evolutionary biology, eco-
nomics, anthropology, physics, or mathematics), with
strong mathematical and computing skills, and a vivid
interest in fundamental research.
Inquiries and applications should be sent to lau-
rent.lehmann@unil.ch by April 31th. They should in-
clude a CV, a statement of research interests, and names
of 2-3 referees. Only applications with all these infor-
mation will be considered. Starting date is negotiable,
from May 2016 onwards.
Laurent Lehmann <Laurent.Lehmann@unil.ch >ULeicester
EvolutionGenomicImprinting
The Mallon Lab in the Department of Genetics at
the University of Leicester (http://www2.le.ac.uk/-
departments/genetics/people/mallon) is seeking highly
qualied candidates for a Postdoctoral Research Asso-
ciate in insect epigenetics.
We are searching for a motivated individual to per-
form independent and team-oriented studies on epige-
netics of the bumblebee, Bombus terrestris using whole
genome/transcriptome sequence data.
A major focus of this work will be to independently test
the major theory for the evolution of genomic imprint-
ing, by examining the parent of origin allele specic
expression of genes important for bumblebee worker
reproduction. In addition, there will be opportunities
to develop independent research projects.
You should have experience in routine molecular biology
and next generation sequencing data generation and
analysis. Prociency with R statistical software and
experience writing Python scripts will be an advantage.
http://www.jobs.ac.uk/job/AUE426/research-
associate/ Informal enquiries are welcome and should
be made to Dr Eamonn Mallon on ebm3@le.ac.uk.
The closing date for applications is midnight 23rd
May 2016. Also we are very keen to host a
Marie Curie Fellow within the general eld of In-
sect Epigenetics. If you are interested and eligi-
ble (http://ec.europa.eu/research/mariecurieactions/-
about-msca/actions/if/index en.htm) please contact me
(ebm3@le.ac.uk)
Dr. Eamonn Mallon Lecturer in Evolutionary Biology
Room 220 (inside lab 219) Adrian Building Department
of Genetics University of Leicester Tel 01162523488
ebm3@leicester.ac.uk
\Mallon, Eamonn B. (Dr.)" <ebm3@leicester.ac.uk >116 EvolDir May 1, 2016
ULille France Coevolution
MatingSystems Models
Crossing the tness valley : coevolution and diversica-
tion in structured populations
We oer a 2-years post-doctoral position funded by an
ERC Consolidator grant to theoretically investigate how
population structure aects the rate of diversication
and patterns of coevolution in a two-components genetic
system.
Background.
Our main model is self-incompatibility (SI) in the ow-
ering plants, a molecular recognition system preventing
inbreeding and enforcing outcrossing. SI phenotypes are
generally determined by two linked sets of alleles: one
for pollen, the other for stigma. Tight coevolution is ex-
pected between the genes controlling pollen and stigma
specicities because mutations at one of the two genes
only would prevent proper recognition, thus allowing
selng, which in this system represents an important
valley of tness because of the expression of inbreed-
ing depression. Despite this evolutionary constraint,
dozens of dierent SI alleles are typically observed in
natural populations, suggesting that novel SI alleles
have emerged repeatedly. How evolutionary constraints
and large allelic diversities can be reconciled remains a
largely open question in evolutionary biology, for which
the specic case of SI is a case-study. Previous work
in our group and others showed that coevolution and
diversication of SI alleles is possible in a panmictic
population, but it constitutes a self-attenuating process
that fails to explain the large observed allelic diversity
(Uyenoyama et al. 2001, Gervais et al. 2011). The
goal of the post-doc will be to determine to what extent
population structure would help solve the puzzle. The
question is not trivial because the mode of selection
acting on SI, negative frequency-dependent selection
(akaadvantage of the rare ), increases the eective
migration rates, which should largely eliminate genetic
structure and thus impede allopatric diversication.
Prole
The successful candidate should have theoretical skills
and the ability to develop and analyze population ge-
netics models, both deterministic and stochastic. The
hired person will interact with people generating genetic
and genomic data within the same ERC project. Math-ematical and/or programming skills are a plus. The
hired post-doc will benet from an excellent scientic
environment, with people with expertise in various do-
mains ranging from population genetics and genomics,
to mathematics and bioinformatics.
Conditions
The monthly raw salary will range between 2,500 and
2,800^ a:dependingonexperience:Thepositionwillstartduringearlyfall 2016; inthelabEvo 
Eco Paleo(CNRS; UniversityofLille ); France:WorkinglanguageinthegroupisEnglish:
Application procedure
To apply send a CV, a one-page statement of re-
search interest and contact information of three
people who can provide references. The application
package should be sent to Sylvain.Billiard@univ-
lille1.fr and Vincent.Castric@univ-lille1.fr
<mailto:Vincent.Castric@univ-lille1.fr >
Sylvain Billiard and Vincent Castric
sylvain billiard <sylvain.billiard@univ-lille1.fr >
UMichigan
YeastEvolutionaryGenomics
Two Postdoctoral Positions in Experimental Yeast Evo-
lutionary Genomics at University of Michigan
Two postdoctoral positions are available in the labora-
tory of Jianzhi \George" Zhang at University of Michi-
gan, Ann Arbor, Michigan. Ideal candidates will use
the budding yeast *Saccharomyces cerevisiae* and its
relatives as model organisms to study evolutionary pro-
cesses. Potential topics include but are not limited to (1)
the tness eects of various types of mutations including
gene duplication, (2) genic/genomic basis of reproduc-
tive isolation, (3) evolution of dominance, (4) genetic
mechanisms of heterosis, (5) position eects on protein
expression level and noise, and (6) evolution of gene
expression. The positions require motivated individuals
with an interest in evolutionary genetics and experience
in molecular genetics or genomics. Prior training in yeast
genetics will be a plus. For further information about
the Zhang lab, see http://www.umich.edu/ ~zhanglab/.
Applicants should email a short statement of research in-
terests, CV, and contact information of three references
to jianzhi@umich.edu.
{ Jianzhi \George" Zhang Marshall W. Nirenberg Col-
legiate Professor Department of Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology University of Michigan 1075 NaturalMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 117
Science Building 830 North University Avenue Ann
Arbor, MI 48109-1048 Phone (oce): 734-763-0527
Phone (lab): 734-763-0514 Fax: 734-763-0544 Email:
jianzhi@umich.edu Home page: www.umich.edu/-
~zhanglab Jianzhi Zhang <jianzhi@umich.edu >Jianzhi
Zhang <jianzhi@umich.edu >
UMontana EvolutionSymbiosis
EVOLUTIONARY CELL BIOLOGIST. The Mc-
Cutcheon lab at the University of Montana seeks a
postdoctoral research associate interested in evolution-
ary cell biology. Our lab values diversity in thought,
experience, and personel, and as such individuals from
many dierent backgrounds are appropriate for this po-
sition. However, experience in eukaryotic cell biology
and a willingness to work in non-model insect systems
are required. An ideal candidate would have experience
with immunologically based electron or uorescence mi-
croscopy. The position will remain open until lled but
could start immediately.
Read more about our lab, our research, and Montana
here: http://mccutcheonlab.org Read the full job ad,
and apply, here: http://bit.ly/1495umdbs Please email
John McCutcheon with any questions (john [DOT] mc-
cutcheon [AT] umontana [DOT] edu)
\McCutcheon, John" <john.mccutcheon@mso.umt.edu >
\McCutcheon, John" <john.mccutcheon@mso.umt.edu >
UNevada Reno
EvolutionaryPhysiology
A postdoctoral position in evolutionary endocrinology
is available in the laboratory of Dr. Jenny Ouyang,
Assistant Professor in the Dept. of Biology at the Uni-
versity of Nevada, Reno. A competitive starting salary
plus benets will be provided. Preferred start date is
September 1, 2016.
In the Ouyang lab, we are interested in understand-
ing how animals are physiologically adapted to chang-
ing environments. We empirically test, in natural and
laboratory avian populations, how, and at what rate,hormonally-regulated traits can evolve. Current eld
sites include various locations in Reno and the UNR
main station eld lab with 1000 acres of prime farm-
land. More information about the lab can be found
at www.jennyouyang.com . The University of Nevada,
Reno is a Tier I institution oering a highly produc-
tive research environment. The Biology Department is
home to 25 tenure-ladder faculty members who main-
tain nationally recognized, extramurally funded research
programs and who mentor ~50 graduate students.
Reno is located in the Sierra Nevada Mountains near
Lake Tahoe and has been recently rated as one of the
best small cities in the US for outdoor recreation and
overall quality of life.
To apply and for more information, please sub-
mit requested application materials at https://-
www.unrsearch.com/postings/20567 The University of
Nevada, Reno is committed to Equal Employment Op-
portunity/Armative Action in recruitment of its stu-
dents and employees and does not discriminate on the
basis of race, color, religion, sex, age, creed, national
origin, veteran status, physical or mental disability, and
sexual orientation, or genetic information, gender iden-
tity, or gender expression. The University of Nevada,
Reno employs only United States citizens and aliens law-
fully authorized to work in the United States. Women,
under-represented groups, individuals with disabilities,
and veterans are encouraged to apply.
Jenny Ouyang Assistant Professor University of Nevada,
Reno
http://www.jennyouyang.com/ 1664 N Virginia Street
Department of Biology, ms 314 Reno, NV 89557 1-775-
784-6089
Jenny Q Ouyang <jouyang@unr.edu >
UUtah
EvolutionaryGenomicsDevBio
Postdoctoral positions are available in the laboratory of
Dr. Mike Shapiro in the Department of Biology, Uni-
versity of Utah. We seek highly motivated and creative
colleagues to study the genetic and developmental basis
of evolutionary diversity. Our current research focuses
on:
1. Genomics and developmental genetics of morpholog-
ical variation in the rock pigeon (epidermal, skeletal,
and muscle identity and patterning; local collaborations118 EvolDir May 1, 2016
with laboratories of Mark Yandell, Gabrielle Kardon,
and others).
2. Genomics of rapid adaptation of ectoparasites to
changes in host conditions (experimental evolution in
pigeon lice; local collaborations with laboratories of Dale
Clayton and Sarah Bush).
Specic projects will be tailored to the strengths and
interests of successful candidates. Please visit our home
page for more information about the lab and recent
publications.
*REQUIREMENTS* 1. Ph.D. in genetics, genomics,
developmental biology, evolutionary biology, or a closely
related eld. Applicants with fewer than 2 years of post-
doc experience are strongly preferred. 2. Track record
of productivity. 3. Demonstrated ability and willing-
ness to work both independently and collaboratively.
4. Excellent written and oral English communication
skills.
A strong background in experimental developmental
biology and/or analysis of high-throughput sequencing
data is preferred.
*TO APPLY* Please submit the following materials:
1. CV, including a list of publications 2. Statement that
includes your research experience and interests, as well
as your preferred approximate start date 3. Names of
three referees who will be willing to submit letters of
reference upon request
Please email application materials in PDF format to Dr.
Mike Shapiro: shapiro@biology.utah.edu
Informal inquiries are welcome prior to formal applica-
tion.
*SCIENTIFIC AND CULTURAL ENVIRONMENT*
The Department of Biology comprises a diverse and
vibrant group of laboratories, with research interests
ranging from environmental biology to biochemistry.
The genetics and developmental biology communities
are strong on the University of Utah main and medical
school campuses and oer numerous opportunities for
collaboration. The growing interdepartmental evolu-
tionary genetics and genomics community is especially
interactive.
The University of Utah is located in beautiful (and
aordable) Salt Lake City, with easy access to world-
class entertainment and recreation. Salt Lake City and
nearby Park City are home to the annual Sundance
Film Festival and a year-round cinema and arts scene,
as well as outstanding restaurants, coee houses, and
brewpubs. Several national parks are located within
a just few hours' drive, and the university is within
a 40-minute drive of at least six major alpine skiingand snowboarding resorts, including venues of the 2002
Olympics. Hiking and mountain biking trails begin es-
sentially on campus. Outside Magazine recently called
Salt Lake City \one of the nation's most underrated
outdoor meccas." The city is also a major airline hub,
with non-stop ights throughout North America and
Europe (Paris, London).
*NONDISCRIMINATION & ACCESSIBILITY STATE-
MENT* The University of Utah does not discriminate
on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin,
sex, age, status as a disabled individual, sexual orienta-
tion, gender identity/expression, genetic information or
protected veteran's status, in employment, treatment,
admission, access to educational programs and activities,
or other University benets or services.
Mike Shapiro Associate Professor, Department of Biol-
ogy Adjunct Associate Professor, Department of Human
Genetics University of Utah 257 S 1400 E Salt Lake City,
UT 84112 (801) 581-5690, fax (801) 581-4668 http://-
www.biology.utah.edu/shapiro/ @MikeDShapiro
\shapiro@biology.utah.edu"
<shapiro@biology.utah.edu >
UVermont SocialInsectGenomics
The Helms Cahan lab is seeking a post-doctoral scholar
with expertise in genomic analyses interested in using
high-throughput sequencing and bioinformatics analy-
ses to investigate the roles of genetic, regulatory, and
structural genome evolution in phylogeographic and phe-
notypic diversication in ants. The position oers the
opportunity to get involved in our ongoing projects on
the origins, evolution and mechanisms of alternative
forms of reproductive caste determination in the har-
vester ant genus Pogonomyrmex, as well as joining in
the development of a new project on the role of genome
structural variation on patterns of diversication in the
North American ant genus Aphaenogaster. Much of our
work involves next-generation SNP genotyping and tran-
scriptome proling, with the imminent arrival of several
newly-sequenced ant genomes. We are looking for a
colleague who will complement our existing expertise
in ecology, behavior, and molecular ecology and allow
us to leverage the immense data resources generated by
high-throughput genomics projects to answer new and
exciting questions.
We have a small but enthusiastic group of PhD, MS,
and undergraduate students, along with a network ofMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 119
collaborators across the US and internationally. The
candidate would also be able to interact with a vibrant
and growing research community in Ecological Genomics
at the University of Vermont.
This post-doctoral position is designed to provide men-
torship and training for scientists ultimately interested
in a faculty position at an institution that emphasizes
both research and teaching. In addition to independent
research, the candidate will gain classroom experience
by teaching 1-2 courses per year, rst in a team-taught
environment, but with the opportunity to later design
and teach their own course at the undergraduate or
graduate level. Funding is available for a total of two
years, with a starting date of August 22, 2016.
To apply for the position, please submit a cover let-
ter, CV, brief statements of research and teaching in-
terests, and names of three potential references to:
scahan@uvm.edu <mailto:scahan@uvm.edu >. I am
happy to discuss the expectations and project details
informally by e-mail (at the above address) as well. For-
mal review of applications will begin May 26th, 2016.
Sara Helms Cahan Associate Professor and Chair De-
partment of Biology University of Vermont Burlington,
Vermont 05405 (802)656-2962 scahan@uvm.edu
Sara Cahan <scahan@uvm.edu >
UWashington StatisticalGenetics
Postdoc Opportunity in Forensic Statistical Genetics
A postdoctoral position is available immediately in the
Department of Biostatistics at the University of Wash-
ington. The appointee will work with Dr Bruce Weir
and with Dr Glendon Parker of the Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratory. The project involves an investiga-
tion of the statistical genetic issues surrounding the use
of genetically variable peptides for human identication.
Applicants should have a PhD in statistics or genetics
or a related eld. An appreciation of forensic uses of
DNA proles would be an advantage. The appointee
will join a large statistical genetics community at the
University of Washington. Send a letter of interest, a
CV and the names of three references to Bruce Weir by
email to bsweir@uw.edu, by May 1, 2016.
{ Bruce Weir Department of Biostatistics University of
Washington Box 359461 Seattle, WA 98195-9461 Phone:
(206) 221-7947Bruce Weir <bsweir@uw.edu >
VirginiaTech MolecularEvolution
An NSF-funded postdoctoral position is available in the
lab of Joel McGlothlin in the Department of Biological
Sciences at Virginia Tech. The successful candidate will
collaborate with Dr. McGlothlin on a project investi-
gating the evolution of voltage-gated sodium channels
across birds and reptiles. The project will use DNA
target enrichment to capture and sequence the sodium-
channel gene family in a wide variety of species in order
to characterize the evolutionary history of resistance
to tetrodotoxin and other prey defenses. The postdoc
will be responsible for both bioinformatic analyses of
existing genomes and the generation and analysis of
new sequences. The ideal candidate will possess both
laboratory skills in molecular evolutionary genetics and
experience mining and analyzing large genetic datasets.
Minimum qualications include a Ph.D. in biology, ecol-
ogy and evolutionary biology, or a related eld; strong
oral and written communication skills; the ability to
work independently and as part of a research group;
and a demonstrated ability to eciently produce strong
peer-reviewed publications. Candidates who have not
yet defended will be considered, but successful defense
of the Ph.D. is required by the start date.
Candidates with a background in molecular evolution
or bioinformatics will be given preference.
Interested candidates should submit a curriculum vitae,
statement of interest along with two letters of recom-
mendation at <http://listings.jobs.vt.edu/postings/-
65745 >http://listings.jobs.vt.edu:80/postings/65745.
Review of applications will begin on May 11, 2016.
Virginia Tech does not discriminate against employ-
ees, students, or applicants on the basis of age, color,
disability, gender, gender identity, gender expression,
national origin, political aliation, race, religion, sexual
orientation, genetic information, veteran status, or any
other basis protected by law. For inquiries regarding
non-discrimination policies, contact the executive direc-
tor for Equity and Access at 540-231-8771 or Virginia
Tech, North End Center, Suite 2300 (0318), 300 Turner
St. NW, Blacksburg, VA 24061. If you are an individ-
ual with a disability and desire accommodation, please
contact the hiring department.
Additional information: McGlothlin lab: http:/-120 EvolDir May 1, 2016
/www.mcglothlin.biol.vt.edu Application link: <
http://listings.jobs.vt.edu/postings/65745 >http://-
listings.jobs.vt.edu:80/postings/65745 Biological Sci-
ences at VT: http://www.biol.vt.edu/ Ecology, Evo-
lution, and Behavior at VT: http://www.biol.vt.edu/-
eeb/index.html Joel W. McGlothlin Virginia Tech,
Dept. of Biological Sciences Derring Hall 2125,
1405 Perry St. Blacksburg, VA 24061 http://-
www.mcglothlin.biol.vt.edu Email: joelmcg@vt.edu
Phone: (540) 231-0046 Oce: Derring Hall 4002
Joel McGlothlin <joelmcg@vt.edu >
WageningenU
DynamicModellingSystemsBiology
Postdoc Position in Dynamic modelling in Systems Bi-
ology at Wageningen University & Research
We are looking for an enthusiastic, motivated Postdoc on
Systems Biology with a strong background in mathemat-
ical modelling of dynamic systems, expertise in mod-
elling metabolism and/or host-pathogen interactions
being a bonus. The candidate should apply the con-
cepts of systems biology to enhance our understanding
of the fundamental principles of signalling, regulatory
and most prominently metabolism in living organisms,
to generate a mechanistic understanding leading to new
hypothesis and model driven experimentation.
Using an interdisciplinary approach the candidate
should be able to build detailed dynamic models ac-
counting for key elements of bacterial organisms, specif-
ically of Mycoplasma pneumoniae. The nal goal is
integrating the generated models in a modelling frame-
work associating genotype and phenotype and leading
to the development of testable hypothesis to transform
M. pneumoniae in an optimal chassis for synthetic biol-
ogy. The candidate should have working experience in
mathematical modelling of dynamic systems, experimen-
tal design, and analysis of systems exhibiting complex
dynamic behaviour.
Furthermore, experience and willingness to interact with
colleagues on large-scale genome engineering and re-
factoring, and interactions between the mammalian host
and the pathogen (eg. through omics and detailed bio-
chemical measurements) will be a substantial bonus.
We ask For this position we request: - Prociency with
mathematical modelling of dynamic systems and exper-
imental design (experience in modelling host-pathogeninteractions and/or mammalian cell systems being a
bonus) - A sound knowledge of physiology, biochemistry
and Systems Biology - Computational competences in
Python, Matlab and/or R - Experience in interacting
with experimentalists - A solid background in Maths
and/or Physics - A PhD in Computational, Systems,
Mathematical Biology or related elds - Fluent in En-
glish, both written and spoken - The candidate will
collaborate in a team with scientists at the chair of
Systems and Synthetic Biology and with members of
an EU funded consortium devoted to the study of M.
pneumoniae
We oer We oer you a temporary position for a period
of 2 years with possibility for extension of 1 year. Gross
salary e2920,- to e3400,- based on a fulltime employ-
ment and dependent on expertise and experience. We
not only oer a competitive salary but also good (study)
leave and a pension of the ABP Pension Fund.
More information For more information about this po-
sition, please contact Prof. V tor Martins dos Santos,
chair Systems and Synthetic Biology, telephone number
+31 317482865. For more information about the con-
tractual aspects, please contact Mrs. J. van Meurs, HR
advisor, telephone number +31 317480101
Interested? You can apply online at http://-
www.wageningenur.nl/career until 1st May 2016 or
through direct link: http://www.wageningenur.nl/en/-
Jobs/Vacancies/Show/Postdoc-Position-in-Dynamic-
modelling-in-Systems-Biology.htm We are Systems
Biology is one of the spearheads of the Wageningen UR,
which invests considerably in this area. The mission
of the Laboratory of Systems and Synthetic Biology
is to contribute to the elucidation of the mechanisms
underlying basic cellular processes, evolution and
interactions among microbes and between microbes
and their environment (including the human host)
and to translate this knowledge into applications of
biotechnological, medical and environmental interest.
The Agrotechnology & Food Sciences Group is part of
Wageningen UR where fundamental and applied sci-
ences complement each other. As an important Euro-
pean player, we carry out top-level research and work
alongside authoritative partners within the international
business world as well as the government on Healthy
food in a biobased society. We have a crucial role in
innovations within the market. Entre preneurship and
professionalism are what dene us. In short, we are an
interesting, international employer of stature.
Wageningen University & Research Delivering a substan-
tial contribution to the quality of life. That's our focus
each and every day. Within our domain, healthy food
and living environment, we search for answers to issuesMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 121
aecting society such as sustainable food production,
climate change and alternative energy. Of course, we
dont do this alone. Every day, 6,500 people work on
the quality of life, turning ideas into reality, on a global
scale.
Could you be one of these people? We give you the
space you need.
\Pinkster, Carolien" <carolien.pinkster@wur.nl >
WashingtonStateU Computa-
tionalEvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoc Position: Computational Evolutionary Ge-
nomics at Washington State University
A postdoctoral position is available in the laboratory
of Dr. Joanna Kelley, in the School of Biological Sci-
ences at Washington State University in Pullman, WA
(labs.wsu.edu/genomes). The research goals of the labo-
ratory are to use genomic and computational methods to
understand the genomic basis of adaptation to extreme
environments. We are interested in understanding how
genetic and environmental variation interact to drive
population dierentiation and adaptive evolution. The
School of Biological Sciences at Washington State Uni-
versity has a strong research presence in evolution and
ecology research and there are many opportunities for in-
teraction and collaboration. The postdoctoral position is
a computational genomics position studying phenotypic
plasticity in the mangrove rivulus, Kryptolebias mar-
moratus. The candidate will lead an exciting research
project studying genome, transcriptome and phenotypic
data from many lineages of this primarily self-fertilizing
hermaphroditic sh.
The ideal candidates will have recently completed or be
completing a PhD degree in Genetics, Genomics, Com-
putational Biology or related disciplines. We welcome
applications from candidates with diverse backgrounds.
Applicants must have at least one strong rst-author
publication. A computing background is desired, espe-
cially experience with Linux, and knowledge in at least
one programming language. Prior experience with han-
dling large-scale data and with the use of bioinformatics
and statistical tools would be an advantage. Candidates
should have strong organizational, written, and oral
communication skills; and be able to work both indepen-
dently and as part of a collaborative team. Applicants
will be encouraged to develop and lead independentprojects.
The appointment is for two years. Salary is competitive
and commensurate with experience, and benets are
included. Applicants should email Joanna Kelley at
joanna.l.kelley@wsu.edu and include a (i) cover letter
that includes a statement of research interests that ex-
plicitly describes your professional qualications for the
position, (ii) curriculum vitae, and (iii) contact informa-
tion for three references. Applications will be accepted
through May 15th. The desired start date is August
2016.
Joanna L. Kelley, PhD Assistant Professor, School
of Biological Sciences Member, Center for Re-
productive Biology Washington State University
joanna.l.kelley@wsu.edu http://labs.wsu.edu/genomes
Phone: 509-335-0037
\Kelley, Joanna.l" <joanna.l.kelley@wsu.edu >
WashingtonStateU
LandscapeGenomics
We are seeking a postdoctoral researcher to work on
landscape genomics and transcriptomics of Tasmanian
devils and Tasmanian devil facial tumor disease. This
NSF-funded international collaboration builds on over
15 years of research tracking the spread of this unique
infectious tumor across Tasmania and consequent en-
dangerment of the iconic Tasmanian devil. Reference
genomes are available for both tumor and devil and
population genomic data have already been collected
for>3500 Tasmanian devil individuals. The successful
applicant will have an unprecedented opportunity to
analyze thousands of devil individuals and hundreds of
tumor samples taken both before and after epizootics
to test for selection, coevolution, patterns of resistance,
etc, across Tasmania. We will then use these data to
predict the course of disease in uninfected populations.
The position is centered in the lab of Dr.
Andrew Storfer (www.wsu.edu/ ~storfer) at Washington
State University, in close collaboration with Dr. Paul
Hohenlohe at the nearby University of Idaho (8 miles
away). Both universities have genomics core facilities,
including the Institute of Bioinformatics and Evolution-
ary Studies (IBEST;http://www.uidaho.edu/research/-
ibest) with state-of-of-the art equipment, computational
facilities and sta support.
Review of applications will begin on May 2, 2016 and122 EvolDir May 1, 2016
continue until the position is lled. A Ph.D. in Biology
or a related discipline and genomics and bioinformatics
experience is required. Desired qualities also include
a background in population genomics, infectious dis-
ease evolution, and/or cancer genomics. Start date is
negotiable, but anticipated to be between June 1 and
September 1, 2016. Salary and benets are competi-
tive. Position is for 1 year, with continuation for an
additional year pending satisfactory progress. To apply,
please send in pdf format a CV, and names, addresses
and email addresses of 3 references, a research state-
ment, and up to 3 representative reprints via email to:
Andrew Storfer (astorfer@wsu.edu).
*WSU is an Equal Opportunity/Armative Ac-
tion/ADA educator and employer.*
Andrew Storfer, PhD Eastlick Distinguished Professor
Associate Director for Graduate Studies School of Bio-
logical Sciences Washington State University Pullman,
WA 99164 USA Phone: (509) 335-7922 Fax: (509) 335-
3184 astorfer@wsu.edu www.wsu.edu/ ~storfer Andrew
Storfer <andrew.storfer@gmail.com >
WashingtonStateU PlantMicrobes
A postdoctoral position in plant-microbe symbiosis and
biological invasions is available in the Porter lab at Wash-
ington State University, Vancouver. The postdoc will
join an NSF-funded project to examine the ecological
and evolutionary forces reshaping plant-microbe sym-
bioses during biological invasions (DEB-1355216). This
research will leverage genomic tools in the model sym-
biosis between leguminous plants and nitrogen-xing
symbiotic rhizobium bacteria to examine ecological dy-
namics and the evolution of cooperation in natural and
experimentally evolved invasions.
Project opportunities: plant and bacterial population
genomics in the Medicago-Ensifer model system, quan-
titative genetic cross-inoculation experiments in the
greenhouse, and/or studies of ecological dynamics in the
eld. Research will be conducted in collaboration with
the Friesen lab at Michigan State University (http://-
friesen.plantbiology.msu.edu/) and funding will be pro-
vided for the postdoc to travel to MSU as needed. The
postdoctoral researcher will lead-author peer-reviewed
scientic articles and funding will be provided to give
national conference presentations.
Location: the postdoc will join the new Microbial Sym-
biosis Lab at Washington State University, Vancouver.WSUV is a vibrant, rapidly growing institution located
within the greater Portland/Vancouver metropolitan
area, near the Columbia River, Cascade Mountains and
coastal ocean, and as such oers an exceptional quality
of life. For more information see:
https://labs.wsu.edu/stephanie-porter/ Qualications:
PhD in evolutionary ecology, genomics, microbial biol-
ogy, and/or plant biology &
Demonstrated excellent written and oral English com-
munication skills, including strong record of scientic
publication.
Appointment is for one year at full time plus benets;
expectation of renewal for a second year pending quality
performance. The start date for this position is exible.
Application review will begin May 15th, and applica-
tions will continued to be reviewed on a rolling basis
until the position is lled. To apply, please send a sin-
gle pdf email attachment with \Microbial Symbiosis
Postdoc" in the email subject line. Include a 1-page
statement of research interests and experience, a curricu-
lum vitae, copies of relevant publications, and contact
information for 3 references, to:
Stephanie S. Porter Assistant Professor, School of Bio-
logical Sciences Washington State University, Vancouver
stephanie.porter@wsu.edu
"stephanie.porter@wsu.edu\
<stephanie.porter@wsu.edu >
WashingtonStateU
TasmanianDevilGenomics
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCHER
Washington State University
School of Biological Sciences
We are seeking a postdoctoral researcher to work on
landscape genomics and transcriptomics of Tasmanian
devils and Tasmanian devil facial tumor disease. This
NSF -funded international collaboration builds on over
15 years of research tracking the spread of this unique
infectious tumor across Tasmania and consequent en-
dangerment of the iconic Tasmanian devil. Reference
genomes are available for both tumor and devil and
population genomic data have already been collected
for>3500 Tasmanian devil individuals. The successful
applicant will have an unprecedented opportunity toMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 123
analyze thousands of devil genotypes and hundreds of
tumor samples taken both before and after epizootics to
test for selection throughout both genomes, coevolution,
patterns of resistance, etc, across Tasmania. We will
then use these data to predict the course of disease in
uninfected populations. The position is centered in the
lab of Dr. Andrew Storfer (www.wsu.edu/ ~storfer) at
Washington State University, in close collaboration with
Dr. Paul Hohenlohe at the nearby University of Idaho
(8 miles away). Both universities have genomics core
facilities, including the Institute of Bioinformatics and
Evolutionary Studies (IBEST;http://www.uidaho.edu/-
research/ibest) with state-of-of-the art equipment, com-
putational facilities and sta support.
Review of applications will begin on May 2, 2016 and
continue until the position is lled. A Ph.D. in Biology
or a related discipline, combined with genomics and
bioinformatics experience is required. Desired qualities
also include a background in population genomics, infec-
tious disease evolution, and/or cancer genomics. Start
date is negotiabl between June and August, 2016. Salary
and benets are competitive. Position is for 1 year, with
continuation for an additional year pending satisfactory
progress. To apply, please send in pdf format a CV, and
names, addresses and email addresses of 3 references, a
research statement, and up to 3 representative reprints
via email to: Andrew Storfer (astorfer@wsu.edu).
*WSU is an Equal Opportunity/Armative Ac-
tion/ADA educator and employer.*
Andrew Storfer, PhD Eastlick Distinguished Professor
Associate Director for Graduate Studies School of Bio-
logical Sciences Washington State University Pullman,
WA 99164 USA Phone: (509) 335-7922 Fax: (509) 335-
3184 astorfer@wsu.edu www.wsu.edu/~storfer
andrew.storfer@gmail.com
WoodsHole
EvolutionaryConservationAgeing
Postdoctoral Scientist - Genetic and Epigenetic Mecha-
nisms of AgingMarine Biological Laboratory jWoods Hole, MAjSalary
commensurate with experience and qualications
Position Summary: A postdoctoral position is avail-
able in the laboratory of Dr. Kristin Gribble at the
Marine Biological Laboratory in Woods Hole, MA, to
study the molecular mechanisms of the biology of aging.
Our work focuses on understanding the mechanisms of
plasticity in health and lifespan in response to environ-
mental changes and interventions, and the evolutionary
conservation of these mechanisms. We are specically
investigating the genetic and epigenetic mechanisms of
maternal eects in determining ospring health and
lifespan (Aging Cell 13:623 2014). This project takes a
multidisciplinary approach, using phenotypic, transcrip-
tomic, genetic, genomic, epigenetic, biochemical, imag-
ing, RNAi, and next-generation sequencing methods in
an exciting new animal model system, the monogonont
rotifer. The successful applicant will have the opportu-
nity for independent and novel research in an innovative
new laboratory.
For more information about the laboratory, please see
the lab website, http://www.mbl.edu/jbpc/gribble/ or
contact Dr. Gribble at kgribble@mbl.edu.
Basic Qualications: Applicants should posses a Ph.D.
and/or M.D. in molecular biology, cell biology, biochem-
istry, genetics, bioinformatics, or a related eld. The
ideal candidate will have a record of scientic rigor,
productivity, and creativity; the ability to work both
independently and as part of a team; and a strong publi-
cation record. Excellent oral and written communication
skills are required. Highly motivated individuals with
experience in other model systems and a background in
biochemistry, cell/molecular biology, epigenetics, and/or
bioinformatics are encouraged to apply.
Terms: The position is available immediately, and is re-
newable annually depending upon progress and funding.
Special Instructions to Applicants: To apply, send,
please submit:
(1) A cover letter describing your research goals and
motivation for joining the lab;
(2) a CV;
(3) a 1-2 page research statement; and
(4) contact information for three references
Kristin Houtler <kgribble@mbl.edu >124 EvolDir May 1, 2016
WorkshopsCourses
Barcelona GeneticBasisOfShape Sep6-9 . . . . . . . . . . .124
Denver CO EvolutionInCognition Jul21 . . . . . . . . . . 124
Edinburgh EvolutionaryQuantGenetics Oct31-Nov4 126
Faro Portugal StatisticalGenetics Ext Deadline . . . 126
Hafjel Norway Selection Jun6-10 reminder . . . . . . . .127
Hinxton UK HumGenomeAnalysis JUL20-26 DEAD-
LINE APR8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128
LakeBalaton Hungary ConservationGenetics May30-
Jun10 Deadline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128
Lisbon Portugal Biodiversity Lichens . . . . . . . . . . . . . 129
Maynooth Ireland Phylogenomics May29-Jun3 . . . 130
Norway NonmodelOrganismHTS May31-Jun10 . . . 132Portugal NicheModelling Jul18-22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 132
Scotland GeneticDataAnalysis Exploration Aug16-20
133
SimBioQUBES FacultyMentoring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134
Toronto MappingGenomicFeaturesClinicalTraits Jul18-
Jul19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134
UTennessee Knoxville NIMBioSTutorial EvolQuantGe-
netics Aug8-12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 135
Vairao Portugal Speciation May9-13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .136
Zagori Greece ConservationBiology Jun27-Jul8 . . . 137
Barcelona GeneticBasisOfShape
Sep6-9
Dear colleagues,
There are a few places still available for the course \From
Phenotype to Genotype: The Genetic Bases of Shape -
3rd Edition"; September 6-9, 2016.
Instructors: Dr. Neus Mart nez-Abad as (Centre for
Genomic Regulation, Spain) and Dr. Nicolas Navarro
(~Acole Pratique des Hautes ~Atudes, France).
Site: Premises of Sabadell of the Institut Catal a de
Paleontologia Miquel Crusafont (Barcelona, Spain).
Course Webpage: http://www.transmittingscience.org/-
courses/gen/quant-gen-shape/ The aim of this course
is to provide participants with an overview of quantita-
tive genetics, with specic application to shape analysis
and decomposition of phenotypic variation into compo-
nents of genetic and environmental variation. The basic
theoretical concepts of resemblance between relatives,
heritability, estimates of selection, and geometric mor-
phometrics will be introduced. Practical lessons will
enable participants to learn to use user-friendly (and not
so user-friendly) software packages to estimate heritabil-
ity, phenotypic and genetic variance covariance matrices,
response to hypothetical selection, actual selection and
QTL mapping.
Participants are encouraged to bring their own datafor analysis and discussion in the course. Morphome-
tric data involves any kind of quantitative shape data
collected on individuals, such as linear measurements
and/or 2D or 3D landmark coordinates. Pedigree les
usually consist of text les with a list of three columns
(individual ID, father ID, mother ID). Specic details
about formatting these les will be provided during the
practical lessons.
This course is co-organized by Transmitting Science and
the Institut Catal a de Paleontologia M. Crusafont. Place
are limited and will be covered by strict registration
order.
Please feel free to distribute this information between
your colleagues if you consider it appropriate.
With best regards
Sole
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno, PhD. Scientic Direc-
tor Transmitting Science www.transmittingscience.org
soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org
Denver CO EvolutionInCognition
Jul21
Workshop:Denver CO.EvolutionInCognition.July21
Evolution in Cognition Workshop July 21 to be held as
part of theMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 125
2016 Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference
(GECCO-2016) July 20-24, Denver, Colorado, USA
Organized by ACM SIGEVO http://gecco-
2016.sigevo.org Webpage: http://lis2.ep.ch/-
events/workshops/GECCO2016/ Submission Deadline
extended: April 12th, 2016
=== Topic =Evolution by natural selection has shaped
life over billions of years leading to the emergence of com-
plex organism capable of exceptional cognitive abilities.
These natural evolutionary processes have inspired the
development of Evolutionary Algorithms (EAs), which
are optimization algorithms widely popular due to their
eciency and robustness. Beyond their ability to opti-
mize, EAs have also proven to be creative and ecient
at generating innovative solutions to novel problems.
The combination of these two abilities makes them a
tool of choice for the resolution of complex problems.
Even though there is evidence that the principle of se-
lection on variation is at play in the human brain, as
proposed in Changeux's and Edelman's models of Neu-
ronal Darwinism, and more recently expanded in the
theory of Darwinian Neurodynamics by Szathm ary, Fer-
nando and others, not much attention has been paid to
the possible interaction between evolutionary processes
and cognition over physiological time scales. Since the
development of human cognition requires years of matu-
ration, it can be expected that articial cognitive agents
will also require months if not years of learning and
adaptation. It is in this context that the optimizing
and creative abilities of EAs could become an ideal
framework that complement, aid in understanding, and
facilitate the implementation of cognitive processes. Ad-
ditionally, a better understanding of how evolution can
be implemented as part of an articial cognitive architec-
ture can lead to new insights into cognition in humans
and other animals.
The goals of the workshop are to depict the current
state of the art of evolution in cognition and to sketch
the main challenges and future directions. In particular,
we aim at bringing together the dierent theoretical and
empirical approaches that can potentially contribute
to the understanding of how evolution and cognition
can act together in an algorithmic way in order to solve
complex problems. In this workshop we welcome ap-
proaches that contribute to an improved understanding
of evolution in cognition using robotic agents, in silico
computation as well as mathematical models.
Keywords: Evolutionary Computation, Evolution, Cog-
nition, Darwinian Neurodynamics, Neuronal Darwis-
nism, robotics.
=== Invited speakers = - Prof. E ors Szathmary - Prof.Je Krichmar - Prof. Arne Dietrich
=== Organizers = - Prof. St ephane Doncieux, Uni-
versity Pierre and Marie Curie, France - Dr. Joshua
Auerbach, EPFL, Switzerland - Prof. Richard Duro,
Universidade da Coruna, Spain - Dr. Harold P. de
Vladar, Parmenides Foundation, Germany
=== Workshop format This is a half day workshop
with invited talks and a session dedicated to posters,
videos and demonstrations. The session will start with
a short teaser of posters and demonstrations. Videos
will also be displayed afterwards.
=== Submissions and deadlines =Submission: ex-
tended abstracts (2-4 pages) following ACM tem-
plate should be sent in electronic form (pdf) to
eic2016@isir.upmc.fr - April 3rd, 2016: Papers Sub-
mission Deadline - April 20th, 2016: Notication of
Acceptance - May 4th, 2016: Camera-Ready Paper Sub-
mission - July 21st, 2016: Workshop
Each accepted abstract will be presented in one or more
of the following formats: - poster - 2-minutes video -
demonstration
Your submission email should specify in which of these
formats you would like to present.
Original works, position papers as well as overviews of
author's recent work are all welcome.
All abstracts will be included in the GECCO workshop
proceedings, unless explicitly required by the authors
(for copyright reason, for instance).
GECCO is sponsored by the Association for Comput-
ing Machinery Special Interest Group on Genetic and
Evolutionary Computation (SIGEVO). SIG Services: 2
Penn Plaza, Suite 701, New York, NY, 10121, USA,
1-800-342-6626 (USA and Canada) or +212-626-0500
(Global).
St ephane Doncieux, Josh Auerbach, Richard Duro and
Harold P. de Vladar
Harold P. de Vladar
Center for the Conceptual Foundations of Science. Par-
menides Foundation. Kirchplatz 1, 82049 Pullach, Ger-
many
hpvladar.wordpress.com www.parmenides-
foundation.org \Harold P. de Vladar"
<Harold.Vladar@parmenides-foundation.org >126 EvolDir May 1, 2016
Edinburgh
EvolutionaryQuantGenetics
Oct31-Nov4
Short course in EVOLUTIONARY QUANTITATIVE
GENETICS
The course: This course will give a comprehensive re-
view of modern concepts in Evolutionary Quantitative
Genetics. The contents of the course are basic statistics,
population genetics, quantitative genetics, evolutionary
response in quantitative traits, estimating the tness of
traits and mixed models and their extensions.
Course dates: 31 Oct - 4 Nov 2016.
Location: The Roslin Institute <http://-
www.roslin.ed.ac.uk/ >, The University of Edinburgh,
Scotland, UK.
Instructor: Dr Bruce Walsh <http://eeb.arizona.edu/-
people/dr-j-bruce-walsh >, Department of Ecology &
Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona.
Brief programme: Monday, Oct 31- Background: Ba-
sic stats, population genetics. Tuesday, Nov 1- Basic
Quantitative Genetics. Wednesday, Nov 02- Evolution-
ary response in quantitative traits. Thursday, Nov 03-
Estimating the tness of traits. Friday, Nov 04- Mixed
Models and their extensions.
A more detailed syllabus can be downloaded here.
Participants: Participation at the course is open to all.
Course fees: Level 1 - 300 - Internal University of Ed-
inburgh students and sta. Level 2 - 400 - External
academics. Level 3 - 500 - Industry.
The course fee includes tuition, lunch and light refresh-
ments.
Registration: Pre-registration is now open, please
email Maria Sanchez <Maria.Sanchez@ed.ac.uk >sub-
ject Walsh course EQG.
Hosts: John Hickey < http://-
www.alphagenes.roslin.ed.ac.uk/group-members/-
john-hickey/ >, Division of Genetics and Genomics,
The Roslin Institute, University of Edinburgh.
Josephine Pemberton < http://-
pemberton.bio.ed.ac.uk/home >, Institute of Evolu-
tionary Biology, University of Edinburgh, University of
Edinburgh.Chris Haley <http://www.hgu.mrc.ac.uk/people/-
c.haley.html >, MRC Human Genetics Unit, MRC
IGMM, University of Edinburgh.
For any further information please contact Maria
Sanchez <Maria.Sanchez@ed.ac.uk >.
http://www.alphagenes.roslin.ed.ac.uk/short-course-
in-evolutionary-quantitative-genetics/ HICKEY John
<John.Hickey@roslin.ed.ac.uk >
Faro Portugal StatisticalGenetics
Ext Deadline
Please note, the application period has been extended
until 8th April 2016.
Please apply to ccmaratt@ualg.pt
||
ADVERTISEMENT WEBSITE: http://-
att.ccmar.ualg.pt/statistical genetics 2016 WORK-
SHOP IN STATISTICAL GENETICS - taught by
BRUCE WEIR - Professor of Biostatistics, and
Director of the Institute of Public Health Genetics
at the University of Washington. Bruce Weir is
the author of the textbook \Genetic Data Analysis"
(3rd edition in preparation) and he has directed
the Summer Institute in Statistical Genetics since
1996. http://www.gs.washington.edu/faculty/weir.htm,
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=-
Bruce+Weir DESCRIPTION: A unied treatment
for the analysis of discrete genetic data, starting with
estimates and sample variances of allele frequencies to
illustrate genetic vs statistical sampling and Bayesian
approaches. A detailed look at Hardy-Weinberg and
linkage disequilibrium, including the use of exact tests
with mid-p-values and a new look at X-chromosome
Hardy-Weinberg testing. A new characterization
of population structure with F-statistics, based on
allelic matching within and between populations with
individual relationship estimation as a special case.
Analyses illustrated with applications to forensic science
and association mapping, with particular reference to
rare variants.
VENUE: Centre of Marine Sciences, University of the
Algarve, Faro, Portugal. http://ccmar.ualg.pt - Google
maps: https://goo.gl/cM78fp
DATE: 8th-9th September 2016
FORMAT: 2-day workshop, lectures and hands-on prac-May 1, 2016 EvolDir 127
tical sessions (attendees will need to bring laptops). The
course is equivalent to 3 European ECTS credits.
INTENDED AUDIENCE: PhD students, post-doctoral
and advanced researchers (but no formal restriction)
REGISTRATION FEE: 240 euro
Registration does not include travel and lodging. Faro
has an international airport located 4 km from the Gam-
belas Campus of the University of Algarve where the
course will take place.
HOW TO APPLY: Applications in the form of a CV and
motivational letter should be sent to ccmaratt@ualg.pt
by *8th April 2016*. Applicants will be selected on
merit and successful applicants will be informed by 10th
April 2016.
SCHOLARSHIPS: At least 2 scholarships to cover regis-
tration fees will be awarded to PhD students; applicants
should indicate if they would like to be considered and
must send proof of student status.
ACCOMMODATION: Recommended: Hotel Aeromar
at Faro beach ( http://www.aeromar.net/en) has tem-
porarily reserved (until 31st May) and discounted 8
double rooms, priced 62.5 euro and 80 euro, double and
single occupancy, respectively (mention CCMAR reser-
vation when booking). Additional accommodation at
the beach and in Faro centre: http://goo.gl/mgG85g. A
minibus service will run between the beach, town centre,
and campus.
CONTACTS: Ester Serr ~A £o - Assistant Professor,
UALG/CCMAR - eserrao@ualg.pt Cymon J. Cox - FCT
Coordinating Researcher, CCMAR - cymon@ualg.pt
Advanced Technologies and Train-
ing programme @ CCMAR 2016 cc-
maratt@ualg.pt <ccmaratt@ccmar.ualg.pt >,
att.ccmar.ualg.pt/statistical genetics 2016
The Centre of Marine Sciences (Centro de Ci^ encias
do Mar, CCMAR) is an independent multidisciplinary,
non-prot institute located on the Gambelas cam-
pus of the University of the Algarve in Faro with
~250 members and a mission to promote research and
education in the marine sciences. Faro ( http://-
www.algarve-tourist.com/Faro-portugal-guide.html) is
the capital city of the Algarve region of southern Portu-
gal and borders the Ria Formosa National Park (http:/-
/www.formosamar.com/en). The Algarve ( http://-
www.visitalgarve.pt/?idioma=uk) boasts >300 days
of sun per year, stunning beaches and mountain vis-
tas, opportunities for diving, golf, and other sporting
activities, and a unique traditional regional cuisine (esp.
seafood). A variety of optional social activities will be
organised to coincide with the course and special eventscan be organised upon request for participants and/or
accompanying persons (diving, surf, stand-up paddle,
windsurf, kayaking, horse-riding, tennis, bird-watching,
nature walks, boat guided tours, shing, etc).
Bruce Weir - Recent Publications:
Zhu ZH, Bakshi1 A, Vinkhuyzen AAE, Hemani G, Lee
SH, Nolte IM, van Vliet-Ostaptchouk JV, Snieder H,
The LifeLines Cohort Study, Esko T, Milani L, M agi R,
Metspalu A, Hill WG, Weir BS, Goddard ME, Visscher
PM,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Hafjel Norway Selection Jun6-10
reminder
Dear colleagues,
This is a reminder for the workshop on *\Optimal Con-
tribution Selection"*
arraged by The Nordic Genetic Resource Center (Nord-
Gen) in Hafjell ( ~Ayer municipality north of Lilleham-
mer), Norway 6th-10th of June 2016.
The main goals of the workshop are:
- to introduce the theory and implementation of Optimal
Contribution Selection in sustainable management of
breeding and conservation programs
- to promote the independent use of EVA (EVolutionary
Algorithms) software with hands-on exercises
To maximize the learning experience of all participants,
the workshop is divided into two parts. Participants
may choose to register for *both* *or only one* of the
consecutive parts: \*Part I - Introductory"* and \*Part
II - Advanced"*. The maximum number of participants
in Part I and Part II are 20 and 25, respectively. There
are still few places left on both parts.
For a more detailed description of the workshop program,
registration and practical information please follow the
link below:
https://sites.google.com/a/nordgen.org/workshop-
optimal-contribution-selection/ Feel free to distribute
this invitation amongst your colleagues and other128 EvolDir May 1, 2016
institutions.
Best regards
Anne Kettunen
Dr. Anne Kettunen Senior Scientist NordGen - Nordic
Genetic Resource Center P.O. Box 115, NO-1431 ~As,
Norway Street address: Raveien 9, NO-1430 ~As, Nor-
way Phone: +47 9036 5249, mobile: +47 9778 0903
anne.kettunen@nordgen.org www.nordgen.org Anne
Kettunen <anne.kettunen@nordgen.org >
Hinxton UK HumGenomeAnalysis
JUL20-26 DEADLINE APR8
Last Call for Applications and Bursaries: Closes FRI-
DAY 8 April!
Human Genome Analysis: Genetic Analysis of Multi-
factorial Diseases 20-26 July 2016, Wellcome Genome
Campus, Hinxton UK Application and Bursary Dead-
line: 8 April
Summary: This intensive, computational course is aimed
at scientists actively involved in genetic analysis of mul-
tifactorial traits. The programme provides a comprehen-
sive overview of the statistical methods currently used to
map disease susceptibility genes in human populations.
Bursaries: Limited bursaries are available (up to 50%
of the course fee) and are awarded on merit. URL:
https://registration.hinxton.wellcome.ac.uk/events/-
item.aspx?e=3D566 COURSE INSTRUCTORS
Daniel Weeks (University of Pittsburgh, USA) Heather
Cordell (Newcastle University, UK) Simon Heath (Cen-
tre Nacional d'Analisi Genomica (CNAG), Barcelona,
Spain) Janet Sinsheimer (UCLA, USA) Eric Sobel
(UCLA, USA) Joe Terwilliger (Columbia University,
USA)
GUEST SPEAKERS for 2016
Richard Duerr (University of Pittsburgh, USA) Andrew
Morris (University of Liverpool, UK) Nicole Soranzo
(Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, UK) Timothy Thorn-
ton (University of Washington, USA) Chris Wallace
(University of Cambridge, UK)
Full details at: www.wellcomegenomecampus.org/-
coursesandconferences \JanetS@mednet.ucla.edu"
<JanetS@mednet.ucla.edu >LakeBalaton Hungary
ConservationGenetics May30-Jun10
Deadline
SHORT TITLE
Registration Deadline - CONGEN2016 Lake Balaton
Hungary
LONG TITLE
Deadline approaching - Recent Advances in Conserva-
tion Genetics Course (ConGen2016)at Lake Balaton,
HUNGARY www.congen2016.com Dear Conservation
Genetics Community:
Please note that the Registration deadline for Con-
Gen2016 is approaching (April 15).
The 2016 Recent Advances in Conservation Genetics
Short Course (ConGen2016) will be held at Balaton
Limnological Institute of the Hungarian Academy of
Sciences near Budapest, Hungary over May 30-June 10,
2016. The course will host 25-30 students dedicated to
conservation and about 20-25 faculty from around the
world.
The course will be directed by Dr. Stephen J. O'Brien,
and taught by renowned scientists in methods, interpre-
tation, and applications of molecular genetic analyses for
conservation of endangered species, who will also share
a variety of their personal experiences in this important
eld. ConGen2016 faculty (http://congen2016.com/-
home/congen2016-faculty/) is an amazing group of peo-
ple who come from all around the world and will be
teaching, sharing their conservation stories and interact-
ing with students during the course.
For the rst time in its ore than 25 year history Congen
is coming to Europe. The 2016 course will be organized
in collaboration with the Balaton Limnological Insti-
tute on the shores of this charming freshwater lake in
Hungary. It is one of the largest freshwater lakes, and
one of the region's foremost tourist destinations. The
mountainous region of the northern shore is known both
for its historic character and as a major wine region,
while the at southern shore is known for its resort
towns. Due in no small way to the scientic eorts of
the Balaton Institute researchers, Lake Balaton is today
one of the most intensively studied lakes of the world.
Who should apply?May 1, 2016 EvolDir 129
Applicants should be conservation-minded scientists (ad-
vanced graduate students, post-docs, teachers, and re-
searchers with advanced degrees) from academia, govern-
ment, NGOs, or industry who are studying the genetics
of endangered species and who will apply the knowl-
edge gained from this course to the conservation of such
species.
Please submit your registration here: http://-
congen2016.com/home/registration/ Registration Cost:
Early Registration - paid before March 1, 2016: The
cost per participant will be US $2,150 and will include
your accommodation, all meals and travel from and to
the airport.
Late Registration - paid after March 1 and before April
25, 2016: The cost of late registration per participant
will be US $2,350 and will include your accommodation,
all meals and travel from and to the airport.
Application forms: Please complete the application form
below and submit together with a CV. Successful ap-
plicants will be notied via email and will be sent ad-
ditional course information and they must ensure that
they check the following list. Payment must be made
in full using the PayPal link that will only be made
available to the successful applicants have been notied
or by direct bank deposit (SWIFT).
Scholarships:
Partial or full scholarships may be awarded to regis-
tered students, subject to availability. The scholarship
application is a separate process and will be coordi-
nated with our sponsors. To be eligible for a scholar-
ship, please apply on this page http://congen2016.com/-
home/registration/scholarship-application/ . Please
note: Scholarships will be allocated based on need,
scholastic potential , likelihood of conservation trans-
lation, the applicant's CV, and other information con-
tained in the application form. Scholarships will be
awarded as a complete or partial refund of the tuition
for those applicants who have already submitted their
deposit.
Course Faculty
- Stephen J. O'Brien: Chief Scientic Ocer at the Theo-
dosius Dobzhansky Center for Genome Bioinformatics ,
St. Petersburg State University, RUSSIA
- Scott Baker: Professor and Associate Director, Marine
Mammal Institute, Oregon State University, OREGON,
USA
- Oliver Ryder: Director of Genetics and Kleberg Chair
of San Diego Zoo's Institute for Conservation Research,
CALIFORNIA, USA- Joan Pontius: Senior Bioinformatics Scientist at ESAC
Inc, Rockville MARYLAND, USA
- Harris Lewin: Vice chancellor for research at the Uni-
versity of California, Davis, CALIFORNIA, USA
- Dennis Larkin: Reader in Comparative Genomics Vet-
erinary College, London, ENGLAND, UK
- Bridget von Holdt: Assistant Professor, Ecology and
Evolution, Princeton University, NEW JERSEY, USA
- Augosthinho Antunes: CIMAR, Centro Interdisciplinar
de Investiga ~A^A §~A^A £o Marinha e Ambiental, Labora-
tory of Ecotoxicology,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Lisbon Portugal Biodiversity
Lichens
Subject: Portugal-cE3c-Course: two advanced courses
with deadlines May 2016 cE3c - Centre for Ecology,
Evolution and Environmental Changes is organizing sev-
eral Advanced Courses: see below the two with closer
deadlines.
Additional informations at: http://-
ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/?cat=1 cE3c -
Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental
Changes Advanced Course Natural History Collections
and Biodiversity taught by Maria Judite Alves, Raquel
Barata, Cristiane Bastos-Silveira et al. jMay 30 - June
3 @ Lisbon, Portugal
Objectives Natural history museums are privileged
spaces for seminal research on dierent subjects of bio-
logical sciences such as biodiversity, evolution, ecology,
biogeography and taxonomy. This crucial role is due to
the fact that they represent biological diversity reposi-
tories becoming huge libraries of information on Earth
living organisms. The long-term sampling through var-
ious decades renders to natural history collections an
historic perspective that allows reconstructing a \mem-
ory", sometimes secular, of natural patterns and pro-
cesses. This aspect gains particular relevance nowadays
because of the increasing rate of species extinctions and
biodiversity decrease. This course aims to: - evidence
the importance of natural history collections for the130 EvolDir May 1, 2016
study of biodiversity. - show new tools and approaches
to extract and disseminate biodiversity data from nat-
ural history collections - increase awareness of young
researchers for the scientic and culture value of Natural
History Museums.
Course coordinator Maria Judite Alves
(mjalves@fc.ul.pt) Researcher at the Centre for
Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Changes
(cE3c), Faculty of Sciences of the University of Lisbon
(http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/teams/user/?id=211)
Intended audience This ve days intensive course will
be open to a maximum number of 16 participants, being
directed to PhD or MSc students in Biology, Evolution,
Ecology or related areas, and postdocs and other profes-
sionals working in related topics. Minimum formation:
Bachelor in Biology or related area.
The course is free for 1st year PhD students in the
Doctoral programme in Biology (FCUL), Biodiversity,
Genetics and Evolution (UL; UP) and Biology and Ecol-
ogy of Global Changes (UL, UA). For information of
fees for other participants see the programme details
(access link below).
Deadline for applications: May 9, 2016
Candidates should send a short CV and motivation
letter to Maria Judite Alves (mjalves@fc.ul.pt)
For additional details about the course and to know how
to register, click here: http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/-
training/ver.php?id For more information about the
course, please contact by email: Maria Judite Alves
(mjalves@fc.ul.pt)
cE3c - Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental
Changes Advanced Course Lichens as a tool for inter-
pretation of environmental changes taught by Cristina
Maguas, Cristina Branquinho, Soa Augusto et al. jJuly
11-15 2016 @ Lisbon, Portugal
Objectives: With this course, we aim at providing the
participants with the basics of lichen biology and ecol-
ogy, biomonitoring and data analysis methods to allow
the use of lichens for the interpretation of the environ-
mental conditions and the development of a responsible
scientic-based environmental management.
Course coordinator Cristina Maguas (cmhan-
son@fc.ul.pt) Associate Professor at the Faculty
of Sciences of the University of Lisbon, Researcher at
the Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental
Changes (cE3c) (http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/teams/-
user/?id=145)
Intended audience This course will be open to a maxi-
mum number of 18 participants, being directed to PhD
or MSc students in Ecology, Environmental Studies,Geography or related areas, and postdocs and other
professionals working in related topics. Minimum for-
mation: Bachelor in Biology, Natural Science or related
areas.
The course is free for 1st year PhD students in the
Doctoral programme in Biology (FCUL), Biodiversity,
Genetics and Evolution (UL; UP) and Biology and Ecol-
ogy of Global Changes (UL, UA). For information of
fees for other participants see the programme details
(access link below)
Deadline for applications: May 13, 2016
Candidates should send a short CV and motivation
letter to lichenscourse@fc.ul.pt
For additional details about the course and to know how
to register, click here: http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/-
training/ver.php?id For more information about the
course, please contact by email: Cristina M aguas
(cmhanson@fc.ul.pt)
Margarida Matos, PhD Associate Professor
Researcher ID: K-2365-2012
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Maynooth Ireland Phylogenomics
May29-Jun3
PHYLOGENOMICS SUMMER SCHOOL 2016 (MAY
29TH - JUNE 3RD)
http://mcinerneylab.com/evolution/phylogenomics-
summer-school-2016-may-29th-june3rd/ (Est. 1999)
What?: Week-long, intensive phylogenetics course cov-
ering all aspects of bioinformatics and phylogenet-
ics/phylogenomics. Where?: Department of Biology,
National University of Ireland Maynooth. This is ap-
proximately 40 minutes from Dublin Airport (Serviced
by Aer Lingus, British Airways, Ryanair, American Air-
lines, Lufthansa, Air France, etc.) , 25km from the
centre of Dublin, Ireland. When?: Sunday May 29th -
Friday June 3rd (inclusive), 2016.
Who is it for?: This course starts with the basics of
bioinformatics - unix computer usage, genome assembly,
gene prediction and genome annotation.May 1, 2016 EvolDir 131
The course then leads on to phylogenetic reconstruction
and deals with all the major methods and all kinds of
data from genes to genomes. Therefore, it is partic-
ularly suited to researchers that have a keen interest
in phylogenetic reconstruction, but have little or no
practical experience or theoretical background (ideally
suited to new Masters/PhD students/post-docs, but
also investigators moving into this area of research).
We welcome organismal phylogeneticists or genome sci-
entists who are trying to make sense of the evolutionary
history of any kind of gene or genome.
Who has taken this course in the past?: Researchers
from every continent and every stage of their career,
from early-stage Masters students, to Professors with
40 years experience in research.
Course structure: Every day will begin with formal
lectures covering all parts of phylogenetic reconstruc-
tion. The afternoons will be taken up with practicals.
In addition, the course will have specic lectures that
demonstrate \use cases" for phylogenetics, with exam-
ples from prokaryotes, animals, plants, protozoans and
fungi.
Student involvement: All students are expected to give
a ve minute presentation of their research agenda. This
will happen towards the beginning of the week, in order
to encourage discussions during the course.
Course fee: 750. This includes a welcome reception
on Sunday May 29th, all coee breaks and all lunches
during the week and the course dinner on Thursday
evening. It does not include accommodation.
Accommodation: If you are accepted on the course, we
will make several recommendations for inexpensive (27 -
70 per night) or more luxurious accommodation (100-
250 per night). You must organise and pay for your own
accommodation.
Application process:
You rst place an order for a place on the course (email
phyloinformatic@gmail.com). You must include your
CV and a half-page letter of interest, stating your po-
sition and why you want to do the course. You will
get a yes/no answer within two working days and if the
answer is yes, you will get a link to a BACS payment sys-
tem. You will then have ve working days to make the
payment. Your place on the course will be held for that
time. Please email us at phyloinformatic@gmail.com if
you need more information.
Note 1: All students will be presented with a certicate
of completion for this course and it can be used as part
of post-graduate studies.
Note 2: We have found it better if students bring theirown laptops. Please let us know if this is a problem for
you and we will supply a laptop.
Programme 'V tentative and subject to change
Day 1 (Sunday May 29th, 2016) ' ^AMeet and Greet' ^A
Meeting with students.(8:00PM) ' ^Aintroductions and
refreshments' ^A
Day 2 (Monday May 30th, 2016) ' ^Athe scene' ^A
Lecture I (9.00 'V 10.30): James McInerney 'V ' ^Ato
Gene and Genome Evolution' ^A
Coee break (10.30 'V 10.45) (Provided by the course)
Student introductions and presentations I (10.45 'V
12.30)
Lunch (12.30-1.30) (Provided by the course)
Student introductions and presentations II ( 1.30 'V
3:00)
Coee Break (3.00 'V 3.15) (Provided by the course)
Practical session I (3.15 'V 5.00): David Fitzpatrick
(leading demonstrator) 'V ' ^Apipelining and the automa-
tion of analyses in comparative genomics and phyloge-
nomics I' ^A
Seminar I (5.00 'V 5.45): Mary O'Connell 'V ' ^Aand the
Evolution of Function' ^A
Day 3 (Tuesday May 31st, 2016) \Putting Order On
The Data"
Lecture II (9.00-10.30): James McInerney - \BLAST -
sequence similarity, database searching and statistics"
Coee break (10.30 - 10.45) (provided by the course)
Practical session II (10.45 - 12.30) David Fitzpatrick
(leading demonstrator) - \Short read assembly using
Velvet"
Lunch (12.30-1.30) (Provided by the course)
Practical session III (1.30-3.00) David Fitzpatrick (lead-
ing demonstrator) - \Gene prediction using GeneMark"
Coee break (3.00 - 3.15)
Practical session IV (3.15-5.00) David Fitzpatrick (lead-
ing demonstrator) - \Genome annotation using Inter-
pro"
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html132 EvolDir May 1, 2016
Norway NonmodelOrganismHTS
May31-Jun10
PhD course: High throughput sequencing of non-model
organisms DR425F - 2016
The Faculty of Biosciences and Aquaculture at Nord
University 31 May 2016 - 10 June 2016
The Faculty of Biosciences and Aquaculture at Nord
University takes great pleasure in inviting you to the
annual PhD course \High throughput sequencing of non-
model organisms" (DR425F) 31 May - 10 June 2016.
High throughput sequencing (HTS) technologies are
being applied to a wide range of important topics in
biology. However, the analyses of non-model organisms,
for which little previous sequence information is avail-
able, pose specic problems. This course will address the
specic strengths and weaknesses of alternative HTS
technologies, the computational resources needed for
HTS, and how to analyze non-model species using HTS.
The course consists of practical training in preparing and
running fragment libraries, HTS bioinformatics training,
and lecturing/seminars of HTS approaches specically
targeting non-model organisms.
A detailedcourse description is availablehere [http:/-
/www.nord.no/en/studies/programmes-courses/nd-
programmes-courses/2016h/1/Pages/DR425Fv1.aspx] .
We will accept a maximum of 10 students. The closing
date for applications is April 29.
If you have questions regarding the course, please con-
tact Prof. Truls Moum at truls.b.moum@nord.no
\\"Alexander J uterbock \\" <Alexander-
Jueterbock@web.de >
Portugal NicheModelling Jul18-22
INTRODUCTION TO NICHE MODELLING SECOND
EDITION 18-22 July 2016 Observatorio Astronomico
Prof. Manuel de Barros Faculty of Sciences o University
of Porto Alameda do Monte da Virgem, Vila Nova de
Gaia, PortugalDo you want to know what is an Niche Model and how
to calculate it? Do you want to use ecological niche
models to support a species' description? Or to evaluate
niche conservatism inside a taxonomical group? This
course will teach you the base theory of ecological niche
modelling and its main methodologies. By the end of
this 5-day practical course, you will have the capacity
to perform ecological niche models and understand their
results. You will be able to choose and apply the correct
methodology depending in the aim of your study and
type of datasets.
This course is orientated to PhD and MSc students,
as well as other students and researchers working on
biogeography, evolutionary biology, systematists, or re-
lated disciplines. Participants will receive a diploma of
course attendance, copies of presentations and materials
used, one selection of the most relevant articles on Niche
Modelling, and a copy of programs and other tools used
in the course.
The course will be mainly practical, with some theoret-
ical lectures. All modelling processes and calculations
will be performed with R, the free software environment
for statistical computing and graphics (http://www.r-
project.org/). Students will learn to use modelling
algorithms like Maxent, Bioclim, Domain, and logis-
tic regressions, and R packages for computing ENMs
like Dismo and Biomod2. Also, students will learn to
compare dierent ecological niche models with Ecospat
package.
** Recommended Background Basic knowledge in Geo-
graphical Information Systems and R statistical package
is necessary.
** Course Format The rst course day will be mainly
theoretical. The following days will be mainly practical
with some short theoretical presentations. The course
will be lectured in English.
** Lecturer Neftali Sillero Assistant Researcher Centro
de Investigac,ao em Ciencias Geo-Espaciais (CICGE),
Faculdade de Ciencias, Universidade do Porto
** Course Information and Registration On *l* y 24
inscriptions! The registration fee is 150EUR. Registra-
tion deadline: 1/7/2016. Students must bring their own
laptops!
Dates: 18-22 July 2015. Venue: Observatorio
Astronomico Prof. Manuel de Barros, Alameda
do Monte da Virgem, Vila Nova de Gaia (Por-
tugal). https://goo.gl/maps/Xaxfe ** More
information in: https://www.facebook.com/-
pages/Introduction-to- Ecological-Niche-Modelling/
359229247606906 https://sites.google.com/site/-
neftalisillero/Home/enm-course { Neftali SilleroMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 133
Assistant Researcher https://sites.google.com/-
site/neftalisillero/ https://scholar.google.pt/-
citations?user=yJHOX7IAAAAJ&hl=en http://-
na2re.ismai.pt/ neftali.sillero@gmail.com
CICGE: Centro de Investigac,ao em Ciencias Geo-
Espaciais Faculdade de Ciencias da Universidade do
Porto Observatorio Astronomico Prof. Manuel de Bar-
ros Alameda do Monte da Virgem 4430-146 Vila Nova
de Gaia, Portugal
Life is too short to eat bad chocolate
Neftal  Sillero <neftali.sillero@gmail.com >
Scotland GeneticDataAnalysis
Exploration Aug16-20
\Genetic data analysis/exploration using R"
Delivered by Dr. Thibaut Jombart
http://prstatistics.com/course/genetic-data-analysis-
using-r-gdar/ This course will run from 16th - 20th
August, Millport Field Station, Ilse of Cumbrae,
Scotland
This course will provide an extensive overview of ex-
ploratory methods for the analysis of genetic data using
the R software and aim to equip participants with power-
ful resources for tackling increasingly common challenges
in genetic data analysis. It is aimed at PhD students,
research postgraduates, and practicing academics as
well as persons in industry working with genetic data
in elds such as molecular ecology, evolutionary biology,
and phylogenetics. This course will provide a compre-
hensive introduction to various statistical approaches
for the analysis of genetic data.
Course content is as follows
Day 1 Introduction to phylogenetic reconstruction
- Lecture 1a: Reconstructing phylogenies from genetic se-
quence data. Three main approaches covered: distance-
based phylogenies; maximum parsimony; and likelihood-
based approaches.
- Lecture 1b: Short R refresher.
- Practical 1: Phylogenetic reconstruction using R. Three
main approaches plus rooting a tree; assessing/testing
for a molecular clock; and bootstrapping.
Main packages: ape, phangorn.
Day 2 Introduction to multivariate analysis of geneticdata
- Lecture 2: Key concepts in multivariate analysis. Focus
on using factorial methods for genetic data analysis.
- Practical 2: Basics of multivariate analysis of genetic
data in R. Topics include: data handling, population
genetic tests of population structure (PCA, PCoA).
Main packages: adegenet, ade4, ape.
Day 3 Exploring group diversity
- Lecture 3: Approaches to identifying and describing
genetic clusters. Topics include: hierarchical cluster-
ing, K-means, population-level multivariate analysis
(between-group-PCA, DA, DAPC).
- Practical 3: Applying the approaches covered in morn-
ing lecture and emphasising their strengths and weak-
nesses.
Main packages: adegenet, ade4.
Day 4 Spatial genetic structure
- Lecture 4: Discussing the origin and signicance of
spatial genetic patterns, and how to test or them.
- Practical 4: Visualising and analysing spatial genetic
data. Topics: spatial density estimates, Moran/Mantel
tests, mapping principal components in PCA, spatial
PCA.
- Main packages: adegenet, glmnet.
Main packages: adegenet, glmnet.
Day 5 Using R for reproducible science
- Lecture 5: Using R for reproducible science.
- Practical 5: Practical session based on morning lecture
- Main packages: knitr, Sweave, rmarkdown
- Option to discuss own data (time permitting)
Please email any inquiries to oliver-
hooker@prstatistics.com or visit our website
www.prstatistics.com Please feel free to distribute this
material anywhere you feel is suitable
Upcoming courses - email for details oliver-
hooker@prstatistics.com
ADVANCING IN STATISTICAL MODELLING US-
ING R (May)
TIMES SERIES DATA ANALYSIS FOR ECOLO-
GISTS AND CLIMATOLOGISTS (May)
INTRODUCTION TO PYTHON FOR BIOLOGISTS
(May)
ADVANCES IN SPATIAL ANALYSIS OF MULTI-
VARIATE ECOLOGICAL DATA (July)134 EvolDir May 1, 2016
ADVANCES IN DNA TAXONOMY USING R (August)
INTRODUCTION TO BIOINFORMAITCS USING
LINUX (August)
INTRODUCTION TO BAYESIAN HIERARCHICAL
MODELLING (August)
MODEL BASED MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS OF
ECOLOGICAL DATA USING R (October)
LANDSCAPE (POPULATION) GENETIC DATA
ANALYSIS USING R (October)
APPLIED BAYESIAN MODELLING FOR ECOLO-
GISTS AND EPIDEMIOLOGISTS (October)
PHYLOGENETIC DATA ANALYSIS USING R
(November)
SPATIAL ANALYSIS OF ECOLOGIC AL DATA US-
ING R (November)
Dates still to be conrmed - email for details oliver-
hooker@prstatistics.com
STABLE ISOTOPE MIXING MODELS USING SIAR,
SIBER AND MIXSIAR USING R
INTRODUCTION TO R AND STATISTICS FOR BI-
OLOGISTS
BIOINFORMATICS FOR GENETICISTS AND BIOL-
OGISTS
Oliver Hooker
PR Statistics
Oliver Hooker
PR~Statistics
\oliverhooker@prstatistics.co.uk"
<oliverhooker@prstatistics.co.uk >
SimBioQUBES FacultyMentoring
SimBio (http://simbio.com) and the Quantitative Un-
dergraduate Biology Education and Synthesis (QUBES)
project invite applications for a Faculty Mentoring Net-
work (FMN) focused on using SimBio's SimUText Ecol-
ogy as a platform to incorporate more active learning
into ecology courses. Participants in this FMN will
each pick two SimBio chapters to implement in their
course, and will work together with SimBio authors
to develop and implement in-class activities to accom-
pany those chapters with the goal of providing increasedactive-learning opportunities to their students.
The FMN will have two main objectives:
1. To develop, localize, and test in-class activities for
ecology classes that can be shared with other faculty,
and
2. To promote group-learning and sharing around im-
plementation strategies for the in-class activities.
The Faculty Mentoring Network is a mentored, long-
term community interaction on the QUBES site. The
group will begin working online in July, with a set of
three online two hour meetings. Applicants must be
teaching ecology or an equivalent course in Fall 2016
and be able to commit to 1-2 hours per week, including
online meetings. Participants will receive a stipend for
participation. Upon completion of the Faculty Men-
toring Network participants will post their materials
and teaching guidelines for sharing with other ecology
faculty.
SimBio will be hosting 20-30 minute webinar sessions
at the following times to discuss the FMN project with
instructors who may be interested in participating:
-Friday April 8th @ 9am pacic, 10am mountain, 11am
central, 12pm eastern
-Friday April 8th @ 11am pacic, 12pm mountain, 1pm
central, 2pm eastern
-Friday April 15th @ 10am pacic, 11am mountain, 12pm
central, 1pm eastern
Please visit http://simbio.com/simutext-ecology-FMN
to register for a session or https://qubeshub.org/-
groups/simbiofmn for more information.
Questions? Contact Eli Meir (emeir@simbio.com) or
Alison Hale (anm116@pitt.edu)
\Hale, Alison Nicole" <anm116@pitt.edu >
Toronto MappingGenomicFea-
turesClinicalTraits
Jul18-Jul19
Canadian Bioinformatics Workshops present: Next Gen-
eration Methods for Mapping Genomics Features and
Clinical Traits
Course Dates: July 18 - 19
Instructors: Philip Awadalla (Ontario Institute for Can-
cer Research) and Stephen Montgomery (Standford Uni-May 1, 2016 EvolDir 135
versity)
Location: Downtown Toronto, ON
Registration: https://bioinformatics.ca/workshops/-
2016/next-generation-methods-mapping-genomic-
features-and-clinical-traits-2016 This 2 day workshop
focuses on the genetics and analysis of genomes and
quantitative traits in human populations, with emphasis
on population genetic inference, genetic mapping,
estimation and prediction analysis of discrete (diseases)
and quantitative traits using genomic resources. Prin-
ciples and pitfalls of prediction analyses using genetic
markers and eQTL mapping will also be discussed.
Participants will gain practical experience and skills to
be able to:
* Estimate population genetic parameters using partial
or whole-genome data * Infer relatedness from genomic
data * Evaluate GWAS data for quantitative traits * Use
GWAS data to estimate and partition genetic variance *
Infer Gene x Environment interactions using multi-omic
approaches (eg. eQTL mapping)
Course Outline
Day 1
Module 1 - Concepts in Population Genomics (2016)
Basic concepts in population genomics (drift, structure,
inbreeding) Parametric and Non-parametric Inference
in population genetics for inferences of mutation
Lab Practical: The following lab exercises will be done
in R
Hapmap/genotyping data vs. whole genome/sequencing
data Simulations V coalescent, forward simulations
MCMC V extensions of the coalescent, capturing and
estimating mutation and recombination events/rates
Module 2 - Extensions in Population Genomics (2016)
The coalescent Extensions of the coalescent including
inferences of recombination and population structure
Module 3 - QTLs (2016)
Basic concepts in QTL mapping in inbred populations
and outbred populations Linkage analysis for quantita-
tive traits
Lab Practical:
Principals of linkage analyses (PLINK, Merlin) Analyti-
cal treatment of discrete (binary) outcome data versus
continuous data
Day 2
Module 4 - More QTLs (2016)
Whole genome linkage analysis GWAS for quantitativetraits Imputation
Lab Practical:
GCTA, Replication and Multiple testing correction Co-
variates and relatedness
Module 5 - Gene x Environment (2016)
Basic concepts in gene expression analysis: RNAseq,
eQTLs inferences Integrating phenotypic and environ-
mental data
Module 6 - Functional Annotation of Mutations & Hap-
lotypes (2016)
Impact of selection and disease on mutations Classical
approaches to mapping mutations and genes under se-
lection or potentially damaging/associated with disease
Constraint and selection,- polyphen, SIFT, GERP, etc.
Lab Practical:
Modeling dominance and functional impact Inferences
using whole genome data of constraint Simulations and
analyses of mutation trajectories and impact on linked
loci
Registration and Travel awards available.
Ann Meyer <Ann.Meyer@oicr.on.ca >
UTennessee Knoxville
NIMBioSTutorial
EvolQuantGenetics Aug8-12
Please spread this announcement to colleagues:
NIMBioS Tutorial Evolutionary Quantitative Genet-
ics 2016 Meeting dates: August 8-12, 2016 Location:
NIMBioS at the University of Tennessee, Knoxville Or-
ganizers: Stevan J. Arnold, Integrative Biology, Oregon
State Univ.
Joe Felsenstein, Genome Sciences, Univ. of Washing-
ton, Seattle Objectives: This tutorial will review the
basics of theory in the eld of evolutionary quantitative
genetics and its connections to evolution observed at
various time scales. Quantitative genetics deals with the
inheritance of measurements of traits that are aected
by many genes.
Quantitative genetic theory for natural populations was
developed considerably in the period from 1970 to 1990
and up to the present, and it has been applied to a
wide range of phenomena including the evolution of136 EvolDir May 1, 2016
dierences between the sexes, sexual preferences, life
history traits, plasticity of traits, as well as the evolu-
tion of body size and other morphological measurements.
Textbooks have not kept pace with these developments,
and currently few universities oer courses in this sub-
ject aimed at evolutionary biologists. There is a need
for evolutionary biologists to understand this eld be-
cause of the ability to collect large amounts of data by
computer, the development of statistical methods for
changes of traits on evolutionary trees and for changes
in a single species through time, and the realization that
quantitative characters will not soon be fully explained
by genomics.
This tutorial aims to ll this need by reviewing basic
aspects of theory and illustrating how that theory can
be tested with data, both from single species and with
multiple-species phylogenies. Participants will learn to
use R, an open-source statistical programming language,
to build and test evolutionary models. The intended
participants for this tutorial are graduate students, post-
docs, and junior faculty members in evolutionary biol-
ogy.
The content of this tutorial will be similar to the tutorial
held at NIMBioS in 2015.
For general information, access the web page of the tuto-
rial at this address: http://www.nimbios.org/tutorials/-
TTeqg2016 Co-sponsor: American Society of Natural-
ists Instructors: Stevan J. Arnold, Integrative Biology,
Oregon State Univ. Marguerite Butler, Department
of Zoology, Univ. Hawaii Patrick Carter, Evolution-
ary Physiology, Washington State Univ., Pullman Joe
Felsenstein (by video link), Genome Sciences, Univ. of
Washington, Seattle Adam Jones, Biology, Texas A&M
Univ. Emilia Martins, Biology, Indiana Univ., Bloom-
ington Brian O'Meara, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology,
Univ. of Tennessee Patrick Phillips, Institute of Ecology
and Evolution, Univ. of Oregon Josef Uyeda, Bioin-
formatics and Evolutionary Studies, Univ. of Idaho,
Moscow
A descriptive yer can be accessed at this address:
http://www.nimbios.org/iles/TT eqg2015 yer.pdf
Application deadline: May 1, 2016 To apply, you must
complete an application on our online registration
system:
Use this link to access the system: https://-
adnimb.nimbios.org/pages/home Login or register Com-
plete your user prole (if you haven't already) Find this
tutorial event under Current Events Open for Applica-
tion and click on Apply
Food and lodging. Breakfast and lunch will be provided
at NIMBioS each day of the tutorial, as well as coeeand mid-morning and mid-afternoon snacks. NIMBioS
is not covering dinner, travel, or lodging expenses for
participants. A block of rooms at a group rate will be
reserved at the Four Points by Sheraton Knoxville Cum-
berland House Hotel. More information will be available
here soon about room rates and how participants can
make reservations.
Joe Felsenstein <joe@gs.washington.edu >
Vairao Portugal Speciation May9-13
This advanced course has as main goals to:
1) (re-)introduce the students to some of the canonical
literature concerning the process of speciation; and
2) discuss the paradigm of divergence-with-gene-ow
represented by the web-of-life metaphor.
The second goal will be accomplished by discussion
sections using Mike's new book (Arnold, M.L. 2016.
Divergence With Genetic Exchange. Oxford Univer-
sity Press), as a distillation of many studies of natural
hybridization, lateral exchange and viral recombination.
Click here to see the PROGRAMME for the course.
INTENDED AUDIENCE This course will be open to a
maximum number of 20 participants.
Priority will be given to:
- 1st year PhD students attending the BIODIV Doctoral
Programme;
- other BIODIV PhD students;
- PhD students attending other courses;
- other post-graduate students and researchers.
REGISTRATION Registration deadline: April 12, 2016.
Participation is free of charge for BIODIV students j
Registration fee for other participants: euro 150,00. To
register, please send an e-mail accompanied by a short
CV to Maria Sant'Ana at post.graduation@cibio.up.pt.
Please refer your status (PhD student, MSc Student,
Other) and the University to which you are aliated.
For more information about the course, please contact:
post.graduation@cibio.up.pt.
CIBIO - Centro de Investigacao em Biodiversidade e
Recursos Geneticos
InBIO Laboratorio Associado, Universidade do PortoMay 1, 2016 EvolDir 137
Campus Agrario de Vairao
Rua Padre Armando Quintas
4485-661 Vairao
Portugal
t: +351 252 660 411 Ext. 285
f: +351 252 661 780
e: divulgacao@cibio.up.pt
w: http://cibio.up.pt jhttp://inbio.pt
f: https://www.facebook.com/cibio.inbio CIBIO-InBIO
Divulga????o
Zagori Greece ConservationBiology
Jun27-Jul8
8th Greek Summer School in Conservation Biology -
Biodiversity Theory and Practice - Zagori, Greece, 27June to 8 July, 2016
This international course which is held under the aegis
of SCB-Europe (Society for Conservation Biology) and
of HELECOS (the Hellenic Ecological Society) aims to
equip participants with an understanding of the prin-
ciples of modern biodiversity theory and its role in
Conservation Biology. They will learn practical skills
for biodiversity eldwork including sampling design and
monitoring. Students will learn how to analyze ecolog-
ical data with R using some of the main packages for
biodiversity data analysis and have the opportunity to
try these out on their own datasets.
Further details can be found on the website: http://-
gss.bat.uoi.gr/ Application deadline: 22 April 2016
{ Dr. Martin Wiemers Department of Community Ecol-
ogy Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research -
UFZ Theodor-Lieser-Str. 4 06120 Halle Germany Tel.
+49 345 558-5322 e-mail: martin.wiemers@ufz.de http:/-
/www.ufz.de/index.php?en=31235 Martin Wiemers
<martin.wiemers@univie.ac.at >
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a once
monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope), but
should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.138 EvolDir May 1, 2016
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain old
ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better chance
of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.