E v o l D i r
March 1, 2014
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .23
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .66
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .108
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1192 EvolDir March 1, 2014
Conferences
EGI Oxford StudentConf Evolution Mar18-20 . . . . . . 2
EGI Oxford StudentConf Evolution Mar18-20 2 . . . . 3
ETHZurich GNOME2014 Jul4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
EastCarolinaU Biodiversity Mar14-15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Greifswald Germany Phylogenetics Jul14-16 . . . . . . . . 4
Guelph OE3C2014 May8-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Istanbul EcolEvolutionaryBiol Jul12-13 DeadlineExt 5
JohnsHopkinsU GalaxyCommunity Jun30-Jul2 . . . . . 6
Kiel SMBEsatelliteMicrobialEvolution Apr2014 Dead-
lineExtension . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
Lancaster Phylogenetics April15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Leicester UK EMBOHumanEvolution Apr1-4 . . . . . . .8
MNHN Paris YoungScientists Feb12-14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Manchester MolecularGenomeEvolution2014 May16 8
Montreal GenomesBiomes May25-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9
NewcastleU EvolutionaryGenetics Apr14-16 reminder
9
PortTownsend EvoWIBO Apr25-27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Portugal OccamsBeard Feb1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
PuertoRico SMBE Jun8-12 EvolutionOfRegulato-
ryGenome . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
PuertoRico SMBE Jun8-12 Registration . . . . . . . . . . . 11
PuertoRico SMBE Jun8-12 UndergradAwards . . . . . 11PuertoRico SMBE AsexualGenomeEvolAdapt Jun8-12
12
PuertoRico SMBE DetectingNaturalSelection Jun8-12
12
PuertoRico SMBE GeneOrigin Jun8-12 DeadlineEx-
tended . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
PuertoRico SMBE GeneticsDomestication Jun8-12 13
Raleigh NorthCarolina Evolution2014 Jun20-24 . . . .14
Rennes France InvasiveSpartina Jul7-10 . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Rosco Viral Emergence Evolution Apr2-6 . . . . . . . . 15
RoySoc London PhylogenyExtinction Mar10-11 . . . 16
Sacramento MolecularBiomarkers Jun8-13 . . . . . . . . . 16
SanDiego ComparativeEvolutionaryPhysiology Oct5-8
17
Tucson Arizona DeepGenomics Apr3-5 . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Tulsa Oklahoma PitviperEvolution Jun4-7 . . . . . . . . 18
UAlabama Biodiversity Apr22-24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .19
UGoettingen SizeShape Apr2-4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
UHawaii Hilo TropicalConservationBiol Apr3-4 . . . . 20
UToronto Mississauga InvasivePlants Aug6-8 . . . . . . 21
Utah EvolutionOfLice Aug2-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Vienna EED Jul22-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
EGI Oxford StudentConf Evolution
Mar18-20
The deadline for abstract submission has been extended
to February 15!
The Edward Grey Institute student conferences started
in 1947 and are intended as a place for students to
present their work in a constructive atmosphere com-
posed mostly of their peers.
In addition to undergraduates, graduate students and
early career postdocs, a small number of academics also
attend as plenary speakers.
The 2014 EGI Student Conference on Ecology and Evo-
lution will be held at the Department of Zoology, Uni-versity of Oxford, on 18-20th of March.
This year's plenary speakers include:
Julia Day (University College London) Zoe Davies
(University of Kent) Dieter Lucas (University of Cam-
bridge) Ian Owens (Natural History Museum, London)
Nathalie Seddon (University of Oxford)
Deadline for abstracts: February 15.
For further details visit our website: http://-
www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/egi/scee/ Catherine Sheard
<catherine.sheard@zoo.ox.ac.uk >
catherinesheard@gmail.comMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 3
EGI Oxford StudentConf Evolution
Mar18-20 2
A few spots remain for the EGI Student Conference
on Ecology and Evolution at the University of Oxford.
Abstract submission deadline this Saturday, February
15th.
The Edward Grey Institute of Field Ornithology stu-
dent conferences started in 1947 and are intended as a
place for students to present their work in a construc-
tive atmosphere composed mostly of their peers.
In addition to undergraduates, graduate students and
early career postdocs, a small number of academics also
attend as plenary speakers.
The 2014 EGI Student Conference on Ecology and Evo-
lution will be held at the Department of Zoology, Uni-
versity of Oxford, on 18-20th of March.
This year's plenary speakers include:
Julia Day (University College London) Zoe Davies
(University of Kent) Dieter Lukas (University of Cam-
bridge) Ian Owens (Natural History Museum, London)
Nathalie Seddon (University of Oxford)
Abstract deadline for posters and talks: February 15.
For further details visit our website: http://-
www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/egi/scee/ Catherine Sheard
<catherine.sheard@zoo.ox.ac.uk >
catherinesheard@gmail.com
ETHZurich GNOME2014 Jul4
GNOME 2014: SYMPOSIUM AND CALL FOR PA-
PERS
GNOME (Gonnet is Not Only about Molecular Evolu-
tion) 2014 is a one-day symposium in honour of Prof.
Gaston Gonnet's retirement. The symposium will take
place on 4 July 2014 at ETH Zurich, Switzerland.
We invite all interested scholars to contribute to a
festschrift on that occasion. We particularly wel-
come original papers and surveys in all areas of Prof.Gonnet's work, including (but not limited to) bioin-
formatics, symbolic and numeric computation, algo-
rithms, text-mining, computational science, and high-
performance computing.
We have partnered with PeerJ, an Open Access journal,
to handle the submission process. All submissions will
be rst considered as preprints. For submissions that
fall within PeerJ's remit (original research papers in
bioinformatics and computational science papers with
a biology component), there will be the possibility of
undergoing peer-review and, subject to acceptance un-
der normal PeerJ's criteria, publication in their jour-
nal. Preprints are free and peer-reviewed articles in-
cur a modest publication fee (but note that some in-
stitutions have special arrangements and submissions
received before 31 March are free-see PeerJ's website
for more info).
Some of the contributions will be invited for oral pre-
sentation at the retirement symposium (on 4 July 2014
at ETH Zurich, Switzerland), but presence at the sym-
posium in not required to contribute to the festschrift.
Please direct enquiries to Maria Anisimova
(maria.anisimova at inf.ethz.ch) or Christophe
Dessimoz (c.dessimoz at ucl.ac.uk).
More info on the symposium is available at http://-
gnome2014.lnk.ch . IMPORTANT DATES
* Submission deadline for contributions undergoing
peer-review: 20 April 2014 * Submission deadline for
preprint only: 30 May 2014 * Symposium date: 4 July
2014
SUBMISSION GUIDELINES
All contributions should be submitted as a PeerJ
PrePrint through the normal PeerJ website (http://-
www.peerj.com), indicating in the \Notes to Sta" eld
\Festschrift Gaston Gonnet".
Once contributions are recorded as preprints, authors
can choose to submit them for publication in the PeerJ
journal (subject to their usual peer-review standards).
For contributions outside PeerJ's remit (which is the
biological, bioinformatics, computational biology, med-
ical, and health elds), we will get in touch with the
authors to nd a publication solution on a case-by-case
basis.
UCL Department of Genetics, Evolution & Environ-
ment UCL Department of Computer Science Darwin
Building (Room 631), Gower St, London, WC1E 6BT,
UK Tel: +44 20 7679 0079 (Int. 30079) Mobile: +44
7721 047 648 http://lab.dessimoz.org Twitter: @cdessi-
moz http://lab.dessimoz.org Twitter: @cdessimoz4 EvolDir March 1, 2014
EastCarolinaU Biodiversity
Mar14-15
The Center for Biodiversity and the Department of
Biology at East Carolina University would like to
invite you to attend and participate in a symposium
entitled \Biodiversity responses to climate change:
perspectives from the southeastern US" that is sched-
uled to take place on March 14 and 15, 2014 at East
Carolina University in Greenville, NC. Our goals
are to advance our collective understanding of how
biodiversity is responding to climate change in the
southeastern US and more broadly to provide a general
framework that could guide researchers, managers
and policy makers in other regions to enhance their
understanding of how climate change may aect
biodiversity in their regions. The symposium will
feature 12 invited lectures, poster presentations, and
open discussion. Our speakers and the tentative
titles for their lectures are provided below. More
information about the symposium can be found at
http://www.ecu.edu/biology/ncbiodiversity/ . If you
would like to present a research poster on biodiversity
in the southeastern US or to attend the symposium,
please register at http://www.ecu.edu/cs-cas/biology/-
ncbiodiversity/upload/symposium-registration.docx
by Feb. 24. Limited lodging support for students
presenting posters is available and students can make
requests for this support on the registration form.
Speakers and tentative titles
Terry Root (Stanford University): Changing Climate:
Changing Species
Ryan Boyles (North Carolina State University): Future
climates for the southeastern US
Jim Clark (Duke University): Forest response to cli-
mate change in the Southeast: perspectives on the
Piedmont and southern Appalachians
Ray Semlitsch (University of Missouri): Abundance, di-
versity, and disturbance relationships: examples from
pond-breeding amphibians
Bob Christian (East Carolina University), Dennis Allen
(University of South Carolina), David Kimmel (East
Carolina University), Anthony Overton (East Carolina
University), and Enrique Reyes (East Carolina Univer-
sity): Potential future of the Pamlico Sound ecosystem:
a space for time analysis.Joel Kingsolver (University of North Carolina-Chapel
Hill): Ecological and evolutionary responses of insects
to climate changes: are means or extremes more impor-
tant?
Allen Hurlbert (University of North Carolina - Chapel
Hill): The consequences of climate change for avian
biodiversity and migration
Ellen Damschen (University of Wisconsin- Madison):
How complex landscapes shape plant movement and
persistence in a changing climate
Brian Silliman (Duke University): Food webs, climate
change and new theory in ecology.
Erik Sotka (College of Charleston): Adaptation to
warming estuaries of the northwestern Atlantic: an evo-
lutionary perspective
Rob Dunn (North Carolina State University): Dead
trees and stinging ants. The future of the South in
a warming and less predictable world
Reed Noss (University of Central Florida) & Joshua
Reece (Valdosta State University): Climate change and
biodiversity in Florida: long-term and short-term con-
cerns
Dr. David R. Chalcraft Dept. of Biology East Carolina
University Greenville, NC 27858
252-328-2797 http://core.ecu.edu/chalcraftd/ CHAL-
CRAFTD@ecu.edu
Greifswald Germany Phylogenetics
Jul14-16
I herewith want to announce the 1st Greifswald Phy-
logenetics Meeting, which will be held in Greifswald
(north eastern Germany) from the 14th till the 16th of
July 2014.
Registration is now open! For more details, please visit
the conference website: http://stubber.math-inf.uni-
greifswald.de/~spillner/gpm-2014/gpm-2014.html This
meeting will have a particular focus on mathematical
(e.g. graph theoretical, combinatorial, probabilistic and
algebraic) aspects of evolutionary tree or network re-
construction, but it will also bring together scientists
from dierent disciplines in order to provide the oppor-
tunity of close collaboration.
Scope:
Phylogenetics is an interdisciplinary research area thatMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 5
aims at reconstructing the evolutionary history of bi-
ological systems such as, for example, collections of
species, populations or groups of bio-molecules. To
achieve this, biologists work closely together with math-
ematicians and computer scientists. The conference will
provide researchers from all three involved disciplines
an opportunity to present their recent work and ex-
change ideas.
Location: Greifswald is a beautiful little town located
directly at the Baltic Sea in close proximity to the fa-
mous islands R ugen and Usedom. Greifswald university
was founded in 1496 and has therefore a long tradition
and history. Being a former Hanse town, Greifswald is
famous for its historic market square, its cathedral and
the museum harbor. Other famous towns like Stralsund
with the Oceaneum or the world cultural heritage city
of Wismar are nearby, as well as the city of Rostock
with its newly established Darwineum. The region is a
holiday region but not too crowded by tourists. In July
the weather is most likely to be great and we hope that
if you can come to our meeting, you will nd the time
to stay longer and enjoy this unique area. There is a
direct and regular train connection to and from Berlin,
and the nearest international airports are Hamburg and
Berlin.
Please note that the meeting starts early on the 14th
with one of our highlight talks and ends in the evening
of the 16th with another highlight talk - so if possible,
please plan your stay from the 13th till the 17th of July.
The registration fee is 150 Euros (100 Euros for stu-
dents).
Organizers: Mareike Fischer, Andreas Spillner, Martin
Haase
Invited speakers: Olaf Bininda-Emonds, Mike Steel,
Olivier Gascuel, Vince Moulton, Allen Rodrigo
For more details, visit our website http://-
stubber.math-inf.uni-greifswald.de/ ~ spillner/gpm-
2014/gpm-2014.html or contact Mareike Fischer:
email@mareikescher.de
Mareike Fischer <email@mareikescher.de >
Guelph OE3C2014 May8-10
Dear colleagues,
The University of Guelph will host the Ontario Ecology,
Ethology, and Evolution Colloquium (OE3C) from May8 to May 10, 2014. This graduate student-run confer-
ence is a great way for researchers from across Ontario
and surrounding regions to meet and exchange ideas.
We are pleased to announce the following plenary
speakers:
-Dr. Bennett Galef, McMaster University -Dr. Haz
Maherali, University of Guelph -Dr. Nicole Mideo, Uni-
versity of Toronto -Dr. Amy Newman, University of
Guelph
At this time, we welcome abstract submissions for oral
or poster presentations, especially from undergraduate
or graduate students and post-docs. Abstract guide-
lines and other conference information, including de-
tails about registration fees and logistics, can be found
on our website: http://www.uoguelph.ca/oe3c2014/
Early registration will run until March 21. Registra-
tion is $70 for students and post-docs, and $100 for
faculty members.
Please contact us at oe3c2014@gmail.com with any
questions.
We hope to see you in May!
Kate Eisen http://www.uoguelph.ca/oe3c2014/
oe3c2014@gmail.com
oe3c2014@gmail.com
Istanbul EcolEvolutionaryBiol
Jul12-13 DeadlineExt
We are pleased to announce the Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology Symposium - 2014, Turkey (EEBST -
2014). This will be the rst international symposium in
Turkey focusing specically on ecology and evolution-
ary biology.
EEBST will take place on July 12th/13th, 2014, and
will be hosted by Bogazici University, Institute of En-
vironmental Sciences. The conference venue will be
Boazi ci University Albert Long Hall, located at the uni-
versity's South Campus.
The symposium will be conducted in English.
Plenary lectures will be given by Nick Barton
(Klosterneuburg, Austria), Jennifer Leonard (Sevilla,
Spain), Juli Pausas (Valencia, Spain), Luigi Boitani
(Rome, Italy).
A total of 48 (24 on ecology, 24 on evolutionary biology)
oral presentations will be accepted. The Symposium6 EvolDir March 1, 2014
will also include a poster session.
This will be a unique opportunity for meeting Turkey's
evolutionary biologist and ecologist research commu-
nity and setting up collaborations.
We look forward to seeing you in Istanbul!
You can visit the website at: http://-
www.eebst2014.boun.edu.tr/EEBST-2014/Home.html
Deadlines: Abstract Submission (extended): February
22nd Abstract Acceptance Notication: March 21st
Early Registration: April 1st Late Registration: April
2nd-July 12th
Murat Turul
PhD Student @ Barton Group Evolutionary Genetics,
IST-Austria
muratugrul@gmail.com
JohnsHopkinsU GalaxyCommunity
Jun30-Jul2
2014 Galaxy Community Conference (GCC2014)
http://galaxyproject.org/GCC2014 June 30 - July 2,
2014 Homewood Campus Johns Hopkins University
Baltimore, Maryland, United States
The 2014 Galaxy Community Conference (GCC2014,
http://galaxyproject.org/GCC2014) features two full
days of presentations, discussions, poster sessions,
lightning talks and birds-of-a-feather, all about data-
intensive biology and the tools that support it.
GCC2014 also includes a Training Day with ve concur-
rent tracks and in-depth coverage of thirteen dierent
topics.
GCC2014 will be held at the Homewood Campus of
Johns Hopkins University, in Baltimore, Maryland,
United States, from June 30 through July 2, 2014.
Galaxy is an easily extensible data integration and anal-
ysis platform for life sciences research that supports
hundreds of bioinformatics analysis tools. Galaxy is
open-source and can be locally installed or run on the
cloud. There are hundreds of local installs, and over 50
publicly accessible servers around the world.
Early registration is now open. Early combined regis-
tration (Training Day + main meeting) starts at $140
for post-docs and students. Registration is capped this
year at 250 participants, and we expect to hit that limit.
Registering early assures you a place at the conferenceand also a spot in the Training Day workshops you want
to attend.
You can also book aordable conference housing at the
same time you register. See the conference Logistics
page for details on this and other housing options.
Abstract submission for both oral presentations and
posters is also open. Abstract submission for oral
presentations closes April 4, and poster submission
closes April 25. The GigaScience \Galaxy: Data In-
tensive and Reproducible Research" series (announced
for GCC2013) is continuing to take submissions for this
year's meeting and beyond. BGI is also continuing to
cover the article processing charges until the end of the
year, and for more information see their latest update.
Thanks, and hope to see you in Baltimore!
The GCC2014 Organizing Committee
http://galaxyproject.org/ http://getgalaxy.org/-
http://usegalaxy.org/ http://wiki.galaxyproject.org/
clementsgalaxy@gmail.com
Kiel
SMBEsatelliteMicrobialEvolution
Apr2014 DeadlineExtension
SMBE Satellite Meeting on Reticulated Microbial Evo-
lution Christian-Albrechts University Kiel, Germany,
27-30 April 2014
We have extended the abstract submission and early
registration deadline to 23.2.2014.
Conference website: http://www.smbeme.org Lateral
gene transfer (LGT) is the process by which prokaryotes
acquire DNA across wide taxonomic boundaries and in-
corporate it into their genome. Accumulating evidence
shows that LGT, a distinctly non tree-like evolutionary
process, plays a major role in prokaryote evolution.
Our aim for this SMBE satellite meeting is to bring
together scientists working in the elds of genome evo-
lution, microbial ecology, and networks in order to fur-
ther develop the research of microbial genome evolution
by gene transfer.
CALL FOR ABSTRACTS
Abstract submission deadline: 23 February 2014 (Ex-
tended!!) Early registration deadline: 23 February 2014
(Extended!!) Late registration deadline: 31 March 2014March 1, 2014 EvolDir 7
PROGRAM
The conference will comprise three themes: Microbial
genome evolution Microbial ecology Networks
Contributed talks will be selected from among the sub-
mitted abstracts. Prizes will be awarded for the most
promising poster presentations.
CONFIRMED SPEAKERS
Yael Artzy-Randrup, University of Amsterdam,
Netherlands John Baines, Christian-Albrechts Univer-
sity Kiel, Germany Eric Bapteste, Universit e Pierre
et Marie Curie Paris, France Jukka Corrander, Uni-
versity of Helsinki, Finland Tal Dagan, Christian-
Albrechts University Kiel, Germany Marco Fondi, Uni-
versity of Florence, Italy Santo Fortunato, Aalto Uni-
versity, Finland Eugene Koonin, NCBI, NLM, NIH
USA Philippe Lopez, Universit e Pierre et Marie Curie
Paris, France Puricaci on Lopez-Garcia, Universit e
Paris-Sud, France Bill Martin, Heinrich-Heine Univer-
sity D usseldorf, Germany James McInerney, National
University of Ireland Itzhak Mizrahi, ARO, Volcani Re-
search Center, Israel Kaare M. Nielsen, UIT The Arctic
University of Norway Ruth Schmitz-Streit, Christian-
Albrechts University Kiel, Germany Jesse Shapiro, Uni-
versit e de Montr eal, Canada Rotem Sorek, Weizmann
Institute of Science, Israel S oren S orensen, University of
Copenhagen, Denmark Kornelia Smalla, Julius K uhn-
Institut, Braunschweig, Germany Eva Top, University
of Idaho, USA Christian von Mehring, University of
Zurich, Switzerland Laurent Viennot, LIAFA, Univer-
sit e Paris Diderot, France
Looking forward to see you in Kiel next year,
Tal Dagan
On behalf of the organizing committee: James McIn-
erney, National University of Ireland Bill Martin,
Heinrich-Heine University D usseldorf, Germany Eric
Bapteste, Universit e Pierre et Marie Curie Paris,
France
Prof. Dr. Tal Dagan
Genomic Microbiology Group Institute of Microbiology
Christian-Albrechts-University Kiel ZMB, Am Botanis-
chen Garten 11 24118 Kiel, Germany
Tel: +49 431 880 5712 Fax: +49 431 880
5747 e-mail: tdagan@ifam.uni-kiel.de web:
http://www.mikrobio.uni-kiel.de/de/ag-dagan
tdagan@ifam.uni-kiel.deLancaster Phylogenetics April15
Dear Colleagues,
In association with the Scottish Phylogeny Discussion
Group, Lancaster University will be hosting an interna-
tional phylogenetics meeting on the afternoon of 15th
April, as part of Lancaster's 50th Anniversary celebra-
tions. Registration and lunch are free. We have four
outstanding speakers in the eld, making this is an un-
missable opportunity for anyone interested in phyloge-
netics, bioinformatics, evolution or infectious disease.
Please email Derek Gatherer
<d.gatherer@lancaster.ac.uk >to register, indicat-
ing any dietary requirements if necessary, and also if
you would like to come to dinner with the speakers
afterwards.
Lancaster University, UK, 15 April 2014
- 1 PM. Registration and buet lunch.
- 2 PM. \The Greatest Experiment in Evolution: Viral
Biocontrol of Rabbits". Professor EDDIE HOLMES,
Australia Fellow, National Health and Medical Re-
search Council (NHMRC) & University of Sydney.
- 3 PM. Tea/coee.
- 3:30 PM. \Molecular phylogenetics: can we do it bet-
ter?" Dr NICK GOLDMAN, Group Leader \Evolu-
tionary tools for genomic analysis", European Bioin-
formatics Institute, Cambridge.
- 4:15 PM. \Evolution of HIV-1 envelope drug resis-
tance: use of the drug-bound CCR5-coreceptor versus
coreceptor switching". Professor DAVID ROBERT-
SON, Group Leader, Computational & Evolutionary
Biology, Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manch-
ester.
- 4:45 PM. \Origins and evolutionary history of the
small ruminant lentivirus pandemic". Dr ROB GIF-
FORD, Senior Research Fellow, MRC Centre for Virus
Research, University of Glasgow.
- 5:15-5:30 PM. General discussion and close.
- Evening. Speakers' dinner (optional; if interested,
please request in advance; charged at cost).
Futher details can be found at: http://eggg.st-
andrews.ac.uk/spdg/ Best wishes,
Daniel8 EvolDir March 1, 2014
{ Daniel Barker http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/sta/-
db60 The University of St Andrews is a charity regis-
tered in Scotland : No SC013532
db60@st-andrews.ac.uk
Leicester UK
EMBOHumanEvolution Apr1-4
Some places are still available for the EMBO Confer-
ence on \Human Evolution in the Genomic Era: Ori-
gins, populations and phenotypes", to be held in Le-
icester, UK, 1-4 April, 2014. Registration has been ex-
tended until Sunday 9th February.
Invited speakers are:
Guido Barbujani Universita' di Ferrara, IT
Ewan Birney European Bioinformatic Institute, UK
Carlos Bustamante Stanford University School of
Medicine, US
Lounes Chikhi Instituto Gulbenkian de Ci^ encia, PT;
CNRS Toulouse, FR
Vincenza Colonna Institute of Genetics and Biophysics
- ABT, IT
Graham Coop UC Davis, US
Anna Di Rienzo University of Chicago, US
Richard Durbin Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, UK
Pascal Gagneux UC San Diego, US
Garrett Hellenthal University College London, UK
Brenna Henn Stony Brook University, US
Turi King University of Leicester, UK
Tomas Marques-Bonet Institut Biologia Evolutiva
(Universitat Pompeu Fabra/CSIC), SP
Joanna Mountain 23andMe, US
Mark Pagel University of Reading, UK
Sohini Ramachandran Brown University, US
Aylwyn Scally University of Cambridge, UK
Mark Shriver Pennsylvania State University, US
For further details and instructions on how to reg-
ister, please visit: http://events.embo.org/14-human-
evo/index.html Please register soon if you want to at-
tend!embo 2014 <embo2014humanevolution@gmail.com >
MNHN Paris YoungScientists
Feb12-14
*1st Young Natural History scientists' Meeting*
*(YNHM)*
*February 12th-14th 2014MNHN, Paris, France*
Please nd here the schedule and the abstract book
for the 1st YNHM organized by the Bureau des Doc-
torants et Etudiants du Mus eum (association for stu-
dents and young researchers of the Mus eum National
d'Histoire Naturelle, Paris): http://bdem.mnhn.fr/-
congres-et-seminaires/schedule/schedule Do not hes-
itate to forward it widely!
Looking forward to seeing you in Paris,
The BDEM
February 12th (AM) Biodiversity Dynamics and Con-
servation (PM) Mankind, Prehistory, Nature and Soci-
eties (Evening) Poster session
February 13th (AM) Earth and Planetary Sci-
ences (PM) Systematics, Evolution and Comparative
Anatomy (Evening) Poster session, Cocktail and Clos-
ing party
February 14th (AM) Conference excursions
Christie LE COEUR, phD student UMR 7204 - CESCO
National Museum of Natural History 61 rue Buon, CP
53 75005 Paris
Phone : +33 1 40 79 32 69 Email :
christie.lecoeur@mnhn.fr
Christie Le Coeur <christie.lecoeur@mnhn.fr >
Manchester
MolecularGenomeEvolution2014
May16
Dear Colleagues -
We are pleased to announce the fth annual Manchester
Molecular and Genome Evolution Symposium, which
will take place on Friday 16th May 2014. The remitMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 9
of the symposium is broad and includes all aspects of
molecular and genome evolution, including method de-
velopment, molecular ecology, population genetics and
experimental evolution.
The symposium will be a day-long event consisting of
two plenary lectures, a series of contributed talks, and a
poster session. Plenary lectures will be given by Juliette
de Meaux (University of M unster) on \Cis-regulatory
divergence between Arabidopsis species", and Chris
Jiggins (University of Cambridge) on \Hybrid routes to
an evolutionary novelty in a buttery wing pattern".
MaGE is free to attend, but places are limited so please
register soon at http://tinyurl.com/mage2014 and sub-
mit a title if you wish to present a talk or poster. We are
particularly keen to give PhD students and post-docs a
chance to present their work. All contributed talks and
posters will also be considered for a prize, presented at
the drinks reception following the symposium.
If you have any questions about the symposium
please contact myself or please contact myself
(casey.bergman[at]manchester.ac.uk) or Douda Bensas-
son (douda.bensasson[at]manchester.ac.uk).
We hope to see you in May!
Best regards,
Casey Bergman, Ph.D. Faculty of Life Sciences Uni-
versity of Manchester Michael Smith Building Oxford
Road, M13 9PT Manchester, UK
casey.bergman@manchester.ac.uk
Montreal GenomesBiomes May25-29
You are invited to submit an oral or a poster presen-
tations to GENOMES TO/AUX BIOMES Montreal
2014, the 1st joint meeting of the Canadian Society
for Ecology and Evolution (CSEE), the Canadian Soci-
ety of Zoologists (CSZ) and the Society of Canadian
Limnologists (SCL), to be held May 25-29, 2014 in
Montr eal, Qu ebec.
The early-bird deadline for all presentation submissions
(oral and poster) is 7PM Eastern / 4PM Pacic Time,
March 3, 2014.
http://genomesbiomes.ca/home Nous vous invitons  a
soumettre votre pr esentation orale ou par ache pour
GENOMES TO/AUX BIOMES Montreal 2014, la 1 ere
conf erence conjointe de la Soci et e canadienne d' ecologieet d' evolution (SCEE), la Soci et e canadienne de zo-
ologie (SCZ) et la Soci et e canadienne de limnologie
(SCL), qui se tiendra du 25 au 29 mai 2014  a Montr eal
(Qu ebec).
Date limite des inscriptions h^ atives et de la soumission
des pr esentations est 7PM Eastern / 4PM Pacic, 3
mars, 2014.
http://genomesbiomes.ca/HomeFrancais.html Chris
Cameron
Sciences biologiques, Universit e de Montr eal
https://www.webdepot.umontreal.ca/-
Usagers/cameroc/MonDepotPublic/Cameron/-
index.htm http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/-
Universit%C3%A9 deMontr%C3%A9al
c.cameron@umontreal.ca
NewcastleU EvolutionaryGenetics
Apr14-16 reminder
The 58th meeting of the Ecological Genetics Group
will be organised by Newcastle University from 14 - 16
April 2014. The meeting is well known for its excellent
and friendly atmosphere. The meeting brings together
young and experienced researchers from the UK, Eu-
rope and further aeld. Their work ranges from ecology,
population genetics and conservation biology to evolu-
tionary genetics, with species from the whole tree of
life. The conference will be held at Longhirst Hall, set
in wonderful surroundings in Northumberland. Prof.
P ar Ingvarsson will deliver the keynote speech. Partic-
ipants can contribute through an oral presentation, a
poster presentation or a discussion topic.
Places are limited, so make sure you register
as early as possible: http://conferences.ncl.ac.uk/-
ecologicalgeneticsgroup2014 Any queries: just contact
us. Hope to see you all in Northumberland in April!
Dr Kirsten Wol Reader in Evolutionary Genetics De-
vonshire Building Newcastle University Newcastle upon
Tyne NE1 7RU
Personal email: kirsten.wol@ncl.ac.uk
Conference Email: egg@ncl.ac.uk
phone: 0191 208 5626 or 0191 208 4852
kirsten.wol@newcastle.ac.uk
Kirsten Wol <kirsten.wol@newcastle.ac.uk >10 EvolDir March 1, 2014
PortTownsend EvoWIBO Apr25-27
Registration for Evo-WIBO 2014 is now open (http:/-
/blogs.uoregon.edu/evowibo/).
Evo-WIBO is a gathering of evolutionary biologists of
the Pacic Northwest. This meeting is held every sec-
ond year and typically attracts 120-140 researchers for
a fun weekend of presentations and discussions. The
2014 Meeting will be held April 25th-27th, 2014. Costs
are kept at a minimum to increase participation, but
space is limited so register soon.
As it has from its inception, the conference will be held
at Fort Worden State Park in beautiful Port Townsend,
WA. The plenary speaker for the 2014 meeting will
be John Postlethwait from the University of Oregon
who will present a talk entitled 'Gar ~Atouf ee: Darwin's
^ aliving fossil' and the origin of teleost genomes'.
Looking forward to seeing you in Port Townsend!
{ Bill
William A. Cresko Director, Institute of Ecology and
Evolution University of Oregon Eugene, OR 97403
@wcresko
wcresko@uoregon.edu
Portugal OccamsBeard Feb1
*The Symposium of Occam's Beard: comedy, creativ-
ity, and critical thinking in science*
Imagine a group of science lovers - both amateurs and
professional scientists - with one goal: to create crazy,
but coherent, theories, and support them with real
data. This is the *Symposium of Occam's Beard*,
a project founded by researchers from the Instituto
Gulbenkian de Ci^ encia and the Champalimaud Neu-
roscience Programme. The rst symposium will take
place on Saturday, February 1st at 16h, at the *Audi-
torium of the Champalimaud Centre for the Unknown*
(Av. Bras lia, Doca de Pedrou cos, Lisboa, Portugal).
The *Symposium of Occam's Beard* aims to show the
importance of critical thinking in science, by showingwhat happens if it is taken away. We hope this event
reminds us of the power of hypotheses: it seems there
is always data, even to back up the craziest hypothesis.
We want to combat this trend by seeing how far we can
push it.\ All theories presented at the symposium will
be supported by real scientic data, but will that be
enough to persuade the audience?
The program includes *eight talks, chosen for their
interesting and humorous approach, based on solid
data*. Detailed information about the speakers, con-
sisting of scientists, science communicators, as well as
one remarkable high school student, can be found at
www.occamsbeard.com/speakers .The event will also
include games and quizzes, and last for around 4 hours.
*The event will be in English, and entrance will be free;
however, seat reservation is recommended. Tickets can
be reserved starting 25 January at noon via the web-
site of the symposium at www.occamsbeard.com .Any
remaining seats will be available at the door, and the
symposium will be available through live streaming.*
The Symposium of Occam's Beard is supported by the
Funda c~ ao para a Ci^ encia e a Tecnologia, as well as
the Instituto Gulbenkian de Ci^ encia, and the Funda c~ ao
Champalimaud.
anamvleitao@gmail.com
PuertoRico SMBE Jun8-12
EvolutionOfRegulatoryGenome
Dear EvolDir members
A friendly reminder that abstract submissions for the
Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution meeting
(Puerto Rico June 8th-12th) are closing on February 3.
http://smbe.org/annual/2014/ We are organising the
combined symposium entitled \Evolution of the Regu-
latory Genome", which will explore recent advances and
challenges in the evolution of the regulatory genome
from an experimental and computational perspective.
Subjects of interest range from computational model-
ing and prediction of regulatory sequence, measuring
the rate and impact of evolutionary turnover in regula-
tory sequences and how these interplay with the molec-
ular mechanisms that dene their function to evaluating
their evolutionary consequences on gene expression and
genomic organization.
This symposium is organised by Claudia Kutter,
Camille Berthelot, Duncan Odom and Paul Flicek.March 1, 2014 EvolDir 11
We and other symposia organisers look forward to re-
ceiving your abstracts.
Best wishes,
Camille
Camille Berthelot EMBL-EBI Wellcome Trust Genome
Campus Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, UK
cberthel@ebi.ac.uk
PuertoRico SMBE Jun8-12
Registration
Dear Colleagues,
Registration is now open for the SMBE conference to
be held in Puerto Rico from the 8-12th of June 2014.
We are happy to invite you to submit an abstract for
the symposium:
*Detecting selection in natural populations: making
sense of genome scans and towards alternative solu-
tions*
Invited speakers:
*Rasmus Nielsen*, UC Berkeley, USA
*Matthieu Foll*, Universit e de Lausanne, SWITZER-
LAND
Details of the symposium are below, and we will be ac-
cepting abstract submissions until 27th January 2014.
Description:
The use of genome-wide screens to detect selection in
natural populations is a popular pursuit. At the heart
of this method lies the detection of outlier loci to un-
cover signatures of selection, yet these signatures are
generally interpreted without questioning basic model
assumptions. Evidence is accumulating that this may
lead to erroneous conclusions due to false positives
(through recombination hotspots, population strati-
cation, endogenous incompatibilities) or false negatives
(e.g. weak selection relative to migration or drift).
An additional complication is that these methods ig-
nore the fact that most selected loci may be involved
in polygenic adaptation in which case theory would
predict small changes in allelic frequencies. Together
these challenges highlight the need to improve current
methods by improving model assumptions, variance es-
timates of dierentiation, and by integrating environ-
mental, phenotypic and functional genomics. Alterna-tive approaches to the \selective sweep paradigm" that
consider a multi-locus (quantitative) genetics frame-
work must also be considered.
In this context, the goal of the symposium is to ad-
vance the eld by uniting researchers working on both
improving genome scan approaches as well as alterna-
tive solutions. Given the current excitement to uncover
signatures of selection this symposium will certainly be
of interest to a broad range of researchers in the elds
of genome biology and evolutionary biology.
To register and submit your abstract for this sympo-
sium, please follow the instructions on the congress
website (http://smbe.org/annual/2014/).
See you in Puerto Rico!
Louis Bernatchez and Maren Wellenreuther *Maren
Wellenreuther* (PhD, Assistant Professor) Department
of Biology, Lund University SE-223 62 Lund, SWEDEN
Phone: +46 46 222 9014 Mobile: +46 709 429930
http://www4.lu.se/o.o.i.s/25872 *WORK
HOMEPAGE PERSONAL HOME-
PAGE http://marenwellenreuther.com/
maren.wellenreuther@gmail.com
PuertoRico SMBE Jun8-12
UndergradAwards
2014 ANNUAL MEETING OF THE SOCIETY FOR
MOLECULAR BIOLOGY AND EVOLUTION
June 8-12, Puerto Rico
The Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution
(SMBE) is pleased to make available 10 awards for un-
dergraduate students to participate in a Mentoring and
Diversity Program at the SMBE meeting (June 8-12,
Puerto Rico). Five of these positions will be reserved
for undergraduates from traditionally underrepresented
groups in our scientic discipline.
The goals of this program are: (1) to provide students
with the opportunity to experience the excitement of
attending and presenting at an international scientic
conference, (2) to foster enthusiasm for molecular biol-
ogy and evolution as well as a possible career in this
eld, and (3) to promote diversity at the SMBE annual
meeting.
Eligibility: You must be an undergraduate student at
the time of the application. It is not necessary to be12 EvolDir March 1, 2014
registered for the meeting to apply for the Undergrad-
uate Travel award.
Process: Selected undergraduates (10) will receive a
travel award ($1500 domestic and $2000 international).
Undergraduate students will present their work in the
Poster Session.
All details about this program can be found on this web
site :
http://smbe.org/annual/2014/scientic-program/-
awards/ Please do not hesitate to forward this
announcement to your students.
DEADLINE FOR ABSTRACT SUBMISSION: March
18 2014
Laurent Duret Laboratoire Biom etrie et Biologie Evo-
lutive UMR CNRS 5558, Universit e Lyon 1 43 Bld du
11 Novembre 1918 69622 Villeurbanne cedex France
Phone : +33 (0) 4 72 44 62 97 FAX : +33 (0)
4 72 43 13 88 e-mail : Laurent.Duret@univ-lyon1.fr
Web page: http://lbbe.univ-lyon1.fr/-Duret-Laurent-
.html?lang=en Laurent Duret <Laurent.Duret@univ-
lyon1.fr >
PuertoRico SMBE
AsexualGenomeEvolAdapt Jun8-12
Conference: PuertoRico.SMBE AsexualGenome EvolAdapt.Jun8-
12
We invite you to submit an abstract for poster and/or
oral presentation in the symposium \Genome evolu-
tion and adaptation in asexual lineages" at the SMBE
2014 in Puerto Rico (8-12 June 2014, http://smbe.org/-
annual/2014/).
Call for abstracts is open until 27 January 2014. Travel
awards for postdocs and students are available (http:/-
/smbe.org/annual/2014/scientic-program/awards/).
16. Genome evolution and adaptation in asexual lin-
eages The prevalence of sexual reproduction among
eukaryotes despite its costs is one of the major enig-
mas in evolutionary biology. Numerous ecological and
genetic models, such as the Tangled Bank, the Red
Queen, Muller's ratchet and Kondrashov's hatchet, sug-
gest that sexuals can have an edge over asexuals in
certain situations; furthermore, the observation that
most asexual eukaryotes are recent oshoots scattered
throughout the eukaryotic tree of life has led to thewidespread hypothesis that asexuality represents an
evolutionary \dead end" and that asexual lineages are
bound to rapid extinction.
There are, however, some eukaryotic groups that have
persisted for millions of years and diversied in the ap-
parent absence of sex, such as bdelloid rotifers. To shed
light on this paradox, the present symposium aims to
explore mechanisms of genome evolution and adapta-
tion that are specic to asexual lineages, including can-
cer cells.
Organizers: Jens Bast (J.F. Blumenbach Institute of
Zoology and Anthropology, G ottingen, Germany) &
Jean-Fran cois Flot (Max Planck Institute for Dynamics
and Self-Organization, G ottingen, Germany)
Invited speakers (conrmed): Karine Van Doninck
(University of Namur, Belgium) Michael Desai (Har-
vard University, USA)
jens.bast@biologie.uni-goettingen.de
PuertoRico SMBE
DetectingNaturalSelection Jun8-12
Dear Evoldir members,
SMBE abstract submission closes on Tue Jan 27. We
would like to encourage submission to the symposium
*Detecting selection in natural populations: making
sense of genome scans and towards alternative solu-
tions*
Invited speakers:
*Rasmus Nielsen*, UC Berkeley, USA
*Matthieu Foll*, Universit e de Lausanne, SWITZER-
LAND
Description:
The use of genome-wide screens to detect selection in
natural populations is a popular pursuit. At the heart
of this method lies the detection of outlier loci to un-
cover signatures of selection, yet these signatures are
generally interpreted without questioning basic model
assumptions. Evidence is accumulating that this may
lead to erroneous conclusions due to false positives
(through recombination hotspots, population strati-
cation, endogenous incompatibilities) or false negatives
(e.g. weak selection relative to migration or drift).
An additional complication is that these methods ig-March 1, 2014 EvolDir 13
nore the fact that most selected loci may be involved
in polygenic adaptation in which case theory would
predict small changes in allelic frequencies. Together
these challenges highlight the need to improve current
methods by improving model assumptions, variance es-
timates of dierentiation, and by integrating environ-
mental, phenotypic and functional genomics. Alterna-
tive approaches to the \selective sweep paradigm" that
consider a multi-locus (quantitative) genetics frame-
work must also be considered.
In this context, the goal of the symposium is to ad-
vance the eld by uniting researchers working on both
improving genome scan approaches as well as alterna-
tive solutions. Given the current excitement to uncover
signatures of selection this symposium will certainly be
of interest to a broad range of researchers in the elds
of genome biology and evolutionary biology.
Contributed talks will be selected from abstracts sub-
mitted to the SMBE2014 website (http://smbe.org/-
annual/2014/)
The symposium is organized by Louis Bernatchez and
Maren Wellenreuther
*Maren Wellenreuther* (PhD, Assistant Professor) De-
partment of Biology, Lund University SE-223 62 Lund,
SWEDEN
Phone: +46 46 222 9014 Mobile: +46 709 429930
http://www4.lu.se/o.o.i.s/25872 WORK
HOMEPAGE PERSONAL HOME-
PAGE http://marenwellenreuther.com/-
maren.wellenreuther@gmail.com
maren.wellenreuther@gmail.com
PuertoRico SMBE GeneOrigin
Jun8-12 DeadlineExtended
Dear colleagues,
The deadline for abstracts has been extended to Feb
3rd!
We invite you to submit an abstract for presentation in
the symposium How old is my gene? Large-scale analy-
sis of gene origin and function being held in conjunction
with SMBE 2014, June 8 - 12 in Puerto Rico.
The origin of a gene relative to key transitions in
species evolution provides clues about its functions, in-
teractions, disease associations, and ecological distri-
butions. Despite recent successes in gene age anal-ysis, there are few established best practices for in-
ferring gene origins and integrating this knowledge
with other attributes of genes. The November (2013)
Trends in Genetics article \How Old is My Gene?"
(doi:10.1016/j.tig.2013.07.001) outlines some of the
challenges and open questions in this emerging area.
The goal of this symposium is to promote a dialog on
how best to dene, quantify, and estimate gene age. We
welcome
- studies that integrate gene origin analysis with other
elds to address functional or ecological questions
- novel phylogenetic models and approaches for gene
origin analysis
- abstracts that tackle issues in large-scale analyses of
genes, e.g., of all genes in a genome or all genes that
participate in the same pathway or process.
Abstracts should be no more than 400 words and must
be submitted though the online system by MONDAY,
FEB 3RD at: http://smbe.org/annual/2014/scientic-
program/call-for-symposia/ Please join us for an excit-
ing symposium, bringing together researchers who de-
velop methods for estimating gene age with researchers
who investigate the relationship between gene age and
function
See you in Puerto Rico! Tony, Dannie, and Maureen
Symposium Organizers:
John A. Capra (tony.capra@vanderbilt.edu), Center for
Human Genetics Research and Dept of Biomedical In-
formatics, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37232,
USA
Dannie Durand, (durand@cs.cmu.edu), Depts of Bio-
logical Science and Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon
University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA
Maureen Stolzer (mstolzer@andrew.cmu.edu), Dept of
Biological Science, Carnegie Mellon University, Pitts-
burgh, PA 15213, USA
moser282@gmail.com
PuertoRico SMBE
GeneticsDomestication Jun8-12
I wanted to advertise the call for presentation abstracts
for a specic symposium (Genetics of Species Domesti-
cation) at SMBE 2014 this year in Puerto Rico (June
8-12th). The specic symposium's abstract is below.14 EvolDir March 1, 2014
I believe presentation abstracts need to be submit-
ted by Jan 27th on the conference's website (http:/-
/smbe.org/annual/2014/).
Many thanks! Bridgett
SMBE 2014 Symposium Abstract: Genetics of Species
Domestication
The process of animal domestication is analogous to
natural selection and provides many readily available
systems that allow explorations of the genetic changes
associated with rapid phenotypic alteration. In this
symposium, we would like to discuss recent advances in
the genetics of domestication. Specically, our aim is to
highlight recent studies that have both investigated the
genetic changes that have accrued during the process of
domestication, concomitantly with their correlation to
various facets of the 'domestication syndrome', a suite
of alterations in morphology, physiology, pigmentation,
reproduction, and behavior.
Many studies have catalogued genetic variants under
strong articial selection in recent stages of domestica-
tion; however, we wish to see this symposium showcase
some of the most dramatic ndings of genome evolution
as a consequence of species domestication.
Organizers: Bridgett vonHoldt, Carlos Driscoll
Bridgett vonHoldt Assistant Professor Prince-
ton University Ecology & Evolutionary Biology
M151 Guyot Hall Princeton, NJ 08544-2016 Of-
ce: 609-258-7021 vonholdt@princeton.edu http:/-
/www.princeton.edu/ ~ vonholdt \Bridgett M.
vonHoldt" <vonholdt@princeton.edu >
Raleigh NorthCarolina
Evolution2014 Jun20-24
Registration for Evolution 2014 is now open!
Just visit www.evolution2014.org to register.
You will nd information about the conference on this
website, answers to commonly asked questions in the
FAQs, and explanatory text in the registration pages.
Here are some helpful tips: * Registration costs depend
on whether you are a student or a postdoc, and whether
you are a member of one of the three societies. (It works
out that the discounted membership rate for registra-
tion far osets the membership fees for any of the three
societies). * As with last year's conference, we will have
a Super-Social event with food and drink at the NorthCarolina Museum of Natural Sciences on the last night
of the conference (Tuesday, 24 June). This event is
included in the cost of your registration. * You can
return to the registration site after you have registered
to submit your presentation. Just click on the \Author
Center" in the menu once you have logged in. * This
year, you will see that we are collecting abstracts for
all presentations except lightning talks. We are doing
this for two reasons - rst, it will provide more informa-
tion to attendees about your presentation, and second,
it will allow us to group presentations into appropriate
sessions. * Once all talks have been conrmed, there
will be a link for you to upload your presentation. This
will happen in early May.
You can get the latest updates by following @Evol2014
on Twitter. And if you want to start a conversation
about the conference, be sure to use #Evol2014.
If you have any questions, bugs or error reports, please
send an email to organizer@nescent.org.
We look forward to seeing you in 4 months!
Allen Rodrigo Chair, Evolution 2014 Organizing Com-
mittee
a.rodrigo@nescent.org
Rennes France InvasiveSpartina
Jul7-10
Dear colleagues,
We are pleased to announce the 4th International Con-
ference on Invasive Spartina , *Rennes France July 7-10
(2014)*.
Cordgrasses (Spartina, Poaceae) are perennial plants
playing an important role in salt marsh sediment dy-
namics where they are considered as \ecosystem engi-
neers". Multiple cases of species introduction outside
their native range had important evolutionary and eco-
logical consequences on several continents (hybridiza-
tion with native species, polyploid speciation, biologi-
cal invasion, shifts in species interaction...). Due to the
rapid expansion of some Spartina species, their adap-
tative potential, their tolerance to various pollutants
and their high biomass, they have been used in wet-
land restoration programs, shoreline stabilization, in
phytoremediation and are also considered as a potential
bio-energy source for biofuel production. By bringing
together international experts from complementary ar-March 1, 2014 EvolDir 15
eas, this conference aims at promoting knowledge ex-
changes and discussion on the developments accom-
plished during the last decade in both fundamental bi-
ology (evolutionary history of the genus, impacts on
ecosystems, evolution of the communities impacted by
the invasions) and applied research (management and
control of the invasive populations). The contribution
of the recent technological developments and advanced
genomic approaches to the understanding and use of
/Spartina/ will be most particularly explored.
Registration is now open, the link is http://ici-
spartina2014.univ-rennes1.fr/ *Some key dates: * Ab-
stract submission deadline for oral presentations: 31
march 2014 * Abstract submission deadline for posters:
31 march 2014 * Early registration deadline 12 May. *
Best regards,
The Scientic Committee: **AINOUCHE Malika
< http://ecobio.univ-rennes1.fr/Fiches perso/-
Fiche.asp?pseudo=MAinouche >Univ. Rennes
1 (France) AYRES Debra Univ. California
< http://strong.ucdavis.edu/people.html >,
Davis (USA) BORTOLUS Alejandro <http://-
scholar.google.com.ar/citations?sortby=pubdate&hl=-
en&user=itRhVJQAAAAJ&view op=list works >,
Centro Nacional Patagonico - CONICET, Chubut
(Argentina) CASTILLO Jesus <http://www.us.es/-
acerca/directorio/ppdi/personal 2248/ >Univ. Sevilla
(Spain) GRAY Alan <http://www.isbgmo.com/-
bio-gray.html >(Centre for Ecology and Hydrology,
UK) PATTEN Kim <http://cahnrsdb.wsu.edu/-
newdirectory/individualDisplay.aspx?personID=127
>Washington Sate Univ. USA MORRIS Jim <
http://ww2.biol.sc.edu/%7Emorris/ >Univ. South
Carolina, Columbia, USA PENNINGS Steve <
http://nsmn1.uh.edu/steve/ >Univ. Houston,
TX (USA) SALMON Armel <http://ecobio.univ-
rennes1.fr/page.php?84#ASalmon >Univ. Rennes
1 (France) STRONG Donald Univ. California <
http://strong.ucdavis.edu/ >, Davis (USA)
Malika Ainouche Prof. Univ. Rennes 1 UMR CNRS
6553 Ecobio B^ at 14A Campus de Bealieu 35 042 Rennes
cedex (France) Tel (33) 2 23 23 51 11
Malika Ainouche <malika.ainouche@univ-rennes1.fr >
Rosco Viral Emergence Evolution
Apr2-6Dear all,
there are still a few slots available for poster presenta-
tions at our Jacques Monod meeting in April.
Please apply before Feb 25, 2014 to avoid an increase
in the registration fee.
http://www.mivegec.ird.fr/monod/-
CJM Regoes en.htm >From emerging to pandemic
viruses: interplay between host ecology and viral
evolution
April 2-6, 2014, Rosco (Brittany, France)
Conrmed speakers
ALIZON Samuel (Montpellier, France) - Vice-
chairperson (samuel.alizon@cnrs.fr) ARTS Eric
(Cleveland, USA) ASQUITH Becca (London, UK)
BENKIRANE Monsef (Montpellier, France) BLANC
Stephane (Montpellier, France) BONHOEFFER
Sebastian (Zurich, Switzerland) CHARBONNEL
Nathalie (Montpellier, France) CLAVERIE Jean-
Michel (Marseille, France) COBEY Sarah (Chicago,
USA) CUNNINGHAM Andrew (London, UK) DE
LAMBALLERIE Xavier (Marseille, France) ELENA
Santiago (Valencia, Spain) FRASER Christophe (Lon-
don, UK) GANDON Sylvain (Montpellier, France)
GAUDIN Yves (Gif-sur-Yvette, France) GESSAIN
Antoine (Paris, France) HAMPSON Katie (Glasgow,
UK) JIGGINS Franck (Cambridge, UK) KOSKELLA
Britt (Exeter, UK) LEVIN Bruce (Atlanta, USA)
LLOYD-SMITH James (Los Angeles, USA) MARTIN
Darren (Cape Town, South Africa) PRANGISHVILI
David (Paris, France) PYBUS Oliver (Oxford, UK)
REGOES Roland (Zurich, Switzerland) - Chairperson
(roland.regoes@env.ethz.ch) TURNER Paul (New
Haven, USA) VAN BOVEN Michiel (Bilthoven,
Netherlands) VIGNUZZI Marco (Paris, France)
WEAVER Scott (Galveston, USA) WIMMER Eckard
(Stony Brook, USA)
Emerging viruses are recognized to be a threat not only
to human health but also to activities, such as crop or
cattle farming, and even to endangered species. This
Jacques Monod conference will study virus evolution
and emergence through an original perspective by fo-
cusing on where viruses thrive. A rst series of lectures
will present virus outbreaks in the wild, ranging from
'classical' topics (ebola in humans) to more unusual
viruses (viruses infecting Archae or viruses infecting...
viruses). A second series of lectures will present exper-
imental results on outbreaks, with a particular focus
on bacteriophages, which are particularly amenable to
experimental evolution approaches. Finally, the third
series of lectures will focus on deciphering the dynami-
cal processes that can lead to outbreaks of new viruses.16 EvolDir March 1, 2014
Overall, this conference stands out as one of the few
that gathers researchers, who use dierent approaches
(molecular biology, experimental evolution, mathemati-
cal modeling) and work on viruses infecting a wide vari-
ety of hosts (animals, plants, bacteria, Archae, viruses)
but who are all interested in virus emergence.
Registration fee (includes board and lodging, i.e. 4
nights, breakfeast and 6 meals)
420 EUR for PhD students 600 EUR for other partici-
pants
Registration might still be possible after Feb 25 but
rates will increase.
Application for registration
The total number of participants is limited to 115 and
all participants are expected to attend for the whole
duration of the conference.
Scientists and PhD students interested in the meeting
should send: 1. a very short CV 2. the list of their
main publications for the 3 last years 3. the abstract of
their presentation to the Chairperson of the conference
(roland.regoes@env.ethz.ch) as soon as possible (selec-
tion will now mostly be on a rst come rst served
basis).
It is expected that all selected participants present their
work during the conference.
Sponsors: CNRS, INSERM, IRD, FEMS, REID, ESV
http://www.cnrs.fr/insb/cjm/2014/Regoes e.html
Please do not hesitate to forward this announcement
to anyone who might be interested.
samuel.alizon@cnrs.fr
RoySoc London
PhylogenyExtinction Mar10-11
Dear Colleague,
You are warmly invited to attend a Royal Society sci-
entic discussion meeting.
Phylogeny, extinction risks and conservation <http:/-
/royalsociety.org/events/2014/phylogeny-extinction-
conservation/ >10 - 11 March 2014 The Royal Society,
London
Register now <http://royalsociety.org/events/2014/-
phylogeny-extinction-conservation/ >More information
The integration of phylogenetic information with met-
rics of extinction risk provides powerful tools for the
conservation of phylogenetic diversity. This meet-
ing will present advances and comparative analyses
of methodologies used to support conservation eorts.
Speakers include Professor Keith Crandall, Dr Katrin
Vohland and Dr Sven Buerki.
For more information please contact Camilla Tham at
events@royalsociety.org or on 020 7451 2213.
Please feel free to pass this on to any potentially inter-
ested colleagues or students.
The Royal Society, 6-9 Carlton House Terrace, London
SW1Y 5AG Registered Charity No 207043
\Tham, Camilla" <camilla.tham@royalsociety.org >
Sacramento MolecularBiomarkers
Jun8-13
Dear colleagues,
I would like to draw your attention to our Geobiology
Session 18f and Death: Molecular biomarkers to study
current and past ecosystems for the Goldschmidt 2014
(8-13 June, Sacramento, CA).
Abstract submission will remain open until February
8th, and early registration will end on April 8th. More
info at http://goldschmidt.info/2014/index . Conven-
ers: Marco Coolen, Jen Biddle, Laura Epp, Casey Hu-
bert, Bente Lomstein
Keynote speaker: William D. Orsi, University of Mary-
land.
Session abstract
Molecular biomarkers such as RNA, DNA, lipids, and
proteins are used to study currently living environ-
mental organisms that have never been cultivated as
well as past organismal assemblages. In this session
we seek to explore novel methodological developments
using molecular biomarkers in both aquatic and terres-
trial environments. How can we discriminate molecular
signatures of active, dormant and fossil life? How do
taphonomical processes after death change these sig-
natures? How do dormant organisms V or spores V
help shape biogeography and biogeochemical functions?
What novel insights can be achieved by the inclusion of
(ancient) DNA into studies of historical biodiversity?March 1, 2014 EvolDir 17
In particular, we welcome studies which combine dif-
ferent biomarkers to address methodological questions
and to provide a highly detailed picture of ecosystem
structure and its changes with a special focus on the
Holocene.
Laura Epp Postdoctoral Researcher Alfred Wegener In-
stitute Helmholtz Centre for Polar und Marine Re-
search Research Unit Potsdam Telegrafenberg A 43
14473 Potsdam, Germany Telefon:+49-331-288-2208
laura.epp@awi.de
Laura Epp <Laura.Epp@awi.de >
SanDiego
ComparativeEvolutionaryPhysiology
Oct5-8
Dear Colleagues,
I am writing to inform you of the upcoming Intersociety
Meeting in Comparative and Evolutionary Physiology,
organized by the American Physiological Society with
several sponsoring societies (see below) in San Diego,
CA, October 5-8, 2014.
Guy Charmantier (EcoPhysiology, Universit e Montpel-
lier) and I are organizing a symposium entitled \Over-
coming a Major Physiological Barrier: Adaptation from
Saline to Freshwater Habitats" (see abstract below).
A list of topic categories is also listed below (e.g. biome-
chanics, endocrinology, neurobiology, thermal biology,
etc).
The website for the conference is available at: www.the-
aps.org/comparative, and an overview of the meeting
is presented at: http://www.the-aps.org/mm/-
Conferences/APS-Conferences/2014-Conferences/-
Comparative/Program/Week-at-a-Glance.html A call
for abstracts will be made shortly, with abstracts
due July 9, 2014. Numerous awards are available for
trainees and underrepresented minorities, including
the Scholander Award, Best Poster Competition, and
Travel Awards. Please visit the \Award Information"
page for more information.
Please forward this message to anyone that might be
interested in attending this conference.
I hope to see you in San Diego!!!
Sincerely, Carol Lee
Symposium: Overcoming a Major Physiological Bar-rier: Adaptation from Saline to Freshwater Habitats
Invasions of freshwater habitats by marine and brack-
ish organisms have been successfully performed by only
a few animal taxa over evolutionary time, and consti-
tute one of the major transitions in the history of life.
In addition, recent and rapid colonizations of fresh-
water areas have resulted from human activities, such
as transportation. Invading low salinity environments
confronts the animals with serious challenges for main-
taining hydromineral balance, mainly in retaining and
acquiring ions against adverse gradients, and excret-
ing excess water. Freshwater environments can also be
aected by contaminations, either natural or anthro-
pogenic. As natural selection acts on all developmental
stages, each must adapt to new conditions before in-
vasion of a novel environment, such as freshwater, can
become successful. This symposium addresses various
physiological adaptations that have enabled coloniza-
tions of fresh water from marine environments over dif-
ferent time scales. Speakers will describe physiological
adaptations at multiple hierarchical levels of biological
organization, from molecules to organisms and popu-
lations, and will discuss several model species or taxa,
mainly crustaceans and sh, at dierent stages of devel-
opment, from embryos to adults. The talks will explore
adaptive responses to challenges imposed by freshwater
environments, including the presence of contaminants.
Topic Categories for 2014 APS Intersociety Meeting
in Comparative Physiology Biomechanics, locomotion,
and functional morphology Cardiovascular and respira-
tory physiology Conservation physiology Developmen-
tal physiology Endocrinology and reproduction Evo-
lutionary physiology Field physiology Metabolism and
energetics Modeling and mathematical physiology Nu-
trition, digestion, and gastrointestinal physiology \-
omics" in comparative physiology Osmotic, ionic, and
acid-base physiology Sensory physiology and neurobi-
ology Thermal biology Other comparative physiology
Potential Sponsoring Societies: SEB SICB CSZ
ANZCPB The Crustacean Society The Physiological
Society International Society for Neurochemistry The
Crustacean Society International Congress of Verte-
brate Morphology Western Society of Naturalists
Carol Eunmi Lee, Ph.D. Professor Center of Rapid Evo-
lution (CORE) 430 Lincoln Drive, Birge Hall University
of Wisconsin Madison, WI 53706 carollee@wisc.edu
https://mywebspace.wisc.edu/carollee/web/Lee/-
Lee.html Carol Eunmi Lee <carollee@wisc.edu >18 EvolDir March 1, 2014
Tucson Arizona DeepGenomics
Apr3-5
We are pleased to announce the National Science Foun-
dation's Integrative Graduate Education and Research
Traineeship (NSF-IGERT) Symposium on Deep Ge-
nomics on April 3-5, 2014 in Tucson, Arizona.
Symposium website: http://-
www.genomics.arizona.edu/meeting.html The Uni-
versity of Arizona IGERT Program in Comparative
Genomics is sponsoring an international meeting on
Deep Genomics. The symposium's theme this year
encompasses broad scale comparative inferences in
the three areas of our training program, including
comparative and evolutionary genomics of divergent
species, genomics of development, traits, and related
interaction networks originating early in evolutionary
history, and computational challenges associated with
genomics at a broad phylogenetic scale. The meeting
will take place at the Marriott University Park Hotel
adjacent to the University of Arizona campus in Tucson
on Thursday-Saturday, April 3-5, 2014. The format
of the meeting will allow considerable time for infor-
mal discussion and interaction among participants.
Participation by graduate students and postdoctoral
fellows is strongly encouraged, and discounted rates
for registration will be available.
REGISTRATION Early registration deadline: March
14, 2014 Faculty: $150, Students and Postdocs: $75
Late registration deadline: March 26, 2014 Faculty:
$175, Students and Postdocs: $90
KEYNOTE SPEAKER Kenneth Wolfe - University
College Dublin, Ireland
CONFIRMED SPEAKERS Robert Beiko - Dalhousie
University, Canada William Cresko - University of Ore-
gon Miklos Csuros - Universite de Montreal, Canada
Patrick Degnan - University of Illinois Dannie Du-
rand - Carnegie Mellon University Veronica Hinman
- Carnegie Mellon University Erin Kelleher - Univer-
sity of Houston Junhyong Kim - University of Penn-
sylvania Laura Landweber - Princeton University Li-
Jun Ma - University of Massachusetts Michael Nodine
- Gregor Mendel Institute, Austria Robert Reed - Cor-
nell University Shin-Han Shiu - Michigan State Univer-
sity Joseph Thornton - University of Chicago Travish
Wheeler - HHMI Janelia FarmPOSTER SESSION The symposium will feature a
poster session. Please refer to the website for more
information: www.genomics.arizona.edu/meeting.html
Please contact Dr. Michael Sanderson, san-
derm@email.arizona.edu, with all scientic queries.
Please contact Mrs. Pennie Liebig, ge-
nomics@email.arizona.edu, with all registration or
administrative queries.
We hope to see you in April!
genomics@email.arizona.edu
Tulsa Oklahoma PitviperEvolution
Jun4-7
Let me present to you the symposium Biology of the
Pitvipers 2 (BOPV 2), that will be held in Tulsa, Ok-
lahoma, USA - June 4th - 7th, 2014
Table of contents:
1) Introduction to the meeting
2) Dr. Jonathan A. Campbell named Honoree
3) Schedules, sessions, excursions
4) Registration details
5) The venue and host city
6) Travel arrangements
1) Introduction to the meeting: Nearly 25 years have
passed since that memorable rst BOPV meeting in
1989. Biology of the Pitvipers 2 symposium is now long
overdue for various reasons, but perhaps most signi-
cant is the rapid change and advancements in molecular
and computational biology. In 1989, DNA technologies
were in there infancy, and hence limited phylogenetic
inferences of pitvipers. No one present was discussing
nuclear genes as markers, Bayesian methods, genomics,
or venomics. Furthermore, our world is rapidly under-
going climate changes that will aect reptiles. Indeed,
a lot has changed in just two decades. As such, it is the
perfect time to revive Biology of the Pitvipers, which of-
fers researches from around the world the opportunity
to meet together, present new and exciting research,
form collaborations and renew friendships.
Whether you are an academic researcher, are involved
in zoos, or enjoy captive husbandry and management
of pitvipers, this meeting will be of interest to you.
The meeting will span 4 days, with presentations on theMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 19
5th through 7th. The evening of the 4th will feature an
ice-breaker and registration. We will have an evening
excursion to the Tulsa Zoo, were we will be treated
to behind the scenes tours and a BBQ with cash bar.
The meeting will also feature a conference banquet (for
a small additional charge) with a silent auction (pro-
ceeds will go to support The Copperhead Institute and
to provide research grants for a number of students.
2) Dr. Jonathan A. Campbell named Honoree: It is the
organizing committee's great pleasure to announce that
this meeting will be held in honor of Dr. Jonathan A.
Campbell (University of Texas, Arlington), in recogni-
tion of his outstanding contributions to the eld of her-
petology and pitviper biology. Dr. Campbell played a
pivotal role in the conception and organization of the
rst BOPV meeting in 1989.
3) Schedules, sessions, excursions:
The meeting will feature seasons covering all aspects of
pitviper biology, including:
* Systematics and Phylogenetics
* Phylogeography and Population Genetics
* Morphology and Physiology
* Ecology and Conservation
* Behavior
* Reproductive Biology
* Venom and Snakebites
* Husbandry
Three exciting talks have been scheduled. The plenary
will be given by Dr. Harry W. Greene, titled \A Long
View of Pitvipers: Past, Present, and Future"; the ban-
quet speech will be delivered by Dr. Todd A. Cas-
toe, titled \Snake Genomics Provide Insight into the
Evolutionary Origins of Extreme Phenotypes of Verte-
brates"; and our invited featured speaker, Dr. Stephen
P. Mackessy, titled \Evolution of snake venoms and
venom research".
4) Registration details
Registration and abstract submission is now open and
lling up fast. Early registration is available until
March 1st, 2014 with a reduction in pricing. The costs
are as follows:
Adult: early $145.00 / late $165.00 Student: early
$100.00 / late $120.00 Paper presenter: early $75.00
/ late $95.00 Accompanying guest: early $55.00 / late
$75.00
Saturday Banquet (featuring speaker Dr. Todd Castoe)
- $40.00Registration may be made via secure online pay-
ment at: http://www.biologyofthepitvipers.com/-
#!registrations-and-costs/c1yng Or via mail us-
ing the pdf found at: http://media.wix.com/ugd/-
ecb3e9 dfc36a51d1b3053e00bbeb70355ba775.pdf Ab-
stract information can be found at: http://-
www.biologyofthepitvipers.com/#!abstracts/c1ugq 5)
The venue and host city
The Venue: The meeting will be held at the Double-
tree Hilton, downtown Tulsa, which is within 15 min-
utes of Tulsa International Airport, and just a minutes'
walk from the lively entertainment districts. A block
of rooms have been reserved for attendees at the host
hotel with a reduced rate of $99 per night. This rate is
good for a single or double occupancy, and includes free
Wi-Fi and free parking. A shuttle is also provided to
and from the Tulsa International Airport. The group
booking code is CDM.
The City: Tulsa, Oklahoma's second-largest city is a
haven of Southern comfort and cosmopolitan style. A
town enriched by its oil heritage, Tulsa boasts world-
class cultural attractions, including the Philbrook and
Gilcrease
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UAlabama Biodiversity Apr22-24
Announcing the EDWARD O. WILSON BIODIVER-
SITY SYMPOSIUM The University of Alabama jApril
22-24, 2014 www.biodiversity.ua.edu Join Dr. Edward
O. Wilson and a panel of biodiversity experts for three
days of briengs and stimulating dialogue on the state
and future of biodiversity on our planet.
SPEAKERS
Dr. Edward O. Wilson, Harvard University Dr. P. Dee
Boersma, University of Washington Dr. R. Scot Dun-
can, Birmingham-Southern College Dr. Ryan Earley,
University of Alabama Dr. Scott V. Edwards, Harvard
University Dr. Harry W. Greene, Cornell University
Dr. Juan Lopez-Bautista, University of Alabama Dr.
Jonathan B. Losos, Harvard University Dr. Meg Low-
man, North Carolina State University Dr. D. Bruce
Means, Coastal Plains Institute and Land Conservancy20 EvolDir March 1, 2014
& Florida State University Dr. Michael B. A. Oldstone,
The Scripps Research Institute Dr. Richard Richards,
University of Alabama Dr. Leslie J. Rissler, University
of Alabama Dr. Sahotra Sarkar, University of Texas at
Austin Dr. Diana H. Wall, Natural Resource Ecology
Laboratory & Colorado State University
REGISTRATION is required. Seating is limited to the
rst 400 registrants.
MORE INFORMATION: biodiversity.ua.edu
Dr. Leslie J. Rissler Associate Professor and Curator of
Herpetology Department of Biological Sciences Room
307 Mary Harmon Bryant Hall University of Alabama
Tuscaloosa, AL 35487
www.ljrissler.org rissler@as.ua.edu 205-348-4052
rissler@as.ua.edu
UGoettingen SizeShape Apr2-4
Dear Colleagues,
we still have a few slots left for the symposium \Size and
Shape - Integration of morphometrics, mathematical
modelling, developmental and evolutionary biology". If
you still want to save a slot, please note that the regis-
tration will be open until Sunday, March 9th. For more
information, please refer to: http://www.evolution.uni-
goettingen.de/ *Dates: Wednesday, April 2nd - Friday,
April 4th, 2014
*Venue: Georg-August-University G ottingen Ernst
Caspari-Haus (GZMB) Justus-von-Liebig-Weg 11
37077 G ottingen Germany
*Scope of the Symposium: This symposium attempts
to bring researchers from various research elds to-
gether to foster interaction and fruitful discussions
about the status and the future of research on size and
shape related topics. If you work on a project aim-
ing to understand how size and/or shape of complex
organisms or organs is regulated, your input is highly
appreciated!
*Topics covered: Geometric morphometrics Body size
regulation Mathematical modelling Developmental Bi-
ology Evolutionary Biology
*Conrmed speakers: Arkhat Abzhanov (Harvard
University, USA) Fernando Casares (CABD, Sevilla,
Spain) Dagmar Iber (ETH Zurich, Switzerland) Jukka
Jernvall (University Helsinki, Finland) Christian Pe-ter Klingenberg (University Manchester, UK) Alistair
P. McGregor (Oxford Brookes University, UK) Chris-
ten Mirth (IGC Oeiras, Portugal) Philipp Mitter ocker
(University Vienna, Austria) Armin Moczek (Indiana
University, USA) Alex Shingleton (Michigan State Uni-
versity, USA) Richard S. Smith (MPI Plant Breeding
Research, GER) Diethard Tautz (MPI Evolutionary Bi-
ology, GER)
*Registration and Abstract submission: http://-
www.evolution.uni-goettingen.de/registration.html
*Registration fee: payment via bank transfer: 195
EUR payment via credit card: 201,44 EUR
*For more information please visit: http://-
www.evolution.uni-goettingen.de/ In case of questions,
feel free to contact: nposnie[at]gwdg.de
We are looking forward meeting you in April!
Nico Posnien Georg-August-University G ottingen
Johann-Friedrich-Blumenbach Institute for Zoology
and Anthropology Department of Developmental
Biology Ernst-Caspari-Hause (GZMB) Justus-von-
Liebig-Weg 11 37077 G ottingen Germany
Phone: +49 (0) 55139 20817 E-mail: npos-
nie[at]gwdg.de
nico.posnien@gmail.com
UHawaii Hilo
TropicalConservationBiol Apr3-4
Aloha everyone,
We are very pleased to announce the *6th Annual Trop-
ical Conservation Biology and Environmental Science
Research Symposium* *to* *be held at the University
of Hawaii at Hilo on Thursday, April 3 to Friday April
4, 2014.* Registration is now open. To register as an
attendee and/or as a presenter please go to our website
at http://tcbes.hilo.hawaii.edu/symposium2014/. The
deadline to register is Friday, March 14th*. Our main
goal is to encourage undergraduate, graduate students
to share their work with University students and the
local community as a poster or oral presentation. We
also welcome local state and federal agency researchers
to participate in sharing the current news/research in
Hawaii's conservation scene. We are honored to host
our keynote speaker Dr. Rob Robichaux, a founder
and president of the Hawaiian Silversword Foundation
and Distinguished Professor of Ecology and Evolution-March 1, 2014 EvolDir 21
ary Biology at the University of Arizona. This year's
Symposium features a Poster Session in the afternoon
on April 3rd and our exciting Silent Auction from 12pm
April 3 to 1PM April 4. We are proud to be providing
locally sourced refreshments, lunch and pupus for the
entire Research Symposium and hope to make this a
habit for future symposia.
Because this year marks the 10th Anniversary of the
TCBES program, we have several special events sched-
uled in addition to the Research Symposium. Registra-
tion for both events can be done online at the TCBES
Symposium website. The rst event is an *Alumni &
Friends Reception at UH-Hilo the evening following the
2nd day of the Symposium (April 4)*. The reception
is an opportunity for alumni and current graduate stu-
dents to mingle while enjoying no-host cocktails and
pupus.
The second event scheduled is a *Post-Symposium Ex-
cursion to Hakalau National Wildlife Refuge on Satur-
day, April 5th*. Participants will learn about banding
native birds and go sightseeing in a beautiful forest that
is usually open to the public only one day of the year.
Please join us in April to engage with and encourage
current students in their conservation research and cel-
ebrate 10 years and 100 graduates of the TCBES pro-
gram! If you have any questions feel free to contact
myself or other event coordinators listed on the web-
site.
Mahalo for your time,
Corie Yanger UH-Hilo TCBES M.S. Candidate TCBES
Club President cmyanger@hawaii.edu 808.430.0913
Dr. Donald Price Director TCBES Graduate Program
Professor of Biology
Science and Technology Building 109 University of
Hawaii at Hilo Hilo, HI 96720
donaldp@hawaii.edu
http://tcbes.uhh.hawaii.edu/ http://-
www.hawaii.edu/uhhbiology/ http://-
www2.hawaii.edu/~donaldp/ donaldp@hawaii.edu
UToronto Mississauga
InvasivePlants Aug6-8
Terrestrial Invasive Plant Species II - Meeting An-
nouncement Plant Invaders: Friends, Enemies, and In-teractions
The second Terrestrial Invasive Plant Species (TIPS II)
meeting will be held at the University of Toronto Mis-
sissauga on 6-8 August 2014. We are inviting presenta-
tions on the ecology, evolution, impacts, and manage-
ment of plants invading terrestrial systems in Ontario,
Canada and surrounding areas.
The meeting will focus on plant invaders in an eco-
logical context, with sessions highlighting their interac-
tions with their physicochemical surroundings and with
other biota (competitors, herbivores, microbes, biocon-
trol agents). Goals include: 1) disseminating up-to-
date science on the ecology of invasive plants, 2) cre-
ating a milieu for sharing best practices among conser-
vation agencies, park managers and others and 3) pro-
viding a forum for practitioners and scientists to meet
and discuss priorities, emerging threats, and funding
opportunities.
We expect about 250 participants, including university
students, researchers, resource managers, and govern-
ment representatives. An initial day will be devoted
to registration, a reception, and pre-conference eld
trips, followed by two full days of presentations, includ-
ing 20-minute contributed oral presentations, research
posters, and networking sessions. Presentations will be
organized thematically; we anticipate sessions devoted
to management, biocontrol, impacts, ecological inter-
actions, and related topics. Major support has been
provided by the Invasive Species Centre and the Uni-
versity of Toronto.
Registration will begin soon; please visit https://-
secure.utm.utoronto.ca/tips2/ for updates and more in-
formation. We hope to see you in Mississauga this sum-
mer!
TIPS II Organizing Committee:
Peter Kotanen, Biology, University of Toronto Missis-
sauga; peter.kotanen@utoronto.ca
Sandy Smith, Faculty of Forestry, University of Toronto
Ben Gilbert, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Uni-
versity of Toronto
Roberta Fulthorpe, Physical and Environmental Sci-
ence, University of Toronto Scarborough
Peter M. Kotanen Department of Ecology & Evolution-
ary Biology University of Toronto at Mississauga 3359
Mississauga Road Mississauga, ON, L5L 1C6 CANADA
tel: 905-828-5365; fax: 905-828-3792 skype: pe-
ter.kotanen e-mail: peter.kotanen@utoronto.ca http:/-
/www.utm.utoronto.ca/ ~ w3pkota/ Peter Kotanen
<peter.kotanen@utoronto.ca >22 EvolDir March 1, 2014
Utah EvolutionOfLice Aug2-7
Overview: The 5th International Conference on Ph-
thiraptera (ICP5) will showcase the latest research on
parasitic lice and louse-borne pathogens and endosym-
bionts. All aspects of theory, principles, methodol-
ogy, and practice will be addressed. The conference
will be held August 2-7th at Canyons Resort in Park
City Utah, USA. For more info visit the ICP5 con-
ference website at: http://www.conferences.utah.edu/-
icp5/index.html or contact us at: ICP5.UT@gmail.com
The deadline for abstracts and early registration is May
1st, 2014. Students and postdocs are invited to apply
for nancial assistance. For more info visit the \Stu-
dent/Postdoc" tab on the conference website. Applica-
tion deadline for nancial assistance: May 1st, 2014.
Sarah E. Bush, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Department
of Biology University of Utah 257 S. 1400 E. Salt Lake
City, UT 84112 (801) 633-8629
Sarah Bush <dovelouse@gmail.com >
Vienna EED Jul22-25
Dear friends of EvoDevo,
We are pleased to announce that registration is open
for the 2014 EED meeting in Vienna. The meeting will
be held from 22 to 25 July 2014 at the Campus of the
University of Vienna.
Registration:
The meeting fee is 250 euro for non-student members
and 190 euro for students (300 euro and 250 euro after
the early fee deadline of 30 April 2014). The meeting
fee includes lunches on 23, 24 and 25 July 2014. Reg-
istration also includes temporary membership in the
EED society. The membership fee is 20 euro both for
non-student members and students.
To register, please go to the conference page at our
website: http://evodevo2014.univie.ac.at/registration
Abstract submission:
Abstract submission is open: the deadline for abstract
submission will be 30 April 2014.We are pleased to present an exciting scientic pro-
gram of keynote lectures and symposia/minisymposia.
(Whereever possible submitted abstracts will be asso-
ciated with one of the symposia or minisymposia).
Keynote speakers:
Veronica Grieneisen (John Innes Centre, Norwich,
United Kingdom) Jean-Jacques Hublin (Max Planck
Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, Leipzig, Ger-
many) Stuart Newman (New York Medical College,
United States) Ulrich Technau (University of Vienna,
Austria)
Symposia and Minisymposia:
N.B. for a full listing of the symposium speakers, see the
Symposia and Minisymposia Vienna 2014 Webpage
Mechanisms of development Organizers: Annemiek
Cornelissen, Naomi Nakayama
Ecological and environmental impacts in the evolution
of organismal development Organizers: Chris Lowe,
Angelika Stollewerk, John Willis
How does developmental robustness facilitate the evo-
lution of biodiversity? Organizers: Rainer Melzer,
G unter Theien
EvoDevo of cranial neural crest populations across de-
velopmental systems. Organizer: Georgy Koentges
Less is more: loss of gene functions as a driving force
of developmental evolution Organizers: Ingo Braasch,
Cristian Ca nestro
Uncovering the genomic bases of phenotypic change in
the NGS era Organizers: Manuel Irimia, Ignacio Maeso,
Juan Pascual-Anaya
EcoEvoDevo - beyond the Modern Synthesis Organiz-
ers: Scott Gilbert, Yoav Soen
Living fossils, myth or reality? Organizers: Patrick
Laurenti, Didier Casane
Form and function of structural colour: convergent evo-
lution across multiple kingdoms Organizers: Beverley
Glover, Heather Whitney
NEPTUNE ITN: the evolution of sensory systems in
the marine environment Organizers: Maria Ina Arnone,
Andreas Hejnol
Quantitative EvoDevo in model and non-model organ-
isms Organizers: Benedikt Hallgrimsson, Chris Klin-
genberg, Ruth Flatscher, Philipp Mitteroecker
Developmental basis of quantitative variation Organiz-
ers: Mihaela Pavlicev, G unter Wagner
Perspectives on Wnt signaling Organizers: Wim
Damen, Cornelius EibnerMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 23
Origin and diversication of regeneration Organizers:
Florian Raible
Towards an Extended Evolutionary Synthesis Organiz-
ers: Gerd M uller, Werner Callebaut
Quo vadis EvoDevo? Organizers: Manfred D. Laubich-
ler, Cassandra Extavour
What should bioinformatics do for EvoDevo? Omics
contribution to EvoDevo Organizers: Ann Burke, Paula
Mabee, G unter Plickert, Mark Blaxter
EvoDevo of symmetry in animals and plants Organiz-
ers: Sophie Nadot, Catherine Damerval
Plant EvoDevo (title t.b.a.) Organizer: John Bowman,
Mitsuyasu Hasebe
Structural organization in vertebrate dentitions:
molecules, morphology and function Organizers: Moya
Smith, Abigail Tucker
EvoDevo as an approach to understanding communica-
tion Organizers: Ulrike Griebel, Oller Koller
Local Organizing CommitteePhilipp Mitter ocker Department of Theoretical Biology,
University of Vienna
Gerd B. M uller Department of Theoretical Biology,
University of Vienna
Isabella Sarto-Jackson KLI Institute, Klosterneuburg
Uli Technau Department of Molecular Evolution and
Development, Univ. of Vienna
Kristin Tessmar-Raible Max-Perutz Laboratories, Vi-
enna Biocenter
We look forward to seeing you in Vienna,
The executive committee of the EED:
Frietson Galis Ronald Jenner Gerd B. M uller Peter Ol-
son Michael Schubert Charlie Scutt
Isabella Sarto-Jackson, PhD
Executive Manager KLI Institute isabella.sarto-
jackson@kli.ac.at http://kli.ac.at Martinstrae 12
3400 Klosterneuburg, Austria Phone: +43 2243 302740
Isabella Sarto-Jackson <isabella.sarto-
jackson@kli.ac.at >
GradStudentPositions
AberystwythU Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
AuburnU InsectDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
BielefeldU PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
ClemsonU ArthropodBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
ColoradoStateU PlantReproductionStrategies . . . . . .26
Goettingen DPZ PrimateKinRecognition . . . . . . . . . . 26
HolarUCollege Iceland EvolEcolArcticCharr . . . . . . . 26
IGC Portugal EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .27
ImperialCollege London MolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
ImperialCollege London SyntheticBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
JamesCookU BarramundiSexGenes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .29
LeibnizInst Berlin ClimateAdaptation 2 . . . . . . . . . . . 30
MNHN Paris6U EvolutionaryMetagenomics . . . . . . . 31
MasseyU ComputationalBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .90
Paris6U EvolutionaryBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Prague FishEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33PurdueU HellbenderConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
UBasel MicrobialGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
UBern CooperativeBreedingEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
UCalgary EvolutionDiseaseEmergence . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
UFribourg ComputationalPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
UGothenburg SystematicBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
ULeuven DamselyEvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
UMelbourne FemaleOrnamentation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .38
UNewBrunswick ComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . 38
USalford ShrimpSexualDierentiation . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
USheeld MolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40
USouthDakota Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
USouthamptonUK DomesticationGenomics . . . . . . . .41
UWSydney FruityMicrobiome . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .41
UppsalaU AnimalConservationBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4224 EvolDir March 1, 2014
AberystwythU Bioinformatics
Fully Funded PhD Studentship in bioinformatics and
metagenomics available in the UK. Closing date 16th
February.
Please nd more details at:
http://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=51441&LID0 Thanks,
Chris.
Chris Creevey M.Sc., Ph.D. Reader in Rumen Systems
Biology.
Institute of Biological, Environmental and Rural Sci-
ences (IBERS), Aberystwyth University, Room 3.33,
Edward Llwyd Building, Penglais Campus, Aberyst-
wyth, Ceredigion, SY23 3FG, UK.
Tel: +44 1970 62 1612 Email: chris.creevey@aber.ac.uk
www.aber.ac.uk/en/ibers/sta/chc30
chc30@aber.ac.uk
AuburnU InsectDiversity
The Hardy Lab at Auburn University (http://-
www.auburn.edu/) has an opening for a PhD student
starting in the fall of 2014. The lab's research is geared
towards documenting the taxonomic and ecological di-
versity of plant-feeding insects, and understanding the
evolutionary factors which have generated that diver-
sity. The student will receive training in entomology,
systematics, comparative phylogenetics and bioinfor-
matics, and will be aided in the development of an in-
dependent research program that relates to the lab's
research themes. More information can be found at
http://hardylab.skullisland.info . This position has
four years of full support from the Auburn Department
of Entomology and Plant Pathology.
To apply, please send a CV and a statement of research
interests to Nate Hardy (n8@auburn.edu). Review of
applications will begin on 28 February 2014, but the
position will remain open until lled. Applicants must
meet requirements of admission to the Auburn Gradu-
ate School (http://www.grad.auburn.edu/).
Nate Hardy Department of Entomology and PlantPathology Auburn University 301 Funchess Hall
Auburn, AL 36849 phone: 334 844-1171 skype: llln8lll
n8@auburn.edu
nbhardy@gmail.com
BielefeldU PopulationGenomics
The deadline for the following position has been ex-
tended to February 28th 2014
A fully funded position is available for a highly moti-
vated Early Stage Researcher (ESR) who will be regis-
tered for a PhD in the Homan lab at Bielefeld Univer-
sity. This position forms part of a Marie Curie Initial
Training Network and oers a generous stipend of at
least euro 3700 per month, which includes a dedicated
mobility allowance. The studentship will provide train-
ing in cutting-edge population genomic approaches and
oers excellent opportunities for networking plus in-
dividually tailored training and industrial placements.
The student should therefore be in a strong position
after their PhD to pursue a career in either academia
or industry.
There is mounting concern over the acidication of the
World's oceans. In the 250 years since the onset of the
industrial revolution, atmospheric CO2 levels have risen
from 280 to 381 parts per million and average ocean pH
has fallen from 8.16 to 8.05. Human-driven emissions of
CO2 continue to rise and have begun to outstrip even
the most pessimistic of IPCC model scenarios. How will
life in the oceans adapt to this changing environment?
Particular concern has been expressed over organisms
with heavily calcied shells such as molluscs, as their
ability to extract carbonate ions from seawater and in-
corporate these into their skeletons may be increasingly
compromised.
This position forms part of a Marie Curie Initial Train-
ing Network entitled CACHE: Calcium in a Changing
Environment, funded by the EU (ref: 605051) and co-
ordinated by the British Antarctic Survey. The aim
of this network is to take a coordinated multidisci-
plinary approach to understanding calcium regulation
and shell production in four commercially important
shellsh species, the king scallop (Pecten maximus),
the Pacic oyster, (Crassostrea gigas), the blue mus-
sel (Mytilus edulis) and the soft shell clam (Mya are-
naria). The network comprises 10 partners from 6 Eu-
ropean countries, including research institutes, univer-March 1, 2014 EvolDir 25
sities and SMEs. As a member of the network, the
student will be expected to work cooperatively within
the network, participate in European training events
and spend up to 30% of their training with another
network partner. Full details of the network can be
found at www.cache-ITN.eu . The PhD student will
carry out population genomic surveys to (i) conduct a
comparative analysis of the population structure of the
four shellsh species along a European latitudinal cline;
(ii) explore how oceanographic barriers and life-history
interact to shape population structure; (iii) determine
the relative contributions of genotype and phenotypic
plasticity to shell morphology and ultrastructure; (iv)
test for signatures of selection at candidate genes in-
volved in calcium regulation and deposition.
We seek a bright and highly motivated candidate who
ideally holds an M.Sc. or equivalent in a relevant topic
(e.g. population, evolutionary or conservation genet-
ics, bioinformatics). The student will be responsible
for developing a bioinformatic pipeline to analyse Illu-
mina Restriction Site Associated DNA (RAD) sequence
data. Experience of installing and working with Linux
systems, analysing high-throughput sequence data and
writing custom scripts is therefore highly desirable, al-
though training can be provided. The ideal candidate
will also be able to work both independently and as
part of a multidisciplinary team. A high standard of
spoken and written English is required.
The student will be based at the Department of
Animal Behaviour at Bielefeld University (www.uni-
bielefeld.de/biologie/vhf/index.html). The department
is the oldest of its kind in Germany and currently
hosts six principal investigators, seven postdocs and
over twenty PhD students. It oers a stimulating inter-
national environment and an excellent research infras-
tructure including brand new molecular laboratories.
The working language of the Department is English.
Bielefeld is a city of 325,000 inhabitants with an attrac-
tive historical centre and easy access to the Teutoberger
Wald for hiking and other outdoor pursuits. It oers
a very high standard of living and is well connected to
most major European cities.
To apply for the position, please provide: (i) a letter of
motivation including a maximum 2-page statement of
your research interests, relevant skills and experience;
(ii) a CV including publication list; (iii) names and
contact details of three referees willing to write con-
dential letters of recommendation; (iv) for monitoring
purposes only, please clearly state your nationality, sex,
and where you saw the advert. All materials should be
emailed as a single PDF le to: joseph.homan@uni-
bielefeld.de with 'CACHE PhD application' in the sub-ject line.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ClemsonU ArthropodBiodiversity
Graduate position(s) in arthropod systematics and bio-
diversity of the southeastern U.S.
The newly established Caterino Arthropod Biodiver-
sity Lab at Clemson University is looking for highly
motivated graduate students (M.S. or Ph.D.) for the
Fall 2014 semester. Specic projects are negotiable, but
will address questions centering on the arthropod diver-
sity of the southeastern U.S., from the intraspecic to
broad faunistic levels. Projects focused on Coleoptera,
incorporating eldwork, molecular, morphological, and
bioinformatic tools will be preferred.
Interested candidates should have a strong background
in evolutionary and systematic biology, familiarity with
laboratory methods applicable to phylogenetic and phy-
logeographic problems, and a love of arthropods and
entomological eldwork. Prospective students will have
to qualify for admission to the graduate program in the
School of Agricultural, Forest, and Environmental Sci-
ences (SAFES). Some initial funding is available, but
students will be expected to actively seek and secure
support for their projects.
Interested students are strongly encouraged to contact
Dr. Caterino before applying. Clemson has no particu-
lar deadlines for application, but opportunities for fel-
lowships and other supplementary support will require
more immediate action.
For information on the PI and the lab:
sites.google.com/site/caterinolab/ For information
on the SAFES graduate program: www.clemson.edu/-
cas/student services/graduate.html Contact Details
(after March 15th V but email address is active now):
Michael S. Caterino John & Suzanne Morse Chair of
Arthropod Biodiversity School of Agricultural, Forest,
and Environmental Sciences Clemson University E-143
Poole Agricultural Center Clemson, SC 29634-0310
mcateri@clemson.edu
Michael S Caterino <mcateri@clemson.edu >26 EvolDir March 1, 2014
ColoradoStateU
PlantReproductionStrategies
Graduate position(s) in plant reproductive strategies,
pollination biology and pollinator management
Applications are invited from highly motivated gradu-
ate students (M.S. or Ph.D.) to join the Pollination and
Plant Reproduction Lab now being set up at Colorado
State University. Specic projects are negotiable but
will address questions concerning plant reproductive re-
sponses to abiotic stress, managed pollinators, includ-
ing honeybees, bumblebees etc., and their health, polli-
nation ecacy, pollinator behavior and management of
pollinator habitats. The diversity of projects will pro-
vide opportunities for students to develop wide ranging
skills from molecular biology to pollinator management
and sustainable agro-ecosystem. Successful candidates
are expected to spend signicant amounts of time work-
ing in crop elds monitoring plant responses, pollinator
behavior and other activities. The projects will involve
collaborating with plant biologists, entomologists, ecol-
ogists and extension personnel. Interested candidates
will have a background in agriculture or ecology and
evolutionary biology with a love for bees and eldwork.
Some funding may be available and students will be en-
couraged to actively seek independent funding. Those
interested are strongly encouraged to contact Arathi
Seshadri (arathi@colostate.edu) with a preliminary ap-
plication (CV, unocial transcripts, GRE scores, con-
tact information for three references. Additional in-
formation will soon be available on the lab website.
Candidates should apply to the graduate program at
the Department of Soil and Crop Sciences (http://-
soilcrop.agsci.colostate.edu/) in order to be considered.
Please check the following page for application deadline
and other details http://graduateschool.colostate.edu/-
prospective-students/apply/ Contact: Arathi Seshadri
(H.S. Arathi) Assistant professor Department of Soil
& Crop Sciences C 138 Plant Sciences Building,
1170 Campus Delivery Colorado State University, Fort
Collins, CO 80525 Email: arathi@colostate.edu
Arathi <arathi@mail.colostate.edu >Goettingen DPZ
PrimateKinRecognition
Master's thesis on kin recognition in mandrills:
In the french-german-gabonese collaboration 'Man-
drillus Project' we are looking for a master's student
to write her/his master's thesis on possible visual kin
recognition mechanisms in mandrills. Within the scope
of our study on kin selection in a complex social system,
it will be evaluated how indiduals react to visual stim-
uli of related and unrelated fellows. The experiments
will be conducted on caged individuals at the CIRMF
reserach institute in Franceville, Gabon. Start of the
ca. 3 month of eld work will be beginning/mid may.
Transport and accomodation are provided; uid french
and the motivation for independend practical work
are a prerequisite. Due to the nature of the funding
german students will have to be given priority. For
further questions and/or applications please contact
timo.brockmeyer@gmail.com. See also the links to
the collaboration partners: http://www.cefe.cnrs.fr/-
mandrillus/presentation; http://www.soziobio.uni-
goettingen.de timo.brockmeyer@gmail.com
HolarUCollege Iceland
EvolEcolArcticCharr
*Opportunity for a Ph.D. study in Evolutionary Ecol-
ogy of Arctic charr in Iceland *
H olar University College (Prof. Bjarni K. Kristj ansson
and Prof. Sk uli Sk ulason), seeks a Ph.D. student to
study *the importance of egg size for diversication of
Arctic charr (Salvelinus alpinus)*.
In nature, considerable phenotypic diversity occurs at
multiple levels: among and within species, populations,
and among siblings. Understanding the determinants
of phenotypic variation and their consequences for per-
formance remains a challenge for evolutionary biology.
One potential source of diversication is egg size medi-
ated maternal eects. However, understanding of how
egg size aects ospring performance and diversica-
tion among wild populations is limited. Here, we useMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 27
polymorphic Arctic charr as a model system and ask:
1) Does egg size contribute to adaptive divergence of
populations? And 2) to what extent do maternal ef-
fects interact with gene expression in embryos and ju-
veniles? We will quantify variation in egg size and
egg number, among and within replicated charr pop-
ulations that dier in their degree of sympatric diver-
gence. We will combine diet manipulation experiments
with cutting edge molecular genetic tools to test for the
interactions between egg size and ospring environment
and between egg size and gene expression. This study
presents a novel approach to understanding the factors
responsible for shaping and maintaining biodiversity.
An ideal candidate has solid knowledge and interest in
evolution, development and genetics and experience of
eldwork. The student has to be able to work indepen-
dently, as well as a part of a larger group both in the
laboratory and in the eld. A M.Sc. degree is manda-
tory. The working language is English.
Location: the student will be located at H olar Univer-
sity College and registered at the University of Iceland
(Reykjavik). The Department of Aquaculture and Fish
Biology at H olar University College, in Skagafj ordur,
North Iceland, is an international center for research,
instruction, and continuing education in aquatic biol-
ogy, aquaculture, and sh biology. Part of the labora-
tory work will be conducted at the University of Ice-
land.
The project is a collaboration between H olar Univer-
sity College, the University of Iceland (Dr. Zophon as
O. J onsson, Dr. Sigurur S. Snorrason)and EAWAG,
Switzerland (Dr. Katja R as anen), and is funded for
three years by The Icelandic Science Foundation -
Rann s. The position will be lled as soon as a good
candidate is found (target date 1. May 2014).
Applicants should send an application letter with a
max. 1 page statement of research interests and rele-
vant experience, curriculum vitae with a list of publica-
tions (if any), copies of academic qualications and the
names and e-mail addresses of three referees, as a sin-
gle pdf le to Bjarni K. Kristj ansson (bjakk@holar.is)
before *March 31 2014*.
For further information contact Dr. Bjarni K.
Kristj ansson, Professor and Head of Department of
Aquaculture and Fish Biology H olar University College
*bjakk@holar.is <bjakk@holar.is >*
Phone:+354 4556386
Dr. Bjarni K. Kristj ansson, Pr ofessor Deildarstj ori
skeldis og skal rideildar /Head of department
of Aquaculture and Fish Biology Svisstj ori kennslu-og framhaldsn amssvi/Director of divisions of aca-
demic and graduate studies H olask oli - H ask olinn  a
H olum/ H olar University College H olar  Hjaltadal Ice-
land bjakk@holar.is Phone: +354 4556300 holar.is
Bjarni Krist ofer Kristj ansson <bjakk@holar.is >
IGC Portugal EvolutionaryBiol
Applications for the 2015 class of the Instituto Gul-
benkian de Ci^ encia (IGC; www.igc.pt) PhD Programme
in Integrative Biology and Biomedicine are open until
March 30th.
The IGC PhD programme exposes students to a wide
spectrum of dierent topics in the biological sciences.
Unlike traditional programmes, students in our PhD
programme are not required (or even encouraged) to
choose a laboratory or topic until they have had a
semester to discover the Institute's scientic opportu-
nities, and discuss them with their peers, postdocs and
PIs.
The programme normally accepts 9 to 12 students each
year. Selected students receive full tuition and stipend
support for 48 months.
Candidates of any nationality may apply, and there
are no age restrictions. We do require a Master's de-
gree from candidates applying from countries within
the Bologna-agreement region, or those with similar 3-
year undergraduate degrees. Candidates from a coun-
try with a 4 or 5-year university degree are also eligible.
We seek highly motivated students, with total commit-
ment to the pursuit of answers to original questions in
a multidisciplinary environment. The IGC PhD Pro-
gramme welcomes applications from candidates with
university degrees in any eld, including those outside
the life sciences.
Research at the IGC revolves around four main axes:
Evolutionary Biology, Quantitative Biology, Integra-
tive Cell and Developmental Biology, and Immunobi-
ology. The broad-scoped nature of the IGC research
programme favours original approaches to outstanding
biological questions that promote bridges across dier-
ent disciplines and methodologies.
For a list of the resident research groups:
http://www.igc.gulbenkian.pt/pages/groups.php/A=-
143 collection=article group=1 For further details
about the IGC PhD Programme and how to apply:28 EvolDir March 1, 2014
http://www.igc.gulbenkian.pt/pages/facilities.php/-
A=169 collection=article Learn more about the IGC
PhD programme in a video featuring PhD students,
the Director of the programme, and the Director of the
IGC:
http://youtu.be/2nTL0OBf2TU For further informa-
tion about the IGC: www.igc.gulbenkian.pt Patr cia
Beldade Instituto Gulbenkian de Ci^ encia Rua da
Quinta Grande 6 2780-156 Oeiras PORTUGAL
Email: pbeldade@igc.gulbenkian.pt
Tel: + 351 - 21 440 7905 Fax: + 351 -21 440 7950
Patr cia Beldade <pbeldade@igc.gulbenkian.pt >
ImperialCollege London MolEvol
UK/EU PhD studentship
Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, School
of Public Health at Imperial College London. Zoologi-
cal Society of London (ZSL)
The Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiol-
ogy is oering one 4-year Industrial CASE stu-
dentship funded by NERC. The student will be based
in the Department of Infectious Disease Epidemi-
ology <http://www1.imperial.ac.uk/publichealth/-
departments/ide/ >(DIDE), School of Public Health,
St Marys Campus, Paddington, in CASE partnership
with the Institute of Zoology <http://www.zsl.org/-
science/ >(IoZ), Zoological Society of London (ZSL).
The project will be on 'Understanding how environ-
mental variation regulates infectious disease emergence
in a host community' and will be integrated with our
newly-funded NERC project 'The spatial epidemiol-
ogy and molecular evolution of amphibian chytrid-
iomycosis'. Research will take advantage of a well-
described system of ongoing disease outbreaks caused
by the globally-emerging amphibian pathogen Batra-
chochytrium dendrobatidis. Research will be located in
the Pyrenees of both France and Spain, and will investi-
gate how seasonal temperature proles inuence disease
dynamics both directly and indirectly. Approaches can
involve eld manipulations, statistical/mathematical
modelling and microbiome-proling of infected lakes.
The project will involve extended periods of eldwork
in high montane environments so the candidate needs
to be physically t and able to work independently.
French language skills are an asset.The studentship will pay UK/EU tuition fees and a
stipend of $17,500, and the student will belong to the
Graduate School which provides a full programme of
training in research and transferable skills. The stu-
dentship is available to UK nationals or EU nation-
als who have lived in the UK for at least three years
immediately preceding the date of an award. For full
eligibility details please see the following Natural Envi-
ronmental Research Council (NERC) terms and con-
ditions: http://www.nerc.ac.uk/funding/available/-
postgrad/schemes/industrial-case.asp *Owing to fund-
ing restrictions applications from overseas candidates
cannot be considered for this scheme*
Applicants should have, or expect to achieve, a rst
or upper second class degree or UK equivalent in a
relevant subject*. Informal enquiries about the stu-
dentship should be directed to Prof. Matthew Fisher
< http://www1.imperial.ac.uk/medicine/people/-
matthew.sher/ >(matthew.sher@imperial.ac.uk)
The closing date for applications for the October 2014
intake is 31st January 2014. Interviews of all short
listed candidates will take place on 24th-25th February
2014. Applications should consist of 2 parts, preferably
as a combined single PDF document:
1. A full CV which must include your title & full name,
date of birth, gender, nationality, rst degree (BSc,
MSc, MBBS etc), degree class awarded or marks/grades
to date, subject of rst degree, place of study and uni-
versity awarding the rst degree, and the names, mail-
ing addresses and email addresses of at least two aca-
demic referees (The email addresses of your referees
should be for their ocial institution email address.
You should not supply personal email addresses from
Hotmail/ Gmail /Yahoo etc).
2. A one page statement indicating why you want to
undertake this PhD project.
Please ensure that you include your own email ad-
dress on your CV as this will be our main method
of corresponding with you. Please email your com-
pleted application to: ide-phd@imperial.ac.uk stat-
ing \NERC CASE PhD Application" in the title.
Please note that candidates must full College ad-
missions criteria, details of which can be reviewed
at: http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/entryrequirements/-
graduate matthew.sher@imperial.ac.ukMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 29
ImperialCollege London
SyntheticBiol
Fully funded 3.5-year PhD studentship to work at the
interface of evolution and synthetic biology.
The project: Synthetic biology oers the tantalizing
prospect of assembling custom genomes de novo from
dierent desirable parts. But how easy is it to take com-
ponents from one system and plug them into another?
Can we perhaps even build a functional hybrid genome
from eukaryotic, bacterial and archaeal parts? This
question not only has practical relevance for design-
ing custom genomes but also provides an acid test for
our understanding of genome function. The aim of this
project is to elucidate how genetic systems can be as-
sembled from disparate taxonomic sources and thereby
provide some initial design principles for building cross-
kingdom genomes. To do so, we will reconstruct cross-
kingdom gene sharing patterns between bacteria and
archaea, identify gene features that facilitate transfer
(and might therefore be exploited to enable transfer of
otherwise refractory genes), and predict which archaeal
genes can, alone or in combination with others, be shut-
tled into bacterial genomes, and vice versa. Candidate
combinations will be tested experimentally by engineer-
ing a hybrid genome using Geobacillus species as a scaf-
fold.
The aims of this project are - to elucidate genetic obsta-
cles to inter-kingdom transfer - to explore which gene
features (functional class, sequence composition, etc.)
are associated with being liable or refractory to trans-
fer - to learn what tweaks may be necessary to enable
shuttling of genes normally refractory to cross-kingdom
transfer. This is of particular interest to the synthetic
biology community because it would unlock previously
inaccessible combinations, augmenting the toolkit of
synthetic biology as well as providing insights into prin-
ciples of genome organization and function.
This studentship will provide comprehensive training
in both computational (comparative genomics, network
analysis) and experimental (molecular biology, genomic
engineering) approaches to understanding and manip-
ulating genetic systems, and will be jointly supervised
by Dr Tobias Warnecke (Molecular Systems Group, In-
stitute of Clinical Sciences) and Dr Tom Ellis (Centre
for Synthetic Biology and Innovation and Department
of Bioengineering).We are looking for a highly motivated student who is
keen to combine dry lab and wet lab skills and with a
strong interest in evolutionary genomics and/or genome
engineering.
To apply please go to http://www.csc.mrc.ac.uk/Jobs/-
PhDStudentship/IECBS Application deadline: 15
March 2014
For further details see: http://www.ndaphd.com/-
search/ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=3D51895
For informal enquiries, contact me at to-
bias.warnecke@csc.mrc.ac.uk
Lab websites: http://www.csc.mrc.ac.uk/-
Research/Groups/IB/MolecularSystems/ http://-
openwetware.org/wiki/Ellis Tobias Warnecke Group
Leader Molecular Systems Group MRC Clinical
Sciences Centre & Imperial College London
tobias.warnecke@csc.mrc.ac.uk
JamesCookU BarramundiSexGenes
PhD project opportunity on DNA methylation of sex
genes in barramundi (Lates calcarifer)
James Cook University (JCU), Townsville, Australia
Barramundi are born male and subsequently sex change
into females at 4-5 years of age. This sex change pro-
cess creates uncertainty in the selection of broodstock
in aquaculture, as well as dictating that hatcheries hold
large numbers of large male broodstock until they sex
change into females. Research suggests DNA methy-
lation of key sex genes may play a role in determin-
ing sex in sh, particularly in sh species which ex-
hibit some form of environmental sex determination.
As part of a larger project to elucidate the genetic basis
of sex change in barramundi, an APA(I) PhD scholar-
ship is available for a student to examine the potential
role DNA methylation may have in regulating the sex
change process in barramundi.
Accordingly, the JCU Centre for Sustainable Tropi-
cal Fisheries and Aquaculture is seeking a high cal-
ibre PhD student with a passion for applied science
with solid molecular genetics/biology skills and inter-
est/experience in bioinformatics to address this impor-
tant question in sex determination and change in sh.
The student will use next generation sequencing tech-
nologies, qRT-PCR, techniques to estimate levels of
DNA methylation, and sh husbandry to directly ex-
amine if key reproductive genes become increasingly30 EvolDir March 1, 2014
DNA methylated due to various environmental stim-
uli under experimental conditions. The student will be
part of the Aquaculture Genomics group and work in
close collaboration with senior sta and a post-doctoral
researcher on the same project. Selection of applicants
will be based on merit; to be competitive will generally
require First Class Honours or Research Masters.
The scholarship is open for applications until March
3, 2014. The scholarship term is for three years and
is in the form of a stipend which can be used to
cover living expenses. The value of the scholarship is
AU$ 28,000 per annum. Prospective applicants should
contact Professor Dean Jerry in the rst instance to
discuss their research experience and the project it-
self (email: Dean.Jerry@jcu.edu.au). Applicants must
meet the eligibility criteria for entry to the degree of
Doctor of Philosophy at James Cook University. Visit
the JCU Graduate Research School website <http://-
www.jcu.edu.au/grs/prospective/index.htm >(http:/-
/www.jcu.edu.au/grs/prospective/index.htm) for fur-
ther information.
Gregory Maes, Ph.D. Lecturer in Evolutionary and
Applied Genetics Centre for Sustainable Tropical
Fisheries and Aquaculture School of Marine and
Tropical Biology James Cook University Ph: +61
(0)7 4781 4790; E-mail: gregory.maes@jcu.edu.au
Oce: ATSIP DB145-314 (Molecular Ecology and
Evolution Laboratory) Personal webpage: https:/-
/research.jcu.edu.au/portfolio/gregory.maes/ School
webpage: http://www.jcu.edu.au/mtb/ \Maes,
Gregory" <gregory.maes@jcu.edu.au >
LeibnizInst Berlin
ClimateAdaptation 2
*THIS IS A REMINDER (application deadline:
15.02.2014):*
The Department of Ecosystem Research of the Leibniz-
Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries
(IGB) in Berlin together with the Free University of
Berlin, invite applications for the position of:
*PhD student in Evolutionary Biology*
*Application deadline: 15.02.2014*; Starting date:
May 2014, or as soon as possible thereafter (interviews
will be conducted in March); Duration of the position:
3 yearsProject title: *\Evolutionary responses to a global
change"*
The PhD student will join the research group of Justyna
Wolinska. The group is currently located at the Ludwig
Maximilian University of Munich (Germany) but will
move to Berlin in March 2014. He / she will study the
evolutionary responses of communities and populations
which may result from manipulated experimental con-
ditions (i.e. global stressors), using cladoceran *Daph-
nia*as a model system. The student will also study
the impact of manipulated conditions on the spread of
infectious diseases and host-parasite coevolution (using
*Daphnia* and their microparasites as a model host-
parasite system).
This project is part of a research initiative around a
large experimental setup located at Lake Stechlin near
Berlin. \Lake Lab" (http://www.lake-lab .de/) consists
of 24 experimental lake-water basins each 9 metres in
diameter and around 20 metres deep, all isolated from
the rest of the lake. In these experimental cylinders,
future climatic scenarios are simulated and their eects
on the lake studied. The overarching goal of this large
research initiative is to nd out if and how biodiversity
will be aected as a result of climate change.
The PhD student will be involved in screening temporal
changes in *Daphnia*populations using microsatellites
and SNP markers, and he / she will study changes in
gene expression of *Daphnia* induced by environmen-
tal conditions. Moreover, the PhD student will track
temporal variation in parasite populations using NGS.
Depending on the interest of the student, he / she can
be further involved in eld and / or experimental work.
The ideal candidate should be familiar with molecular
methods and have a strong background in evolution-
ary biology. In addition, knowledge of bioinformatics
and/or population genetics will be highly advantageous.
Excellent communication and writing skills in English,
good work ethic, and creative thinking are desired. A
Master's degree (or equivalent) in biology is necessary
for admission. The working language of the group is
English.
The student will participate in the organized PhD pro-
gram and will take courses at the Free University of
Berlin. In addition, the student will have the chance
to collaborate intensively with researchers from IGB
as well as from other institutions. Generous funds are
available to cover attendance at national and interna-
tional conferences as well as research stays (lab rota-
tions) in other universities.
Applications should include 1) a letter of interest with a
description of relevant experience, 2) curriculum vitae,March 1, 2014 EvolDir 31
3) abstract of the Master's thesis, 4) a list of publica-
tions (if any), 5) the names (with e-mail addresses) of
two potential referees. Applications should be submit-
ted as a SINGLE (!) PDF document to the following
e-mail address: wolinska@bio.lmu.de , with the subject
line: \PhD application <your family name >".
{ Justyna Wolinska Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit at
M unchen Department Biologie II Evolutions okologie
Grosshaderner Str. 2 82152 Planegg-Martinsried, Ger-
many
Phone: +49 (0)89 2180 74201 Fax: +49 (0)89 2180
74204 email: wolinska@bio.lmu.de
http://www.evolutionary-ecology.bio.lmu.de/-
people/assistant profs/wolinska/index.html
http://www.evolutionary-ecology.bio.lmu.de/
http://www.igb-berlin.de/ Justyna Wolinska
<wolinska@bio.lmu.de >
MNHN Paris6U
EvolutionaryMetagenomics
Hello,
Please nd below the description of a graduate position
on 'Network analyses of the impact of a quick dietary
shift in the gut microbiome of the lizard species, Po-
darcis sicula'
This PhD proposal aims at determining what it takes
(in terms of microbiome changes) to become an herbiv-
orous lizard in less than 35 years.
Most lizards are insectivorous. Yet, several species and
populations of lacertid lizards have evolved toward an
omnivorous or even herbivorous diet. Our model sys-
tem, Podarcis sicula, a lizard species has shown rapid
evolution of feeding and digestive tract morphology in
manipulated populations. In 1970, ve breeding pairs
of the insectivorous P. sicula were transferred from the
islet of Pod Kopite to the islet of Pod Mraru, Croatia.
36 years later (representing about 30 P. sicula gener-
ations), the transplanted P. sicula on Pod Mraru had
become mostly herbivorous. This dietary shift resulted
in changes in head size and bite force among the pop-
ulations on the two islands, and most striking changes
in the lizards guts, since the herbivorous Pod Mraru
lizards had developed an elaborate hindgut chamber
with cecal valves, which had not been seen in any other
population of P. sicula. These valves facilitate plant
digestion by the gut microbial community of the lizardhosts. With the advances of next generation sequenc-
ing, this system oers a unique opportunity to investi-
gate the impact of this dietary change at the level of the
microbiome using metagenomic and metranscriptomic
data. We will take advantage of the inclusive powerful
comparative framework oered by sequence similarity
networks, and exploit concepts of graph theory, to an-
alyze the functioning and the evolution of genetic di-
versity of the lizard gut microbiomes in such massive
datasets. In short, we will address the following ques-
tions through a comparison of the gut microbiomes of
insular herbivorous lizards and of their insectivorous
relatives:
1) Does the taxonomy of the microbiome correlates with
the diet? 2) What changes in gene content and func-
tions did the dietary shift produce? In particular, what
gene families were acquired/lost during this transition?
3) What role did the gut mobilome play in these func-
tional changes? 4) Overall, were the changes mostly
functional (and through lateral gene transfer) or taxo-
nomical (through a deep change of the microbial pop-
ulations)
To tackle these issues, the candidate's main goal will be
to use and develop novel exploratory methods, based on
sequence similarity graphs to describe and compare the
taxonomical and functional diversity of metagenomes
and metatranscriptomes of gut microbiomes of lizards,
and to assess the possible impact of lateral gene trans-
fer within this microbial community in this remarkable
adaptive shift.
He/ she will work within a consortium of friendly
herpetologists (Anthony Herrel), computer scientists
(Philippe Lopez) and evolutionary microbiologists (Eric
Bapteste), and be hosted in the University Pierre and
Marie Curie and in the National Museum of Natural
History, in Paris.
Ideally, the candidate should have some background in
bio-informatics (to use and improve our labs existing
tools) and a strong interest for evolutionary biology.
He/she will benet from a Labex BCDiv grant (1757
euro /month for 3 years.) and will be enrolled in the
doctoral program at the Mus eum National d'Histoire
Naturelle in Paris with a start date of September 1st
2014.
Potential candidates should send a CV, two letters of
recommendation, a pdf copy of their master's thesis,
and a letter of motivation in English to Eric Bapteste
(eric.bapteste@snv.jussieu.fr) and Anthony Herrel (an-
thony.herrel@mnhn.fr). The applications will be closed
June 20, 2014. The three top-ranked candidates will be
invited for an interview.32 EvolDir March 1, 2014
epbapteste@gmail.com epbapteste@gmail.com
MasseyU ComputationalBiology
PhD Scholarship in Computational Biology
I am looking for a motivated and productive PhD stu-
dent to join my computational biology research group.
My team conducts research in several related areas, par-
ticularly evolutionary genomics, simulation modeling
and complex systems. Potential study topics include
i) using genome-level data to reconstruct human pre-
history in the Pacic region, ii) using approaches from
complexity science to infer how genetic diversity inter-
acts with social behaviors in small communities, and
iii) using high throughput RNA-sequencing to deter-
mine universal rules behind gene expression in allopoly-
ploid species. Candidates' proposed research must t
with my group's existing research interests, and must be
computational (i.e., not primarily eld- or lab-based).
Candidates with an interest in population genetics are
particularly encouraged to apply.
Candidates must have solid quantitative skills, prefer-
ably including expertise in statistics and program-
ming. Some background knowledge of biology is pre-
ferred, but training in other subject areas (such as
next gen sequencing or anthropology) can be pro-
vided as required. Candidates with non-standard back-
grounds (e.g., statistics, computer science, mathemat-
ics, physics) are encouraged to apply.
A generous tax-free stipend and payment of all tuition
fees are guaranteed for three years, with a probation
period of one year prior to full conrmation.
The PhD position will be based in the Computational
Biology Research Group at Massey University, New
Zealand. My research team is rmly embedded in the
international scientic community, with extensive col-
laborative links to Australia, Indonesia, Europe and
the United States. This position oers a rare oppor-
tunity to experience New Zealand's unique natural and
cultural environment. Palmerston North, a university
town with a large international community, oers a full
range of social and cultural amenities. The city is lo-
cated close to both mountains and the sea, and presents
regular opportunities for hiking, skiing, surng and ad-
venture sports.
If you have any questions, please contact Assoc Prof
Murray Cox (m.p.cox@massey.ac.nz). Informationabout the Computational Biology Research Group
(http://massey.genomicus.com) and the Institute of
Fundamental Sciences (http://tinyurl.com/ifsmassey)
is available online.
To apply, please send by email (preferably in PDF for-
mat):
1. A brief statement of research interests, qualications
and experience. 2. A curriculum vitae. 3. The names
and contact details of three referees willing to provide
a condential letter of recommendation upon request.
Informal enquiries are welcome. We will begin review-
ing applications starting 9 March 2014 and the position
will remain open until lled.
Assoc Prof Murray P. Cox Institute of Fundamental
Sciences Massey University Private Bag 11 222 Palmer-
ston North 4442 NEW ZEALAND
http://massey.genomicus.com m.p.cox@massey.ac.nz
murray.p.cox@gmail.com
Paris6U EvolutionaryBioinformatics
Hello,
Please nd below the description of a graduate position
on 'the search for mosaic genes and genomes in large
similarity networks'.
Gene and genome evolution undergo complex pro-
cesses. In addition to gradual mutations within a single
gene family or within a particular genome, genes and
genomes component parts can also originate from dis-
tinct source lineages due to non-tree like evolutionary
processes. Such gene and genome remodeling produces
adaptations through changes involving genetic mate-
rial from outside a given gene family and/ or a given
genome. Therefore, studying this reticulate evolution
requires the development of original methods to study
not only the origin of a given adaptation but eventually
the multiple origins of a given adaptation. It remains
an important empirical question to determine the ex-
tent, and the functional/ evolutionary import of genes
and genomes mosaicism.
A wealth of molecular data from metagenomic, single
cell metagenomic, and microbial genomes projects is
now available to address this fundamental issue, and
to broaden the scope of the evolutionary research pro-
gram to investigate evolving objects with multiple ori-March 1, 2014 EvolDir 33
gins. Sequence similarity networks oer a promising
complementary niche to phylogenetic methods, to fur-
ther exploit the complexity of these data. These graphs
allow for mathematical analyses of genetic diversity and
similarities over dozens of millions of sequences, provid-
ing a powerful framework to address the evolution of
composite genes and genomes.
To further develop these tools, our lab is now look-
ing for a PhD student in bio-informatics, who will be
funded for three years by an ERC grant (for a salary of
35,000 euros/year; approximately 1753 euros/ month
after taxes). The candidate will take advantage of
graph properties and algorithms from the graph the-
ory, inspired from the study of social, regulatory, and
interaction networks to develop approaches that:
- considerably expand our existing networks by gath-
ering sequences from publically available genomic and
metagenomic projects;
- systematize the detection of patterns suggestive of
composite sequences and genomes.
The candidate will then investigate the biological prop-
erties (functional, taxonomical and environmental dis-
tributions) of the candidate composite sequences to in-
fer what functions, genomes and environments are more
aected by gene remodeling, with a particular focus on
the evolution of photosynthetic eukaryotes.
He/ she will work within a consortium of friendly
bioinformaticians (Philippe Lopez), evolutionary bi-
ologists (Eric Bapteste), and graph theorists (Michel
Habib, Laurent Viennot), and be hosted in the Uni-
versity Pierre and Marie Curie in the center of Paris,
France. The current team description and publications
can be found at: http://www.evol-net.fr/ The candi-
date should have a good background in bio-informatics,
and/or a strong interest for evolutionary biology. The
position will start as soon as possible, ideally as early
as June 2014. Applicants are requested to send a de-
tailed resume, a motivation letter, a pdf copy of their
masters thesis, and the names of two scientic referees
to : eric.bapteste@snv.jussieu.fr
The applications will be closed May 15, 2014.
Eric Bapteste <epbapteste@gmail.com >
Prague FishEvolution
PhD position available from *October 2014*Gene expression analysis in highly polyploid and hybrid
sturgeons in the Laboratory of Fish Genetics, Institute
of Animal Physiology and Genetics (Lib chov), Czech
Academy of Sciences, Charles University (Prague), De-
partment of Zoology and Laboratory of Molecular, Cel-
lular and Quantitative Genetics, Faculty of Fisheries
and Protection of Water, University of South Bohemia
(E.Bud jovice).
*Project background*: Polyploidy is an extraordinar-
ily important evolutionary mechanism contributing to
huge biodiversity of contemporary shes. Similarly, the
ease with which polyploidy of various degrees occurs
naturally or can be induced experimentally by means
of dierent approaches, gives evidence for signicance of
this biological phenomenon associated with sh genome
plasticity. However, there are only few phenomena in
sh biology and genetics on which we have so incom-
plete, fragmentary and sometimes biased knowledge
like on polyploidy of sh. Sturgeons (Acipenseridae)
together with paddleshes (Polyodontidae) are the old-
est living group of actinopterygian shes, living fossils
which literally \forgot to extinct". They diverged from
the vertebrate phylogenic tree, similarly to gars after
having passed two rounds of genome duplication. Chro-
mosomes of these sh also do not exhibit, except for
gars, similarity to those of other actinopterygians and
chromosome numbers give evidence of the large role
of polyploidization events when forming the genome
of acipenserid shes and karyological studies, ow cy-
tometry and DNA content measurements distinguish 4
naturally existing ploidy levels: paleo4n, paleo8n, pa-
leo9n and paleo12n species with ~120, ~240, ~270 and
~360 chromosomes, respectively. In this project we plan
to investigate gene expression in sturgeons of dierent
ploidy levels and also in interspecies hybrids with ele-
vated ploidy levels using methods of RT-PCR, RNA
FISH combined with DNA FISH and DNA/histone
methylation status. This work will be performed in
the context of genome size assessment (ow cytometry)
and molecular cytogenetic karyotype descriptions.
For more information, visit: http://www.iapg.cas.cz/-
uzfg/index.php?p=3Dsekce&site=3Ddefault&id=-
3D12 or email symonova@natur.cuni.cz
*Eligibility*: We expect a motivated student with ex-
perience in ichthyology or cold-blooded vertebrates bi-
ology. The ideal candidate for this position is interested
in molecular biology, genetics and evolutionary biology,
and is willing to learn new methods. He/she must have
nished the MSc (or equivalent) by September 2014 at
the latest.
*Time and place*: The student will work in the Labo-
ratory of Fish Genetics, Institute of Animal Physiology34 EvolDir March 1, 2014
and Genetics, Czech Academy of Sciences in Lib chov
(close to M ln k), Czech Republic. Partly also in the
Laboratory of Molecular, Cellular and Quantitative Ge-
netics, Faculty of Fisheries and Water Protection, Uni-
versity of South Bohemia in Eesk e Bud jovice. The
position is available for up to four years, starting in
October 2014.
*Salary*: The PhD candidates net monthly income
will start at 9.000 CZK/month netto and University
scholarship (6.300 CZK/monthly in the rst year) and
may progressively increase with experience and achieve-
ments during the study. There will be a direct support
from a new GA ER (Grant Agency, Czech Republic)
project (living expenses in the Czech Republic are gen-
erally lower than in Western European countries).
*Research team*: *dr. Radka Symonov a* (Lab.
of Fish Genetics in Libechov, Dept. of Zoology,
Charles University, Prague) supervisor; *prof. Petr
R ab*(Lab. of Fish Genetics) co-supervisor; *prof. Mar-
tin Flaj1hans* (Faculty of Fisheries and Water Protec-
tion, University of South Bohemia) co-supervisor.
*How to apply*: If interested, please, send a letter of
interest, CV, list of publication, title and abstract of
Master/Diploma thesis, and contact details of 2-3 se-
nior scientists for references on you in a single PDF le
to *symonova@natur.cuni.cz* until February 28, 2014.
http://www.iapg.cas.cz/uzfg/ Pre-selected candidates
will be encouraged to submit an ocial application to
the university.
Mgr. Radka Symonov a, Ph.D. E-mail:
radka.symonova@natur.cuni.cz
Laboratory of Fish Genetics Institute of Animal Phys-
iology and Genetics Czech Academy of Sciences Rum-
burska 89 CZ - 277 21 Libechov Czech Republic
Department of Zoology Charles University in Prague
Faculty of Science Albertov 6, 128 43 Praha 2
www.natur.cuni.cz/en symonova@natur.cuni.cz
PurdueU HellbenderConservation
Title: PhD Assistantship - Hellbender Ecology and
Conservation
Agency: Purdue University
Location: West Lafayette, IN
Job Description: Seeking a highly motivated student
for a fully funded PhD position focusing on hellbenderecology and conservation. The selected candidate will
evaluate larval hellbender captive rearing techniques,
assess post-release movements and survival, and char-
acterize juvenile hellbender habitat use. This project
will consist of intensive eld work combined with ex-
tensive travel to eld sites located in southern Indi-
ana. Transportation and o-campus housing will be
provided. Graduate position begins in August 2014,
but opportunities for eld work can begin in May 2014.
Qualications: A student with an MS in herpetology
or related eld is preferred although exceptional appli-
cants with a BS will be considered. Experience using
radio- telemetry is desired. Applicants must have a
strong work ethic and the ability to work both indepen-
dently and as a member of a research team. Excellent
interpersonal skills are essential. Applicants will work
closely with a diverse group of state wildlife biologists,
private landowners, and supervise eld technicians.
Potential applicants are encouraged to visit https://-
ag.purdue.edu/fnr/Pages/gradadminguide.aspx to en-
sure they meet the minimum departmental require-
ments for admission. Students that do not meet mini-
mum requirements will not be considered. Experience
in the peer-reviewed publication process is desired.
To apply, electronically submit a cover letter stat-
ing research and career interests, CV (including cu-
mulative GPA and GRE scores), and contact infor-
mation for three references to Dr. Rod Williams
(rodw@purdue.edu).
Purdue University is an equal access/equal opportu-
nity/armative action employer fully committed to
achieving a diverse workforce.
Stipend: ~$20,000/yr
Last Date to Apply: March 1, 2014
Contact: Rod Williams E-mal: rodw@purdue.edu
Phone: 765-494-3568 Web: http://-
web.ics.purdue.edu/~rodw/ Steve Kimble Postdoctoral
Research Assistant, Department of Forestry and Natu-
ral Resources Purdue University skimble@purdue.edu
sjkimble@gmail.com http://web.ics.purdue.edu/-
~rodw/sKimble.php sjkimble@gmail.com
UBasel MicrobialGenomics
PhD-position in microbial genomics and host-pathogen
interactions at the University of Basel, SwitzerlandMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 35
A PhD fellowship is available in the group of Dieter
Ebert at Basel University, Basel, Switzerland. I am
looking for a highly motivated candidate with inter-
ests in evolutionary genomics and host-parasite in-
teractions. The PhD project is concerned with the
bacterium Pasteuria ramosa, a pathogen of Daphnia
magna. The aim of the project is to gain insights into
the genetic interactions of the pathogen and its host
using genomic and experimental approaches. Part of
the project will be worked out with the candidate, to
accommodate interests and strength. The position is
supported by the Swiss National Science Foundation
and the University of Basel. The research group cov-
ers the entire range from epidemiological and ecological
aspects of host-parasite interactions, to studies on the
population genetics and genomics of hosts and para-
sites. Work is carried out in the eld and in the lab.
For more information see: http://evolution.unibas.ch/-
ebert/ Some recent publications related to the project:
- Luijckx, P., H. Fienberg, D. Duneau, and D. Ebert.
2013. A Matching-Allele Model Explains Host Resis-
tance to Parasites. Current Biology 23:1085-1088. -
McElroy, K., L. Mouton, L. Du Pasquier, W. Qi, and D.
Ebert. 2011. Characterisation of a large family of poly-
morphic collagen-like proteins in the endospore-forming
bacterium Pasteuria ramosa. Research in Microbiology
162:701-714. - Duneau, D., P. Luijckx, F. Ben-Ami, C.
Laforsch, and D. Ebert. 2011. Resolving the infection
process reveals striking dierences in the contribution
of environment, genetics and phylogeny to host-parasite
interactions. Bmc Biology 9.
Starting date for the PhD is negotiable (any time from
April 2014 onwards). German is helpful in every day
life, but the working language in the group is English.
A Diploma or Master degree (or equivalent) in biology
or related subject is necessary for admission.
Please send your application by email (all material in
one PDF please) to Dieter Ebert. Applications should
include a CV, a list of publications and a statement
about research interests. Please give names and email
addresses of two persons who are willing to write a letter
of recommendation. Application deadline is 25. Feb.
2014.
Further information and address for application: Prof.
Dr. Dieter Ebert, University of Basel, Institute of Zool-
ogy, Basel, Switzerland, Email: dieter.ebert@unibas.ch
Tel. +41-(0)61-267 03 60, Fax +41-(0)61-267 03 61.
Web: http://evolution.unibas.ch/ebert/ Dieter Ebert
Universit at Basel, Zoologisches Institut, Vesalgasse 1,
4051 Basel, Switzerland Tel. +41 (0)61 267 03 60
Email: dieter.ebert@unibas.ch
dieter.ebert@unibas.chUBern
CooperativeBreedingEvolution
Master position \How are social behaviours and social
cognition related to helping behaviours in a coopera-
tively breeding sh?"
This project will be carried out in the context of a
large-scale breeding scheme of a PhD project on the
genetic basis of helping behaviour in the highly so-
cial African cichlid Neolamprologus pulcher. These
sh have turned into a model species for studies of
social evolution based on detailed information about
their ecology and behaviour, excellent possibilities for
behavioural and physiological experiments and recent
sequencing of their full genome. In this cooperatively
breeding species, the ospring stay in their natal terri-
tory and assist the breeder pair with territory mainte-
nance, brood care and defense. The main focus of the
breeding experiment is on how juvenile sh help the
breeder pair with brood care: cleaning eggs from fun-
gus and defending the clutch against an egg predator.
In the master project behavioural tests will be done
assessing whether certain social behaviours (e.g. ag-
gressiveness, submissiveness, the ability to compete for
a shelter, etc.) are inherited in connection with helping
propensity in this sh species by comparing these traits
among siblings and non-relatives.
The master student will be supervised by Prof. Dr.
Barbara Taborsky and Claudia Kasper (PhD student).
We are looking for a strongly motivated student with
a Bachelor's degree preferably in Behavioural Ecol-
ogy/Ethology or a related discipline. Experience with
sh is benecial but not required. The project should
be started ASAP (ideally April/May 2014). No funding
is available but we will provide support and assist the
candidate if he or she wishes to apply for a grant.
The Ethologische Station Hasli of the Division of Be-
havioural Ecology of the University of Bern, situated
in a picturesque forest a few minutes from the city of
Bern, is a bustling research environment consisting of
ca. 7 PhD-students and advanced research sta and
a varying number of master's students and guest sci-
entists. Besides our Behavioural Ecology group, the
Institute of Ecology and Evolution at the University
of Bern comprises research groups in Aquatic Ecology
(Ole Seehausen), Community Ecology (Wolfgang Nen-
twig), Conservation Biology (Raphael Arlettaz), Evolu-36 EvolDir March 1, 2014
tionary Ecology (Heinz Richner) and Population Genet-
ics (Laurent Excoer). The city of Bern, a UNESCO
world heritage, is situated only 30 min from the High
Alps of Switzerland. Please visit our website for more
information: http://behav.zoology.unibe.ch . Applica-
tion: To apply (in English or German), please send a
letter of motivation, providing a short overview of your
interests and experience, and your CV to:
claudia.kasper@iee.unibe.ch bar-
bara.taborsky@iee.unibe.ch
Claudia Kasper PhD student Division of Behavioural
Ecology Institute of Ecology and Evolution University
of Bern, Switzerland
claudia.kasper@iee.unibe.ch
UCalgary
EvolutionDiseaseEmergence
Graduate opportunity PhD student Emerging Infec-
tious Diseases in Arctic Wildlife (Muskoxen) Applica-
tion deadline: February 26, 2014
We are seeking a highly motivated and energetic PhD
student to join our Research Group in ArcticWildlife
Health starting in September 2014 or January 2015.
This position is based in the Department of Ecosys-
tem and Public Health at the Faculty of Veterinary
Medicine, University of Calgary. The successful appli-
cant will work under the primary supervision of Drs.
Susan Kutz (Arctic wildlife health specialist) and Karin
Orsel (veterinary epidemiologist) and within our multi-
disciplinary and multi-agency network to investigate as-
pects of the emergence of Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae
in muskoxen in the Canadian Arctic archipelago.
Qualications: Candidates should be industrious, pas-
sionate about science, and must have demonstrated
competence as team players. Strong interests in ecol-
ogy or molecular epidemiology are desired. An MSc or
similar degree in wildlife disease ecology or a related
eld is desirable. A veterinary degree is an asset, but
not essential. A GPA of >3.5 on a 4.0 scale is required,
as this position is part of the University1s Eyes High
program (https://www.ucalgary.ca/eyeshigh/).
Application deadline: February 26, 2014, or until suit-
able applicants are identied. Email application, a let-
ter of introduction describing research interests and ex-
perience, a current CV, an unocial copy of transcripts,
and 3 references to:Supervisor Dr. Susan Kutz, skutz@ucalgary.ca http:/-
/people.ucalgary.ca/ ~ kutzrg/ Ecosystem and Public
Health Faculty of Veterinary Medicine University of
Calgary
Or
Co-supervisor Dr. Karin Orsel,
Karin.orsel@ucalgary.ca http://wcm.ucalgary.ca/-
orselresearch/ Production Animal Health Faculty of
Veterinary Medicine University of Calgary
Karin Orsel DVM, MSc, PhD, Dipl. ECBHM Faculty
of Veterinary Medicine: Dept of Production Animal
Health Faculty of Medicine, Dept of Community Health
Sciences Associate Professor Epidemiology, Infectious
Diseases of Cattle 3330 Hospital Drive NW HSC 2516
Calgary, AB, Canada, T2N 4N1 Tel (oce): 1 403
210 6127 <tel:1%20403%20210%206127 >Fax: 1 403
210-9466 http://wcm.ucalgary.ca/orselresearch/ Karin
Orsel <karin.orsel@ucalgary.ca >
UFribourg
ComputationalPopGenetics
PhD position in Computational Population Genetics in
the Statistical and Computational Evolutionary Biol-
ogy group at the University of Fribourg, Switzerland,
founded by a grant to Prof. Daniel Wegmann.
Who we are: We are a young and enthusiastic group
at the University of Fribourg, aiming at characterizing
the evolutionary and ecological processes shaping the
realm of biological diversity we see today. To achieve
this, we design and evaluate new statistical and compu-
tational approaches to infer complex evolutionary his-
tories and subsequently, apply them to the wealth of
data currently being generated, primarily from the lat-
est sequencing approaches.
Your tasks: Currently, we seek a highly-motivated
PhD student to join our research group and to ad-
dress the question of inferring selection from genetic
data by developing novel statistical and computational
approaches. While a wide array of such approaches will
be explored, a particular focus of the work will be on
the extension and application of Approximate Bayesian
Computation (ABC) algorithms to infer locus specic
selection coecients and hence the distribution of t-
ness eects from linked and unlinked loci. We envi-
sion applying the developed approaches to large data
sets from both Drosophila melanogaster as well as hu-March 1, 2014 EvolDir 37
mans, but the target species is open for the candidate
to choose.
What we oer: We oer a stimulating research envi-
ronment, well embedded in the strong evolutionary-
and population genetics community in western Switzer-
land. We are part of the Swiss Institute of Bioinfor-
matics (SIB) and boost excellent research facilities, in-
cluding state-of-the-art computational infrastructures.
Fribourg is a lively university town with pleasant sur-
roundings (such as the Alps) and an excellent quality
of life. It is located only 20 minutes from the capital of
Switzerland, Bern, and just a little over an hour from
Geneva and Z urich. While some knowledge of German
or French is benecial for living in Switzerland, it is
not essential. The working language in our institute is
English.
What you bring: Applicants for this position should
have a Master degree (or equivalent) in population ge-
netics/genomics, bioinformatics, computational biology
or computer science. Good knowledge of written and
spoken English is expected. Experience in program-
ming (especially C++) is an asset.
Starting date is exible, but earliest is May 2014.
Funding is provided by the Swiss National Science
Foundation and available for three years (with the
possibility for extension). To receive full considera-
tion, applicants should submit a single PDF le by
e-mail with the following items before March 31 to
daniel.wegmann@unifr.ch:
* A cover letter with a brief summary of previous re-
search experience and professional motivation * Cur-
riculum Vitae * Copies of degree certicates and list of
coursework, including grades * Names, addresses and
e-mails of two professional references
Further information: http://www.unifr.ch/biochem/-
index.php?id=789 https://www.isb-sib.ch/groups/-
fribourg/sceb-wegmann.html phaentu@gmail.com
UGothenburg SystematicBiology
Please help advertising this position to all potential
candidates:
The project \Phylogenetic and biogeographic analysis
of the genus Pavonia (plant family Malvaceae) using
gene capture and Next Generation Sequencing" seeks
to answer the following questions: How are the species
of Pavonia related? Are the polyploids in the genus ofhybrid origin, and thus is the phylogeny a network? Is
there a pattern in the timing of when polyploidy arose?
What is the biogeographic history of the genus? What
factors (e.g., geographic, edaphic, biotic) can explain
the high number of species in the neotropics?
There is scope within the project for signicant method-
ological development, probably in collaboration with
theoretical systematists/mathematicians.
Read more and apply at:
http://www.gu.se/english/about theuniversity/-
announcements-in-the-job-application-portal/-
?languageId=0&disableRedirect=true&id=-
19144&Dnr=588435&Type=E or http://antonelli-
lab.net Best wishes
Bernard Pfeil and Alexandre Antonelli
Dr. Alexandre Antonelli Associate professor, Scientic
curator http://antonelli-lab.net Department of Biolog-
ical and Environmental Sciences University of Gothen-
burg Carl Skottsbergs gata 22B, 413 19 G oteborg, Swe-
den Mobile: + 46 (0) 703 989570 E-mail: alexan-
dre.antonelli@bioenv.gu.se
Alexandre Antonelli <alexandre.antonelli@bioenv.gu.se >
ULeuven DamselyEvolutionaryEcol
PhD studentship: Eects of urbanisation in a damsely
GENERAL THEME: Evolutionary ecology of popula-
tion dierentiation along an urbanisation gradient in
damselies. The PhD project will be part of a larger
research program on urbanisation where we address fol-
lowing questions in the damsely Coenagrion puella:
(1) how do larvae and adults dierentiate phenotypi-
cally along an urbanisation gradient; (2) how does this
aect ecological interactions with conspecics (sexual
selection) and natural enemies (predators and para-
sites); (3) how does this aect interactions with stres-
sors such as pollutants and heat waves? Candidates
are encouraged to develop and pursue their own ideas
within this project. There is the possibility to extend
this project with a latitudinal component thereby link-
ing to ongoing projects on latitudinal dierentiation in
damselies in our research team.
PRACTICAL WORK will be a combination of moni-
toring natural eld populations and common garden ex-
periments in the laboratory. We have excellent research
facilities with an outdoor research area, temperature-38 EvolDir March 1, 2014
controlled rooms, incubators, and a well-equipped lab-
oratory for quantication of behavioural and physio-
logical traits. The candidate will analyze and publish
existing datasets and is expected to also collect new
data.
PROFILE: Master in Biology or related eld with an
excellent academic record, and a strong proven interest
in experimental evolutionary ecology. Good knowledge
of English and a car driving license are required.
OFFER: A full time job initially for a period of one
year, but extendable to a total of ca. 3.5 years pend-
ing good evaluation. Leuven (http://www.leuven.be)
is a pretty historical university city with a very high
and pleasant standard of living. The historic univer-
sity, founded in 1425, has a top research and teach-
ing standard (http://www.kuleuven.be/english). You
will be embedded in an international, enthusiastic and
dynamic team with ample expertise in evolutionary
ecology using damselies as model system (http://-
bio.kuleuven.be/eeb/laeec/whoiswho/00034380).
INTERESTED? Please send your CV, a letter of mo-
tivation including relevant experience in evolutionary
ecology (!), and two reference letters as a single PDF to
Prof dr. Robby Stoks (robby.stoks@bio.kuleuven.be).
Applications will be reviewed until the position is lled.
The position starts spring 2014, preferentially as soon
as possible.
robby.stoks@bio.kuleuven.be
UMelbourne FemaleOrnamentation
PhD opportunity - The function of female ornamenta-
tion in lovely fairy-wrens.
An exciting PhD opportunity is available to investi-
gate the function of elaborate female song and plumage
in a cooperatively breeding bird, the lovely fairy-wren
(Malurus amabilis). The student will be based in the
Evolution and Behaviour Group in the Department of
Zoology at the University of Melbourne and supervised
by A/Prof Raoul Mulder and Dr Michelle Hall, with
eldwork carried out in Cairns in north-eastern Aus-
tralia.
Darwin's theory of sexual selection has been remarkably
successful in explaining how elaborate signals evolved in
male animals, but whether similar processes drive the
evolution of female signals remains controversial. Thisproject will test competing hypotheses for the evolution
of sexual dierences by investigating selection on male
and female plumage and song ornaments in the lovely
fairy-wren. In contrast to most of the other species in
this iconic genus, female lovely fairy-wrens have bril-
liantly colourful plumage, but they have never previ-
ously been systematically studied.
The student will work on a recently-established colour-
banded population of lovely fairy-wrens in Cairns Aus-
tralia, combining observational data with eld, experi-
mental, molecular and comparative approaches to im-
prove our understanding of female ornamentation in the
Maluridae and birds more generally.
Applicants will need to have an extremely competi-
tive academic record and obtain an Australian Post-
graduate Award or International Research and Fee
Remission Scholarships (for details and scholarship
application forms see http://services.unimelb.edu.au/-
scholarships/research). The main application deadlines
for these scholarships are 31 August (International) and
31 October (Domestic).
Interested students with excellent grades that are com-
petitive for a scholarship (average score of >80%)
are invited to email their CV, details of two aca-
demic referees, academic transcript, and a letter
describing their research interests to Raoul Mul-
der (r.mulderATunimelb.edu.au) and Michelle Hall
(hall.mATunimelb.edu.au).
Dr Michelle L Hall Research Fellow Department of Zo-
ology University of Melbourne Melbourne, Vic, 3010
Australia Email: hall.m@unimelb.edu.au Web: http:/-
/michellelhall.wordpress.com/ hall.m@unimelb.edu.au
UNewBrunswick
ComparativeGenomics
March 2014
GRADUATE STUDENT POSITION IN COMPARA-
TIVE GENOMICS AND BIOINFORMATICS
Biology Department University of New Brunswick,
Fredericton
One graduate Ph.D. position is available in the labora-
tory of Dr. Adrian Reyes-Prieto, in the Biology Depart-
ment of the University of New Brunswick, Fredericton.
I seek an enthusiastic graduate student with strong in-
terests in evolutionary biology and bioinformatics. TheMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 39
candidate should have some experience in genomic sci-
ences and sequence (DNA, protein) analysis. The se-
lected student is expected to join our lab as soon as
July 2013.
The student will investigate diverse aspects of the evo-
lution of photosynthetic eukaryotes. It is expected that
the candidate will generate genomic data, and perform
comparative sequence analyses. The research project
involves handling of 'next-generation' DNA sequence
data, genome assembly, annotation and molecular phy-
logenetics. This position will provide the opportunity
to conduct novel research in topics such as the evolution
of photosynthetic organelles, comparative genomics of
glaucophytes, and evolution of 'colorless' chlorophytes.
NSERC funds for stipends/salaries for up to 4 years are
available.
My research program is aliated with the CIFAR-
Integrated Microbiology Program, and the selected
graduate student will have the opportunity to interact
closely with prestigious research groups across Canada,
Europe and the USA (http://www.cifar.ca/integrated-
microbial-biodiversity-program-members), via our on-
going collaborations and regular meetings.
Please apply by sending your Curriculum Vitae, con-
tact information for at least three referees, and a cover
letter with a statement of your research interests to
areyes[at]unb.ca. It is critical that you contact me di-
rectly prior to applying to the UNB graduate studies
program.
Information on graduate studies and application
procedures for the Department of Biology at
University of New Brunswick can be found on-
line at www.unb.ca/fredericton/science/biology/-
Degree Info/Graduate.html Adrian Reyes-Prieto,
Ph.D. Assistant Professor Biology Department
University of New Brunswick http://www.unb.ca/-
fredericton/science/biology/Faculty/reyesprieto.html
10 Bailey Drive Fredericton New Brunswick E3B 5A3
Canada
Adrian Reyes Prieto <areyes@unb.ca >
USalford
ShrimpSexualDierentiation
Dear all,
Applications are now open for a 3-year Graduate Teach-
ing Studentship in the School of Environment & LifeSciences, University of Salford, Greater Manchester,
UK.
The title of my proposed project is: *Endocrine disrup-
tion eects on the sexual dierentiation of the brown
shrimp Crangon crangon: a eld test and characteriza-
tion of a biomarker*
http://www.salford.ac.uk/environment-life-
sciences/research/graduate-teaching-studentships/-
2014/endocrine-disruption-eects-on-the-sexual-
dierentiation-of-the-brown-shrimp-crangon-crangon-
a-eld-test-and-characterization-of-a-biomarker The
goals of this project are: (1) to determine the eects
of endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDc) on the sexual
dierentiation of the brown shrimp *C. crangon* and
(2) to characterize an eective ED biomarker in this
species.
The successful candidate will:
1) Perform eld sampling of *C. crangon* in contami-
nated and non-contaminated sites;
2) Determine its sex (morphologically and through go-
nadal histological analyses);
3) Analyse sex ratios and sexual dierentiation in the
populations under study;
4) Test the use of vitellogenin (Vtg) as an eective ED
biomarker (using recently developed protocols which,
for example, employ LC-MS-MS, liquid chromatogra-
phy tandem mass spectrometry).
Successful applicants need to register for a PhD at the
University of Salford and from the scheme they will
gain experience of teaching in Higher Education while
performing their research project. Details on the fel-
lowship can be found here: http://www.salford.ac.uk/-
environment-life-sciences/research/graduate-teaching-
studentships and here: http://www.salford.ac.uk/-
study/postgraduate/fees-and-funding/gts The closing
date for application is 31st March 2014.
Please feel free to contact me at:
C.Benvenuto@salford.ac.uk
Kind regards,
Chiara
*Dr. Chiara Benvenuto* Lecturer in Zoology*
j* School of Environment & Life Sciences Room
317, Peel Building, University of Salford, Salford
M5 4WT, UK *t:* +44 (0)161-295-5141 * jm:
*+44 (0)7544-290-311 *C.Benvenuto@salford.ac.uk*
j www.salford.ac.uk/environment-life-sciences
http://hub.salford.ac.uk/bicome/2013/01/22/chiara-
benvenuto/ chiara.benvenuto@gmail.com40 EvolDir March 1, 2014
USheeld MolecularEvolution
*Identifying the determinants of genetic evolvability*
Keywords: rates of evolution, gene duplication, evolv-
ability, transcriptomics
A three-years PhD position funded by the Royal
Society is available at the University of Sheeld,
in the department of Animal and Plant Sciences.
The candidate will work under the supervision of
Pascal-Antoine Christin (http://www.shef.ac.uk/aps/-
sta-and-students/acadsta/christin), and will investi-
gate the rates of molecular evolution in plants.
During the course of evolution, novel adaptive traits
emerge through alterations in the expression patterns
and/or catalytic properties of enzymes, which arise
through random mutations in the regulatory regions
and/or coding regions. The ability of genes to quickly
change the properties of the encoded enzymes are likely
to aect the evolutionary potential of species adapting
to changing conditions. Rates of molecular evolution
vary both among species and among genes of a given
species. What are the factors explaining this varia-
tion? Does faster molecular evolution facilitates the
evolution of novel adaptations? These questions will be
addressed using comparative analyses applied to tran-
scriptome data generated in this project through high-
throughput RNA sequencing. The research will involve
a combination of lab work and computer analyses, po-
tentially including the development of new analytical
methods.
The student will integrate into a thriving department
and will receive training in plant evolution, RNA se-
quencing, and methods to study molecular evolution.
Applications are invited from candidates with inter-
ests in molecular evolution and the use of large genetic
datasets to address important questions in evolutionary
biology.
The review of applications will start on the 3rd of March
2014 and will continue until the position is lled. The
project is opened to UK/EU students.
Informal inquiries can be addressed to Pascal-Antoine
Christin: p.christin@sheeld.ac.uk
Formal applications should be made using our
online application form: https://www.shef.ac.uk/-
postgradapplication/ p.christin@sheeld.ac.ukUSouthDakota Bioinformatics
Department of Biology University of South Dakota
Applications are invited for a PhD student position
available at the Department of Biology, The University
of South Dakota, USA.
We are seeking for an exceptional and highly motivated
candidate in the eld of bioinformatics with some back-
ground in genomics to work on the epigenetics regula-
tion of plant response to stresses project. The PhD
student will be responsible for transcriptome, genome,
and methylome analysis. These analyses will include
de novo assembly of transcriptome, in silico expression
analysis, gene network analysis, gene and small RNA
annotation, and other related analyses.
The successful candidate will be expected to have spe-
cic expertise in writing of programs (e.g. C++,
Java, Perl, Python), working knowledge about biologi-
cal databases, hands-on experience with biological data
(especially microarray and next generation sequencing
data), computer skills in a UNIX/LINUX environment,
and excellent communication and organization skills.
Minimum Degree Required: the student should
have a BSc, MSc. or equivalent in Biol-
ogy/Bioinformatics/Computer Science
Application Process: The position is available start-
ing August 2014. The position will remain open until
March 15, 2014. However, to ensure full consideration,
application materials should be received no later than
February 15, 2014.
International students must take the general test GRE
and scores of 40th percentile or higher for the verbal
and quantitative tests are recommended, but there is no
formal minimum score required for admission. TOEFL
scores need to be at least 550 (paper-based), 213 (com-
puter), or 79 (Internet-based). IELTS can be taken in-
stead, with a minimum score of 6.0. Full details about
application process are given in the links below.
http://www.usd.edu/graduate-school/international-
admissions.cfm http://www.usd.edu/graduate-
school/how-to-apply.cfm Applicants should send
a resume and a cover letter describing previous
experiences and skills to Dr. Abdelali Barakat
(Abdelali.barakat@usd.edu). http://www.usd.edu/-
arts-andsciences/ biology/abdelali-barakat.cfmMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 41
\Suarez, Harold" <Harold.Suarez@coyotes.usd.edu >
USouthamptonUK
DomesticationGenomics
Graduate position: USouthamp-
tonUK.DomesticationGenomics
** Sorry, only available to UK/EU students **
I am looking for a highly motivated student to work
on the domestication genomics of eggplant/aubergine.
The studentship is fully funded with fees paid for and a
stipend at current RCUK rates of $13,726 per annum.
Below is the full description and it is also
available at http://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=50917 Please email me
with informal queries (M.chapman@soton.ac.uk) but
note that a formal application would need to be made
through the Southampton website (details below).
Crop domestication and the repeatability of phenotypic
evolution
Domestication represents the outcome of strong
(human-mediated) selection, leading Darwin to suggest
that the study of domestication would help us under-
stand the process of evolution via natural selection.
With recent molecular genetic techniques the study of
domestication has shed light on some important evo-
lutionary questions; however one question has received
very little attention: how repeatable is evolution?
This studentship will use a high resolution genetic
mapping approach using next generation sequenc-
ing to identify genomic regions that control spe-
cic domestication-related traits in two independently-
derived lineages of cultivated aubergine (eggplant).
Aubergine domestication conforms to the typical do-
mestication syndrome, i.e. selection for larger, palat-
able fruits, reduction in plant defences and alterations
in plant architecture, however it stands out in being
one of the few crops that was domesticated more than
once. Being able to overlay domestication QTL with
candidate domestication genes will conrm the extent
of parallel molecular and phenotypic selection during
domestication.
The student will receive full training in all required ar-
eas, including bioinformatics and statistical analysis.
The student will also be involved in generating and
analysing data concerning other aspects of domestica-tion or adaptation genomics.
Funding Notes: The project is funded for 3 years and
welcomes applicants from the UK and EU who have,
or expect to obtain, at least an upper second class de-
gree in Biological Sciences or allied subjects. Funding
will cover fees and a stipend at current research council
rates of $13,726 per annum.
Due to funding restrictions this position is only open to
UK/EU applicants
References: Applications will be considered in the order
that they are received, and the position will be consid-
ered lled when a suitable candidate has been identi-
ed.
General enquiries should be made to Dr Mark Chap-
man at m.chapman@soton.ac.uk
Applications for an MPhil/PhD in Biologi-
cal Sciences should be submitted online at
https://studentrecords.soton.ac.uk/BNNRPROD/-
bzsksrch.P Login?pos=4973&majr=4973&term=-
201415 Please enter Dr M Chapman in the eld for
proposed supervisor.
Any queries on the application process should be made
to pgafnes@soton.ac.uk
Dr. Mark A. Chapman M.Chapman@soton.ac.uk +44
(0)2380 594396
Centre for Biological Sciences University of Southamp-
ton Life Sciences Building 85 Higheld Campus
Southampton SO17 1BJ
\Chapman M." <M.Chapman@soton.ac.uk >
UWSydney FruityMicrobiome
PHD SCHOLARSHIP FRUIT FLY MICROBIOME
Application deadline 28 February 2014
The Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment (HIE),
University of Western Sydney, and the Centre of Ex-
cellence for Plant and Animal Health, NSW Depart-
ment of Primary Industries (NSW DPI), Australia, are
seeking a PhD candidate to undertake a project on the
microbial symbionts associated with Australia1s most
signicant horticultural pest, Queensland fruit y and
related species.
The project aims to characterise, compare and study
the microbiome with a view to understand its role in42 EvolDir March 1, 2014
fruit y physiology and biology and to exploit these mi-
croorganisms for improving the performance and qual-
ity of sterile male ies used for Sterile Insect Technique
control programs, while reducing rearing costs. This
project is supported by a CRC Plantbiosecurity PhD
scholarship.
The PhD candidate is anticipated to commence as soon
as possible, but applicants with later start dates are also
encouraged to apply. Using molecular techniques, the
candidate will identify the microorganisms within Qy
and related species. These populations will be from
wild populations across their ecological range and both
irradiated and non-irradiated Qy from a fruit y pro-
duction facility. The candidate will dierentiate the gut
ora between dierent y populations and identify and
prole probiotic candidate(s) to be incorporated into
sterile adult y diets and conduct laboratory and eld
cage trials to determine the sexual competitiveness and
performance of sterile ies fed a probiotic diet.
The successful applicant will be working in laboratory
and eld environments, and interact with Australian
and International researchers. A strong knowledge of
molecular and microbiological techniques, entomology,
enthusiastic attitude and self-motivation are required.
The student will be supervised by Dr Markus Riegler
at HIE, and Dr Olivia Reynolds and Dr Toni Chapman
at NSW DPI.
The successful applicant should: * demonstrate excel-
lent academic performance related to the research area
* hold qualications and experience equal to an Aus-
tralian First Class Bachelor Honours degree * be en-
thusiastic and highly motivated to undertake further
study at an advanced level * preferably have a back-
ground that includes the elds of DNA analysis, micro-
biology, experience or an interest in entomology-related
research, and knowledge of statistical techniques. *
Knowledge and experience with quantitative data anal-
yses would be an advantage. * International applicants
must also demonstrate a high level of prociency in the
English language.
What Does The Scholarship Provide? * Domestic stu-
dents will receive a tax free stipend of AU$30,000 per
annum (for 3.5 years) and a funded place in the doctoral
degree. * International students will receive a tax free
stipend of AU$30,000 per annum (for 3.5 years). Those
with a strong track record may receive a fee waiver. *
Funding is available for project costs and conference
travel.
Need More Information? * Applicants can discuss
their eligibility and interests with Dr Markus Riegler
m.riegler@uws.edu.au or + 61 2 4570 1229 * Contact
the Oce of Research Services to discuss enrolment andscholarships at hdrscholarships@uws.edu.au
How To Apply Submit the application form and CV
(including two referees) by 28 February 2014, together
with a one-page text that outlines out how your train-
ing, experience and vision will t with the project.
The application form can be downloaded from http:/-
/www.uws.edu.au/hie/scholarships and click on \Plant
Biosecurity CRC: Microbial Symbionts Of Queensland
Fruit Fly And Their Use For Improving The Sterile In-
sect Technique As A Control Strategy."
Dr Markus Riegler Senior Lecturer; Higher De-
gree Research Director Hawkesbury Institute for the
Environment University of Western Sydney Locked
Bag 1797, Penrith NSW 2751, Australia email:
m.riegler@uws.edu.au web: http://www.uws.edu.au/-
hie/markusriegler M.Riegler@uws.edu.au
UppsalaU AnimalConservationBiol
PhD in Animal Conservation Biology, Uppsala Univer-
sity
The fungus Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd)
causes the disease Chytridiomycosis and is believed to
be one of the major causes for recent global declines of
amphibians. Bd was rst found in Sweden in 2011. This
studentship is aimed at elucidating the relationship be-
tween Bd infection and tness in natural populations
of Swedish amphibians. The objective is to determine
the extent of Bd infection in Swedish amphibans and
whether resistance diers among species and popula-
tions.
We seek a bright and highly motivated student who
ideally holds an M.Sc. or equivalent in a relevant topic
(e.g. population-, evolutionary- or conservation genet-
ics/ecology). Experience of working with conservation
genetic techniques such as MHC-genetics, sequencing,
and genotyping would be advantageous, but full train-
ing will be provided. The ideal candidate will also be
able to work both independently and as part of a team.
A high standard of spoken and written English is re-
quired.
The student will be based at the Department of Ecol-
ogy and Genetics (Animal Ecology) at the Evolutionary
Biology Centre (EBC) at Uppsala University (http://-
www.ebc.uu.se). The centre is one of the leading cen-
tres for evolutionary biology research in the world and
oers a stimulating international environment and ex-March 1, 2014 EvolDir 43
cellent research. The working language of the Centre
is English. The project is co-supervised by Professors
Jacob H oglund and Anssi Laurila.
Uppsala is a city of 200,000 inhabitants with an attrac-
tive historical centre and easy access to surrounding
nature. It oers a very high standard of living and is
well connected to the Swedish capital Stockholm and
Stockholm-Arlanda international airport.
This studentship, which provides a net salary of approx.
euro 2000 per month and includes health insurance, is
funded by the Oscar and Lili Lamm Foundation for a
period of four years. The salary is at a xed rate with
pre-set increments. Funding is also available for attend-
ing conferences. To apply for the position, please pro-
vide: (i) a letter of motivation including a maximum
2-page statement of your research interests, relevant
skills and experience; (ii) a CV including publication
list; and (iii) names and contact details of three referees
willing to write condential letters of recommendation.
All materials should be emailed as a single PDF le to:
jacob.hoglund@ebc.uu.se with 'PhD application' in the
subject line.
Uppsala University is an equal opportunity employer.
We particularly welcome applications from women.
Given equal suitability, qualications and professional
achievement, women will be given preference, unless
particular circumstances pertaining to a male applicant
apply.
The application deadline is February 28 2014 and
interviews will take place shortly afterwards. Thepreferred start date is exible and will depend on the
timeframe of the most qualied applicant. For further
information, please see: http://www.ebc.uu.se/-
Research/IEG/zooeko/People/Jacob Hoglund/ http:/-
/www.ebc.uu.se/Research/IEG/zooeko/People/-
Anssi Laurila/=0Aor contact Jacob H oglund via email
(jacob.hoglund@ebc.uu.se) with any informal inquiries.
For representative publications, please see:
Rogell B, Th orngren H Laurila A H oglund J 2010 Ge-
netic structure in peripheral populations of the natter-
jack toad, Bufo calamita, as revealed by AFLP. Cons
Gen 11: 173-181
Rogell B Eklund M Th orngren H Laurila A H oglund J
2010 The eect of selection, drift and genetic variation
on life history trait divergence among insular popula-
tions. Mol Ecol 19: 2229-2240
Wang B Ekblom R Pollock D Bongcam-Rudlo E
H oglund J 2012 Transcriptome sequencing of black
grouse (Tetrao tetrix) for immune gene discovery and
microsatellite development. Open Biology 2: 120054
Anssi Laurila Animal Ecology/ Department of Ecol-
ogy and Genetics Evolutionary Biology Center Uppsala
University Norbyv agen 18D 75236 Uppsala Sweden
Tel. +46-18-4716493 Mobile: +46-70-2384356 http:/-
/www.ebc.uu.se/Research/IEG/zooeko/People/-
Anssi Laurila/?languageId=1 Coordinator for
postgraduate studies at IEG http://www.ebc.uu.se/-
education/postgrad/
anssi.laurila@ebc.uu.se
Jobs
ArizonaStateU 2 EvolutionCancer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
BrandeisU ConservationBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .44
CAS Beijing PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
DukeU FieldTech PlantAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
DurhamU Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .46
Florida MNH MammalCurator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
FordhamU REUSummerRes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .47
FrenchGuiana TreePopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
GreekIslands FieldAssist LizardEvolution . . . . . . . . . .49IPasteur Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
ImperialCollege London 2 ResAssoc EvolutionGe-
nomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
InstZoology Beijing 2 EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
MPM Milwaukee BotanyCurator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
MaxPlanck Germany FieldTrainees CricketBehaviour
51
NHM LosAngeles Malacologist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
NewYorkU LabTech NematodeGeneticVariation . . . 5244 EvolDir March 1, 2014
OkinawaInstScienceTech ResTech NGS . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
PurdueU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
PurdueU FieldLabTech BoxTurtles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
RockyMountains DukeU PlantAdaptation . . . . . . . . . 54
SanDiegoZoo ResTechGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
SouthAfrica FieldAssist Mongoose . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .55
TunghaiU Taiwan EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
UBern EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
UCambridge 3yr EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
UHawaii 2EvoDevo1MarineBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
UHawaii Hilo EvolutionaryCellBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
UHawaii Hilo EvolutionaryEntomology . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
UManchester EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .59UMass Amherst EvolutionFloralDevelopment . . . . . .60
UMass Amherst EvolutionFloralDevelopment Correc-
tion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
UMinnesota Tech PopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
UNAM Mexico EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .61
UNAM Mexico SystematicBotany . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UNorthCarolina Charlotte Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . 63
UNotreDame ResTech BehavioralEvolution . . . . . . . .63
UParis13 EvolutionaryEthology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
UPennsylvania LabFieldTech MicrobeEvolution . . . 64
UQuebec Rimouski EvolutionSignalPathways . . . . . .65
USouthernCalifornia LabTech CopepodSpeciation . 65
ArizonaStateU 2 EvolutionCancer
Open Rank (Job# 10655) Arizona State University
School of Life Sciences, Center for Evolution, Medicine
& Public Health
Arizona State University is making a major commit-
ment to developing the eld of Evolutionary Medicine.
There are plans to recruit up to eight faculty mem-
bers for a new Center for Evolution, Medicine & Public
Health headed by Dr. Randolph Nesse. The Center
and the School of Life Sciences invite applications for
two open rank faculty positions for Cancer researchers
with a preference for one associate/full and one assis-
tant professor. Anticipated start date is August 16,
2014 or later. Candidates for all ranks must have: 1)
a P h.D., M.D., or equivalent terminal degree, 2) a
strong publication record i n Cancer research that dis-
plays expertise in Evolutionary Biology and 3) expe-
rience or an explicit interest in developing the eld of
Evolutionary Medicine. Additional requirements for as-
sociate/full rank include: 1) a record of funding for a
research program that applies Evolutionary principles
to better understand and treat Cancer, 2) evidence of
the ability to organize teams of scientists to tackle com-
plex problems, and3) demonstrated evidence of strong
teaching and mentoring. A desirable qualication for
assistant professor rank is postdoctoral experience. A
desirable qualication at all ranks is familiarity with
computation and modeling.
Successful candidates will be expected to transfer, or
develop (if assistant professor rank), an extramurally
funded research program; teach at the undergraduate
and graduate levels; mentor undergraduate and gradu-
ate students a nd postdoctoral fellows; develop collab-orative research and education projects for the Center;
engage in University service; and conduct research pub-
lishable in top tier journals. A competitive start-up
package will be provided and the amount of teaching
required will be compatible with high research produc-
tivity.
The Center for Evolution, Medicine, and Public Health
joins a vibrant, interdisciplinary community at ASU.
Examples of existing centers and institutes are: Bioen-
ergy and Photosynthesis (bioenergy.asu.edu), Biode-
sign (biodesign. asu.edu) and Astrobiology (astrobi-
ology.asu.edu).
To apply, send a cover letter, curriculum vitae, three
representative publications, contact information for
three references, and separate statements of future re-
search plans and teaching philosophy interests in a sin-
gle pdf le to solsfacultysearch3@asu.edu. The initial
closing date for receipt of applications is March 19,
2014; applications will be reviewed weekly thereafter
until the search is closed. A background check is re-
quired for employment.
Arizona State University is an equal opportu-
nity/armative action employer committed to <
https://www.asu.edu/titleIX/ >excellence through di-
versity. <https://www.asu.edu/titleIX/ >Women
and minorities are encouraged to apply. For additional
information on the School of Life Sciences, please visit
sols.asu.edu.
rmnesse@gmail.com
BrandeisU ConservationBiol
Lecturer in Ecology Brandeis UniversityMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 45
The Biology Department and the Environmental Stud-
ies Program of Brandeis University seek a Lecturer in
Ecology and related topics, starting Fall 2014. This will
be a two-year, part-time (0.6 FTE) appointment, with
benets and with the potential for renewal. The suc-
cessful candidate will hold a Ph.D. degree in a branch
of ecology. Teaching duties comprise three courses per
year, including some combination of Ecology, Conserva-
tion Biology, Animal Behavior, Field Biology, or similar
topics.
These courses are primarily intended for Biology and
Environmental Studies majors and minors. Brandeis
University places emphasis on interdisciplinary pro-
grams and working closely with individual students.
The Lecturer in Ecology will become an active partic-
ipant in the advising of students, supervision of senior
theses, and development of curriculum in the Environ-
mental Studies Program. First consideration will be
given to applications received by March 21, 2014.
Applications, which should be submitted through Aca-
demicJobsOnline at https://academicjobsonline.org/-
ajo/jobs/3883, should include a letter outlining inter-
ests and evidence of eective undergraduate teaching,
along with curriculum vitae, and the names of three
referees. Evidence of teaching should include a list of
courses and the institutions at which they were taught,
and a syllabus from one of those courses.
Brandeis University is an equal opportunity employer,
committed to building a culturally diverse intellectual
community, and strongly encourages applications from
women and minority candidates.
Dan Perlman Associate Provost of Innovation in Edu-
cation Professor of Biology Brandeis University (781)
736 2687
perlman@brandeis.edu
CAS Beijing PopulationGenomics
Our research group is now looking for an Assistant Pro-
fessor in the elds of population and evolutionary ge-
nomics.
The Institute of Zoology of Chinese Academy of Sci-
ences (CAS) is located at Beijing and is one of the
leading research institutes in CAS. Please see http:/-
/ www.ioz.ac.cn for more information.
Our research interests focus on evolutionary (e.g. theclimate driven adaptation) and functional genomics in
wild and domestic sheep using the high throughput ge-
nomic data (high-density ovine Beadchip SNP, whole-
genome re-sequencing and mRNA and microRNA data
etc.)
Applications are sought from individuals with a strong
background and research record in population, evolu-
tionary and functional genomics. Knowledge of Chinese
will be viewed as advantageous.
This position can be lled from July or August of
2014. The emolument and relevant benet will be im-
plemented according to the scales of CAS.
To apply for the post, please send a c.v. (including
names of 3 referees) and a cover letter to Prof. Menghua
LI (menghua.li@ioz.ac.cn), Institute of Zoology, Chi-
nese Academy of Sciences, Beijing.
A^ ~AI$Meng-Hua LI $c<menghua.li@ioz.ac.cn >
DukeU FieldTech PlantAdaptation
The Mitchell-Olds lab at Duke University seeks a highly
motivated, detail-oriented assistant for eld research in
the northern Rocky Mountains, summer 2014. We are
studying Boechera, a perennial herb that oers genetic
tractability and ecological context. Current eld exper-
iments focus on questions related to local adaptation,
plant defense against herbivory, and breeding systems.
Our research sites are located in east-central Idaho.
Base camp is a set of trailers located near the beautiful
town of Salmon. Amenities include heat, hot water, a
landline, and wireless internet access. Travel distances
between sites are long, which necessitates many hours
in the car. Our team usually returns to the trailers to
sleep but applicants should be familiar with (and en-
joy!) camping for the times when this is not feasible.
Weather conditions in the Rockies can be severe, and
assistants should expect to work in snow and rain as
well as 90 degree temperatures. Regular trips are made
to Missoula, Montana for groceries and other supplies.
Successful applicants are expected to assist in data col-
lection and data entry, plant care, transplanting, seed
collection, and driving research vehicles. Applicants
must be able to stoop/kneel for extended periods of
time; hike up to 1 mile while carrying heavy loads; hike
up and down steep hills; and dig or dibble holes in hard
ground. The work can be physically demanding and
tiring, and the research team usually collects data 5-646 EvolDir March 1, 2014
days per week. A good sense of humor and a positive
attitude are necessities!
Qualications: 1) some undergraduate education in bi-
ology, ecology, or related eld, or equivalent experience;
2) experience camping and working outdoors and/or
previous eld research experience; 3) ability to perform
repetitive tasks with a cheerful attitude and with atten-
tion to detail; 4) willingness to live and work in close
proximity with other researchers in a trailer; 5) a cur-
rent driver's license. Previous experience working with
plants is preferable but not required. Transportation,
room with internet access, and salary will be provided.
Applicants must be available throughout the eld sea-
son from approximately June 1st through mid-August,
but exact start and end dates are exible.
Interested applicants should submit: 1) a short cover
letter describing their qualications as well as future
academic and professional goals; 2) a r esum e outlining
previous work experience, relevant courses (completed
or in progress), extracurricular activities; and 3) con-
tact information of two character references.
Email to:
Tom Mitchell-Olds, tmo1@duke.edu Department of Bi-
ology, Duke University
mrw28@duke.edu
DurhamU Bioinformatics
Bioinformatics Experimental Ocer position available
School of Biological and Biomedical Sciences, Durham
University, UK
Job Description: We seek an experienced bioinformati-
cian to join the sta of DBS Genomics and facilitate the
running and growth of our next generation sequencing
facility (full time permanent position starting at grade
7). You will be responsible for the computer-based pro-
cessing and preliminary analysis of genomic data pro-
duced in the facility, which will be initially equipped
with an Illumina Hi-Seq. Bioinformatic processing of
NGS output to be provided by the experimental ocer
will routinely include the removal of adapter sequences,
the preparation of fastQ les, preliminary assembly,
alignment and similar analyses. You may also be re-
quired to carry out detailed custom analysis for selected
projects, and will be the point of contact for interac-
tion with the university's high performance computing
facility, and for overseeing the provision of software anddata archiving.
Requirements: The post holder will have expertise in
the bioinformatic analysis of next generation sequenc-
ing data for both genomic and transcriptomic data.
They will be familiar with available freeware associated
with genomic analyses and must be procient at script-
ing in at least two of the following: R, Perl, Python,
Java or C++. They will have a PhD in a relevant eld
and at least some post-doctoral experience undertaking
relevant work. They will ideally have experience work-
ing with both plant and animal genomes and transcrip-
tomes, or understand what will be needed to become
procient with all of these data categories.
For further information and to apply for the position
see: https://ig5.i-grasp.com/fe/tpl durham01.asps=-
4A515F4E5A565B1A&jobid=85424,7271342323&key=
85465143&c=653415472334&pagestamp=-
sessnznzpjeigxeioe Please contact Rus Hoelzel
(a.r.hoelzel@dur.ac.uk) if you have any questions, and
have two letters of reference sent to Prof. Hoelzel by
email.
The application deadline is March 16 2014
\HOELZEL A.R." <a.r.hoelzel@durham.ac.uk >
Florida MNH MammalCurator
JOB OPENING: Collections Manager in Mammalogy
The Florida Museum of Natural History is a world-class
natural history museum of over 40 million specimens
and artifacts located on the University of Florida cam-
pus in Gainesville, Florida.
We are seeking a collection manager in the division
of Mammalogy. Knowledge of the care and manage-
ment of a natural history collection of mammals is ex-
pected, including permitting, cataloging and accessions
specimens, processing loans, maintaining an electronic
database, integrated pest management, and use of MS
oce. The FLMNH is a highly collaborative environ-
ment, so the ability to work well with others is crit-
ical for this position. As with all collection manager
positions, attention to detail is of the utmost impor-
tance. Because the FLMNH is highly visible to the pub-
lic, this position requires condence in front of public,
university, and scientic audiences including the me-
dia. Communication with the public, university, gov-
ernment, and scientic audiences is expected. Travel,
including foreign travel is also expected of this posi-March 1, 2014 EvolDir 47
tion. FLMNH collection managers are encouraged to
maintain their own independent research activity.
Minimum Qualications: Bachelor's degree in (Biology,
Zoology, or relevant eld) with at least ve years' expe-
rience in collection management. Job requires demon-
strable prociency with the taxonomy, nomenclature,
identication, preparation, and preservation of mam-
mal specimens, and their tissues and DNA.
Preferred Qualications: Ph.D., experience in super-
visory roles, mammal eldwork, grant writing, and/or
bioinformatics.
Duties include: Assists curator(s) in the management
of zoological collections to ensure all care and mainte-
nance procedures necessary for specimen conservation;
loans; permitting; collection use for research, teaching,
exhibits, and public programs; supervision of student
assistants and volunteers; databasing, web access, and
reporting; museum & local community service; help es-
tablish & nurture mutually benecial relationships with
individuals, schools, colleges, universities, and relevant
organizations. The collection manager will work with
Mammal Curator to develop policy and procedures;
grow the collection; write grant proposals; participate
in informal (or formal) teaching; aid in shared adminis-
trative duties, and develop and implement a long term
collections strategy in reference to American Associa-
tion of Museums accreditation requirements, standards,
and best practices.
100% time (40 hrs/week). Salary commensurate with
experience, plus benets.
To Apply: Applicants must apply online and can view
the complete job announcement at jobs.u.edu. Please
reference job requisition number 0904817. Applicants
will need to upload curriculum vitae, letter of inter-
est, and arrange for three letters of reference to be sent
directly to Mammalogy Curator, David L. Reed (dl-
reed@u.edu). Applications are due 2/14/14.
If an accommodation due to a disability is needed to
apply for this position, please call (352) 392-2HRS or
the Florida Relay System at (800) 955-8771 (TDD).
The University of Florida is an Equal Opportunity Em-
ployer.
David L. Reed, Ph.D. Associate Curator of Mammals
and Chair, Department of Natural History Florida Mu-
seum of Natural History 1659 Museum Road (Dickin-
son Hall) University of Florida Gainesville, FL 32611
(352) 273-1971 (voice) (352) 846-0287 (fax) e-mail:
dlreed@u.edu http://www.mnh.u.edu/mammals/
dreed@mnh.u.eduFordhamU REUSummerRes
Job: REU summer research positions for Project Base-
line
The lab of Steve Franks at Fordham University is of-
fering Research Experiences for Undergraduates (REU
positions) through Project Baseline in summer 2014.
Multiple positions are available.
Project Baseline is an NSF-funded, nationwide eort
to create a seed bank for studies of plant evolutionary
responses to climate change. REU students will assist
with seed and data collection eorts in the eld, and
will also conduct independent research related to the
goals of the project and to plant evolutionary ecology.
The positions are based at Fordham University in New
York City, but eld work and collections will take place
throughout the eastern United States.
For more on the Franks lab, see http://-
sfrankslab.wordpress.com . For more on Project
Baseline, see http://www.baselineseedbank.org/ .
Applicants must be currently enrolled and in good
standing at an accredited college or university, have
some undergraduate education in biology, ecology
or a related eld, or equivalent experience, and be
willing to travel for extended periods of time, carry
equipment, and work in the eld under potentially
adverse conditions.
Desirable: 1) Research or eld experience, 2) Interest
in plant ecology, evolution, or global change, 3) Back-
ground in or willingness to learn plant identication, 4)
Evidence of dedication, motivation, ability to work in
a team, communication skills, and attention to detail,
5) a current valid driver's license.
Successful applicants will receive a stipend, and costs of
transportation and housing/camping during eld work
will be provided. The positions will run from around
late-May through mid-August, and exact start and end
dates are exible.
Interested applicants should submit, as a single pdf: 1)
a brief cover letter describing their qualications and
research interests; 2) a r esum e or CV and 3) contact
information of two references.
Applications should be submitted by March 14, 2014 by
email to the Project Baseline postdoc for the eastern
region, Dr. Jennifer Weber (jweber11@fordham.edu).
Inquiries may be sent to this address or to Dr. Steve48 EvolDir March 1, 2014
Franks (franks@fordham.edu).
*Fordham University is an equal opportu-
nity/armative action institution. Qualied applicants
of all backgrounds and career goals are encouraged to
apply.*
Jennifer Weber http://www.jenniferweber.org/-
Postdoctoral Researcher http://-
www.baselineseedbank.org/ Fordham University
Bronx, NY
jenniferjuneweber@gmail.com
FrenchGuiana TreePopGenetics
Population genetics and genomics of wild tropical tree
populations
A non-permanent position as Team leader in popula-
tion genetics and genomics is open at INRA within the
EcoFoG (\Ecology of Forests of the Guianas") Research
Unit, based in Kourou, French Guiana.
The Research Unit (http://www.ecofog.gf/?lang=en)
and the Ecological Genetics laboratory (http://-
www.ecofog.gf/spip.php?rubrique91) in particular have
a long-standing experience in the study of ecological
and genetic processes involved in the establishment and
maintenance of genetic, species and ecosystem diver-
sity in tropical forest ecosystems. They are tightly
connected with the international research community
and make use of up-to-date experimental and analytical
methods to tackle research questions such as unveiling
the mechanisms underlying local adaptation and mea-
suring the role of genomic processes in species radiation.
The Ecological Genetics laboratory is currently leader
/ participant of several collaborative research programs
revolving around the above topics. The team leader
position is left vacant by the current Team leader's (I.
Scotti) departure.
We are seeking a young and highly motivated scien-
tist (ideally with a post-doc experience between three
and six years) who is an expert in two or more of
the following topics: population genetics, population
genomics, quantitative genetics, modelling of popula-
tion genetic processes, ecological genetics, speciation
genomics, forest tree genetics. The scientist will have
access to all data being gathered by research team;
he/she will initially work on the genomics of local adap-
tation and speciation in a set of species and species
complexes that have been the target of the lab's re-search during the past ten years. He/she will also ini-
tially work in tight collaboration with the former Team
leader. While the hired Team leader will be in charge
of all scientic aspects, the Ecological Genetics labo-
ratory itself (including sta and facilities) will be su-
pervised by the Team's permanent Research associate
(Henri Caron). The candidate will preferentially have
experience with non-model species that provide limited
options for manipulative experimental approaches, and
must have an inclination for eld work, lab work, data
analysis and the coordination of medium-sized research
teams. Moreover, he or she must be willing to under-
stand the inner working of, and to take care of, the
administration of science and of collaborative research
programs. Propensities for life in tropical conditions
in a remote country, as well as a satisfactory level of
spoken French, are mandatory.
Salary conditions correspond to those of an INRA CR2
scientist increased by 40% (approximate net salary:
2600 euro/month), plus the full benets of the French
welfare system. The position is oered for ve years,
divided into two grants of two and three years, start-
ing 1st February 2014 at the earliest. The position will
start with a three-month trial period.
The call for applications will be closed on January 31st,
or earlier if a suitable candidate is found. If no suitable
candidate is found by that date, the call will be re-
opened.
Please contact Ivan Scotti (ivan.scotti@ecofog.gf,
http://www.ecofog.gf/spip.php?article58) for further
information on the position and to submit your appli-
cation. Applicants will submit a short introductory let-
ter, a detailed CV, as well as two reference letters by
current and former supervisors. The candidates with
a suitable CV will be interviewed (expect a one-hour
interview by videocall).
Ivan Scotti DR2 INRA - UMR 0745 ECOFOG \Ecolo-
gie des For^ ets de Guyane" / \Ecology of Guiana
Forests" Team Leader Population Ecology 
Campus agronomique, Avenue de France BP 709
- 97387 KOUROU Cedex FRANCE Phone +594
(0)59432-9274, -9285, -9278 Fax +594 (0)59432-4302 e-
mail: ivan.scotti@ecofog.gf ivan.scotti@kourou.cirad.fr,
i.scotti.inra.kourou@gmail.com
Personal webpage: http://www.ecofog.gf/-
spip.php?article250 VISITORS TO FRENCH
GUIANA MUST HOLD A VALID YELLOW FEVER
VACCINE CERTIFICATE
Ivan Scotti <Ivan.Scotti@ecofog.gf >March 1, 2014 EvolDir 49
GreekIslands FieldAssist
LizardEvolution
I am a third year PhD student looking for a eld as-
sistant to help on a eld trip to the Greek islands this
summer (early April - mid July).
The trip will involve data collection for my PhD project,
which investigates the evolution of coloration in wall-
lizards (Podarcis erhardii), and how they use their col-
oration for camouage against predators and to com-
municate with their mates.
Day to day eld tasks will include UV photography
of lizards (in situ and captured), capturing/marking
lizards, conducting eld experiments (e.g. mate choice
experiments to test how blocking UV signals aects
female mate preferences), and morphological measure-
ments of trapped lizards.
Travel (return ights to Greece) and accommodation
for the whole trip will be paid for, however subsistence
and any other expenses would have to be covered by
the eld assistant.
Email Kate Marshall directly (km547@cam.ac.uk) if
you are interested and for further information.
Kate Marshall <km547@cam.ac.uk >
IPasteur Bioinformatics
STATISTICAL GENETICS AND BIOINFORMAT-
ICS Open position at Institut Pasteur (Paris, France)
In the framework of the LabEx consortium Milieu
Int erieur(MI), *a position in statistical genetics and
bioinformatics is open from March 2014* at the Institut
Pasteur in Paris. The goal of the MI consortium is to
dene the naturally-occurring variation of the human
immune responses to an unprecedented scale. Thou-
sands of aspects of the variation of the immune re-
sponse (i.e., gene expression, protein variation, cellu-
lar phenotypes, etc.) to pathogens and immune stimuli
are being dened in a large cohort of 1000 healthy in-
dividuals. The integration of these datasets with the
degree of genome-wide variation of the human genome,variation in microbiota, and a number of demographic
variables will allow us to evaluate the respective impact
of genetic, environmental and sociocultural factors on
the inter-individual variability of the immune response,
which in turn can account for dierences in suscepti-
bility to infectious disease, and response to therapeutic
treatment and vaccines.
The candidate will be responsible for data analyses in
the context of this project and will work in a multidis-
ciplinary team that integrates human genetics, popu-
lation genetics, immunology, evolutionary biology and
systems biology. This ambitious project needs cutting-
edge and innovative methods for the statistical analyses
of the data. We look for a candidate with strong expe-
rience in large-scale data analyses (data mining), and
advanced tools in statistical inference (e.g., linear and
generalised linear models, Bayesian statistics, MCMC
algorithms, etc.). We expect the candidate to have a
strong interest in the development of new statistical
approaches. Knowledge of genomics and biology is not
necessary but will be appreciated.
*Requirements:*The applicant should have a PhD, or
equivalent degree, in Biostatistics, Bioinformatics or
Statistical Genetics, or several years of experience in
these elds. Team spirit and dynamism are essential.
Salary will depend on previous experience.
*Contact*: To apply, send your CV and a letter de-
scribing your research interests and skills (in a sin-
gle pdf le) to Dr Lluis Quintana-Murci, Unit of Hu-
man Evolutionary Genetics, Institut Pasteur, by e-mail:
quintana@pasteur.fr
Lluis Quintana-Murci <lluis.quintana-
murci@pasteur.fr >
ImperialCollege London 2 ResAssoc
EvolutionGenomics
Imperial College London
Department of Life Sciences
Faculty of Natural Sciences
2 Research Associates in Evolution and Genomics
Salary: $32,750 - $41,540 per annum
This is an exciting opportunity for two Research Asso-
ciates with an interest in Speciation Biology and Evo-
lution. The successful candidates will carry out cut-50 EvolDir March 1, 2014
ting edge research in evolution and genomics, largely
analysing existing data and writing up publications.
The main research objective is to analyse genetic data
and infer large-scale plant evolutionary radiations, ge-
nomics of colour patterns in animals, population genet-
ics of island invasive animals, and population coales-
cence of palms on oceanic islands. The post holders
will employ advanced modelling and statistical tools in
molecular population genetics and/or genomics. This
work will complement genomic, laboratory and experi-
mental work undertaken by other Research Associates
in Professor Vincent Savolainen's group.
The positions are funded until 31 December 2014 by the
European Research Council and will be based at the
Silwood Park Campus. The successful candidates will
work closely with Professor Vincent Savolainen (holder
of the ERC Advanced Grant) and his research group.
You must have a PhD or equivalent qualication in evo-
lution, ecology, genetics or a closely related discipline.
The successful candidates will have expertise in pop-
ulation genomics and/or phylogenetics, statistics and
modelling with a strong interest in evolutionary bi-
ology. Expertise in Geographic Information Systems
(GIS), experience of management and analysis of com-
plex genetic data and working in a multi-disciplinary
environment are essential.
You must have experience of working in a team, be able
to develop and apply new concepts and have a creative
approach to problem-solving. You must also have ex-
cellent verbal and written communication skills and be
able to write clearly and succinctly for publication.
Further details of the research group can be ob-
tained from the research group website: http://-
www3.imperial.ac.uk/people/v.savolainen Our pre-
ferred method of application is online via our website
http://www.imperial.ac.uk/employment (please select
\Job Search" then enter the job title or vacancy refer-
ence number including spaces - NS 2014 026 JT into
\Keywords"). Please complete and upload an applica-
tion form as directed.
Alternatively, if you are unable to apply online, please
contact Mrs Christine Short on 020 7594 2276 or email
c.j.short@imperial.ac.uk to request an application form.
Closing date: 11 March 2014
Committed to equality and valuing diversity. We
are also an Athena SWAN Silver Award winner, a
Stonewall Diversity Champion and a Two Ticks Em-
ployer.
\Thomas, Jenny" <j.thomas@imperial.ac.uk >InstZoology Beijing 2
EvolutionaryBiol
The Key Laboratory of Zoological Systematics and
Evolution, Institute of Zoology (IOZ), ChineseAcademy
of Sciences (CAS) located in Beijing, has 2-3 academic
positions available at the level of Full Professor. Ap-
plications are invited from elds including but not lim-
ited to systematic zoology, evolutionary developmental
biology, evolutionary genetics, biogeography and bioin-
formatics. Applicants should have a Ph.D. degree and
outstanding research accomplishments.
Successful candidates are expected to develop indepen-
dent research programs that can complement or inte-
grate with existing research activities at Key Labora-
tory of Zoological Systematic and Evolution in the IOZ.
Salary and benets are competitive and commensurate
with experience and qualications. Only applications
from oversea Chinese scholars are considered.
Applicants should submit their CV, biography, fu-
ture plan, and names/addresses of three references, to
Yingjing Liu, liuyj@ioz.ac.cn, Fax: +86-10-64807088).
These positions will be \OPEN UNTILL FILLED".
leifm@ioz.ac.cn
MPM Milwaukee BotanyCurator
Collection Manager - Botany
The Milwaukee Public Museum has a full-time career
opportunity for a Collection Manager in its Life Sci-
ences Department. We are seeking to ll this entry
level position with an assertive and dependable indi-
vidual with previous experience in Botany collection
care.
Education: The Collection Manager must hold a gradu-
ate (Masters) degree in their respective discipline or, in
exceptional circumstances, may demonstrate equivalent
academic and professional achievements, competencies
and experience in museum techniques or collections-
based research.
Responsibilities: Care of Botanical Collections: As-March 1, 2014 EvolDir 51
sist with direct care and organization of collections,
and their management based on both the best prac-
tices of individual disciplines and fundamental prin-
ciples of conservation, security, housing and environ-
mental control. Data & Records Management: Inven-
tory/digitization and continuing documentation of col-
lections including databases, correspondence, archives,
publications and loan records. Processing & Prepara-
tion: Conduct or coordinate the appropriate processing
of new collections or existing collections including phys-
ical preparation, labeling, cataloguing, accessioning and
loans. Access & Interpretation: Provide collection ac-
cess to the research community; content and advice on
MPM exhibit projects; assist in the development of ex-
hibits and interpretive programs. Professional Services:
Provide scholarly guidance to students, may participate
in graduate student committees, and serve as reviewers
of manuscripts and grant proposals as appropriate.
MPM is a natural history museum with Herbarium
Collections totaling about 250,000 specimens includ-
ing ca. 70 type specimens with over 50% of the ma-
terial from Wisconsin and another 30% from the rest of
North America. The collections are divided into vascu-
lar (107,000 records) and nonvascular (17,000 records)
plants with associated data digitized for 200,000 speci-
mens. This position oers a competitive wage and ben-
et package. If interested, please visit www.mpm.edu
and go to the careers tab to review open positions and
to apply on-line. In addition, please submit a current
resume and/or Curriculum Vitae. Review of applica-
tions will begin April 1.
Questions can be directed to Susan Borkin:
borkin@mpm.edu
\Eubanks, Kimberly" <kim@mpm.edu >
MaxPlanck Germany FieldTrainees
CricketBehaviour
*FIELD**TRAINEES*
needed in fulltime for Field Cricket Project at the *Max
Planck Institute for** **Ornithology*.
Website:http://www.orn.mpg.de/159079/-
Research Group Dingemanse Location: Munich
(LMU) and Seewiesen, Bayern, Germany.
*Job description: *
The eld trainees will help collect behavioural and life-history data on Field Crickets (Gryllus bimaculatus)
and maintenance of the crickets frombeginning of April
toAugust 1 ^st , 2014.The research focuses primarily on
identifying how the social environment (ie. Other indi-
viduals) generate and maintain individual dierences
in behaviour and behavioural plasticity.Trainees will
work closely with an international team consisting of
one post-doc, one PhD-student and various Master stu-
dents. The research project is intense and will have
typically only 1-2 days o per week. Duties include be-
havioural observations, cricket handling (marking, mea-
suring), data entry and data management.
*Qualications **/Experience **:*
Candidates shouldstudy Biology or a related
eld.Preferred candidates have experience with
handling small insects and working as part of a
research group. Ideal candidates are highly motivated,
well organized and able to work independently, while
at the same time able to function well in a big group.
Non-EU candidates are not eligible for this position. A
small nancial compensation and housing in shared ac-
commodation will be provided.Acceptedtrainees should
be vaccinated against Tick Borne Encephalitis (TBE
or FSME) before arriving in Seewiesen. Applicants
should also be aware that Lyme disease (carried by
ticks)is prevalent in the area and should inform them-
selves about this disease beforehand.
In an eort to employ more people with disabilities, the
Max-Planck-Society specically encourages people with
disabilities to apply for the position.
Applications: Review of the applications will be-
gin February 15th and continue until the position is
lled*.*To apply, please send (1) a statement of rele-
vant experience, (2) a short resume or CV,and(3) con-
tact information for two references to Alexia Mouchet
(eMail:amouchet@orn.mpg.de).
{
Alexia MOUCHET
Max Planck Institute for Ornithology Evolutionary
Ecology of Variation Eberhard-Gwinner-Strae 7/8
82319 Seewiesen GERMANY
Email:amouchet@orn.mpg.de
amouchet <amouchet@orn.mpg.de >
NHM LosAngeles Malacologist52 EvolDir March 1, 2014
The Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County
(NHM) Foundation has an immediate opening, the
Twila Bratcher Endowed Chair in Malacological Re-
search, for an accomplished malacologist to conduct
collection-based research on the Museum's extensive
collections of mollusks. The Museum has world-class
malacological holdings, with a special emphasis on
shelled mollusks of the eastern Pacic, and a rich his-
tory of collections-based research on marine inverte-
brates. The Museum also holds extensive collections
of fossil mollusks.
We seek an early career scientist who will implement
an internationally recognized, modern and integrative
research program in the evolutionary biology of mol-
lusks, including taxonomy, systematics, biogeography,
and biodiversity science. The successful candidate will
have a PhD, a track record of research productivity,
evidence of the ability to generate external funding, a
strong interest in science communication and engaging
the public in malacological research, and the ability to
eectively communicate and engage with a wide variety
of audiences, including the public and the NHM's vari-
ous stakeholders. The successful candidate also will be
expected to help develop the collections and contribute
to the Museum's public programs (education and ex-
hibits).
This is a full time, untenured position of limited du-
ration. The current expectation is that funding for
the position will be available for two years, depend-
ing on annual performance evaluations and available
resources.
The NHM, the largest natural history museum in the
western United States, has recently nished a dramatic
transformation including new ground-breaking exhibits
and a 3 1/2 acre wildlife garden. The NHM's mission is
to inspire wonder, discovery, and responsibility for our
natural and cultural worlds. The NHM has recently
developed a strategic intent - \Be the best at commu-
nicating how our planet and life on it changes over time
and why this matters" - that will guide the museum's
priorities over the next decade.
Applications, including a cover letter, CV, statement
of research, statement of science communication inter-
ests, and the names of potential referees, should be sent
by March 15, 2014, to: Dr. Joel W. Martin, Chief of
the Division of Invertebrate Studies, Natural History
Museum of Los Angeles County, 900 Exposition Boule-
vard, Los Angeles, California 90007. The Natural His-
tory Museum is an equal opportunity employer; women
and minorities are encouraged to apply.
Regina Wetzer, Ph.D. Associate Curator and Director
Marine Biodiversity Center Natural History Museum ofLos Angeles County 900 Exposition Blvd., Los Angeles,
CA 90007 Tel. 213.763.3217
rwetzer@gmail.com
NewYorkU LabTech
NematodeGeneticVariation
Laboratory Technician Position
The Rockman Lab at New York University seeks a
full-time research technician to participate in ongoing
projects addressing the genetic basis of phenotypic vari-
ation. The position is available immediately. The re-
sponsibilities of the technician include isolation and pu-
rication of RNA and DNA from several species of ne-
matode and annelid, construction of Illumina sequenc-
ing libraries (for RNA-seq, DNA-seq, & RAD-seq), and
RNA labeling and hybridization for microarray experi-
ments.
The ideal candidate will have experience working with
RNA, familiarity with standard equipment used for
library construction (e.g., the bioanalyzer), demon-
strated ability to troubleshoot molecular methods, and
an interest in evolutionary genetics. The position rep-
resents an opportunity to engage with PhD students
and postdoctoral researchers working on a range of
questions in empirical evolutionary genetics. For in-
formation about the lab, see the website at https://-
les.nyu.edu/mr176/public/ .
New York University is located in Greenwich Village,
convenient by train or subway from the entire New York
metro area. NYU is an equal opportunity employer.
Salary is commensurate with experience. Applicants
should submit a cover letter and CV to Matt Rockman
at mrockman@nyu.edu .
Matthew Rockman Department of Biology and Center
for Genomics & Systems Biology New York University
12 Waverly Place, 8th Floor New York, NY 10003 (212)
998 8490
mrockman@nyu.edu
OkinawaInstScienceTech ResTech
NGSMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 53
The Ecology and Evolution Unit (internal: http://-
ecoevo.unit.oist.jp/ external: https://groups.oist.jp/-
evolution) at the Okinawa Institute of Science and
Technology (http://www.oist.jp/) is seeking applicants
with skills in molecular biology for a Research Techni-
cian position. In our work we employ next-generation
sequencing to study the interaction between genomes
and the environment, working with a wide range of
study species, from yeast, to snakes, to social insects.
RESEARCH TECHNICIAN
Duties: The chosen candidate will principally carry out
a high-throughput genotyping pipeline, starting by ex-
tracting DNA from eld-collected specimens, and then
prepare them for sequencing. Much of the work will
be automated using liquid handling robots, and will re-
quire the processing of tens of thousands of samples.
In addition to these tasks, the research technician will
assist with laboratory management/ordering supplies,
writing up relevant sections of methods and results for
manuscripts, as well as participating with ongoing re-
search and development activities. Over time, there
may be possibilities to participate in eldwork, to learn
bioinformatic skills, and to engage in outreach activi-
ties.
Qualications: A BS/MS in Biology or a related eld,
scientic research experience, and a prociency in ba-
sic molecular biology techniques are essential. In addi-
tion, a familiarity with the handling of scientic data,
and basic computer skills are also required. Expe-
rience working with next-generation sequencing, and
with liquid-handling automation is desirable, but not
required. The ideal candidate will have a strong ability
to focus, good organizational skills, an ability to both
carefully follow directions, and to independently solve
common problems. The candidate should also be pro-
cient at multitasking, prioritizing responsibilities, time
management, and have an ability to interact with all
levels of sta in a multicultural environment.
Job Data: OIST is a newly established international
graduate university located in the resort area of Onna-
son, Okinawa, Japan, and oers a high quality of life
and good working conditions in an international envi-
ronment. Logistical and nancial assistance with relo-
cation will be provided, along with a competitive salary
and benets package. OIST is an English-language
working environment and knowledge of English is re-
quired, knowledge of Japanese is helpful but not neces-
sary. The OIST campus is notable for its scenic layout,
including a view of the ocean from the lab itself.
To apply, please send a cover letter, CV, and
list of three references with contact information to
<alexander.mikheyev@oist.jp >. Informal inquiries arealso welcome at the same address. Application review
will begin immediately and will remain open until the
position is lled. We are aiming to conduct video chat
interviews in March, on-site interviews in April, and a
start date in May/June 2014.
mikheyev@gmail.com
PurdueU EvolutionaryBiol
Continuing Lecturer Department of Biological Sciences
Purdue University
Applicant must have a Ph.D. in the biological sciences
or related discipline and preferably two years of teach-
ing experience at the university level. The successful
candidate will teach lecture courses in a sophomore-
level ecology & evolution class and introductory genet-
ics for majors. Duration of this position is two years
with potential of continuation based on funding and
suitable performance.
Applications must be submitted electronically to
https://hiring.science.purdue.edu as single PDF les
that include a detailed curriculum vitae, names and ad-
dresses of three references, a 2-3 page summary of state-
ment of teaching interests and/or philosophy. Inquiries
should be directed to Continuing Lecturer Search Com-
mittee, Department of Biological Sciences, Purdue Uni-
versity, 915 West State Street, West Lafayette, IN
47907-2054 or emailed to search@bio.purdue.edu. Re-
view of applications will begin February 17, 2014 and
continue until position is lled. A background check
will be required for employment in this position
Purdue University is an Equal Opportunity/Equal Ac-
cess/Armative Action employer and fully committed
to achieving a diverse workforce.
dbos@purdue.edu
PurdueU FieldLabTech BoxTurtles
Title: Temporary eld and laboratory technician - box
turtles
Dates: 1 April 2014 - 31 October 2014
Agency: Purdue University54 EvolDir March 1, 2014
Location: West Lafayette, IN
Job Description: The Rod Williams and Jason Hover-
man laboratory groups in the Department of Forestry
and Natural Resources, Purdue University seek a tem-
porary technician to assist with a project that involves
the monitoring of a disease outbreak in a population of
box turtles. The successful candidate will be well orga-
nized, detail-oriented, able to work in both inclement
weather and in laboratory settings, able to organize
large amounts of data and samples, and communicate
eectively. The selected candidate will lead small teams
for eld work and work either alone or with various
team members in a genetics laboratory setting. Atten-
tion to detail is a must, especially with respect to the
prevention of cross-contamination of samples. Oppor-
tunities for further experiments will be available and
duties may change as circumstances warrant.
Required qualications: Bachelor's degree in biology
or related eld, high organization and communication
skills, current driver's license and clean driving record.
Preferred qualications: Experience with herp eld
work, herp diseases, and genetic laboratory work.
Application: Review of applications will begin 28
February 2014 and continue until the position is lled.
Submit a letter of interest describing why you are the
best candidate for the job (don't just rehash your CV),
a CV, and contact information for three professional
references as a single .pdf to skimble@purdue.edu.
Purdue University prohibits discrimination against any
member of the University community on the basis of
race, religion, color, sex, age, national origin or ances-
try, genetic information, marital status, parental sta-
tus, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression,
disability, or status as a veteran. The University will
conduct its programs, services and activities consistent
with applicable federal, state and local laws, regulations
and orders and in conformance with the procedures and
limitations as set forth in Purdue's Equal Opportunity,
Equal Access and Armative Action policy which pro-
vides specic contractual rights and remedies. Addi-
tionally, the University promotes the full realization of
equal employment opportunity for women, minorities,
persons with disabilities and veterans through its ar-
mative action program.
Salary: $11/hr
Last date to apply: 28 February 2014.
Contact: Steve Kimble sjkimble@gmail.com
Links: http://web.ics.purdue.edu/ ~ rodw/ http:/-
/web.ics.purdue.edu/ ~ jhoverm/Hoverman/-
Welcome.html Steve Kimble Postdoctoral ResearchAssistant, Department of Forestry and Natural
Resources Purdue University skimble@purdue.edu
sjkimble@gmail.com http://web.ics.purdue.edu/-
~rodw/sKimble.php
sjkimble@gmail.com
RockyMountains DukeU
PlantAdaptation
The Mitchell-Olds lab at Duke University seeks a highly
motivated, detail-oriented assistant for eld research in
the northern Rocky Mountains, summer 2014. We are
studying Boechera, a perennial herb that oers genetic
tractability and ecological context. Current eld exper-
iments focus on questions related to local adaptation,
plant defense against herbivory, and breeding systems.
Our research sites are located in east-central Idaho.
Base camp is a set of trailers located near the beauti-
ful town of Salmon. Trailers include heat, hot water, a
landline, and wireless internet access. Travel distances
between sites are long, which necessitates many hours
in the car. Our team usually returns to the trailers to
sleep but applicants should be familiar with (and en-
joy!) camping for the times when this is not feasible.
Weather conditions in the Rockies can be severe, and
assistants should expect to work in snow and rain as
well as 90 degree temperatures. Regular trips are made
to Missoula, Montana for groceries and other supplies.
Successful applicants are expected to assist in data col-
lection and data entry, plant care, transplanting, seed
collection, and driving research vehicles. Applicants
must be able to stoop/kneel for extended periods of
time; hike up to 1 mile while carrying heavy loads; hike
up and down steep hills; and dig or dibble holes in hard
ground. The work can be physically demanding and
tiring, and the research team usually collects data 5-6
days per week. A good sense of humor and a positive
attitude are necessities!
Qualications: 1) some undergraduate education in bi-
ology, ecology, or related eld, or equivalent experience;
2) experience camping and working outdoors and/or
previous eld research experience; 3) ability to perform
repetitive tasks with a cheerful attitude and with atten-
tion to detail; 4) willingness to live and work in close
proximity with other researchers in a trailer; 5) a cur-
rent driver's license. Previous experience working with
plants is preferable but not required. Transportation,March 1, 2014 EvolDir 55
room with internet access, and salary will be provided.
Applicants must be available throughout the eld sea-
son from approximately June 1st through mid-August,
but exact start and end dates are exible.
The deadline for applications is February 28th, 2014.
Interested applicants should submit: 1) a short cover
letter describing their qualications as well as future
academic and professional goals; 2) a r esum e outlining
previous work experience, relevant courses (completed
or in progress), extracurricular activities; and 3) con-
tact information of two character references.
Email to:
Tom Mitchell-Olds, tmo1@duke.edu Department of Bi-
ology, Duke University
margaret.wagner@duke.edu
SanDiegoZoo ResTechGenetics
The Bud Heller Conservation Fellow will work in the
Genetics Division at the San Diego Zoo Institute for
Conservation Research, assisting with genetics research
projects for endangered species represented at the San
Diego Zoo Safari Park. Applicants must have knowl-
edge of standard laboratory procedures, safety prac-
tices, and be skilled in the use and basic maintenance
of general laboratory equipment. Experience in nucleic
acid preparation and quantitation from various source
materials is desired. Familiarity with PCR, automated
sequencing, and microsatellite fragment analysis is pre-
ferred. Competence in Mac and/or Windows-based
computer programs is essential, and understanding of
molecular data analysis programs is a plus, as is knowl-
edge of vertebrate taxonomic nomenclature. The ap-
plicant must have the ability to take direction, work as
part of a team, follow through on assignments, and be
neat and well organized. The position is grant funded
and of approximately one years duration. Applications
close on February 27. For more information or to ap-
ply visit this web site: http://bit.ly/1dvhPeF ory-
der@sandiegozoo.org
SouthAfrica FieldAssist MongooseI would be grateful if you could post the following; many
thanks, andy
Subject: Job: South Africa, Field Assistant on Dwarf
Mongoose Project
Main message:
*We are seeking a research assistant to help conduct
eldwork.*
The Dwarf Mongoose Project (http://-
dwarfmongooseresearch.weebly.com/) was established
in 2011 on Sorabi Rock Lodge Reserve, Limpopo
Province, South Africa. Currently we work with 8 wild
groups that have been habituated to the close presence
of observers; group members are individually marked
and many have been trained to climb on a balance
scale to weigh themselves.
Work will include behavioural observations, sound
recordings, GPS tracking, weighing of individuals and
assistance with playback experiments. Researchers live
in a house on the reserve and will be required to share
a bedroom.
The post will commence beginning of May 2014 (ap-
plication deadline: 14th March) with shortlisted appli-
cants invited for interview at the end of March. Assis-
tants need to be available for a minimum of 5 months
and hold a valid driving licence.
Food and accommodation will be provided, but assis-
tants will need to fund their own travel to the project.
Previous eldwork experience, especially in Africa, will
be viewed as advantageous.
To apply for the post, please send a cv (including
names of 2 referees) and a cover letter to Julie Kern
(julie.kern@bristol.ac.uk), University of Bristol.
bzzar@bristol.ac.uk
TunghaiU Taiwan
EvolutionaryBiology
FACULTY POSITION IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLU-
TIONARY BIOLOGY (TAIWAN). The Department
of Life Science, Tunghai University in Taiwan (web-
site: http://biology.thu.edu.tw/main.php) seeks for ap-
plicants for a tenure-track assistant professor position
or higher. We invite applicants with Ph.D. in any area
of ecology and evolutionary biology. We are especially
interested in applicants in the area of Invertebrate Zool-56 EvolDir March 1, 2014
ogy, Botany, Microbiology, and Ichthyology. Applicants
with strong record of research, postdoctoral experience,
and uent Mandarin as the rst or second language
will be highly favored. We welcome applicants who
employ theory, modeling, experiments, or some combi-
nations. Tunghai University is a private university with
high standard on undergraduate and graduate educa-
tion (website: http://www.thu.edu.tw/). The initial
review will begin on March 31st, 2014 until the posi-
tion is lled. The start date for the position will be on
August 1st, 2014. Applicants must submit the following
documents via either regular mail to Human Resource
(Subject: Faculty Application Materials; Address: Hu-
man Resource, Tunghai University, No. 1727, Sec. 4,
Taiwan Boulevard, Xitun District, Taichung 40704, Tai-
wan; website: http://upto.thu.edu.tw/main.php) or e-
mail to Mrs. Shu-Wen Hsiao (Subject: Faculty Appli-
cation Materials; e-mail: sw2842@thu.edu.tw; Phone:
+886-423590121 ext. 32402).
*A cover letter.
*Curriculum Vitae.
*Transcript for the highest education degree.
*Diploma certicate for the highest education degree.
*A copy of publications in the last ve years.
*A statement of future research direction.
*A statement of teaching interests (list at least three
putative courses).
*Three reference letters (condential arrangement).
Thank you so much for your time and patients in ad-
vance. Please feel free to let me know if you have other
questions about this request.
Sincerely yours, Shao-Lun (Allen) Liu Assis-
tant Professor Department of Life Science,
Tunghai University Taichung 40704, Taiwan
Web: http://algae.thu.edu.tw/lab Shao-Lun Liu
<shaolunliu@gmail.com >
UBern EvolutionaryBiology
Professor in Evolutionary Biology
The Institute of Ecology and Evolution of the Uni-
versity of Bern, Switzerland, announces a vacancy for
a professorship (open rank) in Evolutionary Biology.
The Institute has six full professors (chairs), several
associated professors and junior group leaders, andit hosts a large international community of graduate
students and post-doctoral researchers. The institute
has an excellent reputation for research and teaching
(www.excellenceranking.org) in all aspects of ecology
and evolution.
Applications are sought from individuals with an out-
standing research record in theoretical and/or exper-
imental evolution. Candidates with a strong back-
ground in evolutionary genomics are also encouraged
to apply. The candidate should have a doctorate in a
relevant eld, several years of postdoctoral and teaching
experience, an interest in developing, testing and teach-
ing evolutionary theory and in collaborating with other
researchers of our institute. Senior researchers are also
encouraged to apply. Hiring level, from tenure-track
Assistant Professor to Full Professor, will be commen-
surate with experience.
The new faculty member will have responsibility for
part of the teaching of evolutionary biology at under-
graduate and graduate levels. All graduate teaching
and advanced undergraduate teaching are in English.
The application should include a letter of motivation, a
CV with a short research plan for the next 5 years,
funding history, list of previous teaching and super-
vised MSc and PhD students, a list of publications,
and the names and contact information for three refer-
ences. Applications from women are strongly encour-
aged. Appointment will be either to tenure track or
tenured, commensurate with experience. The earliest
starting date for the position is August 1st 2015.
Applications must be submitted by April 10th 2014
as one PDF le to info@natdek.unibe.ch, and should
be addressed to the Faculty of Science, University of
Bern, Prof. Silvio Decurtins, Dean, Sidlerstrasse 5,
3012 Bern, Switzerland.
For further information, you can contact the institute
director at director@iee.unibe.ch. More information
about the institute can be found on www.iee.unibe.ch
Laurent Excoer <laurent.excoer@iee.unibe.ch >
UCambridge 3yr EvolBiol
We are advertising an unestablished lectureship posi-
tion in Ecology and Evolution. This appointment is to
cover research leave funded by external (ERC) grants,
but it is expected that the successful applicant will di-
vide their time between research and teaching, as doMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 57
all academic sta. This is not just a teaching appoint-
ment. The position is available for a xed period of
36 months full time equivalent. It may be held either
full time for a period of three years, or part time for a
longer period (e.g. 5 years at 0.6 FTE).
The advertisement has been placed in Nature to appear
in w/b 24 February, and it is already available at Nature
online (http://www.nature.com/naturejobs/science/-
jobs/379637-temporary-unestablished-lectureship-
in-evolution-ecology). It is on the University web
site (www.jobs.cam.ac.uk/job/3184) and jobs.ac.uk
(http://www.jobs.ac.uk/job/AID896/temporary-
unestablished-lectureship-in-evolution-and-ecology/-
) Further particulars are available at http://-
www.jobs.cam.ac.uk/job/3184/ Please bring this
opportunity to the attention of anyone who you think
may be interested. We are particularly keen to attract
applications from as many women as possible, as we
have a historic imbalance in the number of women
holding academic sta positions.
Please contact me if you have any questions
Chris Jiggins Reader in Evolution and Biolog-
ical Diversity Department of Zoology University
of Cambridge Tel: (+44)(0)1223 769021 Mob:
(+44)(0) 7549-524-481 http://www.heliconius.org/-
http://heliconius.zoo.cam.ac.uk/ Fellow of St John's
College, Director of Studies in Biological Sciences Cam-
bridge, UK. CB2 1TP
cj107@hermes.cam.ac.uk
UHawaii 2EvoDevo1MarineBiol
Three Assistant Professors: Evolutionary Developmen-
tal Biology and Marine Biology
The Department of Biology at the agship campus of
the University of Hawai'i seeks three new faculty two
in developmental biology and one in marine biology
who will complement existing strengths of its faculty
(see http://manoa.hawaii.edu/biology). Successful ap-
plicants will be expected to establish a vigorous extra-
murally funded research program, as well as teach and
mentor undergraduate and graduate students and post-
doctoral scholars.
Areas of interest for the developmental biology posi-
tions include, but are not limited to, the integration of
evolutionary developmental biology with the elds of
ecology, genomics, and/or epigenetics. Teaching expec-tations for these positions will include undergraduate
developmental biology and graduate courses in the suc-
cessful candidates' elds of study.
For the marine biology position (pending approval),
we seek applicants that use modern quantitative ap-
proaches in elds such as genomics or experimental
ecology to understand patterns of diversity or speci-
ation within natural populations of non-model marine
organisms. Applicants with an organismal emphasis
on the biology of corals or the ecology and evolution
of other commensal/symbiotic systems are particularly
encouraged, but all areas of research will be consid-
ered. Teaching expectations include leading one of two
core courses in the new Marine Biology Graduate Pro-
gram (www.hawaii.edu/mbiograd), and contributing to
our Undergraduate Program in Marine Biology. Appli-
cants must have a Ph.D. in biology or a related eld,
evidence of signicant research accomplishments and a
commitment to excellence in teaching. Desirable qual-
ications include relevant postdoctoral experience, ex-
tramural funding, and teaching experience.
To apply, please prepare a single PDF document that
includes: a cover letter indicating how you satisfy the
minimum and desirable qualications; statements of re-
search and teaching experience/interests; detailed cur-
riculum vitae; and three representative publications.
Also arrange to have three letters of reference sub-
mitted electronically. Review of applications will be-
gin February 14, 2014. Applications, letters of refer-
ence and inquiries for the developmental biology po-
sitions should be sent to dbsearch@hawaii.edu, 808-
956-4706. For complete job announcements, please re-
fer to http://workatuh.hawaii.edu, Positions #84248
and #82208. Applications, letters of reference and in-
quiries for the marine biology position should be sent
to mbfacsch@hawaii.edu. For a complete job announce-
ment, please refer to http://workatuh.hawaii.edu, Po-
sition #83910.
The University of Hawai'i is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action Institution and encourages ap-
plications from women and minority candidates.
Robert C. Thomson Assistant Professor Department of
Biology University of Hawaii at Manoa Honolulu, HI
96822
thomsonr@hawaii.edu
UHawaii Hilo EvolutionaryCellBiol58 EvolDir March 1, 2014
Hi All,
We are looking for a cell biologist in the Biology De-
partment at the University of Hawaii at Hilo. We are
especially interested in someone who can work with oth-
ers in the department that have expertise in ecology and
evolutionary biology and help build a growing bioinfor-
matics/genomics program.
http://workatuh.hawaii.edu/Jobs/NAdvert/18860/-
2541122/1/postdate/desc Title: Assistant Professor
(Biology/Cell Biology) Position Number: 0082909
Hiring Unit: College of Arts & Sciences Location: UH
Hilo Date Posted: January 15, 2014 Closing Date:
March 15, 2014 Salary Information: Commensurate
with qualications and experience. Monthly Type:
9 Month Tenure Track: Tenure Full Time/Part
Time: Full Time Temporary/Permanent: Permanent
Funding: General
Other Conditions:
- Appointment to begin approximately August 2014,
pending position clearance and availability of funding.
Duties and Responsibilities
1. Teach undergraduate courses in Cell Biology, Cell
and Molecular Biology, and Introductory Biology for
majors. Develop an independent research program in
area of expertise that is supported by extramural fund-
ing; advise students; participate in departmental gov-
ernance and related University and community service.
The University of Hawai`i at Hilo also oers the oppor-
tunity for participation in graduate programs.
Minimum Qualications
1. Ph.D. from an accredited college or university in a
biological science discipline appropriate to the position,
teaching experience in biological sciences, research ex-
perience in area of expertise in cell biology, and demon-
strated ability to work with students from diverse cul-
tural backgrounds.
Desirable Qualications
1. Demonstrated teaching experience at the college or
university level in undergraduate courses in areas re-
lated to Cell Biology, Biochemistry, Molecular Biology,
and Introductory Biology. Demonstrated record of stu-
dent advising and training; a successfully funded re-
search program in area of expertise in animal cell biol-
ogy, and the ability to develop a research program in
the Hawaiian or Pacic region that complements exist-
ing department strengths in plant ecology and evolu-
tion, with the potential to obtain extramural funding.
To Apply: Submit a cover letter indicating the posi-
tion title and position number and how you satisfy theminimum and desirable qualications, a curriculum vi-
tae, academic transcripts, and statements of research
and teaching interests. Please note that copies of tran-
scripts are acceptable for application; however, original
documents issued by a university registrar are required
upon hire. Provide contact information for three (3)
references. Electronic submissions are preferred and
may be sent to awayaj@hawaii.edu. Address:
1. Dr. Jonathan Awaya 2. University of Hawai`i at
Hilo 3. Biology Department 4. 200 W. Kawili St. 5.
Hilo, HI 96720
Inquiries:
1. Dr. Jonathan Awaya; awayaj@hawaii.edu
Dr. Donald Price Director TCBES Graduate Program
Professor of Biology
Science and Technology Building 109 University of
Hawaii at Hilo Hilo, HI 96720
808-932-7178 donaldp@hawaii.edu
http://tcbes.uhh.hawaii.edu/ http://-
www.hawaii.edu/uhhbiology/ http://-
www2.hawaii.edu/ ~ donaldp/ Donald Price
<donaldp@hawaii.edu >
UHawaii Hilo
EvolutionaryEntomology
Hi All,
Another faculty position at the University of Hawaii at
Hilo. In addition to the information below the person
could participate in the Tropical Conservation Biology
and Environmental Science Graduate Program (http:/-
/tcbes.hilo.hawaii.edu/)
Title: Assistant Professor (Applied Entomology) Posi-
tion Number: 0084768 Hiring Unit: College of Agri-
culture, Forestry and Natural Resource Management
(CAFNRM)
http://workatuh.hawaii.edu/Jobs/NAdvert/18926/-
2553351/1/postdate/desc Location: UH Hilo Date
Posted: January 28, 2014 Closing Date: Continuous -
application review begins April 16, 2014
Duties and Responsibilities Engage in scholarly activi-
ties and creative endeavors that support the academic
mission of the University, including academic support,
teaching courses, supervising independent studies, su-March 1, 2014 EvolDir 59
pervise laboratories, interns and practicums; render ser-
vice to the professional and lay community which is rel-
evant to the individual's academic specialty; and serve
as academic advisor to students and provide academic
support in the instruction and application of general en-
tomology, insect-plant and insect-mammal interactions,
pest management, anatomy of insects and mammals,
veterinary entomology, and biodiversity and invasive
species management; provide students with quality ap-
plied learning experiences; engage in research, conduct
surveys, and initiate studies for and identication of na-
tive and non-native arthropods, arthropod biodiversity,
and ecosystem dynamics for application in the develop-
ment of programs to manage and protect native arthro-
pods in particular the higher elevations on Mauna Kea;
prevent or control invasive and pest arthropods. As-
sist CAFNRM with revising curriculum and developing
educational materials for community outreach. Other
duties as required.
Minimum Qualications Ph.D. in Entomology or
closely related eld with a strong emphasis on applied
insect ecology and biodiversity. Demonstrated schol-
arly achievement; demonstrated poise, good interper-
sonal relationship with students and faculty; good com-
munication verbal and written skills.
Desirable Qualications Experience in molecular sys-
tematic techniques and morphology based taxonomy,
expertise in Hawaiian arthropod taxonomy and sys-
tematics, arthropod eld surveys and design. Demon-
strated ability to work safely under a wide range of en-
vironmental conditions such as high elevations (9,000-
13,800 ft.) and humid tropical forests. Demonstrated
ability to use laboratory equipment and methods re-
quired for arthropod species identication and preser-
vation. Familiarity with arthropod and plant com-
munity of alpine and subalpine zones particularly in
Hawaii. Diverse entomological background includ-
ing agricultural entomology experience. Demonstrated
high quality teaching of entomology and related courses
at the undergraduate level.
To Apply: Submit letter of application describing back-
ground, training and work experience. Electronic sub-
mission of applications is not acceptable. Also include
in your letter other qualications as well as teach-
ing and research interests. With the letter of appli-
cation, include your curriculum vitae, copies of tran-
scripts (ocial transcripts will be required prior to em-
ployment)and three current letters of recommendation.
Address:
Marsha Oshiro UHH CAFNRM 200 West Kawili Street
Hilo, HI 96720
Inquiries: Dr. Bruce W. Mathews, Interim Dean ofthe College; bmathews@hawaii.edu The University of
Hawai ^Ei is an equal opportunity/armative action
institution and is committed to a policy of nondiscrim-
ination on the basis of race, sex, gender identity and
expression, age, religion, color, national origin, ances-
try, citizenship, disability, genetic information, mari-
tal status, breastfeeding, income assignment for child
support, arrest and court record (except as permissible
under State law), sexual orientation, domestic or sex-
ual violence victim status, national guard absence, or
status as a covered veteran.
Individuals with disabilities who need a reasonable ac-
commodation for the application or hiring process are
encouraged to contact the EEO/AA coordinator(s) for
the respective campus.
Employment is contingent on satisfying employment el-
igibility verication requirements of the Immigration
Reform and Control Act of 1986; reference checks of
previous employers; and for certain positions, criminal
history record checks.
In accordance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Cam-
pus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act,
annual campus crime statistics for the University of
Hawaii may be viewed at: http://ope.ed.gov/security/,
or a paper copy may be obtained upon request from
the respective UH Campus Security or Administrative
Services Oce.
Dr. Donald Price Director TCBES Graduate Program
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UManchester EvolutionaryBiology
Full Professor in Evolutionary Biology
We are seeking to appoint a Full Professor (Chair) in
Evolutionary Biology in the Faculty of Life Sciences
at The University of Manchester. Candidates must
be internationally-leading scientists with an appropri-
ate level of academic achievement in relevant elds of
evolutionary biology, with a strong commitment to de-
veloping both individual and team-based research pro-
grammes, and who could inspire the next generation of
researchers through their teaching excellence. A strong60 EvolDir March 1, 2014
track record in published research, the supervision of
postgraduate students and the ability to secure major
competitive grant funding is expected. Further partic-
ulars concerning the post can be found here (http://-
bit.ly/LM3IdG)
The successful candidate will join the large number of
researchers in the Faculty of Life Sciences studying a
range of topics in evolutionary biology from evolution-
ary genetics to paleontology to evolutionary ecology.
More information on our current research groups in the
area of Evolutionary Biology can be found here (http:/-
/bit.ly/MrBwx0) and here (http://bit.ly/1bnulMn)
Informal enquiries can be made to Dr Daniela Del-
neri (d.delneri[at]manchester.ac.uk) or Casey Bergman
(casey.bergman[at]manchester.ac.uk).
Reference: LSX-03946 Closing date: 24/02/2014
casey.bergman@manchester.ac.uk
UMass Amherst
EvolutionFloralDevelopment
UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS/AMHERST
POSITION AVAILABLE
The Bartlett lab, recently started at the University of
Massachusetts Amherst, is looking for a qualied ap-
plicant to ll a Research Fellow position.This is a non-
beneted position.In the Bartlett lab we use a num-
ber of approaches, including molecular genetics, pro-
tein biochemistry, and phylogenetics, all with the ulti-
mate goal of understanding the evolution of oral devel-
opment, particularly in the monocots.Tasks associated
with this position will vary, but may include molecular
lab work (e. g. next-gen sequencing library prep, DNA,
protein, and RNA extraction, PCR, electrophoresis),
lab management, summer eldwork growing corn, plant
care (e. g. /Arabidopsis/, barley, /Brachypodium/,
corn, tobacco), and training undergraduate researchers.
Initial appointment for one year; reappointment be-
yond rst year is contingent upon availability of fund-
ing and job performance.A Bachelors degree in biol-
ogy or related eld and at least 6 months experience
working in a molecular lab are required. This posi-
tion is perfect for someone thinking about pursuing a
graduate degree in plant biology.The position needs to
be lled before our summer eld season, but an ear-
lier start date is possible (even preferred).Salary com-mensurate with experience and contribution toward the
cost of health insurance negotiable.To apply online,
please go to: http://umass.interviewexchange.com/-
joboerdetails.jsp?JOBID=46449and submit a resume,
cover letter, and contact information for references.
Review of applications will begin on March 3, 2014
and continue until the position is lled.The University
of Massachusetts is an Armative Action/Equal Op-
portunity Employer.Women and members of minority
groups are encouraged to apply.
Thanks again.
Lisa
Lisa Barry <lisak@bio.umass.edu >
UMass Amherst
EvolutionFloralDevelopment
Correction
**This job was originally posted as a postdoc position.
A PhD is not required for this position.**
UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS/AMHERST
POSITION AVAILABLE
The Bartlett lab, recently started at the University of
Massachusetts Amherst, is looking for a qualied ap-
plicant to ll a Research Fellow position.This is a non-
beneted position.In the Bartlett lab we use a num-
ber of approaches, including molecular genetics, pro-
tein biochemistry, and phylogenetics, all with the ulti-
mate goal of understanding the evolution of oral devel-
opment, particularly in the monocots.Tasks associated
with this position will vary, but may include molecular
lab work (e. g. next-gen sequencing library prep, DNA,
protein, and RNA extraction, PCR, electrophoresis),
lab management, summer eldwork growing corn, plant
care (e. g. /Arabidopsis/, barley, /Brachypodium/,
corn, tobacco), and training undergraduate researchers.
Initial appointment for one year; reappointment be-
yond rst year is contingent upon availability of fund-
ing and job performance.A Bachelors degree in biol-
ogy or related eld and at least 6 months experience
working in a molecular lab are required. This posi-
tion is perfect for someone thinking about pursuing a
graduate degree in plant biology.The position needs to
be lled before our summer eld season, but an ear-
lier start date is possible (even preferred).Salary com-
mensurate with experience and contribution toward theMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 61
cost of health insurance negotiable.To apply online,
please go to: http://umass.interviewexchange.com/-
joboerdetails.jsp?JOBID=46449and submit a resume,
cover letter, and contact information for references.
Review of applications will begin on March 3, 2014
and continue until the position is lled.The University
of Massachusetts is an Armative Action/Equal Op-
portunity Employer.Women and members of minority
groups are encouraged to apply.
Madelaine Bartlett Assistant Professor Biology De-
partment 108 Morrill Science Center South 611 North
Pleasant Street University of Massachusetts Amherst
Amherst, MA 01003 phone: 413-545-2235
madelaine.bartlett@gmail.com
UMinnesota Tech PopGenetics
The McGaugh and Brandvain lab groups at the Univer-
sity of Minnesota are looking for an enthusiastic and ex-
perienced technician to join our group in early Summer
2014. The labs study the genomic basis of speciation,
adaptation and related problems in animal and plant
systems, respectively.
The technician will be in charge of daily function and
operation of the McGaugh-Brandvain labs including
the purchasing of supplies, and maintenance of a safe
and productive physical and computational environ-
ment. We are looking for someone who will split time
between the research in the Brandvain lab and the Mc-
Gaugh lab. For both lab groups daily activities will
consist of computational genomics and bioinformatics
with some wet-lab bench work. The technician will also
need to maintain sh and y stocks.
The successful candidate will also be a good lab citi-
zen (e.g. prepare for and attend lab meetings) and will
have opportunities for professional development and in-
dependent research projects which mesh well with the
major interests of the labs.
Required Qualications:
At the time of employment, but not necessarily at the
time of application:
Bachelor's degree with a major in genomics, evolution,
genetics, or related elds, or a combination of related
education and relevant work experience related to the
job totaling at least four (4) years.
Preferred:1) Graduate degree in genomics, evolution, genetics, or
related elds
2)>1 year research experience in a population genetics
or genomics lab.
2) Experience with next-gen sequence data or the mo-
tivation to handle and analyze such data
3) Experience with scripting/programming languages
including R, python, and/or C++
4) A desire to lead an integrative and motivated group
of young scientists. Patience, dedication, and enthusi-
asm.
If interested in the position please send an email with
your CV and contact information for references to
ybrandva <at>umn<dot>edu
smcgaugh <at>umn<dot>edu
Please nd more information and application instruc-
tions at:
employment.umn.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind7891
Suzanne McGaugh <smcgaugh@umn.edu >
UNAM Mexico EvolutionaryBiology
Position opening at the Instituto de Ecologia, UNAM,
Mexico, at the Associate Researcher C level.
The application description is in spanish, due to its re-
quirement of spanish prociency.
El Instituto de Ecolog a (IE), UNAM
(www.ecologia.unam.mx) invita a los interesados
que cumplan con los siguientes requisitos a participar
por dos puestos de trabajo, por obra determinada,
equivalentes a Investigador Asociado \C" de tiempo
completo, de acuerdo con las siguientes
Bases:
a) Tener grado de doctor y experiencia posdoctoral
b) Haber trabajado cuando menos tres a nos en labores
de investigaci on y docentes en alguna de las siguientes
 areas de la ecolog a:
xEcolog a de ecosistemas y su relaci on con prob-
lem aticas ambientales para entender las interacciones
entre los diferentes aspectos funcionales de los ecosis-
temas, a diferentes escalas espaciales o temporales; y/o
ecolog a de ecosistemas con especialidad en hidrolog a
y en la interacci on entre los procesos ecol ogicos e62 EvolDir March 1, 2014
hidrol ogicos superciales y subterr aneos, as  como en
el ciclo de nutrientes.
xAgroecolog a y el papel de las interacciones biol ogicas
en los agroecosistemas y c omo  estas pueden contribuir
al desarrollo de estrategias sostenibles en la producci on
agr cola en M exico.
xEcolog a te orica en din amica de poblaciones, interac-
ciones poblacionales y/o din amica de comunidades, epi-
demiolog a y modelaci on matem atica.
xEcolog a evolutiva comparada, con  enfasis en el desar-
rollo y empleo de m etodos logen eticos para el estudio
de la adaptaci on y evoluci on en distintos niveles de or-
ganizaci on.
c) Haber publicado trabajos en revistas cient cas in-
dizadas de circulaci on internacional y demostrar expe-
riencia docente.
d) Se dar a preferencia a los candidatos que sean
menores de 38 a nos (mujeres) y 36 (hombres).
e) En caso de ser extranjero tener buen dominio del
idioma espa nol.
Pruebas:
1. Elaborar un proyecto de investigaci on en el  area de
su especialidad.
2. Elaborar un plan de trabajo que incluya las activi-
dades de investigaci on, docencia y formaci on de recur-
sos humanos, proyectado a tres a nos, indicando el po-
tencial de colaboraci on con investigadores del Instituto
de Ecolog a y con grupos multidisciplinarios que abor-
den problemas relacionados con el uso sostenible de los
recursos naturales.
3. Se dar a preferencia a los candidatos con una s olida
formaci on acad emica, que combinen aspectos te oricos
y emp ricos y cuyo proyecto de investigaci on se vincule
a la soluci on de problemas nacionales relacionados con
el ambiente y la ecolog a.
Documentaci on requerida:
1. Carta de intenci on dirigida al director del instituto,
Dr. C esar Dom nguez P erez Tejada
2. Curriculum vitae con documentaci on probatoria
3. Descripci on breve de intereses actuales y futuros en
investigaci on
4. Propuesta de investigaci on y plan de trabajo
5. T tulo de doctorado
6. Acta de nacimiento
Los interesados deber an enviar la documentaci on a la
Secretaria Acad emica (secacad@ecologia.unam.mx) y ala direcci on (direccion@ecologia.unam.mx), entre el 30
de enero y el 20 de febrero de 2014, en horario de 10:00
a 15:00 horas (horario central de M exico). Los doc-
umentos pueden enviarse por v a electr onica (pdf) y
posteriormente de forma impresa.
Direcci on de correo: Instituto de Ecolog a, UNAM, Ap.
Postal 70-275, Ciudad Universitaria, M exico DF, CP
04510, M exico.
Proceso de selecci on:
1. El Consejo Interno de IE har a una primera selecci on
de los candidatos bas andose en los m eritos acad emicos,
el proyecto de investigaci on y el plan de trabajo.
2. Los candidatos seleccionados ser an invitados a dar
un seminario de contrataci on y a entrevistarse con los
miembros de la comunidad acad emica.
3. El Consejo Interno dar a a conocer los nombres de
los candidatos seleccionados.
Ella Vazquez <evazquez@ecologia.unam.mx >
UNAM Mexico SystematicBotany
Position opening - Instituto de Biolog a, Universidad
Nacional Aut onoma de M exico Systematic Botanist or
Mycologist
The Instituto de Biolog a, Universidad Nacional
Aut onoma de M exico (IB-UNAM), whose principal
mission is the study of the biodiversity of Mexico, and
houses the national biological collections, invites ap-
plications for a tenure-track, full time position of As-
sociate Researcher level \C", in systematic botany or
systematic mycology at the main University campus,
Mexico City.
Requirements for candidates: 1. A Ph.D. degree or
equivalent, preferably in botany, mycology, systemat-
ics, evolutionary biology, or a related discipline. 2. Ex-
perience in systematic research of vascular plants or
fungi, demonstrated by original, high quality publica-
tions, commensurate to age and academic trajectory.
3. Knowledge of the vascular ora or mycota of Mex-
ico and/or the Neotropics, particularly in one or more
groups whose diversity is exceptional in Mexico, as well
as experience in the curation of scientic collections,
techniques of eld collecting, morphology, molecular
systematics, or genetics. 4. A commitment to partici-
pate in activities complementary to investigation, such
as teaching in educational programs at UNAM, direc-March 1, 2014 EvolDir 63
tion of theses at the undergraduate and graduate level,
activities of science outreach, and institutional partic-
ipation. 5. Willingness to participate immediately in
the academic activities of the IB-UNAM, practice lead-
ership in his or her area of research, and demonstrate
capacity to become part of a research group. 6. Demon-
strable prociency in Spanish.
Applicants should submit a letter of intent directed to
the Academic Secretary of the IB-UNAM with a de-
tailed statement of purpose; a full curriculum vitae
with contact information (supporting documentation is
not necessary at this stage); PDF reprints of publica-
tions that the applicant considers the most important
of their professional trajectory (maximum of ve); a
synthetic outline of research goals for the rst year (5
pages maximum); and a letter of recommendation. The
required documentation must be received by May 30,
2014. Shortlisted candidates will be contacted for a
personal interview.
Inquiries regarding this announcement should be ad-
dressed to Dr. Atilano Contreras-Ramos, Aca-
demic Secretary of IB-UNAM, e-mail: acontr-
eras@ib.unam.mx. Applications will be received at the
email address sacademica@ib.unam.mx.
s.magallon@ib.unam.mx
UNorthCarolina Charlotte
Bioinformatics
UNC-Charlotte's Bioinformatics and Genomics Depart-
ment is engaged in a multi-year expansion. In addi-
tion to the new $35M Bioinformatics Building the de-
partment has the leadership role in Bioinformatics in
the North Carolina Research Campus (NCRC) in Kan-
napolis. NCRC is a $1B research park that is becom-
ing home to academic and industrial research. As a
whole our programs goals are to use these platforms to
perform research and teaching in the elds that bioin-
formatics touches upon including but not limited to:
defense, agriculture, health care, and natural sciences.
Some of our work is illustrated here: http://-
viscenter.uncc.edu http://supramap.org We seek a
Bioinformatics Research Associate with M.S. or Ph.D.
in a technical eld and experience in the following:
Java, R, GIT, KML, biomedicine, evolution, and vi-
sual analytics. The bioinformatics research associate
will initially work closely with stakeholders in studies
of the evolution of infectious diseases to integrate soft-ware components to each other into a novel workow.
send CV to unccpostdoc@gmail.com and note EPA Po-
sition Number 14256
unccpostdoc@gmail.com
UNotreDame ResTech
BehavioralEvolution
A full-time research technician position is available in
the Biology Department at the University of Notre
Dame. The PI, Beth Archie, is a behavioral ecolo-
gist, and members of the Archie Lab study the evo-
lution of animal social behavior using tools from mi-
crobial ecology, disease ecology, immunology, and pop-
ulation genetics. Our main research system is the wild
baboon population living in Amboseli National Park,
Kenya http://amboselibaboons.nd.edu/. For more in-
formation about the Archie Lab, see our web page at
http://blogs.nd.edu/archielab/ . The position will in-
volve 50% research and 50% data and lab management.
The successful applicant will contribute to a long-term
database on parasitology, perform genetics bench work,
organize and curate a collection of biological samples,
help manage data, and assist in day-to-day running of
the lab (e.g. ordering supplies, helping students). A
Bachelor's degree in biology, or a related discipline,
is required. Successful applicants will be detail ori-
ented, eager to learn new techniques, and enthusiastic
about biology and working in an academic lab environ-
ment. Prior experience with parasitology and/or ba-
sic genetic techniques (e.g., DNA extraction, PCR, gel
electrophoresis) is preferred, but not required. Notre
Dame has strong research programs in ecology, evo-
lution and infectious disease in a Biology Department
with collegial and interactive faculty and students. The
department houses state-of-the-art genomics and imag-
ing cores, more information on departmental and other
college faculty and facilities can be found at http://-
biology.nd.edu and http://science.nd.edu.
The position can begin as early as April 2014, but there
is exibility in the start for strong applicants (into early
summer). Applications will be considered starting 1
March 2014 and the position will remain open until
lled. Salary is commensurate with experience. Inter-
ested applicants should apply online at http://ND.jobs
under job number 14073. Please submit: (1) your CV,
(2) a cover letter explaining your background, interest
and qualications for the position, and (3) contact in-64 EvolDir March 1, 2014
formation for three references, including your relation-
ship to the reference, their phone number, email ad-
dress, and mailing address. Please contact Beth Archie
at earchie@nd.edu for informal inquiries.
Beth Archie University of Notre Dame Department
of Biological Sciences 137 Galvin Life Science Center
Notre Dame, IN 46556 Phone: (574) 631-0178 Email:
earchie@nd.edu
beth.archie@gmail.com
UParis13 EvolutionaryEthology
Our laboratory currently has an open position for a full
professor in ethology. The prole will include mechanis-
tic, functional and evolutionary approaches, and thus I
was thinking that EvolDir could be a suitable platform
to post this position.
Full Professor - Ethology
The /Laboratory of Experimental and Comparative
Ethology (LEEC) { EA 4443/, University of Paris 13,
is inviting applications for the position of a Professor in
Ethology (69 PR 0949), with tenure status and salary
commensurate with qualications and experience.
The successful candidate will succeed Professor Do-
minique Fresneau, who has recently announced his re-
tirement. Applicants should have a strong track record
of international excellence and external grant funding.
The successful candidate will be expected to develop
an innovative research program in ethology and must
demonstrate the ability to successfully mentor young
researchers.
The research activities at the Laboratory of Experimen-
tal and Comparative Ethology cover various aspects of
social behaviour using mechanistic, functional and evo-
lutionary approaches. The position also remains open
to other topics as long as they are located within the
eld of ethology.
The position includes teaching at the bachelor (psy-
chophysiology) and master level (Master in Ethology).
The latter is nationally recognized for its signicant role
in the formation in basic and applied ethology.
Application is electronic via a national portal
(/Galaxie/; deadline for application: 01. April
2014). Interested candidates should contact us as
soon as possible for further information on the po-
sition and on electronic application procedure. Inaddition to the obligatory application via /Galaxie/,
please send curriculum vitae and list of publications to:
Heiko.Rodel@leec.univ-paris13.fr
Contact:
Prof. Heiko G. R odel, Director of the LEEC
(Heiko.Rodel@leec.univ-paris13.fr); Prof. Patrizia
d'Ettorre, Head of the teaching department of
psychophysiology (Patrizia.dEttorre@leec.univ-
paris13.fr); Prof. Dominique Fresneau
(Dominique.Fresneau@leec.univ-paris13.fr)
Laboratoire d'Ethologie Exp erimentale et Compar ee
EA 4443, Universit e Paris 13, Sorbonne Paris Cit e,
99 avenue J.B. Cl ement, F-93430 Villetaneuse, France.
Phone:+ 33 (0)14940 3259; Fax: + 33 (0)14940 3975;
http://leec.univ-paris13.fr/ The University of Paris 13
is an Equal Opportunity Employer. http://www.univ-
paris13.fr/ Heiko R odel
Prof. Heiko G. R odel Directeur Laboratoire
d'Ethologie Exp erimentale et Compar ee - EA 4443
Universit e Paris 13, Sorbonne Paris Cit e 99 av.
J.-B. Cl ement, F-93430 Villetaneuse, France Tel.
+33(0)14940 3218 http://leec.univ-paris13.fr http://-
www.researchgate.net/prole/Heiko GRoedel/ Heiko
R odel <heiko.rodel@leec.univ-paris13.fr >
UPennsylvania LabFieldTech
MicrobeEvolution
Job: Laboratory/Field Technician Department of Biol-
ogy, University of Pennsylvania
A laboratory/eld technician position is available in
the ecology and evolution of infectious microbes lab
led by Dustin Brisson at the University of Pennsylva-
nia. The main focus of the projects involves the bac-
terial cause of Lyme disease, Borrelia burgdorferi. The
position entails both molecular laboratory activities as
well as wildlife (Peromyscus mice) handling activities.
Most importantly are intellectual skills to integrate
ideas across multiple scales of biological complexity (i.e.
molecular-level, organism-level, and population-level).
We are seeking a highly motivated, enthusiastic, and
enquiring individual with a background in evolutionary
biology or ecology. Strong molecular genetic skills and
wildlife handling experiences are highly advantageous.
The successful candidate will conduct both molecular
biology and animal handling and will contribute to for-
mulation of experiments, data collection, and data anal-March 1, 2014 EvolDir 65
ysis.
A Bachelor's degree in biology (or a related science)
OR 2 years of experience or equivalent combination of
education and experience is required.
The University of Pennsylvania has a strong group of
evolutionary biologists and ecologists in the biology de-
partment that frequently interact with each other and
with an accomplished group of microbiologists in the
Medical and Veterinary schools.
Salary is commensurate with experience.
To apply, please send (1) a cover letter outlining your
previous experiences that make you suited for this po-
sition as well as the your research, training, and career
goals, (2) CV, and (3) Contact information for 3 refer-
ences via email to dbrisson@sas.upenn.edu.
Ocial applications must be submitted through the hu-
man resources department at the University of Penn-
sylvania (https://jobs.hr.upenn.edu/postings/2488 - or
search ref# 02-16967). Please include relevant docu-
ments including reference contacts and a CV.
Please send enquiries to dbrisson@sas.upenn.edu
Dustin
Dustin Brisson Department of Biology University of
Pennsylvania Leidy Laboratories, 209 433 South Uni-
versity Avenue Philadelphia PA 19104-6018
http://www.bio.upenn.edu/faculty/brisson/-
https://sites.sas.upenn.edu/brisson-lab/ dbris-
son@sas.upenn.edu V:(215) 746-1731 F:(215) 898-8780
dbrisson@sas.upenn.edu
UQuebec Rimouski
EvolutionSignalPathways
FACULTY POSITION IN CELLULAR BIOLOGY AT
THE UNIVERSIT E DU QU EBEC A RIMOUSKI
The Universit e du Qu ebec  a Rimouski is oering
a tenure-track position in cell and system biology.
The candidate will be aliated with the Biology De-
partment and will teach undergraduate and graduate
courses in cell biology and cell physiology. The de-
partement includes faculty working in terrestrial ecol-
ogy, marine biology, evolutionary physiology, and pop-
ulation genetics with a strong commitment to research
in nordic environments. Preference will be given to can-
didates studying signaling pathways in an evolutionarycontext to understand responses to environmental stres-
sors. The candidate is expected to develop a strong
research program in system biology and to seek active
collaborations with members of the department. The
candidate will be expected to teach in french. The Uni-
versit e du Qu ebec  a Rimouski has an excellent reputa-
tion in research having won twice the title of best
university in research in Canada in its category (65
institutions). The graduate programs in biology include
up to 100 students (DESS, M.Sc., Ph.D. levels).
Interested candidates should send their cv as well as
three contact names for references to the attention of
Dr. Pierre Blier at : pauline dube@uqar.ca. Applica-
tions will be accepted until May 1st 2014.
Pierre Blier <pierre.blier@gmail.com >
USouthernCalifornia LabTech
CopepodSpeciation
Laboratory Research Technician
University of Southern California, Los Angeles
The Edmands lab seeks a full-time research technician
for studies of the genetics of speciation in a marine cope-
pod. Duties would include 1) development and mainte-
nance of a very large breeding study, 2) assistance with
molecular assays, 3) data entry and analysis and 4) gen-
eral lab management. The position is for 12 months,
beginning approximately June 2014. For more informa-
tion on the range of research projects conducted in our
lab, please see our website at https://dornsife.usc.edu/-
labs/edmands/ Applicants should have a bachelor's
degree in biology or a related eld, and a strong back-
ground in genetics and/or evolution. Other qualica-
tions include excellent organizational skills, the abil-
ity to work independently, a high tolerance for micro-
scope work, and above average manual dexterity. Pre-
vious experience in a lab environment, particularly with
molecular tools, is also desirable but not required.
Salary is commensurate with experience and a full ben-
ets package is included. Please apply via email to
Suzanne Edmands (sedmands@usc.edu) and include a
resume, contact information for three references and a
cover letter describing your experience, your interest in
the position, and your desired start date. Applications
will be considered until the position is lled.
Suzanne Edmands Professor Department of Biologi-
cal Sciences 3616 Trousdale Parkway, AHF 316 Uni-66 EvolDir March 1, 2014
versity of Southern California Los Angeles, CA 90089
(213)740-5548 http://dornsife.usc.edu/labs/edmands/edmandss@gmail.com
Other
Alberta VolunteerInternship GroundSquirrelEcology 66
Arlequin question . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Australia BirdBandingVolunteers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .67
BeckmanCoulter needed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .67
BookAbstracts ClimateAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Coecients of relationship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Dry shipper recommendation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .68
ESEB OutreachFund DeadlineMar15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
EvoDevo Undergrad Summer research grants . . . . . . 69
EvolutionCourses survey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
ForkbeardFish samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
FrenchGuiana TravelGrants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
FutureOfEvoDevo workshop report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
GeorgeWashingtonU REU DrosophilaRNAi . . . . . . . 71
Incomplete lineage sorting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .72
MichiganStateU KBS SummerREU . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .72
MissouriBotanicalGarden REU opportunity . . . . . . . 73
MountainLakeBiologicalStation Fellowships 2014 . . 73
NSF undergrad travel awards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
New RAxML Citation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .74Phylogenetics discussion forum . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Phyloseminar KarenCranston Feb6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Phyloseminar StephenSmith Feb13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
PlantEvolution Symposia funding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Project EvoMap . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
RobertsCompany . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
SSB GraduateStudent ResearchAward . . . . . . . . . . . . .76
SSB MiniARTS grant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
SSE THHuxley Award Announcement . . . . . . . . . . . . .78
Software LargeScale BayesianTreeInference . . . . . . . . 78
Software NeEstimator 2 01 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Survey BiodiversityConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
TreeOfLife iPhone app . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
UMaryland SummerREU AmphibianDiseaseEvolution
79
UTexas ElPaso REU Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
UZurich FieldAssist BirdBehaviourSpain . . . . . . . . . . 80
WildType Drosophila Stocks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
microMORPH TrainingGrants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Alberta VolunteerInternship
GroundSquirrelEcology
Field Assistants Required-Columbian ground squirrels
Kananaskis, Alberta, Canada
We are looking for 4 volunteers to assist with eldwork
for the period of April 10 to Aug 31, 2014. The project
investigates the ecology of Columbian ground squirrels.
As a member of the study, assistants will be involved
with monitoring the phenology (when animals emerge
from hibernation), reproduction and survival of indi-
viduals. Fieldwork will involve live-trapping and han-
dling of animals, radio-telemetry, behavioural observa-tion and assistance with the measurement of physiolog-
ical (metabolism) traits on free-ranging animals. This
is an excellent opportunity to gain experience working
with a collaborative research team on a long-term study
of a wild mammal.
All eldwork is carried out in the spectacular Rocky
Mountains of southwestern Alberta, Canada, home to
some of the most majestic wildlife in North Amer-
ica. We will be staying at the University of Cal-
gary's R.B. Miller and Barrier Lake research sta-
tions in Kananaskis, Alberta (http://bgs.ucalgary.ca/-
facilities/facilities). You will interact with other re-
searchers working with ground squirrels on a diversity
of projects in behavioural and population ecology. Ad-
ditionally, the eld stations are home to a number of
other researchers working on a variety of projects, rang-
ing from insects to large mammals.March 1, 2014 EvolDir 67
Food and accommodation are provided. Volunteers are
required to provide for their own travel to Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan. Travel between the eld station and
Saskatoon provided. Training will be provided and no
experience is necessary, but candidates should have an
interest in a number of the following (the more the bet-
ter!): ecology, evolutionary biology, wildlife, eld bi-
ology, and animal behaviour. Periods of time will be
spent camping and, as such, successful applicants need
to enjoy the outdoors, be up-beat, positive, responsible
and work well as a member of a team.
If you wish to apply for one of these posts then please
send a CV with a cover letter and contact details for
three references (with e-mail addresses), by email to
Je Lane (contact info below), by Feb 28, 2014.
Contact: Dr. Je Lane Department of Biology Uni-
versity of Saskatchewan u.columbianus@hotmail.com
www.lanelab.ca jerey.lane@usask.ca
Arlequin question
My study species is divided into two major genetic
groups and I want to detect loci under selection when
accounting for hierarchical structure in Arlequin v. 3.5
(Excoer 2009). I get the following error message
* Observed F-statistics lead to invalid migration rates.
Coalescent simulations cannot be performed. Perform a
simple AMOVA to check that all F-satistics are within
the interval [0..1[.*
The F-statistics for my study species is as follow:
FCT = 0.098
FSC = 0.052
FIS =-0.063
FIT = 0.091
Fis is highly negative and I am not sure what would
cause this. What can I do in this case to be able to
run the program to detect loci under selection?
Thank you very much for your help.
Simon Nadeau
Simon Nadeau, M. Sc. Student
Forest Science Department, Faculty of Forestry Univer-
sity of British Columbia / Natural Resources Canada
- Canadian Forest Service 2424 Main Mall, Vancouver,BC, Canada V6T 1Z4 / 1055 rue du Peps, Quebec,
QC, Canada G1V 4C7 simon.nadeau.ubc@gmail.com
*www.*linkedin.com/pub/simon-nadeau/42/227/b89
Tel: (604) 349-5196
Simon Nadeau <simon.nadeau.ubc@gmail.com >
Australia BirdBandingVolunteers
Looking for bird banders. Eastern Yellow Robin in Vic-
toria, Australia. Experience with blood collection We
are following up the leads by a recently published paper
(Pavlova et al. 2013; Evolution doi: 10.1111/evo.12107)
that describes the occurrence of two very divergent hap-
logroups in Eastern Yellow Robin across the Great Di-
viding Range in Eastern Australia. Recently we collect
some samples across a transect in the blue mountains
(NSW) and found that the transition zone is VERY
sharp. This opens exciting research opportunities for
evolutionary and conservation genomics. We are look-
ing to replicate the transect down in Victoria, ideally
somewhere between Traralgon and Shepparton. We are
of course looking for keen volunteers as the project does
not have (currently) any money allocated for salaries.
But most expenses are of course covered. A-class and
experience with blood collection are required.
If you're interested, know of anyone that might be inter-
ested, or want to know more about the project; please
send me an email. hernan.morales@monash.com
*Hern an Morales* PhD candidate School of Biological
Sciences Monash University, Melbourne Clayton Cam-
pus 3800 Victoria, Australia Ph: +61 3 99053844
Research Gate: https://www.researchgate.net/-
prole/Hernan Morales/ Hernan Morales
<hernan.morales@monash.edu >
BeckmanCoulter needed
Dear EvolDir,
I am hoping someone can help me with a technical prob-
lem I have. I urgently need to genotype some DNA sam-
ples at microsatellite loci before sending them for RAD-
seq analyses. I have a well developed lab pipeline for
this, however our Beckman Coulter CEQ8000 is broken68 EvolDir March 1, 2014
and likely not to be xed anytime soon. I am therefore
looking to visit a lab somewhere in the UK which still
has a working Beckman CEQ8000. I estimate the work
would take 3-4 days and all consumables would be sup-
plied by me. I would also prepare sample plates prior
to the visit, so all I would need is a working machine.
If anyone has a working Beckman CEQ8000 and would
be willing to host me for a few days please do get in
touch with me at d.l.jeries@2006.hull.ac.uk. It would
be very much appreciated, and I would of course be
happy to return the favor in any way I can.
Best regards Dan Jeries
PhD Student - Evolutionary Biology Group
University of Hull
D.L.Jeries@2006.hull.ac.uk
BookAbstracts ClimateAdaptation
Dear colleagues,
Book of Abstracts and presentations from the interna-
tional conference on \Genetic Resources for Food and
Agriculture in a Changing Climate" held in Lilleham-
mer 27th-29th of January, 2014, are now made available
at the conference website climate.nordgen.org
If you want a hard copy of the Book of Abstracts,
please, send an email to anne.praebel@nordgen.org
Best regards, Anne Prbel
Dr. Anne Kettunen Prbel Senior Scientist Nord-
Gen - Nordic Genetic Resource Center P.O.Box 115,
NO-1431 As, Norway Street address: Raveien 9,
1430 As Phone: +47 6494 9772, mobile: +47
9778 0903 anne.praebel@nordgen.org www.nordgen.org
anne.praebel@nordgen.org
Coecients of relationship
Dear All: In a straightforward pedigree, the R-value
between an ancestor and a descendant, k generations
apart, is (1/2) ^k. In more complicated pedigrees, path-
ways have be identied and corrections for inbreeding
made. Does anyone know of any studies (any organ-ism) in which DNA data have been used to verify these
values? Many thanks in advance.
Bill Chapco.
Dr. William Chapco Professor Emeritus Depart-
ment of Biology University of Regina Regina, SK,
S4S 0A2 Canada 306-585-4478 306-337-2410 (FAX)
chapco@uregina.ca
William.Chapco@uregina.ca
Dry shipper recommendation
Hello all.
I am in need of a dry shipper that will house 300x2ml
vials for ~17 days (14 days eld, plus travelling time -
although there is a possibility of recharging the shipper
on the way home, and thus shaving o a couple of days
from that) in a tropical setting (average temperature
35 oC). I wish to snap freeze insects for RNA analysis
(thawing the samples in RNAlater-ICE once back in the
lab). I am wondering if anyone has had any experience
with this sort of eld work, and is willing to recommend
a good dry-shipper that would t the bill and perhaps
share any tips in the handling of the samples.
Thank you for your time. As per recommended, I will
share responses with the group.
Best regards.
Anders.
andersgs@gmail.com
ESEB OutreachFund
DeadlineMar15
*ESEB Outreach Fund*
The European Society for Evolutionary Biology
(ESEB) welcomes applications to the ESEB Outreach
Fund for projects that promote evolution-related activ-
ities. With a total annual budget of 15000 Euro, the
goal of this initiative is to improve public knowledge
about evolution globally.
Applications for funding will be accepted for educa-March 1, 2014 EvolDir 69
tional initiatives that promote evolution, development
of evolutionary material (books, lms, websites) in-
tended for a general audience, public outreach semi-
nars, public exhibitions, etc. While most projects will
be nanced for a sum between 1000-1500 Euro, excep-
tions can be made if a strong argument is provided for
additional funds.
The application form can be found on www.eseb.org
(click on the \Outreach Fund" link). Applications will
be accepted twice yearly (deadlines March 15, Septem-
ber 15) and should be submitted by email to Ute
Friedrich (oce@eseb.org; Subject: Outreach).
{ Ute Friedrich ESEB Oce Manager
Email:oce@eseb.org
European Society for Evolutionary Biology
www.eseb.org oce@eseb.org
EvoDevo Undergrad Summer
research grants
Dear Colleague,
Kindly share this opportunity with interested under-
graduates:
Please note the upcoming deadline for UNDERGRAD-
UATE SUMMER research exchange grants from the
Evo-Devo-Eco Network (EDEN) is March 11, 2014.
EDEN is a program funded by the National Science
Foundation of the USA. The goal of this program is to
train undergraduates in the eld of Evo-Devo-Eco, with
an emphasis on emerging model systems.
Eligible students should be undergraduates of any na-
tionality at any college or university, including liberal
arts colleges, community colleges, and universities, both
within and outside of the U.S.. Eligible host labs should
be conducting research using new and emerging model
organism and must be at a U.S.-based institution. If
the proposed host lab is working on a well-established
model organism, your application must explain how the
techniques or skills that you learn in the host lab will be
applied to work on new or emerging model organisms
at your home institution.
Students may apply to work in a lab that is at their
home institution, as long as the proposed research in-
volves new and emerging model organisms. However, in
cases where all other aspects of applications are consid-
ered to be equally competitive, preference will be givento applicants who propose to travel to a lab that is not
at their home institution.
Please visit http://edenrcn.com/funding/-
ugrad internships.html for complete program details.
For examples of previous undergraduate projects sup-
ported by EDEN, please visit http://edenrcn.com/ree/-
undergrad.html . We hope you and your students will
take advantage of this opportunity!
Best wishes,
Cassandra Extavour
Dr. Cassandra Extavour extavour@oeb.harvard.edu
Associate Professor Department of Organismic and
Evolutionary Biology Harvard University 16 Divinity
Avenue, BioLabs 4103 Cambridge, MA 02138, USA
http://www.extavourlab.com Oce Tel. 1 617 496
1935 Lab Tel. 1 617 496 1949/1200 Fax. 1 617 496
9507
Extavour Lab Administration: Mimi Velazquez Tel. 1
617 496 2132 nvelazquez@oeb.harvard.edu
EDEN: Evo-Devo-Eco Network http://-
www.edenrcn.com edenrcn@fas.harvard.edu
EDEN Administration: Barbara Perlo
perlo@fas.harvard.edu
EDEN Grants <edenrcn@fas.harvard.edu >
EvolutionCourses survey
Hi All,
Here's a link to a 4-question short, informal survey
on the requirements to take Genetics and Evolution.
If you're aware of the requirements at your univer-
sity/institute, please contribute!
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/-
1rcZm4cyh6JPAVP6H7SrWxySpH4YUmg-sTicO a-
Bt0/viewform Thanks, { Emily
Emily Weigel
PhD Candidate Boughman Lab <https://-
www.msu.edu/user/boughman/ > Zoology De-
partment Ecology, Evolutionary Biology and Be-
havior Program Michigan State University BEA-
CON Center for the Study of Evolution in Action
https://www.msu.edu/user/weigelem/index.html
weigelem@msu.edu Oce: 365 Giltner Hall Follow70 EvolDir March 1, 2014
@choosy female on Twitter!
emilygweigel@gmail.com
ForkbeardFish samples
My name is Ana Rita Vieira and I am a PhD student
from Faculty of Sciences, University of Lisbon, Portu-
gal, under supervision of Dr. Leonel Serrano Gordo.
In my PhD project, I am working with a sh species,
the forkbeard (Phycis phycis), and I am trying to de-
ne the population structure of this species in the NE
Atlantic, using several techniques commonly used in
sheries management (otolith shape, body geometric
morphometrics, and genetics). In genetics, I am using
a phylogeography approach to achieve my goal.
The forkbeard has a wide distribution in Europe, occur-
ring from the Bay of Biscay to Morocco, south to Cape
Verde and in the Mediterranean Sea. This sh species
is commercially exploited in Europe, being easily found
in sh markets.
For the phylogeography approach, I need samples from
the entire distribution area of forkbeard. At this mo-
ment, I have samples from Portugal (mainland, and
Madeira and Azores archipelagos), Spain (Alboran
Sea), and Croatia (Adriatic Sea). To achieve my goal, I
must obtain samples from North of Spain (Bay of Bis-
cay), South of France, Italy (Tyrrhenian and/or Lig-
urian Seas) and Greece (Aegean and/or Ionian Seas).
I am writing you because I would like to ask if the
EvolDiv community can help me in collecting samples
from the areas described above.
The collection process is simple and does not require
the purchase of the specimens. It is only necessary to
cut a small piece of any n of each specimen ( ~20 spec-
imens per area, but any number is welcome), and store
it in small tubes with 96 ^Aoalcohol. If samples can be
provided, I will send the tubes with the alcohol.
Thank you for considering my request.
Best regards,
Ana Rita Vieira
PhD student Centro de Oceanograa Faculdade de
Ci^ encias da Universidade de Lisboa C2, Lab 2.5.15A
Campo Grande, 1749-016 Lisbon, Portugal
Tel: +351 217500824 (ext. 22515) E-mail: ariv-
ieira@fc.ul.pt ana.vieira83@gmail.com<http://.co.fc.ul.pt/ >
logotipo (3)
Ana Rita Vieira <arivieira@fc.ul.pt >
FrenchGuiana TravelGrants
*Nouragues Travel Grants Program 2014 *
The Nouragues annual call for proposals is aimed at fa-
cilitating access to the Nouragues station for scientists
of all research elds. Graduate students, post-doctoral
researchers, and established scientists may apply.
Submitted proposals will be evaluated by a Science Ad-
visory Board and selected based on their excellence, the
quality of expected publications, and the feasibility of
the project. The grants will not exceed 9,000EUR in
total, and will be for a duration of one year. Reappli-
cations will be evaluated based on the achievements of
the previous years. Grant recipients will be expected to
contribute to the dissemination of knowledge in French
Guiana, via participation in outreach programs of the
collaborating Nouragues Natural Reserve.
*In 2014, experimental projects will be especially con-
sidered.*
*Deadline for application: March 7th, 2014.*
For further information: http://-
www.nouragues.cnrs.fr/spip.php?breve22 <http://-
www.labex-ceba.fr/en/appel-a-projets-annuel-ceba/
>
Thanks in advance,
Best regard,
Amaia Iribar
CEBA-Scientic project manager
EDB-Laboratoire Evolution et Diversit e Biologique
UMR 5174 Universit e Paul Sabatier Toulouse III 118
route de Narbonne 31062 Toulouse
Amaia Iribar-Pelozuelo <amaya.pelozuelo@univ-
tlse3.fr >
FutureOfEvoDevo workshop reportMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 71
To All Our EvoDevo Colleagues,
We are writing to give you an update on the outcomes
of the ???Future of EvoDevo??? workshop that took
place from 10th-13th of December 2013 at NESCent <
http://www.nescent.org >in Durham, North Carolina.
A detailed report will be circulated in the near future,
but in the meantime, here is a brief update:
- Cassandra Extavour < http://-
www.extavourlab.com/index.html >and Allen Rodrigo
<http://fds.duke.edu/db/aas/Biology/agr13 >orga-
nized a National Science Foundation (NSF) sponsored
workshop (grant number DBI-1249112 <http:/-
/www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD ID=-
1249112 >), and circulated a community interest survey
to over 400 scientists interested in Evo-Devo, as well as
to the EvolDir, US EvoDevo and European EvoDevo
(jiscmail) lists. After receiving nearly 400 responses
from scientists interested in attending, Cassandra,
Allen and the organizing committee (Ehab Abouheif
< http://biology.mcgill.ca/faculty/abouheif/ >,
Pamela Diggle <http://spot.colorado.edu/ ~ diggle/-
Diggle Lab/Diggle LabHomepage.html >, Brian Hall
<http://biology.dal.ca/People/faculty/hall/hall.htm
>, Manfred Laubichler <https://sols.asu.edu/-
people/manfred-laubichler >, Armin Moczek <
http://sites.bio.indiana.edu/ ~ moczeklab/ >, Karen
Sears <http://www.life.illinois.edu/sears/ >, Chelsea
Specht <http://pmb.berkeley.edu/prole/cspecht >,
Angelika Stollewerk <http://www.sbcs.qmul.ac.uk/-
sta/angelikastollewerk.html >, Trisha Wittkopp <
http://www.umich.edu/~pwlab/ >) invited 25 partici-
pants representing the broad range backgrounds within
the EvoDevo community. Participants[1] came from
the USA, Canada, Brazil, Germany, Israel, and the
UK. Program ocers from the Division of Integrative
Organismal Systems <http://www.nsf.gov/div/-
index.jsp?div=IOS >of the NSF Steve Klein, Amy
Litt, and Anthea Letsou were also in attendance.
Although the NSF grant could support physical
attendance of only ~30 participants, an online portal
<http://evodevo.ning.com/ >was set up so that
anyone interested in participating could follow and/or
participate virtually, both in the general discussions
and in the breakout discussions.
- The major goal of the workshop as stated in the
meeting proposal <http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/-
showAward?AWD ID=1249112 >was to address and
identify the major needs and concerns of the Evo-Devo
community, as follows: (1) to dene the principal intel-
lectual goals and biological questions of Evo-Devo, as
it looks to the future; (2) to identify the next genera-
tion of resources and infrastructure necessary to ensure
the ongoing success of Evo- Devo research, and proposemechanisms to develop and obtain these resources; (3)
to identify the major gaps in Evo-Devo training and
education nationally and internationally, and propose
solutions to address these gaps.
- There were three major outcomes of this meeting:
(1) Meeting participants strongly supported the estab-
lishment of a new professional society, provisionally
named the ???Society of Evolutionary Developmental
Biology.??? Ehab Abouheif (McGill University), and
Karen Sears (University of Illinois at Urbana- Cham-
pain) volunteered to serve as interim-President and
interim- Vice President, respectively. This society is
meant to serve the needs of the EvoDevo community
in the USA, Canada, Central and South America, and
to link these communities with the European and other
international communities by interfacing with the thriv-
ing European Society for Evolutionary Developmental
Biology <http://evodevo.eu/ >. Our rst goal as a
society is to put up a website to give us a virtual home
to co-ordinate among all the EvoDevo activities and
opportunities (Research, Education,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
GeorgeWashingtonU REU
DrosophilaRNAi
The lab of Dr. Mollie Manier at the George Wash-
ington University in Washington, D.C. is looking for a
mature, motivated undergraduate for NSF REU (Re-
search Experience for Undergraduates) research in per-
forming RNAi knockdown of potential spermatogenesis
genes in Drosophila melanogaster. The successful can-
didate will participate in the Harlan Summer Research
Experience program in the Department of Biological
Sciences, which includes a week-long intensive intro-
duction to research techniques and concepts, biweekly
seminars/workshops, interaction with other undergrad-
uates participating in diverse research experiences, and
a poster session. The student will work with a techni-
cian and postdoc and be trained and gain experience in
many to all of the following skills: rearing, maintaining
and handling Drosophila stocks; collecting virgins and
setting up mating crosses; dissecting testes; preparing72 EvolDir March 1, 2014
and staining sperm slides; microscopy and use of cam-
era software to measure sperm and sperm heads; data
collection, export and management; generating graphs
and performing basic statistics in the software package
R; designing and executing an experiment; primer de-
sign; DNA and RNA extraction; PCR and qPCR; han-
dling sequence data, alignment and molecular evolu-
tionary analysis; tree-thinking; designing a poster pre-
sentation; and verbally communicating results. The
student will be on campus from May 19-Aug. 15 and
will receive a summer stipend of $6000. Only US cit-
izens or permanent residents who are fully enrolled in
undergraduate institutions are eligible. Please send an
ocial transcript, a one-page essay on what you seek
to gain from an REU experience, and arrange for 2 let-
ters of reference to Dr. Manier at manier@gwu.edu.
Deadline for application is Feb. 21.
Dr. Mollie K. Manier Assistant Professor The
George Washington University Dept. of Biologi-
cal Sciences Lisner Hall 343 2023 G St. NW
Washington, D.C. 20052 USA (202) 994-0126 http:/-
/departments.columbian.gwu.edu/biology/people/175
maniermk@gmail.com
Incomplete lineage sorting
Dear Evoldir members,
I looking for documentation addressing that if intro-
gression (due to secondary contact or not) is part of
the processes of incomplete lineage sorting or if it is
dierent.
I can't be able to nd documentation on this question.
Consequently, I wonder if anyone can give clues to nd
documentation or information.
Thanks by advance.
Best regards,
Pierre-Alexandre Rastorgue
pierre-alexandre.rastorgue@imbe.fr
MichiganStateU KBS SummerREU*The Michigan State University Kellogg Biological Sta-
tion (KBS)* is currently accepting applications for the
*Summer 2014 Research Experience for Undergradu-
ates (REU)* *Program*. KBS will be funding 8-10
REUs on projects related to Ecology, Evolutionary Bi-
ology, and Sustainable Agriculture.
The KBS REU program provides Free Room & Board,
up to $400 in travel expenses, up to $500 in research
funds, and a $4,500 stipend. The program runs 10-
weeks from late May to early August. Applicants must
be currently enrolled as a full time student. We espe-
cially welcome applications from students from under-
represented groups in the sciences and rst generation
college students.
Research projects for Summer 2014 include:
-Plant Eco-physiology -Restoration ecology -Mating
system evolution -Using soil tests to survey farmer at-
titudes about soil health -Eects of genetic diversity
on plants and insects -Algal adaptation to temperature
and nutrients -The role of mutualisms in plant adapta-
tion
*For more information or to apply please visit: http:/-
/www.kbs.msu.edu/education/reu* *Applications are
due February 15th. *
*About KBS:* The Kellogg Biological Station is lo-
cated in Southwest Michigan and is housed on the
shores of beautiful Gull Lake. KBS is the academic
home to 15 MSU professors with research expertise in
Ecology, Evolution, and Sustainable Agriculture. KBS
encompasses over 3,000 acres and includes the KBS
Bird Sanctuary, KBS Long-term Ecological Research
Site, Great Lakes Bioenergy Research Center, Experi-
mental Pond Lab, Lux Arbor Reserve, KBS Farm and
Pasture Dairy and the Kellogg Forest. Each sum-
mer over 30 undergraduates from across the coun-
try live in residence at KBS for courses, research
and internships. For more information visit on face-
book or www.kbs.msu.edu . Funding for the KBS
REU program is provided by BEACON: An NSF Cen-
ter for the Study of Evolution in Action (beacon-
center.org), The Great Lakes Bioenergy Research Cen-
ter (www.glbrc.org), and the KBS Long Term Ecologi-
cal Research Site (lter.kbs.msu.edu).
Michael A. Grillo, Ph.D. Academic Program Coordi-
nator W.K. Kellogg Biological Station Michigan State
University grillom1@msu.edu
Michael Grillo <grillom1@msu.edu >March 1, 2014 EvolDir 73
MissouriBotanicalGarden REU
opportunity
The Missouri Botanical Garden is currently recruiting
students for a Research Experience for Undergraduates
program (REU). This NSF-funded program provides
full support for 10 students to work on mentored re-
search projects for 10 weeks during the summer of 2014,
from May 19 to July 25.
The MBG REU program focuses on the areas of
plant systematics, conservation biology, and ethnob-
otany. Potential projects for this year include tax-
onomic description of new species of tropical aroids
(Araceae), study of a cryptic species complex in Hy-
pericum, DNA barcoding, pollen analysis and imaging,
eects of climate change on threatened species, morpho-
metrics of native Vitis species, edge eects on micro-
climate and vegetation, economically important Boli-
vian palms, fruit types and seed characters in Burmeis-
tera (Campanulaceae), pollen characters and pollina-
tion syndromes in Anthurium, and population genetics
of an endangered species of Polygala. REU students
have access to a herbarium of 6.3 million specimens,
an excellent botanical library, rich garden collections,
a 2,400 acre natural area, and a laboratory with fa-
cilities for plant anatomy, microscopy, digital imaging,
SEM, and DNA analysis. Students are expected to
work full-time on research and participate in weekly
lunch-time seminars and workshops, including subjects
on botany, conservation, career development, ethics in
research, writing, communication skills, and prepara-
tion for graduate school, and also participate in a nal
poster session and symposium.
Students receive lodging near the Garden, an allowance
for food and research expenses, plus a $500/week
stipend.
The deadline for application is March 30, 2014.
For more information and application procedures please
see the program website at http://www.mobot.org/-
mobot/research/reu/reu.shtml or contact the REU Co-
ordinator at reu@mobot.org , or the PI David Bogler
(david.bogler@mobot.org).
David J. Bogler, PhD
Missouri Botanical Garden
P.O. Box 299, St. Louis, MO 63166-0299Oce: 314-577-0831 Email david.bogler@mobot.org
David Bogler <david.bogler@mobot.org >
MountainLakeBiologicalStation
Fellowships 2014
Early-Career Fellowships, Mountain Lake Biological
Station
The University of Virginia's Mountain Lake Biological
Station (MLBS) is excited to oer a limited number of
fellowships to cover residency and station use costs for
researchers exploring new projects or collecting prelim-
inary data. An Early Career Fellowship oers a rare
opportunity to spend up to 2 months at MLBS, one of
North America's premier eld stations, at no cost to
the researcher. MLBS welcomes researchers from any
discipline that can benet from the Station experience
and facilities.Preference will be given to individuals and
projects with the potential to develop into long-term re-
search activities at the Station. We especially encour-
age applications from individuals in the postdoctoral
or early faculty phases of their careers, but will not
exclude other individuals from consideration.
Interested individuals should submit a single pdf le
that includes a CV and 2-3 page outline of the proposed
research to mlbs@virginia.edu. Review of proposals will
begin March 14, 2014.For more information about the
fellowship program, research opportunities, or MLBS,
please visit our website: mlbs.org and contact the Di-
rector Dr. Butch Brodie at bbrodie@virginia.edu
bbrodie@virginia.edu
NSF undergrad travel awards
We are pleased to announce the PLANTS program,
funded by the National Science Foundation and Botan-
ical Society of America, which is designed to bring
talented and diverse undergraduates to the BOTANY
2014 meeting on July 25-30, 2014 in Boise, Idaho.
The PLANTS program (Preparing Leaders and Nurtur-
ing Tomorrow's Scientists: Increasing the diversity of
plant scientists) will fund up to 12 undergraduates from74 EvolDir March 1, 2014
throughout the US to attend the meeting, receive indi-
vidual mentoring from graduate students, postdocs and
faculty, and participate in networking events including
the Diversity Luncheon and career-oriented activities.
Topics range across all levels of botany and include talks
on conservation, biodiversity, plant genomics, ecology,
evolution, plant systematics, and botanical education.
There are also a number of social functions, specically
targeted at students. The meetings are a great way to
understand the breadth of botanical research and ed-
ucation, to meet undergraduate and graduate students
with similar interests, and to network with profession-
als in your area of interest. Now in its fourth year,
the program covers the normal costs of travel, regis-
tration, and food and accommodation at the meeting.
An overview of the scientic conference is available at:
www.botanyconference.org Application period: Febru-
ary 1 deadline March 15, 2014. Applications are wel-
come from all undergraduates who have interest in the
plant sciences. Students will be selected so that as a
group, they will help to diversify the pool of under-
graduates who attend the meetings and are interested
in continuing in botanical studies. The application form
is located online at http://botany.org/awards grants/-
detail/PLANTS.php For further inquiries, please con-
tact one of the organizers: Ann Sakai { aksakai@uci.edu
Ann Hirsch { ahirsch@ucla.edu Heather Cacanindin {
hcacanindin@botany.org
aksakai@uci.edu
New RAxML Citation
Dear Community,
When using RAxML please cite the following paper de-
scribing the current version from now on, if possible:
A. Stamatakis: \RAxML Version 8: A tool for Phyloge-
netic Analysis and Post-Analysis of Large Phylogenies".
In Bioinformatics, 2014.
http://bioinformatics.oxfordjournals.org/content/-
early/2014/02/07/bioinformatics.btu033 Thank you
very much,
Alexis
{ Alexandros (Alexis) Stamatakis
Research Group Leader, Heidelberg Institute for The-
oretical Studies Full Professor, Dept. of Informatics,
Karlsruhe Institute of Technology Adjunct Professor,
Dept. of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Universityof Arizona at Tucson
www.exelixis-lab.org alexan-
dros.stamatakis@gmail.com
Phylogenetics discussion forum
I have started an online forum for the discus-
sion of phylogenetics theory and practice at http://-
phylobabble.org/. Come join the conversation!
Frederick \Erick" Matsen, Assistant Member
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center http://-
matsen.fhcrc.org/ ematsen@gmail.com
Phyloseminar KarenCranston Feb6
The next phyloseminar is within a week!
Karen Cranston National Evolutionary Synthesis Cen-
ter Technical and social challenges of synthesizing phy-
logenetic data across the tree of life Thursday, February
6, 2014 10:00 AM PST
Open Tree of Life aims to synthesize published phy-
logenetic data into a comprehensive tree of life. The
challenges associated with the collection, curation and
synthesis of both phylogenetic and taxonomic input
data are both technical and social. We present the rst
draft of the Open Tree of Life, as well as the workow
and software tools for curating, annotating and view-
ing phylogenetic data. In a subsequent phyloseminar,
Stephen Smith will present details of the phylogenetic
synthesis methods.
Frederick \Erick" Matsen, Assistant Member
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center http://-
matsen.fhcrc.org/ ematsen@gmail.com
Phyloseminar StephenSmith Feb13
Exploring graphs for mapping and synthesizing phylo-March 1, 2014 EvolDir 75
genies Stephen Smith (University of Michigan) Thurs-
day, February 13, 2014 10:00 AM PST
The emergence of graph databases has presented a po-
tential alternative for ways of storing and querying phy-
logenetic trees. The Open Tree of Life has been explor-
ing these options and ways that trees from multiple
datasets or within a single dataset can be placed in
a graph database. I will go over some of the ways
that we do this and how we can query and synthe-
size trees as an alternative to supertrees and consensus
trees. While still a work in progress, these methods
show great promise for further development.
As usual, details at http://phyloseminar.org/ . Freder-
ick \Erick" Matsen, Assistant Member Fred Hutchin-
son Cancer Research Center http://matsen.fhcrc.org/
ematsen@gmail.com
PlantEvolution Symposia funding
*Funding of up to $43k is available to run symposia
with slots available from 2016 onwards. Application
deadline is 28th February 2014.*
The internationally renowned series of New Phytologist
Symposia (NPS) aim to support emerging and key areas
of research. Usually these meetings would be expected
to extend over one to three days, with invited speakers
and a maximum of 120 delegates. In this way we hope
to provide an informal atmosphere for the stimulation
and exchange of ideas and the building of collabora-
tions. We particularly encourage the involvement of
early-phase career scientists and as such a number of
travel grants will be awarded in association with each
meeting.
New Phytologist highlights the importance of plant
evolution by dedicating one of its four key sec-
tions to this research area, covering studies from
the molecular to ecological level. A number of
recent symposia have covered evolution topics. De-
tails of past and upcoming symposia can be found
here: www.newphytologist.org/symposia If you are
interested in organising a New Phytologist Sym-
posium, please complete the proposal pro forma
(http://www.newphytologist.org/app/webroot/-
img/upload/les/NPSproposal proforma2013.docx)
and email this to the Managing Editor (np-
managinged@lancaster.ac.uk) by the end of February.
Feel free to get in touch with any queries or forguidance on completing the proposal.
We also welcome workshop proposals throughout the
year and there is no set deadline for these; we can
support workshops scheduled from 2015 onwards. Fur-
ther details here: http://www.newphytologist.org/-
workshops .
Dr MICHAEL PANAGOPULOS Development Coordi-
nator, New Phytologist
New Phytologist Central Oce, Bailrigg House,
Lancaster University, Lancaster, LA1 4YE, UK
Tel: + 44 1524 592124 Fax: + 44 1524
594696 Email: m.panagopulos@lancaster.ac.uk Web-
site: www.newphytologist.org Twitter: @NewPhyt
Facebook: fb.com/NewPhytologist
The New Phytologist Trust, registered charity number
1154867
New! 2012 Impact factor 6.736
Virtual Special Issue to mark the 200th vol-
ume of New Phytologist http://newphytologist.org/-
200VSI New Phytologist Symposia 2014 Mycor-
rhizal symbioses - CAM plants - Next generation
scientists http://www.newphytologist.org/symposia
m.panagopulos@lancaster.ac.uk
Project EvoMap
Dear EvolDir list members,
I would like to draw your attention to ProjectEvoMap
<http://www.projectevomap.yolasite.com >- a
project started a little over a year ago in an attempt
to visually display, and raise awareness of, evolution
research groups around the world. To date it has
received over 320 entries representing more than 400
research groups.
I have sent this email to; A. Encourage new additions to
the map, and B. Oer the opportunity to edit existing
entries. You can access forms for both of these purposes
on the website (www.projectevomap.yolasite.com).
Thank you for taking part in ProjectEvoMap,
Robert M. Grin
PhD Candidate Evolutionary Biology Centre, Uppsala
University
projectevomap@live.co.uk76 EvolDir March 1, 2014
RobertsCompany
On June 16, Roberts and Company will introduce the
second edition of Whitlock and Schluter's The Analysis
of Biological Data. If you currently use the book or are
considering adopting it, please ll out our exam copy
form so we may send you a copy of the new edition.
If you do not teach a dedicated biostatistics class but
would like the book for reference purposes, until May
1 we can oer you an instructor's academic discount of
approximately 50% o the list price (of $123.75). You
can purchase the book directly from our site for $60.00,
plus $5 for shipping to anywhere in the USA. (Cana-
dian customers will be charged $9.50 for shipping and
$5 for tax.) Please reply to this email for a coupon
code.
If you teach a majors evolution class and own and iPad,
we would be delighted to give you access to Carl Zim-
mer and Doug Emlen's iPad app. After nearly a year
of use, we can now say unequivocally that students re-
ally appreciate the app's added interactivity, especially
the additional quiz questions that appear after every
section. The app and/or the printed textbook has now
been adopted at about 300 schools, including Cornell,
Georgia Tech, Harvard, Princeton, University of British
Columbia, University of California (at Berkeley, Los
Angeles, San Diego, and Santa Barbara), University
of Georgia, University of Texas, and a wide variety of
other colleges and universities. If you teach a majors
evolution class and would like a desk copy, please ll
out our exam copy form.
A little known fact: Choice, a leading magazine for
academic book reviews, named the rst edition of Carl
Zimmer's The Tangled Bank: An Introduction to Evo-
lution one of its outstanding academic titles. This
award was based on \excellence in scholarship and pre-
sentation (and) the signicance of (the) contribution to
the eld." The second edition is also receiving great
reviews, in part because of its updated coverage and
new chapter on human evolution. Until May 1, we're
pleased to oer an instructor's academic discount of
50% o the list price (of $80.00). You can purchase the
book directly from our site for $40.00, plus $5 for ship-
ping to anywhere in the USA. (Canadian customers will
be charged $9.50 for shipping and $5 for tax.) Please
reply to this email for a coupon code.
Finally, on June 16, we'll be publishing Rees Kassen'sExperimental Evolution and the Nature of Biodiversity.
The book explores how diversity evolves in microbial
populations that occupy some of the simplest environ-
ments imaginable laboratory test tubes. The book is
not available as a gratis desk copy, however, until May
1, we can oer you an instructor's academic discount of
40% o the list price (of $45.00). You can purchase the
book directly from our site for $27.00, plus $5 for ship-
ping to anywhere in the USA. (Canadian customers will
be charged $9.50 for shipping and $5 for tax.) Please
reply to this email for a coupon code.
That's it for now. I'm very excited about these new
titles; I hope you are, too. For those of you attending
the evolution meeting in Raleigh or the ecology meeting
in Sacramento, I hope you will stop by our exhibit to
browse through our books.
All the best,
Ben Roberts
info@roberts-publishers.com info@roberts-
publishers.com
SSB GraduateStudent
ResearchAward
SSB Graduate Student Research Award
The Society of Systematic Biologists (SSB) announces
the 2014 annual Graduate Student Research Award
competition. The proposal deadline this year is
MARCH 31, 2014. The purpose of these awards is to
assist students in the initiation (FIRST TWO YEARS)
of their systematics projects and in the collection of pre-
liminary data to pursue additional sources of support
(e.g., Doctoral Dissertation Improvement Grants from
the National Science Foundation) or to enhance disser-
tation research (e.g., by visiting additional eld collec-
tion sites or museums). Applicants may be from any
country, but MUST be members of SSB, and are ad-
vised to join the Society as soon as possible to facilitate
their applications (to join go to: http://systbio.org/-
?q=node/6). Previous awardees may not re-apply, but
previous applicants who were not selected for fund-
ing are encouraged to re-apply. Awards range between
$1,200 - $2000 and approximately 10-15 awards will be
made.
How to Apply: applicants must submit
1. a curriculum vitae (maximum one page); 2. briefMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 77
research proposal including objectives, methods, signif-
icance, and schedule (maximum of three single-spaced
pages including literature cited and any gures and ta-
bles); 3. budget and budget justication (maximum
one page); 4. and arrange for two reference letters; one
letter must be from the student's current graduate ad-
visor.
All application materials must be in electronic format.
Applicants and those writing reference letters are re-
quired to use pdf format to minimize diculties in le
transfer. Applicants should send all materials (except
reference letters) in a SINGLE pdf le. Letters of ref-
erence should be sent separately by the referees in pdf
format or in the text of an e-mail; please include the
FULL NAME OF APPLICANT in reference letters.
Please email all application materials and queries to
Sean Brady, Chair of the SSB Awards Committee at
bradys@si.edu. IN THE SUBJECT LINE OF THE E-
MAIL, PLEASE INDICATE \Student Research" FOL-
LOWED BY FIRST INITIAL AND LAST NAME.
To be considered for this year's award, ALL appli-
cation materials, INCLUDING letters of recommen-
dation, must be received electronically no later than
March 31, 2014. Please see the SSB website (http://-
systbio.org/?q=node/22) for additional details of this
award. Questions via email may be addressed to Sean
Brady (bradys@si.edu).
PROPOSAL SUBMISSION DEADLINE IS MARCH
31, 2014
Sean Brady Chair, Department of Entomology Curator
of Hymenoptera National Museum of Natural History
Smithsonian Institution bradys@si.edu 202{633-0997
\Brady, Sean" <BRADYS@si.edu >
SSB MiniARTS grant
SSB Mini-ARTS grant
The Society of Systematic Biologists (SSB) is pleased to
announce the availability of awards for revisionary tax-
onomy and systematics, modeled after the NSF Dear
Colleague Letter: Advancing Revisionary Taxonomy
and Systematics (ARTS) recently developed within the
Systematics and Biodiversity Science Cluster. We are
calling these mini-ARTS grants. These awards are
designed to allow SSB members (students, post-docs,
and faculty) to spend a summer or semester appren-ticed to an expert in a particular taxonomic group or
to enhance revisionary taxonomic and systematics re-
search in novel ways. Goals of this award program
are to address constraints on our knowledge of unde-
scribed biodiversity, assist in passing on taxonomic ex-
pertise before it is lost, increase the number of stu-
dents with broad training in organismal biology and
systematics, and support projects in biodiversity and
taxonomy informatics as well as monographic and revi-
sionary taxonomy. Activities can include a trip to the
taxonomists laboratory, pay for the taxonomist to visit
the applicants laboratory for a period of time, or pay
for costs of computer time or development of interac-
tive keys for electronic dissemination of systematics re-
sults. Please visit NSFs website http://www.nsf.gov/-
pubs/2011/nsf11037/nsf11037.jsp for more information
about their ARTS program.
Requests for support may be in any amount up to
$3,000. We will fund 1-3 of these awards this year.
How to apply V a complete application includes: 1)
a brief description of the project, including a separate
section justifying the importance of the taxon and the
revisionary work; 2) an itemized budget; 3) the appli-
cants curriculum vitae; and 4) a letter of support from
the taxonomic expert or collaborator. If the applicant is
a student or post-doc, please also include a reference let-
ter from the advisor. Applicants may be from any coun-
try, but MUST be members of SSB, and are advised to
join the Society as soon as possible to facilitate their ap-
plications (to join go to: http://systbio.org/?q=node/-
6). The narrative part of the application should be
NO MORE THAN TWO PAGES, INCLUDING THE
BUDGET, but not including the curriculum vitae and
letter(s).
Grant applications should be sent to Sean Brady, Chair
of the SSB Awards Committee (bradys@si.edu). E-mail
submissions are required, and applicants should use pdf
format for all documents. In the subject line of the
email, please indicate the SSB award category as mini-
ARTS. All documents, INCLUDING ALL SUPPORT-
ING LETTERS, MUST be received by March 31, 2014
for consideration.
Please see the SSB website (http://systbio.org/?q=-
node/26) for any updates or additional information
about this award.
PROPOSAL SUBMISSION DEADLINE,
INCLUDING ALL LETTERS OF SUP-
PORT/RECOMMENDATION, IS MARCH 31,
2014
Sean Brady Chair, Department of Entomology Curator
of Hymenoptera National Museum of Natural History78 EvolDir March 1, 2014
Smithsonian Institution bradys@si.edu 202-633-0997
\Brady, Sean" <BRADYS@si.edu >
SSE THHuxley Award
Announcement
The SSE Education Committee is pleased to announce
the T. H. Huxley award, named in honor of Darwin's
very public supporter, which provides funding for an
SSE member to present at the National Association of
Biology Teachers (http://www.nabt.org/) annual con-
ference. If you have an interesting project or educa-
tional activity to share with high school, community
college or undergraduate faculty, consider applying for
this award. Graduate students and postdoctoral fellows
are encouraged to apply.
This year's conference will be held Nov 12-15 in Cleve-
land, OH. The deadline for applying for the Huxley
award is March 7. Apply here:
http://tinyurl.com/kzy8uvw
Sincerely,
Louise Mead and Kristin Jenkins
on behalf of the SSE Education Committee
kristinperth@gmail.com
Software LargeScale
BayesianTreeInference
Dear evoldir members,
we introduce ExaBayes, a user-friendly software pack-
age for large-scale Bayesian tree inference. ExaBayes
provides the most widely used evolutionary models and
implements proposals similar to (and as ecient as)
MrBayes.
ExaBayes allows for ecient parallel analyses on any
multi-core machine (only prerequisite: MPI). The focus
of ExaBayes lies on scalability: we managed to compute
a tree from a genome-size alignment (200 taxa, 2*10E8
characters) using up to 32,000 CPU cores. Further-
more, we successfully tested our code on alignments
with up to 10,000 partitions.For further information, please visit : http://exelixis-
lab.org/web/software/exabayes/ Best regards, Andre
Aberer
PreDoc (Bioinformatics) in the Exelixis Lab, Heidel-
berg Institute for Theoretical Studies
andre.aberer@googlemail.com
Software NeEstimator 2 01
An update is available to the NeEstimator software (see
below for publication announcing availability of soft-
ware).
Version 2.01 has minor improvements to the user in-
terface and improvements to running the software in
back (command-line) mode. Version 2.01 also restricts
the number of loci used for calculating the jacknifed
condence intervals in datasets where there are large
numbers of loci (e.g. SNPs). This helps with compu-
tation eciency and avoids violation of the assumption
of physical non-linkage of loci.
The new version can be downloaded from http:/-
/molecularshieslaboratory.com.au/downloadables .
Best, Jenny Ovenden (on behalf of the NeEstimator
development team).
Author: Do, C., Waples, R. S., Peel, D., Macbeth, G.
M., Tillett, B. J. and Ovenden, J. R.
Year: 2014
Title: NeEstimator v2: re-implementation of software
for the estimation of contemporary eective population
size (N ) from genetic data
Journal: Mol Ecol Resour
Volume: 14
Issue: 1
Pages: 209-14
Short Title: NeEstimator v2: re-implementation of
software for the estimation of contemporary eective
population size (N ) from genetic data
Alternate Journal: Molecular ecology resources
ISSN: 1755-0998 (Electronic)
Abstract: NeEstimator v2 is a completely revised and
updated implementation of software that produces es-
timates of contemporary eective population size, us-
ing several dierent methods and a single input le.March 1, 2014 EvolDir 79
NeEstimator v2 includes three single-sample estima-
tors (updated versions of the linkage disequilibrium and
heterozygote-excess methods, and a new method based
on molecular coancestry), as well as the two-sample
(moment-based temporal) method. New features in-
clude the following: (i) an improved method for ac-
counting for missing data; (ii) options for screening out
rare alleles; (iii) condence intervals for all methods;
(iv) the ability to analyse data sets with large numbers
of genetic markers (10 000 or more); (v) options for
batch processing large numbers of dierent data sets,
which will facilitate cross-method comparisons using
simulated data; and (vi) correction for temporal esti-
mates when individuals sampled are not removed from
the population (Plan I sampling). The user is given
considerable control over input data and composition,
and format of output les. The freely available soft-
ware has a new JAVA interface and runs under MacOS,
Linux and Windows.
** New UQ email address** j.ovenden@uq.edu.au
Jennifer Ovenden http://-
molecularsherieslaboratory.com.au http://-
www.uq.edu.au/sbms/sta/jennifer-ovenden
j.ovenden@uq.edu.au
Survey BiodiversityConservation
Dear colleague,
Please ll out our online survey to assess landscapes
for ecological and evolutionary processes contributing
to biodiversity conservation. The survey shows you 15
simple habitat patterns and asks you to rank their con-
servation value according to a criterion of your choice,
for a type of organism or biodiversity that you know
well, at particular spatial scales.
Follow this link to see the survey and take part if you
can:
http://scales.ck.si/scaletool/cn survey.php We'll use
the results to compare expert assessments with outputs
from simulation models. This is an important part of
validating the models, as well as looking at agreement
among experts. The ndings should ultimately feed in
to policy advice.
Thanks in advance for your help,
Richard Gunton and Dirk Schmeller. The SCALES
project (www.scales-project.net)Richard Gunton <R.M.Gunton@leeds.ac.uk >
TreeOfLife iPhone app
An iPhone App for exploring a family-level Tree of Life
that I've been working on for over 2 years is nally
available at the AppStore. You can Download a free
version here:
https://itunes.apple.com/co/app/id771536454 A
\pro" version allowing access to further content is also
available here:
https://itunes.apple.com/CO/app/id821256110 If you
have some time to test the App, I ^Ad love to have some
feedback from you (I suggest you explore the Verte-
brate tree, which is the largest sub-tree in the App at
the moment).
Best regards,
Andr es
andres delrisco@hotmail.com an-
dres delrisco@hotmail.com
UMaryland SummerREU
AmphibianDiseaseEvolution
Subject of posting: REU Summer 2014 Amphibian Dis-
ease Ecology
Hi,
Job Description: Two undergraduate students will be
selected to participate in an 8-week amphibian disease
ecology study at the University of Maryland. Batra-
chochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd), the amphibian-killing
fungus, is one of the leading causes of amphibian de-
clines and extirpations throughout Central America.
Harlequin frogs (genus: Atelopus) are among the rst
amphibians to disappear when Bd arrives at a site and
work in our lab has shown that these frogs may play
a disproportionate role in disease spread and/or trans-
mission in the wild. However, we know relatively lit-
tle about Bd infection intensity patterns at dierent
temperatures or on dierent life stages of Atelopus.
We'd like to work with you to answer these and other
questions related to frog-fungal interactions of dier-80 EvolDir March 1, 2014
ent species. Members of underrepresented groups are
encouraged to apply.
Qualications:
* Positive attitude, enthusiasm, interest in amphibian
disease ecology
* Interest in learning new skills and information
o Husbandry o Standard infection techniques o Data
collection, entry, and analysis o How to formulate and
execute an independent project
How to apply: Check out the Lips Lab website
for the application and more information (https://-
sites.google.com/site/umdlipslab/). Applicants should
be US citizens and enrolled at an accredited university
or college (undergraduates only). Students from un-
derrepresented backgrounds in the sciences are highly
encouraged to apply.
Salary: $2,777.60 for 8 weeks (16 June - 15 August
2014) A housing stipend of $1,000 is also provided.
Deadline: 01 March 2014
Thank you, Grace
Graziella Vittoria Direnzo <gdirenzo@umd.edu >
UTexas ElPaso REU Biodiversity
REU Opportunity Summer 2014: \Research Experi-
ence for Undergraduates in Chihuahuan Desert Biodi-
versity"
The University of Texas at El Paso (UTEP) Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences invites applicants for the
NSF sponsored Research Experience for Undergradu-
ates (REU) in Chihuahuan Desert Biodiversity. This is
a 10 week summer program. The goal of this program is
to provide undergraduate students with experience in
hypothesis-driven collaborative research utilizing eld
based and/or laboratory methods and fully engage stu-
dents in projects associated with the ecology and evo-
lution inuencing Chihuahuan Desert biodiversity.
THE PROGRAM PROVIDES: - High quality research
experience in ecology and evolutionary biology in the
eld and/or lab - Research opportunities at the Indio
Mountains Research Station (IMRS), a 40,000 acre fa-
cility controlled by UTEP - One-on-one and group men-
toring from active research faculty in multidisciplinary
elds - Training in bioethics and other relevant profes-
sional skillsTHE PROGRAM INCLUDES: - $5,000 stipend for 10
weeks - Housing in shared apartment and eld station
- Travel reimbursement of up to $600
For more information on the program, research projects
or to apply please visit: http://science.utep.edu/cdb-
reu/ email: (cdb-reu@utep.edu)
mlmoody@utep.edu
UZurich FieldAssist
BirdBehaviourSpain
UZurich.FieldAssitant.Birds behaviour Spain
Field assistant position to study mobbing behaviour in
birds, in southern Spain (C ordoba & Guadix).
For the upcoming eld season (15th April - June 2014)
I am are looking for a highly motivated eld volun-
teer to join my eld project investigating mobbing be-
haviour in birds. The study site is located in Guadix
and C ordoba, south of Spain.
We will work in average 6 days per week in the eld de-
pending on the workload of the experiments. The eld
work can be physically strenuous at times as tempera-
tures in June can be above 35oC.
This project is part of a larger project ongoing since
2010 to understand the evolution of family living in
birds. Thus, we closely collaborate with two other re-
search teams, sharing both the study sites and the eld
station.
Qualications: (1) BSc/MSc in Biology, Ecology or
similar qualication; (2) Able to cope with \strenuous"
conditions in the eld (we work in a semi-arid area);
(3) Ability to work in team and independently; (4) Mo-
tivated to learn about birds, and animal behaviour; (5)
Knowledge in observing & handling birds is a plus; (6)
Driving licence is a plus; (7) Fluent in English and/or
Spanish or Portuguese; (8) Previous knowledge of ex-
perimental eldwork is an advantage.
We will cover for the accommodation and the food as
well as travel costs up to 300 Euros.
Applications - including a CV, a letter of motivation (1
page) and names of 2 referees - should be send to Filipe
Cristov~ ao: lipe.cunha@uzh.ch.
Applications received until 3rd March 2014 will be given
full consideration.March 1, 2014 EvolDir 81
lipe.cunha@uzh.ch
WildType Drosophila Stocks
Dear EvolDir members
I am looking for outbred wild type lab-adapted
Drosophila melanogaster stocks. They should prefer-
ably have been collected in South America or Asia. I
need stocks that haven't been started from isofemale
lines, but from a minimum of 100 females and kept as
a large population.
Hope some of you can help me.
Kind regards Katrine Lund-Hansen k.lund-
hansen@sussex.ac.uk Twitter: @KLundHansen
Katrine Lund-Hansen <K.Lund-
Hansen@sussex.ac.uk >
microMORPH TrainingGrants
Dear Colleagues,
The microMORPH RCN is pleased to announce a fund-
ing opportunity for graduate students, postdoctorals,
and assistant professors in plant development or plant
evolution. Grants of up to $3,500 are available to sup-
port cross-disciplinary visits between labs or institu-
tions for a period of a few weeks to an entire semester.
We are particularly interested in proposals that will add
a developmental perspective to a study of the evolution
of populations or closely related species. We are also in-
terested in developmental studies that will incorporate
the evolution of populations or closely related species.
The deadline for proposals is March 31, 2014. More in-
formation about the training grants and the application
process may be found on the microMORPH website:
http://www.colorado.edu/eeb/microMORPH/-
grantsandfunding.html To be eligible for micro-
MORPH training grants, applicants must meet one
or more of the following criteria: 1) be a U.S. citizen,
or 2) be aliated with (enrolled in a degree granting
program or employed by) a U.S. college, university, or
institution, or 3) propose to train in and be hosted bya lab at a U.S. college, university, or institution.
These grants are supported by a ve-year grant
from the National Science Foundation entitled micro-
MORPH: Molecular and Organismic Research in Plant
History. This grant is funded through the Research Co-
ordination Network Program at NSF. The overarching
goal of the microMORPH RCN is to study the diversi-
cation of plants by linking genes through development
to morphology, and ultimately to adaptation and t-
ness, within the dynamic context of natural populations
and closely related species.
|{
Dear Colleagues,
The microMORPH RCN is pleased to announce a fund-
ing opportunity for undergraduates in plant evolution
and development. These $5,000 grants are available
to support cross-disciplinary training and interaction
through visits between labs or institutions (including
botanical gardens). We are particularly interested in
proposals that will add a developmental perspective to
a study of the evolution of populations or closely related
species. We are also interested in developmental stud-
ies that will incorporate the evolution of populations
or closely related species. The deadline for proposals is
March 31, 2014. More information about the training
grants and the application process may be found on the
microMORPH website:
http://www.colorado.edu/eeb/microMORPH/-
grantsandfunding.html To be eligible for micro-
MORPH training grants, applicants must meet one
or more of the following criteria: 1) be a U.S. citizen,
or 2) be aliated with (enrolled in a degree granting
program or employed by) a U.S. college, university, or
institution, or 3) propose to train in and be hosted by
a lab at a U.S. college, university, or institution.
These internships are supported by a ve-year grant
from the National Science Foundation entitled micro-
MORPH: Molecular and Organismic Research in Plant
History. This grant is funded through the Research Co-
ordination Network Program at NSF. The overarching
goal of the microMORPH RCN is to study the diversi-
cation of plants by linking genes through development
to morphology, and ultimately to adaptation and t-
ness, within the dynamic context of natural populations
and closely related species.
Best wishes, Pam Diggle
Pamela Diggle
Professor Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology University of Connecticut82 EvolDir March 1, 2014
PostDocs
AarhusU PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
BangorU SnakeVenomEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Beijing 2 HighAltitudeAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
BrighamYoungU SystematicHerpetology . . . . . . . . . . .84
CNRS VillefrancheSurMer Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . 84
CornellU HumanPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
CzechRepublic FishParasiteCoevolution . . . . . . . . . . . 85
FrenchGuiana InsectSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .86
InstTropMed Antwerp ParasitePopulationGenomics 87
IowaStateU TurtleChromosomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 88
LeibnizInst Berlin HostParasiteInteractions 2 . . . . . . 88
Lyon France EvolutionComparativeGenomics . . . . . .89
MasseyU ComputationalBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .90
Montpellier ModellingClimateAdaptation . . . . . . . . . .90
Montreal ComputationalStatisticalGenomics . . . . . . .91
NHM Paris AdaptationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
Paris-MNHN Population Genetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
Rothamsted UK 2 EvolHerbicideResistance . . . . . . . .93
SCAM email . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
SLU Uppsala EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
SLU Uppsala Plant-Insect Interactions . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
Seattle ViralPhylogeneticsEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
Sheeld ComputationalStatisticalGenomics . . . . . . . 96SwanseaU EvolutionPathogenResistance . . . . . . . . . . .97
Sydney MolcularEvolEucalypts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .98
SyracuseU EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
UArizona EcoEvolutionaryTheory ClonalInterference
99
UArizona GeneNetworkEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .99
UCambridge DrosophilaVirus Genetics . . . . . . . . . . . 100
UChicago EvolutionGeneRegulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100
UConnecticut PlantBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
UMiami AdaptationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
UNAM Mexico Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
UNAM Mexico PlantEvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
UNESPBrazil Metagenomics AmphibianConservation
103
UOttawa FungalComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . .104
UOxford MicrobiomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
USalamanca Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
UUlm Germany PopulationGenomicsBioinformatics
105
UniversidaddelosAndes 2 Teaching . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
VillefrancheSurMer France Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . 107
WestVirginiaU ComputationalGenomics . . . . . . . . . .107
AarhusU PopulationGenetics
1-year Postdoc position in population genetics at the
Centre for Biocultural History, Aarhus University, Den-
mark
The Bioinformatics Research Center, Aarhus Univer-
sity invites applications for a 1-year postdoc in popu-
lation genetics at the new interdisciplinary Centre for
Biocultural History. The project will focus on demo-
graphic inference and data-mining in population-wide
genetic data concerning relationships within and be-
tween parts of Denmark and explore whether humanmovement such as urbanization is visible from genetic
data. We are seeking a candidate with excellent skills
in (1) population genetics and data mining, and (2)
a strong interest in human evolutionary studies. The
project is based on genome-wide SNP data from 800
Danish high school students combined with data on
family origin and background, but the candidate is en-
couraged to develop specic projects of her or his own
choice as long as they are include mining this data and
are conducted in collaboration with other members of
the group.
The postdoc will be a member of the newly estab-
lished Centre for Biocultural History, a highly interdis-
ciplinary team seeking anthropological, archaeological,
genomic, ecological, and historical insights into human
evolution.. The project will be supervised primarilyMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 83
by Associate Professor Thomas Mailund (Bioinformat-
ics Research Centre) and Prof. Mikkel Heide Schierup
(Bioinformatics Research Centre), together with Prof.
Peter C. Kjrgaard (Department of Culture and Soci-
ety). The candidate will join researchers at the Bioin-
formatics Research Center and collaborate closely with
the other members at the Centre for Biocultural His-
tory.
Candidates should have obtained a university degree in
genetics or other related elds. The successful candi-
date must document a strong research record as well as
a broad knowledge of the eld of population genetics.
For more information please contact Associate Profes-
sor Thomas Mailund (mailund@birc.au.dk) or Profes-
sor Mikkel H. Schierup (mheide@birc.au.dk). For in-
formation about the Centre for Biocultural History see
bioculture.au.dk or contact Professor Peter C. Kjaer-
gaard (Kjaergaard@cas.au.dk), and for the Bioinfor-
matics Research Centre see birc.au.dk
Please submit application including CV and letters
from or names of at least two references to Mikkel H.
Schierup (mheide@birc.au.dk) as a single pdf le
Deadline for applications: 15 March 2014
Mikkel H. Schierup Bioinformatics Research Center,
Aarhus University, CF Mollers Alle Building 1110,
8000 Aarhus C Denmark Ph: +45 8715 6535 Email:
mheide@birc.au.dk http://www.birc.au.dk/ ~ mheide
Mikkel Heide Schierup <mheide@birc.au.dk >
BangorU SnakeVenomEvolution
Research Ocer Bangor University -School Of Biolog-
ical Sciences
(Ref: BU00475)
Salary: ^A$30,726 p.a. (on Grade 7)
We seek a highly motivated postdoctoral researcher
for a two year, full-time post carrying out research
on the evolution of rattlesnake venom. The project
aims to investigate the intrinsic and extrinsic causes
of variation in venom composition in the Mohave rat-
tlesnake, investigating the genome-level mechanisms re-
sponsible for dierent venoms, and the interrelation-
ships between venom variation, gene ow among pop-
ulations, and dietary variation. The position is funded
by a two-year Leverhulme Trust grant awarded to
Dr Wolfgang W uster in the School of Biological Sci-ences. The successful applicant will join an established
team working on the evolution of snake venoms and
their composition, embedded in the Molecular Ecology
and Fisheries Genetics Laboratory (MEFGL - http://-
mefgl.bangor.ac.uk/) in the modern Environment Cen-
tre Wales Building.
Duties will include responsibility for the day-to-day
running of the project, data acquisition and analysis,
and playing a leading role in the publication of the re-
sults.
Candidates should be educated to PhD standard and
have previous experience of relevant molecular genetics
techniques.
The interviews will be held on the 20th March and the
successful candidate will be expected to commence on
1 May 2014 or as soon as possible thereafter.
Applications will only be accepted via our on-line re-
cruitment website, please click the APPLY button be-
low. However, in cases of access issues due to disability,
paper application forms are available by telephoning
01248 383865.
Closing date for applications: Friday 14 March 2014.
Informal enquiries can be made by contacting Dr
Wolfgang W uster, e-mail: w.wuster@bangor.ac.uk, tel:
(01248) 382301.
Dr. Wolfgang W uster - Senior Lecturer School of Bio-
logical Sciences Bangor University Environment Centre
Wales Bangor LL57 2UW Wales, UK
Tel: +44 1248 382301 Fax: +44 1248 382569 E-mail:
w.wuster@bangor.ac.uk http://mefgl.bangor.ac.uk/-
wuster.php Rhif Elusen Gofrestredig 1141565 -
Registered Charity No. 1141565
Wolfgang Wuster <w.wuster@bangor.ac.uk >
Beijing 2 HighAltitudeAdaptation
Two Post-doctoral Positions in studying genome based
high-altitude adaptation and phenotype plasticity of
high plateau birds
Two postdoctoral positions are available beginning at
2014 to work on the mechanistic and genetic basis of hy-
poxia resistance in high altitude (e.g. Tibetan Plateau),
at Ornithological Research Group, the Institute of Zo-
ology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, under the direc-
tion of Professor Fumin Lei and cooperate with Prof.84 EvolDir March 1, 2014
Yanhua Qu, Prof. Yong Zhang and BGI. We are look-
ing for two postdocs preferentially with research back-
ground in bioinfortatics, gene expression or NGS tech-
niques such assequence capture and RAD-Seq to popu-
lation genomics studies of hemoglobin and other genes
in pathways involved with responses to hypoxia.
The anticipated duration of the positions are generally
two years with a starting salary of $RMB 60,000 to
(depending on research experience and archievments).
Review of applications will begin Feburary 2014.
Individuals applying for these positions should submit
(1) your CV, (2) your 2 page proposal, (3) a brief cover
letter with a statement of background and research in-
terests and (4) names and contacts for three references.
Please email to Prof. Yanhua Qu (quyh@ioz.ac.cn) for
your application.
leifm<leifm@ioz.ac.cn >
BrighamYoungU
SystematicHerpetology
Postdoctoral Research Associate in Systematic Her-
petology/Evolutionary Biology, Brigham Young Uni-
versity, Utah
A postdoctoral position is available in the Department
of Biology, Brigham Young University, in the lab of
Dr. Jack W. Sites, Jr. The Sites lab is part of a large
multi-national NSF-funded project focused in part on
climate-forced extinctions in lizards, and the success-
ful candidate will play a key role in the generation
and analysis of phylogenetic data for several clades of
lizards distributed from Mexico through much of Cen-
tral and South America. This person will interface
with an extensive network of collaborators from sev-
eral countries who are integral to the success of this
multi-institutional project.
The successful candidate will play a key role in the gen-
eration and analysis of phylogenetic/phylogeographic
data, specically to: 1) help to organize and partici-
pate in herpetological collecting expeditions to South
America, 2) carry out laboratory and analytical por-
tions of phylogeographic and phylogenetic studies of
selected lizard groups, and 3) mentor graduate and un-
dergraduate students working on the project, as well as
visiting faculty and students from collaborating institu-
tions. The position is 100% research time and is fundedfor up to three years, pending successful performance
in year one. The successful candidate must have com-
pleted her/his doctoral degree before taking up the po-
sition and must have experience in the following areas:
(1) molecular phylogenetic laboratory techniques/DNA
sequencing, (2) current analytical techniques and rele-
vant software for use in phylogenetic/phylogeographic/
population level analyses, and (3) knowledge of and
research experience with some of the South American
lizard fauna, including international collecting and per-
mitting experience in one or more Latin American coun-
tries. Knowledge of ecophysiology, remote-sensing, or
GIS is desirable but not necessary.
Applications must include a complete CV, up to three
relevant publications (pdf les), a cover letter briey
outlining the candidate's t to the position and time-
frame to start, and contact information for three ref-
erences, preferably including doctoral advisor and/or
postdoctoral advisor (if relevant). All information
may be sent directly to Dr. Jack W. Sites, Jr. at
jack sites@byu.edu. Review of applications will begin
in early March 2014, but the search will remain open
until the position is lled. The position may be taken
up as early as 1 May 2014, but the start date is exible.
Jack W. Sites, Jr. Maeser Professor of Biology
and Curator of Herpetology Brigham Young Univer-
sity Provo, UT 84602 Phone: 801/422-2279 Fax:
801/422-0090 Email: jack sites@byu.edu Lab: http://-
siteslab.byu.edu/ Jack Sites <jack sites@byu.edu >
CNRS VillefrancheSurMer
Bioinformatics
The Tiozzo Lab (http://biodev.obs-vlfr.fr/ ~ tiozzo/-
tiozzo-lab/index.html) is seeking a creative, skilled and
highly motivated bioinformatician for one year contract
as post-doc or high-level technician. We do require
strong experience with RNAseq and whole genome se-
quence data. Applicants should be also procient in
programming (R, Python, Perl, Java), have knowledge
in statistics and have analytical and computational
skills proven by an excellent publication record or by
reference letters. Familiarity with mathematical mod-
eling would be a plus. Applicants should be procient
in English; French knowledge is preferable but not re-
quired.
The hired postdoctoral fellows/high-level technician
will work at the Observatoire Oceanologique du Ville-March 1, 2014 EvolDir 85
franche sur Mer (http://www.obs-vlfr.fr/)in a highly
international environment.
Contact Stefano Tiozzo (tiozzo@obs-vlfr.fr) for more in-
formation, and to apply,please send a single PDF le
that contains a cover letter, full C.V., and contact in-
formation for three references. Start: As soon as possi-
ble.
Stefano Tiozzo, PhD Regeneration Team Ville-
franche sur mer Developmental Biology Laboratory
(VDBL) (UMR7009 CNRS/UPMC) Observatoire
Oc eanologique de Villefranche-sur-Mer Ph:+33
4 93 76 39 78 Fax:+33 4 93 76 37 92 web:
http://biodev.obs-vlfr.fr/fr/equipes derecherche/-
regeneration etpluripotence.html tiozzo@obs-vlfr.fr
CornellU
HumanPopulationGenomics
Postdoctoral positions in human population genomics
and association studies
Two postdoctoral positions are available with Alon
Keinan in the Department of Biological Statistics and
Computational Biology at Cornell University. The
Keinan lab studies how human genetic variation has
arisen from evolutionary history and its role in com-
mon, complex disease risk. We develop computational
and statistical methods in human population genomics
and genome-wide association studies, and apply them
to large-scale sequencing data. Current members of the
lab have backgrounds in computer science, statistics,
genetics, physics, and anthropology, which facilitates
the collaborative development of methods and their ge-
nomic application. Research projects will be aligned
with the interests of the successful candidate.
More information about the position can be found
at http://keinanlab.cb.bscb.cornell.edu/sites/default/-
les/ad postdoc 206.pdf The ideal candidate will have
a strong track record in either statistical genetics, pop-
ulation genomics, or human genetics, as well as strong
programming and statistical skills, with a Ph.D. in
statistics, computer science, mathematics, genetics, or
a related eld. The starting date is exible and can be
as early as March 2014. Applications will be accepted
until the positions are lled. Competitive salaries com-
mensurate with experience and skills, as well as a gen-
erous benets package will be oered.
Relevant projects can be as part of the lab's ongoingNIH-funded collaboration with Uri Alon (Weizmann In-
stitute), Eric Boerwinkle (University of Texas), Andrew
Clark (Cornell), Eran Helperin (Tel Aviv & Berkeley)
John Novembre (University of Chicago), and Yun Song
(Berkeley).
Interested applicants should send a PDF with CV, a
brief description of research interests and experience,
and contact information for three references to the at-
tention of Ms. Sue Bishop, administrative assistant (
skp5@cornell.edu), indicating \position 206" in the sub-
ject line. Informal inquiries are also welcome.
Alon Keinan, PhD Robert N. Noyce Assistant Pro-
fessor in Life Science and Technology Department
of Biological Statistics & Computational Biology
102C Weill Hall jCornell University jIthaca, NY
14853 ak735@cornell.edu j607-254-1328 phone j607-
255-2323 fax http://keinanlab.cb.bscb.cornell.edu/ j
@AlonKeinan
<http://keinanlab.cb.bscb.cornell.edu/ >
alon.keinan@gmail.com
CzechRepublic
FishParasiteCoevolution
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH POSITION FOR 24
MONTHS
TOPIC: Fish Parasitology - Host-parasite interactions
in freshwater systems
EUROPEAN CENTER FOR ICHTHYOPAR-
ASITOLOGY INSTITUTE OF VERTEBRATE
BIOLOGY, ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE
CZECH REPUBLIC
One full-time postdoctoral position for 2 years is avail-
able at the Institute of Vertebrate Biology, Czech
Academy of Sciences, located in Brno, Czech Repub-
lic. Position will start when lled; all applications sub-
mitted until 28 February 2014 will be fully considered.
Selected candidates will be interviewed by Skype.
Project will focus on eld or laboratory experiments
with freshwater sh and their parasites. We expect ap-
plications from candidates with strong background in
Ecological Parasitology. There is exibility in research
topic and decision will be made on a combination of
past professional experience (CV) and the quality of
short proposal (one A4 page) outlining suggestions for
research agenda.86 EvolDir March 1, 2014
Postdoctoral researcher will have access to eld sites
in a lowland oodplain (rivers, oxbows, borrow
pits) in Central Europe and can work alongside re-
searchers (mainly sh ecologists, but also sh par-
asitologists) on non-native riverine gobies (Neogo-
bius, Proterorhinus), bitterling sh and Neotropi-
cal and African annual killish. Our established
eldwork sites are mainly in Central Europe, but
there is potential to conduct some research in
China (Wuhan), southern Brazil/Uruguay or West-
ern Turkey. For details on our research programme,
see: http://www.ivb.cz/sta-ing-pavel-jurajda-dr.html
(Pavel Jurajda) http://www.ivb.cz/sta-mgr-marketa-
ondrackova-ph-d.html (Mark eta Ondra Akov a) http://-
www.reichardlab.eu/index.php (Martin Reichard)
For experimental work, access to accredited sh breed-
ing facility and outdoor system of separate tanks is pos-
sible.
Work will be done within the framework of European
Center for Ichthyoparasitology, funded by Czech Sci-
ence Foundation. Salary is at a scale of advanced post-
doctoral researcher 1.100 EUR per month. Note rela-
tively low living expenses in the Czech Republic.
For informal enquires and more details, feel free to
email Mark eta Ondra Akov a (audrey@sci.muni.cz) or
Martin Reichard (reichard@ivb.cz).
APPLICATION PROCEDURE For formal applica-
tions, please submit (1) your CV, (2) outline proposal
(one A4 page, 11pt font) and (3) explain your previous
work and motivation to apply for this position in your
Cover Letter.
Email your application to Mark eta Ondra Akov a
(audrey@sci.muni.cz) and Martin Reichard (re-
ichard@ivb.cz).
Dr Martin Reichard Institute of Vertebrate Biology
Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic Kvetna 8,
603 65 Brno Czech Republic
Tel. +420 543 422 522 http://www.reichardlab.eu re-
ichard@ivb.cz
FrenchGuiana InsectSystematics
Post-doctoral position in Tropical Ecology (20-months)
We are looking for a highly-motivated candidate with
a signicant experience in aquatic insect's systematic,
food web and community ecology. The postdoc willbe involved in the ANR project RainWebs (http://-
rainwebs.univ-tlse3.fr). The aim of the project is to un-
derstand the interaction between biogeographic changes
in regional species pools and climate change, to build
a robust, multi-regional theory of how changes in the
hydrologic regime aect ecosystems. We integrate phy-
logenetic, biogeographic and ecological approaches to
understanding species composition and functional trait
diversity. The post-doc will conduct replicated exper-
iments in French Guiana and Puerto-Rico, to examine
the eects of disrupted hydrological regime on the tax-
onomic and functional structure on aquatic food webs.
We will take advantage of an ecosystem that is natu-
rally replicated throughout the neotropics: the inverte-
brate food web inhabiting water-lled bromeliads. This
system is especially amenable to studies of food web
structure and ecosystem function, and forms a relevant
model system to test ecological theory.
Candidates should have a PhD and excellent writing
skills demonstrated by their publication record. They
must have strong background in food web and com-
munity ecology and advanced statistical skills (coding
with R or other languages). Previous experience of ma-
nipulative experiments with aquatic invertebrate/insect
assemblages is desirable. Candidates should have the
ability to conduct and lead eld research. An experi-
ence of eld work in the tropics would be appreciated.
Candidates must be able to communicate in English -
Ability to speak French and/or Spanish would be wel-
come, but not compulsory.
The position will be based at Ecofog, French Guiana
(http://www.ecofog.gf) for a 20-month xed-term con-
tract, available from June 1st, 2014. The successful ap-
plicant should expect to undertake intensive eld work
during experiment periods.
To apply, candidates must send motivation let-
ter, a CV and the names and contact informa-
tion of three references into a single pdf le to
C eline Leroy (celine.leroy@ird.fr) and Regis C er eghino
(regis.cereghino@univ-tlse3.fr). Review of applications
will begin immediately, and to guarantee full consider-
ation please apply before March 31st, 2014.
Celine Leroy <celine.leroy@ird.fr >
InstTropMed Antwerp
ParasitePopulationGenomicsMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 87
The closing date is Feb 13th.
Postdoctoral researcher in parasite population ge-
nomics
Department of Biomedical Sciences - Unit of Molecular
Parasitology
The Institute of Tropical Medicine (ITM) is interna-
tionally recognized as a center of excellence for educa-
tion, research andservice delivery in the eld of tropical
infectious diseases. Within the Department of Biomed-
ical Sciences, the Unit ofMolecular Parasitology (led
by Prof. Dr. Jean-Claude Dujardin) and the Unit
of Veterinary Protozoology (led by Prof. Dr. Jan-
Van Den Abbeele) currently run research projects on
the genome diversity of trypanosomatid parasites such
as Leishmaniadonovani, L. braziliensis, L. peruviana
and Trypanosoma congolense. Using next generation
sequencing, we characterizeclinical isolates on a whole
genome scale to study their evolution in the natural
ecological context and aim to elucidatemajor clinical
and epidemiological issues, such as drug resistance and
transmission patterns. Major hypotheses will be then-
tested experimentally.
Assignment
- You closely work with (i) bio-informaticians who de-
velop and apply diversity calling methods, (ii) clini-
cians/veterinarians who collected isolates and biologi-
cal samples and (iii) biologists involved in experimental
research.
- You apply population genetics and phylogenetic tools
to the various genetic variants (SNPs, indels, ploidy,
CNVs...)and you characterize the genetic structure of
the populations and study the evolution of genetic vari-
ants.
- You identify genes that are potentially associated with
major phenotypes (resistance, pathogenicity...).
- You interact with colleagues working on the systems
biology of the parasites (metabolomics, proteomics).
- You develop your own research projects and apply for
competitive grants.
- You coach MSc and PhD students of the units.
Prole
- You have a MSc in biology (or equivalent) and hold
a PhD degree in sciences, preferably on a relevant
topic(parasitology, population genetics, molecular epi-
demiology, bioinformatics, computational biology) or
will completesuch a PhD degree prior to starting this
position.
- You have experience in analyzing whole genome se-quence data.
- You have experience in population genetics, phyloge-
netics and bio-statistics.
- You have basic knowledge in bio-informatics.
- Field experience is an asset.
- You have excellent knowledge of English. Fluency in
French would be an asset, as well as (an interest in
learning)
Dutch.
- You are used to work in a multi-disciplinary context.
Preferred additional experience
- NGS sequencing analysis tools: GATK, samtools, de
novo assemblers, RNA-seq analysis.
- De novo or comparative gene annotation.
- Scripting or programming languages: Perl, Python,
R, Java, MySQL, etc.
- Cluster computations, analysis pipeline development.
Oer
- An intellectually stimulating, international and so-
cially committed environment, with room for personal
initiative.
- A full time contract of 2 years, with possibility of
renewal. Commencement of employment: 1/06/2014.
- A salary set according to the pay scales of the ITM
and the Flemish universities.
- Reimbursement of public transport costs, bicycle com-
pensation and luncheon vouchers.
Interested?
For more information about this position, please con-
tact Prof. Dr. Jean-Claude Dujardin, Head of the Unit
of MolecularParasitology (jcdujardin@itg.be) and/or
Prof. Dr. Jan Van Den Abbeele (jvdabbeele@itg.be),
Head of the Unit of VeterinaryProtozoology. Send
your application with application form and motivation
letter by e-mail to vacatures@itg.be, by 13/02/2014.
(Pleasedownload the application form on www.itg.be/-
vacatures.)
Hideo Imamura, Ph.D. hi1@sanger.ac.uk hima-
mura@itg.be Institute of Tropical Medicine Dept of
Biomedical Sciences, Molecular Parasitology Unit,
Nationalestraat, 155 B-2000 Antwerpen Belgium
Hideo Imamura <hi1@sanger.ac.uk >88 EvolDir March 1, 2014
IowaStateU
TurtleChromosomeEvolution
PostDoctoral Position in Turtle Chromosome Evolution
A postdoctoral position is available to work in the lab-
oratory of Dr. Nicole Valenzuela at Iowa State Univer-
sity on an NSF-funded PhyloGenomics project to study
the evolution of turtle genomes and associated transi-
tions in sex determination.
The project combines molecular cytogenetics, tran-
scriptomics, bioinformatics and phylogenetic analyses.
The ideal candidate will have a PhD degree and strong
background in molecular and classic cytogenetic tech-
niques including chromosomal preparation, uorescent
in situ hybridization/chromosome painting, karyotyp-
ing, and the use of Cytovision or other chromosomal
analysis platform. Other qualications such as evolu-
tionary biology background or experience with cell cul-
ture and bioinformatics are a plus but not required.
Funding is available for up to 2 years with annual re-
newal contingent upon performance. The position is
available immediately. Applications will be reviewed
until the position is lled.
For inquiries or to apply please email Dr.
Nicole Valenzuela at nvalenzu@iastate.edu
<mailto:nvalenzu@iastate.edu >. Applicants should
email a cover letter describing their research interests
and experience, current CV, and copies of up to two
relevant publications if available, and arrange to have
two letters of recommendation be sent directly to
nvalenzu@iastate.edu
Iowa State University does not discriminate on the ba-
sis of race, color, age, religion, national origin, sexual
orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex,
marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran.
Dr. Nicole Valenzuela Associate Professor
nvalenzu@iastate.edu Department of Ecology, Evolu-
tion, and Organismal Biology 251 Bessey Hall Iowa
State University Ames, IA 50011, USA
Phone: 515-294-1285
URL: http://www.public.iastate.edu/~nvalenzu/
nvalenzu@iastate.eduLeibnizInst Berlin
HostParasiteInteractions 2
*THIS IS A REMINDER (application deadline:
15.02.2014):*
The Department of Ecosystem Research of the Leibniz-
Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries
(IGB) in Berlin together with the Free University of
Berlin, invite applications for the position of:
*Postdoc in Evolutionary Biology*
*Application deadline: 15.02.2014*; Starting date:
May 2014 or as soon as possible thereafter (interviews
will be conducted in March); Duration of the position:
2 years
Project area: *\Host-parasite interactions in aquatic
systems"*
The Postdoc will join the research group of Justyna
Wolinska. The group is currently located at the Ludwig
Maximilian University of Munich (Germany), but will
move to Berlin in March 2014. The candidate is given
the opportunity to develop their own research project.
Depending on the interests / expertise of the Postdoc
candidate, he / she might, for example, work in one of
the following disciplines:
- molecular signatures of host-parasite coevolution in
the wild
- genomics of host-parasite coevolution
- host-parasite coevolution and global environmental
change (including eld, experimental, and/or theoreti-
cal approaches).
So far the group has been exploring *Daphnia*-
microparasites, but suggestions for other model host-
parasite systems are welcome.
The Postdoc will have access to the unique, innova-
tive experimental infrastructure of the IGB, to support
molecular, microbial, and biogeochemical research. In
addition, IGB is an active member of the Berlin Centre
for Genomics in Biodiversity Research. We oer a stim-
ulating working environment with plenty of possibilities
for collaborations within the IGB and Free University
of Berlin. Moreover, the group has established active
international collaborations. Generous funds are avail-
able to cover attendance at national and international
conferences as well as research stays in other universi-March 1, 2014 EvolDir 89
ties.
The ideal candidate should have a PhD in evolutionary
biology, ecology, molecular biology, bioinformatics or a
related eld. Ideally, he / she should have worked on
host-parasite interactions, but this is not a must. We
are seeking a highly motivated person who has an ambi-
tion to stay in academia. A record of successful publica-
tion is expected. We expect strong analytical and data
handling skills and the ability to communicate within
a cross-disciplinary research centre. Excellent writing
skills in English, good work ethic, and creative think-
ing are desired. The working language of the group is
English.
Applications should include 1) a letter of interest with
a description of relevant experience, 2) curriculum vi-
tae, 3) a list of publications, 4) a short description of
the proposed research (max. 2 pages, including refer-
ences), 5) names and contact information of three aca-
demic referees. Applications should be submitted as
a SINGLE (!) PDF document to the following e-mail
address: wolinska@bio.lmu.de, with the subject line: \
Postdoc application <your family name >".
Inquiries can be made to Justyna Wolinska, e-mail:
wolinska@bio.lmu.de.
The selection of the postdoctoral candidate will be
based on his or her academic record and proposed re-
search project.
Best regards,
Justyna Wolinska
Justyna Wolinska Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit at
M unchen Department Biologie II Evolutions okologie
Grosshaderner Str. 2 82152 Planegg-Martinsried,
Germany
Phone: +49 (0)89 2180 74201 Fax: +49 (0)89 2180
74204 email: wolinska@bio.lmu.de
http://www.evolutionary-ecology.bio.lmu.de/people/-
assistant profs/wolinska/index.html http://-
www.evolutionary-ecology.bio.lmu.de/ http://-
www.igb-berlin.de/
justyna.wolinska@gmail.com
Lyon France
EvolutionComparativeGenomics
POSTDOC IN EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY / COM-PARATIVE GENOMICS (Lyon, France)
A 18 months post-doc position is available in the De-
partment of Evolutionary Genetics and Genomics of
the 'Biometry and Evolutionary Biology' laboratory
(LBBE, CNRS/University Lyon I), France. Research
themes in the lab are focused on multiscale evolution-
ary questions (from molecules to communities), with
strong emphasis on modeling and computer science
(http://lbbe.univ-lyon1.fr/?lang=en). This double an-
gle results in a synergy between methodological devel-
opments and biological questions.
The post-doc will work with Pr C eline Brochier-
Armanet (http://www.frangun.org/) in the 'Bioinfor-
matics and Evolutionary Genomics' team. The pro-
posed project is part of a large study combining in silico
and wet experimental work focused on the biosynthe-
sis of atypical lipids in Bacteria. The candidate will
play a key role in this project in conducting compar-
ative genomics and molecular phylogenetic investiga-
tions aiming at deciphering the biosynthesis pathways
of these atypical lipids, as well as their origin and evolu-
tion in Bacteria. The postdoctoral position will start on
November 1st, 2014, for a 18 months period. The posi-
tion is funded by the French Research National Agency.
The salary will depend on professional experience.
Candidates should have: - a PhD in biol-
ogy/biochemistry or in bioinformatics - a good
knowledge in bioinformatics, and especially in compar-
ative genomics and molecular phylogeny - programming
skills - a good knowledge of current molecular phy-
logeny tools - a real interest/knowledge in evolutionary
biology
To apply, please send to Pr C eline Brochier-Armanet
(celine.brochier-armanet@univ-lyon1.fr): 1. An appli-
cation letter including research interests and goals, and
suitability for the proposed research topic. 2. A full
CV. 3. Names and contact information of two poten-
tial academic references.
Pr C eline Brochier-Armanet Membre de l'Institut Uni-
versitaire de France
Universit e Lyon 1 Laboratoire de Biom etrie et Biolo-
gie Evolutive UMR CNRS/Lyon 1 5558 43 Bd du 11
Novembre 1918 69622 Villeurbanne, France
Tel: 33 (0)4 26 23 44 76 Mail: celine.brochier-
armanet@univ-lyon1.fr Web page: http://-
www.frangun.org celine.brochier-armanet@univ-
lyon1.fr90 EvolDir March 1, 2014
MasseyU ComputationalBiology
Postdoctoral Fellowship in Computational Biology
(A020-14SF)
I am looking for a motivated and productive postdoc-
toral fellow to join my computational biology research
group. My team conducts research in several related
areas, particularly evolutionary genomics, simulation
modeling and complex systems. Potential study topics
include i) using genome-level data to reconstruct human
prehistory in the Pacic region, ii) using approaches
from complexity science to infer how genetic diver-
sity interacts with social behaviors in small commu-
nities, and iii) using high throughput RNA-sequencing
to determine universal rules behind gene expression in
allopolyploid species. Candidates' proposed research
must t with my group's existing research interests,
and must be computational (i.e., not primarily eld- or
lab-based). Candidates with an interest in population
genetics are particularly encouraged to apply.
Candidates must have solid quantitative skills, prefer-
ably including expertise in statistics and program-
ming. Some background knowledge of biology is pre-
ferred, but training in other subject areas (such as
next gen sequencing or anthropology) can be pro-
vided as required. Candidates with non-standard back-
grounds (e.g., statistics, computer science, mathemat-
ics, physics) are encouraged to apply.
Funding is guaranteed for 2.5 years. Salaries
are extremely competitive, starting at NZ$65,000
(US$53,000) per year.
The postdoc will be based in the Computational Bi-
ology Research Group at Massey University, New
Zealand. My research team is rmly embedded in the
international scientic community, with extensive col-
laborative links to Australia, Indonesia, Europe and
the United States. This position oers a rare oppor-
tunity to experience New Zealand's unique natural and
cultural environment. Palmerston North, a university
town with a large international community, oers a full
range of social and cultural amenities. The city is lo-
cated close to both mountains and the sea, and presents
regular opportunities for hiking, skiing, surng and ad-
venture sports.
If you have any questions, please contact Assoc Prof
Murray Cox (m.p.cox@massey.ac.nz). Informationabout the Computational Biology Research Group
(http://massey.genomicus.com) and the Institute of
Fundamental Sciences (http://tinyurl.com/ifsmassey)
is available online.
To apply for this position, upload the following docu-
ments (preferably in PDF format) by 9 March 2014 at
the ocial university job site:
http://jobs.massey.ac.nz/PositionDetail.aspx?p=-
3D8216 1. A brief statement of research interests,
qualications and experience. 2. A curriculum vitae,
including a list of scientic publications. 3. The names
and contact details of three referees willing to provide
a condential letter of recommendation upon request.
Assoc Prof Murray P. Cox Institute of Fundamental
Sciences Massey University Private Bag 11 222 Palmer-
ston North 4442 NEW ZEALAND
http://massey.genomicus.com m.p.cox@massey.ac.nz
murray.p.cox@gmail.com
Montpellier
ModellingClimateAdaptation
Post-doctoral position at CEFE Montpellier, France
*Mechanisms of adaptation to Climate Change: how
will phenotypic plasticity and microevolution aect for-
est tree phenology? *
Starting date: Up to 1 ^st December 2014
Duration: 24 months with possible extension of 12
months
Location: Montpellier, France
Net income is about 1900EUR/month, including pen-
sion and health benets
**
*Overview*
This 24-month post-doctoral project is part of the
French National Research Agency project MeCC
\Mechanisms of adaptation to Climate Change: how
will phenotypic plasticity, microevolution and migra-
tion aect forest tree phenology". The post-doc will
be responsible for carrying out simulations with the
process-based species distribution model PHENOFIT
to address questions about the relative contributions
of microevolution and phenotypic plasticity to adapta-
tion, and will be responsible for integrating adaptiveMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 91
mechanisms into PHENOFIT. The candidate will be
based at the Center of Functional and Evolutionary Bi-
ology (CEFE) in Montpellier (France), supervised by
Isabelle Chuine and also by Oph elie Ronce at ISEM,
Montpellier. The candidate will also collaborate with
Anne Duputi e, a former Post-doctoral fellow who has
worked in this topic, who is now Assistant Professor
at GEPV, Univ Lille, and with B erang ere Leys, cur-
rently post-doctorate at CEFE with Isabelle Chuine
and Xavier Morin and parameterizing PHENOFIT for
silver r.
**
*Key words*
process-based species distribution model, climate
change, micro-evolution, plasticity, quantitative genet-
ics, niche evolution models, /Fagus sylvatica/, /Abies
alba,/ /Quercus petraea /
**
*Objectives of the post-doctoral project *
There will be two main tasks:
1.The post-doc will be responsible for estimating se-
lection gradients on bud burst dates using the model
PHENOFIT.
Selection gradients, i.e. the variation of the intensity
and direction of selection acting on the trait will be
calculated for sessile oak, beech and silver r in various
contexts: between years in the same location, along
climatic gradients (altitudinal and latitudinal), and in
future climate conditions using dierent climate scenar-
ios. PHENOFIT is a process-based species distribution
model, which simulates, using meteorological data, the
detailed phenology (bud burst, owering, fruit matura-
tion, leaf senescence or bud set), the resistance to frost
and drought of an average tree in a monospecic forest
stand. A new version incorporates also growth, a more
mechanistic representation of the resistance to drought
and the impact of carbon reserves on survival. It has
been parameterized for beech and sessile oak (Cheaib et
al. 2012) and is being parameterized for silver r. PHE-
NOFIT provides the annual probability of survival and
a relative reproductive success. PHENOFIT predict
bud burst date each year as a function of accumulation
of chilling and forcing temperature units, using pheno-
logical models modules adjusted to observed variation
in phenology.
To compute selection gradients acting on bud burst
date, we will modify the model, following two ap-
proaches. First, instead of using the bud burst date
predicted by the phenological model as a function of ex-
perienced temperature in the simulation, we will arti-cially set the bud burst date to a given value and explore
the consequences on dierent tness components such
as mortality and reproductive success. This will allow
us to determine, for each year in the simulation, the
optimal bud burst dates maximizing reproductive suc-
cess and survival respectively. These predictions about
selection gradients on bud burst dates will be tested by
confronting them to empirically derived selection gradi-
ents in a small number of sites obtained. In the second
approach, we will not constrain the bud burst date, but
vary parameters of the reaction norm that describe the
response of bud burst date to temperature (i.e. the
parameters of the phenological models) and similarly
estimate the consequences on tness components. This
will allow deriving optimal reaction norms for bud burst
date taking into account the predictability of the envi-
ronment along the yearly cycle. In both approaches,
predicted yearly variation in mortality and reproduc-
tion will be combined in integrative tness measures,
such as the summed contribution of an average tree to
seedlings production over a given time span.
The model will be used to compute mean tness asso-
ciated with variation in bud burst date at many spatial
and temporal scales. The model can be run on selected
locations or regions from a few kilometers square up to
France or Europe, and on the historical period or the
next decades up to 2100. This will allow us to estimate
selection gradients of bud burst date across the species
range, across the climatic space, and to estimate how
they will vary with climate change following dierent
IPCC
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Montreal
ComputationalStatisticalGenomics
Post-doctoral Position in computational/statistical ge-
nomics, Montreal, Canada.
A postdoctoral position in computational/statistical
genomics is available in the Barreiro ~Os Lab at the Uni-
versity of Montreal and at the Sainte-Justine Hospital
Research Center. Our group studies the genetic basis
of dierences in immune response among human indi-
viduals and populations, as well as between humans92 EvolDir March 1, 2014
and other primates. Projects in our lab are multidisci-
plinary and combine the use of cutting edge genomic
techniques (e.g., RNA-seq) with immunological and
evolutionary genetic tools. More details on some of our
ongoing projects can be found on our website: http:/-
/luis-barreirolab.org/ Postdoctoral applicants should
have a quantitative background and/or extensive ex-
perience with genomic data analysis. Strong program-
ming and bioinformatics skills are essential. Knowledge
in theoretical population genetics or a background in
evolutionary biology is a plus. The applicants will have
the freedom to choose their own projects as long and
they t within the general interests of our lab.
Our lab oers a congenial research environment com-
plemented by the rich academic milieu of Montreal.
Montreal has a large genomics community with whom
we interact regularly. Postdocs in our lab are encour-
aged to develop collaborations with other groups and
to start developing an independent research program.
To apply for the position please send an email to Luis
Barreiro (luis.barreiro@umontreal.ca) including a cover
letter and your resume/CV together with contact infor-
mation for at least two references. Informal inquiries
are also welcome.
Luis Barreiro, PhD. Assistant Professor CHU Sainte-
Justine/University of Montreal
Canadian Research Chair in Functional and Evolution-
ary Genomics of the Immune System.
luis.barreiro@umontreal.ca
lbbarreiro@gmail.com
NHM Paris AdaptationGenomics
Postdoctoral position in the genomics of adaptation at
the Natural History Museum in Paris
A two-year postdoc is available for an independent,
creative and motivated post-doc to work on the ge-
nomics of adaptation and hybridization in mimetic but-
teries. The postdoc will work with Violaine Llaurens
and Mathieu Joron at the Institute of Systematics, Evo-
lution and Biodiversity at the National Museum of Nat-
ural History in Paris (France).
Our group is interested in the ecological and genetic
changes associated with adaptive wing color patterns in
Heliconius butteries. We are particularly interested in
genomic architectures and the formation of a supergenecontrolling a spectacular wing pattern polymorphism
associated with mimicry in the species Heliconius nu-
mata. This supergene is characterized by complex in-
version polymorphism forming long haplotypic blocks,
and a dominance hierarchy of alleles. This adaptive ar-
chitecture appears to have evolved in response to selec-
tion for multiple mimicry forms, but how the variants
corresponding to accurate mimetic phenotypes dier-
entiate is still a puzzle. Processes such as ancestral
polymorphism, large size mutations, or introgression
may be involved, and some seem to be supported by
our currently available resequence and transcriptome
datasets. Our project aims at understanding the evo-
lutionary origins and the functional basis of this ge-
netic architecture in this lineage and how this relates
to closely-related species. The postdoc will be in charge
of developing population genomics approaches towards
the dissection of the history of inversion polymorphism
and recombination in H. numata and close allies, and
transcriptomic/expression analyses to understand the
functional basis of supergene expression.
Butteries in the genus Heliconius have become a
prominent group of insects for evolutionary genomics,
with a rich evolutionary radiation, a reference genome,
and vigorous collaboration between labs within the
Heliconius consortium (www.heliconius.org). This
project, funded by a grant from the Agence Nationale
de la Recherche (ANR), will provide ample opportunity
for the postdoc to develop his/her own original research
ideas.
Candidate prole: A Phd in evolutionary biology, with
a strong interest in population genomics. Experience
with whole genome or transcriptome datasets would be
appreciated.
Income and Starting Date: Net salary will be around
2500 euros net per months, depending on experience.
Starting date in the spring 2014 is desired but is nego-
tiable.
Application deadline: Send us a CV and a cover let-
ter, and the names of two references by 28th February
2014 to the following addresses: joron@mnhn.fr and
llaurens@mnhn.fr
More information:
http://isyeb.mnhn.fr/joron http://isyeb.mnhn.fr/-
violaine-llaurens http://isyeb.mnhn.fr/mathieu-joron
Violaine Llaurens (CR2 CNRS)
Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle Laboratoire
ISyEB - UMR7205 Batiment d'entomologie - CP50 45,
rue Buon 75005 PARIS France
Phone : 00 33 (0)1 71 21 46 96 Fax : 00 33 (0)1 40 79March 1, 2014 EvolDir 93
56 79
WebPage: http://isyeb.mnhn.fr/Violaine-LLAURENS
violaine.llaurens@mnhn.fr
Paris-MNHN Population Genetics
We oer a post-doctoral position of one year and a
half founded by the French Agence Nationale de la
Recherche, project \Demochips". The ideal candidate
would be a computational biologist interested in molec-
ular population genetics to study i) the demographic
history of Drosophila melanogaster and simulans; ii)
the applicability of next generation sequencing data to
investigate complex demographic scenarios.
This project is a joint collaboration between four lab-
oratories located in Paris, who share regular meetings.
The postdoctoral fellow will be under the responsibil-
ity of Stefano Mona and he/she will be based in the
team \G en etique des populations, s election, structura-
tion, sp eciation" within the UMR 7205 MNHN-CNRS-
EPHE located at the National Museum of Natural His-
tory in Paris, France. If interested, please send a CV, a
brief description of research interest and the names of
at least two referees to Stefano Mona (mona@mnhn.fr),
no later than the end of March 2014.
The main focus of the project will be the development
and the application of spatially explicit population ge-
netics models (coupled with ABC or MCMC methods)
to trace the most likely route of migrations within and
out of Africa in both D. melanogaster (using data avail-
able in literature) and D. simulans (using data pro-
duced in our lab) and date these events. Depending on
the experience and the interests of the postdoctoral fel-
low, several related questions could be also addressed.
Interviews can be arranged by skype and possible start-
ing date is as early as April 2014 and not later than
September 2014. Net salary per month will be around
2,000 euros.
Stefano Mona (MCf EPHE)
Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle Laboratoire
ISyEB - UMR7205 Batiment de Cryptogamie - CP39
16 rue Buon 75005 PARIS France
Tel : +33 1 40 79 81 66
mona@mnhn.frRothamsted UK 2
EvolHerbicideResistance
POST-DOCTORAL RESEARCH SCIENTIST
MOLECULAR POPULATION BIOLOGIST
Rothamsted Research, the largest agricultural research
centre in the UK and the oldest agricultural research
station in the world is seeking a postdoctoral molecular
population biologist. You will work in the weed ecology
and evolution group within the Department of Agroe-
cology at Rothamsted Research. The postholder will
work closely with a team of scientists on a large, in-
terdisciplinary and multi-institute research programme
exploring the evolution of herbicide resistance.
The successful applicant will apply molecular popula-
tion genetic, genomic sequencing and molecular ecolog-
ical approaches to explore the evolution of herbicide
resistance in weedy plant populations. You will col-
laborate with weed ecologists, evolutionary biologists,
molecular biologists, biological chemists and modellers
to explore population structure in herbicide resistant
weed populations and the evolutionary dynamics of se-
lection for herbicide resistance.
We are looking for a highly motivated individual with a
rm grounding in molecular genetics, population genet-
ics and statistical approaches relevant to exploring con-
temporary adaptation in plant populations. Applicants
should be committed to application of this knowledge
to a major issue aecting global food security.
This is a Band D full time post funded for 3 years with
a starting salary usually in the region of $29,547 to
31,995 per annum.
Apply by application form only, available with further
particulars from www.rothamsted.ac.uk or from the HR
Group, Rothamsted Research, Harpenden, Herts, AL5
2JQ, rres.hr@rothamsted.ac.uk. Please quote reference
1311.
Closing date: 7 March 2014
POST-DOCTORAL RESEARCH SCIENTIST
PLANT ECOLOGIST
Rothamsted Research, the largest agricultural research
centre in the UK and the oldest agricultural research
station in the world is seeking a postdoctoral plant
ecologist. You will work in the weed ecology and evo-
lution group within the Department of Agroecology at94 EvolDir March 1, 2014
Rothamsted Research. The postholder will collaborate
with a team of scientists on a large, interdisciplinary
and multi-institute research programme exploring the
evolution of herbicide resistance.
The successful candidate will undertake research to es-
tablish the extent and spatial distribution of herbicide
resistance. They will perform experiments to deter-
mine the genetic architecture of herbicide resistance
and trade-os with other life history traits. They will
develop appropriate statistical models to analyse these
data. You will work closely with a team of molecular
biologists, ecologists, evolutionary biologists and mod-
ellers to deliver this ambitious project which seeks to
adopt a 'systems ecology' approach to tackle the mount-
ing problem of rapid evolution of resistance to herbi-
cides.
We are looking for highly motivated individuals with a
relevant PhD and post-doctoral experience in aspects
of plant ecology and evolution, population biology and
statistical modelling.
This is a Band D full time post funded for 4 years with
a starting salary usually in the region of $29,547 to
31,995 per annum.
Apply by application form only, available with further
particulars from www.rothamsted.ac.uk or from the HR
Group, Rothamsted Research, Harpenden, Herts, AL5
2JQ, rres.hr@rothamsted.ac.uk. Please quote reference
1314.
Closing date: 7 March 2014
Paul
\Paul Neve (RRes-Roth)"
<paul.neve@rothamsted.ac.uk >
SCAM email
Hi,
The advertisement below came through on EvolDir
(http://life.biology.mcmaster.ca/ ~ brian/evoldir/-
PostDocs/Sydney.MarineConservation) on Feb 8. The
email appeared strange to me, not listing who the
organization was and other relevant details. I emailed
them for more information and got back a strange
response. I decided to get in touch with a collaborator
at the University of Sydney, and she and I both believe
that this is a scam. Its an attempt to victimize early
career researchers and steal ideas. I wanted to informyou, so that a retraction or notice could be published.
I dont want anyone to become a victim.
Thanks,
Jon
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH POSITION FOR 3
YEARS (REVIEWED AFTER 1 YEAR)
WHAT: Marine conservation in a changing climate
WHERE: Sydney, Australia WHEN: 2014 - Flexible
start
Two full-time postdoctoral positions for 3 years are
available at a local conservation organisation in the
Sydney Harbour region. The position will start when
lled; all applications submitted until March 1st 2014
will be fully considered. Only selected candidates will
be selected for interview, at which point we will also
contact you for appropriate letters of reference.
The project has a lot of exibility within the bound-
aries of 'marine Conservation in a Changing Climate'.
We expect applications from candidates with strong in-
terdisciplinary skill sets, including but not limited to:
Conservation, population genetics, epigenetics, climate
modelling, ecology, ocean acidication, behavioural, ge-
nomics etc. The decision will be made on a combination
of past professional experience (CV) and the quality,
originality, and visionary aspects of a short proposal (2
page maximum) outlining your potential project.
ESSENTIAL CRITERIA: PhD in Marine Biology
A competitive postdoctoral salary for the region (and
candidates experience) will be discussed during the in-
terview process (via Skype).
APPLICATION PROCEDURE For formal applica-
tions, please submit (1) your cv, (2) your 2 page pro-
posal, (3) a brief cover letter.
Email your application to SydneyConservationPost-
doc@gmail.com
sydneyconservationpostdoc@gmail.com
{ JonPuritz, PhD Postdoctoral Research Associate
Harte Research Institute Texas A&M Corpus Christi
6300 Ocean Drive Corpus Christi, TX 78412-5869
Webpage:http://sta.tamucc.edu/jpuritz Email: jpu-
ritz@gmail.com jonathan.puritz@tamucc.edu
Work: 361-825-3343 Cell: 401-338-8739
Jon Puritz <jpuritz@gmail.com >March 1, 2014 EvolDir 95
SLU Uppsala EvolutionaryBiol
Postdoc in Plant-Insect Interactions
A two-year postdoctoral position is currently available
within the unit for Plant-Insect Interactions at the De-
partment of Ecology at the Swedish University of Agri-
cultural Sciences in Uppsala.
Research questions and study system
Ecological and evolutionary interactions can be so
closely related as to be entangled. A general ques-
tion to investigate is how evolution and genetic varia-
tion in plants shape their interactions with insects, and
how the insects in turn impose natural selection on the
plants.
Our study system is based on the host plant Fragaria
vesca (woodland strawberry), the herbivore Galerucella
tenella (the strawberry leaf beetle), a specialist para-
sitoid, and pollinators. The insects show diuse interac-
tions with the host plant as herbivory repels pollinators
leading to low pollination success of herbivore-damaged
plants.
The degree of resistance to herbivores varies widely be-
tween strawberry individuals. The postdoc will have
access to a large common garden with 100 wild straw-
berry clones with known resistance to herbivores (rang-
ing from very susceptible to resistant). Key questions
to answer include how resource allocation to other plant
traits shift in parallel with increased resistance, and if
the herbivore imposes natural selection on resistance
and ower production. The postdoc will also have some
freedom to explore other similar questions, depending
on his/her research interests.
About the Department of Ecology
The Department of Ecology at SLU conducts empiri-
cal and theoretical research for sustainable forest and
agricultural production and ecient biological conser-
vation. Our research on populations, communities, and
ecosystems forms the foundation for studying the in-
uence of land use and climate on animals, plants,
soils nutrient status and greenhouse gas balances. So-
lutions are sought that will mitigate climate change,
preserve threatened species, benet biological diversity
and ecosystem services, and control pests in forest and
agricultural landscapes as well as in urban areas.
Duties: The postdoc will analyze an existing data setas well as perform new empirical research to address
the key questions mentioned above. Other tasks may
include supervision of PhD and Master's students.
Qualications: Applicants should hold a PhD degree
Ecology, Biology, or similar subject. Scientic quali-
cations within the area are necessary. Earlier experi-
ence of working with large data sets is meriting. Good
collaborative ability is necessary.
Competence: We are looking for a highly motivated
person with a doctoral degree in Ecology, Biology, or
similar subject, where the research has been focused on
evolutionary aspects of plant-insect interactions. The
ranking of candidates will be made based on proven
scientic competence within the subject of the posi-
tion. Priority will be given to applicants who have been
awarded their PhD degree at most three years before
the application deadline.
Link to the announcement: http://www.slu.se/sv/om-
slu/fristaende-sidor/aktuellt/lediga-tjanster/las-mer/-
?eng=1 jogstephan@googlemail.com
SLU Uppsala Plant-Insect
Interactions
A two-year postdoctoral position in Plant-Insect Inter-
actions is currently available at the Department of Ecol-
ogy at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences
in Uppsala, SWEDEN. Please forward onto anyone that
you think might be interested.
http://www.slu.se/sv/om-slu/fristaende-sidor/-
aktuellt/lediga-tjanster/las-mer/?eng=1&Pid=1356
Johan A. Stenberg Associate Professor
Sveriges lantbruksuniversitet Swedish University of
Agricultural Sciences
Department of Ecology PO Box 7044, SE-750 07 UPP-
SALA Visiting address: Ulls v ag 16 Phone: +46 18 67
23 67, Mobile: +46 70 622 00 42 johan.stenberg@slu.se,
www.slu.se/ecology/stenberg Johan.Stenberg@slu.se
Seattle ViralPhylogeneticsEvolution
A new postdoctoral position is available in Trevor Bed-96 EvolDir March 1, 2014
ford's group at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research
Center located in Seattle, WA. Research will focus on
virus phylogenies and infectious disease dynamics. A
primary goal is to reconstruct patterns of strain replace-
ment and characterize what makes a strain evolutionar-
ily successful. With knowledge of past success, future
progenitor strains may be able to be algorithmically
predicted. Initial application will focus on the inuenza
virus where timely inference of progenitor strains has
important applications to vaccine strain selection.
Previous research has shown that amino acid replace-
ments at certain sites in inuenza's hemagglutinin (HA)
protein tend to result in viruses that can partially es-
cape existing human immunity leading to these mu-
tants xing within the viral population. Still, other
sites in HA appear to be primarily functional and re-
placements at these sites lead to viral lineages that are
likely to go extinct. Other research has focused on phy-
logeographic patterns, nding that viruses in China and
Southeast Asia are historically more likely to be progen-
itor strains. The proposed research aims to extend and
unite these previously retrospective studies to a fully
statistical and predictive framework for viral evolution
that would incorporate multiple predictors of evolu-
tionary success. For general background, see http:/-
/bedford.io . The ideal candidate has experience with
phylogenetic inference and/or infectious disease mod-
eling and a strong interest in computational and sta-
tistical methods development. Candidates should also
have programming experience in at least one scripting
language (e.g. R, Python, Perl) and/or one compiled
language (Java ideal) and a proven track-record of peer
reviewed publications. However, candidates with PhDs
from diverse backgrounds are encouraged to apply, in-
cluding biology, mathematics, statistics, physics and
computer science.
The position is available immediately with exible
starting dates for a 2-year appointment with possibil-
ity of extension. Informal inquires are welcome. Ap-
plications will be accepted until the position is lled.
The Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center oers
competitive salaries commensurate with experience and
skills, complete with benets.
To apply please send (1) cover letter that includes the
names and contacts for three references and a short
statement of research interests, (2) a current CV and
(3) code samples or links to published/distributed code
to tbedford <at>fhcrc.org.
Trevor Bedford Assistant Member Vaccine and In-
fectious Disease Division Computational Biology Pro-
gram Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center http:/-
/bedford.io trvrb@trevorbedford.comSheeld
ComputationalStatisticalGenomics
Post-doctoral position in computational/statistical ge-
nomics and species formation, Nosil lab, Sheeld,
United Kingdom.
A two-year postdoc is available for a creative and moti-
vated post-doc to work on the genomics of adaptation
and speciation in Timema stick insects. The postdoc
will work with Patrik Nosil in the Department of An-
imal and Plant Sciences at the University of Sheeld
(also in close collaboration with Zach Gompert at Utah
State University).
The position is funded by an European Research Coun-
cil grant focused on testing hypotheses about how
genomes evolve as species formation unfolds from be-
ginning to end. One major goal is to directly isolate
the role of the process of natural selection in gener-
ating observed patterns of genomic divergence between
host-associated populations and species of stick insects.
The approach is to combine 'standard' observational
whole genome sequencing with eld transplants directly
and experimentally measuring selection at the genomic
level. The results will provide insight into the temporal
and genomic dynamics of speciation.
What we require: The postdoctoral fellow will be re-
sponsible for leading hypothesis-driven analyses of large
DNA sequence data sets (i.e., genome-scale data from
100's of individuals). A Ph.D. is required. The suc-
cessful applicant will have: (i) demonstrated exper-
tise in population genetics, phylogenetics, genomics,
or computational statistics, (ii) experience with UNIX,
high performance computing, and programming in C
or C++ (preferred) or in R and Perl or Python, (iii)
the ability to develop and apply statistical or compu-
tational methods to solve problems, and (iv) a history
of independent and creative thinking in the design or
execution of big data analysis.
What we oer: A two-year contract hosted in a vibrant
department and lab group. The position will come with
exibility for pursuing independent research ideas sur-
rounding the general theme of genome evolution during
speciation.
The position will remain open until a suitable candidate
is found.
To apply, contact Patrik Nosil by emailMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 97
(p.nosil@sheeld.ac.uk) and include a CV and
brief (1-page) statement of research interests.
For more information on the lab: http://nosil-
lab.group.shef.ac.uk/ p.nosil@sheeld.ac.uk
SwanseaU
EvolutionPathogenResistance
PhD position available at Swansea University
Genetic basis of pathogen resistance in farm and wild
sh populations under inbreeding
Supervisors: Dr Sonia Consuegra (Swansea University;
College of Science); Dr. Jo Cable (Cardi University)
& Dr Marianne Pearson (FishVet Scotland)
Contact email: s.consuegra@swansea.ac.uk
Application deadline: 15 February 2014
Project summary
The Department of Biosciences at Swansea Univer-
saity is oering one 4-year Industrial CASE studentship
funded by NERC. This is a collaborative, multidis-
ciplinary project combining evolutionary biology (Dr.
Consuegra, Swansea University) and parasitology (Dr
Cable, Cardi University) with the more applied eld
of aquaculture (Dr. Pearson, FishVet).
The project will investigate the relative role of immuno-
genetic versus genome-wide diversity in pathogen resis-
tance in wild and farmed inbred/bottlenecked sh pop-
ulations. The work will focus on the immune-related
MHC genes and use two model species: the unique self-
fertilising mangrove killish (Kryptolebias marmora-
tus) and Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar).
The mangrove killish is a self-fertilising (selng)
species. Its populations are mostly composed by self-
ing hermaphrodites with extremely low genetic diver-
sity but the ospring of crosses with males have higher
MHC diversity and carry lower parasite loads that
their inbred counterparts. Atlantic salmon is the main
salmonid cultured in the world and its MHC has been
widely studied. Salmon express single unlinked MHC
genes and balancing selection maintains their high lev-
els diversity. Associations between MHC genes and re-
sistance/susceptibility to major salmonid diseases have
been found in farmed populations. In addition, salmon
ospring of MHC dissimilar parents display higher re-
sistance to parasites.The student will analyse experimental infections at the
aquarium facility at Cardi University (Saprolegnia in
killish) and infection outbreaks in a farm setting in
collaboration with the CASE partner and comparing
resistance of families with dierent degrees of genome-
wide genetic diversity and MHC class diversity. The
project will take advantage of the wide knowledge of
the A. salmon genome (including a recently developed
SNP chip and QTLs identied for IPN) and of the NGS
techniques developed by the main supervisor for MHC
genotyping. It will provide the student a unique combi-
nation of training in the industrial environment (aqua-
culture and veterinary), molecular and experimental
laboratory analyses at Swansea and Cardi Universi-
ties as well as eld experience to collect samples from
wild sh populations.
We seek a highly motivated student with a rst class
or upper second class degree in a relevant biological
discipline willing to work within both a university en-
vironment and an industrial company. Good level of
statistics (ideally with knowledge of R), some experi-
ence in molecular biology/genetics and/or willingness
to carry out eld work in remote locations would be
desirable.
Informal enquiries before the deadline for formal ap-
plications are welcome by submitting a CV and cover-
ing letter outlining suitability for the position to Sonia
Consuegra at s.consuegra@swansea.ac.uk.
This NERC Industrial CASE studentship is funded for
48 months, providing a maintenance stipend for 4 years
($13,863 for 2014/2015) plus an additional $1,000
from the CASE partner per year. The studentship
also covers full fees at the UK/EU rate and additional
research expenses required for the project. Appli-
cants must meet the UK Research Council eligibility
criteria, including the 3-year residency requirements
in the UK. For details of eligibility requirements
please see http://www.nerc.ac.uk/funding/available/-
postgrad/eligibility.asp Deadline for applications
is the 15th of February. For details on how to
apply go to: http://www.swansea.ac.uk/biosci/-
postgraduate/phdopportunitiesandresearchtopics/-
geneticbasisofpathogenresistanceinfarmandwildshpopulationsunderinbreeding/-
Sonia Consuegra
Dept Biosciences College of Science Swansea University
Singleton Park SA2 8PP Swansea
Tel. +44 (0) 1792 602931 Email.
S.Consuegra@swansea.ac.uk
http://www.swansea.ac.uk/sta/science/biosciences/-
s.consuegra https://www.researchgate.net/prole/-
Soa Consuegra98 EvolDir March 1, 2014
\CONSUEGRA S." <S.Consuegra@swansea.ac.uk >
Sydney MolcularEvolEucalypts
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION: MOLECULAR
AND CHEMICAL ECOLOGY OF EUCALYPTUS
MOLUCCANA
One postdoctoral position is available at the Hawkes-
bury Institute for the Environment at the University of
Western Sydney, Australia.
The Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment con-
ducts research in a range of areas that include plant
and animal biology, ecology and evolution; pant-animal
and plant-soil interactions; soil microbial ecology; ge-
nomics and bioinformatics; ecosystem function and cli-
mate change biology.
The Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment (HIE)
is seeking to appoint an energetic and highly motivated
postdoctoral researcher with a demonstrated ability to
conduct outstanding research on the molecular and/or
chemical ecology of plants. The postdoctoral researcher
will be appointed to an academic level A position in the
HIE. This full-time position is available for 2 years with
the possibility of an extension thereafter, pending fund-
ing availability. The successful applicant will focus on
research related to a research project entitled3Psyllid-
induced dieback of Grey Box (Eucalyptus moluccana)
on the Cumberland Plain2. The project addresses the
important question of whether the extensive fragmenta-
tion and reduction of the Cumberland Plain Woodlands
in Western Sydney has resulted in a loss of genetic and
chemical diversity of the dominating tree species, Euca-
lyptus moluccana. Discovering this genetic and chem-
ical diversity within and beyond the aected region is
crucial to understanding their role in the chronic area-
wide defoliation of Eucalyptus moluccana by psyllids
(plant-sap feeding insects) in the critically endangered
Cumberland Plain Woodlands. The results will inform
future conservation eorts and strategies and also de-
liver fundamental ndings relevant to eucalypt diversity
and insect-plant interactions.
The successful applicant will work with a team of sci-
entists in the HIE within the Research Theme Plants,
Animals and Interactions. The applicants should have
skills and research experience in the broad area of
molecular and/or chemical ecology of plants. More
specically, the successful candidate will require experi-
ence and knowledge in the elds of population geneticand genomic analyses and/or analysis of plant chem-
istry relevant to insect attack. Research will be eld
and laboratory based. The Hawkesbury Institute for
the Environment has state of the art laboratory facil-
ities for this type of research, as well as fantastic eld
research facilities. It is based on the Hawkesbury cam-
pus of UWS, located in Richmond, 60 km from central
Sydney, in the close vicinity to the spectacular Blue
Mountains and Wollemi National Parks.
Remuneration Package: Academic Level A $91,289
AUD to $96,851 AUD p.a (comprising Salary $77,140
AUD to $81,840 AUD p.a. plus 17% Superannuation
and Leave Loading)
Closing Date: 16 February 2014
How to Apply: Go to the web site http://-
uws.nga.net.au/cp/ scroll to the job reference 008/14.
Click on the reference number and follow the instruc-
tions at the bottom of the page on 'How To Apply'.
Further information about the Hawkesbury In-
stitute for the Environment can be found on
www.uws.edu.au/hawkesburyinstitute; more informa-
tion about the position can be obtained from Dr
Markus Riegler m.riegler@uws.edu.au.
Dr Markus Riegler Senior Lecturer jHigher Degree
Research Director Hawkesbury Institute for the
Environment University of Western Sydney Locked
Bag 1797, Penrith NSW 2751, Australia phone:
+61-2-4570 1229 jemail: m.riegler@uws.edu.au
web: http://www.uws.edu.au/hie/markusriegler
M.Riegler@uws.edu.au
SyracuseU EvolutionaryGenetics
Post-Doctoral Associate in Plant Evolution-
ary/Ecological Genomics
A post-doctoral position is available in the laboratory
of Jannice Friedman, in the Department of Biology
at Syracuse University. The goal of this NSF-funded
project is to understand the evolutionary, ecological
and genetic mechanisms underlying seasonal dierences
in owering in Mimulus guttatus. The research ad-
dresses how annual and perennial populations integrate
daylength and temperature cues to determine when to
ower.
Our research addresses the following questions: What
is the genetic basis of dierences between annual andMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 99
perennial strategies in M. guttatus in their response
to seasonal cues? What are the tness consequences
and adaptive signicance of this variation in the eld?
What is the evolutionary history of the dierences be-
tween annuals and perennials, and what is their dis-
tribution throughout the M. guttatus range? The re-
search will use a combination of QTL mapping (using
next-gen sequencing), common garden experiments in
the native range (western N. America), and greenhouse
and laboratory work at Syracuse.
The Department of Biology at Syracuse University has
a strong concentration in ecology and evolutionary re-
search with opportunities for interaction and collabo-
ration. We are located in the recently constructed Life
Science Center, which includes modern lab, greenhouse
and computational facilities.
Preference will be given to candidates with a strong
background in evolution, and experience with popula-
tion or quantitative genetics and next-gen sequencing
would be valuable. The position is available for 2-3
years, and will include a competitive salary and full
benets. The ideal start date would be July 2014. In-
terested candidates should contact me by email at fried-
man@syr.edu. Applications should include: a brief de-
scription of past research accomplishments and future
goals, CV, PDFs of two publications, and contact in-
formation for three references.
Jannice Friedman Assistant Professor Department of
Biology Syracuse University 107 College Place Syra-
cuse NY 13244 315.443.1564 friedman@syr.edu http:/-
/friedmanlab.syr.edu jannicefriedman@gmail.com
UArizona EcoEvolutionaryTheory
ClonalInterference
Postdoc position in eco-evolutionary theory
A postdoc position is available to work with PI Joanna
Masel (http://eebweb.arizona.edu/faculty/masel) at
the University of Arizona in Tucson. A popular tourist
destination surrounded on all four sides by mountain-
ous national and state parks, Tucson is a vibrant city
of nearly a million people with an attractive climate.
The EEB department in Tucson was ranked in the top
10 by US News & World Report.
We seek to study evolutionary rescue in the presence
of clonal interference, via a model of asexual popula-
tion genetics (based on Desai & Fisher 2007). Thismodel will be modied so that genotypes specify ab-
solute tness in a deteriorating environment, rather
than relative tness as is the norm in population genet-
ics. The project will explore the integration of density-
dependence terms r and K with the classical population
genetics tness term of w, as part of an eco-evo the-
oretical synthesis. A strong quantitative background
together with computational and/or modeling experi-
ence is required. A background in evolutionary and/or
ecological theory is strongly preferred.
The Masel group's main research interests http:/-
/www.eebweb.arizona.edu/faculty/masel/research/-
index.html are in robustness and evolvability, using
a mixture of analytical theory, bioinformatic and
simulation approaches. Contact Joanna Masel at
masel@u.arizona.edu for more information and to
apply. The position is available immediately and
renewable over multiple years.
masel@email.arizona.edu
UArizona GeneNetworkEvolution
Postdoc position in the evolution of gene networks
A postdoc position is available to work with PI Joanna
Masel (http://eebweb.arizona.edu/faculty/masel) at
the University of Arizona in Tucson. A popular tourist
destination surrounded on all four sides by mountain-
ous national and state parks, Tucson is a vibrant city
of nearly a million people with an attractive climate.
The EEB department in Tucson was ranked in the top
10 by US News & World Report.
The project involves completing the implementation of
a \toy" computational model of transcriptional net-
works that is realistic enough to be related to yeast
data yet simple enough for evolution to be rapidly sim-
ulated. The model will then be used to study a range
of questions, including network topology and the evo-
lution of robustness/canalization to mutation, to the
environment, and to the stochasticity associated with
small numbers of molecules in cells. Excellent scientic
programming skills are required, with proven software
management skills preferred. Experience in evolution-
ary biology, genomics, systems biology, mathematical
modeling and/or the biology of transcription factors
and their binding sites is preferred.
The Masel group's main research interests http:/-
/www.eebweb.arizona.edu/faculty/masel/research/-100 EvolDir March 1, 2014
index.html are in robustness and evolvability, using
a mixture of analytical theory, bioinformatic and
simulation approaches. Contact Joanna Masel at
masel@u.arizona.edu for more information and to
apply. The position is available immediately and
renewable over multiple years.
masel@email.arizona.edu
UCambridge DrosophilaVirus
Genetics
Applications are invited for an ERC funded post-
doctoral position in the eld of host-parasite evolution
and genomics based in the Department of Genetics,
University of Cambridge. The post holder will investi-
gate genetic variation in the susceptibility of Drosophila
to viral infection.
Insects vary in their susceptibility to viral infection,
and this variation aects disease transmission by vector
species, and the survival of benecial insects and pests.
The successful candidate will investigate the genetic ba-
sis of this variation in Drosophila using next generation
sequencing, published genome sequences and the tools
of Drosophila genetics. This will not only give insights
into the molecular and cellular basis of how resistance
to viruses evolves in nature, but population genetic ap-
proaches will also allow us to understand the factors
that maintain variation in susceptibility to infection in
populations. There will be scope for the successful ap-
plicant to drive the direction of their research, and they
will be expected to collaborate closely with other post-
docs in the lab.
We are seeking highly motivated candidates who have
a deep interest in this area of research. You must have,
or be about to obtain, a PhD and your past work will
be in genetics or evolutionary biology. Relevant experi-
ence includes population genetic analysis, the analysis
of next-generation sequencing data, Drosophila genetics
and host-pathogen evolution and genetics.
The position is available immediately, but the start date
is negotiable.
All applications through http://www.jobs.cam.ac.uk/-
job/3296/ . Informal enquiries should be sent to
f.jiggins@gen.cam.ac.uk, and details of the lab can be
found at www.gen.cam.ac.uk/research/Jiggins . Fixed-
term: The funds for this post are available until 31
October 2016 in the rst instance.fmj1001@cam.ac.uk
UChicago EvolutionGeneRegulation
Applications are invited for a postdoctoral research as-
sociate with Ilya Ruvinsky in the Department of Ecol-
ogy & Evolution and the Institute for Genomics and
Systems Biology at The University of Chicago.
Major interests of our laboratory are 1) evolution of
gene regulatory mechanisms and 2) organismal biology
of stress response. We are using /C. elegans/ and re-
lated nematodes as model systems.
Candidates must have a Ph.D. in Genetics, Molecu-
lar or Evolutionary Biology or related eld. The ideal
candidate will be creative, energetic and have excellent
communication skills. All candidates must have a back-
ground or interest in molecular evolutionary genetics as
well as expertise in molecular biology, particularly using
genetics in model organisms. Evidence of productive
prior research is also expected.
To apply, please e-mail (to I. Ruvinsky) the following:
(1) a CV, (2) a 1-page statement of past accomplish-
ments and PDFs of most relevant publications, (3) re-
search interests and (4) names and contact information
of three referees. Review of applications will begin im-
mediately and will continue until the position is lled.
Ilya Ruvinsky, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Genetics
and Evolution Department of Ecology & Evolution The
University of Chicago 1101 East 57th Street Chicago,
IL 60637
e-mail - ruvinsky@uchicago.edu Oce - (773)
702-1533 http://pondside.uchicago.edu/ecol-
evol/people/ruvinsky.html Ilya Ruvinsky
<ruvinsky@uchicago.edu >
UConnecticut PlantBioinformatics
A Postdoctoral Researcher position is being oered in
the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
at the University of Connecticut. The applicant will be
a member of a research group interested in genome bi-
ology, integrative genomics, scientic databasing, and
bioinformatics.March 1, 2014 EvolDir 101
RESPONSIBILITIES:
- Perform scientic research as part of a collaborative
project focused on the sequencing, assembly, annota-
tion, and analysis of three conifer genomes. - Apply
computational approaches to analyze RNA-Seq expres-
sion data - Develop and apply comparative genomics
methods - Collaborate with biologists to characterize
and study novel gene families - Develop and support
tools to enable the extraction of information from large,
complex genomes - Provide bioinformatics training to
other team members
REQUIREMENTS: To be eligible, applicants must
have received a Ph.D. in computational biology, bioin-
formatics, computer science, genetics, or a related dis-
cipline involving signicant computational experience.
The ideal candidate will have:
- Training in statistics and genetics - Fluency in Unix
computing environments (shell scripting) - Program-
ming experience (Perl/Python/Java) - Experience with
next generation sequence analysis (RNA-Seq) - Famil-
iarity with version control systems
PREFERENCES: Highly motivated individuals with a
strong background in genetics and computational biol-
ogy, and a record of scientic productivity are encour-
aged to apply.
HOW TO APPLY: Interested applicants should submit
a letter of interest, statement of research interest and
experience, curriculum vita, and contact information of
three professional references. Please send all materials
to Jill Wegrzyn (jill.wegrzyn@uconn.edu)
jillylee@gmail.com
UMiami AdaptationGenetics
Two Post-doctoral Positions in High-altitude Adapta-
tion and Plasticity
Two postdoctoral positions are available beginning Au-
gust 2014 to work on the mechanistic and genetic basis
of hypoxia resistance in Andean waterbirds, at the Uni-
versity of Miami in Coral Gables, Florida, under the
direction of Kevin McCracken and collaborating inves-
tigators Graham Scott (McMaster University), Bill Mil-
som (University of British Columbia), and Peter Frap-
pell (University of Tasmania).
We are looking for one postdoc with a backgroundin integrated physiology to collaborate on comparative
studies of histology, enzyme function, and gene expres-
sion coupled with respiratory and cardiovascular exper-
iments on Andean ducks. We are looking for a sec-
ond postdoc with a background in population genetics
and an interest in applying NGS techniques such as se-
quence capture and RAD-Seq to population genomics
studies of hemoglobin and other genes in pathways in-
volved with responses to hypoxia. Travel to the collab-
orating labs in Canada and eldwork at high-altitude
sites will be required for the rst position. Familiar-
ity with DNA sequencing and bioinformatics workows
and pipelines is essential for the second position. Al-
though many samples required for these studies have
been collected, it would be useful for one or both -
nalists to have experience preparing specimens for mu-
seum archival and histological and genomics applica-
tions. Spanish speaking/writing skills also would be
helpful.
The anticipated duration of each position is two years
with a starting salary of $39,264 to 47,820 (depending
on years of post-PhD experience) plus a benets pack-
age.
Review of applications will begin 15 March 2014.
Individuals applying for these positions should have
earned their PhD by August 2014 and should send (to
the email address below) a single PDF le containing
(1) a cover letter with a statement of background and
research interests identifying one or the other position,
(2) a curriculum vitae, and (3) names and contacts for
three references.
Dr. Kevin McCracken Department of Biology & Rosen-
stiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Sciences Uni-
versity of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33146, U.S.A. kmc-
crack@bio.miami.edu
http://www.bio.miami.edu/mccracken/ Kevin G. Mc-
Cracken Kushlan Chair in Waterbird Biology & Con-
servation Department of Biology & Rosenstiel School of
Marine and Atmospheric Sciences University of Miami
Coral Gables, FL 33146, U.S.A.
218A Cox Annex (Biology)/284 SLAB (RSMAS)
Tel. +1 (305) 284-9058 (Biology) Tel. +1 (305) 421-
4738 (RSMAS)
email: kmccrack@bio.miami.edu
Kevin McCracken <kmccrack@bio.miami.edu >102 EvolDir March 1, 2014
UNAM Mexico Bioinformatics
We have an opening for a postdoctoral position at the
Instituto de Ecologa, UNAM, Mxico, which is granted
based on academic merits and Curriculum vitae among
a pool of candidates.
We are seeking for a candidate with knowledge and
skills in Bioinformatics, in particular for the analyses
of genomic (SNPs) data. The candidate will work in
the lab of Dra. Ella Vzquez-Domnguez. In general, we
work with population and landscape genetics, phylo-
geography and conservation of vertebrate species. The
specic projects we are now developing that include
SNPs data analyses involve reptile species (e.g. turtles)
but will grow to more species. Projects include land-
scape genetics and adaptation questions, to be evalu-
ated within a genomics framework.
The successful candidate will play a key role in the gen-
eration and analysis SNPs, but also: 1) participate in
eld work within Mexico; 2) help graduate students
with software and analyses; 3) give a seminar for the
Institutes community, 4) help organize and participate
in Bioinformatics courses or workshops for genetic data
analyses.
The postdoctoral scholarship is a UNAM grant, with a
salary of approximately $1,500 US dlls per month, plus
medical insurance.
Candidates need fulll the following:
1. The postdoctoral position should start from Septem-
ber 1st, for a year with possibility of renewal for a sec-
ond year pending on results. It can start later than
September if needed, but not later than November 1st.
2, The candidate must have obtained his/her PhD de-
gree no more than three years before the starting date
(i.e. if starting on 1 September, PhD must have been
obtained on 30 August 2011 the latest).
3. The candidate should not be older than 36 years at
the starting date (1 September or so)
4. Should have proof of experience with published work
in scientic journals (this is the most important evalu-
ation criterion)
5. Communication skills in Spanish
Applications must include a complete CV, a pdf of the
PhD grade, pdf of the front page of passport (if not ofMexican nationality), pdf of birth certicate, a cover
letter briey outlining the candidate's t to
the position and contact information for three refer-
ences.
All information may be sent directly to Dra. Ella
Vzquez-Domnguez at evazquez@ecologia.unam.mx,
with a deadline of 21 February.
Dra. Ella Vzquez Domnguez
Instituto de Ecologa, UNAM Ap. Postal 70-
275 Ciudad Universitaria Mxico DF 04510 Mx-
ico Tel +5255 5622 9015 Fax +5255 5616 1976
Email: evazquez@ecologia.unam.mx http://-
web.ecologia.unam.mx/laboratorios/evazquez/ Ella
Vazquez <evazquez@ecologia.unam.mx >
UNAM Mexico PlantEvolBiol
POSTDOC POSITION IN PLANT EVOLUTIONARY
BIOLOGY
There is an opening for a postdoctoral position at
the Instituto de Biolog a, of the Universidad Nacional
Aut onoma de M exico, Mexico City, in the lab of Dr.
Susana Magall on
The main research topic in our lab is plant macroevo-
lution, investigated in a phylogenetic context. We seek
candidates with bioinformatic abilities in phylogenetic,
evolutionary and comparative biology; as well as knowl-
edge of plant biology and/or the fossil record. The re-
search project on which the successful candidate will
work is part of an ongoing study on the timing and rate
of evolution of owering plants, with a special focus on
the eect of dierential use of fossil calibrations, and
of alternative molecular clock methods. The successful
candidate will play a key role in conducting molecular
clock and comparative biology analyses; and contribute
to teach these methods to graduate students.
The postdoctoral position will start on September 1st,
2014, for a one-year period. There is the possibility
to renew for a second year, on the basis of obtained
results.
The position is funded by the Postdoctoral Fellow-
ship Program of the Coordination for Scientic Re-
search, Universidad Nacional Aut onoma de M exico. It
is granted on the basis of academic merits, CV and
publication record, among a pool of candidates.
Candidates should: 1. Have obtained his/her PhD de-March 1, 2014 EvolDir 103
gree by the date of hire (September 1st, 2014), and no
earlier than 3 years previous to the date of hire. 2. Be
36 years old or younger by the date of hire. 3. Have
experience publishing scientic papers. 4. Prociency
in Spanish is highly desirable.
To apply, please submit: 1. An application letter in-
cluding research interests and goals, and suitability for
the proposed research topic. 2. A full CV. 3. PDFs of
publications. 4. Names and contact information of two
potential academic references.
Inquiries and application materials should be submit-
ted to: Dr. Susana Magall on: s.magallon@ib.unam.mx
Deadline: March 3rd, 2014
Dr. Susana Magall on Instituto de Bi-
olog a, Universidad Nacional Aut onoma de
M exico s.magallon@ib.unam.mx (52-55) 5622-
9087 http://www.ib.unam.mx/directorio/101
s.magallon@ib.unam.mx
UNESPBrazil Metagenomics
AmphibianConservation
Postdoctoral Researcher in Metagenomic Approaches
in Amphibian Conservation
A postdoctoral position is available in C elio Haddad's
laboratory, Department of Zoology, UNESP Rio Claro,
Brazil, and in the Zamudio laboratory, Department of
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Cornell University.
This position is funded by a CNPq grant to use eDNA
for the detection of rare and/or endangered anuran
species in the Atlantic Coastal Forest of Brazil using
metagenomic surveys of localities of known stable and
declined amphibian populations, with the goal of de-
tecting the presence of endangered taxa and contribut-
ing to conservation eorts.
The primary responsibilities of this position include
1) conducting eld and laboratory research to detect
amphibian taxa and quantify populations that have
suered declines, 2) overseeing development of eld
and lab sampling protocols and downstream bioinfor-
matic analyses of data, 3) analyzing data and writing
manuscripts, 4) contributing to grant proposals for fu-
ture work, and 5) contributing to mentoring and co-
ordination of projects of graduate and undergraduate
students involved in research.
The post-doc can be of any nationality, but will reside
primarily in Haddad's laboratory, Department of Zo-ology, UNESP Rio Claro, S~ ao Paulo, Brazil, but will
be active and travel across laboratories to integrate the
comparative metagenomic data for the project.
For additional information about this and other re-
search programs ongoing in our laboratories please visit
our web sites at http://www.eeb.cornell.edu/zamudio/-
KZhome/=0Ahttp://labherpetorc.blogspot.com.br/-
p/celio-f-b-haddad.html
* Qualications * Required qualications include a
Ph.D. in evolution, molecular biology, or related eld;
demonstration of molecular laboratory experience with
genetic techniques (DNA extraction, genomic library
prep, analyses); the ability to organize and lead eld ef-
forts in a foreign country (monthly sampling in Brazil);
strong writing skills; and the ability to work indepen-
dently. Candidates experienced working with genomic
data, and a working knowledge of Portuguese will be
preferred.
* Terms of Appointment * Monthly salary is R$ 4,100
(annual R$ 49,200), following CNPq payscale for \Bolsa
Pos-Doutorado Junior". Funds are available for one
year, and renewable for additional years pending satis-
factory progress.
* Applications * To apply, please send cover let-
ter, CV, a statement of research interests/experiences,
and names and contact information for three refer-
ences that are familiar with your work. Applica-
tions should be in PDF format, e-mailed to Kelly
Zamudio (krz2@cornell.edu) and C elio Haddad (had-
dad1000@gmail.com)
Position is available starting August 2014, starting time
is exible. Review of applications will begin Jan 15,
2014, and continue until suitable candidate is found.
P os-Doutorado em Abordagens Mategen^ omicas para a
Conserva c~ ao de Anf bios Uma vaga de p os-doutorado
est a dispon vel no laborat orio do Dr. C elio Haddad,
Departamento de Zoologia, UNESP de Rio Claro, S~ ao
Paulo, Brasil e no laborat orio da Dra. Kelly Zamu-
dio, Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology,
Cornell University. A vaga possui nanciamento do
CNPq para o uso de eDNA para a detec c~ ao de esp ecies
de anuros raros e/ou amea cados na Mata Atl^ antica
do Brasil, usando amostragens metagen^ omicas de lo-
calidades com popula c~ oes de anf bios conhecidamente
est aveis e em decl nio, com o objetivo de detectar a pre-
sen ca de t axons amea cados e contribuir para esfor cos
conservacionistas.
As principais responsabilidades para essa vaga in-
cluem 1) conduzir atividades em campo e laborat orio
para detectar anf bios e quanticar popula c~ oes que
sofreram decl nios, 2) supervisionar o desenvolvimen-104 EvolDir March 1, 2014
tos de protocolos de amostragens em campo e labo-
rat orio e realizar an alises bioinform aticas dos dados,
3) analisar dados e redigir manuscritos, 4) contribuir
na prepara c~ ao de projetos para trabalhos futuros e 5)
contribuir na orienta c~ ao e coordena c~ ao de projetos de
alunos de inicia c~ ao cient ca e p os-gradua c~ ao envolvi-
dos na pesquisa.
O candidato pode ser de qualquer nacionalidade, mas
atuar a principalmente no laborat orio do Dr. C elio
Haddad, Departamento de Zoologia, I.B., UNESP, Rio
Claro, S~ ao Paulo, Brasil, devendo ser ativo e viajar pe-
los laborat orios para integrar os dados metagen^ omicos
do projeto.
Para informa c~ oes adicionais sobre esse e outros progra-
mas de pesquisa em andamento em nossos laborat orios,
por favor visite nossos websites:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UOttawa
FungalComparativeGenomics
\The Corradi Lab is currently seeking a Postdoctoral
Fellow in the eld of Fungal Comparative and Popula-
tion Genomics. The research will be led by Dr. Nicolas
Corradi and carried out in a CIFAR (Canadian Insti-
tute for Advanced Research) - aliated laboratory lo-
cated in the Department of Biology of the University of
Ottawa, Canada.
The position will be initially funded for one year, with
the possibility of renewal for up to three years de-
pending on performance. The candidate is expected
to contribute to several ongoing projects that focus
on the population genomics of two evolutionary un-
related groups of fungi: the Arbuscular Mycorrhizal
Fungi (AMF) and the Microsporidia. Enquiries about
specic projects can be sent to Dr. Nicolas Corradi
(ncorradi@uottawa.ca).
Applicants are expected to have a background in com-
parative genomics or populations genomics. A strong
experience in either Population Genetics, Environmen-
tal Genomics, Metagenomics, or ab-initio gene annota-
tion and programming will be seen as an strong asset
for the nal selection of the candidate. Basic knowledgeof Linux is required. A complete application package
includes a CV, a one-page description of past research
accomplishments and future goals, and the names and
e-mail addresses of at least 2 references. Evaluation of
applications starts immediately and will continue until
a suitable candidate is found.
The University of Ottawa is a large, research-intensive
university, hosting over 40.000 students and located
in the downtown core area of Canada's capital city
(http://www.science.uottawa.ca/fac/welcome.html).
Ottawa is a vibrant, multicultural city with a very
high quality of life (http://www.ottawatourism.ca/fr/)
Applications can be sent to Dr. Nicolas Corradi (ncor-
radi@uottawa.ca).
Representative publications:
- Riley R. et al. 2014. Extreme Diversication of the
MATA-HMG Gene Family in the Plant - Associated
Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi. New Phytologist. 201:
254-268 - James T.Y et al. 2013. Shared signatures
of parasitism and phylogenomics unite the Cryptomy-
cota and Microsporidia. Current Biology. 23 (16),
1548-1553 - Tisserant E. et al. The arbuscular myc-
orrhizal Glomus genome provides insights into the evo-
lution of the oldest plant symbiosis. Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences - USA. 110 (50), 20117-
20122R576-R577 - Pombert J.F. et al. 2012. Gain and
loss of multiple functionally- related horizontally trans-
ferred genes in the reduced genomes of two microsporid-
ian parasites. Proceedings of the National Academy
of Sciences - USA 109(31):12638-43 - Selman M. et
al. 2011. Acquisition of an animal gene by two mi-
crosporidia. 2011. Current Biology 21: R576-R577"
Thanks you very much for your help!
Best regard, Nicolas
Nicolas Corradi Professeur adjoint / Assistant Pro-
fessor Boursier de l'Institut canadien en recherches
avanc ees / Fellow of the Canadian Institute for
Advanced Research Universit e d'Ottawa / Univer-
sity of Ottawa D epartement de biologie / De-
partment of Biology Pavillon Gendron / Gen-
dron Hall Bureau 257 / Room 257 30 Marie
Curie Priv. Ottawa ON Canada K1N 6N5
Tel. +1 (613) 5625800 # 6563 Website:http://-
mysite.science.uottawa.ca/ncorradi/index.html Nico-
las Corradi <ncorradi@uottawa.ca >
UOxford MicrobiomeEvolutionMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 105
Job: Postdoctoral Research Assistant
Salary: Grade 7: $29,837 - $36,661 p.a. An enthusias-
tic, dedicated individual is sought for an 18-month John
Fell-funded project that will explore the evolutionary
processes underlying microbiome-mediated protection
against parasites.
The Postdoc will join the research group of Dr Kayla
King in the Department of Zoology, University of Ox-
ford.
The microbiome is an important determinant of host
susceptibility to parasites. Microbial 'protection'
against infection has been observed widely across an-
imal species and at the plant root/soil interface. Us-
ing C. elegans and bacteria in the lab, this project
will explore the potential for coevolutionary interac-
tions between hosts and bacteria to drive the evo-
lution of bacteria-mediated defence against parasites.
This project will also elucidate the host- and bacteria-
related mechanisms underlying protection, and explore
the spectrum of protection against dierent parasite
genotypes and species.
The post combines laboratory work (experimental co-
evolution and bacteria performance assays) with ge-
nomic approaches to adaptation. We will require some-
one with an intense interest in evolutionary ecology of
host-parasite interactions and a track record of work
with laboratory components.
Some essential characteristics are:
- PhD/DPhil in evolutionary biology, microbiology,
ecology or related eld. - Having driven a leading-edge
research project in evolutionary ecology as evidenced
by primary-authored publication. - The ability to work
with species interactions (host-parasite, host- mutual-
ist) in lab settings. - Considerable experience in main-
taining bacteria and/or C. elegans, in terms of daily
culturing of organisms and managing a medium term
experiment.
Only applications made online before 12.00 midday on
24 March 2014 will be considered. You will be required
to upload your CV and supporting statement. See
http://www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/jobs/list#job 112004 Please
send enquiries to kayla.king@zoo.ox.ac.uk
Dr. Kayla King University of Oxford Department of
Zoology Tinbergen Building, South Parks Road Oxford
OX1 3PS
Tel: +44 (0)1865 2 81988
http://www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/people/view/king kc.htm
https://sites.google.com/site/kckingevolution/ Kayla
King<kayla.king@zoo.ox.ac.uk >USalamanca Bioinformatics
http://bioinformatica.vil.usal.es/postdoctoral-oer-
at-the-university-of-salamanca-spain/ Thanks Mike
Thon
Michael Thon Professor Centro Hispano-Luso de Inves-
tigaciones Agrarias (CIALE) University of Salamanca
Calle Del Duero, 12 37185 Villamayor, Spain
Michael Thon <mthon@usal.es >
UUlm Germany
PopulationGenomicsBioinformatics
Institute of Experimental Ecology, Research Group
Conservation Genomics & EcoHealth, University of
Ulm oers a
Postdoctoral Research Position in Population Ge-
nomics/Bioinformatics (Scientic Assistant Position,
Wissenschaftliche Mitarbeiterstelle, TV-L 13)
Our research focusses at the interface of Evolutionary
Ecology and Functional Biodiversity research. We aim
to understand the fundamental ecological, behavioral
and immunogenetic (MHC)/genomic factors, as well as
population health related processes that drive adaptive
evolution and ensure ecosystem functions.
We are seeking a highly motivated postdoctoral re-
searcher with a strong background in Population Ge-
nomics, Evolutionary Ecology and Bioinformatics. Suc-
cessful candidates have their research focus preferably
in areas such as landscape genetics or parasitology
(microbiome analyses) in an ecological, conservation
or evolutionary context. The scientic assistant is
expected to develop his or her own research agenda
while also signicantly contributing to the bioinfor-
matic processing of large data sets obtained by next-
generation sequencing in ongoing projects of the de-
partment. Thus, practical experience with NGS tech-
nologies and platforms (e.g. IlluminaC), with the
Linux/Unix environment, scripting languages such as
Python or Pearl, database design and querying (SQL),
as well as R-programming are required.106 EvolDir March 1, 2014
The ideal candidate will be able to work both indepen-
dently and as part of a multidisciplinary team. (S)he
should have an excellent publication record, experience
with grant acquisition and teaching as well as good En-
glish communication skills. The candidate is encour-
aged to apply for grants in Germany or abroad. The
position comes with a teaching requirement of 4h per
week during the semester. Teaching bachelor students
has to be performed in German. Consequently, willing-
ness to learn German is required.
The contract shall start as early as possible. The posi-
tion will initially be restricted to two years, with pos-
sible extension to up to six years. The possibility for
\Habilitation" is given. The University of Ulm advo-
cates gender equality. Women are therefore strongly
encouraged to apply. Equally qualied handicapped
applicants will be given preference.
Ulm is a city of 130,000 inhabitants at the Danube river
within an one hour train ride to Munich. It has an at-
tractive historical centre and easy access to the moun-
tains for hiking and other outdoor activities. It oers
a high standard of living and is very well connected to
other cities.
Qualied candidates should send a curriculum vitae, a
list of publications, a description of research interests
and future work including relevant skills and experi-
ences (3-5 pages), and names with email addresses of
two referees by email as a single PDF le to Prof. Dr.
Simone Sommer. Application deadline is the 20th of
February 2014 and interviews will be preferably set for
the end of March or early April.
Prof. Dr. Simone Sommer
University of Ulm, Institute of Experimental Ecol-
ogy, Albert-Einstein Allee 11, D-89069 Ulm Tel.:
0049-731-5022660, Tel.: 0049-731-5022661 (Secretary)
Simone.Sommer@uni-ulm.de
Prof. Dr. Simone Sommer
University of Ulm Institute of Experimental Ecology
Albert-Einstein Allee 11 D-89069 Ulm
Tel.: 0049-731-5022660 Tel.: 0049-731-5022661 (Secre-
tary) Fax: 0049-731-5022683
Simone.Sommer@uni-ulm.de
\Prof. Dr. Simone Sommer" <simone.sommer@uni-
ulm.de >UniversidaddelosAndes 2 Teaching
The Department of Biological Sciences (DCB) at the
Universidad de los Andes (Bogot, Colombia) seeks to
ll two positions for teaching postdoctoral researchers.
The selected candidates will serve as full-time visiting
professors with a contract for 12 months (renewable
for a second year) starting July 28th, 2014. Appli-
cants must possess a Ph.D. before the starting date.
Preferences will be given to candidates interested in
aliating herself or himself with one or more exist-
ing research laboratories within the DCB (see http://-
cienciasbiologicas.uniandes.edu.co/).
We seek candidates interested in developing and pro-
moting new research perspectives within the DCB via
collaboration with one or more professors. The se-
lected candidates should also be willing to act as an
advisor or mentor to undergraduate and graduate stu-
dents. Teaching responsibilities include 1-2 undergrad-
uate non-majors course in ecology or cellular biology
(depending on the expertise of the postdoc and the De-
partment's needs) each semester. The selected candi-
date may choose to oer or participate in additional
courses in areas of his or her interest. This is an ideal
position for those interested in acquiring skills and gain-
ing experience in university-level teaching while con-
ducting research activities.
The teaching postdoc position is guaranteed for the rst
year, with an optional second year conditional upon sat-
isfactory performance and available funding.
Interested persons should send a CV, two recommen-
dation letters, and a cover letter that outlines the ap-
plicants interest in this position and identies poten-
tial research topics to be pursued at Universidad de los
Andes and potential advisors and collaborators within
the DCB. Application materials should be submitted
electronically by March 10, 2014, to the email address
below.
Comit de Contrataciones Profesorales Departamento de
Ciencias Biolgicas ccontbio@uniandes.edu.co
Further inquiries may be directed to:
Andrew J. Crawford Associate Professor and postdoc-
toral committee chair Department of Biological Sci-
ences, Universidad de los Andes Tel. +57 1 339-4949
ext 3270 Email: aj.crawford244@uniandes.edu.coMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 107
Carlos Daniel Cadena Ordonez
<ccadena@uniandes.edu.co >
VillefrancheSurMer France
Bioinformatics
The Tiozzo Lab (http://biodev.obs-vlfr.fr/ ~ tiozzo/-
tiozzo-lab/index.html) is seeking a creative, skilled and
highly motivated bioinformatician for an one year con-
tract as post-doc or high-level technician. We do
require strong experience with RNAseq and whole
genome sequence data. Applicants should be also pro-
cient in programming (R, Python, Perl, Java), have
knowledge in statistics and have analytical and compu-
tational skills proven by an excellent publication record
or by reference letters. Familiarity with mathematical
modeling would be a plus. Applicants should be pro-
cient in English; French knowledge is preferable but
not required.
The hired postdoctoral fellows/high-level technician
will work at the Observatoire Oceanologique du Ville-
franche sur Mer (http://www.obs-vlfr.fr/) in a highly
international environment.
Contact Stefano Tiozzo (tiozzo@obs-vlfr.fr) for more in-
formation, and to apply, please send a single PDF le
that contains a cover letter, full C.V., and contact infor-
mation for three references. Start: As soon as possible.
Stefano Tiozzo, PhD Regeneration Team Ville-
franche sur mer Developmental Biology Laboratory
(VDBL) (UMR7009 CNRS/UPMC) Observatoire
Oc eanologique de Villefranche-sur-Mer Ph:+33
4 93 76 39 78 Fax:+33 4 93 76 37 92 web:
http://biodev.obs-vlfr.fr/fr/equipes derecherche/-
regeneration etpluripotence.html tiozzo <tiozzo@obs-
vlfr.fr>
WestVirginiaU
ComputationalGenomicsPost-Doctoral Research Associate Positions Available
in Computational Genomics
West Virginia University, Morgantown, WV USA.
Two 2-year postdoctoral positions are available imme-
diately to conduct bioinformatic analyses. Opportu-
nities are available in 1) an NSF-funded project to
study the genetic architecture of tillering in sorghum,
as well as 2) a USDA funded project to study het-
erosis in Populus. For the sorghum project, the re-
searcher will participate in the analysis of fully se-
quenced sorghum recombinant inbred lines (RILs) and
in RNA-seq analysis from multiple tissues to investi-
gate the structural and functional evolution of tillering
in panicoid grasses. This position is based in the lab
of Dr. Jennifer Hawkins (http://hawkins.bio.wvu.edu).
The Populus project will involve design and analysis of
assays for large-scale structural polymorphisms. This
position is based in the lab of Dr. Stephen DiFazio
( http://www.as.wvu.edu/ ~ sdifazio). The positions
are located in the Department of Biology at West Vir-
ginia University's main campus in Morgantown. The
post-docs will be part of a collaborative team of ge-
neticists and bioinformaticists located across dierent
institutions nationally. Requirements: A PhD in bioin-
formatics, computer science, genetics or other relevant
topic; a strong background in statistics; procient in
the Linux environment and one or more scripting lan-
guages; experience with the analysis of large biological
data sets. Individuals interested in the position should
send (1) a cover letter summarizing their research inter-
ests and expertise relevant to the project (2) a Curricu-
lum Vitae, and (3) the names and contact information
of at least three people who can provide recommenda-
tions. The application should be sent as a single pdf
le to Dr. Hawkins (Jennifer.hawkins@mail.wvu.edu).
Salary will be commensurate with appropriate expe-
rience and the position includes health and retirement
benets. Review of applications will begin immediately
and will continue until a suitable applicant has been
found. West Virginia University is an equal opportu-
nity, armative action employer.
Jennifer Hawkins <jshawkins@mix.wvu.edu >108 EvolDir March 1, 2014
WorkshopsCourses
CostaRica ConservationGenetics May24-Jun3 reminder
108
Florida EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
Guangdong China SocialEvolution Jun29-Jul3 . . . .109
HCMR Crete MicrobialDiversity May27-Jun6 . . . . 110
HarvardU PlantMorphology Jun9-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
HarvardU PlantSystematics Jun9-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
Jena Germany PopulationGeneticsComputation Apr4
112
Leipzig Biodiversity CallProposals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 113
Montreal PopulationGenetics May26-30 2 . . . . . . . . 113
OhioStateU Phrapl ApproxLikelihoodSoftware May28-30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114
Sicily SystemsBiology Jun15-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114
SwissAlps EvolutionaryBiology Jun19-25 . . . . . . . . . 115
Toulouse EvolutionEconomics May22-23 . . . . . . . . . .115
Tromso Norway DNA Metabarcoding Mar31-Apr5 RE-
MINDER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116
UBremen EvolutionStatistics Jun10-13 . . . . . . . . . . . 116
UCambridge DarwinsLegacy Mar21-23 . . . . . . . . . . . 117
UTromso GeometricMorphometrics May5-9 . . . . . . 117
WoodsHole EvolutionOfAging Aug3-23 . . . . . . . . . . .118
CostaRica ConservationGenetics
May24-Jun3 reminder
Hello all,
I wanted to send out a reminder of CONSERVATION
GENETICS, an upcoming graduate-level 2.0 credit spe-
cialty course which will be taught by Dr. Jim Hamrick
(University of Georgia), Dr. Fred Allendorf (Univer-
sity of Montana), and Dr. Erick Fuchs (University of
Costa Rica) in Costa Rica from MAY 24 TO JUNE
8, 2014. This course may be of interest to students in
various departments and interdisciplinary programs at
your institutions. Topics covered include: measurement
of genetic diversity and genetic structure, phylogeogra-
phy, application of molecular data to taxonomic ques-
tions, gene ow, mating systems, eective population
size estimates, and the application of genetic informa-
tion for the management and restoration of disturbed
landscapes. Your circulation of this material among
graduate students would be greatly appreciated.
Application deadline is February 3.
Ocial Course announcement [1] http://bit.ly/-
13AeiZC
Many thanks!
Andres S.
Andres Santana <andres.santana@ots.ac.cr >Florida EvolutionaryGenomics
Dear colleagues -
Are any of you interested in learning RNAseq, 2b-RAD,
qPCR or meta-barcoding in the beautiful Florida Keys
this summer?
Back by popular demand, we are pleased to announce
that in June-July 2014 we will teach a series of week-
long workshops on Methods in Ecological and Evolu-
tionary Genomics at the Mote Tropical Research Labo-
ratory, Florida Keys. We sending out a survey to deter-
mine which courses will gather the most interest since
we can only oer three ( ~1 week long) courses.
1. tag-based RNA-seq 2. 2b-RAD 3. quantitative PCR
4. Meta-barcoding with amplicon sequencing
If you are interested in participating in these work-
shops, please respond to this survey
http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/5ftx7rs
See the links below for examples of manuscripts pro-
duced from previous workshops, with workshop partic-
ipants as co-authors:
http://www.plosone.org/article/-
info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0026914#pone-
0026914-g005 http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/-
10.1111/1755-0998.12218/full Keep in mind that eachMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 109
workshop will be roughly $1,500 (depends on reagents,
to be nalized), which includes accommodation but
not food and transportation.
Please do not hesitate to contact us should you have
any questions. Best regards,
Mikhail V. Matz: matz@utexas.edu Sarah W. Davies:
daviessw@gmail.com Rachel M. Wright: rachel-
wright8@gmail.com
matz@utexas.edu
Guangdong China SocialEvolution
Jun29-Jul3
Workshop in Social Evolution Guangdong, China, 29
June ?C 3 July 2014
We are pleased to announce the *Postgraduate Training
Workshop in Breeding System Evolution* in Guang-
dong, China, June 29 - July 3, 2014. The principal
goal of this workshop is to understand how conict and
cooperation drive breeding system evolution in various
animals. This goal will be achieved by discussing func-
tions and mechanisms of breeding systems, incorpo-
rating approaches from behavioural ecology, genetics,
and evolutionary biology as well as evaluating state-of-
the-art research tools such as comparative phylogenetic
analyses and genomics.
*Please see further details below, or contact one of the
organisers*
Dr Yang Liu, email: liuy353@mail.sysu.edu.cn
Professor Tamas Szekely, email: T.Szekely@bath.ac.uk
|{
*Background*
Social behaviour that involves interactions among con-
specics is a basic feature in the lives of animals and
humans. In the context of breeding systems, the inter-
ests of males and females are usually dierent and this
can lead conicts between individuals. However, self-
ish males and female can be cooperative. Thus both
conict and cooperation drive much of social behaviour
including breeding systems. Understanding breeding
systems is a source of constant fascination to many
biologists, social scientists and bio-medical scientists.
Purpose of the workshop
The main goals of this workshop are to- learn modern concepts and recent research progress
in breeding system evolution;
- acquire knowledge and advanced skills in studying
breeding system evolution using a variety of animal sys-
tems including insects, shes, birds and mammals;
- provide opportunities for students to interact with
some of international leading researchers in the elds;
- designate intense training workshops to learn key skills
in social behaviour research;
- develop critical thinking and aptitude to phrase sci-
entic ideas;
- establish contacts between Chinese and international
students;
- discuss joint publicatitons and research grants be-
tween workshop participants. Major activities during
the Workshop
- Research seminars by Invited Speakers
- Working groups of 6-8 students each lead by an Invited
Speaker to discuss specic topics in sex roles, mating
systems, sexual selection and parental care
- Faculty members will assist the students to make
intensive discussion centered around topical areas of
breeding system evolution
- Presentation of students in the forms of talks or
posters
- Student presentation will be informally evaluated and
comments provided by the faculty members
- A welcome reception (cultural evening) and a farewell
party
- Field excursion at Heishiding Nature Reserve after the
Workshop Conrmed invited speaks include
- Prof Gerald Heckel (University of Bern, Switzerland)
- Prof Hans Hofmann (The University of Texas at
Austin, USA)
- Dr Michael Human (Kyoto University, Japan)
- Prof Michael Jennions (Australian National Univer-
sity, Australia)
- Dr Hope Klug (University of Tennessee at Chat-
tanooga, USA)
- Prof Dingzhen Liu (Beijing Normal University, China)
- Prof Tamas Szekely (University of Bath, UK) Pro-
gram
29 June ?C 3 July 2014 (Sunday to Thursday). The
Workshop will start on Sunday evening with registra-
tion, welcome reception and a social event, and will110 EvolDir March 1, 2014
end Thursday morning. The academic events will take
place between Monday to Wednesday all day. A nal-
ized timetable will be annouced in due course. Venue
The Workshop will be based at the Field Station of Sun
Yat-Sen University inside Heishiding Nature Reserve,
northwest Guangdong (see
https://www.google.com/maps?t=-
m&ll#.459874,111.896602&z&q=-
Heishiding+Nature+Reserve+%E9%BB%91%E7%9F%B3%E9%A1%B6%E8%87%AA%E7%84%B6%E4%BF%9D%E6%8A%A4%E5%8C%BA&cid=
0xd1e61006590fc804&output=classic ).
The Reserve covers about 4000 ha of evergreen broad-
leaved forest, and it is designated as a one of the ref-
erence location of CTFS (*Center for Tropical Forest
Science*) global network.
*Host*
School of Life Sciences, Sun Yat-sen University
*Co-host*
Guangdong Key Laboratory for Biodiversity Dynamics
and Conservation
School of Sociology and Anthropology, Sun Yat-sen
University
The Biology Museum, Sun Yat-sen University
Organizers
- Dr. Yang Liu, School of Life Sciences, Sun Yat-sen
University, China
- Prof. Tamas Szekely, University of Bath, UK
- Prof. Hong Pang, School of Life Sciences, Sun Yat-sen
University, China
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
HCMR Crete MicrobialDiversity
May27-Jun6
*Micro B3 Summer School in Crete 2014: from sam-
pling to analyzing microbial diversity & function*
This summer school is organized as a two-week inter-
active training *from Tuesday 27 May to Friday 6 June
2014* at the HCMR on Crete, Greece. Every day ahigh-level lecturer will share expertise with the stu-
dents, focusing on standards & methods, with theory
in the morning and interactive practical work in the
afternoon.
The summer school focuses on *preparing* and *plan-
ning* integrated *sampling work* and *data ows*,
taking into account some legal aspects, with a focus on
*bioinformatic* and *oceanographic tools*. The group
will perform data and sample management based on
the use of enrichments for analyses during the course,
on existing (OSD) data sets and the OSD Handbook.
Trainees will learn how to decide on using methods
and standards to address their research questions in
the elds of plankton diversity, ecology and function,
including biotechnological applications.
A small boat trip will be planned, log sheets & stan-
dardized sampling methods tested on board and in the
lab, and samples prepared for sequencing. Also the
group will learn about Access and Benet Sharing as-
pects, documentation and archiving. Finally, the use
of selected datasets for ecological modelling will be ex-
plored.
The number of participants is limited to 25 and the
application period will close on *15 March 2014*.
Information: http://www.microb3.eu/events/-
workshops/micro-b3-summer-school-crete Katerina
Vasileiadou Institute of Marine Biology, Biotechnology
and Aquaculture Hellenic Centre for Marine Research
(HCMR) P.O. Box 2214 71003 Heraklion Crete Greece
Tel: +30 2810 337742 Fax: +30 2810 337870 email:
kvasileiadou@hcmr.gr
Hellenic Center for Marine Research
Katerina Vasileiadou <kvasileiadou@hcmr.gr >
HarvardU PlantMorphology Jun9-20
APPLICATIONS DUE MARCH 1, 2014
Dear Colleagues,
Back by popular demand! Plant Morphology: Link-
ing Phenotype to Development will be taught by Peter
Endress (University of Zurich) and Pamela Diggle (Uni-
versity of Connecticut) June 9-20, 2014, at the Arnold
Arboretum of Harvard University. Registration is now
open.
This is an intensive two-week laboratory and lectureMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 111
course for advanced undergraduates, graduate students,
and postdoctoral fellows that will cover the fundamen-
tal principles of plant form, focusing on developmental
dynamics, evolutionary diversication, and ecological
and physiological function. The course will provide a
critical foundation for research in developmental genet-
ics, systematics, physiology, and more. Detailed infor-
mation is below.
Please bring this course to the attention of your stu-
dents and post docs!!
Best wishes,
Pamela Diggle, Peter Endress and William (Ned) Fried-
man
Plant Morphology: Linking Phenotype to Develop-
ment, June 9 - 20, 2014
With the opportunity to bring molecular genetic and
genomic tools to almost any clade of plants, a key
challenge will be to link comparative developmental
genetics to existing bodies of knowledge; notably the
two hundred year legacy of comparative developmental
morphology. This integration is critical as the phyloge-
netic, structural, and ecological breadth of plant taxa
open to study expands, and the sophistication of poten-
tial questions increases in complexity. This course will
provide vital analytical tools central to understanding
the developmental bases for structural and functional
diversity. Summer courses in organismic plant biology
at the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University bring
world-class faculty and a world-class living collection
together to enable students from around the world to
know the phenotype.
In 2014, Plant Morphology: Linking Phenotype to De-
velopment, an intensive two-week laboratory and lec-
ture course for advanced undergraduates, graduate stu-
dents, and postdoctoral fellows will cover the funda-
mental principles of plant form, focusing on develop-
mental dynamics, evolutionary diversication, and eco-
logical and physiological function. Students will be pre-
sented with the conceptual and analytical tools neces-
sary to interpret the vast array of morphologies that ex-
ist among plants. Professors Pamela Diggle (University
of Colorado) and Peter Endress (University of Zurich)
will serve as the instructors. This course is limited to
12 students.
To apply: please go to http://arboretum.harvard.edu/-
education/plant-morphology-linking-phenotype-to-
development/ Costs: Each student will receive a
travel stipend of up to $500; meals and dormitory
lodging will be provided for all participants.
Topics covered:Week 1: Vegetative morphology including embryogene-
sis and establishment of the basic body plan, modes
of germination and establishment, concepts of juve-
nile and adult phases, phyllotaxy, shoot longitudi-
nal symmetry (including heteroblasty), axis thicken-
ing, shoot transectional symmetry, branching, struc-
tural and functional specialization of shoot branches,
leaf development, leaf lateral and longitudinal symme-
try, structural and functional specialization of leaves,
root development, structural and functional specializa-
tion of roots, plant architecture, evo-devo.
Saturday and Sunday will involve tours of the living
collections of the Arnold Arboretum and opportunities
to explore the Boston area.
Week 2: Reproductive morphology including inores-
cence and ower structure, branching patterns and
other features of inorescences, ower organization and
architecture, ower development, phyllotaxy and sym-
metry, organs of the perianth, androecium and gy-
noecium, synorganization of oral organs, angiosperm
ower diversity, owers of ?basal? angiosperms, mono-
cots, eudicots, the most complex owers (orchids, as-
clepiads), structural solutions of functional constraints
in reproductive biology, evolutionary trends in owers.
For additional information contact Pamela Diggle:
pamela.diggle@uconn.edu <mailto:pamela.diggle@uconn.edu >
Pamela Diggle
Professor Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology University of Connecticut
pamela.diggle@uconn.edu
HarvardU PlantSystematics Jun9-20
Dear Colleagues,
Back by popular demand! Plant Morphology: Link-
ing Phenotype to Development, will be taught by Peter
Endress (University of Zurich) and Pamela Diggle (Uni-
versity of Connecticut) June 9-20, 2014, at the Arnold
Arboretum of Harvard University. Registration is now
open.
This is an intensive two-week laboratory and lecture
course for advanced undergraduates, graduate students,
and postdoctoral fellows that will cover the fundamen-
tal principles of plant form, focusing on developmental
dynamics, evolutionary diversication, and ecological
and physiological function. The course will provide a112 EvolDir March 1, 2014
critical foundation for research in developmental genet-
ics, systematics, physiology, and more. Detailed infor-
mation is below.
Please bring this course to the attention of your stu-
dents and post docs!!
Best wishes,
Pamela Diggle, Peter Endress and William (Ned) Fried-
man
Plant Morphology: Linking Phenotype to Develop-
ment, June 9 - 20, 2014
With the opportunity to bring molecular genetic and
genomic tools to almost any clade of plants, a key
challenge will be to link comparative developmental
genetics to existing bodies of knowledge; notably the
two hundred year legacy of comparative developmental
morphology. This integration is critical as the phyloge-
netic, structural, and ecological breadth of plant taxa
open to study expands, and the sophistication of poten-
tial questions increases in complexity. This course will
provide vital analytical tools central to understanding
the developmental bases for structural and functional
diversity. Summer courses in organismic plant biology
at the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University bring
world-class faculty and a world-class living collection
together to enable students from around the world to
know the phenotype.
In 2014, Plant Morphology: Linking Phenotype to De-
velopment, an intensive two-week laboratory and lec-
ture course for advanced undergraduates, graduate stu-
dents, and postdoctoral fellows will cover the funda-
mental principles of plant form, focusing on develop-
mental dynamics, evolutionary diversication, and eco-
logical and physiological function. Students will be pre-
sented with the conceptual and analytical tools neces-
sary to interpret the vast array of morphologies that ex-
ist among plants. Professors Pamela Diggle (University
of Colorado) and Peter Endress (University of Zurich)
will serve as the instructors. This course is limited to
12 students.
To apply: please go to http://arboretum.harvard.edu/-
education/plant-morphology-linking-phenotype-to-
development/ Costs: Each student will receive a
travel stipend of up to $500; meals and dormitory
lodging will be provided for all participants.
Topics covered:
Week 1: Vegetative morphology including embryogene-
sis and establishment of the basic body plan, modes
of germination and establishment, concepts of juve-
nile and adult phases, phyllotaxy, shoot longitudi-
nal symmetry (including heteroblasty), axis thicken-ing, shoot transectional symmetry, branching, struc-
tural and functional specialization of shoot branches,
leaf development, leaf lateral and longitudinal symme-
try, structural and functional specialization of leaves,
root development, structural and functional specializa-
tion of roots, plant architecture, evo-devo.
Saturday and Sunday will involve tours of the living
collections of the Arnold Arboretum and opportunities
to explore the Boston area.
Week 2: Reproductive morphology including inores-
cence and ower structure, branching patterns and
other features of inorescences, ower organization and
architecture, ower development, phyllotaxy and sym-
metry, organs of the perianth, androecium and gy-
noecium, synorganization of oral organs, angiosperm
ower diversity, owers of ?basal? angiosperms, mono-
cots, eudicots, the most complex owers (orchids, as-
clepiads), structural solutions of functional constraints
in reproductive biology, evolutionary trends in owers.
For additional information contact Pamela Diggle:
pamela.diggle@uconn.edu
Pamela Diggle
Professor Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology University of Connecticut
pamela.diggle@uconn.edu
Jena Germany
PopulationGeneticsComputation
Apr4
The community of researchers on the theory of Evolu-
tionary Computation (EC, a branch of computer sci-
ence) reaches out to researchers working on population
genetics to inform about each other's work in a semi-
formal workshop (no registration fee). See below for
the ocial call for participation.
===Call for Participation
The 8th Workshop on Theory of Randomized Search
Heuristic (ThRaSH 2014) 4-5 April 2014, Jena, Ger-
many
http://www.theinf.uni-jena.de/thrash contact:
timo.koetzing@uni-jena.de
Deadline for abstract submission: 2 March, 2014 Noti-
cation about accepted talks: 5 March, 2014 Deadline
for registration: 16 March, 2014March 1, 2014 EvolDir 113
Abstract submission and registration (no fee) by e-mail
to timo.koetzing@uni-jena.de
Theory of randomized search heuristics continues to
be a lively, exciting, and important eld of research.
The ThRaSH workshop series provides a forum to dis-
cuss new trends and ideas. It aims at stimulating in-
teractions within the research eld and between peo-
ple from dierent disciplines. The eighth workshop
of the series will take place in Jena, Germany on the
4th and 5th of April, 2013; details about the venue as
well as all other information pertaining to the work-
shop can be found on the workshop homepage http:/-
/www.theinf.uni-jena.de/thrash . The main topics of
ThRaSH are the theory of continuous and discrete op-
timization by evolutionary computation. In addition
to this, this year's ThRaSH also opens to population
genetics, a branch of theoretical biology. In the past
decade, evolutionary computation and population ge-
netics have studied very similar concepts independently
and with orthogonal approaches. We want to bring to-
gether researchers working in both biological and arti-
cial evolution, inform about each others work and give
directions for future research.
We invite researchers working on theoretical aspects of
randomized search heuristics and/or population genet-
ics who would like to present and discuss their work to
submit a short abstract (a single page, either in plain
text or pdf). As always at ThRaSH, the primary focus
is on discussing recent ideas and detecting challenging
topics for future work, rather than on the presentation
of nal results.
Registration for the workshop is free. However, we
ask participants to register by the registration dead-
line. Please indicate with your registration if your are
a vegetarian to allow for appropriate lunch and dinner
options.
Tobias Friedrich and Timo K otzing (Friedrich-Schiller-
Universit at Jena)
timo.koetzing@gmail.com
Leipzig Biodiversity CallProposals
sDiv, the Synthesis centre for Biodiversity Sciences
(www.idiv.de/sdiv), a unit of the German Centre for
Integrative Biodiversity Research (iDiv) Halle-Jena-
Leipzig herewith announces the 2nd call for workshops.
The submission deadline is 1st of April 2014.You can nd all relevant information here: http://-
www.idiv.de/sdiv/calls Please spread this announce-
ment among your colleagues and networks.
Don't hesitate to contact me (marten.winter@idiv.de)
for any questions.
Thanks a lot!
With best regards from sunny Leipzig
sMarten Winter
Dr. Marten Winter Scientic Coordinator / Wis-
senschaftlicher Koordinator Synthesis Centre for Bio-
diversity Sciences - sDiv
Phone +49(0)341-97-33129 Fax +49(0)341-97-39358
Email marten.winter@idiv.de
Homepage: http://www.idiv.de/sdiv/coordinator/-
vcard item 86429/detail German Centre for Integra-
tive Biodiversity Research (iDiv) Halle-Jena-Leipzig
Deutscher Platz 5e 04103 Leipzig
Germany iDiv ist ein Forschungszentrum der Deutschen
Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG). Es ist eine zentrale
Einrichtung der Universit at Leipzig im Sinne des
x92 Abs. 1 S achsHSFG und wird zusammen
mit der Martin-Luther-Universit at Halle-Wittenberg,
der Friedrich-Schiller-Universit at Jena sowie dem
Helmholtz-Zentrum f ur Umweltforschung (UFZ) be-
trieben. Sieben aueruniversit are Einrichtungen
unterst utzen iDiv nanziell sowie durch ihre Ex-
pertise: das Max-Planck-Institut f ur Biogeochemie
(MPI BGC), das Max-Planck-Institut f ur chemische
Okologie (MPI CE), das Max-Planck-Institut f ur evolu-
tion are Anthropologie (MPI EVA), das Leibniz-Institut
Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und Zellkul-
turen (DSMZ), das Leibniz-Institut f ur Panzenbio-
chemie (IPB), das Leibnitz-Institut f ur Panzengenetik
und Kulturpanzenforschung (IPK) und das Leibniz-
Institut Senckenberg Museum f ur Naturkunde G orlitz
(SMNG). USt-IdNr. DE 141510383 and
Marten Winter <marten.winter@idiv.de >
Montreal PopulationGenetics
May26-30 2
The 7th annual Montreal Spring School of Population
Genomics and Genetic Epidemiology
May 26 to 30, 2014 Montreal, Canada
This workshop provides training in the rapidly de-114 EvolDir March 1, 2014
veloping disciplines of genetic epidemiology, human
evolutionary genetics, population genomics and bio-
informatics.
The training will be based on real-data examples from
the instructors laboratories.
** For the most recent information and to
register, please visit Our Web Site (http://-
montrealspringschool.us6.list-manage1.com)
If you think you know someone who may be
interested in this workshop, please forward this
message and/or download the poster (http://-
montrealspringschool.us6.list-manage.com) for display
(also found on the home page of our web site). Thank
you!
Gillian Greig, Coordinator, Montreal Spring School
www.montrealspringschool.ca Montreal Spring School
<montrealspringschool@gmail.com >
OhioStateU Phrapl
ApproxLikelihoodSoftware
May28-30
Phrapl Workshop Announcement
In this workshop, Brian O'Meara and Bryan Carstens
introduce students to a new software package
(PHRAPL) that implements phylogeographic inference
using approximated likelihoods. PHRAPL will allow
users to calculate the probability of a set of models
given the data [pr(Mi jD)] so that an assessment can
be made regarding which of these models is the most
appropriate for their empirical system. PHRAPL em-
ploys a heuristic exploration of model space and returns
approximated likelihoods of a set of models given the
data, where each model consists of a delimited species
tree and the parameters (such as gene ow, population
size and rate of change) that are required to describe
the history of divergence. Students will be introduced
to basic probability theory, information theory and co-
alescent modeling. They will use/learn R functions,
analyze their data using PHRAPL, and interpret the
results. In addition, approaches to collecting phylogeo-
graphic data using next-generation sequencing will be
discussed.
The workshop will occur at the Mathematical Bio-
sciences Institute on the main campus of The Ohio
State University. The workshop will begin at 8:00am on May 28th, and last until 12:00 pm on May
30th. Travel stipends are available for a dozen stu-
dents. To apply, please see http://carstenslab.org.ohio-
state.edu/OSU/phrapl workshop.html for more infor-
mation.
Bryan Carstens
Bryan C. Carstens Department of Evolution, Ecology,
& Organismal Biology The Ohio State University 318
W. 12th Avenue Columbus, OH 43210-1293
web: http://carstenslab.org.ohio-state.edu/OSU/-
Carstens Lab.html blog: https://u.osu.edu/-
carstens.12/ publications: http://carstenslab.org.ohio-
state.edu/OSU/Publications.html spedeSTEM:
http://spedestem.asc.ohio-state.edu/ skype:
bryan carstens oce: 614.292.6587 cell: 734.474.8527
fax: 614.292.2030
Bryan Carstens <bryan.c.carstens@gmail.com >
Sicily SystemsBiology Jun15-19
Call for Participation (apologies for multiple copies)
Synthetic and Systems Biology Summer School:
Biology meets Engineering and Computer Science
Taormina - Sicily, Italy, June 15-19, 2014
http://www.taosciences.it/ssbss2014/ ss-
bss2014@dmi.unict.it
*Application Deadline: February 15 2014*
*List of Speakers* Uri Alon, Weizmann Institute of Sci-
ence, Israel Jef Boeke, Johns Hopkins University, USA
Jason Chin, MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, UK
Virginia Cornish, Columbia University, USA Angela
DePace, Harvard University, USA Paul Freemont, Im-
perial College London, UK Tanja Kortemme, Univer-
sity of California San Francisco, USA Giuseppe Nicosia,
University of Catania, Italy Sven Panke, ETH, Switzer-
land Rahul Sarpeshkar, MIT, USA Giovanni Strac-
quadanio, Johns Hopkins University, USA Ron Weiss,
MIT, USA
School Directors Jef Boeke, Johns Hopkins University,
USA Giuseppe Nicosia, University of Catania, Italy
Mario Pavone, University of Catania, Italy Giovanni
Stracquadanio, Johns Hopkins University, USA
Short Talk and Poster Submission Students may sub-
mit a research abstract for presentation. School direc-
tors will review the abstracts and will recommend forMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 115
poster or short-oral presentation. Abstract should be
submitted by February 15, 2014. The abstracts will be
published on the electronic hands-out material of the
summer school. ssbss2014@dmi.unict.it
Co-located Event: The 3rd International Synthetic
Yeast Genome (Sc2.0) Meeting will be held in Taormina
Friday June 20, 2014
cfp.ssbss2014@dmi.unict.it
SwissAlps EvolutionaryBiology
Jun19-25
Evolutionary Biology Workshop in the Alps
19-25 June 2014, Arolla, Switzerland
Extended deadline: March 2.
Target participants: PhD students, advanced Master
students
The main goals of this annual workshop, based on a con-
cept developed by Stephen Stearns and John Maynard
Smith, are to develop the following skills: - develop-
ing your scientic ideas through discussions in groups; -
thinking critically and expressing oneself clearly; - turn-
ing a general idea into a research project; - writing a
research proposal and defending it.
Faculty: Nina Wedell (University of Exeter, UK) Ul-
rich Mueller (University of Texas, Austin, TX) Tanja
Schwander (University of Lausanne, Switzerland) John
Pannell (University of Lausanne, Switzerland) Tadeusz
Kawecki (University of Lausanne, Switzerland)
It is you, the students, who will be in charge in this
course. You will be divided in groups of 4-5 students.
In those groups, you will work on your ideas. You, as a
group, will decide what the important open questions
in broadly dened evolutionary biology are, you will
choose one, and attempt to develop a proposal for a
research project that will address it. The faculty will
visit the groups during the discussions to answer your
questions, provide coaching and give you feedback on
your projects, but they will generally take the back seat.
Additionally, the faculty will give talks about their re-
search and be available for informal discussion with in-
dividual students. At the end you will present your
projects to other participants, and we will party.
The workshop will take place in the 100-year old ho-
tel Kurhaus http://www.hotel-kurhaus.arolla.com/, lo-cated in a small alpine village at 2000 m of altitude,
which will allow you to focus on work while being able
to enjoy the magnicent landscape and the Alpine ora.
3 ETSC credit points
Costs: CHF 610.- for room and board; there is no tu-
ition fee.
To apply, send a single le (pdf or rtf) con-
taining a short motivation letter, a cv, and the
name of your scientic advisor to Caroline Betto-
Colliard <ecologie-evolution@cuso.ch >, with Cc to
tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch .
Tadeusz J. Kawecki Associate Professor Department
of Ecology and Evolution University of Lausanne Bio-
phore, oce 3111 CH 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland
tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch
Toulouse EvolutionEconomics
May22-23
Call for papers in evolutionary biology Poster session at
the \2nd Toulouse Economics and Biology workshop"
(May 22-23, 2014, Toulouse, France)
Conrmed speakers: Erol Akcay (Biology, University
of Pennsylvania) Sam Bowles (Economics, Santa Fe In-
stitute) David Cesarini (Economics, New York Univer-
sity) Andy Gardner (Biology, University of St Andrews)
Michael Hochberg (Biology, Institut des Sciences de
l'Evolution - Montpellier) Hillard Kaplan (Anthropol-
ogy, University of New Mexico) Laurent Lehmann (Bi-
ology, University of Lausanne) Olof Leimar (Biology,
Stockholm University) Bobbi Low (Biology, University
of Michigan) Georg N oldeke (Economics, University of
Basel)
Submissions (abstract + C.V.) to the poster session
should be sent to econbio poster@iast.fr no later than
March 15, 2014. A limited number of travel grants will
be available. When submitting, please specify whether
you are applying for a travel grant.
For more information, please visit: http://-
www.iast.fr/event/2nd-toulouse-economics-and-
biology-workshop
Ingela Alger <ingela.alger@gmail.com >116 EvolDir March 1, 2014
Tromso Norway DNA
Metabarcoding Mar31-Apr5
REMINDER
Dear colleague,
I would like to wish you a happy new year and to re-
mind you that the deadline for registering to the DNA
metabarcoding spring school is the next Sunday.
Best regards
Eric Coissac
Registration deadline is 12 January 2014
DNA metabarcoding is a rapidly evolving method for
assessing biodiversity from environmental DNA. It has
a wide range of applications: biodiversity monitoring,
animal diet assessment, reconstruction of paleo com-
munities, among others. DNA metabarcoding relies on
molecular techniques such as PCR and next generation
sequencing, and requires bioinformatics and biostatis-
tics competence to analyze sequencing results. This ap-
proach integrates several scientic areas and requires a
broad range of skills, in addition to the classical ecolog-
ical knowledge related to the considered research topic.
The DNA metabarcoding spring school is now in its
third edition and this year it is co-organized by the
metabarcoding.org team and the Research School in
Biosystematics - ForBio in Troms, Norway. Also this
year, the school is divided into two parts.
- The DNA metabarcoding spring school (31 March -
3 April 2014), that will be held during four days at
the Skibotn Field Station, - A two-day workshop at the
Troms University Museum that will follow the course
(4 - 5 April 2014). Participants can register for both the
school and workshop (25 places) or only for the work-
shop (no limit). To register for University of Troms
ECTS (BIO-8001 registration form) or a ForBio course
certicate stating the number of ECTS (no additional
registration needed), participants have to attend both
the school and the workshop. As part of the course
program, each participant is required to (i) give a 12
minute talk about their research during the evening
sessions of the school, and (ii) present a corresponding
poster during the workshop.
Registration Registration deadline is 12 January 2014
This year the registration to the third DNA metabar-
coding spring school is a two steps process.- You need to be a ForBio member or associate. - Any-
one can register as a ForBio associate. To register as
a ForBio associate please visit the ForBio membership
page - To become a ForBio member you must be regis-
tered as a PhD student or hired as a postdoctoral fellow
at a Norwegian, Swedish, Danish, or Finnish university.
- Now that you have a ForBio status (member or asso-
ciate) you have to register to the school and/or the
workshop itself by lling out the registration page.
All participants attending both the school and work-
shop can receive a ForBio course certicate stating
the course description and number of ECTS earned
(2 in this case). If you would like to receive Univer-
sity of Troms ECTS (2) instead of a ForBio course
certicate, please feel out the BIO-8001 registration
form and follow the submission instructions on it. If
you have any questions about University of Troms
registration, please contact Sergei Drovetski (sdrovet-
ski@gmail.com).
For more information go to : http://-
metabarcoding.org/spip.php?article66 or on the
registration website : http://www.forbio.uio.no/-
events/courses/2014/metabarcoding workshop.html
Dr Eric Coissac Associate professor Laboratoire
d'Ecologie Alpine UMR CNRS-UJF 5553 / UMR
CNRS 5553 Universit e J. Fourier Domaine de Saint
Martin d'H eres 2233, rue de la piscine B^ at. D Biologgie
BP 53, 38041 Grenoble Cedex 9 France
Eric.Coissac@inria.fr
UBremen EvolutionStatistics
Jun10-13
*Workshop on Univariate Statistics in Ecology and
Evolution Using R*
*Date: June 10 - 13, 2014*
*Place: University of Bremen*
Application deadline: 25th of April, 2014
Data obtained in research in ecology and evolution are
often not normally distributed. Within the workshop
we will use the unifying concept of generalized linear
models (GLM) to deal with such data. Besides short
lectures, exercises will be oered using the open source
software R.
*For further information please visit our website: *
*https://sites.google.com/site/statisticsbremen/*March 1, 2014 EvolDir 117
Topics covered: Linear Models, Generalized Linear
Models (Poisson, Negative binomial, Gamma and Bi-
nomial distribution), Zero-inated/-truncated Models,
Generalized Linear Mixed Models
Thanks to the funding of the *Deutsche Zoologische
Gesellschaft*, registration is free for all DZG members.
We hope to welcome you soon in Bremen,
the organizing committee,
Katharina Merkel, Mareike Koppik and Thomas
Homeister
For additional information contact: statisticworkshop-
bremen@gmail.com
statisticworkshopbremen@gmail.com
UCambridge DarwinsLegacy
Mar21-23
\Charles Darwin: history and legacy" is a weekend
course from the University of Cambridge Institute of
Continuing Education. The course will take place from
21 to 23 March at Madingley Hall, an elegant 16th cen-
tury mansion located three miles west of Cambridge.
Taught by an esteemed scientist over a series of week-
end sessions, the course will provide an excellent insight
into Darwin's enduring impact.
Course description
Darwin's legacy extends into many branches of modern
biology and other life sciences with varying degrees of
acceptance and controversy. The course will conclude
with a discussion of how the theory of natural selec-
tion and evolution has become a 'universal' concept of
Darwinism and how environmental adaptation can be
ascribed to other disciplines including literature, music,
mathematics and many more.
The tutor: Craig Gershater
Craig JL Gershater has, for most of his career, worked
as a research scientist in the pharmaceutical industry
specialising in microbial biochemistry, biotechnology,
computer control systems and applied mathematics. He
holds degrees in biochemistry, mathematics and micro-
biology and has done PhD research into fungal enzymol-
ogy. He has worked extensively in industry, managing
research and development programmes in the USA, Eu-
rope and New Zealand, and in academia, in particular
at Cambridge and London universities.Currently he works in the eld of synthetic biology and
is lecturer in applied statistics. More recently Craig,
as a Cambridge City Guide, has undertaken numerous
tours of Cambridge, many on the topic of the scientic
heritage of the University. He is also a qualied and
prize-winning Institute of Tourist Guiding Blue Badge
guide for the south of England and oers tours through-
out the region. He provides many courses to the Insti-
tute of Continuing Education, covering topics including
the scientic heritage of Cambridge, Darwin, Newton
and Leonardo da Vinci as well as Victorian, Edwardian,
and interwar-years science.
Additional details
This course will run from 21 to 23 March. It will begin
on Friday evening and disperse after lunch on Sunday.
Accommodation is available in Madingley Hall for the
duration of the course (typically the Friday and Sat-
urday nights, but an extra night is available on the
Sunday if desired).
The course cost is $240, which includes dinner on Fri-
day and Saturday and lunch on Saturday and Sunday.
Accommodation, including breakfast on Saturday and
Sunday, is available for $110 or $90 per person for two
people sharing.
You can nd full details about this course, including
the timetable, on its page on our website:
www.ice.cam.ac.uk/darwin James Burton Marketing
Assistant Institute of Continuing Education, University
of Cambridge Madingley Hall, Madingley, Cambridge
CB23 8AQ
T: +44 (0)1223 746421 E: james.burton@ice.cam.ac.uk
W: www.ice.cam.ac.uk * 140 years of continuing ed-
ucation at Cambridge 1873-2013 * * Become a Friend
of Madingley Hall: www.ice.cam.ac.uk/friends James
Burton <James.Burton@ice.cam.ac.uk >
UTromso GeometricMorphometrics
May5-9
please nd below the announcement for an introductory
course on Geometric Morphometrics using R, which
the organizers and instructors would like to post on
EvolDir.
Antigoni Kaliontzopoulou
COURSE ANNOUNCEMENT118 EvolDir March 1, 2014
*An introduction to geometric morphometrics using R
**5-9 May 2013, ForBio, University of Troms - The
Arctic University of Norway** *The analysis of organ-
ismal shape is central to many questions in ecology and
evolution. This course aims at providing an introduc-
tion to the theory and methods of geometric morpho-
metrics for analysing variation in shape and its covari-
ation with other variables. It will provide an overview
of the theory underlying the quantication of shape us-
ing landmark methods, and a practical guide to data
acquisition, standardization for obtaining shape vari-
ables, statistical treatment of shape variation and visu-
alization of the results in the R language for statistical
programming.
*Instructors: *Prof. Dean C. Adams, Dr. Michael
Collyer, Dr. Antigoni Kaliontzopoulou *Dead-
line for applications: *16 March 2014 *For ap-
plications and more information, please visit:
http://www.forbio.uio.no/events/courses/2014/-
zoomorphometrics.html* Antigoni Kaliontzopoulou
<antigoni@cibio.up.pt >
WoodsHole EvolutionOfAging
Aug3-23
Summer Course at the Marine Biology Lab, Woods
Hole, MA on the Molecular BIology of Aging
Course Directors: Daniel Promislow and Matt Kaeber-
lein
Dates: Aug 3rd to August 23rd, 2014
Topics covered: Molecular biology, evolution, demogra-
phy and systems biology of agingWebpage: http://hermes.mbl.edu/education/courses/-
special topics/bag.html Application Deadline: March
11, 2014
Details The Ellison Medical Foundation sponsors the
Molecular Biology of Aging Summer Course to be held
Aug 3 - August 23, 2014 at the Marine Biological Labo-
ratory in Woods Hole, Massachusetts. This three-week
lecture and laboratory course features the newest and
most exciting ideas in aging research. The course is
under the directorship of Matt Kaeberlein and Daniel
Promislow. While the focus will be primarily on the
molecular biology of aging, both lecture and lab will
include evolutionary, statistical demography and sys-
tems biology aspects of aging research.
Costs of attending the course, including travel, hous-
ing, and meals at the Marine Biology Lab in Woods
Hole, are fully covered by The Ellison Medical Founda-
tion. A distinguished faculty will interact with approx-
imately 20 students via lecture, discussion, hands-on
experiments, and analysis of data.
2013 Faculty and Lecturers: Rozalyn Anderson, Uni-
versity of Wisconsin-Madison Nir Barzilai, Albert Ein-
stein College of Medicine Shelley Berger, University
of Pennsylvania Anne Brunet, Stanford University Ju-
dith Campisi, Buck Institute for Research on Aging
Lenny Guarente, Massachusetts Institute of Technol-
ogy Leanne Jones, University of California, Los An-
geles Matt Meselson, MBL Patrick Phillips, Univer-
sity of Oregon Scott Pletcher, University of Michigan
Gary Ruvkun, Massachusetts General Hospital Yousin
Suh, Albert Einstein College of Medicine Marc Tatar,
Brown University Douglas Wallace, Children's Hospital
Research Institute
For additional information, contact: Daniel Promislow
Department of Pathology and Department of Biology
University of Washington promislo@uw.edu
Daniel Promislow <promislo@u.washington.edu >
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if itMarch 1, 2014 EvolDir 119
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.