E v o l D i r
April 1, 2018
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in the
same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary. The
nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you would
like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .64
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .117
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 139
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1402 EvolDir April 1, 2018
Conferences
Asilomar MolluscEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Bangalore EvolutionButteryImmunology Jun11-14 .3
EntebbeUganda SpeciationInAncientLakes8 Jul29-Aug3
3
FortCollins DroughtStressAdaptation Jun21-22 . . . . . 4
Hawaii OriginsAdaptiveRadiation Jul22-25 Deadline 4
Hungary SocialEvolution Apr19-22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
ImperialC London EvolGenetics Apr10-12 . . . . . . . . . . 6
London EvolGenetics Apr10-12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Marseilles EvolutionaryBiology Sep25-28 DeadlineJun30
7
MBL WoodsHole MolecularEvolution Jul19-29 . . . . . .7
McMasterU EarlyLife Jun24-27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8
MilnerCentreBath Evolution Sep18-21 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Monterey DeepSeaEvolution Sep9-14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Montpellier OriginAgriculture Sep11-14 . . . . . . . . . . . . 9Munich ReefEvolution Sep5-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
ParkCity Utah EvolutionaryMedicine Aug1-4 . . . . . .10
ParkCity Utah EvolutionaryMedicine Aug1-4 Absts 10
ParkCity Utah EvolutionMedicine Aug1-4 . . . . . . . . . 10
Portland GalaxyBioinformatics Jun25-30 . . . . . . . . . . 11
PuertoRico EvolutionaryAntrhopology Nov1-4 . . . . .12
Rennes Evolution Oct . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Sherbrooke Canada RECOMB-CG Oct9-12 . . . . . . . .13
Toulouse EconomicsAndEvoloution May24-25 . . . . . 14
UGottingen SensationEvolution Sep27-28 . . . . . . . . . .15
UK SexualSelection May . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
UMiami SEEC EcolEvolution Oct5-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
UMontpellier PhylogenomicsSoftware Aug17 . . . . . . .16
Warsaw HumanAndEvolution Sep24-26 Registra-
tionOpen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Asilomar MolluscEvolution
Dear all
The next World Congress of Malacology will be in Asilo-
mar conference grounds, Pacic Grove, California. The
congress is organised by Unitas Malacologica in con-
junction with the American Malacological Society, the
Western Society of Malacologists, and our other partner
societies. Asilomar is a stunning location and we are
excited to welcome you there.
We are now seeking proposals for thematic symposia
within the conference. The meeting includes all sci-
ence done using any molluscs as subjects, as well as
organismal biology of the molluscs themselves. Deadline
for proposals is 1 May. http://forms.calacademy.org/-
wcm2019 We are particularly interested in symposiumtopics that embrace (actually or theoretically) multiple
molluscan classes. We ask you to suggest a few speakers,
as indicative of the breadth of the topic. We will not
contact any suggested speakers without your permission.
We expect symposia to last a half day or full day, but if
you think your topic would extend beyond a day that's
also welcome. The selected symposia are not being
oered any funding support (we're sorry) but will be
advertised prominently in the run up to abstract sub-
mission and registration, and we are happy help you
recruit outside sponsorship for your symposium.
We also particularly encourage participation by early ca-
reer scientists and international members as symposium
organisers.
On behalf of the scientic programme committee, I am
looking forward to your symposium ideas!
Here's the link to the online form again - deadline 1 May
2018. http://forms.calacademy.org/wcm2019 Cheers,
JuliaApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 3
{ Dr Julia Sigwart Queen's University Belfast, Marine
Laboratory http://www.qub.ac.uk/qml/People/Sigwart
sabbatical address (2015-2018): University of California,
Berkeley, Museum of Paleontology
j.sigwart@qub.ac.uk
Bangalore
EvolutionButteryImmunology
Jun11-14
Conference: ' Ecological Immunology in Butteries, and
underlying mechanisms'
Dear Colleagues,
Please see below information detailing the upcoming
symposium \Ecological Immunology in Butteries, and
underlying mechanisms" to be held during the 8th Biol-
ogy of Butteries Conference, Bangalore, India, on June
11th to 14th. Both the symposium and the conference
aim to attract researchers from the elds of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology.
Butteries face challenges from wide range of organisms,
from pathogenic fungi, viruses, and bacteria, to endo-
and ecto-parasitoid wasps. An eective immune system
is, hence, crucial. Activation of an immune response is,
however, costly, and interactions with pathogens and
parasites most likely have great tness consequences
on the buttery hosts. Such adaptations may include
modications in the hosts' immune strategies, fecundity,
behaviours or other life-history traits.
This symposium aims to bring together people work-
ing on dierent facets of buttery immunity. We will
present the latest research on immune reactions, and
the fundamental trade-os between the investment into
immune functions and other costly life-history traits in
butteries, using tool-boxes from molecular biology to
ecology.
The invited speakers include: Prof. Jacobus de Roode,
Emory University, USA. Prof. de Roode's interests in-
clude how the host plant diet aects disease outcome in
butteries. (http://deroodelab.org/)
Dr. Christopher Wheat, Stockholm University, Swe-
den. Dr. Wheat will present his research on
the microevolutionary selection dynamics acting on
immune genes of the green veined white buttery,
Pieris napi. (http://www.zoologi.su.se/en/about/sta/-
person.php?suuid=cwhea)The Conference organiser, and symposium organisers,
Dr. Marjo Saastamoinen and Dr. Anne Duplouy now
welcome abstracts through the online registration form
for both talk and poster contributions from anyone and
any career level.
Please nd all details about the conference, in-
cluding registration form and fees here: http://-
www.biologyofbutteries.org/conference-registration
Please send titles and abstracts for the symposium on
Ecological Immunology in Butteries through the Con-
ference website http://www.biologyofbutteries.org/-
abstract-submission, no later than 30th of April 2018.
Please specify if you would like to present a talk or
poster. Please specify the speaker's aliation and the
names of all other authors of the study. Abstract should
not be longer than 200 words.
For accommodation: http://-
www.biologyofbutteries.org/accommodation We look
forward to meeting you in Bangalore in June. Sincerely,
The organising committee: Marjo Saastamoinen Anne
Duplouy
Anne Duplouy, PhD Organismal and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy Research Program University of Helsinki Fi-00014
Helsinki, Finland
Web: www.anneduplouy.net \Duplouy, Anne M R"
<anne.duplouy@helsinki. >
EntebbeUganda
SpeciationInAncientLakes8
Jul29-Aug3
Dear colleagues, this is a reminder for the International
Symposium \Speciation in Ancient Lakes 8" (SIAL 8)
that will take place from 29 July 3 August, 2018 in
Entebbe, Uganda. This will be the rst time for SIAL
to be held in Africa and we are looking forward to cel-
ebrate the 25th anniversary of SIAL at the shores of
famous Lake Victoria.
Early bird registration ends on 31 March. Please,
check the website for a preliminary program and
details on registration and conference fees: sial-
online.org/conferences/sial8.
Contact Christian.Albrecht@allzool.bio.uni-giessen.de
for general information
Contact Bjoern.Stelbrink@allzool.bio.uni-giessen.de for
registration and abstracts4 EvolDir April 1, 2018
Bj orn Stelbrink <Bjoern.Stelbrink@allzool.bio.uni-
giessen.de >
FortCollins
DroughtStressAdaptation Jun21-22
Registration is now open for a 2-day symposium Fron-
tiers in Breeding for Drought 21-22 June 2018 in Fort
Collins, Colorado
http://plantbreedingfordroughttolerance.colostate.edu/-
symposium.html Talks will span a variety of novel
approaches in phenotyping, genetic discovery and
analysis
Detlef Weigel, MPI Tuebingen Genetics and epigenetics
of adaptation to the abiotic environment in A. thaliana
Malia Gehan, Danforth Center Utilizing Natural Varia-
tion for Crop Resilience Under Temperature Stress
Duke Pauli, University of Arizona Unraveling stress
adaptive traits through the use of Phenomics
Alina Zare, University of Florida Machine Learning
Methods for Remote Sensing and Phenotyping
Brook Moyers, Colorado State University Genetics of
drought adaptation in rice
William Beavis, Iowa State University Redesigning Plant
Breeding to Eciently Transfer Discoveries of Genetic
Adaptation to Drought
Chris Topp, Danforth Center Phenotyping technologies
and computational tools for root structure-function and
genetic analyses
Mike Olsen, CIMMYT Kenya Drought Tolerant Maize
for Africa
\John.McKay@ColoState.EDU"
<John.McKay@ColoState.EDU >
Hawaii OriginsAdaptiveRadiation
Jul22-25 Deadline
*Invitation for consideration for oral presentation at the
Hawaii AGA on Origins of Adaptive Radiation, July
22-25, 2018*The 2018 American Genetic Association Symposium,
\*Origins of Adaptive Radiation*" is fast approaching,
*July 22-25 in Waimea, Hawaii*. The meeting, which
will explore processes at the early stages of adaptive
diversication, includes speakers working on diverse sys-
tems, from African cichlids, sticklebacks, Anolis lizards,
Galapagos nches and snails, Heliconius butteries,
Aquilegia plants, and Hawaiian honeycreepers, spiders,
dierent insects, and trees. And covering concepts rang-
ing from admixture, hybridization, fragmentation, plas-
ticity, and priority. The goal is to look for commonalities,
while also providing the opportunity to explore the many
local Hawaiian radiations.
- We encourage all those that are interested to submit
abstracts for posters
- Oral presentations are limited. *However, a small num-
ber of abstracts will be selected for oral presentations
and associated travel compensation* (registration, ac-
commodation & $300 travel bursary). For this, we are
particularly encouraging junior scientists to apply. *To
be considered for an oral presentation, abstracts must
be submitted by April 1st 2018*
- In addition, the AGA is oering *multiple free registra-
tion slots to graduate students* who submit an abstract.
There are also a small number of travel bursaries ( $300
each) available, and will be awarded to select students
based on their abstracts.
More details are provided below. If you have any
logistical questions, please contact Anjanette Baker
<theaga@theaga.org >. For any questions regarding
the content of the symposium, please contact Rosemary
Gillespie <gillespie@berkeley.edu >
Best wishes,
Rosemary Gillespie, AGA President
For full details, visit http://www.theaga.org . AGA
symposia are small, friendly gatherings, and provide
wonderful opportunities for students and researchers to
engage with one another and share their science.
We will open with a pupu reception on Sunday night,
and our Key Distinguished Lecturer, Ole Seehausen,
will lead o two full days of talks on Monday and Tues-
day. A luau reception with entertainment is planned for
Tuesday night. Finally, an optional expert-led eld trip
to explore radiation processes at Volcanoes National
Park will take place on Wednesday.
Registration is open! Registration cost includes recep-
tions, lunches, and coee breaks, as well as complimen-
tary AGA membership and subscription to Journal of
Heredity.
Invited Speakers:April 1, 2018 EvolDir 5
Key Distinguished Lecturer: Ole Seehausen, Eawag
Center, Switzerland Gordon Bennett, University of Cal-
ifornia, Merced Brian Bowen, Hawai ^Ei Institute of
Marine Biology
Rob Fleischer, Smithsonian Conservation Biology Insti-
tute Andrew Hendry, McGill University, Canada Scott
Hodges, University of California, Santa Barbara
Henrik Krehenwinkel, University of California, Berke-
ley Jonathan Losos, Washington University Jim Mallet,
Harvard University
Axel Meyer, University of Konstanz, Germany Anna Pa-
padopoulou, University of Cyprus, Republic of Cyprus
Christine Parent, University of Idaho
Karin Pfennig, University of North Carolina at Chapel
Hill Dan Rubino, University of Hawai ^Ei, MAnoa
Dolph Schluter, University of British Columbia, Canada
Kerry Shaw, Cornell University Elizabeth Stacy, Uni-
versity of Hawai ^Ei, Hilo Katie Wagner, University of
Wyoming
theaga@theaga.org
Hungary SocialEvolution Apr19-22
Hello
This is the last call for the conference on SOCIAL EVO-
LUTION in Hortobagy, Hungary 19-22 April 2018.
We are fortunate to have excellent young scientists
and eminent evolutionary biologists, ecologists and be-
havioural biologists at the conference that will be opened
by Prof J ozsef P alink as, President of ELVONAL cut-
ting edge program on Thursday 19th April. Friday and
Saturday (20 & 21 April) will be dedicated to presen-
tations and discussions. In addition, we'll have social
events that include slide shows of Hungarian wildlife
and Hungarian folk dancing, and of course, great food
and wonderful scenery. We kept the cost low to allow
students come along: the registration is 150 EUR that
includes accommodation and all meals.
We only had a few places left: please contact work-
shop2018.hortobagy@gmail.com before 31 MARCH
2018.
See further details below. The conference is supported
by ELVONAL programme, University of Debrecen and
Hortobagy National Park.
===SOCIAL EVOLUTION Conference, 19-22 April2018, Hortob agy, Hungary
Welcome to Hortob agy, a UNESCO-protected area
and the rst national park in Hungary. It
has a unique wildlife, landscape and people, see
further details at https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/-
Hortob%C3%A1gy National Park We invited elite sci-
entists from Hungary and abroad to discuss recent ad-
vances in the study of social evolution. The Work-
shop will also oer opportunities to young scientists and
students to present their work, and discuss potential
projects with senior scientists.
The provisional programme is as follows: Thursday 19
April - Arrival, Welcome reception
Friday 20 April - Full day scientic programme: presen-
tations by senior speakers, and contributions by partici-
pants
Saturday 21 April - Full day programme: presentations
by senior speakers, and contributions by participants
Sunday 22 April - Bird watching in Hortobagy and/or
departure
In the evenings, we'll have social events (slide shows,
evening discussions and folk dancing), so feel free to
bring your partner.
The conference will take place in the Visitor Centre
of Hortobagy National Park: http://www.hnp.hu/hu/-
szervezeti-egyseg/turizmus/oldal/hnp-latogatokozpont
Accommodation will be in the National Parks' guest-
house approx 20 min walk, and meals will be in local
restaurants. Registration will be around 150 EUR in
total that includes 3 nights in shared rooms (2 or 4
person per room), and 3 breakfast, lunch and dinner
each. We also oer reduced rate of registration of 20
EUR that does not cover accommodation or meals.
Hortob agy oers wonderful activities for everybody all
year round. Shortly after our Workshop there will be
the availability to visit the Puszta and learn about it's
ora and fauna and the people who lives there, see:
www.hnp.hu/en >From Budapest it takes about 2
hours to drive to Hortob agy, and from Debrecen about
30 min. Both Budapest and Debrecen have airports -
WizzAir now oers direct ies to Debrecen from vari-
ous European locations for a modest price. There are
airport transfers available to and from both airports.
There is a train line connecting Hortob agy to
F uzesabony and to Debrecen, approx. every other hour.
Professor Tamas Szekely Karola Szem an University of
Bath & Debrecen University of Debrecen
Tamas Szekely <T.Szekely@bath.ac.uk >6 EvolDir April 1, 2018
ImperialC London EvolGenetics
Apr10-12
Registration is now open for the Ecological Genetics
Group 2018!
The meeting concentrates on evolutionary, ecological
and population genetic issues in all types of organisms.
The 62nd Meeting of the Ecological Genetics Group
will be held at the Skempton Building, Imperial College
London between the 10th and 12th of April, 2018. The
conference is sponsored by the British Ecological Society
and the Genetics Society. There will be a full scientic
and social programme throughout the three-day period
of the conference. It brings together those working in
the elds of population genetics, ecology and evolution
from across Europe and beyond.
Talks and posters are welcome from all! For those of
you still completing your MScs and PhDs, remember
that you will have the chance to win the coveted best
talk/poster prizes! The Ecological Genetics Group meet-
ings have a long tradition of being friendly and relaxed,
where young researchers studying for their PhDs can mix
with established academics, and the organizing team
will ensure that this tradition is upheld. It includes a
free Natural History Museum Behind the Scenes Tour
On Wednesday afternoon.
No matter what stage of your career, please consider
presenting at EGG, we need you! Remember students-
there is the chance to win the best student talk/ poster
prizes!
If you would like to present either a talk or poster can
you let Gemma Beatty (geb3@aber.ac.uk) know by the
17th March 2018.
https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/ecological-genetics-
group-62nd-annual-meeting-tickets-42942802077?a=-
es2 Contact Email: geb3@aber.ac.uk
Best wishes, Kirsten Dr Kirsten Wol Reader in Evo-
lutionary Genetics Newcastle University School of Bi-
ology Devonshire Building, 5th oor Newcastle NE3
7RU 0191 208 4852 Kirsten.wol@ncl.ac.uk http://-
www.sta.ncl.ac.uk/kirsten.wol/
kirsten.wol@newcastle.ac.ukLondon EvolGenetics Apr10-12
Registration is now open for the Ecological Genetics
Group 2018!
The meeting concentrates on evolutionary, ecological
and population genetic issues in all types of organisms.
The 62nd Meeting of the Ecological Genetics Group
will be held at the Skempton Building, Imperial College
London between the 10th and 12th of April, 2018. The
conference is sponsored by the British Ecological Society
and the Genetics Society. There will be a full scientic
and social programme throughout the three-day period
of the conference. It brings together those working in
the elds of population genetics, ecology and evolution
from across Europe and beyond.
Talks and posters are welcome from all! For those of
you still completing your MScs and PhDs, remember
that you will have the chance to win the coveted best
talk/poster prizes! The Ecological Genetics Group meet-
ings have a long tradition of being friendly and relaxed,
where young researchers studying for their PhDs can mix
with established academics, and the organizing team
will ensure that this tradition is upheld. It includes a
free Natural History Museum Behind the Scenes Tour
On Wednesday afternoon.
No matter what stage of your career, please consider
presenting at EGG, we need you! Remember students-
there is the chance to win the best student talk/ poster
prizes!
If you would like to present either a talk or poster can
you let Gemma Beatty (geb3@aber.ac.uk) know by the
17th March 2018.
https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/ecological-
genetics-group-62nd-annual-meetin g-tickets-
42942802077?a=es2 Contact Email: geb3@aber.ac.uk
Best wishes, Kirsten Dr Kirsten Wol Reader in Evo-
lutionary Genetics Newcastle University School of Bi-
ology Devonshire Building, 5th oor Newcastle NE3
7RU 0191 208 4852 Kirsten.wol@ncl.ac.uk http://-
www.sta.ncl.ac.uk/kirsten.wol/
kirsten.wol@newcastle.ac.ukApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 7
Marseilles EvolutionaryBiology
Sep25-28 DeadlineJun30
Dear all , the dead line for the next evolutionary biology
meeting at Marseilles is June 30
For those that don't know the meeting, the Evolutionary
Biology Meeting at Marseilles goal is to gather together
International scientists interested in the mechanisms of
evolution that generate the incredible diversity of living
things found on Earth (and possibly beyond)
The meeting Will take place on September 25-28 2018
in Marseilles (Souh of France) more info : aeeb.fr (follow
the evolutionary biology meeting link)
More precisely the following subjects will be discussed:
Evolutionary biology concepts and modeling; Biodiver-
sity and Systematics; Comparative genomics ans post-
genomics (at all taxomic levels); Functional phylogeny;
Environment and biological evolution; Origin of life and
exobiology; Non-adaptative versus adaptative evolution;
Theminorphyla: their usefulness in evolutionary
biology knowledge; Convergent evolution Evolution of
complex traits (Evo-Devo) education
contact : Marie-H el ene Rome marie-helene-rome@univ-
amu.fr
Pierre Pontarotti DR CNRS
1 Aix Marseille Univ, IRD, APHM, MEPHI, IHU
M editerran ee Infection,Marseille France Evolutionary
Biology team. 2 CNRS tel 33 (0) 4 13 7 32425 http://-
aeeb.fr/?page id=1013 we are organizing the 22nd evo-
lutionary biology meeting at Marseilles September 25-28
2018 aeeb.fr
PONTAROTTI Pierre <pierre.pontarotti@univ-
amu.fr >
MBL WoodsHole
MolecularEvolution Jul19-29
Founded in 1988, the Workshop on Molecular Evolution
is the longest-running workshop if its kind. The 2018
workshop will be held July 19-29, and this will be its30th anniversary at the Marine Biological Lab in Woods
Hole, MA. The Workshop is the premier program for
integrating the methods, theory, and applications of
molecular phylogenetics, statistical genetics, molecular
evolution, and related disciplines. Students work closely
with internationally-recognized scientists, receiving (i)
high-level instruction in the principles of molecular evo-
lution and evolutionary genomics, (ii) advanced training
in statistical methods best suited to modern datasets,
and (iii) hands-on experience with the latest software
tools (often from the authors of the programs they are
using). The material is delivered via lectures, discus-
sions, and bioinformatic exercises motivated by contem-
porary topics in molecular evolution. A hallmark of this
workshop is the direct interaction between students and
eld-leading scientists. The workshop serves graduate
students, postdocs, and established faculty from around
the world seeking to apply the principles of molecular
evolution to questions of both basic and applied biologi-
cal sciences. A priority of this workshop is to foster an
environment where students can learn from each other
as well from the course faculty.
As the course progresses, participants learn how to use
the following software to address questions concern-
ing the origins, maintenance, and function of molec-
ular variation: ASTRAL, BEAST2, BEST, FASTA,
FigTree, GARLI, IQTree, MIGRATE, MAFFT, MP-
EST, RaxML, RevBayes, PAML, PAUP*, SNaQ, and
SVD Quartets. Students will have the opportunity to
work with software on their own laptops as well as re-
ceive training on how to use the same programs on a
high performance computer cluster.
In 2018 the course instructors include C ecile An e, Pe-
ter Beerli, Joseph Bielawski, Belinda Chang, Casey
Dunn, Scott Edwards, Laure Eme, Deise Josely Pereira
Gon calves, Tracy Heath, Mark Holder, John Huelsen-
beck, Lacey Knowles, Laura Kubatko, Michael Landis,
Paul Lewis, Emily Jane McTavish, Bui Quang Minh,
Suman Neupane, David Swoord, Noor White, Rachel
Williams and Anne Yoder.
Deadline for applications is April 6, 2018: https://-
ws2.mbl.edu/studentapp/studentapp.asp?courseID=-
MOLE More information on the Workshop is
available on the dedicated course website: https:/-
/molevol.mbl.edu/index.php/Main Page The dates
for the Workshop are designed to allow students to
segue directly into the Strategies and Techniques for
Analyzing Microbial Population Structures (STAMPS)
course, though please note that applications must be
submitted to, and are evaluated separately from, those
submitted to the Workshop on Molecular Evolution.
For further information, please contact Workshop co-8 EvolDir April 1, 2018
Directors:
Joseph Bielawski (j.bielawski@dal.ca) and/or Mark
Holder (mtholder@ku.edu)
\J.Bielawski@dal.ca" <J.Bielawski@dal.ca >
McMasterU EarlyLife Jun24-27
The Origins Institute at McMaster University is running
a research conference on Science of Early Life from June
24th-27th 2018. We now invite Registration and Ab-
stract submission (deadline 1st May) via the conference
web site:
http://origins.mcmaster.ca/early-life The conference
will present leading research in the Origins of Life, cover-
ing experimental, observational, and theoretical aspects.
Topics
- Astrochemistry
- Prebiotic Chemistry
- RNA World
- Life in the Laboratory
- Computational and Mathematical Modelling
- Linking Geology and Chemistry
The conference will highlight the new Origins of Life
Laboratory at McMaster, which has facilities for investi-
gation of nucleic acid and membrane biochemistry and
biophysics in controlled environments that simulate con-
ditions on the early Earth and other planets. There will
be a School for Graduate Students on Sun 24th June -
The RNA World in Theory and Practice.
A full list of conrmed invited speakers is on the web site
http://origins.mcmaster.ca/early-life Please encourage
your students and colleagues to attend. I hope to see
you at the conference.
Paul Higgs.
Director, Origins Institute, McMaster University,
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
\Higgs, Paul" <higgsp@mcmaster.ca >MilnerCentreBath Evolution
Sep18-21
The Milner Centre for Evolution at the University of
Bath, UK is delighted to announce the details of its inau-
gural conference, $B!H(BEvolution in the 21st Century\.
Details and registration here:
http://www.milnercentre.org/ The conference runs
from Tuesday 18th-Thursday 20th September 2018, al-
though people might like to stay on for the ocial open-
ing on 21st and public lecture that evening. Keynote
speakers are Neil Shubin, Peter and Roemary Grant,
Hanna Kokko and Gil McVean. The public lecture will
be delivered by Alice Roberts.
Aside from keynotes there are 20 lecture slots. Speakers
will be selected from submitted abstracts. There will
be one lecture slot for the Milner Prize lecturer (for
application details see http://www.milnercentre.org/-
milner-prize/).
For further enquiries please contact Laurence Hurst
(l.d.hurst@bath.c.uk)
Laurence D. Hurst
Professor of Evolutionary Genetics Director of The Mil-
ner Centre for Evolution Department of Biology and
Biochemistry University of Bath Bath Somerset, UK
BA2 7AY
tel: +44 (0)1225 386424 fax: +44 (0)1225
386779 email: l.d.hurst@bath.ac.uk website: http://-
people.bath.ac.uk/bssldh/LaurenceDHurst/Home.html
"Laurence D. Hurst\ <laurence@ldhurst.plus.com >
Monterey DeepSeaEvolution
Sep9-14
Hi All,
This is one of my favorite meetings and it only happens
once every 3 years. It is a great place to exchange ideas
about any biology of the deep sea or open ocean.
>From Steve Haddock - The next Deep-Sea Biology
Symposium will be held in Monterey, California on 9-14April 1, 2018 EvolDir 9
September 2018, and some important deadlines are fast
approaching. Early registration rates, abstract submis-
sions, and travel award requests are due on March 30th!
Please visit http://dsbs2018.org for more information. If
you need a pre-acceptance letter for an abstract, or wish
to register with the undergraduate student discount,
please email the organizers at dsbs@dsbs2018.org
Hope to see you there, Karen 'X Karen Osborn Research
Zoologist/Curator of Polychaetes, Peracarids and Plank-
ton Department of Invertebrate Zoology w 202.633.3668
osbornk@si.edu http://invertebrates.si.edu/osborn/-
http://orcid.org/0000-0002-4226-9257 SMITHSONIAN
INSTITUTION NATIONAL MUSEUM OF NATURAL
HISTORY Facebook <https://www.facebook.com/-
nmnh.fanpage/ >jTwitter <https://twitter.com/-
NMNH >jInstagram <https://www.instagram.com/-
smithsoniannmnh/ >
Mail: Department of Invertebrate Zoology, Smithsonian
National Museum of Natural History, MRC-163 P.O.
Box 37012, Washington, D.C. 20013-7012 USA
Courier Address: Smithsonian Institution, MR 0163,
Natural History, West Loading Dock, 10th and Consti-
tution Ave NW, Washington, D.C. 20560
\Osborn, Karen" <OsbornK@si.edu >
Montpellier OriginAgriculture
Sep11-14
Subject: Montpellier.HARLANIII OriginOfAgricultureandGR.Sept11-
14. Third Jack R. Harlan International Symposium
Dedicated
to the Origins of Agriculture and the Domestication,
Evolution,
and Utilization of Genetic Resources
https://sites.google.com/site/harlan3symposium2018
Montpellier will have the honor of hosting the Third
Jack R Harlan International Symposium on the Ori-
gins of Agriculture and Domestication, evolution and
utilization of genetic resources.
The Harlan Symposium was created by the University
of California (UC Davis, USA) as a tribute to Jack R.
Harlan, who was an American botanist and agronomist
(1917-1998). J.R. Harlan was a pioneer in the study of
origin agriculture and crops, showing the importance of
the relationship between the activity from human de-
velopment and the evolution of agricultural biodiversity.His most famous book \Crops and Man", 1975, remains
a reference and has been the bedside book of generations
students in plant breeding, especially in France, where
J.R. Harlan's inuence was very strong in the scientic
community dealing with plant genetic resources.
On invitation of the UC Davis, the Montpellier scientic
community has applied in 2016 for the third edition of
the Harlan Symposium, a prestigious, recurrent but rare
event, organized in 1997 and 2008. This application
was selected after a competitive process. The originality
of the Harlan symposium lies in the multidisciplinary
aspects of the science (from archeology to genetics and
agroecology), the variety of biological models (plants,
animals, microorganisms) and the broad temporal scale
(from the origin of agriculture to the current problems
of use of agricultural biodiversity). The Third Harlan
Symposium will be inuenced by the research thematics
of the South countries, given the Mediterranean and
tropical orientation of the research teams involved.
Information about the symposium E-mail : con-
tact@harlan3symposium.org
\yves.vigouroux@ird.fr" <yves.vigouroux@ird.fr >
Munich ReefEvolution Sep5-7
Dear all,
registration and abstract submission are now open for
the 5th Young Reef Scientists Meeting, September 5th-
7th in Munich (Germany).
The aim of the meeting is to provide master students,
PhD candidates and early-career researchers with an
opportunity to present their work, share and discuss
methodological approaches, and exchange ideas..
The meeting is open to all elds related to coral reef
research (e.g. biology, ecology, evolution, chemistry,
geology, paleontology, modelling, social sciences, conser-
vation, etc.).
Further information can be found here: http:/-
/www.en.palaeontologie.geowissenschaften.uni-
muenchen.de/young-reef-scientists-meeting/index.html
Best Regards
Nicola Conci
Department f ur Geo- und Umweltwissenschaften
Pal aontologie & Geobiologie Richard-Wagner-Str. 10
80333 M unchen10 EvolDir April 1, 2018
+49 (0) 89 2180 17935 n.conci@lrz.uni-muenchen.de
Nicola Conci <nicola.conci@my.jcu.edu.au >
ParkCity Utah
EvolutionaryMedicine Aug1-4
The abstract deadline is looming...March 31...for the
4th annual meeting of the International Society for Evo-
lution, Medicine, and Public Health. http://isemph.org
This year's meeting will be August 1-4, 2018 in a spec-
tacular mountain town just above Salt Lake City, Park
City, Utah, .
This interdisciplinary conference is an opportunity for
research biologists, students, clinicians and public health
professionals to share their research and advance the
goals of the society: to use evolutionary insights to
improve medical research and practice and to advance
evolutionary biology.
The conference will be anchored around presentations by
six internationally-celebrated keystone speakers. The
conference features special symposia on Alternatives
to Antibiotics, The Microbiome, Evolutionary Health
Behavior, and Evolution in Emergency Medicine and
Critical Illness, Cancer, and Human Genomics. A Pre-
Conference on Wilderness Medicine - Human Adapta-
tion to Extreme Environments will take place on August
1st, 2018 Please join us for this exciting meeting!
Download a poster for ISEMPH 2018 here and share
widely. https://isemph.org/resources/Documents/-
2018%20Poster%20Final.pdf ISEMPH 2018 is accepting
abstracts to be considered for poster or platform pre-
sentation now. Submit today by clicking the below link
https://easychair.org/cfp/ISEMPH2018 *Key dates* -
Abstract Submission Deadline March 31, 2018 - Early
Bird Registration Deadline April 30, 2018 - Conference
Begins August 1-4, 2018 *Venue* The conference venue
is the Yarrow DoubleTree Hotel in Park City, Utah.
Lodging information and additional conference details
are here: *https://isemph.org/Location-and-Lodging <
https://isemph.org/Location-and-Lodging >*
*Travel Grants* Travel grants are available for students
submitting abstracts, based on scientic merit, need,
and underrepresented categories in STEM. Contact con-
ference director Janice.mancuso@gmail.com for details.
Learn more: https://isemph.org/annualmeeting rm-
nesse@gmail.comParkCity Utah
EvolutionaryMedicine Aug1-4 Absts
Dear all,
Abstract submissions are open for the International
Society for Evolutionary Medicine & Public Health
(ISEMPH) 2018 meeting, August 1-4th in Park City
Utah. We have a fantastic line up of keynotes, including
Val Curtis, Chris Kuzawa, Maria Gloria Dominguez-
Bello, Andrew Read, Katie Hinde & Jacob Scott. See the
website for more: https://isemph.org/annualmeeting
Best wishes, Gillian
Dr Gillian Pepper Institute of Neuroscience Newcastle
University Henry Wellcome Building Framlington Place
Newcastle upon Tyne NE2 4HH United Kingdom
Email: gillian.pepper@ncl.ac.uk Mobile: +44 (0) 7951
295 751 Website: http://gillianpepper.com/ Gillian
Pepper <Gillian.Pepper@newcastle.ac.uk >
ParkCity Utah EvolutionMedicine
Aug1-4
Dear list members,
As a member of the 2018 Program Committee for the
International Society for Evolution, Medicine, and Pub-
lic Health <http://isemph.org/ >I am delighted to
announce our 4th annual meeting this year in Park
City, Utah, August 1-4, 2018. This interdisciplinary
conference is an opportunity for researchers, students,
clinicians and public health professionals to share their
research and advance the goals of the society: to use
evolutionary insights to improve medical research and
practice and to advance evolutionary biology.
The conference will be anchored around presentations by
six internationally-celebrated keystone speakers. In ad-
dition, the conference features presentations by winners
of the prestigious Omenn and Williams prizes. Special
symposia organized by members of the program commit-
tee are: The future of evolutionary medicine, Evolution
and health behavior, Evolution and medicine in light
of the microbiome, Adaptation and maladaptation inApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 11
sepsis and critical illness, Evolution and cancer, and
Novel solutions to chemotherapeutic resistance. A Pre-
Conference on Wilderness medicine - Human adaptation
to extreme environments will take place on August 1st,
2018.
Please join us for this exciting meeting! You
can download a poster for ISEMPH 2018 here
< https://isemph.org/resources/Documents/-
2018%20Poster%20Final.pdf >. ISEMPH 2018
is accepting abstracts to be considered for poster or
platform presentation now. Submit today by clicking
here<https://easychair.org/cfp/ISEMPH2018 >.
Key dates - Abstract Submission Deadline March 31,
2018 - Early Bird Registration Deadline April 30, 2018 -
Conference Begins August 1-4, 2018
Venue The conference venue is the Yarrow Double-
Tree Hotel in Park City, Utah. Lodging information
and additional conference details are here: https://-
isemph.org/Location-and-Lodging Travel Grants Travel
grants are available for students submitting abstracts,
based on scientic merit, need, and underrepresented
categories in STEM. Contact conference director Jan-
ice.mancuso@gmail.com for details. Learn more:
https://isemph.org/annualmeeting Thanks and best
wishes, Gillian
Dr Gillian Pepper Centre for Behaviour and Evolution
Institute of Neuroscience Henry Wellcome Building New-
castle University Framlington Place Newcastle Upon
Tyne, UK NE2 4HH
Email: gillian.pepper@ncl.ac.uk Mobile: 07951 295 751
Website: http://gillianpepper.com/ Gillian Pepper
<Gillian.Pepper@newcastle.ac.uk >
Portland GalaxyBioinformatics
Jun25-30
GCCBOSC 2018 - https://gccbosc2018.sched.com/ -
June 25-30, in Portland, Oregon, United States
GCCBOSC brings together these events: - Bioinfor-
matics Open Source Conference (BOSC 2018) - Galaxy
Community Conference (GCC2018)
GCCBOSC 2018 (https://gccbosc2018.sched.com/)
brings together the Bioinformatics Open Source Confer-
ence (BOSC) and the Galaxy Community Conference
GCC into a unied event, June 25-30, in Portland, Ore-
gon, United States.GCCBOSC features two days of training, a two day
meeting, and nishes with several days of intense collab-
oration at CollaborationFest Core and Encore events.
The meeting features joint and parallel sessions, and
shared keynotes, poster, demo, and birds-of-a-feather
sessions.
Oral presentation abstracts are due Friday, March 16
Oral presentation abstracts are being accepted through
Friday, March 16. If you are working in data-intensive
life science research, then there is no better place to
present your work to and learn from hundreds of other
researchers addressing challenging research questions at
the intersection of life science and computing.
Submit an abstract now - https://easychair.org/-
conferences/?conf=gccbosc2018 Early Registration
ends May 11
Early registration is now open. Register by May 11
and get half o registration costs. Early registration is
quite aordable, with early registration for students and
post-docs averaging just $66/day. Tavel fellowships are
available from both OBF and the Galaxy Community
Fund. On-campus conference housing registration is
also open. Nightly rates drop the longer you stay, and
there are 20 and 40% discounts for shared rooms.
Register for GCCBOSC 2018 - https://-
gccbosc2018.eventbrite.com/ Book housing - https:/-
/gccbosc2018housing.eventbrite.com/ Registration
and Housing info - https://galaxyproject.org/events/-
gccbosc2018/register/ We hope to see you in Portland!
GCCBOSC 2018 Organizing Committee
|-
Links
Conference Info - Home page https://-
gccbosc2018.sched.com/ - Info Hub https://-
galaxyproject.org/events/gccbosc2018/ Regis-
tration & Abstract Submission - Submit an
abstract https://easychair.org/conferences/-
?conf=gccbosc2018 - Register https://-
gccbosc2018.eventbrite.com/ - Book conference
housing https://gccbosc2018housing.eventbrite.com/
- Travel fellowships https://galaxyproject.org/-
events/gccbosc2018/register/#travel-fellowships
Schedule - Galaxy Training Day, Monday, June
25 https://gccbosc2018.sched.com/2018-06-25/-
overview/ - All topics Training Day, Tuesday,
June 26 https://gccbosc2018.sched.com/2018-06-
26/overview/ - BOSC and GCC Meetings with
joint and parallel tracks, Wednesday-Thursday, June
27-28 https://gccbosc2018.sched.com/overview/-
type/D.x+Conference+-+All - CollaborationFest:12 EvolDir April 1, 2018
Core, Friday-Saturday, June 29-30 & Collabora-
tionFest: Encore, Sunday-Monday, July 1-2 https://-
galaxyproject.org/events/gccbosc2018/collaboration/
Dave Clements <clements@galaxyproject.org >
PuertoRico
EvolutionaryAntrhopology Nov1-4
DEADLINE APPROACHING:
CALL FOR SYMPOSIUM PROPOSALS ALAB-2018,
Mayag uez, Puerto Rico (due March 30, 2018 at www.pr-
science.org) 15th Congress of the Latin American Asso-
ciation for Biological Anthropology (ALAB) The ALAB
is a corporation that brings together scholars interested
in the elds of Physical Anthropology and Human Bi-
ology. Its members can be located in Latin American
countries or elsewhere if their investigations relate to
Latin America.
The ALAB congresses are held every two years since
1990, oering Latin American researchers and to those
interested in anthropological studies on Latin America
a periodic opportunity for the discussion of scientic
experiences and issues linked to the development of the
discipline in a local, regional and continental context.
The overall objective of the Congress is to bring together
scholars in our eld in a healthy environment for the
contact, discussion of problems and new ideas, and the
development of collaborative networks of researchers
and students.
We will celebrate the fteenth Congress of the ALAB
in Mayag uez, Puerto Rico from November 1stto 4th,
2018. It will be the rst time that the ALAB holds its
Congress in the Caribbean. We expect a dynamic discus-
sion of all the elds of action of biological anthropology,
among them: Nutrition and growth and child devel-
opment Nutrition, health and demographics of ancient
peoples The Peopling of the Americas The settlement
of Mesoamerica and the circum-Caribbean Forensic an-
thropology and human identication Mortuary rituals
and treatment of corpses in ancient civilizations Genet-
ics of modern populations Paleogenomics Biocultural
Anthropology African ancestry in the Caribbean Prima-
tology Resources and strategies for teaching biological
anthropology Bioarchaeology and cultural ecology Re-
productive health Submit your symposium title and
description to ALAB-2018 at www.pr-science.org In the
submission form, please indicate why this particularsymposium or panel discussion is timely and necessary
and also how it is likely to be of interest to a broad range
of researchers in the elds of biological anthropology.
Symposium Overview: \ Each symposium will consist
of one or two one-and-a-half hour sessions. Each session
will consist of one invited speaker and 3 contributed
speakers, or no invited speaker and 5 contributed speak-
ers, but all symposiums will have at least one invited
speaker.
" The local organizing committee (LOC) may suggest
one additional invited speaker per symposium (Based
on symposium title), at no cost to the symposium.
\ The symposium organizers will be responsible for se-
lecting at least one invited speaker for their symposium.
" The symposium organizers will select the contributed
speakers from submitted abstracts.
\ The nal decision on the selection of symposia, invited
and contributed talks will be made by the LOC.
Invited Speakers: We ask you to bring 'invited speakers'
of high quality capable of delivering an interesting talk
of wide interest. Please indicate whether they have been
approached and/or whether they have conrmed their
participation and the likely topic for their talk.
(e.g. Prof A.N. Other - conrmed or approached and
likely to speak but not yet conrmed) Important Dates:
Call for Symposia and Discussion Panels will close on
Thursday March 15th 2018.
Successful Symposium and Discussion Panel applica-
tions will be conrmed on April 1st 2018.
The Online Abstract Submission will open on April 5th
2018.
The LOC will make its decision on proposals received
based on its standards of merit and wide interest. Sym-
posium and discussion panel submissions from scientists
in the Caribbean and Latin America are encouraged.
If you have any questions, email us at co-
hemis@uprm.edu Subject Line: ALAB's 15th Congress,
2018 Symposium or Discussion Panel Submission Please
Note: - Each successful symposium will be funded with
$500 USD to help with the costs of inviting speakers
to the meeting and waiver of the registration. If you
have any queries about this please email the ALAB's
15th Congress secretary at cohemis@uprm.edu - Spon-
sored symposia and discussion panels are encouraged,
however, please contact our Exhibition and Sponsorship
Manager Yamarie Hern andez (cohemis@uprm.edu) be-
fore enquiring about sponsor prospectus and beginning
sponsorship discussions.
Taras K Oleksyk, Ph.D.April 1, 2018 EvolDir 13
Associate Professor of Biology University of Puerto Rico
Mayaguez, PR 00680 taras.oleksyk@upr.edu
Taras K Oleksyk <taras.oleksyk@upr.edu >
Rennes Evolution Oct
Sfecologie 2018 - Rennes, Conference announcement
Dear Colleagues,
We are delighted to invite you to Sfecologie2018 Inter-
national Conference on Ecological Sciences (https://-
sfecologie2018.sciencesconf.org/), the conference of the
French Society of Ecology and Evolution (Sfe????) that
will take place in Rennes in October 2018. The confer-
ence will be held at the historic Couvent des Jacobins
(http://centre-congres-rennes.fr/), in the old part of the
city of Rennes, ensuring convenient public transporta-
tion for the attendees.
This meeting will promote and support exchanges
around the latest developments in research and the
most exciting challenges raised from the dierent disci-
plines of ecology and evolution. Contributions will be
welcome on any aspect of ecology and evolution, includ-
ing focused empirical and theoretical studies, to engage
and strengthen fruitful collaboration and intellectual
exchanges.
The deadline for the submission of abstracts for oral
and poster presentations is: 2018, May 1 ^st (https://-
sfecologie2018.sciencesconf.org/submission/submit)
This 4-days conference will include a full range of aca-
demic sessions, plenary lectures, social events and eld
trips within and beyond Rennes.
The organizing committee
{
David RENAULT Universite de Rennes 1, Membre ju-
nior de l'Institut Universitaire de France UMR CNRS
6553 EcoBio 263 Avenue du Gal Leclerc, CS 74205,
35042 Rennes Cedex Tel: 02 23 23 66 27 Web-
site: https://sites.google.com/site/davidrenaultecobio/-
home Join us at Sfecologie2018! More information
at https://sfecologie2018.sciencesconf.org/ David RE-
NAULT <david.renault@univ-rennes1.fr >Sherbrooke Canada RECOMB-CG
Oct9-12
RECOMB-CG 2018, FIRST CALL FOR PAPERS
16th RECOMB Satellite Conference on Comparative
Genomics, RECOMB-CG 2018
Sherbrooke, Quebec, Canada - October 9-12, 2018
https://recombcg2018.usherbrooke.ca
SCOPE
The annual RECOMB Comparative Genomics Satellite
Conference (RECOMB-CG) brings together leading re-
searchers in the mathematical, computational and life
sciences to discuss cutting edge research in compara-
tive genomics, with an emphasis on computational ap-
proaches and the analysis of novel experimental results.
The program will include keynote talks, contributed
talks, and a poster session.
The 16th RECOMB-CG conference will be held at the
Manoir des Sables, in beautiful Magog-Orford, near Sher-
brooke, Qu ebec, Canada on October 9-12 2018. With
this Call for Papers we invite high-quality original full
papers on topics related to the conference theme. The
conference will also have a poster session. A detailed
call for posters will be published later on the conference
web page.
TOPICS
Papers are solicited on, but not limited to, the follow-
ing topics: - genome evolution - population genomics
- genome rearrangements - genome variation, diversity
and dynamics - phylogenomics - comparative tools for
genome assembly - comparison of functional networks -
gene identication and/or annotation - cancer evolution-
ary genomics - comparative epigenomics - paleogenomics
- epidemiology
IMPORTANT DATES
- Paper Submission Deadline: June 18, 2018 - Author
Notication: July 20, 2018 - Final Version Due: August
3, 2018 - Conference: October 9-12, 2018
DETAILS ON SUBMITTING MANUSCRIPTS
Submitted papers must have not been published or be
currently under consideration for publication in any
other journal or conference with formal proceedings.
Each accepted paper has to be presented by one of the14 EvolDir April 1, 2018
authors at the conference.
Accepted papers will be published in the conference
proceedings, a volume in the Lecture Notes in Bioinfor-
matics (LNBI) series. In addition, authors of selected
papers will be invited, but not required, to submit a sig-
nicantly extended version of their papers to Algorithms
for Molecular Biology. Extended papers submitted will
be handled by the Program Committee co-chairs. Au-
thors who choose to publish their extended manuscripts
will have to pay the journal's publication fees.
Authors are encouraged to submit their manuscripts in
PDF format according to the LNBI series guidelines:
http://www.springer.com/us/computer-science/lncs/-
conference-proceedings-guidelines
Submitted papers must be within 15 pages (in the LNBI
format), with optionally a clearly marked appendix con-
taining supplementary material made available to the
reviewers.
All submissions must be made online, through the Easy-
Chair submission system, at the following address:
https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=recombcg2018
Authors need to register on that web site before submit-
ting. A standard PDF le must be received by midnight
on June 18, 2018 (any time zone) in order for a sub-
mission to be considered. Re-submission of already
submitted papers will be possible until midnight June
18, 2018 (any time zone).
CONFIRMED KEYNOTE SPEAKERS
Belinda Chang (Department of Ecology and Evolution-
ary Biology, University of Toronto, Canada)
Dannie Durand (Department of Biological Sciences,
Carnegie Mellon University, USA)
Daniel Durocher (The Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research
Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, University of Toronto,
Canada)
Christian Landry (Institute for Integrative Systems Bi-
ology, Laval University, Canada)
Gwena el Piganeau (Banyuls Oceanographic Observatory
and National Centre for Scientic Research, France)
Xavier Roucou (Department of Biochemistry, University
of Sherbrooke, Canada)
PROGRAM COMMITTEE (PARTIAL)
Max Alekseyev (George Washington University) Lars
Arvestad (Stockholm University) S everine B erard (U.
Montpellier) Mathieu Blanchette (McGill University),
co-chair Marilia Braga (Bielefeld University) Alessan-
dra Carbone (CNRS, Universit e Pierre et Marie Curie)Cedric Chauve (Simon Fraser University) Leonid Chin-
delevitch (Simon Fraser University) Mikl os Cs Ar os
(University of Montreal) Daniel Doerr (Bielefeld Univer-
sity) Ingo Ebersberger (Goethe University Frankfurt)
Nadia El-Mabrouk (University of Montr eal) Oliver Eu-
lenstein (Iowa State University) Guillaume Fertin (Uni-
versity of Nantes) Pawel Gorecki (University of Warsaw)
Michael Hallett (Concordia University) Katharina Jahn
(ETH Zurich) Asif Javed (Genome Institute of Singa-
pore) Manuel Lafond (University of Ottawa) Kevin Liu
(Michigan State University) Joao Meidanis (UNICAMP)
Istv an Mikl os (R enyi Institute, Hungarian Academy of
Sciences)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Toulouse EconomicsAndEvoloution
May24-25
Dear colleagues,
Registrations for the 6th Toulouse Economics and Biol-
ogy Workshop - Evolution, Cognition and Rationality,
May 24-25 are now open. Please register HERE
We will circulate a preliminary program shortly.
The speakers are:
Immanuel Bomze, University of Vienna - Operations
Research
Joanna J. Bryson, University of Bath & Princeton Uni-
versity - Computer Science
Noam Brown, Carnegie Mellon University - Computer
Science
Iain Couzin, Max Planck Institute for Ornithology &
University of Konstanz - Biology
Audrey Dussutour, CNRS University Toulouse III - Bi-
ology
Yuval Heller, Bar-Ilan University - Economics
Cecilia Heyes, University of Oxford - Biology & Psy-
chology
Peter Gardenfors, Lund University - Cognitive Science
Alex Kacelnik, University of Oxford - BiologyApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 15
Marc Mezard, ENS Paris Sud University - Physics
Erik Mohlin, Lund University - Economics
Arthur Robson, Simon Fraser University - Economics
Ariel Rubinstein, Tel Aviv University - Economics
Aldo Rustichini, University of Minnesota - Economics
Besides the plenary sessions, there will be a poster ses-
sion to which post-docs and Ph.D. students are most
welcome to submit applications (abstract + CV + cover
letter) to econbio poster@iast.fr no later than March 30,
2018. A limited number of travel grants will be available.
To apply, please join a cover letter explaining why you
are applying for a grant and why you are interested in
attending the workshop.
For any further information please contact us
directly at econbio@iast.fr or visit our website
https://www.iast.fr/conferences/2018-6th-toulouse-
economics-and-biology-workshop We look forward to
seeing you in May!
Organizers: Ingela Alger and Jorgen Weibull,
Co-organizers: Lauriane Rat-Fischer and Slimane Dridi
Administrative assistants: Cynthia Diaz and Aline
Couratier
The Toulouse Economics and Biology Workshop
<econbio@iast.fr >
UGottingen SensationEvolution
Sep27-28
Dear colleagues, PIs and students,
the GOEvol consortium proudly presents its 6th meet-
ing #Sensation @GOEEvolution 2018 taking place in
G ottingen from September 27th to 28th 2018 (http://-
goevol.uni-goettingen.de/index.php?id=meeting20160).
The perception of environmental stimuli, their process-
ing and integration is essential for any organism. Apart
from the more familiar senses like hearing, seeing or
tasting, there are sensory tasks performed by highly
specialized animals, such as echolocation in bats or the
perception of polarized light in insects. Sensory process-
ing consequently also diers strongly between species.
However, at the same time there are astonishing simi-
larities between sensory modalities of phylogenetically
distant animal groups, such as the shared cellular struc-
ture of light-sensitive organs or the genetic control anddevelopmental origin of sensory cells. With methodolog-
ical innovation, more and more species can be used for
detailed analyses, which further expand the understand-
ing of the evolution of sensation.
Because of the diversity of research and various method-
ologies in multiple (emerging) model organisms in the
eld of evolution of sensation we want to bring together
scientists from a broad range of elds to reveal common-
alities across disciplines.
Following the GOEvol tradition, we aim for an interdis-
ciplinary symposium with an informal atmosphere with
plenty of possibilities for social networking. If you enjoy
small interactive meetings and the topic suits you, come
along!
There are several slots for contributing talks and poster
presentations. We strongly encourage interested stu-
dents and researchers from all levels (Bachelor, Master,
PhD and above) to register and apply for talks and
poster presentations.
Moreover, we want to support parents to participate.
Therefore, depending on the demand, we will be able
to provide childcare as well as designated rooms for
nursing.
Please book hotel rooms as early as possible since there
is a conicting fare in Hannover. Hotel rooms are ex-
tremely rare.
Registration is possible from March 15th to July 15th
2018 following this link:
http://goevol.uni-goettingen.de/index.php?id=-
addgroup0 Costs to register are 10 euro for students,
20 euro for Postdocs and PIs.
Please post any question either via email at goevolnet-
work@gmail.com or via Twitter @GOEEvolution.
Invited speakers:
Sally Leys (University of Alberta, Canada)
Michael Bok (University of Bristol, UK)
Tobias Kaiser (MPI for Evolutionary Biology, Pl on, Ger-
many)
Robert Barton (University of Durham, UK)
Mirjam Kn orschild (Free University of Berlin, Germany)
Brigitte Sch onemann (University of Cologne, Germany)
Best regards,
The GOEvol Team https://goevol.uni-goettingen.de/
Twitter: @GOEvolution
On behalf of the GOEvol organizing team,
Max S. Farnworth16 EvolDir April 1, 2018
Georg-August-University of G ottingen
Johann-Friedrich-Blumenbach Institute of Zoology and
Anthropology
Department of Evolutionary Developmental Genetics
G ottingen Center for Molecular Biosciences (GZMB)
Justus-von-Liebig-Weg 11
37077 G ottingen
E-mail: max.farnworth@biologie.uni-goettingen.de
Phone: +49 551 39 10124
http://www.researchgate.net/prole/Max Farnworth
Twitter: @StephesMax
m789farnworth@t-online.de
UK SexualSelection May
Dear all
Can I draw your attention to this meeting, one of the
Royal Society Theo Murphy meetings. Held at Chiche-
ley Hall in Buckinghamshire, UK. We have a stellar line
up of speakers, both specialists in sexual selection in
extant organisms as well as palaeontologists.
Sexual selection is potentially an important driver of
macroevolutionary processes like speciation and extinc-
tion, but this has rarely been tested using the fossil
record. This meeting will bring biologists and palaeon-
tologists together to discuss sexual selection's role in
macroevolution, how to detect it in extinct animals and
how to measure its inuence on the history of life across
geological time
https://royalsociety.org/science-events-and-lectures/-
2018/05/sexual-selection/ All welcome and plenty of
places available. The conference itself is free, you can
stay at the centre (for a fee) or organise your own
accommodation nearby.
Best wishes
Rob Knell
Reader in Evolutionary Ecology School of Biological and
Chemical Sciences Queen Mary University of London
research website http://webspace.qmul.ac.uk/rknell/
r.knell@qmul.ac.ukUMiami SEEC EcolEvolution Oct5-7
Call for Symposium Proposals
The University of Miami is excited to host the 2018
Southeastern Ecology and Evolution Conference (SEEC)
from October 5 -7, 2018 in Miami, Florida. The SEEC is
a regional, student-run meeting that provides undergrad-
uates, graduate students, and post-docs an opportunity
to present research in ecology and evolution. This con-
ference is open to anyone with an interest in ecology
and evolution research in the southeastern region of the
United States.
The conference will feature outstanding plenary speaker:
Dr. Daniel Simberlo, University of Tennessee. Some
of his research interests include biogeography, invasive
species, and statistical ecology.
As part of the conference, individuals are invited to
attend workshops on Biological Invasions and Modern
Applications.
Abstracts are due by June 1st 2018. Early registra-
tion will start on July 1st, for $45, after you hear back
from our conference committee about the acceptance
of the submitted abstract. There will be cash prizes
awarded to the best talks and posters. Further details
about the conference, abstract submission instructions,
and registration information can be found at https://-
seecconference2018.wordpress.com/
Questions or inquires can be directed to SEEC 2018
(email: SEEC.Host@gmail.com)
\Kula, Alexander" <axk750@miami.edu >
UMontpellier
PhylogenomicsSoftware Aug17
We are pleased to announce a half-day Phylogenomics
Software Symposium, which will be held at the Insti-
tut des Sciences de l'Evolution - Montpellier, on the
University of Montpellier campus.
This symposium will take place on August 17, the day
before the Evolution 2018 meeting begins.April 1, 2018 EvolDir 17
The conference will include two sessions of invited talks
and one session of contributed talks. The invited talks
will describe recent breakthroughs in methods and soft-
ware that address challenges in phylogenetics using large
and heterogeneous sequence datasets.
Contributed talks will be selected from submitted ab-
stracts; these may also describe advances in software,
novel challenges, or discoveries made using new methods.
Travel awards are available, and registration in advance
is required.
Please see http://tandy.cs.illinois.edu/2018-
Symposium.htm for more information.
Tandy Warnow Founder Professor of Computer Science
Associate Head of Department Member of the Carl R.
Woese Institute for Genomic Biology Aliate of the Na-
tional Center for Supercomputing Applications Aliate
of Coordinated Sciences Laboratory Aliate of Electri-
cal and Computer Engineering, Mathematics, Statistics,
Entomology, Plant Biology, Animal Biology, and PEEC
(Program in Ecology, Evolution, and Conservation Biol-
ogy) 3235 Siebel Center (CS Oce) 3402 Institute for Ge-
nomic Biology (IGB oce) http://tandy.cs.illinois.edu
\Warnow, Tandy" <warnow@illinois.edu >
Warsaw HumanAndEvolution
Sep24-26 RegistrationOpen
Polish Society for Human and Evolution Studies (PT-
NCE) has a great pleasure to invite you to its annual
international conference PTNCE2018, which will be
held in Warsaw (Poland) between the 24th and 26th of
September 2018.
Registration and abstract submission opened on the
5th of March 2018. Abstract submission for talks and
posters closes on the 15th of June 2018. Early bird
registration with reduced conference fees closes on the
4th of July 2018.
Please visit: http://www.ptnce2018.pl/registration toregister.
PTNCE conference, as well as the Society in general,
aims at associating scientists and students of various
scientic disciplines interested in the application of the
evolutionary perspective in the following research areas:
biology, ecology, human behaviour and culture studies.
By creating an idiosyncratic evolutionary platform we
intend to break the barriers between traditional divisions
in human studies.
We are pleased to announce our distinguished ple-
nary speakers for the PTNCE2018 conference: Russell
Gray, Max Planck, Jena (evolutionary linguistics), Jo-
hannes Krause, Max Planck, Jena (archaeogenetics),
Jan Havlicek, Charles University, Prague (social percep-
tion) and Grazyna Jasienska, Jagiellonian University,
Cracow (reproductive ecology).
At the conference website www.ptnce2018.pl you will
nd further information about the speakers and the
conference. Gradually we will be publishing more infor-
mation about the conference program as well as travel
and accommodation tips. Therefore, we encourage you
to keep checking the website updates.
If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to
contact the organizing team at ptnce2018@gmail.com.
We will be very grateful for forwarding this message
and/or spreading information about the conference
among all potentially interested people, research groups
and institutions.
Kind regards,
Prof. Bogus ^A3aw Paw ^A3owski University of Wroc ^A3aw
President of the Polish Society for Human and Evolution
Studies
&
Martyna Molak, PhD Polish Academy of Sciences Head
of the PTNCE2018 Conference Organising Committee
Conference organizers: Polish Society for Human and
Evolution Studies Museum and Institute of Zoology Pol-
ish Academy of Sciences Centre of New Technologies
University of Warsaw
PTNCE2018 <ptnce2018@gmail.com >18 EvolDir April 1, 2018
GradStudentPositions
BarcelonaCRAG PlantPaleogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18
BarIlanU Israel WildRockHyrax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .19
Berlin 11 Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
BournemouthU SalmonidEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
BrandonU EvolutionPesticideResistance . . . . . . . . . . . 21
CanMuseumNature Ottawa PlantSystematics . . . . . 21
EAWAG Switzerland Daphnia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .22
Europe 15 ITN IGNITE CompGenomicsInverts . . . 23
Europe 15 ITN IGNITE CompGenomicsInverts dead-
lineFeb28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
GhentU AvianSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
KielU ComputationalEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . 25
Leibniz Berlin 2 WildlifeFitness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
LouisianaStateU ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
MasseyU 2 PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
MaxPlanck Jena 5 EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . 28
MPIO Seewiesen EvolutionCognition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
NewZealand 2 EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .29
Norway ComparativeGenomicRegulation . . . . . . . . . . 30
Portugal Archaeogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30
Portugal EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
QMUL London EvolutionChickBehaviour . . . . . . . . . 31QMU London PhD BehaviouralDierencesChicks . .32
StockholmNHM Palaeogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .32
StockholmU EvolutionCognition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .33
StockholmU LifeHistoryEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
StockholmU WinterEvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . . . . 34
UAberdeen ExperimentalEvolutionMicrobes . . . . . . . 35
UAucklandNZ EvolBirdSong . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
UBielefeld RaptorMalariaGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .37
UGroningen ExperimentalEvolutionMicrobes . . . . . . 38
ULausanne 2 MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
ULausanne EvolutionaryGenomicsNeurogenetics . 105
UMassachusetts Lowell EvolutionVertJaw . . . . . . . . . 41
UMuenster MolecEvolutionNasonia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .41
UOslo 2 ancientDNA Conservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UOtago NewZealand EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . 43
UPrague ArabidopsisAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
USunshineCoast Aust EvolutionaryRobotics . . . . . . .44
UWageningen HyperparasitoidEvolution . . . . . . . . . . .45
UWesternAustralia SeagrassAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . 46
UZurich PlantAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
BarcelonaCRAG
PlantPaleogenomics
Graduate position on plant palaeogenomics available in
Barcelona.
The Botigue lab for \Genomics of ancient crops and
domestication" in the Centre for Research in Agricul-
tural Genomics (CRAG) in Barcelona is oering a PhD
position under the International CRAG Severo Ochoa
Porgram to work on the genomic analysis of ancient
emmer wheat from Egypt with the goal to better under-
stand plant domestication.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION: Plant domestication is a
topic of interest in a broad range of research elds such
as agronomics, genome evolution, archaeology or an-
thropology. Past limitations in the study of the early
domestication process can now be overcome by includ-
ing ancient samples in crop genomic analysis. Our labhas access to emmer wheat samples excavated in Egypt
dated from the Neolithic up to the Roman period. This
project aims to extract the DNA from these ancient sam-
ples and sequence it to perform downstream genomic
analyses that will allow us to answer several questions
regarding wheat domestication. Specically, the PhD
candidate will use cutting-edge bioinformatic and sta-
tistical tools under a population genetics framework
to work on i) investigating the genomic architecture
of Egyptian wheat population through time, includ-
ing modern wheat; ii) characterizing known phenotypic
traits in the ancient samples such as the non-shattering
phenotype, and iii) identifying regions of the genome
selected during domestication through the comparison
of the observed evolution of allele frequencies and com-
putational simulations.
This project is a collaborative eort with University
College London and Warwick University and presents
an opportunity to learn and develop a wide range of
techniques to perform genomic analysis and computa-
tional modeling. As a result, new aspects of cereal
domestication will be discovered, and a step forward
in the identication of genomic regions of interest forApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 19
domestication will have been made. Furthermore, the
PhD student will analyse for the rst time genetic data
from ancient specimens from dierent time periods.
REQUIREMENTS: The CRAG Severo Ochoa program
is aimed at international students who have completed
one of the following options by September 2018:
- studies that lead to an ocial Spanish (or from another
country of the European Higher Education Area) uni-
versity degree in Biology, Biochemistry, Biotechnology,
or related areas and that have 300 credits (ECTS), of
which at least 60 must correspond to master level. - a
degree in a non-Spanish university not adapted to the
European Higher Education Area that gives access to
doctoral studies in Biology, Biochemistry, Biotechnology
or related areas.
Candidates are selected exclusively on merit, on the
basis of their curriculum. Academic grades and the cur-
riculum of applicants are evaluated, as well as reference
letters and a motivation letter. No selection criteria
for positive or negative discrimination are applied. Ap-
plicants should have obtained a degree after January
2015. Candidates cannot be in possession of a PhD De-
gree. Candidates cannot have been hired as predoctoral
students for more than 12 months before the start of
the CRAG \Severo Ochoa PhD Program. Candidates
cannot have started a pre-doctoral fellowship funded
by the Spanish "Plan Estatal de Investigacion, Desar-
rollo e Innovacion Tecnologica\ or any previous "Plan
Nacional\.
CONTACT For questions about the position and further
information about the project, contact Laura Botigue,
Email: laura.botigue@cragenomica.es
HOW TO APPLY Applications should be done using
CRAG's online application system. Please follow the
link below to obtain further information about the PhD
program and how to access the online application sys-
tem: https://www.cragenomica.es/2018-international-
crag-severo-ochoa-phd-program Closing date: 30 April
2018
Laura Botigue <rb.laura@gmail.com >
BarIlanU Israel WildRockHyrax
We are looking for an enthusiastic and t graduate
student (MSc or PhD) for a funded multidisciplinary
project on sperm competition, vocalisations, and sexual
selection in wild rock hyrax. The project involves cap-turing, marking, sampling, observing, and carrying out
manipulation experiments while in the eld, in the Ein
Gedi Nature Reserve, near the Dead Sea, Israel. The
ideal applicant has a strong background in behavioural
ecology, eld experience handling wildlife, and an abil-
ity to work both independently, and as part of a team.
Experience with sperm or sound analysis is an asset.
Financial support includes a scholarship from Bar Ilan
University, tuition, and TAship. For more information,
please contact Dr. Lee Koren (Lee.Koren@biu.ac.il).
Please include a CV and a cover letter with eld experi-
ence and interests.
Thanks and best wishes,
Lee
Lee Koren, PhD The Mina and Everard Goodman Fac-
ulty of Life Sciences Bar-Ilan University Ramat Gan,
5290002 Israel Institute of Nanotechnology and Ad-
vanced Materials (Building 206) Oce B-940; Lab B-935
(9th oor) Telephones: oce +972-3-7384371 lab +972-
3-7384372 Skype: leezik Lee.Koren@biu.ac.il https:/-
/leekoren.wixsite.com/korenlab Lee Koren Lab (Face-
book page) @LeeKoren2 (Twitter)
Lee Koren <Lee.Koren@biu.ac.il >
Berlin 11 Biodiversity
The DFG-funded Research Training Group RTG 2118
'*Integrating Biodiversity Research with Movement Ecol-
ogy in Dynamic Agricultural Landscapes [BioMove]*'
(Speaker: Prof. Dr. Florian Jeltsch) at the *University
of Potsdam (UP)*, the *Freie Universit at Berlin (FU)*,
the *Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research
(IZW, Berlin)*, and the *Leibniz Centre for Agricul-
tural Landscape Research (ZALF, M uncheberg)*oers
several positions:
*At the University of Potsdam*
*7 doctoral candidates (PhD)*
/- Intra-specic trait variation in movement behaviour
as mechanisms for species coexistence - Mobile link func-
tions in unpredictable agricultural landscapes - Indirect,
tri-trophic Eects of Fear on Biodiversity - Obstacles to
plant gene-ow across an agricultural landscape: habi-
tat ltering and recruitment limitation vs. dispersal
limitation - Stabilizing biodiversity by zooplankton dis-
persal through space and time - Zooplankton dispersal
and colonization in a meta-community pond system -20 EvolDir April 1, 2018
From individual home-range formation to community
dynamics: a novel, allometric modelling approach to
explore biodiversity loss caused by landscape changes/
Registration Number: 225/2018
26 hours per week (65%) for three years
The salary scale is in accordance with the German public
service 13 TV-L (area east). Contracts are time-limited
according to Section 2 subsection 1 of the Academic
Fixed-Term Contract Law (WissZeitVG).
Under the laws of the federal state of Brandenburg, em-
ployees under this contract are permitted to dedicate
at least 33% of their contract time for their scientic
qualication.
*At the Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research
(IZW), Berlin*
*2 doctoral candidates (PhD)*
/-Pathogen evolution in changing landscapes// //-
Equalizing and stabilizing mechanisms in regulating the
co-existence of aerial-hawking bat species in agricultural
landscape/
Salary is according to TV oD Bund (25,35 hours per
week 65%), 3-year contract.
*At the Freie Universit at Berlin*
*1 doctoral candidate (PhD)*
/-Tradeos between growth rate, attachment and com-
petitiveness as a source of equalizing eects in nectar
yeast communities/
Salary is according to TV-L FU E13 (65%), 3-year con-
tract.
*At the Leibniz Centre for Agricultural Landscape
Research (ZALF) M uncheberg*
*1 doctoral candidate (PhD)*
/- Trade-os between dispersal ability and niche competi-
tion of co-occurring microorganisms in the phyllosphere
of host plants/
26 hours per week (65%) for three years
The salary is in accordance with the German public
service 13 TV-L (area east). Contracts are time-limited
according to the Academic Fixed-Term Contract Law
(WissZeitVG).
All positions begin on October 1st, 2018.
*BioMove*links innovative individual research projects
that overcome the apparent gap between movementecology and biodiversity research, employing a joint con-
ceptual framework. It strategically combines empirical,
experimental and modelling approaches to advance our
mechanistic understanding of how biodiversity patterns
emerge and how they feed back on the active and passive
movement of organisms. This will improve our ability
to predict biodiversity responses to ongoing changes
in land use or climate. Projects cover dierent spa-
tial and temporal scales and groups of organisms rang-
ing from bacteria, fungi, plankton, plants, and insects
to birds and mammals (for more details see http://-
www.biomove.org).
Doctoral candidates will also strongly prot from a
unique qualication program specically tailored to
bridge between state-of-the-art concepts and methods
in movement ecology and biodiversity research, supple-
mented by a broad range of soft skill workshops.
*Candidates should fulll the following requirements*:
*
A very good M.Sc. degree (or equivalent) in Ecology,
Zoology, Botany, Conservation, Behavioural or Evolu-
tionary Biology, Microbiology, Epidemiology (or other
natural sciences if mechanistic modelling was involved).
Candidates that have not yet nished their Master thesis
can submit a current and informative study record.
*
Very good English skills (written and spoken)
*
Very good statistical and analytical skills (preferentially
sound knowledge in R)
*
Experience in one or more of the following areas is ex-
pected: experimental eld and laboratory studies, math-
ematical or computer simulation modelling, telemetry,
molecular ecology.
*
A strong interest in interdisciplinary research and the
willingness to engage in scientic exchange with other
disciplines is essential for applicants.
The University of Potsdam, the Freie Universit at Berlin,
the Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research and
the Leibniz Centre for Agricultural Landscape Research
strives to maintain gender balance among
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 21
BournemouthU SalmonidEvolution
BournemouthU.SalmonidEvolutionaryEcology
PROJECT TITLE:
Interactions of wild, translocated and hatchery-reared
juvenile salmonids: implications for management
PROJECT SUMMARY:
We welcome applications for a funded PhD studentship
in Professor Rob Britton's group at Bournemouth Uni-
versity, UK. The project will involve stream-scale manip-
ulation experiments to test whether wild fry transloca-
tions can be used instead of hatchery sh stocking to in-
crease juvenile recruitment in wild Atlantic salmon pop-
ulations. The goal of the project is to understand how
the demographic benets of stocking can be achieved
without the evolutionary risks associated with hatch-
ery rearing, articial selection and maladaption to the
wild. The research will be conducted in collaboration
with Inland Fisheries Ireland, with extensive eldwork
throughout the River Erri National Salmonid Index
Catchment near Galway, Ireland.
INFORMATION AND CONTACTS:
Application deadline: 2 April 2018
Project description and application guidelines:
https://www1.bournemouth.ac.uk/study/courses/-
phd-studentship-interactio ns-wild-translocated-
hatchery-reared-juvenile-salmonids-implications-ma
nagement
Direct all inquiries to Rob Britton: rbrit-
ton@bournemouth.ac.uk
Kyle A Young <kayoung1969@gmail.com >
BrandonU
EvolutionPesticideResistance
M.Sc. Position at Brandon University
The Cassone lab at Brandon University is seeking a
highly motivated M.Sc. student to work on projects re-
lated to the evolution of pesticide resistance in wireworm.The successful applicant will gain valuable experience
conducting eld work and using cutting-edge molecular
biology tools. This collaborative position is funded for
two years and includes stipend support.
Interested students are encouraged to contact
Dr. Cassone directly for further information (cas-
soneb@brandonu.ca). Please include a brief statement
of interest and a CV in your email.
Closing Date: Open until lled Start Date: Summer
2018 preferred
Founded in 1899, Brandon University is a small but
thriving institution located in southwestern Manitoba.
Students have access to fully renovated labs, greenhouse
and growth chamber facilities, as well as state-of-the-art
molecular and computational equipment.
Bryan Cassone <CassoneB@BrandonU.CA >
CanMuseumNature Ottawa
PlantSystematics
Call for Applications - PhD Fellowship in Arctic Plant
Systematics (University of Ottawa and Canadian Mu-
seum of Nature)
We are seeking a highly motivated PhD student to con-
duct research in the eld of plant systematics, with an
Arctic geographical focus.
The candidate will be enrolled at the University of Ot-
tawa in the joint graduate program in biology (Ottawa
Carleton Institute for Biology).
Research will be conducted at the Canadian Museum
of Nature's Natural Heritage Campus (1740 Pink Road,
Gatineau, Quebec) in the National Capital Region. The
successful candidate will have access to the Museum's
excellent facilities designed to support projects in tax-
onomy, systematics, evolution and ecology, including
the world's most comprehensive collection of Canadian
Arctic plants in the National Herbarium of Canada.
Research Project Description
The successful candidate will develop a project focused
on a circumpolar and/or Arctic-alpine vascular plant
species complex (or multiple congeneric species com-
plexes) in which species boundaries are poorly under-
stood, with an aim to make progress in resolving the evo-
lutionary history of the complex from multiple perspec-
tives (e.g., phylogenetic, phylogeographic, taxonomic).22 EvolDir April 1, 2018
Examples of complicated Arctic genera in particular
need of further study include but are not limited to
Draba (Brassicaceae), Taraxacum (Asteraceae), Poten-
tilla (Rosaceae), Papaver (Papaveraceae), and Calama-
grostis (Poaceae).
The project will be multi-faceted and will combine
herbarium-based study of morphological variation in
the National Herbarium of Canada, molecular study
in the museum's Laboratory of Molecular Biodiversity,
and eld work in the Arctic and possibly other ecozones.
It may also be necessary to visit other museums and
herbaria in Canada and abroad to study type and other
material.
Qualications
An ideal candidate will have previous training and expe-
rience in botany or plant biology and a strong interest in
plant biodiversity, evolution, phylogeny and taxonomy.
The candidate must meet the University of Ot-
tawa's eligibility criteria, described here: http:/-
/catalogue.uottawa.ca/en/graduate/doctorate-
philosophy-biology/#t ext
The fellowship is available to Canadian citizens and
permanent residents.
Funding
The position is fully funded by the Canadian Museum
of Nature's Scientic Training Program for three years
( $25,000/year), plus $5,000/year in funds to support
research costs.
Deadline
The University of Ottawa application deadline for Cana-
dian students to begin the doctorate program in Fall
2018, is 1 June 2018. See here: http://www.uottawa.ca/-
graduate-studies/programs-admission/apply/speci c-
requirements
Interested students should contact Drs. Lynn
Gillespie (lgillespie@nature.ca) and Je Saarela
(jsaarela@nature.ca) by email ASAP (before 15 May
2018) to discuss this opportunity, prior to submitting
an application to the University. In your initial message,
please include a description of your research interests
and motivation, your CV and contact information for
two references.
Dr. Lynn Gillespie, Research Scientist, Canadian Mu-
seum of Nature, and Adjunct Professor, University of
Ottawa
Dr. Je Saarela, Research Scientist and Director, Cen-
tre for Arctic Knowledge and Exploration, Canadian
Museum of Nature21 March 2018
Je Saarela <jsaarela@nature.ca >
EAWAG Switzerland Daphnia
PhD position : Host^ aparasite interactions in hybridizing
Daphnia, from correlations to experiments
Deadline extension!
The PhD student will participate in a collaborative re-
search project with PD Dr Piet Spaak (Eawag) and
Prof. Justyna Wolinska (Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater
Ecology and Inland Fisheries, IGB in Berlin, Germany),
nanced by the Swiss and German Science Foundations
(SNF & DFG).
Eutrophication is a worldwide environmental problem
accelerated by global warming, aecting the stability of
aquatic ecosystems and having long^ aconsequences. We
will investigate if and how eutrophication aects two
interacting evolutionary processes: disease spread and in-
terspecic hybridization. We will use water eas (Daph-
nia), a well-established model in both host-parasite and
hybridization research. This project is a combination of
a eld survey, a mesocosm experiment (where trophic
conditions will be manipulated), the transcriptional pro-
ling of Daphnia exposed to stressful eutrophic condi-
tions, and the development and application of molecular
markers to study parasite evolution in eutrophic envi-
ronments. Overall, through the unique combination of
expertise and methods, this project will improve our un-
derstanding of disease spread and biodiversity loss under
dierent trophic conditions and, consequently, might
provide tools for management of aquatic ecosystems.
Within the project this position focuses on interspecic
hybridization. The main task will be participation in a
large-scale eld study and mesocosm experiment; data
collection and processing. The student will screen the
dynamics of natural and experimental Daphnia commu-
nities, using microsatellite and SNP markers. Also, the
student will conduct a large laboratory experiment to as-
sess Daphnia stress responses; here, RNA-Seq methods
will be applied. The PhD student will take advantage
of the draft D. galeata genome.
Although the student will be hosted primarily at Eawag,
exchange stays are planned at IGB. Moreover, generous
funds are available to cover attendance at national and
international conferences. He/she will be enrolled at the
Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) in Z urich.April 1, 2018 EvolDir 23
The position will be for a period of four years, and
should start as soon as possible (spring / early summer
2018).
The ideal candidate should have good molecular skills
and a strong background in evolutionary biology, ecol-
ogy or related elds. In addition, knowledge of statistics,
bioinformatics and/or population genetics will be highly
advantageous. Excellent communication and writing
skills in English, good work ethic, and creative thinking
are desired. A Master's Degree (or equivalent) in biol-
ogy or a related subject is necessary for admission. The
working language in the group is English.
Eawag oers a unique research and working envi-
ronment (http://www.eawag.ch/en/aboutus/working/-
researchenvironment/) and is committed to promoting
equal opportunities for women and men and to sup-
port the compatibility of family and work. Applications
from women are especially welcome. For more infor-
mation about Eawag and our work conditions please
consult www.eawag.ch and www.eawag.ch/en/aboutus/-
working/employment . For further information please
consult Piet Spaak (spaak@eawag.ch). The application
should be submitted by 16 April 2018.
Please submit your application including a motivation
letter with a description of pertinent experience, a com-
plete CV (incl. publication list), the names (with e-mail
addresses) of three potential referees, and copies of cer-
ticates of academic qualications via the Eawag Jobs
& Career webpage, any other way of applying will not
be considered. The link below will take you directly to
the application form.
https://apply.reine.ch/673277/0589/pub/1/-
index.html ^Ao^Ao^AoPiet Spaak Eawag Aquatic
Ecology ~Aberlandstrasse 133 8600 D ubendorf Switzer-
land Phone: +41 58 765 |56 17
spaak@eawag.ch http://www.eawag.ch/abteilung/eco/-
schwerpunkte/zooplankton-oekologie-und-evolution/
\Spaak, Piet" <Piet.Spaak@eawag.ch >\Spaak, Piet"
<Piet.Spaak@eawag.ch >
Europe 15 ITN IGNITE
CompGenomicsInverts
Applications for 15 ESR/PhD positions in @MSCAc-
tions project ITN IGNITE \Comparative Genomics of
Non-Model Invertebrates" have been re-opened for a
brief period - nal application deadline now 3rd April2018 (12pm/noon CET)!
Positions are available in institutions and companies
in the network for a maximum duration of 36 months.
All positions will open on 1st July 2018 or as soon as
possible thereafter.
Europe is home to world-leading expertise in inverte-
brate genomics and the aim of IGNITE is to gather
together this European excellence to train a new gener-
ation of scientists skilled in all aspects of invertebrate
genomics.
The well-trained genome scientists emerging from IG-
NITE will be in great demand in universities, research
institutions, as well as in software, biomedical, agrofood
and pharmaceutical companies. Through their excel-
lent interdisciplinary and intersectoral training spanning
from biology and geobiology to bioinformatics and com-
puter science, our graduates will be in a prime position
to take up leadership roles in both academia and in-
dustry in order to drive the complex changes needed to
advance sustainability of our knowledge-based society
and economy.
To apply and for general information about the positions,
please visit our central application tool available here:
<https://portal.graduatecenter-lmu.de/ocgc/ignite >
For a detailed description of the individual projects
please see: <http://www.itn-ignite.eu/projects/ >
In behalf of the IGNITE coordinator and the entire
consortium.
Best wishes Michael
Dr. Michael Eitel Project Manager IGNITE Innovative
Training Network
Dr. Michael Eitel Molecular Geo- & Paleobiology Lab
Department of Earth & Environmental Sciences, Divi-
sion of Paleontology & Geobiology Ludwig-Maximilians-
Universit at M unchen Richard-Wagner-Strae 10 D-
80333 M unchen Germany
http://www.itn-ignite.eu pm@itn-ignite.eu Phone: +49
(89) 2180-6733 Fax: +49 (89) 2180-6601
Michael Eitel <m.eitel@lmu.de >
Europe 15 ITN IGNITE
CompGenomicsInverts
deadlineFeb28
Dear all,24 EvolDir April 1, 2018
This is a reminder that the (strict) deadline for applying
to the 15 PhD positions in the Innovative Training Net-
work IGNITE (Comparative Genomics of Non-Model In-
vertebrates) is tomorrow February 28, 23:59 CET. This
includes one PhD position in my group entitled \Using
chromosome conformation capture to assemble genomes
to perfection", i.e. applying contact genomics to gen-
erate completely assembled genomes (from telomeres
to telomeres). Experience in computer science, bioin-
formatics, genomics and/or statistics would be highly
desirable for this position.
Here is the link to the description of the project
(which includes the sequencing and assembly of
a chaetognath genome in order to better under-
stand the evolution of these enigmatic metazoans):
http://www.itn-ignite.eu/projects/11559 esr-project-5-
using-chromosome-conformation-capture-to-assemble-
genomes-to-perfection/ For details of the 15 PhD
projects available, see: http://www.itn-ignite.eu/-
projects/ Applicants should have a master degree
or equivalent in a relevant eld, but cannot already
possess a doctoral degree. For the position in my
group, the successful applicant will be registered in the
PhD programme of the Universit e libre de Bruxelles.
Candidates of all nationalities may apply, but must
not have lived in Belgium for more than 12 months in
the 3 years immediately prior to their appointment.
The fellow will receive a competitive salary, including a
mobility allowance, a family allowance (if applicable)
and comprehensive social benets.
Application website: http://portal.graduatecenter-
lmu.de/ocgc/user/register Best regards, Jean-Fran cois
{ Jean-Fran cois Flot Associate Professor Evolution-
ary Biology & Ecology - C.P. 160/12 Universit e Li-
bre de Bruxelles Avenue F.D. Roosevelt 50 B-1050
Brussels - Belgium http://ebe.ulb.ac.be/ebe/Flot.html
\jot@ulb.ac.be" <jot@ulb.ac.be >
GhentU AvianSpeciation
PHD POSITION TO STUDY LATERAL PROCESSES
IN AVIAN SPECIATION
The Terrestrial Ecology Unit (TEREC) at Ghent Univer-
sity is a vivid lab, where students and researchers apply
rst principles of individual-based ecology to predict
how natural populations are aected by long- and short-
term environmental change. We believe that innovation
in research can only be propelled by amalgamating skillsand perspectives from dierent disciplines into an over-
arching framework. For our new project Zosteromics,
launched by Prof. Luc Lens and Dr. Jan O. Engler,
we want to capitalize on the newest developments in
genomics and computational biology paired with classi-
cal ecological work to understand how avian speciation
works in complex and changing environments.
The \great speciator" bird genus Zosterops, also known
as white-eyes, shows a remarkable speciation rate which
is unprecedented in birds and one of the highest among
vertebrates. This diversication is partly driven by
adaptation to rapidly changing environments - yet, the
exact processes remain unknown. Therefore, these iconic
birds pose an ideal study system to learn more about
speciation in a changing world.
Within the Zosteromics project, we have one fully funded
PhD position available to work at TEREC alongside
a multilateral consortium of experts (see below). The
position is available for 2+2 years and a salary range of
1900 - 1950euro / Month (+ benets). The preferred,
yet negotiable, starting date is 1st of October 2018. The
PhD can be conducted in one of two topics.
Topic 1: Genomics of white-eye diversication
Recent insights into rapid species diversication using
genomic tools question the notion of vertical processes
as leading evolutionary force in favor of network-like
structures in which vertical and lateral evolutionary
drivers act in concert, e.g. when hybridization leads
to adaptive introgression. Using de novo assemblies
and whole-genome resequencing of dierent highland-
lowland white-eye lineages across East African sky-
islands you will study the role of lateral processes and
understand the evolutionary role of genes introgressed
that way. This topic will be jointly performed with Asst.
Prof. Alexander Suh, Dept. of Ecology and Genetics,
Uppsala University, Germany.
Topic 2: Simulating speciation in dynamic environments
Dierent speciation models aim to formally describe evo-
lution along elevational gradients. To assess how these
speciation models describe white-eye diversication, you
will implement a Mechanistic Simulation Model that
is spatially-explicit, individual-based, and stochastic,
incorporating all processes relevant for biodiversity dy-
namics. You will run the model under neural and adap-
tive (informed by genomic outcomes) conditions to un-
derstand the role of lateral processes of speciation in
changing environments. This topic will be jointly per-
formed with Prof. Juliano Cabral, CCTB, University of
Wurzburg, Germany.
Candidates should have an excellent MSc degree in a
relevant eld, are self-driven, and eager to work in anApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 25
interdisciplinary and multilateral team. Next to quanti-
tative skills relevant for the respective topic, we expect
generally high writing and verbal communication skills
to present results of your work in academic journals and
at international conferences.
To apply send your complete application, including mo-
tivation letter, full CV, publication list, and contact
details of two references alongside your preferred topic
to Zosteromics@ugent.be.
Deadline is 3rd of April 2018.
Links:
Project Page: http://www.ecology.ugent.be/terec/-
research.php?page=project&project=FWO 2017b
The Avian Ecology and Evolution group @
TEREC: http://www.ecology.ugent.be/terec/-
research.php?page=aee Suh Lab (Uppsala):
http://www.ieg.uu.se/evolutionary-biology/suh/
Cabral Lab (Wurzburg): http://www.cctb.uni-
wuerzburg.de/research/ecosystem-modeling/people/jul
iano-sarmento-cabral/
Jan O. Engler FWO PostDoc Fellow Terrestrial Ecology
Unit Ghent University
Twitter: @engler j
Jan Engler UGhent <JanOliver.Engler@ugent.be >
KielU ComputationalEvolution-
aryGenomics
The Genomic Microbiology Group of Prof. Tal Da-
gan in the Institute of Microbiology at Kiel University,
Germany, invites applications for a:
PhD position in computational evolutionary genomics
The position is oered within the International Max
Planck Research School (IMPRS) for Evolutionary Bi-
ology
Application deadline is March 25, 2018.
Research topic: Phylogenetic tree rooting and infer-
ence of lateral gene transfer Phylogenetic trees are used
to describe and investigate the evolutionary relations
between entities. In most tree reconstruction meth-
ods the inferred phylogeny is unrooted, and the an-
cestral relations between the taxonomic units are not
resolved. The determination of ancestor-descendant
relations in an unrooted tree is achieved by the infer-ence of a root node, which a priori can be located on
any of the branches of the unrooted tree. Recently
we introduced the Minimal Ancestor Deviation (MAD)
rooting method, which operates on any phylogenetic tree
with branch lengths (Tria et al. (2017) Nat Ecol Evol
1:0193). The new method explicitly quanties the major
confounding factor - rate variation among lineages - to
achieve unprecedented accuracy and consistency. The
PhD candidate will take part in further developing this
rooting method and researching the applicability of the
method for reconstructing donor-recipient relations in
gene transfer events during prokaryote evolution. T he
project requires background in molecular evolution and
programming skills.
Research Group: The PhD candidate will work in the
Genomic Microbiology group led by Prof. Tal Dagan
(http://www.uni-kiel.de/genomik) that is focused on
microbial genome evolution. The group is international
and multidisciplinary with both computational and ex-
perimental working scientists. For enquiries regarding
the position and research topic please contact Prof. Tal
Dagan: tdagan@ifam.uni-kiel.de
The IMPRS graduate school is dedicated to highest
level of research and training in all areas of contem-
porary Evolutionary Biology. It is a joint initiative of
the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology, the
University of Kiel and the Helmholtz Center for Ocean
Research Kiel (GEOMAR). The school oers an interna-
tionally competitive research environment with state of
art facilities. The participating groups are working on
a broad variety of scientic topics including molecular,
behavioral, theoretical and organismal approaches.
The graduate program starts with a rotation period
of three months followed by a PhD project of three
years including seminars, courses and workshops. The
language of the graduate school is English. Financial
support is provided throughout the program.
To obtain further information about the PhD program
and application details (only online application possible),
please visit our website at http://www.evolbio.mpg.de/-
imprs . Well-motivated and highly-qualied students
from all countries are welcome to apply. A Master of
Science degree or a Diploma as well as a strong interest
in Evolutionary Biology and exibility in the research
project are prerequisites for entering the program. We
are looking forward to your online application for a
PhD fellowship in the beautiful landscape of Northern
Germany.
The deadline for applications is March 25, 2018. The
selection week will be held from June 25 29 and the
program itself starts on September 17, 2018.26 EvolDir April 1, 2018
For information regarding the program contact: Dr.
Kerstin Mehnert, August-Thienemann-Str. 2, 24306
Plon, Germany email: imprs@evolbio.mpg.de phone:
+49(0)4522 763 233
The coordinator Kerstin Mehnert
The steering committee Tal Dagan, Thorsten Reusch,
Hinrich Schulenburg, Eva Stukenbrock, Diethard Tautz
and Arne Traulsen
\tdagan@ifam.uni-kiel.de" <tdagan@ifam.uni-kiel.de >
Leibniz Berlin 2 WildlifeFitness
The Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research
(Leibniz IZW) in Berlin is Germany's premier wildlife
research institute. The Leibniz IZW focuses on the life
histories and mechanisms of evolutionary adaptations
of mammals and birds, their limits and their conserva-
tion in natural and anthropogenically inuenced envi-
ronments. The institute operates within the elds of
evolutionary ecology, evolutionary genetics, ecological
dynamics, wildlife diseases, reproduction biology and re-
production management. The Department of Ecological
Dynamics oers the following 2 PhD-positions (50%) in
Modelling with projects entitled:
Project 1: The long-term consequences of early life
environments on behaviour and tness
Project 2: Eects of variation in vital rates on popula-
tion and community dynamics The aim of both projects
is to better understand how and when environmental
conditions shape tness-related traits (e.g. survival prob-
ability), and how environmentally driven variation in
tness-related traits in turn aects population and com-
munity dynamics. By investigating these questions at
the level of individuals and populations/communities, us-
ing data-driven analyses, simulations and meta-analyses,
we aim to advance the general understanding of how
dierent levels of organization respond to changes in
environments.
Requirements for both positions: * Completed MSc in
ecological modelling, behavioural ecology, evolutionary
ecology, computational biology or bioinformatics * Ex-
cellent programming skills in R * A solid background
in statistical analyses and modelling * Reliability, high
motivation and eciency; ability to work independently
and as part of a team; * Strong organizational and com-
munication skills; willingness to engage in collaboration
for successful and timely implementation of the projectand publication of results; * Prociency in English.
Benecial for both positions: * Experience in analyz-
ing individual based, longitudinal data sets, simulations,
population modelling, individual-based modelling, meta-
analyses, social network analyses * Programming skills
in Netlogo / Python * A strong interest in behavioural
ecology, population ecology, and evolution
We oer state-of-the-art methodology and a stimulating
research environment in an interdisciplinary, collabo-
rative project. The two positions will start 1st June
2018 and are limited to three years. Working hours
comprise 19.5 hours per week, with salary according to
TV oD (Bund). The place of work is the Leibniz IZW
Alfred-Kowalke-Str. 17, 10315 Berlin. As a member of
the Leibniz Association the IZW is an equal opportu-
nity employer, determined to increase the proportion of
women in science, and particularly encourages women
to apply. Preference will be given to disabled applicants
with the same qualications.
Enquiries or further questions should be directed to Dr.
Sarah Benhaiem for Project 1 (benhaiem@izw-berlin.de)
and Dr. Viktoriia Radchuk for Project 2 (radchuk@izw-
berlin.de). Applicants should submit 1) a letter of mo-
tivation in which they indicate to which project they
apply, and highlight particular skills for this position, 2)
a CV, 3) copies of relevant degrees, 4) a potential list
of publications and 5) the names and contact details
of two referees no later than 15th April 2018 via the
IZW's (www.izw-berlin.de) online-job-market (button
\Apply online"). Interviews will take place on the 24th
of April.
We are looking forward to your application!
\Vollberg, Stephanie" <vollberg@izw-berlin.de >
LouisianaStateU
ConservationGenetics
Professors in the School of Renewable Natural Resources,
Louisiana State University may each nominate a prospec-
tive student for a Board of Regents PhD fellowship
beginning in Fall 2018. I would like to nominate an
outstanding student to compete for this fellowship and
work in my lab. The fellowship pays 30K/year for four
years, and includes a tuition waiver. Active research
programs in my lab (http://www.rnr.lsu.edu/people/-
taylor/default.htm) focus on conservation genetics, par-
ticularly the relationship between immunogenetic vari-April 1, 2018 EvolDir 27
ation and tness, population-level genetic variation in
threatened species and species of management concern,
historical genetic variation (using museum DNA), and
genetic aspects of behavioral ecology (inbreeding avoid-
ance, extra-pair paternity). Interested students should
contact Sabrina Taylor at staylor@lsu.edu to discuss
potential projects: as long as the project is in the eld
of conservation genetics, it can be tailored to suit a
prospective student's interests. Applicants must be US
citizens/residents. All qualied U.S. citizens and resi-
dents must apply before Mar 30, 2018. Fellowship oers
will be made by April 15, 2018 and students who accept
will then be asked to apply to the LSU Graduate School.
LSU is an Equal Employment Opportunity employer.
Sabrina Taylor Associate Professor School of Renew-
able Natural Resources RNR Bldg. Room 227 (Oce
331) Louisiana State University and AgCenter Baton
Rouge, LA, 70803, USA 225-578-4137, fax 4227 http:/-
/www.rnr.lsu.edu/people/taylor/default.htm \Taylor,
Sabrina S" <staylor@agcenter.lsu.edu >
MasseyU 2 PlantEvolution
Two fully-funded PhD Scholarships
Investigating native plants derived from whole-genome
duplication events and understanding why they are suc-
cessful
Project description: We are seeking two highly-
motivated PhD students for a project that seeks to
understand why plants with multiple sets of chromo-
somes (polyploidy) are so common in New Zealand and
elsewhere. The three-year project is part of a new Royal
Society of New Zealand Marsden Fund grant. Speci-
cally, we want to determine the relative roles of genetic
dierentiation, genomic downsizing, trait innovation
and novel ecological opportunities in the evolutionary
success of many polypoid species. Our prediction is
that polyploidy creates both costs and opportunities for
plants which limit the type of environments they can
occupy. The idea is to investigate plant lineages in New
Zealand with well-documented and dierent levels of
chromosome duplication. With the research team, the
aim is obtain information on genome size, gene expres-
sion, phylogenetic relationships, ecophysiological and
trait features, and undertake process-based niche mod-
elling across ploidy levels in six representative lineages
(e.g. Asplenium, Poa, Plantago, Schizeilema, Leptinella,
Veronica).This is an ideal PhD opportunity in evolutionary ecol-
ogy and the students will gain experience in genomic
analysis, comparative phylogenetics, trait analysis, and
species distribution modelling, depending on their inter-
ests.
Project Supervisors: Professor Bill Lee, School of Bio-
logical Sciences, University of Auckland and Landcare
Research, Dunedin, New Zealand; Dr Jen Tate, Massey
University, Palmerston North; Dr Heidi Meudt and Dr
Patrick Brownsey, Museum of New Zealand Te Papa
Tongarewa , Wellington. The PhD students will also
gain experience working with Professor Dirk Albach
(Carl von Ossietzky-University Oldenburg, Germany)
and Dr Andrew Tanentzap (University of Cambridge,
UK).
Funding: Funding includes a tax-free stipend, full tu-
ition fees, and operational expenses for travel, conference
attendance and research expenses over the 3-year pro-
gramme. Both international and domestic students are
eligible. One PhD (ecophysiology, species distribution
modelling) will be run from the University of Auckland
but will include time at Landcare Research in Dunedin,
while the other (phylogenetics, genomics) will be based
at Massey University, Palmerston North.
Requirements: Applicants should have completed a de-
gree with a signicant research component (e.g. MSc or
BSc Honours), and have an excellent academic record.
Applicants need to have a background either in plant
ecology, ecophysiology, phylogenetics or computational
biology.
Applicants should email their CV, academic transcripts,
a cover letter stating why you are interested in the posi-
tion and how your qualications and experience make
you a good t for the proposed research, and the con-
tact details for at least two referees to Prof. Bill Lee
(wg.lee@auckland.ac.nz or leew@landcareresearch.co.nz).
Applications close on 1 ^st April 2018.
Jennifer A. Tate, Ph.D.
Senior Lecturer in Plant Systematics and Evolution
Curator, Dame Ella Campbell Herbarium (MPN)
Massey University
Institute of Fundamental Sciences
Private Bag 11222
Palmerston North
New Zealand
Phone: 64-6-350-5515 ext. 84718
FAX: 64-6-350-5682
Homepage28 EvolDir April 1, 2018
j.tate@massey.ac.nz
\Tate, Jennifer" <J.Tate@massey.ac.nz >
MaxPlanck Jena 5
EvolutionaryBiology
5 PhD positions in Molecular and Chemical Ecology and
Evolution International Max Planck Research School:
\The Exploration of Ecological Interactions with Molec-
ular and Chemical Techniques"
The International Max Planck Research School (IMPRS)
\The Exploration of Ecological Interactions with Molecu-
lar and Chemical Techniques" in Jena, Germany, invites
applications for 5 PhD positions beginning in September
2018 - January 2019. The overarching research topic
is the use of molecular, chemical and neurobiological
techniques to experimentally explore ecological inter-
actions under natural conditions. The main focus is
on the relationship between plants, microbes and herbi-
vores, and their environment, as well as the evolutionary
and behavioral consequences of these interactions. We
oer 14 exciting projects focusing on dierent organ-
isms and approaches. The complete list of projects
oered including project descriptions is available on our
website (http://imprs.ice.mpg.de/ext/index.php?id=-
420#header logo). We are looking for enthusiastic PhD
students with strong interests in the above-described
central topic. Applicants should have or be about to
obtain a Masters or equivalent degree in one of the
following elds: entomology, neurobiology, molecular
biology, biochemistry, analytical chemistry, plant physi-
ology, genetics, ecology, evolutionary biology, bioinfor-
matics, and mathematics and computer science. Ex-
ceptional candidates with a Bachelor's degree may also
be considered. All our projects are highly integrative
and require willingness to closely collaborate with re-
searchers of dierent backgrounds. The Research School
is a joint initiative of the Max Planck Institute for Chem-
ical Ecology and the Friedrich Schiller University. We
oer state-of-the art equipment, an excellent research
environment, supervision by a thesis committee and a
structured training program including scientic courses,
training in transferable and outreach skills and par-
ticipation in research symposia. Successful candidates
will receive a Max Planck support contract. There are
no tuition fees and the working language is English.
Application deadline is May 16th, 2018. For detailed
information on the IMPRS, projects oered and appli-cation requirements, please visit our website: http://-
imprs.ice.mpg.de/ .Please apply online from March 28,
2018, at: https://imprs-reg.ice.mpg.de/ .
Projects oered in 2018 Please nd below a list of
projects with evolutionary topics. All projects are highly
integrative and require the collaboration between dif-
ferent research groups. Applicants can identify up to
three projects of interest. It is possible to change project
preferences during the recruitment in Jena.
Project 5: Specicity, phylogeny and tness contri-
butions of phytoplasma eector proteins Supervisors:
Prof. Dr. G unter Theien, Genetics, Matthias Schlei-
den Institute, Friedrich Schiller University Jena; Prof.
Dr. Jonathan Gershenzon, Department of Biochemistry,
Max Planck Institute for Chemical Ecology; Dr. Axel
Mith ofer, Department of Bioorganic Chemistry, Max
Planck Institute for Chemical Ecology
Project 9: Predators that eat toxic food Supervisors:
Dr. Hannah Rowland, Research Group Predators and
Prey, Max Planck Institute for Chemical Ecology; Dr.
Christian Paetz, Research Group Biosynthesis/NMR,
Max Planck Institute for Chemical Ecology
Project 10: The insect mustard oil bomb: A chemical
weapon against predators and pathogens? Supervisors:
Dr. Franziska Beran, Research Group Detoxication
and Sequestration in Insects, Max Planck Institute for
Chemical Ecology; Dr. Hannah Rowland, Research
Group Predators and Prey, Max Planck Institute for
Chemical Ecology
Project 13: Molecular basis of balanced color polymor-
phisms in grasshoppers Supervisor: Prof. Dr. Holger
Schielzeth, Institute of Ecology and Evolution, Friedrich
Schiller University Jena
Claudia Voelckel <imprs@ice.mpg.de >
MPIO Seewiesen
EvolutionCognition
Announcement
PARROT COGNITION (TENERIFE)
MASTER PROJECTS / VOLUNTEER RESEARCH
ASSISTANTS
Comparative Cognition Research Group, Max-Planck
Institute for Ornithology, Tenerife, Spain
The Max-Planck Comparative Cognition ResearchApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 29
Group (CCRG) invites applications of Masters students
and volunteer research assistants. The CCRG forms
part of the collaboration between the Max-Planck Insti-
tute for Ornithology, Seewiesen, Germany, and the Loro
Parque Fundaci??n (LPF), Tenerife, Spain. We are cur-
rently running various comparative research projects on
social and physical cognition in parrots. Interested can-
didates are encouraged to contact us to enquire about
the ongoing projects. Successful applicants can expect
to gain a solid insight in the eld of Animal Cogni-
tion/Experimental Psychology and gain experience in
working with psittacids in a dynamic, international re-
search environment. The research is carried out on
captive parrots of the LPF, which holds the largest par-
rot collection and gene reserve in the world (ca. 350
subspecies) for conservation and research purposes.
Logistics:
Voluntary research assistant position /Master Project
start and end dates are exible but preference will be
given to students who can start in April/May 2018. The
position requires a minimum of 4 months, but ideally 6
months, continuous commitment at the research station
in Tenerife, Spain. Free accommodation in a shared
student apartment can be provided. Successful appli-
cants will be responsible for their own transportation
expenses to and from the research station (Puerto de la
Cruz, Tenerife, Spain).
Important skills/qualications:
Successful candidates will have: * completed a degree in
Biology or any related eld * a strong interest in com-
parative cognition * high motivation and commitment
to the project * reliability, eciency and an ability to
work independently * condence to interact with ani-
mals * previous research experience * good verbal and
written English skills * initiative to develop the project
* good team work attitude and social skills (shared
accommodation between 3 students)
To apply: Please send your CV and a cover letter report-
ing any relevant experience you have and motivation to
participate in the project to Dr. Auguste von Bayern
(avbayern@orn.mpg.de ) or Dr. Anastasia Krashenin-
nikova (akrashe@orn.mpg.de ). Contact details of 2
referees may be requested.
Anastasia Krasheninnikova <anastacia.k@web.de >NewZealand 2 EvolutionaryEcol
Two fully-funded PhD Scholarships
Investigating native plants derived from whole-genome
duplication events and understanding why they are suc-
cessful
Project description: We are seeking two highly-
motivated PhD students for a project that seeks to
understand why plants with multiple sets of chromo-
somes (polyploidy) are so common in New Zealand and
elsewhere. The three-year project is part of a new Royal
Society of New Zealand Marsden Fund grant. Speci-
cally, we want to determine the relative roles of genetic
dierentiation, genomic downsizing, trait innovation
and novel ecological opportunities in the evolutionary
success of many polypoid species. Our prediction is
that polyploidy creates both costs and opportunities for
plants which limit the type of environments they can
occupy. The idea is to investigate plant lineages in New
Zealand with well-documented and dierent levels of
chromosome duplication. With the research team, the
aim is obtain information on genome size, gene expres-
sion, phylogenetic relationships, ecophysiological and
trait features, and undertake process-based niche mod-
elling across ploidy levels in six representative lineages
(e.g. Asplenium, Poa, Plantago, Schizeilema, Leptinella,
Veronica).
This is an ideal PhD opportunity in evolutionary ecol-
ogy and the students will gain experience in genomic
analysis, comparative phylogenetics, trait analysis, and
species distribution modelling, depending on their inter-
ests.
Project Supervisors: Professor Bill Lee, School of Bio-
logical Sciences, University of Auckland and Landcare
Research, Dunedin, New Zealand; Dr Jen Tate, Massey
University, Palmerston North; Dr Heidi Meudt and Dr
Patrick Brownsey, Museum of New Zealand Te Papa
Tongarewa , Wellington. The PhD students will also
gain experience working with Professor Dirk Albach
(Carl von Ossietzky-University Oldenburg, Germany)
and Dr Andrew Tanentzap (University of Cambridge,
UK).
Funding: Funding includes a tax-free stipend, full tu-
ition fees, and operational expenses for travel, conference
attendance and research expenses over the 3-year pro-
gramme. Both international and domestic students are30 EvolDir April 1, 2018
eligible. One PhD (ecophysiology, species distribution
modelling) will be run from the University of Auckland
but will include time at Landcare Research in Dunedin,
while the other (phylogenetics, genomics) will be based
at Massey University, Palmerston North.
Requirements: Applicants should have completed a de-
gree with a signicant research component (e.g. MSc or
BSc Honours), and have an excellent academic record.
Applicants need to have a background either in plant
ecology, ecophysiology, phylogenetics or computational
biology.
Applicants should email their CV, academic transcripts,
a cover letter stating why you are interested in the posi-
tion and how your qualications and experience make
you a good t for the proposed research, and the con-
tact details for at least two referees to Prof. Bill Lee
(wg.lee@auckland.ac.nz or leew@landcareresearch.co.nz).
Applications close on 1 ^st April 2018.
Angela J Brandt Ecologist/Modeller Manaaki Whenua
- Landcare Research T +64 3 470 7222 jM +64 21 121
5657
http://angelajbrandt.wordpress.com
www.landcareresearch.co.nz Manaaki Whenua -
Landcare Research
Angela Brandt <BrandtA@landcareresearch.co.nz >
Norway
ComparativeGenomicRegulation
PhD scholarship within comparative analysis of genome
regulation
The successful candidate will be associated with the
projects \TRANSPOSE" (2018-2021) and \REWIRED"
(2018-2021), recently funded by the Norwegian Re-
search Council FRIPRO program. Both these projects
are addressing fundamental knowledge gaps concerning
genome evolution following whole genome duplication,
using salmonid shes as a model system. Specically, our
aim is to test if functional redundancy in a duplicated
genome spark evolution of novel adaptive functions, and
the importance of transposable elements in the evolution
of these novel adaptations.
A key element in the projects is collaboration with Rori
Rohlfs at San Francisco State University and use her
computational framework (EVE) to identify genes under
divergent selection pressure on gene regulation. Thecandidate will therefore be expected to spend signicant
time in the Rohlfs-lab during the project.
The main tasks will be to: - Annotate and build a cata-
logue of transposable elements in salmonid sh genomes
- Integrate information on transposable elements (ge-
nomic positions and historical activity) with analyses of
transcriptomics (RNA-Seq) and epigenomics (ChIP-Seq,
ATAC-Seq) data in a comparative framework across
10 sh species. - Within the comparative framework,
investigate the impact of transposable element activity
on evolution of adaptive gene expression changes.
For more information about the project, please
contact Simen R ^A ^Ad Sandve ( srsandve.org or
simen.sandve@nmbu.no)
More information: https://www.jobbnorge.no/en/-
available-jobs/job/148999/phd-scholarship-within-
comparative-analysis-of-genome-regulation-refno-18-
01261 Rori <rrohlfs@gmail.com >
Portugal Archaeogenetics
INVITATION TO JOIN A RESEARCH PROJECT
Call for a PhD candidate under the scope of ARCHAIC
Project
We are looking for a highly motivated graduate student,
who is interested in pursuing a PhD degree in the eld
of Archaeogenetics, Biology, Animal Science, Bioinfor-
matics or related elds to join the team of a research
project entitled \ARCHAIC - The archaeogenetics of
Iberian cattle: investigating their origins, evolution and
improvement" (PTDC/CVT ^A'LIV/2827/2014; POCI-
01-0145-FEDER-016647).
The invited student will interact with an international
team of scientists at CIBIO/InBIO-University of Porto
in the Campus of Vair ao, Portugal, at LARC-National
Laboratory of Archaeosciences in Lisbon, Portugal, and
at foreign participating institutions namely the Archae-
ological Research Laboratory of Stockholm University,
under the supervision of Catarina Ginja <https://-
cibio.up.pt/people/details/cginja >(CIBIO-InBIO).
*The application should include the following informa-
tion:*
1. Motivation letter with a short biography and research
interests; 2. Curriculum vitae summarizing education,
experience, other qualifying activity and a list of publi-
cations; 3. Copy of master degree and course grades; 4.April 1, 2018 EvolDir 31
Names and contact information of two referees.
The application must be written in English and sent
by e-mail to ARCHAIC@cibio.up.pt until *March 16,
2018*.
The invited student is expected to apply to the call for
PhD Fellowships of Funda c ao para a Ci^ encia e a Tec-
nologia - FCT, Portugal, open until March 28, 2018 and
should comply with the necessary requirements. For
details please check the call website:
https://www.fct.pt/apoios/bolsas/concursos/-
individuais2018.phtml.pt *For more information about
this call, please click here. <https://cibio.up.pt/-
upload/lemanager/CallPhD ARCHAIC 2018.pdf
>*
To know more about the ARCHAIC project click here
<https://cibio.up.pt/projects-1/page/494 >.
To know more about our research group, please click
here. <https://cibio.up.pt/research-groups-1/details/-
archgen >
*Research Associate, IF2014 Fellow* http://cibio.up.pt/-
people/details/cginja *CIBIO/InBIO **- Laborat orio
Associado* *Centro de Investiga c ao em Biodiversidade
e Recursos Gen eticos* Universidade do Porto Campus
Agr ario de Vair ao Rua Padre Armando Quintas n ^Ao7
4485-661 Vair ao, Portugal
E-mail: catarinaginja@cibio.up.pt Tel.: +351 252 660
411 Fax: +351 252 661 780
ARCHAIC project: Archaeogenetics of Iberian Cattle
<http://archaic.campus.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/Archaic/-
home.html >
Catarina Ginja <catarinaginja@gmail.com >
Portugal EvolutionaryGenomics
PhD Students Proposals
Call for PhD candidates to apply for the FCT 2018 PhD
Program competition - Portugal.
https://www.fct.pt/apoios/bolsas/concursos/-
individuais2018.phtml.en The position is contingent on
FCT approval.
Applicants: Primarily Portuguese citizens or citizens of
the EU member states. Citizens of other countries may
also apply, as long as they have legal resident status in
Portugal at the time of the application.Requirements: The FCT criteria for scholarship selec-
tivity gives a weight of 50% to the individual merit of
the applicant (Individual evaluation). Therefore, only
candidates with a very competitive curriculum are likely
of being selected.
Preference for candidates with demonstrable experience
in the area(s) of genetics, genomics, molecular evolution,
bioinformatics and biotechnology.
Candidates should possess a Master's degree and English
prociency. Applicants should be Portuguese citizens or
citizens of EU member states. Citizens of other countries
may also apply, as long as they have legal resident status
in Portugal at the time of the application. For further
details about application requirements for this schol-
arship consult the Regulations: https://www.fct.pt/-
apoios/bolsas/docs/RegulamentoBolsasFCT.pdf Re-
search project and laboratory: The PhD candi-
date will develop the awarded project in CIIMAR,
Porto (Matosinhos), Portugal, under the Evolution-
ary Genomics and Bioinformatics group Head by
Prof. Agostinho Antunes (http://orcid.org/0000-
0002-1328-1732 and https://www.scopus.com/authid/-
detail.uri?authorId=7102537544) in collaboration with
several international institutions. Topic of research
could range from Adaptive evolution (e.g. venom di-
versication, sensory, immunity, reproduction, develop-
ment, etc), comparative genomics, selection signatures,
symbiotic associations (e.g. animals-microorganisms
symbioses, microbiomes, etc), bioinformatics, etc.
Candidates should send the CV and copies of their grad-
uation and Master Is degrees (including nal grades)
to Prof. Agostinho Antunes (aantunes@ciimar.up.pt)
before 15th March 2018 (rst come rst served chance).
Agostinho Antunes <aantunes@ciimar.up.pt >
QMUL London
EvolutionChickBehaviour
A PhD position is available at the Evolution and Com-
parative Cognition laboratory at Queen Mary University
of London (Dr Elisabetta Versace) to investigate the
spontaneous behaviour and learning strategies of male
and female chicks (Gallus gallus). Here is the link to the
project on the School of Biology and Chemical Sciences
website: http://www.sbcs.qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/-
research/projects/display-title-527650-en.html The
project will be tailored on the interests and skills of
the successful candidate, so candidates from dierent32 EvolDir April 1, 2018
backgrounds are expected to apply (e.g. biology, psy-
chology, computer science). Informal inquiries welcome!
e.versace@qmul.ac.uk
Sincerely, Elisabetta Versace
Elisabetta Versace, PhD Lecturer in Psychology School
of Biological and Chemical Sciences Queen Mary Uni-
versity of London Fogg Building, room 2.25 Email:
e.versace@qmul.ac.uk Phone: + 44 (0) 2078828798
Twitter @so evolutionary
e.versace@qmul.ac.uk
QMU London PhD
BehaviouralDierencesChicks
Dear All,
a PhD position is available at the Evolution
and Comparative Cognition laboratory at Queen
Mary University of London (supervisor Dr Elisa-
betta Versace) to investigate the spontaneous be-
haviour and learning strategies of male and female
chicks (Gallus gallus). Here is the link to the
project: http://www.sbcs.qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/-
research/projects/display-title-527650-en.html The
project can be tailored on the interests and skills of
the successful candidate, so we expect to receive ap-
plications from students of dierent backgrounds (e.g.
biology, psychology, computer science). Informal in-
quiries welcome! e.versace@qmul.ac.uk
Thank you for circulating this information.
Sincerely, Elisabetta Versace
Elisabetta Versace, PhD Lecturer in Psychology School
of Biological and Chemical Sciences Queen Mary Uni-
versity of London Fogg Building, room 2.25 Email:
e.versace@qmul.ac.uk Phone: + 44 (0) 2078828798
Twitter @so evolutionary
\e.versace@qmul.ac.uk" <e.versace@qmul.ac.uk >StockholmNHM Palaeogenomics
SUBJECT: Graduate position: Stock-
holmNHM.Palaeogenomics
ADVERTISEMENT TEXT:
PhD Student Position on Palaeogenomics of Prehistoric
Climate Change
Swedish Museum of Natural History & Stockholm Uni-
versity
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
This PhD project will investigate how species are af-
fected by climate change. To do this, we will use a
palaeogenomic approach to analyse ancient DNA from
prehistoric bones and teeth sampled across several well-
known severe and rapid changes in climate that took
place during the last ice age. The analyses will comprise
several animal species in Eurasia. The specic aims of
the project are to i) assess the degree to which past
warm periods led to demographic bottlenecks, ii) exam-
ine to what extent climate-induced range contractions
led to losses of unique genetic variation, and iii) use a
comparative genomic approach to investigate whether
species adapted genetically in response to rapid climate
uctuations.
For this project, good knowledge in population genet-
ics, bioinformatics as well as experience of laborative
DNA analysis are important qualications. The PhD
student will join the ancient DNA research group at the
Swedish Museum of Natural History (for further details,
seewww.palaeogenetics.com/adna).
ENVIRONMENT The PhD student will be employed by
Stockholm University (SU), but will be based at the De-
partment of Bioinformatics and Genetics at the Swedish
Museum of Natural History (SMNH). The museum is
located in Stockholm, which by many is regarded as one
of the most beautiful capitals in the world and is home
to a vibrant scientic community with several leading
research institutes as well as the National Genomics
Infrastructure at the Science for Life Laboratory. The
SMNH has a strong mission in natural history research,
and its research division has more than 170 employees.
The main supervisor for the PhD project will be Prof.
Love Dalen at the SMNH. The project is funded by the
Bolin Centre for Climate Research and the Department
of Zoology at SU, and will be co-supervised by Prof.April 1, 2018 EvolDir 33
Anders Gotherstrom at SU.
QUALIFICATIONS In order to meet the general en-
try requirements, the applicant must have completed a
second-cycle degree, completed courses equivalent to at
least 240 higher education credits, of which 60 credits
must be in the second cycle, or have otherwise acquired
equivalent knowledge in Sweden or elsewhere. In or-
der to meet the specic entry requirements, the general
syllabus for doctoral studies in the eld of Systematics
and Evolution stipulates that applicants must have com-
pleted a research degree (e.g. Master' ^As), or have passed
at least 120 hp (2 years) of biological studies, including
an approved independent project of at least 30 hp at ad-
vanced level (\examensarbete") within systematics and
evolution, ecology, population genetics, bioinformatics
or a similar subject. Applicants who have in principle
acquired the corresponding competence in Sweden, or
abroad, are also qualied. The qualication require-
ments should preferrably be met by the deadline for
applications.
CONTACT For questions about the position and fur-
ther information about the project, contact Prof. Love
Dalen, Email: love.dalen@nrm.se
HOW TO APPLY Applications should be done us-
ing Stockholm University's online application system.
Please follow the link below to obtain further in-
formation about how to write your application and
how to access the online application system: http://-
palaeogenetics.com/jobs Closing date: 22 March 2018
Reference number: SU FV-0556-18
Love Dal en <Love.Dalen@nrm.se >
StockholmU EvolutionCognition
PhD position on Evolution of cognition in the guppy
PhD position available in Niclas Kolm's research group
at Stockholm University. The group uses mainly the
guppy (Poecilia reticulata) as a model to experimentally
investigate the link between evolutionary changes in
brain anatomy and behaviour. The aim of this PhD
project is to investigate how individual cognitive ability
and learning strategies are aected by rapid evolution
of brain size and schooling behaviour. The existing arti-
cial selection lines of large- and small-brained guppies
and the recently developed selection lines of guppies
with dierences in schooling behaviour will form the
base of the project. The main focus of the project is thusto use existing and develop new ecologically relevant
cognitive tests and behavioural assays to evaluate how
rapid evolutionary changes in brain size and behaviour
aect learning abilities and other behavioural aspects
in both individual and collective contexts.
The work will be lab-oriented utilizing the Kolm lab
guppy facilities with over 4000 aquaria and multiple
set-ups for cognitive tests and behavioural assays of
available selection lines in both 2D and 3D using ad-
vanced hard- and software to track individual behaviour.
You will be part of a dynamic international team of PhD
students and postdocs. The project will require hard
work but at the same time provide excellent opportu-
nities for personal initiatives and development towards
a successful academic career. An important task will
be to collect and analyse complex data in a way that
controls for the setups of replicated articial selection
designs. Worth noting is that Stockholm University
oers extremely good conditions for this type of 4 year
fully funded PhD position.
Contact For more information, please contact Professor
Niclas Kolm, niclas.kolm@zoologi.su.se.
Application Link to Stockholm University website on
this PhD position and how to apply (deadline 9th April
2018):
https://www.su.se/english/about/working-at-su/-
phd?rmpage=job&rmjob=4874 &rmlang=UK
Niclas Kolm
Niclas Kolm
Professor, Head of Ethology division
Department of Zoology
Stockholm University
Svante Arrhenius v ag 18B
10691 Stockholm, Sweden
Email: niclas.kolm@zoologi.su.se
Tel: 46 (0)8 164050
Mobile: 46 (0)730 980809
Website: http://www.zoologi.su.se/about/-
sta/person.php?suuid=nkolm Niclas Kolm
<niclas.kolm@zoologi.su.se >34 EvolDir April 1, 2018
StockholmU LifeHistoryEvolution
PhD position on Life history evolution across climate
clines in butteries We are inviting applications for a
PhD position in the research group of Karl Gotthard
that is focusing on the evolution of life history and plas-
ticity in seasonal environments, using primarily natural
populations of butteries as model organisms.
The new PhD will work within the project ' Life his-
tory evolution across climate clines' and will focus on
the evolution of life cycle timing in situations where
insect species show shifts in the number of annual gen-
erations, i.e. when there are shifts in voltinism. The
phenomenon of voltinism shifts is relatively common
in insects and means that a given species shifts from
having two full generations per year in southern or low
altitude locations, to have only one annual generation
in northern or high altitude locations. Selection is likely
to change signicantly across voltinism shifts as they
signify a dramatic change in optimal life history strat-
egy. In particular the new project aims at exploring life
cycle adaptations and potential voltinism shifts in the
expanding range margins of buttery species that are
presently expanding their distributions northwards. At
the northern range limits these expanding species are ex-
pected to experience strong selection for changes in how
photoperiod regulates life cycle timing and voltinism.
The project aims at testing the general prediction from
life history theory that there are footprints of selection
for a change in life cycle regulation resulting in a shift
from the ancestral state of having two generations per
year to having only one annual generation. In this way
the project will provide novel insights into ecological
consequences of the interaction between the two most
prominent eects of climate change on natural popu-
lations: northward range expansions and selection for
changes in seasonal life cycle regulation.
The project will contain aspects of both eld and lab-
oratory work to study the ecology, genetics and physi-
ology of life cycle timing in temperate butteries. The
prospective student will sample replicated populations
and do controlled laboratory studies of how phenotypic
adaptations and associated genetic variation is changing
across shifts in voltinism. The genetics will be studied
by quantitative genetic methods and genomics, while
the physiological manifestations of the dierent tim-
ing adaptations will be investigated using respirometryand cold tolerance assays. Finally, we plan to do use
reciprocal transplant experiments in outdoor cages to
test the adaptive signicance of local dierence in these
adaptations.
The PhD will be part of the Division of Ecology and
it is funded by grants from the Bolin Centre for Cli-
mate Research at Stockholm University and the Swedish
Research Council (VR).
Stockholm University oers very good conditions for
PhD positions, that are 4 year fully funded positions.
We are looking for candidates with a strong interest in
evolutionary ecology, plasticity and life history theory,
with excellent analytical ability and experience with
quantitative analyses of life history traits and of other
traits of interest. Experience in working with insects in
the lab and in the eld, as well as having a valid drivers
license, is especially meriting.
Contact For more information please contact Dr. Karl
Gotthard karl.gotthard@zoologi.su.se
Application Below is a link to the Stockholm University
website where you nd instructions about how to apply
(deadline April 15).
https://www.su.se/english/about/working-at-su/phd
Karl Gotthard Department of Zoology Stockholm
University 106 91 Stockholm Sweden https://-
www.su.se/english/proles/gotth-1.183261 Carl Got-
thard <Karl.Gotthard@zoologi.su.se >
StockholmU
WinterEvolutionaryEcology
PhD project on Winter evolutionary ecology in butter-
ies
The Department of Zoology invites applications for a
four-year PhD position as part of the project 'The ef-
fects of microclimate variability on insect overwintering
biology' funded through grants from the Bolin Centre
for Climate Research and the Research Council Formas.
Diapause is a resting stage characterized by develop-
mental arrest and suppressed metabolism that occurs
commonly in insects. Its mechanistic underpinnings are
poorly understood, as are physiological commonalities
among insects in how diapause is regulated. This is
surprising since diapause is common and an important
part of the life-cycle in most insects in seasonal envi-
ronments. Models of insect phenology are critical toApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 35
correctly manage pest insects, but these often suer
from unclear diapause physiology components and in-
accurate microhabitat climate models, which leads to
overall poor model resolution. Ongoing climate change
is aecting winter climate more strongly than summer
climate, which exacerbates the lack of information on
diapause development and winter microclimatology.
The overarching aim of the PhD project is to understand
how spatial and temporal variation in microclimate af-
fects the life-cycle regulation of butteries in Sweden.
The student will investigate seasonal microclimatic vari-
ability in overwintering habitats with the aim to link
large scale climate models to micro-scales - scales that
actually matter for overwintering insects. The student
will also combine integrated physiological models on dia-
pause termination with microclimate models to measure
the energetic cost of diapause with the aim to estimate
the eect of winter warming on insect population ecology
and range dynamics.
The project will combine several approaches: (i) Fields
surveys describing the spatial and temporal microcli-
matic patterns in overwintering landscapes that are
combined with sophisticated statistical microclimate
models. (ii) In-situ eld experiments where summer
and winter components of life-cycles are investigated
by tracking buttery performance in the eld. (iii)
Detailed climate-chamber and laboratory experiments
where eld data is used to design informative rearing
regimes aimed at elucidating consequences of thermal
variation on winter development and energetics.
Contact For more information, please contact project
leader Philipp Lehmann, telephone: +46 73 907 88
90, philipp.lehmann@zoologi.su.se, or Karl Gotthard,
telephone: +46 8 16 40 48, karl.gotthard@zoologi.su.se.
Application Link to Stockholm University website
on this PhD position and how to apply (deadline
31st of March 2018): https://www.su.se/english/-
about/working-at-su/phd?rmpage=job&rmjob=-
4843&rmlang=UK Philipp Lehmann
Researcher Department of Zoology Stockholm University
tel: +468164089 email: philipp.lehmann@zoologi.su.se
orcid: http://orcid.org/0000-0001-8344-6830 home-
page: https://lehmannzoology.wordpress.com/ Philipp
Lehmann <philipp.lehmann@zoologi.su.se >UAberdeen
ExperimentalEvolutionMicrobes
Funded PhD studentship in microbial evolution at the
University of Aberdeen (Scotland, UK): \Experimental
evolution of Thaumarchaeota"
The fundamental aim of this project is to determine
the process of adaptive diversication and associated
trade-os in tness, by studying microbial evolution
experimentally.
A 4-year PhD studentship in microbial evolution, start-
ing in May 2018 at the earliest, is now open for applica-
tion at the University of Aberdeen, Scotland, UK. The
deadline for applications is April 12th 2018 and this
studentship is available to students of any nationality
(providing funding for tuition fees and stipend). The
PhD project is funded by the Royal Society and will
target key evolutionary questions with a special focus
on Thaumarchaeota to align with the research thematic
of the University of Aberdeen Nitrication Group.
Using microbes to test theory in evolutionary biology
has led to major scientic advances. In particular, micro-
bial experimental evolution has allowed analysis of both
microbial adaptation (genomic and phenotypic changes)
and diversication (phenotypic evolution and lineage-
splitting) using controlled environments, through in-
creased understanding of the nature and frequency of
genomic substitutions, their eects on microbial tness
and the mechanisms by which diversity is created and
maintained in microbial populations. These concepts
were established from studies of bacteria, fungi, viruses
and phage, focussing mainly on a few bacterial model
organisms (1, 2). However, an entire domain of life,
the Archaea (3), has largely been ignored by evolution-
ary biologists, despite their widespread distribution in
natural environments, high abundance and essential con-
tribution to global ecosystem functioning that sustains
the planet. A priori, no clear reasons for dierent evo-
lutionary processes between archaea and bacteria can
be advanced, but their ancient evolutionary divergence
(despite the existence of lateral gene transfer between
domains) suggests that the relevance of established mi-
crobial models of adaptation and diversication should
be tested on these organisms if they are to be considered
universal. Indeed, despite the global importance and
diversity of archaea, our understanding of the ecological
and evolutionary processes generating their high diver-36 EvolDir April 1, 2018
sity is scarce compared to that of eukaryotes and, to a
lesser extent, bacteria.
This project will focus on members of a key microbial
phylum, the Thaumarchaeota (4, 5), which are abundant
and ubiquitous and perform a critical ecosystem func-
tion, ammonia oxidation. The distribution of natural
microbial communities is inuenced by environmental
characteristics, and pH is the major abiotic factor in-
uencing extant thaumarchaeotal niche specialisation
(4), and has also inuenced their diversication and
patterns of lineage formation through deep evolutionary
time (5).
This project will involve re-isolation of a thaumarchaeo-
tal strain (6) followed by the study the evolution of these
microbes experimentally. Experimental evolution will
be performed in automated mini-bioreactors by impos-
ing environmental changes under controlled conditions
and the evolutionary mechanisms of adaptation and
diversication as well as the existence of trade-os will
be determined using genomic and tness changes over
time.
The PhD student will join a dynamic team of re-
searchers led by Dr C ecile Gubry-Rangin (https://-
www.abdn.ac.uk/ibes/people/proles/c.rangin) and will
benet from the presence of strong groups in the de-
partment working on related topics as well as being
embedded in a strong network of international collabo-
rations. The University of Aberdeen provides an excel-
lent scientic environment, state-of-the-art technological
support facilities and diverse training opportunities for
all aspects of research and for transferable academic and
generic skills.
Candidate should have (or expected to achieve) a mini-
mum of 2:1 Honours degree, ideally (but not required)
an MSc in evolution, ecology or related, strong theoret-
ical skills and enthusiasm for learning and developing
microbial experimental evolution.
Application Process: Formal application should be made
as described on https://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=96539 . References:
1. Barrick JE, Yu DS, Yoon SH, Jeong H, Oh TK,
Schneider D, Lenski RE, Kim JF. (2009) Genome evo-
lution and adaptation in a long-term experiment with
Escherichia coli. Nature 461(7268):1243-7
2. Rainey PB, Travisano M. (1998) Adaptive radia-
tion in a heterogeneous environment. Nature 394:69.
394(6688):69-72.
3. Spang A, Caceres EF, Ettema TJG. (2017) Genomic
exploration of the diversity, ecology, and evolution of
the archaeal domain of life. Science 357(6351). pii:eaaf3883.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UAucklandNZ EvolBirdSong
One PhD position available for new project on the
evolutionary origins of song learning in birds. This
project is a collaboration between Dr. Kristal Cain
(kecain.weebly.com) at the University of Auckland
in New Zealand, and Dr Michelle Hall (michelle-
hall.wordpress.com) at The University of Melbourne
in Australia. Both domestic and international applica-
tions are encouraged.
Vocal learning in birds is of great interdisciplinary im-
portance and an excellent model for human language.
This research relies on a clear understanding of the evo-
lutionary origins of vocal learning, but recent reports
have undermined previous assumptions, leading to a
hotly contested debate about the evolution of vocal
learning. Vocal development in one group of birds, the
New Zealand wrens (Acanthisitti), is critical for resolv-
ing this debate, but is currently unknown and unstudied.
The project will focus on ti Itipounamu/rieman and
combine in-depth behavioural analyses with new acous-
tic tools to determine whether vocalisations are learned
or innate in these endemic birds. We are also interested
in sex dierences in vocal acquisition patterns.
This project has a strong eld focus and will require
substantial time in remote areas. There is exibility
for keen students to guide the direction of the research
within the framework of the overall project. The PhD
project is anticipated to start mid-2018, with eldwork
commencing in August. Informal inquiries are welcome.
Preferred selection criteria
- Strong previous academic record
- Enthusiasm and interest in the broad concepts and
questions motivating the research
- Interest in undertaking eld-based avian research, es-
pecially in collecting acoustic data
- Enjoyment of outdoor eldwork and condence in work-
ing in remote locations that can experience extreme
weather.April 1, 2018 EvolDir 37
- Excellent interpersonal, oral and written communica-
tion skills
- Ability to learn/use R (statistical programming lan-
guage), new packages for analysis (e.g. warbleR), and
new software (e.g. Sound Analysis Pro)
- Experience with bird banding/ringing, nest searching,
and acoustic techniques is helpful
To apply, please send an e-mail briey explaining your
research interests and career goals, a CV, a copy of
academic transcripts, and contact information for two
references to Dr. KE Cain (k.cain@auckland.ac.nz).
Informal enquires are also welcome.
Application and funding details: This project supported
by the Marsden Fund of The Royal Society of New
Zealand (broadly equivalent of US NSF). Funding in-
cludes a tax-free stipend, full tuition fees, and opera-
tional expenses for travel, conference attendance and
research expenses over the 3-year programme.
Requirements: Applicants should have completed a
degree with a signicant research component (e.g.
MSc or BSc Honours), and have an excellent aca-
demic record. Students will need to qualify for a
U Auckland scholarship and admission to U Auck-
land (see https://www.auckland.ac.nz/en/for/future-
postgraduates). Please also note the English language
prociency requirements.
APPLICATIONS CLOSE ON 1ST APRIL 2018.
We encourage all qualied applicants to apply. Auckland
is a diverse and welcoming city and we are committed
to increasing diversity in biology. We particularly en-
courage Maori/Pacica students to apply; ti Itipounamu
are endemic songbirds and taonga, adding special sig-
nicance and kaitiakitanga to our proposed research.
Our project celebrates their unique status - the phy-
logeny/whakapapa of this species is critical to our
project and for understanding the true origins of vocal
learning worldwide. {
Kristal Cain - Lecturer School of Biological Sciences
University of Auckland kecain.weebly.com +64 9 923
5815
k.cain@auckland.ac.nz k.cain@auckland.ac.nz
UBielefeld RaptorMalariaGenomics
Short-term and long-term consequences of avian malaria-
like infectionA PhD position in behavioural ecology is avail-
able at the Faculty of Biology at Bielefeld Univer-
sity, in the Department of Animal Behaviour (with
Dr. Nayden Chakarov, see http://www.uni- biele-
feld.de/biologie/animalbehaviour/nchakarov). The po-
sition runs for three years from early 2018 to 2021 and
is funded by the German Research Foundation (DFG).
The PhD student will be part of the buzzard research
team (together with the group of Prof. Dr. Oliver
Kr uger) and of a large PhD cohort, which is supported
by a DFG-funded collaborative research centre NC3
(full details at www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/crc212).
The PhD project will combine eld work, lab work and
genomics. We'll explore physiological causes and con-
sequences of a very common blood parasite infection
in a common buzzard population (Leucocytozoon in
Buteo buteo). The student will conduct experiments in
the eld, produce transcriptomic data and analyse it in
combination with tness correlates. The long-term t-
ness consequences for buzzards will be monitored using
lifelong wing-tags, and survival and recruitment data
will be collected. So far, over 2500 individual buzzards
have already been tted with lifelong wing tags and
the resulting data set will be used. The goal is to un-
derstand the extent and mechanisms of resistance and
tolerance to the parasite in these hosts.
Main responsibilities
- Research tasks (90%) - Conducting eld work on a
buzzard population, including chick-ringing and treat-
ment from late March to early July each year; RNA
extraction and library preparation; Transcriptomic and
statistical analyses; Writing scientic publications
- Organisational tasks in the research group and collab-
orative eorts (10%)
Applicant's prole
We seek a bright and highly motivated student with
a university degree in a relevant discipline with spe-
cialization in either behavioural ecology, ornithology,
population ecology and/or bioinformatics, and a strong
eagerness to delve into the other; interest to develop
scientic capabilities and questions; experience with
eld work, preferably in birds of prey; experience with
molecular lab work; interest in behavioural and life
history, immunological and parasitological questions;
coding experience, preferably with Unix command-line,
omics-techniques, and/or R; ability to work both in-
dependently and as part of a team; excellent oral and
written communication skills in English.
The following qualications would additionally be of
advantage: papers in peer-reviewed international jour-
nals; experience in tree-climbing with rope techniques;38 EvolDir April 1, 2018
experience with large-scale research projects.
Remuneration
Salary will be paid according to Remuneration level
13 (65%) of the Wage Agreement for Public Service
in the Federal States (TV-L). Bielefeld University is
particularly committed to the career development of
its employees. It oers attractive internal and external
training and further training programmes. Employees
have the opportunity to use a variety of health, coun-
selling, and prevention programmes. Bielefeld University
places great importance on a work-family balance for
all its employees.
Application procedure
To apply, please provide: (i) a letter of motivation in-
cluding a statement of your research interests and skills
and experience relevant to the position, as well as spe-
cic ideas and plans related the project outline; (ii) a
CV including publication list; (iii) names and contact
details of two referees willing to write condential letters
of recommendation. All materials should be emailed as
a single PDF le to: nayden.chakarov@uni-bielefeld.de.
The application deadline is March 15th 2018 and inter-
views will take place shortly thereafter. After the deci-
sion, the position should start as soon as possible. For
further information on the project and the department,
please contact Nayden Chakarov nayden.chakarov@uni-
bielefeld.de with any informal inquiries.
Bielefeld is a city of 325,000 inhabitants with all ex-
pected amenities and easy access to the Teutoburger
Wald for hiking and other outdoor pursuits. It oers a
high standard of living and is well connected to most
major European cities. Bielefeld University has received
a number of awards for its achievements in the provision
of equal opportunity and has been recognized as a family
friendly university. The University welcomes applica-
tions from women. This is particularly true with regard
both to academic and technical posts as well as positions
in Information Technology and Trades and Craft. Ap-
plications are handled according to the provisions of the
state equal opportunity statutes. Applications from suit-
ably qualied handicapped and severely handicapped
persons are explicitly encouraged.
Nayden Chakarov <nayden.chakarov@uni-bielefeld.de >UGroningen
ExperimentalEvolutionMicrobes
PhD position: Experimental Ecology and Evolution of
Microbial Infectious Ecosystems
OrganisationFounded in 1614, the University of Gronin-
gen enjoys an international reputation as a dynamic
and innovative centre of higher education oering high-
quality teaching and research. Flexible study pro-
grammes and academic career opportunities in a wide
variety of disciplines encourage the 30,000 students and
researchers alike to develop their own individual talents.
As one of the best research universities in Europe, the
University of Groningen has joined forces with other top
universities and networks worldwide to become a truly
global centre of knowledge. The Groningen Institute
for Evolutionary Life Sciences (GELIFES)GELIFES,
the largest institute of the Faculty of Science and En-
gineering (FSE) lls a special niche in the life sciences
by covering and integrating mechanistic, evolutionary
and ecological approaches, aiming to understand adapta-
tion on all levels of biological organisation. Researchers
pursue fundamental questions while collaborating with
partners from nature conservation, industry, medicine
and other realms of society. Our research elds in-
clude ecology, conservation biology, evolutionary biol-
ogy, behavioural biology, chronobiology, genetics and
genomics, neurobiology, physiology and theoretical mod-
elling, using a wide array of research tools. Research
levels range from molecular and organismal to popu-
lations and ecosystems, performed under laboratory,
semi-natural and eld conditions. Job descriptionWe
are looking for a talented and enthusiastic quantitative
microbiologist for a fully funded 4-year PhD position.
The PhD candidate for this project will be working at
the Microbial Population Biology group in Groningen.
PhD candidates will receive excellent training through
cutting-edge research projects, advanced courses and
training opportunities, complemented by workshops on
generic research, transferable skills and teaching. As
a PhD candidate, you are committed to conduct inde-
pendent and original scientic research, to report on
this research in international publications and presen-
tations, and to present the results of the research in
a PhD dissertation, to be completed within 4 years.
Project summaryPolymicrobial infections can be viewed
as ecosystems in which the community members inter-
act. It is an open question how ecological interactionsApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 39
aect the evolution of the community members. In this
project we will address the role of these interactions on
the evolution of the community members, and the devel-
opment of antibiotic resistance. In the project we will
use polymicrobial urinary tract infections as a model
system to study these eco-evolutionary interactions by
means of experimental ecology and evolution. The work
will consist of a combination of microbial growth exper-
iments, molecular biology and biochemistry, sequencing
and bioinformatics, data analysis and modeling. Quali-
cationsSpecic requirements: MSc with specialization
in microbiology, ecology or evolution, quantitative biol-
ogy, skills in data management and analysis, statistics
and programming.In addition to specic qualications
outlined above, the candidate has a good command of
English (oral and written), is enthusiastic and a team-
worker, has a passion for science, is highly motivated
to work within the eld of microbial ecology and evo-
lution at the interface with medicine, possess excellent
communication skills and the ability to write scientic
papers and deliver presentations.
Conditions of employmentThe University of Groningen
oers a salary of euro 2,222 gross per month in the rst
year to a maximum of euro 2,840 gross per month in the
nal year (salary scale Dutch Universities), based on
a full-time position (1.0 FTE) excluding a 8% holiday
allowance and a 8.3% end of the year bonus.The position
oered is for four years. Each successful candidate will
rst be oered a temporary position of one year with the
option of renewal for another three years. Prolongation
of the contract is contingent on sucient progress in the
rst year to indicate that a successful completion of the
PhD thesis within the contract period is to be expected.
A PhD training programme is part of the agreement and
the successful candidate will be enrolled in the Graduate
School of the Faculty. The conditions of employment are
available at the University of Groningen website under
Human Resources: https://www.rug.nl/about-us/work-
with-us/ SupervisorDr Marjon de Vos The preferred
starting date is 1 December 2018. ApplicationYou may
apply for this position until 20 May 23.59h / before 21
May 2018 Dutch local time, by means of the application
form (click on \Apply" on the advertisement on below
mentioned university website). Interviews are scheduled
to take place on 5 June 2018 in Groningen.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlULausanne 2 MicrobialEvolution
PhD position in microbiota research/microbial ge-
nomics/evolution
Starting date: exible
Length of contract: 1 year, renewable, maximum 4 years.
Work percentage: 100%
Workplace: Department of Fundamental Microbiology,
University of Lausanne, Switzerland
Qualication:
MSc. PhD position applicants should have a Master
thesis in microbial genomics, bioinformatics, or microbi-
ology. Prior research experience in large-scale sequence
data analysis or microbiology wet-lab experimentation
would be desirable. A good command of the English
language, a high personal motivation to excel in science
and a curious mind are required. We oer a stimulating
environment in a young international research group
combining computational (i.e. microbial genomics) and
experimental approaches to study microbial symbiosis.
The focus of the project can be adapted to the interests
of the applicant.
Work description:
We are looking for an outstanding and highly motivated
candidate to join our research group to work on the
bee gut microbiota. The scope of the project is to un-
derstand how gut communities are structured in terms
of functional and genetic diversity. Which processes
govern community assembly and resilience? How do
gut communities evolve and adapt to changing environ-
ments? The doctoral student will address this question
using computational (metagenomics, transcriptomics,
metabolomics) and/or an experimental approaches, de-
pending on the interests and skill set of the applicant.
We are part of the Department of Fundamental Micro-
biology, a highly collaborative, multidisciplinary, and
team-oriented scientic environment. Our group con-
sists of a good mix of bioinformaticians and wet-lab
biologists from all over the world, funded through the
University of Lausanne, the Swiss National Science
Foundation and the European Union (ERC-STG, Marie
Sklodowska-Curie Actions). We are equipped with state-
of-the art infrastructures enabling cutting-edge research
with access to many core facilities located on campus40 EvolDir April 1, 2018
(microscopy, proteomics, sequencing facilities). We have
strong ties to other Departments within the Univer-
sity, such as the Department of Ecology and Evolution,
and also actively collaborate with other research teams
within and outside of Switzerland. Last but not least,
our Department is situated on a beautiful campus at
the shore of Lake Geneva with a great view of the Alps
and with plenty of opportunities for outdoor activities.
For recent publications from the lab, please visit the
lab webpage at http://wp.unil.ch/engellab . At least
80% of the working time will be dedicated to personal
research. The remaining of the working time may be
dedicated to teaching (organization and supervision of
student practicals).
How to apply:
Please submit your full application including motiva-
tion letter, CV, list of publications (if available), copy
of the Master thesis (if available) and the names and
addresses of two referees via the ocial UNIL career
portal. Only applications through the ocial website
will be taken into account. Please use the following link
to apply:https://wp.unil.ch/engellab/open-positions/
For questions concerning the application, position, or
research topic, or in case of problems with accessing the
UNIL career portal using the above link, please do not
hesitate to contact us: Philipp.Engel@unil.ch.
The application should be written in English.
Application deadline:
We will start to evaluate applications beginning of April.
The deadline for submitting an application: 30.05.2018.
|{
PhD position in community ecology/microbial genomics
of Swiss cheese starter cultures
Starting date: exible
Length of contract: 1 year, renewable, maximum 4 years.
Work percentage: 100%
Workplace: Department of Fundamental Microbiology,
University of Lausanne, Switzerland
Qualication:
We are looking for a highly motivated candidate with a
master degree in bioinformatics, genomics, food sciences,
life sciences or in other related sciences. Experience with
microbiology or biotechnology methods is pivotal. Ex-
perience in bioinformatics is a plus.
You will be employed at the Department of Fundamen-
tal Microbiology, University of Lausanne on the terms
of the doctoral regulations of the Doctoral School of the
Faculty of Biology and Medicine.Work description:
We are looking for an outstanding and highly motivated
candidate to join our research group to work on bacte-
rial communities of cheese. Cheesemaking relies on the
use of lactic acid bacteria. Undened mixed cultures
are applied for the majority of traditional Swiss cheeses.
History of the practical application shows that these
cultures are very robust and reliable acidiers. However,
so far, little is known about
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ULausanne
EvolutionaryGenomicsNeurogenetics
Graduate positions are available within the lab of Roman
Arguello at University of Lausanne's (UNIL) Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolution.
We are a newly formed lab interested in understand-
ing the genetic and neural bases of sensory evolution.
We take a very interdisciplinary approach that bridges
computational/comparative genomics with neurogenet-
ics. Our model organisms are diverse Drosophila species
from around the globe, and we are particularly interested
in the evolution of neural circuits and in the evolution-
ary processes related to the rapid changes underlying
olfaction and temperature preference.
The specic focus for these positions will be on olfactory
evolution. The projects will relate repeated gains/losses
in olfactory receptors to the evolution of their protein
sequences, to their neural circuits, and to behavior.
This work will test hypotheses about how the olfac-
tory system evolves, and to what extent these changes
are repeatable. Due to the cross-disciplinary nature
of the research, there is a range of opportunities for
contributing to the projects depending on particular
interests and strengths (i.e. comparative/population
genomics, neurobiology, generation of transgenic tools
for new species).
Qualications: - Undergraduate degree or master's de-
gree in the biological sciences with a focus on evolution-
ary biology, genetics, neurobiology, or molecular biology
- some experience with (or willingness to learn) basicApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 41
molecular biology techniques - some experience with (or
willingness to learn) computer programing/scripting (i.e.
R, Python, Perl, Unix) - soft skills: ability to be self-
motivated and to work independently as well as within
a small group, good communication skills, comfortable
with public presentations, ability to clearly document
work This is a 100% position for an initial duration of
one year, renewable up to 3 years if the contract starts
on July 1st 2018.
The Department of Ecology and Evolution is a lively,
fun, productive, and highly diverse group. While UNIL
is a French-speaking university, the working language
of the Department and the lab is English. For more
information about the Department of Ecology and Evo-
lution please see its page here: https://www.unil.ch/-
dee/en/home.html Lausanne is a scenic medium-sized
city situated on the edge of Lake Geneva. Life here is
good. Its central location within Europe makes trav-
eling by train and plane convenient. And for outdoor
enthusiasts, Lausanne sits at the base of Alps and Jura
which oer year-round escape and fun.
For more information about the lab and projects, or
for further questions, please visit: arguellolab.org or
email Roman Arguello at: jacob.arguello@unil.ch For-
mal applications need to be done through HR and must
include a cover letter detailing your research interests
and background, a CV, and the names of references (2-
3). Applications should both be uploaded through the
University of Lausanne platform (via the link below),
and sent as a single pdf to jacob.arguello@unil.ch.
Application link: https://bit.ly/2GxDV9l University
equality policy: The University of Lausanne promotes
an equitable representation of men and women among
its sta and encourages applications from women and
minority groups.
\jacob.arguello@unil.ch" <jacob.arguello@unil.ch >
UMassachusetts Lowell
EvolutionVertJaw
two post-doc positions
Mass Lowell: Phd positions in Development and Evolu-
tion of the Vertebrate Jaw
The Fish lab is recruiting Phd students to work on
the development and evolution the vertebrate jaw. We
take an integrative approach to understand molecular
and morphological evolution. Collaborative relation-ships within our department allow for use of functional
and genomic approaches as well. For more information,
visit our website: https://shlab.weebly.com/ or contact
jennifer sh@uml.edu
Jennifer L. Fish, Ph.D Assistant Professor Department
of Biological Sciences University of Massachusetts Lowell
\Fish, Jennifer L" <Jennifer Fish@uml.edu >
UMuenster MolecEvolutionNasonia
Graduate position: UMuenster.MolecEvolutionNasonia
1 PhD position within the Research Training Group
\Evolutionary Processes in Adaptation and Disease"
(EvoPAD, GRK 2220) at the University of M unster,
Germany
Start: As soon as possible. 3-year position (salary level
TV-L E13, 65%).
The project is on \genotype to phenotype" - linking
the evolution of the mitochondrial OXPHOS system,
mitochondrial capacity, metabolic rates and hybrid in-
compatibility in the parasitoid wasp Nasonia.
The DFG-funded Research Training Group \Evolution-
ary Processes in Adaptation and Disease" (EvoPAD,
GRK 2220) unites biological, medical, and philosoph-
ical research. The core idea is to use the theory of
evolution to understand processes leading to adapta-
tion and/or disease. PhD students work on advancing
evolutionary theory and, in turn, apply modern evo-
lutionary approaches to medical questions. EvoPAD
doctoral researchers perform cutting-edge research in
an interdisciplinary environment. Our multidisciplinary
qualication program is tailored to individual career
tracks and oers opportunities for international coopera-
tion, summer schools, and courses covering evolutionary
and population genetics, bioinformatics, experimental
design, philosophy of science, and bioethics. EvoPAD is
coordinated within the stimulating city of M unster and
oers a family-friendly and international atmosphere.
Project details: The successful candidate will work on
subproject B7, supervised by Prof Dr J urgen Gadau at
the Institute for Evolution and Biodiversity (http://-
www.uni-muenster.de/Evolution/molevolsocbio/). The
project aims to understand the genomic, genetic and
physiological basis of nuclear cytoplasmic incompat-
ibilities, specically concerning mitochondria. Well-
functioning mitochondria are essential for the survival42 EvolDir April 1, 2018
and reproduction of all eukaryotes, including humans.
To make a functioning mitochondrion, both nuclear and
mitochondrial genes have to interact harmoniously. In
general, mitochondrial genomes evolve faster, posing a
potential problem due to nuclear cytoplasmic incom-
patibilities. In humans, mitochondrial mutations cause
the most common human genetic diseases. Additionally,
nuclear-cytoplasmic incompatibilities contribute to early
postzygotic isolation between incipient species.
This project uses known hybrid incompatibilities in a
four-species parasitoid wasp system to reveal and under-
stand the genetic architecture of the observed nuclear-
cytoplasmic incompatibilities in F2 male hybrids. This
incompatibility comes in degrees ranging from none to
90% lethality in the most distant crosses. It is also
known that rearing temperature inuences the eect of
this hybrid incompatibility (e.g., no ospring survive
at 15 ^AoC and 31 ^AoC, but >30% survive at 25 ^AoC for
one cross). Hence, we will investigate the interaction
of temperature, nuclear-cytoplasmic incompatibilities
and mitochondrial evolution. This should help us to
generally identify and understand the gene regulatory
networks that allow the nuclear and mitochondrial en-
coded genes to interact appropriately.
For further information visit: www.uni-muenster.de/-
EvoPAD/application/ Applicant requirements: Appli-
cants should have an outstanding master's or equivalent
degree in biology or related elds, and they should
have proven qualications with particular relevance to
EvoPAD. Applicants must be able to formulate and solve
research problems and eectively interpret research re-
sults. They should also show a willingness to interact
with colleagues in an interdisciplinary setting and be mo-
tivated to manage a PhD project and to participate in
our multidisciplinary qualication program. Applicants
must also be uent in written and spoken English.
How to apply: The application should include: (1) a CV,
including information about former academic education
and degrees, professional experience, publications, fel-
lowships/awards, conference contributions, languages,
and further relevant skills and abilities; (2) a cover let-
ter, stating the candidate's expectation from EvoPAD
and motivation to join the project; (3) the candidate's
master's thesis abstract; and (4) contact details of at
least two referees.
The University of M unster is an equal opportunity em-
ployer and is committed to increasing the proportion of
women academics. Consequently, we actively encourage
applications by women. Female candidates with equiva-
lent qualications and academic achievements will be
preferentially considered within the framework of the
legal possibilities. We also welcome applications fromcandidates with severe disabilities. Disabled candidates
with equivalent qualications will be preferentially con-
sidered.
Applications should be sent by e-mail as one PDF le
(max. 5 MB)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UOslo 2 ancientDNA Conservation
PhD position available in sedimentary ancient DNA
Applications are invited for a position as PhD Research
Fellowship in sedimentary ancient DNA available at
the Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis
(CEES), Department of Biosciences, University of Oslo.
Project description
Sedimentary ancient DNA (sedaDNA) preserved in soil
and sediments has become a valuable tool to assess bio-
diversity changes through time. Importantly, it allows
detection of organisms even in the absence of fossil evi-
dence and its provenance is primarily local in origin. In
this project, we will use sedaDNA to trace the historic
uses of plants and animals, study human-assisted disper-
sal and evaluate the impact of past human civilization
on local ecosystems. We will be working with material
from a variety of locations, including the Caucasus and
Central Asia. Methodology will include metabarcoding
combined with high-throughput sequencing, as well as
amplicon sequencing of specic taxa of interest.
The fellowship will be for a period of 3 years, with the
possibility of a fourth year with 25% compulsory work
(e.g. teaching responsibilities at the department) con-
tingent on the qualications of the candidate and the
teaching needs of the department.
Requirements
Applicants must hold a master-degree or equivalent, or
must have submitted their master's thesis for assess-
ment prior to the application deadline, within the elds
of evolutionary biology, systematics, molecular ecology
or a similar subject. Experience with DNA laboratory
methods, high-throughput sequencing, and bioinformat-
ics are considered important qualications. We seek aApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 43
highly motivated, enthusiastic person with the ambition
to gain insight and publish papers in leading, interna-
tional journals, and in possession of good interpersonal
skills.
* It is a condition of employment that the master's de-
gree has been awarded. * the average grade point for
courses included in the Master' ^As degree must be B
or better in the Norwegian educational system * the
Master' ^As thesis must have the grade B or better in the
Norwegian educational system * the average grade point
for courses included in the Bachelor' ^As degree must
be C or better in the Norwegian educational system *
Candidates are expected to be in the upper segment of
their class. * Candidates without a Master' ^As degree
have until 30 June, 2018 to complete the nal exam
The Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences has
a strategic ambition of being a leading research faculty.
Candidates for these fellowships will be selected in accor-
dance with this, and expected to be in the upper segment
of their class with respect to academic credentials.
All Ph.D. candidates must demonstrate high English
language skills. International applicants must document
these skills prior to admission to the PhD programme
(please see the announcement website for details and
exemptions).
The fellowship requires admission to the PhD pro-
gramme at the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sci-
ences. The application to the PhD programme must be
submitted to the department no later than two months
after taking up the position.
Salary and welfare
* Salary NOK 436 900 'V 490 900 per annum
depending on qualications and seniority as PhD
Research Fellow, (position code 1017) * Attrac-
tive welfare benets <http://www.uio.no/english/for-
employees/employment/welfare/index.html >and a gen-
erous pension agreement, in addition to Oslo' ^As family-
friendly environment with its rich opportunities for cul-
ture and outdoor activities
The application must include the following:
* Application letter including a statement of interest,
briey summarizing your scientic work and interests
and describing how you t the description of the person
we seek * CV (summarizing education, positions peda-
gogical experience, administrative experience and other
qualifying activity) * Copies of educational certicates,
transcipts of records and letters of recommendation *
Documentation of English prociency * List of publi-
cations and unpublished work, and up to 3 academic
works that the applicant wishes to be considered by theevaluation committee * Names and contact details of
2-3 references (name, relation to candidate, e-mail and
telephone number)
Foreign applicants are advised to attach an explanation
of their University's grading system. Please note that
all documents should be in English (or a Scandinavian
language).
The application with attachments must be delivered in
our electronic recruiting system. Further details and
instructions on how to apply can
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UOtago NewZealand
EvolutionaryGenomics
Evolution of the New Zealand bird fauna
A PhD position in evolutionary genomics is available to
study aspects of the evolution of New Zealand's unique
bird fauna with Dr Michael Knapp at the University of
Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand.
New Zealands isolation and mammal predator free envi-
ronment has lead to the evolution of a unique bird fauna.
It includes model species to study the evolution of is-
land gigantism, ightlessness and alpine adaptations,
to name just a few and is therefore uniquely suited to
shed light on the ecological and molecular processes that
underlie such evolutionary adaptations.
This PhD project is part of our Royal Society funded re-
search programme, which uses genomic data to address
key questions of bird evolution and conservation in New
Zealands unique environment. It oers the exibility for
the PhD student to decide on the direction of the PhD
studies within the framework of our research programme.
Possible question include for example the response of the
New Zealand bird fauna to past and predicted future
climate change, and the evolutionary basis of island
gigantism and ightlessness. The ideal PhD student
will have skills in molecular ecology/population genetics
and/or bioinformatics and genome data analyses. The
University of Otago is one of the most research-intensive
Universities in New Zealand with a world-class repu-
tation in the life sciences. It provides an environment44 EvolDir April 1, 2018
that allows its students to undertake internationally
recognised research, in a diverse and vibrant postgradu-
ate environment and has been ranked as one of the 15
most beautiful campuses in the world. The PhD stu-
dent will be hosted by the Department of Anatomy, a
diverse and research-oriented department with expertise
ranging from genomics to biomedical sciences.
For details and instructions on how to apply,
please http://www.otago.ac.nz/anatomy/study/-
postgraduate/opportunities/otago680718.html The
project is listed under \Evolution of the New Zealand
bird fauna".
For further questions please contact Dr. Michael Knapp
(michael.knapp@otago.ac.nz).
Please apply by 22/April/2018 (New Zealand time).
Dr Michael Knapp Rutherford Discovery Fellow Se-
nior Lecturer in Biological Anthropology Department
of Anatomy University of Otago Dunedin New Zealand
michael.knapp@otago.ac.nz
UPrague ArabidopsisAdaptation
PhD-position Ecophysiology of adaption to alpine envi-
ronments in Arabidopsis arenosa
The position is available as of 1st April 2018
The PhD project is embedded in the three-years' FWF-
project \Disentangling evolutionary adaptation from
transient acclimation to alpine environments in Ara-
bidopsis arenosa" and will be conducted under the su-
pervision of Profs. Gilbert NEUNER, Ilse KRANNER,
Peter SCH ~ANSWETTER and Dr. Filip KOL ~A~A (Uni-
versity of Prague; genomics, RNAseq) in close collabora-
tion with Drs. Erwann ARC (metabolomics) and Karl
H~ALBER (University of Vienna; ecology). The PhD
project focuses on the eco-physiology of photosynthesis
and stress physiology of lowland populations and in-
dependently evolved alpine populations of Arabidopsis
arenosa from dierent mountain ranges. It will also
oer the possibility to integrate the results in a wider
framework of genomic, transcriptomic & metabolomic
investigations carried out under related projects that
focus on the same species. We are looking for a highly
motivated and enthusiastic young scientist to join our
international research team. The gross salary is 37,680
per year.
The successful candidate will be tasked with - planningand conducting eld work in alpine sites together with
other team members; - assessment of functional (eco-
physiological) and structural leaf traits (lab work in
Innsbruck and approximately two months of eld work
per year); - statistical data analyses; - dissemination
of the results through publications in scientic journals
and presentations at international conferences.
Applicants must - hold a MSc degree in plant sciences
or a related eld; - have an excellent knowledge of plant
physiology; previous experience with physiological ecol-
ogy, functional ecology or alpine ecology are desirable; -
be able to conduct eldwork in remote areas; - be pro-
cient in English, both written and orally; - have excellent
social skills; - be able to work in a team as well as inde-
pendently; - provide the following documentation (all
in one le): - Cover letter stating the motivation - Cur-
riculum vitae including copies of all university degrees
received - Letter of recommendation by the supervisor
of the Master thesis
Please send your application and enquiries for further in-
formation to A.Univ.-Prof. Mag. Dr. Gilbert NEUNER
(Gilbert.neuner@uibk.ac.at).
\Neuner, Gilbert" <Gilbert.Neuner@uibk.ac.at >
USunshineCoast Aust
EvolutionaryRobotics
PhD Position in Evolutionary biomechanics, University
of the Sunshine Coast, Australia.
The Clemente Lab at the University of the Sunshine
Coast, Australia is seeking outstanding applicants for
fully-funded PhD scholarships.
Our research focuses on the relationship between form,
function and ecology of living and extinct animals. This
project aims to explore how well evolution can perform
by comparing biological systems, with robotic (and com-
putational) systems which mimic them.
The PhD project will contribute to research that ex-
plores the limits to natural evolution. The successful
candidate will do this by: 1) Measuring natural vari-
ation in running and climbing biomechanics in three
species of lizard which vary in body size. 2) Construct-
ing small autonomous climbing robots, recreating the
technique used for each lizard species. Then expand the
control space with small changes in biomechanics, to de-
termine how well each species is optimised for climbing
performance.April 1, 2018 EvolDir 45
Essential qualities for candidates include: - strong com-
putational and analytical skills in biomechanics - expe-
rience using biomechanical assessment tools (e.g. high
speed video, force plates)
Preferred qualities for candidates include: - interper-
sonal skills to work eectively with research animals,
team members, and project collaborators. - excellent
critical thinking skills, ability to work independently -
research experience and practical knowledge of research
principles is required whether through previous intern-
ship, work experience, or coursework.
- interest or previous experience in electron-
ics/microprocessors.
- interest in evolutionary theory
The Clemente Laboratory (https://www.usc.edu.au/-
explore/structure/faculty-of-science-health-education-
and-engineering/sta/dr-christofer-clemente ) is part
of the Animal Ecology Lab within the University of
Sunshine Coast. We are located on the Sunshine Coast,
approximately an hour north of Brisbane Queensland
on the Sippy Downs campus.
Course fees and a living stipend (currently $26,300 AUD
per annum, tax free) will be included as part of the schol-
arship.
The opportunity is open to both Australian/New
Zealand nationals and international candidates, however
exceptional international candidates will be considered
(with top-up scholarships available to cover international
tuition fees).
For queries or if you are interested in applying please
contact Christofer Clemente, PhD, School of Science
and Engineering, cclement@usc.edu.au with your CV.
USC, Locked Bag 4, Maroochydore DC, Queensland,
4558 Australia. CRICOS Provider No: 01595D Please
consider the environment before printing this email.
\cclement@usc.edu.au" <cclement@usc.edu.au >
UWageningen
HyperparasitoidEvolution
PhD position - The enemy of your enemy`s enemy: multi-
trophic interactions in hyperparasitoid ecology
Application deadline: 16 April 2018
Hyperparasitoids are fascinating insects that lay their
eggs in larvae or pupae of primary parasitoids. In ourcuriosity driven research programme, we identied that
some hyperparasitoids nd their parasitoid host by using
plant odours derived from a complex multi-trophic in-
teraction chain. The hyperparasitoids use plant odours
induced by feeding of parasitized herbivores to locate
the parasitoid larvae that are concealed in the herbivore
body. The main aim of this PhD project is to mecha-
nistically understand the interaction chain involved in
hyperparasitoid host location and the role of indirect
interaction chains in community organisation across four
trophic levels. In the project you will aim to i) unravel
plant responses to parasitized aphids and caterpillars
that allow associated hyperparasitoids to locate their
host; ii) identify the physiological changes in aphids
and caterpillars after parasitism; and iii) establish a
causal relationship of which mechanisms in the multi-
trophic interaction chain aect hyperparasitoid host
location and community composition in the eld. You
will use molecular techniques such as RNA-seq and
CRISPR-Cas9-mediated targeted gene mutagenesis, in-
sect behavioural observations, as well as eld studies.
Within the project you will be closely collaborating with
a technician and post-doc as well as researchers at inter-
national institutes with expertise in molecular biology,
ecology, entomology and plant sciences.
Our ideal candidate has a strong background in molec-
ular ecology, behavioural ecology and/or entomology.
Some experience with molecular techniques such as
RNA-seq, CRISPR-Cas9 and/or bioinformatics will be
considered as advantage. You should be curious for
fundamental sciences and enjoy to combine molecular
biology with eld ecology. We are looking for a highly
motivated candidate who likes to work in a multidisci-
plinary team in a collaborative spirit. Prociency in the
English language is a prerequisite.
We oer a full-time position (38 hours), initially for 1
year after which a go/no go decision will be taken on
extension with another three years. Gross salary per
month ^A 2222,- in the rst year rising to ^A 2840,- per
month in the fourth year, for a fulltime appointment.
The candidate will be based at the Laboratory of En-
tomology Wageningen University, the Netherlands, in
the research team of Dr. Erik H. Poelman. Our team
studies community ecology of plant-insect interactions
and consists of ecologists, entomologists, molecular biol-
ogists and computational modellers. At the Laboratory
of Entomology we aim at an interdisciplinary approach
from cellular to community level to unravel biological
phenomena underlying the functioning of plant-insect
communities, insect vectored diseases, insect neurobi-
ology and insects as food and feed. The Laboratory
of Entomology is part of the Plant Sciences Group of
the Wageningen University and Research Centre. For46 EvolDir April 1, 2018
further information about working at Wageningen UR,
take a look at www.jobsat.wur.nl Information on the
research project: Dr. Erik H. Poelman , +31(0)317
485433, erik.poelman@wur.nl
For this position you can only apply on line:
https://www.wur.nl/en/Jobs/Vacancies/Show/PhD-
position-The-enemy-of-your-enemys-enemy-multi-
trophic-interactions-in-hyperparasitoid-ecology.htm
Don't email directly to the people mentioned above but
use the website to apply.
\Poelman, Erik" <erik.poelman@wur.nl >
UWesternAustralia
SeagrassAdaptation
Graduate positions: The University of Western Aus-
tralia, Perth: Seagrass ecophysiology and gene expres-
sion
Two PhD positions are available to study 'Sea-
grass adaptation and acclimation responses to ex-
treme climatic events' in the Kendrick Lab (https:/-
/seagrassresearch.net). Research in the Kendrick lab
focuses on ecology, genetics, and restoration of benthic
habitat-forming species, particularly seagrasses.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Seagrasses evolved around 100 million years ago and
have persisted in the oceans through many signicant
climatic events, including sea level oscillations and tem-
perature changes. The low levels of morphologic and
phylogenetic dierentiation within genera suggest they
are incredibly resilient, and that phenotypic plasticity
may play a signicant role in acclimation and/or adap-
tation to changing environments. The recent increase in
frequency and intensity of extreme climatic events can
cause rapid ecosystem change, likely to be greater than
that caused by a gradually changing climate. These
extreme events can act as strong and acute agents of se-
lection, generating widespread mortality and collapse of
ecosystems. Understanding how seagrasses respond to
change will be a critical component of their management
in the future.
Research for these projects will take place in the World
Heritage Area of Shark Bay, where some of the largest
temperate seagrass meadows in the world occur. These
projects will take interdisciplinary approaches that in-
corporate whole plant growth, ecophysiology and gene
expression responses to explore interactions of multi-ple stressors to extreme events under predicted climate
change scenarios. The PhD applicants will play a major
role in growth, physiology and gene expression studies
in Posidonia australis.
Project supervisors: Professor Gary Kendrick and Dr
Elizabeth Sinclair, School of Biological Sciences and
Oceans Institute, The University of Western Australia,
Dr Martin Breed, School of Biological Science, Univer-
sity of Adelaide and Dr Siegy Krauss, Department of
Biodiversity, Conservation, and Attractions, Western
Australia. Both positions will be based in Perth at The
University of Western Australia.
QUALIFICATIONS
We are seeking two highly-motivated candidates with a
strong background in evolutionary biology, plant physi-
ology, marine biology, statistics, genomics, and/or bioin-
formatics. Applicants must have a rst class Honours
or Masters degree in a related eld, be able to conduct
eldwork in remote areas, be procient in written and
oral English, have excellent communication skills, and
be able to work independently as well as collaborate
eectively as part of a team. Applicants with diving
qualications are preferred.
CONTACT
Prospective applicants should contact Prof Gary
Kendrick, gary.kendrick@uwa.edu.au or Dr Elizabeth
Sinclair, elizabeth.sinclair@uwa.edu.au outlining inter-
ests and suitability prior to completing the application
process.
HOW TO APPLY
Prospective applicants will be expected to apply for
scholarship funding through the University of West-
ern Australia for a mid-year (July 2018) start. Ap-
plications are open now and close on Friday 6 April
2018 http://www.science.uwa.edu.au/future-students/-
postgrad/opportunities/biological Elizabeth Sinclair
<Elizabeth.Sinclair@uwa.edu.au >April 1, 2018 EvolDir 47
UZurich PlantAdaptation
A PhD position funded by the Swiss National Science
Foundation is available (to be lled as soon as possible)
in the group of Prof. Schiestl at the Department of Sys-
tematic and Evolutionary Botany, University of Zurich,
for a period of four years. The position is to study the
ecological and molecular bases of plant adaptation to
biotic and abiotic habitat parameters. In the project,
experimental evolution using fast cycling Brassica plants
will be used to investigate real-time adaptation to these
habitat parameters. The traits modulating adaptations
as well as their molecular bases will be studied using
selection analysis, phenotyping, as well as molecular and
bioinformatics tools. You should have a Master degree in
any eld of biology and a thorough interest in evolution-ary biology. Prior experience with plants and/or insects
is an advantage. Prociency in English both orally and
written is a must. The successful candidates will work
in an exciting research environment focussing on pat-
terns and process of plant evolution. Our department
is located in the botanical gardens and houses modern
molecular and ecological labs, including greenhouses and
climate chambers for plant cultivation. The University
of Zurich has a very broad coverage of organismal and
molecular biology, and several research groups work on
evolutionary topics (www.lifescience-zurich.ch). The
city also oers excellent quality of life through cultural
programs and infrastructure, as well as an attractive
surrounding. If you are interested in the job, please
send me by e-mail (orian.schiestl@systbot.uzh.ch) a
letter describing your motivation, C.V., copy of degrees,
publications (manuscripts), and e-mail addresses of two
academic referees, by 30 ^st of April 2018. If you have
any further questions, don`t hesitate to contact me.
\orian.schiestl@systbot.uzh.ch"
<orian.schiestl@systbot.uzh.ch >
Jobs
ArizonaStateU InsectCollectionCollection . . . . . . . . . .48
ClaremontColleges BiologyLabCoordinator . . . . . . . . 48
DukeU GeneticsEvol TeachingPosition . . . . . . . . . . . . .49
Embark CanineGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .49
HopkinsMarineStation StanfordU TeachingEvolution 50
Idaho FishGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50
London BetaBugs DirectorOfEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Lyon GroupLeader AnimalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
MichiganStateU FieldTech GrassAdaptation . . . . . . .51
MNHN Paris SpeciationEvolutionCytogenomic . . . . 51
PaceU TeachingEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
RBG Kew PlantsFungi EarlyCareerResFellowships 52
RutgersU TeachingEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
SanFranciscoStateU DirectorGenomicsFacility . . . . . 53
SGN Frankfurt BiodiversityGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
UAntwerp EvolEcolEnvOmics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55UCalifornia Berkeley ResAssist TreeAdaptation . . . 56
UConnecticut 2 ResTech EvolutionaryImmunology 56
UDebrecen EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
UGlasgow ViralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
UHelsinki Bioinforamtician . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
UKansas 1yr EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
UNAM Mexico EvolutionaryFunctionalGenomics . . 58
uOttawa QuantitativeBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
UPennsylvania ResProf PDF HumanGenomics . . . . 59
URhodeIsland ResTech Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
URichmond 1yr EvolutionBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
UScranton EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .61
UTennesseeKnoxville HerbariumCollectionsManager 62
Worcester MA VisitingProf Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6348 EvolDir April 1, 2018
ArizonaStateU
InsectCollectionCollection
The Arizona State University Hasbrouck Insect Collec-
tion is oering a three-year Collection Specialist (Re-
search Technician) position for the project \Building a
specimen-based Biologia Centrali-Americana for weevils:
Improved access to the Charles W. and Lois B. O'Brien
Collection". The project will enhance physical and on-
line data access to an exceptional research collection -
including nearly 1,000,000 weevil and 250,000 planthop-
per specimens - currently being accessioned at ASU.
This process involves a comprehensive reorganization of
the O'Brien Collection into a new storage infrastructure.
In addition, specimens of select Central American wee-
vil subfamilies will be digitized and imaged to generate
Symbiota Collections of Arthropods Network (SCAN)
checklists.
More information, and instructions to apply, are found
here:
1. Go to: https://cfo.asu.edu/applicant 2. Then: \Ex-
ternal sta job opportunities" 3. Search for position ID:
40290BR
Or direct link: https://sjobs.brassring.com/-
TGnewUI/Search/Home/Home? part-
nerid%620&siteidT94#jobDetails392901 5494
The application window is open until April 03,
2018. Prospective applicants are welcome to contact
nico.franz@asu.edu for further (specic) information.
Submitted by:
Nico M. Franz, Ph.D.
School of Life Sciences, PO Box 874108
Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ 85287-4108
E-mail: nico.franz@asu.edu
Twitter: @taxonbytes
\nico.franz@asu.edu" <nico.franz@asu.edu >ClaremontColleges
BiologyLabCoordinator
The W.M. Keck Science Department of Claremont
McKenna College, Pitzer College and Scripps College
invites applications for full-time Biology Lab Coordina-
tor. The department, which houses a wide spectrum
of faculty members from the physical and life sciences,
for three of the ve undergraduate Claremont Colleges,
oers innovative and interdisciplinary programs in the
natural sciences.
This position is responsible for the set-up and prepa-
ration of the laboratory curriculum for the depart-
ment's Introductory Biology laboratories and teaching
a number of introductory lab sections as specied each
semester. Responsibilities also include updating labora-
tory curricula to match best practices in biology educa-
tion. This position may teach other biology courses on
an as needed basis. A Ph.D. in Biology, Biological Edu-
cation, or related interdisciplinary eld is required. Prior
experience teaching and/or designing inquiry-based labs
in the biological sciences is preferred.
In a continuing eort to enrich its academic environ-
ment and provide equal educational and employment
opportunities, the Claremont Colleges actively encour-
age applications from women and members of histori-
cally underrepresented groups in higher education. The
Claremont Colleges are an equal opportunity employer.
Please apply online at https://-
theclaremontcolleges.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/-
en- US/CMC Sta/job/Claremont/Biology-Lab-
Coordinator REQ-243-1
Sarah Gilman Associate Professor Biology
W.M. Keck Science Department, of Claremont
McKenna, Pitzer, and Scripps Colleges 925 N. Mills
Avenue Claremont, CA 91711
http://faculty.jsd.claremont.edu/sgilman
sgilman@kecksci.claremont.edu 909-607-0715
\Gilman, Sarah" <SGilman@kecksci.claremont.edu >April 1, 2018 EvolDir 49
DukeU GeneticsEvol
TeachingPosition
Lecturer in Introductory Genetics and Evolution in the
Department of Biology at Duke University.
Position Description: The Department of Biology at
Duke University invites applications for a non-tenure-
track faculty position at the Lecturer level, to start in
July or August 2018. This position is responsible for
developing and coordinating the laboratory exercises for
Biology 202L Genetics and Evolution: Introduction to
genetics and evolution. The hire will also supervise a
team of teaching assistants, teach at least one laboratory
section personally, oversee the course management site,
and assist with assessments both in the lecture and lab-
oratory portions of the course. Topics covered include
Mendelian inheritance, quantitative genetics, genetic
mapping, evidence for evolution, natural selection, ge-
netic drift, kin selection, speciation, molecular evolution,
and phylogenetic analysis. Relevance to evolution of
infectious disease, human hereditary disorders, and so-
cial implications of genetic knowledge are also discussed.
The course serves approximately 600 students per year
over two semesters.
Applicants should have a Ph.D. degree in biological
science and strong experience in teaching at the colle-
giate level. Experience with active learning and other
evidence-based pedagogies preferred. The application
should be pdf les that include a cover letter, curricu-
lum vitae, a one-page teaching statement, and letters
of recommendation from three referees are required.
Applications and recommendation letters should be sub-
mitted electronically to Academic Jobs Online (https:/-
/academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/10942). Applications
received on or before May 15, 2018 will be given full
consideration.
Duke University is an Armative Action/Equal Oppor-
tunity Employer committed to providing employment
opportunity without regard to an individual' ^As age,
color, disability, genetic information, sex, gender, gen-
der identity, gender expression, national origin, race,
religion, sexual orientation, or veteran status.
Duke aspires to create a community built on collabora-
tion, innovation, creativity, and belonging. Our collec-
tive success depends on the robust exchange of ideas'Xan
exchange that is best when the rich diversity of our per-spectives, backgrounds, and experiences ourishes. To
achieve this exchange, it is essential that all members
of the community feel secure and welcome, that the
contributions of all individuals are respected, and that
all voices are heard. All members of our community
have a responsibility to uphold these values.
Mohamed Noor <noor@duke.edu >
Embark CanineGenomics
Embark Veterinary is looking to expand their science
team. Now accepting applications for Population Geneti-
cists, Bioinformatics Scientists and Software Engineers.
Embark is a fast-growing, VC-backed startup launched
in 2016 to bring high throughput genetic testing to dogs.
Embark scientists are developing the next generation
of breeding tools, novel genetic tests, and evolutionary
research in dogs with the goal of accelerating canine
genetic science and a long-term vision of ending pre-
ventable diseases in pets.
Embark's science team consists of leaders in the canine
genomics research community and expert veterinary
geneticists, computational biologists and population ge-
neticists. The company is a research partner of the
Cornell University College of Veterinary Medicine, with
a science headquarters in Ithaca, NY and a company
headquarters in Boston, MA. We are looking to hire
top-notch scientists and engineers in both locations to
further improve our core product and expand our re-
search and development capabilities. Areas of interest
include:
Ancestry Deconvolution
Trait and Disease Mapping
Population Genetic Inferences of Selection, Demographic
History, and Inbreeding
Structural Variation
Genomic Selection
Embark's proprietary database of tens of thousands
of dogs is already the largest in the world, leading to
exciting new genomic discoveries in many areas of ca-
nine genomics. We're looking for colleagues to build
the engine driving a million-dog database to discover
and prevent cancer, hip dysplasia, cardiac disease and
inbreeding depression in dogs.
Embark has doubled their database size in the last six50 EvolDir April 1, 2018
months and expects to double it again in the next six
months. We have raised over $6M in funding and oer
competitive base salary and equity and dog-friendly ben-
ets including health, dental, vision, life and disability
insurance, open PTO policy, and pet insurance. Sci-
entists with strong computational and communication
skills at all levels of experience are encouraged to apply.
Embark Veterinary is an equal opportunity employer.
We do not discriminate on the basis of sex, disability,
ethnicity, race, religion, sexual orientation, or gender
identity.
To apply, send a brief cover letter and CV or resume to
Dr. Aaron Sams (asams fatgembarkvet.com).
Aaron Sams <asams@embarkvet.com >
Adam Boyko <adam@embarkvet.com >
HopkinsMarineStation StanfordU
TeachingEvolution
Hopkins Marine Station of Stanford University is search-
ing for a Lecturer who will use their expertise in zoology,
botany, and general natural history to help the station
take advantage of its long history and unique location
on Monterey Bay. The Lecturer will (1) teach a summer
eld course centered on the local kelp-forest/rocky reef
ecosystem, (2) teach other courses during the academic
year, (3) use their expertise in natural history and eld
research to facilitate exploration of the local coastal
waters and their use in education, and (4) assist in
the development and promotion of graduate and under-
graduate courses and curricula. A PhD in the natural
sciences is required, as well as scientic diving certi-
cation (AAUS or equivalent). Experience in teaching
inquiry-based courses, especially those involving eld-
work, is highly desirable. The qualied applicant will
also have good interpersonal and communication skills.
This position is a full time (12 month) appointment at
100%. Send a cover letter, CV, a statement of teaching
philosophy and plans, and names and addresses of three
references to Beth Sheets at Hopkins Marine Station,
120 Ocean View Blvd., Pacic Grove, California, 93950,
or by email ( esheets@stanford.edu). Applications will
be reviewed starting April 16, 2018. The nal candidate
will need to successfully pass a background check to be
considered for this position.
Stanford is an equal opportunity employer and all appli-
cants will receive consideration without regard to race,color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity,
national origin, disability, veteran status, and any other
characteristic protected by law.
Beth Sheets <esheets@stanford.edu >
Idaho FishGenetics
Fisheries Geneticist Closing Date: March 30, 2018
http://www.critfc.org/blog/jobs/sheries-geneticist-2/
The Columbia River Inter-Tribal Fish Commission
(CRITFC) is seeking Fisheries Geneticists with experi-
ence in population genomics, association mapping, and
mixed stock analyses. Positions are part of the Fish-
ery Science Department, but will be located with the
genetics group at the Hagerman Fish Culture Exper-
iment Station in Hagerman, ID. This research group
is involved in testing conservation, evolution, and eco-
logical theories related to salmonids and other shes.
The employee will work under the Lead Geneticist, in
association with CRITFC geneticists and technicians,
as well as sta of the Fishery Science Department in
Portland, OR. Eorts will focus on applying empirical
genetics/genomics data to address questions related to
conservation and recovery of steelhead, Chinook, sock-
eye, and coho salmon, white sturgeon, Pacic lamprey,
and other shes of the Columbia River Basin.
Position Details: http://www.critfc.org/blog/jobs/-
sheries-geneticist-2/ - Starting Salary: $57,098 -
$88,974 (CRITFC equivalent to GS11/12) - Department:
Fishery Science, Genetics - Classication: Full-time,
Regular, Exempt - Location: Hagerman, Idaho
Shawn Narum <nars@critfc.org >
London BetaBugs
DirectorOfEvolution
Beta Bugs - aiding a sustainable future by improving
insect farming.
At Beta Bugs we're accelerating insect evolution through
biotechnology and high throughput breeding. We're lay-
ing the foundation of a new, sustainable and rapidly
growing bioindustry - be it for food, feed, waste process-
ing or fuel.April 1, 2018 EvolDir 51
We're now hiring a Director of Evolution to take Beta
Bugs to the next level. You'll be directly responsible for
shaping and rapidly implementing our technologies and
will work closely with our Head of Husbandry to develop
and maintain our insect lines. This is a one-o opportu-
nity to implement a world-rst programme which will
be the cornerstone of a rapidly emerging insect farming
industry.
You'll have a background in the biological sciences, hav-
ing specialized in evolutionary biology and/or functional
genetics at PhD Level or beyond, with a focus on arthro-
pods (insects preferred). You'll need molecular biology,
sequencing and bioinformatics skills, along with hands-
on experience of trait generation, selection and mainte-
nance. Experience with transgenic modication and/or
breeding for industry requirements is also a plus.
The ideal candidate would be available for an April start,
even if on a part-time basis, and then gradually phasing
in as full-time. We're currently based within London
and as such you'd need right to work within the UK -
we cannot currently assist with visa applications.
If you're keen send Thomas a CV and covering letter to
thomas@betabugs.uk.  a 
skeletonmanemail@gmail.com
Lyon GroupLeader AnimalEvolution
The Institut de G enomique Fonctionnelle de Lyon
(IGFL) has an opening for a new independent group
leader. The IGFL has a unique scientic prole and fos-
ters an outstanding international environment. Teams
address basic research questions at the interfaces of
evolution, physiology and development using functional
genomics, bioinformatics, genetics and comparative ap-
proaches. The IGFL has a strong focus on integrative,
organism-level research using a diversity of model and
non-model organisms.
More information at: https://www.nature.com/-
naturejobs/science/jobs/636517-research-group-leader-
opening The deadline for applications is April
2nd.
Michalis Averof <michalis.averof@icloud.com >MichiganStateU FieldTech
GrassAdaptation
The Lowry Lab and the Great Lakes Bioenergy Re-
search Center at Michigan State University is seeking to
hire a research technician available to work on a large
collaborative project studying adaptation in the bioen-
ergy feedstock switchgrass. The research will utilize
new genetic mapping populations to identify genomic
regions responsible for adaptation between northern
upland and southern lowland ecotypes of switchgrass.
These mapping populations have been planted at an
unprecedented geographical scale, spanning ten com-
mon garden eld sites distributed over 17 degrees of
latitude, making them ideal for studies of regional adap-
tations. The technician will be primarily responsible for
maintaining and gathering data from the switchgrass
common garden located at MSU's Kellogg Biological
Station (KBS). However, the technician will also travel
to eld sites in Austin, TX, Columbia, MO, and Lin-
coln, NE. The research will often involve all-day physical
activity outdoors. The technician will be expected to or-
ganize data collection eorts and coordinate these eorts
with the larger team across the central United States.
For more information please contact David Lowry at
dlowry@msu.edu. This is a limited term position funded
for one year from date of hire with possible extension
contingent upon funding renewal.
Please apply for the job at the following web-
site: http://careers.msu.edu/cw/en-us/job/498731/-
research-technologist-i David B. Lowry Assistant Pro-
fessor Plant Biology Department Michigan State Univer-
sity Plant Biology Laboratories Room 268 517-432-4882
http://davidbryantlowry.wordpress.com/ David Lowry
<davidbryantlowry@gmail.com >
MNHN Paris
SpeciationEvolutionCytogenomic
The \Institut de Syst ematique Evolution et Biodiversit e"
(UMR 7205 ISYEB) of the Museum National d'Histoire
naturelle (Paris, France) invites applications for a po-
sition as Professor in |Speciation, Evolution and52 EvolDir April 1, 2018
Cytogenomic|(closing date: 4 April 2018).
The successful applicant is expected to develop cytoge-
nomic tools in order to study speciation mechanisms
and evolution in several groups of vertebrates (mam-
mals, birds; 50% of his activity). Among others, the
candidate is requested to have a strong expertise in
cytogenetics and cytogenomics. He will have to develop
evolutionary centered researches on various non-model
vertebrate species and will be in charge of a collection
of cryopreserved living cells. We seek an enthusiast re-
searcher able to develop and manage new researches in
cytogenomics in relationships with developing genomics
exploration of biodiversity. The candidate will have to
demonstrate his ability to work in close collaboration
with other researchers specialized in the elds of system-
atics, evolutionary biology, phylogeography, population
genetics and conservation. The successful applicant is
expected to be able to obtain independent funding and
to supervise PhD and Master students.
Previous experience in teaching and team management
would be useful as the Professor will have to develop
and coordinates the cytogenetic team and to teach cy-
togenetics (10% of his activity).
The applicant will have to valorize and develop the col-
lection of cryopreserved cells of the Museum National
d'Histoire naturelle (40% of its activity).
For additional details see the full job position (in French)
here: http://www.mnhn.fr/sites/mnhn.fr/les/atoms/-
les/galaxie prol pr2018 isyeb cytogenomique.pdf {
NICOLAS-COLIN Violaine
Curator of Rodents and Shrews
Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle D epartement de
Syst ematique et Evolution UMR CNRS 7205 CP51, 55
rue Buon 75005 Paris France ATTENTION CHANGE-
MENT DE NUMERO!!! Tel: 01 40 79 48 52 Fax:
01 40 79 30 63 Mailto: vnicolas@mnhn.fr *Web-
site *: http://violainenicolas.free.fr For any request
or to follow up requests and loans concerning the
collections of MNHN, please use the following ad-
dress : http://colhelper.mnhn.fr/ Violaine Nicolas
<vnicolas@mnhn.fr >PaceU TeachingEvolution
Seeking early career, Ph.D.-holding educators and/or
post-doctoral fellows to teach introductory biology lec-
ture and laboratory courses for undergraduate STEM
majors at Pace University in lower Manhattan. Appli-
cants should be able to demonstrate that they have ei-
ther taught undergraduate courses while employing best-
practices to engage their students in learning or partici-
pated in teaching and learning professional-development
activities. Applicants will also be expected to demon-
strate that they are (or are open to learning how to be)
thoughtful and deliberate about undergraduate course
development and measuring student performance using
both summative and formative assessments that are
aligned to course outcomes. We are seeking applicants
who are interested in developing their skills for future
careers in undergraduate biology education.
Interested candidates should forward a CV, a 2-page
statement of teaching philosophy that highlights the cri-
teria described above, and the contact information for
two references to Dr. Marcy Kelly, Assistant Chair and
Professor of Biology, at mkelly2@pace.edu by Monday,
April 30, 2018.
\Crispo, Erika" <ecrispo@pace.edu >
RBG Kew PlantsFungi
EarlyCareerResFellowships
Early Career Research Fellowships in various areas of
plants and fungi research Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew
An opportunity has arisen for 12 new research fellow-
ships in specied areas across science departments at
the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.
You will be an outstanding early career scientist with a
PhD in a relevant subject area (awarded within the past
eight years) and, ideally, some postdoctoral experience.
You will have a proven aptitude for delivering excellent
science publications and demonstrated potential to raise
research income. You will be an outstanding and en-
thusiastic communicator who is ready to engage with
students, peers and the general public.April 1, 2018 EvolDir 53
Fellowships are oered for three years, with a potential
extension to ve years dependent on performance.
The salary will be up to ??33,132 per annum, depending
on skills and experience.
Closing Date: April 8th, 2018
Further information: https://careers.kew.org/vacancy/-
early-career-research-fellowships-344760.html Dr. Es-
ter Gaya Senior Research Leader jComparative Fun-
gal Biology Jodrell laboratory Royal Botanic Gardens,
Kew, Richmond, Surrey, TW9 3DS, UK Tel.:+44(0)208
332 5381 Fax:+44(0)208 332 5310 www.kew.org Email:
EGaya@kew.org/ ester.gaya@gmail.com
Ester Gaya <E.Gaya@kew.org >
RutgersU TeachingEvolution
Position Information: Recruitment/Posting Title Teach-
ing Instructor
Department FASN - Biological Sciences
Salary Open
Posting Summary The Department of Biological Sci-
ences, Rutgers University-Newark (RU-N) seeks to hire
a full-time, non-tenure track member at the rank of
Teaching Instructor. The candidate is expected to have
a Ph.D. degree in Biology and should be able to demon-
strate excellence at lecture and laboratory course instruc-
tion and development. The successful applicant will be
expected to develop at least one introductory biology
major course, teach a more advanced lecture/lab course,
and participate in additional undergraduate teaching.
Qualications Minimum Education and Experience
Ph.D. in Biology
Posting Details Posting Number 18FA0056
Posting Open Date 02/12/2018 Posting Close Date
03/05/2018
Special Instructions to Applicants Please provide the
following; 1. Cover letter; 2. Curriculum Vitae; 3. Two
letters of recommendation; 4. Statement of Teaching
Philosophy; 5. Research Statement; 6. Example(s) of
course syllabi
Quick Link to Posting http://jobs.rutgers.edu/-
postings/60104 Campus Rutgers University-Newark
Home Location Campus Rutgers University-Newark
Armative Action/Equal Employment OpportunityStatement It is university policy to provide equal em-
ployment opportunity to all its employees and applicants
for employment regardless of their race, creed, color,
national origin, age, ancestry, nationality, marital or do-
mestic partnership or civil union status, sex, pregnancy,
gender identity or expression, disability status, liability
for military service, protected veteran status, aectional
or sexual orientation, atypical cellular or blood trait,
genetic information (including the refusal to submit to
genetic testing), or any other category protected by
law. As an institution, we value diversity of background
and opinion, and prohibit discrimination or harassment
on the basis of any legally protected class in the areas
of hiring, recruitment, promotion, transfer, demotion,
training, compensation, pay, fringe benets, layo, ter-
mination or any other terms and conditions of employ-
ment. For additional information please see the Non-
Discrimination Statement at the following web address:
http://uhr.rutgers.edu/non-discrimination-statement
Jessica Ware <jware42@newark.rutgers.edu >
SanFranciscoStateU
DirectorGenomicsFacility
The Department of Biology in the College of Science &
Engineering at San Francisco State University is search-
ing for a Director for the Genomics/Transcriptomics
Analysis Core (GTAC) Facility, eective immediately.
The Director will independently carry out multiple tasks
in the areas of scientic research, grant program admin-
istration, and work related to the day-to-day operation
of the GTAC Facility in the Department of Biology and
provide support to the Gene Lab facility at the Estuary
& Ocean Science (EOS) Center at the Romberg Tiburon
Campus. Duties will include training new users in the
proper use and care of research equipment, developing
and conducting research experiments with facility users,
providing scientic and technical assistance to facility
users with their research projects, and aiding in the
writing of equipment grants and in the development of
research grants. The successful candidate will also be
responsible for maintaining lab equipment, carrying out
the administrative duties of the facility, and supervis-
ing facility personnel, including student assistants and
research technicians.
The mission of the Department of Biology is to provide
an outstanding education, at the graduate and under-
graduate levels, preparing the next generation of leaders54 EvolDir April 1, 2018
in the eld and ensuring the nation's future with a
science-literate, educated public. We are committed to
serving the needs of a student population with diverse
backgrounds and goals, a geographic region rich in eco-
logical complexity, and a community operating at the
forefront of basic science, biotechnology and medicine.
Anticipated hiring range for this full-time position is
$6,082 - $6,758 per month, commensurate with expe-
rience. SF State oers a competitive compensation
package that includes Medical, Dental, Vision, Pension,
401k, Healthcare Savings Account, Life Insurance, Dis-
ability Insurance, Vacation and Sick Leave as well as
State Holidays and a dynamic Fee Waiver program.
To apply, please submit an application for job
#9776 at https://hr.sfsu.edu/Employment HRMS/-
employment/jobs. This position is open until lled.
Dr. Gretchen Le Buhn lebuhn@sfsu.edu
Director Great Sunower Project
www.GreatSunower.org Professor Biology San
Francisco State University
Gretchen LeBuhn <lebuhn@sfsu.edu >
SGN Frankfurt
BiodiversityGenomics
Sehr geehrte Damen und Herren,
anbei nden Sie eine Stellenausschreibung mit der Bitte
um Ver oentlichung auf Ihrem Jobportal.
Vielen Dank!
Job oer ref. #12-18003
The Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung (SGN)
is a member of the Leibniz Association and is based
in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. LOEWE Centre for
Translational Biodiversity Genomics (LOEWE-TBG)
is a joint venture of the Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur
Naturforschung (SGN), Goethe-University Frankfurt,
Justus-Liebig-University Giessen and Fraunhofer Insti-
tute for Molecular Biology and Applied Ecology IME
aiming to intensify biodiversity genomics in basic and
applied research. We will establish a new and taxo-
nomically broad genome collection to study genomic
and functional diversity across the tree of life and make
genomic resources accessible for societal-demand driven
applied research.
In this LOEWE-TBG project, we want to assess, howanthropogenic substances inuence the mutation rate of
metazoan organisms. Based on an existing genome-wide
mutation rate test, we thus want to develop and intro-
duce new ecotoxicological assessment methods that will
be eventually internationally established within the ISO
framework. Furthermore, the project will signicnatly
increase our knowledge on the mutation process as such.
It is planned to work with several ecotoxicological model
species such as Chironomus riparius, Daphnia galeata,
Eisenia fetida and Folsomia candida.
The Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung and
the LOEWE-TBG invite applications for a
Evolutionary Biologist Ecotoxicologist/Bioinformatician
(100%)
Your tasks: -Performing, respectively coordinating eco-
toxicological experiments with partners - Improving
existing bioinformatics workow - Analysing individual
reseq data - Publishing the results
Your prole: - Population genomic experience with
individual resequencing data (mapping to reference
genome, genotype calling, awareness of data quality is-
sues etc.) - Experience with ecological/ecotoxicological
experiments - Programming and/or scripting experience
to adjust/improve existing bioinformatic pipelines - Abil-
ity to work in close collaboration with several partners -
Ecellent communication skills
What is awaiting you? - An interesting task in a dy-
namic team of researchers in an internationally research
institution - The opportunity to gain experience in the
above-mentioned research eld - The occasion to build a
network with scientists in interdisciplinary elds - Flex-
ible working hours - annual special payment - company
pension scheme - Senckenberg ID card for free entry in
museums in Frankfurt - 30 days holidays Salary and ben-
ets are according to a full time public service position
in Germany (TV-H E13).
The contract should start on July 1st, 2018 and will be
limited until December 31st, 2021. The Senckenberg
Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung support equal opportu-
nity of men and women and therefore strongly invites
women to apply. Equally qualied handicapped appli-
cants will be given preference. The place of employment
is in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. The employer is the
Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung.
Please send your application, mentioning the reference
of this job oer (ref. # 12-18003) before April 15th,
2018 by e-mail (attachment in a single pdf document)
and including a cover letter detailing research inter-
ests and experience, a detailed CV and a copy of your
certication to:April 1, 2018 EvolDir 55
Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung Sencken-
berganlage 25 60325 Frankfurt am Main E-Mail: recruit-
ing@senckenberg.de
recruiting <recruiting@senckenberg.de >
UAntwerp EvolEcolEnvOmics
Research professor, area of Evolutionary, Ecological and
Environmental Omics - 2018ZAPFWETEX015
Deadline for application: 25 March 2018 https:/-
/www.uantwerpen.be/en/jobs/vacancies/ap/-
2018zapfwetex015/ As part of its dynamic research
policy and supported by the possibilities oered by
the Flemish Government through the resources of the
Special Research Fund (BOF), the Faculty of Science is
seeking to ll a full-time vacancy in the Department of
Biology for a
Research professor (TTZAPBOF) in the area of Evolu-
tionary, Ecological and Environmental Omics
The molecular instrumentation of an organism deter-
mines its capacity to handle natural and anthropogenic
challenges, and is continuously under selective pressure.
Knowledge concerning the molecular and cellular events
is therefore vital to understand the evolutionary pro-
cesses and constraints leading to adaptation to natural
and anthropogenic stressors in vertebrate and inverte-
brate species, as well as the factors that make the dier-
ence between success and failure on the organismal and
population level. The latest technological developments
create exciting opportunities to identify these molecu-
lar pathways and adaptations through (epi)genomics,
transcriptomics and proteomics.
These approaches allow to search for patterns of ge-
netic variation, signatures of selection and to unravel
the molecular processes that control adaptation and
physiological tness. These processes can only be un-
derstood when applying an integrated approach that is
embedded in a physiological, evolutionary and environ-
mental context. The research prole complements the
present expertise in the Department of Biology, which
strongly focuses on the evolutionary, ecophysiological
and ecotoxicological processes of adaptation.
We seek to hire an ambitious researcher with a strong
and preferably combined background in the elds of evo-
lutionary biology, environmental physiology and toxicol-
ogy, applying \omic" approaches to study evolutionary,
genetic and demographic processes in natural popula-tions and/or model species in relation to environmental
stress. The candidate is expected to develop strong
collaborative and complementary links with available
expertise and to strengthen the department' ^As research
capacity within these domains. The research should lead
to novel fundamental insights in the study of adaptation
of natural vertebrate and/or invertebrate populations
in response to natural or anthropogenic stressors (e.g.
global change, environmental pollution).
Job description
The assignment consists of lecturing duties, scientic
research and academic service to society. During a pe-
riod, limited to ve years (duration of the temporary
appointment in tenure track), scientic research will be
the main activity.
- You will expand the scientic research in the area
of evolutionary, ecological and environmental omics as
outlines above. - You will acquire and manage exter-
nal funding (national and international). - You will
supervise doctoral students. - You will oer scientic
services: among others you take part in further develop-
ing and managing the omics based analytical platforms.
- You will be assigned limited lecturing duties within the
domain not exceeding 30 contact hours per semester.
Prole and requirements
- You hold a doctorate degree (PhD) in Biology or a
related discipline. - You have a minimum of 2 year ex-
perience on Postdoctoral level at the closing date of the
vacancy. - You have an international academic CV and
perform qualitatively outstanding academic research in
the broader eld according to the domain involved. -
You have experience in grant application and project
management. - The focus in your teaching corresponds
to the educational vision of the university. - Your aca-
demic qualities comply with the requirements stipulated
in the university' ^As policy. - You have leadership skills
(or the potential to develop them). - You are quality-
oriented, conscientious, creative and cooperative. - You
can meet the statutory language requirements for both
the knowledge of the teaching language and the admin-
istrative language, Dutch. The University of Antwerp
provides the necessary support.
We oer
- a full-time position as a lecturer in a temporary ap-
pointment in the tenure track for a term of ve years.
This position will lead to an immediate permanent ap-
pointment as a senior lecturer if the performance is
assessed favourably on the basis of previously xed and
publicly announced evaluation criteria; - in case of equal
qualications , priority will be given to candidates of the
underrepresented gender within the domain of science.56 EvolDir April 1, 2018
This priority is not automatically and unconditionally;
as
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UCalifornia Berkeley ResAssist
TreeAdaptation
Richard Dodd's Research Group in the Dept. of En-
vironmental Science Policy and Management at the
University of California, Berkeley is seeking applicants
for a plant molecular biology research specialist position.
This will be a 3-year appointment to work with Professor
Dodd on the application of gene editing technology to ad-
dress adaptation of trees to climatic stress. Applications
should be submitted to https://aprecruit.berkeley.edu/-
apply/JPF01654 by March 13. Questions regarding
the position can be addressed to Prof. Richard Dodd,
dodd@berkeley.edu.
Richard DODD <dodd@berkeley.edu >
UConnecticut 2 ResTech
EvolutionaryImmunology
Two Research Technician positions are available in Dr.
Daniel Bolnick's research group in the Department of
Ecology and Evolution at the University of Connecticut
(https://bolnicklab.wordpress.com).
Tasks: The technicians will be funded by a National
Institutes of Health grant to study evolutionary im-
munology and genetics of a vertebrate host's resistance
to a helminth parasite, and parasite evasion of host
immunity. Previous work by the Bolnick lab identied
naturally evolved variation in stickleback shes' resis-
tance to a severe cestode parasite (Weber et al 2017
American Naturalist; Weber et al 2017 Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences). The technicians will
contribute to this research by assisting with sh care,
experimental infection and immune challenge assays,molecular genetics lab work, transgenic experiments,
cell culture, and immune assays. The technicians will
also assist with maintaining a stocked and organized
laboratory. Some eld research on Vancouver Island,
British Columbia, will also be an option. These re-
search tasks will be partitioned between two technicians
according to their areas of interest and expertise.
Duration: The positions are annual contracts that can
be extended for up to four years subject to annual perfor-
mance reviews. The technicians should be able to start
in summer or fall 2018, exact dates to be negotiated
with the PI.
Compensation: Starting salary will be between $30-
$35,000 depending on experience, plus health benets.
Qualications: Applicants must have a BS, BA, or MA
degree in biology or a closely related eld. Prior experi-
ence with molecular genetics, immunology, and/or sh
care is a plus. Previous research experience and work
records should demonstrated a commitment to research,
good work ethic, lab skills, and organizational ability.
Applications should electronically submit a single pdf
le containing the following, in order: 1) Coverletter,
including a summary of research experience and career
goals 2) CV 3) List of three references, with contact in-
formation (email, telephone, and mailing address). We
will request letters directly from these references, after
identifying top candidates.
The application le should be emailed to Dr. Daniel
Bolnick ( daniel.bolnick@uconn.edu ). Include the sub-
ject line \Research Technician Application: <YOUR
NAME >". Applications must be received by April 2,
2018 for full consideration, though the position is open
until lled.
For questions about this position, please email Dr.
Bolnick (daniel.bolnick@uconn.edu). For information
about the Bolnick Lab (presently at the University
of Texas, moving to Connecticut this summer), visit
the lab website (https://bolnicklab.wordpress.com
), lab photostream (https://www.ickr.com/-
photos/98765823@N08/albums), and Dr. Bolnick's
Google Scholar page (https://scholar.google.com/-
citations?user=cfwxm0AAAAAJ&hl=en).
The University of Connecticut is an Equal Opportunity
Employer. Applicants with questions about disability
services can privately discuss their application with the
University of Texas Disability Services Oce (http://-
sites.utexas.edu/disability/ ). The Bolnick Lab is simul-
taneously searching for postdoctoral researchers. With
multiple positions open, this advertisement may be of
interest to dual career couples.April 1, 2018 EvolDir 57
Dr. Daniel I. Bolnick
Editor-In-Chief, The American Naturalist Professor, De-
partment of Integrative Biology, University of Texas
Mailing Address: One University Station C0990, Uni-
versity of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 78712
512-471-2824 Preferred email: danbol-
nick@austin.utexas.edu
Lab website: https://bolnicklab.wordpress.com \Bol-
nick, Daniel I" <danbolnick@austin.utexas.edu >
UDebrecen EvolutionaryBiol
Dear All,
The Department of Evolutionary Zoology at the Univer-
sity of Debrecen, Hungary (http://zoology.unideb.hu)
will have a new job opening in October 2018. We are
seeking promising candidates to apply.
What we are looking for:
- a dedicated and highly motivated researcher working in
any eld of zoology and/or evolutionary biology - strong
international research experience either at the PhD stu-
dent or postdoc level - uent to teach in Hungarian and
in English
What we can oer:
- a permanent position (after a one-year probation pe-
riod) - a vibrant and diverse research community - a
rapidly developing, liveable city
For further information please contact Prof.
Zoltan Barta, Head of the Department, at
barta.zoltan@science.unideb.hu. Please send your
CV, list of publications and a short (max one page)
statement of your proposed research programme.
Sincerely yours, Zoltan Barta
Zoltan Barta MTA-DE Behavioural Ecology Research
Group Department of Evolutionary Zoology, University
of Debrecen, Debrecen, Egyetem ter 1., 4032, Hun-
gary Phone: +36 52 316 666 ext. 62334 jFax: +36
52 512 941 E-mail: barta.zoltan@science.unideb.hu
jhttp://web.unideb.hu/ ~zbarta/ Zoltan Barta
<barta.zoltan@science.unideb.hu >UGlasgow ViralEvolution
We've a bioinformatician/computational biologist post
to oer at to join our virology-focussed bioinformatics
team and enhance the research activities of the MRC-
University of Glasgow Centre for Virus Research (CVR)
(http://www.cvr.ac.uk/).
The postholder will work with us to support researchers
and carry out independent computer-based research.
This will involve performing data analysis and develop-
ing novel analytical approaches for viruses, virus-host
interaction data sets and the study of viral evolution.
Candidates with a background in bioinformatics, com-
putational, systems or evolutionary biology, computer
science, biostatistics and/or machine learning are en-
couraged to apply. We welcome applications from early
career bioinformaticians.
The position is funded until 31 March 2021 in the rst
instance. Salary will be on the University's Research
and Teaching Grade, level 6/7 depending on experience,
28,098 - 31,604/34,520 - 38,833 per annum. Informal
enquires should be directed to Prof David Robertson,
david.l.robertson@glasgow.ac.uk. Interested applicants
should apply on-line at http://www.glasgow.ac.uk/jobs
and seek reference no. 018901 by 11th March 2018.
[University of Glasgow: The Times Scottish University
of the Year 2018]
David Robertson <David.L.Robertson@glasgow.ac.uk >
UHelsinki Bioinforamtician
Bioinformatician
University of Helsinki, Finland
The Organismal and Evolutionary Biology Research
Programme at the University of Helsinki has an open
Bioinformatics position. The bioinformatician will join
the research groups of Dr Marjo Saastamoinen (http://-
www.helsinki./life-history-evolution) and Prof. Anna-
Liisa Laine ( https://allaine.it.helsinki./).
The position will be focused on the genomics analy-
ses carried out within the Glanville fritillary (Melitaea58 EvolDir April 1, 2018
cinxia) buttery genome sequencing project and the
ribwort plantain (Plantago lanceolata) genome and tran-
scriptome projects. The successful applicant has com-
pleted MSc or PhD in relevant eld, and has previous
experience with the analysis of next generation sequenc-
ing data.
The position can be lled immediately but no later than
1st of June 2018 for a xed term until the end of June
2019.
Closing Date: March 25th 2018.
Further information: https://www.helsinki./en/-
open-positions/bioinformatician-the-organism al-and-
evolutionary-biology-research-programme
Virpi Ahola virpi.ahola@helsinki.
\Ahola, Virpi M" <virpi.ahola@helsinki. >
UKansas 1yr EvolutionaryGenetics
The Department of Molecular Biosciences, University
of Kansas, seeks an assistant researcher with interests
and experience in molecular biology and Drosophila
husbandry. The successful candidate will work with
on genomic, genetic and evolutionary aspects of selsh
genetic elements using Drosophila. Projects include, but
are not limited to CRISPR genome editing, uorescence
microscopy and Drosophila mating experiments. This
position consists of an initial 1-yr appointment begin-
ning in May 2018. The applicant should be extremely
organized, work well with others, have a willingness to
learn, and be able to participate at many levels in the
laboratory.
For a complete announcement and to apply online, go
to https://employment.ku.edu/sta/11467BR . A com-
plete online application includes the following materials:
CV, Cover letter, contact information for three reference
letters. Initial review of applications begins April 15,
2018 and will continue as long as required to identify a
qualied pool. Contact Rob Unckless (unckless@ku.edu)
for more information.
The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on
the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national
origin, age, ancestry, disability status as a veteran, sex-
ual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender
identity, gender expression, and genetic information in
the university's programs and activities. Retaliation
is also prohibited by university policy. The followingpersons have been designated to handle inquiries regard-
ing the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX
coordinators for their respective campuses: Executive
Director of the Oce of Institutional Opportunity &
Access, IOA@ku.edu , 1246 West Campus Road, Room
153A, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for
the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka
campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Oce, Mail
Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS
66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina,
and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses).
\Unckless, Robert L" <unckless@ku.edu >
UNAM Mexico
EvolutionaryFunctionalGenomics
The Universidad Nacional Aut ^A^Anoma de M exico
(UNAM) invites applications to ll a tenure-track As-
sistant Professor position in Comparative Animal Ge-
nomics at the Instituto de Ecolog ^A^Aa.
Located in the main campus of UNAM to the South
of Mexico City, the Institute of Ecology (http:/-
/web.ecologia.unam.mx/) harbours 40 researchers
grouped in four Departments: Evolutionary Ecology,
Functional Ecology, Ecology of Biodiversity, and the
National Laboratory for Sustainability Sciences. It is a
leading Ecology Institute in Mexico and has strong links
with similar Institutes both within Mexico and abroad.
We are searching for an independent researcher in Evolu-
tionary and Functional Genomics willing to collaborate
with the members of the Department of Functional Ecol-
ogy and of the Institute in general.
The successful candidate will be required to develop
an independent research program in Evolutionary and
Functional Genomics. It will be expected that she/he de-
velops collaborations, primarily but not exclusively with
members of the Departamento de Ecolog ^A^Aa Funcional.
Lecturing regularly at undergraduate and graduate pro-
grammes is compulsory.
Candidates should hold a PhD degree, or equivalent, on
Biology or Ecology, and be competent or the study of
genome function and evolution. To be considered, an
applicant must have a strong publication record ( >20
high-impact peer-reviewed papers in the relevant area),
a track record of securing competitive funds, and demon-
strable experience teaching and supervising students.
Ability to teach in Spanish is expected.April 1, 2018 EvolDir 59
Selection will be based 1) on the strength of the candi-
date' ^As CV, 2) on a written research proposal (only the
outline is needed) combining the study of evolutionary
and functional genomics, and 3) on the merits of a work
program specifying the research (including collabora-
tions with local colleagues), teaching and supervision
activities to be conducted in the following three years.
The application should include a letter addressed to
the director of the Institute, Dr Constantino Mac ^A^Aas
Garcia stating the candidate' ^As reasons to apply, Cur-
riculum vitae, a brief description of current and future
research interests, the proposal and work plan specied
above, a copy of the PhD title, birth certicate and the
documents supporting the CV (only the rst page of
published papers, letters/e-mails indicating that papers
have been accepted for publication), and evidence of
theses supervision.
All documents should be sent electronically as a single
PDF le to secacad@iecologia.unam.mx. Applications
will be received from the 20th of March till the 20th of
April 2018. Shortlisted candidates will be required to
send the documents by post to: Instituto de Ecolog ^A^Aa,
UNAM, Ap. Postal 70-275, Ciudad Universitaria, Ciu-
dad de M exico, CP 04510, M exico.
Constantino Mac ^A^Aas Garcia <maciasg@unam.mx >
uOttawa QuantitativeBiology
TENURE-TRACK POSITION IN QUANTITATIVE
BIOLOGY Department of Biology, University of Ottawa
Applications deadline: March 15
The Department of Biology at the University of Ottawa
is hiring a tenure track Assistant Professor in quantita-
tive biology whose research focuses on the development
or application of statistical approaches to addressing
complex biological questions. We are particularly inter-
ested in candidates who would complement and extend
our existing strengths in evolution, ecology, genomics,
and statistical genetics. The successful applicant is ex-
pected to develop an internationally-recognized research
program and to contribute to undergraduate and grad-
uate training. Preference will be given to candidates
who can teach biostatistics at the undergraduate and
graduate level in French and English.
The successful candidate will join an innovative and
collaborative department of over 40 researchers working
in all elds of biology including biodiversity, computa-tional biology, cell and molecular biology, developmental
biology, ecotoxicology, evolutionary biology, and physi-
ology. The Department maintains close connections and
collaborations with researchers in the Ottawa region
including federal government science departments, the
Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, the Canadian Mu-
seum of Nature, and Carleton University. The Faculty
of Science supports several core facilities including a
Molecular Biology and Genomics Laboratory to provide
access to advanced molecular biology/genomics equip-
ment. Access to high-performance computing and data
storage is available through Compute Canada. |
Application deadline: Review of applications will begin
March 15, 2018 and will continue until the position is
lled.
For additional details see the full job posting here:
https://www.uottawa.ca/vice-president-academic/-
faculty-aairs/faculty-recruitment/openings (click on
'Faculty of Science') To appear in Nature shortly.
hrundle@uottawa.ca
UPennsylvania ResProf PDF
HumanGenomics
Human Population Genomics Postdoctoral/Research
Assistant Professor Positions at the University of Penn-
sylvania
The Tishko lab at the University of Pennsylvania is
seeking candidates at either the postdoctoral or Re-
search Assistant Professor level for population genomics
positions. We are integrating genomic, transcriptomic,
metagenomic, metabolomic, and epigenomic datasets
generated from a large sample of ethnically diverse
Africans. We use evolutionary, statistical, and pop-
ulation genetics approaches to understand the genetic
architecture of a number of anthropometric, cardiovas-
cular, metabolic, and immune related traits for which
we have detailed phenotype data. We are also inter-
ested in inferring the demographic history of African
populations, determining the genetic basis of adaptation
during human evolutionary history, and characterizing
the evolution of gene regulation in humans. We are
applying functional genomics approaches to determine
the impact of candidate causal variants on gene regula-
tion and chromatin interaction. Candidates will have an
opportunity to participate in a large NIH collaborative
eort involving analysis of whole genome sequence data
from over 100,000 participants. Candidates will also60 EvolDir April 1, 2018
have an opportunity to develop creative, independent
projects. There will be opportunities to work together
with an outstanding team of collaborators with exper-
tise in statistical and population genetics including Iain
Matheison, Yoseph Barash, Ben Voight, Casey Brown,
Yun Song, Hongzhe Li, Scott Williams, Eleazar Eskin,
Josh Akey, and Sharon Browning.
The ideal candidates will have skills in computer pro-
gramming (PERL and/or Python and/or C++) and
using statistical environments (R/MATLAB) as well as
expertise in population genetics theory and/or quan-
titative analyses of complex traits. Experience with
large genome-scale datasets is a plus. Candidates for
the Faculty Research Assistant Professor position must
have a proven track record of productivity. They will be
expected to show independence, have excellent writing
skills, willingness to apply for grant funding (with oppor-
tunities to be PI on grant applications) and willingness
to help supervise graduate students. The Research As-
sistant Professor position is conditional upon approval
by the Department of Genetics at UPenn. Salaries are
commensurate with qualications and experience.
The Department of Genetics is centrally located at the
School of Medicine within the UPenn campus and is
within short walking distance to the Children's Hospital
of Pennsylvania as well as the Departments of Biology,
Computer Science, Bioengineering and Anthropology
located on the main campus. Outstanding core facilities
are available for high throughput sequencing, genotyp-
ing, and gene expression studies and for bioinformatics
and computational biology analyses. Philadelphia is a
vibrant city with excellent cultural events and plenty
of parks and hiking/biking trails. It is also centrally
located between New York City and Washington DC,
with easy access via a short train or bus ride.
Candidates should send curriculum vitae, a statement
of interest, and contact information for three refer-
ences via e-mail to Dr. Sarah Tishko, Departments
of Genetics and Biology, University of Pennsylvania,
tishko@pennmedicine.upenn.edu. The starting dates
of positions are exible.
Dr. Sarah Tishko Departments of Ge-
netics and Biology University of Pennsylva-
nia tishko@pennmedicine.upenn.edu http://-
www.med.upenn.edu/tishko/ \Tishko, Sarah"
<tishko@pennmedicine.upenn.edu >URhodeIsland ResTech Genomics
The shared lab of Carlos Prada (https://-
www.carlosprada.org), Jon Puritz ( marineevoeco.com)
and Hollie Putnam (putnamlab.com) at the University
of Rhode Island is currently looking for a lab technician.
This is a full time position available for one year with
the possibility of renewal. The ideal candidate will have
recently completed a Bachelor' ^As in a biological science,
and have experience in both molecular lab techniques
as well as marine eld work experience.
For more information and to apply, please follow this
link: http://jobs.uri.edu/postings/3211 Please feel free
to contact any of the PIs for more information.
'X Jon Puritz, PhD
Assistant Professor Department of Biological Sciences
University of Rhode Island 120 Flagg Road, Kingston,
RI 02881
Webpage: MarineEvoEco.com
\The most valuable of all talents is that of never using
two words when one will do." -Thomas Jeerson
Jonathan Puritz <jpuritz@uri.edu >
URichmond 1yr EvolutionBiology
The Department of Biology at the University of Rich-
mond seeks to ll two full-time visiting faculty positions
(non-tenure track) for the 2018-19 academic year, begin-
ning August 2018 and ending May 2019. Both positions
have the possibility of renewal for a second year. We
are looking for broadly-trained biologists with expertise
in cellular/molecular biology, ecology/evolution, and/or
interdisciplinary training spanning both concept areas.
Applicants should demonstrate a strong commitment to
high quality undergraduate education and an interest
in teaching at a primarily undergraduate institution
(PUI).
The positions entails teaching four units per term, includ-
ing introductory level courses with lab (where lecture
and lab each count as one unit) and upper level electives
in the candidate's area of expertise. Research space andApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 61
access to equipment may be made available based on
synergy with existing faculty research programs. Appli-
cants must have a Ph.D. in hand by August 20, 2018.
Applicants should click \Apply Now" at the top of the
page (bitly.com/2Ft90XU) and upload a cover letter,
a statement that addresses their teaching experiences
and their vision for being a teacher-scholar at a PUI,
a current curriculum vitae, and the names of three
references who can address teaching eectiveness and
potential. References will be contacted once a short-list
of candidates is made. Review of applications will begin
immediately and qualied applicants will be considered
until the position is lled. Questions concerning the
position and application process should be directed to
Dr. Omar Quintero (oquinter@richmond.edu).
The University of Richmond is committed to devel-
oping a diverse workforce and student body, and to
modeling an inclusive campus community which val-
ues the expression of dierence in ways that promote
excellence in teaching, learning, personal development,
and institutional success. We strongly encourage appli-
cants address how they envision contributing to these
goals in their application materials. We are especially
interested in recruiting individuals who have interest
or experience in broadening access and inclusivity in
STEM disciplines (Integrated Inclusive Science) which
aligns with the University's strategic plan (https://-
strategicplan.richmond.edu/). For more information on
the department, see http://biology.richmond.edu/ . The
Department of Biology is housed in the Gottwald center
for the Sciences, which also houses the Departments
of Chemistry and Physics and had an extensive reno-
vation/expansion of laboratory and teaching facilities
completed in 2005. Approximately 50 biology majors
graduate each year, many of whom go on to attend top
graduate and medical schools. Members of the Depart-
ment of Biology have access to two University-owned
eld sites that are approximately 15 and 45 minutes
away from campus.
R. Jory Brinkerho, Ph.D. Associate Professor Depart-
ment of Biology, University of Richmond Richmond, VA
23173 804-484-1592 jbrinker@richmond.edu
Honorary Senior Lecturer School of Life Sciences, Univer-
sity of KwaZulu-Natal Pietermaritzburg, South Africa
\Brinkerho, Jory" <jbrinker@richmond.edu >UScranton EvolutionaryBiol
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR Department of Biology The
University of Scranton
The Biology Department of The University of Scranton
is seeking applications for a tenure-track position at the
level of Assistant Professor in ecology/environmental
biology/evolution to begin August 2018. The area of spe-
cialization within these disciplines is open; however, we
are particularly interested in applicants with expertise
in evolutionary ecology, behavioral ecology, population
ecology, microbial ecology, or molecular ecology. Appli-
cants should be able to contribute to the Biology De-
partment's core courses as well as to the Environmental
Science Program and will be expected to develop upper
level courses in their specialties. Excellence in teaching
and an active research program that involves mentoring
undergraduates is expected. A Ph.D. is required by
start date and postdoctoral experience is preferred.
The Biology Department is housed in a new
state-of-the-art unied science center, http://-
www.scranton.edu/academics/sciencecenter . Visit
http://www.scranton.edu/academics/cas/biology/for
more information about the Biology Department and
http://admissions.scranton.edu/academic-programs/-
majors-minors/programs/environmentalscience.shtml
for more information about the Environmental Science
Major.
The University of Scranton is a regional institution
of more than 5,000 undergraduate and graduate stu-
dents located in northeast Pennsylvania near the Pocono
Mountains. Recognized nationally for the quality of its
education, Scranton is one of the 28 Jesuit colleges and
universities in the United States. It is committed to
providing liberal arts education and strong professional
and preprofessional programs in the context of Ignatian
educational principles, especially the care and develop-
ment of the whole person. Drawing on the strengths
that have made it a recognized leader in the North-
east, Scranton is committed to a culture of scholarship
and excellence, and is moving into the front ranks of
American's comprehensive universities.
The University of Scranton is, by tradition and choice, a
Catholic and Jesuit university. The successful candidate
will have an understanding of and commitment to the
mission and the goals of Jesuit education. The Univer-
sity's mission statement and a description of the history62 EvolDir April 1, 2018
and aims of the Ignatian teaching philosophy may be
found at http://www.scranton.edu/mission . The Uni-
versity is committed to developing a diverse faculty,
sta, and student body and to modeling an inclusive
campus community which values the expression of dif-
ferences in ways that promote excellence in teaching,
learning, personal and professional development, and
institutional success. In keeping with this commitment,
the University encourages applications from candidates
with diverse backgrounds.
The University of Scranton is an EOE em-
ployer/educator. We encourage women, persons
with disabilities, veterans and others from underrepre-
sented groups to apply.
How to Apply Interested applicants must apply online at
https://universityofscrantonjobs.com. The application
must include (1) a cover letter, (2) a current curriculum
vitae, (3) a statement of teaching philosophy (4) a state-
ment of research interests, (4) three letters of reference,
and (5) selected publications.
For questions regarding this position, please con-
tact Dr. Robert Smith or Dr. Janice Volt-
zow, Co- Chairs of the Search Committee, via
email at robert.smith@scranton.edu and jan-
ice.voltzow@scranton.edu. Review of applications will
begin March 23, 2018, and will continue until the
position is lled.
\Anne M. Royer Ph.D." <anne.royer@scranton.edu >
UTennesseeKnoxville
HerbariumCollectionsManager
Job: UTennesseeKnoxville.HerbariumCollectionsManager
The TENN herbarium in the Department of Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology at the University of Tennessee
- Knoxville is seeking a highly organized, detail-oriented
individual to join our department as the Herbarium
Collections Manager. This key team member oversees
the day-to-day management, preservation, and acces-
sibility of our plant and fungal biodiversity collection,
which includes specimen curation, record keeping, and
monitoring specimen inow/outow. In addition, the
Herbarium Collections Manager leads a team of under-
graduate students and volunteer assistants with spec-
imen curation and scientic outreach projects. The
Herbarium Collections Manager reports to the TENN
Herbarium Director, Dr. Jessica M. Budke, and col-laborates with the Director and Curators to plan and
implement herbarium goals, priorities, and programs.
The TENN herbarium houses over 600,000 plant and fun-
gal specimens and is one of the largest collections in the
southeastern United States. The Herbarium Collections
Manager supports research in the herbarium focusing
on taxonomy, systematics, invasive species, conserva-
tion of rare plants/fungi, and eld botany/mycology.
For more information on our collection, see the TENN
herbarium website - http://tenn.bio.utk.edu/ Duties
and Responsibilities -
Will include but are not limited to:
1. Oversee the day-to-day management, preservation,
and accessibility of this biodiversity collection, which
includes specimen curation, record keeping, and moni-
toring specimen inow/outow.
2. Hire, train, schedule, and supervise members of the
public as herbarium volunteers and undergraduate stu-
dent curation technicians to carry out tasks such as
label making and mounting, ling, imaging, databasing,
and georeferencing specimens.
3. Respond to inquiries from members of the university
community, visiting scientic researchers, governmental
and consulting agencies, and members of the public.
4. Perform outreach and science communication through
herbarium social media pages/feeds.
5. Conduct tours for visiting scholars, students, and the
public.
6. Manage the TENN website to share plant information
with internet users worldwide.
7. Upload data to and manage online databases contain-
ing information on specimens in the TENN collection.
Qualications -
1. Master's degree or PhD from an accredited university
in Plant Sciences, Botany, Ecology, Biology, Horticul-
ture, or related eld is required.
2. Previous herbarium/botanical experience (1-3 years)
is required.
3. Knowledge of botanical museum principles, practices,
and procedures is required.
4. Strong interpersonal communication skills with the
ability to lead a team of volunteer and student assis-
tants to complete collection management projects are
required.
5. Sound reasoning, analytical thought, attention to
detail, creativity, high levels of organization, and inno-
vation in solving minor problems that occur day to day
are required.April 1, 2018 EvolDir 63
6. Prociency with computer software (e.g., Word, Ex-
cel, Photoshop, Dreamweaver) is required.
7. Ability to learn new programs to manage and main-
tain websites/databases as needed.
8. Previous experience with plant/fungal taxonomy
and knowledge of plant/fungal families and genera are
preferred.
9. Excellent verbal and written communication, includ-
ing experience communicating through social media (i.e.,
Twitter, Facebook), is preferred
This is a full-time (12-month), permanent position with
health and retirement benets. Initial appointment for
one year starting July 2018, with extension pending
positive performance evaluations. Salary commensurate
with education and experience.
Please submit a cover letter, resume/CV, and con-
tact information for three references as a single doc-
ument when applying. Application review will begin
April 19, 2018 and continue until the position is lled.
To be considered, all applications must be submitted
online. https://ut.taleo.net/careersection/ut system/-
jobdeta il.ftl?job000000DM&tz=GMT-04%3A00
Job
Academic and Instructional Support
Primary Location
USA-Tennessee-Knoxville
Organization
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
Schedule
Full-time
Campus/Institute Knoxville
Jessica Budke <jbudke@utk.edu >Worcester MA VisitingProf
Evolution
College of the Holy Cross
Department of Biology
Two Full-Time Visiting Faculty Positions in Biology
(Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology)
GENERAL INFORMATION
The Department of Biology at the College of the Holy
Cross invites applications for two visiting full-time
faculty appointments in Ecology, Evolution and Organ-
ismal Biology for the 2018-19 academic year to begin
in August 2018. We are seeking candidates who can
contribute to the teaching of courses such as General
Ecology (with lab), Evolution, Environmental Science,
and courses dealing with specic groups of organisms
(e.g., entomology, ornithology). More detailed informa-
tion is available at the Biology Department website:
( https://www.holycross.edu/academics/programs/-
biology/faculty-sta/visiting-assistant-professor ).
Visiting full-time faculty teach three courses each
semester, with a lab section counted as a full course,
and are eligible for travel support and reimbursement of
relocation costs within the College's published policies.
All full-time appointments oer competitive salaries
and include full benets.
QUALIFICATIONS
Candidates must demonstrate commitment to, and excel-
lence in, undergraduate teaching as informed by current
practice and scholarship in the eld. Strong preference
will be given to candidates who have completed a Ph.D.
Please submit a cover letter, current curriculum vitae,
statement on teaching expertise and interests, tran-
scripts, and two condential letters of recommendation.
In your cover letter, please address the ways you might
contribute to and further the College's core commitment
to diversity and inclusion that is part of its mission as
a Jesuit, undergraduate liberal arts college. For more
information, please visit http://www.holycross.edu/-
mission and http://holycross.edu/diversity. <http://-
holycross.edu/campus-life/diversity-and-inclusion >To
learn more about faculty life at the College, applicants
are encouraged to visit http://holycross.edu/join . The
College of the Holy Cross uses Interfolio to collect faculty
job applications electronically. Please submit all appli-64 EvolDir April 1, 2018
cation materials to https://apply.interfolio.com/49857.
For full consideration, candidates are encouraged to sub-
mit their materials by April 13. Contact Karen Ober,
Search Chair, (508) 793-3046 or kober@holycross.edu,
with any questions related to this search.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYMENT STATE-
MENT
The College of the Holy Cross is a highly selective
Catholic liberal arts college in the Jesuit tradition. It
enrolls about 2,900 students and is located in a medium-
sized city 45 miles west of Boston. The College seeks
faculty members whose scholarship, teaching, advising,
and on- and o-campus service demonstrate commit-
ment to the educational benets of a richly diverse
community. Holy Cross aspires to meet the needsof dual-career couples, in part through its member-
ship in the Higher Education Consortium of Central
Massachusetts (http://www.heccma.org)and the New
England Higher Education Recruitment Consortium
( https://new-england.hercjobs.org/). The College is
an Equal Employment Opportunity Employer and com-
plies with all Federal and Massachusetts laws concerning
equal opportunity and armative action in the work-
place.
{ Dr. Karen A. Ober Associate Professor Department
of Biology College of the Holy Cross Worcester, MA
01610 PH: 508-793-3046 FAX: 508-793-2696 e-mail:
kober@holycross.edu
\Ober, Karen" <kober@holycross.edu >
Other
BotanyConferences UndergradTravelAwards . . . . . . . 64
FrancePyrenees VolFieldAssist LizardBehaviour Apr-
Jun . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
JoeFelsenstein Talk FundamentalTheorem . . . . . . . . . 65
MilnerPrizeLecture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .66
Minion availability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Namibia Baboon VolFieldWork . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .66
PlantTaxonomists BotanySoc LeadershipAward . . . 67
Pyrenees VolFieldAssist EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .68Software Multitest upgrade . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .69
Software NewRelease BAli-Phy3 0 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .69
SouthAfrica VolResAssist Behaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .69
SyracuseU UGSummerResearch Coevolution . . . . . . 70
Trinidad Internship GuppyEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
ULausanne SIBVirtualSeminar JeromeGoudet Febru-
ary28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
US NatlMedalScience CallNominations . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
BotanyConferences
UndergradTravelAwards
Subject:| Undergraduate Travel Awards:| Enhancing
Diversity at the Botanical Society of America Confer-
encesPLANTS Grants Preparing Leaders and Nurturing To-
morrow's Scientists Undergraduate Travel Awards:|
Enhancing Diversity at the Botanical Society of America
Conferences The PLANTS program (Preparing Leaders
and Nurturing Tomorrow's Scientists: Increasing the
diversity of plant scientists) will fund up to 12 talented
and diverse undergraduates to attend the BOTANY
2018 meeting on July 21-25, 2018 in Rochester, Min-
nesota. Topics range across all aspects of botany includ-April 1, 2018 EvolDir 65
ing ecology, conservation, biodiversity, plant genomics,
evolution, plant systematics, ethnobotany, and botani-
cal education. There are also a number of social func-
tions, specically targeted at students for networking
and fun. The meetings are a great way for undergrad-
uates to understand the breadth of botanical research
and education, to meet undergraduate and graduate
students with similar interests, and to network with pro-
fessionals in their area of interest. Students will receive
mentoring from graduate students, postdocs and fac-
ulty/professionals, and participate in networking events
including the Diversity Luncheon and career-oriented
activities.| The program covers the normal costs of
travel, registration, food and lodging at the meeting.
Participants are required to attend the entire meeting, in-
cluding several scientic talks per day with a mentor, as
well as certain professional development and networking
activities.|| An overview of the scientic conference
is available at: botanyconference.org APPLICATIONS:
Applications are due by MARCH 15, 2018 and include
completion of the online form (including a statement of
interest, letter of recommendation, and unocial tran-
scripts). Applications are welcome from undergraduates
from the US including Puerto Rico (we are unable to
accept applications from international students) who
have interest in plant sciences; the admissions goal is
to increase the diversity of students interested in the
plant sciences. The application form is located online at
http://botany.org/Awards/F PLANTS.php . Funding
is provided by the National Science Foundation and
Botanical Society of America,
CONTACTS: For further inquiries, please contact one of
the organizers: Anna Monls { anna.monls@cmich.edu
Heather Cacanindin| { hcacanindin@botany.org
DEADLINE: extended to March 15, 2018
{ Heather Cacanindin Interim Executive Director Botan-
ical Society of America jSociety for the Study of Evo-
lutionjSociety for Economic Botany www.botany.org
www.amjbot.org http://www.bioone.org/loi/apps
www.plantingscience.org www.evolutionsociety.org
www.econbot.org 314-577-9554
Heather Cacanindin <hcacanindin@botany.org >FrancePyrenees VolFieldAssist
LizardBehaviour Apr-Jun
We at the Ethology Lab of The University of Valencia
(Spain) are looking for a voluntary eld research assis-
tant to get involved with our research on the functional
signicance of colour polymorphism in the common wall
lizard *Podarcis muralis.*
We are preparing an experiment to conduct in
April-June 2018 at the Metatron experimental
platform, associated to the Station d'Ecologie
Th eoretique et Exp erimentale UMR5321 (http://-
www.ecoex-moulis.cnrs.fr/), in the french department
of Ari ege (Midi-Pyrenees).
Tasks will consist mainly on recording the behaviour of
lizards held in semi-natural conditions within experimen-
tal enclosures. Accommodation and food are provided.
The work will span from April 15th to June 30th.
We will review applications as they arrive. Please con-
tact by email for further information and apply as sooner
as possible (at latest April 1st).
Dr Guillem P erez i de Lanuza, Post-doc researcher
at CIBIO-InBIO (University of Porto). e-mail:
guillem.perez-lanuza@uv.es
Msc Javier Abalos, PhD candidate at University of Va-
lencia, e-mail: jal4@uv.es
Javier ~Abalos ~Alvarez <abalosjavier1347@gmail.com >
JoeFelsenstein Talk
FundamentalTheorem
I have just posted Joe Felsenstein $B!G(Bs Fisher Mem-
orai talk from the 2018 Population Genetics group meet-
ing on
$B!H(BIs there a more fundamental theorem of natural
selection? $B!I(B
This can be found at the link here https://youtu.be/-
ZF3nIMvBBDw More about the Fisher Memorial Trust
can be found here http://www.senns.demon.co.uk/-
FisherWeb.html and the Population Genetics group here66 EvolDir April 1, 2018
http://populationgeneticsgroup.org.uk/ Adam Eyre-
Walker
School of Life Sciences University of Sussex Brighton
BN1 9QG
a.c.eyre-walker@sussex.ac.uk
MilnerPrizeLecture
Nominations are sought for the inaugural Milner Prize
Lecture.
Candidates for the prize must be early career researchers
in any eld of evolutionary biology, who have begun
their PhD study after January 1, 2011. In addition,
nominees will be considered who are more than 7 years
from the start of their PhD if they have had career
breaks taken for family, caring or health reasons; the
nature of the reason must be given. The nomination of
the candidate may be by a colleague or self-nominated.
The nominations should be sent as a single PDF le to
Laurence Hurst, Director of the Milner Centre for Evo-
lution (l.d.hurst@bath.ac.uk). The nomination should
include a brief justication, the candidate's CV and
list of publications (indicating three most signicant pa-
pers), a short description of future research plans, and
a letter from the candidate approving the nomination.
A letter of reference from another colleague (or two in
case of self-nomination) should be sent directly to Prof.
Hurst.
Nominations and letters of support should arrive no
later than May 15th, 2018. Please take care to limit the
size of attachments (total <10 MB) in any one email.
The nomination committee will evaluate the nomina-
tions and inform the winner approximately by the end
of May 2018.
The prizewinner is expected to attend the Inaugural
Conference of the Milner Centre for Evolution (18th-21st
September 2018: http://www.milnercentre.org), where
he or she will deliver the 2018 Milner Prize Lecture. The
Milner Centre will cover registration, accommodation,
and travel expenses (economy fare).
Laurence D. Hurst
Professor of Evolutionary Genetics Director of The Mil-
ner Centre for Evolution Department of Biology and
Biochemistry University of Bath Bath Somerset, UK
BA2 7AY
tel: +44 (0)1225 386424 fax: +44 (0)1225386779 email: l.d.hurst@bath.ac.uk website: http://-
people.bath.ac.uk/bssldh/LaurenceDHurst/Home.html
Laurence Hurst <L.D.Hurst@bath.ac.uk >
Minion availability
Dear Colleagues,
I am interested in running 1-3 trial samples on an Ox-
ford Nanopore Tech MINION, which has the advantage
that one can directly sequence RNA with the need to
creating cDNA. Their website says that some 6,000 users
exist for this tiny, cheap ( $1,000) sequencer the size of a
USB drive on which one can sequence hyperlong reads
by threading the DNA or RNA strand thru a pore be-
tween two chambers. The dierent size and shape of the
dierent bases lead to dierent changes in the voltages
dierential between chambers, allowing deducing the
base sequence, as many will know. An even smaller
sequencer, the Smidgeon is on the way. I was wondering
if any one has a MINION and would be able to let me
run a few trial samples or can recommend a genomics
center. Areas of proximity for running things in person
are New York and Denmark/ Germany/ France.
The equipment is ideal for many uses (detecting viruses
in foods without the need for a priory expectations as
to what one may nd, same for analyses on viruses
inside/partly inside micro/nanoplastics in tissues).
Best regards,
Else Fjerdingstad PhD Biology (EEB)
Else Fjerdingstad <Else Fjerdingstad@gmx.com >
Namibia Baboon VolFieldWork
We are currently advertising 3 volunteer positions with
the Tsaobis Baboon Project (see https://www.zsl.org/-
science/research/baboon ) The Tsaobis Baboon Project
is a eld-based wildlife research programme that studies
desert baboons in Namibia. Every year, we recruit a
small team of eld volunteers to assist with our scientic
work.
The Tsaobis Baboon Project is a long-term study of
wild desert baboons in Namibia. We are currently re-April 1, 2018 EvolDir 67
cruiting Volunteer Field Assistants for our 2018 eld
season. These positions combine practical research with
training and are entirely eld-based. The volunteers are
trained by and work alongside doctoral students and
postdoctoral researchers, assisting with their studies
and contributing to the wider research activities of the
Baboon Project.
The eldwork will primarily involve daily follows of ba-
boon troops on foot, collecting data on the behaviour of
individually recognisable animals, together with monthly
vegetation surveys, and the capture of both study troops
to t GPS collars and collect measurements and sam-
ples. This year, our research focus is on baboon social
behaviour and female reproductive strategies.
Three Volunteer Field Assistant positions are currently
available, each running for three months from late Au-
gust to late November. Once the volunteers arrive in
Namibia, the Tsaobis Baboon Project covers all their
work-related costs, including all meals and accommo-
dation. We will also cover the costs of the volunteers'
research visas and travel insurance. On the successful
completion of eldwork, we also contribute a minimum
of pounds 75 towards the cost of the volunteers' air
ticket. The Volunteer Field Assistants will learn and
implement a range of research skills related to the study
of animal behaviour and ecology. Following training, the
eldwork will primarily involve daily follows of baboon
troops on foot, during which they will collect data on the
behaviour of individually recognisable animals, together
with monthly vegetation surveys and wider ecological
monitoring related to the baboons' environment. This
year we will also be briey capturing our study troops
to collect routine measurements and samples. Who are
we looking for?
These positions are open to all with an interest in animal
behaviour and ecology. We are particularly keen to hear
from applicants who: * Are friendly, easygoing people,
happy to live in small team under basic conditions at
a remote eld site * Are strongly motivated, reliable
and committed * Have good levels of physical tness
and stamina - you will be following the baboons on foot
from dawn to dusk over mountainous terrain in extreme
heat * Show good initiative, with a willingness to learn
and show attention to detail * Have a full, clean driving
licence.
What do volunteers get out of it? * An amazing oppor-
tunity to share the lives of wild baboons in a beautiful
desert landscape * An opportunity to learn new skills
and gain experience, especially those relevant to research
in behaviour, ecology, and conservation * An opportu-
nity to be involved in a long-term project on African
wildlife, hosted by an international research institutionand conservation charity * Most of our volunteers are
graduate students who use their experience on the Ba-
boon Project as a stepping stone on to Masters and
PhD degree course
If you would like to apply, you will need to upload a CV
and covering letter, using the online application on the
following website : https://volunteeringopportunities-
zsl.icims.com/jobs/2032/volunteer-e ld-assistant%2c-
tsaobis-baboon-project/job
The covering letter should explain why you would like
to work on the project, and the CV should include the
names of two referees with e-mail contact details. The
covering letter and CV should be uploaded as a single
PDF document, with the covering letter on a separate
page preceding the CV.
Closing date for applications: 10am, Monday 16 April
2018.
Please note: We will notify successfully shortlisted candi-
dates by the evening of Tuesday 17 April, and interviews
will be held in London the following week on Tuesday
24 April and Wednesday 25 April. Applicants should
keep these dates free for interview, since no other dates
will be available. Telephone/skype interviews will be
possible for overseas applicants or those that genuinely
cannot travel to London to attend the interview.
Jules Dezeure <jules.dezeure@etu.umontpellier.fr >
PlantTaxonomists BotanySoc
LeadershipAward
Link: https://cms.botany.org/home/awards/special-
funds-and-awards/botany-advocacy-leadership-
grant.html \The Public Policy Committee is
accepting applications for the Botany Advocacy
Leadership Award for 2018. Please review the award
details at THIS LINK. The award is only given to
either BSA or ASPT members and is open to any
level of botanical scientist or activist. Applications are
due March 30th to our Awards Ocer, Andrew Pais
(alpais@ncsu.edu).
The American Society of Plant Taxonomists (ASPT)
and the Botanical Society of America (BSA) are pleased
to invite applications for the annual Botanical Advo-
cacy Leadership Award. This award organized by the
Environmental and Public Policy Committees of ASPT
and BSA aims to support local eorts that contribute to68 EvolDir April 1, 2018
shaping public policy on issues relevant to plant sciences.
Examples of such eorts include: * Founding or expand-
ing a native plant society or enhancing its activities. *
Hosting a lecture series on plant conservation issues. *
Leading campaigns or holding events that spread aware-
ness of plant-related public policy issues (e.g., conserva-
tion of native species, control of invasive species, land
use management). * Organizing local plant conservation
events, such as removal of invasive species, planting a
native garden, or restoration of native communities. *
Traveling to meet with local or state representatives
to lobby for legislation or other initiatives that benet
plant conservation, plant science research and education,
or collections.
The recipient of this award will receive $1000 to be
used in the proposed project. They will be recognized
at the annual Botany meeting during the awards cer-
emony. To apply, please send a one-page letter de-
scribing the proposed local eorts and their anticipated
impact along with a basic one-page budget to show
how the funds will be used. All active members of
ASPT and BSA are eligible to apply. Applications
are due March 30th, 2018 and should be sent as a sin-
gle .pdf ("YourName BALAapp.pdf\) to Andrew Pais
(alpais@ncsu.edu) with the subject line "2018 BALA
application\. The selected applicant will be notied by
April 15th, 2018.
Awardees will be required to submit a brief summary
of their activities with an image to the Plant Sci-
ence Bulletin (PSB) by January 15th of the following
year. This synopsis will appear in the March/April
issue of the PSB and is intended to highlight the im-
pact of the recipient's eorts in shaping public pol-
icy and awareness of plant-related issues. Inquiries
about the award may be directed to the chairs of the
EPPC for both societies: ASPT/BSA EPPC Awards
Chair - Andrew Pais (alpais@ncsu.edu), BSA-Krissa Sko-
gen (kskogen@chicagobotanic.org) and Kal Tuominen
(ktuominen@jcu.edu), or ASPT-Ingrid Jordon-Thaden
(ingrid.jordonthaden@wisc.edu)."
Morgan Gostel <gostelm@gmail.com >Pyrenees VolFieldAssist EvolBiol
Field assistants summer 2018: Volunteer positions in
evolutionary biology
Nick Barton's group at the Institute of Science and Tech-
nology (IST) Austria requires volunteers to assist with
eld work on plant speciation in the Pyrenees (Spain)
this coming summer (late May - early August).
The project: We are studying the evolutionary dynam-
ics underlying species diversication in the genus Antir-
rhinum (snapdragons). A major focus of this research
involves eld work on natural hybrid zones between
two subspecies with dierent ower colours. Most of
the eld work is contributing to a long-term pedigree
project aimed at establishing a direct link from genotype
to phenotype to tness. With 20,000 samples collected
over eight generations (so far), this provides an excit-
ing and powerful system to examine many outstanding
questions in speciation and quantitative genetics in wild
populations. We are seeking volunteers to assist with
the eld work, which involves working in teams map-
ping the location of individual plants (GPS), tagging
and sampling them for leaves and owers, measuring
quantitative traits, phenotyping them for ower pigmen-
tation and processing material for later DNA extraction.
There may also be opportunities to be involved in other
projects we are doing on plant-pollinator interactions,
pollen fertility and community ecology surveys. Most of
the work is outdoors, however we do spend some time
indoors processing samples. The work is highly team
orientated, typically in groups of 2-3 in the eld and
larger groups processing samples back at the research
station. This is a great opportunity for anybody looking
to obtain experience in eld work relating to evolution-
ary biology, plant ecology and plant-animal interactions.
You will also be part of a large multidisciplinary team
including researchers from IST Austria, the University
of Vienna, John Innes Centre (Norwich, UK) and the
University of Toulouse.
The eld site is located near Ripoll in a beautiful part
of the Pyrenees of North Eastern Spain (Catalonia).
We stay in comfortable apartments overlooking a pic-
turesque valley, with close access to hiking trails and
small villages. All food, accommodation and travel
(within Europe) are covered. However, we cannot oer
any further stipend.
For these positions we are looking for hard working andApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 69
enthusiastic biology students with a strong interest in
working outdoors with plants. You must be meticulous
with recording data and also be comfortable working
as part of a team. Experience with eld-based projects
and plants is preferred but not essential.
We require assistance between late May and late July.
Depending on the year and the plants, we may extend
our time into August. Length of stay is exible but a
minimum stay of 3 weeks is required.
Please send any questions to Dr. Melinda Pickup via
the email address below. How to apply? By the clos-
ing date of April 6th 2018, please send a statement
of your background, CV, why you are interested and
the length of time you would be available via email to:
melinda.pickup@ist.ac.at
David Field <david.eld@univie.ac.at >
Software Multitest upgrade
Dear all
For MultiTest users and those interested in procedures
combining probabilities of independent tests, I have up-
dated the notice for MultiTest with (I think) important
clarications. MultiTest implements the generalized
binomial procedure of Teriokhin et al. (2007).
A zip le containing the executable with the new user
guide is downloadable at http://www.t-de-meeus.fr/-
Multitest.html . Any comments or suggestions are of
course welcome.
All the best
Thierry
{ Thierry de Mee ~As DR1 IRD, Bureau F 211 B UMR
177 IRD-CIRAD \INTERTRYP" TA A-17/G, Campus
International de Baillarguet, 34398 Montpellier Cedex 5,
France E-mail:thierry.demeeus@ird.fr Web site http://t-
de-meeus.fr/TdeMeeus.html France Tel: +33 (0)4 67
59 37 44; Fax: +33 (0)4 67 59 38 94 Cell: +33 (0)6 19
83 52 60 Burkina Cell: (+226) 76 86 40 88
Thierry de Mee ~As<thierry.demeeus@ird.fr >Software NewRelease BAli-Phy3 0
BAli-Phy version 3.0 is now available (http://www.bali-
phy.org).
BAli-Phy is a Bayesian MCMC program for estimating|
alignments and phylogenies simultaneously from un-
aligned sequence data.| Version 3.0 should be faster
than version 2.3 and allows specifying priors.
The main new features in version 2.3 are: (http://-
www.bali-phy.org/releases/3/) - Up to 300% faster and
300% less memory. - Allow specifying priors and values
for all model parameters. - Ancestral sequences with
indels in sampled alignments. - 2D and 3D tree MDS
convergence plots. - 'bali-phy help <topic>' for models,
functions, distributions, and commands.
You can download binaries for Linux, Mac, and Win-
dows here: - http://www.bali-phy.org/download.php
Mac users can also install using homebrew.
You can read the updated manual here: - http://-
www.bali-phy.org/README.xhtml
An example of the output for ITS data: - http://bali-
phy.org/Examples/ITS/ITS1-TN-DP3-2/ If you have
any trouble using bali-phy, please post your questions
to bali-phy-users@googlegroups.com I should be able to
respond fairly quickly.
-BenRI
Ben Redelings http://www.ben-redelings.org Benjamin
Redelings <benjamin.redelings@duke.edu >
SouthAfrica VolResAssist Behaviour
Volunteer Research Assistant Position
We are looking for volunteer research assistants to carry
out exciting experiments with captive Damaraland mole-
rats, Fukomys damarensis at the Kuruman River Re-
serve, in the South African Kalahari Desert, and run
through the University of Cambridge (UK).
Broadly, our research investigates the inuence of genes,
hormones and social factors on individual developmental,
growth and behaviours.70 EvolDir April 1, 2018
Currently, we are particularly interested in characteriz-
ing the phenotypical dierences between breeding and
non-breeding individuals and to develop an integrated
understanding of the causes and consequences of such
dierences.
Applicants should be available for a period of 6 to 12
months starting as soon as possible. They should be
hardworking, enthusiastic, physically t, and prepared
for long hours in the laboratory. Successful applicants
will be responsible for the daily running of experiments
and will be involved in data collection and management.
Other general tasks related to animal handling and hus-
bandry and data handling will also be expected. Some
applicants should feel comfortable with being involved
in experiments requiring the sacrice of experimental
subjects. Working weeks will not exceed 45 hours.
This position is particularly suited, but not exclusively,
for people aiming to carry on their academic education
or a management position in a research project. Success-
ful applicants can expect to gain invaluable experience
in animal handling procedures and in conducting and
managing experiments. They will also gain database
skills (MySQL) and will be provided with the oppor-
tunity to work on a personal project using the data
available in our existing database.
Costs of food and accommodation while at the project
will be covered.
If you are interested in this position send your CV and
cover letter stating your availability to Philippe Vullioud
(philippe.vullioud@gmail.com).
Shortlisted applicants will be invited for a Skype inter-
view.
Deadline: 23th March 2018 (the positions will remain
open until lled)
philippe.vullioud@gmail.comSyracuseU UGSummerResearch
Coevolution
Summer Research Position: Evolutionary ecology of the
yucca-yucca moth interaction
Syracuse University June 11, 2018 through August 3,
2017
We are seeking highly motivated undergraduates broadly
interested in plant-insect interactions to assist with on-
going research examining the basis of plant host use by
yucca moth species. The research includes recording
pollination behavior, mating behavior, feeding by larvae,
as well as measurement of insect morphology and plant
morphology.
Student Experience: Students will work in a laboratory
and outdoor setting. Moths are nocturnal and active
from twilight to midnight. Students will learn how to
handle moths, conduct behavioral recordings, basic ex-
perimental design, and will receive training in species
interactions. Depending on student motivation, there is
the possibility to design and implement an independent
project. The student will join a group of undergradu-
ates, graduate students, and faculty conducting research
on the patterns of host use by yucca moth pollinators
(althoab.syr.edu).
Requirements: Ability to stand for long periods of time,
and work in changing weather conditions. Good com-
munication skills and ability to work in a team-setting
is essential.
Application process: Please submit a CV, detailing any
relevant skills, unocial transcripts, a one to two para-
graph rationale for your interest in the position, and the
names and contact info for two references to Dr. David
Altho at dmalthof@syr.edu. Application evaluation
will begin May 5th and will continue until the position
is lled. Please direct questions about the position to
Dr. Altho at the above e-mail.
Funding: Students will be paid $12/hr for eight to ten
weeks depending on the eld season.
**Under-represented groups in STEM are strongly en-
couraged to apply**
David M. Altho Associate Professor Dept. of Biology
T 315.443.1096 107 College Place, Syracuse, NY 13244
althoab.syr.edu
David M Altho <dmalthof@syr.edu >April 1, 2018 EvolDir 71
Trinidad Internship GuppyEvolution
Research Internships - Evolutionary Biology
Research interns are needed to assist in a multi-
disciplinary, multi-investigator, experimental study of
the interactions between ecology and evolution in
Trinidad, West Indies. The research is led by Professor
David Reznick at the University of California, Riverside
in collaboration with Joseph Travis (Florida State), Tim
Coulson (Oxford), Paul Bentzen (Dalhousie U.), and
Ron Bassar (Williams). We seek to integrate multiple
biological elds for the study of these interactions in
experimental populations of guppies in Trinidad. Duties
include assisting in monthly censuses of guppy popula-
tions in montane streams. The monthly censuses include
long hours in the eld and laboratory. There will also
be 12 days o between each census when interns can
pursue an independent project.
Qualications: We seek interns who are entertaining the
possibility of pursuing graduate studies in some area
of ecology and evolution and who wish to gain some
additional eld research experience before doing so. Re-
search will take place in semi-remote areas of Trinidad
sometimes under bad weather conditions. Applicants
must be able to live and work well with others. Research
will involve carrying heavy packs over slippery and steep
terrain. Applicants must be in good physical condition
and be able to meet the demands of eld research under
these conditions. Ability to drive a standard transmis-
sion vehicle is desirable but not required. Applicants
with rst-aid/rst responder training, skills in auto-
mobile maintenance, and construction skills are highly
desirable. Please address these skills when applying.
Interns will be required to spend a minimum of 3-months
in Trinidad, with possibility of extension. There are
potential start dates in July 2019 and every month there-
after until early 2019. We will cover all travel and living
expenses and provide housing.
Please see our website <
www.theguppyproject.weebly.com >for more in-
formation on the project and access to reprints. Be
sure to check out our video menu, which includes a
\guppy censuses" submenu that details the main tasks
associated with the internship.
Applicants should send cover letter, CV and the names
and e-mail addresses of three or more professional refer-ences to David Reznick (gupy@ucr.edu). At least two
of the references should be academics.
Ron Bassar <rdb4@williams.edu >
ULausanne SIBVirtualSeminar
JeromeGoudet February28
Dear all,
Please nd here a gentle reminder about the next speaker
at the SIB Virtual Computational Biology Seminar Se-
ries:
Jer^ ome Goudet, Population Genetics and Genomics,
University of Lausanne & SIB Wednesday 28 February
2018 at 16:00 - Genopode Auditorium A - UNIL campus
\Of men and owls: insights into past demography using
computer simulations"
The seminar will also be broadcast live for those un-
able to attend it physically (https://collab.switch.ch/-
sib-cbss/). For more information about these semi-
nars as well as the upcoming speakers list and previ-
ous screencasts, please visit the SIB virtual seminar
series webpage:http://www.sib.swiss/training/virtual-
seminars-series Important: If you want to remain in-
formed about our upcoming seminars,please subscribe
to the dedicated mailing list: http://lists.isb-sib.ch/-
mailman/listinfo/sib-virtual-seminars Looking forward
to seeing you all there.
Best regards, Diana Marek
\Diana.Marek@sib.swiss" <Diana.Marek@sib.swiss >
US NatlMedalScience
CallNominations
NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION 2415 EISEN-
HOWER AVENUE ALEXANDRIA, VIRGINIA 22314
Dear Colleague:
One of the most important and gratifying aspects of
participating in the scientic community is the nomi-
nation of colleagues for honorary awards in celebration
of their exceptional contributions to one of our elds. I
am sending this email today to urge you to recognize72 EvolDir April 1, 2018
one of your peers by submitting a nomination for the
2018 National Medal of Science.
This premier award for American scientists and engi-
neers { considered by some as the US equivalent of the
Nobel Prize { was established by the 86th Congress in
1959. It is the highest recognition our Nation can bestow
for outstanding cumulative contributions to knowledge
or sustained, impactful work in the elds of engineering,
chemistry, physics, biology, mathematics, and behav-
ioral and social sciences. Conferred by the President
of the United States during a ceremony at the White
House, the Medal has been awarded to approximately
500 pioneering individuals. The National Medal of Sci-
ence program is administered by the National Science
Foundation (NSF) in conjunction with the ExecutiveOce of the President.
Please nominate colleagues and peers who have extraor-
dinarily advanced the scientic enterprise for this pres-
tigious honor. Nominations and three letters of support
must be submitted to NSF by April 16, 2018. If you
have any questions, please contact the Program Man-
ager for the National Medal of Science at nms@nsf.gov
or by phone at 703-292-8040. For more information,
please visit the National Medal of Science website at:
http://www.nsf.gov/od/nms/medal.jsp . I look forward
to celebrating new honorees with you in 2019.
Sincerely, /// signed /// France A. Cordova Director
National Science Foundation 2415 Eisenhower Avenue,
Suite 19100 Alexandria, VA 22314
France C ordova <director@nsf.gov >
PostDocs
AuburnU EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .73
AustralianNatlU CSIRO PhylogeneticInformatics . . 74
Beijing AncientGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .74
Bielefeld PDF PhD FurSealGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . .75
BielefeldU TheoreticalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Caltech GenomicsConvergenceAntsBeetles . . . . . . . . .77
CSIRO EnvironmentalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .78
DalhousieU StatisticalModellingMetagenomes . . . . . 78
FloridaStateU RodentPhylogenomicsMacroevolution 79
FredHutch Seattle HIVAntibodyEvolution . . . . . . . . . 80
Harvard DiseaseGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
JohnsHopkinsU HIV Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
LinkopingU Sweden GenomicsFeralisation . . . . . . . . . 81
MaxPlanckInst Seewiesen 3 EvolutionCognition . . . 82
MichiganStateU InsectParasitoidEvolution . . . . . . . . 83
MNH Stockholm FungalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Montpellier Classication eDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .84
NatlTaiwanU PopulationGenomicsPlantAdaptation 84
NCState PlantVirusHostAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
New Zealand ComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .86Norway ComparativeGenomicsRegulation . . . . . . . . . 86
NorwegianU 2 PopulationDynamics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
OldDominionU MarineBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
Paris AntEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
QMUL London BirdSongCulturalEvolution . . . . . . . .89
ReedC Oregon EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
RutgersU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
SGN Frankfurt MammalianSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
Smithsonian SMSC ConservationGenomics . . . . . . . . 92
UArizona Phylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
UArkansas EvolutionBehavior . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
UCalifornia Berkeley GeneDrivePopulationGenetics 94
UCalifornia Berkeley PathogenEvolutionaryGenomics
95
UCalifornia SantaCruz 2 eDNA Biodiversity . . . . . . .95
UCollege London MeioticDrive . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
UCollege London YeastSpeciationGenes . . . . . . . . . . . 97
UConnecticut 3 EvolutionaryImmunology . . . . . . . . . 97
UFlorida HumanEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . .98
UGlasgow ExptEvolMicrobes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .99April 1, 2018 EvolDir 73
UGlasgow VirusEvolutionEpidemiology . . . . . . . . . . 100
UGothenburg Sweden BirdsMacroevolution . . . . . . 101
UIceland Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102
UIdaho GalapagosLandSnails . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
UKonstanz CichlidSpeciesDelimitation . . . . . . . . . . . 103
ULausanne ComputationalPopulationGenomics . . 104
ULausanne EvolutionaryGenomicsNeurogenetics . 105
ULausanne MelaninEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
ULausanne PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .106
UMichigan EvolutionEcologyHerpetology . . . . . . . . .107
UMontana EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
UMontana EvolutonaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
UNorthTexasHealthScience BioinformaticsPopulation-
Genetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108UPennsylvania EvolutionInfectiousMicrobes . . . . . . 108
UPittsburgh ExperimentalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . .109
USaoPaulo UCambridge HostParasite . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
UStockholm PopoulationGeneticsGenomics . . . . . . .110
UToronto EvolutionDrugResistanceMalaria . . . . . . .111
UUlm WildlifeMetaGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
UWisconsin Milwaukee KelpGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . .113
UWisconsin StevensPoint PopulationGenomics . . . 114
UWyoming PlantMicrobeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .114
Vienna IST EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115
WashingtonStateU TasmanianDevilGenomics . . . . .115
WayneStateU Detroit FishPopulationGenomics . . . 116
AuburnU EvolutionaryEcol
Postdoctoral Position in Evolutionary Ecology at
Auburn University
The Wolak Research Group at Auburn Univer-
sity (www.auburn.edu/cosam/faculty/biology/wolak/-
index.htm) is hiring a Postdoctoral Research Associate
to test and develop theory predicting the evolutionary
dynamics of genetic eects and phenotypic distributions
in response to selection for sexual dimorphism. The
main focus of the initial project will be theory develop-
ment using mathematical or individual-based models.
However, beyond this there are opportunities for the
postdoc to expand along many possible avenues - includ-
ing current laboratory experiments and analyses on the
empirical study of sexual dimorphisms. The postdoc will
be expected to assist with training graduate students,
develop synergistic projects, write grants, and produce
rst authored papers and contribute to co-authored pa-
pers. Persons from groups typically under-represented
in science are strongly encouraged to apply.
Required: | - A Ph.D. in an appropriate eld (includ-
ing but not limited to evolution, ecology, genetics) at
time of hire | - A demonstrated track record of cre-
ative, productive research | - The ability to work in a
dynamic, collaborative environment with graduate and
undergraduate students | - A strong quantitative back-
ground | - Excellent communication, organizational,
and leadership skills.
Preferred: | - Expertise in quantitative genetics | -
Experience building mathematical or individual-based
models | - A demonstrated ability to code in at least
one programming languageAvailability: The position start date is June 1 2018, but
can be exible. This is a one-year, full-time position
with the possibility of renewal for a total of 2 years,
pending satisfactory work. The postdoc will also benet
from AU fringe benets and access to conference travel
funds within the Wolak Research Group. Additional
group funds for independent projects are available upon
submission of a written proposal.
If interested, please email the following materials to
Matthew Wolak (matthew.wolak@auburn.edu): | - 1)
a current CV with contact information for three ref-
erences | - 2) a 2 page statement of interest in this
opportunity with descriptions of relevant skills and ex-
perience | - 3) up to 3 PDFs of relevant publications
or manuscripts in preparation
Screening of applications will begin 09 April 2018, and
continue until the position is lled. Interested persons
should submit their application materials before this
date to receive full consideration.
This announcement is informal in nature and the se-
lected candidate must be able to meet eligibility require-
ments to work at Auburn University and in the United
States at the time the appointment is scheduled to begin
and continue working legally for the proposed term of
employment.
Matthew Wolak Assistant Professor Dept. of Biological
Sciences Auburn University
Matthew E. Wolak, Ph.D. Assistant Professor De-
partment of Biological Sciences Auburn University
306 Funchess Hall Auburn, AL 36849, USA Email:
matthew.wolak@auburn.edu Tel: 334-844-9242
Matthew Wolak <mew0099@auburn.edu >74 EvolDir April 1, 2018
AustralianNatlU CSIRO
PhylogeneticInformatics
The Postdoctoral Fellow will drive the development of
a next-generation biodiversity informatics platform for
integrated analyses and visualisation of environmental
and species data (occurrences, sequences, and pheno-
types) in a phylogenetic context. The position is part
of the dynamic Centre for Biodiversity Analysis and
is jointly funded by ANU-CSIRO Centre for Biodiver-
sity Analysis and CSIRO's Environomics FSP https:/-
/research.csiro.au/environomics/ . The appointee will
work closely with scientists in CSIRO and ANU and
sta at the Atlas of Living Australia to create a platform
for analysis, modelling, and visualisation of data that
would enable assessments of genetic, phylogenetic, and
functional diversity across time and space, and to assess
the evolution of species traits and distributions.
Development of test cases would require the appointee
to obtain, evaluate, and collate datasets and use them
to develop and demonstrate the capabilities of the plat-
form. Experience in phylogenetics, comparative meth-
ods, biogeography, and phylogeography is required, as is
evidence of ability to conduct and publish high quality
research.
For any enquiries regarding the position, please contact
Professor Craig Moritz E: Craig.Moritz@anu.edu.au
Dr Sarah Mathews, CSIRO can also be contacted via
E: Sarah.Mathews@csiro.au
For more information and to apply go to
http://jobs.anu.edu.au/cw/en/job/519524/-
postdoctoral-fellow juanitarodrigueza@gmail.com
Beijing AncientGenomics
Post-doctoral position available: Ancient Genomics
The Fu Molecular Paleontology Lab has a post-doctoral
position available. If you have a background in statisti-
cal population genetics and/or data science, this might
be for you!Our ancient DNA laboratory pioneered large-scale stud-
ies of human population history requiring analysis of
large numbers of samples simultaneously. We use an-
cient DNA to study gene ow between modern and
archaic humans, to determine early modern human mi-
gration routes and to explore how agriculture inuences
the population structure of the Neolithic expansion in
Europe and Asia.
We are looking for a highly motivated post-doctoral
researcher with appropriate experience and interests
to work on analysis of these data. Potential projects
will investigate the biological history of humans using
ancient and present-day genomic data.
The successful candidate will have analytical and com-
puter skills that allow exploration of large and complex
genetic data sets, preferably with previous experience in
a world class ancient DNA lab. Research is conducted in
English. The position will be supervised by Dr. Qiaomei
Fu.
***Applicants are requested to send their CV, a short
statement of their research interests, and the names and
contact information of two references to Dr. Qiaomei Fu
at fuqiaomei@ivpp.ac.cn.*** Strong candidates will be
expected to participate in a Skype or on-site interview.
The position will be open until lled. The position is
for two years with a possibility of renewal, and salary
will be internationally competitive. Please also address
questions to Dr. Fu.
The Fu Molecular Paleontology Lab, consisting of 14
members (including group leaders, postdoctoral schol-
ars, doctoral and master's students and technicians), is
a cutting edge international ancient DNA laboratory.
It is based at the Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology
and Paleoanthropology, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
near the center of Beijing, China, with easy access to
public transportation. The Fu lab focuses primarily on
ancient genomic analysis, but the institute's research
environment is diverse, with a vibrant community of
researchers studying anthropology, archaeology and pa-
leontology. Beijing is a thriving fast-growing city with
a robust international community.
Dr. Fu's work has been published in several prominent
journals, such as Nature, Science, PNAS, Current Biol-
ogy, AJHG, etc. One research project was awarded \one
of the top 2014 annual ten scientic events' in Nature.
Nature also selected her as one of the "Ten Chinese
Science Stars\ in 2016. She has also received the 'Dis-
tinguished Young Scientist' award from the Chinese
Academy of Sciences, and was selected for the Thou-
sand Youth Talents program in China, to be a Howard
Hughes Medical Institute (HHMI) International Scien-
tist and to be one of China's Top Ten Innovative Pio-April 1, 2018 EvolDir 75
neers of Science and Technology. For more information,
her Research Gate site can be accessed here: https:/-
/www.researchgate.net/prole/Qiaomei Fu . Melinda
Yang <melyang@ivpp.ac.cn >
Bielefeld PDF PhD
FurSealGenomics
Postdoctoral position or PhD studentship: fur seal ge-
nomics
With Dr Joe Homan (Bielefeld University) and Dr
Jaume Forcada (British Antarctic Survey)
An outstanding opportunity is available either for a post-
doc (' ~A3.5 years) or for a Ph.D. studentship (3 years) to
work on the ecological and evolutionary genomics of fur
seals. The position is available in Joe Homan's research
group (www.thehomanlab.com) in the Department of
Animal Behaviour at Bielefeld University. The project
runs from now until the end of 2021 and is funded by the
German Research Foundation (DFG) within the recently
approved collaborative research centre (SFB/TRR 212)
entitled: A Novel Synthesis of Individualisation across
Behaviour, Ecology and Evolution: Niche Choice, Niche
Conformance, Niche Construction (NC3).
The project: The successful candidate will exploit and
continue to build upon an exceptionally detailed long-
term study of Antarctic fur seals (Arctocephalus gazella)
at Bird Island, South Georgia. High quality genome
and transcriptome assemblies have already been gen-
erated and microsatellite and high density SNP data
will be available for ' ~A7000 marked individuals span-
ning a time series from the mid 1980's to the current
day. The aim of this project (sub-project A01 of the
collaborative research centre) is to determine how tness
variation is shaped by interactions between individual
genetic quality (inbreeding) and the social environment
within breeding colonies. We will collect highly de-
tailed observational and biometric time-series data from
mother-ospring pairs in two neighbouring colonies of
high and low social density. We will then dissect apart
the mechanistic underpinnings of tness variation using
a combination of endocrinological and immunological
proling, gene expression proling, high-density SNP
genotyping and methylation proling. The result will
be an unprecedentedly detailed understanding of the
behavioural, physiological and genetic mechanisms un-
derpinning tness variation in a wild vertebrate, which
will have important implications for understanding eco-logical and evolutionary dynamics as well as adaptation
to climate change.
Postdoc applicants: We seek a bright and highly moti-
vated postdoc with a strong PhD in a relevant topic (e.g.
population genetics, behavioural genetics, evolutionary
or conservation genomics). We are looking for two main
attributes in particular: (i) The candidate must have a
deep understanding as well as practical experience of
working with genomic data (experience of gene expres-
sion proling and / or whole-genome resequencing would
be particularly desirable) and be procient in writing
custom scripts and working in Unix and R; (ii) As the
project involves two eld seasons at South Georgia in the
South Atlantic, the candidate would ideally also have
experience of eldwork with vertebrates. Experience of
working with long-term individual-based datasets from
wild animal populations would be advantageous but is
not a requirement. The candidate should be able to
work both independently and as part of a multidisci-
plinary team, and a high standard of spoken and written
English is expected.
Ph.D. applicants: Bright and highly motivated Ph.D.
candidates should hold a B.Sc. or equivalent in a rele-
vant topic (e.g. population genetics, behavioural genet-
ics, evolutionary or conservation genomics). An M.Sc.
would also be advantageous but is not necessary. Strong
quantitative skills (including prociency in R) as well
as practical experience of working with next generation
sequence data (e.g. gene expression proling or related
approaches) would be desirable, but training can be pro-
vided. The candidate should also be able to work both
independently and as part of a multidisciplinary team,
and a high standard of spoken and written English is
expected.
The working environment: The successful candidate
will join the Homan lab, a young and dynamic group
comprising three PhD students and two postdocs. They
will be based at the Department of Animal Behaviour
at Bielefeld University (www.uni-bielefeld.de/biologie/-
vhf/index.html). The department is the oldest of its
kind in Germany and currently hosts around six princi-
pal investigators, ten postdocs and twenty PhD students.
It oers a stimulating international environment and an
excellent research infrastructure including brand new
molecular laboratories. The working language of the
Department is English. The successful candidate will
also have the opportunity to interact closely with the
cooperation partner (Dr Jaume Forcada) during two
Antarctic eld seasons and via placements at the British
Antarctic Survey in Cambridge, UK.
Bielefeld University is particularly committed to the
career development of its employees. It oers attractive76 EvolDir April 1, 2018
internal and external training
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
BielefeldU TheoreticalEvolution
Postdoc position for 3+ years in Theoretical Evolution-
ary Ecology at Bielefeld University A Postdoc position
in theoretical evolutionary ecology is available at the
Faculty of Biology at Bielefeld University in the Depart-
ment of Evolutionary Biology. The position can start
as soon as possible and is funded until the end of the
year 2021 by the German Research Foundation (DFG)
within the recently approved collaborative research cen-
tre (SFB/TRR 212) entitled: A Novel Synthesis of Indi-
vidualisation across Behaviour, Ecology and Evolution:
Niche Choice, Niche Conformance, Niche Construction
(NC3).
The aim of the Postdoc project is to develop ecological
and evolutionary theory to contribute towards a bet-
ter understanding of intra-specic niche variation. The
project is entitled \Modelling adaptive individualised
niches in behaviour" (sub-project D04 of the collabora-
tive research centre, with Klaus Reinhold). This theoret-
ical project will explore the conditions that favour the
evolution of between-individual variation in behavioural
niches. The aim is to focus on mate choice and explo-
ration and examine to which extent phenotypic variation
can be maintained based on genetic dierences and vari-
ation in adaptive phenotypic plasticity.
The collaborative research centre: The postdoc will be
embedded within a larger collaborative research centre
(SFB) comprising 18 principle investigators, 8 postdocs
and 16 PhD students based at Bielefeld University, the
University of M unster and the University of Jena. The
aim of the SFB is to produce a conceptual and empirical
synthesis of individualisation across behaviour, ecology
and evolution. The SFB will provide exceptional oppor-
tunities for interdisciplinary collaboration and academic
networking, together with structured training, scientic
exchange and early career support programmes. Full
details of the SFB can be found at www.uni-bielefeld.de/-
biologie/crc212 . Main responsibilities
Research tasks: Development of eco-evolutionary models
(90%)Mathematical analysis of models
Implementation in a programming language, e.g. in R,
C++, Python
Simulation studies
Collaboration with other research groups in the collabo-
rative research centre
Writing scientic publications
Organizational tasks in the research group and collabo-
rative research centre (10%)
Applicant's prole
We seek bright and highly motivated postdoctoral re-
searchers with
a university degree in a relevant discipline, e.g. biology,
mathematics, physics or bioinformatics
a completed PhD in a relevant eld, ideally related
to theoretical ecology, population genetics, behavioral
ecology or evolutionary ecology
experience with mathematical modeling of evolutionary
processes
programming skills in at least one programming lan-
guage (e.g. R, C++, Python),
ability to work both independently and as part of a
team
excellent oral and written communication skills in En-
glish.
The following qualications would additionally be of
advantage:
papers in peer-reviewed international journals,
experience in collaborations between empiricists and
theoreticians, and
experience with high-performance computing.
Remuneration Salary will be paid according to Remuner-
ation level 13 of the Wage Agreement for Public Service
in the Federal States (TV-L). Bielefeld University is
particularly committed to the career development of
its employees. It oers attractive internal and external
training and further training programs. Employees have
the opportunity to use a variety of health, counselling,
and prevention programs. Bielefeld University places
great importance on a work-family balance for all its
employees.
Application procedure To apply, please provide: (i) a
letter of motivation including a statement of your re-
search interests and skills and experience relevant to the
position; (ii) a CV including publication list; (iii) names
and contact details of two referees willing to write con-April 1, 2018 EvolDir 77
dential letters of recommendation. All materials should
be emailed as a single PDF le to: Klaus.Reinhold@uni-
bielefeld.de. The application deadline is April 15, 2018
and interviews will take place shortly thereafter. After
the decision, the position should start soon if possi-
ble. For further information on the projects and the
involved departments, please contact Klaus Reinhold
(klaus.reinhold@uni-bielefeld.de) with any informal in-
quiries.
Bielefeld is a city of 325,000 inhabitants with all ex-
pected amenities and easy access to the Teutoburger
Wald for hiking and other outdoor pursuits. It oers a
high standard of living and is well connected to most
major European cities. Bielefeld University has received
a number of awards for its achievements in the provi-
sion of equal opportunity and has been recognized as
a family friendly university. The University welcomes
applications from women. This is particularly true with
regard
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Caltech
GenomicsConvergenceAntsBeetles
Postdoctoral position in genomics of convergence and
social symbiosis (Parker Lab)
A postdoctoral position is available to study the ge-
nomic basis of evolutionary convergence in the lab of
Joe Parker at the California Institute of Technology.
Work in the Parker lab is focused on the evolution of com-
plex phenotypes, principally in the context of symbiosis.
We use a unique system to explore this phenomenon: the
convergent evolution of symbioses between rove beetles
and social insects. Rove beetles (family Staphylinidae)
are the largest metazoan family, and include multiple
remarkable lineages that have evolved to become \social
parasites" stealth impostors that inltrate ant or termite
societies, employing radical behavioral, anatomical and
chemical adaptations. We have found that many of the
most extreme symbiotic phenotypes have evolved con-
vergently numerous times in distantly related lineages.
We are a now seeking a postdoctoral candidate to probe
the genomic basis of complex phenotypic convergence inthis system. Our goals are twofold: i) Pinpoint shared
or unique molecular changes that drive the evolution
of social symbiosis in rove beetles; ii) Make basic infer-
ences into the long-standing question of how complex
phenotypic changes can arise repeatedly and predictably
over deep evolutionary timescales.
Aspects of this work will involve two study systems: 1)
A deep-time system encompassing symbiont lineages
from across the rove beetle subfamily Aleocharinae that
are separated by up to 100 million years. 2) A recently-
evolved system in which multiple rove beetle lineages
have convergently evolved symbioses with a single ant
genus in the South Western US. This latter project in-
volves potential eldwork at sites in Southern California
and Arizona. The successful candidate will spearhead
genome sequencing of free-living and symbiotic species
from across phylogeny, and use comparative genomic
tools to understand patterns of genome evolution. There
is potential for collaboration with Caltech labs using
machine learning and single cell proling, and the candi-
date will also lead genome/transcriptome assembly and
annotation of several higher quality reference genomes to
facilitate functional genetic studies in laboratory model
rove beetle species. Depending on the candidate, the
project may involve wet lab work to functionally test
loci with possible causal roles in symbiosis, or involve
collaboration with others to this end.
The following papers illustrate the rove beetle-ant sys-
tem:
Parker, J., Eldredge, K.T., Thomas, I.M., Davis, S.,
Coleman, R.T. (2017) Hox-Logic of Preadaptations for
Social Insect Symbiosis in Rove Beetles. bioRxiv, 198945
Maruyama, M., and Parker, J. (2017) Deep-Time Con-
vergence in Rove Beetle Symbionts of Army Ants. Cur-
rent Biology, 27, 920-926 PMID: 28285995
Yamamoto, S., Maruyama, M. and Parker, J. (2016)
Evidence for Social Parasitism of Early Insect Societies
by Cretaceous Rove Beetles. Nature Communications,
7: 13658 PMID: 27929066
Candidates
Applications are encouraged from talented and moti-
vated individuals who have a Ph.D. or are nearing com-
pletion of their Ph.D. with experience in genome and
transcriptome sequencing, genome assembly, annotation,
comparative genomics and genome evolution. Interest
or experience in machine learning and/or single cell pro-
ling are desirable. Top candidates will have a strong
track record of research productivity, excellent com-
munication skills, enthusiasm for basic research and a
collegial approach to science. Candidates should send a
cover letter, a detailed curriculum vitae, and names and78 EvolDir April 1, 2018
contact details for three references to joep@caltech.edu
The California Institute of Technology
Caltech is consistently ranked among the top research
universities in the world and hosts a diverse and col-
laborative scientic community. Caltech is located in
Pasadena, California, a vibrant city 10 miles north-
east of downtown Los Angeles and minutes from the
Parker lab's eldwork sites in the San Gabriel moun-
tains. More info about the Parker lab: https://-
www.bbe.caltech.edu/content/joseph-parker We are an
equal opportunity employer and all qualied applicants
will receive consideration for employment without regard
to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, or national origin, disability status, protected
veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by
law.
dibasic@gmail.com
CSIRO EnvironmentalGenomics
Future Science Postdoctoral Fellowships in Environmen-
tal Genomics
- Are you an up-and-coming scientist with a air for
innovation? - An outstanding opportunity to launch
your research career. - Join CSIRO's Environomics Fu-
ture Science Platform (FSP) and be part of the next
scientic revolution.
The Environomics Future Science Platform (Enviro-
nomics FSP) is pleased to announce the opening of its
rst round of Future Science Fellowships focused on the
development of environmental genomic technologies.
We are seeking to recruit outstanding and inventive
early career scientists who will develop the environmen-
tal genomics technologies of the future.
Two categories of Future Science Fellowship are oered:
1. Fellowships embedded within existing Environomics
Future Science Platform projects (3 fellowships); 2.
Open-call fellowships where you can propose a line of
research that you would like to pursue and that meets
the brief of \re- dening the limits of what genomics
can do for environmental science and management" (1-2
fellowships).
Postdoctoral Fellows in Environomics are appointed for
three years at various CSIRO locations within Australia.
You will be mentored by a CSIRO Research Scientist or
Engineer and participate collaboratively within the Envi-ronomics FSP research program. We strongly encourage
collaboration with university, government, and industry
partners. The fellowships include research costs.
The following fellowships are available: - Mobile DNA
Sequencing: Genome-power in your pocket. - Using
insects as molecular biosensors of biodiversity and eco-
logical interactions. - eCells: developing novel ways
to non-invasively estimate animal abundance through
genomics. - Rapid epigenetic age-estimators for verte-
brates. - Building a biodiversity informatics software
platform (partnership with Centre for Biodiversity Anal-
ysis, ANU). - Open call CSIRO Future Science Postdoc-
toral Fellowships in Environomics.
Information about these positions is available here:
https://research.csiro.au/environomics/work-with-us/
The Environomics Future Science Platform is develop-
ing the next-generation technology to investigate and
manage genetic resources hidden within Australia's
vast biodiversity. Find out more here: https://-
research.csiro.au/environomics/ . Further enquiries
can be directed to: EnvironomicsFutureSciencePlat-
form@csiro.au
The Commonwealth Scientic and Industrial Research
Organisation (CSIRO) We imagine. We collaborate. We
innovate. At CSIRO, we do the extraordinary every day.
We innovate for tomorrow and help improve today for
our customers, all Australians and the world. We do
this by using science and technology to solve real issues.
Diversity is the compass that navigates our innovation.
We provide an inclusive workplace that respects, values
and actively pursues the benets of a diverse workforce.
We work exibly at CSIRO, oering a range of options
for how, when and where you work.
Applications close: 11:59pm AEDT, 18 March 2018.
Apply here: https://jobs.csiro.au/go/Postdoctoral-
research-fellows/990000/ \Noni.Lauder@csiro.au"
<Noni.Lauder@csiro.au >
DalhousieU
StatisticalModellingMetagenomes
Postdoctoral fellowship position in statistical modelling
and analysis of microbial communities
A position is immediately available (re-opened) to work
on a collaborative project between researchers at Dal-
housie University (Dr. Joseph P. Bielawski & Dr. HongApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 79
Gu, Dept. of Mathematics & Statistics) and the Uni-
versity of Montreal (Dr. B. Jesse Shapiro, Dept. of
Biological Sciences). The project is part of a large-
scale research initiative, ATRAPP, funded by Genome
Canada and focused on genomic solutions to the chal-
lenge of assessing, predicting and preventing harmful
toxic blooms.
The successful candidate will develop novel statistical
models for analyzing the structure and metabolic in-
teractions of complex microbial communities based on
amplicon data and metagenomic data. Candidates with
skills in Bayesian modelling, machine learning and/or
time-series analysis would be a better t for the position.
Qualied applicants must have a Ph.D. in statistics,
applied mathematics, computer science, bioinformatics,
or a related eld in computational biology. A strong
background in statistics, and prociency with scripting
and programming languages in one or more of R, python,
perl, C/C++, BUGS or Stan is preferred.
This position is based at Dalhousie University (Halifax,
NS). The recipient will join the Centre for Genomics
and Evolutionary Bioinformatics (CGEB), which is a
vibrant interdisciplinary research environment at Dal-
housie University (http://cgeb.dal.ca). The recipient
will also have the opportunity to visit the University of
Montreal to interact with a diverse group of biologists
and computational biologists.
Start date: Review of applications will begin immedi-
ately and continue until the position is lled. The start
date is negotiable. Applications will be reviewed as they
are received. We thank all applicants, however, only
selected candidates will be contacted. Interested parties
should forward a cover letter, cv, statement of research
interests, and a sample of recent writing (article, report
or other publication) as well as contact information for
3 references to:
Joseph P. Bielawski Department of Biology Department
of Mathematics and Statistics Dalhousie University P.O.
Box 15000 Halifax, NS, Canada B3H 4R2^ a euro ^A (or)
email to j.bielawski@dal.ca
J.Bielawski@Dal.CaFloridaStateU RodentPhylogenomic-
sMacroevolution
Post-doctoral position
Rodent phylogenomics and diversication
An NSF-funded post-doctoral is available beginning
summer or fall 2018 (post-doc) in the lab of Scott Step-
pan at Florida State University studying the adaptive
radiation of sigmodontine rodents (Muroidea) in South
America. The position will initially be for two years
with possible extension for up to two additional years.
Primary responsibility during the rst one to two years
will involve Next-gen sequencing up to 100 species us-
ing phylogenomic methods to resolve the rapid radia-
tion of tribal-level lineages following the colonization
of South America, and preparation of manuscripts on
the diversication of sigmodontines and their relatives.
Subsequent research avenues include overseeing data col-
lection and analysis of post-cranial morphology and/or
testing macroevolutionary patterns of diversication. A
signicant component of the latter could include compar-
ative quantitative genetics and reconstructing historical
patterns of selection after accounting for the genetic
variation and covariation among traits. Successful ap-
plicants will have opportunities to develop independent
research questions involving systematics, molecular evo-
lution, biogeography, macroevolutionary trends, and
adaptive radiations.
The Ecology and Evolution program is a highly inter-
active and supportive environment that works closely
with the Computational Evolutionary Biology group in
the Dept. of Scientic Computing.
Post-doc applicants must have a Ph.D. in biology or
related eld and be accomplished in Next-generation
sequencing, associated bioinformatics assembly, and phy-
logenetic analysis. Extension years could include 2D
and 3D digitization of museum specimens and possibly
computational projects. Salary will start at $47,600 plus
family health insurance. Start date is negotiable. Re-
view of applications will begin April 17 but applications
will be accepted until the position is lled. Additional
information on the Steppan Lab and more details about
the project are available from www.bio.fsu.edu/faculty-
steppan.php, and on the Ecology and Evolution group
at www.bio.fsu.edu/ee/index.html. Applicants should
submit a cover letter, CV, statement of research inter-
ests and experience relevant to this position, names and80 EvolDir April 1, 2018
contact information for three references (include in cover
letter), and pdfs of two relevant publications.
For more information, contact
Dr. Scott Steppan
Department of Biological Science
Florida State University
Tallahassee, FL 32306-4295
e-mail: steppan@bio.fsu.edu phone: (850) 644-6536
\steppan@bio.fsu.edu" <steppan@bio.fsu.edu >
FredHutch Seattle
HIVAntibodyEvolution
Hello evolution community{
Did you know that antibodies evolve within you every
day to ght o pathogens? This Darwinian system of
mutation and selection is carefully orchestrated by your
immune system. We have a postdoc position available
to study this beautiful evolutionary system. Here is a
summary:
- position of at least two years duration with solid pay
and great benets - the project is to learn about anti-
HIV antibody development and coevolution using data
coming from a unique HIV superinfection cohort for
which the viral history has been carefully characterized
- there will be many opportunities to develop and de-
ploy new methods in a team pushing the boundaries
of Bayesian phylogenetic analysis - we will work with
collaborators to validate inferences using lab techniques
the larger research group is highly collaborative, with
deep expertise in virology, protein evolution, and struc-
tural/functional analysis - we're a Python shop looking
for someone who isn't afraid of large-scale data analysis
and has high standards for organization and code clarity
For details and how to apply, see https://b-t.cr/t/506 .
Don't be afraid to drop me a line if you have questions!
Erick { Frederick \Erick" Matsen, Associate
Member Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Cen-
ter http://matsen.fredhutch.org/ Erick Matsen
<ematsen@gmail.com >Harvard DiseaseGenomics
Summary
The Department of Biomedical Informatics (DBMI) at
Harvard Medical School and the Farhat-Lab is looking
for a Postdoctoral Fellow in infectious disease genomics.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis displays a remarkable range
of variability in antibiotic resistance phenotype. Eluci-
dating the biological mechanisms for these dierences
is a fundamental question in the study of infectious
diseases in general and in Mycobacterium tuberculosis
specically as it allows for the more accurate predic-
tion of phenotype from genotype, and improved clinical
and diagnostic interpretation of molecular diagnostics.
Specically here the project will focus on the detection
of gene-gene/mutation-mutation interaction eects us-
ing whole genome sequencing data from clinical isolates
of M.tb.
Responsibilities
The Postdoctoral Fellow will be responsible for devel-
oping and applying computational methodologies to
identify novel infectious disease genomic markers and
to assess their diagnostic and surveillance potential.
Basic Requirements
We are an interdisciplinary lab. Candidates may have
a PhD degree in Network science, evolutionary biology,
bioinformatics, computational biology, biostatistics, or
a related eld. The candidate interested in this position
must be highly motivated and demonstrate initiative
in assigned tasks and have experience working with
large multivariate data sets, and have thought of or is
highly interested in studying variable interactions in
such datasets.
Additional Requirements
Experience in programming R, Python, and/or Perl and
statistical analysis or at least an interest in learning
these skills will be necessary. The candidate and PI can
work together to delineate the fellows training needs and
develop a program to fulll this utilizing the department
and university's wide range of resources.
Terms
The position is available on 3/15/2018 and can be re-
newed annually.
How to applyApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 81
Email applications including curriculum vitae, summary
statement of personal objective and research interests,
PDFs of the best two papers, and the names and email
addresses of three references to mrfarhat@partners.org
Harvard Medical School is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action Employer.
Women and minorities are especially encouraged to ap-
ply.
For additional information:
http://farhat-lab.hms.harvard.edu/ Maha Farhat, MD,
MSc Assistant Professor Department of Biomedical In-
formatics, Harvard Medical School Assistant Physician
Pulmonary and Critical Care, Massachusetts General
Hospital
\Farhat, Maha Reda" <Maha Farhat@hms.harvard.edu >
JohnsHopkinsU HIV Evolution
Postdoctoral Position: African HIV Evolutionary and
Epidemic Dynamics
Our group at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore,
MD is looking for a postdoctoral fellow to work on
projects related to HIV phylodynamics aimed at under-
standing geography of HIV transmission networks and
the role of mobility and migration on HIV incidence
and epidemic dynamics in Sub-Saharan Africa. The
ideal applicant will have expertise in phylogenetics or
computational biology, quantitative experience in epi-
demiology, statistics, and/or ecology and an interest in
public health research related to disease prevention and
control in global settings. The successful applicant will
be working with Dr. Kate Grabowski in the Depart-
ment of Pathology at Johns Hopkins Hospital. They
will also work closely with the Hopkins Infectious Dis-
ease Dynamics Group (iddynamics.jhsph.edu), as well
as project collaborators at Oxford (Christophe Fraser),
University of Edinburgh (Andrew Rambaut), Imperial
College (Olli Ratmann), and University College London
(Deenan Pillay). Applicants with, or nearing completion
of, a doctoral degree in evolutionary biology, computa-
tional biology, epidemiology, biostatistics, or a related
eld will be considered.
The successful applicant will work primarily with Dr.
Kate Grabowski and colleagues on PANGEA-HIV (Phy-
logenetics And Networks for Generalized Epidemics in
Africa) consortium studies, a project funded by the Billand Melinda Gates Foundation that aims to improve
our understanding of HIV epidemiology in order to de-
sign targeted HIV control strategies and to understand
impact of HIV interventions. The successful applicant
will be expected to lead analyses using these genetic
and epidemiologic data to understand the spatiotem-
poral patterns of HIV transmission and other aspects
of HIV epidemic dynamics in sub-Saharan Africa in
collaboration with a team of global experts in infectious
disease epidemiology and evolutionary biology. Through
PANGEA-HIV, the successful applicant will have access
to next generation HIV sequencing and corresponding
epidemiological data from over 15,000 persons in sub-
Saharan Africa. This work will be highly connected
to ongoing HIV control work throughout Sub-Saharan
Africa, and the successful applicant will have the chance
to share results with policy and operational partners
including the Centers of Disease Control and Ministries
of Health.
The successful applicant be joining a highly collabora-
tive group who work on projects ranging from empirical
data collection to theoretical modeling of disease dynam-
ics. In addition to PANGEA-HIV, there will be ample
opportunities to collaborate on other Johns Hopkins
studies and with the Rakai Health Sciences Program (a
world renowned HIV research organization in southern
Uganda) to work on cross-cutting projects focused on
issues in infectious disease transmission and control both
related and unrelated to HIV.
The position will be for 1-2 years, depending on applicant
interest and career plans. Interested candidates should
contact Dr. Kate Grabowski (mgrabow2@jhu.edu) with
a CV, statement of interest, and references. Applica-
tion will be considered on a rolling basis and should be
submitted by May 1, 2018.
{ M. Kate Grabowski, PhD ScM Assistant Profes-
sor, Department of Pathology Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity 443 Carnegie Building Baltimore, MD 21287 Tel:
4432875736 Email: mgrabow2@jhu.edu
Kate Grabowski <mgrabows@jhu.edu >
LinkopingU Sweden
GenomicsFeralisation
Postdoctoral position: 'The Genomics of Feralisation\
Dept of Biology, AVIAN Behavioural Genomics and
Physiology Group, Link oping University, Sweden82 EvolDir April 1, 2018
The Wright Lab (part of the AVIAN Behavioural Ge-
nomics and Physiology Group) at Link oping Univer-
sity, Sweden, is looking for two new recruitments - a
motivated technician and post-doc as part of a newly
acquired ERC consolidator grant. The project is aimed
at studying the genomics of feralisation, using Hawaiian
and Bermudan chickens as a model.
In the case of the post doc we are looking for a candidate
with a strong background in quantitative genetics and
bioinformatics. The project will involve a large amount
of Whole Genome Sequence data (including RNA-seq
and methylation-seq data). The project will require
selective sweep mapping, population genomics analysis
of admixture as well as GWAS analysis (based on both
expression and standard phenotypes).
The project itself has recently been funded by an ERC
consolidator grant and is aiming to use a series of dif-
ferent populations of feralised chickens (domestic birds
that have escaped and are now living wild throughout
the Hawaiian Island chain) to map the genes and poly-
morphisms underlying their rapid responses to newly
imposed selective forces.
Candidates are requested to apply formally as
per the ocial announcement at the following
link: https://liu.se/en/work-at-liu/vacancies?rmpage=-
job&rmjob=8069&rmlang=UK The application must
be received by the 13th April at the latest. Pre-selected
candidates will be expected to pass a skype or on-site
interview. Successful candidates will be oered standard
contract for two years, with the option to extend this to
a maximum of ve years. A PhD in a relevant subject
area (e.g. evolutionary biology, genetics, genomics) is
essential as is a proven knowledge of relevant research
techniques and methodologies and general expertise in
the subject area.
The Wright lab is part of the AVIAN behavioural ge-
nomics and physiology group, which comprises of a
variety of researchers using the chicken as a model. As
such there is on-going research in behaviour, physiol-
ogy, evolution, genetics and genomics amongst others.
Link oping University is a large campus-based University
with over 30000 sta and students. Link oping itself
is the fth largest city in Sweden, with an interna-
tional airport and good rail and bus links throughout
the country. For further enquiries about the positions
please contact Dominic Wright (domwr@ifm.liu.se or
domwright@gmail.com) for additional information.
"domwr@ifm.liu.se\ <domwr@ifm.liu.se >MaxPlanckInst Seewiesen 3
EvolutionCognition
Animal Minds Project e.V.
The \Animal Minds Project e.V." advertises 3 post-
doc stipends associated to the Comparative Cognition
Group at the Max Planck Institute for Ornithology
(MPIO) in Seewiesen (located near Starnberg, about 50
km from Munich), an internationally renowned research
institution with more than 200 employees working in
four departments and nine research groups. The re-
search group of Comparative Cognition runs a research
station in collaboration with the Loro Parque Fundaci on
(LPF) on Tenerife, Spain where comparative cognitive
studies on parrots and other animals can be carried out.
In this regard, \Animal Minds Project e.V." invites
applications for
2 postdoctoral stipends in parrot comparative cognition.
The 2 stipends provide an opportunity to carry out
research projects on the evolution and mechanisms of
complex cognition in parrots (and corvids) using a com-
parative approach. The successful candidate will join
the Comparative Cognition Group and therefore be af-
liated scientically to the Max-Planck-Institute for Or-
nithology. (S)he will have access to the greatest parrot
collection in the world comprising over 350 (sub)species
of parrots and a laboratory with ca. 40 trained parrots
(touch screen, exchange paradigm etc.) of 4 species.
This allows comparative cognitive studies at a new scale
and on a new large-brained model system.
1 postdoctoral stipend on delphinid cognition and vocal
learning.
This stipend is intended to allow research on vocal learn-
ing ability and cognition of delphinids. The successful
candidate obtains access to the necessary research equip-
ment and subjects kept in Zoos and will be aliated to
the Max-Planck-Institute of Ornithology (Comparative
Cognition Group).
Application requirements and selection criteria:
Applicants should hold a PhD in animal cognition or
experimental/developmental psychology, and have two
years of Postdoc research experience in animal cognition
and/or developmental psychology of human children
and should be qualied by a good publication record.
Good statistical skills in relevant subjects are desirable.April 1, 2018 EvolDir 83
High self-motivation and ability to work independently
and in a team are an absolute must. Additionally, the
position requires team-leading skills, good organization
and time management skills and writing prociency. Ba-
sic knowledge of Spanish is helpful. The candidates will
be selected according to their scientic qualication and
proposed project.
The starting date will be from April 2018 but ideally
no later than September 2018. The monthly stipend
for a full time engagement on Tenerife will be up
to euro 2,325.- .The stipend is available initially for
two years but can be extended subject to satisfactory
performance. For further information, please contact:
info@animalminds.org.
Applications can be made both in English or German
Language. Qualied women in particular are encour-
aged to apply. Please submit a cover letter (describing
your research interests, experience and goals), a short
description of your proposed research project, your CV,
copies of degree certicates and a list of two references
as one single PDF via e-mail to: info@animalminds.org
Deadline for applications: 28.03.2018
www.animalminds.org Anastasia Krasheninnikova
<anastacia.k@web.de >
MichiganStateU
InsectParasitoidEvolution
The biological control laboratory of Dr. Szucs at Michi-
gan State University at the Department of Entomology
invites applications for a postdoctoral position study-
ing contemporary adaptation and evolution of insect
parasitoids in response to changing biotic and abiotic
conditions. The aim of the research is to improve biolog-
ical control programs that use parasitoids and to better
understand the potential of insects for rapid evolution-
ary responses in general. The research will involve both
eld and laboratory components, and if the success-
ful candidate is interested and qualied there may be
opportunities to combine laboratory experiments with
quantitative genetic and genomics approaches. Collabo-
rators on the project include Drs. Larry Gut and Matt
Grieshop from Michigan State University.
Required qualications include a Ph.D. in evolution-
ary biology, entomology, ecology or related eld and a
successful publication record. The ideal candidate will
have experience working with hymenopteran parasitoidsbut applicants with a strong evolutionary background
who are willing to learn identication and handling of
parasitoids will be considered as well. Desirable quali-
cations include experience conducting research on ex-
perimental evolution, working with insect host-parasite
systems, expertise in statistical analysis, strong organi-
zational skills, and interest in mentoring undergraduate
research. The work will involve eld collection of para-
sitoids and their hosts that may require climbing smaller
trees or ladders. Field collections will take place across
Michigan and possibly in other states, thus candidates
should possess a valid driver's license.
The initial appointment is for one year with potential
for renewal for an additional 1.5 years. It is a full-
time, beneted position with a salary of $47,500 and
health insurance. Review of applications will begin
immediately until a suitable candidate is found. The
position begins in June/July 2018. Inquiries about
the position can be directed to Marianna Szucs, szucs-
mar@msu.edu. Candidates should submit a cover letter
describing research interests and carrier goals, curricu-
lum vitae, names and contact information for three refer-
ences and two representative publications online follow-
ing the link below: http://www.careers.msu.edu/cw/-
en-us/job/498704/research-associatexed-term \Szucs,
Marianna" <szucsmar@msu.edu >
MNH Stockholm FungalEvolution
Post-doctoral researcher Botany/Mycology
A two-year postdoctoral position is available in the
Department of Botany, Swedish Museum of Natural His-
tory, Stockholm. The position is placed within professor
Mats Wedin's research group and is a part of the project
area \Fungal phylogeny and evolution" funded by the
Swedish Research Council (VR). The research group
has several additional projects funded by the Swedish
Taxonomy Initiative, focussing on taxonomic and phylo-
genetic biodiversity questions in lichens and associated
organisms.
The genetic basis of facultative lichenization - a tool to
understand fungal lifestyles
In this project, we will study the genetic basis of the
lichen symbiosis utilizing a group of closely related fungi
including lichens, saprotrophs, and species with an \op-
tionally lichenized" strategy. The latter form simple
lichen thalli when growing on the bark of Populus trem-
ula or live as saprobes on Populus wood. Data analyses84 EvolDir April 1, 2018
will include de novo genome assembling and annotation,
analysis of dierences in genome content, size and struc-
ture, gene ontology enrichment analysis for interpreting
functions of a set of genes, and analysing the degree
of pseudogeneization to investigate the genomic mecha-
nisms for loosing lichenization. In a second step, we will
use several culturable \optional lichens" to study the
genetic basis of the lichenization, combining compara-
tive genomics and transcriptomics data to investigate
dierences in gene expression of fungal species under
dierent lifestyles, in order to detect regulatory path-
ways involved in the fungal-algal recognition and their
physiological interaction.
Qualications
Candidates have a recent (max 3 years old) PhD in
systematics/evolutionary biology or similar, with expe-
rience in lichenology and/or mycology. A demonstrated
publication record and excellent English communica-
tion and writing skills are expected. Good knowledge
in molecular lab work, genomics, transcriptomics, and
phylogenetics are required, and experience with axenic
culture work, light microscopy, and independent eld-
work is desirable. A valid driving licence is also a strong
advantage. The successful candidate will mainly pursue
own research, but is expected to participate also in other
collaborations subject to discussion.
The preferred starting date is May 1st 2018, but can be
discussed. The appointment is for two years.
For more information please contact professor Mats
Wedin (mats.wedin@nrm.se). Union representatives are
Johannes Lundberg, SACO-S and Anna Sandberg, ST.
All can be reached at telephone number + 46 8 519 540
00.
Mark your application, including a cover letter outlining
relevant background, experience and motivation, your
CV and list of publications, contact information for two
references, and copies of educational certicates, with
dnr 2.3.1-20-2018, and send it as a single pdf document
to rekrytering@nrm.se or to the Swedish Museum of Nat-
ural History, Box 50007, SE 104 05 Stockholm, Sweden,
no later than March 31 ^st, 2018.
Mats Wedin <Mats.Wedin@nrm.se >
Montpellier Classication eDNA
Postdoc position on alignment-free taxonomic classica-
tion of environmental DNAThe Methods and Algorithms for Bioinformatics (MAB)
team at the computer science department of the Univer-
sity of Montpellier, France (the LIRMM) is looking for
talented individuals to ll an 18-months postdoctoral
position. The successful candidate will work on a novel
approach for the identication of the species behind
the DNA found in an environmental sample. The orig-
inality of the approach lies in the application within
evolutionary analyses of ideas from string algorithmics
that avoid the computationally-intensive task of se-
quence alignment. A detailed description of the research
project can be found here: https://sites.google.com/-
site/fabiopardi/postdocs . The applicant should have
a background in bioinformatics with an emphasis on
algorithmic and software developments for biological
sequence analysis and computational genomics. Pre-
vious research experience in one of the following top-
ics in bioinformatics will be considered as an advan-
tage: metagenomics, alignment-free sequence analysis,
molecular evolution, computational phylogenetics. Re-
gardless of her/his background, the applicant's past
research should show a strong motivation towards solv-
ing biologically-relevant problems in a rigorous way, us-
ing state-of-the-art techniques and/or developing novel
methodologies. Good programming skills, as well as an
ability for autonomous work, are essential.
Interested applicants should send a CV, and a brief
description of research accomplishments and goals to F.
Pardi (pardi@lirmm.fr) and E. Rivals (rivals@lirmm.fr).
Applicants should have been awarded a Ph.D. within
the last 4 years or should be graduating imminently.
Successful candidates are required to start by 1 October
2018 at the latest. The salary for the position is about
2,200 euros net per month plus benets.
A one-thousand-year-old city, Montpellier is a thriving
research community with a multitude of research centers
in life sciences. It is the fastest growing city in France
where approximately one third of the population are
students, and a great location for outdoor activities.
The LIRMM is one of the most visible computer science
laboratories in France.
Fabio Pardi <pardi@lirmm.fr >
NatlTaiwanU PopulationGenomics-
PlantAdaptation
https://sites.google.com/site/chengrueilee/ Research
topic: The genomic and genetic mechanisms of plantApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 85
adaptation under natural and articial selection
Location: National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan
Target species: Wild banana (Musa itinerans), mung
bean (Vigna radiata), and bitter gourd (Momordica
charantia)
Detail: The Lee lab is looking for highly motivated
postdoctoral researchers to investigate the genomic ar-
chitecture under strong natural and articial selection.
Our new projects focus on natural genetic resources in
Southeast Asia, and we collaborate with international
stock centers such as World Vegetable Center (Taiwan)
and the Vavilov Institute (Russia). The study will focus
on population genomics investigation of regions under
selection, genetic mapping of important agronomic traits
and environmental adaptation, and functional validation
of candidate genes.
We highly welcome researchers with any of these follow-
ing experiences: 1. Population genetics, genomics, or
genetic mapping studies 2. Molecular biology 3. Linux
OS and any programming language
Salary: $64,185 NTD per month + 1.5 month year-end
bonuses
Please e-mail any question or these application materials
to: chengrueilee@ntu.edu.tw 1. CV 2. Name and e-mail
of two referees 3. PDF of relevant publications
<chengrueilee@ntu.edu.tw >
NCState PlantVirusHostAdaptation
Postdoc: Experimental evolution and phylodynamics of
plant virus emergence
A postdoctoral research position is available in the phy-
lodynamics research group led by David Rasmussen at
NC State University in the Bioinformatics Research
Centre and the Department of Entomology and Plant
Pathology. The main aim of the project is to under-
stand how vector-borne plant viruses adapt to new host
environments and expand their host range. Viral adap-
tation to new hosts will be studied in the lab, where we
can experimentally manipulate transmission between
dierent host species and regularly re-sequence viral
populations. To reveal the genetic basis of host adapta-
tion, experimental evolution studies will be combined
with newly developed phylodynamic methods for track-
ing the population dynamics of individual viral lineages
and quantifying their tness.Questions of interest include:
Do tness tradeos between hosts limit adaptation to
multiple hosts?
How do the tness eects of individual mutations vary
across hosts?
Can selection resolve tness tradeos (i.e. antagonistic
pleiotropy) and, if so, how?
Is the evolution of generalists constrained more by ge-
netic or by ecological factors like vector dynamics?
Applicants must hold a PhD in plant pathology or re-
lated eld of biology. Previous lab experience handling
plant viruses or other pathogens is highly desired. Ad-
ditional knowledge of data analysis in Python, R or
Matlab is also desired. Candidates with both wet lab
and bioinformatics skills will be given the highest con-
sideration, but is not essential. The candidate will also
be expected to publish and present their work at con-
ferences, help supervise students and may occasionally
be involved in grant writing. Most importantly, the
candidate must possess strong problem-solving skills
and a record of self-directed, innovative research.
Initial appointment is for one year, but renewable for up
to 3 years. Start date would ideally be Summer 2018.
To apply, please send a CV, a 1-2 page cover letter de-
scribing previous experience and research interests, and
the contact info for two references to drasmus@ncsu.edu.
Application deadline: April 20th, 2018.
David Rasmussen
Assistant Professor
Bioinformatics Research Center
Dept. of Entomology and Plant Pathology
North Carolina State University
Ricks Hall 312
1 Lampe Dr,
Raleigh, NC 27607
Web: phylodynamics.wordpress.ncsu.edu
Twitter: @davorasmussen
David Rasmussen <drasmus@ncsu.edu >86 EvolDir April 1, 2018
New Zealand ComparativeGenomics
A two year postdoc is available is available at Landcare
Resesarch in New Zealand to contribute to a project on
genome assembly and comparative genomics.
Project summary
We are seeking to ll a postdoctoral position funded by
Genomics Aotearoa and located with Associate Profes-
sor Thomas Buckley at Landcare Research, Auckland.
Genomics Aotearoa is a national network funded to im-
prove capability in, and outcomes from genomics in New
Zealand. The successful application will be required to
work with a nationally distributed team across universi-
ties and Crown Research Institutes.
We are seeking an enthusiastic and driven Postdoctoral
Fellow to join a Genomics Aotearoa team working on
developing high quality genomes for outcomes in con-
servation biology (including pest control) and primary
production.
New Zealand faces considerable challenges in conserva-
tion and primary production that can be improved by
the use of genomics technologies. Your research will
focus initially on developing tools and technologies to
produce the high-quality genomes required to achieve
outcomes for species of scientic, primary production,
pest and conservation importance. In later years, gen-
eration and understanding of genome data from large
numbers of individuals from key species will be gener-
ated and studied.
This project provides an exciting opportunity, working
with an outstanding national team, to generate genomics
data and tools for a wide range of applications, and the
freedom to generate high impact publications from that
data.
Applicants must have a PhD in bioinformatics or ge-
nomics. Skills in genome assembly, RNAseq, annotation,
bioinformatics analysis of large data sets, genome evolu-
tion, coding, and bioinformatics training are desirable
and experience working with genome data is essential.
Preference will be given to applicants with skills in
bioinformatics and genome assembly.
The appointment is for 2 years with the possibility of
extension. The successful applicant will be expected to
take up the position before July 2018. The successful
candidate will ideally:* hold a PhD in biology with proven publication track
record and conference presentations
* have experience with the bioinformatic analysis of ge-
nomic data sets especially whole genome assembly and
annotation
* have an understanding of comparative genomics, popu-
lation genomics and associated models and methodology
* have experience in genomics experimental design
* have the ability to relate to people in all circumstances
and to work well in a team
* be versatile, demonstrates initiative in solving prob-
lems
* work well under pressure, self motivated
* be well organised, capable of independently and eec-
tively planning time and resources
The two year, full time position will be based at Land-
care Research in Auckland. If you would like to take
advantage of this great opportunity please view the po-
sition description and apply online clicking the 'Apply
Now' button below. Applications must include a cover
letter, CV and evidence of the required skills as per the
position description.
https://careers.sciencenewzealand.org/jobdetails/-
ajid/Ddtv8/27345-Postdoctoral-Fellow-in-
Genomics,27345.html For further details about
our organisation and the relevance of our science
please visit our website: www.landcareresearch.co.nz
Applications close on Tuesday 16 April 2018 at 5.00pm.
Thomas Buckley
Research Leader, Invertebrate Systematics Manaaki
Whenua-Landcare Research
Associate Professor, University of Auckland
T +64 9 574 4116
E buckleyt@landcareresearch.co.nz
www.landcareresearch.co.nz
Norway
ComparativeGenomicsRegulation
Postdoctoral fellow within comparative analysis of
genome regulation
The successful candidate will be funded through the
project \REWIRED", recently funded by the Norwe-April 1, 2018 EvolDir 87
gian Research Council FRIPRO program (2018-2021).
The project is addressing fundamental knowledge gaps
regarding the role of whole genome duplication in adap-
tive evolution, using salmonid sh as a model system.
Specically, our aim is to test if functional redundancy
in a duplicated genome spark evolution of novel adap-
tive functions. The candidate will also work in close
collaboration with a PhD-student funded through a sec-
ond FRIPRO funded project \TRANSPOSE", which
aims at understanding the importance of transposable
elements in the evolution of gene regulatory innovation.
A key element in this project is collaboration with Rori
Rohlfs at San Francisco State University and use her
computational framework (EVE) to assess the impor-
tance of whole genome duplication on adaptive evolution
of gene function. The candidate will therefore be ex-
pected to spend signicant time in the Rohlfs-lab during
the project.
The main tasks will be to: - Compile a multi-omics
(RNA-Seq, ChIP-Seq, ATAC-Seq) comparative dataset
from 10 sh species (wet-lab work will be carried out
by others). - Identify genes under adaptive evolution
using the EVE statistical framework. - Integrate anal-
yses of gene expression evolution with information on
transposable element activity and epigenetic marks to
understand the mechanistic drivers of gene regulation
evolution.
For more detailed information about the project,
please contact Simen R ^A ^Ad Sandve (srsandve.org, or
simen.sandve@nmbu.no).
More information: https://www.jobbnorge.no/en/-
available-jobs/job/149000/postdoctoral-fellow-within-
comparative-analysis-of-genome-regulation-refno-18-
01262 {
Rori Rohlfs Assistant Professor Department of Biology
San Francisco State University
pronouns: she/her/hers
Rori Rohlfs <rrohlfs@sfsu.edu >NorwegianU 2 PopulationDynamics
Two postdoc positions are available for 3 years at the
Department of Biology, Centre for Biodiversity Dynam-
ics (CBD), the Norwegian University of Science and
Technology in Trondheim. The positions are funded by
a grant from the Research Council of Norway, and will
be part of the project \Spatial dierentiation of a bird
metapopulation: quantifying eco-evolutionary dynamics
in space", which is led by Professor Bernt-Erik S ~Ather,
and involves other researchers at CBD. Further informa-
tion about CBD is available at: www.ntnu.edu/cbd The
aim of the project is to examine how local population
dynamics and dispersal aect the spatial structure of
populations using house sparrows as model organism.
We will achieve this by an integrated approach linking
ecological and evolutionary processes based on a unied
stochastic modelling framework. Our aim is to examine
the relative contribution of environmental covariation,
interchange of individuals and dierences in strength of
density dependence for the degree of spatial synchrony
of the population dynamics and ongoing phenotypic di-
vergence in space. We expect the results will show that
including spatial processes are essential for understand-
ing how natural populations will respond to changes in
the environment.
The successful candidates should hold a PhD in biology
but candidates with a PhD in mathematical sciences
may also be considered if the competence is relevant. We
are searching for candidates that can document experi-
ence with theoretical or empirical analyses in population
dynamics and/or quantitative genetics. Experience with
the software R must be documented, and is mandatory.
Both candidates will be involved in a network of col-
laborators both at CBD and internationally and must
therefore possess good communication and social skills.
The candidates will also be involved in some eld work.
We seek candidates who are able to work eciently and
goal-oriented, and who are highly motivated for the
research.
The successful candidates should start in May 1 2018,
but the starting date is negotiable.
The application deadline is March 24th 2018, and
applications need to be submitted through the
\Jobbnorge" web page: https://www.jobbnorge.no/-
en/available-jobs/job/148272/post-doc-positions-in-
population-dynamics-quantitative-genetics Further88 EvolDir April 1, 2018
information about the positions can also be obtained
from professor Bernt-Erik S ~Ather, Centre for Biodi-
versity Dynamics, NTNU, Tel. +47 90578544, E-mail:
Bernt-Erik.Sather@ntnu.no
Dr. Henrik Jensen Associate Professor Centre for Bio-
diversity Dynamics Department of Biology NTNU NO-
7491 Trondheim NORWAY
E-mail: Henrik.Jensen@ntnu.no Oce: +47 73596949
Mobile: +47 91897064
Work web: https://www.ntnu.edu/biology/jensen-
lab Private web: www.inlicio.com Henrik Jensen
<henrik.jensen@ntnu.no >
OldDominionU MarineBiodiversity
Postdoctoral Research Associate - Marine Molecular
Ecology
The Department of Biological Sciences at Old Dominion
University, a \Doctoral Research-Extensive" state uni-
versity, has a Post-Doctoral Research Associate position
available in marine molecular ecology. This position is
supported by an NSF-funded PIRE (Partnerships for
International Research and Education) Project utilizing
sh collections from the 1907-1910 Philippine Albatross
Expedition housed at the Smithsonian Institution in
DC to examine genetic and species-level changes in
marine biodiversity over the past century of intense
sheries exploitation and habitat degradation in the
Philippines. Applicants must have a PhD in molecular
ecology, population genomics, marine phylogeography,
or a closely related eld at the time of employment. A
strong background in molecular biology and experience
with processing large datasets from next-generation se-
quencing methods is strongly preferred, including work-
ing in UNIX or LINUX environments and familiarity
with bash, python, or perl scripting. The successful
candidate will be expected to live in the Philippines for
up to three months during summer to conduct eld and
laboratory work and to mentor undergraduate REUs
and graduate students from collaborating institutions.
Competitive applicants will comfortable coordinating
and conducting research in the eld and have some
teaching experience; AAUS Scientic Diver certication
is desired. The appointment begins Spring 2018 with
the potential for a one-year renewal. Position is limited
to U.S. citizens. Salary is dependent on qualications.
Application deadline is April 6th, 2018.Job Responsibilities Field and laboratory work in ma-
rine molecular ecology: 1. Coordinate and conduct eld
and laboratory research in the Philippines and U.S. 2.
Collect and sample marine shes via market and dive
surveys 3. Collect, analyze and interpret large-scale ge-
nomic data 4. Lead a comparative research project uti-
lizing Albatross and contemporary collections with the
expectation of publishing a peer- reviewed manuscript
Support international partnerships and capacity build-
ing: 1. Facilitate an annual two-week Bioinformatics
Training Workshop at Silliman University 2. Support
and assist graduate and undergraduate students during
a 9- week REU program over the summer
Additional tasks: 1. Spend three months each summer
in the Philippines 2. Participate in collaborative, multi-
institutional and international research project both
independently and as a team player 3. Assist Principal
Investigator, co-PIs, and project collaborators and per-
sonnel as needed 4. Classroom teaching in the U.S. and
Philippines as needed 5. All other duties, as assigned
Highly motivated and interested candidates are encour-
aged to apply by sending a CV, a statement of your
interest in the position, including prior research and
future career goals (2-page maximum), and the names
and contact information for at least three references
to aacki002@odu.edu. Review of applications will be-
gin following the April 6th deadline. Questions can be
directed to Dr. Amanda Ackiss.
aacki002@odu.edu aacki002@odu.edu
Paris AntEvoDevo
POST-DOC POSITION ANT EVO-DEVO, PARIS,
FRANCE The position is a full time, 2-year contract.
Expected starting date: September 2018
ANR-funded project SOCIODEV: Understanding social
evolution through the study of embryogenesis in ants.
Over 15000 ant species are known so far and present
highly diverse morphologies, behaviour, colony struc-
ture and chemical recognition. Yes, we know very little
about their mechanisms of embryogenesis, although this
knowledge can shed light on the evolution of sociality.
The SocioDev project aims at unravelling the mecha-
nisms of embryo development across a representative
selection of ant species and test how these mechanisms
can inform us about their social lifestyle.
The project is coordinated by Dr. Abderrahman Khila,April 1, 2018 EvolDir 89
Institute of Functional Genomics, CNRS, ENS Lyon.
The post-doc will work on one task on this large project,
focussing in particular on testing the possible link be-
tween the mode of embryogenesis and chemical recogni-
tion of larvae by nestmate workers. This task involves
behavioural assays, chemical analyses and manipula-
tions, and RNAseq experiments to analyse hydrocarbon
biosynthesis pathways in the embryos.
The successful applicants will have a PhD in behavioural
biology or evolutionary biology and a solid track record.
Experience with insects and chemical analysis is wel-
come. Candidates should be uent in English.
The post-doc will be based at the Laboratory of
Experimental and Comparative Ethology, Univer-
sity of Paris 13 (http://leec.univ-paris13.fr), work-
ing with Prof. Patrizia d'Ettorre but will spend
extended periods of time at Institute of Func-
tional Genomics, Lyon, working with Dr. Abder-
rahman Khila (http://ig.ens-lyon.fr/equipes/a.-khila-
developmental-genomics-and-evolution).
Candidates should send, in one single PDF le: a) letter
of interest, b) Curriculum Vitae with publication list;
c) contact information (e-mail, phone) for two referees
who can provide letters of recommendation.
DEADLINE for receiving applications: 15 April 2018
Contact: Patrizia d'Ettorre, dettorre@leec.univ-
paris13.fr
\dettorre@leec.univ-paris13.fr" <dettorre@leec.univ-
paris13.fr >
QMUL London
BirdSongCulturalEvolution
A Postdoctoral Research Assistant position is available
at Queen Mary University of London (QMUL) as part of
a project funded by the BBSRC. The project 'Machine
learning for bird song learning' seeks to develop and
apply new methods for assessing the similarity between
complex bird song syllables, guided by the perception
of birds themselves, and to apply this to examine the
evolution of song learning behaviour.
This particular research position will play two key roles
in the project. First, you will lead the eort to use
operant conditioning techniques to examine how birds
judge the similarity of song syllables. This will involve
using existing operant conditioning techniques to ex-amine how zebra nches assess song syllable similarity.
It will also involve the development of new methods
(in collaboration with Dr Robert Lachlan) to carry out
operant conditioning with free-living wild birds. Second,
you will collate data-sets of song variation from free
living populations, and (again in collaboration with Dr
Lachlan) carry out comparative analyses using cultural
evolutionary simulations tted to data, and based on
song comparisons using our new methods in order to
compare processes of song learning between species. The
project will therefore allow you to develop skills in two
cutting edge areas of behavioural biology.
The project will require that you travel to collaborate
with project partners in the Netherlands (Wageningen)
and the UK (Cornwall).
The ideal candidate for this position should have a PhD
in animal behaviour and communication. Experience
in working with both captive and wild birds, in oper-
ant conditioning methods, and with evolutionary theory
would be desirable. A track record of peer-reviewed
publications is essential.
This is a full-time, xed term post available for a period
of 3 years. The start date is 1st June 2018. The salary
is in the range of 32,956 - 38,709 per annum and is inclu-
sive of London allowance. The salary will be dependent
on qualications, skills and experience.
Candidates must be able to demonstrate their eligibility
to work in the UK in accordance with the Immigration,
Asylum and Nationality Act 2006. Where required this
may include entry clearance or continued leave to remain
under the Points Based Immigration Scheme.
Informal enquiries for further information are wel-
comed and may be made to Dr Robert Lachlan, email:
r.f.lachlan@qmul.ac.uk or Tel +44 (0)20 7882 5058
For further information about the School, please see
http://www.sbcs.qmul.ac.uk . To apply please click the
link below
Application enquiries should be directed to recruit-
ment@qmul.ac.uk
The closing date for applications is 6 April 2018. Inter-
views will be held shortly thereafter.
https://webapps2.is.qmul.ac.uk/jobs/-
job.action?jobID=3154 http://www.ndapostdoc.com/-
search/job-details.aspx?jobcode=7789 http://-
www.jobs.ac.uk/job/BIF688/postdoctoral-research-
assistant/ Dr R.F. Lachlan Lecturer in Psychology,
Department of Biological and Experimental Psychology
School of Biological and Chemical Sciences Queen Mary
University of London Mile End Road, London, E1 4NS
United Kingdom90 EvolDir April 1, 2018
Oce: 3.18 G. E. Fogg Phone: +44 (0)20 7882 5058
E-mail: r.f.lachlan@qmul.ac.uk
r.f.lachlan@qmul.ac.uk
ReedC Oregon
EvolutionaryGenomics
Post-doc Position in Evolutionary Ge-
nomics/Computational Biology in the Schaack
Lab
A post-doc position is available in the lab of Sarah
Schaack at Reed College in Portland, OR. The suc-
cessful candidate will be involved in the analyses of
genomic datasets for several ongoing projects involving
the analysis of whole genome sequence and transcrip-
tome datasets from long-term mutation-accumulation
experiments using cladocerans. In addition, there are
opportunities to initiate new projects based on the previ-
ous experience of the successful applicant, the resources
in our lab (https://sites.google.com/site/schaackwork/),
and other publicly-available data.
Requirements: Experience with analyzing NGS sequence
data, programming, and a working knowledge of com-
putational tools and statistics related to genome-wide
datasets. In addition to a background in sequence anal-
ysis and computational biology, oral and written com-
munication skills are essential .
Notably, the successful applicant can, but need not nec-
essarily, re-locate to Portland, as the position does not
require lab work. For those that would be interested in
moving to/staying in Portland, Reed is a highly rigorous
undergraduate institution with a strong research empha-
sis, oering a unique training environment for post-docs.
Features include close collaboration with the PIs, the
opportunity to work with talented undergraduates, and
the chance to network with other post-docs in the de-
partment and with biologists throughout Portland and
the region. The scientic and intellectual environment
at Reed is stimulating and provides a number of oppor-
tunities for interactions (including an excellent weekly
seminar series, journal clubs, and discussion groups).
Salary will be based on the NIH post-doc pay scale and
will be commensurate with experience. To apply, submit
a cover letter detailing your research interests, a CV, and
contact information for 3 references to schaack@reed.edu
with your /YOURLASTNAME/ POSTDOC in all caps
in the subject line. To receive full consideration, sendmaterials on or before March 25, 2018, however appli-
cants will be considered until the position is lled and
the start date is as soon as possible. Informal inquiries
are welcome.
Reed College is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Can-
didates from underrepresented groups are strongly en-
couraged to apply.
Sarah Schaack, PhD Associate Professor Reed
College schaackmobile@gmail.com https://-
sites.google.com/site/schaackwork/ Sarah Schaack
<schaackmobile@gmail.com >
RutgersU EvolutionaryGenomics
A postdoctoral position in evolutionary genomics is
available in the Ellison Laboratory in the Department
of Genetics at Rutgers University. The position in-
volves using comparative genomic approaches to study
the evolution of 3D genome organization in Drosophila.
Candidates should have a PhD in a biology-related eld,
experience with genomic analysis in Unix/Linux envi-
ronments, and prociency in Python and/or Perl. The
position is primarily computational although there are
opportunities for wet lab work. Previous experience
working with Drosophila is benecial but not necessary.
The start date is exible and salary will be determined
based on the NIH pay scale.
Rutgers-New Brunswick is a leading national research
university and the preeminent public institution of
higher education in the state of New Jersey. The campus
oers a vibrant and diverse research community and is
close to New York City and Philadelphia.
Interested applicants should send a CV and
a brief statement of research interests to elli-
son.laboratory@gmail.com
Ellison Laboratory <ellison.laboratory@gmail.com >
SGN Frankfurt
MammalianSpeciation
The Senckenberg Gesellschaft fuer Naturforschung
(SGN) is a member of the Leibniz Association and isApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 91
based in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. LOEWE Centre
for Translational Biodiversity Genomics (LOEWE-TBG)
is a joint venture of the Senckenberg Gesellschaft fuer
Naturforschung (SGN), Goethe-University Frankfurt,
Justus-Liebig-University Giessen and Fraunhofer Insti-
tute for Molecular Biology and Applied Ecology IME
aiming to intensify biodiversity genomics in basic and
applied research. We will establish a new and taxo-
nomically broad genome collection to study genomic
and functional diversity across the tree of life and make
genomic resources accessible for societal-demand driven
applied research.
The Senckenberg Gesellschaft fuer Naturforschung and
the LOEWE-TBG invite applications for a
Postdoc (m/f) - Mammalian genomics: speciation and
gene ow (full time)
Your tasks
Sequencing, assembly, and annotation of mammalian
genomesEvolution, gene ow, and population genomic
analyses of large multispecies data sets Involve classic
taxonomy, biogeography and related elds with compar-
ative genomicsManaging massive-RAM server and
genomics software Acquiring third-party funding
Your prole
PhD in Biology, Genetics, Bioinformatics or related
subjectsExperience with de novo genome assembly
and mapping of vertebrate genomes Exceptional in-
terest in mammalian evolution Experience and solid
understanding of comparative genomics or evolution-
ary biology research Teamwork oriented and excellent
communication skills with prociency in written and
oral English
What is awaiting you?
An interesting task in a dynamic team of researchers
in an international research group and joining the new
LOEWE excellence centre with its 20 new research
groupsThe opportunity to habilitate at Goethe Uni-
versity or get teaching experience The possibility to
create a network with scientists in interdisciplinary elds
in translational biodiversity genomics Flexible work-
ing hours - annual special payment - company pension
scheme - Senckenberg ID card for free entry in museums
in Frankfurt - a holiday of 30 days/year
Place of employment: Frankfurt am Main Working
hours: Full time (40 hours/week) Type of contract:
initially limited for 2 years Salary: according to the
German collective agreement TV-H (pay grade E 13)
Salary and benets are according to a full time public
service position in Germany (TV-H E13). The contract
should start on July 1st, 2018 and will initially be lim-ited for two years. The Senckenberg Gesellschaft fuer
Naturforschung supports equal opportunity of men and
women and therefore strongly invites women to apply.
Equally qualied handicapped applicants will be given
preference. The place of employment is in Frankfurt
am Main, Germany. The employer is the Senckenberg
Gesellschaft fuer Naturforschung.
How to apply
Please send your application, mentioning the reference
of this job oer (ref. #12-18004) until April 15th, 2018
by e-mail (attachment in a single pdf document) and
include a cover letter detailing your research interests
and experience, a detailed CV, a list of publications and
copies of your certicates, transcripts and grades to:
Senckenberg Gesellschaft fuer Naturforschung Sencken-
berganlage 25 60325 Frankfurt a.M.
E-Mail: recruiting@senckenberg.de
For scientic information please contact Prof. Axel
Janke (axel.janke@senckenberg.de).
{ Mit freundlichen Gr uen / Best regards
Isabel Gajcevic, M.A. Personalsachbearbeiterin
SENCKENBERG Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung
(Rechtsf ahiger Verein gem a ^A 22 BGB) Senckenber-
ganlage 25 60325 Frankfurt am Main
Besucheradresse: Mertonstrae 17-19, 60325 Frankfurt
am Main (1. OG)
Telefon/Phone: 0049 (0)69 / 7542 -
Leiterin Personal & Soziales - 1458 Loke, Uta
Stellv. Leiterin Gruppe Personal & Soziales - 1319 Elsen,
Carina
Mitarbeiter/in Personalbeschaung (Recruiting) - 1313
di Biase, Maria - 1313 Helm, Jessica - 1478 Gajcevic,
Isabel
Fax: 0049 (0)69 / 7542-1467 Mail: recruit-
ing@senckenberg.de
Direktorium: Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. Volker Mosbrugger,
Prof. Dr. Andreas Mulch, Stephanie Schwedhelm, Prof.
Dr. Katrin B ohning-Gaese, Prof. Dr. Uwe Fritz, Prof.
Dr. Ingrid Kr oncke Pr asidentin: Dr. h. c. Beate Her-
aeus Aufsichtsbeh orde: Magistrat der Stadt Frankfurt
am Main (Ordnungsamt)
Senckenberg forscht f ur Ihr Leben gern!
www.200jahresenckenberg.de recruiting
<recruiting@senckenberg.de > recruiting
<recruiting@senckenberg.de >92 EvolDir April 1, 2018
Smithsonian SMSC
ConservationGenomics
Postdoctoral Research Fellow - Conservation Genomics
of Critically Endangered African Antelopes
The Smithsonian-Mason School of Conservation (SMSC)
is accepting applications for a Postdoctoral Research
Fellow. The position is a 12-month appointment renew-
able up to 3 years and will be based at the Smithsonian
Conservation Biology Institute (SCBI) in Front Royal,
VA.
The successful candidate will contribute to ongoing,
cutting-edge research on the conservation genomics of
the critically endangered African antelopes. The re-
search will include assembly and annotation of the
genomes, generation of whole genome sequences from ad-
ditional individuals, and analyses related to patterns of
genome-wide diversity, inference of historical demogra-
phy, and comparative analyses of closely related species.
The position involves focused research on developing
novel approaches to establishing self-sustaining pop-
ulations of endangered ungulates ex situ, developing
genomic tools for managing small populations, and cre-
ating and facilitating networks of people across sectors
taking action for conservation. The incumbent will have
oce space, access to SI's Hydra computing cluster, and
a competitive post-doctoral level salary supplemented
by excellent state employee benets.
For more information about the position and to apply,
please visit https://jobs.gmu.edu/postings/42521 . {
Klaus-Peter Koepi, Ph.D.
*Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute* Na-
tional Zoological Park 3001 Connecticut Avenue NW
Washington, DC 20008 USA Mobile (USA): +1
310 903 0197 E-mail: KoepiK@si.edu OR klaus-
peter.koepi527@gmail.com
*Dobzhansky Center for Genome Bioinformatics* Saint
Petersburg State University 41A Sredniy Prospekt Saint
Petersburg 199034 RUSSIA Mobile (Russia): +7 911
829 5068 Skype ID: klauspeter.koepi
<klauspeter.koepi527@gmail.com >
Klaus-Peter Koepi <klauspeter.koepi527@gmail.com >UArizona Phylogenetics
Postdoc position at the University of Arizona
The Kacar (https://kacarlab.org/) and Sanderson labs
(http://ceiba.biosci.arizona.edu/index.htm) in the De-
partments of Molecular and Cell Biology and Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology at the University of Arizona
are seeking a postdoctoral researcher for a NASA Exo-
biology Program funded project focusing on the phy-
logenetic history and evolution of bacterial translation
machinery.
The primary role of the postdoc will be creating and
developing new phylogenetic algorithms, and integrating
these new algorithms with existing phylogenetic data
on ancestral ribosomal proteins. The postdoc will also
be involved in testing general questions about phyloge-
nomic methodology. The position is for approximately
two years, starting in the summer or fall of 2018. The
postdoc will primarily be located in the Kacar Lab, will
be supervised by Kacar and Sanderson and is expected
to attend both Kacar and Sanderson lab group meetings.
The University of Arizona is one of very few universities
that oers an astrobiology program with a molecular
and cell biology focus while also hosting one of the top
ecology and evolution departments in the world, with
considerable faculty expertise in phylogenetic theory,
molecular evolution, genetics and evolutionary biology
in general. Tucson is a vibrant, aordable, diverse,
and livable city (and is now a UNESCO World City of
Gastronomy!). It is surrounded by spectacular scenery
(including numerous national parks, monuments, and
wilderness areas) and the amazing biodiversity of the
Sonoran Desert.
Minimum qualication include a Ph.D. in biology or
related subjects and a promising publication record.
Preferred qualications include demonstrable experi-
ence with molecular evolution, and ancestral sequence
reconstruction. Salary is competitive.
To apply please visit https://uacareers.com/postings/-
27228 For specic questions contact Betul Kacar at
betul@arizona.edu. Submit your application by April
15, 2018 for full consideration, but applications will be
considered until the position is lled.
Michael J. Sanderson, Professor Department of Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology University of Arizona Tucson,
AZ 85721April 1, 2018 EvolDir 93
Oce: BSW 412 Phone:520-626-6848
email:sanderm@email.arizona.edu
lab web site: http://ceiba.biosci.arizona.edu Ceiba phy-
logenetic tree visualization: http://sourceforge.net/-
projects/ceiba PhyLoTA Browser: http://phylota.net
r8s software: https://sourceforge.net/projects/r8s san-
derm00@gmail.com
UArkansas EvolutionBehavior
Westerman Lab Postdoctoral Fellow in Behavioral Ge-
nomics at The University of Arkansas
The Westerman Lab at the University of Arkansas is
seeking a creative and motivated Postdoctoral Fellow to
investigate the genetics and neurobiology of mate pref-
erence plasticity in butteries, to begin as soon as late
Spring/Early Summer 2018. The Westerman Lab stud-
ies mechanisms underlying behavioral diversity and plas-
ticity, with a focus on sensory system development and
visual learning in butteries. Current research topics in-
clude the role of genetics and social environment in mate
preference development, behavioral and developmental
plasticity, and sensory biases. The lab is an integrative
animal behavior group, and integrates a wide range
of techniques, including, but not limited to, genomics,
transcriptomics, controlled laboratory experiments, his-
tology, and eld ecology. Research incorporates both
tropical butteries and those native to Northwestern
Arkansas, and takes advantage of multiple species-rich
eld sites within a 30-minute drive of campus. For more
information, please visit the lab website at
http://www.ericawesterman.org . The successful can-
didate will be expected to work in close collaboration
with Dr. Westerman on a comparative behavioral ge-
nomics project, as well as to develop independent re-
search projects within the scope of the lab. In addition,
the successful candidate will be expected to collaborate
with fellow lab members, and will have the opportunity
to mentor undergraduate and graduate students. Dr.
Westerman is building collaborations within the Biol-
ogy Department, as well as with faculty in both the
Entomology and Psychological Sciences Departments at
UARK. Postdocs in the lab will have the opportunity to
work across discipline, and will be encouraged to initiate
and develop innovative collaborative projects.
This technically integrative lab embraces creative ap-
proaches to studying animal behavior. Candidates with
a strong background in genomics, neurobiology, anddevelopment are particularly encouraged to apply.
Funding is currently available to support this position
for two years, with the possibility for extension depend-
ing on funding and project progress.
Minimum Qualications:
- Ph.D. in biological sciences or a related eld by start
of appointment
- Demonstrated expertise in genomics, bioinformatics,
neurobiology, or developmental biology techniques
- Experience with either multivariate statistics or statis-
tical analysis of genomic data
- Demonstrated evidence of excellent writing skills
Preferred Qualications:
- Experience using CRISPR/Cas9
- Experience in animal behavior experimental design
- Experience in live animal husbandry
- Experience in chemical ecology
- Experience in microscopy
For a complete position announcement and informa-
tion regarding how to apply, visit http://jobs.uark.edu/-
postings/25954 . Applicants must submit a cover let-
ter/letter of application, curriculum vitae, and a two-
page description of research accomplishments and future
plans uploaded to the 'Other Document' link. A list
of three professional references (name, title, email ad-
dress, and contact number) willing to provide letters
of reference will be requested during the application
process.
For more information, please contact:
Dr. Erica Westerman
Assistant Professor
Department of Biological Sciences
University of Arkansas
ewesterm@uark.edu
The University of Arkansas is an equal opportunity, af-
rmative action institution. The university welcomes
applications without regard to age, race/color, gender
including pregnancy), national origin, disability, religion,
marital or parental status, protected veteran status, mil-
itary service, genetic information, sexual orientation
or gender identity. Persons must have proof of legal
authority to work in the United States on the rst day
of employment. All applicant information is subject
to public disclosure under the Arkansas Freedom of
Information Act.94 EvolDir April 1, 2018
Erica L. Westerman Assistant Professor Department of
Biological Sciences University of Arkansas Science &
Engineering, Room 416 Fayetteville, AR 72701 ewest-
erm@uark.edu http://www.ericawesterman.org Erica
Lynn Westerman <ewesterm@uark.edu >
UCalifornia Berkeley
GeneDrivePopulationGenetics
POSTDOC POSITION IN POPULATION GENETICS
OF GENE DRIVE SYSTEMS
The Marshall Lab (www.MarshallLab.com) at the
UC Berkeley School of Public Health (http://-
sph.berkeley.edu/) is seeking to hire a postdoctoral
scholar to work on mathematical and computational
aspects of gene drive systems in mosquito vectors of
malaria, dengue fever and Zika virus. The position is
initially for one year, with the possibility of extension,
and is available immediately. Salary is commensurate
with experience, and full benets are included.
The project will involve: * Ascertaining design crite-
ria for gene drive systems to spread desirable genes
(e.g. those conferring disease refractoriness or a tness
load) into a mosquito population and to remediate them
from the environment if needed, * Quantifying rates of
mosquito movement within and between human commu-
nities based on identity by descent and other methods,
* Understanding the long-term evolution of gene drive
systems based on data from experimental gene drive
studies in yeast.
This is part of an exciting collaborative project with
numerous molecular and computational biologists and
ecologists mostly throughout the University of Califor-
nia system. We collaborate with molecular biologists
(Professors Omar Akbari and Ethan Bier at UCSD,
Professor Anthony James at UCI and Professor Craig
Montell at UCSB), ecologists (Professor Greg Lanzaro
at UC Davis), mathematical modelers (Professor David
Smith at the University of Washington), evolutionary bi-
ologists (Professors Justin Meyer and Sergey Kryazhim-
skiy at UCSD), and population geneticists (Professor
Montgomery Slatkin at UC Berkeley). There is also a
great opportunity to expand upon our collaborations
with the Center for Theoretical Evolutionary Genomics
at UC Berkeley (http://cteg.berkeley.edu/). The suc-
cessful candidate will have access to this extraordinary
network of scientists.An ideal candidate will have: * A strong background
in applied mathematics, statistics and/or computer sci-
ence, * Experience with population genetics and/or
genomic analysis, * An interest in mosquitoes and/or
mosquito-borne diseases.
If you are interested in the position, please send: (1) your
CV, including a list of publications and the names and
email addresses of three potential referees; (2) PDFs of
your two most signicant publications or manuscripts to
date; and (3) a short cover letter describing your research
interests and motivations for joining our lab to John Mar-
shall ( john.marshall@berkeley.edu). For best considera-
tion, please apply by April 16th, 2018. Inquiries are also
welcome. Additional information about the research in
the Marshall Lab can be found at www.MarshallLab.com
<http://www.marshalllab.com/ >.
UC Berkeley has a large and vibrant genomics and com-
putational biology community spanning the School of
Public Health, the Center for Computational Biology,
the Department of Integrative Biology, the Center for
Theoretical Evolutionary Genomics, the Departments of
Mathematics and Statistics, the Institute for Data Sci-
ence, and more. UC Berkeley oers competitive salaries,
excellent benets and is an equal opportunity employer.
The City of Berkeley and the surrounding San Francisco
Bay Area is known for its progressive values, vibrant
social and cultural scene, and beautiful surrounding
environment.
'Marshall, John M.' <john.marshall@berkeley.edu >April 1, 2018 EvolDir 95
UCalifornia Berkeley
PathogenEvolutionaryGenomics
A postdoctoral researcher position for a highly moti-
vated young scientist is available in the group of Rodrigo
Almeida in the Department of Environmental Science,
Policy and Management, at the University of Califor-
nia, Berkeley, to study the dynamics of plant pathogen
epidemics, host adaptation, and specialization. The po-
sition is funded by a Horizon 2020 collaborative project
dedicated to the emerging plant pathogen Xylella fas-
tidiosa. Topics of interest include, but are not limited
to: identication of genes underpinning pathogen host
adaptation and specialization, exploration of pathogen
genetic diversity and selection forces leading to disease
emergence. Within the broad scope of the project, de-
veloping novel research questions will be encouraged.
Requirements
Applicants must have a Ph.D. in an area related to
microbial genomics, evolution, or population genetics;
computational, programming, and quantitative skills are
required. The successful candidate will be independent
and have good writing skills, yet be able to work in an
interdisciplinary environment where collaboration and
synergistic interactions are expected.
Responsibilities
Researcher will be responsible for experimental design,
data analyses, preparation of research manuscripts and
project reports. Post-doctoral researchers in our group
are also expected to help mentor and work with students
and peers when necessary.
Appointment
One year renewable to two years based on satisfac-
tory performance. Salary commensurate to experi-
ence; starting annual salary for UC Berkeley postdoc-
toral researchers immediately after obtaining a PhD is
US $48,216 'V salary scale follows NIH/NRSA stipend.
Start date is negotiable, but strong preference will be
given to candidates that can start by early Summer
2018.
Application
Prepare a single PDF with i) a 2-page CV that lists
publications and computational skills, ii) a research
statement (up to 2 pages), and iii) three references who
could be contacted. Position will remain open untillled; applications will be reviewed immediately upon
receipt. We hope to close the position by March 31st,
2018. Send PDF directly to Rodrigo Almeida: email-
*rodrigoalmeida@berkeley.edu*
Rodrigo Almeida <rodrigoalmeida@berkeley.edu >
UCalifornia SantaCruz 2 eDNA
Biodiversity
We are hiring two post-docs as follows:
1. UCSC-based HHMI Post-Doctoral Scholar in Envi-
ronmental DNA Research, Education, and Outreach
HHMI Post-Doctoral Scholar in Environmental DNA
Research, Education, and Outreach
University of California 'V Santa Cruz
Summary:
UC Santa Cruz department of Ecology and Evolution-
ary Biology (EEB) is recruiting one full-time postdoc-
toral scholar to perform environmental DNA (eDNA)
research and science education outreach. The position
is ideal for a candidate with a background in molecular
biology. In collaboration with project partners in the
department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology (EEB)
at UC Los Angeles, the postdoctoral scholar will help
establish a new education program called eSIE: environ-
mental DNA for Science Investigation and Education,
supported by a grant from the Howard Hughes Medical
Institute (HHMI) jointly awarded to UCSC and UCLA.
The scholar will work with a team of researchers and sci-
ence education experts on eDNA research that connects
to the eSIE program.
Why eDNA?
eDNA is a highly sensitive molecular approach to cata-
log biodiversity in any ecosystem. The results can reveal
a near complete diversity prole of the ecosystem from
microbes to plants and animals, and can enable track-
ing biodiversity changes over time. UCLA and UCSC
have pioneered cutting-edge methods to obtain eDNA
data, from citizen science to packaged computational
pipelines. Our goal with the eSIE program is to use
the excitement and wide application of eDNA as a new
gateway for students to enter research avenues in the
environmental sciences.
The postdoctoral role in the eSIE program:
The postdoctoral scholar will help co-develop and man-96 EvolDir April 1, 2018
age eSIE program while receiving training focused on
the advancement of science education. eSIE reaches
a broad undergraduate constituency by involving hun-
dreds of students annually in CALeDNA bioblitzes on
UC Natural Reserves (www.ucedna.com). The postdoc
will help select eld sampling, ideally around research
questions of their interest, and travel to do eld collec-
tions at natural reserves around the entire state. eSIE
will also launch a multidisciplinary ipped course to
introduce undergraduates formally to STEM subjects
through DNA and eDNA activities. The postdoc would
co-design the course with the eSIE team, and receive
training through the Center for Education Innovation
and Learning in the Sciences (https://ceils.ucla.edu) at
UCLA (remote learning possible). The eSIE program
also supports students who enter research labs. The
postdoc would be expected to occasionally work with
student research interns.
Research scope:
The postdoc will be encouraged to pursue environmen-
tal science research that uses the eSIE-generated eDNA
data and sample collections. They will join the lab group
of Beth Shapiro <https://www.eeb.ucsc.edu/faculty/-
singleton.php?&singleton=true&cruz id=bashapir >
(UCSC), who' ^As lab focuses on evolution, paleoge-
nomics, and conservation genomics. They will also join
the UC Conservation Genomics Consortium community
that conducts many eDNA projects.
Preparation:
Candidates should have a PhD in biology or a related
science eld and molecular biology laboratory experi-
ence evidenced by a strong record of scholarship. The
ideal candidate would have demonstrated interest or
some experience working in science communication and
education research, as well as undergraduate teaching
or public outreach. Candidates should demonstrate
strong written and verbal communication skills, inter-
est in pedagogical innovation, educational assessment,
and scholarship, excellent organization and management
abilities, experience working with diverse groups. Can-
didates also should possess skills in mentorship. They
must be willing to travel within California, including
multiple trips per year between Santa Cruz and Los
Angeles, and lead eldwork excursions to collect eDNA
on UC Natural Reserves. Candidates must have a valid
driver' ^As license.
The postdoctoral position is a minimum two-year ap-
pointment starting Spring 2018, with salary commensu-
rate with experience and following the UC salary scales.
To apply submit a cover letter, CV, and contact infor-
mation for three references here, or send all documents
directly to Beth Shapiro (bashapir@ucsc.edu).For inquiries about the position, please contact
Robert Wayne (rwayne@ucla.edu) or Beth Shapiro
(bashapir@ucsc.edu).
Review of applications will begin immediately and con-
tinue until the position is lled.
The University of California is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action Employer. All qualied ap-
plicants will receive consideration for employment with-
out regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin,
disability, age or protected veteran status. For the
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UCollege London MeioticDrive
Postdoctoral position: 'Sexual Selection, Condition De-
pendence and Meiotic Drive'
Department of Genetics, Evolution and Environment,
University College London
The Stalk-Eyed Fly Research Group led by Andrew Po-
miankowski and Kevin Fowler is seeking an experienced
and motivated evolutionary biologist Postdoc to assist
in delivery of a NERC-funded grant 'Sexual Selection,
Condition Dependence and Meiotic Drive'.
They will undertake large-scale experimental evolu-
tion experiments, analysis of sperm competition and
genotype-by-environment interactions in laboratory pop-
ulations, make behavioural observations, carry out ex-
periments at eld sites in Malaysia and analyse genomic
sequences for evidence of selection. Good insect hus-
bandry, laboratory and eld skills, experience using
genetic markers and high competence in statistical anal-
yses are strongly preferred. Experience of working with
and supervising students and technical sta are highly
desirable. The post holder should be highly motivated,
with good organisational skills and be able to work
independently without the requirement of day-to-day
supervision. The project has a major genomics com-
ponent which will be carried out in collaboration with
Prof Terry Burke, University of Sheeld.
The post is available to start within 3 months of 1 April
2018. 34,635-36,549 per annum, inclusive of LondonApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 97
Allowance. The appointment is for 3 years in the rst
instance.
A PhD in a relevant subject area (for example, evolu-
tionary biology, genetics, genomics) is essential as is
proven knowledge of relevant research techniques and
methodologies and demonstrable general expertise in
the subject area.
The Department of Genetics, Evolution and Environ-
ment is a world leading research centre with a highly
diverse group of researchers www.ucl.ac.uk/biosciences/-
departments/gee If you would like to discuss the post,
please contact Professor Andrew Pomiankowski ucbh-
pom@ucl.ac.uk
Formal applications (cover letter, CV, three ref-
erees) by 27th March via www.jobs.ac.uk/job/-
BHZ265/research-associate/ \Pomiankowski, Andrew"
<a.pomiankowski@ucl.ac.uk >
UCollege London
YeastSpeciationGenes
Postdoctoral position: 'Identication and analysis of
speciation genes in yeast\
The Department of Genetics, Evolution and Environ-
ment is seeking to appoint a postdoctoral Research
Associate to join Dr Duncan Greig's research group
in UCL's new Centre for Life's Origins and Evolution
(CLOE).
The Research Associate will be an active member of a
research project using budding yeast (Saccharomyces
cerevisiae, Saccharomyces paradoxus, and hybrids be-
tween them) to map, isolate, and analyse the genetic
dierences between species that contribute to their re-
productive isolation. The project will focus on two
traits, fertility and adaptation to temperature. The
project will require classical yeast genetics methods
including crossing, tetrad dissection, growth assays, li-
brary screening and genetic manipulations, as well as
high throughput sequencing and computational analysis.
The Research Associate will also be required to assist
in the development of research proposals and the plan-
ning and delivery of the results, so that the research
objectives of the project are met. They will be expected
to produce independent, original contributions to the
subject area.
This post is available immediately and is funded for
35 months in the rst instance. Salary is Grade 7:GBP 34,635 per annum inclusive of London Allowance.
(Please note that appointment at Grade 7 is dependent
upon having been awarded a PhD; if this is not the case,
initial appointment will be at research assistant Grade
6B with payment at Grade 7 being backdated to the
date of nal submission of the PhD thesis)
The successful candidate must hold (or be close to ob-
taining) a PhD in a relevant subject area and demon-
strable comprehensive knowledge in the subject area of
evolutionary biology, especially genetics of speciation,
AND/OR yeast biology and genetics. Proven knowl-
edge of research techniques and methodologies is also
essential.The post holder must demonstrate excellent
written & verbal communication skills and the ability
to present complex information eectively to a range
of audiences. Experience in statistical analysis in biol-
ogy (e.g. GLMs) AND/OR bioinformatic analysis of
high-throughput sequence data is essential.
For informal enquiries about the job, please contact Dr
Duncan Greig (d.greig@ucl.ac.uk). To apply for the
position or to read a full job description and person
specication, please follow this link:
https://atsv7.wcn.co.uk/search engine/-
jobs.cgi?SID=amNvZGU9MTcxMzYxNSZ2-
dF90ZW1wbGF0ZT05NjUmb3duZXI9NTA0MTE3OCZvd25lcnR5cGU9ZmFpciZicmFuZF9pZD0-
wJmpvYl9yZWZfY29kZT0xNzEzNjE1JnBvc3RpbmdfY29kZT0yMjQ
"Greig, Duncan\ <d.greig@ucl.ac.uk >
UConnecticut 3
EvolutionaryImmunology
University of Connecticut: Postdoctoral researcher in
Evolution and Immune Genetics.
A postdoctoral researcher position is available in
Dr. Daniel Bolnick's research group (https://-
bolnicklab.wordpress.com), in the Department of Ecol-
ogy and Evolution at the University of Connecticut.
Tasks: Recent work by the Bolnick lab identied natu-
rally evolved variation in stickleback shes' resistance
to a severe cestode parasite (Weber et al 2017 American
Naturalist; Weber et al 2017 Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences). The postdoc will spearhead an
NIH-funded study of the genetic and immunological
basis of rapidly-evolving host resistance to cestode in-
fection, and cestode immune suppression. Activities in-
clude experimental infections, immune challenges trans-
genic manipulations of the host and possibly cestode,98 EvolDir April 1, 2018
immune phenotype measurements, and genetic mapping.
Some eld research will also be likely. The postdoc will
be responsible for conducting lab and eld work, co-
supervising laboratory technicians and students, data
analysis and publication.
Duration: The position is available for up to four years,
subject to annual review of performance. The position
could extend longer, contingent on availability of addi-
tional grant funds. The postdoc should be able to start
in summer or fall 2018, exact dates to be negotiated
with the PI.
Compensation: Starting salary will be between $45-
$50,000 depending on experience, plus health benets.
Qualications: Applicants must have a PhD in genetics,
immunology, evolutionary biology, or a closely related
eld. Prior experience with molecular genetics or im-
munology is essential (preferably both). Expertise in
CRISPR/cas9 gene editing is a strong plus. Previous re-
search experience and publications should demonstrate
a commitment to basic research, good work ethic, lab
skills, organizational ability, and publication productiv-
ity.
Applications should electronically submit a single pdf
le containing the following, in order: 1) A statement
of past research achievements, including relevant skills.
This should not exceed two single-spaced pages.
2) A statement of what you can contribute to the Bol-
nick Lab's research, and how this ts into your career
goals. This should not exceed one single-spaced page.
3) CV 4) A copy of two publications or submitted
manuscripts.
3) A list of three references, with contact information
(email, telephone, and mailing address). We will request
letters directly from these references, after identifying
top candidates.
The application le should be emailed to Dr. Daniel Bol-
nick ( daniel.bolnick@uconn.edu ). Include the subject
line \Immune Genetics Postdoc: <YOUR NAME >".
Applications must be received by April 2, 2018 for full
consideration, though the position is open until lled.
For questions about this position, please email Dr.
Bolnick (daniel.bolnick@uconn.edu). For information
about the Bolnick Lab (presently at the University
of Texas, moving to Connecticut this summer), visit
the lab website (https://bolnicklab.wordpress.com
), lab photostream (https://www.ickr.com/-
photos/98765823@N08/albums), and Dr. Bolnick's
Google Scholar page (https://scholar.google.com/-
citations?user=cfwxm0AAAAAJ&hl=en).
The University of Connecticut is an Equal OpportunityEmployer. Applicants with questions about disability
services can privately discuss their application with the
University of Texas Disability Services Oce (http://-
sites.utexas.edu/disability/ ).
The Bolnick Lab is simultaneously searching for three
postdoctoral researchers, and two laboratory technicians.
With multiple positions open, this advertisement may
be of interest to dual career couples.
|{
University of Connecticut: Postdoctoral researcher in
Ecological and Evolutionary Immunology.
A postdoctoral researcher position is available in
Dr. Daniel Bolnick's research group (https://-
bolnicklab.wordpress.com), in the Department of Ecol-
ogy and Evolution at the University of Connecticut.
Tasks: Recent work by the Bolnick lab identied natu-
rally evolved variation in stickleback shes' resistance
to a severe cestode parasite (Weber et al 2017 Amer-
ican Naturalist; Weber et al 2017 Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences), including the evolution
of a protective but damaging immune response. This
postdoctoral position is intended to pursue creative ba-
sic research related to the evolution and ecology of host
defense and parasite immune evasion. Open questions
include the ecological and historical context that favors
versus inhibits the
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UFlorida
HumanEvolutionaryGenetics
Post-doctoral position in Human Evolutionary Genet-
ics and Epigenetics, Laboratory of Connie Mulligan,
Department of Anthropology, Genetics Institute, Uni-
versity of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA
Post-doctoral position to work on two ongoing NSF and
internally funded projects: 1) Investigation of an epi-
genetic mechanism to mediate the eects of maternal
stress on maternal and infant health in the Democratic
Republic of Congo (DRC). We are testing for associa-
tions between maternal stress exposures, newborn healthApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 99
outcomes and changes in DNA methylation and gene
expression in mothers and their infants. More broadly,
we are interested in the idea that mechanisms may have
evolved to allow the genome to respond to psychosocial
stressors, specically behavior and complex phenotypes
may be shaped by early life experiences that alter gene
expression through epigenetic alterations. Samples and
data have already been collected and research is funded
by NSF. See http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/-
10.4161/epi.21180 and http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/-
doi/10.1111/cdev.12487/epdf . 2) Investigation of ge-
netic, epigenetic, and biological signatures of war trauma
exposures and impact of a program intervention in Syr-
ian refugees. This is a collaboration with Catherine
Panter-Brick (Anthropology, Yale University) and Rana
Dajani (Hashemite University, Jordan) to integrate ge-
netic and epigenetic analyses into an ongoing study to
measure the eects of violence and trauma in Syrian
refugees. The rst project is an intergeneration study
to investigate the epigenetic impacts in ospring of
mothers and grandmothers who were exposed to war
trauma while pregnant. The overarching question is
to determine if trauma-induced methylation changes
are heritable across two generations in humans. In the
second project, genetic variants are being assayed to
predict the impact of past trauma exposures and the
eects of a program intervention on self-reported mental
health in Syrian refugee youth. Epigenetic variants will
be tested as possible mediators of the eect of stress on
mental health outcomes. See project website at http://-
www.elrha.org/map-location/yale-psychosocial-call2/ .
Qualications: A PhD, good publication record, and
strong background in the generation of genetic data
(microarray, gene expression, NGS, SNP detection) and
data analysis (gene association analysis, regression anal-
ysis, genetic ancestry estimation, linkage analysis, etc)
are essential. A background in evolutionary genetics
and experience with methylation data (Illumina chips,
pyrosequencing, etc), RNA sequence or gene expression
array data, and/or additional computational or bioin-
formatics experience is a plus. Candidates who speak
French or Swahili are encouraged to apply. In addition
to the projects listed above, there are excellent opportu-
nities for the successful candidate to develop new lines
of research as well as productive collaborations outside
the lab.
The University of Florida is one of the top 10 pub-
lic universities in the country with a university-wide
commitment to genetics research. The Department of
Anthropology (www.anthro.u.edu) has 30 full-time fac-
ulty with diverse interests and is one of the top rated
programs in the country (6th among public institutions,
11th overall). The University of Florida Genetics In-stitute (www.ufgi.u.edu), where the Mulligan lab is
located, is an inter-college institute with a dedicated
research building intended to enhance opportunities for
collaboration. Gainesville is located in north central
Florida (away from the hurricanes!), with average tem-
peratures ranging from 45F to 90F. Beaches on the gulf
and Atlantic coast are ~1^A1
2hours away.
To apply: via email, send a CV, statement of research
interests, and names and contact information for three
references. Applications and inquiries should be ad-
dressed to Connie Mulligan at cmulligan@u.edu.
| Connie J. Mulligan, PhD Professor, Department of
Anthropology 2033|Mowry Rd, PO Box 103610 jUni-
versity of Florida jGainesville, FL 32610-3610 Oce:
409 Genetics Institute jTelephone: 352-273-8092 jFax:
352-273-8284 Website: http://www.clas.u.edu/users/-
mulligan/Webpage/index.html \Connie J. Mulligan"
<cmulligan@ad.u.edu >
UGlasgow ExptEvolMicrobes
Post-Doctoral Position at University of Glasgow in Ex-
perimental Evolution & Ecology of Salmonid-associated
microbiota.
Appointee will make a leading contribution to a project
aimed at understanding the signicance of salmonid gut
microbiota, part of which involves the development of a
model salmon gut microbiome simulator (SalmoSim). In
addition to developing a model system to understand mi-
crobiome ecology and evolution, the project will explore
the contribution of commensal microbiota to salmonid
physiology, health and nutrition. The post will integrate
you into an international team of researchers between
the UK, Ireland and Norway and you will play a role
in advising several established PhD students in the lab.
See http://sheye.ucc.ie/ for consortium details.
Specically, the post holder will conduct, manage and
publish research in the area of environmental microbi-
ology, host-microbe interactions and nutrition as well
as assist in managing and directing this complex and
challenging project. The post represents an exciting
opportunity for an advanced post-doctoral researcher
enthusiastic to make a footprint in a rapidly growing
eld. There will be signicant opportunity for interact-
ing with commercial and industrial partners as well as
to lead on excellent and pioneering research.
Salary will be on the Research & Teaching Grade, level100 EvolDir April 1, 2018
7, pounds 34,520 - pounds 38,833 per annum. This post
is oered on a full time (35 hours) and open-ended basis
with funding to April 2020 and the possibility of a 6-12
month extension. DEADLINE 16th April 2018
If interested, please email Martin Llewellyn (Mar-
tin.llewellyn@glasgow.ac.uk) for further details and
apply through this link: http://www.jobs.ac.uk/-
job/BIG357/research-associate/ Martin Llewellyn
<Martin.Llewellyn@glasgow.ac.uk >
UGlasgow
VirusEvolutionEpidemiology
Postdoctoral position in virus evolution and epidemiol-
ogy
A 2.5-year postdoc position in available in the research
group of Roman Biek in the Institute of Biodiversity,
Animal Health and Comparative Medicine at the Uni-
versity of Glasgow.
We are looking for a computational biologist interested
in pathogen evolution and epidemiology to work on a
project aimed at uncovering the role of evolutionary
and environmental factors in virus emergence, spread
and persistence, using bluetongue virus (BTV) as the
study system. BTV is an RNA virus responsible for a
globally important vector-borne disease in domestic and
wild ungulates that has made repeated incursions into
Europe in recent decades. Previous work in our group
has highlighted the importance of genomic reassortment
(Nomikou et al., 2015) and of large-scale environmen-
tal variability in the spread of European BTV strains
(Jacquot et al. 2017). The aim of the current project
is to study dynamics of BTV emergence and transmis-
sion, and the underlying mechanisms, at the scale of
individual outbreaks through the integrated analysis of
genomic, spatial and temporal data. The post is funded
as part of a large European research consortium entitled
\Understanding pathogen, livestock, and environment
interactions involving bluetongue virus" (PALE-Blu,
http://www.palebludata.com).
The applicant should have a PhD in a relevant eld of
biology or bioinformatics. Previous experience in com-
putational analysis of genetic sequence data and strong
quantitative skills will be essential, ideally including
familiarity with high-throughput sequencing and large
genomic data sets. The genetic data will be generated
through project collaborators, so the work is exclusivelyfocussed on data analysis and no lab skills are required.
Knowledge of epidemiological models, phylodynamic ap-
proaches, and pathogen evolution would be desirable but
not essential. The candidate should be self-motivated
and be able to work independently and have excellent
communication skills. In addition to drafting scientic
papers, the candidate would be expected to present at
scientic conferences and manage collaborations with
project partners.
Salary will be on the Research & Teaching Grade, level
6/7 - 28,098 - 31,604/34,520 - 38,833 per annum.
This post is available immediately (though exact start-
ing time is negotiable) and is oered on a full time and
open-ended basis with funding to October 2020.
Potential applicants are encouraged to make in-
formal inquiries to roman.biek@glasgow.ac.uk.
Formal applications need to be submitted under
http://www.jobs.ac.uk/job/BIH789/research-assistant-
research-associate/ .The application deadline is 19
April 2018.
The University of Glasgow's Institute of Biodiversity,
Animal Health and Comparative Medicine (IBAHCM)
is internationally recognised for its research expertise in
quantitative ecological and evolutionary approaches for
studying the dynamics of infectious disease and provid-
ing solutions for their control. In the 2014 REF, Glasgow
was ranked 3rd in the UK in Agriculture, Veterinary
and Food Science, with 82% of impact and 91% of
outputs considered 'internationally excellent' or 'world
leading'. Biek is a member of the Boyd Orr Centre for
Population and Ecosystem Health at Glasgow, represent-
ing an interdisciplinary group of ecologists, veterinary
scientists, evolutionary biologists, mathematicians and
engineers, which was awarded the Queen's Anniversary
Prize in 2013. http://www.gla.ac.uk/boydorr/ In Oct
2016 the Institute of Biodiversity, Animal Health &
Comparative Medicine was awarded an Athena SWAN
Silver departmental award. The award demonstrates
our commitment to best practice in recruiting and sup-
porting the career development and progression of fe-
male scientists, addressing gender inequalities in higher
education. http://www.gla.ac.uk/researchinstitutes/-
bahcm/institute/athenaswan/ References
Nomikou, K., Hughes, J., Wash, R., Kellam, P., Breard,
E., Zientara, S., Palmarini, M., Biek, R*. and Mertens,
P*., 2015. Widespread reassortment shapes the evo-
lution and epidemiology of bluetongue virus following
European invasion. PLoS Pathogens, 11(8), p.e1005056.
doi:10.1371/journal.ppat.1005056 *joint senior authors
Jacquot, M., Nomikou, K., Palmarini, M., Mertens,
P. and Biek, R., 2017. Bluetongue virus spread inApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 101
Europe is a consequence of climatic, landscape and
vertebrate host factors as revealed by phylogeographic
inference. Proc. R. Soc. B, 284(1864), p.20170919.
doi:10.1098/rspb.2017.0919
Dr. Roman Biek Institute of Biodiversity, Animal
Health and Comparative Medicine University of Glasgow
Rm 401, Graham Kerr Building, Glasgow G12 8QQ
Email: roman.biek@glasgow.ac.uk
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UGothenburg Sweden
BirdsMacroevolution
https://www.gu.se/english/about theuniversity/job-
opportunities/vacancies-details/?id=2001 Researcher
in Anthropogenic biases in macroecological and
macroevolutionary patterns in birds
*Project description* Birds are one of the most charis-
matic and well-studied group of animals, yet we
know very little about how humans have aected
their global patterns of diversity and evolutionary
history. This project is part of a larger initiative
funded by the Swedish Research Council titled \Is
biodiversity understandable from contemporary dis-
tributions?" with Sren Faurby (goo.gl/9S6nuP) as
a PI and Tim Blackburn (goo.gl/9LWXfk; a bird
macro-ecologist at University College London) and
Manuel Steinbauer (goo.gl/UEiG7T; an island biologist
at Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen-N urnberg)
as co-applicants. The work will involve close col-
laboration with this team as well as additional re-
searchers at Gothenburg University, especially mem-
bers of the Antonelli Lab (http://antonelli-lab.net/).
Earlier work by the PI has discovered substantial bi-
ases in macro-scale analyses of mammals, when con-
clusions are drawn based only on present-day distribu-
tions (e.g. http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/-
ddi.12369/full; http://www.pnas.org/content/113/4/-
868.short; http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/-
ecog.02287/abstract). The goal of this project is to
investigate whether those biases are restricted to mam-
mals (which could be particularly sensitive to anthro-
pogenic impacts), or are more general and aect otherorganisms.
*Job assignments* - Retrieving and analyzing informa-
tion on the taxonomy of extinct birds - Estimating
and analysing potential present-natural distribution of
all bird species and the dierences between these and
contemporary patterns
*Employment* The employment is a full-time position
for 18 months. The physical placement will be at the
University of Gothenburg, Department of Biological and
EnvironmentalScience but may include shorter stays at
University College London or Friedrich-Alexander Uni-
versity Erlangen-N urnberg.
*Eligibility* The applicant must hold a PhD in an area
relevant for the tasks at hand (macroecology, ornithol-
ogy, spatial analysis, macroevolution, palaeontology, or
related elds). Note that the thesis must be awarded
prior to the Closing date of this position.
*Necessary qualications* - Documented capacity to
work in groups and independently - Advanced skills in
R or potentially another analytical platform - Excellent
communication skills, written and spoken, in English are
necessary since we work in an international environment.
*Desirable qualications* - A strong publication record
(relative to the applicants' scientic age) - Experience
with handling and ideally generating large databases -
Experience with spatial and macro-evolutionary analy-
ses - Knowledge of the study group (birds) - Experience
in palaeontology and or taxonomy
*The application should be written in English and must
include:* - A cover letter with the applicant's justi-
cation for the application which describes how the
applicant meets the selection criteria and potentially
her/his plans for this project (max. two A4 pages) - A
list of qualications (full CV) - Certicate of PhD exam
and other relevant education - Complete list of publi-
cations, including submitted and accepted manuscripts
highlighting the up to ve most important papers re-
lated to the application - Contact information for at
least two referees that are familiar with the applicant's
work - A single pdf including all the documents above
for easier evaluation
*How to apply* In order to apply for a position at
the University of Gothenburg, you have to register an
account in our online recruitment system. It is the
responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the appli-
cation is complete in accordance with the instructions
in the job advertisement, and that it is submitted before
the deadline. The selection of candidates is made on the
basis of the qualications registered in the application.
*Closing date: 2018-04-15*102 EvolDir April 1, 2018
*For further information please contact* Assist. Prof.
Sren Faurby Email: soren.faurby @bioenv.gu.se
-
Sren Faurby http://antonelli-lab.net S oren Faurby
<soren.faurby@bioenv.gu.se >
UIceland Bioinformatics
The University of Iceland is seeking a Post doctoral
researcher in bioinformatics to work on research and
to build up bioinformatic services. The university has
established Mimir, a computer cluster for bioinformatic
analyses. The researcher will have dual responsibilities,
one as a bioinformatics manager working with dierent
research groups, many of which take part in the Biomed-
ical center, University of Iceland (http://lifvisindi.hi.is/)
and the other as a researcher working with the Melsted
bioinformatics group (https://melstedlab.github.io).
Field of work The managerial duties are, installing
and maintaining selected bioinformatic programs and
libraries, establish analysis workows, assist groups with
specic projects and analyses, train graduate students
and other researchers. The research project with the
Melsted group will focus on development of algorithms
for high throughput sequencing and programs for analy-
ses of DNA/RNA assembly or RNA quantication. The
candidate will have an opportunity to take part in on-
going research projects, earn co-authorship on scientic
manuscripts, and perform independent research.
Qualication requirements - Doctoral degree in bioinfor-
matics, computational biology, biostatistics, or equiva-
lent. - Extensive experience working in bioinformatics,
computational biology, biostatistics, or equivalent is
required. - Practical experience with linux and bioin-
formatics, for example installing programs, scripts, li-
braries and handling updates, programming and script-
ing in Python, R/Bioconductor and bash and run next-
generation genome data analyses programs is essential.
- Direct experience and interest in developing bioinfor-
matic software and develop accessible tools and work-
ows for the scientic community is desired.
How to apply The position is available for two years
with a possibility of an extension should the project
be continued. The applicant is expected to start the
position as soon as possible.
Please include the following with the application: - De-
scription of how the applicant meets the requirements,interests in the project and how they can contribute
to the project (max 2 pages). - CV. - Certicates of
education (BSc, MSc, PhD) and distribution of grades.
- The name, telephone number and e-mail address of
two referrals (with a statement of their connection to
the applicant).
Overview of publications if applicable. Applicants are
also invited to send PDF of MS and/or PhD thesis (in
any language) and any other relevant publications if
available (max 5 documents).
Salary will be according to the current collective wage
and salary agreement between the Union of University
Teachers and the Minister of Finance.
All applicants will receive a reply and they will be in-
formed as to the selection of a successful applicant when
the decision has been made. Applications may be valid
for up to 6 months after the closing of the application
deadline.
Appointments to positions at the University of Iceland
are made in consideration of the Equal Rights Policy of
the University of Iceland.
The University of Iceland has a special Language Policy.
The School of Engineering and Natural Sciences employs
ca. 360 people in academic positions. The School oers
an international working environment, with the num-
ber of international employees and students increasing
each year. Currently about quarter of all employees and
graduate students are international. There are around
2900 students at the School, divided into six faculties,
including approximately 350 MS students and 150 doc-
toral students. Research institutes at the School are the
Science Institute that divides into the Institute of Earth
Sciences and Institute of Physical Sciences, Institute of
Life and Environmental Sciences, Engineering Research
Institute and the Institute for Sustainability Studies
which is an interdisciplinary institute and belongs to
the ve schools of the University of Iceland.
The University of Iceland is the largest teaching, re-
search and science institute in Iceland.
For further information contact Professor Pall Melsted
(pmelsted@hi.is) or Associate Professor Arnar Palsson
(apalsson@hi.is).
Deadline
The application deadline is through the 3rd April, 2018
https://ugla.hi.is/radningar/index.php?sid=-
2448&starf=295 { Arnar Palsson - Associate
Professor in Bioinformatics Faculty of Life and Environ-
mental Sciences University of Iceland Sturlugata 7, 101
Reykjavik, Iceland Tel: +(354) 525 4265 Fax: +(354)April 1, 2018 EvolDir 103
525 4632 E-mail: apalsson@hi.is uni.hi.is/apalsson/en/
Arnar P alsson <apalsson@hi.is >
UIdaho GalapagosLandSnails
Hi, The Parent Lab at the University of Idaho seeks
a dynamic and highly motivated postdoc researcher
to conduct independent research on the evolutionary
ecology of adaptive radiation using a suite of evolution-
ary, ecological, and biogeographical approaches. Gala-
pagos land snails of the genus Naesiotus is the most
speciose adaptive radiation on these islands and present
an opportunity to quantify phenotypic diversication
across islands varying in community complexity. The
postdoc will have substantial exibility in pursuing on-
going projects in this system, potentially focusing on
analyses of genomic data, quantitative genetics, and
multivariate phenotypic variation. Alternative research
directions will also be considered. Our lab is aliated
with IBEST <http://www.ibest.uidaho.edu/ >(Insti-
tute for Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Studies) and
CMCI <http://www.cmciuidaho.org/ >(Center for
Modeling Complex Interactions), and we have a very
interactive department supporting a vibrant commu-
nity of evolutionary biologists. We are located in a
beautiful part of the country, in the nice small friendly
town of Moscow in the Pacic Northwest in relatively
close proximity to many national parks, Seattle, and
Portland. The position will run for a minimum of one
year, with opportunity for extension. Start date is as
soon as possible but exible for the right candidate. To
apply, please submit as a single PDF le a cover letter
detailing interest in the position, a research statement,
CV, up to three recent and relevant publications, and
contact information for three references to Christine
Parent (ceparent@uidaho.edu). Review of applications
starts on April 9th, 2018 and continue until the position
is lled.
Basic qualications: Ph.D. or equivalent degree in biol-
ogy, evolution, genetics, bioinformatics, or related eld.
Publications resulting from dissertation and broad inter-
est in the evolution and ecology of adaptive radiation.
Preferred qualications: Evidence of expertise in any
area of genomic basis of adaptation, or quantication
of natural selection in the eld. There will be opportu-
nities for eldwork if desired, but this is not required
for the position.
Christine Parent, PhD Assistant ProfessorBiological Sciences University of Idaho Phone: 208-885-
4016
E-mail: ceparent@uidaho.edu Lab website: http:/-
/parentlab.weebly.com/ \Parent, Christine (cepar-
ent@uidaho.edu)" <ceparent@uidaho.edu >
UKonstanz
CichlidSpeciesDelimitation
Postdoctoral Position: Species delimitations in East
African Cichlid Fish adaptive radiations A three year
postdoctoral position working with Axel Meyer in the
Evolutionary Biology Group at the University of Kon-
stanz in Germany is available immediately. Funding is
available through a grant of the German Science Foun-
dation.
The project focuses on empirical and conceptual issues
regarding species delimitation and hybridization in East
African Rift Lake cichlid shes. The research will center
around the use of whole genome level data to resolve
species boundaries in rapidly diversifying cichlid lin-
eages in Lakes Victoria, Malawi, and Tanganyika. The
work will make use of previously sequenced high-quality
genomes as well as de novo sequencing of cichlid genomes
to generate marker sets and guidelines within modern an-
alytical frameworks for genomically diagnosing species.
The funding period would be for three years and salary
will be determined based on the German salary scheme
TV-L E13 (annual before-tax salary is about 68,000
Euros, or about 83,000 USD).
The Evolutionary Biology group in Konstanz is com-
posed of ~20 postdoc and graduate students. The col-
laborative research environment in the lab is highly inte-
grative, very international, and operates fully in English.
Therefore, the ability to speak German would be a plus,
but is not essential. Further information on researchers
and research in evolutionary biology in the Meyer lab
can be obtained here: http://www.evolutionsbiologie-
uni-konstanz.com/ . Konstanz is a very beautiful and
pleasant place to live as it borders the third largest lake
in Central Europe and lies at the foothills of the Alps.
The University of Konstanz is an equal opportunity
employer and is rated as one of the best universities in
Germany.
Requirements: PhD in biology and/or bioinformatics.
Skills we would like you to have: understanding of phylo-
genetic methodology, knowledge of wet-bench molecular104 EvolDir April 1, 2018
techniques would be a plus, proven familiarity with
high-throughput sequencing analyses, facility with one
or more programming languages (such as Python, Perl,
or R), and at least three peer-reviewed publications. Ap-
plications should be sent to Axel Meyer (axel.meyer@uni-
konstanz.de) and include (1) a cover letter explaining
your background and motivation, (2) a CV, and (3)
email addresses of two references.
The deadline for applications is the 1st of May.
Review of applications will begin immediately and the
position lled asap. The starting date is exible.
darrin.hulsey@uni-konstanz.de
ULausanne
ComputationalPopulationGenomics
*Post-doctoral position available in Computational Pop-
ulation Genomics*
A postdoctoral position in computational population
genomics is available in the research group of Anna-
Sapfo Malaspinas in the Department of Computational
Biology at the University of Lausanne.
In our group, we generally aim at characterizing evolu-
tionary processes while relying on genomics data from
both modern and ancient samples. We develop analyti-
cal and computational methods to analyze and interpret
population genomic data and we apply those methods
to novel DNA datasets via collaborative projects.
We are looking for a computational biologist to analyze
novel ancient human genomic datasets to further char-
acterize how humans peopled regions such as the Pacic
or the Americas. The main project for this position
includes the coordination of data generation (poten-
tially including eld trips), data analysis with existing
computational methods as well as extensive simulations
for validations of results. Depending on interests and
skill sets, the candidate could also decide to develop
novel computational methods to characterize evolution-
ary processes relying on time serial data. Finally it is
possible to set some time aside for i) a personal side
project, ii) gaining experience in training master and
PhD students and iii) applying for grants for the next
academic steps.
*Requirements* - PhD in computational biology, popula-
tion genetics or related elds. - Programming experience
(e.g. python, R or C/C++, ^ a euro ^A). - Good knowl-edge of probability and statistics, including Markovian
processes. - Experience of UNIX environment.
*Department of Computational Biology, University of
Lausanne* Lausanne is a medium-sized city on the
shores of Lake Geneva, surrounded by a wine growing
region recognized as a UNESCO World Heritage Site,
and within one hour of the Alps. It oers a great variety
of cultural, recreational and outdoor opportunities.
The University of Lausanne (UNIL) is a higher teaching
and research institution where approximately 14,000
students and nearly 4,000 collaborators, professors, and
researchers work and study. Ideally situated along the
lake of Geneva, near Lausanne's city center, its campus
brings together over 120 nationalities.
The department of Computational Biology is a friendly
new department within the University of Lausanne with
expertises among the groups ranging from disease map-
ping, quantitative genetics, cancer genomics, phyloge-
netics, medical genetics and gene expression.
Our group recently moved to UNIL while also joining
the SIB Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics. We are a
multidisciplinary and international group.
*Timeline and contract* Starting dates are exible but
the candidate should start in 2018 (ideally before July).
It is meant to be a full time position but a lower rate is
negotiable e.g. for family reasons. Annual salaries are
competitive (about CHF 80,000 ~USD 80,000 ~Euro
68,000/year) and there is available funding for three
years while contracts are renewed annually.
*How to apply* Interested applicants should send a CV,
contact information for three references, as well as a
cover letter stating general research interests as well as
motivation to join the group. If the candidate would like
to work on their own side project, a short description
should be sent along as well.
Please follow the instructions here: popgen.ch/jobs to
submit your application.
The review of applications will start on March 1 2018
and will continue until a suitable candidate is found.
{ Anna-Sapfo Malaspinas jPopulation Genomics Group j
Department of Computational Biology jGenopode oce
4008jUniversity of Lausanne jCH-1015jLausanne,
Switzerlandjtel: +41 21 692 4149 jwebsite: popgen.ch
jemail: annasapfo.malaspinas@unil.ch
\annasapfo.malaspinas@unil.ch"
<annasapfo.malaspinas@unil.ch >April 1, 2018 EvolDir 105
ULausanne
EvolutionaryGenomicsNeurogenetics
A postdoc position is available within the lab of Roman
Arguello at University of Lausanne's (UNIL) Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolution.
We are a newly formed lab interested in understand-
ing the genetic and neural bases of sensory evolution.
We take a very interdisciplinary approach that bridges
computational/comparative genomics with neurogenet-
ics. Our model organisms are diverse Drosophila species
from around the globe, and we are particularly interested
in the evolution of neural circuits and in the evolution-
ary processes related to the rapid changes underlying
olfaction and temperature preference.
The specic focus for this position will be on olfactory
evolution. The projects will relate repeated gains/losses
in olfactory receptors to the evolution of their protein
sequences, to their neural circuits, and to behavior.
This work will test hypotheses about how the olfac-
tory system evolves, and to what extent these changes
are repeatable. Due to the cross-disciplinary nature
of the research, there is a range of opportunities for
contributing to the projects depending on particular
interests and strengths (i.e. comparative/population
genomics, neurobiology, generation of transgenic tools
for new species).
Qualication include a PhD in genetics, evolutionary
biology, neurobiology, or a related eld, the ability to
be self-motivated and to work independently as well
as within a small group, good communication skills,
comfortable with public presentations, and the ability
to clearly document work. Additionally, expertise with
several of the following tasks is required, and an inter-
est/willingness to learn some of the others:
- molecular evolution and/or population genomic anal-
yses - statistics and next-generation sequence analy-
ses (programming/scripting in one or more languages
such as Python, Perl, R, etc.) - molecular biology
(CRISPR/Cas9 vector designs) - electrophysiology -
histochemistry/microscopy (dissecting, tissue prepara-
tions, antibody staining, uorescent in situ hybridiza-
tion, confocal imaging) - y genetics and maintenance -
y embryo injections for generating transgenic lines and
screening
This is a 100% position for an initial duration of one year,renewable up to 2 or 3 years depending on the start date
and funding available. The position is dedicated primar-
ily to research, however some contribution to teaching
is expected, including the possibility of assisting with
the supervision of master students.
The Department of Ecology and Evolution is a lively,
fun, productive, and highly diverse group. While UNIL
is a French-speaking university, the working language of
the Department and the Lab is English. For more infor-
mation about the Department of Ecology and Evolution
please see its page here: https://www.unil.ch/dee/en/-
home.html Lausanne is a scenic medium-sized city
situated on the edge of Lake Geneva. Life here is good.
Its central location within Europe makes traveling by
train and plane convenient. And for outdoor enthusiasts,
Lausanne sits at the base of Alps and Jura which oer
year-round escape and fun.
For more information about the Lab, or for further ques-
tions, please visit: arguellolab.org or email Roman at:
jacob.arguello@unil.ch
Formal applications need to be done through HR, and
must include a cover letter detailing your research in-
terests and background, a CV, and the contact info
for references (2-3). Applications should both be up-
loaded through the University of Lausanne platform
(link given below), and sent as a single pdf to ja-
cob.arguello@unil.ch.
Application Link: https://bit.ly/2Ge0DA5 University
equality policy: The University of Lausanne promotes
an equitable representation of men and women among
its sta and encourages applications from women and
minority groups.
\jacob.arguello@unil.ch" <jacob.arguello@unil.ch >
ULausanne MelaninEvolution
Evolution and coevolution of melanogenic genes
Melanin is the most widespread pigment in organisms.
Synthesis of melanin occurs all across the tree of life,
including in Eubacteria, Eukaryota, fungi, plants and
animals and, perhaps, Archaea. The widespread ca-
pacity of life to synthesize melanin indicates the bio-
logical importance of this pigment, possibly from the
very early stages of life. Melanins and pigmentations
based on them are targets of intense research, particu-
larly in animals and disparate elds such as oncology,
biotechnology, evolutionary biology and ecology. From106 EvolDir April 1, 2018
an evolutionary perspective, there is increasing evidence
that the expression of melanin-based coloration is often
linked to other aspects of an individual's phenotype.
Approximately 120 genes are known to be involved in
the production of melanin. However, the rate at which
these genes evolved and coevolved throughout the tree
of life is unknown. In the present project, we propose
to investigate the molecular evolution of melanogenic
genes. Specically, the goal is to determine the events
of positive and purifying selection as well as how the
dierent genes coevolved.
Please see Dib L, San-Jose Garcia L, Ducrest A-L,
Salamin N, Roulin A. 2017. Selection on the major
color gene melanocortin-1-receptor shaped the evolution
of the melanocortin system genes. International Journal
of Molecular Sciences 18, 2618.
The candidate should have a strong background in molec-
ular evolution, phylogenetics and bioinformatics. A good
knowledge of evolutionary ecology would be a plus.
Duration: 1 year
Please contact:
Prof. Alexandre Roulin University of Lausanne De-
partement of Ecology and Evolution 1015 Lausanne
Alexandre.Roulin@unil.ch
Or
Prof. Nicolas Salamin University of Lausanne Departe-
ment of Computational Biology 1015 Lausanne Nico-
las.Salamin@unil.ch
Alexandre Roulin <alexandre.roulin@unil.ch >
ULausanne PlantEvolution
Postdoc position, Department of Ecology and Evolution,
University of Lausanne, Switzerland
A postdoctoral position in plant evolutionary biology is
available in the research group of John Pannell in the
Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of Lau-
sanne. The postdoc will join a team of other postdocs
and PhD students working on aspects of plant evolution,
with a current emphasis on the evolution of plant sexual
systems, sexual dimorphism, and the resolution of sex-
ual antagonism in dioecious and hermaphroditic plants.
For details, see https://www.unil.ch/dee/pannell-group .
Research scope and skills sought The postdoc's research
direction and projects can be tailored to her or his inter-
ests and expertise. However, apart from having a stronginterest (and PhD) in evolutionary biology and/or pop-
ulation genetics, we are ideally seeking someone with
a skill set that includes at least one of the following:
generation and analysis of genomic and transcriptomic
NGS data; evolutionary, population genetic or demo-
graphic modelling; experimental design and statistics.
Experience and an interest in working with plants could
be an advantage, e.g., including managing glasshouse,
common garden and/or eld experiments. The success-
ful candidate should also have good communication and
interpersonal skills, and an ability to work in a team.
Although not a requirement, some knowledge of French
would be an asset.
Host Department and University The Department of
Ecology and Evolution hosts a broad range of research
groups, and its members enjoy a lively intellectual and
social life. Although the University of Lausanne is fran-
cophone, the department is highly international, and
all its research activity and seminars are conducted in
English. The University has seven faculties and approx-
imately 14,300 students and 3,900 researchers from over
120 countries. It is situated on a beautiful campus on
the shores of Lake Geneva, and is close to the Swiss and
French Alps.
Contract details The position is envisaged at 100% for
an initial period of one year, with a possible renewal
of one or two years, depending on funding. Most of
the postdoc's time will be dedicated to research, but
a contribution to teaching is expected, including the
possibility of supervising master students. The starting
date is exible, but funding is available immediately.
Applications Informal enquiries for further details of
the aims of the project should be sent to John Pan-
nell (john.pannell@unil.ch). Formal applications should
include a cover letter detailing your research interests,
experience and motivation for applying, a CV, and the
names of two or three referees. Applications should
both be uploaded through the University of Lausanne
platform (link given below), and sent as a single pdf to
john.pannell@unil.ch. Applications received by April 06
will receive full consideration.
Application link: http://bit.ly/2FTtgX0
University equality policy The University of Lausanne
promotes an equitable representation of men and women
among its sta and encourages applications from women
and minority groups.
John Pannell <john.pannell@unil.ch >April 1, 2018 EvolDir 107
UMichigan
EvolutionEcologyHerpetology
Postdoctoral position: Evolutionary ecology of reptiles
and amphibians
A postdoctoral position in the evolutionary ecology of
reptiles and amphibians is available in Alison Davis Ra-
bosky's lab at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.
The postdoctoral researcher will both collaborate on and
develop projects in one or more of the following areas:
evolutionary genomics of snake coloration and venom,
the evolution of integrated anti-predator phenotypes
(e.g., behavior and coloration) in snake mimicry sys-
tems, morphological evolution and diversication across
squamates, and/or the evolutionary origin and stabil-
ity of novel phenotypes more generally. While our lab
has ongoing projects in all of these areas, we welcome
integration of independent research in related areas as
part of this collaboration. This position is expected to
have some combination of laboratory and eld work,
especially targeting reptile and amphibian communities
in the Neotropics.
We are especially seeking applicants with a strong back-
ground in both evolution and herpetology, as well as
generation and analysis of high throughput genomic
data or 3-dimensional CT-based morphological data.
Programming experience in R and/or Python is highly
desirable, as is a love of scientic writing.
The position oers exciting opportunities for indepen-
dent research, mentoring, and career development, as
we have an outstanding group of researchers in evolu-
tionary biology and biodiversity science in the Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology. We also
welcome applicants with particular interest in contribut-
ing to and/or utilizing our world-class herpetological
collections in the UM Museum of Zoology (https://-
lsa.umich.edu/ummz/herps.html).
Applications should be sent to ardr at umich.edu. Please
include a cover letter describing your research interests
and background, a CV, one reprint of your favorite rst-
author publication or other writing sample, and contact
information for three references. Review of applications
will begin on March 31, 2018 and will continue until
the position is lled (start date is exible). Any ques-
tions about the position can be directed to Alison Davis
Rabosky (https://lsa.umich.edu/eeb/people/faculty/-ardr.html).
More information about the Davis Rabosky lab can
be found at: http://www-personal.umich.edu/ ~ardr/-
index.html \ardr@umich.edu" <ardr@umich.edu >
UMontana EvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoctoral Research Associate - Evolutionary Ge-
nomics, University of Montana
The Miller Lab in the Division of Biological Sci-
ences at the University of Montana, Missoula (http:/-
/hs.umt.edu/dbs/labs/miller) is hiring a postdoctoral
research associate in the area of evolutionary genomics.
The nature of the project is exible but should inves-
tigate the mechanisms responsible for the origins and
maintenance of bacterial diversity. Recent projects have
focused on the mechanisms of gene duplicate retention
in bacteria with exceptionally high duplication rates, the
population genomics of local adaptation along an envi-
ronmental gradient and the maintenance of variation by
ancient balancing selection (http://www.nature.com/-
articles/s41559-017-0435-9). A Ph.D. in biology or a
related eld is required, and the successful candidate
will demonstrate a strong background in molecular evo-
lution and genomics as well as prociency with Python
and/or Perl.
The Division of Biological Sciences at the University
of Montana (hs.umt.edu/dbs) is home to a diverse and
highly interactive faculty, and the Miller lab is housed
in newly constructed space dedicated to genomics re-
search. Missoula is a great college town located in
the heart of the Rocky Mountains with an exceptional
quality of life. For more information on this posi-
tion and our research, please contact Scott Miller at
scott.miller@umontana.edu.
To apply, please visit http://umjobs.silkroad.com and
click the job title for this position (Tracking Code 1811-
254) under All Openings. Candidates must apply online
and will be asked to upload the following application
materials: a cover letter describing research interests
and qualications, a CV, and the names and contact
information for three references. The appointment is a
12-month Letter of Appointment with exible start date,
renewable for up to two years with a possible extension
to a third year.
University of Montana is an ADA/EOE/AA/Veteran's
Preference Employer108 EvolDir April 1, 2018
\Scott.Miller@mso.umt.edu"
<Scott.Miller@mso.umt.edu >
UMontana EvolutonaryGenomics
*Postdoctoral Research Associate Evolutionary Ge-
nomics, University of Montana*
A postdoctoral position on the evolution of gene regula-
tory pathways and the developmental basis of speciation
is available in the laboratory of Jerey Good at the Uni-
versity of Montana, Missoula. The position is part of an
NIH-funded research program on the evolution of gene
expression during embryonic development and the con-
tribution of hybrid regulatory breakdown to mammalian
speciation. The research utilizes a systems genomics ap-
proach combining experimental quantitative genetics in
rodent models with high-throughput genomic methods
(transcriptomics and epigenomics) to link mechanisms
of gene regulatory evolution to complex phenotypes in
developing placenta and embryos. We seek a candidate
with a strong background in molecular biology, quanti-
tative genetics, evolution, and/or genomics. A Ph.D. in
biology or a related eld is required. Candidates with
previous experience collecting and analyzing large-scale
genomic data are strongly encouraged to apply.
The University of Montana oers a vibrant research
community. The Good lab shares newly constructed
molecular and computational space with ve other out-
standing groups, as part of an entire oor dedicated
to evolutionary genomics research. Missoula is a great
college town located in the heart of the Rocky Moun-
tains of western Montana. For further information on
this position and our research please visit the Good
Lab website (thegoodlab.org) and email Dr. Good di-
rectly at jerey.good@umontana.edu. All applicants are
encouraged to contact Dr. Good prior to applying.
To apply, please visit http://umjobs.silkroad.com and
click the job title for this position under Current Open-
ings. Candidates must apply online, and will be asked
to upload the following application materials: a cover
letter describing your research interests and qualica-
tions, a CV, and the names and contact information for
three references. Applications will be reviewed upon re-
ceipt and the position will remain open until lled. The
position is available immediately with a exible start
date contingent on the needs of the preferred candidate.
*ADA/EOE/AA/Veteran's Preference Employer*Jerey M. Good, Ph.D.
Associate Professor Division of Biological Sciences
The University of Montana 32 Campus Drive, HS104
Missoula MT 59812 Phone: 406-243-5771 Fax: 406-
243-4184 Website: http://www.thegoodlab.org/ jef-
frey.m.good@gmail.com
UNorthTexasHealthScience
BioinformaticsPopulationGenetics
The Budowle lab (https://www.unthsc.edu/graduate-
school-of-biomedical-sciences/molecular-and-medical-
genetics/laboratory-faculty-and-sta/) at the University
of North Texas Health Science Center is a seeking
a postdoctoral research associate in the elds of
bioinformatics and population genomics. Candidates
must be procient in at least one coding language,
be able to work both independently and in a group
setting, and be motivated to apply their talents to the
eld of forensic genetics. The ideal candidate would
have a solid grounding in computation, population
genetics and statistics. Well-qualied candidates would
have prociencies in 2 of the 3 areas. The current
projects in the lab pertain to mixture interpretation
and the analysis of massively parallel sequencing data,
especially as it applies to short tandem repeats and
mitochondrial markers. The position is available for at
least 1 year with the possibility of renewal after that.
Interested candidates should send their CVs and a brief
statement of their research interests and goals to August
at August.Woerner@unthsc.edu for more information.
\August.Woerner@unthsc.edu"
<August.Woerner@unthsc.edu >
UPennsylvania
EvolutionInfectiousMicrobes
Postdoctoral Researcher University of Pennsylvania, De-
partment of Biology
The Evolution and Ecology of Disease Systems labora-
tory (https://web.sas.upenn.edu/brisson-lab/) at the
University of Pennsylvania is searching for a postdoc-
toral researcher to investigate evolutionary or ecologicalApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 109
processes in vector-borne microbial pathogen systems.
Vector-borne diseases are one of the most prevalent
types of emerging infectious diseases worldwide and are
a major threat to public health. Our current research
aims are to identify the factors that govern the emer-
gence of these pathogens by identifying patterns of, and
processes aecting, their population dynamics. The
main duties of the postdoctoral researcher could include
applying advanced molecular tools, processing and ana-
lyzing next generation sequence data including quality
control and bioinformatics, or applying advanced statis-
tical analyses to existing datasets. The ideal candidate
must have enthusiasm for evolutionary- or ecologically-
based questions and could have experience designing
and troubleshooting advanced molecular protocols, ana-
lyzing population genetic or genomic data, or building
and applying machine-learning algorithms.
The Department of Biology has a long-standing tradition
of maintaining an integrated research and educational
program across all basic biological sciences including
Ecology and Evolution, Plant Sciences, Molecular and
Cellular Biology, Genomics, and Neuroscience. The De-
partment values interdisciplinary research, collaboration,
and collegiality, emphasizing Life in its Natural Context.
The University of Pennsylvania has a strong group of
evolutionary biologists that frequently interact with each
other and with an accomplished group of microbiologists
in the Medical and Veterinary schools. Unlikely many
universities, the proximity of the medical, veterinary,
and arts and science schools are centrally located on
the Philadelphia campus, which promotes a cross-talk
and collaboration. The University of Pennsylvania is
an equal opportunity employer. Minorities, women, in-
dividuals with disabilities, and protected veterans are
encouraged to apply.
The position is available as early as Fall 2018. Salary
is commensurate with experience based on the NIH
guidelines.
To apply, please send (1) a cover letter outlining your
previous experiences that make you suited for this posi-
tion as well as your research, training, and career goals,
(2) CV, and (3) Contact information for 3 references
via email to dbrisson@sas.upenn.edu.
Please send enquiries to dbrisson@sas.upenn.edu
Dustin Brisson, Associate Professor Director, Evolution
and Ecology of Disease Systems Laboratory Depart-
ment of Biology University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia
PA 19104-6018 http://www.bio.upenn.edu/faculty/-
brisson/ https://web.sas.upenn.edu/brisson-lab/ \Bris-
son, Dustin" <dbrisson@sas.upenn.edu >UPittsburgh ExperimentalEvolution
Postdoc:Pittsburgh Experimental.Evolutionary.Ecology
The Turcotte Lab (www.martinturcotte.net) at the Uni-
versity of Pittsburgh is hiring a postdoc to experimen-
tally test the dynamic interplay between rapid evolution
and community ecology in the eld. Field experiments
could be combined with lab experiments, modeling, com-
parative approaches, or theoretical development. Al-
though I have some projects in mind, this position is
independent of current grants and thus allows you to
develop your own research questions. Start date is exi-
ble but I would prefer the candidate to begin as soon
as possible.
The Department of Biological Sciences at Pitt is a dy-
namic and growing team of enthusiastic researchers and
educators (6 new Assistant Prof. hires in E&E in the
last 1.5 years). The department also runs the Pymatun-
ing Lab of Ecology, which is equipped with lab space
and housing to facilitate eld-based research. The City
of Pittsburgh is a vibrant and beautiful place to live. It
is often voted the 'Most Livable City in the U.S.'.
Requirements: Candidates must have a PhD in Ecology,
Evolution, Genetics, or related topics. The position is
for 1 year with the option to extend for up to 2 more
years. A valid drivers license is required.
To apply for the position please send an email to me
(turcotte@pitt.edu) including a cover letter stating why
you are interested in the lab and your past research
experience. Please also include your C.V., the contact
information for three references, and up to 3 PDFs of
relevant publications or manuscripts in prep. Appli-
cants should submit their materials by March 30, 2018
to ensure full consideration.
Martin Turcotte, Ph.D. Assistant Professor, Department
of Biological Sciences University of Pittsburgh
\Turcotte, Martin" <TURCOTTE@pitt.edu >110 EvolDir April 1, 2018
USaoPaulo UCambridge
HostParasite
*Host-parasite ecology, evolution and genomics*
Universidade de Sao Paulo and University of Cambridge
We are seeking candidates interested in apply-
ing for a FAPESP postdoctoral fellowship (http://-
www.fapesp.br/en/5427) to work on a project on host-
parasite ecology, evolution and genomics. The project
is a collaboration between Rodrigo Cogni' lab at Uni-
versidade de Sao Paulo in Brazil and Frank Jiggins's
lab at Cambridge University in the UK. The project
has ongoing support from a Young Investigator Award
from FAPESP and a Newton Advanced Fellowship from
the Royal Society. We will investigate how the bacterial
endosymbiont *Wolbachia* and polymorphisms in the
*Drosophila* genome aect the virome of *Drosophila
*species in the wild. The project (1) uses modern
next-generation sequencing technologies to discover new
viruses in insects, (2) it is the rst study to comprehen-
sively investigate virus resistance in wild *Drosophila*
populations, and (3) it uses natural population of
extremely biodiverse communities of South-American
*Drosophila*. Fellows will have the opportunity of guide
the directions of the research depending on their inter-
ests.
The initial fellowship would be for two years in Sao Paulo
and one year in Cambridge, with the possibility of renew-
ing for another year. FAPESP pays 7,174 reais/month
(tax free), relocation costs and 12,914 reais/year for
training, conferences and research expenses for the time
in Sao Paulo, and 2,200 pounds/month (tax free), relo-
cation costs and 3,900 pounds/year for training, confer-
ences and research expenses in the UK. All work can be
performed using English, no Portuguese prociency re-
quired. Applications for the fellowship will be prepared
with the Brazilian supervisor, and can be sent at any
time of the year.
We are seeking highly motivated candidates who have
a deep interest in this area of research. Applicants
must have, or will shortly obtain, a PhD. Ideally the
candidate's past work will be in ecology, genetics or evo-
lutionary biology. To be competitive for the fellowship,
candidates must have a strong publication record (please
email your CV to Rodrigo rodrigocogni@gmail.com to
discuss this requirement). If you are interested please
contact Rodrigo before April 30th.The Labs: http://ecologia.ib.usp.br/ecoevo/ and
http://www.jiggins.gen.cam.ac.uk/ Enquiries: ro-
drigocogni@gmail.com
Rodrigo Cogni
Assistant Professor, Department of Ecology, Universi-
dade de S ao Paulo Royal Society-Newton Advanced
Fellow
Rua do Mat ao 321, Trav. 14 (sala 353) Cid.
Universit aria, S ao Paulo-SP CEP: 05508-090 E-
mails: rodrigocogni@gmail.com and rcogni@usp.br
http://ecologia.ib.usp.br/ecoevo/ Rodrigo Cogni
<rodrigocogni@gmail.com >
UStockholm
PopoulationGeneticsGenomics
https://www.su.se/english/about/working-at-su/-
jobs?rmpage=job&rmjob=4992&rmlang=UK Postdoc-
toral Fellow in Population Genetics/Genomics of Brown
trout and Arctic char with a focus on Biodiversity
Conservation
The position will be held in the Department of Zoology,
a vibrant international community consisting of ve in-
teractive and collaborative divisions: Ecology, Ethology,
Population Genetics, Functional Morphology, and Sys-
tematics and Evolution. The advertised position will be
part of the Division of Population Genetics.
*Project description*
The focal area of the research is population and conser-
vation genetics/genomics and will be carried out within
funded projects in Linda Laikre ^As group aimed at devel-
oping goals and guidelines for maintaining genetic biodi-
versity of metapopulations (Swedish Research Council
Formas) and strategies for including genetic diversity
in environmental monitoring eorts (collaboration with
the University of Gothenburg and the Swedish Agency
for Marine and Water Management).
We use new mathematical tools developed in cooperation
with mathematicians at Stockholm University to explore
the dynamics of the genetically eective population size
(Ne) of metapopulations. To empirically estimate rates
of microevolution we use brown trout (Salmo trutta)
and Arctic char (Salvelinus alpinus) inhabiting Swedish
mountain lake systems as models, and the present posi-
tion is primarily connected with this part of the projects.
We take advantage of our frozen tissue bank collectionApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 111
spanning extensive material from several decades back
in combination with new collections; eldwork will be
carried out in remote mountain areas of the County
of J amtland, Sweden during the summer of 2018 for
revisiting locations from which old material is available.
We use SNP markers in combination with individual
DNA sequencing and pool sequencing and apply new
approaches for genomic data analyses to explore rates
of genetic change at dierent regions of the genome
in collaboration with Dr. Christopher Wheat in our
division using new approaches developed by his group.
There are good opportunities to contribute own research
ideas in addition to the work planned by the lab. Also,
there are good opportunities for interacting with other
research groups and divisions of the department, and
with collaborating labs at other scientic institutions as
well as with Swedish management authorities.
*Main responsibilities*
The position is 100 percent research and will include
analyses of SNPs and of individual as well as pool se-
quencing data.
*Qualication requirements*
Postdoctoral positions are appointed primarily for pur-
poses of research. Applicants are expected to hold a
Swedish doctoral degree or an equivalent degree from
another country. The applicant must have a PhD in pop-
ulation genetics, evolutionary genetics, bioinformatics
or a similar eld from an accredited college/university.
*Assessment criteria*
The degree should have been completed no more than
three years before the deadline for applications. An
older degree may be acceptable under special circum-
stances, which may involve sick leave, parental leave,
clinical attachment, elected positions in trade unions,
or similar.
In the appointment process, special attention will be
given to candidates with a strong interest in population
and conservation genetics/genomics, statistical analy-
sis, and with good experience from analyses of nuclear
genes/loci and DNA sequencing data. Bioinformatics
skills are appreciated. Applicants should have a strong
record of writing and publishing high quality scientic
papers. Also, the applicant needs to work well both
independently and in teams.
*Terms of employment*
The position involves full-time employment for a max-
imum of two years, with the possibility of extension
under special circumstances. Starting date as soon as
possible, according to agreement.Stockholm University strives to be a workplace free from
discrimination and with equal opportunities for all.
*Contact*
Further information about the position can be ob-
tained from Professor Linda Laikre (PI and host
for the position), telephone: +46 8 16 42 83,
linda.laikre@popgen.su.se.
*Union representatives*
Ingrid Lander (Saco-S), telephone: +46 708 16 26 64,
saco@saco.su.se, Lisbeth H aggberg (Fackf orbundet ST
and L ararf orbundet), telephone: +46 8 16 20 00 (opera-
tor), and seko@seko.su.se (SEKO).
*Application*
Apply for the position at Stockholm University's recruit-
ment system by clicking the \Apply" button. It is the
responsibility of the applicant to ensure that the appli-
cation is complete in accordance with the instructions
in the job advertisement, and that it is submitted before
the deadline.
*Please include the following information with your ap-
plication*
Your contact details and personal data
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UToronto
EvolutionDrugResistanceMalaria
A postdoc position is available in the lab of Nicole Mideo,
in the Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology
at the University of Toronto. The position is part of
an NIH-funded study of drug resistance in malaria par-
asites. The aim of the project is to use longitudinal
amplicon sequencing data to look for phenotypic signa-
tures of resistance in malaria infections, i.e., variants
with increasing relative abundance over the course of
treatment.
The successful candidate will be involved in developing
approaches for analysing (and ultimately analysing) rel-
ative abundance time series data. The ideal candidate
will have experience analysing such data in any context.112 EvolDir April 1, 2018
A PhD in ecology, evolution, biology or a related eld
is required.
Collaborators on this grant have been collecting data
from malaria clinics in sub-Saharan Africa, so that we
can contribute to identifying drug resistant parasites
and tracking their spread globally. One key challenge
in these areas is that most infections harbour multiple
parasite genotypes, and when resistance is rare (and
its underlying genetics unknown) its eects are hard to
detect. More background for this project can be found
in some of our previously published papers, including
an opinion piece outlining the challenge of within-host
diversity as well as potential approaches for overcoming
it (https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/-
S1471492213000767) and an analysis of previously col-
lected data (https://academic.oup.com/emph/article/-
2016/1/21/2802531).
The position is available for 2 years, subject to annual
review. The expected start date is July 1, 2018, but
there is exibility on that.
To apply, please send (1) a cover letter outlining your pre-
vious experiences that make you suited for this position
as well as your research and career goals (2) a CV, and
(3) contact information for three people who can provide
a reference via email to nicole.mideo@utoronto.ca.
The University of Toronto is a leading academic institu-
tion with over 60 faculty members specialising in ecology
and evolution. Strong links exist between the Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and the Royal
Ontario Museum, the Centre for Global Change Science,
the Dalla Lana School of Public Health, the School of
the Environment, the University network of leading aca-
demic research hospitals (www.uhn.ca, sunnybrook.ca)
and research groups with provincial and federal govern-
ment agencies. The University of Toronto is strongly
committed to diversity within its community and espe-
cially welcomes applications from racialized persons /
persons of colour, women, Indigenous / Aboriginal Peo-
ple of North America, persons with disabilities, LGBTQ
persons, and others who may contribute to the further
diversication of ideas. Toronto is also a vibrant and
cosmopolitan city; one of the most desirable in the world
in which to work and live.
Nicole Mideo Assistant Professor Department of Ecol-
ogy & Evolutionary Biology University of Toronto 25
Willcocks St. Toronto, ON M5S 3B2
https://mideo.eeb.utoronto.ca Tel: 416 978 1316
Nicole Mideo <nicole.mideo@utoronto.ca >UUlm WildlifeMetaGenomics
The Institute of Evolutionary Ecology and Conservation
Genomics / University of Ulm invites applications for a
Postdoc position in Wildlife Metagenomics
Applications are invited for a 2-year postdoc position
investigating the eects of environmental changes on the
dysbiosis of wildlife gut microbial communities and asso-
ciated tness/health consequences. Our research focus
on the relationships between land-use changes, wildlife
genome-wide and immune genetic diversity, host's micro-
biome, and viral and helminthic co-infections. We oer
a very stimulating, multi-national research community
with excellent infrastructure.
We are looking for a skilled, creative and highly-
motivated postdoc who is able to work independently
and in a team. The position requires social, teaching,
organizational and time-management skills. A high
standard of spoken English and manuscript writing pro-
ciency is required. The candidate should be willing
to support teaching and supervising undergraduate and
PhD students' projects as well as developing and per-
forming own research. Candidates should hold a com-
pleted doctoral degree and have a strong background
in evolutionary ecology and genomics, microbiome and
metagenomics research, and should be qualied by a
very good publication record. Preference will be given
to a candidate with own practical experience with next
generation sequencing and analysis of large bacterial
and metagenomic data sets generated by the candidate,
including bioinformatic data processing (Qiime2), mul-
tivariate modelling and statistics, and R and Phyton
programming languages.
Please send your application as a single (!) pdf le
to Prof. Dr. Simone Sommer (simone.sommer@uni-
ulm.de). The pdf must include a letter describing your
past research experience and particular skills and mo-
tivation for this position (max. 2 pages), an outline of
planned own future projects (max. 2 pages), a CV, a
summary of the PhD thesis, 2-3 letters of recommenda-
tion or contact details of referees and your publication
list. The candidates will be selected according to their
scientic qualication and proposed project plan. The
anticipated starting date is July 2018.
The position is open until lled, and applications will be
reviewed continuously, but for full consideration pleaseApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 113
apply by May 1st, 2018. Remuneration is in accordance
with TV-L 13 (100%). The applicants assessed as the
best qualied will be called to an interview, which might
be carried out online.
Physically disabled applicants receive favorable consid-
eration when equally qualied. Job sharing is always
possible for full time positions. The University of Ulm
is committed to increase the share of women and teach-
ing positions and therefore explicitly encourages female
candidates to apply. The appointment is made by the
Central University Administration. Please indicate the
index number 48.
Simone Sommer <Simone.Sommer@uni-ulm.de >
UWisconsin Milwaukee
KelpGenomics
Post-Doctoral Research Associate
The Department of Biological Sciences at the Univer-
sity of Wisconsin-Milwaukee (UWM) is currently ac-
cepting application submissions for a postdoctoral ap-
pointment in Dr. Filipe Alberto's laboratory, study-
ing genetic improvement for aquaculture of the gi-
ant kelp Macrocystis pyrifera. This is part of a
grant funded by the Department of Energy, Arpa.e
agency, program Mariner. You can read more about
this program here https://arpa-e.energy.gov/?q=arpa-e-
programs/mariner. And learn about some of the funded
projects here (https://arpa-e.energy.gov/?q=news-
item/department-energy-announces-18- new-projects-
accelerate-development-macroalgae-production).
The postdoc will be conducting the development of a
germplasm collection of haploid strains of kelp (brown
algae). The collection will be the basis for a genetic
improvement program aimed at faster growth; and tem-
perature and low nutrient tolerance in aquaculture. The
postdoc will contribute to routine culture tasks, but
mostly through supervision of a research assistant and
undergraduate students. Experience in growing kelp
cultures in the laboratory conditions is preferable but
not essential, training can be provided.
Preferred skills: Experience with genomic analysis,
both wet and dry lab, including the analysis of high-
throughput sequencing data, coding experience in R,
Python or other languages and excellent organizational
skills and capacity to work under strict deadlines.
Requirements: Applicants are required to have a Ph.D.in evolutionary ecology, plant breeding, population ge-
netics/genomics or genetics. Familiarity with population
genetics/genomics software is essential, as well as high-
level of motivation to publish results, as evidenced by
the candidate's publication record.
During the rst year, most project tasks will involve
cultivation of individual haploid strains to provide su-
cient biomass to extract DNA in quantity and quality
required for genomic analysis. Microsatellite marker
analysis will also be used to monitor strain identify and
purity at dierent stages of growth. The germplasm col-
lection will be the basis for a Marker Assisted Selection
program developed with partner institutions (UC Santa
Barbara, U Southern California and JCVI) involving
genome sequencing and annotation, phenotype typing of
outplanted sporophytes in Southern California, capture
sequencing of genetic variants (SNP) and the estimation
of a predictive model linking genotype and phenotype
for traits of interest.
Other broad research interests in the Alberto lab are
population genetics and evolutionary ecology of sea-
weeds and marine plants. Our focus is both on em-
pirical research through the acquisition of population
genetics data, using molecular marker techniques, and
simulation-based hypothesis testing.
Informal inquiries about the project are encouraged.
Please apply by sending a pdf document including 1)
CV, 2) a declaration of research interests, 3) previous
experience and t for the position and 4) the email
address and telephone number of potential contacts for
reference letters.
Applications should be emailed to Dr. Filipe Alberto, al-
bertof(at)uwm(dot)edu. The initial contract will be for
one year with possible extension to three years. Benets
information can be found at http://www.wisconsin.edu/-
hr/benets/gradben.pdf . The position is expected to
start as soon as possible and it will remain open until a
suitable candidate is found.
UWM is an AA/EEO employer.
For more information about the lab see http://alberto-
lab.blogspot.com/ . UWM has an active group of re-
searchers studying evolutionary ecology and behavior:
https://uwm.edu/biology/research/ecology-evolution-
and-behavior/ Filipe Alberto Associate Professor
Dept. of Biological Sciences University of Wisconsin
- Milwaukee 3209 N. Maryland Ave. Milwaukee, WI
53211 URL: http://alberto-lab.blogspot.com/ Email:
albertof@uwm.edu Tel: 414-229-6343
Filipe Aos Alberto <albertof@uwm.edu >114 EvolDir April 1, 2018
UWisconsin StevensPoint
PopulationGenomics
Postdoc: Population genomics of Great Lakes shes at
UW-Stevens Point
The Larson Lab at the USGS Wisconsin Cooperative
Fishery Research Unit (UW-Stevens Point) is looking
for a postdoctoral researcher to conduct genomics
research on cisco populations throughout the Great
Lakes region. The successful applicant will focus on
analyzing RAD data from over 60 populations of cisco
to investigate population structure at neutral and
adaptive markers. Opportunities to work on additional
projects such as population genomics in walleye and
eDNA metabarcoding will also be available. Compet-
itive applicants should have a strong background in
bioinformatics and prociency in one or more scripting
languages such as Perl or Python. The full listing can
be found at https://larsonlab.les.wordpress.com/-
2018/02/larson wicfru genomics postdoc.pdf and
information on how to apply can be found at
https://larsonlab.les.wordpress.com/2018/02/-
uwsp how-to-apply-instructions.pdf .The application
deadline is April 9 and we are looking for someone to
start in early summer but starting dates are exible.
Please direct any additional questions to Wes Larson
(wes.larson@uwsp.edu).
\Larson, Wes" <Wes.Larson@uwsp.edu >
UWyoming PlantMicrobeEvolution
Three postdoctoral positions in the evolution of plant-
microbe interactions and microbial ecology
Position descriptions available below and on the UW job
site (positions 9465, 9480, 9466) at https://tinyurl.com/-
yd3qoag3 Post Doctoral Research Associate in Plant-
Microbe Interactions (position 9480): The Weinig lab
at the University of Wyoming (http://www.uwyo.edu/-
botany/people/faculty/cynthia-weinig.html) is seeking
a postdoctoral researcher to collaborate on research
studying 1) the eects of host plant genetic pathways
in selecting microbial taxa and communities and 2) theconsequences of microbes to host plant performance.
Minimum requirements include a Ph.D. in a relevant
discipline as well as demonstrated ability to work as
an independent and innovative researcher, experience
conducting plant or soil microbial ecology experiments,
expertise in bioinformatics of biomarker gene sequenc-
ing, and history of peer-reviewed publication. More
specic preferred qualications include prociency in
environmental DNA extraction, amplicon preparation,
and eld experience.
Post Doctoral Research Associate in Microbiology and
Microbial Ecology (position 9465): The Ward re-
search group at the University of Wyoming (http:/-
/www.naomiwardlab.com/) is seeking a postdoctoral
researcher in microbiology and microbial ecology. Mini-
mum requirements include a Ph.D. in a relevant disci-
pline, and experience in successful cultivation of diverse
bacterial taxa from environmental samples. Additional
preferred qualications include expertise in genomic, pro-
teomic, or metabolomic approaches to microbial ecology,
as well as eldwork experience.
Postdoctoral research associate in Microbial Ecology
(position 9466): The van Diepen Soil Microbial Ecology
lab (https://sites.google.com/site/lindavdiepen/home)
at the University of Wyoming is seeking a postdoctoral
researcher with expertise in microbial ecology and phys-
iology, biogeochemistry, and microbial genomics. Mini-
mum requirements include a PhD in a relevant discipline,
prociency in bioinformatics, and R programming or
other statistical software. Additional preferred qual-
ications include experience with microbial culturing
techniques, environmental metagenomics and transcrip-
tomics analysis, eld work, and method development.
This search is part of a cluster hire of postdoctoral re-
search associates, supported by a new 5-year, $20 million
NSF EPSCoR RII Track-1 grant to the University. In
this project we will study microbial life and its ecolog-
ical consequences; additional details can be found at
http://www.uwyo.edu/epscor/microbial-ecology . To
apply, please complete the online application through
https://tinyurl.com/yd3qoag3 with the correct position
number (positions 9465, 9480, 9466). Please upload a
single PDF le containing a cover letter, CV, contact
information for three references, and two papers describ-
ing recent research. Review of applications will continue
until a suitable applicant is identied.
The University of Wyoming is an Equal Employment
Opportunity/Armative Action employer. All qualied
applicants will receive consideration for employment
without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national ori-
gin, disability or protected veteran status or any other
characteristic protected by law and University policy.April 1, 2018 EvolDir 115
Please see www.uwyo.edu/diversity/fairness . Cynthia
Weinig <cweinig@uwyo.edu >
Vienna IST EvolutionaryGenomics
The Evolutionary Genomics laboratory (Kondrashov
Group - http://ist.ac.at/research/research-groups/-
kondrashov-group/) is looking for motivated postdocs or
technicians with extensive experience in the laboratory
to spearhead empirical assays of complex tness land-
scapes. We are looking for candidates with extensive
experience in molecular and synthetic biology techniques,
such as genome modication and complex DNA design.
Experience with competition or growth assays of yeast
or bacteria and programing experience is welcome, but
not strictly necessary. Our laboratory strives to create
an open and interdisciplinary intellectual environment,
encouraging all members to contribute to project design
and eventually pursue independent research interests.
For the purposes of this call we are looking for someone
to contribute to a series of specic projects, however,
parallel design and implementation of independent work
will be encouraged.
Candidates are requested to send their CV and a short
(1/2 page) statement of purpose, including a statement
if the application is for postdoc or technician, to Alex
Mally (alexandra.mally@ist.ac.at). The positions will
be open until lled and pre-selected candidates will be
expected to pass a Skype or on-site interview. Successful
candidates will be oered a standard contract in the IST
salary scale for a minimum of 2 years and extendable
to maximum of 5. Candidates are also encouraged to
apply to the independent IST Plus fellowship by March
15 ( http://ist.ac.at/research/postdoctoral-research/-
istplus/).
The Kondrashov Group is based in the Institute of Sci-
ence and Technology, Austria, a commutable distance
from Vienna. It boasts an incredibly interdisciplinary
environment, with physics, mathematics and biology on
the same tightly knit campus. Vienna is consistently
classied as providing one of the highest standards of liv-
ing in the world, with IST providing additional support,
such as an on-campus daycare.
Fyodor Kondrashov <fkondrashov@gmail.com >WashingtonStateU
TasmanianDevilGenomics
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCHER
Washington State University School of Biological Sci-
ences
We are seeking 1-2 postdoctoral researcher(s) to work
on evolutionary genomics and transcriptomics of Tas-
manian devils and Tasmanian devil facial tumor disease,
a transmissible cancer. This NIH/NSF-funded interna-
tional collaboration builds on over 20 years of research
tracking the spread of the unique infectious cancer across
Tasmania and consequent endangerment of the iconic
Tasmanian devil. Reference genomes and transcriptomes
are available for both tumor and devil, and the success-
ful applicant will have an unprecedented opportunity to
analyze thousands of devil genotypes and hundreds of
tumor samples taken both before and after epizootics
to test for selection throughout both genomes, coevolu-
tion, patterns of resistance, and phenotypic evolution of
Tasmanian devils aided by pedigree reconstruction. The
position is centered in the lab of Dr. Andrew Storfer
(www.wsu.edu/ ~storfer) at Washington State University,
in collaboration with Dr. Paul Hohenlohe at the nearby
University of Idaho (8 miles away). Both universities
have genomics core facilities, including the Institute of
Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Studies (IBEST;http:/-
/www.uidaho.edu/research/ibest), the WSU Genomics
Core Facility (https://labs.wsu.edu/genomicscore/) and
the WSU Kamiak High Performance Computing cluster
(https://hpc.wsu.edu/) with state-of-of-the art equip-
ment, computational facilities and sta support.
Review of applications will begin on April 15, 2018 and
continue until the position is lled. A Ph.D. in Biology
or a related discipline, combined with genomics and
bioinformatics experience is required. Desired qualities
also include a background in pedigree reconstruction,
population genomics, phylodynamics, infectious disease
evolution, and/or cancer genomics. Start date is ne-
gotiable, but is anticipated to be between May and
August, 2018. Salary and benets are competitive. Po-
sition is for 1 year, with continuation for additional
year(s) pending satisfactory progress. To apply, please
send in pdf format a CV, and names, addresses and
email addresses of 3 references, a research statement,
and up to 3 representative reprints via email to: Andrew
Storfer (astorfer@wsu.edu).116 EvolDir April 1, 2018
*WSU is an Equal Opportunity/Armative Ac-
tion/ADA educator and employer.*
Andrew Storfer, PhD Professor School of Biological Sci-
ences Washington State University Pullman, WA 99164
USA Phone: (509) 335-7922 Fax: (509) 335-3184 astor-
fer@wsu.edu www.wsu.edu/ ~storfer Andrew Storfer
<andrew.storfer@gmail.com >
WayneStateU Detroit
FishPopulationGenomics
The Dowling lab in the Department of Biological Sci-
ences at Wayne State University invites applications
for a Postdoctoral Fellow. The individual will assist
with multiple aspects of research focused on evolution
and conservation of sh biodiversity, with focus on
species from the southwestern United States. Exam-
ples of projects include identication and application of
SNP markers for population genomic and demographic
studies of endangered species and identication of sex
determining loci in an allopolyploid species.
Applicants are expected to have a Ph.D. degree in biol-
ogy or a related eld, with bioinformatic and laboratory
experience required. The principal duties will be the
collection and analysis of genomic data and writing
reports and manuscripts. Applicants should be pro-
cient with basic molecular procedures (DNA/RNA
extraction, PCR, electrophoresis, sequencing) and have
experience with command line data analysis (e.g., R
or Python). Preferred qualications include experience
with shell scripting (Unix/Linux systems), and prepara-
tion of RAD-seq or other NextGen sequencing libraries.
Wayne State University is a large urban university in
downtown Detroit, Michigan, in an area that is goingthrough a renaissance. In 2014, USA Today named it
one of its \10 Up-and-Coming Neighborhoods around
the USA," and Detroit has also drawn recognition as a
travel destination (https://tinyurl.com/y7agk4ex). The
area has many excellent museums, theatres, libraries,
concert halls, and professional sports venues. Among
the cultural institutions within easy walking distance
of the main campus are the main branch of the Detroit
Public Library, the Detroit Institute of Arts, the Charles
H. Wright Museum of African American History, the
Michigan Science Center, the Fisher Theatre, Detroit
Children's Museum, and the Detroit Historical Museum.
The state of Michigan has a wealth of historical and
outdoor opportunities (https://tinyurl.com/yaoscmof)
and is within easy driving distance of large metropolitan
centers like Chicago, IL and Toronto, ON.
Those who work and study at Wayne State know De-
troit is on the rise. Over the past year, the national
media has taken notice, too. This year, a variety of
publications touted the city as a must-visit destination.
Salary will be commensurate with training and expe-
rience. Additional information on the position and in-
structions for application are provided at the following
web address:
https://jobs.wayne.edu/applicants/jsp/shared/-
Welcome css.jsp Posting is job number 043026 under
Research Assistants/Associates.
If you have any questions please email Tom Dowling
(thomas.dowling@wayne.edu).
Thomas Dowling
Department of Biological Sciences
5047 Gullen Mall
Wayne State University
Detroit MI 48202
313-577-3020
Thomas Dowling <thomas.dowling@wayne.edu >April 1, 2018 EvolDir 117
WorkshopsCourses
ArnoldArboretum PlantMorphology Jun11-22 Deadline
117
AuburnU Alabama Bioinformatics Jun4-8 . . . . . . . . 118
Australia StructuralModelling Jun18-22 . . . . . . . . . . 118
Barcelona Morphometrics Jun19-22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119
Barcelona PhylogeneticAnalysisUsingR Sep3-7 . . . 119
Berlin MolecularPhylogenies Apr9-13 deadline . . . .120
Berlin Paleogenomics May7-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121
Berlin PopulationGenomics May14-18 . . . . . . . . . . . . 121
Berlin SignaturesSelection-GWAS Oct22-26 . . . . . . 123
Berlin TransposableElements Apr23-27 . . . . . . . . . . . 124
Edinburgh EvolvingPopulations Jul2018 . . . . . . . . . .124
Faro Portugal Phylogenetics Sep24-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . 125
Hinxton UK GeneticAnalysis Jul18-24 . . . . . . . . . . . 126
IndianaU TranscriptomeAssembly Apr30-May1 . . .126
Kaunas Lithuania ForestTreeGenomics Jun4-7 . . . .127
Lima Peru TeachersOfEvolution Jul30-Aug5 . . . . . .127
LundU EvolutionaryBiologyUsingR May-Jun . . . . .128
Montpellier DrosEU AdaptationGenomics Aug23-24128
NorthCarolingMichigan Avida-ED Summer . . . . . . 129
OberaegeriSwitzerland TamingTheBEAST June17-22
129
ObergeriSwitzerland BEAST Jun17-22 . . . . . . . . . . . 130
Portugal 2 EvolBiol Apr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 131
Reminder MexicoCity PCMs Jun26-29 . . . . . . . . . . . 132
Seattle StatGenetics Jul9-27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 132
Sweden Bioinformatics with R Jun11-21 . . . . . . . . . .132
Turin EvolGameTheory Jul16-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 132
UK PhylogeneticComparativeMethods Oct22-25 . .133
UK QuantModellingGenomes Apr30-May4 . . . . . . . 134
UPorto ModellingSpeciesEnvAdaptation Apr23-27 135
Virginia ConservationBioinformatics Oct10-19 . . . . 135
Virginia ConservationGenetics Aug19-30 Deadline 136
WellcomeUK DrosophilaGenomics Jul30-Aug3 . . . .137
WellcomeUK EvolutionCancer Apr24 . . . . . . . . . . . . .138
ArnoldArboretum PlantMorphology
Jun11-22 Deadline
Deadline approaching!!
This two-week short course (June 11 'V 22, 2018) will
be taught by experts from around the world as an in-
tense lecture, laboratory, and living collections learn-
ing experience. The course will be based at the Weld
Hill Research Building at the Arnold Arboretum in
Boston (Massachusetts), which oers a state-of-the-art
microscopy laboratory for teaching and sits amid the
15,000+ living specimens of more than 2,200 species at
the Arnold Arboretum.
This course will provide a working knowledge of concepts
that are central to understanding the developmental ba-
sis for the remarkable structural and functional diversity
of plants. Topics include developmental dynamics, evolu-
tionary diversication, and ecological and physiological
function. Ultimately, this course aims to provide the
skills necessary to interpret the vast array of morpholo-
gies that exist among plants. Each day will consist of
lecture and laboratory sessions, with ample opportunity
to explore the Arnold Arboretum.
There are no course fees, room and board are provided,
and funds are available to help defray costs of participanttravel.
Course Instructors: Pamela Diggle (University of Con-
necticut), Peter Endress (University of Zurich), William
(Ned) Friedman (Harvard University), Cynthia Jones
(University of Connecticut).
Application Deadline: Applications must be sub-
mitted by 11:30 pm March 15th, 2018. Applica-
tion instructions are available on the course web-
site: https://www.arboretum.harvard.edu/education/-
aa-summer-course/ Eligibility: microMORPH summer
short courses are open to postdoctoral researchers, grad-
uate students, and undergraduates in their nal year of
study (who have been admitted to a graduate or pro-
fessional program for the fall of 2018). Non-US-citizens
are welcome to apply (but are responsible for obtaining
the appropriate visa to be able to attend the course).
How to Apply: For full application instructions
(including list of required documents) and to sub-
mit applications, please visit the microMORPH web-
site (https://www.arboretum.harvard.edu/education/-
aa-summer-course/ . Questions or Comments? Contact
Pamela Diggle at pamela.diggle@uconn.edu
Pamela Diggle
Professor Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology University of Connecticut
860-486-4788 <tel:860-486-4788 >
Pamela Diggle <diggle@colorado.edu >118 EvolDir April 1, 2018
AuburnU Alabama Bioinformatics
Jun4-8
5th Annual Bioinformatics Bootcamp at Auburn Uni-
versity June 4-8, 2018
Additional information can be found at
auburn.edu/bioinformatics.
The College of Sciences and Mathematics (COSAM)
will sponsor the 5th Annual Bioinformatics Bootcamp
at Auburn University June 4'V8, 2018. Instructed by
Les Goertzen, Scott Santos, Ken Halanych, Laurie Ste-
vison, Rita Graze, Jamie Oaks from the Department of
Biological Sciences <http://www.auburn.edu/cosam/-
departments/biology/index.htm >at Auburn University
<http://www.auburn.edu/ >.
The Bootcamp is a week-long workshop emphasizing
hands-on training in numerous aspects of next gen-
eration DNA sequencing data analyses such as se-
quence assessment and quality control, genomic and
transcriptomic assembly, annotation, dierential expres-
sion, phylogenomics and more. Additionally, the work-
shop provides instruction in the Linux operating system
command-line environment, basic scripting and many
widely used open-source software packages. Registration
for the workshop is $500.
To apply:
Please provide a brief (half page) statement of interest
describing how the AU Bioinformatics Bootcamp will
benet your research and a 2-page CV.
Application materials should be submitted by March
25th, 2018 as a single PDF via email to bioinformat-
ics@auburn.edu. Notications will be sent to applicants
starting April 1st, 2018.
Kenneth M. Halanych Schneller Chair, Alumni Profes-
sor Curator of Marine Invertebrates Biological Sciences
Department Life Sciences Bld. 101 Auburn University
Auburn, AL 36849
http://metazoan.auburn.edu/halanych/lab/index.html
Phone: (334)-844-3222 e-mail: ken@auburn.edu
Editor-In-Chief The Biological Bulletin http://-
www.journals.uchicago.edu/toc/bbl/current Kenneth
Halanych <ken@auburn.edu >Australia StructuralModelling
Jun18-22
\Structural Equation Modelling for Ecologists and Evo-
lutionary Biologists (SEMR02)"
This course will be delivered by Jon Lefcheck (who
wrote the SEM package piecewise) and will take place
from 18th - 22nd June 2018 at Myuna Bay sport and
recreation, Australia.
Full details can be found using the link below.
http://bit.ly/2Ga0yk4SEM OZ Course Overview: The
course is a primer on structural equation modelling
(SEM) and conrmatory path analysis, with an em-
phasis on practical skills and applications to real-world
data. Structural equation modelling is a rapidly growing
technique in ecology and evolution that unites multiple
hypotheses in a single causal network. It provides an
intuitive graphical representation of relationships among
variables, underpinned by well-described mathematical
estimation procedures. Several advances in SEM over
the past few years have expanded its utility for typical
ecological datasets, which include count data, missing
observations, and nested or hierarchical designs.
We will cover the basic philosophy behind SEM, provide
approachable mathematical explanations of the tech-
niques, and cover recent extensions to mixed eects
models and non-normal distributions. Along the way,
we will work through many examples from the primary
literature using the open-source statistical software R
(www.r-project.org). We will draw on two popular R
packages for conducting SEM, including lavaan and
piecewiseSEM. Participants are encouraged to bring
their own data, as there will be opportunities through-
out the course to plan, analyze, and receive feedback on
structural equation models.
Monday 18th - Classes from 09:00 to 17:00 Introduc-
tion to SEM Module 1: What is Structural Equation
Modeling? Why would I use it? Module 2: Creating
multivariate causal models Module 3: Fitting piecewise
models Readings: Grace 2010 (overview), Whalen et al.
2013 (example)
Tuesday 19th - Classes from 09:00 to 17:00 SEM Using
Likelihood Module 4: Fitting Observed Variable mod-
els with covariance structures Module 5: What does it
mean to evaluate a multivariate hypothesis? Module
6: Latent Variable models Module 7: ANCOVA revis-April 1, 2018 EvolDir 119
ited & Nonlinearities Readings: Grace & Bollen 2005,
Shipley 2004 Optional Reading: Pearl 2012, Pearl 2009
(causality)
Wednesday 20th - Classes from 09:00 to 17:00 Piece-
wise SEM Module 8: Introduction to piecewise approach
Module 9: Incorporation of random eects models Model
10: Autocorrelation Reading: Shipley 2009; Lefcheck
2016
Thursday 21st - Classes from 09:00 to 17:00 Advanced
Topics with Likelihood and Piecewise SEM Module 11:
Multigroup models and non-linearities Module 12: Com-
posite Variables Module 13: Phylogenetically-correlated
data Module 14: Prediction using SEM Module 15: How
To Reject A Paper That Uses SEM Readings: Grace &
Julia 1999, von Hardenberg & Gonzalez^ a2013
Friday 22nd - Classes from 09:00 to 16:00 Open Lab
and Final Presentations
Email oliverhooker@prstatistics.com
Check out our sister sites, www.PRstatistics.com (Ecol-
ogy and Life Sciences) www.PRinformatics.com (Bioin-
formatics and data science) www.PSstatsistics.com (Be-
haviour and cognition)
1. March 19th - 23rd 2018 BEHAVIOURAL DATA
ANALYSIS USING MAXIMUM LIKLIHOOD IN R
(BDML01) Glasgow, Scotland, Dr William Hoppitt
http://www.psstatistics.com/course/behavioural-data-
analysis-using-maximum-likelihood-bdml01/ 2. April
9th - 13th 2018 NETWORK ANAYLSIS FOR ECOL-
OGISTS USING R (NTWA02 Glasgow, Scotland, Dr.
Marco Scotti www.prstatistics.com/course/network-
analysis-ecologists-ntwa02/ 3. April 16th - 20th 2018
INTRODUCTION TO STATISTICAL MODELLING
FOR PSYCHOLOGISTS USING R (IPSY01) Glasgow,
Scotland, Dr. Dale Barr, Dr Luc Bussierre http://-
www.psstatistics.com/course/introduction-to-statistics-
using-r-for-psychologists-ipsy01/ 4. April 23rd - 27th
2018 MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS OF ECOLOGICAL
COMMUNITIES USING THE VEGAN PACKAGE
(VGNR01) Glasgow, Scotland, Dr. Peter Solymos,
Dr. Guillaume Blanchet www.prstatistics.com/course/-
multivariate-analysis-of-ecological-communities-in-
r-with-the-vegan-package-vgnr01/ 5. April 30th -
4th May 2018 QUANTITATIVE GEOGRAPHIC
ECOLOGY: MODELING GENOMES, NICHES, AND
COMMUNITIES (QGER01) Glasgow, Scotland, Dr.
Dan Warren, Dr. Matt Fitzpatrick
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlBarcelona Morphometrics Jun19-22
Dear Colleagues,
Transmitting Science is oering the 5th edition of the
course 'INTEGRATION AND MODULARITY WITH
GEOMETRIC MORPHOMETRICS'.
Instructor: Chris Klingenberg (University of Manch-
ester, UK).
Dates: June 19th-22nd, 2018.
Place: Sabadell, Barcelona (Spain)
Course overview
The aim of this course is to provide participants with
an overview of morphometric approaches to studying
morphological integration and modularity. The concepts
of integration and modularity will be introduced and
discussed in dierent contexts (e.g. development, indi-
vidual variation, evolutionary change). The theoretical
basis and application of dierent methods for analysing
integration and modularity in geometric morphometric
data will be presented. Lectures will be combined with
hands-on demonstrations of the analyses. Participants
are encouraged to bring their own morphometric data
for analysis and discussion in the course.
The course will be taught using the software MorphoJ.
More information and registration: https://-
www.transmittingscience.org/courses/geometric-
morphometrics/integration-modularity-geometric-
morphometrics/ With best regards
Sole
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno,PhD. Sci-
entic Director Transmitting Science
http://www.transmittingscience.org/
soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org
Barcelona
PhylogeneticAnalysisUsingR Sep3-7
Dear Colleagues,120 EvolDir April 1, 2018
Registration is open for the fth edition of the course
PHYLOGENETIC ANALYSIS USING R, September
3rd-7th, 2018. | INSTRUCTORS: Dr. Emmanuel
Paradis (Institut de Recherche pour le D eveloppement,
France) and Dr. Klaus Schliep (University of Mas-
sachusetts, USA).
More information: https://-
www.transmittingscience.org/courses/evolution/-
phylogenetic-analysis-using-r/ This course is for
biologists dealing with the analysis of multiple molec-
ular sequences at several levels: Populations, species,
clades, communities. These biologists address questions
relative to the evolutionary relationships among these
sequences, as well as the evolutionary forces structuring
biodiversity at dierent scales. The objectives are: (i)
to learn the theoretical bases phylogenetic analysis, (ii)
to know how to choose a strategy of molecular data
analysis at the inter^ a eor intraspecic levels, (iii) to be
able to initiate a phylogenetic analysis starting from
the les of molecular sequences until the interpretation
of the results and the graphics. The software used
for this course will be centred on the R language for
statistics. This will include the use of specialized
packages particularly ape, phangorn, and adegenet.
Requirements: Knowledge of multivariate statistics,|
phylogenetics|and|molecular evolution.|User level
of R.
PLACE: |Capellades, Barcelona (Spain).
Organized by: Transmitting Science and the Institut
Catal a de Paleontologia M. Crusafont.
With best regards
Sole
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno,PhD. Scientic|
Director Transmitting Science (http://-
www.transmittingscience.org/)
soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.orgBerlin MolecularPhylogenies
Apr9-13 deadline
Course: Molecular phylogenies in biodiversity
Dates: 9-13 April 2018
Where: Botanisches Museum, K onigin-Luise-Strae 6-8,
Berlin
Instructor: Dr. Diego Fontaneto
https://scholar.google.de/citations?user=-
WO97K4QAAAAJ&hl=en Application deadline
is: March 10th, 2018.
Overview:
This course will introduce ecologists interested in biodi-
versity to the use of molecular phylogenies to address
questions that cannot be addressed by using only ecolog-
ical data in their studies. After a short introduction on
how to obtain reliable molecular phylogenies, the focus
of the questions that could be addressed will be on tax-
onomy, community ecology, and comparative methods.
TARGETED AUDIENCE & ASSUMED BACK-
GROUND
The course is aimed at early-career researchers in ecol-
ogy interested in widening their analytical toolbox. The
course is structured in a way that even an inexperienced
and na ve attendee could take advantage of the possibil-
ities oered by the inclusion of molecular phylogenies in
its analyses. There will be a mix of lectures and hands-
on practical exercises using freely available software and
online resources.
Most of the steps will be performed in R, but no previous
knowledge on this statistical platform is required. All
scripts will be carefully explained to allow all attendees
understanding the rationale and usage of the statistical
approaches.
LEARNING OUTCOMES
- Understand how to read, interpret and obtain molecular
phylogenies, with a focus on the concepts and rationale
behind phylogenetic methods
- Learn tools from DNA taxonomy
- Learn how to include phylogenies in the analyses of
community ecology and in comparative analyses
- Hand-on experience on all the stepsApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 121
- Being comfortable with using R when including molec-
ular phylogenies in ecological analyses
Please visit our website for more information about
the course: https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-
workshops/course28/ Here is the full list of our courses
and Workshops: https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/ Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D
Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org
http://www.physalia-courses.org/=0A=0ATwitter:
@physacourses
mobile: +49 15771084054
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/physalia-
courses info@physalia-courses.org
Berlin Paleogenomics May7-11
Course: Paleogenomics
Berlin , 7th -11th of May 2018
Where: Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum
Berlin, Freie Universit at Berlin, K onigin-Luise-Strae
6-8, Berlin (Germany)
Instructors:
Dr. Claudio Ottoni (University of Oslo (Norway))
Dr. Amine Namouchi (University of Oslo (Norway))
Overview This course will introduce biologists to the
main bioinformatic tools for the analysis of Next Gen-
eration Sequencing (NGS) data from ancient samples.
Through a series of theoretical and practical hands-on
sessions, the main goal of this course is to provide a clear
understanding of the most common bioinformatic meth-
ods adopted in a wide range of paleogenomics projects
(from metagenomic screening of ancient samples, to NGS
reads mapping and phylogenetic tree reconstruction).
Particular attention will be given to quality control,
DNA damage assessment and variants calling. A basic
introduction to NGS platforms and the main le formats
used in most common bioinformatics pipelines will be
provided. Each day will consist of a mix of introductory
lectures on the theoretical background of the programs
that will be used, followed by hands-on exercises using
command line tools performed by the participants under
guided supervision.
Target Audience & ASSUMED BACKGROUND Thecourse is aimed primarily at researchers (MSc and PhD
students, postdoctoral fellows, engineers) interested in
learning the dierent steps from NGS raw data analy-
sis to phylogenetic tree reconstruction in archaeological
samples. The hands-on sessions are targeted to be-
ginners and more advanced users alike. The practical
sessions will cover the most common pipelines adopted
in paleogenomics, and can be applied to a wide range
of projects, from metagenomics to genome resequenc-
ing. Attendees should have a background in biology and
some familiarity with genomic data.
STRUCTURE The course material will be delivered
over 5 days, in 10 half-day sessions. These lessons will
build o of one another, and feature a mix of lecture
and in-class exercises.
For more information about the course program, please
visit our website: ( https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/course27/ )
Here is the full list of our courses and Workshops:
(https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/
)
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D
Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org
http://www.physalia-courses.org/ Twitter:
@physacourses
mobile: +49 15771084054
info@physalia-courses.org
Berlin PopulationGenomics
May14-18
Dear all, we have the last 6 spots left for the course
\ Introductory Population Genomics: From Data to
Inference" ( https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-
workshops/course9/ )
May 14-18 2018, Berlin (Germany)
Registration deadline: 14th April 2018.
Instructors:
Dr Martin I. Taylor (University of East An-
glia, UK): https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=-
8ZycEewAAAAJ&hl=en Dr Lewis Spurgin (University
of East Anglia, UK): ( https://scholar.google.co.uk/-
citations?user=3D9Grw5YgAAAAJ&hl=en )122 EvolDir April 1, 2018
Overview
Next generation sequencing has revolutionized evolu-
tionary biology allowing unprecedented resolution and
insight into evolutionary questions that appeared in-
tractable only a few years ago. The course will cover
the basics of population genomic analysis from SNP
data onwards and will cover the key analyses that may
be required to successfully analyze a population ge-
netic data set. The course will NOT cover steps prior
to generation of a .vcf le or SNP data set such as
NGS data demultiplexing, clustering and SNP calling
(This is covered in detail in the Introduction to RADseq
course). This course will introduce Linux and the com-
mand line environment, basic perl and python usage,
le conversions and manipulation, population structure
and dierentiation in R, outlier analysis, landscape /
seascape genomics and introgression. Having completed
the course, students should have a good understanding
of the software and methods available for population ge-
nomic analysis and be comp etent in population genomic
analysis.
Targeted Audience & Assumed Background
This workshop is aimed at postgraduate students and
early career researchers who are interested in using pop-
ulation genomic tools in their research. No previous
experience of bioinformatics is required, but an under-
pinning in evolutionary biology and basic population
genetics concepts such as Hardy Weinberg Equilibrium
and FST are desirable. The course will use a range of
software including the Linux operating system and R.
TEACHING FORMAT
The workshop is delivered over ten half-day sessions (see
the detailed curriculum below). Each session consists of
a combination of lectures and practical exercises, with
breaks at the organisers' discretion. There will also be
time for students to discuss their own problems and
data.
Session content
Monday 14th - Classes from 9:30 to 17:30
Session 1- Introduction to Linux and the command line
(Dr. Martin Taylor)
- Installation of required software
- Introduction to linux operating system
- Working on the command line. Basic bash shell com-
mands and navigation.
- Introduction to Perl and Python
Session 2 - Understanding genomic data formats (Dr.
Martin Taylor)- Understanding and working with VCF les using VCF
tools
- Data conversion and manipulation using Plink
- Text editors
Tuesday 15th - Classes from 9:30 to 17:30
Session 3- Introduction to genetic analysis in R (Dr.
Lewis Spurgin)
- Introduction to R
- Reading data into R
- Data manipulation in R
- Introduction to Adegenet and other genetics packages
Session 4- Genomic diversity estimation (Dr. Lewis
Spurgin)
- Estimating heterozygosity and nucleotide diversity
- Hardy Weinberg
- Linkage disequilibrium
- Introduction to ggplot2
Wednesday 16th - Classes from 9:30 to 17:30
Session 5- Population structure and dierentiation (Dr.
Martin Taylor & Dr. Lewis Spurgin)
- Estimating and understanding FST
- Visualising genetic structure using MDS and PCA
- STRUCTURE and related software
- Estimating migration
Session 6- Identifying selection within populations (Dr.
Lewis Spurgin)
- Marker-based genetic diversity
- Introduction to sliding windows
- Tajima's D and related statistics
- Introduction to GO analyses
Thursday 17th - Classes from 9:30 to 17:30
Session 7-Identifying selection among populations (Dr.
Lewis Spurgin)
- FST outlier analysis
- EigenGWAS
Session 8-Incorporating landscape and seascape into
population genomics (Dr. Martin Taylor)
- Seascape / landscape genetics
- Environmental / genomic correlation
Friday 18th - Classes from 9:30 to 17:30April 1, 2018 EvolDir 123
Session 9-Hybridisation and introgression (Dr. Martin
Taylor)
- Identifying hybrids and introgression using genotype
data
Session 10-Summary data troubleshooting session (Dr
Martin Taylor & Dr Lewis Spurgin)
- Time to answer questions on any areas covered during
week.
- Talk to us about your own data
For more information about the course, please visit our
website: (
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Berlin SignaturesSelection-GWAS
Oct22-26
GENOME-WIDE SIGNATURES OF SELECTION
AND ASSOCIATION STUDIES Berlin, 22nd-26th Oc-
tober 2018
General Topic: Genome-wide analysis of selection sig-
natures and genotype-phenotype associations
INSTRUCTORS:
Dr. Pablo Orozco-terWengel (Cardi University, Wales
(UK)) ( https://scholar.google.co.uk/citations?user=-
urqxLJgAAAAJ&hl=en )
Dr. Filippo Biscarini (CNR, ITA) ( https://-
www.researchgate.net/prole/Filippo Biscarini )
Overview
This course will introduce students, researchers and pro-
fessionals into the eld of using genomics data to identify
meaningful genomic regions. The course comprises two
approaches: one based only on genomic information,
which will use populations genetics techniques to detect
signatures of selection (both natural and articial); the
other approach will combine genomic and phenotypic
data to identify genetic associations for specic pheno-
types (i.e. GWAS, genome-wide association studies).
Format
The course is structured in modules over ve days. Eachday will include an introductory lecture with class dis-
cussion of key concepts. The remainder of each day will
consist of practical hands-on sessions. These sessions
will involve a combination of both mirroring exercises
with the instructor to demonstrate a skill as well as
applying these skills on your own to complete individual
exercises. After and during each exercise, interpretation
of results will be discussed as a group.
TARGETED AUDIENCE & ASSUMED BACK-
GROUND
The course is aimed at advanced students, researchers
and professionals interested in learning how to make
use of genomic information to study how selection has
shaped the genome and how the genome inuences mea-
surable phenotypes. It will include information useful
for both beginners and more advanced users. We will
start by introducing general concepts of population ge-
netics, which will take up most of the rst half of the
course; the second half of the course will be centered
mainly on GWAS and related aspects.
Attendees should have a background in biology, specif-
ically genetics. There will be a mix of lectures and
hands-on practical exercises using R and the Linux
command line, and bespoke software. Some basic under-
standing of R programming and the Linux environment
will be advantageous. Attendees should have also some
familiarity with genomic data such as those arising from
NGS experiments, including genotyping-by-sequencing
(GBS), and commercial genotyping platforms.
Please visit our website to have more information about
the course content: (https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/course36/curriculum-36/)
Here is the full list of our courses and Workshops:
(https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/)
Best regards,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D
Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org
http://www.physalia-courses.org/ Twitter:
@physacourses
mobile: +49 15771084054
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/physalia-
courses info@physalia-courses.org124 EvolDir April 1, 2018
Berlin TransposableElements
Apr23-27
\Transposable elements" course.
Where: Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Mu-
seum Berlin, Freie Universit ~A^At Berlin, Konigin-Luise-
Stra~A^Ae 6-8, 14195 Berlin
When: 23-27 April 2018
Spots available: 4
Instructor: Dr. Alexander Suh (Uppsala University
(Sweden)) (https://scholar.google.de/citations?user=-
J4CG5QAAAAJ&hl ~A )
Overview
Transposable elements (TEs) are selsh genetic elements
which exist in virtually all eukaryotic genomes. Because
TEs contain regulatory or coding sequence for their own
'survival' and often occur in large numbers within a
genome, they can have strong eects on the transcrip-
tion or methylation of nearby genes and signicantly
promote structural variation or genome size expansion.
Accurate annotation of TEs is thus important for many
studies in genomics and evolutionary biology. However,
TEs are rapidly evolving due to arms races with their
host genomes and thus often remain undetected in newly
sequenced genomes. One may argue that in-depth anno-
tation of TEs is currently one of the biggest bottlenecks
in genomics research of non-model organisms. This is
because computational TE analyses require knowledge
of TE biology as well as some degree of manual cura-
tion to overcome incomplete or erroneous annotations.
The present course aims to adress this bottleneck by
teaching TE biology, computational analyses of TEs
in genome assemblies (RepeatModeler, RepeatMasker)
and raw read data (dnaPipeTE), and manual analyses
of TEs (consensus curation, classication).
Format
At the end of this course, attendants should be able to
conduct computational analyses of TEs, interpret the
results in the light of TE biology, and improve TE anno-
tations through manual curation. To achieve this, the
rst three days of the course will provide lectures and
practicals on all these topics. The last two days of the
course consist entirely of supervised individual practicals
to further rene the attendants' skills in computational
and manual analyses of TEs, either in their own dataor in a course-specic collaborative project. Participa-
tion in the collaborative project will be acknowledged
through co-authorship on a planned TE manuscript.
Please visit our website for more information about
the course: ( https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-
workshops/course24/ )
Here is the full list of our courses and Workshops: (
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/ )
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D
Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org
http://www.physalia-courses.org/ Twitter:
@physacourses
mobile: +49 15771084054
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/physalia-
courses \info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org >
Edinburgh EvolvingPopulations
Jul2018
We are excited to announce a workshop on \Stochas-
tic models of evolving populations: from bacteria to
cancer", to be held in Edinburgh, UK, 16-20 July 2018.
This workshop hosted by the International Centre for
Mathematical Science, aims to bring together scientists
working on stochastic and computational models of can-
cer, bacterial and viral evolution. The meeting will
explore the similarities between mathematical models
used to study seemingly dierent phenomena such as
the growth of cancerous tumors, viral and bacterial in-
fections, and the evolution of drug resistance. Keynote
talks will be given by Martin Nowak (Harvard Univer-
sity) and Rick Durrett (Duke University).
Registration is now open! To register and for more
information see our website:
http://www.icms.org.uk/stochasticmodels.php
\krug@thp.Uni-Koeln.DE" <krug@thp.Uni-Koeln.DE >April 1, 2018 EvolDir 125
Faro Portugal Phylogenetics
Sep24-29
EMBO Practical Course: http://meetings.embo.org/-
event/18-phylogenetics Tree building: Advanced con-
cepts and practice of phylogenetic analysis
24 - 29 September 2018, Faro, Portugal
*About the practical course*
The use of phylogenetic methods to reconstruct the
evolutionary history of molecular sequences is a vital
part of biological research. These methods underpin
studies on the evolution and epidemiology of plant and
animal parasites and disease-causing organisms, and
more generally they allow an objective analysis of the
patterns and processes generating biological diversity.
To carry out phylogenetic analysis properly, it is neces-
sary to have a good understanding of the strengths and
weaknesses of the key methods and approaches. This
EMBO Practical Course has been designed to provide
the theoretical and practical skills needed to carry out
state-of-the-art phylogenetic analyses.
The past few years have seen have an explosion in
new methods of analysis including the application of
Bayesian analysis methods in phylogeny reconstruction,
the development of improved non-homogeneous models
that much better represent the dynamics of sequence
evolution, and the development of methods for high-
throughput genome-wide analyses. This EMBO Practi-
cal Course has been designed to cater for these newest
of methods and for understanding how they relate to
the more traditional methods. Our goal is to teach
technical sophistication without losing sight of the need
for a critical attitude to data and analyses.
*Speakers*
Martin Embley - University of Newcastle, UK Tal Dagan-
University of Kiel, Germany Tom Williams - Univer-
sity of Bristol, UK Peter Foster - Natural History Mu-
seum (London), UK Rachel Warnock - ETH Zurich,
Switzerland Mark Wilkinson - Natural History Museum
(London), UK
*Selection criteria*
Participants will be early-career postdoctoral researchers
and advanced PhD students who will be chosen on merit,
as judged from a motivational letter, CV, and abstract
for a 10 minute oral presentation. The selection proce-dure will also consider the need to balance numbers of
participants representing dierent nationalities, to avoid
over-representation from the host country (Portugal),
to include a majority of participants resident in EMBC
countries, and to maintain a reasonable gender balance.
*Abstract guidelines*
Abstract for a 10 minute PowerPoint presentation that
each student will present (200 words)
*Registration fees*
Student/postdocs 300 euros Academic 400 euros Indus-
try 400 euros
*Registration includes*
Accommodation 23rd - 29th September 2018, inclusive
(7 nights) Lunch and coee each day Dinner each day,
including Welcome Dinner and Gala Transport to and
from UALG campus (Gambelas) Registration adminis-
tration Course materials
(All participants and speakers will be accommodated in
a hotel in central Faro. We will try to accommodate all
participants in single rooms but due to availability we
are likely to ask for some participants to share.)
*Payment*
Payment of the registration fees will be made by inter-
bank transfer after notication of acceptance.
*Travel grants*
A limited number of travel grants are available for par-
ticipants. Applicants do not need to apply separately
for travel grants for this event but should indicate on
the registration form if they wish to be considered for a
travel grant. More information is available at EMBO
Travel Grants' page <http://www.embo.org/funding-
awards/travel-grants >.
*Registration deadline*
30 April 2018
*Selected participants will be notied by*
18 May 2018
http://meetings.embo.org/event/18-phylogenetics
http://events.embo.org/enews/index.php?EventID=-
pc18-16 For informal enquires contact: Cymon J. Cox:
ccmaratt@ualg.pt
CCMARATT <ccmaratt@ualg.pt >126 EvolDir April 1, 2018
Hinxton UK GeneticAnalysis
Jul18-24
GENETIC ANALYSIS OF MENDELIAN AND COM-
PLEX DISORDERS
18-24 July 2018
Wellcome Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, UK
Application and Bursary Deadline: 6 April 2018
Summary:
This intensive, residential, computational course is
aimed at scientists actively involved in genetic anal-
ysis of rare (Mendelian) or complex human traits who
anticipate using state-of-the-art statistical analysis tech-
niques on genetic data collected on related and unrelated
individuals.
Course Organiser:
Daniel E. Weeks (University of Pittsburgh, USA)
Course Instructors:
Heather Cordell (Institute of Genetic Medicine, New-
castle University, UK)
Janet Sinsheimer (University of California, Los Angeles,
USA)
Eric Sobel (University of California, Los Angeles, USA)
Joe Terwilliger (Columbia University, New York, USA)
Simon Heath (Centre Nacional d'An alisi Gen ~A2mica
(CNAG), Barcelona, Spain)
Guest Instructors:
Najaf Amin (Erasmus Medical Centre, The Netherlands)
Jin Zhou (University of Arizona, USA)
Guest Speakers:
Carl Anderson (Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, UK)
In^ es Barroso( Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, UK)
Bursaries: Limited bursaries are available (up to 50%
of the course fee). Please see our website for full details
URL: https://coursesandconferences.wellcomegenomecampus.org/-
events/item.aspx?e=706 \Sinsheimer, Janet"
<JanetS@mednet.ucla.edu >IndianaU TranscriptomeAssembly
Apr30-May1
De novo assembly of transcriptomes using HPC re-
sources workshop
Hosted by The National Center for Genome Analysis
Support at Indiana University
The National Center for Genome Analysis Support, or
NCGAS, at Indiana University is oering a National
Science Foundation-sponsored, two-day workshop on
high performance computing usage and de novo tran-
scriptome assembly. It will take place April 30-May 1
on the IU Bloomington campus.
The workshop will include discussions, lectures, and
hands-on tutorials to cover topics important to getting
started constructing and analyzing transcriptomes^ a euro
\without the use of a genome. Material will cover both
the availability and use of high performance computing
(HPC) resources, alongside the task of assembling a new
transcriptome, in order to provide a more comprehensive
preparation for this and future bioinformatic tasks.
Transcriptome assembly will consist of using four sepa-
rate assemblers (Trinity, SOAP de novo, Velvet Oases,
and TransABySS), with multiple kmers, to be com-
bined and curated with Evigenes. This combined as-
sembly with multiple parameters is considered much
more robust than simply using one assembler, and the
NCGAS pipeline streamlines the process and allows for
customization if desired.
While material will make heavy use of XSEDE and IU
machines, the material is transferable to any cluster.
More information here: https://itnews.iu.edu/articles/-
2018/s4es-de-novo-assembly-of-transcriptomes-using-
hpc-resources-workshop.php To apply for the workshop
and travel assistance, please ll out this form: |
https://redcap.uits.iu.edu/surveys/?s=93PLRF47MM
Sheri Sanders Bioinformatic Analyst National Center
for Genome Analysis and Support (NCGAS)
NCGAS is part of the Research Technologies division
of UITS; Research Technologies is a PTI Cyberinfras-
tructure & Service Center.
ss93@iu.eduApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 127
Kaunas Lithuania
ForestTreeGenomics Jun4-7
Training course 'From genotypes to phenotypes: as-
sessing forest tree diversity in the wild' 4-7 June 2018
Kaunas, Lithuania
Assessing how genetic diversity at potentially adaptive
loci is structured in natural forest tree populations is a
complex matter. Demographic processes and natural se-
lection interact to produce genomic signatures that need
to be disentangled. Single nucleotide polymorphisms,
SNPs, are the most common type of genetic variation
among living organisms. Studies based on SNP geno-
typing in trees, in particular on variation underlying
adaptive traits, is an expanding research eld which will
help understand how trees adapt to climate change.
The course will show how genomic data sets can be
analyzed to yield information on how environmental fac-
tors shape local adaptation and how genomic variation
aect phenotypic diversity and how this can be used in
breeding programs.
Main topics of the course include: - Genomics: from
theory to practice - SNP genotyping - Statistical anal-
ysis of molecular data (methods and software) - High
throughput phenotyping for association studies - Mea-
suring and analyzing variability at potentially adaptive
genes.
The lectures are based on datasets, analyses and prelim-
inary results from research conducted within GenTree
project. The last day of the course will be spent in
the eld to acquire experience with drone-based phe-
notyping. Nice weather, beautiful forests and good
atmosphere are guaranteed!
Venue: Faculty of Forest Science and Ecology, Aleksan-
dras Stulginskis University, Student str. 11, LT-53361
Akademija, Kaunas reg., Lithuania
Lecturers: Santiago Gonzalez-Martinez (INRA, France),
Tanja Pyhajarvi (University of Oulu, Finland) ), Se-
bastian Richter (University of Marburg, Germany),
Leopoldo Sanchez-Rodriguez (INRA, France), Ivan
Scotti (INRA, France.
The course is intended for PhD students and early-stage
researchers in forestry, ecology and forest genetics. The
content will be tailored to the background and experi-
ence of applicants.To participate: The course is designed for a maximum
of 20 participants, who will be selected based on their
background and motivation. Lectures, food and accom-
modation are free of charge. Travel expenses are the
responsibility of the attendees.
The course is organized by the EU H2020 project
GenTree (http://www.gentree-h2020.eu/). Evoltree
(http://www.evoltree.eu/) members can ask for nancial
help.
Details for registration: http://www.gentree-h2020.eu/-
events/event/from-genotypes-to-phenotypes-assessing-
forest-tree-diversity-in-the-wild-training-course/ Bruno
FADY, PhD, Directeur de recherches Directeur adjoint
INRA, FR ECCOREV, UR629 Ecologie des For^ ets
M editerran eennes (URFM) Domaine St Paul, Site
Agroparc, CS 40509, 84914 Avignon cedex 9 (43,914033
N ; 4,879505 E) tel : +33(0)4 32 72 29 08 - portable
: +33(0)6 15 94 33 92 - courriel : bruno.fady@inra.fr
www.paca.inra.fr/ecologie desforets mediterraneennes
http://prodinra.inra.fr/au/bfady Coordinateur
: http://www.gentree-h2020.eu/ Bruno Fady
<bruno.fady@inra.fr >
Lima Peru TeachersOfEvolution
Jul30-Aug5
This may be a good opportunity for senior PhD students
or young professors in the Evoldir network,
https://www.clubesdecienciaperu.org/instructores
Clubes de Ciencia (Science Clubs) is organizing a series
of workshops on Jul 30th - Aug 5th to boost the interest
of STEM elds in young students (freshmen, senior
high school).
In my opinion, a club about Evidences of evolution
would be a nice idea, and I would be happyr to help in
the application process. The complete information is on
the link, I just copy here the eligibility and what it is
covered
Eligibility - Be a current graduate student, postdoctoral
researcher, or experienced professional in a STEM eld,
or in entrepreneurship and innovation in STEM. - In-
ternational instructors must be based in any country of
the Americas or Europe; instructor applications from
everywhere else in the world will be considered as well,
but with the nal selection being subject to budgetary
restrictions. - Spanish uency is not a requirement.
What CdC provides? - CdeCPeru will cover a round128 EvolDir April 1, 2018
trip ight ticket up to $900 USD. We will pay up to
$1200 USD in exceptional cases. We will try to accom-
modate other trip dates, but we will try to keep costs
on the lower side due to restrictions on our budget. -
CdeCPeru will cover transportation costs from the hotel
to the host university, and to any other events related
to Clubes. - CdeC Peru will cover breakfast, lunch, and
dinner from July 30th to August 5th. - CdeC Peru will
cover lodging from July 30th to August 5th. - CdeC
Peru will cover up to $400 USD for materials needed in
your Club. - CdeC Peru will make the arrangements to
reserve a classroom/lab in one of our host universities
(oce materials will be provided)
The application deadline is March 15th
Pedro E. Romero Doctor of Natural Sciences Dr. rer.
nat.
Pedro Romero <pedro.romero@unmsm.edu.pe >
LundU EvolutionaryBiologyUsingR
May-Jun
Dear all,
We are pleased to announce the following upcoming
courses organized by GENECO and ClimBEco: \Intro-
duction to R" (2-4 May) and \High-Dimensional Data
Analysis in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Using R"
(28 May 'V 1 June). The course \Introduction to R' ^A
is organized particularly for students registered for the
second course but is open for anyone interested.
The courses will be given at the Department of Biology
at Lund University. Participants can choose to take
Part 1, 2 or both.
The courses are free of charge to all GENECO and
ClimBEco PhD students, and students enrolled at Lund
University, but are open to PhD students from any
university to a course fee.
In case of a large number of participants, priority will
be given to GENECO and ClimBEco PhD students.
Deadline for registration: April 20, 2018
Read more about the courses and registration on the
webpage: https://www.biology.lu.se/education/phd-
studies/geneco-graduate-research-school-in-genomic-
ecology/courses-workshops/high-dimensional-data-
analysis-in-ecology-and-evolutionary-biology-using-r
The Geneco & ClimBEco TeamChristina Rengefors Project assistant 'V GENECO De-
partment of Biology, Lund University 223 62 LUND
'V Sweden Phone: +46 46 222 96 14 Mobile: + 46
(0) 725 370 170 E-Mail: Christina.Rengefors@biol.lu.se
www.biology.lu.se/geneco Dr. Johan Hollander (Do-
cent) Associate Professor, Marine Biology Aquatic Ecol-
ogy, Department of Biology Lund University Ecology
Building 223 62 Lund, Sweden
Oce phone: +46 (0) 46 22 234 73 Cell phone: +46 (0)
70 17 49 660 Fax: +46 (0) 46 222 45 36
Home page: www.lu.se/aquaticecology GENECO:
www.biology.lu.se/geneco Johan Hollander
<johan.hollander@biol.lu.se >
Montpellier DrosEU
AdaptationGenomics Aug23-24
Dear colleagues,
We are happy to announce the *DrosEU /ESEB STN
Summer School on Adaptation Genomics*, (http://-
droseu.net/) a two-day event to take place on *23-
24 August 2018 at the CNRS campus in Montpel-
lier*, right after the Evolution 2018 meeting (http://-
evolutionmontpellier2018.org/).
The summer school aims at fostering the study of adap-
tation genomics and evolutionary genetics in a variety
of systems and using diverse approaches (e.g., popula-
tion genomics, life-history analyses, statistical inference
based on population and quantitative genetic theory,
landscape genomics, GWAS, and Evolve & Resequence
experiments). The school is organized by the Euro-
pean *Drosophila* Population Genomics Consortium
(DrosEU) and sponsored by the European Society for
Evolutionary Biology (ESEB) and the Mediterranean
Center for the Environment and for Biodiversity (CE-
MEB). Although DrosEU focuses on *Drosophila*, the
research questions, methodological approaches and the
conceptual issues addressed by the consortium apply
to many species beyond the *Drosophila *model. Our
two-day mini-summer school will gather approximately
60 people, especially students and postdocs from within
and outside the DrosEU community, as well as invited
speakers who are leaders in the eld. We will have
sessions with 6 invited speakers (each with a 1-hr talk,
followed by 30 min of discussion) and 6 contributed
PhD/postdoc presentations (20 min plus 10 min of dis-
cussion). By bringing together empiricists and theo-April 1, 2018 EvolDir 129
reticians working on dierent model systems and using
dierent approaches, this meeting will promote fruitful
discussions and allow identifying new avenues for the
study of the adaptation in natural populations.
*Registration is open to everyone on a rst come rst
served basis, but priority will be given to PhD students
and postdocs.*
*Registration deadline: May, 1st.*
*Link to the registration website*: http://droseu.net/-
droseu-eseb-stn-summer-school-on-adaptation-
genomics/ *The meeting and the lunches provided
during the workshop will be free of charge.*
We look forward to seeing you in Montpellier!
*The organizing committee*: Nicolas Rode [Montpel-
lier], Sara Guirao & Josefa Gonz alez [Barcelona], Martin
Kapun & Thomas Flatt [Fribourg], on behalf of DrosEU.
*Contact:* nicolas.rode@inra.fr
*Invited speakers*:
*Andrea Betancourt* (University of Liverpool, web-
site<https://www.yevolution.net/ >): Transposable
element evolution in *Drosophila*
*Joachim Hermisson *(University of Vienna, website <
http://www.mabs.at/hermisson/index.html >):* title
to be announced shortly*
*Juliette de Meaux* (University of Cologne, website
<http://www.ag-demeaux.botanik.uni-koeln.de/ >):*
Can cis-regulatory variation point to the molecular tar-
gets of polygenic selection? Insights from the Arabidop-
sis genus. *
*Dmitri Petrov* (Stanford University, website <http:/-
/petrov.stanford.edu/ >): *Evolution on ecological
timescales in Drosophila*
*Cristina Vieira* (University of Lyon, website
<https://lbbe.univ-lyon1.fr/-Vieira-Heddi-Cristina-
.html?lang=en >):* (Epi)genomic environmental stress
response in Drosophila*
*Renaud Vitalis *(INRA, website <https://-
www6.montpellier.inra.fr/cbgp/Personnel/Personnel-
permanent/Vitalis >): *Inferring demographic and
adaptive histories from genome-wide polymorphism
data*
Nicolas Rode <nicolas.o.rode@gmail.com >NorthCarolingMichigan Avida-ED
Summer
We are currently soliciting applications for participants
in a training workshop to teach faculty how to use Avida-
ED, a free, web-based program designed to teach both
principles of evolution and the nature of science, based
on the research platform Avida.| This summer, we are
holding two such workshops, **one at Michigan State
University (in East Lansing) from August 1-3*, and*
*one at the North Carolina A&T (in Greensboro) June
14-16*** .| Workshop participants will learn how to use
this program, and incorporate it into courses that they
teach.| We will give priority to applications submitted
as teams of two, though *in a change from last year, we
are also accepting applications from single individuals*.|
Full details on the workshops, and information on how to
apply, can be found at https://avida-ed.msu.edu/active-
lens-train-the-trainers-workshop-2018-edition ; *please
note that the original application deadline has passed,
but we are still considering applications on a rolling
basis until full*.| If you have any questions about this,
please don't hesitate to contact me at mwiser@msu.edu
Mike Wiser Postdoc in Evolution Education
mwiser@msu.edu
\mwiser@msu.edu" <mwiser@msu.edu >
OberaegeriSwitzerland
TamingTheBEAST June17-22
Dear colleagues,
This is a reminder that the March 25 registration dead-
line for the Taming the BEAST summer school is quickly
approaching. If you, your research colleagues or students
are intending to apply for this workshop, please ensure
this happens before the deadline. We have already had
very strong interest in the workshop, and places are
strictly limited.
Taming the BEAST is a summer school focusing on
the BEAST2 software and consisting of a mix of in-
vited talks, lectures and hands-on tutorials by experts
in the eld (including several of the core developers of130 EvolDir April 1, 2018
BEAST2). The aim of this summer school is to equip
participants with the skills necessary to condently per-
form their own phylogenetic and phylodynamic infer-
ences in Bayesian settings, while providing them with a
rm grasp of the theory behind those inferences. Par-
ticipants are also highly encouraged to bring their own
datasets along and to engage with the organizers and
speakers to address any problems specic to their own
datasets/analyses.
We welcome applications from graduate students and
early-career scientists in the life sciences. Preference
will be given to applicants who are not from a compu-
tational background and applicants who have already
collected/assembled a dataset that they need to analyze.
However, anyone interested is more than welcome to
apply.
Invited speakers: Alexei Drummond (University of Auck-
land) Vladimir Minin (University of California, Irvine)
Alexandra Gavryushkina (University of Otago) Tanja
Stadler (ETH Zurich) Sebasti an Duch^ ene (University of
Melbourne)
Dates: June 17th to June 22nd (Deadline for registration
is March 25th).
Place: Oberaegeri, Switzerland
Registration Fee: 900 CHF (Registration fee includes
accommodation and meals).
For more information please visit the summer school
website: https://www.bsse.ethz.ch/cevo/taming-the-
beast/overview-2018.html For information on previous
workshop programs, tutorials etc. please visit https://-
taming-the-beast.github.io/ We hope to see you there,
the Taming the BEAST organizing team
\timothy.vaughan@bsse.ethz.ch"
<timothy.vaughan@bsse.ethz.ch >
ObergeriSwitzerland BEAST
Jun17-22
Dear colleagues,
We are happy to announce that registration is now open
for our summer school \Taming the BEAST".
Phylogenetics and phylodynamics are central topics in
modern biology. Phylogenetic inferences reconstruct the
evolutionary relationships between organisms, whereas
phylodynamic inferences reveal the dynamics that leadto the observed relationships. These two elds have
many practical applications in disciplines such as epi-
demiology, developmental biology, paleontology, ecology
and even linguistics. However, phylogenetics and phylo-
dynamics are complex and fast-evolving elds. As such,
inference tools are not easily accessible to researchers
who are not from a computational background.
Taming the BEAST is a summer school focusing on the
BEAST2 software and consisting of a mix of invited
talks, lectures and hands-on tutorials by leading and
renowned experts in the eld (including several of the
core developers of BEAST2). The aim of this summer
school is to equip participants with the skills necessary
to condently perform their own phylogenetic and phylo-
dynamic inferences in Bayesian settings, while providing
them with a rm grasp of the theory behind those in-
ferences. Participants are also highly encouraged to
bring their own datasets along and to engage with the
organizers and speakers to address any problems specic
to their own datasets/analyses.
REGISTRATION IS NOW OPEN. We welcome applica-
tions from graduate students and early-career scientists
in the life sciences. Preference will be given to appli-
cants who are not from a computational background
and applicants who have already collected/assembled a
dataset that they need to analyze.
Invited speakers: Alexei Drummond (University of Auck-
land) Vladimir Minin (University of California, Irvine)
Alexandra Gavryushkina (University of Otago) Tanja
Stadler (ETH Zurich) Sebasti an Duch^ ene (University of
Melbourne)
Dates: June 17th to June 22nd (Deadline for registration
is March 25th).
Place: Ober ageri, Switzerland
Registration Fee: 900 CHF (Registration fee includes
accommodation and meals).
For more information please visit the summer school
website: https://www.bsse.ethz.ch/cevo/taming-the-
beast/overview-2018.html For information on previous
workshop programs, tutorials etc. please visit https://-
taming-the-beast.github.io/ We hope to see you there,
the Taming the BEAST organizing team
Tim Vaughan <timothy.vaughan@bsse.ethz.ch >April 1, 2018 EvolDir 131
Portugal 2 EvolBiol Apr
Subject: Portugal-cE3c-Course: two advanced courses
with deadlines April 2018
cE3c - Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmen-
tal Changes is organizing several Advanced Courses:
see below the two courses with closer deadlines. Addi-
tional informations at: http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/-
training/?cat . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Course Nature-Based Design Frameworks
organized by Gil Penha-Lopes and Hugo Oliveira jMay
14^h-18^th 2018 @ Lisbon, Portugal
Objectives: This course will introduce all participants
to dierent Nature-based design frameworks such as
Biomimicry, Permaculture, Biophilic Design, Regener-
ative Design and Resilient Design. Providing many
examples of how they are applied, from city farms, to
rooftopgardens, to river and watershed regeneration, to
educational approaches, to food production and ecosys-
tems and landscape regeneration, within rural and urban
contexts.
Course instructors
Gil Penha-Lopes (Invited Assistant Professor at FCUL,
Leader of the Subgroup ^ aand Sustainability', CCIAM,
cE3c)
http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/member/gilpenhalopes
and
Hugo Oliveira (PhD student, CCIAM, cE3c)
http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/member/hugooliveira
Intended audience: This ve days intensive course will
be open to a maximum number of 24 participants, being
directed to PhD or MSc students in Biology, Environ-
mental studies, Geography or related areas, and post-
docs and other professionals working in related topics.
Minimal formation of students: Bachelor in Biology,
Geography or related areas.
The course is free for 1st year PhD students in the
Doctoral programme in Biology (FCUL), Biodiversity,
Genetics and Evolution (BIODIV UL; UP), Biology
and Ecology of Global Changes (BEAG UL; UA) and
Climate Change and Sustainable Development Policies
(UL). For information of fees for other participants see
the programme details.8Candidates should send a short CV and motivation let-
ter to Gil Penha-Lopes (email gppenha-lopes@fc.ul.pt)
and ngela Antunes (email amantunes@fc.ul.pt).
For additional details about the programme of the
course, fees and to know how to register, click here,
and access the specic course
http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/?cat For more
information about the course, please contact:
gppenha-lopes@fc.ul.pt
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Course Applied Methods in Community Ecology and
Functional Ecology by Paulo A. V. Borges and Fran cois
Rigal - June 18 ^th -22 ^nd 2018 @ Lisbon, Portugal
Objectives: This ve-days intensive course is mostly a
practical course oering an overview on dierent commu-
nity ecology and macroecological methods and software.
These will include all steps of a research project, from
the optimal sampling of communities to process infer-
ence from large-scale patterns of taxon, phylogenetic and
functional diversity. Specic topics will be: (1) alpha,
beta and gamma diversity; (2) estimating diversity from
incomplete sampling; (3) partitioning taxonomic beta
diversity; (4) community-assembly rules, (5) functional
and phylogenetic diversity, (6) null models, (7) rarity
and species abundance distribution. Finally, students
will be asked to present own data and case studies.
See the PROGRAMME at:
http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/?cat Course
INSTRUCTORS:
Paulo A. V. Borges (Assistant Professor at Azores Uni-
versity, researcher at cE3c) (http://gba.uac.pt/team/-
IBBC; http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/member/paulo-a-
v-borges)
and
Fran cois Rigal (Assistant Professor at Environment and
Microbiology Team, MELODY group, University of
Pau and external collaborator of cE3c -IBBC, Azorean
Biodiversity Group) (http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/-
member/francoisrigal)
Intended audience
This ve days intensive course will be open to a maxi-
mum number of 20 participants, being directed to PhD
or MSc students in Ecology, Geography or related areas,
and postdocs and other professionals working in related
topics.
The course is free for 1st year PhD students in the
Doctoral programme in Biology (FCUL), Biodiversity,
Genetics and Evolution (BIODIV UL, UP) and Biol-132 EvolDir April 1, 2018
ogy and Ecology of Global Changes (BEAG UL, UA).
For information of fees for other participants see the
programme details.
Deadline for applications: April 27 ^th 2018
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Reminder MexicoCity PCMs
Jun26-29
This is a reminder that today (March 1st) is the last
day to apply for the free, NSF-sponsored workshop
that I will be co-teaching with my colleagues Mike Al-
faro (UCLA), Ricardo Betancur (UPR-R o Piedras),
Alejandro Gonzalez-Voyer (UNAM), & Luke Harmon
(U. Idaho). More information about the workshop (in
Spanish & English), as well as how to apply, can be
seen at the following URL: http://www.phytools.org/-
mexico2018/ad/ . { Liam J. Revell, Associate Profes-
sor of Biology University of Massachusetts Boston &
Profesor Asociado, Programa de Biolog a Universidad
del Rosario web: http://faculty.umb.edu/liam.revell/
\Liam.Revell@umb.edu" <Liam.Revell@umb.edu >
Seattle StatGenetics Jul9-27
Register now for the 22nd Summer Institute in Sta-
tistical Genetics, to be held in Seattle, July 9 - 27.
Twenty modules, including the new \Conservation Ge-
netics" and \Computational Pipelines". Scholarships
are available to students, with an application deadline
of March 31. Learn more and watch the video from 2017
at http://www.biostat.washington.edu/suminst Bruce
Bruce Weir Professor, Department of Biostatistics Di-
rector, Institute for Public Health Genetics University
of Washington Seattle, WA 98195-9461
bsweir@uw.eduSweden Bioinformatics with R
Jun11-21
RaukR Summer School: Advanced R for Bioinformatics
11-21 June 2018. Visby, Gotland, Sweden Registration
deadline: April 15, 2018
We are excited to announce a brand new international
Summer School in R for Bioinformatics! The Summer
School is beautifully located in the middle of the UN-
ESCO World Heritage city of Visby, Sweden, and during
2 weeks you will get the opportunity to learn R from
internationally renowned R wizzards and senior bioin-
formatics sta from NBIS/SciLifeLab. We believe that
RaukR will take your bioinformatics R analysis and
visualization skills to a new level, so don't miss out on
this unique opportunity!
Register today at https://nbisweden.github.io/-
workshop-RaukR-1806/ NBIS/SciLifeLab www.nbis.se,
www.scilifelab.se
Note: A \Rauk" is a characteristically shaped
stone formation, common on the Island of
Gotland, Sweden. See for example https://-
sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rauk#/media/File:Gotland-
F%C3%A5r%C3%B6 Raukar-Gamlehamn.jpg Bjorn
Nystedt, PhD Joint head of facility Bioinformatics
Long-term Support (WABI) National Bioinformatics
Infrastructure Sweden at SciLifeLab www.nbis.se,
www.scilifelab.se/platforms/bioinformatics
BMC E10:3206, entrance C11 Husargatan 3, SE-752 37
Uppsala
Phone: 018 - 471 4413 E-mail:
bjorn.nystedt@scilifelab.se
Bj orn Nystedt <bjorn.nystedt@scilifelab.se >
Turin EvolGameTheory Jul16-19
Conict, Competition, Cooperation and Complexity:
Using Evolutionary Game Theory to model realistic pop-
ulations, July 16-19, 2018 at the University of Torino.
https://www.city.ac.uk/department-mathematics/-
mathematical-biology/FourC-Modelling This is theApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 133
third workshop of the European Union's Horizon 2020
research and innovation programme FourCmodelling
(No 690817) under the Marie Sk ~A1odowska-Curie
grant agreement. The workshop will consist of talks,
discussion, and break out sessions that focus on
the following aspects of evolutionary game theory:
1. Multiplayer games in structured populations, 2.
Complex foraging games and time constraints, 3.
Modelling pandemics as complex systems, 4. Modelling
cancer as a complex adaptive system.
This event is open to researchers whose areas of ex-
pertise complement these themes. A limited number
of positions is reserved for PhD students and junior
researchers working/interested in evolutionary game
theory and their applications within the scope of this
project. The workshop fee is 250 and the reduced fee is
125 including lunch and coee/tea during the day.
If you want to be a part of this exciting event, send a
short motivation e-mail (indicating whether you want
to present a talk/poster) to Prof. Mark Broom at
Mark.Broom.1@city.ac.uk not later than April 30, 2018.
Selected candidates will be notied shortly after.
Yours,
Maria Luisa Sapino and Mark Broom (workshop organ-
isers)
\Broom, Mark" <Mark.Broom.1@city.ac.uk >
UK
PhylogeneticComparativeMethods
Oct22-25
\Phylogenetic comparative methods for studying diversi-
cation and phenotypic evolution (PCME01)"
Full details can be found at the link below.
http://bit.ly/2FFjB6sPHYLOGENETIC COMPARITIVE METHODS PHENOTYPIC EVOLUTION
This course will run from the 22nd - 25th October
2018 in Glasgow City Centre and will be delivered by
Dr. Antigoni Kaliontzopoulou.
Course Overview: Phylogenetic comparative methods
are commonly used nowadays to investigate how species
diversication occurs and to test hypotheses about the
mechanisms that drive phenotypic evolution, e.g. to
model speciation and extinction, to understand why
some groups are more diverse than others, to test
whether phenotypic traits have evolved under neutral,
directional or diversifying selection, to investigate howevolutionary rates are modied across the evolutionary
history of a group etc. In all these cases, a phyloge-
netic hypothesis for the group of interest is combined
to phenotypic and ecological data at the species level to
understand the tempo and mode of evolutionary change.
The objective of this course is to provide an overview of
these methods and of the tools avaipracticalsle for their
implementation in the R statistical language. During
theoretical sessions, we will review the main concepts
and statistical tools necessary for testing hypotheses
about species diversication and phenotypic evolution.
These will then be implemented in practical practicals
sessions through worked examples to provide the partic-
ipants with hands-on experience on data management
and the implementation of these methods to real biolog-
ical data.
Monday 22nd DAY 1: Introduction 9:00 'V 9:30: In-
troductions 9:30 'V 10:30: Why do we need PCMs? A
short history of the eld 11:00 'V 12:00: Testing for
phylogenetic signal 13:00 'V 14:00: Ancestral character
reconstruction 14:30 'V 17:30: PRACTICALS
Tuesday 23rd DAY 2: Testing hypotheses on pheno-
typic evolution 9:00 'V 10:30: Phylogenetic indepen-
dent contrasts and phylogenetic GLS 11:00 'V 12:30:
Phylogenetically-informed ordination 14:30 'V 17:30:
PRACTICALS
Wednesday 24th DAY3: Tempo and mode of evolution-
ary change 9:00 'V 10:30: Evolutionary rates: estimation
and tests 11:00 'V 12:30: Models of phenotypic evolution
14:30 'V 17:30: PRACTICALS
Thursday 25th DAY 4: Miscellanea 9:00 'V 10:30: Mod-
elling lineage diversication 11:00 'V 12:30: Future per-
spectives: multivariate extensions to PCMs 14:30 'V
17:30: PRACTICALS
Please feel free to share this anywhere you see t.
Email oliverhooker@prstatistics.com with any questions.
Check out our sister sites, www.PRstatistics.com (Ecol-
ogy and Life Sciences) www.PRinformatics.com (Bioin-
formatics and data science) www.PSstatsistics.com (Be-
haviour and cognition)
1. March 12th - 16th 2018 ECOLOGICAL NICHE
MODELLING USING R (ENMR02) Glasgow, Scotland,
Dr. Neftali Sillero http://www.prstatistics.com/-
course/ecological-niche-modelling-using-r-enmr02/ 2.
March 19th 'V 23rd 2018 BEHAVIOURAL DATA
ANALYSIS USING MAXIMUM LIKLIHOOD IN R
(BDML01) Glasgow, Scotland, Dr William Hoppitt
http://www.psstatistics.com/course/behavioural-data-
analysis-using-maximum-likelihood-bdml01/ 3. April
9th 'V 13th 2018 NETWORK ANAYLSIS FOR134 EvolDir April 1, 2018
ECOLOGISTS USING R (NTWA02 Glasgow, Scotland,
Dr. Marco Scotti www.prstatistics.com/course/network-
analysis-ecologists-ntwa02/ 4. April 16th 'V 20th 2018
INTRODUCTION TO STATISTICAL MODELLING
FOR PSYCHOLOGISTS USING R (IPSY01) Glasgow,
Scotland, Dr. Dale Barr, Dr Luc Bussierre http://-
www.psstatistics.com/course/introduction-to-statistics-
using-r-for-psychologists-ipsy01/ 5. April 23rd 'V 27th
2018 MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS OF ECOLOGICAL
COMMUNITIES USING THE VEGAN PACKAGE
(VGNR01) Glasgow, Scotland, Dr. Peter Solymos,
Dr. Guillaume Blanchet www.prstatistics.com/course/-
multivariate-analysis-of-ecological-communities-in-r-
with-the-vegan-package-vgnr01/ 6. April 30th 'V
4th May 2018 QUANTITATIVE GEOGRAPHIC
ECOLOGY: MODELING GENOMES, NICHES, AND
COMMUNITIES (QGER01) Glasgow, Scotland, Dr.
Dan Warren, Dr. Matt Fitzpatrick
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UK QuantModellingGenomes
Apr30-May4
Quantitative geographic ecology using R: modelling
genomes, niches, and communities (QGER01)
Delivered by Dan Warren and Matt Fitzpatrick, this
course will take place in Glasgow city centre from 30th
April - 4th May
Full details can be found at
www.prstatistics.com/course/quantitative-geographic-
ecology-using-r-modelling-genomes-niches-and-
communities-qger01/ Course Overview: Spatial
modelling is increasingly being used in ecology and
evolutionary biology for both basic and applied research
questions. While emphasis traditionally has been on
species-level niche modelling, the increasing availability
of genomic and community-level data has increased
interest in modelling biodiversity patterns above and
below the species level. This 5-day course will provide
a thorough introduction to dierent spatial modelling
techniques for quantifying and visualizing patterns of
biodiversity across scales of biological organization
'V from population-level genetic variation, to speciesecological niches, to communities. Students will learn
about theory, common data types, and statistical
techniques used in these dierent applications.
The course will include introductory lectures, guided
computer coding in R, and exercises for the participants,
with an emphasis on visualization and reproducible
workows. All modelling and data manipulation will
be performed with R. Attendees will learn to use niche
modelling algorithms including Maxent, GLM, GAM,
and others, and will learn both new and existing meth-
ods for conducting comparative studies using ENMs in
the new ENMTools R package. Generalized Dissimilar-
ity Modelling (GDM) and Gradient Forest (GF) will
be taught for modelling genomic and community-level
data. The course is intended for intermediate R users
with interest in quantitative geographical ecology.
After successfully completing this course students will:
1) Understand the theory underlying ENMs and the
critical assumptions necessary to the modelling pro-
cess. 2) Be able to develop, evaluate, and apply ENMs
both in the context of conservation-oriented studies and
to study niche evolution. 3) Understand the statisti-
cal underpinnings of GDM and GF 4) Be able to de-
velop, evaluate and apply GDM and GF for quantifying
and mapping spatial genetic patterns and community-
level compositional variation 5) Assess population- and
community-level vulnerability to climate change
Check out our sister sites; www.PRstatistics.com (Ecol-
ogy and life sciences) www.PRinformatics.com (Bioin-
formatics and data science) www.PSstatistics.com (Be-
haviour and cognition)
Please chare anywhere you see t.
Email enquiries to oliverhooker@prstastistics.com
Other up coming courses below
1. February 19th 'V 23rd 2018 MOVEMENT ECOL-
OGY (MOVE01) Margam Discovery Centre, Wales,
Dr Luca Borger, Dr Ronny Wilson, Dr Jonathan
Potts www.prstatistics.com/course/movement-ecology-
move01/ 2. February 19th 'V 23rd 2018 GEO-
METRIC MORPHOMETRICS USING R (GMMR01)
Margam Discovery Centre, Wales, Prof. Dean
Adams, Prof. Michael Collyer, Dr. Antigoni
Kaliontzopoulou http://www.prstatistics.com/course/-
geometric-morphometrics-using-r-gmmr01/ 3. March
5th - 9th 2018 SPATIAL PRIORITIZATION US-
ING MARXAN (MRXN01) Margam Discovery Cen-
tre, Wales, Jennifer McGowan www.prstatistics.com/-
course/introduction-to-marxan-mrxn01/ 4. March
12th - 16th 2018 ECOLOGICAL NICHE MOD-
ELLING USING R (ENMR02) Glasgow, Scotland,
Dr. Neftali Sillero http://www.prstatistics.com/-April 1, 2018 EvolDir 135
course/ecological-niche-modelling-using-r-enmr02/ 5.
March 19th 'V 23rd 2018 BEHAVIOURAL DATA
ANALYSIS USING MAXIMUM LIKLIHOOD IN
R (BDML01) Glasgow, Scotland, Dr William Hop-
pitt http://www.psstatistics.com/course/behavioural-
data-analysis-using-maximum-likelihood-bdml01/ 6.
April 9th 'V 13th 2018 NETWORK ANAYLSIS FOR
ECOLOGISTS USING R (NTWA02 Glasgow, Scotland,
Dr. Marco Scotti www.prstatistics.com/course/network-
analysis-ecologists-ntwa02/ 7. April 16th 'V 20th 2018
INTRODUCTION TO STATISTICAL MODELLING
FOR PSYCHOLOGISTS USING R (IPSY01) Glasgow,
Scotland, Dr. Dale Barr, Dr Luc Bussierre
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UPorto
ModellingSpeciesEnvAdaptation
Apr23-27
*MODELLING SPATIAL ECO-EVOLUTIONARY DY-
NAMICS AND SPECIES' RESPONSES TO ENVI-
RONMENTAL CHANGES*
*23-24 & 26-27 April 2018 (CIBIO-UP)*
Rapid environmental change threatens biodiversity and
exposes species to novel ecological and evolutionary pres-
sures. The scientic community increasingly recognizes
the need for dynamic mechanistic models integrating
sucient complexity to forecast the response of natural
populations to drivers of global change, such as habitat
fragmentation or climate change.
In this Advanced Course hosted by CIBIO-University of
Porto (UP) students will rst learn fundamental issues
to apply spatially-explicit eco-evolutionary models to
address biotic responses to anthropic and/or environ-
mental changes. Secondly, we will introduce a novel
modelling platform, *RangeShifter v2.0*, which inte-
grates population dynamics, dispersal behaviour and
evolutionary processes in a spatially-explicit context.
Using some illustrative examples, we will show dierent
functionalities for a wide variety of modelling appli-
cations ranging from applied to theoretical questions.
Thirdly, we will present new functionalities recentlyincorporated into Rangeshifter v2.0, namely: *(i)* a
genetics module and *(ii)* dynamic landscapes. Fi-
nally, we will discuss future potential functionalities to
be incorporated into Rangeshifter v2.0 including *(i)*
the possibility of accommodating plant traits, such as
selng or pollen dispersal kernels and *(ii)* to address
eco-evolutionary changes in marine environments.
To take the most of this course, it is highly advisable
that participants bring their own spatial datasets (ide-
ally as shapeles in a projected co-ordinate system) to
discuss with the instructors the most suitable way to
apply *Rangeshifter v2.0* to address their own study
issues.
*Instructors*
Justin Travis (Aberdeen University, UK)
Steve Palmer (Aberdeen University, UK)
Cristina Garc a (CIBIO-Porto University, Portugal)
*Registration deadline: 30th March *
To apply, please send an e-mail accompanied
by your short CV (max. one-side A4) to
post.graduation@cibio.up.pt.
*Fees:*
Free for BIODIV students
80 euro non-BIODIV students
150 euro others (postdocs, researchers, managers)
The course will be open to a maximum number of 20
participants.
*More info at:*
https://cibio.up.pt/workshops{courses/details/-
modelling-spatial-eco-evolutionary-dynamics-and-
species-responses-to-environmental-changes-
Virginia ConservationBioinformatics
Oct10-19
Bioinformatics Analysis for Conservation Genomics
October 10-19, 2018
Smithsonian-Mason School of Conservation, Front Royal,
VA, USA
https://smconservation.gmu.edu/programs/-
graduate-and-professional/profe ssional-training-
courses/conservation-genomics/136 EvolDir April 1, 2018
This new course is designed to provide attendees at any
career stage with a theoretical understanding of the
methods used in conservation genomics along with the
practical skills necessary to design and carry out the
analysis component of a conservation genomics study.
While introduction to the theoretical aspects of each
of the analytical steps will be given, the emphasis of
the course will be on hands-on training, enabling the
participants to complete the analysis steps behind a
conservation genomics study. Thus, the course will
follow the format of short lectures introducing each
analytical step, followed by hands-on activities during
which students will complete the corresponding analysis.
The course will begin with an overview of conserva-
tion genomics, comparison of dierent next generation
sequencing platforms, and the analytical factors to con-
sider when beginning a conservation genomics study.
The rest of the course will focus on the bioinformatics
analysis behind a conservation study including: genome
assembly (trimming, assembly techniques, quality as-
sessment), genome annotation, mapping low coverage
genome data to a reference genome, SNP calling, de-
mographic analysis, and estimation of genome-wide di-
versity. These steps will all be accomplished with real
data used in a recent conservation genomics study and
performed on the Smithsonian High Performance Com-
puting Cluster (SI/HPC). By the end of the course,
attendees will have acquired the necessary background
and applied knowledge to implement genomic analyses
for the conservation of endangered species.
The Smithsonian-Mason School of Conservation is a
partnership between George Mason University and the
Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute (SCBI). All
courses are intensive residential programs hosted in
a sustainably-built Academic Center on the grounds
of SCBI in Front Royal, Virginia, USA. All courses
oer continuing education credits (CEUs) and some
can be taken for graduate credit. Limited scholarships
are available for eligible applicants. See our upcom-
ing oerings below and check out our website (http://-
SMConservation.gmu.edu) for more course details and
pricing.
Rebecca Dikow (dikowr@si.edu)
\Dikow, Rebecca" <DikowR@si.edu >Virginia ConservationGenetics
Aug19-30 Deadline
Registration Deadline Approaching - Congen2018 Re-
cent Advances in Conservation Genetics ConGen-2018,
Front Royal, Virginia, August 19 'V 30, 2018
Dear Conservation Genetics Community:
The American Genetic Association together with the
Northern Virginia 4-H Educational Center, Front Royal,
Virginia s is organizing a 10-day intensive course in
methods, interpretation, and applications of molecular
genetic analyses for conservation of endangered species,
Recent Advances in Conservation Genetics (ConGen-
2018) on August 19 'V 30, 2018.
On behalf of The Organizing Committee for ConGen-
2018, it is my pleasure and a privilege to invite you
to this important international event which will take
place in the beautiful Shenandoah Valley village of front
Royal, Va. (adjacent to the International Airport Dulles
(IAD) outside Washington DC), a hot spot of biodiver-
sity and an up-and-coming site for scientic research,
education and communication.
The course will be directed by Dr. Stephen J. O' ^ABrien,
and taught by renowned scientists in methods, interpre-
tation, and applications of molecular genetic analyses
for conservation of endangered species, who will also
share a variety of their personal experiences in this
important eld. ConGen2018 faculty is an amazing
group of people who come from all around the world
and will be teaching, sharing their conservation stories
and interacting with students during the course. See the
full list of faculty at http://conservationgenetics.org
ConGen-2018 participants will be conservation scientists
representing academia, government, NGOs, or industry
studying genetics of endangered species. Every day of
the course, an open popular science evening lecture will
be presented by the internationally renowned faculty to
the members of the conservation-minded public, faculty
and students from the universities, local businesses, gov-
ernmental and non-governmental organizations in the
area.
Located in beautiful Harmony Hollow, just outside Front
Royal, Virginia, the Northern Virginia 4-H Educational
Center is a unique, beautiful location that is home to
year-round camps and educational programs, as well
as providing facilities and services to groups seeking aApril 1, 2018 EvolDir 137
relaxed, economical retreat experience. The Center' ^As
unique location is easily accessible from major metropoli-
tan areas, and oers a quiet, peaceful respite for your
youth group, team or organization to reconnect, regroup
and relax. The Northern Virginia 4-H Educational Cen-
ter is a public recreation area, oering facilities including
a public pool, picnic shelters, and multi-use trails that
are open to the general public at little to no cost.
Tentative Course Schedule and Topics:
Day 1 Participants arrive Dinner, logistics, introduc-
tions Day 2 Experimental design: traditional markers
and NGS; avoiding pitfalls Overview of NGS approaches
Reduced representation sequencing (RADseq, UCEs, ex-
omes), whole genome sequencing/re-sequencing, target
enrichment methods, RNAseq Pipelines; QC-ltering;
assembly and mapping; storage (use mitogenomes as
example) Computer demo/exercises Evening speaker
1 Day 3 Mining markers from NGS data I (variant
discovery) Computer demo/exercises Mining markers
from NGS data II (variant interpretation) Computer
demo/exercises Evening speaker 2 Day 4 Genetic diver-
sity and inbreeding I Computer demo/exercises Genetic
diversity and inbreeding II Computer demo/exercises
Evening speaker 3 Day 5 Genetic structure/isolation:
PCA, STRUCTURE/ADMIXTURE, allele trees Com-
puter demo/exercises Gene ow and admixture Com-
puter demo/exercises Evening speaker 4 Day 6 Field trip
Mid-course dinner & party Day 7 Eective population
size/Historical demography I Computer demo/exercises
Eective population size/Historical demography II
Computer demo/exercises Evening speaker 5 Day
8 Local adaptation: SNPs that matter Computer
demo/exercises Local adaptation: genes that matter
Computer demo/exercises Evening speaker 6 Day 9
Estimating relatedness I Computer demo/exercises Esti-
mating relatedness II Computer demo/exercises Evening
speaker 7 Day 10 Phylogenetics: Alignments and Net-
works Computer demo/exercises Phylogenetics: Trees
Computer demo/exercises Evening speaker 8 Day 11
Phylogenetics: Applications 'V barcoding, metage-
nomics, eDNA Genetic management of ex situ pop-
ulations of endangered species Postdoctoral fellowships,
careers Course evaluation, group photo Closing party
Day 12 Participants depart
Who should apply? Applicants should be conservation-
minded scientists (advanced graduate students, post-
docs, teachers, and researchers with advanced degrees)
from academia, government, NGOs, or industry who
are studying the genetics of endangered species and who
will apply the knowledge gained from this course to the
conservation of such species.
Please submit your registration here: http://-conservationgenetics.org
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
WellcomeUK DrosophilaGenomics
Jul30-Aug3
Drosophila Genetics and Genomics 30 July-3 August
2018 Advanced Courses & Scientic Conferences, Well-
come Genome Campus, Hinxton, UK
This popular course, established more than 20 years ago,
will provide up-to-date summaries for a range of classical
and contemporary, from basic to advanced, topics and
techniques in Drosophila genetics and genomics. The
course will provide participants with a solid knowledge-
base when starting or developing research projects using
Drosophila as a model organism.
The course is ideally aimed at faculty, postdoctoral
researchers, and graduate students who are currently
working in a y lab, or those who have completed a PhD
in another eld and starting to work on Drosophila for
their postdoctoral studies interested in developing new
ideas to transfer to their own research strategy.
Please note: To optimise the impact of the course, at-
tendance is limited to 25 participants.
Learning outcomes After attending this course, partici-
pants will be able to:
Describe the latest advances in Drosophila genetics.
Appraise the latest cutting-edge techniques used in
Drosophila research. Apply CRISPR/Cas9 and other
gene replacement or disruption techniques to their own
research. Evaluate the various techniques used in ad-
vanced genetic analysis. Design and develop a research
project using Drosophila. Access an international net-
work of leading Drosophila researchers.
Topics will include: Introduction to Drosophila Ad-
vanced genetic analysis Genomics Genetic screens and
mosaic analysis CRISPR and genome editing Recombi-
neering and imaging RNAi and proteomics Gene reg-
ulation and development Behaviour and metabolism
Evolutionary and ecological genetics
Lead instructors Casey Bergman University of Geor-
gia, USA Scott Hawley Stowers Institute for Medical138 EvolDir April 1, 2018
Research, USA
Conrmed speakers Dan Barbash Cornell University,
USA Eileen Furlong EMBL, Germany Amanda Lar-
racuente University of Rochester, USA Ruth Lehmann
New York University School of Medicine, USA Kate
O'Connor-Giles University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA
Norbert Perrimon Harvard Medical School, USA Pavel
Tomancak Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biol-
ogy & Genetics, Germany Luis Teixeira Instituto Gul-
benkian de Ci^ encia, Portugal
Bursary and Application Deadline: 1 May 2018
Full details: https://-
coursesandconferences.wellcomegenomecampus.org/-
events/item.aspx?e=699 Treasa Creavin PhD Scientic
Programme Manager
Tel: +44 (0)1223 495108 Wellcome Genome Campus
Advanced Courses and Scientic Conferences jWell-
come Genome Campus jHinxtonjCambridgeshirej
CB10 1RQjUK www.wellcomegenomecampus.org/-
coursesandconferences Twitter < https://-
twitter.com/ACSCevents >jFacebook <
https://www.facebook.com/ACSCevents/ >
jYouTube < https://www.youtube.com/c/-
WellcomeGenomeCampusCoursesandConferences
>jLinkedIN <https://www.linkedin.com/company/-
17977124/ >
Wellcome Genome Campus Advanced Courses and Sci-
entic Conferences is part of Connecting Science. Con-
necting Science enables everyone to explore genomic
science and its impact on research, health and society.
Please consider the environment before printing this
e-mail
Treasa Creavin <treasa.creavin@wellcomegenomecampus.org >
WellcomeUK EvolutionCancer
Apr24
Evolutionary Biology and Ecology of Cancer 2018 is
open for applications.
This course is aimed at researchers currently working
in cancer and/or evolution and ecology. It is partic-
ularly suited to evolutionary biologists and ecologists
interested in moving into cancer research, and to cancer
biologists and oncologists who lack formal training in
evolutionary biology.
Applications are invited from early career scientists,including post-graduate students, postdoctoral fel-
lows and new principle investigators. A limited
number of registration bursaries are available to
attend this course. Apply by 24 April. For more
information please visit the course website: https://-
coursesandconferences.wellcomegenomecampus.org/-
events/item.aspx?e=710 Course topics * Introduction
to the evolution and ecology of cancer * Understanding
vulnerability to cancer * The evolution of cancer clones
* The cancer ecosystem * Evolutionary prognostics *
Thwarting therapeutic resistance
Learning outcomes After attending this course, par-
ticipants will be able to: * Describe the principles of
evolutionary biology as applied to somatic cell evolution
in cancer (e.g. generation of diversity, driver muta-
tions, epistasis, selective pressures, cellular co-operation
and competition, units of selection). * Describe the
principles from ecology relevant to studying tumour mi-
croenvironments. * Develop prociency with the tools
for measuring the evolution and ecology of tumours. *
Evaluate those tools and metrics used to measure ecosys-
tems and evolution that can be applied to cancer. *
Evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of cancer prog-
nostics, particularly evolutionary prognostics * Apply
evolutionary and ecological approaches to the problem
of therapeutic resistance.
Scientic programme committee Athena Aktipis Arizona
State University, USA & Institute of Cancer Research,
UK Mel Greaves Institute of Cancer Research, UK Carlo
Maley Arizona State University, USA & Institute of
Cancer Research, UK
Keynote speaker Charles Swanton University College
London, UK
Conrmed tutors Alexander Anderson Mot Cancer
Center, USA Gerhardt Attard UCL Cancer Institute,
UK Amy Boddy University of California Santa Bar-
bara, USA Joel Brown Mott Cancer Centre, USA Kit
Curtius Barts Cancer Institute, UK Andrea Sottoriva
The Institute of Cancer Research, UK Yinyin Yuan The
Institute of Cancer Research, UK
Bursary and Application Deadline: 24 April 2018
Full details: https://-
coursesandconferences.wellcomegenomecampus.org/-
events/item.aspx?e=710 Treasa Creavin PhD Scientic
Programme Manager
Tel: +44 (0)1223 495108 Wellcome Genome Campus
Advanced Courses and Scientic Conferences jWell-
come Genome Campus jHinxtonjCambridgeshirej
CB10 1RQjUK www.wellcomegenomecampus.org/-
coursesandconferences Twitter < https://-
twitter.com/ACSCevents >jFacebook <April 1, 2018 EvolDir 139
https://www.facebook.com/ACSCevents/ >
jYouTube < https://www.youtube.com/c/-
WellcomeGenomeCampusCoursesandConferences
>jLinkedIN <https://www.linkedin.com/company/-
17977124/ >
Wellcome Genome Campus Advanced Courses and Sci-
entic Conferences is part of Connecting Science. Con-
necting Science enables everyone to explore genomicscience and its impact on research, health and society.
Please consider the environment before printing this
e-mail
Genome Research Limited, a charity registered in Eng-
land with number 1021457 and a company registered in
England with number 2742969, whose registered oce
is 215 Euston Road, London, NW1 2BE.
Treasa Creavin <treasa.creavin@wellcomegenomecampus.org >
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a once
monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope), but
should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain old
ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better chance
of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword140 EvolDir April 1, 2018
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.