E v o l D i r
July 1, 2018
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in the
same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary. The
nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you would
like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .46
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .97
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 982 EvolDir July 1, 2018
Conferences
Edinburgh FisherCentenary Oct9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
ExeterU GenotypeToFitness Nov22-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
Marseilles EvolBiol Sep25-28 Deadline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
MLBS Virginia SEPEEG EvolutionaryGenetics Oct5-7
3
MLBS Virginia SEPEEG PopGenetics Oct5-7 . . . . . . 3
Oslo EcolEvolutionGenomics Aug30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
ParkCityUtah EvolutionaryMedicine Aug1-4 . . . . . . . .4
PuertoRico EvolutionaryAnthro Nov1-4 CallAbstracts5
Salzburg Evolution Jul4-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Sherbrooke RECOMB Oct9-12 DeadlineExtension . . 6
Sherbrooke RECOMB Oct9-12 FinalCall . . . . . . . . . . . 6
UGoettingen EvolutionOfSensation Sep27-28 . . . . . . . 7
UHudderseld UK ProgrammingEvolBiol Sep2-6 . . . 8
UMinnesota MidwestPopGen Aug24-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . .8
UToronto EvolPlantReproduction Aug10-11 . . . . . . . . 9
Edinburgh FisherCentenary Oct9
Meeting to celebrate the centennial of R.A. Fisher's
famous 1918 paper on the theory of quantitative trait
inheritance:
100 years of quantitative genetics theory and its appli-
cations: celebrating the centenary of Fisher 1918
The meeting will take place on Tuesday October 9, 2018,
at the Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh (https:/-
/www.rcsed.ac.uk/). There will be 8 invited speakers,
with the Fisher Memorial Lecture at 5pm, followed by
a reception.
In addition, 4 early career speakers and up to 30 posters
will be selected from submitted abstracts by the organ-
ising committee.
Registration is through a website provided by the
Royal Statistical Society (https://events.rss.org.uk/rss/-
frontend/reg/thome.csp?pageID=71232&ef selmenu=-
1389&eventID=230).
B Charlesworth brian.charlesworth@ed.ac.uk Institute
of Evolutionary Biology School of Biological Sciences
University of Edinburgh Ashworth Laboratories Char-lotte Auerbach Road Edinburgh EH9 3FL UK Tel: (44)-
0131-650-5751
CHARLESWORTH Brian
<Brian.Charlesworth@ed.ac.uk >
ExeterU GenotypeToFitness
Nov22-23
Dear all,
On behalf of the Genetics Society of the UK we are
pleased to extend a very warm invitation to the 2018
autumn meeting - Genotype to Phenotype to Fitness.
The meeting will be held on 22-23 November 2018 at
Reed Hall, Exeter University, UK.
Registration and abstract submission is now OPEN
at https://my.genetics.org.uk/item.php?eventid=1014
The meeting will bring together researchers working
with diverse genetic techniques across a multitude of
systems, but who are nonetheless connected by a shared
passion for understanding adaptive evolution. The meet-
ing will have four themed open sessions over the two
days, each session featuring 2-3 of our invited speakersJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 3
together with contributed talks and posters selected
from abstracts submitted. The four themed sessions
are titled Genotype to Phenotype, Constraint and Con-
ict, Genes in Environments and Micro to Macro. We
encourage everyone to interpret these themes broadly
- they are intended to help identify common ground
for discussion, not to limit scientic scope! In addi-
tion to the open sessions there will be an Early Career
Researcher symposium oering opportunities for early
career researchers to present in an especially supportive
environment.
Conrmed Speakers: Matthew Webster (Uppsala), Nina
Wedell (Exeter), Patrik Nosil (Sheeld), Susan John-
ston (Edinburgh), Edze Westra (Exeter), Chris Jiggins
(Cambridge), Anne Charmantier (Montpellier), Miltos
Tsiantis (Max Planck, Cologne), Katrina McGuigan
(Queensland), Walter Salzburger (Basel)
Abstract deadline: 31st August 2018
For further information: http://www.genetics.org.uk/-
events/genotype-to-phenotype-to-tness/ Best wishes,
Alastair Wilson, Ben Longdon, Kay Boulton, Frank
Hailer, Helena
Autumn Meeting Organising Committee
\Wilson, Alastair" <A.Wilson@exeter.ac.uk >
Marseilles EvolBiol Sep25-28
Deadline
Dear All , the dead line for the : 22nd evolutionary
biology meeting at Marseilles
(September 25-28 2018) is June 30. See aeeb.fr and
follow the evolutionary biology meeting link.
best regards Pierre
PONTAROTTI Pierre <pierre.pontarotti@univ-
amu.fr >
MLBS Virginia SEPEEG
EvolutionaryGenetics Oct5-7
Please join us for the 44th annual SEPEEG conference
at Mountain Lake Biological Station (MLBS). The con-ference will be held Oct. 5th-7th, 2018. The scientic
elds represented at the meeting are diverse, and span
evolution, ecology, genetics, and behavior. SEPEEG is
a single-session meeting that provides a comfortable, en-
gaging environment for formal and informal interactions
between attendees. The meeting generally attracts at
least 120 participants, who are at all career stages and
from diverse institutions throughout the southeastern
United States.
Please visit http://mlbs.virginia.edu/SEPEEG-2018 for
more information.
Registration Cost: Registration cost covers room, food,
and conference expenses. General Registration Rate:
$135 Student Members of the American Society of Nat-
uralists: $90 Conference Attendees staying o site: $105
(food is included in this cost)
Joshua Puzey <jrpuzey@gmail.com >
MLBS Virginia SEPEEG
PopGenetics Oct5-7
Please join us for the 44th annual SEPEEG conference
at Mountain Lake Biological Station (MLBS). The con-
ference will be held Oct. 5th-7th, 2018. The scientic
elds represented at the meeting are diverse, and span
evolution, ecology, genetics, and behavior. SEPEEG is
a single-session meeting that provides a comfortable, en-
gaging environment for formal and informal interactions
between attendees. The meeting generally attracts at
least 120 participants, who are at all career stages and
from diverse institutions throughout the southeastern
United States.
Please visit http://mlbs.virginia.edu/SEPEEG-2018 for
more information.
Registration Cost: Registration cost covers room, food,
and conference expenses. General Registration Rate:
$135 Student Members of the American Society of Nat-
uralists: $90 Conference Attendees staying o site: $105
(food is included in this cost)
Joshua Puzey <jrpuzey@gmail.com >4 EvolDir July 1, 2018
Oslo EcolEvolutionGenomics Aug30
Dear Colleagues,
The Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis
(CEES) at the Department of Biosciences, University of
Oslo, is pleased to announce the 2018 Oslo Symposium
on Ecology, Evolution and Genomics.
Symposium website: http://www.mn.uio.no/cees/-
english/research/news/events/research/others/2018/-
oslo-symposium-on-ecology-evolution-and-genomics/
The co-organisers are CEES Chair Nils Chr. Stenseth
and CEES Researcher Jerey Hutchings (Dalhousie
University, Canada).
Symposium Theme: Bridging the Fundamentals of Ecol-
ogy, Evolution, and Genomics: Challenges and Solu-
tions.
Location and Details: 30 August 2018 (9:00 am - 5:00
pm) at the Gamle festsal, Domus Academica, Karl Jo-
hans gate 47 in central Oslo. This year's Oslo Sympo-
sium on Ecology, Evolution and Genomics will feature
six invited plenary talks followed by a poster session
for postgraduate students (MSc, PhD), postdoctoral
researchers, and interested attendees.
Keynote speaker: Spencer Barrett (University of
Toronto, Toronto, CANADA).
Plenary speakers: Per Ahlberg (Uppsala University, Up-
psala, SWEDEN), Kirsten Bomblies (John Innes Centre,
Norwich, UK), Felicity Jones (Friedrich Miescher Labo-
ratory, Max Plank Institute, T ubingen, GERMANY),
Judith Mank (University College London, UK; Univer-
sity of British Columbia, CANADA), Rebekah Oomen
(Dalhousie University, Halifax, CANADA; CEES, Uni-
versity of Oslo, NORWAY).
Format and objectives: The plenaries will allow time for
contemplative, but provocative, presentations and dis-
cussions. In preparing their talks, the invited speakers
have been asked to think broadly about fundamental
questions in ecology and evolution for which genomics
has played an integral role. Speakers also have been
asked to look ahead to identify questions that might
soon be answerable, to identify challenges that might
aect such research progress, and to oer solutions and
ideas as to how the scientic community might best
proceed. The plenary talks will be followed by a poster
session by interested graduate students, postdocs, andestablished researchers.
Registration: There is no registration fee for attending
the Oslo Symposium. However, because of seating-
capacity restrictions, attendees do need to register
their names and aliations. Link to registration
form: https://skjema.uio.no/oslo-symposium-on-eco-
evo-geno Further information: Please contact Jef-
frey Hutchings (jhutch@dal.ca) or Nils Chr. Stenseth
(n.c.stenseth@ibv.uio.no).
Tore Wallem <tore.wallem@ibv.uio.no >
ParkCityUtah
EvolutionaryMedicine Aug1-4
CME now approved! The University of Utah School of
Medicine has designated this meeting for up to 29.75
hours of AMA PRA Category I Credit.
The meeting also includes a special wilderness medicine
preconference August 1st. https://isemph.org/-
annualmeeting#id OOrfXfn The 4th Annual Interna-
tional Society for the Evolution, Medicine & Public
Health (ISEMPH) brings together evolutionary biol-
ogists, anthropologists, public health researchers and
medical professionals to discuss the latest advances in
using evolutionary biology to improve human health.
The meeting is Aug 1-4 in Park City, a recreation par-
adise just above Salt Lake City. Register now before
fees go up. https://isemph.org/ annualmeeting
The program is here http://isemph.org https:/-
/evmedreview.com/isemph-meeting-program/ PLE-
NARY SPEAKERS
EVOLUTION OF DISGUST AS A PARASITE AVOID-
ANCE BEHAVIOUR Val Curtis London School of Hy-
giene & Tropical Medicine
LEARNING AND PERTURBING THE EVOLUTION-
ARY MECHANISMS DRIVING THERAPEUTIC RE-
SISTANCE IN CANCER AND PATHOGENS Jacob
Scott Cleveland Clinic
BUILDING A COSTLY BRAIN: IMPLICATIONS FOR
THE EVOLUTION OF HUMAN CHILDHOOD AND
THE DEVELOPMENTAL ORIGINS OF METABOLIC
DISEASE Chris Kuzawa Northwestern University
RESISTANCE EVOLUTION'XAND ITS MANAGE-
MENT'XIN A MULTI-DRUG HOSPITAL PATHOGEN
Andrew Read Pennsylvania State UniversityJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 5
ADOLESCENT REPRODUCTIVE DEBUT: LIFE HIS-
TORY TRADEOFFS IN A CLINICAL CONTEXT
Katie Hinde Arizona State University
SPECIAL CME PRE-CONFERENCE: EVOLUTION
AND WILDERNESS MEDICINE'XADAPTATION TO
EXTREME ENVIRONMENTS Joe Alcock, Chair Fac-
ulty: Cynthia Beall, Rick Henriksen, Melissa Ilardo,
Michael Lauria, Scott McIntosh, Diane Rimple, Blair
Wolf
SYMPOSIUM I: EVOLUTION AND HEALTH BE-
HAVIOUR Chair: Gillian Pepper Presentations: Athena
Aktipis, Bruce Ellis, Mike Gurven, Dandara Ramos
SYMPOSIUM II: COMPARATIVE ONCOLOGY Co-
Chairs: Athena Aktipis & Amy Boddy Presentations:
Lisa, Abegglen, Athena Aktipis, Amy Boddy, Valerie
Harris
SYMPOSIUM III: NOVEL SOLUTIONS TO
CHEMOTHERAPEUTIC RESISTANCE Chairs:
Michael Hochberg Presentations: Sam Brown, Ben
Chan, Michael Hochberg, Nina Wade
SYMPOSIUM IV: EVOLUTION AND MEDICINE IN
LIGHT OF THE MICROBIOME Chair: Seth Borden-
stein Presentations: Katherine Amato, Seth Borden-
stein, Jennifer Stearns
SYMPOSIUM V: ADAPTATION AND CRITICAL
CARE Chair: Joe Alcock Presentations: Scott Aberegg,
Janelle Ayres, and John Marshall
Randolph Nesse <nesse@asu.edu >
PuertoRico EvolutionaryAnthro
Nov1-4 CallAbstracts
APPROACHING DEADLINE - CALL FOR AB-
STRACTS ALAB2018 (http://www.pr-science.org) XV
CONGRESS of the Latin American Association of Bi-
ological Anthropology (ALAB2018) 1-4 NOVEMBER
2018, MAYAGUEZ, PUERTO-RICO
Abstract submission is still open for the 15th Congress
of the Latin American Association for Biological An-
thropology, that will take place in Mayag uez, Puerto
Rico from November 1- 4, 2018.
The deadline for abstract submission is Friday, June
22nd, 2018. The ALAB is a corporation that brings
together scholars interested in the elds of Physical An-
thropology and Human Biology. Its members can belocated in Latin American countries or elsewhere if their
investigations relate to Latin America.
The ALAB congresses are held every two years since
1990, oering Latin American researchers and to those
interested in anthropological studies on Latin America
a periodic opportunity for the discussion of scientic
experiences and issues linked to the development of the
discipline in a local, regional and continental context.
The overall objective of the Congress is to bring together
scholars in our eld in a healthy environment for the
contact, discussion of problems and new ideas, and the
development of collaborative networks of researchers
and students.
While preparing your abstract, please consider that:
Word count of an abstract is limited to 300 words, ex-
cluding the title, author names and aliations.
You will need to specify in which symposium, if any, you
want your abstract to be included. If you believe your
submission does not t in any of the available symposia,
please specify \Other". New symposia could be built
from the abstracts submitted. In addition, there will be
space in the schedule for free communications.
Please specify if you wish your presentation to be oral or
by poster. We will try to fulll the wishes of everyone,
but please be aware that we might be able to oer you
only your second option.
Abstract acceptances will be published after July 27,
2018. Please visit our website at http://www.pr-
science.org/ for more information.
We are looking forward to hearing from you ALAB
Organizing Committee Mayaguez, Puerto Rico
Taras K Oleksyk and Juan Carlos Martinez Cruzado
University of Puerto Rico at Mayaguez Mayaguez, PR
00680 dna.lab@upr.edu
Taras K Oleksyk <taras.oleksyk@upr.edu >
Salzburg Evolution Jul4-8
EVOLUTION - Genetic Novelty/Genomic Variations
by RNA-Networks and Viruses
Salzburg, 4-8 July 2018, St. Virgil Conference Center
www.RNA-Networks.at Guenther Witzany
(organizer)
\Witzany G unther Mag. Dr."6 EvolDir July 1, 2018
<Guenther.Witzany@stadt-salzburg.at >
Sherbrooke RECOMB Oct9-12
DeadlineExtension
Hi,
Due to several requests, the deadline for paper submis-
sion for RECOMB Comparative Genomics 2018 has
been moved to June 25th 2018.
See https://recombcg2018.usherbrooke.ca/ for details
about the conference.
Thank you!
Mathieu Blanchette - co-PC chair, RECOMB-CG 2018
Aida Ouangraoua - co-PC chair, RECOMB-CG 2018
Mathieu Blanchette <blanchem@cs.mcgill.ca >
Sherbrooke RECOMB Oct9-12
FinalCall
RECOMB-CG 2018, FINAL CALL FOR PAPERS
16th RECOMB Satellite Conference on Comparative
Genomics, RECOMB-CG 2018
Magog-Orford (Sherbrooke), Quebec, Canada - October
9-12, 2018
https://recombcg2018.usherbrooke.ca SCOPE
The annual RECOMB Comparative Genomics Satellite
Conference (RECOMB-CG) brings together leading re-
searchers in the mathematical, computational and life
sciences to discuss cutting edge research in compara-
tive genomics, with an emphasis on computational ap-
proaches and the analysis of novel experimental results.
The program will include keynote talks, contributed
talks, and a poster session.
The 16th RECOMB-CG conference will be held at the
Manoir des Sables, in beautiful Magog-Orford, near Sher-
brooke, Qu ebec, Canada on October 9-12 2018. With
this Call for Papers we invite high-quality original full
papers on topics related to the conference theme. The
conference will also have a poster session. A detailed
call for posters will be published later on the conferenceweb page.
TOPICS
Papers are solicited on, but not limited to, the follow-
ing topics: - genome evolution - population genomics
- genome rearrangements - genome variation, diversity
and dynamics - phylogenomics - comparative tools for
genome assembly - comparison of functional networks -
gene identication and/or annotation - cancer evolution-
ary genomics - comparative epigenomics - paleogenomics
- epidemiology
IMPORTANT DATES
- Paper Submission Deadline: June 18, 2018 - Author
Notication: July 20, 2018 - Final Version Due: August
3, 2018 - Conference: October 9-12, 2018
DETAILS ON SUBMITTING MANUSCRIPTS
Submitted papers must have not been published or be
currently under consideration for publication in any
other journal or conference with formal proceedings.
Each accepted paper has to be presented by one of the
authors at the conference.
Accepted papers will be published in the conference
proceedings, a volume in the Lecture Notes in Bioinfor-
matics (LNBI) series. In addition, authors of selected
papers will be invited, but not required, to submit a sig-
nicantly extended version of their papers to Algorithms
for Molecular Biology. Extended papers submitted will
be handled by the Program Committee co-chairs. Au-
thors who choose to publish their extended manuscripts
will have to pay the journal's publication fees.
Authors are encouraged to submit their manuscripts in
PDF format according to the LNBI series guidelines:
http://www.springer.com/us/computer-science/lncs/-
conference-proceedings-guidelines Submitted papers
must be within 15 pages (in the LNBI format),
with optionally a clearly marked appendix containing
supplementary material made available to the reviewers.
All submissions must be made online, through the Easy-
Chair submission system, at the following address:
https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=recombcg2018
Authors need to register on that web site before
submitting. A standard PDF le must be received by
midnight on June 18, 2018 (any time zone) in order for
a submission to be considered. Re-submission of already
submitted papers will be possible until midnight June
18, 2018 (any time zone).
CONFIRMED KEYNOTE SPEAKERS
Belinda Chang (Department of Ecology and Evolution-
ary Biology, University of Toronto, Canada) Dannie Du-July 1, 2018 EvolDir 7
rand (Department of Biological Sciences, Carnegie Mel-
lon University, USA) Daniel Durocher (The Lunenfeld-
Tanenbaum Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital,
University of Toronto, Canada) Christian Landry (Insti-
tute for Integrative Systems Biology, Laval University,
Canada) Gwena el Piganeau (Banyuls Oceanographic
Observatory and National Centre for Scientic Research,
France) Xavier Roucou (Department of Biochemistry,
University of Sherbrooke, Canada)
PROGRAM COMMITTEE
Max Alekseyev (George Washington University) Lars
Arvestad (Stockholm University) S everine B erard (U.
Montpellier) Mathieu Blanchette (McGill University),
co-chair Anne Bergeron (U. du Qu ebec  a Montr eal)
Mar lia Braga (Bielefeld University) Alessandra Car-
bone (CNRS, Universit e Pierre et Marie Curie) Cedric
Chauve (Simon Fraser University) Leonid Chindelevitch
(Simon Fraser University) Mikl os Cs Ar os (University
of Montreal) Daniel Doerr (Bielefeld University) Ingo
Ebersberger (Goethe University Frankfurt) Nadia El-
Mabrouk (University of Montr eal) Oliver Eulenstein
(Iowa State University) Guillaume Fertin (University of
Nantes) Pawel Gorecki (University of Warsaw) Michael
Hallett (Concordia University) Katharina Jahn (ETH
Zurich) Asif Javed (Genome Institute of Singapore)
Manuel Lafond (University of Ottawa) Jens Lagergren
(Stockholm University) Kevin Liu (Michigan State Uni-
versity) Joao Meidanis (UNICAMP)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UGoettingen EvolutionOfSensation
Sep27-28
Dear colleagues,
We want to kindly remind you to register for our 6th
meeting #Sensation @GOEEvolution 2018 taking place
in G ottingen from September 27th to 28th 2018 (http://-
goevol.uni-goettingen.de/index.php?id=meeting20180).
Registration is still possible until July 15th 2018 follow-
ing this link:
http://goevol.uni-goettingen.de/index.php?id=-
addgroup0 Costs to register are 10 euro for students,20 euro for Postdocs and PIs.
For more details see email below or visit our web-
site at http://goevol.uni-goettingen.de/index.php?id=-
meeting20180 . Looking forward to meeting you!
Best regards,
The GOEvol Team https://goevol.uni-goettingen.de/
Twitter: @GOEvolution
On behalf of the GOEvol organizing team,
Max S. Farnworth
Georg-August-University of G ottingen
Johann-Friedrich-Blumenbach Institute of Zoology and
Anthropology
Department of Evolutionary Developmental Genetics
G ottingen Center for Molecular Biosciences (GZMB)
Justus-von-Liebig-Weg 11
37077 G ottingen
E-mail: max.farnworth@biologie.uni-goettingen.de
Phone: +49 551 39 10124
http://www.researchgate.net/prole/Max Farnworth
Twitter: @StephesMax
m789farnworth@t-online.de8 EvolDir July 1, 2018
UHudderseld UK
ProgrammingEvolBiol Sep2-6
A new sponsor + deadline extended!
Dear all
We are pleased to announce that our conference is now
ocially supported by the Society of Genetics! On this
occasion we are extending the deadline for registration -
please send your abstracts in by the end of this week -
midnight July 1st!
For information about the conference and registration,
please go to our website http://pebconference.info/ .
Looking forward to seeing you in Lake District, The
organisers - Marisa, Marina and Jarek
On 13 June 2018 at 06:53:47,
evoldir@evol.biology.mcmaster.ca
(evoldir@evol.biology.mcmaster.ca) wrote:
Dear all,
this is a reminder that the deadline for registration on
the upcoming Programming for Evolutionary Biology
Conference is approaching - the date is on the 20th
of June! See our announcement below and on http://-
pebconference.info/ and apply!
Looking forward to meeting you at the conference,
The organisers - Marisa, Marina and Jarek
We are pleased to announce the fourth Programming
for Evolutionary Biology Conference, which will take
place in Buttermere, Lake District, UK, on September
2-6 (Sunday to Thursday). The conference is organised
by postgraduate students and sta at the Department
of Biological and Geographical Sciences, University of
Hudderseld, UK.
Details are available at http://pebconference.info/.
The Programming for Evolutionary Biology conference
brings together scientists broadly interested in apply-
ing bioinformatic tools to answer evolutionary and eco-
logical questions. Unlike other conferences featuring
mostly talks and poster sessions, PEB aims to serve as
a platform for discussing common programming pitfalls
encountered during research and features workshops to
further develop participants' bioinformatic skills. The
conference is small ( <50 participants), has an informal
atmosphere and is predominantly aimed at postgraduate
students and early-career researchers.For the duration of the conference, we are taking over the
entire youth hostel in Buttermere, Lake District, Cum-
bria https://www.yha.org.uk/hostel/buttermere), a rel-
atively remote village in one of the most beautiful val-
leys in the District (https://www.nationaltrust.org.uk/-
buttermere-valley). We will be providing transport to
and from Buttermere for the participants.
The programme includes up to 18 short (15 min) talks
and presentations before lunch and up to 6 computa-
tional workshops and tutorials in the afternoon. We will
have pleasure of welcoming two fantastic keynote speak-
ers: Dr Nicola Nadeau from the University of Sheeld
and Dr Rui Martiniano from the Wellcome Trust Sanger
Institute, University of Cambridge. Conrmed work-
shops include: using GIS in R, run by Dr Anna Krys-
talli from the University of Sheeld, cloud computing,
run by Martin Callaghan from the University of Leeds
and parameter selection in Stacks for the analysis of
RAD-seq data, run by Marisa Martin Cerezo from the
University of Hudderseld; with more workshops coming
soon (feedback and suggestions are welcome during the
registration process!).
The cost of the conference is 275 including 4 nights'
accommodation and full board. To register, please ll
in the registration form, along with an abstract and
short cover letter regarding your participation in the
conference:
https://goo.gl/forms/a1gH9fqzmFYnjS492
Registration deadline is at midnight on Wednesday, 20th
of June.
Please spread the news and we are looking forward to
meeting you at the conference!
The organisers - Marisa, Marina and Jarek http://-
pebconference.info/
Jarek <bryk@evolbio.mpg.de >
UMinnesota MidwestPopGen
Aug24-25
APPROACHING DEADLINE - CALL FOR
ABSTRACTS MIDWEST POPGEN https://-
mwpg2018.wordpress.com/ The fth annual midwest
popgun meeting! Aug 24 & 25 2018 Cargill Building St.
Paul campus. of the University of Minnesota
Abstract submission is still open for the 5th midwest
popgun meeting. Abstracts for talks are due on fridayJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 9
June 22nd but will be considered though monday June
25. [conference registration is open until aug3]
The conference is free and includes a bbq on friday, and
a trip to the Minnesota State fair (you buy your own
ticket) on sat. We are sponsored by Speciation Ales the
only evolution themed brewery in the country!
This is an opportunity for graduate students, postdocs
and young profs to share their work and to meet like
minded scientists from around the midwest. Cant wait
to see you all!
Follow the link at https://mwpg2018.wordpress.com/
to register
Note: This meeting follows a free symposium on ma-
chine learning for genomics and phenomics at the same
location! check them both out
Yaniv Brandvain Assistant Professor University of Min-
nesota - Twin Cities ybrandva at umn dot edu
Yaniv Brandvain <ybrandva@umn.edu >UToronto EvolPlantReproduction
Aug10-11
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
at the University of Toronto cordially invites you to
BarrettFest on August 10-11 in Toronto, Canada. The
weekend will feature a symposium entitled 'Evolution
of Plant Reproductive Systems: From Muddy Boots to
Genomics', which includes a diverse international list
of leaders in the eld that will be speaking about the
latest theoretical and empirical work on the evolution
of plant reproduction. The weekend will also provide an
opportunity to celebrate Spencer Barrett's 70th birth-
day and 40 year career as a Professor at U of T. There
is no cost to attend the symposium, but please register
at https://barrettfest.eeb.utoronto.ca. Banquet tickets
are available at https://barrettfest.eeb.utoronto.ca. We
look forward to welcoming you to Toronto, Canada.
Organizers,
Stephen Wright Marc Johnson Daniel Schoen
marc.johnson@utoronto.ca
GradStudentPositions
Cambridge Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
Edinburgh EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
FSchillerU NicheSpecialization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Germany SocialInsectAgeing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Gottingen AnnelidPhylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13
iDiv Leipzig PalmGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
ImperialCollegeLondon PopGenMachineLearning . . 15
LouisianaTechU MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16LundU OatGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16
METU Ankara ArchaeogenomicsPopGen . . . . . . . . . . 17
Newcastle UK MarineBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Princeton WeekendPreview EEB expenses paid . . . .19
SouthernIllinoisU EvolutionFrogs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .19
StockholmU PlantSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
TexasTechU BighornSheepMicrobiomes . . . . . . . . . . . .21
UArkansas NeuroEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2110 EvolDir July 1, 2018
UFreiburg 7 EvolutionaryTradeOs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
UMontreal EvolutionSexDetermination . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
UNewSouthWales DevelopmentalPlasticity . . . . . . . . 23
UNewSouthWales EvolutionaryDynamicsVegetation 24
UNewSouthWales PhenotypicPlasticity . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
UOsnabrueck 6 CellularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
UOxford PredictingAntimicrobialSpread . . . . . . . . . . .26UPadua ComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26
UPadua Italy GuppySexualSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .27
UPadua PhilosophyEvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . 27
UPaulSabatier France PangolinConservation . . . . . . .28
UToulouse HorseEvolGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
UZurich PlantMycorrhizalInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Cambridge Genomics
Supervisors: Chris Jiggins, Richard Durbin Industrial
partner: Miha Pipan (Entomics)
A PhD studentship is available to start from October
2018 on the genome and domestication of Hermetia illu-
cens, commonly known as the black soldier y (BSF),
funded by the UK National Productivity Investment
Fundthrough the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences
Research Council.
By feeding on organic waste biomass, such as food, agri-
cultural and manure wastes, BSF larvae are capable
of converting waste biomass into a sustainable and re-
newable source of sought-after nutrients 'V BSF larvae
are rich in lipids and proteins, and BSF larvae-derived
meals are eective feedstus for a range of commonly
farmed livestock species ranging from poultry to farmed
sh. This project will study the genome of the BSF and
apply population genetic and machine learning meth-
ods for analysis of the signatures of domestication in
industrial strains.
We have already obtained a preliminary assembly of the
BSF genome using a single Chromium 10X library with
a total length of 1.1Gb and scaold N50 of 1.05Mb. The
sequenced individual was from a trio family for which
further siblings are available. We have also established a
stock derived entirely from the original founder pair that
can be used for future genetic analysis. The studentship
will improve the genome assembly, using long-read se-
quence for a single additional sibling individual and for
the parents. This will permit a trio-based assembly
approach whereby ospring reads are separated into
haplotypes before assembly using parental kmers, from
which we anticipate obtaining multi-megabase scale as-
semblies for both parental haplotypes. The genome
will be annotated using publicly available transcriptome
data, using the BRAKER pipeline, which we have used
recently for annotation of buttery genomes. An ex-
tensive RNAseq data set has already been published in
which larvae were exposed to a variety of diets, providinga resource for annotation of larva-expressed genes.
To study the process of domestication we will obtain Illu-
mina WGS resequencing data for a population sample of
the industrial strain of BSF, and for least one outgroup
population/species. The student will map these data
to the reference genome, call genotypes and use both
composite likelihood and machine learning approaches
in order to scan the genome for regions that have been
subject to recent selection. Genome regions that have
been under adaptive selection during the process of do-
mestication will be potential targets for future genetic
manipulation of the BSF for further optimisation of its
eciency. In addition, comparison to other dipteran
genome sequences will identify longer time frame pat-
terns of conservation and evolutionary divergence.
URGENT DEADLINE 30 June 2018 Contacts:
c.jiggins@zoo.cam.ac.uk, rd109@gen.cam.ac.uk The
scheme is advertised here on FindaPhD.com <https:/-
/www.ndaphd.com/search/PhDDetails.aspx?CAID=-
3968&LID=290 >
Professor of Evolutionary Biology (2014) Department
of Zoology University of Cambridge Tel: (+44)(0)1223
769021 Mob: (+44)(0) 7549-524-481 http://-
www.heliconius.org/ http://heliconius.zoo.cam.ac.uk/
@mel rosina
Fellow of St John's College, Cambridge, UK. CB2 1TP
The Ecology and Evolution of Heliconius Butteries
Available through all good bookshops, or direct from
Oxford University Press
Chris Jiggins <c.jiggins@zoo.cam.ac.uk >July 1, 2018 EvolDir 11
Edinburgh EvolutionaryGenomics
Project title: Causes and consequences of mutational
variation in the mammalian genome
Supervisors: Peter Keightley and Konrad Lohse, Insti-
tute of Evolutionary Biology, University of Edinburgh,
UK
Project Description
Spontaneous mutations are the ultimate source of ge-
netic variation and are therefore of central importance in
evolutionary biology. Understanding the nature of varia-
tion arising from spontaneous mutation is important for
diverse questions, including the genetic basis of complex
trait variation, the causes of inbreeding depression and
the maintenance of nucleotide variation in the genome.
We are recruiting a PhD student to join our team ad-
dressing such fundamental evolutird), and is open to
applicants from the EU. A key component of the project
is an ambitious, spontaneous mutation accumulation
(MA) experiment in mice, the rst highly replicated MA
experiment in a mammalian species. With our collab-
orators at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Biology (Ploen, Germany) we are maintaining a large
cohort of MA lines, bred by full-sib mating, for many
generations in the near-absence of selection. Dierent
lines will accumulate dierent spontaneous mutations
and therefore diverge molecularly and phenotypically.
The PhD project is expected to be within some or all of
the areas described below. The project is exible, how-
ever, and can be tailored to the interest of the successful
applicant.
Applicants are strongly encouraged to contact the prin-
cipal supervisor ahead of application to discuss the
project.
A. The nature of variation from new mutation.
(a) Theoretically, inbred lines should harbour little ge-
netic variation, but there are several factors which could
lead to inbred lines harbouring more variation than
expected.| We will test this by quantifying nucleotide
variation in our inbred MA line progenitors by deep
genome sequencing and bioinformatic analysis. This
step is a necessary for the following two studies.
(b) Variation in the mutation rate within a species have
been little studied, but is fundamental for understanding
the maintenance of genetic variation. We will addressthis question by large-scale deep sequencing and bioin-
formatic analysis of house mouse MA lines of dierent
strains and potentially families of wild house mice.
(c) The relationship between nucleotide and phenotypic
variation arising from mutation are largely unknown.
Divergence between MA lines for complex traits quan-
ties the new mutational variation. We will relate the
accumulation of phenotypic dierences, in traits such as
growth rate, reproductive tness and gene expression, to
dierences in the accumulation of mutations in dierent
genomic site classes among lines.
B. Understanding variation in diversity across the
genome.
Genetic diversity in natural populations varies across the
genome, but the causes of this variation are poorly un-
derstood. It is clear that variation in diversity is caused
by interactions between mutation, natural selection, re-
combination and genetic drift. We will explore avenues
of research that might help tease apart these factors. (a)
Are patterns of diversity across the genome consistent
between dierent species with dierent eective popu-
lation sizes? It will be especially relevant to determine
how diversity relates to the rate of recombination and
the local density of functional genomic elements. (b)
Are there signals in genomic polymorphism data, for
example in the joint frequency distribution of linked
sites that can dierentiate between dierent forms of
selection? We will also explore whether new computer
simulation approaches can be used to eciently model
the joint eects of mutation, recombination, selection
and genetic drift across the genome.
Further Information
The studentship is funded by a 5 year ERC grant, which
includes a substantial budget for genome sequencing,
consumables and travel to conferences.
Training is an integral part of the studentship, includ-
ing attendance of bioinformatics courses and courses in
population and quantitative genetics and statistics run
as part of the Institute of Evolutionary Biology's MSc
in Quantitative Genetics and Genome Analysis.
Prospective applicants are encouraged to contact Peter
Keightley <peter.keightley@ed.ac.uk >to discuss the
project in the rst instance. Formal applications can
be made via https://www.ed.ac.uk/biology/prospective-
students/pgr/how-to-apply by 21 July 2018.
{ The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, reg-
istered in Scotland, with registration number SC005336.
\peter.keightley@ed.ac.uk" <peter.keightley@ed.ac.uk >12 EvolDir July 1, 2018
FSchillerU NicheSpecialization
PhD position in Meta-analysis of Individual Niche Spe-
cialization
A PhD position in meta-analysis of individual niche
specialization is available at the Institute of Ecology
and Evolution at Friedrich Schiller University Jena, Ger-
many. The position is funded by the German Research
Foundation (DFG) within the recently granted collab-
orative research center (SFB/TRR 212) entitled: /A
Novel Synthesis of Individualization across Behavior,
Ecology and Evolution: Niche Choice, Niche Confor-
mance, Niche Construction (NC ^3 )/.
*The project:*The project /The behavioural ecology of
individualized niches in light of meta-analyses/ will use
quantitative methods to synthesize the current knowl-
edge on individual niche specialization. Meta-analyses
oer the formal framework, a framework that is growing
in popularity and importance in all elds of quantitative
research. Meta-analyses allow a formal assessment of the
generalizability of research ndings and an exploration
of context dependencies. The project requires and trains
conceptual thinking, quantitative analysis and thorough
overview of topical issues in behavioural and evolution-
ary ecology. The project will collaborate intensely with
various empirical projects within the SFB. It promises
strong training in statistical analyses, deep conceptual
understanding and advances in several of subelds of
ecology and evolution concerned with individualization.
It promises to result in several summarizing and there-
fore potentially very inuential scientic publications.
The skillset acquired during this project will be highly
valuable inside and outside academia.
*The collaborative research center:*The position will be
embedded within a larger collaborative research center
(SFB) comprising 18 principle investigators, 8 postdocs
and 16 PhD students based at Bielefeld University, the
University of M unster and the University of Jena. The
aim of the SFB is to produce a conceptual and empirical
synthesis of individualization across behavior, ecology
and evolution. The SFB will provide exceptional op-
portunities for interdisciplinary collaboration and aca-
demic networking, together with structured training,
scientic exchange and early career support programs.
For more information, visit the SFB website (www.uni-
bielefeld.de/biologie/crc212).
*Main responsibilities*of results on individualized niche ecology from the pub-
lished literature,
of published eects using modern meta-analytic method-
ology,
with other research groups in the collaborative research
center,
scientic publications for international peer-reviewed
journals.
*Applicant's prole*
We seek a bright and highly motivated candidate with
Master's degree in a relevant eld, like evolutionary or
behavioral ecology or statistics,
knowledge in basic statistics, including experience with
statistical software such as R,
in both biological and statistical questions,
to read deeply into the scientic literature on specic
topics,
oral and written communication skills in English,
experience with scientic writing will be advantageous.
*Remuneration*
The position is available starting as soon as possible
and will be xed-term till end of 2021. Salary will be
paid according to Remuneration level 13 (65%) of the
Wage Agreement for Public Service in the Federal States
(TV-L).Severely handicapped people are given prefer-
ence for equal qualications, aptitude and professional
qualications.
*Application procedure*
The *deadline for application is 17 ^th June 2018*, late
applications will be considered until the position is lled.
To apply, please provide (i) a letter of motivation, in-
cluding a statement of your research interests, skills
and experience relevant to the position, (ii) a CV in-
cluding publication list, (iii) names and contact details
of two referees willing to write condential letters of
recommendation. All materials should be sent, pref-
erentially as a single pdf le by email, to the address
below. For further information on the projects and
the department, please contact Holger Schielzeth (see
email below) and/or visit the website of the Population
Ecology Group Jena (www.popecol.uni-jena.de).
*Prof. Dr. Holger Schielzeth, Friedrich Schiller Univer-
sity Jena, Institute of Ecology und Evolution, Popula-
tion Ecology Group, Dornburger Str. 159, 07743 Jena,
Germany*, E-Mail: holger.schielzeth@uni-jena.de
Holger Schielzeth <holger.schielzeth@uni-jena.de >July 1, 2018 EvolDir 13
Germany SocialInsectAgeing
We invite applications for 7 PhD positions within the
framework of the new Research Unit *Sociality and
the reversal of the fecundity/longevity trade-o* (FOR
2281) funded by the German Research Foundation
(DFG) www.so-long.org Why do organisms age? The
genetic underpinnings of ageing seem to be highly con-
served from nematode worms to humans. Across ani-
mals, ageing is characterized by a trade-o between fe-
cundity and longevity, with an increase in fecundity com-
monly associated with accelerated senescence and a drop
in lifespan. A major exception to this pattern is found
within the social insects. Some social insect queens are
record holders with respect to longevity whereas their
sterile workers are short-lived. The aim of the Research
Unit (www.so-long.org) is to explore, in a highly inte-
grative and interdisciplinary fashion, the ultimate and
proximate reasons for the apparent reversal in the fe-
cundity/longevity trade-o associated with sociality by
using all major clades of social insects, with Drosophila
melanogaster as model non-social organism. Projects
will apply a broad range of approaches from experi-
mental manipulation, eld-based studies and molecular
genetic studies (e.g. qt RT PCR, NGS) to theoretical
evolutionary modelling and bioinformatic analyses. Be-
yond the project work, PhD candidates will attend and
learn in workshops, can organize summer schools, have
the opportunity to participate in lab rotations and to
attend international conferences.
PhD positions will be available on the following top-
ics: Comparative analysis of molecular mechanisms of
ageing in ies and social insects (Dr. Claudia Fricke,
University of M unster; claudia.fricke@uni-muenster.de)
Defying senescence - The causes of death and
the costs of living of ant queens (PD Dr. Jan
Oettler / Prof Dr. J urgen Heinze, University
of Regensburg; jan.oettler@biologie.uni-regensburg.de;
juergen.heinze@biologie.uni-regensburg.de)
A comparative approach to the fecundity/longevity
trade-o across two origins of eusociality in the
bees (Prof. Dr. Robert Paxton, University
of Halle / Dr. Karen Meusemann, Univer-
sity of Freiburg; robert.paxton@zoologie.uni-halle.de;
karen.meusemann@biologie.uni-freiburg.de )
Functional basis of the fecundity - longevity reversal
in the ant Temnothorax rugatulus (Prof. Dr. SusanneFoitzik, University of Mainz / Dr. Barbara Feldmeyer,
Senckenberg BiK-F Frankfurt; foitzik@uni-mainz.de,
barbara.feldmeyer@senckenberg.de)
Uncovering the functional basis of the reversal
of the fecundity/longevity trade-o in a termite
(Prof. Dr. Judith Korb, University of Freiburg;
judith.korb@biologie.uni-freiburg.de)
Reversal of the fecundity / longevity trade-o across
social transitions in ants (Dr. Volker Nehring, Uni-
versity of Freiburg / Prof. Dr. Susanne Foitzik, Uni-
versity of Mainz, / Dr. Romain Libbrecht, Univer-
sity of Mainz; volker.nehring@biologie.uni-freiburg.de,
foitzik@uni-mainz.de, rlibbrec@uni-mainz.de)
Why and how does sociality change the fecundity /
longevity trade-o in termites? (Prof. Dr. Judith Korb,
University of Freiburg / Prof. Dr. Ido Pen, Univer-
sity of Groningen; judith.korb@biologie.uni-freiburg.de,
i.r.pen@rug.nl)
All applicants should have a strong background in evo-
lutionary biology and, depending on the project, also
skills in bioinformatics (e.g. scripting) or eld work. For
further details of specic projects, email the relevant
contact person listed above. Within your application,
please state your preferred project, in ranked order from
1 (most preferred) to 3. The research consortium will
jointly select candidates for the positions. Skype/phone
interviews are scheduled for the last week of July and
1st week of August. Start of Position is anticipated to
be 1. Oct 2018 with a kick-o meeting from the 3.- 5.
Sept 2018
Interested candidates should send their applications
(incl. CV, a letter of motivation, and contact details of
two academic references) as single le pdf by 8. July
2018 to: Judith.Korb@biologie.uni-freiburg.de
For further information please contact: Prof. Dr. Ju-
dith Korb Zoology : Evolutionary Biology & Ecology
University of Freiburg Hauptstrasse 1 D-79104 Freiburg
Germany Judith.Korb@biologie.uni-freiburg.de www.so-
long.org Deadline for applications: 8. July 2018
Gottingen AnnelidPhylogenomics
The Johann-Friedrich-Blumenbach Institute of Zoology
and Anthropology at the Georg-August-Universitat Got-
tingen is looking to ll the position of a Doctoral/Ph.D.
Student for research on Phylogenomics of Nereididae
(Annelida) using a target enrichment strategy.14 EvolDir July 1, 2018
The position is funded by the German Science Founda-
tion (DFG) for a period of three years, with a salary
according to the German salary scale TV-L E13 (65%),
and should be lled by october 2018.
The nereidid annelid Platynereis dumerilii is the best-
known lophotrochozoan model system. Surprisingly, a
detailed phylogenetic analysis of nereidids is lacking
so far. The main objective of this project is to recon-
struct a well-supported phylogeny for nereidids by using
data from hybrid target enrichment with subsequent
Illumina sequencing. Baits for target enrichment will be
based on a set of transcriptomes from selected nereidid
species generated within this project. This phylogenetic
framework will be used to the current classication of
nereidids and nally provide a stable placement of the
model annelid Platynereis dumerilii. Based on this phy-
logeny, ancestral state reconstruction will be used to
infer the evolution of reproductive modes, life-style and
habitat preference of nereidid worms.
Applicants need to hold a diploma or MSc degree in bi-
ology or a related eld and to have solid experience with
molecular methodology, particularly with respect to
molecular systematics. Experience in generating and/or
analysing next generations sequencing data is desirable.
Knowledge about annelids or other lophotrochozoans
would be helpful, but is not necessary. Working language
is German and English.
Doctoral students are supposed to take part in seminars
and supervising students. This position is designed to
foster young researchers and scientists and give the suc-
cessful applicant the opportunity to pursue a doctoral
degree.
The University of Gottingen is an equal opportunities
employer and places particular emphasis on fostering
career opportunities for women.
Qualied women are therefore strongly encouraged to
apply in elds in which they are underrepresented. The
university has committed itself to being a family-friendly
institution and supports their employees in balancing
work and family life. The mission of the University is
to employ a greater number of severely disabled per-
sons. Applications from severely disabled persons with
equivalent qualications will be given preference.
With submission of your application, you accept the pro-
cessing of your applicant data in terms of data-protection
law. Further information on the legal basis and data
usage is provided in the 'Guideline General Data Protect
Regulation (GDPR)' (German version only).
Applications containing the common documents should
be sent by July 1, 2018 in electronic form or by ordi-
nary mail to Prof. Dr. Christoph Bleidorn, Johann-Friedrich-Blumenbach-Institut fur Zoologie und Anthro-
pologie, Animal Evolution and Biodiversity, Georg-
August-Universitat Gottingen, Untere Karspule 2, 37073
Gottingen, Germany, cbleido@gwdg.de.
Please note: With submission of your application, you
accept the processing of your applicant data in terms of
data-protection law. Further information on the legal
basis and data usage is provided in the Hinweisblatt
zur Datenschutzgrundverordnung (DSGVO) { Prof. Dr.
Christoph Bleidorn Georg-August-Universitat Gottin-
gen Johann-Friedrich-Blumenbach Institute for Zoology
& Anthropology Animal Evolution and Biodiversity Un-
tere Karspuele 2 37073 Gottingen Germany
http://www.researchgate.net/prole/-
Christoph Bleidorn Member of the German Centre
for Integrative Biodiversity Research (iDiv) http:/-
/www.idiv.de/idiv-global/?lang=en Systematics
& Biodiversity http://www.tandfonline.com/-
toc/tsab20/current Follow me on twitter!
https://twitter.com/C Blei Christoph Bleidorn
<christoph.bleidorn@gmail.com >
iDiv Leipzig PalmGenomics
The German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Re-
search (iDiv) Halle-Jena-Leipzig is one of four National
Research Centres funded by the German Research Foun-
dation (DFG). Its central mission is to promote theory-
driven synthesis and data-driven theory in this emerging
eld. The concept of iDiv encompasses the detection of
biodiversity, understanding its emergence, exploring its
consequences for ecosystem functions and services, and
developing strategies to safeguard biodiversity under
global change. It is located in the city of Leipzig and
it's a central institution of the Leipzig University, jointly
hosted by the Martin-Luther-University Halle- Witten-
berg, the Friedrich Schiller University Jena and the
Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research (UFZ).
Furthermore, it gains support by the Max Planck So-
ciety, the Leibniz Association and the Free State of
Saxony. More Information about iDiv: www.idiv.de .
The Evolution & Adaptation research group focuses on
the interchange between (macro-) ecology and evolution,
to understand the global distribution of genetic, taxo-
nomic and functional diversity. We investigate micro-
evolutionary processes to understand how these play
out over macro-evolutionary time scales. Understanding
these patterns and the processes underlying them isJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 15
important for predicting how adaptable biodiversity is
to current and future global change.
Integrated in iDiv, the Leipzig University, oers the
following position in our new Evolution and Adaption
Junior Research Group as soon as possible:
Doctoral Researcher \Genomic signatures of palms with
megafaunal fruits on Madagascar" (initially limited un-
til 30 September, 2020 (iDiv funding period), 65 % of a
full-time employment) Salary: Entgeltgruppe 13 TV-L
Background:
Madagascar harbours exceptional biodiversity, but this
tropical hotspot also faces increasing threat from hu-
man activities and climate change. Plants with large,
'megafaunal' fruits are common across the ora of Mada-
gascar, especially within the palm (Arecaceae) fam-
ily. However, Pleistocene extinctions of large-bodied
'megafaunal' fruit-eating and seed-dispersing animals
(such as giant lemurs) may have hindered the dispersal
of taxa with megafaunal fruits. In this project we aim
to investigate the micro- and macroevolutionary conse-
quences of dispersal limitation for megafaunal-fruited
palms on Madagascar, using a comparative framework.
Specically, we aim to (i) identify genomic signatures of
dispersal limitation in megafaunal-fruited palm popula-
tions, (ii) reconstruct demographic history and identify
historical genetic bottlenecks in these species, and (iii)
evaluate whether these species may be adapting to dis-
persal by smaller-bodied frugivores, by evolving smaller
fruits with smaller seeds. This project integrates the
elds of plant evolution, phylogeography, and plant-
frugivore interaction ecology. It will be in collaboration
with researchers from Kew Botanical Gardens, UK (Dr.
Bill Baker), Aarhus University, Denmark (Dr. Wolf Eis-
erhardt), the University of Amsterdam, the Netherlands
(Dr. Daniel Kissling) and Botanic Garden of the Ruhr-
University Bochum, Germany (Dr. Wolfgang Stuppy),
among others.
Job description: * - collecting genetic samples from
palm populations on Madagascar, and measuring their
functional traits * - identifying Malagasy frugivore com-
munities and their functional traits * - using novel ge-
nomic techniques (e.g. RAD sequencing) to infer con-
nectivity, demographic history and phylogeographical
patterns * - writing and publishing of scientic papers
in peer-reviewed journals * - presentation of results at
international conferences * - participation in iDiv's PhD
training program yDiv
Requirements:
Applicants should hold a Master's or equivalent degree
in a related eld of research (e.g. ecology, (molecular)
biology, genetics, phylogenetics, phylogeography). Thesuccessful candidate should be innovative, able to work
on his or her own initiative, and willing to spend sev-
eral months in the eld (Madagascar). Therefore prior
experience with tropical eldwork and basic living con-
ditions is advantageous. Furthermore, the successful
candidate should have prior experience using molecu-
lar techniques, preferably with bioinformatics for large
genetic/genomic datasets. An interest in acquiring addi-
tional necessary skills (e.g. programming) for handling
and statistically analyzing large datasets is essential.
Candidates should be team-oriented and have strong
organizational skills, in order to manage this collabo-
rative research project within an international consor-
tium. Excellent English communication skills (speaking
and writing) are required. We seek candidates with
an independent mind and the ambition to publish in
internationally leading journals.
Applications are accepted until 30th June 2018.
Applications should include:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ImperialCollegeLondon
PopGenMachineLearning
The advert for the next QMEE PhD studentships at
Imperial College London is now live at:
https://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
PhDDetails.aspx?CAID=3289&LID=112 With a
closing date of 25th July. Starting date will be October
2018.
We have a project proposal on deep learn-
ing and genomics, detailed here: https://-
mhasoba.pythonanywhere.com/qmee cdt/default/-
view proposals/view/proposals/36? signature=-
668d3d78372f7770d43d9d94aee2cbc05f45c5cc in
collaboration with Professor Xia Hong from University
of Reading (Computer Science).
Eligibility: Standard RCUK eligibility applies, see de-
tails at https://www.imperial.ac.uk/qmee-cdt/how-to-
apply/. Briey, you need to be either British or EU
national resident in the UK for the past 3 years. Priority16 EvolDir July 1, 2018
will be given to candidates that received a quantitative
training during their UG or Master.
Please contact me if you are eligible and interested in
the position.
Kind Regards
Matteo Fumagalli m.fumagalli@imperial.ac.uk
Matteo Fumagalli Lecturer in Quantitative Evo-
lution Department of Life Sciences Imperial Col-
lege London Silwood Park Campus Munro Build-
ing, N1.6 Ascot, Berkshire SL5 7PY, UK Tel: +44
(0)20 7594 3793 m.fumagalli@imperial.ac.uk https:/-
/www.imperial.ac.uk/people/m.fumagalli \Fumagalli,
Matteo" <m.fumagalli@imperial.ac.uk >
LouisianaTechU MicrobialEvolution
The Maness Organismal Biology Lab in The School
of Biological Sciences at Louisiana Tech University is
accepting applications for a Master's/PhD student inter-
ested in environmental microbiology/microbial ecology.
The student will develop a research project investigating
microbes with the ability to degrade environmental tox-
ins or pollutants. Applicants should have an interest in
environmental science, genetics, enzyme kinetics, and/or
geographical information science as well as undergradu-
ate STEM education. Student support is ~ $27,000/yr
from a graduate assistantship in the School of Biological
Sciences and an NSF grant. Duties for the assistantship
will be to assist with teaching the lab component of
one of the School of Biological Sciences courses. The
position will begin in the Fall 2018-19 academic term.
Applicants should be motivated, creative, organized, and
have strong communication skills. Coursework in Genet-
ics or Geographic Information Science is recommended,
but not required. Students of diverse backgrounds are
encouraged to apply. Successful candidates will have
an undergraduate degree in Biology, Environmental Sci-
ence, or related eld. Students must meet admission
requirements for the M.S. in Biology Program/PhD in
Molecular Sciences and Nanotechnology at Tech and
be accepted into that program to be eligible for the
assistantship.
To apply send: (1) a statement of research interests
and goals, (2) unocial transcripts, (3) CV, and (4) list
of three references with contact info to Terri Maness:
tmaness@latech.edu. Application deadline is 5pm CST
June 15, 2018.{ Terri J. Maness Assistant Professor, School
of Biological Sciences Herbert McElveen Endowed
Professor of Applied and Natural Sciences Envi-
ronmental Science Program Coordinator PO Box
3179 Louisiana Tech University Ruston, LA 71272
email: tmaness@latech Oce: (318)-257-2724 Web-
site: http://manesslablatech.weebly.com/ <http://-
www2.latech.edu/~tmaness/ >
Terri Maness <tmaness@latech.edu >
LundU OatGenomics
Bioinformatician
We are seeking a motivated and experienced bioinfor-
matician to join the ScanOats Industrial Research Cen-
ter to perform work in the eld of oat genomics. We
have recently sequenced and assembled the hexaploid oat
genome and now the in-depth analysis can begin. An en-
thusiastic outlook to scientically tackling this 12.5Gbp
hexaploid genome is absolutely necessary. Your role will
involve developing computational approaches that inte-
grate next generation sequence data to address the goals
of ScanOats. Our areas of research on oat seed quality
include: 1) lipids and lipases, 2) total bers, 3) antiox-
idants, 4) proteins, and 5) Fusarium resistance. You
will interact with researchers from dierent backgrounds
including biochemistry, plant breeding, biotechnology
and bioinformatics, and also with researchers within
the other work packages of ScanOats as well as the
ScanOats industrial partners Lantmannen, Oatly and
Swedish Oat Fiber.
For more information https://lu.mynetworkglobal.com/-
en/what:job/jobID:211909/ PhD student We are seeking
a motivated individual with a genuine interest in laying
the foundation for their academic career in crop ge-
nomics to join the ScanOats Industrial Research Centre.
You will begin your PhD in the eld of oat genomics
by developing computational approaches that integrate
NGS data to identify and characterize the genetics as-
sociated with oat lipids, lipases, antioxidants, and other
factors involved in rancidity during oat storage. You
will interact with researchers from dierent backgrounds
including biochemistry, plant breeding, biotechnology
and bioinformatics.
The work will be conducted in collaboration with re-
searchers within the other subprojects of Scanoats as
well as with the ScanOats industrial partners Lantman-
nen, Oatly and Swedish Oat Fiber.July 1, 2018 EvolDir 17
Read more at https://lu.varbi.com/en/what:job/-
jobID:211714/ Lund University was founded in 1666
and is repeatedly ranked among the world's top 100
universities. The University has 40 000 students and 7
400 sta based in Lund, Helsingborg and Malmo. We
are united in our eorts to understand, explain and im-
prove our world and the human condition. LTH forms
the Faculty of Engineering at Lund University, with
approximately 9 000 students. The research carried
out at LTH is of a high international standard and we
are continuously developing our teaching methods and
adapting our courses to current needs.
ScanOats is a newly established industrial research cen-
tre in collaboration between the academy and the in-
dustry. We conduct basic and applied research on oats
and oat-based products. Oat is an important crop both
for the Swedish agriculture and for the food chain.
ScanOats is unique in the sense that we cover the entire
chain from basic research, genome sequencing, cultivar
development, eld testing, mild processing and fraction-
ation, and clinical health trials.
Dennis Eriksson <dennis.eriksson@tbiokem.lth.se >
METU Ankara
ArchaeogenomicsPopGen
Postdoc and PhD positions in archaeogenomics, popu-
lation genetics, bioarchaeology, and archaeological mod-
eling
Applications are invited for multiple Ph.D. and postdoc
positions in an ERC-funded interdisciplinary research
project on the Neolithic Transition in Southwest Asia.
We seek applicants with backgrounds in molecular bi-
ology, population genetics, anthropology, archaeology,
and computer science.
The work will be conducted at METU, Ankara, in collab-
oration with Hacettepe University, and major Neolithic
excavations in the region, including ~Aatalh oy uk and
A^A>^A>kl ^A>h oy uk.
THE PROJECT:
The successful applicants will join the 5-year research
project ^A>NEOGENE: Archaeogenomic analysis of ge-
netic and cultural interactions in Neolithic Anatolian
societies ^A>, supported by a European Research Council
Consolidator Grant.Using state-of-the-art ancient genomics and modeling
approaches, NEOGENE aims to shed fresh light on
a most dramatic transition period in prehistory: the
emergence of sedentism and farming 10,000 years ago
in Anatolia. The project involves constructing genetic
kinship networks in Neolithic villages, mapping inter-
regional patterns of gene ow, describing the evolution
and dispersal of domestic sheep, and joint modeling
of material culture exchange and demic processes that
drove the Neolithic Transition across West Eurasia.
TASKS AND REQUIREMENTS:
The successful candidates will be working in one of the
following elds:
Ancient DNA: Researchers with PhD or MSc degrees
in biology or a related eld, to conduct wet lab exper-
iments, including experimental protocol de velopment
for DNA extraction, library preparation and capture.
Population genomics: Researchers with PhD or MSc
degrees in population genetics, statistical genetics, or
a related eld, to work in genomic data analysis and
population genetic modelling, including method devel-
opment for demographic inference, kinship and selection
estimation.
Human bioarchaeology: Researchers with an MSc/MA
degree in anthropology, or a related eld, with experi-
ence in human skeletal biology, to study bioarchaeologi-
cal aspects related to Neolithization.
Archaeology <span style=\font-size:11pt;font-
family:Arial;color:black" >: Researchers with PhD
or MSc/MA degrees in archaeology, to work in
archaeological data mining, digital archaeology, and
statistical analysis.
Computer science: Researchers with PhD or MSc de-
grees in computer science or an informatics-related eld,
to work in archaeological modelling, evolutionary algo-
rithms and simulation.
EMPLOYMENT AND STUDY CONDITIONS:
For postdocs, the positions are planned for 2 years, with
possible extension.
For Ph.D. students, the positions will be for 4 years, and
the students will complete the METU and/or Hacettepe
University Graduate Programs. Note that METU pro-
grams are in English.
NEOGENE ^A>s diverse and vibrant research en-
vironment is composed of the research groups
run by Mehmet Somel (evolutionary genetics and
computa tional biology, at METU Biological Sci-
ences: http://compevo.bio.metu.edu.tr/), F usun -zer
(ancient DNA at METU Biological Sciences, http://-18 EvolDir July 1, 2018
adna.bio.metu.edu.tr/en), Y ^A>lmaz Selim Erdal (hu-
man bioarchaeology, at Hacettepe Anthropology: http:/-
/hacettepe.academia.edu/Y%C4%B1lmazSelimErdal),
~Ai^A>dem Atakuman (Neolithic archaeology and mate-
rial culture studies at METU Settlement Archaeology:
http://sa.metu.edu.tr/assoc-prof-dr-cigdem-atakuman),
Elif S urer (se rious games and simulation, at METU
Informatics Institute: http://blog.metu.edu.tr/elifs).
We also closely collaborate with multiple archaeology
teams working in the region.
METU is Turkey ^A>s top public research university, with
t he largest share of national science funding among the
country ^A>s universities. The METU student population
stands at 27,000, and we host about 2,000 international
students and sta.
The successful candidates will receive salary commen-
surate with experience. They will further enjoy access
to on-campus housing. The METU campus includes a
>3,000 hectare forest area and a lake, with access to a
wide selection of recreational sports.
APPLICATION:
For further information on NEOGENE, please contact
Mehmet Somel (neogene@metu.edu.tr).
Postdoc and PhD candidates should send (1) a CV, (2)
a statement of interest that mentions the part of the
project the candidate plans to work in (max. 2 pages),
(3) contact information for three referees, (4) an aca-
demic transcript (for PhD student applications only),
via email to neogene@metu.edu.tr.
The emails should be titled according to the type of
application and
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Newcastle UK MarineBioinformatics
A competitive PhD studentship in marine bioinformat-
ics/molecular biology is available at Newcastle Univer-
sity, UK https://www.ncl.ac.uk/ rated as one of the
top 150 universities in the world. This 3-year fellowship
provides a full tuition fee waiver, a competitive living
stipend, and a considerable research allowance.Title: Revealing Adaptive Divergence of Aquatic Rubis-
cos (RADAR)
Abstract: Photosynthesis is the most important biologi-
cal process on a planetary scale, and most of the known
life depends on it. Photosynthesis harvests energy from
the sun to combine carbon dioxide and water, and pro-
vide oxygen and the building blocks of life. Surprisingly
for such an important process, photosynthesis is not
very ecient. Less than 5% of energy from the sun is
transformed into chemical energy of sugars by a typical
crop plant like wheat or potato. Imagine how crop yields
could be improved and how much land could be saved
for wildlife if we would nd a way to increase eciency
of photosynthesis! The good news is there are several
potential ways to address this problem. Photosynthesis
is a complex, multi-step process which gives rise to multi-
ple opportunities to address the eciency of the process.
It is possible that multiple solutions could be combined
in a single crop to produce more food and/or biofuel
using less land and water. One of the bottle-necks in
photosynthesis is the performance of an enzyme called
Rubisco which is responsible for the xation of carbon
dioxide into sugars. Almost all organic carbon on Earth
is xed by Rubisco. Bacteria, algae and plants have
dierent forms of Rubisco, and the most ecient ones
are found in marine organisms. Rubiscos from plants
represent 'the tip of an iceberg' yet they attracted most
of the research eort. We propose to look at 'the under-
studied submerged part of an iceberg', Rubiscos from
aquatic archaea, bacteria and algae, which are both the
most abundant and structurally diverse. Aims: nd
and characterize new forms of Rubiscos and their chap-
erones from the aquatic environments for fundamental
research and applications in synthetic biology. Methods:
1. Bioinformatics' tools will be used for bioprospect-
ing of in-house obtained eDNA samples and publicly
available NGS data collected from the aquatic environ-
ments. 2. Codon-optimized genes encoding Rubisco
and its chaperones will be expressed in a range of hosts.
3. New forms of Rubisco and its chaperones will be
characterised using biochemical and structural analysis.
This project is funded and open for citizens of UK and
EU only.
The position will start in 2018 as soon as the suitable
candidate will be found.
For further information if you are interested in
applying, contact Dr Maxim Kapralov http://-
www.ncl.ac.uk/nes/sta/prole/maximkapralov.html
by email maxim.kapralov@newcastle.ac.uk
In your email include your CV with contact information
for two references including your most recent/current
supervisor.July 1, 2018 EvolDir 19
^ a euro ^A Maxim.Kapralov@newcastle.ac.uk
Princeton WeekendPreview EEB
expenses paid
Princeton EEB Scholars Preview Weekend
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
at Princeton University is oering a special preview
weekend 'V *the EEB Scholars Program* 'V this upcom-
ing October 4th-7th for students considering graduate
school. The goal of this weekend is to invite competitive
prospective graduate applicants to campus in order to
showcase the department, demystify the graduate ap-
plication process, and highlight participants' research
experience. We especially encourage students from un-
derrepresented minority groups and those inhabiting
other axes of underrepresentation in STEM to apply.
Please see <https://eeb.princeton.edu/graduate/eeb-
scholars-program >for more information and to apply.
The application deadline is July 15, 2018. The *EEB
Scholars Program* is open to all prospective graduate
students, including rising juniors and seniors, as well
as international applicants. We particularly encourage
students from developing nations to apply. Travel, food,
and lodging expenses will be covered by Princeton EEB.
Please direct any questions to EEBSchol-
ars@princeton.edu.
{ Amanda Savagian PhD Candidate & EEB Scholars
Coordinator Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Princeton
University savagian@princeton.edu
SouthernIllinoisU EvolutionFrogs
Evolution of South American Poison frogs (genera
Ameerega and Ranitomeya)Zoology Department, South-
ern Illinois University Carbondale, Carbondale, IL.
A doctorate position is available to study the evolution of
S. American poison dart frogs. Neotropical poison frogs
are a species-rich family (Dendrobatidae) that exhibit a
diversity of mating systems, parental care strategies and
phenotypes. The Brown lab is looking for a student to
develop a research program studying ANY core aspectof the lab's research. The ideal student will be prepared
to conduct eld-based research, have some experience in
molecular ecology/population genetics, genomic and/or
geospatial analyses. The selected candidate MUST be
highly interested in phylogenetics, population genetics,
or genomics. This position includes several trips to
South America and fully funded lab work.
As follows are a few key projects that could be your
graduate research:
*Speciation, species boundaries and hybridization in
the Ameerega bassleri complex: insights from natural
history, acoustic and morphological data, geospatial
data, sub-genomic and paleoclimatology. This group is
a highly diverse group of three species with dramatic
phenotypic variation across its range. It also has experi-
enced several historical hybridization events among the
taxa that have muddled and complicated their evolution-
ary histories. This research will be aimed to understand
factor driving and maintaining speciation in natural
situations.
**Phylogeography and spatial biodiversity patterns of
the poison frog genus Ranitomeya: insights from sub-
genomic data, geospatial analysis and phylogenetics.
The thumbnail poison frogs are some of the most amaz-
ing species on earth| half the taxa are involved in
Mullerian mimicry, they exhibit intensive parental, and
they often display incredible phenotypic variation among
populations... This group in an endless fountain of evo-
lutionary questions.
***The genetic consequences of future climate change:
spatially explicit predictions of within-species genetic
diversity using climatic, demographic, and genetic data.
This research will expand upon a lab methodology that
accounts for climatic, geographic, and biological com-
plexity. This framework is promising for understanding
evolutionary consequences of climate change and guiding
conservation planning.
For more information on the Brown Lab please visit
the lab website at: http://www.jasonleebrown.org
and the Zoology Department at SIUC http://-
www.zoology.siu.edu. Students will nd all the brains
of a nationally ranked research university and all the
heart of a small college at SIUC.
Carbondale is located in southern Illinois and provides
a close link to many forested areas and lakes. The re-
gional landscapes varies from bottomlands to uplands
with rolling hills, blus, and rugged topography. This
makes it perfect home for outdoor lovers (when they are
not in the rainforest of S. America).
Interested students are encouraged to contact Dr. Brown
(jason.brown@siu.edu)ASAP. Please include a brief de-20 EvolDir July 1, 2018
scription of your research interests related the Brown
Lab, a CV, and names of two references (with contact
info). Competitive funding options are available. US
and Canadian students ONLY. Application will be con-
sidered as they are received. Applicants will no longer be
considered after July 15th 2018. Start date of position
is August 2018 (preferred) or January 2019.
Jason Brown <jason.brown@siu.edu >
StockholmU PlantSystematics
PhD position in Plant Systematics at Stockholm Uni-
versity
Closing date: 10 August 2018.
We have an opening for a highly motivated postgrad-
uate fellow to work on the research project \Genome
evolution in parasitic plants" in the group of Dr. Gitte
Petersen at Stockholm University.
The complete ad with information on how to ap-
ply is available on the Stockholm University web-
page: https://www.su.se/english/about/working-at-su/-
phd?rmpage=job&rmjob=6027&rmlang=UK Project
description The Department of Ecology, Environment
and Plant Sciences invites applications for a four-year
PhD position part of the project Genome evolution in
parasitic plants. Several groups of angiosperms are para-
sites, which makes them more or less dependent on a host
for nutrient supply. This project aims at understanding
the evolution and consequences of host-parasite inter-
actions at the genomic level. The current PhD project
will primarily focus on evolution of organelle genomes
in parasitic plants. Special emphasis will be given to
Mistletoes and related genera, in which substantial and
unexpected alterations of the mitochondrial genome are
already documented. Comparative studies of completely
assembled organelle genomes will be supplemented with
targeted sequencing and analysis of selected genes.
Qualication requirements In order to meet the general
entry requirements, the applicant must have completed
a second-cycle degree, completed courses equivalent to
at least 240 higher education credits, of which 60 credits
must be in the second cycle, or have otherwise acquired
equivalent knowledge in Sweden or elsewhere. In or-
der to meet the specic entry requirements, the general
syllabus for doctoral studies in the eld of Plant Sys-
tematics stipulates that applicants must have completed
at least 60 higher education credits in the second cy-cle, of which 15 credits must be from a course in Plant
Systematics, and 30 credits from a project in Plant Sys-
tematics. Applicants may also have otherwise acquired
equivalent knowledge in Sweden or elsewhere. The qual-
ication requirements must be met by the deadline for
applications.
Selection The criteria used in the selection for admit-
tance to research training in Plant Systematics are
knowledge of theory and applications in the research
eld, ability to communicate orally and in writing,
knowledge of English, creativity, initiative, indepen-
dence and collaboration ability. Hands-on experience
with Next Generation Sequencing and bioinformatics
tools will be considered as special merits, as well as
good knowledge of phylogenetics. Admission Regula-
tions for Doctoral Studies at Stockholm University are
available at: www.su.se/rules . Terms of employment
Only a person who will be or has already been admit-
ted to a third-cycle programme may be appointed to a
doctoral studentship. The term of the initial contract
may not exceed one year. The employment may be
extended for a maximum of two years at a time. How-
ever, the total period of employment may not exceed
the equivalent of four years of full-time study. Doctoral
students should primarily devote themselves to their
own education, but may engage in teaching, research,
and administration corresponding to a maximum of 20
% of a full-time position. Please note that admission
decisions cannot be appealed. Stockholm University
strives to be a workplace free from discrimination and
with equal opportunities for all.
Contact For more information, please contact project
leader Gitte Petersen, telephone: +46 8 16 43 97,
gitte.petersen@su.se. Further information about the
position can be obtained from the Subject Representa-
tive, Professor Catarina Rydin, telephone: +46 8 16 12
15, catarina.rydin@su.se.
Application Apply for the position at Stockholm Uni-
versity's recruitment system by clicking the \Apply"
button. It is the responsibility of the applicant to en-
sure that the application is complete in accordance with
the instructions in the job advertisement, and that it is
submitted before the deadline.
gittep@snm.ku.dkJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 21
TexasTechU
BighornSheepMicrobiomes
The Phillips Laboratory (Department of Biological Sci-
ences, Texas Tech University) is accepting applications
from highly motivated individuals interested in pursuing
a graduate degree in Biology, with a research project
focusing on the dynamics of microbiomes in wild popu-
lations of bighorn sheep. The successful applicant will
be an individual that is excited about the opportunity
to integrate bioinformatics, biostatistics, ecology, and
evolutionary biology to understand and publish results
about complex biological systems. No prior experience
in scripting (mainly bash and R) is required, but only
applicants that are serious about the opportunity to
develop advanced scripting capabilities and strong foun-
dations in biostatistics and ecological principles need
apply. This position is available at the master's or PhD
level, but only individuals currently holding a master's
degree or with experience in microbiome research will
be considered to enter at the PhD level. The position
will be supported by a Research Assistantship funded
by the Texas Bighorn Society and the Wild Sheep Foun-
dation. The position also provides teaching experience
in the form of Teaching Assistantships. Collaboration
with researchers in Tech's Department of Natural Re-
source Management will be a part of this position, and
research ndings may inform disease risk across por-
tions of bighorn sheep range in Texas. This position
will provide career development through a diverse and
technical training experience.
Applicants should send their CV and a Statement of In-
terest to Caleb Phillips (caleb.phillips@ttu.edu, subject
line = bighorn microbiome).
Caleb D. Phillips, Ph.D. Curator of Genetic Resources,
Natural Science Research Laboratory Assistant Profes-
sor, Biological Sciences Texas Tech University, Lubbock
Texas Oce: 806-834-8181 caleb.phillips@ttu.edu
\Phillips, Caleb" <Caleb.Phillips@ttu.edu >UArkansas NeuroEvoDevo
The Nakanishi lab at the University of Arkansas seeks
applicants interested in pursuing a MS or PhD in evo-
lutionary developmental biology of animals. Current
research eorts of the lab are focused on reconstructing
deeply conserved mechanisms of how nervous systems de-
velop and function by using cnidarians 'V sea anemones
and jellysh in particular. Student's research projects
may involve gene expression analyses (e.g. in situ hy-
bridization and immunohistochemistry), reverse genetics
(e.g. CRISPR-Cas9), embryology (e.g. descriptive mor-
phology, cell-lineage tracing and tissue transplantation),
genomics (e.g. RNA-seq and ChIP-seq), and advanced
microscopy (confocal and electron microscopy, and live-
cell imaging). Research and teaching assistantships are
available.
Start dates are exible. Requirements: Bachelor' ^As
degree in biology or related eld. The ideal candidate
will have a strong interest in evolutionary biology, and
experiences in molecular biology, developmental biol-
ogy, neurobiology, genomics/bioinformatics and/or mi-
croscopy techniques. Knowledge of invertebrate zoology
is a plus but not required.
Application: please submit by email 1) a description of
your research interests, 2) a CV, 3) unocial copies of
academic transcripts, and 4) contact information for 2
references to: nnakanis@uark.edu.
Nagayasu Nakanishi, Ph.D Assistant Professor
Department of Biological Sciences University of
Arkansas Fayetteville, AR 72701 479-575-2031
(oce) 479-575-7393 (lab) nnakanis@uark.edu
https://wordpressua.uark.edu/nakanishi-lab/ nnaka-
nis@uark.edu
UFreiburg 7 EvolutionaryTradeOs
We invite applications for 7 PhD positions within the
framework of the new Research Unit 'Sociality and
the reversal of the Fecundity/longevity trade-o' (FOR
2281) funded by the German Research Foundation
(DFG) www.so-long.org Why do organisms age? The22 EvolDir July 1, 2018
genetic underpinnings of ageing seem to be highly con-
served from nematode worms to humans. Across ani-
mals, ageing is characterized by a trade-o between fe-
cundity and longevity, with an increase in fecundity com-
monly associated with accelerated senescence and a drop
in lifespan. A major exception to this pattern is found
within the social insects. Some social insect queens are
record holders with respect to longevity whereas their
sterile workers are short-lived. The aim of the Research
Unit (www.so-long.org) is to explore, in a highly inte-
grative and interdisciplinary fashion, the ultimate and
proximate reasons for the apparent reversal in the fe-
cundity/longevity trade-o associated with sociality by
using all major clades of social insects, with Drosophila
melanogaster as model non-social organism. Projects
will apply a broad range of approaches from experi-
mental manipulation, eld-based studies and molecular
genetic studies (e.g. qt RT PCR, NGS) to theoretical
evolutionary modelling and bioinformatic analyses. Be-
yond the project work, PhD candidates will attend and
learn in workshops, can organize summer schools, have
the opportunity to participate in lab rotations and to
attend international conferences.
PhD positions will be available on the following top-
ics: Comparative analysis of molecular mechanisms
of ageing in ies and social insects (Dr. Clau-
dia Fricke, University of M unster; claudia.fricke@uni-
muenster.de) Defying senescence - The causes of
death and the costs of living of ant queens (PD Dr.
Jan Oettler / Prof Dr. J urgen Heinze, University
of Regensburg; jan.oettler@biologie.uni-regensburg.de;
juergen.heinze@biologie.uni-regensburg.de) A compara-
tive approach to the fecundity/longevity trade-o across
two origins of eusociality in the bees (Prof. Dr. Robert
Paxton, University of Halle / Dr. Karen Meusemann,
University of Freiburg; robert.paxton@zoologie.uni-
halle.de; karen.meusemann@biologie.uni-freiburg.de )
Functional basis of the fecundity - longevity reversal
in the ant Temnothorax rugatulus (Prof. Dr. Su-
sanne Foitzik, University of Mainz / Dr. Barbara
Feldmeyer, Senckenberg BiK-F Frankfurt; foitzik@uni-
mainz.de, barbara.feldmeyer@senckenberg.de) Uncov-
ering the functional basis of the reversal of the fecun-
dity/longevity trade-o in a termite (Prof. Dr. Judith
Korb, University of Freiburg; judith.korb@biologie.uni-
freiburg.de) Reversal of the fecundity / longevity trade-
o across social transitions in ants (Dr. Volker Nehring,
University of Freiburg / Prof. Dr. Susanne Foitzik,
University of Mainz, / Dr. Romain Libbrecht, Univer-
sity of Mainz; volker.nehring@biologie.uni-freiburg.de,
foitzik@uni-mainz.de, rlibbrec@uni-mainz.de) Why and
how does sociality change the fecundity / longevity
trade-o in termites? (Prof. Dr. Judith Korb, Uni-versity of Freiburg / Prof. Dr. Ido Pen, Univer-
sity of Groningen; judith.korb@biologie.uni-freiburg.de,
i.r.pen@rug.nl)
All applicants should have a strong background in evo-
lutionary biology and, depending on the project, also
skills in bioinformatics (e.g. scripting) or eld work. For
further details of specic projects, email the relevant
contact person listed above. Within your application,
please state your preferred project, in ranked order from
1 (most preferred) to 3. The research consortium will
jointly select candidates for the positions. Skype/phone
interviews are scheduled for the last week of July and
1st week of August. Start of Position is anticipated to
be 1. Oct 2018 with a kick-o meeting from the 3.- 5.
Sept 2018
Interested candidates should send their applications
(incl. CV, a letter of motivation, and contact details of
two academic references) as single le pdf by 8. July
2018 to: Judith.Korb@biologie.uni-freiburg.de
For further information please contact: Prof. Dr. Ju-
dith Korb Zoology : Evolutionary Biology & Ecology
University of Freiburg Hauptstrasse 1 D-79104 Freiburg
Germany Judith.Korb@biologie.uni-freiburg.de www.so-
long.org Deadline for applications: 8. July 2018
Karen Alice Meusemann
<karen.meusemann@biologie.uni-freiburg.de >
UMontreal
EvolutionSexDetermination
PhD POSITION : EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY/BIO-
INFORMATICS
The position :
The Breton lab (University of Montreal) is looking for
an ambitious and highly motivated PhD student in-
terested in understanding the genetic and epigenetic
mechanisms of sex determination in the marine mussel
Mytilus edulis.
PROJECT : The blue mussel Mytilus edulis is the most
important cultured mollusc and therefore a major eco-
nomic driver in the Gulf of St. Lawrence (Fisheries
and Oceans Canada), and one of the most important in
the world. Once successful in southern North Carolina,
M. edulis has undergone a worrying decline in recent
years in the Atlantic Provinces and the United States.
Dierent hypotheses have been proposed to explain theJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 23
reasons for this decline: overexploitation, ocean acid-
ication, pollution, diseases, increased predators and
global warming. Notably, global warming has been used
as a hypothesis in several other studies to explain the
decline of blue mussel populations, a result that could
be attributable, among other things, to a drastic change
in the sex ratio (i.e. the ratio of males and females),
which could jeopardize the viability of certain popula-
tions. Indeed, marine mussels and oysters are known to
have a sex ratio regulated by the environment (temper-
ature and/or food). However, unlike oysters, very few
studies have focused on sex determination mechanisms
in marine mussels. A major reason for studying sexual
determinism in mussels relates to their economic and
nutritional importance. It is widely accepted that the
success of livestock operations is largely related to the
characteristics of the breeding populations (natural or
captive), and in particular the need to control sex ratios,
reproduction periods, fecundity and fertility.
This FRQNT-funded project aims to better understand
the genetic and epigenetic mechanisms of sex deter-
mination in Mytilus edulis. Therefore, the successful
applicant should have experience or a strong interest
in bioinformatics, evolutionary biology and molecular
biology.
Funding (15K/yr) is available to support the success-
ful candidate for three years in addition to a limited
travel budget. Expected start date is September 2018 or
January 2019. The Universite de Montreal is a French
language institution where graduate work may be un-
dertaken in English or French.
Interested students should contact
s.breton@umontreal.ca and attach a CV, academic
transcript, contact details of two academic referees, and
a brief description of their research interests.
The position will remain open until a suitable candidate
is found.
Please note that only those selected for an interview
(Skype or telephone) will be contacted. Preference will
be given to Canadian citizens and permanent residents.
sophie breton <breton.sophie@gmail.com >UNewSouthWales
DevelopmentalPlasticity
PhD Scholarship in Developmental Plasticity
Project: Developmental temperatures as drivers of phe-
notypic change.
Supervisors: Lisa Schwanz, Shinichi Nakagawa, and Rob
Brooks
Evolution & Ecology Research Centre, School of Biolog-
ical, Earth and Environmental Sciences
University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia.
Environmental temperatures have a profound impact on
developing animals. The Schwanz Lab and collaborators
have recently quantied the impact of developmental
temperatures on reptile traits, and are continuing to
examine how this plasticity impacts animal populations
under changing climates. This project will examine
plasticity in response to developmental temperatures,
plasticity's role in creating phenotypic variation, and
the inuence on population response to environmen-
tal change. Potential projects include: 1) quantifying
temperature-based developmental plasticity across ani-
mal taxa; 2) quantifying and comparing other sources of
developmental plasticity (e.g. maternal diet and oviposi-
tion behavior); 3) analyzing reaction norms of plasticity.
Addressing these issues will determine the relative im-
portance of climate and temperature for organismal
traits, and how they shape animal ecology and evolu-
tion. The studies to be undertaken are exible and will
depend on the student's interests.
The research will employ quantitative syntheses of pub-
lished literature, with potential expansion to focused
empirical experiments in reptiles or invertebrates. The
ideal candidate for this project will have a Bachelor's or
Master's degree in Biology, with an emphasis in animal
ecology and evolution, and a strong interest in pheno-
typic plasticity. Essential skills and experience include:
experience with an independent research project; strong
writing skills; strong statistical skills and competence in
R programming. Experience working with large datasets
would be valuable.
A scholarship is available through UNSW's highly-
competitive Scientia program (AU $40,000/yr stipend
for 4 years + tuition covered + AU $10,000/yr career
development funds). https://www.2025.unsw.edu.au/-24 EvolDir July 1, 2018
apply/ Interested students should lodge an Expression
of Interest at: https://www.2025.unsw.edu.au/apply/-
scientia-phd-scholarships/developmen tal-temperatures-
drivers-phenotypic-change
The deadline for EOIs is 20 July 2018, with applications
due 3 September 2018 for early 2019 enrolment.
Lisa Schwanz <l.schwanz@unsw.edu.au >
UNewSouthWales
EvolutionaryDynamicsVegetation
PhD Scholarship for Evolutionary Dynamics of Vegeta-
tion
INSTITUTION: Evolution & Ecology Research Centre,
School of Biological, Earth and Environmental Sciences
University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia
PROJECT: the Short and Long-term Eects of Climate
Change on Vegetation
SUPERVISORS: Dr Daniel Falster, A/Prof Will Corn-
well, and Dr Matin De Kauwe
ABOUT: Climatic change is set to recongure ecological
systems, as key drivers of vegetation composition and
function - such as rainfall and temperature - shift away
from their historical norms. Vegetation will respond over
a range of timescales, from short-term acclimation, to
medium-term adjustments in the abundance of current
species, to long-term evolutionary responses, including
adaptation and/ or selective replacement of species. In
this project, the student will compare the pace and im-
pact of these dierent responses, using process-based
models; and then outline scenarios of alternative future
states.
The student will receive a stipend of $40K AUD per
year for four years, as well as up to $10k each year for
career development. The project is based in the School
of Biological, Earth & Environmental Sciences, at the
University of New South Wales, Sydney Australia; su-
pervised by Dr Daniel Falster, A/Prof Will Cornwell,
and Dr Matin De Kauwe. Both international and do-
mestic applications are strongly encouraged. Strong
interest and background in quantitative techniques and
eco-evolutionary dynamics is essential.
WHEN: Interested students must lodge an Expression
of Interest by 20 July 2018, with full applications due 3
September 2018 for enrolment in early 2019.MORE: For further information see
http://danielfalster.com/blog/2018/06/-
01/PhD/ \daniel.falster@unsw.edu.au"
<daniel.falster@unsw.edu.au >
UNewSouthWales
PhenotypicPlasticity
PhD Scholarship in Phenotypic Plasticity
Project:The role of the social environment in triggering
gene expression dierences associated with developmen-
tal plasticity.
Supervisors: Michael Kasumovic, Russell Bonduriansky,
and Terry Ord
Evolution & Ecology Research Centre, School of Biolog-
ical, Earth andEnvironmental Sciences
University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia.
We know that the social environment can have massive
eects on the strength and direction of selection that
adults experience. More recently, however, research has
shown that the adult social environment can also aect
the developmental trajectory, physiological underpin-
nings, and gene expression that juveniles undergo; this
can have important eects on adult phenotypes. This
project will explore the various ways the social environ-
ment aect juvenile development and adult behaviour,
and the role that gene expression plays in moderating
both. Students can take the project in any direction
they wish.
The research will employ quantitative syntheses of pub-
lished literature, with potential expansion to focused
empirical experiments in crickets, spiders, or any suit-
able organism for the study. The ideal candidate for
this project will have a Bachelor's or Master's degree
in Biology, with an emphasis in animal behaviour and
evolution, and a strong interest in phenotypic plastic-
ity. Essential skills and experience include: experience
with an independent research project; strong writing
skills; strong statistical skills and competence in R pro-
gramming. Experience working with with molecular
techniques and statistical analyses surrounding genomic
data would be valuable (but not necessary if the candi-
date is willing to learn).
A scholarship is available through UNSW's highly-
competitive Scientia program (AU $40,000/yr stipend
for 4 years + tuition covered + AU $10,000/yr careerJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 25
development funds. https://www.2025.unsw.edu.au/-
apply/ Interested students should lodge an Expression
of Interest at: https://www.2025.unsw.edu.au/apply/-
scientia-phd-scholarships/how-extreme-climactic-
variation-aects-gene-expression-and-phenotypic But
should contact Michael (m.kasumovic@unsw.edu.au)
for help with the application.
The deadline for EOIs is 20 July 2018, with applications
due 3
September 2018 for early 2019 enrolment.
Michael Kasumovic <m.kasumovic@unsw.edu.au >
UOsnabrueck 6 CellularEvolution
The Research Training Group \EvoCell: Cellular Mech-
anisms of Evolutionary Innovation" at the University of
Osnabrueck invites applications for 6 Positions for PhD
Candidates
(salary grade E 13 TV-L, 65 %)
starting October 1st, 2018 for a duration of three years.
The international research training group \EvoCell: Cel-
lular mechanisms of evolutionary innovation" aims at
bridging the current gap between evolution and cell
biology that is highly relevant to many elds. An inter-
disciplinary approach with complementary expertise in
organismic, cell, theoretical and computational biology
will take advantage of dierent model systems ranging
from membrane vesicles (P1) over bacteria (P2, P3) and
yeast cells (P4) to multicellular animal and plant eukary-
otic systems (P5, P6). The participating groups provide
a collaborative research environment including access to
the state-of-the-art research equipment of the Center for
Cellular Nanoanalytics Osnabruck (CellNanOS) and an
association with the SFB 944 - Physiology and dynamics
of cellular microcompartments. Successful candidates
will participate in a structured training program oering
scientic courses, training in transferable and outreach
skills and participation in research symposia.
Description of Responsibilities:
- Cooperation in the research activities of the Research
Training Group
- The position oers the possibility to pursue a doctorate
degree
- Teaching duties
Required Qualications:- An excellent master degree/diploma in biology or re-
lated elds including modelling
Desirable qualications:
-A strong interest for research at the intersection be-
tween evolution and cell biology
- Good English language skills (the training group lan-
guage is English)
Projects oered:
P1 Evolution of complexity of cell membrane (A. Mulkid-
janian/Physics)
P2 The evolution of multicellular clusters in bacteria:
causes and consequences (C. Kost/ Biology)
P3 Modelling the interplay between metabolic evolution
on a cell-level and community dynamics in microbial
systems (K. Frank/ Environmental Systems Research)
P4 Evolution of TORC1 signaling in the control of serine
homeostasis (F. Frohlich/ Biology)
P5 Evolution of regulatory networks controlling sexual
reproduction in land plants (S. Zachgo/ Biology)
P6 The evolution of cytoskeletal regulation and neuronal
complexity (R. Brandt/ Biology)
For more information on the projects, visit:
https://www.biologie-cms.uni-osnabrueck.de/-
leadmin/Medien/Allgemein/pdf/-
Evocell Information forapplicants.pdf or the
homepages of the participating groups.
Osnabruck University has been certied as a family-
friendly university committed to helping work-
ing/studying parents and careers balance their family
and work life.
The university aspires to ensure equal opportunities for
men and women and strives to work towards a gender
balance in schools or departments where new appoint-
ments are made.
If equally qualied candidates apply, preference will be
given to those with special needs.
Applications should include a curriculum vitae, list of
publications, certicates of academic qualications, and
addresses of two referees together with a short statement
describing your research interest and motivation to join
the research training group.
Deadline for application is June 16th, 2018.
Application documents should be sent via email as one
single PDF to:
bewerbung@biologie.uni-osnabrueck.de.26 EvolDir July 1, 2018
Further information about the graduate school or the
application procedure is available from the speaker Prof.
Dr. C. Kost: christian.kost@uni-osnabrueck.de
Christian Kost <christiankost@gmail.com >
UOxford
PredictingAntimicrobialSpread
Note early deadline: Wednesday 11 July
An opportunity has arisen for a D.Phil. (Ph.D.) place
on the BBSRC-funded Oxford Interdisciplinary Bio-
science Doctoral Training Partnership in the area of
Articial Intelligence, specically 'Predicting the spread
of antimicrobial resistance from genomics using machine
learning'.
If successful in a competitive application process, the
candidate will join a cohort of students enrolled in the
DTP's one-year interdisciplinary training programme,
before commencing the research project and joining
Danny Wilson's research group at the Big Data Institute.
See www.danielwilson.me.uk This project addresses the
BBSRC priority area 'Combatting antimicrobial resis-
tance' by using ML to predict the spread of antimi-
crobial resistance in human, animal and environmental
bacteria exemplied by Escherichia coli. Understanding
how quickly antimicrobial resistance (AMR) will spread
helps plan eective prevention, improved biosecurity,
and strategic investment into new measures. We will de-
velop ML tools for large genomic datasets to predict the
future spread of AMR in humans, animals and the envi-
ronment. The project will create new methods based on
award-winning probabilistic ML tools pioneered in my
group (BASTA, SCOTTI) by training models using ge-
nomic and epidemiological data informative about past
spread of AMR. We will apply the tools collaboratively
to genomic studies of E. coli in Kenya, the UK and
across Europe from humans, animals and the environ-
ment, Enterobacteriaceae in North-West England, and
Campylobacter in Wales. Genomics has proven eective
for asking 'what went wrong' in the context of outbreak
investigation and AMR spread; here we will address the
greater challenge of repurposing such information using
ML for forward prediction of future spread of AMR.
Scrutiny will be intense because future predictions can
and will be tested, raising the bar for the biological real-
ism required while producing computationally ecient
tools.Attributes of suitable applicants: Understanding of ge-
nomics. Interest in infectious disease. Some numeracy,
e.g. mathematics A-level, desirable. Experience of cod-
ing would help.
Funding notes: BBSRC eligibility criteria for stu-
dentship funding applies ( https://www.ukri.org/les/-
legacy/news/training-grants-january-2018-pdf/). Suc-
cessful students will receive a stipend of no less than the
standard RCUK stipend rate, currently set at 14,777
per year.
How to apply: send Dr Wilson a CV and brief covering
letter/email (no more than 1 page) explaining why you
are interested and suitable by the ***Wednesday 11
July*** initial deadline. (He will invite the best appli-
cant/s to submit with him a formal application in time
for the Friday 13 July second-stage deadline).
Daniel Wilson <daniel.wilson@bdi.ox.ac.uk >
UPadua ComparativeGenomics
PhD project: Comparative and evolutionary genomics
of marine animals and arthropods of veterinary interest
Dear evoldir members a PhD project in Veterinary Sci-
ences, described below, will be available, on an entrance
competition basis, at the Department of Biomedicine
and Food Science ( University of Padua, Italy). Irre-
spective to the ocial label associated to this project
(Veterinary Sciences), the focus of this study is strongly
oriented toward the evolution of mitochondrial genomes
in selected groups of Animals.
Project title:
Comparative and evolutionary genomic of animals, with
particular reference to marine species and taxa of vet-
erinary interest:
Comparative and evolutionary genomics of marine ani-
mals and arthropods of veterinary interest
Short description: The project will be developed through
a bioinformatic approach applied to genomic data gener-
ated using the Illumina technology. Genomic sequences
(18 gigabases/taxon) are available for more than one
hundred species of Crustacea, Teleost Fishes and Hy-
menoptera. Comparative and evolutionary studies will
be performed on the mitochondrial genomes of a selected
group of taxa. The nuclear genes will be also analysed
to identify slow and fast evolving markers useful for
species identication. The study will be extended toJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 27
the genomic sequences, already identied with BLAST,
that belong to viruses, bacteria and protists, infecting
these animals. The bioinformatics analyses will be per-
formed using a cluster of servers already available in the
laboratory of the proponent of the project.
See the following link for further details http://-
www.dottorato.veterinaria.unipd.it/node/2152: The
supervisor of the project will be prof. Enrico Negrisolo
Negrisolo on Google scholar https://scholar.google.it/-
citations?user=3DZUN4qcUAAAAJ&hl=-
3Dit Negrisolo on Research Gate https://-
www.researchgate.net/prole/Enrico Negrisolo
To apply see http://www.unipd.it/en/research/-
doctoral-degrees-phd-programmes/phd-programmes-
calls-and-admissions The deadline is 26 June 2018
1.P.M. local time.
Enrico Negrisolo
\enrico.negrisolo@cribi.unipd.it"
<enrico.negrisolo@cribi.unipd.it >
UPadua Italy GuppySexualSelection
PhD scholarship for a project on sexual selection in
guppies (Poecilia reticulata)
Supervisor Andrea Pilastro, University of Padova, Italy
Proposed project
Aim of this project is to explore how social environ-
ment shapes the evolutionary dynamics associated with
pre- and post-copulatory sexual selection in the guppy
(Poecilia reticulata). The project will be part of a
collaboration with J. Evans (University of Western Aus-
tralia), A. Wilson (University of Exeter, UK) and and
F. Garcia-Gonzalez (Do nana Biological Station, Spain).
The candidate will have to possibility to spend part of
the three-years project at one, or more of these institu-
tions. Potential candidates are encouraged to contact
me (andrea.pilastro@unipd.it).
Application deadline: 26th June 2018, Starting: Oct
1st, 2018
For more information: University of Padova http:/-
/www.unipd.it/en/ Department of Biology https://-
www.biologia.unipd.it/en/ PhD School in Biosciences
https://dottorato.biologia.unipd.it/ {
Andrea Pilastro Dept. of Biology, University of
Padua via Ugo Bassi 58/B - 35131 Padova, ItalyT. +39 049 827 6224 F. +39 049 827 6209 E. an-
drea.pilastro@unipd.it W. https://scholar.google.it/-
citations?user=tB5pGx4AAAAJ&hl=en&oi=ao An-
drea Pilastro <andrea.pilastro@unipd.it >
UPadua
PhilosophyEvolutionaryBiology
University of Padua
BIOSCIENCES PhD program - 2018
https://dottorato.biologia.unipd.it CALL FOR AD-
MISSION TO THE PhD COURSES 2018
The call has been published.
Deadline: 13:00 (CEST) on June 26th 2018.
Curriculum: Evolution, Ecology and Conservation
Title: Philosophy of Evolutionary Biology: Extended
Synthesis and Human Evolution (tutor: Telmo Pievani)
The general frame of the position is philosophy of sci-
ence applied to evolutionary biology. The issues will
be related to the theoretical proposals, the implications
and the debates surrounding the so-called \Extended
Evolutionary Synthesis" and its models (i.e. niche con-
struction, multiple sources of variation, plasticity, exap-
tation, bio-cultural evolution, macroevolutionary pat-
terns). The research will focus on contemporary debates
in philosophy of evolutionary biology, dissecting ideas
like progress, human nature, human races, anagenetic
vs cladogenetic phylogenies, mosaic evolution, niche
construction in human evolution, etc. The position is
indicated for philosophers of science or biologists and
anthropologists with a solid training in philosophy of
science and a general competence in evolutionary biol-
ogy.
For further info on this project please contact prof. T.
Pievani (dietelmo.pievani@unipd.it).
Best regards
Telmo Pievani
Telmo Pievani
University of Padua - Department of Biology
Rector's Delegate for Institutional Communication
Full Professor - Philosophy of Biological Sciences
Via U. Bassi, n. 58/B28 EvolDir July 1, 2018
35131 Padova - Italy
tel. (0039)-049-8276193
email: dietelmo.pievani@unipd.it
www.telmopievani.com Telmo Pievani
<telmo.pievani@gmail.com >
UPaulSabatier France
PangolinConservation
Subject: Graduate position: Universite Paul Sabatier,
Toulouse, France
A 3-yr doctorate position is available at the Labora-
toire Evolution et Diversite Biologique (EDB; http://-
www.edb.ups-tlse.fr/) to develop genomic-based tools
for tracing the pangolin trade. Pangolins are scaly Afro-
Asian mammals that suer from an unprecedented rise
in the amplitude of their illegal tracking, involving
both intra- and inter-continental networks. The suc-
cessful candidate will use genomic approaches to assess
the phylogeographic patterns of the eight species of
pangolins, from which turnkey genomic tools will be
implemented to track the pangolin trade through its
dierent scales.
The ideal candidate should be motivated by lab work,
and highly interested in phylogenomics and the devel-
opment of diagnostic tools for conservation genetics.
Experience in genomic and / or degraded DNA analyses
would be a plus.
The position and lab work are fully supported by an
ANR - Agence Nationale de la Recherche research grant
(http://www.agence-nationale-recherche.fr/Project-
ANR-17-CE02-0001).
The successful candidate will be co-supervised at
EDB by Philippe Gaubert (http://www.edb.ups-tlse.fr/-
Gaubert-Philippe) and Jer0me Murienne (http://-
www.edb.ups-tlse.fr/Murienne-Jerome), in a highly mo-
tivating multi-disciplinary and -linguistic environment.
EDB is located within the campus of the Universite Paul
Sabatier (UPS), one of the top research establishments
in France. Toulouse is France's second largest univer-
sity town, with 120,000 students, and benets from an
enjoyable situation at the foot of the Pyrenees, between
the Mediterranean and the Atlantic coasts.
Applicants should send their CV (2 pages max.)
and a Statement of Interest including aca-
demic referents to Philippe Gaubert and Jer0meMurienne (philippe.gaubert@univ-tlse3.fr and
jerome.murienne@univ-tlse3.fr). Application deadline is
1^st July 2018. Starting date is 1 ^st November 2018.
Philippe Gaubert <philippe.gaubert@univ-tlse3.fr >
UToulouse HorseEvolGenomics
PhD fellow in Ancient DNA and Horse Evolutionary
Genomics
University of Toulouse, Prof Ludovic Orlando
Applications are invited for a three-year PhD fellowship
in the eld of Ancient DNA and Horse Evolutionary
Genomics. The research program will be developed
within the framework of the PEGASUS ERC (http://-
orlandoludovic.wixsite.com/pegasus-erc), led by Profes-
sor Ludovic Orlando. It will be carried out in the new
research Centre called AGES (Archeology, Genomics,
Evolution and Societies) that he recently developed
in France (http://amis.cnrs.fr/?Archaeology-Genomics-
Evolution-and-Societies-AGES ) at the University of
Toulouse (http://www.univ-tlse3.fr/home/home-page-
en-379161.kjsp?RH=ACCUEIL). Research at AGES is
aimed at tracking the impact of the many ecological,
societal and cultural transitions present in our recent
evolutionary past using a true multi-disciplinary ap-
proach, merging together classical archaeological and
historical approaches with the latest advances in molec-
ular and statistical genomics. Animal domestication,
especially that of the horse, represents one of such his-
torical turning points.
Project The project will focus on analyzing an exten-
sive dataset of (ancient) horse genomes and epigenomes
recently produced in the group to identify the prehistor-
ical and historical modications underlying the origins
of the modern horse. It follows up on our recent pub-
lications demonstrating that modern domestic horses
descend from a domestication wave that replaced in the
3^rd millennium BCE the horse stock that was previ-
ously domesticated in the Eneolithic period (Librado et
al. Science 2017; Gaunitz et al. Science 2018). Iden-
tifying the exact geographical and temporal locus of
this mysterious second domestication centre represents
one of the core objectives of the project. In addition
to cover the key transitional period represented by the
3^rd mill. BCE, our current dataset includes a series of
archaeological contexts within the last 4,000 years where
key equestrian technologies and novel utilizations of the
horse have emerged. It also largely extends our currentJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 29
knowledge of the worldwide diversity present in modern
horses. The principal supervisor is Professor Dr Ludovic
Orlando (http://amis.cnrs.fr/?Orlando-Ludovic).
We are seeking a highly motivated, hard-working and
productive student who is interested and capable of in-
teracting and contributing to a research team consisting
of archaeologists, molecular biologists, bioinformaticians,
and evolutionary biologists. The ideal candidate will
have a background in statistical genomics and/or popu-
lation genomics and will show prociency with Bash and
other programming languages such as R, Perl and/or
Python. S/he will an experienced user of state-of-the-art
packages aimed at the analysis of genome-scale sequence
data for several hundreds of individual genomes (eg.
Samtools, GATK, Picard, PLINK, ANGSD, Admix-
tools, etc). S/he will show great abilities to work in
an international environment and will be familiar with
the molecular methods underlying genome sequencing.
International experience and rst-hand experience in
the analysis of ancient DNA and/or High-Throughput
DNA Sequencing data will be considered positively.
Job description The PhD student will be expected to:
* Manage and carry through his/her research project
* Take PhD courses * Write scientic articles as well
as the PhD thesis * Participate in scientic meetings
* Contribute to other research activities in the group *
Disseminate research
Opportunities for teaching might open in case of interest
but will not be compulsory.
Key assessment criteria
- A master's degree related to the subject area of the
project, at the time of the employment. * The grade
point average achieved * Professional qualications rel-
evant to the PhD program * Previous publications *
Relevant work experience * Other professional activi-
ties * Language skills (the applicant must be uent in
English, which is the language at AGES)
Application Procedure
The application will be sent electronically to Ludovic Or-
lando (ludovic.orlando@univ-tlse3.fr) and must include:
* Curriculum vitae (with publication record, if any) *
Diplomas and transcripts of records (BSc and MSc) *
Motivation letter * Contact details from two references
* Documentation of English language qualications, cf.
general rules and guidelines, p. 5
The University wishes our sta to reect the diver-
sity of society and thus welcomes applications from all
qualied candidates regardless of personal background.
Prociency in communicating in English is compulsory.
/This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UZurich
PlantMycorrhizalInteractions
PHD POSITION IN PLANT-MYCORRHIZAL INTER-
ACTIONS
We are seeking a PhD student with a background (MSc
degree) in ecology, evolutionary biology, or a closely re-
lated discipline. The successful applicant will be based
at the Department of Evolutionary Biology and Environ-
mental Studies of the University of Zurich, Switzerland.
The mutualism between plants and arbuscular mycor-
rhizal fungi (AMF) is widespread and has persisted for
over 400 million years. The stability of this mutualism
depends on a 'fair trade' between plants and fungi, and
on mechanisms that protect this system from exploita-
tion by 'cheaters'. Indeed, plants and AMF are able
to discriminate symbiotic partners through a range of
mechanisms and invest selectively into dierent partners,
depending on the relative quality of their service.
The successful applicant will analyze the trade of carbon
and nutrients among plants and AMF in a series of ex-
periments, using methods that include isotope labeling
and molecular tools. The overall objective of the project
is to characterize the strategies of both partners in the
light of game-theoretical and network-based predictions.
A particularly important question will be how strategies
of plants and fungi scale from pairwise interactions to
systems with multiple species involved.
We are looking for a highly motivated, enthusiastic, and
independent PhD candidate who has a strong interest
in ecological and evolutionary questions. An accurate
and clean laboratory working style is absolutely essen-
tial. Experience with standard molecular biological
techniques is benecial. A high standard of written and
spoken English is essential.
The successful applicant will be supported and super-
vised by Pascal Niklaus and Jordi Bascompte (University
of Zurich), Ansgar Kahmen (University of Basel), and
Marcel van der Heijden (Agroscope Reckenholz).
http://www.ieu.uzh.ch/en/sta/member/-
niklaus pascal.html http://www.ieu.uzh.ch/-
en/sta/member/bascompte jordi.html http://-30 EvolDir July 1, 2018
botanik.unibas.ch/forschungsgruppen-der-botanik
http://www.agroscope.admin.ch The PhD candidate
will benet from training oered within the PhD pro-
gram in ecology (http://www.ieu.uzh.ch/en/teaching/-
phd/graduate.html) and the Zurich-Basel Plant Science
Center (http://www.plantsciences.uzh.ch/en.html),
through which this project is funded.
Important parts of the experimental setup have been
prepared so that the successful candidate can capitalize
immediately on previous work. The position is opened
immediately, and the successful applicant should there-fore start no later than September 1, 2018. Salaries will
follow University of Zurich regulations.
The University of Zurich is the largest University of
Switzerland and oers outstanding work conditions, a
high quality of life in Zurich, and an excellent support
environment.
To apply, please send a single pdf containing motivation
letter, complete CV, and the names of two references to
pascal.niklaus@ieu.uzh.ch, with subject PSC-PLANT-
AMF.
\Pascal A. Niklaus" <Pascal.Niklaus@ieu.uzh.ch >
Jobs
AnnArbor Michigan FishMuseumCollectionsManager
30
Charlotte NorthCarolina Tech Bioinformatics . . . . . .31
ClarkU ParttimeTeaching MolSystematics . . . . . . . . . 32
FieldMuseum Chicago Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .33
FloridaAtlanticU LabTech CaveshEvolution . . . . . . 33
iDiv LeipzigU Tech PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
LouisianaU 2 MarineEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
ManchesterU AnimalAdaptations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
MaxPlanckInst Seewiesen 3FieldAssist AvianEvolution
36
MichiganStateU ChairFishWildlife . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
NHM LosAngelesCounty TarPits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38NIAB Cambridge UK QuantitativeGenetics . . . . . . . 39
NortheasternU Tech EcologicalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . 39
TexasAMU CorpusChristi EvolutionaryMarineBiol 40
UCalifornia Berkeley LabTech PupshCichlidspeciation
40
UCollege Dublin ComparativeEpigenetics . . . . . . . . . .41
UOklahoma GenomicsLabManger . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UppsalaU PlantEvolGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UQueensland EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UtahStateU ForestEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UWyoming CoreFacilityScientists . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
WhitmanCollege EvoEcoTeachingLabCoordinator . 45
AnnArbor Michigan
FishMuseumCollectionsManager
Posting Title: Research Museum Collection Manager -
Fish DivisionPosting salary range: $48,000 - $56,000
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy (EEB) is seeking a Collection Manager for the
Museum of Zoology (UMMZ) Fish Division (https:/-
/lsa.umich.edu/ummz/shes.html), located at the new
state of the art Research Museums Center (RMC) in Ann
Arbor, Michigan. The UMMZ develops and maintains
zoological collections explicitly for use in research and
education, beneting science, society, and the universityJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 31
at large. The scientic role of the UMMZ is to train
students and engage in systematic biology and biodiver-
sity studies. These broad and overlapping elds entail
the discovery and study of the diversity of organisms,
their evolutionary relationships, and the processes that
originate biodiversity. EEB has an outstanding, diverse
and collaborative group of researchers in evolutionary
biology, biodiversity science, and ichthyology.
The UMMZ Fish Collection is worldwide in its geo-
graphic scope and one of the largest of its type, includ-
ing more than 200,000 lots and 3.3 million specimens
representing 98% of sh orders. The collection is partic-
ularly strong in Neotropical, North American, African
and Southeast Asian freshwater holdings. Historical col-
lections often date back to the early 20 ^thCentury and
include irreplaceable samples from North and Central
America, Asia and Madagascar.
We seek candidates with a strong commitment to a vi-
sion of the Fish Collection as a key resource for research
and education within the University and to the ichthy-
ological community nationally and internationally. The
position oers exciting opportunities for mentoring, and
career development, including limited research within
the context of the Fish Division curatorial priorities.
Responsibilities: 1. Growth, Maintenance and Digiti-
zation (GMD) of the sh collections, including uid,
cleared-and-stained and skeleton specimens, tissue sam-
ples, and ancillary collections such as paper archives,
eld notes, geographic and environmental data, and
digital assets such as photography, X-rays, and micro
CT scans. Activities may include organizing and par-
ticipating in eld expeditions (including international
collecting), coordinating and contributing directly to
digitization eorts, as well as writing collection-based
grants to support the sh collection. 2. Working with
faculty curators to develop and implement policies, stan-
dards, and procedures. This involves, as necessary, de-
veloping standard operating procedures for acquisition,
accessioning, databasing, archival and use of new or
emerging genomic, digital resources and other ancillary
collections. Reviewing, updating, and enhancing the
sh collections management plan. 3. Accessioning and
cataloguing of new specimens, tissues and ancillary col-
lections into the collection and the electronic database.
This activity includes coordinating curatorial priorities
with faculty curators and the daily management of sta
workers, work-study students, graduate curatorial assis-
tants and other personnel. 4. Support of and coordi-
nation with faculty curators, student researchers and
visiting collaborating researchers to plan and develop re-
search projects utilizing the research collections and/or
enhance collection resources. 5. Being involved in grant
writing to secure grant funding for research projectsthat enhance collection resources. 6. Maintenance and
growth of the sh genomic resources in the Liquid Ni-
trogen Facility. This activity involves the accessioning
of new samples, database cross-referencing to voucher
specimens, as well as development and maintenance of
database records on genomic resources in the Fish Di-
vision. 7. Coordinate and process inter-departmental
and inter-institutional loans and exchanges. Activities
include the packing and unpacking of loans (specimens
and tissues) and securing state, federal and international
permit requirements when appropriate, as well as the
electronic exchange of digitized information. Facilitat-
ing the establishment of Memoranda of Understanding
or Material Transfer Agreements among institutions for
loans, exchange and import/export of collection-related
materials nationally and internationally. 8. Routine
maintenance and updating of the data portal through
which our holdings are made accessible to researchers
across the world. This activity is performed in ongoing
coordination with faculty curators and requires regular
attention to both our electronic, searchable database
and a server that connects us to the international com-
munity. 9. Training and supervision of sta volunteers,
work-study students, graduate curatorial assistants, and
when needed, visiting
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Charlotte NorthCarolina Tech
Bioinformatics
Genomics Software Developer
*Job Description*
The David H. Murdock Research Institute is currently
seeking a Genomics Software Developer. Qualied can-
didates will have both applied software development
and integration skills and a theoretical understanding
of their application. The incumbent must have a strong
technical background in computer science or bioinfor-
matics; knowledge of biology is desired. The primary
role will be to identify, develop, integrate, and imple-
ment programs to provide research support for various
projects within the genomics sequencing laboratory. The
incumbent will be an active computer science contribu-
tor to computational projects as a bioinformatics team32 EvolDir July 1, 2018
member. The incumbent must be comfortable with
working in a dynamic, fast changing environment, and
able to communicate complex informatics principles,
methods, analyses, and results to end users from diverse
backgrounds.
Additionally, the chosen candidate will be self-motivated,
able to communicate equally well with both computer
and biological scientists and enhance the performance of
an interdisciplinary team. The incumbent will apply his
or her education, training and experience to work inde-
pendently on numerous goals, including implementation
of automated analytical tools necessary for the collec-
tion and analysis of data generated by the DHMRI's
high throughput genomics eorts.
The Bioinformatics Group within the DHMRI supports
all laboratories within our facility including: Genomics,
Analytical Sciences, *In Vitro*Sciences, and NMR. Can-
didates with computer science or bioinformatics experi-
ence in these areas are of specic interest.
*Qualications*
Minimum Requirements
BS with 2-3 years' experience or MS in Computer
Science, Bioinformatics, or related discipline
Strong Statistics: SAS / R / MATLAB
OS: Unix/Linux, Windows
Programming: Java/C++/C# .Net. Scripting: Perl,
Shell, Python
API/Integration Development
*Preferred Experience*
Experience in handling large data sets (structured and
unstructured) such as sequencing, proteomics and imag-
ing data
Prior work in Biology / Chemistry / Genomics.
Analytical pipeline development.
In-depth understanding, analysis and processing of
data from various post-genomic technologies and their
application (Statistical analysis and integration of geno-
typing, gene expression, chromosomal copy number and
structural computational biology datasets).
Experience using relational databases and database
query language. Experience programming in a database
query language. Familiarity with relational databases,
SQL language, Unix and programming tools preferred.
Expertise in methods and technologies utilized for inte-
grative analysis of biosciences and clinical data, such as
ontologies, semantic web technologies and data exchange
standards.This position requires strong communication skills and
the ability to communicate across domains with biolo-
gists, chemists and systems biology teams.
Wide understanding of commercially available bioin-
formatics/clinical genomics tools and databases.
Excellent communication and collaborative skills work-
ing as a part of multidisciplinary teams.
Excellent written and oral communication skills.
Detail-oriented and organized, with strong initiative
and sense of ownership when driving projects to com-
pletion.
*Equal Employment Opportunity*
We are proud to be an EEO/AA employer M/F/D/V.
Rebekah Rogers <rebekah.rogers@gmail.com >
ClarkU ParttimeTeaching
MolSystematics
Department of Biology Clark University Worcester MA
01610
Part-Time Instructor ^ a euro ^A
The Department of Biology is seeking a part-time in-
structor for the fall 2018 semester to teach the following
undergraduate level course:
Molecular and Evolutionary Systematics (BIOL 254).
This is a lecture-only course that runs Monday and
Friday, 10:25-11:40pm.
Preference is for applicants with a Ph.D. but we will
consider those nearing completion of the degree. Previ-
ous teaching experience is preferred. We expect to oer
$5,000 for course coverage.
Part-time faculty expectations include the following;
excellent attendance record, regularly scheduled oce
hours, adherence to undergraduate program require-
ments.
The fall semester begins August 27, 2018 and ends De-
cember 21, 2018.
Interested applicants should electronically submit a re-
sume and cover letter (or questions) concerning this
position directly to the Chair of the Biology Depart-
ment, Justin Thackeray (jthackeray@clarku.edu).
\AA/EOE Minorities and women are strongly encouragedJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 33
to apply"
Justin Thackeray <JThackeray@clarku.edu >
FieldMuseum Chicago Director
Director and Full Curator, Integrative Research Center
Chicago, IL, USA
The Field Museum seeks a dynamic leader and re-
searcher with museum experience to serve as Director
of its Integrative Research Center and Full Curator.
The Field Museum is one of the world's leading natu-
ral history museums with globally important research
in Natural History, including Anthropology, Botany,
Geology, and Zoology. The Museum's Integrative Re-
search Center (IRC) is comprised of the curatorial sta,
and the Museum's interdisciplinary laboratory facilities
including the Pritzker Laboratory for Molecular System-
atics and Evolution, an Elemental Analysis Facility, a
Scanning Electron Microscopy Lab, and Fossil Prepa-
ration Facilities and associated sta. The Director of
the Integrative Research Center will report to the Vice
President of Science and Education
The new director will (1) demonstrate a strong commit-
ment to the Museum's mission of research, scholarship,
training, and provide sound leadership, management,
and scal direction to support and develop diverse pro-
grams within the IRC; (2) work collaboratively with
the IRC section heads and other IRC sta to promote
research in each of the museum's science foci; (3) ad-
vance interdisciplinary investigations and training both
within and outside the museum; (4) work with the IRC
Committee of the Board of Trustees to carry out the
museum's collections-based research mission, (5) work
in collaboration with the Vice President, Science and
Education, and the IRC section heads to help secure
grants and cultivate the donor community, and (6) col-
laborate with broader museum leadership and leverage
IRC expertise to support other mission-based areas of
the museum, including collections, environmental and
cultural heritage conservation, educational outreach,
and exhibitions.
The Integrative Research Center is comprised of 21
curators, and approximately 40 full and part-time ad-
ministrative, research, and support sta. We maintain
academic ties including cross-appointments with the
University of Chicago, University of Illinois at Chicago,
Northwestern University, and other universities. Numer-
ous graduate and postdoctoral students are supervisedby or work with curators, and visiting national and
international researchers and collaborators are often in
residence in the IRC for various periods.
The ideal candidate will possess:
-an innovative vision for research at a free-standing nat-
ural history museum that serves multiple constituencies
-an active collections-based research program -a doctoral
degree in a discipline related to collections-based natural
or cultural history -a signicant record of scholarship and
research sucient to be tenured at The Field Museum
-management experience, preferably in a museum setting
-a signicant record of extramural funding success and
experience with donor development -a strong record of
collaboration with diverse institutional constituencies.
For inquiries and additional information, contact the
chair of the search committee, Thorsten Lumbsch
(tlumbsch@eldmuseum.org).
Review of applications will begin on August 29, 2018.
To apply, please provide a cover letter stating interests
and qualications, a full curriculum vitae, contact in-
formation for three references, and ve representative
scholarly publications to the search committee chair at
IRCDirectorSearch@eldmuseum.org.
All application materials must come through IRCDi-
rectorSearch@eldmuseum.org, applications received
through the online application site or through any other
email will not be reviewed.
https://www.eldmuseum.org/about/-
careers?hireology jobid=207329 { Matthew P.
Nelsen The Field Museum Integrative Research Center
(Insects) 1400 S. Lake Shore Drive Chicago, Illinois
60605, USA
mpnelsen@gmail.com https://www.eldmuseum.org/-
about/sta/prole/2556 https://sites.google.com/-
site/mpnelsen/ Matthew Nelsen
<mnelsen@eldmuseum.org >
FloridaAtlanticU LabTech
CaveshEvolution
The Kowalko laboratory is seeking a Lab Technician
to perform research in molecular biology and behavior
in a laboratory that studies the evolution of a small
freshwater sh, the blind Mexican cavesh. Primary
responsibilities include breeding and maintaining cave-
sh and zebrash, performing general molecular biology34 EvolDir July 1, 2018
techniques (cloning, transgenesis, genome editing, etc.),
performing behavioral analyses, collecting and analyz-
ing data, contributing to publications, equipment and
facilities maintenance and management, and ordering.
The Lab Technician will perform these tasks under the
supervision of the principal investigator.
Minimum Qualications:
A Bachelor's degree in molecular biology, genetics, or a
related eld from an accredited institution is required.
Salary:
30,000 + benets
Please apply at https://fau.edu/jobs/ Johanna
Kowalko, Ph.D. Adjunct Assistant Professor and As-
sistant Scientist Department of Genetics, Development
and Cell Biology Iowa State University 640 Science Hall
II Ames, Iowa 50011 (515) 294-2360
Johanna Kowalko <jkowalko@gmail.com >
iDiv LeipzigU Tech PlantEvolution
The German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Re-
search (iDiv) Halle-Jena-Leipzig is one of four National
Research Centres funded by the German Research Foun-
dation (DFG). Its central mission is to promote theory-
driven synthesis and data-driven theory in this emerging
eld. The concept of iDiv encompasses the detection
of biodiversity, understanding its emergence, explor-
ing its consequences for ecosystem functions and ser-
vices, and developing strategies to safeguard biodiver-
sity under global change. It is located in the city of
Leipzig and it's a central institution of the Leipzig Uni-
versity, jointly hosted by the Martin-Luther-University
Halle-Wittenberg, the Friedrich Schiller University Jena
and the Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research
(UFZ). Furthermore, it gains support by the Max Planck
Society, the Leibniz Association and the Free State of
Saxony. More Information about iDiv: www.idiv.de.
The Evolution & Adaptation research group focuses on
the interchange between (macro-) ecology and evolution,
to understand the global distribution of genetic, taxo-
nomic and functional diversity. We therefore generate
genetic (genomic) data (e.g. from plants from Madagas-
car), and build databases of biodiversity data (such as
functional traits) to investigate the link between genes
and phenotype. Understanding these links is important
for predicting how adaptable biodiversity is to current
and future global change.Integrated in iDiv, the Leipzig University, oers the
following position in our new Evolution and Adaptation
Research Group as soon as possible:
Leipzig, 18 June 2018
Biological-Technical Assistant
(initially limited until 30. September 2020) Salary: Ent-
geltgruppe 6 TV-L * - Combining (botanical) data
sources (such as monographs and oras) to build
databases for biodiversity data (using Access or SQL)
* - Measuring functional plant traits from herbaria or
fresh sample material * - General laboratory organiza-
tion (incl. setting up a new laboratory) and laboratory
maintenance * - Planning and conducting molecular and
cell biology experiments * - Analysis of generated data
and preparation of suitable presentations Requirements:
* - successful professional qualication as Biological-
Technical Assistant or an equivalent degree * - hands-
on experience in molecular and cell biology techniques
(DNA/RNA isolation, PCR, real-time PCR, cloning)
would be preferable * - experience in building databases
would be preferable * - very good computer skills (MS
Windows, MS Oce etc.) * - good spoken and writ-
ten English skills * - strong team-player, but can also
work independently * - very good work organization and
reliability * - experienced to work in interdisciplinary
and international teams Applications with the usual
documents are preferred in English and are accepted
with reference le number 134/2018 until July 9, 2018
via our application portal under apply.idiv.de. We pre-
fer applications via our application portal, hard copy
applications can be sent to: Deutsches Zentrum fu Ir
integrative Biodiversita Itsforschung (iDiv) Halle-Jena-
Leipzig Personalabteilung Deutscher Platz 5e, 04103
Leipzig Questions concerning our application process
can be sent to: hr@idiv.de. Applying via email is ques-
tionable under data protection law. The sender assumes
full responsibility. Severely disabled persons are encour-
aged to apply and will be given preference in the case
of equal suitability. By sending us your application
documents you consent to the processing of the data
contained within for the purpose of the selection process
for the advertised position. You can revoke your consent
at any time. The processing takes place exclusively for
this selection process and is carried out on the basis
of Article 6 of the GDPR (General Data Protection
Regulation). This
includes passing on data to the members of the selection
committee, the HR oce, the Commissioner for Equal
Opportunities, the Representative Body for Severely
Disabled Employees and the Sta Council as part of
their organizational or legal responsibilities. Your data
will be stored for a maximum of 6 months followingJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 35
completion of the selection process and subsequently
deleted.
In accordance with the GDPR you have the right to
receive information from the recipient of the applica-
tion about your personal data, the right to correction,
deletion or restriction of processing, as well as a right
to object to processing.
If you have any questions, please contact the Leipzig
University data protection ocer (Mr Thomas Braatz,
Augustusplatz 10, 04109 Leipzig, tel.: 03419730081).
Dr. Renske E. Onstein Head of research group \Evo-
lution and Adaptation" German Centre for Integra-
tive Biodiversity Research (iDiv) Halle-Jena-Leipzig
Deutscher Platz 5e 04103 Leipzig Germany
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
LouisianaU 2 MarineEvolution
LUMCON is currently advertising for two new faculty
positions in Coastal and/or Marine Sciences that should
be of interest to evolutionary biologists
|{
CLUSTER HIRE FOR COASTAL OR MARINE SCI-
ENCE FACULTY POSITIONS AT LUMCON
The Louisiana Universities Marine Consortium for Re-
search and Education (LUMCON; https://lumcon.edu)
seeks to hire two new Assistant Professors in the sec-
ond phase of multi-year faculty expansion. We invite
well-qualied coastal or marine scientists, regardless of
discipline, to apply. We are interested in scientists that
address a wide range of fundamental problems in ocean
and coastal sciences, as well as interdisciplinary research
questions, using observations, modelling, theory and/or
eld and laboratory experiments. Candidates should
have notable research achievements, demonstration of
funded research, or potential for funded research, and a
strong commitment to education and outreach. Prefer-
ence will be given to candidates who can clearly demon-
strate a research program that maximizes the locality
and research assets of the DeFelice Marine Center and
complements and extends the strengths of LUMCON
and the consortium.The LUMCON DeFelice Marine Center, located at the
upper end of Terrebonne Bay in the Mississippi River
deltaic plain between the Atchafalaya and Mississippi
rivers, is in close proximity to numerous habitats includ-
ing extensive marshes, estuaries, rivers large and small,
and the open Gulf of Mexico. The Center facilities
include a seawater system, multiple wet labs, a race-
track ume, state-of-the art environmental chambers,
extensive aquaculture and experimental tank facilities, a
marsh mesocosm facility, and a eet of research vessels.
Our research vessel eet and proximity to the coast
facilitate the use of a broad mix of traditional and in-
novative instruments and observational techniques to
make measurements in many settings from open-ocean
to coastal regions. In addition, LUMCON represents a
consortium of universities and colleges across the State
of Louisiana.
The position carries a 9-month salary. The initial ap-
pointment is for three years; following a review, the
contract may be renewed for three more years. A six-
year review similar to tenure is conducted for promotion
to Associate Professor, but LUMCON is not a tenure-
granting institution.
Submit electronic copies of 1) a letter of interest; 2) cur-
riculum vita; 3) research statement; 4) education and
outreach statement; 5) a statement of how your research
program would use the location of LUMCON's Defelice
Marine Center and its assets, develop collaborations
with faculty at both the Marine Center and at consor-
tium member universities, and collaboratively utilize the
resources of the consortium member universities; and 6)
the name, aliation, address, phone and email address
of three references to hr@lumcon.edu with the subject
LUMCON FACULTY CLUSTER HIRE. Specic ques-
tions about the positions can be directed to Dr. Craig
R. McClain, Executive Director, cmcclain@lumcon.edu
(985-851-2801).
Review of applicants will begin September 15, 2018 and
continue until the positions are lled.
LUMCON is an AA/EO employer.
{ Brian J. Roberts Associate Director of Science Asso-
ciate Professor and REU Program Director Louisiana
Universities Marine Consortium (LUMCON) 8124 High-
way 56 Chauvin, LA 70344 Phone: (985)851-2821 FAX:
(985)851-2874 broberts@lumcon.edu
Brian Roberts <broberts@lumcon.edu >36 EvolDir July 1, 2018
ManchesterU AnimalAdaptations
Lecturer in Animal Physiology and Behaviour at Manch-
ester Metropolitan University
Applications are welcome from candidates with experi-
ence in animal physiology with strong links to animal
behaviour or animal welfare. This post is based in the
Division of Biology and Conservation Ecology, within
the School of Science and the Environment and will com-
plement and build upon our existing animal physiology
and behaviour research prole. We have a strong interest
in animal sensing and motion, social systems, animal
communication and environmental adaptations. We
would be especially interested in receiving applications
from candidates with research and teaching experience
in comparative physiology, including neurophysiology
and endocrinology.
Please click here for further details: https:/-
/www.jobs.ac.uk/job/BKU489/lecturer-animal-
physiology-and-behavi our/
Dr Robyn A. Grant Senior Lecturer in Comparative
Physiology & Behaviour
Conservation, Evolution and Behaviour Research Group
Neuroscience Research group Division of Biology and
Conservation Ecology Manchester Metropolitan Univer-
sity Chester Street Manchester M1 5GD +44 (0)161
2476210 http://www.sste.mmu.ac.uk/sta/stabiog/-
default.asp?StaID=965 \Before acting on this email
or opening any attachments you should read the Manch-
ester Metropolitan University email disclaimer available
on its website http://www.mmu.ac.uk/emaildisclaimer
"
Robyn Grant <Robyn.Grant@mmu.ac.uk >
MaxPlanckInst Seewiesen
3FieldAssist AvianEvolution
The Department of Behavioural Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Genetics at the Max Planck Institute for Or-
nithology in Seewiesen, Bayern, Germany (see http:/-
/www.orn.mpg.de/2622/Department Kempenaers), isseeking three to four eld assistants to work from 1st
November 2018 to 30th April 2019. These assistants will
work as part of a long-term study on the reproductive
biology of a blue tit (Cyanistes caeruleus) population
in a protected forest site in Southern Germany.
Work will include: - catching birds at feeders and nest-
boxes using traps and/or mist nets - measuring and
banding birds - maintenance of electronic nest-box and
feeder hardware and equipment - setting up experimen-
tal equipment - data collection, entry, and management
Successful candidates must have experience in catching
and handling birds, including extensive experience in
mist netting. Applicants should also be highly moti-
vated and well organised, with capabilities of working
both in a group and independently. Field work hours
can be long and tiring, thus applicants must be prepared
to work in all types of weather conditions, at any time
(including weekends and holidays), with typically only
one day o per week.
The working language at the Institute is English, so
good knowledge of the language is required. A full,
clean driver's licence is essential, with driving experi-
ence of at least one year. Experience in driving vehicles
with manual transmission is also a necessity. Applicants
from outside the EU must ensure they are eligible to
remain in Europe for the duration of their contract.
Successful candidates should be vaccinated against Tick
Borne Encephalitis (TBE or FSME) before commencing
the eld work. In addition, applicants should be aware
that Lyme disease spread by ticks is common in the
area, and should inform th emselves about the disease
in advance.
The Max Planck Institute for Ornithology employs a dy-
namic, dedicated, and international group of researchers
who are focused on exploring the elds of evolution,
ecology, genetics, and neurobiology.
In an eort to employ more people with disabilities, the
Max-Planck-Society specically encourages people with
disabilities to apply for the position. To increase the
employment of women in areas where they are under-
represented, the Max-Planck-Society also encourages
women to apply for this position.
Review of applications and calls for interviews will be-
gin in August 2018. If you are interested in apply-
ing for one of the eld assistant positions as described
above, please apply (including your CV) via email to
kbeck@orn.mpg.de
Kristina Beck
Department of Behavioural Ecology and Evolutionary
GeneticsJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 37
Max-Planck-Institute for Ornithology
Eberhard-Gwinner-Straie, House 7
82319 Seewiesen
Germany
\Beck, Kristina" <kbeck@orn.mpg.de >
MichiganStateU ChairFishWildlife
Professor and Chairperson, Department of Fisheries and
Wildlife
College of Agriculture and Natural Resources, Michigan
State University
The Department of Fisheries and Wildlife at Michigan
State University invites applications and nominations
for the position of Professor and Chairperson. We seek
a leader who will strategically focus the intellectual
resources of our faculty, students and sta to address
natural resource issues confronting society. The De-
partment's size, diversity, and commitment to the land-
grant philosophy represent a substantial opportunity
for a leader with the vision and desire to grow our im-
pacts across the Great Lakes region, the nation, and
the globe. The Chairperson will provide leadership of
the Department in all teaching, research, extension, and
outreach programs; maintain and enhance a creative,
productive, and inclusive environment for faculty, sta,
and students; oversee transparent Department processes
and administrative decisions; and serve as the principal
representative of the Department, regularly interacting
with senior leadership of the College, MSU Extension,
MSU AgBioResearch, and partner agencies and stake-
holders with whom the Department has cooperative
agreements.
Candidates must have been awarded a doctorate in a
eld related to any of the Department's academic pro-
grams; qualify for the rank of full professor; have experi-
ence in personnel, program, and budget administration;
demonstrate outstanding leadership and interpersonal
skills; and exhibit commitment to fostering diversity
and inclusion across a range of academic and profes-
sional activities. Competitive candidates should possess
a demonstrated record of scholarship, teaching, and lead-
ership; and be able to nurture the Department's existing
and extensive collaborations within natural and social
sciences and across natural resource sectors and to lever-
age these collaborations to garner additional funds andresources for Departmental programs. We seek candi-
dates with experience overseeing academic department
budgets and administering a large, multidisciplinary,
and diverse faculty with a variety of appointments and
assignments across the college and university. A strong
record of team building is highly desired.
The Department of Fisheries and Wildlife is a vibrant
community of scholars made up of 43 core faculty, 100
graduate and 240 undergraduate students, 31 research
associates, and 6 full-time sta. Our Mission is to
build local, national, and international capacities to con-
serve ecosystems that support sh, wildlife, and society
through integrated programs in research, education and
engagement. Collectively, we are tackling challenges
and developing solutions in areas including, but not
limited to: managing for sustainable harvest of sheries
and wildlife populations, developing sound governance
structures and eective policies, assessing the ecologi-
cal status of animal populations and their ecosystems
at broad geographic scales, and understanding and re-
sponding to drivers of global change.
Candidates seeking the challenge and opportunity to
lead an outstanding department should submit their ap-
plication to the MSU Careers website (Posting #504297).
For more information on the position, please contact
search committee co-chairs Dr. Michael Wagner (mwag-
ner@msu.edu) or Dr. Richard Kobe (kobe@msu.edu).
Review of applications will begin August 1, 2018 and
continue until the position is lled. The expected start
date is August 2019 or sooner. Michigan State Univer-
sity is an equal opportunity/armative action employer
and proactively upholds the Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA). Additionally, MSU is proactive in exploring
employment opportunities for dual career families, both
inside and outside the University, and respects all family
forms.
Patricia A. Soranno, Professor and Founding-Editor-in-
Chief
Limnology & Oceanography Letters
Department of Fisheries and Wildlife
Natural Resources Building, 480 Wilson Road, Rm 334D
Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI 48824
www.soranno.fw.msu.edu jwww.lagoslakes.org
Phone: (231)714-9591 jTwitter: @PASmsu2 jso-
ranno@msu.edu
\Soranno, Patricia" <soranno@anr.msu.edu >38 EvolDir July 1, 2018
NHM LosAngelesCounty TarPits
Job AnnouncementCurator, Rancho La Brea
The Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County
(NHMLA) is seeking a Curator for its renowned late
Pleistocene RanchoLa Brea collections housed at the
La Brea Tar Pits & Museum. The successful candidate
will conduct collection-basedresearch in evolutionary
biology and paleoecology broadly dened to include
systematics, biogeography, global change,and/or biodi-
versity science, particularly as it relates to Rancho La
Brea's vast collection of microfossils. The NHMLA, the-
largest natural history museum in the western United
States, has recently nished a dramatic transformation
including newground-breaking exhibitions and a 3 1^ a2
acre wildlife garden, and it anticipates completing a
similar transformation at the LaBrea Tar Pits & Mu-
seum during the next decade. The successful candidate
will play an instrumental role in the developmentand
implementation of this exciting vision.
The La Brea Tar Pits & Museum constitutes one of
the world's richest Ice Age fossil sites and has to date
yielded anestimated 5 million specimens representing
more than 600 species of animals and plants of Late
Pleistocene and Holoceneage. These collections aord a
huge potential for a broad array of research and public
programs and are continuouslygrowing through ongoing
excavations. The successful candidate will be responsible
for: developing a dynamic, productive,and scientically
signicant program of research to build a growing sci-
entic and public prole; overseeing thedevelopment
and curation of important collections; maintaining and
strengthening the NHM's presence in key profession-
aland governmental networks; and establishing active
internal NHM collaborations, especially with the Edu-
cation, Exhibits,Marketing and Communications, and
Advancement Departments.
The successful candidate will have a Ph.D., a strong
track record of published research, and experience in gen-
eratingfunding to support research. Experience in col-
lections management would be an advantage, as would
an interest in creativeways of engaging the public in
research (e.g., community science). The Curator will be
expected to develop an active andpublically engaging
research program, develop working relationships with
local universities, mentor students andpostdoctoral fel-
lows, and maintain research through obtaining competi-tive grants and/or funding from other externalsources.
The candidate must have the vision and capability to
build a research program that can be integrated within
theNHMLA's ongoing eorts to document and interpret
biotic responses to environmental change. The Cura-
tor will managethe collection's growth and undertake
research in ways that increase both its scientic and
public appeal.
The ability to communicate eectively and engage with
a wide variety of audiences, including the public and
the NHMLA'svarious stakeholders, is paramount. The
successful candidate will be expected to oversee sta
and supervise the NHMLA'sRancho La Brea programs.
The Curator will actively participate in a broad range of
museum activities, such as exhibits,education, outreach,
training of educators, public communications including
(but not limited to) media interactions, andfundraising.
More specically, the successful candidate will be ex-
pected to play a key role in the ongoing transformation
ofthe La Brea Tar Pits & Museum. The Curator will
also be responsible for building productive ties with lo-
cal universities,professional associations, educators, and
other relevant organizations within the scientic and
general community.
The Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County
is seeking applicants who have demonstrated experi-
ence andcommitment working with a diverse commu-
nity. This is a full-time position with a salary and title
commensurate withexperience.
The application deadline is September 1st, 2018. The
starting date is July 1st, 2019. Applicants should send a
cover letter,vision statement, curriculum vitae, and the
full contact information of at least three professional ref-
erences as a single PDFdocument to thayden@nhm.org,
La Brea Tar Pits & Museum Curatorial Search, Re-
search & Collections, Natural HistoryMuseum of Los
Angeles County, 900 Exposition Blvd., Los Angeles, CA
90007, USA.
The Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County
is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Please, No Phone
Calls, No Fax.|
Jann Vendetti, Ph.D.Twila Bratcher Endowed Chair
in Malacological ResearchNatural History Museum of
Los Angeles County900 Exposition Blvd. Los Angeles,
CA 90007| http://sacoglossa.myspecies.info/ http://-
research.nhm.org/malacology/jannvendetti@yahoo.com
|
Jann Vendetti <jannvendetti@yahoo.com >Jann
Vendetti <jannvendetti@yahoo.com >July 1, 2018 EvolDir 39
NIAB Cambridge UK
QuantitativeGenetics
Senior Research Scientist (Quantitative Genetics),
NIAB, Cambridge, UK A position is available for an en-
thusiastic and talented genetic data analyst to work on
crop genetics research projects at NIAB (National Insti-
tute of Agricultural Botany), Cambridge, UK. NIAB is
the UK's fastest growing crop science organisation, with
rapidly expanding research capabilities in plant genetics,
agronomy, farming systems and data science, the largest
national eld trials capability, and strong research links
with industry, government and academia. The NIAB
Genetics and Breeding team carries out leading-edge
crop genetics research, with direct translation to plant
breeding programmes in the UK and elsewhere. Ongoing
projects generate large genetic data sets for gene dis-
covery (e.g. QTL mapping, especially in multi-founder
(\MAGIC") populations, GWAS), screening of genetic
resources, crop genomics, and genomic selection. The
successful applicant will play a leading role in the cura-
tion, analysis and interpretation of these data, including
data QC, model tting, statistical analysis and develop-
ment of novel analysis pipelines, as well as dissemination
and publication of results. Initially, the successful ap-
plicant will largely work on genetic mapping and QTL
mapping projects involving NIAB's wheat MAGIC pop-
ulations. The successful candidate will also have the op-
portunity to provide wider data analysis support across
NIAB, including in the design of experiments. Oppor-
tunities will be available to develop and grow research
interests within the overall NIAB genetics and breeding
research portfolio. This is a permanent post and we are
seeking a researcher with a background in quantitative
genetics or statistics and an interest in agriculture and
plant breeding.
The successful applicant should have a PhD in quanti-
tative genetics, plant genetics, or a related subject area,
and be experienced in genetic data analysis, particularly
genetic mapping and QTL mapping, as well as the use of
statistical software, preferably R. A good understanding
of experimental design is also critical. Some basic bioin-
formatics experience and/or programming skills (e.g.
Python) are desirable, together with a good scientic
publication and presentation record. Some knowledge of
plant breeding and crop science would also be benecial.
A proven ability to work independently and as part of
a team are both essential, as are good communicationskills. The post will require travel within the UK and
internationally.
Starting salary is in the range of pounds 30,084 to
pounds 34,316 pa depending on qualications, skills
and experience. Further details and an application
form are available at: http://www.niab.com/vacancies/-
index/ or from the HR Oce, NIAB, Huntingdon Road,
Cambridge CB3 0LE, Tel No. 01223 342282, Email:
jobs@niab.com, quoting Ref No. SV/A999.
Closing date for applications: 4 July 2018
Dr Keith Gardner jGenetics and Breeding NIAB jHunt-
ingdon RoadjCambridgejCB3OLE Tel (direct) +44
(0)1223 342484jTel (oce) +44 (0)1223 342200
Keith Gardner <Keith.Gardner@niab.com >
NortheasternU Tech
EcologicalGenomics
A position for a technician is available in the laboratory
of Dr. Kathleen Lotterhos at Northeastern University.
The successful candidate will be responsible for diverse
responsibilities, including lab management, preparing
libraries for next generation sequencing, writing and
managing code for lab projects (ranging from simulat-
ing genomic data to bioinformatics and analysis), and
eld work.
Candidates are required to have a Bachelors or Masters
degree with the following skills: 1) Knowledge of Python
or R, and Bash 2) Experience analyzing next-generation
sequencing data 3) Experience preparing samples for
Illumina sequencing 4) Excellent organizational and doc-
umentation skills 5) Able to work both independently
and as part of a collaborative team
The following expertise is desirable but not necessary:
1) IT experience including server maintenance
Candidates with a diversity of skills, experiences, and
backgrounds are encouraged to apply!!
You can apply directly here: https://-
neu.peopleadmin.com/postings/55036 and feel free to
contact me for more information.
Kathleen E Lotterhos Assistant Professor Department
of Marine and Environmental Sciences Northeastern
University Marine Science Center, Room 113 430 Na-
hant Rd Nahant, MA 01908 Phone: 781.581.7370 ext
30440 EvolDir July 1, 2018
Katie Lotterhos <k.lotterhos@northeastern.edu >
TexasAMU CorpusChristi
EvolutionaryMarineBiol
Job Title Assistant Professor, Marine Biology Agency
Texas A&M University - Corpus Christi Department
S&E - Life Sciences Proposed Minimum Salary Commen-
surate Job Location Corpus Christi, Texas Job Type
Faculty
Job Description The Department of Life Sciences at
Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi invites appli-
cations for a tenure-track Assistant Professor of Ma-
rine Biology. Appointment may start as early as
spring 2019. Applicants whose research focus is com-
plimentary to strengths already present in the de-
partment (https://sci.tamucc.edu/member.php?who=-
all&program=lsci) are especially encouraged to apply.
Applications are particularly encouraged from individu-
als with active, federally-funded research programs and
strong external collaborations who can take advantage
of our modern research laboratories and equipment, in-
cluding those associated with our molecular, microscopy
and analytical facilities.
The successful candidate will be expected to develop a
vigorous, externally-funded research program, supervise
graduate and undergraduate researchers, teach under-
graduate and graduate courses, and pursue scholarly
research in support of the Biology Master's and Marine
Biology Master's and PhD Programs. The typical teach-
ing assignment for doctoral faculty in the Department
of Life Sciences is 3 courses per academic year.
Research lab space will be located in a new state-of-
the-art three-story building, Tidal Hall, which will be
completed in autumn 2018 to support 6 new instruc-
tional labs and 34 research labs. The Department of Life
Sciences has 23 tenured or tenure-track faculty, 6 pro-
fessional assistant faculty and over 1,200 science majors.
It oers BS degrees in Biology and Biomedical Science,
MS degrees in Biology, Marine Biology and Fisheries &
Mariculture, and a PhD in Marine Biology.
Required Qualications: Ph.D. degree in marine biol-
ogy or a closely related discipline. Preferred Quali-
cations: Postdoctoral experience TO APPLY: http:/-
/hr.tamucc.edu/Job Opportunities/index.html To be
considered for the position, all required documentation
must be uploaded.A completed application will include: 1. Cover let-
ter including qualications; 2. Curriculum vitae; 3.
Statement describing research interests; 4. Statement
describing teaching & mentoring philosophies; and 5.
The names and contact information of 3 references.
Deadline for applications is September 15, 2018.
For more information, please contact: Dr. Mike Wetz
Search Chair, Department of Life Sciences, Email:
michael.wetz@tamucc.edu Phone: (361)-825-2132
All positions are security-sensitive. Applicants are sub-
ject to a criminal history investigation, and employ-
ment is contingent upon the institution's verication
of credentials and/or other information required by the
institution's procedures, including the completion of the
criminal history check. Equal Opportunity/Armative
Action/Veterans/Disability Employer committed to di-
versity.
Chris.Bird@tamucc.edu
UCalifornia Berkeley LabTech
PupshCichlidspeciation
The Martin Fish Speciation Lab seeks an enthusiastic
and detail-oriented laboratory manager for research on
the rapid evolution and ecological diversication of new
sh species. Primary responsibilities will involve caring
for laboratory pupsh and cichlid colonies, molecular ge-
netics, behavioral data collection, and specimen curation
within the Museum of Vertebrate Zoology. Tasks in-
clude daily feeding and maintenance of the sh colonies,
construction of new ow-through aquatic facilities, DNA
extractions and genomic library preparation, curation
and dissection of preserved sh specimens, and train-
ing undergraduate researchers. Interest in ichthyology,
evolution, genomics, and ecology is highly desirable.
Pupshes present a rare opportunity to investigate the
recent origins of spectacular adaptive radiation and the
evolution of novel niches (e.g. scale-eating) localized
to a single Bahamian island despite thousands of simi-
lar Caribbean environments. Our lab also investigates
Cameroon crater lake cichlids, one of the most cele-
brated examples of sympatric speciation in nature, and
the role of gene ow in their diversication.
Education and Experience Required:
We are seeking applicants with strong attention to de-
tail who are thorough, well-organized, and able to workJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 41
collaboratively with other researchers. Preferred qual-
ications include a Bachelor' ^As degree in Biology (or
related eld) and some molecular training or experience
with animal care. However, no previous research experi-
ence is necessary; on-the-job training will be provided
for all tasks. The successful applicant will enjoy caring
for animals in an unstressful and exible work environ-
ment. Those with a passion for aquarium shkeeping
and possible interest in applying to graduate school
are strongly encouraged to apply. For more informa-
tion on our research, please check out our website <
http://labs.bio.unc.edu/martin/ >.
Salary:
This is an hourly position and pay is dependent on
previous experience. For recent graduates, this will be
approximately $15 per hour. Work schedule is exible
and includes some weekend sh care responsibilities,
but approximately 40 hours per week. Part-time, over-
time, and permanent salary position requests can also
be discussed.
Start Date:
Early January 2019 if possible. Later start dates are
also possible 'V please inquire. This position is for one
year with the potential for renewal up to four years.
To apply, please email Chris Martin (chmartin@unc.edu)
by August 1st with your resume/CV and describe why
you are interested in this position, career goals, and
any past research or animal care experience. Please
note that the lab is moving from UNC to UC Berkeley
starting in January 2019.
Christopher Martin
Assistant Curator of Ichthyology, Museum of Vertebrate
Zoology
Assistant Professor, Department of Integrative Biology
University of California, Berkeley
http://labs.bio.unc.edu/martin/ @shspeciation
Christopher Martin <chmartin@unc.edu >
UCollege Dublin
ComparativeEpigenetics
Lecturer / Assistant Professor in Comparative Animal
Epigenetics
University College Dublin, IrelandUniversity College Dublin is seeking to appoint a per-
manent Lecturer / Assistant Professor in Comparative
Animal Epigenetics, to the School of Biology & Envi-
ronmental Science. We are looking for a candidate with
research interests in the area of comparative epigenet-
ics, with specialisation in animal evolutionary and/or
ecological epigenetics, who will contribute to the 'Ge-
netics and Evolutionary Biology' research theme of the
School. The candidate should study environmentally
driven epigenetic variation (preferably in natural popu-
lations) and the heritability and evolutionary impact of
these epigenetic eects, within and across species.
The candidate is expected to lead an original and innova-
tive scientic research programme as well as contribute
to the teaching of zoology, genetics and comparative
biology. The candidate should complement and engage
with current academic sta and research programmes
within the School and wider UCD community.
Candidates should have a PhD in an appropriate disci-
pline and will be expected to provide teaching of various
aspects of biology primarily in the Zoology and Genetics
undergraduate degree programmes. The candidate will
also contribute to graduate programmes delivered by the
School. Applications should include a 5-year relevant
research plan detailing possible funding opportunities
(both Irish and international), and a teaching portfolio.
95 Lecturer/Assistant Professor (above the bar) Salary
Scale: euro52,325 - euro82,267 per annum
Closing Date: 17:00hrs (local Irish Time) on 31 July
2018.
Applications must be submitted by the closing date
and time specied. Any applications which are still
in progress at the closing time of 17:00hrs (Local Irish
Time) on the specied closing date will be cancelled
automatically by the system. UCD do not accept late
applications.
Prior to application, further information (including ap-
plication procedure) should be obtained from the UCD
Job Vacancies website: https://www.ucd.ie/workatucd/,
with the job ref 010383.
For more information please contact: Prof. Jeremy
Simpson (jeremy.simpson@ucd.ie, Head of School) /
Prof. Emma Teeling (emma.teeling@ucd.ie).
Emma Teeling <emma.teeling@ucd.ie >42 EvolDir July 1, 2018
UOklahoma GenomicsLabManger
Title of Position: Laboratory Manager - Research As-
sistant Start Date: Fall 2018
Position requires a Masters or higher degree (PhD pre-
ferred) in a biological science related eld, with at least
ve years of experience in genomics. Strong organiza-
tion skills and the ability to manage a genomics wet-lab
is a must. Duties include managing a multi-PI research
group that is active in the use of genomic technologies,
including genome reconstruction, ancient biomolecules
and microbiome research (see LMAMR.ORG).
Earliest start date: August 1st, 2018. Salary: 60-65K
plus fringe.
The Laboratory Manager is responsible for overseeing to
the day-to-day functioning of the laboratory spaces, im-
plementing safety protocols, maintaining active records
of projects, leading laboratory meetings, as well as a
point person for laboratory training of graduate and
undergraduate students, visiting scholars, and post-docs.
The Laboratory Manager may serve as the point person
for PI led projects to which they have been assigned,
with publication attribution proportionate to the level
of contribution. Other duties relevant to laboratory
management may be assigned, such as trouble shooting
protocols, lab calendar management, and coordination
with sta, students, and faculty. Strong communication
skills are a must.
Complete the application at https://jobs.ou.edu/ Job
Number 182011 with Cover Letter and complete CV
(with references)
For additional questions, contact
Dr. Cecil M. Lewis, Jr. Email: cmlewis@ou.edu With
subject line: ATTN - Lab Manager Search
\Lewis, Cecil M. Jr." <cmlewis@ou.edu >
UppsalaU PlantEvolGenomics
Tenure-track position as Assistant Professor in Plant
Evolutionary Genomics at Uppsala UniversityDepartment of Ecology and Genetics, division in Plant
Ecology and Evolution, Evolutionary Biology Centre.
The position includes research, teaching at graduate
and undergraduate level, outreach activities and some
administration. The holder is expected to establish
research of highest international standards within the
subject area, and to contribute to the development of
research and teaching of the department.
The ranking of eligible applicants will be based primarily
on research and teaching expertise, of which particular
weight will be given to research expertise.
Research in Plant Evolutionary Genomics involves
molecular analyses to understand evolutionary and eco-
logical processes underlying the generation and main-
tenance of biological diversity among plants. The sub-
ject area includes functional studies of variation at the
molecular level as well as analysis and interpretation of
large-scale omics-data to understand biological function,
evolution of diversity, and adaptation of plants to the
abiotic and biotic environment.
The position is for four years and tenure-track: An as-
sociate senior lecturer (the Swedish term for Assistant
Professor) has the right to apply for promotion to senior
lecturer. If the associate senior lecturer is deemed suit-
able and fullls the criteria for promotion established
by the Faculty Board he/she shall be promoted and
employed as senior lecturer (permanent position). At
a subsequent step, an application for promotion to full
professor can be made.
According to the Swedish Higher Education Ordinance
those qualied for appointment as associate senior lec-
turer are persons who have obtained a doctoral degree
or achieved the equivalent competence. Priority is given
to those who obtained their degree no more than seven
years prior to the end of the application period.
The Evolutionary Biology Centre (EBC) of Uppsala Uni-
versity oers a vibrant research environment. It bridges
a broad range of disciplines in the biological sciences, and
is an internationally very strong environment within the
eld of evolutionary biology. Information about EBC
and the Department of Ecology and Genetics can be
found at http://www.ebc.uu.se/?languageId=3D1/ and
http://www.ieg.uu.se/?languageId=3D1 The position
is part of the SciLifeLab Fellow program and comes with
a core funding of three million SEK per year for four
years, which includes substantial funds to cover run-
ning costs. SciLifeLab (www.scilifelab.se) is a national
centre for large-scale hypothesis driven research within
molecular bioscience.
More detailed information about the position and infor-
mation about how to apply can be found atJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 43
http://www.uu.se/en/about-uu/join-us/details/-
?positionId=3D217586 Closing date for application is
September 17, 2018
For further information about the position, please con-
tact Professor Jon Agren jon.agren@ebc.uu.se or Pro-
fessor Ulf Lagercrantz Ulf.Lagercrantz@ebc.uu.se
Jon~Agren Plant Ecology and Evolution Department of
Ecology and Genetics Evolutionary Biology Centre Up-
psala University Norbyv agen 18 D SE-753 36 Uppsala
Sweden
N ar du har kontakt med oss p ~A Uppsala universitet
med e-post s ~A inneb ar det att vi behandlar dina
personuppgifter. F or att l asa mer om hur vi g or det
kan du l asa h ar: http://www.uu.se/om-uu/dataskydd-
personuppgifter/ E-mailing Uppsala University means
that we will process your personal data. For more in-
formation on how this is performed, please read here:
http://www.uu.se/om-uu/dataskydd-personuppgifter/
\jon.agren@ebc.uu.se" <jon.agren@ebc.uu.se >
UQueensland EvolutionaryBiol
*Call for Expressions of Interest: Mid-Career Research
Fellowships in Biological Sciences at the University
of Queensland* The School of Biological Sciences at
The University of Queensland is seeking expressions
of interest from applicants interested in applying for
the Australian Research Council Future Fellowship
scheme. These government fellowships oer 4-years of
salary and research funds to outstanding Australian and
non-Australian mid-career researchers (details on the
scheme can be found at: http://www.arc.gov.au/future-
fellowships). UQ???s School of Biological Sciences is
seeking to support a small number of outstanding can-
didates in the anticipated 2018 round of this scheme.
We will consider any applicants whose research compli-
ments our School???s existing research strengths but
are particularly interested in candidates with strong
quantitative skills. For selected candidates, we will be
oering negotiated setup packages to help successful
fellows establish their own research group as well as
negotiated extensions of employment as teaching and re-
search academics in the School following the completion
of awarded fellowships.
The School of Biological Sciences (http://-
www.biology.uq.edu.au/) at The University of
Queensland is internationally recognised, and is one ofthe largest and most productive Biology departments
in Australia, with a thriving graduate student and
postdoctoral community. The School has strengths in
ecology, evolution, genetics, and conservation biology.
Research within the School is diverse, including both
empirical and theoretical approaches in taxa ranging
across microbes, animals and plants, in a range of ma-
rine, freshwater and terrestrial ecosystems. The School
oers a highly collaborative environment, including a
variety of non-academic and industry partnerships, and
collaborations across institutions nationally and inter-
nationally.
If interested please submit a CV and a brief expression
of interest (no more than 1 page) outlining how your
research programme will complement research within
the School, and meets the Future Fellowship scheme
objectives of being innovative, internationally compet-
itive research, building collaborations across industry
or research, and generating economic, environmental,
social and/or cultural benets for Australia.
Please direct questions and submit expressions of in-
terest to Dr Katrina McGuigan by 30 June 2018:
k.mcguigan1@uq.edu.au
Katrina McGuigan <k.mcguigan1@uq.edu.au >
UtahStateU ForestEvolution
Assistant Professor of Silviculture and Applied Forest
Ecology
Utah State University, Logan, Utah
The Department of Wildland Resources at Utah State
University is seeking applications for a full-time 9-month
tenure-track Assistant Professor position in silviculture
and applied forest ecology. We are seeking a scholar
dedicated to the use and development of silvicultural ap-
proaches to meet a range of functional goals in forested
landscapes. The position consists of 50% research, 40%
teaching, and 10% service, to start August 1, 2019.
Application review will begin September 10, 2018.
The appointed faculty member will develop an
externally-funded research program that achieves an
international reputation for research and graduate train-
ing in applied forest ecology and resource management.
Research foci may include, but are not restricted to (i)
how silvicultural approaches can increase resilience and
adaptive capacity of forested ecosystems, given changes44 EvolDir July 1, 2018
in climate patterns, insect activity, re regimes, and
other impacts; (ii) how forest structure, composition,
and spatial/temporal patterns of treatments can be
manipulated to achieve specic sets of ecological and so-
cial/economic goals; (iii) how large datasets can be used
to understand and predict forest ecosystem or struc-
tural responses to multiple interacting stressors. An
important aspect of this position is the ability to work
across disciplinary and institutional boundaries, and to
collaborate with federal and state agencies. Eective
communication with a variety of stakeholders is essen-
tial, consistent with the Land Grant mission of Utah
State University. We are seeking candidates who can
prosper within a collaborative environment.
To learn more about the position, including minimum
and preferred qualications, and to apply, go to https:/-
/usu.hiretouch.com/job-details?jobid=3540. For addi-
tional questions, contact the search committee chair (Dr.
Karen Mock, karen.mock <at>usu.edu).
Utah State University is Utah's Land Grant institution.
USU is in Logan, which oers the amenities of a col-
lege town within the Cache Valley metropolitan zone of
~115,000 people and enjoys a low cost of living. Cache
Valley is positioned between the Wellsville and Bear
River mountain ranges at the eastern edge of the Great
Basin. Logan oers a superb array of outdoor activities
minutes from campus (climbing, cycling, hiking, skiing,
shing), and is within a day's drive of ten national parks.
As an armative action/equal opportunity employer,
USU is dedicated to recruiting strong candidates from
a diverse applicant pool, including women, minorities,
veterans, and persons with disabilities. USU is sensitive
to the needs of dual-career applicants and oers com-
petitive salaries with outstanding medical, retirement,
and professional benets.
Karen Mock <karen.mock@usu.edu >
UWyoming CoreFacilityScientists
Core facility scientists for nucleic acid and biogeochem-
istry analyses:
The Microbial Ecology Collaborative at the University
of Wyoming seeks two suitably qualied research scien-
tists, with expertise in standard laboratory methods in
nucleic acid analysis, liquid handling (e.g., robotics for
large-scale DNA extractions and library preps), and bio-
geochemistry analyses (e.g. fundamental, high through-
put chemical, physical, and biological assessment of soil,water, waste, plant, and animal materials). Duties (to
be divided between the positions) will include operation,
maintenance, and repair of liquid-handling robots, an
ion chromatograph, TOC, CN elemental analyzers, ICP-
MS, microplate reader, and other laboratory equipment.
Additionally, the scientists will develop and perform
laboratory protocols with QA/QC, support analytical
and preparative instruments, analyze data and keep
records, and support and train clients. Participation in
the instruction and training of students and research
scientists is expected.
This search is part of a new 5-year, $20 million NSF
EPSCoR RII Track-1 grant to the University. In this
project we will study microbial life and its ecological
consequences; additional details can be found at http:/-
/www.uwyo.edu/epscor/microbial-ecology . These are
full-time (12-month) appointments as Academic Profes-
sional Research Scientists and will collaborate with the
team of chemists and life scientists in the UW Stable
Isotope Facility. Salary is competitive and health insur-
ance and retirement benets are included. Applicants
should submit their curriculum vitae, a letter of interest,
and names and contact information for three references
through an online application. Review of applications
will continue until suitable applicants are identied.
The University of Wyoming invites diverse applicants
to consider our employment opportunities. We are also
especially interested in candidates who have experience
working with diverse populations and/or diverse initia-
tives.
The University of Wyoming is located in Laramie, a
town of 30,000 in the heart of the Rocky Mountain
West. The state of Wyoming continues to invest in its
university, helping to make it a leader in academics, re-
search and outreach. The university has state-of-the-art
facilities in many areas and the community provides the
advantages of a major university.
Located in a high mountain valley near the Colorado
border, Laramie oers both outstanding recreational
opportunities and close proximity to Colorados
Front Range, a bustling group of metropolitan
cities including Denver, Boulder, and Fort Collins.
This beautiful mountain landscape oers outdoor
enjoyment in all seasons, with over 300 days of
sunshine annually. For more information about
the region, please visit http://visitlaramie.org/
For additional information and to apply please see:
https://jobs.uwyo.edu/psp/EREC/UWEXTERNAL/-
HRMS/c/HRS HRAM.HRS CE.GBL?Page=-
HRS CEJOB DTL&Action=A&SiteId=-
6&JobOpeningId=9700&PostingSeq=1 \Catherine E.
Wagner" <Catherine.Wagner@uwyo.edu >July 1, 2018 EvolDir 45
WhitmanCollege
EvoEcoTeachingLabCoordinator
Biology Department Whitman College Walla Walla WA
USA
Seeking a coordinator to prep for undergraduate teach-
ing labs in ecology and evolutionary biology.
Posting Number: 0600484 Job: Biology Lab and Safety
Coordinator Department: Division III Supervisor's
Name: Biology Department Chair Position Type: Sta
FLSA: Exempt
Position Purpose:
PURPOSE 1) Help with the preparation, set-up, clean
up, and equipment up-keep for a specic set of biol-
ogy Ecology and Evolution courses. Oversee student
employment dedicated to those courses.
PURPOSE 2) Member of the Biology Department ad-
ministrative team. Duties include seeing to the adminis-
trative needs of the teaching greenhouse and department
museum collections and assisting the Science Outreach
Coordinator with program development.
PURPOSE 3) Safety Coordinator for the Biology De-
partment including, training student employees in
proper safety procedures and maintaining department
safety compliance.
Principal Accountabilities: Purpose 1 1. Setting up for
ecology/evolution labs 2. Ordering supplies/reagents for
these labs; keeping records of such orders and associated
budgets 3. Storage and record keeping for supplies. 4.
Managing eld trip organization, such as scheduling and
delivery of vans, occasional driving when needed, menu
preparation and food acquisition, equipment mainte-
nance and packing, collection of receipts, etc. 5. Be
available to assist during labs, including driving on eld
trips and helping as needed in the classroom. This
includes maintaining familiarity with equipment and
software used in laboratories and being able to assist
students and faculty when using this equipment. 6. Su-
pervising student employees for the above duties. 7.
Maintaining live organisms needed for classes in this
area, including (but not limited to) protists, fungi, in-
vertebrates, and plants.
Purpose 2 1. Managing student employees in the green-
house and department museum collections, including
ordering, paperwork, and general upkeep. 2. Handlingdetails associated with guest lectures, to include schedul-
ing, posters/brochures, food acquisition and delivery,
ushers, etc. 3. Assisting with educational events for ele-
mentary through high school students. 4. Maintaining
live organisms for displays and outreach and supervising
students to accomplish these tasks.
Purpose 3 1. Safety Coordinator for the Biology Dept.
Maintain a student employee training program, and
other compliance requirements for the department.
Minimum Qualications: B.A. or B.S. degree in the life
sciences with emphasis or experience in evolutionary
or ecological biology. Must have an interest in whole
organism biology, ideally across a breadth of organisms.
Familiarity with spreadsheets necessary. Previous aca-
demic laboratory or eld experience is desired. Must
have excellent communication and organizational skills
and the ability to work with dierent faculty, sta and
students.
Preferred Qualications: Individuals must be able to
explain and/or demonstrate that they possess the knowl-
edge, skills, and abilities to safely perform the essential
functions of the job, with or without reasonable accom-
modation.
1. People Skills. Much of the time is spent interacting
with students, faculty and sta. Must be able to multi-
task and have a positive attitude, and maintain open
lines of communication. 2. Self-directed. Some direction
and training will be given, however, most work will be
self-initiated. 3. Must have or be willing to acquire work-
ing familiarity with chemicals and equipment routinely
used in biology laboratories. Must know or be willing to
learn basic safety procedures for working with and dis-
posing of such chemicals. 4. Must have or be willing to
acquire working knowledge of laboratory equipment such
as autoclaves, centrifuges, eld equipment, & chemical
hoods, and understand the safety issues of such items.
5. Must be physically able to load/unload reagents and
equipment items from shelves/cabinets/other storage
areas; transport such to various labs around the building.
Equipment may include that which requires assistance:
large or heavy items such as camping equipment, eld
boxes, and microscopes. 6. Must have valid driver's
license and complete Whitman College's van driving
certication.
Work Hours Full-time position
Special Instructions to Applicants: Whitman College is
building a diverse academic community and welcomes
nominations of and applications from women, mem-
bers of historically underrepresented minority groups,
persons with disabilities, and others who would bring
additional dimensions to the College's learning environ-46 EvolDir July 1, 2018
ment. Whitman is responsive to the needs of dual career
couples. Whitman College is an Equal Employment Op-
portunity employer.
Tim Parker Chair, Department of Biology Whitman
College Walla Walla, WA 99362 USA +1.509.526.4777
parkerth@whitman.edu/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Other
Finding NullAlleles Question . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
HSmithPrize MolEcol Nominations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
LearningEvolution ParmenidesFoundation . . . . . . . . . 47
Panama VolResAssist ForestEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . .47
Software DAMBE update . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48Software PGT update . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
WalshLynch QuantTraits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Wikipedia upgrades . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Finding NullAlleles Question
Hi all, Is there any software for the detection of null
alleles on SSR data? It would be more preferable to be
on line I run Microchecker on my PC but I dont know
if it works properly.
kind regards
Vassilis Papasotiropoulos
Vassilis Papasotiropoulos <vpapasot@gmail.com >HSmithPrize MolEcol Nominations
Nominations for the Harry Smith Prize in Molecular
Ecology
The editorial board of the journal Molecular Ecology
has established a new prize to recognize the best paper
published in Molecular Ecology in the previous year by
graduate students or early career scholars with no more
than ve years of postdoctoral or fellowship experience.
The prize comes with a cash award of US $1000 and an
announcement in the journal. The winner will also be
asked to join a junior editorial board for the journal to
oer advice on changing research needs and potentially
serve as a guest editor. As with the Molecular Ecology
Prize, the winner of this annual prize will be selected
by an independent award committee.
The prize is named after Professor Harry Smith FRS,July 1, 2018 EvolDir 47
who founded the journal and served as both its Chief
and Managing Editor during the journal's critical early
years. He continued as the journal's Managing Editor
until 2008, and he went out of his way to encourage early
career scholars. In addition to his editorial work, Harry
was one of the world's foremost researchers in photomor-
phogenesis, where he determined how plants respond
to shading, leading to concepts such as \neighbour de-
tection" and \shade avoidance," which are fundamental
to understanding plant responses to crowding and com-
petition. More broadly his research provided an early
example of how molecular data could inform ecology,
and in 2008 he was awarded the Molecular Ecology
Prize that recognized both his scientic and editorial
contributions to the eld.
Please send your nomination with a short supporting
statement (no more than 250 words; longer submis-
sions will not be accepted) directly to Rose Andrew
(randre20@une.edu.au) by Tuesday 31 July 2018.
With thanks on behalf of the Harry Smith Prize Selec-
tion Committee
\Rieseberg, Loren" <lriesebe@mail.ubc.ca >
LearningEvolution
ParmenidesFoundation
The Parmenides Center for the Study of Thinking seeks
young applicants (Masters/PhD) to participate in its
Learning in Evolution, Evolution in Learning project.
Applicants must have a strong background in mathe-
matical modelling. Basic programming skills are also
needed. Knowledge in at least three of the following
elds is mandatory: machine learning cognitive psychol-
ogy, neuroscience and evolutionary biology. Stipends
for a maximum of 3 years are in the range of 1000-1500
EUR.
Applications with CV, publication list and a motivation
letter should be sent to Professor Eors Szathmary
szathmary.eors@gmail.com
by the end of June.
Thank you!
Carsten
{ Parmenides Stiftung Kirchplatz 1 82049 Pullach
Tel +49.89.4520935.0 Skype: Parmenides.Foundation
carsten.freitaeger@parmenides-foundation.orgCarsten Freit ager <carsten.freitaeger@parmenides-
foundation.org >
Panama VolResAssist
ForestEvolution
Other: Panama. VolResAssist. Tropical Forest Ecology.
Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, Panama-
Bangor University, UK
We are looking for a highly motivated volunteer research
assistant to support us in unravelling the mechanisms
driving secondary succession of tropical forests.
Research Hyper-diverse mature tropical rainforests have
been largely degraded due to human expansion. Re-
covering forests present 70% of the global forest cover.
These secondary forests can restore some of the original
forests' benets, yet they recover slowly and dier to
mature forests in tree species composition. Understand-
ing the mechanisms driving tropical forest dynamics
following disturbance is imperative to promote the re-
covery of ecosystem functionality and mitigate land-use
impacts. Species-specic interactions between trees and
their natural enemies that have evolved for thousands
of years might be the key. Our current project will
assess the impact of soil fungi in secondary succession of
tropical forests. The project will involve eld work and
a large greenhouse study in Gamboa, Panama. This
collaborative project between Bangor University (UK),
Bayreuth University (Germany) and the Smithsonian
Tropical Research Institute (USA, Panama) will oer
an ideal opportunity to gain research experience in the
tropics!
Job Description The intern will assist in a variety of
tasks, involving eld work (e.g. seed collection), intense
manual labour (e.g. soil sieving) and greenhouse work.
Working hours will vary strongly between days, but
working weeks will never exceed 45 hours. Applicants
must be in good physical condition to be able to meet
the demands of working sometimes long hours under
challenging tropical eld work conditions, i.e. high hu-
midity and heat. Ability to drive a 4x4 transmission
truck is desirable but not required. We expect the intern
to have a strong interest in ecology and to be willing to
follow protocols to ensure the quality of data. We are
more than happy to help in developing and discussing
ideas for own research projects. We will contribute 500
USD to the ight costs. Due to a limited research bud-
get, we cannot oer accommodation, but will help in48 EvolDir July 1, 2018
nding a place to live in Gamboa (rooms in shared ats
are available from 200-250 USD per month, including
all bills). Start date is between May and August 2018,
with earlier availability being preferred. A minimum
stay of 3 months is required. For applicants being able
to join the project in mid-May, the minimum duration
can be negotiated.
Location Gamboa is a small town next to the Panama
Canal. With its vibrant scientic community, it presents
a stimulating background to develop and exchange re-
search ideas and explore a broad variety of ecological
research in the Tropics. Gamboa is an ideal base to dis-
cover Panama and Central America: on your daily stroll
through the town you can watch huge ships passing by
on the canal or discover the forest that starts directly
behind the greenhouses with its fascinating wild-life
(toucans, gigantic butteries, agoutis, etc.). Panama
City can be reached in 45 min via an adventurous bus
ride.
Applicants should send a cover letter, CV and the
names and e-mail addresses of at least two pro-
fessional or academic references to Anita Weissog
(anita.weissog@bangor.ac.uk). Shortlisted applicants
will be invited for a Skype chat.
This position will be lled as soon as possible.
I am looking forward to hearing from you! Cheers,
Anita
anita.weissog@bangor.ac.uk
Software DAMBE update
Dear Colleagues,
In the last few months I have been testing the distance-
imputing functions for PhyPA (phylogenetics by pair-
wise alignment), by reading a set of unaligned sequences,
computing distances, randomly remove a subset of dis-
tances so that they are \missing" and then impute the
distances. I have accidentally released a DAMBE version
with such testing functions for PhyPA. A new version
has been uploaded. Please download to replace your cur-
rent version. I apologize for this. PhyPA generates trees
comparable to maximum likelihood method in quality
(better for highly diverged sequences). If you have a
PhyPA tree that is not as good, you most likely are
using a test version of PhyPA (where good computable
distances were replaced by imputed distances).(The reason for implementing distance imputation moti-
vated by my eort to elucidate viral phylogeny in which
viruses A may share no homologous sequences with virus
B, so D AB cannot be computed, but a third virus C
may have one sequence segment homologous to A and
another sequence homologous to B, so that D AC and
DBC can be computed. The sequence homology is often
so remote that no meaningful multiple sequence align-
ment can be obtained. Through distance imputation
and PhyPA, a viral tree can then be produced.)
(PhyPA is a function in DAMBE that build phylo-
genetic trees from pairwise alignment. It is accessed
in DAMBE by clicking \Phylogenetics jDistance
MethodsjPhylogenetics by Pairwise Align-
ment". DAMBE is freely available at http://-
dambe.bio.uottawa.ca/DAMBE/dambe.aspx)
Xia X. 2016. PhyPA: phylogenetic method with pair-
wise sequence alignment outperforms likelihood meth-
ods in phylogenetics involving highly diverged sequences.
Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution 102:331-343 Xia,
X. 2018. DAMBE7: New and improved tools for data
analysis in molecular biology and evolution. Molecular
Biology and Evolution 35:1550-1552.
Best Xuhua http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca http:/-
/science.uottawa.ca/biology/people/xia-xuhua
\Xuhua.Xia@uottawa.ca" <Xuhua.Xia@uottawa.ca >
Software PGT update
Dear Colleagues,
I have added a new function to PGT software (raised
geophylogeny to reduce branches crossing each other).
Here is the link to a sample output:
http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca/PGT/PGT raised.PNG
which you may compare with the previous at geophy-
logenies here:
http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca/PGT/-
PGT atregular.PNG http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca/-
PGT/PGT atterrain.PNG Producing such geo-
phylogenies is extremely easy (just a few clicks in
fact).
PGT is the easiest to use and generate the highest res-
olution geophylogenies. It is freely available for the
Windows/Mac/Linux platforms at:
http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca/PGT/PGT.aspx
Best Xuhua http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca http://-July 1, 2018 EvolDir 49
science.uottawa.ca/biology/people/xia-xuhua Xuhua
Xia<Xuhua.Xia@uottawa.ca >
WalshLynch QuantTraits
Mike Lynch and I are pleased to announce that our
book \Evolution and Selection of Quantitative Traits"
can now be pre-orded from
Amazon
https://www.amazon.com/Evolution-Selection-
Quantitative-Traits-Bruce/dp/0198830874 or Oxford
University Press
https://global.oup.com/academic/product/evolution-
and-selection-of-quantitative-traits-9780198830870
~1500 pages at $150 (10 cents a page)
The full table of contents, as well as the subject and
author indexes can be found in the \les" section of the
book's facebook page: \Quantitative Genetics Book"
https://www.facebook.com/groups/-
1879483065683161/ Chapters
1. Changes In Quantitative Traits Over Time
2. Neutral Evolution In One- And Two-Locus Systems
3. The Genetic Eective Size Of A Population
4. The Nonadaptive Forces Of Evolution
5. The Population Genetics Of Selection
6. Theorems Of Natural Selection: Results Of Price,
Fisher, And Robertson
7. Interaction Of Selection, Mutation, And Drift
8. Hitchhiking And Selective Sweeps
9. Using Molecular Data To Detect Selection: Signa-
tures From Recent Single Events
10. Using Molecular Data To Detect Selection: Signa-
tures From Multiple Historical Events
11. Changes In Genetic Variance Induced By Drift
12. The Neutral Divergence Of Quantitative Traits
13. Short-Term Changes In The Mean: 1. The Breeder's
Equation
14. Short-Term Changes In The Mean: 2. Truncation
And Threshold Selection
15: Short-Term Changes In The Mean: 3. Permanent
Versus Transient Response16. Short-Term Changes In The Variance: 1. Changes
In The Additive Variance
17. Short-Term Changes In The Variance: 2. Changes
In Environmental Variance
18. Analysis Of Short-Term Selection Experiments: 1.
Least-Squares Approaches
19. Analysis Of Short-Term Selection Experiments: 2.
Mixed-Model And Bayesian Approaches
20. Selection Response In Natural Populations
21. Family-Based Selection
22. Associative Eects: Competition, Social Interac-
tions, Group And Kin Selection
23. Selection Under Inbreeding
24. The Innitesimal Model And Its Extensions
25. Long-Term Response: 1. Deterministic Aspects
26. Long-Term Response: 2. Finite Population Size
And Mutation
27: Long-Term Response: 3. Adaptive Walks
28. Maintenance Of Quantitative Genetic Variation
29. Individual Fitness And The Measurement Of Uni-
variate Selecton
30. Measuring Multivariate Selection
A1. Diusion Theory
A2. Introduction To Bayesian Analysis
A3. Markov Chain Monte Carlo And Gibbs Sampling
A4. Multiple Comparisons: Bonferroni Corrections,
False-Discovery Rates, And Meta-Analysis
A5. The Geometry Of Vectors And Matrices: Eigenval-
ues And Eigenvectors
A6. Derivatives Of Vectors And Vector-Valued Func-
tions
Here are a few of the online reviews listed by Oxford
Univ. Press.
A masterful synthesis of the growing points in selection
analysis. * Stevan J. Arnold, Oregon State University,
USA *
This book is a virtuoso synthesis of the theory and appli-
cation of selection and evolution of complex traits. Much
more than an advanced textbook, it is the most com-
prehensive treatment and synthesis of the theory and
analysis of selection and evolution of quantitative traits
to date. * Peter M. Visscher, University of Queensland,
Australia *
This long-awaited volume gives an exceptionally com-50 EvolDir July 1, 2018
prehensive and thoughtful overview of the eld, and
will be invaluable to all those who are trying to under-
stand the genetics of complex traits. As well as covering
quantitative genetics, it gives a thorough treatment of
the most recent methods for making inferences from
DNA sequence data. * Nicholas H. Barton, Institute of
Science and Technology, Austria *
The book is a fabulous resource; it will be the go-to place
to learn about a broad variety of topics in population
and quantitative genetics, from measuring dierences
among populations to estimating selection from genomic
sequence data. A real strength of the book is the ex-
pert overview of the topics alongside pointers to the key
papers for more details. * Sarah P. Otto, University of
British Columbia, Canada *
Their 1998 book has been an essential and popular
teaching and reference text for quantitative geneticists
for 20 years. At last the long promised and awaited
second volume is available, structured to provide both
an introduction for the graduate student and a reference
volume for the seasoned professional. The authors dis-
play both an impressive breadth and depth of knowledge
and ability to explain it. * William G. Hill, University
of Edinburgh, UK *
jbwalsh@email.arizona.edu jbwalsh@email.arizona.edu
Wikipedia upgrades
Wikipedia is the rst port of call for most students,
grant panellists journalists and policymakers, not tomention the wider public. The WikiJournal of Science
(www.WikiJSci.org) is an academic journal with an un-
usual feature: Published review articles are copied over
to Wikipedia for added reach and exposure (articles are
often read >100,000 times per year).
The journal couples the rigour of academic peer re-
view with the extreme reach of the encyclopedia. It
is therefore an excellent way to achieve public engage-
ment, outreach and impact public understanding of
science. Peer-reviewed articles are dual-published both
as standard academic PDFs, as well as directly into
Wikipedia. This improves the scientic accuracy of the
encyclopedia, and rewards academics with citable, in-
dexed publications. It also provides much greater reach
than is normally achieved through traditional scholarly
publishing.
Articles can either be on topics currently absent
from Wikipedia, or be updates/overhauls of existing
Wikipedia articles. Presubmission inquiries welcome to
contact@wikijsci.org
Thomas Shafee
EiC of WikiJSci
Further info:
* WikiJSci Editorial Board (2018). The aims and scope
of WikiJournal of Science. WikiJournal of Science, 1(1):1
* Shafee, T; Mietchen, D & Su A (2017). Academics
can help shape Wikipedia. Science, 357(6351):557-558 *
Shafee, T (2017). Wikipedia-integrated publishing: a
comparison of successful models. Health Inform, 26(2):1
\t.shafee@latrobe.edu.au" <t.shafee@latrobe.edu.au >
PostDocsJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 51
ARS-USDA Illinois FungalEvolutionaryBiology . . . . 51
BoiseStateU IntegrativeModeling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
CornellU OatGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .53
Halifax FisheriesGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .54
Halle Germany Genomics HoneybeeResistance . . . . .54
HarvardU HIVDynamicsEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .54
InstitutPasteur Paris VirusEvolutionEpidemiology .55
LMU Munich FernEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .55
Montpellier PopGen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .56
NTNU Taiwan AdaptationSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . .56
PurdueU PlantEvolGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .57
RoyalVetCollege London AnimalEvolutionaryGenomics
58
SorbonneU BarnaclePopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Taipei Taiwan AvianGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
UAlberta FishPoPulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
UArizona GGSimpsonFellow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
UArizona PlantEcolGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
UArizona PlantMicrobeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
UCalifornia Berkeley DiseaseEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UCalifornia Berkeley HumanEvolGenetics . . . . . . . . . 63
UCalifornia Berkeley PupshSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . 64
UdeChile 2 GenomicBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
UEdinburgh HIVPhylogeneticEpidemiology . . . . . . . 65
UFlorida Buttery Moth Phylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . .66
UFlorida MNH Phyloreferencing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67UGeorgia InsectVirusSymbiosisDevelopment . . . . . . .68
UGothenburg AvianCarotenoidColoration . . . . . . . . . 68
UGuelph PDF PhD MacroInvertGenomics . . . . . . . . 69
UHelsinki EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
UInnsbruck Bioinformatics 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
ULausanne FungalSymbionts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
UM StLouis PlantSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
UMunich LichenPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
UNewHampshire TreeMicrobialDiversity . . . . . . . . . . .73
UNorthCarolina Charlotte PlantComparativeGenomics
74
UNorthCarolina Greensboro MicrobialEvolution . . . 75
UPotsdam AdaptiveGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
UppsalaU FungalPhyloinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
UppsalaU HostAdaptationBacteria . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
URegina FishAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
USDA BatonRouge HoneybeeBioinformatics . . . . . . .77
UStrasbourg SquirrelEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
UtahStateU EvolutionCommunity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
UTexas Austin EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
UToronto 4 EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .80
UTurku MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
VanderbiltUniv EvolutionBiologicalClocks . . . . . . . . . 81
WashingtonU AmoebaBacterialSymbiosis . . . . . . . . . . 82
ARS-USDA Illinois
FungalEvolutionaryBiology
Postdoctoral Position in Fungal Evolutionary Biology
NCAUR-ARS-USDA, Peoria, Illinois
We are searching for a highly-motivated postdoctoral
associate with strong molecular and/or bioinformatic
research experience with fungi or other microorganisms
who can eectively utilize existing and incoming genome
datasets to develop sequence-based classication tools
for Fusarium, and to make inferences about evolutionary
patterns and processes in this agriculturally important
fungal genus. This position is part of the NSF-funded
project \A Phylogenetic Revisionary Monograph of the
Genus Fusarium" with colleagues at The Pennsylvania
State University. Scientists in the Mycotoxin Preven-
tion and Applied Microbiology (MPM) Research Unit
at the USDA in Peoria have an outstanding record of
discovery and publication regarding Fusarium biology,
chemistry and evolution, and over 20,000 Fusarium cul-
tures are available. Current Fusarium research projectsin the MPM Research Unit include phylogenomics of the
genus, population genomics of key Fusarium pathogens
and toxin producers, and the evolutionary dynamics
of secondary metabolite gene clusters. Thus, oppor-
tunities exist for the postdoc to engage in these and
other areas of interest. MPM scientists have generated
genome datasets for more than 500 phylogenetically di-
verse Fusarium isolates and additional datasets will be
developed for all known Fusarium species during this
project. It will provide the postdoctoral associate with
the opportunity to develop high-impact bioinformatics
resources, and to utilize outstanding data resources for
addressing key questions in fungal trait evolution. The
postdoc will be working both with MPM scientists and
an international community of PIs, Senior Personnel
and project participants. They will participate in all
phases of the project from design to publication. Salary
and benets are excellent, and because the position will
be managed through the Oak Ridge Institute for Sci-
entic Education (ORISE), it is open to both US and
non-US citizens. This full-time position is funded for
3 years with annual renewal contingent on satisfactory
performance. The anticipated start date is exible, and
could be as early as July 2018. The successful candidate
must hold a PhD in Biology or related eld by appoint-
ment start date, be procient in both written and oral52 EvolDir July 1, 2018
English, and have experience in genome analyses and/or
an excellent background in evolutionary biology. To
apply, please email a single PDF to Kerry O'Donnell
(kerry.odonnell@ars.usda.gov) that includes: (1) a cover
letter with a short description of why you are inter-
ested in and qualied for the position, (2) a current CV
that includes a list of peer-reviewed publications, and
(3) names and contact information for three references.
This position will remain open until lled.
\ODonnell, Kerry - ARS"
<Kerry.ODonnell@ARS.USDA.GOV >
BoiseStateU IntegrativeModeling
*Position announcement*
Post-doctoral position
Boise State University
Boise, Idaho, USA
Integrative modeling to forecast adaptive capacity of
animal and plant species
*Position **Overview: *The Department of Biologi-
cal Sciences invites applications for a post-doctoral re-
searcher with expertise in modeling and evolution to
develop quantitative models that integrate genomic, phe-
notype, and demographic rate data to forecast the adap-
tive capacity of species under dierent climate change
scenarios. The post-doc will work with collaborative
teams of ecologists, modelers, and geneticists across dif-
ferent institutions. The position will provide a unique
opportunity to develop a transdisciplinary research pro-
gram that addresses the National Science Foundations
research priority of predicting phenotypes from genetic
and environmental factors.
*Key Responsibilities:* The successful candidate will
leverage data from the full cycle phenology project (full-
cyclephenology.com) to forecast the adaptive capacity of
wildlife and build capacity to extend the modeling frame-
work to other species. In addition to modeling activities,
the post-doc will lead and contribute to peer-reviewed
publications, present ndings at national meetings, and
work with partners to extend modeling framework to
other systems.
*Minimum **Qualications:*
- Candidates must have obtained their PhD by the ap-
pointment start date: in mid-late September. - Demon-strated statistical and programming skills with an em-
phasis on any of the quantitative areas: population
genetics, agent-based models, integrated population
models, size-structured population models, hierarchical
Bayesian models. - Written and verbal communication
skills. - The selected candidate must be able to meet
eligibility requirements for work in the United States
at the time appointment is scheduled to begin and to
continue working legally for the proposed term of the
appointment.
*Preferred Qualications:*
- Evidence of creative problem solving - The ability
to work well on teams and independently - Interest
and understanding of ecological genomics, population
dynamics, and evolutionary concepts. - Interest, experi-
ence, and/or ability to promote a climate of inclusion
and equity
The successful candidate will be based at Boise, Idaho
and have opportunities to interact with collaborators at
Idaho State University, University of Idaho, University
of California at Los Angeles, the Department of Defense,
USGS, US Forest Service, and the Bureau of Land Man-
agement. The position is available for one year, with
potential for renewal for subsequent years dependent on
performance.
*Salary and benets: *Salary will be based on quali-
cations and includes a benets package including medi-
cal/dental/vision/life/LTD insurance, retirement plan,
tuition benets, sick leave, paid holidays, as well as
other benets.
*To apply for this this position: *Submit a single PDF
by email that includes a cover letter that specically
address the qualications listed above and a description
of work experience, curriculum vitae, and contact infor-
mation for 3 references to the following email address:
julieheath@boisestate.edu. Please put evo postdoc in
the subject line. Applications will be reviewed as they
are submitted with nal deadline of August 7.
*About Boise and our University*
*The City of Boise:* Boise is a mid-size city, located on
the Boise River near the foothills of the Rocky Moun-
tains. In national polls, Boise has been repeatedly
named one of the best places to live because of sur-
rounding natural beauty, access to outdoors, low cost of
living, and low crime rates. Our region boasts numer-
ous outdoor activities that include rivers, hot springs,
skiing, and hiking. Boise provides residents with access
to local wineries, a distillery, craft breweries, diverse
dining that features ingredients from local farms and
ranches as well as an active local and regional music
scene and clubs for live entertainment. Boise also of-July 1, 2018 EvolDir 53
fers a thriving art scene that includes Ballet Idaho, the
Basque Center, the Boise Art Museum, Idaho Anne
Frank Human Rights Memorial, nationally-renowned
theater and performing arts companies, and cultural
hotspots within a few blocks of downtown. To learn more
about Boise: http://www.cityofboise.org/ and http://-
www.boise.org/ *Boise State University*: Boise State
University, powered by creativity and innovation, stands
uniquely positioned in the Northwest as a metropolitan
research university of distinction. Learn more about
Boise State at https://go.boisestate.edu/join-our-team/
. Boise State University is committed to increasing
the diversity of its workforce and academic program
oerings and to strengthening sensitivity
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
CornellU OatGenomics
The position is in the Plant Breeding and Genetics
Section at Cornell University, and is part of a USDA
Agriculture and Food Research Initiative grant to breed
more nutritious oat. Oat is uniquely valued among
grain crops for the health-promoting composition of
its seeds. The project will leverage extensive genomic,
transcriptomic, and metabolomic datasets collected in
oat to develop and evaluate methods to improve the
health-promoting composition of oat seed eectively.
We will identify important causal loci and characterize
new mutations aecting seed composition. The Plant
Breeding & Genetics Section, within the School of In-
tegrative Plant Science, trains interdisciplinary scien-
tists in the elaboration of new breeding methods, the
discovery of genetic mechanisms important for economi-
cally important traits, and the development of genetic
stocks, germplasm, and varieties. Cornell University
plant breeders are world leaders in innovative plant
breeding research, teaching, and extension, and we col-
laborate globally.
This lab works with several crop species (wheat, oat,
barley, cassava, and the brown algae sugar kelp) to de-
velop genomic prediction methods and integrate them
optimally within breeding schemes. We source tools
from genomics, quantitative, statistical, and population
genetics, and from machine learning and operations re-search. With the Jannink lab, Dr. Michael Gore and
Dr. Mark Sorrells provide leadership on the multiomic
oat selection project.
In research for this project, the postdoc will collabo-
rate with oat breeders at the Universities in Minnesota,
Wisconsin and South Dakota, as well as a postdoctoral
associate currently working on the project. We have
characterized an oat diversity panel of 384 genotypes
with high-density DNA marker data, RNA-seq gene ex-
pression data, and non-targeted LC-MS, GC-MS, and
targeted fatty acid methyl ester data of mature oat
seed. We will analyze these data to identify important
genomic drivers of the mature oat seed metabolome.
Results from this analysis will guide the sequencing of
80 target genomic segments in a population of 1,920 oat
TILLING (Targeted Induced Local Lesions In Genomes)
lines. TILLING lines mutated for putative metabolomic
regulators will be evaluated to validate their function.
We have also used these data to select 15 crosses among
elite oat cultivars and will characterize 50 inbred progeny
from each cross. We will assess whether results from
the multiomic analysis of the diversity panel enables
improved prediction among full-sib progeny for seed
composition traits.
Term is one year renewable to three years contingent on
performance and continued funding.
The candidate would be expected to contribute needed
metabolomics expertise to the project. The postdoc
responsibilities will therefore involve work on experi-
ments with new oat lines and interpreting the output
of metabolomic assays and connecting metabolite levels
to gene expression and genotype through knowledge of
biochemistry. In collaboration with other project per-
sonnel, the postdoc will conduct and interpret genome-
and transcriptome-wide association studies. These stud-
ies should result in the identication of genomic regions
targeted for sequencing in the TILLING population.
Identied regions will also be used to inform genomic
prediction models aimed at improving breeder selection
of oat seed composition traits.
Position Requirements Ph.D. in plant biochemistry or
metabolomics with experience or interest in breeding
applications, or Ph.D. in plant or animal breeding with
emphasis on biochemistry, metabolomics, nutritional
science. Proven scientic writing ability and communi-
cation skills.
Preferred Specic Skills Genome-wide association stud-
ies and genomic prediction methods. High-dimensional
data analysis. Programming skills in R or other quanti-
tative / statistical scripting. Basic bioinformatics skills
(sequence alignment, use of gene annotations). Basic
notions of mating designs in breeding.54 EvolDir July 1, 2018
Candidates are encouraged to send a statement of inter-
est, curriculum vitae, and contact information for three
references. Submit all application materials to Aca-
demic Jobs Online at https://academicjobsonline.org/-
ajo/jobs/11282. Questions about the position can be
addressed to Dr. Michael Gore at: mag87@cornell.edu
. Review of applications will begin immediately and
continue until the position is lled.
Diversity and Inclusion are a part of Cornell Univer-
sity???s heritage. We are a recognized employer and
educator valuing AA/EEO, Protected Veterans, and
Individuals with Disabilities
Jean-Luc Jannink <jeanluc.work@gmail.com >
Halifax FisheriesGenomics
Postdoctoral Fellow positions with Fisheries and Oceans
Canada on sheries genomics in Halifax, NS, Canada.
Positions: Several postdoctoral fellow positions (3-4)
are available at Fisheries and Oceans Canada (Halifax,
NS) with the Bradbury Lab. Species of primary inter-
est are Atlantic Salmon, Arctic Charr, Atlantic Cod,
and Common Lumpsh but current projects include
other anadromous sh and species of marine inverte-
brates as well. The lab's research is broadly concerned
with the application of genomic tools to inform marine
management and conservation.
Candidates must have a PhD in sheries science, pop-
ulation genetics, genomics, oceanography or a related
eld.
Application: Please email Ian Bradbury (ibrad-
bur@me.com) with (1) a letter describing your inter-
ests in this position and your previous research expe-
rience, and (2) a recent CV. Formal applications must
be submitted through the Postdoctoral Research Pro-
gram through Fisheries and Oceans Canada. Review of
will applications begin right away with several positions
available ASAP, and will continue throughout 2018.
Ian Bradbury <ibradbur@me.com >Halle Germany Genomics
HoneybeeResistance
Halle Germany.Genomics.HoneybeeResistance
Postdoc project starting as soon as possible and last-
ing till 31 ^st of March 2019 in the Molecular Ecology
group at Martin-Luther-University, Halle-Wittenberg,
Germany.
The aim of the project is to nd genetic basis of honey
bee Apis mellifera resistance to Varroa destructor. This
will be done by using the latest methods in genomics,
transcriptomics and proteomics. Thus representing a
unique opportunity to gain experience in an area, which
is of high demand in the research eld.
The chosen postdoc is expected to work independently
within the project framework. The skills should reect
the project description. The candidate will be familiar
with standard molecular methods in the lab as well as
bioinformatics and running scripts. Willingness to learn
new methods is a must as well as ability to adapt to ever-
changing circumstances. Excellent command of English
in both writing and speaking is essential. Knowledge of
German is benecial but not must.
Information of the research group can be obtained from
Dr. Jarkko Routtu, tel: +49 (0) 345 55 26382, email:
jarkko.routtu(at)zoologie.uni-halle.de
http://www.mol-ecol.uni-halle.de/sta/routtu-j/
http://www.mol-ecol.uni-halle.de/research/genomics/-
varroa resistance/ Applications should be sent as
soon as possible, subject line referring to \Postdoc
resistance", together with your letter of motivation,
CV, publication list, names of two referees in a single
pdf le.
Jarkko Routtu <jarkko.routtu@zoologie.uni-halle.de >
HarvardU HIVDynamicsEvolution
The Program for Evolutionary Dynamics at Harvard
University welcomes applications for a postdoctoral fel-
low to work in the eld of infectious disease modeling.
We are seeking a motivated and creative PhD-level scien-July 1, 2018 EvolDir 55
tist with experience applying mathematics to biological
systems.
In particular, we are seeking a postdoc to contribute to
two major research eorts related to HIV/AIDS. One is
an NIH-funded eort to develop mathematical models to
predict the outcomes of new, potentially-curative treat-
ment strategies for HIV infection. Another is a Gates
Foundation funded project to use dynamic models to
understand outcomes of antiretroviral therapy, including
the risks of drug resistance, the inuence of patient ad-
herence, and the potential impact of new drug delivery
mechanisms. We regularly work with data from experi-
mental collaborators testing new therapies in vitro, in
animal models, and in patients.
The successful candidate would also have the option to
pursue independent research of mutual interest. More
generally, we are interested in factors inuencing the
pathogenesis and evolution of infectious diseases, both
at the individual and population levels, and in develop-
ing methods to infer mechanistic models from biological
data. More information about our research can be found
at http://www.people.fas.harvard.edu/ ~alhill/ More in-
formation about the position can be found at : https://-
academicpositions.harvard.edu/postings/7798 Inquiries
can be directed to Alison Hill (alhill@fas.harvard.edu)
\alhill@fas.harvard.edu" <alhill@fas.harvard.edu >
InstitutPasteur Paris
VirusEvolutionEpidemiology
Postdoctoral position in virus evolution and epidemiol-
ogy
We are looking for a computational biologist interested
in pathogen evolution to join us to work on exciting
projects combining molecular epidemiology and func-
tional studies of arboviral infections. The Simon-Loriere
lab is a junior group (G5) newly created in the Virology
department of Institut Pasteur in Paris, France.
The aim of the current project is to study dynamics
of arbovirus emergence or endemic circulation, and the
underlying mechanisms, at the scale of individual out-
breaks through the integrated analysis of genomic, spa-
tial and temporal data.
Previous experience in computational analysis of viral
sequence data, evolution and quantitative skills will
be essential, ideally including familiarity with high-
throughput sequencing and large genomics data sets.The viral NGS data is generated by other members of the
group, so the work is exclusively focused on data analysis
and no lab skills are required. Knowledge of epidemi-
ological models, phylodynamic approaches (including
Bayesian methods), and pathogen evolution would be
desirable but not essential. Scientic rigor, organiza-
tional skills, high motivation, English prociency and
ability to work collaboratively in an interdisciplinary
environment are essential.
To apply: candidates should send in a single pdf: a
cover letter including a brief description of their scien-
tic achievements and research interests, how they would
t in a junior group, their CV and contact information
for 3 references to etienne.simon-loriere@pasteur.fr.
The position will remain open until lled; the position
is available immediately but the start date is negotiable.
Funds are available for up to 3 years. Salary will be
commensurate with experience according to the Institut
Pasteur guidelines.
Etienne SIMON-LORIERE <etienne.simon-
loriere@pasteur.fr >
LMU Munich FernEvolution
Evolution of key traits in ferns
A postdoctoral position is open for application, starting
immediately and until lled. Starting date is 10 Octo-
ber 2018. The research will involve analyzing ecological,
morphological, and genetic data relevant to the evolu-
tion of ferns. Expertise available in our group includes
an expert in the systematics and evolution of ferns, a
postdoc in bioinformatics, a postdoc with expertise in
chromosomal studies, and in-house access to a scanning
electron microscope. We also have access to one of
the World's largest herbaria and a top notch botanical
garden. Participation in various basic botany courses
taught in German is required. The postdoc will benet
from the broad range of methods and expertise available
in the Munich plant systematics center, which will help
them develop and carry out cutting-edge projects and
thus their future career options.
To apply, please send your letter of motivation, cv, and
the names of two referees to marlehnert@yahoo.com or
renner@lmu.de
For more details email on our research:
https://scholar.google.de/citations?user=-56 EvolDir July 1, 2018
vEvoCaMAAAAJ&hl=en https://scholar.google.com/-
citations?user=uzOGmTgAAAAJ&hl ~A Susanne
Renner <renner@lmu.de >
Montpellier PopGen
. Project| title:| Demographic inference under the
coalescent in a spatial continuum.
. Principal investigator: Stephane Guindon (CNRS)
. Associate| investigator: Raphael Leblois (INRA).
. Host institution: CNRS-University of Montpellier,
France. . Funding:| ANR. . Net salary: ~2100 eu-
ros/month (including health insurance). . Starting date:
October 2018.
A| 24 month postdoc| position| in| population
genetics| is available| at the| University| of Mont-
pellier, France.| The successful| candidate will| join
the \Methods and| Algorithms in Bioinformatics"
group and work| in close collaboration with other
Montpellier-based research teams.
The main objective of the project is to develop, imple-
ment and apply original inference techniques for tting
the spatial Lambda-Fleming-Viot model , i.e., a coales-
cent model in which individuals are spatially distributed
along a continuum, as opposed to discrete demes. A
particular emphasis will be put on proposing techniques
that are able to cope with genomic data. Preliminary
work suggests that sequential Monte Carlo algorithms
applied to SNP data could serve as a basis to build e-
cient inference techniques. Modern simulation-based ap-
proaches, such as random forest ABC [2], the summary
likelihood| method [3] and deep-learning techniques
[4] will also be considered.
Application of the proposed methods to simulated and
real-world whole genome data will then reveal the ability
of the new techniques to estimate population density
and migration rate from the analysis of geo-referenced
genetic data.
The ideal candidate| for the proposed project will
have| a PhD in population genetics or statisti-
cal phylogenetics,| although pure statisticians and
physicists| interested| in molecular evolution should|
also apply. Good| skills in data| analysis with mod-
ern tools| and programming languages (R and/or|
Python and/or Java or C/C++) are essential.
Montpellier is a vibrant city on the Mediterranean coast
with a large student community. Cycling to the seatakes about 30 minutes and the back country oers
breathtaking landscapes ( ~30 minutes drive north of the
city). It is about 3h from Barcelona and Paris by train.
Please|send|CVs|and|inquiries|to|Stephane|
Guindon (guindon@lirmm.fr) and Raphael Leblois
(raphael.leblois@inra.fr).
[1] Demographic inference under the coalescent in a
spatial continuum.| S Guindon, H Guo, D Welch. The-
oretical population biology 111, 43-50
[2] Pudlo, P., Marin, J.-M.,| Estoup, A., Cornuet, J.-
M., Gautier, M. and Robert, C. P. (2015) Reliable ABC
model choice via random forests. Bioinformatics 32 (6):
859-866.
[3] Rousset, F., Gouy, A., Martinez-Almoyna, C., Cour-
tiol, A. (2017) The summary likelihood method and
its implementation in the Infusion package. Mol. Ecol.
Resources, 17 :110-119.
[4] Sheehan, S., Song Y. (2017) Deep Learning for pop-
ulation genetic inference. PLoS Comput Biol 12(3):
e1004845. doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1004845
Stephane Guindon <stephane.guindon@lirmm.fr >
NTNU Taiwan
AdaptationSpeciation
Postdoc Position in Adaptation and Speciation (NTNU,
Taipei, Taiwan)
A two-year postdoc is available on August 1, 2018 for
an innovative and motivated person to work on the
adaptation of Pachyrhynchus weevils or the speciation
of endemic Psolodesmus damselies.
Project:
The position is funded by the MOST (Ministry of Sci-
ence & Technology, Taiwan) grants focused on testing
hypotheses about the adaptation of aposematic colours
in Pachyrhynchus weevils and the process of species
formation in two subspecies of Psolodesmus damselies.
1. Aposematism of Weevils
Pachyrhynchus weevils are a group of brilliant, metallic-
coloured weevils distributed in the Old World tropics.
Recent studies showed that the conspicuous colouration
of these weevils function as eective warning signals
for their hard bodies to prevent predacious pursuit by
lizards. We are interested in studying the adaptation,July 1, 2018 EvolDir 57
evolution, and spatio-temporal dynamics of interactions
between vertebrate predators and aposematic prey using
these weevils.
Related articles:
Wang, L-Y., W-S. Huang, H-C. Tang, L-C. Huang and
C-P. Lin* (2018) Too hard to swallow: A secret sec-
ondary defence of an aposematic insect. Journal of
Experimental Biology 221.
Tseng, H-Y., W-S. Huang, M-L. Jeng, R.J.T. Villanueva,
O.M. Nuneza and C-P. Lin* (2018) Complex inter-island
colonization and peripatric founder speciation promote
diversication of ightless Pachyrhynchus weevils in the
Taiwan-Luzon volcanic belt.
Journal of Biogeography 45: 89-100.
Chen, Y-T., H-Y. Tseng, M-L. Jeng, Y-C. Su, W-S.
Huang and C-P. Lin* (2017) Integrated species delimi-
tation and conservation implications of an endangered
weevil Pachyrhynchus sonani (Coleoptera: Curculion-
idae) in Green and Orchid Islands of Taiwan. Systematic
Entomology 42: 796-813.
Tseng, H-Y., C-P. Lin*, J-Y Hsu, D.A. Pike and W-S.
Huang* (2014) The functional signicance of apose-
matic signals: geographic variation in the responses of
widespread lizard predators to colourful invertebrate
prey. PLoS ONE 9(3):e91777.
2. Damsely Speciation
We focus on a damsely species, Psolodesmus mandari-
nus, with two subspecies dier in their distribution and
wing pigmentations in Taiwan. It provides a great oppor-
tunity to evaluate the relative importance of natural and
sexual selection in damsely divergence. The project
will incorporate a wide range of techniques, including
a whole-island eld survey, behavioural studies, manip-
ulation experiments, population genetics and genomic
analysis to investigate the divergence in damselies.
A description of the research project:
https://sites.google.com/site/yuhsunhsu/research?pli=-
1 Requirement:
1. The postdoctoral fellow will be responsible for either
leading a hypothesis-driven eld/laboratory experiment,
or the analyses of genomic-scale DNA sequence data
sets. The applicant is also encouraged to develop an
independent project based on applicant's expertise and
the study systems.
2. The successful applicant must have demonstrated
expertise in behavioral ecology, population genetics, phy-
logenetics, genomics, or computational statistics.
3. Preference will be given to candidates with:(1) Background in behavioral ecology studies, (2) Expe-
rience of high performance computing, (2) The ability to
develop and apply statistical or computational methods
to solve biological problems, (3) Expertise in research on
adaptation, speciation, theoretical models of evolution,
or trait divergence.
Application:
To apply, please contact Chung-Ping Lin by email (tree-
hopper@ntnu.edu.tw), and attach a single PDF le con-
taining: 1) a cover letter, 2) a CV, 3) a brief 2-page
statement of research interests, and how your skills can
contribute to project objectives, and 4) contact infor-
mation for three references.
Salary & Deadline:
The position will be available from 2018/08 to 2020/07.
Start date is exible. Funding is available for at least 2
year with a potential extension of 3 years, pending on
the performance and funding.
A monthly post-doc salary of about $55,000 NTD
( $1,900 USD) will be oered, including retirement plan,
health benets, and a year-ending bonus of 1.5- month
salary. The average living cost in Taiwan is about 1/2
of that in the USA.
The position will remain open until a suitable candidate
is found.
More information:
Chung Ping Lin's lab: http://web.ntnu.edu.tw/-
~treehopper/ Department of Life Science: http:/-
/www.biol.ntnu.edu.tw/ National Taiwan Normal
University: http://www2.ntnu.edu.tw/en/index.php
Chung-Ping Lin Department of Life Science National
Taiwan Normal University Taipei, Taiwan http://-
web.ntnu.edu.tw/~treehopper
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
PurdueU PlantEvolGenetics
Postdoctoral position in plant ecological and evolution-
ary genetics at Purdue University
A postdoctoral position is available in the Oakley lab at
Purdue University to study the genetic and physiological58 EvolDir July 1, 2018
mechanisms of tness tradeos across environments. We
use a combination of eld experiments in native habi-
tats and experiments in controlled growth chambers to
investigate the links between sequence polymorphism,
molecular phenotypes, organismal phenotypes, and ul-
timately tness in contrasting environments. Current
and future work will incorporate transcriptomic and
metabolomic approaches to studying genotype by en-
vironment interactions for tness. Additional research
in the lab is focused on the evolutionary ecology and
genetic basis of heterosis and outbreeding depression.
Development of new research directions building on
these broad themes is strongly encouraged. There is
a vibrant community of interdisciplinary plant biolo-
gists at Purdue (https://ag.purdue.edu/cpb/faculty/),
providing ample opportunity for interaction and new
collaborations.
Research activities will include (but are not limited
to): Leading growth chamber experiments to estimate
freezing tolerance & lifetime tness, and combining this
data with dierential expression analyses using RNAseq;
eld planting and harvesting of experiments at sites in
Italy (near Rome) and northern Sweden (three to four
trips per year, ~10 days each); overseeing development
of CRISPR-CAS9 lines, near isogenic lines, two new
recombinant inbred line populations; data analysis; and
manuscript preparation.
A PhD in biology or related discipline is required and
preference will be given to candidates with a strong
background in plant evolutionary biology or plant genet-
ics. The ideal candidate will have an interdisciplinary
skill set, having some combination of wet lab, bioinfor-
matic, and experimental biology experience. A strong
foundation in R, and at least a basic familiarity with
bioinformatic analysis on a cluster is strongly preferred.
This is initially a one-year appointment, with the possi-
bility of an extension of 1-2 years dependent on funding
and performance. A start date of August-September
2018 is preferred, but this is negotiable.
Applicants should send (as a single PDF attachment):
CV, a letter summarizing research interests, accomplish-
ments, and t to the lab and project, and the names
and contact information for two professional references.
Review of applications will begin June 15, 2018 and will
continue until a suitable candidate is found.
Chris Oakley oakleyc@purdue.edu https://-
dev.btny.purdue.edu/labs/oakley/ oakleyc@purdue.eduRoyalVetCollege London
AnimalEvolutionaryGenomics
We wish to recruit a highly motivated, postdoctoral
scientist to carry out a BBSRC funded project in the
laboratory of Dr. Denis Larkin. The project is focused
on developing and applying new methods and algorithms
to study genome and chromosome evolution in mammals
and other animals using whole-genome sequences and
existing algorithms (e.g., Damas et al. Genome Res.
2017. 27(5):875-884; Kim et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci
USA. 2013. 110 (5)). The post holder will use cutting
edge computational and laboratory approaches to gen-
erate chromosomal assemblies for sequenced genomes,
study chromosomal structures and dierences between
mammalian and other vertebrate genomes in attempt to
identify species- and clade-specic genome signatures.
Applicants must have a Ph.D. and a track record of
success, as indicated by rst-author publications in in-
ternational journals. They must possess excellent organ-
isation skills and be capable of individual initiative and
of interacting as part of a team. Applicants with exten-
sive practical experience in bioinformatics or computer
science, programming, visualization, handling of large
data sets, high-performance computing are encouraged
to apply. The post will involve collaboration with a
wide range of academic partners both within the EU
and worldwide.
Experience in programming, bioinformatics and com-
parative genome analysis is essential. Applicants should
have a minimum of a degree and preferably a higher
degree in a relevant subject.
The Royal Veterinary College has the largest range of
veterinary, para-veterinary and animal science under-
graduate and postgraduate courses of any veterinary
school in the world and is one of the largest veterinary
schools in Europe.
Prospective applicants are encouraged to contact Dr.
Denis Larkin, Comparative Biomedical Sciences Depart-
ment on +442071211906 or email: dlarkin@rvc.ac.uk
We oer a generous reward package.
For further information and to apply on-line please visit
our website: https://jobs.rvc.ac.uk/Vacancy.aspx?ref=-
CBS-0084-18 Job reference CBS-0084-18
Deadline for applications July 25th, 2018 [RVCJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 59
Logo - link to RVC Website] <http://www.rvc.ac.uk
>[Twitter icon - link to RVC (Ocial) Twit-
ter]<http://twitter.com/RoyalVetCollege >[Face-
book icon - link to RVC (Ocial) Facebook] <
http://www.facebook.com/theRVC >[YouTube icon
- link to RVC YouTube] <http://www.youtube.com/-
user/RoyalVetsLondon?feature=mhee >[Pinterest icon
- link to RVC Pinterest] <http://pinterest.com/-
royalvetcollege/ >[Instagram icon - link to RVC In-
stagram] <http://instagram.com/royalvetcollege >
\dlarkin@rvc.ac.uk" <dlarkin@rvc.ac.uk >
SorbonneU
BarnaclePopulationGenetics
A postdoc position is available at the Rosco Biological
Station of Sorbonne University, France.
See details: http://www.sb-rosco.fr/en/2018/05/18/-
call-postdoctoral-position?lab id=115&group id=All
For application, please send a letter of motivation and
a detailed curriculum vita by e-mail before the 15th of
June 2018 to: Eric THIEBAUT (thiebaut@sb-rosco.fr)
and Didier JOLLIVET (jollivet@sb-rosco.fr)
Christophe Lejeusne <christophe.lejeusne@sb-
rosco.fr >
Taipei Taiwan AvianGenomics
Postdoctoral Position in Avian Genomics (Academia
Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan)
Research project: This postdoctoral position is avail-
able in Chih-Ming Hung's research group at Biodiversity
Research Center, Academia Sinica in Taiwan. This posi-
tion is aimed at biologists in the area of evolutionary ge-
nomics. The main focuses of our research projects are to
study the genomic bases of avian ecological adaptation
or breeding behavior and understand their evolution-
ary mechanisms. The postdoctoral fellow will analyze
population genomic and transcriptomic data of several
bird species and prepare manuscripts for publication.
Independently developing research within the project
framework is also encouraged.Requirement: 1. A Ph.D. in biology, bioinformatics, or a
relevant eld 2. Successful applicants must have strong
background in molecular ecology, population genomics
and/or bioinformatics. 3. Applicants with the following
experiences are preferred: (a) experienced in whole ge-
nomic or transtriptomic analyses and (b) familiar with
at least one programing language (Perl, Python or R).
Salary & Condition: This position is for one year, and
renewable upon satisfactory progress. The starting date
is exible although August 1st, 2018 is preferred.
The monthly salary will be between $58,000 ~63,000
NTD ( $1,920 ~2,090 USD) depending on research ex-
periences. The position also oers health benet and a
year-ending bonus of 1.5-month salary. The average liv-
ing cost (including housing) in Taipei, Taiwan is about
$20,000 ~28,000 NTD ( $660~930 USD).
Academia Sinica has dynamic research environment and
cutting-edge research facilities. Taiwan is a subtropical
island with beautiful beaches and mountains.
Application: To apply, please send (1) a motivation
letter describing your qualication, experiences and re-
search interests, (2) a C.V. and (3) names and contact
information of 3 references to Dr. Chih-Ming Hung
(cmhung@gate.sinica.edu.tw). The review of applica-
tions will start on July 1st, and the position will remain
open until a suitable candidate is found.
Contact & Further information: Chih-Ming Hung,
Assistant Research Fellow Biodiversity Research Center,
Academia Sinica 128 Academia Road Sec.2, Nankang,
Taipei 115, Taiwan Email: cmhung@gate.sinica.edu.tw
Tel: 886-2-2787-2297 Webpage: http://www.biodiv.tw/-
index.php/en/people/faculty/dr-chih-ming-hung#lab-
pi cmhung <cmhung@gate.sinica.edu.tw >
UAlberta FishPoPulationGenetics
Post-Doctoral Position (1 or 2 yrs.) - Population ge-
netics of endangered freshwater shes in the Canadian
Prairies
A postdoctoral fellowship is available in the Fisheries
and Aquatic Conservation Laboratory led by Dr. Mark
Poesch at the University of Alberta. This position is
aimed at a population genomicist, regardless of taxa.
Genetic marker data (SNPs and microsatellite data)
has been collected for several freshwater sh species
at risk, including the Athabasca Rainbow Trout (En-
dangered), Western Silvery Minnow (Endangered) and60 EvolDir July 1, 2018
Mountain Sucker (Threatened). The post-doctoral fel-
low will help analyze this data examining population
structure, genetic diversity and introgression to aid in
the management of these species. This project is fully
funded for up to two years (after satisfactory review of
the candidate's performance after one year).
Candidate must have a Ph.D. at the time of com-
mencing the position. Experience with population
genomics is essential. Candidates interested in this
position should send an email to Dr. Mark Poesch
(poesch(at)ualberta.ca) with cover letter clearly artic-
ulating how this research builds on their experience,
specic skills and date of availability. Please note re-
view of applicants will not commence until July 2, 2018.
This competition will remain open until a suitable can-
didate is found. Start date is negotiable but ideal start
date is fall 2018. The candidate will receive a salary of
$45,000 per year plus benets.
The University of Alberta is consistently rated as one of
the top 5 universities in Canada, and one of the top 100
universities worldwide. Located in Alberta's capital city,
Edmonton (population of 1.2 million people), the Uni-
versity of Alberta provides a dynamic mixture of a large
research intensive university, urban culture and recre-
ation. More than 39,000 students from across Canada
and 144 other countries participate in nearly 400 pro-
grams and 18 faculties (http://www.why.ualberta.ca/-
ualbertain1minute).
Contact Information:
Dr. Mark Poesch Associate Professor, Fisheries and
Aquatic Conservation
University of Alberta,
Department of Renewable Resources 751 General Ser-
vices Building, Edmonton, Alberta, T6G 2H1 Ph: 780-
492-4827 Email: Poesch(at)ualberta.ca
Website: https://poeschlab.ualberta.ca/ Corey Davis
<cordavis@ualberta.ca >UArizona GGSimpsonFellow
A postdoctoral position is available in the Badyaev Lab
at the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology of University of Arizona. This is an excellent
opportunity for a productive and creative scientist to
work on outstanding problems in evolutionary biology
of their own choosing and collaborate on the lab's ex-
isting projects. The position is supported by the G.G.
Simpson Postdoctoral Fellowship, established to honor
Prof. G.G. Simpson's work at the Department. The
position leverages the considerable technical strength
and intellectual rigor of EEB at University of Arizona
to provide just the right combination of freedom and
opportunities for professional growth. Of particular
interest are candidates interested in collaboration on
the ongoing projects below, each oering opportunities
for creative experimental, comparative, and modeling
studies:
1) Identication and analysis of cell lineages during on-
togenetic changes that accompany evolution of diverse
beak congurations. Requires expertise (or strong desire
to be trained) in one of the following: immunohistochem-
istry, analysis of RNAseq data, histology, vertebrate
embryology, population genetics/genomics. 2) Analy-
sis of metabolic network evolution across avian taxa,
with specic focus on the topological and ux aspects
of network controls. Requires expertise in one of the
following: biochemistry, network and dynamic systems
theory, phylogenetic network analysis.
Both sets of projects are enabled by the data generated
by the lab's long-term studies of house nch popula-
tions across Montana and Arizona. Thus, there are also
unlimited opportunities to participate in eld research
in spectacular places for applicants so inclined.
The position comes with a salary of $47,659 per aca-
demic year with full benets, an additional research
allowance of $5,000, and is renewable for up to two
years. Tucson, and southeast Arizona in general, is
hard to match in terms of biological and cultural diver-
sity and its stunning landscapes and limitless outdoor
opportunities.
The start date is exible, but anticipated to be in Fall
2018 or when the suitable candidate is identied. Can-
didates should apply online at: http://uacareers.com/-
postings/29780 submitting 1) cover letter outlining pro-
posed research and potential projects for collaborations,July 1, 2018 EvolDir 61
2) a description of research experience (2 pages max), 3)
CV with the contacts of three references, and 4) reprints
of three most signicant publications combined in a sin-
gle le. Review of applications will begin 1 July 2018
and continue until the position is lled.
Questions regarding the search may be sent to Alex
Badyaev (abadyaev@email.arizona.edu)
\abadyaev@email.arizona.edu"
<abadyaev@email.arizona.edu >
UArizona PlantEcolGenomics
A postdoctoral research position funded by the Na-
tional Science Foundation is available to work in
the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy at the University of Arizona (Tucson, AZ, USA)
with Dr. Katrina Dlugosch (@DlugoschLab, http://-
dlugoschlab.arizona.edu/) and collaborator Dr. David
Baltrus (@surt lab, http://cals.arizona.edu/research/-
baltruslab) at the University of Arizona on the ecological
genomics of evolution along a growth-defense trade-o
in the invasive plant yellow starthistle (Centaurea solsti-
tialis). We are using greenhouse experiments, microbial
culturing, plant immune function assays, microbiome
sequencing, plant population genomics, plant QTL map-
ping, plant RNAseq analyses, and selection experiments
to study the evolution of species interactions during
range expansion and their impact on the spread of in-
vading plant populations. In addition, there will be
opportunities for the postdoc to propose new research
directions, and to be involved in the mentoring of un-
dergraduate students from underrepresented groups in
research on plant-microbe interactions. We are seeking
outstanding postdoctoral researchers with interests and
experience in these areas.
The position is for one year, with reappointment for up
to two additional years subject to satisfactory perfor-
mance. Start date can be as early as Aug 2018, but a
start date any time in the 2018/2019 academic year is ne-
gotiable. Review of applications will begin immediately
and continue until lled.
Minimum qualications *PhD in Biology or a related
eld *Experience producing and analyzing molecular
genetic data *Authorship of peer-reviewed publications
of research in a eld related to the position *Strong
communication skills *Ability to work independently
and in a teamPreferred Qualications (Some combination of these
is highly desirable): *Experience rearing plants in the
greenhouse or growth chamber *Experience preparing
plant DNA for next-generation sequencing *Experience
with QTL mapping *Experience with RNA extraction
and RNAseq library preparation *Experience with mi-
crobiome sequencing *Experience with bioinformatic
analyses of genomic data *Experience culturing bacte-
rial colonies *Experience with assays of plant defense
functions
To apply, submit a cover letter, statement of interest,
curriculum vitae, and contact information for three refer-
ences to job #30244 at http://uacareers.com/postings/
Inquiries about the positions may be directed to Dr.
Katrina Dlugosch ( kdlugosch@email.arizona.edu).
Katrina Dlugosch <katrina.dlugosch@gmail.com >
UArizona PlantMicrobeGenomics
A postdoctoral research position funded by the Na-
tional Science Foundation is available to work in
the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy at the University of Arizona (Tucson, AZ, USA)
with Dr. Katrina Dlugosch (@DlugoschLab, http://-
dlugoschlab.arizona.edu/) and collaborator Dr. David
Baltrus (@surt lab, http://cals.arizona.edu/research/-
baltruslab) at the University of Arizona on the ecological
genomics of evolution along a growth-defense trade-o
in the invasive plant yellow starthistle (Centaurea solsti-
tialis). We are using greenhouse experiments, microbial
culturing, plant immune function assays, microbiome
sequencing, plant population genomics, plant QTL map-
ping, plant RNAseq analyses, and selection experiments
to study the evolution of species interactions during
range expansion and their impact on the spread of in-
vading plant populations. In addition, there will be
opportunities for the postdoc to propose new research
directions, and to be involved in the mentoring of un-
dergraduate students from underrepresented groups in
research on plant-microbe interactions. We are seeking
outstanding postdoctoral researchers with interests and
experience in these areas.
The position is for one year, with reappointment for up
to two additional years subject to satisfactory perfor-
mance. Start date can be as early as Aug 2018, but a
start date any time in the 2018/2019 academic year is ne-
gotiable. Review of applications will begin immediately
and continue until lled.62 EvolDir July 1, 2018
Minimum qualications: *PhD in Biology or a related
eld *Experience producing and analyzing molecular
genetic data *Authorship of peer-reviewed publications
of research in a eld related to the position *Strong
communication skills *Ability to work independently
and in a team
Preferred Qualications (Some combination of these
is highly desirable): *Experience rearing plants in the
greenhouse or growth chamber *Experience preparing
plant DNA for next-generation sequencing *Experience
with QTL mapping *Experience with RNA extraction
and RNAseq library preparation *Experience with mi-
crobiome sequencing *Experience with bioinformatic
analyses of genomic data *Experience culturing bacte-
rial colonies *Experience with assays of plant defense
functions
To apply, submit a cover letter, statement of interest,
curriculum vitae, and contact information for three refer-
ences to job #30244 at http://uacareers.com/postings/
Inquiries about the positions may be directed to Dr.
Katrina Dlugosch ( kdlugosch@email.arizona.edu).
Katrina Dlugosch <katrina.dlugosch@gmail.com >
UCalifornia Berkeley
DiseaseEvolution
Postdoctoral Scholar 'V Integrative Biology - Boots Lab
- UC-Berkeley
A position for a theoretical postdoctoral scholar in dis-
ease ecology and evolution is available to join the Boots
lab at Berkeley. Infectious disease continues to cause a
major burden to human health, cause signicant damage
in agriculture and are ubiquitous in nature. Our lab is
interested in understanding the evolution and ecology of
infectious disease and applying this knowledge to their
management and control. We develop ecological and
evolutionary theory and test the theory in insect-virus
model systems in the lab and the eld. In addition, we
apply ecological and evolutionary theory by building
epidemiological models of human tropical disease, spe-
cic ecological models of wildlife disease and developing
evolutionarily rational disease intervention and control
strategies. Responsibilities:
The position will focus on developing ecological and
evolutionary models of infectious disease dynamics. The
specic projects will be developed between the post-
doctoral scholar, Boots and their collaborators Currentprojects include understanding the ecological implica-
tions and evolutionary drivers of multi-mode transmis-
sion dynamics in collaboration with Janis Antonovics
at UVA, including the integration of models with eld
data. Other current work in the lab includes the evolu-
tion of bee disease, the role of population structure and
management practice in the evolution of infectious dis-
ease, evolutionarily rational disease intervention and the
evolutionary implications of the microbiome. There is
the opportunity to develop novel projects within these
areas with the Bootslab and their wider network of
collaborators.
Minimum/Basic Qualications Required (At the time
of application):
Candidates must have completed all degree requirements
except the dissertation or be enrolled in an accredited
Ph.D or equivalent degree program in ecology, evolution
or a related eld
Additional Required Qualications (By start date):
Ph.D or equivalent in ecology evolution, or related eld,
with a track record of publication in peer-reviewed jour-
nals.
Preferred Qualications (By start date):
Excellent writing and communication skills.
Appointment:
This position reports to Dr. Michael Boots. The initial
appointment will be at 100% time for one year with
the possibility of extension based on satisfactory per-
formance and availability of funding. The approximate
start date of this position will be August 2018.
Salary: $48,216'V $58,560 depending on qualications.
This position provides full benets.
To Apply: Apply online at https://-
aprecruit.berkeley.edu/apply/JPF01757 Interested
individuals should submit application documents as
PDFs, which includes, an updated curriculum vitae
(required), and names with contact information for
at least 3-5 individuals who have agreed to provide
a reference for this specic position (required) and a
cover letter (required). (Letters of reference may be
requested of the nalists).
Specic questions regarding the recruitment
can be directed to Terri Leong, HR Partner,
terri.leong@berkeley.edu
This recruitment will remain open until lled.
All letters will be treated as condential per University
of California policy and California state law. Please refer
potential referees, including when letters are providedJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 63
via a third party (i.e., dossier service or career center),
to the UC Berkeley statement of condentiality (http://-
apo.berkeley.edu/evalltr.html) prior to submitting their
letters.
The University of California is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action Employer. All qualied ap-
plicants will receive consideration for employment with-
out regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orien-
tation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age
or protected veteran status. For the complete Uni-
versity of California nondiscrimination and armative
action policy see: http://policy.ucop.edu/doc/4000376/-
NondiscrimArmAct. The department is interested in
candidates who will contribute to diversity and equal
opportunity in higher education through their work.
Michael Boots <mboots@berkeley.edu >
UCalifornia Berkeley
HumanEvolGenetics
Recruitment Period
Open date: April 17th, 2018 Next review date: June
6th, 2018
Apply by this date to ensure full consideration by the
committee. Final date: June 6th, 2018
Applications will continue to be accepted until this date,
but those received after the review date will only be
considered if the position has not yet been lled.
Description
Description:
The Moorjani Lab (https://moorjanilab.org/) at Univer-
sity of California, Berkeley has a post-doctoral position
available for motivated candidates with background in
statistical population genetics and/or data science.
Our lab focuses on using statistical and computational
approaches to study questions in human genetics and
evolutionary biology. A central aim in the lab is to
understand the impact of evolutionary history on ge-
netic variation and to apply this knowledge to learn
about human history and biology. To this end, we use
genetic data from ancient specimens and present-day
species to learn about: (1) when key events (such as
introgression and adaptations) occurred in human his-
tory, (2) how dierent evolutionary processes such as
mutation rate evolve across primates, and (3) how wecan leverage these patterns to identify genetic variants
related to human adaptation and disease. The research
in the lab involves both development of new methods
and large-scale genomic data analysis.
Responsibilities:
A successful candidate will develop and apply compu-
tational approaches to large genomic datasets to char-
acterize patterns of population history and evolution.
The main responsibilities include conducting research,
attending regular lab meetings and journal clubs, and
preparing research results for publication and presenta-
tions at scientic meetings. Opportunities may also exist
for mentoring graduate and undergraduate students.
Minimum/Basic Qualications required at the time of
application:
- Completion of all doctoral degree requirements ex-
cept the dissertation in genetics, computational biology,
biostatistics, population genetics or related elds.
Additional Qualications (required by start date):
- PhD or equivalent degree in genetics, computational
biology, biostatistics, population genetics or a related
eld.
- Knowledge of statistics and population genetics theory.
- Demonstrated record of research productivity and pub-
lications.
- Programming experience (e.g. C/C&#43;&#43;,
Python/ Perl, R or other programming languages)
Preferred Qualications:
Experience with large-scale genomic data analysis.
Salary: This is a full-time position. Salary is commen-
surate with qualications and experience.
How to apply:
To apply, please go to the following link: http://-
apptrkr.com/1205272 Applicants should submit the
following materials:
- A cover letter
- A curriculum vitae
- Statement of Research (One-page summary of research
interests)
- Contact information for 3 references
Letters of reference are not required at this time. We
will seek your permission before contacting your ref-
erences. All letters will be treated as condential per
University of California policy and California state law.
Please refer potential referees, including when letters
are provided via a third party (i.e., dossier service or64 EvolDir July 1, 2018
career center), to the UC Berkeley statement of con-
dentiality: http://apo.berkeley.edu/evalltr.html . This
position will be open until lled. The anticipated start
date is June 2018. The appointment is for a duration
of one year with the possibility of annual renewal up
to three years. Please address inquiries to Maria Ruiz,
maruiz@berkeley.edu.
The University of California is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action Employer. All qualied ap-
plicants will receive consideration for employment with-
out regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orien-
tation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age
or protected veteran status. For the complete Uni-
versity of California nondiscrimination and armative
action policy see: http://policy.ucop.edu/doc/4000376/-
NondiscrimArmAct . Job location
Berkeley, CA
Requirements
Documents
-
Curriculum Vitae - Your most recently updated C.V.
-
Cover Letter
-
Statement of Research - One-page summary of research
interests
References3 references required (contact information
only)
Jessica Godoy JobElephant.com j800.311.0563jjes-
sica@jobelephant.com Online Ads-Print Ads-Analytics-
Automation-Expert Consultation. Recruitment Adver-
tising. Solved ^A
Jessica Godoy <jessica@jobelephant.com >Jessica
Godoy <jessica@jobelephant.com >
UCalifornia Berkeley
PupshSpeciation
Postdoctoral position(s) on the genomics, function, and
ecology driving adaptive radiation and multiple tness
peaks in Caribbean pupshes
The Martin Fish Speciation Lab at the University of Cal-
ifornia Berkeley Museum of Vertebrate Zoology (startingJanuary 2019) seeks a postdoc for integrative studies of
adaptive phenotypes and tness in a sympatric radiation
of trophic specialist pupshes. Pupshes present a rare
opportunity to investigate the recent origins of spectacu-
lar adaptive radiation and the evolution of novel niches
(e.g. scale-eating) localized to a single Bahamian island
despite thousands of similar Caribbean environments.
Our lab also investigates Cameroon crater lake cich-
lids, one of the most celebrated examples of sympatric
speciation in nature, and the role of gene ow in their
diversication.
A multi-year position is available (initial 12 month ap-
pointment with the possibility of renewal for four more
years). This research is funded by both NIH and NSF
grants. Start date is exible, but must be after January
2019. Salary is scaled to the standard NIH postdoctoral
rates.
This is a highly exible position and we are seeking
postdoctoral applicants with interests/expertise in any
of the following areas: *speciation genomics, functional
morphology, quantitative genetics, or craniofacial devel-
opment*.
Ongoing potential projects in the lab include:
1) Estimate the genetic architectures of novel adaptive
traits within Caribbean pupshes using a combination of
QTL mapping crosses, divergence mapping from whole
genome resequencing, GWAS, allele-specic expression,
and analyses of selective sweeps and introgression.
2) Measure the relationship between genotype, pheno-
type, and tness across a complex tness landscape
estimated from the growth and survival of F2 hybrid
pupsh placed in eld enclosures on multiple Bahamian
islands.
3) Functional and high-speed kinematic analyses of scale-
eating performance in the wild and across a phenotypic
continuum of laboratory hybrids.
4) Validation of candidate regulatory variants using in
situ hybridization and CRISPR knockouts in the pupsh
system.
The postdoc will have the option to participate in eld-
work in the Bahamas and/or Cameroon, but previous
eld experience is not necessary and participation is not
required.
Required qualications:
Ph.D. or equivalent degree in biology, evolution, genet-
ics, bioinformatics, or related eld. Publication of work
based on dissertation. Programming experience in R
or python. No pipetting experience necessary as this
position is for downstream data analysis.July 1, 2018 EvolDir 65
UC Berkeley has a world-class community of integra-
tive biologists studying adaptive radiation spanning
the Department of Integrative Biology, the Museum of
Vertebrate Zoology, the Department of Environmental
Science, Policy, and Management, the Department of
Molecular and Cell Biology, the Center
for Theoretical Evolutionary Genomics, and more. UC
Berkeley oers competitive salaries, excellent benets,
and is an equal opportunity employer. The City of
Berkeley and the surrounding San Francisco Bay Area
is known for its progressive values, vibrant social and
cultural scene, and beautiful surrounding environment.
The University of California is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative
Action Employer. All qualied applicants will receive
consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity,
national origin, disability, age, or protected veteran sta-
tus. Applicants from under-represented backgrounds
are especially encouraged to apply.
Interested candidates should submit a cover letter detail-
ing their interest in the position and relevant experience
along with their CV, PDFs of two recent publications,
and contact information for three references to Chris
Martin at chmartin@unc.edu
This position is open until lled, but please apply within
the next four weeks for full consideration. Please feel
free to contact me at the above email address with any
questions.
Christopher Martin
Assistant Curator of Ichthyology, Museum of Vertebrate
Zoology
Assistant Professor, Department of Integrative Biology
University of California, Berkeley
http://labs.bio.unc.edu/martin/ @shspeciation
Christopher Martin <chmartin@unc.edu >UdeChile 2 GenomicBiodiversity
I am pleased to inform you that we are now oering *two
postdoctoral fellowships* in \Universidad de Chile", on
the biogeography of: (1) the microbiota in Antarctic
and sub-Antarctic areas, and (2) marine fauna in the
Southern Ocean.
These calls are made in the context of the PIA Conicyt
Chilean project \Genomics insight into the past and
present of Antarctic Biodiversity: a tool to assess the
fate of a unique ecosystem in a changing world (GAB)"
.
Feel free to distribute this announcement widely.
Please, nd as attached les the two dierent calls.
Complete application guidelines are available in: *http:/-
/www.ciencias.uchile.cl/concurso%20academico.html
Sincerely yours, Elie Poulin
Dr. Elie POULIN Laboratorio de Ecologi ^A'a Molec-
ular (LEM) Instituto de Ecologi ^A'a y Biodiversidad
(IEB) Departamento de Ciencias Ecologicas Facultad
de Ciencias, Universidad de Chile Las Palmeras 3425
CP 7800003, i'ui ^Aoa, Santiago, Chile
*https://www.researchgate.net/prole/Elie Poulin
http://www.ieb-chile.cl/ Phone: (56)-2-29787298
E-mail: epoulin@uchile.cl
Elie Albert Poulin <epoulin@uchile.cl >
UEdinburgh
HIVPhylogeneticEpidemiology
Postdoctoral Research position: Phylogenetic Epidemi-
ology and Phylodynamics of HIV in Africa
The Institute of Evolutionary Biology at the University
of Edinburgh seeks to appoint a Postdoctoral Researcher
to work with Andrew Rambaut' ^As group, using virus
genomic data to understand the phylodynamics, epi-
demiology, and molecular evolution of HIV in long-term
patient cohorts and the generalised epidemic in Sub-
Saharan Africa.
The successful applicant will be working closely with66 EvolDir July 1, 2018
project collaborators at Oxford, Johns Hopkins, UCL
and the Africa Health Research Institute (AHRI), as
part of the PANGEA-HIV consortium studies. Funded
by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation this project
aims to improve our understanding of HIV epidemiology
in order to design targeted HIV control strategies and
to understand impact of HIV interventions. The con-
sortium' ^As goal is to analyse HIV-1 phylogenetic data,
to identify the individual and population drivers, hubs,
sources, sinks and dynamics of epidemic spread, and
to translate that to information that is directly action-
able in HIV prevention. The applicant will undertake
analyses of over 15,000 HIV genomes and associated epi-
demiological data, developing state-of-the-art statistical
models and tools to advance this goal.
Candidates will have a PhD in a relevant eld (compu-
tational biology, computer science, mathematical biol-
ogy or statistics), will have expertise in phylodynamics,
molecular evolution or phylogenetic epidemiology of
viruses, strong skills in computational biology, statis-
tics or sequence data analysis and an interest in infec-
tious disease research in a public health context. The
candidates will have a track-record of publishing in
peer-reviewed, academic journals and excellent commu-
nication skills.
The post is full-time until October 2021.
Please include a CV and supporting statement with
details of how you meet the knowledge, skills and expe-
rience required.
See the following link for more details and application:
https://www.vacancies.ed.ac.uk/pls/corehrrecruit/-
erqjobspec version 4.jobspec?p id=044074 In-
formal enquiries to Prof. Andrew Rambaut
(a.rambaut@ed.ac.uk).
Andrew Rambaut Institute for Evolutionary Biology
Ashworth Laboratories, University of Edinburgh, Edin-
burgh, EH9 3FL, UK
contact 'V a.rambaut@ed.ac.uk jhttp://-
tree.bio.ed.ac.ukjtel +44 131 6508624
Andrew Rambaut <a.rambaut@ed.ac.uk >
UFlorida Buttery Moth
Phylogenomics
Postdoc, Kawahara Lab, University of Florida,
Gainesville, FL USA.A 2-year postdoc in phylogenomics is available on the
evolution of butteries and moths, as part of two funded
National Science Foundation projects (NSF DEBNERC
and NSF GoLife). The postdoc may also have the oppor-
tunity to work on collaborative bat-moth projects with
Jesse Barber and his team at Boise State University.
The selected postdoc will work at the Florida Museum
of Natural History, on the University of Florida main
campus in Gainesville, FL, USA. The selected candidate
will need to be able to communicate well in verbal and
written English, have a strong understanding of phy-
logenetic methods, solid publication record, and have
computational experience in phylogenomic and/or com-
parative methods. Candidates should also be interested
in training students, writing grants and be motivated
to use genomic high-throughput sequencing data. The
selected candidate will join a team of postdocs, gradu-
ate students, undergraduates, and sta scientists in the
Kawahara Lab. The postdoc will also work closely with
local and international collaborators.
Required: 1) A Ph.D. in molecular evolution, system-
atics, evolution, bioinformatics, genomics, or related
eld. 2) Strong publication record. 3) Familiarity with
analyzing next generation sequencing data, computer
programming/scripting in Python, Perl, Java, C++, R
or other language. Candidates with background experi-
ence in phylogenomics, biogeography, dating analyses
will be highly considered.
Salary: $47,500- $50,000 USD plus benets. The ap-
pointment can be up to 2 years, but will be made on a
yearly basis given satisfactory progress.
Start date: Position available September 1, 2018 or until
the position is lled.
How to apply: To ensure full consideration, please
email the following to Akito Kawahara at kawa-
hara@mnh.u.edu: (1) a cover letter, (2) your up-
dated CV, and (3) 3 letters of support from 3 men-
tors/colleagues, sent directly to kawahara@mnh.u.edu.
The cover letter and updated CV should be merged into
a single PDF. The cover letter should describe your pre-
vious research and training, your qualications for the
postdoc as detailed in this advertisement, and should
explain how this postdoc position will further your long-
term research/career aspirations. Specify in the email
subject line: \Postdoc KawaharaLab"
Evaluations of applicants will begin on Aug. 1, 2018,
and continue until the position is lled.
About the University of Florida The University of
Florida (UF) is one of the nation's leading research
institutions with 35,000 undergraduates, 15,000 grad-
uate students, and over 4,500 faculty and academicJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 67
sta. UF oers all resources of a top research university
to study evolution, genomics, and systematics. The
Florida Museum of Natural History (FLMNH) serves as
the iDigBio HUB, and is now one of the primary centers
for research in evolutionary biology and biodiversity.
The FLMNH is also closely tied to the UF High-
Performance Computing Center (HPC) and HiPerGa-
tor2 (https://www.rc.u.edu/) allowing for the chosen
postdoc to utilize this rich computational resource. UF
also has a state-of-the-art genome sequencing facility at
the Interdisciplinary Center for Biotechnology Research
(ICBR), the Florida State Collection of Arthropods
(FSCA), and collections of the McGuire Center for Lep-
idoptera and Biodiversity. The Kawahara Lab also has
strong ties to UF's the Department of Biology, Depart-
ment of Entomology and Nematology, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, Department of Wildlife
Ecology and Conservation, School of Forest Resources
and Conservation, and Department of Microbiology and
Cell Science.
For additional information about the lab, visit: http://-
www.mnh.u.edu/mcguire/kawahara/ Akito Y. Kawa-
hara Associate Curator/Associate Professor Florida
Museum of Natural History McGuire Center for Lep-
idoptera and Biodiversity University of Florida 3215
Hull Road Gainesville, FL 32611 USA 352.273.2018
kawahara@mnh.u.edu
\kawahara@mnh.u.edu" <kawahara@mnh.u.edu >
UFlorida MNH Phyloreferencing
We are seeking a postdoctoral fellow to support the
Phyloreferencing project <http://phyloref.org/ >by
developing and advocating driving biological research
use cases, and to coordinate these with large research
projects in comparative biodiversity. Our ideal can-
didate is a biologist by training with strong expertise
in systematic biology, and a deep interest in research
questions that benet from enabling a phylogenetic (as
opposed to a taxonomic) perspective for integrating bio-
diversity data at a level that depends on computation.
The Phyloreferencing project aims to create the data
standards and computational resources to render phylo-
genetic clade denitions <https://doi.org/10.2307/-
2992353 >, specically their semantics, fully com-
putable. A major part of our eort is to build
an ontology of published and peer-reviewed phyloge-
netic clade denitions expressed in the Web Ontol-ogy Language (OWL) <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/-
Web Ontology Language >, as well as the machine rea-
soning capabilities to resolve such denitions to clades
in a given phylogenetic tree, including at the scale of
the synthetic Open Tree of Life.
One role of the postdoc is to provide critical guidance
and inform prioritization of software development ef-
forts by developing, advocating, and ideally pursuing
compelling research questions as use cases. As part of
being compelling, such use cases should demonstrate
how the phylogenetic view that phyloreferencing enables
for linking data is dierent from traditional solutions
to this problem (such as identifying clades manually,
or using taxonomic checklists and synthetic taxonomy
backbones).
The other major role of the postdoc is to serve
as an ambassador of the project both to the com-
parative biodiversity research community at large,
as well as in particular to select research projects
(such as NSF GoLife <https://www.nsf.gov/funding/-
pgm summ.jsp?pims id=5129 >-funded projects, or the
ARBOR <http://arborworkows.com/ >project) that
could benet from our technologies for integrating or
communicating trait data with other biodiversity data
resources at a large-scale. We expect that as a result
at least some of our driving research use cases would
be informed by or even actively coordinated with such
projects, and the postdoc initiating and leading deeper
collaborations would be welcome.
By rendering the semantics of phylogenetic clade de-
nitions fully computable, phyloreferencing also enables
computationally reproducing, disambiguating, and eval-
uating the eect of changing such clade denitions, fea-
tures lacking in or made very dicult for taxonomic
name-based approaches. Candidates with research ideas
that take particular advantage of these features are
equally encouraged to apply. More generally speaking,
we are particularly interested in how you might incorpo-
rate phyloreferencing into your own research projects,
current or future.
The Phyloreferencing project is a collaboration between
Dr. Nico Cellinese (Florida Museum of Natural History,
University of Florida) and Hilmar Lapp (Center for Ge-
nomic and Computational Biology, Duke University)
funded by the National Science Foundation. The post-
doc will be based in the lab of Dr. Cellinese, but will
work closely with both PIs. Starting date is negotiable.
Salary is $50,000.
Qualications:
* PhD in Biology or a related eld. * Strong back-
ground in Systematic Biology required. You should be68 EvolDir July 1, 2018
well versed in all aspects of theoretical phylogenetics
and related topics. * Programming experience in lan-
guages popular in scientic computing (e.g., Python,
JavaScript) is useful (and thus preferred) but not re-
quired. * Similarly, prior exposure to or familiarity with
ontologies and ontology languages (in particular, OWL)
is useful but not required. * Excellent communication
and writing skills, and ability to interact productively
with other projects' PIs and personnel.
How to apply:
Please submit a letter of interest and CV, together with
the names and contact information of three academic ref-
erences, to Dr. Nico Cellinese (ncellinese@mnh.u.edu).
All other inquiries should also be directed to Dr. Celli-
nese. The position will remain open until lled.
The University of Florida is an Equal Opportunity Em-
ployer.
Nico Cellinese, Ph.D. Associate Curator, Botany &
Informatics Joint Associate Professor, Department of
Biology
University of Florida Florida Museum of Natural History
354 Dickinson Hall, 1659 Museum Rd. Gainesville, FL
32611-7800, U.S.A. Tel. 352-273-1979 Fax 352-846-1861
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UGeorgia
InsectVirusSymbiosisDevelopment
Postdoctoral position on insect-viral symbiosis
This NSF-funded position is for research on evolution,
development, symbiosis and insects. Specically, the
lab has funding for work on developmental events that
guide insect-microbe interactions using parasitoid wasps
as a study system: wasps that lay eggs in other in-
sects and consume them during development. Several
lineages of wasps have acquired associations with ben-
ecial symbiotic viruses that are specically produced
in wasp reproductive tracts and are injected into host
insects. There, they play vital roles in preventing hosts
from mounting eective defenses against the developing
parasitoid. The production of virus in wasps is verytightly timed and coincides with specic stages of wasp
development. The lab is seeking an energetic postdoc
with interests in some of these topics and a strong back-
ground in one or more of the following: developmental
biology, evolutionary biology, genomics, or molecular
genetics. The position is in the Entomology department
at the University of Georgia and is available immediately
but the start date is negotiable.
Gaelen Burke leads a friendly and interactive team of
driven, creative, scientically curious, and smart re-
searchers. We are committed to diversity, to the career
success of team members, and to a supportive and pro-
ductive approach to research and mentoring. Check out
our website, (http://blog.caes.uga.edu/burkelab/) for
more information on our lab.
If you are interested in joining our group, please send an
email to Gaelen Burke (grburke@uga.edu) with a single
le including CV, statement of research interests, and
the names, phone numbers, and email addresses of three
references. Women and underrepresented minorities are
particularly encouraged to apply. Applications will be
reviewed by 1 July 2018 and will continue to be accepted
until the position is lled.
Gaelen R Burke
@gaelenburke Assistant Professor The Department of
Entomology 120 Cedar St 419 Biological Sciences Build-
ing The University of Georgia grburke@uga.edu
Gaelen R Burke <grburke@uga.edu >
UGothenburg
AvianCarotenoidColoration
Postdoc: UGothenburg.AvianCarotenoidColoration
WANTED: A highly motivated and self-driven post-
doc, with strong evolutionary and molecular genetics
background, to join the ECCO (Evolution of Colour
Communication) lab at the Dept. of Biological and
Environmental Sciences, University of Gothenburg, Swe-
den. ECCO (P.I. Staan Andersson) explores sexual
selection, evolution and diversication of the spectacular
breeding plumages of African weaverbirds (Ploceidae),
in particular carotenoid coloration and elongated tails in
the widowbirds and bishops (Euplectes spp.). In collabo-
ration with researchers in UK, Norway and South Africa,
the focal areas are at present; 1) Evolutionary genetics
and physiology of carotenoid metabolism and pigmen-
tation, and 2) Phylogenetic and comparative analysesJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 69
of coloration and sexual dichromatism in weaverbirds.
Depending on background, talents and interests, the
successful candidate may be involved in either of these
interacting approaches, as applied to a suggested project
on Coevolution of color signals and color vision, as well
as to other ongoing or emerging projects. QUALIFI-
CATIONS: PhD in biology, a genuine interest in the
intersection of behavioral ecology and evolutionary ge-
netics, ability to conceive and write research papers,
extensive PhD or postdoc experiences of either or both
molecular genetic labwork (spec. qRT-PCR) and compu-
tational biology (bioinformatics, statistics, comparative
methods). A background in biochemistry (spec. HPLC
and LC-MS) is valued, so also prociency in one or more
programming or scripting languages (spec. R, Python),
and database management (spec. PostgreSQL). Other
relevant qualications include reectance spectrome-
try, eld ornithology (watching, handling, and sampling
birds), and social and communicative skills. POSITION:
The postdoc is funded by a tax-free 2-year scholar-
ship from the Carl Tryggers Foundation, amounting
to 23,000 SEK per month. Starting date: ASAP, but
not later than 1 October, 2018 APPLICATION: Be-
fore the DEADLINE 30 JUNE, 2018, submit an e-mail
to staan.andersson@bioenv.gu.se with subject head-
ing 'ECCO PDRA' followed by your last name, and
attach a SINGLE PDF FILE including the following
documents: i) A cover letter describing your research
background and interests, suitability for the position,
and which aspects of the ECCO research you are most
interested in, ii) A detailed CV including a publica-
tion list and other achievements, iii) Contact details
(letters welcome, but optional) of two or three refer-
ence persons who can be contacted by phone or e-mail.
Prospective candidates will be invited for interviews
in person or by Skype. For more information contact
staan.andersson@bioenv.gu.se. BioEnv, University of
Gothenburg, Box 463, 40530 Goteborg, Sweden. +46-
317863647 (oce), +46-708-641959 (cell)
Staan Andersson Professor, Animal Ecology Dept
of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University
of Gothenburg Email: staan.andersson@bioenv.gu.se
Skype: euplectes Phones: +46-317863647 (oce), +46-
708641959 (mobile) OrderID: 3130BANSTA (on all in-
voices!) Invoices: Box 115, 40530 G ~A-TEBORG Deliv-
eries: Medicinaregatan 18, 413 90 G ~A-TEBORG Snail-
mail: Box 463, 405 30 G ~A-TEBORG
Staan Andersson <staan.andersson@bioenv.gu.se >UGuelph PDF PhD
MacroInvertGenomics
Postdoc & PhD student positions, Hajibabaei lab, Cen-
tre for Biodiversity Genomics & Department of Integra-
tive Biology, University of Guelph, Canada.
Ecological genomics of macroinvertebrates to assess wa-
tershed health across Canada
Postdoctoral fellow: A 3-year postdoc position is avail-
able as the main project coordinator and data analyst
to conduct environmental DNA (bulk samples, water)
analysis of macroinvertebrates in Canadian watersheds.
The position involves design and coordination of sam-
pling, genomics and bioinformatics analysis with em-
phasis on ecological/environmental analysis using Il-
lumina MiSeq/NovaSeq data as well as data integra-
tion and visualization. A background in molecular
ecology/evolution, familiarity with high throughput se-
quence analysis, ability to work at the command-line in
a Linux environment, knowledge of a scripting language
(ex. Python) and R is required. Experience with large-
scale multi-investigator project/data management is an
asset. Preferred starting date: October 2018.
PhD student: A PhD student position is available to
conduct ecological genomics research (DNA metabar-
coding, transcriptomics) on macroinvertebrate commu-
nities from Canadian watersheds. The position involves
optimizing protocols (metabarcoding/transcriptomics,
bioinformatics) to generate comparative data to study
environmental responses of freshwater benthic taxa. An
MSc in biological sciences (molecular evolution/ecology,
genetics or related elds) is required but applicants with
a BSc and an exceptional academic/research record will
also be considered. Preferred starting date: January
2019
Guelph is located about one hour from Toronto. Because
of its relatively low crime rates, clean environment and
generally high standard of living, Guelph is consistently
rated as one of Canada's best places to live.
The University of Guelph is committed to equity in its
policies, practices, and programs, supports diversity in
its teaching, learning and work environments, and en-
sures that applications for members of underrepresented
groups are seriously considered under its employment
equity policy. All qualied individuals who would con-
tribute to the further diversication of our University70 EvolDir July 1, 2018
community are encouraged to apply.
Please send a copy of your CV, a cover letter and
names/contact information for three references to:
Mehrdad Hajibabaei (mhajibab@uoguelph.ca). Please
indicate the title of the position you are applying for in
the subject line of your email. We will start reviewing
applications on July 15, 2018.
Mehrdad Hajibabaei <hajibabaei@gmail.com >
UHelsinki EvolutionaryEcol
The University of Helsinki has an international aca-
demic community of 40,000 students and sta members,
and it oers comprehensive services to its employees,
including occupational health care and health insurance,
sports facilities, and opportunities for professional devel-
opment. The International Sta Services oce assists
employees from abroad with their transition to work
and life in Finland. The Organismal and Evolutionary
Biology Research Programme is situated at the Viikki
science park and belongs to the Faculty of Biological
and Environmental Sciences of University of Helsinki.
The Organismal and Evolutionary Biology Research
Programme (OEB) invites applications for a
1,5 YEAR POST DOCTORAL RESEARCHER POSI-
TION in Evolutionary Ecology
in the research group of Marjo Saastamoinen (http:/-
/www.helsinki./life-history-evolution), as part of the
ERC funded META-STRESS project. The successful
applicant will be part of the
Research Centre for Ecological Change at the University
of Helsinki.
Our Life-History Evolution research group is a dynamic
team with several post docs and PhD students and we
are part of the OEB with its vibrant and collaborative
research community of experimental, computational,
and theoretical labs that all share a common interested
in Evolutionary Biology. Cutting edge infrastructure is
available at all levels, including high-performance com-
puter clusters, a next-gen sequencing facility, as well as
molecular labs. We collaborate with research groups at
Cambridge University, Stockholm University, and UCL
among others.
The project, initiated in 2015, aims to understand the
mechanisms that allow organisms in the wild to cope
with environmental stress. Working with the largemetapopulation of the Glanville fritillary buttery gives
a unique opportunity to study processes operating from
genes within individuals all the way to metapopulation-
level dynamics ( >20 years of data; e.g. Kahilainen
et al. GCB). In this project ecological and experimen-
tal studies are integrated with molecular approaches
to unravel the signicance of dierent mechanisms -
candidate genes, epigenetic inheritance and intestinal
microbial communities - potentially inuencing individ-
ual responses to environmental challenges.
In addition to exceptional demographic and ecological
resources, substantial genomic data is also available for
this species, including a whole genome sequence (Ahola
et al. 2014 Nature Comm) and linkage map (Rastas
et al. 2013 Bioinformatics) for which a new version
is underway and ready to be utilized. Some available
experimental and genomic data, including across land
PoolSeq, RNA Seq and sequence data of mothers and
their ospring exposed to dierent stressors, and SNP
genotype data from 20,000 individuals genotyped for
both known candidate genes and neutral loci across
hundreds of populations (Fountain et al. 2016 PNAS,
Fountain et al. 2018) is potentially available for the can-
didate. There is also an option to generate/collect new
experimental and/or genomic data within the framework
of the META-STRESS project.
The successful candidate should have PhD / postdoc-
toral experience within the elds of evolutionary biology,
evolutionary genetics, microbiology or similar, and a
strong interest in working with natural populations.
Excellent written and verbal communication skills in
English, and the ability to think independently and cre-
atively are required. The candidate must demonstrate
ability to work as part of a team, and participate in
supervision of more junior group members.
The starting date is exible but preferable no later than
September 2018 (funding is available until end of March
2020), with a probationary period of six months. The
salary will be based on level 5 of the demands level chart
for teaching and research personnel in the salary system
of Finnish universities. In addition, the appointee will
be paid a salary component based on personal work
performance. Starting salary will be 3300 euros/month,
depending on the appointee's qualications and experi-
ence.
Please submit your application using the University of
Helsinki Recruitment System via the link Apply for the
position (https://www.helsinki./en/open-positions/-
postdoctoral-researcher-in-e volutionary-ecology). Ap-
plicants who are employees of the University of Helsinki
are requested to leave their application via the SAP
HR portal. Please attach the following documents asJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 71
a single pdf le: your CV with publications included
and a letter (max 2 pages) with a description of your
research interests and, in particular, why you would be
a suitable candidate for the project. The application
letter should also contain possible starting dates and
contact information of two persons who can provide a
reference letter based on request.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UInnsbruck Bioinformatics 2
Second announcement { application deadline 22 June
2018
MOLECULAR ECOLOGY, DEPARTMENT OF
ECOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF INNSBRUCK PostDoc
position
We seek to hire a PostDoc with training in bioinfor-
matics. This is a 31-months position at the Molecular
Ecology group of the Department of Ecology, starting
from 2 July 2018 ideally.
Centering on the Alpine Space, the group's mission is
interdisciplinary research, embedded in international
collaboration networks. A list of research topics can be
found at: <http://www.uibk.ac.at/ecology/forschung/-
molecular ecology.html.en >. The successful candidate
will participate in resequencing individual transcrip-
tomes and genomes of the ant Tetramorium alpestre to
identify signatures of aggressiveness vs. nonaggressive-
ness.
***Responsibilities*** 1. SNP calling in individual
genomes using Illumina data and the reference genome
2. searching for genomic signatures by genome-wide
association study and by searching for genomic foot-
prints of selective sweeps 3. searching for signatures in
individual transcriptomes using Illumina data and the
annotated genome 4. editome analyses 5. provision of
advice / training to other group members in analysing
high-throughput sequencing data and participation in
other bioinformatics tasks as need arises in the group 6.
participation in manuscript writing 7. contact and col-
laboration with scientists and laboratory technicians at
the Faculty of Biology in Innsbruck and internationally***Selection criteria*** A. PhD degree in bioinformat-
ics or a related eld B. published research experience
in bioinformatics, preferentially in identifying genomic
and transcriptomic signatures of phenotypic traits C.
excellent skills in the maintenance of Linux systems
for bioinformatic purposes D. prociency in Python, R,
scripting languages E. experience in the use of relevant
software packages for genome and transcriptome analy-
sis (e.g. Bowtie2, Trinity) and genealogy reconstruction
(e.g. BEAST, RevBayes) F. ability to work as part of a
multi-disciplinary team G. ability to work independently
H. very good knowledge of English
***Salary*** The annual gross salary is Euro 51,955.40
for a 40 h/week employment for 31 months. Extension
to 37 months and corresponding reduction of the weekly
working hours are possible and welcome. The contract
includes health insurance and 5 weeks of holidays annu-
ally.
***How to apply*** To apply, please submit by E-mail
to<orian.m.steiner@uibk.ac.at >: a cover letter, sys-
tematic point-by-point replies as to your readiness for
the responsibilities and how you meet the selection cri-
teria, a brief statement of research interests, your cur-
riculum vitae, and your complete list of publications.
Also, arrange for at least one letter of recommendation
to be sent to <orian.m.steiner@uibk.ac.at >Applica-
tions must be written in English. Review of applications
will begin immediately and continue until 22 June 2018
the latest. The University of Innsbruck is striving to
increase the percentage of female employees and there-
fore invites qualied women to apply. In the case of
equivalent qualications, women will be given preference.
An oer of employment is contingent on a satisfactory
pre-employment background check.
***The research institution and its environment*** De-
tailed information about the Molecular Ecology group
can be found at <https://www.uibk.ac.at/ecology/-
forschung/molecular ecology.html.en >. The University
of Innsbruck has a long-standing and internationally
renowned tradition in life sciences and oers a vibrant
research atmosphere. It has close to 30,000 students
and 4,500 sta members. Innsbruck is situated in the
Alps and very close to Switzerland, Germany, and Italy;
scenery and outdoor recreation are fantastic.
***More information needed?*** For more in-
formation, please contact: Florian M. Steiner
<orian.m.steiner@uibk.ac.at >
Assoc.-Prof. Dr. Florian M. Steiner
Department of Ecology University of Inns-
bruck Technikerstr. 25 6020 Innsbruck, Austria
Phone: +43 512 507-51752 Fax: +43 512 507-72 EvolDir July 1, 2018
51799 http://www.uibk.ac.at/ecology/forschung/-
molecular ecology.html.en \Steiner, Florian Michael"
<Florian.M.Steiner@uibk.ac.at >
ULausanne FungalSymbionts
The following position in our group is being re-advertised
due to the lack of a suitable applicant.
Postdoctoral position 'V Epigenetic versus Genetic and
Variation in Fungal Symbionts and How it Aects Plant
Growth (Uni. Lausanne, Switzerland)
Job Description: A position is available in the Sanders'
group to study the role of epigenetic versus genetic
variation in mycorrhizal fungi on plant growth. Our
research indicates that variation in mycorrhizal fungi is
associated with large dierences in plant growth. We
will study this in more detail to nd out which aspects
of genetic or epigenetic variation in these fungi causes
high growth rates in plants (especially cassava).
It is intended that the results of this project will be
combined with research in the eld where our work is
leading to real solutions to increase production of food
in areas of the world where starvation is a major prob-
lem. More information about our work can be found at
http://people.unil.ch/iansanders/ The project is part
of a wider collaboration between the University of Lau-
sanne, Dr Marco Pagni at the Vital-IT center of the
SIB Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics and Prof. Alia
Rodriguez at the National University of Colombia.
Your skills and qualications: Candidates must be highly
motivated, have a PhD (or expect to have very soon),
and have knowledge in one or more of the following elds:
genetics; plant or fungal molecular biology; epigenetics;
quantitative or population genetics. Sound knowledge
of bioinformatics would be an advantage and an interest
in solving problems in an analytical way. The successful
candidate should also have good interpersonal skills and
an ability to work well in a team.
Job information: The position is available as soon as
possible and is initially for 1 year (100% contract), re-
newable for a maximum of 4 more years (depending on
the number of years since your PhD). Preference will be
given to someone who recently obtained a PhD. Most
of the postdoc' ^As time will be dedicated to research,
but a contribution to teaching is expected, including
the possibility of supervising master students. Formally,
the contract stipulates : 70% Personal research, 25%Participation to teachning activities, 5% Maintenance
of lab equipment or other institutional tasks
Applications: To apply you must upload a CV and mo-
tivation letter in English, including the names of 2-3
referees, to the University of Lausanne job portal at:
https://bit.ly/2HP24on Applications must be received
not later than 19th July 2018. Informal enquiries may
be made by email to ian.sanders@unil.ch. Previous
applicants need not apply.
Ian Sanders <ian.sanders@unil.ch >
UM StLouis PlantSpeciation
Postdoctoral Researcher in Plant Molecular Phylogenet-
ics
I am looking for a postdoctoral researcher to join my
lab at the University of Missouri - St. Louis. The NSF-
funded project involves constructing a species-level phy-
logeny for the Neotropical genus Burmeistera (Campan-
ulaceae) using high-throughput sequencing approaches
(targeting low-copy nuclear regions with enrichment
probes and genome-skimming for plastomes). Results
will be used to test the relative roles of pollinator-
mediated, gametic, and postzygotic reproductive iso-
lation in the diversication of Burmeistera. Candidates
should have experience with plant molecular phyloge-
netics, including labwork and bioinformatics analysis
of next-gen data, and an interest in plant speciation
and/or pollination biology. Successful applicants will
also be encouraged to carry out his or her own research
projects related to work done in the Muchhala Lab (see
www.umsl.edu/ ~muchhalan). The start date for the
position is exible, from August of 2018 to January 2019.
Funding is available for one year, with renewal for up
to three years given satisfactory progress.
St. Louis is a vibrant Midwestern city that boasts an
exceptional quality of life, combining a low cost of living
with a variety of cultural attractions including parks,
museums, and lively music and art scenes. The Univer-
sity of Missouri - St. Louis has strong local ties with
the Missouri Botanical Garden, the Saint Louis Zoo,
Washington University, St. Louis University, and the
Donald Danforth Plant Science Center, and annual re-
treats (sleec.weebly.com) bring together ecologists and
evolutionary biologists from these and other local insti-
tutions. The Department also houses the Whitney R.
Harris World Ecology Center, established to promoteJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 73
international research, particularly in tropical regions.
Review of applications will begin on July 20 ^th. In-
formal inquiries are welcome: muchhalan@umsl.edu.
Submission online at http://www.umsl.jobs: click
???????Faculty' tab, ???????Get Started' tab, then
search ???????26783' (the Job ID #). Applicants must
combine application materials, including 1) a short state-
ment (one to two pages) on previous experience, research
interest, and motivation for applying, and 2) a curricu-
lum vitae, into a single PDF or Microsoft Word doc-
ument and upload as a resume attachment. Addition-
ally, have three recommendation letters sent to muchha-
lan@umsl.edu. For questions about how to apply, please
call (314) 516-5258, or if you are experiencing technical
problems, please email pshrsupport@umsystem.edu.
UMSL is an Equal Opportunity/Access/Armative Ac-
tion/Pro Disabled & Veteran Employer
Nathan Muchhala, Ph.D. Assistant Professor De-
partment of Biology University of Missouri -St
Louis One University Blvd, R428 Research Hall
St Louis, Missouri 63121 (314) 516-6672 http://-
www.umsl.edu/ ~muchhalan/ \Muchhala, Nathan"
<muchhalan@umsl.edu >
UMunich
LichenPopulationGenomics
Postdoctoral position: \Population genomics and gene
expression in lichens"
A three-year postdoctoral position is available in the
laboratory of Dr. Silke Werth at the University of Mu-
nich.
The lab focuses on population genomics and gene expres-
sion. Our research topics currently include: 1) evolution
of lichenized fungi 2) gene ow among populations of
lichenized fungi 3) gene expression in lichenized fungi
and their photobionts under thermal stress conditions.
The candidate will work in a DFG project on Lobaria
pulmonaria lichens funded for three years. The can-
didate must be procient in programming, preferably
in Python, R and Shell. Additional essential skills are
analytical skills with respect to population genetic anal-
yses, physical ability to perform eld work, and excellent
manuscript writing skills. Candidates with familiarity
with lichen biology or statistics analytical skills will
rank higher. Applicants should have a doctorate in the
eld of bioinformatics, population genetics or compa-rable. The deadline for application is 15st July, 2018.
The successful applicant is expected to start the ap-
pointment as soon as possible. For further information,
contact Silke Werth, +49 89 2180 74754, email: werth@
bio.lmu.de. To apply, the following papers are needed.
Please send them in one pdf le to the following email
address: Tanja.Ernst@ lrz.uni-muenchen.de -||| A
letter of motivation -||| Certicates attesting to
education (PhD and MSc, or equivalent) -||| List of
publications -||| CV -||| Contact information
for 3 references
The salary for the position will be in accordance with
the in-house rules for hiring post-doctoral fellows at
LMU Department Biology I. The initial contract will
be for one year, with the possibility of two extensions
of one year.
Information on the research environment at University
of Munich can be found here:| www.en.biologie.uni-
muenchen.de More information on relocation to
LMU can be found at the International Oce home-
page: www.en.uni-muenchen.de/about lmu/contact/-
intoce/index.html { Prof. Dr. Silke Werth Univer-
sity of Munich Systematic Botany and Mycology LMU
Biozentrum Grohaderner Strae 2-4 82152 Planegg-
Martinsried Germany Phone: +49 89 2180 74754 Silke
Werth <werth@bio.lmu.de >
Werth <werth@biologie.uni-muenchen.de >
UNewHampshire
TreeMicrobialDiversity
The Garnas lab (http://mypages.unh.edu/garnaslab)
seeks a highly motivated postdoctoral scientist to study
1) patterns and consequences of microbial diversity in
the beech bark disease (BBD) pathogen complex and
associated bark communities; and 2) impacts of diver-
gent life histories among the dominant BBD associates
on pathogen gene ow and population structure across
the range of the disease. Within this framework, the
successful candidate will be encouraged to develop their
own ideas to advance basic understanding pf fungal
evolution in the context of a complex, multi-organism
decline disease.
Brief background Beech bark disease (BBD) is a
widespread decline disease arising from complex interac-
tions among a non-native scale insect and at least two
putatively native pathogens that dier in key aspects74 EvolDir July 1, 2018
of their biology and ecology. Recent work also suggests
that associated microbes may play a role in disease
development and/or attenuation. In addition to being
highly relevant ecologically (e.g., to wildlife and to forest
stand development), the BBD system represents fertile
ground for scientic inquiry, with many key questions
that are currently unexplored.
Details of the position and skills sought The ideal candi-
date will have both experience and a proven publication
record that demonstrates a keen interest and background
in population genetics, microbiome sequencing and bioin-
formatics as well as facility with the core concepts of
eco-evolutionary dynamics. The research is primarily
lab and bioinformatics-based using comprehensive col-
lections across the range of the disease. Fungal isolation
and culture curation will also be required. Experience
working with fungi is preferred but not required.
Start date negotiable but must be no later than Oc-
tober 1, with an earlier start date preferred. Salary
is $48,000 plus benets. Funding is for one year with
reappointment subject to satisfactory performance.
Interested applicants should send the following as
a single pdf le to je.garnas@unh.edu: - CV
- Statement of purpose that summarizes research
goals/interests/trajectory and relevant experience - 2-
5 relevant publications, with an annotated list of the
applicant's role/contribution for each - Contact informa-
tion for three references Application review will begin
immediately; the position is open until lled.
\Garnas, Je" <Je.Garnas@unh.edu >
UNorthCarolina Charlotte
PlantComparativeGenomics
Postdoctoral position in plant comparative ge-
nomics/transcriptomics at UNC Charlotte
A postdoctoral position is available in the newly estab-
lished Cooper lab at University of North Carolina at
Charlotte to study the genomic architecture of com-
plex traits underlying divergent phenotypes in the crop
species Sorghum bicolor. I am seeking a candidate with
bioinformatics experience to analyze existing genomics
and transcriptomics data sets, as well as generate new
datasets related to understanding the genetics of both
adaptive and agronomically important traits. The main
goals of this research project are to: i) Explore the
relationship between structural rearrangements in thegenome and changes in gene expression that may re-
late to phenotypic dierences; ii) Look for networks of
co-expressed genes and their upstream regulators; iii)
Perform comparative genomics among multiple varieties
and species to search for parallel mechanisms under
selection.
This work will involve some greenhouse activities as
well as some molecular lab work to collect and extract
materials for sequencing, but it will predominantly fo-
cus on computational analyses. Prior experience with
plants and/or with extraction techniques is desirable,
but not required. The development of new research
directions building on the broad themes of dissecting
complex traits and improving methods for comparing
and integrating -omics data sets is strongly encouraged.
To see past projects and get an idea of the type of
research I do, go to eacooper400.github.io.
My lab will be based at the North Carolina Research
Campus (https://transforming-science.com/) just north
of Charlotte, NC, which houses scientists from mul-
tiple North Carolina North Carolina universities and
corporations to create a unique and exciting interdis-
ciplinary environment with state-of-the-art genomics
facilities, providing ample opportunity for interaction
and collaboration.
A Ph.D. in Bioinformatics, Computational Biology,
Quantitative Genetics, Population Genetics, Evolution-
ary biology or related discipline with prior experience
analyzing genomics data is required. Candidates must
have a strong foundation in R, python, perl, or another
coding language, and experience using a computing
cluster is highly desirable.
The funding for this position can support up to 3 years,
with a preferred start date of September 2018, but this
is negotiable.
To apply, please submit a cover letter and CV through
the UNCC jobs website, at the following link: https://-
jobs.uncc.edu/postings/22426 Contact Info:
Liz Cooper, Ph.D. Department of Bioinformatics and
Genomics University of North Carolina at Charlotte
Email: lizcooper@uncc.edu
\ecoope4@clemson.edu" <ecoope4@clemson.edu >July 1, 2018 EvolDir 75
UNorthCarolina Greensboro
MicrobialEvolution
Postdoctoral position: *Speciation and Recombination
in Bacteria*
A two-year postdoctoral position is available in the lab-
oratory of Dr. Louis-Marie Bobay at the University of
North Carolina Greensboro.
The lab focuses on microbial evolution and genomics.
Our research topics currently include: 1) the evolu-
tion of recombination in bacteria and archaea 2) the
processes of speciation in microbial populations and
3) the evolution of gene diversity in prokaryotes. To
nd out more details about our research, you can visit:
https://louismariebobay.wixsite.com/bobaylab The lab
is primarily computational. The candidate must be
procient in programming, preferably in Python. The
ideal candidate would have experience in bioinformatics,
evolution, microbiology, and metagenomics.
To apply, email Louis-Marie Bobay at ljbobay@uncg.edu.
Please include a CV, a short research statement and the
name and email address of at least two referees.
To nd out more information about Greensboro, North
Carolina you can visit: https://realestate.usnews.com/-
places/north-carolina/greensboro Louis-Marie Bobay
{ Louis-Marie Bobay, PhD Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Biology - EBER 102-117 Univ. of North Car-
olina at Greensboro Greensboro, NC 27403 USA Web-
site: https://louismariebobay.wixsite.com/bobaylab
Louis-Marie Bobay <ljbobay@uncg.edu >
UPotsdam AdaptiveGenomics
The University of Potsdam, Faculty of Science, Institute
of Biochemistry and Biology, Research Unit of Evolu-
tionary Adaptive Genomics is seeking to ll the following
position possibly by 01.10.2018:
Academic Sta Member
Postdoctoral position in the Evolutionary Adaptive Ge-
nomics groupThe Institute for Biochemistry and Biology at the Uni-
versity of Potsdam is seeking to ll a position for a post-
doctoral researcher (TV-L E13) in the research group
of Prof. Hofreiter. We are seeking a highly motivated
candidate with a strong background in Evolutionary Bi-
ology, preferably in research areas such as evolutionary
genetics, evolutionary genomics or evolutionary bioin-
formatics. Organismal zoologists with motivation to
extend their skill set towards genomic analyses are also
welcome to apply. Candidates need to have a PhD in bi-
ology, bioinformatics, biochemistry or molecular biology.
They should have an excellent publication record and
ideally experience with grant acquisition and teaching.
The successful candidate is expected to apply for grants
in Germany or abroad. The position comes with a teach-
ing requirement of 11h per week during the semester
and the candidate is expected to supervise undergradu-
ate (mandatory modules) as well as graduate students.
Teaching of bachelor students has to be performed in
German. Consequently, good command of German in
both written and spoken form is required. Teaching
includes courses in zoology and molecular biology and
will be organized in a way that leaves time for research.
The successful candidate will work in an active, in-
terdisciplinary and stimulating environment and will
have access to state-of-the-art equipment and techniques
in genetic and genomic research, including a group
owned Illumina Nextseq500 sequencing system and a
10xGenomics Chromium system. The group is part
of the University Research Center \Functional Ecol-
ogy and Evolution" and is collaborating with a number
of international research groups. For more informa-
tion visit our webpage (http://www.uni-potsdam.de/-
ibb-genomics/index.html) or contact Prof. Hofreiter
(michael.hofreiter@uni-potsdam.de).
The contract should start 1 ^st October 2018. The posi-
tion will initially be restricted to 2 years. Extension for
a further 3 years is possible.
Applications including a motivation letter and research
plan (no more than 2 pages), CV (no more than 3 pages),
list of publications, teaching experience, copies of de-
gree certicates, and names of two referees should be
submitted by 15 ^th July 2018 as a single pdf-le to
michael.hofreiter@uni-potsdam.de.
Michi Hofreiter <michi@palaeo.eu >76 EvolDir July 1, 2018
UppsalaU FungalPhyloinformatics
I am hiring a post doc to work on evolutionary processes
shaping the diversity of fungi with focus on ectomycor-
rhizal fungi. The add is available at http://www.uu.se/-
en/about-uu/join-us/details/?positionId=210086 and
there is a link at the bottom of this page to submit your
application.
Martin Ryberg Systematic Biology Uppsala University
Uppsala
Martin Ryberg <martin.ryberg@ebc.uu.se >
UppsalaU HostAdaptationBacteria
POSTDOCTORAL FELLOW IN EVOLUTIONARY
MICROBIOLOGY, BIOINFORMATICS We are recruit-
ing a postdoctoral fellow to Lionel Guy's research group
at Uppsala University.
PROJECT Our group is studying the evolution of host-
adaptation in bacteria. We are currently focusing on
the Legionellales order, which contains representatives
at several stages of host adaptation. We are gathering
a number of novel genomes through extended sampling,
metagenomics and data mining. The goal of this project
is to extend the current dataset, analyze it, to shed
light on the evolution of Legionellales in particular, and
on the evolutionary transitions in host adaptation in
general.
FORM One-year post-doctoral fellowship (SEK 288 000,
circa USD 34 000, per annum); extension for a second
year available. Candidates who are employees of Upp-
sala University, or have been in the two years before the
start of the fellowship, are not eligible.
Starting date: to be discussed.
BASIC SKILLS AND QUALIFICATIONS - A PhD in
evolutionary biology, molecular evolution, microbiology
or related topic. - Experience with high-throughput
sequencing data, metagenomics, comparative genomics,
and molecular evolution tools. - A documented experi-
ence of team work and collaborative projects.
DESIRED QUALIFICATIONS - Programming experi-ence.
APPLICATION To be sent by email to li-
onel.guy@imbim.uu.se, latest on June 30th, 2018.
Applications (in one single document) should include:
- Letter of motivation - Resume - Publication list -
Names and contact information of two references or two
letters of reference.
HOST INSTITUTION The group is located at the De-
partment of Medical Biochemistry Microbiology, Upp-
sala University. The host department is a very strong
and stimulating research environment, counting over
250 researchers in over 30 groups, and is conducting
world-leading research in antibiotic resistance.
Uppsala University is a comprehensive research-intensive
university with a strong international standing. Our
mission is to pursue top-quality research and education
and to interact constructively with society. Our most
important assets are all the individuals whose curiosity
and dedication make Uppsala University one of Swe-
den's most exciting workplaces. Uppsala University has
40,000 students, 7,000 employees and a turnover of SEK
6.5 billion.
CONTACT Lionel Guy, M: lionel.guy@imbim.uu.se, P:
+46 18 471 42 46, W: http://www.imbim.uu.se/research-
groups/infections-and-defences/guy-lionel/
Lionel Guy, PhD, Assistant Professor Department
for Medical Biochemistry and Microbiology, Uppsala
University, Uppsala, Sweden phone: +46 18 471
4246; postal address: Box 582, SE-751 23 Uppsala li-
onel.guy@imbim.uu.se
Lionel Guy <guy.lionel@gmail.com >
URegina FishAdaptation
Postdoc: Molecular physiology of adaptation to thermal
stress in sh
A two-year, MITACS and NSERC CRD-funded, post-
doctoral position to study transcriptomic responses to
embryonic and early life history thermal stress in sh
is available in Dr. R. Manzon's Lab at the University
of Regina. The ideal candidate will have a strong back-
ground in bioinformatics and transcriptomics and/or
sh physiology and developing an understanding of how
cellular responses lead to changes at the whole organism
or population levels.
The successful applicant will help develop an indepen-July 1, 2018 EvolDir 77
dent research program examining the short- and long-
term eects of thermal pollution on embryonic and early
life history stages of Lake Whitesh using modern tran-
scriptomic and genomics tools. Within this framework
there will be ample opportunity to develop novel and
independent research avenues. This position is part of
a large project involving four Principal Investigators at
three dierent institutions (Dr. C. Somers, U. Regina;
Dr. J. Wilson, McMaster; Dr. D. Boreham, NSOM),
several postdoctoral fellows and many graduate and
undergraduate students who meet annually and work
very closely with each other and our industrial partner,
Bruce Power.
The Manzon research group is a dynamic, productive
and very close knit group that works as a team on a
variety of dierent research projects and are generous
with their time to help others in the group. Maintaining
this environment is a key priority, thus the success-
ful candidate will be a hard-working team player who
appreciates the value of helping others in the group
and is willing to accept help when required. There
will be opportunities for both formal and informal men-
torship opportunities of graduate and undergraduate
students and as such it is expected that the success-
ful candidate will take on a leadership role in the
group. Information on the Manzon group can be found
at: https://www.uregina.ca/science/biology/people/-
faculty-research/manzon-r ichard/index.html or https:/-
/www.facebook.com/SaskFishPhysResearch/ Applica-
tions including a cover letter, CV, names and contact
details of 3 academic references and unocial tran-
scripts should be sent to Dr. Richard Manzon at
richard.manzon@uregina.ca. The ideal start date will
be late fall of 2018, but is negotiable. Review of appli-
cations will begin August 1st, 2018 and continue until
the position is lled.
Richard G. Manzon, Ph.D.
Professor
Department of Biology
University of Regina
3737 Wascana Parkway
Regina SK S4S 0A2
Ph: 306-337-2417
Fax: 306-337-2410
Richard Manzon <richard.manzon@uregina.ca >USDA BatonRouge
HoneybeeBioinformatics
Biologist (Computational Bioinformatics) UDSA-ARS,
Honey Bee Breeding, Genetics and Physiology Research
Unit, Baton Rouge, LA
Summary: The incumbent will be assigned to the USDA-
ARS Honey Bee Breeding, Genetics and Physiology Re-
search Unit in Baton Rouge, LA. The incumbent will
conduct bioinformatics analyses related to whole genome
sequencing, transcriptomics and molecular marker de-
velopment and verication in honey bees. The overar-
ching goal of this work is to increase our understanding
of the variation across dierent stocks of honey bees
to better inform decisions for marker development as
a selection tool for breeding programs. As such, the
incumbent will be able to address broader questions
and explore new hypotheses including identifying stock-
related genomic signatures, examining dierential se-
lection pressure across stocks, and determining genetic
underpinnings of traits of interest. Additional projects
will likely be explored stemming from other ongoing
projects, including RNAseq of susceptible or resistant
bees, or other research avenues to be explored by the
incumbent.
Requirements/Qualications: - U.S. Citizens and Per-
manent Residents seeking U.S. Citizenship. - A Ph.D.
is required that was obtained within the last four years
- Knowledge and skills in conducting genome-wide as-
sociation studies, RADseq, RNAseq is highly desirable.
- Prociency in R statistical software and experience
writing scripts for analysis of genomic data is highly
desirable.
Salary
$61,218 to $79,586 per year
Open & closing dates
6/04/2018 to 12/31/2018 (or until the position is lled)
The following information is required of all applicants:
Announcement number, title, and grade(s) of the
position
Full name, mailing address (including zip code) and
day and evening phone numbers (with area code)
A one-page abstract of Ph.D. dissertation
A resume of any honors or awards received; mem-78 EvolDir July 1, 2018
berships in professional or honor societies; invitations
to make presentations at scientic/technical meetings;
scientic society oce and committee assignments; pre-
sentations (other than invitations); and publications.
A list of names, addresses, and phone numbers of
persons familiar with your stature, contributions, and
recognition.
Indicate country of citizenship
Copy of DD Form 214, Certicate of Release or Dis-
charge from Active Duty (Only if claiming veterans
preference. Visit the following web site for additional
information: http://www.opm.gov/employ/veterans/-
html/vetguide.asp)
SF-15 (Application for 10-point Veterans Preference)
plus the supporting documentation required by this
form (if claiming 10-point veteran's preference). Visit
http://www.opm.gov/forms/html/sf.aspto obtain the
form.
Applications may be mailed, faxed, or e-mailed to the
appropriate address and/or facsimile number listed be-
low:
Mail: USDA-ARS-HBBGPRU Attn: Michael Simone-
Finstrom, Ph.D. 1157 Ben Hur Road Baton Rouge, LA
70820
E-mail: Michael.simonenstrom@ars.usda.gov
Phone: 225-767-9293; Fax: 225-766-9212
Refer to full job posting at: https://www.usajobs.gov/-
GetJob/PrintPreview/501355400 Michael
Simone-Finstrom Research Molecular Biologist USDA-
ARS Honey Bee Breeding, Genetics, and Physi-
ology Research <http://www.ars.usda.gov/main/-
sitemain.htm?modecode=60-50-05-00 >1157 Ben Hur
Rd Baton Rouge, LA, 70820
Phone: (225) 767-9293
\SimoneFinstrom, Michael - ARS"
<Michael.SimoneFinstrom@ARS.USDA.GOV >UStrasbourg SquirrelEvolution
2-year Postdoctoral Fellow position in Animal Phys-
iology and Behavioural Ecology with Dr Vincent A
Viblanc and Dr F Stephen Dobson at the University of
Strasbourg, Institut Pluridisciplinaire Hubert Curien,
France.
Social networking in the Columbian ground squirrel: a
bio-logging approach linking animal behavior to individ-
ual health and ageing
Ageing is likely inuenced by social biology in group-
living organisms. However, the mechanisms of interac-
tion between social stressors and stress-related health
issues are poorly studied, and the impact of social stress
on organismal tness is virtually unknown. Our re-
search will integrate the links among social stressors,
physiological stress indicators, and individual tness
in a colony of ground squirrels observed since 1992.
Columbian ground squirrels (Urocitellus columbianus)
are semi-social sciurid rodents that inhabit sub-alpine
meadows of the Rocky Mountains of Canada and the
northern US. They have a matrilineal social system
where related individuals overlap both spatially (kin
clusters) and over generations. Our current research
indicates that individual tness benets are acquired by
co-breeding with neighbours that are close kin. However
the consequences of social heterogeneity on individual
physiology and health are unknown.
In this project we will explore the eects that the social
environment has on adult phenotype, using a bio-logging
approach to measure individual social contacts both
above and below ground. We will use an innovative ap-
proach, via large scale deployment of >80 novel contact
collars coupled with 3D-accelerometers and magnetome-
ters to establish continuous networks of social inter-
actions throughout the breeding season, and connect
individual social attributes to their underlying physi-
ology (glucocorticoid stress hormones, oxidative stress
markers, immunity markers and telomere dynamics).
More information on the MamTag project can be found
here.
Research will be based at the Institut Pluridisciplinaire
Hubert Curien (Strasbourg, France, website), and eld-
work will be carried out in the Sheep River Provincial
Park (Alberta, Canada, website). The applicant should
have a keen interest in working with free-living mammals
in outdoor conditions.July 1, 2018 EvolDir 79
The post-doctoral fellow will be responsible for imple-
menting the rst stage of the MamTag project. This will
include (1) standardization and pre-analysing accelerom-
eter, magnetometer and contact data collected in 2018
(Dec 2018-Mar 2019), (2) deploying loggers and collect-
ing data (including physiological samples) in the eld
(Apr-Jul 2019), (3) analysing logger signals and devel-
oping programming routines to establish social contact
networks and animal behaviour (Aug-Mar 2020). The
post-doctoral fellow will also assist with the supervision
of a PhD student associated with the project, whose
research will focus on the social determinants of tness.
The second year of the project will be used to analyse
physiological samples at the IPHC and the Centre for
the Neurobiology of Stress, University of Toronto, and
publish the results.
For this post-doctoral project we are seeking someone
who works well in a team environment; who is mobile,
creative, highly motivated; and who has a keen inter-
est in integrating animal physiology, behavioural and
evolutionary ecology. Our ideal candidate will have a
proven record of working on complex signal analyses
(accelerometer, compass and environmental data) and
developing specic toolboxes for signal analyses (strong
expertise in signal processing with Matlab/R/Python).
Previous experience working in the eld (long hours out-
doors, animal handling) and in the lab (ELISA, RIA) is
preferred but not essential; the willingness to learn such
techniques is, however, required. The candidate should
have excellent written and oral communication skills in
English and an excellent publication record.
The successful applicant will be mainly based in the
Department of Ecology, Physiology & Ethology (DEPE)
at the University of Strasbourg, France, under the joint
supervision of Dr Vincent A Viblanc and Dr F Stephen
Dobson. The DEPE is a lively Department where the
post-doctoral fellow will benet from interaction with a
thriving community of postgraduate students, postdocs
and researchers in animal physiology, marine biology
and behavioral ecology. Furthermore, the applicant will
integrate with an international team, and will thus bene-
t from the interaction and support of research partners,
including Rudy Boonstra (University of Toronto), Do-
minique Filippi (Sextant Technology, New Zealand),
and Fran??ois Criscuolo (IPHC CNRS). The applicant
will participate in University of Strasbourg Institute for
Advanced Studies (website) actions such as seminars
and related activities.
Strasbourg is one of Europe???s most attractive cities,
being 1h45 by train from Paris, 1h by plane from Ams-
terdam and Scandinavia, and at
/This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UtahStateU EvolutionCommunity
Hello,
I'm looking for a post-doc with experience in commu-
nity ecology or evolutionary biology, who is interested in
analysing the co-occurrences and associations of many
taxonomic groups using NEON data. The position is
fully-funded, and includes money to travel to conferences
and working groups.
A copy of the funded proposal that outlines the project
and instructions for application are available online
(http://pearselab.com/join-the-lab/). I'm happy to an-
swer any questions over email (will.pearse@usu.edu).
Thanks,
Will Pearse
|
Assistant Professor of Biology, Utah State Univer-
sity Oce: +1-435-797-0831; Room BNR-139 Skype:
will.pearse
\will.pearse@usu.edu" <will.pearse@usu.edu >
UTexas Austin EvolutionaryBiology
In connection with a new research collaboration and
award, the research groups of Howard Ochman and Mark
Kirkpatrick (Department of Integrative Biology, UT
Austin) are seeking two postdoctoral research associates
with experience in evolutionary biology, phylogenetics,
population genetics, bioinformatics, and/or genomics.
The general theme of this research is to resolve the un-
derlying structure of bacterial species and to elucidate
to the process of bacterial speciation using a variety
of approaches. Projects may be strictly computational
(and involve the development of phylogenetic methods
and theory) or experimental (including genetic, genome
and microbiome analysis).80 EvolDir July 1, 2018
The start date is exible, preferably within calendar
year 2018, although later dates can be accommodated.
Salary is $49,000 ^A' to $52,000 per year depending on
experience, plus a full benets package is included. Ini-
tial appointments would be for 1 year, with potential
to extend to 2 or 3 years. UT Austin oers a very stim-
ulating research environment with outstanding facilities
and infrastructure. Austin is a vibrant city with many
options for recreation and cultural activities.
If interested, please send a resume and a brief state-
ment of research interests and career goals to Kim
Hammond: kim.hammond@utexas.edu. Please include
the names and contact information for three refer-
ences familiar with your scientic work. Queries about
the project can also be directed to either H. Ochman
(howard.ochman@austin.utexas.edu) or M. Kirkpatrick
(kirkp@austin.utexas.edu).
howard.ochman@austin.utexas.edu
UToronto 4 EvolutionaryBiol
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
at the University of Toronto invites applications for
four dierent Postdoctoral Fellowships for 2018-2019:
Banting, Liber Ero, EEB, FAS.
Area of Research: Ecology and/or Evolution, broadly
dened.
Description of duties: The Fellow will collaborate with
the advisor(s) on research that is mutually agreed upon
by all parties and the Fellow will publish the results in
scientic journals.| The Fellow will be a fully partici-
pating member in the Department.
Application Instructions:All individuals interested in
any of these positions must rst contact and obtain
the agreement of a|faculty advisor (or co-advisors).For
some of these fellowships, only full-time faculty members
at the St. George (downtown) campus of the Univer-
sity of Toronto are eligible to serve as advisors.For the
Banting Postdoctoral Fellowship competition, the rst
deadline is July 5, 2018.
See this website for details on deadlines, criteria, etc.
for each of the four dierent postdoctoral fellowship
competitions (details will be added to the website when
they become):
http://www.eeb.utoronto.ca/about-us/employment/-
postdocs/Overview Postdoctoral Positions.htm ForClosing date, Salary, Expected start date, Term,
Required qualications: See details on the website
listed above.
FTE (full time equivalent):|| 100%
The University of Toronto is a leading academic institu-
tion in Canada with over 60 faculty members specializing
in ecology and evolution.
Strong links exist between the Department of Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology and the Royal Ontario Mu-
seum, the Centre for Global Change, and the School of
the Environment. The University owns a nearby eld
station dedicated to ecological and evolutionary research
(the Koer Scientic Reserve, www.ksr.utoronto.ca ).
The department also has a partnership with the Ontario
Ministry of Natural Resources that helps provide access
to infrastructure, including lab facilities in Algonquin
Provincial Park (www.harkness.ca ), funding, and long-
term data sets. Genomic analyses are supported by a
number of high-performance computing resources, multi-
lab bioinformaticians, as well as sta at the Centre for
the Analysis of Genome Evolution and Function.
The University of Toronto is strongly committed to di-
versity within its community and especially welcomes
applications from racialized persons / persons of colour,
women, Indigenous /Aboriginal People of North Amer-
ica, persons with disabilities, LGBTQ persons, and
others who may contribute to the further diversication
of ideas.
Asher D. Cutter Professor and Associate Chair Un-
dergraduate Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology University of Toronto 25 Willcocks St. Toronto,
ON, M5S 3B2
tel: 416-978-4602 email: asher.cutter@utoronto.ca
http://labs.eeb.utoronto.ca/cutter Asher Cutter
<asher.cutter@utoronto.ca >
UTurku MicrobialEvolution
Dear All,
I have an open postdoc position for 3 year, starting
September 1st 2018. Aim of the project is to investi-
gate eco-evolutionary dynamics in multispecies micro-
bial (bacteria + protist) communities and how antibiotic
resistance evolves in the presence of species interactions.
Person who I am looking for must have a PhD degree
from a relevant eld and experience in working with
microbes in laboratory setting, preferably a backgroundJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 81
in experimental evolution or microbial ecology.
Keywords: evo-evolutionary dynamics, experimental
evolution, community dynamics, AMR, microbiology /
microbial ecology.
Deadline for the applications is end of June. Detail
how to apply: (job ID 5916) http://www.utu./en/-
university/come-work-with-us/open-vacancies/Pages/-
home.aspx Best regards,
Teppo Hiltunen Associate Professor University of Turku
Finland
\Hiltunen, Teppo" <teppo.hiltunen@helsinki. >
VanderbiltUniv
EvolutionBiologicalClocks
Postdoctoral Position: Evolution of Circadian Rhythms
in Bacteria
Vanderbilt University, Nashville, USA: Laboratory of
Dr. Carl Hirschie Johnson
The Position: Dr. Johnson is seeking a highly motivated
postdoctoral fellow to study the evolution of circadian
(daily) clocks in bacteria by experimental and bioin-
formatics methods, including the use of an innovative
experimental evolution approach.
Background: The eld of circadian clocks received the
Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 2017 for its
progress towards understanding the mechanism of cir-
cadian oscillators. While these biological clocks display
conserved properties from bacteria (especially cyanobac-
teria) to fungi, plants, insects, and vertebrates (includ-
ing humans, of course), practically nothing is known
about their evolution or about the selective pressure(s)
that led to the evolution of these fascinating biological
timekeepers. The laboratory of Dr. Johnson led the
discoveries of circadian clocks in bacteria, in particular
major contributions to the mechanism of the circadian
system in cyanobacteria. Moreover, Dr. Johnson's labo-
ratory is the major (and practically the only) laboratory
that has provided experimental support for the tness
advantage of circadian clocks (see PMCID: PMC21132;
PMID:15324665; and PMCID: PMC3633149).
The Project: Inspired by studies from other laboratories
of bacterial experimental evolution to relatively simple
selective pressures, the Johnson Laboratory has under-
taken an experimental evolution approach using E. coli
(that does not exhibit circadian phenomena) under avariety of rhythmic environmental regimes to evolve
clock-like behavior. This experimental evolution has
been conducted for eight years by the technician in the
laboratory, and is now exhibiting interesting phenotypes
that need a conscientious and motivated postdoctoral
fellow to characterize and analyze. The methodology
will include genetic/bioinformatic methods (genome se-
quencing, analysis of adaptive mutations, RNAseq, etc.),
physiological/imaging methods (to most fully charac-
terize phenotypes using luminescent and/or uorescent
reporters), proteomic methods (analyzing gene expres-
sion patterns), and metabolomic methods (temporal
changes in metabolism in response to rhythmic environ-
ments).
In addition to the experimental evolution project, the
candidate will also be involved in analyses of the adap-
tive signicance and mechanism of biological timekeep-
ing in purple bacteria and cyanobacteria (see PMCID:
PMC4794148). For an overall introduction to these re-
search questions, see our review in Nature Reviews in
Microbiology (PMCID: PMC5696799).
The Candidate: The ideal candidate has strong moti-
vation and should ideally be driven by a passion for
evolutionary biology. Expertise in genetic technology
with bacteria and bioinformatics is a plus. The position
requires the ability to independently take responsibility
for the project, as well as strong teamwork & communi-
cation skills, problem-solving abilities, reliability, and
eective time management.
Research environment and location: There are excellent
facilities and collaborations available within the Vander-
bilt University system, including other laboratories that
study circadian clocks (e.g., the labs of Doug McMahon,
Terry Page, and Beth Malow) and evolutionary biology
in microbes (e.g., the labs of Antonis Rokas, Seth Bor-
denstein, and Ann Tate). Nashville is an exciting city
with a low cost of living and many artistic opportunities
(especially music) as well as close proximity to nature.
For more information about the Johnson Labora-
tory, see our website: http://www.cas.vanderbilt.edu/-
johnsonlab/ Interested applicants should contact Dr.
Carl Johnson at: carl.h.johnson@vanderbilt.edu. Please
send a CV, your research interests, and a list of at least
three referees.
Selected relevant publications from the Johnson Labo-
ratory:
Ishiura, M., S. Kutsuna, S. Aoki, H. Iwasaki, C. R. An-
dersson, A. Tanabe, S. S. Golden, C. H. Johnson, and T.
Kondo. 1998. Expression of a gene cluster kaiABC as
a circadian feedback process in cyanobacteria. Science
281: 1519-1523.82 EvolDir July 1, 2018
Ouyang, Y., C.R. Andersson, T. Kondo, S.S. Golden,
and C.H. Johnson. 1998. Resonating circadian clocks
enhance tness in cyanobacteria. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
USA 95: 8660-8664.
Woele, M.A., Y. Ouyang, K. Phanvijhitsiri, and C.H.
Johnson. 2004. The adaptive value of circadian clocks:
An experimental assessment in cyanobacteria. Current
Biology 14: 14811486.
Mori, T., D.R. Williams, M.O. Byrne, X. Qin, H.S.
Mchaourab, M. Egli, P.L. Stewart, and C.H. John-
son. 2007. Elucidating the Ticking of an in vitro
Circadian Clockwork. PLoS Biology 5: e93. PMCID:
PMC1831719
Johnson, C.H., M. Egli, P.L. Stewart. 2008. Struc-
tural Insights into a Circadian Oscillator. Science 322:
697-701. PMCID: PMC2588432
Johnson, C.H., P.L. Stewart, and M. Egli. 2011. The
Cyanobacterial
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
WashingtonU
AmoebaBacterialSymbiosis
Postdoctoral position on amoeba - bacteria symbiosis
available immediately
This position is for research on the farming symbiosis
between the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum
and certain Burkholderia bacteria. Specically, we have
funding for work on the existence and eect of partner
choice, the eect of symbiont kin selection and kin recog-
nition on the symbiosis, nding genes underlying the
symbiosis in both partners, the molecular evolution ofthese genes, the theory and measurement of mutualistic
selection, and co-evolutionary specialization at the level
of species and clone between an existing NSF grant, a
newly funded one, and other resources. We are seeking
an energetic postdoc with interests in some of these
topics and a strong background in one or more of the
following: evolutionary biology, social behavior, mutual-
ism, microbial evolution, genomics, molecular genetics,
and coevolution theory. The position is in the biology
department at Washington University in St. Louis and
is available immediately but the start date is negotiable.
David Queller and Joan Strassmann lead a friendly
and interactive team of highly motivated, creative,
and smart investigators. They are committed to di-
versity, to the career success of their team members,
and to a collaborative and productive approach to re-
search and mentoring. Check out our website, (http://-
strassmannandquellerlab.wordpress.com/) for more in-
formation on our lab, or Strassmann's blog (http://-
sociobiology.wordpress.com).
If you are interested in joining our group, please send
an email to Joan Strassmann (strassmann@wustl.edu)
with a single le including CV, statement of research
interests, and the names, phone numbers, and email
addresses of three references. Please specify which of
the research areas appeal to you. Women and underrep-
resented minorities are particularly encouraged to apply.
We will begin reviewing applications by 15 June 2018
and will continue to accept them until the position is
lled.
Joan Strassmann
Joan E. Strassmann Charles Rebstock Professor of Bi-
ology Department of Biology Washington University
in St. Louis One Brookings Drive Campus Box 1137
St. Louis MO 63130 phone: (314) 935-3527 fax: (314)
935-4432 cell: (832) 978-5961 skype: strassm e-mail
strassmann@wustl.edu http://strassmannandquellerlab
dot wordpress.com/ Blogs: http://sociobiology dot
wordpress.com/ http://slowbirding dot wordpress.com/
http://goodbyehouston dot wordpress.com/ Twitter:
@JoanStrassmann
Joan Strassmann <joan.strassmann@gmail.com >July 1, 2018 EvolDir 83
WorkshopsCourses
Barcelona AnatomicalNetworkAnalysis Oct22-26 . . 83
Barcelona NGS Jul2-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .83
Berlin ComparativeGenomics Oct1-5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Berlin GWAS Oct22-26 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Berlin LandscapeGenomics 26-30November . . . . . . . . 86
Berlin PythonDataVisualization Oct15-19 . . . . . . . . . 87
Berlin QGIS Jul2-4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
Berlin RADseq Jul2-6 Last2spots . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .88
Berlin RADseq Jul2-6 LastCall . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
Crete EvolutionGeometricMorphometrics Sep10-14 89
Lisbon MicrobialEcoEvolutionaryDynamics Oct22-24
89MDIBL Maine EnvironmentalGenomics Jul13-21 . . 90
Online UManchester Morphometrics Nov5-Dec14 . . 90
QuebecCity eDNAmetabarcoding Nov19-23 . . . . . . . 91
QuebecCity PopulationGenomics Nov12-16 . . . . . . . . 92
Smithsonian ConservationGenomics Oct10-19 . . . . . 93
Switzerland AncientDNA Aug29-Sep1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
Turkey ComputationalEcolEvolution Sep16-22 . . . . .94
Udine NGSDataAnalysis Jul25-27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
UK FunctionalEcology Nov26-30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
UK StatisticalModelling Jun21-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
Wageningen NL AnimalGenomicDiversity Oct15-19 97
Barcelona
AnatomicalNetworkAnalysis
Oct22-26
Dear colleagues,
This course might be of interest for some people in this
list: ANATOMICAL NETWORK ANALYSIS (ANNA),
October 22nd-26th, 2018.
Place: Capellades, Barcelona (Spain).
Instructors: Diego Rasskin-Gutman (Cavanilles Insti-
tute of Biodiversity and Evolutionary Biology, Spain)
and Borja Esteve-Altava (The Royal Veterinary College,
UK).
Course overview
Anatomical Network Analysis (AnNA) is a framework
for quantitatively characterizing the topological organi-
zation of anatomical systems using tools from Network
Theory. AnNA is emerging as a new tool to identify de-
velopmental constraints, measuring morphological com-
plexity and modularity, building morphospaces, and
modelling the growth of anatomical structures.
This course is entitled to teach the main concepts of
AnNA. Students will learn the basics of network analysis
applied to morphological and anatomical systems: gath-
ering information, building network models, analysing
them, and interpret the outcomes of their analysis. This
course combines theoretical introductions and practicalexercises using the free and open-source software R and
RStudio.
Participants are encouraged to bring their own data
for practising and for the supervised project session;
anatomical networks will be provided by the instructors
if needed.
This course is addressed to PhD students, postdocs and
senior researchers.
More information and registrations: https://-
www.transmittingscience.org/courses/systems-biology/-
anatomical-network-analysis-anna/ With best regards
Sole
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno,PhD. Scien-
tic Director Transmitting Science http://-
www.transmittingscience.org/ Soledad De Esteban-
Trivigno <soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org >
Barcelona NGS Jul2-6
SECOND CIRCULAR: postgraduate course \INTRO-
DUCTION TO NEXT-GENERATION SEQUENCING:
APPLICATIONS IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION"
in Barcelona (Spain) from 2nd to 6th July
Dear all,
here you can nd information about the postgraduate
course \INTRODUCTION TO NEXT-GENERATION84 EvolDir July 1, 2018
SEQUENCING: APPLICATIONS IN ECOLOGY AND
EVOLUTION" (3 ECTS credits) which whill take place
in the Faculty of Biology (Universitat de Barcelona),
Barcelona, from 2nd to 6th July. The Institut Bot anic
de Barcelona (CSIC), the Universidad Rey Juan Carlos
and the IRBio-Universitat de Barcelona participate in
the course organisation, with the support of the Fun-
daci on General CSIC and the EVOLTREE network.
The course is aimed at graduates, postgraduates and
PhD students on Evolutionary Biology and related sci-
ences, interested in knowing the new tools and the po-
tential that is being developed with the new techniques
of massive parallel sequencing. No specic training in
bioinformatics is necessary although basic knowledge is
desirable.
The main objective of this course is to show a battery of
potential applications of the NGS by researchers who are
currently working with this technological approach. As
an introductory course, the main purpose is not looking
for a complex or deep training in a specic technique,
but to give a broad view of the available approaches.
The assistant to this course should end with the feeling
of knowing the techniques and their applications, with
the purpose of being able to assess which ones may be
interesting for their research or on which to deepen in
later stages.
The specic objectives are:
1. To present an updated information on the dierent
NGS techniques and their applications, potential and
complexity.
2. To provide basic training in the main software for
each of the techniques, as well as in data processing,
and give tips on how to expand knowledge. This in-
cludes from the quality analysis, edition and analysis of
the les to the interpretation of results. We aim that,
with this basic knowledge, the student can be trained
later if he is interested in a specic aspect of the ones
addressed (for example, attending specialized courses or
self-taught).
3. To favour the contact between students interested in
specic techniques with teachers and specialized person-
nel, for possible collaborations or training.
Please visit our website to have more information
about the course content: http://www.ibb.csic.es/-
en/formacio/col%C2%B7laboracions-en-docencia/curs -
postgraduat/
Online enrolment: https://www.ub.edu/acad/-
npost/txes/3/201711079.php Enrolment deadline:
25/06/2018
FEW POSITIONS STILL AVAILABLE!*S~A2nia Garcia * Institut Bot anic de Barcelona (CSIC)
Passeig del Migdia s/n j08038 Barcelona jTel. (0034)
932 890 611jFax (0034) 932 890 614 soniagar-
cia@ibb.csic.esjsphaeromeria@gmail.com skype: so-
nia.garcia31
S~A2nia Garcia <sphaeromeria@gmail.com >
Berlin ComparativeGenomics Oct1-5
Course: Comparative Genomics
When: 1st - 5th October 2018
Where: Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum
Berlin, Freie Universit at Berlin, K onigin-Luise-Strae
6-8, Berlin (Germany)
Instructors:
Dr Fritz J. Sedlazeck (https://fritzsedlazeck.github.io/)
Prof. Dr. Ingo Ebersberger (https:/-
/scholar.google.com/citations?user=-
LOOY3kYAAAAJ&hl=en)
Course overview
This course will introduce biologists and bioinformati-
cians into the eld of comparative genomics. Dier-
ent techniques will be introduced to identify single nu-
cleotide polymorphism (SNP) and structural variations
(SVs) as well as the annotation of these variations and
the assessment for their functional impact.
Course format
The course is structured in modules over ve days. Each
day will include an introductory lecture with class dis-
cussion of key concepts. The remainder of each day will
consist of practical hands-on sessions. These sessions
will involve a combination of both mirroring exercises
with the instructor to demonstrate a skill as well as
applying these skills on your own to complete individual
exercises. After and during each exercise, interpretation
of results will be discussed as a group.
TARGETED AUDIENCE & ASSUMED BACK-
GROUND
The course is aimed at researchers interested in learn-
ing how to compare genomes and what can be learned
from genomic similarities as well as variations. It will
include information useful for both beginners and more
advanced users. We will start by introducing general
concepts of comparative genomics. On this basis, weJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 85
will then continue to describe all major analysis steps
from the raw sequencing data via the identication of
variations to an assessment of their impact on the phe-
notype.
Attendees should have a background in biology. There
will be a mix of lectures and hands-on practical ex-
ercises using command line Linux. We will therefore
dedicate one session to introduce basic and advanced
Linux concepts for processing data on Amazon cloud
(AWS). Attendees should have also some familiarity with
genomic data such as that arising from NGS sequencing
experiments.
LEARNING OUTCOMES
Identication of SNPs and SVs using de novo genome
assembly and read mapping strategies
Assessment of strengths and weaknesses of the dier-
ent DNA sequencing technologies, Illumina, Pacic Bio-
science, Oxford Nanopore, for the detection of variations
Strengths and pitfalls of de novo assembly and mapping
approaches for comparative genomics
Hands on experience of state of the art methods to
compare multiple genomes
Annotation of variations and comparative genomics anal-
ysis
PROGRAM
Monday: Run your own de novo assembly
Lecture 1
General introduction File formats: FastQ, SAM, BAM
Introduction in de novo assembly strategies, best prac-
tices and quality control
Lab 1
Setting up the computers/AWS instances Reads QC +
trimming De novo assembly Computing General assem-
bly statistics
Tuesday: Run a multi sample SVs comparison
Lecture 2
What are SVs and why are they important? Mapping
of short and long reads Visualization SV calling
Lab 2
How to choose the appropriate short read mapper? Call-
ing of SVs using de-novo and mapping based approaches
Comparison of de novo based and mapping based results
SV Visualization and quality control
Wednesday: Towards annotating the observed variations
Lecture 3Gene prediction RNA-Seq mapping Repeat annotation
Gene order analysis
Lab 3
QC and mapping of RNA seq data Annotate genome
Visualize read mapping
Thursday: Identifying genes aected by SVs
Lecture 4
Gene order and their role in regulating gene expression
The concept of shared synteny and regulation blocks
Evolution of the gene set: Loss, duplication, ssions and
fusion of genes
Lab 4
Annotation of variants Identication of or-
thologs/homologs across species
Friday: Predicting the functional consequences of ge-
nomic variations
Lecture 5
Assessment of gene function (e.g. GO analysis) Func-
tional changes due to loss, SVs, cis-regulation Impact
in pathways (e.g. KEGG)
Lab 5:
GO annotation and analysis Running your own pathway
analysis
Lecture 6:
- Summary and discussion
For more information about the course, please visit our
website: ( https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-
workshops/course33/ )
Here is the full list of our courses and Workshops: (
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/ )
\info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org >
Berlin GWAS Oct22-26
GENOME-WIDE SIGNATURES OF SELECTION
AND ASSOCIATION STUDIES
Berlin, 22nd-26th October 2018
General Topic: Genome-wide analysis of selection sig-
natures and genotype-phenotype associations
INSTRUCTORS:86 EvolDir July 1, 2018
Dr. Pablo Orozco-terWengel (Cardi University, Wales
(UK))
https://scholar.google.co.uk/citations?user=-
urqxLJgAAAAJ&hl=en Dr. Filippo Biscarini
(CNR, ITA)
https://www.researchgate.net/prole/Filippo Biscarini
Overview
This course will introduce students, researchers and pro-
fessionals into the eld of using genomics data to identify
meaningful genomic regions. The course comprises two
approaches: one based only on genomic information,
which will use populations genetics techniques to detect
signatures of selection (both natural and articial); the
other approach will combine genomic and phenotypic
data to identify genetic associations for specic pheno-
types (i.e. GWAS, genome-wide association studies).
Format
The course is structured in modules over ve days. Each
day will include an introductory lecture with class dis-
cussion of key concepts. The remainder of each day will
consist of practical hands-on sessions. These sessions
will involve a combination of both mirroring exercises
with the instructor to demonstrate a skill as well as
applying these skills on your own to complete individual
exercises. After and during each exercise, interpretation
of results will be discussed as a group.
TARGETED AUDIENCE & ASSUMED BACK-
GROUND
The course is aimed at advanced students, researchers
and professionals interested in learning how to make
use of genomic information to study how selection has
shaped the genome and how the genome inuences mea-
surable phenotypes. It will include information useful
for both beginners and more advanced users. We will
start by introducing general concepts of population ge-
netics, which will take up most of the rst half of the
course; the second half of the course will be centered
mainly on GWAS and related aspects.
Attendees should have a background in biology, specif-
ically genetics. There will be a mix of lectures and
hands-on practical exercises using R and the Linux
command line, and bespoke software. Some basic under-
standing of R programming and the Linux environment
will be advantageous. Attendees should have also some
familiarity with genomic data such as those arising from
NGS experiments, including genotyping-by-sequencing
(GBS), and commercial genotyping platforms.
Please visit our website to have more information about
the course content: https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/course36/curriculum- 36/Here is the full list of our courses and Workshops:
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/
Best regards,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org http://www.physalia-
courses.org/ Twitter: @physacourses mobile: +49
15771084054 https://groups.google.com/forum/-
#!forum/physalia-courses \info@physalia-courses.org"
<info@physalia-courses.org >
Berlin LandscapeGenomics
26-30November
Course: LANDSCAPE GENOMICS
Berlin, 26-30 November 2018
Botanischer Garten und Botanisches Museum
Berlin/Freie Universitat Berlin Konigin-Luise-Stra ~Ae
6-8
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/-
course17/ INSTRUCTORS:
Dr. Stephane Joost (Lab of Geographic Information
Systems (LASIG), EPFL, Lausanne, Switzerland)
Oliver Selmoni, MSc (Lab of Geographic Information
Systems (LASIG), EPFL, Lausanne, Switzerland)
Course overview
The course will provide an overview of the type of dataset
that can be used for a landscape genomics analysis.
Firstly, students will learn how to obtain environmental
data from publicly available databases, how to process
it with Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and how
to use the latter to produce indicators able to describe
the characteristics of the landscape. Next, the course
will discuss the dierent approaches to obtain genetic
data and subsequently show how to study genetic vari-
ation and population structure across space in the R
environment. Students will be given an overview of the
dierent statistical approaches to study local adapta-
tion, and will be trained in using two of them, Sambada
and LFMM. The course will also cover the critical task
of the interpretation and validation of the results. Fi-
nally, the course will consider the crucial aspects and
good habits to account for when planning a landscape
genomics experiment (e.g. sampling design).
Targeted Audience & Assumed BackgroundJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 87
This course is aimed at all biologists, ecologists, geneti-
cists, veterinarians that want to implement the land-
scape genomics approach in their own studies of evo-
lutionary biology and conservation. Even though the
course is not intended for a specialized audience, basic
knowledge in evolutionary biology and population ge-
netics would help. Students will learn how to use GIS,
but basic computer skills are desirable (e.g. in the R
environment). A basic understanding of statistics is also
necessary.
Teaching Format
The course is organized in ten learning sessions. During
the rst two sessions, the course will provide a contex-
tualization of the research eld. Then, students will be
guided through a landscape genomics experiment with
sessions that couple brief theoretical introductions with
practical work.
Please visit our website to have more information
about the course content: https://www.physalia-
courses.org/courses-workshops/course17/ Here is
the full list of our courses and Workshops: https:/-
/www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org http://www.physalia-
courses.org/ Twitter: @physacourses mobile: +49
15771084054 https://groups.google.com/forum/-
#!forum/physalia-courses \info@physalia-courses.org"
<info@physalia-courses.org >
Berlin PythonDataVisualization
Oct15-19
Course: Data Manipulation and Visualization with
Python
Berlin, 15th-19th October 2018
( https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/-
course38/ )
INSTRUCTOR:
DR. Martin Jones (founder, Python for biologists: (
https://www.physalia-courses.org/instructors/t1/) )
Overview
One of the strengths of the Python language is the avail-
ability of mature, high- quality libraries for working with
scientic data. Integration between the most popular
libraries has lead to the concept of a \scientic Pythonstack": a collection of packages which are designed to
work well together. In this workshop we will see how
to leverage these libraries to eciently work with and
visualize large volumes of data.
Format
The workshop is delivered over ten half- day sessions.
Each session consists of roughly a one hour lecture fol-
lowed by two hours of practical exercises, with breaks at
the organizer's discretion. Each session uses examples
and exercises that build on material from the previous
one, so it's important that students attend all sessions.
The last two sessions will be kept free for students to
work on their own datasets with the assistance of the
instructor. A description of the sessions can be found
at the bottom of this page.
Assumed Background
This workshop is aimed at researchers and technical
workers with a background in biology and a basic knowl-
edge of Python (if you've taken the Introductory Python
course then you have the Python knowledge; if you're
not sure whether you know enough Python to benet
from this course then just drop us an email).
Requirements
Students should have enough biological/bioinformatics
background to appreciate the example datasets. They
should also have some basic Python experience (the
Introduction to Python course will fulll these require-
ments). Students should be familiar with the use of
lists, loops, functions and conditions in Python and
have written at least a few small programs from scratch.
Students will require the scientic Python stack to be
installed on their laptops before attending; instructions
for this will be sent out prior to the course.
Please visit our website to have more information
about the course content: ( https://www.physalia-
courses.org/courses-workshops/course38/ )
Here is the full list of our courses and Workshops: (
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/ )
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D
Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org
http://www.physalia-courses.org/ Twitter:
@physacourses
mobile: +49 15771084054
https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/physalia-
courses info@physalia-courses.org88 EvolDir July 1, 2018
Berlin QGIS Jul2-4
Dear all,
we still have some places available for our course \Intro-
duction to QGIS" which will be held in Berlin this July
(2-4 July 2018).
Our instructor is Matteo Ghetta, Co-Founder of QGIS
Italia. Matteo is working for the company Faunalia
that operates since more than 10 years in the eld of
Geographic Information Systems (GIS) basing on free
and open source software.
In this course, you will learn how to install and use QGIS,
access and present the data, style the data and produce
high quality layouts with high informative content.
Please visit our website for more information about
the course: ( https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-
workshops/course35/ )
Many thanks, Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D
Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org
( http://www.physalia-courses.org/ )
Twitter: @physacourses
mobile: +49 15771084054
( https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/physalia-
courses )
info@physalia-courses.org
Berlin RADseq Jul2-6 Last2spots
Dear all,
we have the last 2 spots left for our course on RAD-seq
data analysis with Dr. Julian Catchen and Dr. Josie
Paris.
We will run the course in the beautiful botanical mu-
seum (https://www.bgbm.org/) in Berlin from the 2nd
to the 6th of July.The registration deadline is this Friday. For more infor-
mation about the course, please visit our website:
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/-
course16/ Best regards,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org http://www.physalia-
courses.org/ Twitter: @physacourses mobile: +49
15771084054 https://groups.google.com/forum/-
#!forum/physalia-courses \info@physalia-courses.org"
<info@physalia-courses.org >
Berlin RADseq Jul2-6 LastCall
Dear all, last weeks to apply for our RAD-seq
data analysis Workshop based on Stacks 2.0 this
July (2nd-6th) in Berlin, with Dr. Julian Catchen
(University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign; ( http:/-
/catchenlab.life.illinois.edu/ )) and Dr. Josie Paris (Uni-
versity of Sussex, UK).
We have the last 4 places left and attendees are seated
on a rst-come, rst-served basis.
In this course, we will introduce the dierent approaches
for obtaining reduced representation genome sequencing
data and will specially focus on the data analysis. We
will cover all necessary steps to obtain genome variants
from short read data that are informative for population
genetics, phylogenetic and association studies.
This course is aimed at researchers and technical work-
ers who are generating and/or analyzing reduced repre-
sentation genome sequencing data (RAD-seq, ddRAD,
2bRAD, GBS, $B!D(B). Examples demonstrated in this
course will involve primarily non-model organisms and
examples of applications of this data type for dierent
purposes will be covered. Attendees should have a back-
ground in biology. We will dedicate one session to some
basic and advanced Linux concepts. Attendees should
have also some familiarity with genomic data such as
that arising from NGS sequencers.
Please visit our website to have more information
about the course content: ( https://www.physalia-
courses.org/courses-workshops/course16/ )
Here is the full list of our courses and Workshops: (
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/ )
Best regards,July 1, 2018 EvolDir 89
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D
Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org
( http://www.physalia-courses.org/ )
Twitter: @physacourses
mobile: +49 15771084054
info@physalia-courses.org
Crete
EvolutionGeometricMorphometrics
Sep10-14
Dear collaegues,
Early bird registration has been extended for the course
\STUDYING EVOLUTION WITH GEOMETRIC MOR-
PHOMETRICS - 3rd edition"
Instructor: Dr. Chris Klingenberg (Manchester Univer-
sity, UK)
Place: Heraklion, Crete (Greece)
Dates: September 10th - 14th
PROGRAM:
Monday, September 10th, 2018. |Review of some fun-
damental methods, introduction to MorphoJ. * Size and
shape, Procrustes t, visualization of shape changes. *
Principal component analysis. * Distinguishing groups:
Canonical variates and discriminant analysis.
Tuesday, September 11th, 2018. |A closer look at some
properties of morphometric data. * Measurement error
and outliers. * Symmetry and asymmetry. * Regression:
Allometry and size correction.
Wednesday, September 12th, 2018. |Morphological
integration and modularity. * Partial least squares. *
Inferring developmental integration from uctuating
asymmetry.
Thursday, September 13th, 2018. |Phylogeny and
comparative methods. * Mapping shape data onto phy-
logenies. * Comparative methods. * Advanced topics:
Analyses across levels, evolutionary size correction.
Friday, September 14th, 2018. |Special topics and
combined analyses. * Complex symmetries. * Compar-
ing covariance matrices (matrix correlation, ordinationmethods, etc.). * Putting things together: Multi-level
analyses.
Morning sessions will be used for lectures and demon-
strations of analyses (participants will conduct their
own analyses with software and data provided to them).
Afternoon sessions will be devoted to work in small
groups. The rst four afternoons will be used for anal-
ysis of the participants' data as small group projects.
During the last afternoon, participants will give informal
presentations of the group work. There would be an
evaluation at the end of the course, based on the group
work presentations.
More information and registrations: http://bit.ly/-
transmitting-science-sctudying-evolution-with-gm Best
wishes
Sole
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno,PhD. Scien-
tic |Director Transmitting Science (http://-
www.transmittingscience.org/)
soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org
Lisbon
MicrobialEcoEvolutionaryDynamics
Oct22-24
*ABSTRACT DEADLINE EXTENSION!*
We have extended the deadline for oral and poster ab-
stract submission. The oral abstract submission dead-
line for the IGC Symposium 2018 MICROBIAL ECO-
EVOLUTIONARY DYNAMICS is now Friday, June
29th at 11:59PM, and poster abstract submission dead-
line is Friday, August 31st, or until reaching carrying
capacity.
For more information and to apply, please visit http://-
microbial .eco-evo.science/
If you have any questions, please contact The Organiz-
ing Committee at http://microbial.eco-evo.science/ or
eco-evo(AT)mailbox.org.
Hermina Ghenu <hermina.ghenu@gmail.com >90 EvolDir July 1, 2018
MDIBL Maine
EnvironmentalGenomics Jul13-21
Subject: The Summer Workshop on Population-Scale
Genomic Studies of Environmental Stress (EnGen 2018),
July 13 - July 21, with scholarships still available
REGISTER SOON; scholarships and places are now
very limited
Next-Generation Summer Course in Environmental Ge-
nomics at the Mount Desert Island Biological Labora-
tory
A technical course that provides participants with the
skills needed to generate and analyze modern sequence
data (DNA, RNA) through a hands-on approach that
utilizes novel data to guide research into how environ-
mental conditions aect gene responses and the tness
of organisms while accounting for population structure.
Date: July 13 - July 21, 2018. Number of participants:
Restricted to 25. Only $300 registration fee!
We are pleased to announce that this course is sup-
ported by the National Institutes of Health through the
Big Data To Knowledge (BD2K) Program. Therefore,
scholarships are available for US citizens or permanent
residents, including room and board.
https://mdibl.org/course/environmental-genomics-
2018/ < https://mdibl.org/course/environmental-
genomics/ >
Please contact Joe Shaw (joeshaw@indiana.edu) and
John Colbourne (J.K.Colbourne@bham.ac.uk) if you
are a non-US citizen or permanent resident wanting to
participate.
The faculty at MDI Biological Lab is pleased to again
oer a training course in Environmental Genomics, aim-
ing to better understand technologies and approaches
used to discover how gene function is inuenced by
environmental conditions while accounting for varia-
tion that exists within and among natural populations.
This course is built on the paradigm that the research
eld will most eectively grow by properly designing
large-scale experiments enabled by drastically increased
sample-throughput and lower sequencing costs. Most
importantly, the bioinformatics challenges of manipulat-
ing and analyzing population-level genomics data must
be addressed.^ a e^ ae
This course is designed to train the next-generation ofenvironmental scientists, which have included in past
years: university professors, postdoctoral researchers,
doctoral students and government scientists, represent-
ing institutions from North America and Europe. Most
responded in the departure survey that the course cur-
riculum, choice of technologies, and eectiveness pro-
vided sucient training to either begin or enlarge an
environmental genomics project in their own labora-
tories. All reported that they would recommend this
course to a colleague.
This course trains researchers to design studies, and
to collect and analyze RNA-Seq gene expression data.
Daphnia is used for training because of its growing use
as a model system for environmental genomics and for
improving environmental health protection, yet the skills
learned during the course will be applicable to all study
systems with maturing genomics resources, including
humans. Much time is devoted to guiding the current
and future projects of attendees.
Ultimately, participants will be better positioned to
incorporate these technologies into their own research
laboratories, while better understanding how functional
genomics and automation can be applied to ecology,
evolution and environmental toxicology.^ a e
Mount Desert Island Biological Laboratory Old Bar
Harbor Rd., Salisbury Cove, ME 04672 MDIBL - http:/-
/www.mdibl.org <http://www.mdibl.org/ >
John Colbourne <J.K.Colbourne@bham.ac.uk >John
Colbourne <J.K.Colbourne@bham.ac.uk >
Online UManchester Morphometrics
Nov5-Dec14
Dear colleagues
I am pleased to announce this year's morphometrics
course from the University of Manchester. This year's
course will run in the six weeks from 5 November to 14
December 2018.
Course content: * Data acquisition: the kinds of data
and the equipment used to collect them. * Denitions
of size and shape * Geometric methods to characterise
shape from a conguration of landmark points (Pro-
crustes superimposition) * Statistics of variation, scat-
ter plots, basic multivariate statistics * Principal com-
ponent analysis * Measurement error and outliers *
Shape transformations and 'warping' { the thin plate
spline * Analysis of outline shapes * DistinguishingJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 91
between groups (taxonomy, clinical diagnosis, etc.) *
Allometry and size correction * Inuence of external
factors on shape (ecomorphology, dose- response studies)
* Symmetric forms and measurement of asymmetry. *
Morphometric inferences on developmental processes *
Morphological integration and modularity * Genetics
of shape: analyses of resemblance between relatives,
QTL analyses. * Phylogeny: examining the history of
evolutionary changes of shape
Practice examples: As far as possible, practical exer-
cises are provided to accompany the course content.
These practice exercises consist of data sets and expla-
nations on how to run the respective analyses using
the MorphoJ software (http://www.ywings.org.uk/-
MorphoJ page.htm). Participants who already have
their own data are encouraged to use those and to dis-
cuss them as part of the course. I hope there will be a
bit of a 'workshop' feel to the course unit.
Group work: Participants will work in small groups
to prepare web presentations of possible morphometric
studies (wikis prepared by the groups). This activity
stimulates discussion and provides a broad overview of
the broad range of questions that can be addressed with
morphometric methods.
Further information on the course and a link to the
registration page can be found on the following we site:
http://www.ywings.org.uk/MorphoCourse Registra-
tion uses the university's e-store, which can process
automatic *payments by credit card or debit card*.
The deadline for registration via this site is the *29
October 2018*.
The direct link to the e-store is this:
https://estore.manchester.ac.uk/short-courses/-
faculty-of-biology-medicine-and-health/school-
of-biological-sciences/analysis-of-organismal-
form/analysis-of-organismal-form?token=-
4b10ca6c5fa0d1b5273920a4b103520e The fee for
the course is GBP 360.00.
If you cannot pay by credit or debit card, or *if you
require a formal invoice* (e.g. for reimbursement by
your institution), you need to contact the Short Course
Oce in our faculty via this E-mail: ShortCourses-
biosciences@manchester.ac.uk If you need to use this
option, please do so as soon as possible, but denitely
*well before October*.
Best wishes, Chris
{
Christian Peter Klingenberg School of Biological Sci-
ences The University of Manchester Michael Smith
Building Oxford Road Manchester M13 9PT UnitedKingdom
Telephone: +44 161 275 3899 E-mail:
cpk@manchester.ac.uk Web: http://-
www.ywings.org.uk Skype: chris klingenberg
\cpk@manchester.ac.uk" <cpk@manchester.ac.uk >
\cpk@manchester.ac.uk" <cpk@manchester.ac.uk >
QuebecCity eDNAmetabarcoding
Nov19-23
Workshop: eDNA Metbarcoding
When: 19-23 November 2018
Where: Institut de Biologie Integrative et des Systemes
(IBIS), Laval University, Quebec City (Quebec), Canada
Instructors:
Dr. Vasco Elbrecht (University of Guelph, Canada)
Eric Normandeau (Laval University, Canada)
Website: https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-
workshops/course40/ Course Overview
Obtaining environmental DNA (eDNA) from water,
soil, air, gut content or other sample types holds great
promises for biodiversity research and assessment. Tar-
geted species specic markers, and broader, more inclu-
sive metabarcoding approaches using universal primer
sets can detect invasive and rare rare species, or the
range of taxa present in ecosystems from trace amounts
of DNA. eDNA can capture sample diversity using
non-invasive or minimally invasive methods/techniques.
However, due to the low quantity of DNA present in
samples, these approaches often require specialized lab-
oratory protocols, careful sample handling to prevent
contamination, as well as specialized bioinformatic pro-
cessing due to high levels of noise and the presence of
non-target taxa.
After completing the workshop, students should be in a
position to (1) understand the potential and capabilities
of eDNA barcoding and metabarcoding, (2) run com-
plete analyses of eDNA metabarcoding pipelines and ob-
tain diversity inventories and ecologically interpretable
data from raw next-generation sequence data and (3) de-
sign their own eDNA projects, including bioinformatic
data analysis and planning of laboratory work. All
course materials (including copies of presentations, prac-
tical exercises, data les, and example scripts prepared
by the instructing team) will be provided electronically92 EvolDir July 1, 2018
to participants.
While this course will focus on eDNA metabarcoding,
however targeted single species detection and other al-
ternatives will also be explored, as they can sometimes
be suitable metabarcoding alternatives.
Targeted audience & ASSUMED BACKGROUND
This workshop is mainly aimed at researchers and techni-
cal workers with a background in ecology, biodiversity or
community biology who want to use molecular tools for
biodiversity research, and researchers in other areas of
bioinformatics who want to learn ecological applications
for biodiversity-assessment. In general, it is suitable for
every researcher who wants to join the growing eDNA
community. This workshop will review mostly tech-
niques and software useful for eukaryotic single species
detection and eDNA metabarcoding. Other workshops
focused on procedures currently used in bulk sample and
microbial metabarcoding will be available from Physalia-
courses. A survey will be provided 2 weeks ahead of
the workshop, where participants can mention topics or
aspects they are particularity interested in.
No programming or scripting experience is necessary,
but some previous expertise using the Linux console
and/or R will be most welcome. All examples will be
run either in Linux or Mac environments. Please make
sure to have linux installed if you bring a Windows
based laptop. Among the software and tools we will
be using is R or Rstudio (+ the JAMP & PrimerMiner
package), FastQC, Usearch, Vsearch, Cutadapt, and
mBRAVE.net. No prior knowledge of these software
packages is required.
TEACHING FORMAT
The workshop is delivered over 5 days (see the detailed
curriculum below). The lectures are interactive with
active discussion where asking questions is strongly en-
couraged. A key aspect of this course are practical
sessions in primer development, bioinformatic analysis
of high throughput sequence data, and data visualiza-
tion as well as a project planning exercise to apply what
you learned in this course.
Session content: https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/course39/curriculum3 9/
Here is the full list of our courses and Workshops:
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/
Should you have any questions, please do not hesitate
to contact us: info@physalia-courses.org
Best regards,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTORinfo@physalia-courses.org http://www.physalia-
courses.org/ Twitter: @physacourses mobile: +49
15771084054 https://groups.google.com/forum/-
#!forum/physalia-courses \info@physalia-courses.org"
<info@physalia-courses.org >
QuebecCity PopulationGenomics
Nov12-16
Workshop: Population Genomics
When: 12-16 November 2018
Where: Institut de Biologie Integrative et des Systemes
(IBIS), Laval University, Quebec City (Quebec), Canada
Instructors:
Dr. Martin Taylor (University of East Anglia, UK)
Dr. Lewis Spurgin (University of East Anglia, UK)
Eric Normandeau (Laval University, Quebec City,
Canada)
Website: https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-
workshops/course39/ Course Overview
Next generation sequencing has revolutionized evolu-
tionary biology allowing unprecedented resolution and
insight into evolutionary questions that appeared in-
tractable only a few years ago. The course will cover
the basics of population genomic analysis from SNP
data onwards and will cover the key analyses that may
be required to successfully analyze a population ge-
netic data set. The course will NOT cover steps prior
to generation of a .vcf le or SNP data set such as
NGS data demultiplexing, clustering and SNP calling
(This is covered in detail in the Introduction to RADseq
course). This course will introduce Linux and the com-
mand line environment, basic perl and python usage,
le conversions and manipulation, population structure
and dierentiation in R, outlier analysis, landscape /
seascape genomics and introgression. Having completed
the course, students should have a good understanding
of the software and methods available for population ge-
nomic analysis and be competent in population genomic
analysis.
Targeted audience & ASSUMED BACKGROUND
This workshop is aimed at postgraduate students and
early career researchers who are interested in using pop-
ulation genomic tools in their research. No previous
experience of bioinformatics is required, but an under-July 1, 2018 EvolDir 93
pinning in evolutionary biology and basic population
genetics concepts such as Hardy Weinberg Equilibrium
and F[ST] are desirable. The course will use a range of
software including the Linux operating system and R.
TEACHING FORMAT
The workshop is delivered over ten half-day sessions (see
the detailed curriculum below). Each session consists of
a combination of lectures and practical exercises, with
breaks at the organisers' discretion. There will also be
time for students to discuss their own problems and
data.
Session content: https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/course9/curriculumpg /
Here is the full list of our courses and Workshops:
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org http://www.physalia-
courses.org/ Twitter: @physacourses mobile: +49
15771084054 https://groups.google.com/forum/-
#!forum/physalia-courses \info@physalia-courses.org"
<info@physalia-courses.org >
Smithsonian ConservationGenomics
Oct10-19
Reminder for: Bioinformatics Analysis for Conservation
Genomics
October 10-19, 2018
Smithsonian-Mason School of Conservation, Front Royal,
VA, USA
https://smconservation.gmu.edu/programs/-
graduate-and-professional/profe ssional-training-
courses/conservation-genomics/
This new course is designed to provide attendees at any
career stage with a theoretical understanding of the
methods used in conservation genomics along with the
practical skills necessary to design and carry out the
analysis component of a conservation genomics study.
While introduction to the theoretical aspects of each
of the analytical steps will be given, the emphasis of
the course will be on hands-on training, enabling the
participants to complete the analysis steps behind a
conservation genomics study. Thus, the course will
follow the format of short lectures introducing each
analytical step, followed by hands-on activities during
which students will complete the corresponding analysis.The course will begin with an overview of conserva-
tion genomics, comparison of dierent next generation
sequencing platforms, and the analytical factors to con-
sider when beginning a conservation genomics study.
The rest of the course will focus on the bioinformatics
analysis behind a conservation study including: genome
assembly (trimming, assembly techniques, quality as-
sessment), genome annotation, mapping low coverage
genome data to a reference genome, SNP calling, de-
mographic analysis, and estimation of genome-wide di-
versity. These steps will all be accomplished with real
data used in a recent conservation genomics study and
performed on the Smithsonian High Performance Com-
puting Cluster (SI/HPC). By the end of the course,
attendees will have acquired the necessary background
and applied knowledge to implement genomic analyses
for the conservation of endangered species.
The Smithsonian-Mason School of Conservation is a
partnership between George Mason University and the
Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute (SCBI). All
courses are intensive residential programs hosted in
a sustainably-built Academic Center on the grounds
of SCBI in Front Royal, Virginia, USA. All courses
oer continuing education credits (CEUs) and some
can be taken for graduate credit. Limited scholarships
are available for eligible applicants. See our upcom-
ing oerings below and check out our website (http://-
SMConservation.gmu.edu) for more course details and
pricing.
Rebecca Dikow (dikowr@si.edu)
\Dikow, Rebecca" <DikowR@si.edu >
Switzerland AncientDNA
Aug29-Sep1
Ancient DNA: A Time-machine to Study Evolution
While the sequencing of DNA extracted from fossils has
been attempted since 1983, several technological revolu-
tions such as rigorous lab practices and the availability
of next-generation sequencing now make it possible to
obtain high-quality ancient DNA data for many organ-
isms. This opens up an unprecedented opportunity to
include data from multiple time points when studying
evolutionary processes such as past demographic events
or the action of selection.
In this workshop we will explore the range of evolu-
tionary questions that will benet from ancient DNA,94 EvolDir July 1, 2018
and discuss important considerations in designing and
executing research projects using ancient DNA, as well
as best practices in analyzing ancient DNA data. While
the ancient DNA eld had arguably its largest impact
on the study of human evolution, we want to focus on
its broader implications: how can ancient DNA help to
disentangle the eect of selection and demography? How
should modern population genomic analyses be tailored
to be applicable to ancient DNA? What are appropriate
samples sizes for ancient DNA to make a real contribu-
tion? And the ultimate question for participants: would
the inclusion of ancient DNA data make a dierence in
answering my evolutionary research questions?
Conrmed Speakers
- Dr. Aida Andres, UCL Genetics Institute, London,
UK - Prof. Joachim Burger, Johannes Gutenberg Uni-
versity Mainz, Germany - Prof. Greger Larson, School
of Archeology, University of Oxford, UK - Prof. Lu-
dovic Orlando, Center for GeoGenetics, University of
Copenhagen, Denmark - Dr. Maanasa Raghavan, De-
partment of Zoology, University of Cambridge, UK -
Prof. Montgomery Slatkin, University of California,
Berkeley
Location
We will be on the Gemmi Pass, a remote alpine location
in Switzerland on 2350m asl.
Costs
The costs for full board (three nights) is CHF 600 per
person. But we oer 10 stipends of CHF 300.
Registration / more Information
See https://www.cuso.ch/activity/?p=1128&uid=4093
Daniel Wegmann <daniel.wegmann@unifr.ch >
Turkey ComputationalEcolEvolution
Sep16-22
Hi,
The summer school is a joint venture of the evolu-
tionary biology and ecology societies of Greece and
Turkey. This will be the rst summer school of its
name and we are hopeful to turn it into an annual
event. Hosting will alternate between Greece and Turkey
and the rst school will take place in Urla-Izmir 16 -
22 September 2018. All relevant information regard-
ing the school can be found on our webpage (https://-aegeancompecoevo.wixsite.com/home).
If any further information is needed please do not hesi-
tate to contact me.
Yours Sincerely ~A^Aosmail Sa ~Alam
~A^Aosmail K. Sa ~Alam, PhD Assoc. Prof. Hacettepe
University, Faculty of Science, Department of Biol-
ogy Ecological Sciences Research Laboratories Beytepe,
06800, Ankara, Turkey Tel: + 90 312 780 5034 Fax:
+90 312 299 2028 www.iksaglam.com ismail saglam
<iksaglam@gmail.com >
Udine NGSDataAnalysis Jul25-27
The Institute of Applied Genomics, together with
IGA technology services and the University of Udine
is organizing an introductory course on NGS data
analysis: \Data crunching: from hell to heaven" in
Udine, Italy, 25-27 July 2018. For further info
visit the website: https://appliedgenomics.org/it/-
dissemination/training-1/ Fabio Marroni, PhD IGA
Technology Services, s.r.l. Istituto di Genomica Ap-
plicata, via J. Linussio 51 Phone +39 0432 629741
or +39 0432 558652 Fax +39 0432 603887 Web page:
http://www.fabiomarroni.altervista.org/ Fabio Marroni
<marroni@appliedgenomics.org >
UK FunctionalEcology Nov26-30
Functional ecology from organism to ecosystem: theory
and computation (FEER01)
This course will be delivered by Dr. Francesco de Bello,
Dr. Lars G otzenberger and Dr. Carlos Carmona and
will take places in Glasgow city centre from 26th - 30th
November 2018.
Course Overview: The course will describe dierent
aspects and methods in the eld of functional ecology,
combining theoretical lessons with hands-on real data.
Lectures will provide the theoretical and mathematical
basis for dierent applications of functional traits at
organismal, community and ecosystem levels, with ex-
amples across dierent trophic levels. This will serve as
a basis for exploring the practical tools to connect theJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 95
eect of land-use and climate change on biodiversity to
the eect of biodiversity on to multiple ecosystem func-
tions and ecological services. An overview of existing
computational methods, including recent developments
authored by the lecturers, will be provided during the
course and the students will learn how to apply them
using functions and scripts run in R. Students are wel-
come to apply these tools to their own data, or use
the data provided, to be analysed during the course
while beneting from advise by the lecturers. As such,
compared to other courses given by the lectures, this
is a slightly a more advanced and data oriented course
which concentrates on detailed and practical aspects
in functional traits related applications, especially com-
putational ones. The aim of the course is to provide
participants with a handy synthesis of existing concepts,
tools and trends in functional ecology and guide them
to apply these tools to their own eld of interest. As
the eld of functional ecology is rapidly expanding, par-
ticipants will be ready to exploit the potential of the
main trait approaches.
Monday 26th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 - People's
traits game - Introduction to functional ecology and key
denitions - Environmental ltering and related commu-
nity metrics - Overview on functional trait community
metrics - Practical with 'community weighted mean' and
solution to potential biases
Tuesday 27th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 - Species
level analyses - Missing values and trait databases -
Functional diversity indices (alpha, beta and gamma
diversity) - Practical with functional diversity indices
Wednesday 28th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 - Trait
evolution and the relevance of phylogenetic distance
between species - Phylogenetic corrections - Combining
functional and trait information - Practical on phylogeny
and traits
Thursday 29th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30 - Com-
munity assembly: theory - Community assembly: from
species to community level analyses - Null-models - Prac-
tical on community assembly
Friday 30th - Classes from 09:30 to 16:00 - Eects of
traits on ecosystem processes and services - The trait
sampling game - Intraspecic trait variability: biological
relevance and quantication - Practical on intraspecic
trait variability
Email oliverhooker@prstatistics.com
Check out our sister sites, www.PRstatistics.com (Ecol-
ogy and Life Sciences) www.PRinformatics.com (Bioin-
formatics and data science) www.PSstatsistics.com (Be-
haviour and cognition)1. May 21st - 25th 2018 INTRODUCTION TO
PYTHON FOR BIOLOGISTS (IPYB05) Glasgow, Scot-
land, Dr. Martin Jones http://www.prinformatics.com/-
course/introduction-to-python-for-biologists-ipyb05/
2. May 21st - 25th 2018 INTRODUCTION
TO REMOTE SENISNG AND GIS FOR ECO-
LOGICAL APPLICATIONS (IRMS01) Glasgow,
Scotland, Prof. Duccio Rocchini, Dr. Luca Delucchi
www.prinformatics.com/course/introduction-to-remote-
sensing-and-gis-for-ecological-applications-irms01/ 3.
May 28th - 31st 2018 STABLE ISOTOPE MIXING
MODELS USING SIAR, SIBER AND MIXSIAR
(SIMM04) Canada (QUEBEC) Dr. Andrew Parnell,
Dr. Andrew Jackson www.prstatistics.com/course/-
stable-isotope-mixing-models-using-r-simm04/ 4. May
28th - June 1st 2018 ADVANCED PYTHON FOR
BIOLOGISTS (APYB02) Glasgow, Scotland, Dr.
Martin Jones www.prinformatics.com/course/advanced-
python-biologists-apyb02/ 5. June 12th - 15th 2018
SPECIES DISTRIBUTION MODELLING (DBMR01)
Myuna Bay sport and recreation, Australia, Prof. Jane
Elith, Dr. Gurutzeta Guillera www.prstatistics.com/-
course/species-distribution-models-using-r-sdmr01/ 6.
June 25th - 29th 2018
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UK StatisticalModelling Jun21-25
Statistical modelling of time-to-event data using sur-
vival analysis: an introduction for animal behaviourists,
ecologists and evolutionary biologists (TTED01)
https://www.psstatistics.com/course/statistical-
modelling-of-time-to-ev ent-data-using-survival-
analysis-tted01/
This course will be delivered by Dr Will Hoppitt in
Glasgow and will run from the 21st - 25th Jan 2019.
Course Overview:
Survival analysis is a set of statistical methods initially
designed to analyse data giving the times at which indi-
viduals die, and assess the eect that dierent predictor
variables have on the rate of death. However, its ap-
plications are much broader than this: it can be used96 EvolDir July 1, 2018
to analyse any time-to-event data. Ecologists and evo-
lutionary biologists often encounter data of this kind.
Often factors inuencing survival itself will be of inter-
est. But there are many other cases, e.g. what factors
inuence the time of rst breeding? Or the time taken
to reach maturity? Animal behaviourists too will en-
counter this type of data frequently, e.g. what factors
inuence the time it takes to learn a novel behaviour pat-
tern? Or the time to respond to a stimulus? etc. And
yet the techniques of survival analysis are not generally
well known by researchers in these disciplines.
In this course, you will learn how to apply survival
analysis models to quantify the eect that predictor
variables (continuous or discrete) have on the rate at
which events occur, and how to test hypotheses about
these eects. We will focus on a exible modelling
technique called the Cox proportional hazards model,
which makes minimal assumptions about the underlying
probability distributions. You will learn how to t and
interpret these models, how to evaluate its assumptions,
and how to extend it to model time dependent variables,
random eects, multistate models and competing risks
models.
Monday 21st - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Module 1: Statistical modelling of rates and times
Module 2: Parametric survival models and the Cox
model
Tuesday 22nd - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Module 3: Fitting Cox models
Module 4: Interpreting Cox Models
Wednesday 23rd - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Module 5: Evaluating the proportional hazard assump-
tion
Module 6: Stratied Cox models
Thursday 24th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Module 7: Time dependent variables
Module 8: Frailty Models and Multistate models
Friday 25th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30
Module 9: Competing risks models
Module 10: Open session
Email oliverhooker@psstatistics.com
Check out our sister sites,
www.PRstatistics.com (Ecology and Life Sciences)
www.PRinformatics.com (Bioinformatics and data sci-
ence)www.PSstatsistics.com (Behaviour and cognition)
1. June 12 ^th - 15 ^th 2018
SPECIES DISTRIBUTION MODELLING (DBMR01)
Myuna Bay sport and recreation, Australia, Prof. Jane
Elith, Dr. Gurutzeta Guillera
www.prstatistics.com/course/species-distribution-
models-using-r-sdmr01/ 2. June 25 ^th - 29 ^th
2018
SPECIES DISTRIBUTION/OCCUPANCY MOD-
ELLING USING R (OCCU01)
Glasgow, Scotland, Dr. Darryl McKenzie (PROTEUS)
www.prstatistics.com/course/species-
distributionoccupancy-modelling-usi ng-r-occu01/
3. July 2 ^nd - 5 ^th 2018
SOCIAL NETWORK ANALYSIS FOR BE-
HAVIOURAL SCIENTISTS USING R (SNAR01)
Glasgow, Scotland, Prof. James Curley
http://www.psstatistics.com/course/social-network-
analysis-for-behavior al-scientists-snar01/
4. July 8 ^th - 12 ^th 2018
MODEL BASE MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS OF
ABUNDANCE DATA USING R (MBMV02)
Glasgow, Scotland, Prof. David Warton
www.prstatistics.com/course/model-base-multivariate-
analysis-of-abundan ce-data-using-r-mbmv02/
5. July 23 ^rd - 27 ^th 2018
EUKARYOTIC METABARCODING (EUKB01)
Glasgow, Scotland, Dr. Owen Wangensteen
http://www.prinformatics.com/course/eukaryotic-
metabarcoding-eukb01/ 6. September 24 ^th -
28^th
INTRODUCTION TO MIXED (HIERARCHICAL)
MODELS FOR LIFE SCIENCES USING R (IMLS01)
Glasgow, Scotland, Prof. Subhash Lele
https://www.psstatistics.com/course/introduction-to-
mixed-hierarchical- models-for-life-sciences-using-r-
imls01/
7. October 1 ^st - 5 ^th
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlJuly 1, 2018 EvolDir 97
Wageningen NL
AnimalGenomicDiversity Oct15-19
Characterization, management and exploitation of ge-
nomic diversity in animals
https://www.wur.nl/en/Education-Programmes/-
PhD-Programme/Graduate-Schools/Wageningen-
Institute-of-Animal-Sciences/Show-1/Interactive-post-
graduate-course-on-characterization-management-and-
exploitation-of-genomic-diversity-in-animals-15-19-
October-2018.htm Wageningen University & Research
organizes a 5-day interactive course from 15 to 19
October 2018, in the framework of the EU Horizon 2020
project IMAGE (Innovative Management of Animal
Genetic Resources). The course consists of lectures
during which various topics related to genomic diversity
are addressed and of group work during which the
participants will apply novel and exciting methods to
their own genomic data.Aim of the course Preserving genetic diversity is es-
sential for sustainable animal populations. Learn to
characterize, prioritize and conserve genetic diversity in
animal populations, from both a genomic and a breeding
perspective.
Target audience  students - at least in their 2nd year
 -docs and researchers interested in genomic diversity
Content of the course at a glance - Measures of ge-
nomic diversity - Diversity across breeds - Adaptive
introgression - Functional genomics - Management of
small populations - Prioritization for conservation - Op-
timal contributions - Setting up gene bank collections
Lecturers - Jack Windig, Wageningen University & Re-
search (the Netherlands) - Gabor Meszaros, University
of Natural Resources and Life Sciences (Austria) - Hen-
drik Jan Megens, Wageningen University & Research
(the Netherlands) - Steen Weigend, Friedrich Loeer
Institute (Germany) - Michele Tixier-Boichard, French
National Institute for Agricultural Research (France) -
Mirte Bosse, Wageningen University & Research (the
Netherlands)
\Windig, Jack" <jack.windig@wur.nl >\Windig, Jack"
<jack.windig@wur.nl >
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a once
monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope), but
should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.98 EvolDir July 1, 2018
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain old
ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better chance
of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.