E v o l D i r
May 1, 2015
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in the
same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary. The
nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you would
like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .65
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .108
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 119
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1202 EvolDir May 1, 2015
Conferences
Amsterdam Zoology Oct8-9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Bainbridge Washington ChromosomeEvolution Aug17-
20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
Berkeley California EvoDevo Aug5-9 AbstDeadline . 3
Berkeley California EvoDevo Aug5-9 AbstSubmission 3
Copenhagen FishConservationStocks Sep21-25 . . . . . .4
Copenhagen GeneticStockConservation Sept21-25 . . 5
Eatonton Georgia SEPEEG Oct23-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
Guaruja Brazil Evolution Jun26-30 EarlyRegistration 6
Guaruja Brazil Evolution Jun26-30 TravelAwards . . .7
Guaruja Brazil Evolution Jun26-30 VolunteerPositions
7
Guaruji Brazil Evolution Jun26-30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Guelph Barcode Aug18-21 DeadlineReminder . . . . . . .8
Guelph Barcoding Aug18-21 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8
Guelph Barcoding Aug18-21 DeadlineExt . . . . . . . . . . .9
IguassuFalls PlantEvolution Oct25-30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
IndianaU SMBE Mutation May11-14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
KansasStateU ArthropodGenomics Jun17-19 Deadline
11
Manchester MolecularGenomeEvolution Jun15 . . . . 12
Marseilles 19thEvolutionaryBiol Sep15-18 Deadline-Jun30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
MexicoCity Bioinformatics Aug4-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Naples MathToLife Oct19-21 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Paris MMEE InformationEpigeneticsEvolution Jul8-10
14
Poland EctothermsLifeHistory Aug23-28 . . . . . . . . . . 14
Porto Portugal Ichthyology Sep7-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Stockholm MammalBiol Aug16-22 EarlyBird Closing-
Soon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
UBrno PlantGenetics Sep7-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
UCalifornia Berkeley EvoDevo Aug5-9 Deadlines . . 17
UGottingen EcoGenetics Aug31-Sep4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18
UGraz Austria CichlidEvolution Sep6-9 . . . . . . . . . . . 18
UGroningen AdaptiveLife Apr22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
UHawaii Hilo ConservationBiol Apr20-21 . . . . . . . . . . 19
UHudderseld ProtistEvolution Apr15-17 RegExtended
19
UMichigan SSB Standalone Meeting May20-22 . . . . 20
Vairao Portugal Biodiversity Jun1-2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Vienna MolEcolEvol Jun22-24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21
Amsterdam Zoology Oct8-9
www.zoology2015.nl Zoology 2015
Zoology 2015, the 21st Benelux Congress of Zoology
co-organized by the Royal Dutch and Belgian Zoological
Societies, will take place in Amsterdam (the Nether-
lands) on 8 & 9 October 2015 at the Barbizon Hotel in
Amsterdam.
A unique opportunity
Zoology 2015 will be an excellent opportunity for zo-ology students and young scientists to meet colleagues
and to present and discuss their research. Moreover, the
conference will give an overview of the current scientic
work from many European universities and zoological
institutes, and thus provide ample opportunity for es-
tablishing contacts for collaboration.
Topics
Four general topics will be illustrated by four keynote
speakers: evolution of development of behaviour, eco-
logical forecasting, eco-evolutionary dynamics, microbe
- (in)vertebrate interactions.
Feel welcome to join us
Zoology 2015 welcomes oral presentations and postersMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 3
from researchers at all stages of their scientic career
(master students, PhD students, post-docs or PIs) and
from all elds of animal science, from molecules to bio-
sphere.
A.T.Groot@uva.nl
Bainbridge Washington
ChromosomeEvolution Aug17-20
Interested in Chromosome Evolution? Want to attend
a very cool meeting in the beautiful Pacic Northwest?
A small meeting, where you can interact with top re-
searchers and dedicated students at talks, meals, and
after-hour get-togethers? The AGA President, Katie
Peichel, has reserved an intimate retreat, IslandWood,
just outside of Seattle. Registration includes all meals,
spacious shared lodging is cheap, and we've thrown in a
few drinks every evening.
For more information, poster abstract submission,
and registration, go to: http://www.theaga.org/-
program.htm Space is limited for what promises to be a
very popular small meeting. Registration will close on
June 30, or as soon as space is lled, so register early!
Anjanette Baker^ a Managing Editor, Journal of Hered-
ity http://jhered.oxfordjournals.org/ Manager,^ a Ameri-
can Genetic Association http://www.theaga.org/ 2030
SE Marine Science Dr Newport, OR 97366 https://-
www.facebook.com/AmericanGeneticAssociation AGA-
JOH@oregonstate.edu
Berkeley California EvoDevo Aug5-9
AbstDeadline
*FINAL DAY FOR ABSTRACT SUBMISSION! *
*15 April*
*Secure your spot now at the EvoDevo Event of the
Year! *
*1) **Become a member of PanAm EvoDevo.*
*2) **Register and submit an abstract - NOW.*
*3) **Attend the meeting - August 5th in Berkeley, CA.*
Abstract Submission for the inaugural meeting of thePan American Society for Evolutionary Developmen-
tal Biology <http://www.evodevopanam.org/ >ends
Tomorrow!
Register and Submit your Abstract to secure your spot
at the meeting - registration is limited to 350 members.
There are only a few spaces left to attend, and a few
days left to submit your abstract!!!
*Click **here* <http://www.evodevopanam.org/-
meetings{events.html >* to join, register and submit
your abstract.*
Follow us: @EvoDevoPanAm
Join Us: #EvoDevo15
A few meeting highlights:
- *Award winning speakers: *Natalia Pab on-Mora (Early
Career Award Recipient), Rudy Ra (Pioneers Award
recipient).
- *Selected abstracts* chosen for presentations and
posters by members; faculty, postdocs and students
encouraged to apply.
- *Poster prizes* for PhD students and postdocs
All details about registration, accommodation op-
tions, childcare services, and the conference pro-
gram are available at the following website: http:/-
/www.evodevopanam.org/meetings{events.html Sup-
port the Society and Become a Member, and enjoy the
benets of being part of the fast-growing and intellectu-
ally invigorating EvoDevo community!! To learn more
about PASEDB, visit the following website: http://-
www.evodevopanam.org/ The Organizing Committee
and the PanAm SEDB Executive Council look forward
to welcoming you to Berkeley in August!
registration@panamevodevo member-
ship@panamevodevo
Chelsea Specht <cdspecht@berkeley.edu >
Berkeley California EvoDevo Aug5-9
AbstSubmission
EvoDevo2015, August 5-9, Berkeley California
The Final Days for Abstract Submission are upon us!
Submit your abstract by April 15th for an oral or poster
presentation at PanAM EVODEVO.
This is the inaugural meeting of the Pan American
Society for Evolutionary Developmental Biology!4 EvolDir May 1, 2015
The meeting is 5-9 August, 2015 and will include in-
vited talks, contributed sessions, awards, posters, tar-
geted workshops on science and education, and loads
of opportunities to build collaborations in the highly
interdisciplinary and interactive eld of Evolutionary
Developmental Biology. All walks of life and technologi-
cal advances will be represented, from bacteria to plants,
from hosts to parasites, from paleo to next generation.
There are only a few spaces left to attend, and a few
days left to submit your abstract!!!
Registration will continue until April 30th for any spots
not lled, but these are limited. Abstracts will not be
accepted after the deadline.
To register and submit your abstract go to http://-
www.evodevopanam.org/meetings{events.html Follow
us: @EvoDevoPanAm Join Us: #EvoDevo15
A few meeting highlights:
- Award winning speakers: Natalia Pab on-Mora (Early
Career Award Recipient), Rudy Ra (Pioneers Award
recipient).
- Selected abstracts chosen for presentation by our
rapidly-growing diverse and international membership;
faculty, postdocs and students are all encouraged to
apply.
- Posters on display throughout the entire meeting.
- Poster prizes for PhD students and postdocs
All details about registration, accommodation op-
tions, childcare services, and the conference pro-
gram are available at the following website: http:/-
/www.evodevopanam.org/meetings{events.html Sup-
port the Society and Become a Member, and enjoy the
benets of being part of the fast-growing, diverse, and
intellectually invigorating EvoDevo community!! To
learn more about PASEDB, visit the following website:
http://www.evodevopanam.org/ The Organizing Com-
mittee and the PanAm SEDB Executive Council look
forward to welcoming you to Berkeley in August!
Chelsea Specht <cdspecht@berkeley.edu >
Copenhagen
FishConservationStocks Sep21-25
ICES Annual Science Conference 2015
Invitation for Submissions - Theme Session T Practical
application of Genetic Stock Identication for the con-servation, management, and restoration of diadromous
sh species
21 - 25 September 2015 Copenhagen, Denmark
Deadline for submitting abstracts is 30 April 2015 via
the ICES website!
Conveners:
Dennis Ensing (AFBI, UK) Philip McGinnity (UC Cork,
Ireland)
Session scope:
Genetic Stock Identication (GSI) is applied widely to
salmon and other diadromous sh populations. Cur-
rent applications include identication of contributing
stocks to mixed-stock salmon sheries. International
management is particularly required in the high seas
where stocks from Europe and North America mix, and
ICES provides advice to the North Atlantic Salmon
Conservation Organization (NASCO). There is a need
to assimilate the outputs from GSI studies into a usable
format for managers of diadromous sh resources, both
nationally and also for the provision of advice to ICES,
NASCO, EIFAAC, etc.
A signicant advance has been made in genetic stock
identication, both in terms of methods and in numbers
of stocks with genetic baselines. The distribution and mi-
grations of salmon post-smolts has now been described
using GSI from the SALSEA Merge and SALSEA North
America studies between 2009 and 2011. The Kolarctic
Project (a joint GSI study on salmon from Scandinavia
and Russia) is complete and the implications for mixed-
stock sheries are being explored.
Coordination and synthesis of the management impli-
cations is now being sought by managers, scientists,
and conservation organizations. This will require an
overview of GSI studies with implications for manage-
ment of stocks. It is also important that the limitations
of GSI probability assignments are understood in ap-
plied assessments.
Finally, both biodiversity and stock productivity are
important components for identifying the conservation
status of stocks; they are not, however, properly inte-
grated into practical management assessments or advice,
particularly regarding rare, marginal, or poorly known
diadromous or other migratory sh.
The session invites contributions that include examples
of GSI studies integrated with: * Management advice
and policy decisions including EU and other directives
* Management of mixed-stock sheries * Application to
restocking or enhancement/restoration projects * Biodi-
versity of marginal, rare, and sensitive species conserva-
tion (shads, lampreys, charr, coregonids, etc.) * CauseMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 5
of changes in populations and stock composition over
longer time periods from archival tissue samples * Pop-
ulation bottlenecks and population viability * Compen-
satory programmes and live gene banking for long-term
management of critically endangered stocks * Single
Nucleotide Polymorphism genetic markers (SNPs) and
improving analytical resolution to ner geographical
scales and stock discrimination
For any informal enquiries, please feel free to contact
any one of the Conveners
Dennis Ensing mail: dennis.ensing@afbini.gov.uk Philip
McGinnity mail: p.mcginnity@ucc.ie
Authors are invited to submit abstracts for paper (oral)
or poster presentation in one of the 2015 theme sessions
via the ICES ASC website. http://ices.dk/news-and-
events/asc/ASC2015/Pages/default.aspx Deadline for
submitting abstracts is 30 April 2015 via the ICES web-
site! Funding support for young scientists Travel funds
are available for early career scientists and rst-time
participation at the ASC is especially encouraged.
To be eligible, the applicant must meet these require-
ments:
* 35 years or younger
* Nationality/aliation in an ICES member country
* Abstract submitted and registration for ASC
Because funds are limited, travel support can only be
partial, e.g. airfare, accommodation, and subsistence.
Applications will be assessed on the following criteria:
* Originality of work (as shown in abstract)
* Signicance for one of the theme sessions
Online application for travel funds will open at the end
of May, immediately after successful contributors have
been informed.
The deadline for applications is 19 June 2015. More
Info: http://ices.dk/news-and-events/asc/ASC2015/-
Pages/Early-Career-Scientists.aspx Drs. Dennis Ens-
ing Fisheries & Aquatic Ecosystems Branch Agri-Food
& Biosciences Institute*, Newforge Lane, Belfast BT9
5PX Northern Ireland tel +44 (0)2890 255054 fax +44
(0)2890 255004
\Ensing, Dennis" <Dennis.Ensing@afbini.gov.uk >Copenhagen
GeneticStockConservation Sept21-25
ICES Annual Science Conference 2015
Invitation for Submissions - Theme Session T Practical
application of Genetic Stock Identication for the con-
servation, management, and restoration of diadromous
sh species
21 - 25 September 2015
Copenhagen, Denmark
Conveners:
Dennis Ensing (AFBI, UK)
Philip McGinnity (UC Cork, Ireland)
Session scope:
Genetic Stock Identication (GSI) is applied widely to
salmon and other diadromous sh populations. Cur-
rent applications include identication of contributing
stocks to mixed-stock salmon sheries. International
management is particularly required in the high seas
where stocks from Europe and North America mix, and
ICES provides advice to the North Atlantic Salmon
Conservation Organization (NASCO). There is a need
to assimilate the outputs from GSI studies into a usable
format for managers of diadromous sh resources, both
nationally and also for the provision of advice to ICES,
NASCO, EIFAAC, etc.
A signicant advance has been made in genetic stock
identication, both in terms of methods and in numbers
of stocks with genetic baselines. The distribution and mi-
grations of salmon post-smolts has now been described
using GSI from the SALSEA Merge and SALSEA North
America studies between 2009 and 2011. The Kolarctic
Project (a joint GSI study on salmon from Scandinavia
and Russia) is complete and the implications for mixed-
stock sheries are being explored.
Coordination and synthesis of the management impli-
cations is now being sought by managers, scientists,
and conservation organizations. This will require an
overview of GSI studies with implications for manage-
ment of stocks. It is also important that the limitations
of GSI probability assignments are understood in ap-
plied assessments.
Finally, both biodiversity and stock productivity are
important components for identifying the conservation6 EvolDir May 1, 2015
status of stocks; they are not, however, properly inte-
grated into practical management assessments or advice,
particularly regarding rare, marginal, or poorly known
diadromous or other migratory sh.
The session invites contributions that include examples
of GSI studies integrated with:
-Management advice and policy decisions including
EU and other directives -Management of mixed-
stock sheries -Application to restocking or enhance-
ment/restoration projects -Biodiversity of marginal,
rare, and sensitive species conservation (shads, lampreys,
charr, coregonids, etc.) -Cause of changes in popula-
tions and stock composition over longer time periods
from archival tissue samples -Population bottlenecks
and population viability -Compensatory programmes
and live gene banking for long-term management of
critically endangered stocks -Single Nucleotide Polymor-
phism genetic markers (SNPs) and improving analytical
resolution to ner geographical scales and stock discrim-
ination
For any informal enquiries, please feel free to contact
any one of the Conveners
Dennis Ensing [e^ amail: dennis.ensing@afbini.gov.uk ]
Philip McGinnity [e^ amail: p.mcginnity@ucc.ie ]
Authors are invited to submit abstracts for paper (oral)
or poster presentation in one of the 2015 theme sessions
via the ICES ASC website.
http://ices.dk/news-and-events/asc/ASC2015/Pages/-
default.aspx Deadline for submitting abstracts is 30
April 2015 via the ICES website!
Funding support for young scientists Travel funds are
available for early career scientists and rst-time partic-
ipation at the ASC is especially encouraged.
To be eligible, the applicant must meet these require-
ments:
* 35 years or younger
* Nationality/aliation in an ICES member country
* Abstract submitted and registration for ASC
Because funds are limited, travel support can only be
partial, e.g. airfare, accommodation, and subsistence.
Applications will be assessed on the following criteria:
* Originality of work (as shown in abstract)
* Signicance for one of the theme sessions
Online application for travel funds will open at the end
of May, immediately after successful contributors have
been informed.The deadline for applications is 19 June 2015.
More Info: http://ices.dk/news-and-events/asc/-
ASC2015/Pages/Early-Career-Scientists.aspx Drs.
Dennis Ensing Fisheries & Aquatic Ecosystems Branch
Agri-Food & Biosciences Institute*, Newforge Lane,
Belfast BT9 5PX Northern Ireland tel +44 (0)2890
255054 fax +44 (0)2890 255004
[*AFBI was created on 1st April 2006 as the amalga-
mation of the Science Service of the Department of
Agriculture and Rural Development and the Agricul-
tural Research Institute of Northern Ireland.
\Ensing, Dennis" <Dennis.Ensing@afbini.gov.uk >
Eatonton Georgia SEPEEG
Oct23-25
We are pleased to announce that the 2015 SouthEast-
ern Population Ecology and Evolutionary Genetics
(SEPEEG) meeting will be from October 23-25, 2015.
It will be held at Rock Eagle 4-H Center in Eatonton,
Georgia, which is about an hour southeast of Atlanta
(http://goo.gl/maps/5InU2 ). We expect the format,
cost, and housing arrangements to be similar to previous
SEPEEG meetings. The plenary speaker will be Mar-
garet Ptacek from Clemson University. Announcements
about registration will be sent out in mid-late summer.
The organizing committee is Kelly Dyer, Dave Hall, and
Andrea Sweigart from the University of Georgia.
Kelly Dyer Associate Professor Department of Genetics
University of Georgia Athens, GA 30602-7223 email:
kdyer@uga.edu phone: 706 542 3154
Kelly Dyer <kdyer@uga.edu >
Guaruja Brazil Evolution Jun26-30
EarlyRegistration
Evolution 2015 - June 26-30 Casa Grande Resort -
Guaruj a, Brazil
The early registration deadline for the joint
ASN/SSB/SSE Evolution conference has been
extended from the original Apr. 15 deadline. TheMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 7
discounted rate will now be available until midnight
(Guaruj a time, UTC/GMT - 3h) on Monday, Apr.
27. For more information, and to register, visit
www.evolution2015.org. We look forward to seeing you
there!
howard.rundle@uottawa.ca
Guaruja Brazil Evolution Jun26-30
TravelAwards
TRAVEL AWARD TO ATTEND EVOLUTION 2015
SSE SYMPOSIUM \THE MULTIPLE DIMENSIONS
OF BIODIVERSITY SCIENCE"
With support from the National Science Foundation, we
are pleased to oer travel awards to students and post-
docs interested in participating in the SSE Symposium
\The Multiple Dimensions of Biodiversity Science", to
be held during the 2015 Evolution Meetings in Brazil.
The Symposium will gather evolutionary biologists,
ecologists and environmental scientists associated with
NSF's Dimensions of Biodiversity program and others
to present and discuss how cross-disciplinary collabora-
tion can advance what we know about the generation,
maintenance, and loss of biodiversity at local, regional,
and global scales. This series of talks will showcase new
and promising integrative approaches to biodiversity
studies, and lead to a discussion about the very best
strategies to educate and train the next generation of
integrative scientists.
Awardees will attend the Symposium, network with stu-
dents, speakers, and their research groups, and bring a
poster to Evolution 2015 to present their own integrative
and novel research projects in the eld of biodiversity
science. This award is open to undergraduate, graduate,
and postdoctoral students in US institutions. Women
and under-represented minorities are especially encour-
aged to apply. Childcare is provided through Evolution
2015.
We will be able to provide full and partial funds to cover
participant costs, including meeting registration, travel,
lodging and food costs. Please submit your application
to dobsymposium@gmail.com BY NO LATER THAN
MAY 5th, under the attention of Ana Carnaval.
Under a Subject Line \DoB Symposium Travel Award,
[applicant's name]", please make sure to include, in a
single PDF le:1) A statement of why you want to attend this SSE
Symposium (what will you get from it? how will you
contribute to it?) 2) A 2-page CV with the name of your
reference writer (your advisor, preferably) 3) A tentative
budget with your estimated costs. If you have additional
sources of funding, please indicate them clearly in this
document. 4) A copy of your poster abstract (this pre-
sentation should also be submitted to Evolution 2015)
Please have your advisor send a letter of recommenda-
tion to dobsymposium@gmail.com, under the attention
of Ana Carnaval, with a Subject Line \Letter of En-
dorsement, [applicant's name]".
We hope to see you in S ~A$o Paulo!
Ana Carolina Carnaval, Ph.D. Assistant Professor, De-
partment of Biology City College of New York, City Uni-
versity of New York Marshak Science Building, Room
J-526 160 Convent Avenue New York, NY 10031, USA
phone (212) 650-5099 fax (212) 650-8585
The Carnaval Lab: http://www.sci.ccny.cuny.edu/-
biology/Carnaval/Carnaval Lab/Welcome.html Ana
Carolina Carnaval <carolinacarnaval@gmail.com >
Guaruja Brazil Evolution Jun26-30
VolunteerPositions
Volunteer @ Evolution 2015 - June 26-30 Casa Grande
Resort - Guaruj a, Brazil
Volunteer positions are available to graduate student
members of the ASN, SSE, and SSB. Volunteers will
work for one full day during the meeting in return for a
reimbursement of their registration fee (early rate for
graduate student members).
To apply, please send an email to evolmeetingvolun-
teer@gmail.com (in English) stating your interest in
volunteering and indicating whether you have any other
means of nancial support for attending. Applications
will be accepted until Apr. 6, after which volunteers will
be selected and the chosen individuals will be informed
by Apr. 12 (a few days before the early registration
deadline). If you do not hear by this date it means
that you were unfortunately not selected. Closer to
the meeting, volunteers will be oered the opportunity
to indicate their job preferences (on a rst-come rst-
served basis). There is no guarantee that you will get
your top choice however. Typical jobs include being a
session monitor (helping with computer/AV equipment)
or working at the registration desk.8 EvolDir May 1, 2015
Reimbursements will be processes after the meeting,
subject to conrmation that the work assignments was
successfully completed. An ability to communicate ef-
fectively in English is required.
howard.rundle@uottawa.ca
Guaruji Brazil Evolution Jun26-30
Evolution 2015 - June 26-30 Casa Grande Resort -
Guaruj a, Brazil
A quick update on the conference and deadlines. Regis-
tration has been strong and we're on track for 1,200 at-
tendees (possibly more) and more than 400 contributed
talks (and 50+ lightning talks). Poster registrations are
still coming in as well. When combined with 11 dierent
symposia, presidential addresses from all three societies,
and various other special events/talks, it is shaping up
to be a dynamic and informative meeting that is not to
be missed. Join your colleagues for an exciting event in
a unique destination!
A reminder that the early registration deadline has been
extended until midnight (Guaruj a time, UTC/GMT -
3h) on Monday, Apr. 27.
Registration for talks (regular and lightning) and posters
will remain open until May 15, or until all slots are lled.
For more information, and to register, visit
www.evolution2015.org. We look forward to seeing you
there!
howard.rundle@uottawa.ca
Guelph Barcode Aug18-21
DeadlineReminder
The Sixth International Barcode of Life Conference will
be held in Guelph, Canada from August 18-21, 2015.
Themed \Barcodes to Biomes", conference sessions will
reect the ongoing expansion of DNA barcoding research
{ in geographic and taxonomic scope, in disciplinary
breadth, and in the diversity of socio-economic applica-
tions. Submit your abstract by April 30th to participate
as part of this international community. This conference
will feature:* publication of all accepted abstracts in a special con-
ference issue of the journal Genome
* an exciting line-up of internationally renowned plenary
speakers
* sessions on systematics, ecology, evolution, conserva-
tion, and whole biome analysis
* sessions on the diverse applications of DNA barcoding
including education; international development; protec-
tion of endangered species; detection of invasive species,
agricultural pests, and species within natural health
products; and food safety & authenticity
* poster session
* diverse opportunities for networking at meals, breaks,
and gala dinner
* 13 prizes for excellent oral and poster presentations
by students and post-doctoral fellows
* pre-conference training workshops
* post-conference excursions to scenic sites such as Nia-
gara Falls
Submit your abstract by April 30th to ensure its full con-
sideration for inclusion in the scientic program and in
the special conference journal issue. Note that the sub-
mission deadline for Travel Awards has passed. We look
forward to welcoming you to Guelph for a stimulating
and productive meeting.
http://dnabarcodes2015.org/ Conference Operating
Committee: Sarah Adamowicz Mehrdad Hajibabaei
Robert Hanner Paul Hebert
Dr. Dirk Steinke
Director, Education and Outreach
Biodiversity Institute of Ontario University of Guelph
50 Stone Road East Guelph, ON, N1G2W1
email: dsteinke@uoguelph.ca http://dna-
barcoding.blogspot.ca http://biodiversity.ca/-
outreach.html http://www.educationandbarcoding.org/
The School Malaise Trap Program at http://-
malaiseprogram.ca dsteinke@uoguelph.ca
Guelph Barcoding Aug18-21
Call for Papers - Sixth International Barcode of Life
Conference
The Sixth International Barcode of Life Conference willMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 9
be held in Guelph, Canada from August 18-21, 2015.
Themed \Barcodes to Biomes", conference sessions will
reect the ongoing expansion of DNA barcoding re-
search { in geographic and taxonomic scope, in disci-
plinary breadth, and in the diversity of socio-economic
applications. This conference will feature:
* an exciting line-up of internationally renowned plenary
speakers
* sessions on systematics, ecology, evolution, conserva-
tion, and whole biome analysis
* sessions on the diverse applications of DNA barcoding
including education; international development; protec-
tion of endangered species; detection of invasive species,
agricultural pests, and species within natural health
products; and food safety & authenticity
* poster session
* diverse opportunities for networking at meals, breaks,
and gala dinner
* 13 prizes for excellent oral and poster presentations
by students and post-doctoral fellows
* travel awards to support international participation
* pre-conference training workshops
* post-conference excursions to scenic sites such as Nia-
gara Falls
Submit your abstract by April 15th to ensure its full
consideration for inclusion in the scientic program. We
look forward to welcoming you to Guelph for a stimu-
lating and productive meeting.
http://dnabarcodes2015.org/
Conference Operating Committee: Sarah Adamowicz
Mehrdad Hajibabaei Robert Hanner Paul Hebert
Dr. Dirk Steinke
Director, Education and Outreach
Biodiversity Institute of Ontario University of Guelph
50 Stone Road East Guelph, ON, N1G2W1
email: dsteinke@uoguelph.ca http://dna-
barcoding.blogspot.ca http://biodiversity.ca/-
outreach.html http://www.educationandbarcoding.org/
The School Malaise Trap Program at http://-
malaiseprogram.ca dsteinke@uoguelph.caGuelph Barcoding Aug18-21
DeadlineExt
Abstract Deadline Extended - Sixth International Bar-
code of Life Conference
The Sixth International Barcode of Life Conference will
be held in Guelph, Canada from August 18-21, 2015.
The abstract submission deadline has been extended
to April 30th. Note that abstracts associated with an
application for a Travel Award must be submitted by
the original due date (April 15th).
Themed \Barcodes to Biomes", conference sessions will
reect the ongoing expansion of DNA barcoding re-
search { in geographic and taxonomic scope, in disci-
plinary breadth, and in the diversity of socio-economic
applications. This conference will feature:
* publication of all accepted abstracts in a special con-
ference issue of the journal Genome
* an exciting line-up of internationally renowned plenary
speakers
* sessions on systematics, ecology, evolution, conserva-
tion, and whole biome analysis
* sessions on the diverse applications of DNA barcoding
including education; international development; protec-
tion of endangered species; detection of invasive species,
agricultural pests, and species within natural health
products; and food safety & authenticity
* poster session
* diverse opportunities for networking at meals, breaks,
and gala dinner
* 13 prizes for excellent oral and poster presentations
by students and post-doctoral fellows
* pre-conference training workshops
* post-conference excursions to scenic sites such as Nia-
gara Falls
Submit your abstract by April 30th to ensure its full
consideration for inclusion in the scientic program and
in the special conference journal issue. We look for-
ward to welcoming you to Guelph for a stimulating and
productive meeting.
http://dnabarcodes2015.org/
Conference Operating Committee: Sarah Adamowicz10 EvolDir May 1, 2015
Mehrdad Hajibabaei Robert Hanner Paul Hebert
Dr. Dirk Steinke
Director, Education and Outreach
Biodiversity Institute of Ontario University of Guelph
50 Stone Road East Guelph, ON, N1G2W1
email: dsteinke@uoguelph.ca http://dna-
barcoding.blogspot.ca http://biodiversity.ca/-
outreach.html http://www.educationandbarcoding.org/
The School Malaise Trap Program at http://-
malaiseprogram.ca dsteinke@uoguelph.ca
IguassuFalls PlantEvolution
Oct25-30
Dear Colleagues,
Brazil and Argentina are hosting the 11th IPMB meet-
ing at Iguassu Falls from October 25th - 30th ( IPMB;
http://www.plantsci.org.uk/events/11th- international-
congress-plant-molecular-biology) .
There are plenary lectures and symposia that will ad-
dress key topics on Plant Molecular Evolution on pro-
cesses such as Photosynthesis, Plant Microbe interac-
tion, Plant signaling and Environmental perception and
adaptation.
The scientic program is very exciting and at top ques-
tions in the eld will be addressed.
Come and join us!
With my best regards,
Marie-Anne
On behalf of the Bilateral Organizing Committee and
IPMB Board
Rita Ulloa (INGEBI, Argentina), Marie-Anne Van Sluys
(Universidade de Sao Paulo, Brazil) Fernando Carrari
(INTA, Argentina), Marcio C. Silva-Filho ( Universidade
de Sao Paulo - Brazil)
mavsluys@usp.brIndianaU SMBE Mutation
May11-14
Dear Colleagues,
The Society of Molecular Biology and Evolution Satellite
Meeting on Mutation, Repair and Evolution, will take
place May 11-14th at Indiana University, Bloomington
Campus. This meeting will explore the biochemical
processes involved in mutation and repair and their rel-
evant impact on genome evolution. Topics will focus on
genomic and environmental features that drive muta-
tion processes, as well as the contributions of mutation,
selection, and drift on genome evolution. Registration,
abstract submission, and further details are available at
our website: http://mutation.indiana.edu. Travel grants
are available for underrepresented minorities. Costs for
registration are $150 SMBE and IU aliates; $190 for
other attendees. Registration includes access to all talks,
morning breakfast, lunch and coee breaks (Tuesday,
Wednesday and Thursday).
Keynote speakers for this meeting are : Patricia Foster
(Indiana University) and Peter Keightley (University of
Edinburgh, UK)
Invited Speakers : Vaughn Cooper - Associate Pro-
fessor, University of New Hampshire, USA. Laurent
Duret - Director of Research, University Lyon 1 Claude
Bernard / CNRS, France. Thomas W. Glover - Profes-
sor of Human Genetics, University of Michigan Medical
School. Matthew Hahn - Professor of Biology and In-
formatics, Indiana University, USA. Ruth Hershberg -
Assistant Professor, Ruth and Bruce Rappaport Faculty
of Medicine, Israel. Sue Jinks-Robertson - Professor of
Molecular Genetics and Microbiology, Duke University,
USA. Vaishali Katju - Associate Professor, University
of New Mexico, USA. Thomas Kunkel - NIH Distin-
guished Investigator, NIEHS, USA. Lawrence Loeb -
Principal Investigator, University of Washington, USA.
Michael Lynch - Professor of Biology, Indiana Univer-
sity, USA. Kateryna Makova - Director of Center for
Medical Genomics, Penn State University, USA. Anna
Malkova - Professor of Biology, University of Iowa, USA.
Polina Shcherbakova - Research Faculty, University of
Nebraska, USA. Graham Walker - Department of Biol-
ogy, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA. Wei
Yang - Principal Investigator, NIDDK, USA. Jianzhi
Zhang - Principal Investigator, University of Michigan,
USA. Rebecca Zufall - Associate Professor, UniversityMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 11
of Houston, USA.
{ Jean-Fran cois Gout Postdoctoral Researcher in the
Lynch Lab Indiana University, Dept. of Biology 1001E
3rd Street Bloomington, IN 47405
http://www.indiana.edu/ ~lynchlab/jf gout.htm
jgout@indiana.edu
KansasStateU ArthropodGenomics
Jun17-19 Deadline
~~~Register by Friday, April 10, for reduced early-bird
rates! ~~~
~New information added: Genome Train Workshop! ~
*-*-*-*-* Ninth Annual Arthropod Genomics
Symposium*-*-*-*-*-
June 17, 2015 to June 19, 2015
K-State Alumni Center, Kansas State University
Manhattan, Kansas
Symposium Website: www.ksu.edu/agc REGISTRA-
TION DEADLINES
Please register online at the Symposium website, www.k-
state.edu/agc Friday, April 10, is the early bird deadline
for reduced fees.
June 5 is the deadline for general registration.
ABSTRACT DEADLINES
Wednesday, May 20 - If you DO wish to present a poster
during the Symposium.
Wednesday, May 20 - If you DO wish your abstract to
be considered for a poster presentation at the IGTRCN
pre-meeting workshop.
(March 9 was the deadline for abstracts to be considered
for oral presentations at the symposium.)
SPEAKERS (Presentation titles are on the Speaker
page of the website.)
Keynote Speaker: David A. O'Brochta, Institute for
Bioscience and Biotechnology Research & Department
of Entomology, University of Maryland College Park
Featured Speakers:
+Michelle Cilia, USDA-ARS, Boyce Thompson Institute
for Plant Research, Cornell University, USA
+Martin J. Donnelly, Liverpool School of TropicalMedicine and the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, UK
+Rosemary G. Gillespie, University of California, Berke-
ley, USA
+Sijun Liu, Iowa State University, USA
+Frank Lyko, German Cancer Research Center, Heidel-
berg, Germany
+Duane McKenna, University of Memphis, USA
+Armin P. Moczek, Indiana University, USA
+Amanda J. Moehring, Western University, Ontario,
Canada
+Daniel E. Neafsey, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard
University, USA
+Greg Ragland, Kansas State University, USA
+Anne-Nathalie Volko, INRA (UMR1333), Montpellier
1 University, France
The symposium focuses on new insights gleaned from
analyzing arthropod genomes and is designed for scien-
tists interested in genomic studies of Arthropods, both
model organisms and those of agricultural or health
relevance. The program will include platform presenta-
tions, welcome reception, Genome Train Workshop, An-
notation Caf e, and arthropod genomics-related poster
sessions. A few poster abstract submissions will be
selected for platform presentations. Postdoctoral, grad-
uate, and undergraduate students are also encouraged
to attend. Sessions conclude Friday evening, followed
by an optional evening at Konza Prairie with dinner
and live music by the Red State Blues Band <http://-
www.redstatebluesband.com/ >.
*-*-*-*-* Pre-Symposium Workshop *-*-*-*-*-
INSECT GENETIC TECHNOLOGY workshop
June 17, 2015 (Wednesday morning and afternoon)
Robust protocols to manipulate genes and genomes
have not yet been developed for most insects other
than Drosophila melanogaster, and this shortfall is lim-
iting research progress in many aspects of arthropod
genomics. The NSF-RCN on Insect Genetic Technolo-
gies (IGTRCN: 2014-2019; igtrcn.org) seeks to remedy
this problem by facilitating the communication of best
practice and new techniques among arthropod genomi-
cists.
This IGTRCN-sponsored workshop will comprise (1)
talks that showcase the latest genetic technologies,
(2) discussion sessions for exchange of ideas and so-
lutions for eective insect genetic engineering, and (3)
posters. Proposals from the workshop will be integrated
into the IGTRCN program of hands-on practical work-
shops, fellowships, and the IGTRCN KnowledgeBase.12 EvolDir May 1, 2015
Early-career researchers are particularly encouraged to
present their research at this workshop. A limited num-
ber of travel grants to attend the workshop are avail-
able for early stage investigators. Application dead-
line was March 9. For more information on poster
abstract and travel grant submission for the workshop,
go to http://www.k-state.edu/agc/symposium level/-
workshop/index.html . GENOME TRAIN WORK-
SHOP
Join us for a journey on The Genome Train on Thursday,
June 18th, 7:00 pm to 8:30 p.m.
Genome Train is a participatory workshop on genomics
training where we will rst introduce the main consid-
erations for each stage of a genome sequencing project
and then break o into groups to focus on:
[1] experimental design, [2] genome assembly & quality
assessment, [3] automated genome annotation, [4] man-
ual curation of gene models, [5] automated & manual
assessment of gene function, [6] dissemination, mainte-
nance & improvement of genome resources.
We will then reconvene to compare notes and nish o
by focusing on station [4] to lead logically on to the
Annotation Caf e. Please sign up here
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Manchester
MolecularGenomeEvolution Jun15
Dear Colleagues,
The 6th Annual Manchester Molecular and Genome
Evolution symposium (MaGE), will take place on Mon-
day 15th June 2015 at the University of Manchester,
UK. The remit of the symposium is broad, including
all aspects of molecular and genome evolution, includ-
ing method development, molecular ecology, population
genetics and experimental evolution.
The symposium will be a day-long event consist-
ing of two plenary lectures, a series of contributed
talks, and a poster session. Plenary lectures will
be given by Adam Eyre-Walker (Sussex Univer-
sity http://www.lifesci.susx.ac.uk/home/Adam Eyre-
Walker/Website/Welcome.html), on \The role of re-combination and mutation in the adaptive process 
and Ashleigh Grin (University of Oxford, http://-
www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/group/grin/) on "The Behavioural
Ecology of Bacteria Causing Infections .
We are now inviting abstracts for talks: see https://-
manchestermage.wordpress.com for details. Deadline
for submission of Talk titles and abstracts: Thursday
14th May
MaGE is free to attend, but places are limited so please
register soon (from the website above, or direct at http:/-
/is.gd/MaGE15register ) and submit a title if you would
like to present a talk or poster. We are particularly keen
to give PhD students and post-docs a chance to present
their work. All contributed talks and posters will also be
considered for a prize, presented at the drinks reception
following the symposium.
If you have any questions do please contact me
(chris.knight@manchester.ac.uk) or Sam (sam.griths-
jones@manchester.ac.uk).
Hope to see you in June!
Chris
Dr Christopher Knight Michael Smith Building Lec-
turer Faculty of Life Sciences Tel: +44 (0)161 2755378
The University of Manchester room B.2012 Oxford
Road tinyurl.com/knightFLS/ Manchester M13 9PT
. ,,><(((>UK
Chris.Knight@manchester.ac.uk
Marseilles 19thEvolutionaryBiol
Sep15-18 DeadlineJun30
Dear all the registration dead line for the EBM 19 is
June 30 more info: http://sites.univ-provence.fr/evol-
cgr/ or www.aeeb.fr
all the best Pierre
Pierre PONTAROTTI <pierre.pontarotti@univ-
amu.fr >May 1, 2015 EvolDir 13
MexicoCity Bioinformatics Aug4-6
The 2nd International Conference on Algorithms for
Computational Biology (AlCoB 2015) invites authors to
submit work in progress for presentation. AlCoB 2015
will be held in Mexico City on August 4-6, 2015. See
http://grammars.grlmc.com/alcob2015/ Presentations
are intended to enhance informal interactions with con-
ference participants, at the same time permitting in-
depth discussion.
TOPICS
Authors can submit presentations describing novel work
in progress on any of the topics within the scope of
the conference. They do not need to contain nal re-
sults, but research that may lead to future interesting
developments is welcome.
KEY DATES
Submission deadline: June 26, 2015 Notication of ac-
ceptance or rejection: 7 days after submission
SUBMISSION
Please submit a .pdf abstract through:
https://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=-
alcob2015 It should contain the title, author(s) and
aliation, and should not exceed 500 words.
PRESENTATION
Each presentation will be allocated 15 minutes in the
programme.
PUBLICATION
The presented work will not appear in the LNCS/LNBI
proceedings volume of AlCoB 2015. However, it will be
eligible for submission to the post-conference Journal of
Computational Biology special issue.
REGISTRATION
Authors of work in progress have to register to the
conference. They will pay a reduced fare. This com-
prises access to all sessions, one copy of the proceedings
volume, coee breaks and lunches.
GRLMC <grlmc@urv.cat >Naples MathToLife Oct19-21
Dear Colleague,
We would like to invite you to the 2nd edition of the
Bringing Maths to Life Workshop that will be held in
Naples, on 19-21 October 2015 (http://www.bmtl.it).
The workshop provides an occasion for biologists and
mathematicians to join forces in addressing key areas in
biology that face demanding mathematical challenges.
Discussing existing cases to identify gaps or to share ex-
isting solutions will help these disciplines in successfully
linking up.
BMTL Workshop will be hosted in the ancient city of
Naples, and will provide a timely and pertinent occa-
sion for international researchers that wish to engage
in cutting edge science at the interface of mathematics
and biology.
This year scientic topics include: -Genome dynamics
-Dynamics of biological networks -Pattern recognition
dynamics -Dynamics of polymorphisms
Conrmed speakers include: - Adam Eyre-Walker, Uni-
versity of Sussex, UK - Chris Bowler, Ecole Normale
Sup erieure, France - Marco Cosentino Lagomarsino, Uni-
versite Pierre et Marie Curie, France - Morgane Thomas-
Chollier, Ecole Normale Sup erieure, France - Sebaastian
Meijsing, Max Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics,
Germany - Panos Pardalos, University of Florida, USA
For more information visit the website (http://-
www.bmtl.it)
Early registration & abstract submission: June 30th,
2015
Scientists are invited to send their contributions. Ab-
stracts should be in English and contain original research
results. Commercial and promotional material will not
be accepted. At least one of the authors is expected
to register to the conference. All abstracts will be peer
reviewed by an international scientic board that will
decide whether presenting them as a poster or an oral
contribution.
Selected peer-review papers will be considered for publi-
cation in monographs and special issues of international
journals.
We hope to meet you in Naples.
Kind regards,14 EvolDir May 1, 2015
The BMTL Organizing Committee Vincenza Colonna,
IGB - CNR Mario Guarracino, ICAR - CNR Alessandra
Rogato, IBBR - CNR Valeria Zazzu, IGB - CNR
Adam Eyre-Walker <a.c.eyre-walker@sussex.ac.uk >
Paris MMEE
InformationEpigeneticsEvolution
Jul8-10
Dear EvolDir list members
We are writing to draw your attention to a symposium
we are organising at this year's Mathematical Mod-
elling in Ecology and Evolution (MMEE) meeting in
Paris, 8-10 July, on the 'Origin and role of epigenetic
information transmission in evolution.' Our conrmed,
invited speakers are: Olivier Rivoire (Laboratory for
Interdisciplinary Physics, Grenoble, France) and Ido
Pen (University of Groningen, The Netherlands). The
symposium details are given below.
If you would like to submit an abstract for a poster or
talk at the symposium, please register at the meet-
ing website, http://www.biologie.ens.fr/mmee2015/-
registration.html, and select the symposium when
prompted. The deadline for preregistration and ab-
stracts is 1 May, the deadline for registration is 1 June.
We hope to see many of you there!
Best wishes, Sinead English, J er^ ome Enjalbert, Maud
Tenaillon and Tobias Uller
Symposium: Origin and role of epigenetic information
transmission in evolution
There is a mounting body of empirical evidence that in-
formation can be transmitted across generations through
several channels other than variation in DNA sequence
alone. Environmentally induced changes in gene ex-
pression can be inherited through incomplete resetting
of methylation marks, for example, and parental be-
haviour aects ospring and subsequent descendants.
Several theoretical papers have modelled these specic
mechanisms. In spite of dierences in the underlying
mechanisms, these channels of genetic and non-genetic
inheritance may be unied in their role as transmission
of information across generations. Here, we propose a
symposium to discuss the merits of such an approach.
Specically, is the information concept a useful frame-
work to develop a theory of non-genetic inheritance?
How do the insights generated from an information per-spective compare to those from mechanistic models?
Can we use this framework to predict the life-history
and environmental conditions under which epigenetically
regulated networks contribute to population adaptation
to tness landscapes? We will also discuss the origin
and specic features (e.g., stability, inducibility) of in-
formation transmission under dierent mechanisms of
inheritance: while DNA machinery seems to be selected
for this purpose, it is less obvious how other mechanisms
come to transmit information across generations.
Sinead English Visiting Research Fellow, Department
of Zoology, University of Cambridge Research As-
sociate, Mathematical Ecology Research Group, De-
partment of Zoology, University of Oxford https://-
sineadenglish.wordpress.com/ sineadenglish@gmail.com
Poland EctothermsLifeHistory
Aug23-28
*Everybody interested in the life history evolution, plas-
ticity and performance of ectotherms is welcome to join
our symposium **(number 19) >From Molecular Ma-
chines to Performance and Life History of Ectotherms:
Temperature, Oxygen, Cell and Body Size (http://-
www.iccpb2015.confer.uj.edu.pl/symposia)**, organised
as a part of the 9th International Congress of Compara-
tive Physiology and Biochemistry. ICCPB2015 will be
held at the Jagiellonian University in Krakow, Poland*
*(23-28 August 2015******).* ***The deadline of early
registration is 14th April The deadline for abstract sub-
mision is 15th June
Symposium organizers:*
Marcin Czarnoleski, Jagiellonian University, Poland
Roberto Nespolo, Universidad Austral de Chile, Chile
*Invited speakers:*
Hans Otto-P ortner (Alfred Wegener Institute, Germany)
^ a /Oxygen and capacity limited thermal tolerance: con-
necting to ecology and evolution//./
Marcin Czarnoleski (Jagiellonian University, Poland)
^ a /Physiological performance and life history of ec-
totherms - a cell size perspective. /
Roberto Nespolo (Universidad Austral de Chile, Chile)
^ a /Energy expenditure and thermal adaptation in a ter-
restrial ectotherm: a reciprocal transplant experiment./
Vincent Careau (Deakin University, Australia) ^ a /Indi-May 1, 2015 EvolDir 15
vidual (co)variation in thermal sensitivity of metabolism
and behaviour./
Luis Casta neda (Institute of Ecology and Biodiversity,
Chile) ^ a /High temperature tolerance in Drosophila sub-
obscura: geographic variation, phenotypic plasticity and
global warming./
Wilco Verberk (Radboud University Nijmegen, The
Netherlands) ^ a /Struggling to balance oxygen uptake
and consumption when breathing under water: implica-
tions for thermal tolerance and growth/.
*Symposium abstract:*
Ectotherms occupy habitats that vary greatly through
space and time with respect to environmental condi-
tions. Environmental conditions such as temperature,
the amount and quality of food, oxygen supply and
life style decide about a balance between demands and
supply of resources, and ectotherms evolved many physi-
ological traits in response to this balance. Ambient tem-
peratures impact directly the thermodynamic state of
molecular machines in cells, physical state of organelles
and diusion processes, which together with the external
supply of oxygen and food shapes the performance of
cellular machinery and ultimately whole-organism per-
formance. Yet, following Darwinian theory of evolution,
it is not the physiological performance that should be
maximized by natural selection, but the expected num-
ber of ospring produced through lifetime. This raises
an important and still unanswered question about links
between the evolution of physiological and life history
traits.
This symposium aims at integrating perspectives of
molecular, cellular and physiological biologists with evo-
lutionary ecologists to better understand the origin of
phenomena observed at a phenotypic and ecological
scales, especially dependence of body size and cell size
on environmental conditions. For example, many cold
ectotherms grow slowly and mature later at larger body
size - the plastic response often called temperature-
size rule. Under hypoxia, ectotherms usually develop
or evolve smaller body size, and thermal tolerance of
some ectotherms decreases in hypoxia. What is more,
recent evidence suggests that cellular architecture of
ectotherm's body undergoes plastic and genetic changes
in response to external environment - e.g. the cell size of
some ectotherms tends to decrease in warm and hypoxic
conditions. At a geographic scale, we observe latitudinal
and altitudinal clines in body size and cell size. The
clines in body size often follow Bergmann's rule (large
size at higher latitudes or altitudes). Despite the com-
monly acknowledged role of thermal conditions in the
origin of these phenomena, the symposium will provide
a room for discussion of a potential role of other factorsthat change in concert with thermal conditions or lati-
tude, especially oxygen supplies, pressure of mortality
factors such as predation and parasitism, season length.
{ Dr. Marcin Czarnoleski
Jagiellonian University Institute of Environmental Sci-
ences Gronostajowa 7, Krakow 30-387 Poland phone:
(+48)126645203 email: marcin.czarnoleski@uj.edu.pl
Dr hab. Marcin Czarno AAski
Instytut Nauk o Arodowisku Uniwersytet Jagiello Aski
ul. Gronostajowa 7, Krak ow 30-387 tel: 126645203
email: marcin.czarnoleski@uj.edu.pl
\Urodzi Aem si A z rodzic ow ubogich, od dziecka poci Ag
czujAc do my Alenia byt penetruj Acego" Stanis Aaw
Lem, Cyberiada
Marcin Czarnoleski <marcin.czarnoleski@uj.edu.pl >
Porto Portugal Ichthyology Sep7-11
This may be of interest - note impending abstract dead-
line Please distribute within your department
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE: 30TH APRIL
2015
Dear colleagues,
As you already know the XV European Congress of
Ichthyology, organized by the Interdisciplinary Centre
of Marine and Environmental Research, will take place
from the 7th to 11th September 2015 in Porto Portu-
gal. This is an international congress promoted by the
European Ichthyological Societythat has been held on
a three-year cycle since 1973. Recent meetings have
been able to attract around 250-300 researchers from
around the world. The congress will focus on sh as a
subject of research in several biological sciences. The
scientic program will include sessions following four
main topics: I) Phylogeny, systematic and genetics; II)
Ecology, conservation and invasive species; III) Life cy-
cles, migration and connectivity; and IV) Physiology,
behaviour and toxicology. Two special symposia have
also been organized: V) Otoliths as a powerful tool to
study shes; and VI) Mediterranean sh biodiversity.
The congress will be organized with parallel oral sessions
and poster exhibitions. The congress will include several
invited plenary lectures made by world renowned sh
researchers: Drs. Jerey Leis (Australia), Joana Robalo
(Portugal), Kenneth Able (USA), Marino Vachhi (Italy),16 EvolDir May 1, 2015
Miguel Pineda(Spain), Neil Metcalfe (UK), Rui Oliveira
(Portugal) and Steven Campana (Canada).
The abstract submission deadline is fast approaching on
the 30th of April 2015. It is mandatory to register rst
to access the on-line submission form. However, you
do not need to pay until the early and late registration
dates on the 15th and 30th of June 2015, respectively.
The registration feeshave been kept low to attract as
much as possible early career researchers (250 euro) and
graduate students (150 euro). Members of the EIS have
a 20% discount. Students will also have the opportu-
nity to compete for awards for best oral and poster
presentations.
The congress will be held at the Hotel HF Ipanema
Park, a 5 stars hotel. A complete buet lunch, includ-
ing water, juices and wines, is available in the conference
hotel for 15 euro per day, but to a limited number of
persons. However, within short walking distance (less
than 5 minutes) you have other light and inexpensive
options, such as a Japanese restaurant, a Pizzeria and
a few snack-bars.
Please also check out the organized social program. We
have schedule events for each conference day for both
participants and accompanying persons. Some of them
are free, but you will need to book them through the
online registration.
In 2014 Porto was elected the best Eu-
ropean destination by European citizens
(www.europeanbestdestinations.com/top/europe-
best-destinations-2014/), and I am sure that you will
be delighted with the city, people and food (and of
course Port wine). Our international airport is served
by several regular and low-cost airlines companies.
But train and car are other options. Bookings for
accommodation with special prices for other HF Hotels
are also now open. Some low-cost accommodations
are now also available on the webpage. We strongly
recommend \Casa Diocesana Semin ario do Vilar" with
single and double rooms ranging from 25 to 39 euro per
day with breakfast included. September is still part
of the summer season for tourism in Porto so try to
reserve your accommodation in advance. If you need
any help, feel free to contact us.
Further, and regularly, updated information can be
found at the congress webpage (www.ciimar.up.pt/-
ecixv). Please follow our latest news onFace-
book (www.facebook.com/ECIXV) and Twitter
(www.twitter.com/ECI XV).
We would greatly appreciate if you kindly forward this
information to your colleagues and students in your
University, Institute and/or national and internationalnetworks. Please also accept our apologies for cross-
postings.
We hope to see you in Porto in early September.
On behalf of the Organizing Committee Prof. Alberto
Teodorico Correia, ECIXV Chair
Dr Lukas R uberjNaturhistorisches Museum der Burg-
ergemeinde Bern jBernastrasse 15 j3005 Bernj
Switzerland phone: +41 (0)31 350 72 82 jemail:
lukas.ruber@nmbe.ch
XV European Congress of Ichthyology, 7-11 September
2015, Porto, Portugal www.ciimar.up.pt/ecixv Lukas
Ruber <lukas.ruber@nmbe.ch >
Stockholm MammalBiol Aug16-22
EarlyBird ClosingSoon
Dear everyone, This is a reminder that Early Regis-
tration for the 7th European Congress of Mammalogy
closes on the 15th of April.
The conference will be held in Stockholm, Sweden, be-
tween 17-21 August 2015. Visit the conference website
to nd out more about the conference, as well as to reg-
ister and submit an abstract: www.zoologi.su.se/ecm7
The deadline for abstract submissions is 15th of May.
Late Registration (at a higher registration fee) will be
open until the 16th of June.
The aim of the European Congresses of Mammalogy is
to foster communication between researchers working on
issues of mammalian biology in the European arena, as
well as providing a venue for the broad dissemination of
European mammal research. The relaxed and friendly
atmosphere of these congresses provides an excellent
opportunity to hear the latest developments in various
elds of mammalogy, to share research experience and
expertise, and to develop new and closer contacts with
colleagues from dierent countries.
The conference will cover a broad range of topics in
mammal biology, including Species Interactions, Popu-
lation Genetics, Conservation Biology and Ecology &
Landscapes.
Preliminary list of Plenary & Keynote speakers: David
Macdonald, University of Oxford Heikki Henttonen,
Finnish Forest Research Institute Anjali Goswami, Uni-
versity College London Xavier Lambin, University of
Aberdeen Jennifer Leonard, Do~ nana Biological Station
Tim Clutton-Brock, University of Cambridge HenrikMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 17
Andr en, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences
Mike Bruford, Cardi University Ian Barnes, Natural
History Museum London Bodil Elmhagen, Stockholm
University Kjell Danell, Swedish University of Agricul-
tural Sciences Nigel Yoccoz, Tromso University Greger
Larson, Oxford University Urs Breitenmoser, Bern Uni-
versity Selina Brace, Natural History Museum London
Arild Landa, Norwegian Institute for Nature Research
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ecm7stockholm
Twitter: https://twitter.com/ECMSthlm2015 Insta-
gram: https://instagram.com/ecmsthlm2015/ Love
Dal en <Love.Dalen@nrm.se >
UBrno PlantGenetics Sep7-10
Mendel Museum of Masaryk University would like to
invite you to the conference Research in plant genetics
(From Mendel's peas to the present) which will be take
place 7th september - 10th september 2015 in Mendel
Museum of Masaryk University in Brno, Czech Repub-
lic.
Conference webside: http://www.mendelgenius.com/-
en/the-conferences/research-in-plant-genetics-from-
mendels-peas-to-the-present Sections/Topics: Mendel's
factors today >From Mendel to population genomics
Where is the message? - Genome structure Non-
Mendelian genetics Reproduction without sex >From
genes to phenotypes The impact. Plant breeding and
agriculture
Invited/keynote speakers: Ueli Grossniklaus, University
of Zurich, Swiss Edward Buckler, Cornell University,
USA Peter van Dijk, KeyGene, Netherlands Cather-
ine Rameau, INRA, Versaille, France Jonathan Wendel,
Iowa State University, USA Dani Zamir, Hebrew Univer-
sity, Jerusalem, Israel Burstin J., INRA Dijon, France
Ellis N., CGIAR, India Varshney R., ICRISAT, India
Important dates: Registration deadline: 30th April 2015
Abstract submission deadline: 30th April 2015
Registration and Call for Papers: Through
attached registration form or webside http://-
www.mendelgenius.com/en/the-conferences/research-
in-plant-genetics-from-mendels-peas-to-the-present
Contact: Mendel Museum of Masaryk University
Mendlovo n am. 1a 603 00 Brno Czech Republic e-mail:
info@mendelmuseum.muni.cz phone: 00420 549 496 669
www.mendelmuseum.muni.cz www.mendelgenius.com
We are looking forward to see you in Brno, CzechRepublic!
\Wendel, Jonathan F [EEOBS]" <jfw@iastate.edu >
UCalifornia Berkeley EvoDevo
Aug5-9 Deadlines
Secure your spot now at the EvoDevo Event of the Year!
1) Join PanAm EvoDevo.
2) Register and submit an abstract - NOW.
3) Attend the meeting \ August 5th in Berkeley, CA.
Registration for the inaugural meeting of the Pan Amer-
ican Society for Evolutionary Developmental Biology is
open! Register and Submit your Abstract by April 1 to
secure your spot. Mark your calendars for the meeting
dates, 5-9 August, 2015.
There are only a few spaces left to attend, and a few
days left to submit your abstract!!!
The registration deadline is April 1, 2015. Click here to
register.
Follow us: @EvoDevoPanAm Join Us: #EvoDevo15
A few meeting highlights:
- Invited speakers: Chris Amemiya, Alexa Bely, Sean
Carroll, Rachel Collin, Kim Cooper, Tamara Franz-
Odendaal, Matt Gibson, Angela Hay, Vivian Irish,
Catherine Linnen, Mark Martindale, Jose Xavier Neto,
Natalia Pab on-Mora (Early Career Award Recipient),
Richard Palmer, Rudy Ra (Pioneers Award recipient),
Bob Reed, Matt Rockman, Neelima Sinha, Stacey D.
Smith, Ralf Sommer, Mansi Srivastava, James Umen
- Selected abstracts chosen for presentations by members;
faculty, postdocs and students encouraged to apply.
- Posters on display throughout the entire meeting
- Poster prizes for PhD students and postdocs
- Child Care reimbursement available!! Bring the whole
family.
All details about registration, accommodation op-
tions, childcare services, and the conference pro-
gram are available at the following website: http:/-
/www.evodevopanam.org/meetings{events.html Sup-
port the Society and Become a Member, and enjoy the
benets of being part of the fast-growing and intellectu-
ally invigorating EvoDevo community!! To learn more
about PASEDB, visit the following website: http://-18 EvolDir May 1, 2015
www.evodevopanam.org/ The Organizing Committee
and the PanAm SEDB Executive Council look forward
to welcoming you to Berkeley in August!
Ehab Abouheif Karen Sears Nipam Patel Chris Lowe
cdspecht@berkeley.edu
UGottingen EcoGenetics
Aug31-Sep4
Dear colleagues,
>From August 31st to September 4th, 2015, the Uni-
versity of G ottingen will host the 45th Annual Meet-
ing of the Ecological Society of Germany, Austria and
Switzerland. The meeting will take place in G ottingen,
Germany.
There will be the \Ecological Genetics and Epigenetics
in the Omics Era" session among other sessions at this
meeting. Those who are willing to participate, either
with a talk or a poster, are very welcome to submit their
abstracts. Deadline for early registration fee and ab-
stract submission is May 15th. There will be also several
attractive excursions and pre-meeting workshops.
See the conference organizers' website for details on
deadlines, fees and registration/abstract submission pro-
cedures:
http://www.gfoe-2015.de <http://www.gfoe-2015.de/
>http://www.gfoe-2015.de/index.php?cat=deadlines
http://www.gfoe-2015.de/index.php?cat=registration
The conference homepage also includes instructions on
how to prepare your oral presentation or poster. Feel
free to contact me if you have any questions or com-
ments regarding the ecological genetics and epigenetics
session. We are looking forward to having your abstract
submissions and to meeting you in G ottingen in late
August this summer!
Thank you for your consideration,
Prof. Dr. Konstantin (Kostya) V. Krutovsky
Department of Forest Genetics and Forest Tree
Breeding B usgen-Institute University of G ottingen
B usgenweg 2 D-37077 G ottingen Germany E-mail:
kkrutov@gwdg.de http://www.uni-goettingen.de/en/-
414626.html +49-(551)-393-35-37 (o.) +49-(551)-39-
83-67 (fax)
\Krutovsky, Konstantin"
<konstantin.krutovsky@forst.uni-goettingen.de >UGraz Austria CichlidEvolution
Sep6-9
CICHLID SCIENCE 2015
We are pleased to announce that the 4th Cichlid Science
meeting will take place from Sept 6 to Sept 9, 2015, at
the University of Graz, Austria.
We invite all cichlid scientists to come and present their
work. We also welcome everybody interested in cichlids
and cichlid research to attend the meeting.
The Cichlid Science meeting series was launched in 2010
at the University of Basel. After subsequent meetings
in Leuven and Bangor, it is now our pleasure to host
this year?s meeting in Graz. Cichlid Science meetings
provide a relaxed and informal ambience promotive of
stimulating discussions, exchange of ideas and network-
ing among scientists from the many dierent elds of
cichlid research.
The deadline for registration and abstract submission is
June 15; the registration fee is euro 70.
Please consult the meeting website for information
on the venue, keynote speakers, program, registration
etc. http://www.uni-graz.at/ ~sefck/CichlidScience/-
home.htm The organizers look forward to welcoming
you in Graz!
Kristina Sefc (kristina.sefc@uni-graz.at), Stephan
Koblmueller(stephan.koblmueller@uni-graz.at)
Univ.-Prof. Dr. Kristina Sefc Institut f ur Zoologie Karl-
Franzens-Universit at Graz Universit atsplatz 2, 8010
Graz +43-(0)316-380 5601
\Sefc, Kristina (kristina.sefc@uni-graz.at)"
<kristina.sefc@uni-graz.at >
UGroningen AdaptiveLife Apr22
At the University of Groningen a new ambitious pro-
gramme has been developed, called Adaptive Life. Adap-
tation is a characteristic phenomenon of all living sys-
tems and crucial in a changing world. The Adaptive Life
programme aims at studying adaptation by integratingMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 19
mechanistic, e.g. physiological and developmental, per-
spectives with ecological and evolutionary approaches.
To make this program a success two institutes, the Cen-
tre for Behavioural Neurosciences and the Centre for
Ecological and Evolutionary Studies, recently merged
to form the Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life
Sciences (GELIFES). In addition, two competence cen-
ters have been established to extend connections with
societal partners: the Sustainable Landscape Compe-
tence Centre and the Brain and Behaviour Competence
Centre. The programme will receive an investment of
over 10 million euros for the next ve years from the
University of Groningen and the theme Adaptive Life
is now one of the four focus areas of the Faculty of
Mathematics and Natural Sciences.
The kick-o meeting of the institute and its new pro-
gramme is on April 22, 2015 in Groningen, The Nether-
lands. Participation is free but registration is re-
quired. For the full programme and further information
see www.rug.nl/gelifes-symposium or contact gelifes-
oce@rug.nl.
GELIFES Oce <gelifes-oce@rug.nl >
UHawaii Hilo ConservationBiol
Apr20-21
Annual TCBES Research Symposium
April 20th and 21st at the University of Hawaii at Hilo
This event is free and open to the public and features
the conservation biology and environmental science re-
search of students, faculty and Federal and State agency
partners with research focused in Hawaii and the Pacic.
This year's symposium features:
-Our keynote speaker, UC Berkeley's Dr. Rosemary
Gillespie.
-A silent auction, featuring an exciting and diverse selec-
tion of items donated by TCBES students and faculty,
our ^ aohana and friends, and many local businesses.
-Free lunch on Monday; catering provided by Aloha
Monday's and Tina's Garden Gourmet Cafe.
-Free refreshments throughout the symposium, with
thanks to Island Naturals, P Apa^ aa Palaoa Bakery, Hilo
Coee Mill, and others.
**We will be providing eco-friendly compostable pa-
per goods courtesy of Sustainable Island Products, butplease help the ^ a Aina by bringing your own reusable
dishes!**
For our presentation schedule or more information
about the symposium, check out our website: http://-
tcbes.hilo.hawaii.edu/symposium2015/ . The schedule
can be found here
http://tcbes.hilo.hawaii.edu/symposium2015/-
schedule.html Everyone is welcome!
Mahalo, hope to see you there!
Dr. Donald Price Director TCBES Graduate Program
Professor of Biology
Science and Technology Building 109 University of
Hawaii at Hilo Hilo, HI 96720
808-932-7178 donaldp@hawaii.edu
http://tcbes.uhh.hawaii.edu/ http://hilo.hawaii.edu/-
depts/biology/ https://sites.google.com/a/hawaii.edu/-
price-lab-at-university-of-hawaii/ donaldp@hawaii.edu
UHudderseld ProtistEvolution
Apr15-17 RegExtended
*BSPB Spring meeting 15-17th April, Hudderseld*
Early bird registration extended until Monday 6th April,
contributed talk submissions encouraged, student bur-
saries and talk slots still available. For more info go to
*www.protist.org.uk <http://www.protist.org.uk >*
Registration forms and abstracts should be sent to Mar-
tin Carr ( martcarr74@gmail.com)
*Wednesday 15th*
15:00 Registration
17:00 Welcome reception
18:30 *Will Ratcli* - Exploring the origin of multicel-
lularity through experimental evolution
*Thursday 16th*
08:45 Experimental evolution symposium
*Mike Brockhurst* - The experimental evolution ap-
proach
*Ville Friman* - Experimental evolution with protozoa -
where are we now?
*Chris Lowe, Jo Marrison, & Duncan Cameron* - Geno-
types to phenotypes in protists20 EvolDir May 1, 2015
*Oliver Kaltz* - Adaptation to varying speeds of environ-
mental change in experimental microcosm populations
of the ciliate *Paramecium caudatum*
*Kai Lohbeck* - The adaptive potential of marine phy-
toplankton to climate change
13:00 Contributed talks
15:00 Student talks
*Friday 17th*
09:00 Multicellularity symposium
*I~ naki Ruiz-Trillo* - What protists are telling us about
the origin of metazoan multicellularity
*Daniel Richter* - The gene content of diverse
choanoagellates illuminates animal origins
*Frank Nitsche* - Everything you always wanted to
know about choanoagellates (but never dared to ask)
* Pauline Schaap - *Evolution of multicellularity in the
Amoebozoan lineage
* J. Mark Cock* - Molecular factors underlying the emer-
gence of complex multicellularity in the brown algae
Ewan Minter
Post-Doctoral Research Associate in Evolutionary Biol-
ogy
Department of Biology University of York Wentworth
Way York YO10 5DD
Email: ewan.minter@york.ac.uk Tel: +447525062408
http://scholar.google.co.uk/citations?user=-
JHuYj64AAAAJ&hl=en Ewan Minter
<ewan.minter@york.ac.uk >
UMichigan SSB Standalone Meeting
May20-22
The deadline for registration for the Society of System-
atic Biologists (and iEvoBio) meeting at the University
of Michigan is *May 1st* Please see the website (http:/-
/ssb2015standalone.weebly.com/ ) for details about the
program, workshops, and registration. We hope to see
you there!
dewitt832@gmail.comVairao Portugal Biodiversity Jun1-2
Trends in Biodiversity and Evolution (TiBE) Confer-
ence 2015 Global Biodiversity Change: From genes to
ecosystems June 1-2, 2015 @ CIBIO-InBIO, Vair ~A$o,
Portugal
The current unprecedented rates of biodiversity loss,
from genes and species to communities and ecosys-
tems, have been related to the eects of multi-scale
environmental changes. The Earth's biosphere is cur-
rently experiencing exceptionally high rates of ecosystem
degradation and species extinction, largely due to hu-
man activities and other anthropogenic pressures on the
global environment. This rapid decline of biodiversity
has been recognized at several scales and across regions,
and has been widely discussed for at least two decades
in the scientic community. It is nowadays considered
one of the most important themes of the environmental
sustainability agenda, particularly since reductions in
current species diversity can lead to profound alterations
in the functioning of ecosystems well as in the resulting
societal benets.
The TiBE2015 conference, organized by CIBIO-
InBIO's PRECOL (http://cibio.up.pt/research-groups-
1/details/biocon) and APPLECOL (http://cibio.up.pt/-
research-groups-1/details/applecolgroups), will provide
a broad perspective on recent advances in the study of
the ecological impacts of social and economic drivers,
land-use dynamics, biological invasions, species range
and niche dynamics, genetic structure and ow, and
other dimensions of change in ecosystems, landscapes
and their biodiversity. Furthermore the conference will
allow a direct link with applied ecology including: i)
the detection, interpretation and forecast of changes in
a given territory; ii) the anticipation of trends in the
patterns of drivers of ecological change, and the early de-
tection of biodiversity responses and ecosystem changes;
and iii) the support to model-assisted frameworks for
cost-ecient conservation and monitoring.
IMPORTANT DATES Abstract submission deadline:
May 1, 2015 Abstract acceptance / Early registration
deadline: May 20, 2015
To know more about this event, please visit CIBIO-
InBIO's website (https://cibio.up.pt/tibe/details/-
tibe2015) or contact us at tibe2015@cibio.up.pt.
CIBIO Divulga c ~A$oMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 21
Vienna MolEcolEvol Jun22-24
Molecular Ecology and Evolution Conference
Venue: Vienna
Dates: June 22nd - 24th 2015
Conrmed speakers:
Par Ingvarsson Christian Hardtke Elizabeth Zimmer
Michael Gruenstaeudl Barbara Mable Yuanwen Teng
Peter Hollingsworth Rob Lanfear Steven Maere Bern-
hard Haubold Thomas Staedler Adam Eyre-Walker
Molecular Ecology & Evolution is a eld of evolutionary
biology, concerned with applying molecular population
genetics, molecular phylogenetics, and, more recently,
\Omics" to traditional ecological questions. The main
goal of the International Conference \Molecular Ecol-
ogy & Evolution" is to review the state of the art and
progress in the knowledge of molecular evolution, species
diagnosis, conservation and assessment of biodiversity,
species-area relationships, and behavioral ecology, to
set research priorities for the next era of research.The
conference will cover the following research topics:
- Population and Landscape Genetics - Genetic Anal-
ysis of Populations - Genetic Variation and Diversity
- Molecular Evolution - Phylogenetics and Phylogeog-
raphy - Molecular Approaches to Behavioral Ecology -
Conservation Genetics & Genomics - Applied Molecular
Ecology - Molecular Tools in Ecology
The program of Molecular Ecology & Evolution Confer-
ence combines plenary lectures and session talks, posters
sessions, special sessions on career development, andtours of the beautiful city of Vienna. Approximately 100
participants are expected. A number of presentations
will be selected from the abstracts.
Vienna is considered one of the most beautiful cities in
the world, situated in the heart of Europe. Due to its
geographic and geopolitical location, Vienna has become
a popular conference place in recent years. Today, Vi-
enna oers a range of sights from old historical palaces,
classical concerts and outstanding opera performances
to typical Viennese coee houses and restaurants - all
brought together in incomparable Viennese harmony.
The International and Local Organizing Committees
have compiled a well-balanced agenda with state-of -
the -art professional highlights and social events to be
remembered.
For the rst time, Vienna Conference Series oer Special
Career & Job Sessions and Organized Meetings with
Potential Employees and Employers! Take the unique
opportunity to nd the GREAT JOB and Outstanding
Researchers for Academy and Industry Labs! These
sessions oer the unique chance for young researchers
to present their portfolio (talks for 5-7 min.) and for
academy and industry - talks on their areas of research
and business (talks for 5-7 min.)
Vienna Conference Series also oer the great opportu-
nity to get FREE REGISTRATION, if you attract 5
more colleagues to attend the meeting, independent on
the institution and location.
Finally, if you are not able to attend the Conference,
you can still submit your abstract and we are happy to
publish it in the abstract book for just 50 euro !
Further details, including how to register, can
be found at http://viscea.org/index.php/molecular-
ecology/general-information/welcome Adam Eyre-
Walker
A.C.Eyre-Walker@sussex.ac.uk
GradStudentPositions22 EvolDir May 1, 2015
BuenosAires ArachnidSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
ClemsonU ArthropodSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .23
DeakinU EvolutionInvasionSpecies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
ExeterU PathogenHostSwitching . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Helsinki TheoEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
KAUST EcolEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
LeibnizInst EvolutionDisease . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
MaxPlanckInst 10 HumanHistory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
MemorialU SalmonConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .28
MNHN Paris LemurEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
MonashU EvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
NaturalisNetherlands Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Stockholm InsectMetagenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30
Stockholm InsectPhylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Stockholm InsectTaxonomy BiodiversityInformatics 32
TexasAMU GrasshopperPhenotypicPlasticity . . . . . . 33
TexasTechU EnvironmentalDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
UAmsterdam PopulationBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
UBern PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .35
UCalgary GenomeEvolutionParasites . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35UCoimbra Portugal WeedEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
UEastAnglia UGroningen EvolutionSeychellesWarblers
37
UFlorida MovementEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
UGraz Austria BehavioralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
UKonstanz MolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .38
UMainz AntLifeHistoryEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .39
UOslo Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
UOslo HybridSpeciesGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
UOtago BirdGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UppsalaU Sweden ExperimentalEvolution NewGenes
42
UQueensland SexBiasedGeneExpression . . . . . . . . . . . 42
USouthernMississippi FishPopulationGenetics . . . . . 43
UStAndrews Adaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UZurich OrchidSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Vienna PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
WageningenU DarwinianAgriculture . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
BuenosAires ArachnidSystematics
23 April 2015
Call for a doctoral candidate - MACN, Buenos Aires,
Argentina, iv.2015
The laboratory of systematics and biology of arach-
nids at the Argentinean Museum of Natural Sciences is
looking for a candidate for a doctoral fellowship of CON-
ICET/FONCyT. Our lab has a strong background in
taxonomic and phylogenetic studies of spiders (Mart n
Ram rez), scorpions (Andr es Ojanguren) and opilionids
(Abel P erez Gonz alez) with access to scanning electron
microscope, molecular laboratory, library, and an ex-
cellent collection of arachnids. Our group has research
funding and has collaborations with research teams in
arachnology around the world. All this, combined with
our strong relationships with the major arachnological
collections and curators worldwide, oers an exceptional
atmosphere and a good basis for developing a career in
arachnology.
The objective of this call is to select a candidate who
will submit a proposal for the 2015 call of doctoral fel-
lowships from CONICET. Eventually, the candidate of
the doctoral fellowship could benet from a FONCyT
fellowship (PICT project) that has been submitted and
is currently being considered for funding.Those who are interested must send a complete CV (in-
cluding degree qualications), and a letter of intention.
After a rst round of evaluation the top candidates will
be called for a personal interview or videoconference.
The deadline for application is May 20, 2015 and results
will be communicated on May 25. The selected candi-
date will submit a proposal (in June) to the 2015 call for
fellowships of CONICET and awards will be eective
during the period of April 2016-2021.
Details: Doctoral candidate for systematics and bio-
geography of opilionids. We seek one candidate with
interest in doing a PhD on taxonomic, systematic and
biogeographic aspects of Opiliones (Triaenonychidae)
from the Andean-Patagonian region. The purpose is to
conduct a study on the processes of diversication and
divergence times in this area, using multiple taxa and
independent data sources (morphological and molecu-
lar). The student is expected to conduct eldwork in
Argentina and Chile, and obtain and analyze morpho-
logical and molecular data under the direction of Abel
P erez Gonz alez (Gonzalo Giribet, Harvard, MCZ will
act as co-director for molecular aspects). Specic in-
quiries concerning this call and submission of application
documents should be directed to Abel P erez Gonz alez,
email: abelaracno@gmail.com
Mart n J. Ram rez Curador General & Divisi on Arac-
nolog a Museo Argentino de Ciencias Naturales - CON-
ICET Av. Angel Gallardo 470, C1405DJR Buenos Aires,
Argentina tel +54 11 4982-8370 int. 169 fax +54 11
4982-6670 int. 172
Sara Ceccarelli <saracecca@hotmail.com >May 1, 2015 EvolDir 23
ClemsonU ArthropodSystematics
*Graduate position in arthropod systematics and biodi-
versity*
The Caterino Arthropod Biodiversity Lab at Clemson
University is looking for highly motivated graduate stu-
dents (M.S. or Ph.D.) for the Fall 2015 or Spring 2016
semester. Specic projects are negotiable, but will in-
clude collection-based elements to address questions
centering on arthropod systematics and biodiversity.
Projects focused on Coleoptera of southeastern North
America, incorporating eldwork, molecular, morpho-
logical, and bioinformatic tools will be preferred.
Interested candidates should have a strong background
in evolutionary and systematic biology, familiarity with
laboratory methods applicable to phylogenetic and phy-
logeographic problems, interest in entomological col-
lections, and a love of arthropods and entomological
eldwork. Prospective students will have to qualify for
admission to the entomology graduate program in the
Department of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences
(AES). Up to three years of funding is available through
an assistantship to upgrade the Clemson University
Arthropod Collection.
Interested students are strongly encouraged to contact
Dr. Caterino before applying to discuss possible research
projects.
For information on the PI and the lab: https://-
sites.google.com/site/caterinolab/ The Clemson Uni-
versity Arthropod Collection: https://sites.google.com/-
site/clemsonarthropodcollection/ The Entomology grad-
uate program: http://www.clemson.edu/graduate/-
academics/program-details.html?m id=148 Michael S.
Caterino John and Suzanne Morse Chair of Arthropod
Biodiversity Director, Clemson University Arthropod
Collection Department of Agricultural and Environ-
mental Sciences MAIL: 277 Poole Agricultural Center
OFFICE: E-254 Poole Agricultural Center Clemson Uni-
versity Clemson, SC 29634-0310 mcateri@clemson.edu
Oce phone: (864) 656-3105
mcateri@clemson.eduDeakinU EvolutionInvasionSpecies
GRADUATE POSITION
A PhD scholarship on invasion ecology is available in
the Rollins lab in the Centre for Integrative Ecology at
Deakin University.
Project: Although invasive species are a massive threat
to biodiversity, and costly to society, we still do not
understand the evolutionary processes that shape in-
vasions. Invasive populations often show rapid evolu-
tionary change in novel environments but attempts to
identify the underlying genetic basis of these changes
have been largely unsuccessful. This PhD is part of
a larger project exploring an innovative and untested
alternative possibility: that invader evolution is pri-
marily driven by epigenetic change. Using an iconic
Australian invasive species, the cane toad, we will con-
duct a multi-generational experiment to manipulate
DNA methylation levels and quantify the eects on phe-
notypic traits important to invasion and which have
been shown to change across the introduced range in
Australia, including traits related to dispersal ability,
immune function and personality. We will also be inves-
tigating the plasticity of these traits and determining
whether this relates to changes in epigenetic state. The
larger project is well-resourced and multi-disciplinary,
combining the eorts of molecular ecologists at Deakin
University with invasion ecologists (Professor Rick Shine
and his team) from the University of Sydney.
Selection criteria: This PhD project will be primarily
based at our collaborator?s eld station in the Northern
Territory but will also include time at the Deakin Univer-
sity Geelong campus. We seek an ecologist with an inter-
est in epigenetic inheritance who will work closely with
team members who are conducting genetic/epigenetic
analyses. There will be exibility to tailor the PhD
project to your specic interests if they are aligned with
our research direction.
We seek someone who is hard-working and enthusiastic
about invasion ecology and herpetology. The ideal can-
didate will have some eld experience, a demonstrated
ability to work independently and well-developed organ-
isational skills. Preference will be given to applicants
with at least one rst-authored publication.
Scholarship/application details: The successful candi-
date will be awarded a PhD stipend of AUD$25,39224 EvolDir May 1, 2015
per annum (tax-free) over three years. Applicants
should send an email to Dr. Lee Ann Rollins
(lee.rollins@deakin.edu.au) including: 1) a CV; 2) aca-
demic record (subjects and marks); 3) a one-page sum-
mary of your research interests and career goals; and
4) details of 3 referees (including any previous research
supervisors). Closing date for applications is 22nd May.
Dr. Lee Ann Rollins
Research Fellow
School of Life and Environmental Sciences Faculty of
Science, Engineering and Built Environment
Deakin University, Pigdons Road, Geelong VIC 3217
+61 3 5227 2084
lee.rollins@deakin.edu.au www.deakin.edu.au Deakin
University CRICOS Provider Code 00113B
Lee Rollins <lee.rollins@deakin.edu.au >
ExeterU PathogenHostSwitching
NERC PhD studentship: Jumping the species barrier:
understanding how pathogens switch hosts Ref: 1845
About the award The University of Exeter is inviting
applications for this NERC-funded PhD studentship to
commence as soon as possible. For eligible students
the studentship will cover UK/EU tuition fees plus an
annual tax free stipend of at least $13,863pa for three
and a half years. The student would be based in the
Centre for Ecology and Conservation in the College of
Life and Environmental Sciences at the Penryn Campus
in Cornwall.
Academic Supervisors: Dr Camille Bonneaud (Univer-
sity of Exeter, Penryn Campus) Prof Angus Buckling
(University of Exeter, Penryn Campus) Project Descrip-
tion: Emerging infectious outbreaks are a major threat
to humans, domestic animals and wildlife. A better
understanding of how pathogens switch hosts and subse-
quently adapt to their novel host represents an exciting
eld in evolutionary biology with signicant ramica-
tions for epidemiology, conservation and medicine. In
this project, the student will have access to natural pop-
ulations of an emerging bacterial pathogen of wildlife,
as well as established lab host-pathogen systems (e.g.,
bacteria-phage) to gain deeper insights into the processes
facilitating host switching and pathogen adaptation to
their novel hosts.Entry requirements: Applicants for this studentship
must have obtained, or be about to obtain, a First
or Upper Second Class UK Honours degree, or the
equivalent qualications gained outside the UK, in
an appropriate area of science or technology. This
studentship will be funded by the Natural Environment
Research Council (NERC) and is only available to UK
and EU nationals. You must have resided in the UK
for three years prior to starting the studentship to
receive funding for tuition fees and a stipend. If you
are an EU national and have not resided in the UK for
the three years prior to the start of the studentship
you would not be eligible for a stipend, so you would
need to have an alternative source of funding for
your living costs. Candidates from outside the EU
are not eligible for this studentship. For detailed
guidance about eligibility please refer to the Research
Councils UK (RCUK) Terms and Conditions for
Training Grants: TGC 6 Student eligibility <http:/-
/www.rcuk.ac.uk/RCUK-prod/assets/documents/-
documents/TermsConditionsTrainingGrants.pdf
>.
Summary:
Application deadline: 26th May 2015 Number of
awards: 1 Value: $13,863 plus UK/EU tuition fees
for eligible students Duration of award: per year
Contact: CLES Postgraduate Research oce: +44
(0)1392 725150 +44 (0)1392 725150/723706/723310 cles-
studentships@exeter.ac.uk
How to apply:
Please be aware you will be asked to upload the
following documents: * CV * Letter of application
(outlining your academic interests, prior research ex-
perience and reasons for wishing to undertake the
project). * Transcript(s) giving full details of sub-
jects studied and grades/marks obtained (this should
be an interim transcript if you are still studying) * 2
references from referees familiar with your academic
work (if your referees prefer, they can email the ref-
erence direct to cles-studentships@exeter.ac.uk. If
we don't receive your references, we will not request
them unless you have been shortlisted) * If you are
not a national of a majority English-speaking coun-
try you will need to submit evidence of your pro-
ciency in English (for further details of the Univer-
sity's English language requirements please see http:/-
/www.exeter.ac.uk/postgraduate/englishrequirement-
s/research/)
The closing date for applications is midnight on 26 May
2015. Interviews will be held on the University of Exeter
Penryn Campus the week commencing June 8th. If you
have any general enquiries about the application processMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 25
please email cles-studentships@exeter.ac.uk or phone
+44 (0)1392 725150 +44 (0)1392 725150/723706/723310.
Project specic queries should be directed to the super-
visor.
For the full ad and application form go to: http://-
www.exeter.ac.uk/studying/funding/award/?id=1845
\Bonneaud, Camille" <C.Bonneaud@exeter.ac.uk >
Helsinki TheoEvoDevo
Graduate position for the completion of a PhD in theo-
retical evolution and development
1.Job/ project description:
The main objectives of the PhD project is to:
a) Develop mathematical models of the relationship
between genetic and phenotypic variation (or genotype-
phenotype map)
b) Understand how this relationship aects morphologi-
cal evolution.
c) Develop models about the evolution of gene networks
and embryonic development in general.
A core concept of current evolutionary biology is the
genotype-phenotype (GP) map, which connects genetic
variation to phenotypic variation and to potential for
evolutionary change. The aim of the project is to de-
velop or investigate models of the GP map that can be
related to specic biological study systems or specic
evolutionary questions investigated by the group. There
is considerable exibility as to the exact topics, and the
interests of the candidate will be important in dening
the study objects.
These models can be abstract or linked to specic bi-
ological systems. The biotechnology institute includes
a range of experimental biologitst working on several
systems. The supervisor of the theoretical aspects will
be Dr. Salazar-Ciudad but the PhD would include close
collaboration with Jukka Jernvall group and would in-
clude collaboration with developmental biologists, bioin-
formaticians, paleontologists and other evolutionary
and systems biologists. The work may also include,
optionally, collaboration, and spending some time, in
Barcelona.
The modeling can focus on gene network regulation, cell-
cell communication, cell mechanical interactions and
developmental mechanisms in general and, optionally,
artical in silico evolution.2. Requirements:
The applicant must be a biologists, preferably with a
strong background in either evolutionary biology, devel-
opmental biology, systems biology or theoretical biology.
Some knowledge of ecology, zoology, cell and molecular
biology are also desirable.
Bioinformaticians, systems biologists or computer biol-
ogists that do not have a degree in biology (e.g. Com-
puter scientists, physicists or engineers) would not be
considered (not replied).
Programming skills or a willingness to acquire them is
required.
The most important requirement is a strong interest
and motivation on science, gene networks and evolu-
tion. A capacity for creative and critical thinking is also
desirable.
Prior experience in evolutionary or developmental biol-
ogy is an advantage, and the candidate may be required
to do some programming (although how much may de-
pend on the exact project).
3. Description of the position:
The fellowship will be for a period of up to 4 years (100%
research work: no teaching involved).
The purpose of the fellowship is research training leading
to the successful completion of a PhD degree.
Salary according to Finnish PhD student salaries.
4. The application must include:
-Application letter including a statement of interests
-CV (summarizing degrees obtained, subjects included
in degree and grades, average grade)
-Application should be send to Isaac Salazar-Ciudad by
email:
isaac.salazar@helsinki.
Foreign applicants are advised to attach an explanation
of their University's grading system. Please remember
that all documents should be in English.
5. Examples of recent publications by Isaac Salazar-
Ciudad group.
-Salazar-Ciudad I1, Mar n-Riera M. Adaptive dynam-
ics under development-based genotype-phenotype maps.
Nature. 2013 May 16;497(7449):361-4.
-Salazar-Ciudad I, Jernvall J. A computational model
of teeth and the developmental origins of morphological
variation. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):583-6.
6. Interested candidates should check our group web-
page:26 EvolDir May 1, 2015
http://www.biocenter.helsinki./salazar/index.html
The deadline is 15 of June (although candidates may be
selected as they come).
Isaac Salazar-Ciudad: isaac.salazar@helsinki.
isalazar@mappi.helsinki.
KAUST EcolEvolutionaryGenomics
*Postdoctoral and PhD Fellowship in Bioinformatics and
Ecological/Evolutionary Genomics and Epigenomics of
Coral Reef organisms.*
A Postdoctoral and a PhD Position are currently avail-
able in the Integrative Systems Biology lab at the
King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
(KAUST)
In the Integrative Systems lab we work on many dier-
ent and diverse projects applying computational and
lab-based analyses using new technology to understand
biological processes on the molecular level. We are
part of the KAUST Environmental Epigenetics program
(KEEP).
http://systemsbiology.kaust.edu.sa http://-
keep.kaust.edu.sa The largest and newest projects
in the lab focus on trans-generational adaptation to
fast changing environments due to climate change and
in particular on the understanding of the molecular
regulatory mechanisms at the base of this adaptation.
We mainly study Coral Reef organisms such reef shes
and marine sponges. We are seeking a highly motivated
postdoc or PhD student to work on the computational
analysis of long-term experimental projects on various
marine organisms. We are using Next Generation
Sequencing approaches (mostly Illumina based) in order
to collect and integrate genome-wide measurements
such as genome, transcriptomics, proteomics, and
methylomes sequencing datasets.
KAUST is an extremely diverse environment and our
lab is currently made up of people from 12 dierent
countries of origin. Apart from being a new Univer-
sity Campus with cutting-edge technologies, it is also
a community. Within KAUST there is the University
campus, two large sports centers, many restaurants, a
town center, a cinema, a marina, diving facilities (it is
located directly on the Red Sea coast), a beach with
water sports facility etc. http://www.kaust.edu.sa/
Requirements:Postdoc candidates should have or be close to obtaining
a Ph.D. or equivalent degree. PhD students should have
nished or be about to nish their Masters degree.
Preferred degrees are in bioinformatics, computational
biology, computer science, molecular biology, or a closely
related eld. Candidates with a background in evolution-
ary biology and Next Generation Sequencing approaches
are particularly encouraged to apply.
Programming skills and experience in the application of
computational methods to genomic data are preferred.
A procient level of English is required and good com-
munication and writing skills are a must.
Postdoc salary is from 55.000$ per year upwards de-
pending on experience. The appointment is for two
years initially and can be extended for another year.
Generous furnished housing and health care is provided,
plus an annual airfare to the country of origin and a
large relocation fee are paid.
PhD fellowship: 25.000$ per year and 30.000$ when the
student becomes a PhD candidate. Furnished housing
and health care is provided, plus an annual airfare to
the country of origin and a relocation fee are paid.
Interested applicants can send a CV, a letter of interest,
and the names of two potential references to Timothy
Ravasi: timothy.ravasi@kaust.edu.sa.
If you have any questions about life in KAUST and
Saudi Arabia, please feel free to either contact myself or
a female postdoc in our lab: celia.schunter@kaust.edu.sa
Looking forward to hearing from you.
Timothy Ravasi Associate Professor of Bioengineering
Associate Professor of Computer Science Division of
Biological and Environmental Sciences & Engineering
Division of Applied Mathematics and Computer Sciences
King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
Thuwal 23955-6900 Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Oce
+966-2-808-2387
Celia Schunter <celiaschunter@gmail.com >
LeibnizInst EvolutionDisease
The Leibniz Research Alliance INFECTIONS'21 funded
by the Leibniz Association has been formed by the
Research Center Borstel-Leibniz Center for Medicine
and Biosciences (FZB, www.fz-borstel.de) together with
13 institutions of the Leibniz association (Leibniz In-
stitute for Agricultural Engineering (ATB, www.atb-May 1, 2015 EvolDir 27
potsdam.de), Bernhard Nocht Institute for Tropical
Medicine (BNITM, www.bnitm.de), Leibniz-Institute
DSMZ-German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell
Cultures (DSMZ, www.dsmz.de), GESIS-Leibniz Insti-
tute for the Social Sciences (GESIS, www.gesis.org),
GIGA German Institute of Global and Area Studies
(GIGA, www.giga-hamburg.de), Leibniz Institute for
Natural Product Research and Infection Biology-Hans
Kn oll Institute (HKI, www.leibniz-hki.de), Heinrich-
Pette-Institute-Leibniz Institute for Experimental Virol-
ogy (HPI, www.hpi-hamburg.de), Leibniz Institute of
Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries (IGB, www.igb-
berlin.de), Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Re-
search (IZW, www.izw-berlin.de), Potsdam Institute for
Climate Impact Research (PIK, www.pik-potsdam.de),
Leibniz Institute for Tropospheric Research (TROPOS,
www.tropos.de), Leibniz Centre for Agricultural Land-
scape Research (ZALF, www.zalf.de), Leibniz Center for
Tropical Marine Ecology (ZMT, www.zmt-bremen.de))
and 3 external partners (division of social sciences of the
Hamburg University (UHH, www.wiso.uni-hamburg.de),
the Federal Research Institute for Animal Health (FLI,
www.i.bund.de) and the London School of Hygiene and
Tropical Medicine (LSHTM, www.lshtm.ac.uk)).
Despite signicant progress in the combat of infectious
diseases the past century, they remain a major chal-
lenge for human health worldwide. The emergence of
novel infectious agents and multi-drug resistant micro-
bial strains, ecological alterations caused by climate
change and human activities such as re-naturation of
ecosystems, provide ecological conditions facilitating
the spread of important infections. Socio-economic de-
terminants such as income, nourishment, housing and
working conditions and access to health systems may
inuence the spread and outcome of infectious diseases.
To address these issues, INFECTIONS'21 identied 4 co-
operative and trans-disciplinary research projects, which
will be performed by Interdisciplinary Research Groups
(IRGs) spanning biomedical, ecological, socio-economic
and political sciences with the goal of linking the diver-
sity of expertise to study the spread of infectious diseases
by looking at biotic, abiotic and social determinants.
We therefore seek to ll the following positions:
- 1 doctoral position in social science research on tuber-
culosis transmission
- 1 doctoral position in evolutionary ecology of water
borne diseases
- 1 doctoral position in medical entomology
- 1 doctoral position in aerosol transmission properties
of human pathogens
Specically:1 doctoral position in social science research on tuber-
culosis transmission (IRG1) - GESIS-FZB
Specic tasks: Address the transmission of Mycobac-
terium tuberculosis in population groups which are only
partly covered by public health care. Conduct an em-
pirical study to collect data on the background of and
conditions for infection transmission in order to identify
starting points for intervention measures. The tasks of
the doctoral student include conceptualization and im-
plementation of the qualitative and quantitative parts of
the empirical study as well as data analysis and publica-
tion of results. Requirements: The successful candidate
will have an above-average degree in sociology, psychol-
ogy, social sciences or a related subject, proven knowl-
edge of social research methods, extended knowledge
of a statistical software package (e.g. STATA, SPSS).
Experience in planning and implementation of empirical
studies are of advantage, very good written and spoken
command of German and English, good organization
skills, ability to work independently as well as in a team
are essential. It is expected that the doctoral student
interacts with scientists from a wide variety of elds.
Position IRG1 will take place primarily under the aus-
pices of GESIS, GIGA, HPI, HKI and FZB although
interaction with other LFV '21 research groups will be
strongly encouraged. The doctoral student will have pri-
mary desk facility space at GESIS, location Mannheim
(Dr. Jette Schr oder) and will spend time at the FZB
(Prof. Stefan Ehlers).
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
MaxPlanckInst 10 HumanHistory
*10 PhD positions at the Max Planck Institute for **the
Science of Human History*
The *Archaeogenetics* department at the *Max Planck
Institute for the Science of Human History in Jena*,
Germany, is oering up to 10 PhD positions begin-
ning October 2015. The overarching research topic at
the institute is the use of novel scientic approaches
from high throughput sequencing of *ancient DNA*
*from* *human populations* and their *pathogens* to
explore research questions related *to human history*,28 EvolDir May 1, 2015
*gene-culture coevolution, and adaptation to infectious
disease*. The institute hosts a multi-disciplinary re-
search team and is looking for students from a variety
of backgrounds including, but not restricted to, *molec-
ular biology, bioinformatics, microbiology, chemistry,
biochemistry, mathematics, physics, computer science,
anthropology and archaeology. *Students holding a
Masters degree (or equivalent) with a proven record of
success in their discipline and a genuine interest in exam-
ining questions related to human history are encouraged
to apply. *Deadline for applications is the 31st of May
2015.*Please apply online at https://s-lotus.gwdg.de/-
mpg/mjws/ag phd2015.nsf/registration For detailed
information on the application procedure please visit our
website: http://www.shh.mpg.de/phd archeogenetics
Dr. Karin Groten
Forschungskoordinatorin / Scientic Coordinator Max-
Planck-Institut f1r Menschheitsgeschichte / Max Planck
Institute for the Science of Human History Kahlaische
Strasse 10 07745 Jena GERMANY T: +49-3641-686 950
F: +49-3641-686 929 groten@shh.mpg.de
Karin Groten <groten@shh.mpg.de >
MemorialU SalmonConservation
Evolutionary and ecological impact of the escape of
farmed salmon.
As part of the NSERC Strategic Grant 2 Ph.D. posi-
tions (funded for 4 years) are available under the co-
supervision of Dr. Ian Fleming of Memorial University's
Department of Ocean Sciences and Dr. Ian Bradbury
of the Department of Fisheries and Oceans.
Escapes of farm salmon are both an economic loss and
an environmental concern. Their eects on wild salmon
populations will be a function of: (1) the presence of
escapes and subsequent interbreeding (frequency and
magnitude); (2) dierences in traits that aect survival,
competition and reproduction; (3) ability of natural
systems to buer against escapes through natural selec-
tion; and (4) our ability to mitigate impacts. The Ph.D.
students will work collaboratively, with one focused on
quantifying the realized reproductive success resulting
from a large escape event in 2013 and selection over
time using genomic tools (RAD-seq; SNP identication;
Fluidigm nanouidic array). The second student will
quantify the potential viability of crosses of wild salmon
with North American- and European-origin farm salmon,
by comparing functional traits and behavioural interac-tions among ospring (pure and hybrid) from the crosses.
Furthermore, using a combination of microarray and
RNA-seq-based transcriptome analyses (in collaboration
with Dr. Matt Rise), we will assess dierences in ge-
netic expression among ospring of the dierent crosses
at the stage of rst feeding. The project also involves
a replicated experimental release of ospring of wild
salmon and NA-origin farm salmon (pure and hybrid).
The research will be based in the Evolutionary Ecology
Laboratory of Dr. Fleming (http://www.mun.ca/osc/-
ieming/index.php) at Memorial University and the
Population Genomics Laboratory of Dr. Bradbury at
DFO. There is exibility and scope within the projects
for the successful candidates to develop and address
additional questions.
Students should be prepared to share their enthusiasm
for research and associated skills openly within and
among the research groups, and by doing so, contribute
to a dynamic research environment. While they will be
based in the respective laboratories at Memorial Uni-
versity and DFO, students should be prepared to travel
temporarily between laboratories and to the South coast
of Newfoundland for research.
The ideal start date would be September 2015 or earlier.
Major scholarship holders will receive generous top-ups
to their awards.
Qualications: The ideal candidates will possess an MSc;
have research interests and training in the areas of sh
ecology and behaviour, population genomics and sh
rearing and; be capable of designing and undertaking
both eld and laboratory research; and have reasonable
facility with the analysis of large data sets.
Prospective candidates should email a cover letter, CV,
unocial transcripts and contact information for three
people who can serve as references. Review of applicants
will begin 30 April 2015 and continue until the positions
are lled.
Dr. Ian A. Fleming Dr. Ian Bradbury Department of
Ocean Sciences Fisheries and Oceans Canada Memorial
University of Newfoundland Science Branch, 80 East
White Hills Road ieming@mun.ca P. O. Box 5667, St.
John's, NL A1C 5X1 ibradbur@me.com
ieming@mun.ca
MNHN Paris LemurEvolution
PhD scholarship opportunityMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 29
Subject title: \Epigenetic inheritance of physiological
exibility in a primate species, the grey mouse lemur"
Location: UMR CNRS/MNHN 7179 (MECADEV) 1
avenue du petit ch ~Ateau, 91800 Brunoy (France)
Main PhD supervisor: Dr Fabienne Aujard Secondary
PhD supervisors: Drs Pierre-Yves Henry and J er emy
Terrien
The French research unit UMR 7179 is oering an op-
portunity to defend a PhD scholarship to be attributed
by the Museum National d'Histoire Naturelle. The
applicant will defend a subject treating on the \Epige-
netic inheritance of physiological exibility in a primate
species, the grey mouse lemur". Briey, exhibiting high
phenotypic exibility requires ne tuning of all mecha-
nisms involved in the control of metabolism, including
regulation of gene expression through epigenetic changes.
Epigenetic modications are a mechanism of regulating
gene expression that is reversible, heritable and partic-
ularly sensitive to environmental conditions. The role
of epigenetic modications as a way of adjusting pheno-
typic exibility in response to environmental change has
gained much interest since epigenetic inheritance has
been described as a potential mechanism for a specimen
to benet from its parents history.
In this project, we propose to evaluate the potential
of epigenetic inheritance in a primate species, the grey
mouse lemur (Microcebus murinus), characterized by its
great phenotypic exibility adapted to the unpredictabil-
ity of Madagascar climate. Using the in-house breeding
colony resource ( ~400 individuals), we will mimic peri-
ods of food scarcity during key periods of reproduction
(spermatogenesis for males and gestation, lactation for
females) and evaluate the impacts of such treatment
in juveniles and their ability to respond to the same
energetic challenge. The student will have to conduct
experiments to answer 2 main questions: 1) Which are
the epigenetic modications induced by an energetic
challenge in the adult grey mouse lemur, and can we
link these changes to metabolic phenotyping character-
istics? 2) Can we estimate the epigenetic inheritance
in such context, and evaluate the potential of parental
history on juvenile physiological capacities?
Applicants must be highly motivated and have a strong
interest in our scientic area (for more information,
please visit our website at http://www.mecadev.cnrs.fr/-
). A strong background of basic molecular research
methodology (knowledge of epigenetic mechanisms
would be highly appreciated) is highly recommended.
Given the scope of this subject, a good background
in physiology and biology of adaptation would be ap-
preciated. Applications should contain a CV, a short
statement of your research interests as well as a rec-ommendation letter. Please send your application to
terrien@mnhn.fr before May 20, 2015.
J er emy TERRIEN <jeremy.terrien@mnhn.fr >
MonashU EvolutionaryEcology
**PhD position, evolutionary genetics, ageing, infectious
disease**
A PhD position is available in the group of Matthew
Hall at Monash University. We are looking for a highly
motivated candidate with broad interests in the evo-
lution and quantitative genetics. Our research group
studies the evolutionary genetics of lifes big challenges
V sex, death and disease V using water-eas of the
genus Daphnia and their associated pathogens. We use
a combination of quantitative genetics, genomics and ex-
perimental approaches to unravel why some individuals
are just better at nding a partner, ghting infectious
disease and living well.
The successful application will be familiar with basic
evolutionary concepts and have the capacity to develop
their own using the Daphnia system. Projects related
to the following areas will be particularly encouraged:
- The evolution of infectious disease - The evolutionary
ecology of ageing and life-history - The role of metabolic
function in shaping organismal health
**Scholarship details** Each PhD stipend is fully-funded
for a period of 3.5 years and is open to both Aus-
tralian/NZ domestic and international students. The
stipends include all course fees plus approximately
$25,000 AUD per annum tax-free. Research funding as
well as attendance in one conference per year is guaran-
teed.
**Monash and the School of Biological Sciences**
Monash is a member of the Group of Eight, a coali-
tion of top Australian universities recognized for their
excellence in teaching and research. The School
of Biological Sciences is a dynamic unit with key
strengths in evolutionary ecology, physiology and ge-
nomics ( monash.edu/science/about/schools/biological-
sciences/research/). The University is located in Mel-
bourne, one of the most liveable cities in the world and
a cultural and recreational hub.
**Application process** Interested candidates should
send an email outlining their research interests and mo-
tivation, together with a CV and academic transcript to30 EvolDir May 1, 2015
matthew.hall@monash.edu. Applicants must possess a
Bachelor's or equivalent degree with rst-class Honours,
Master of Science or MPhil. Short-listed candidates will
be asked for further information.
For further information on the research group of
Matthew Hall visit mattdhall.com
{ Dr. Matthew D. Hall School of Biological Sciences,
Monash University Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia
Email: matthew.hall@monash.edu Phone: +61 3
9905 5793 twitter: @mattd hall www.mattdhall.com
Matthew Hall <matthew.hall@monash.edu >
NaturalisNetherlands Biodiversity
We would like to draw your attention to the opening up
of *15 PhD/Early Stage Research positions in the elds
of geo-, bio-, and climate sciences* (climate modelling,
stratigraphy and sedimentary geology, geochemistry,
palaeontology, taxonomy and phylogeny, evolutionary
biology, ecology, biodiversity and conservation) in the
EU-Marie Sk ccodowska-Curie ITN program Drivers
of Pontocaspian Biodiversity Rise and Demise .
Through your present or past activities you may know
potential excellent young researchers that may be in-
terested in these positions. Candidates must have n-
ished their MSc in the past 4 years (up to september
2015). Deadline for applications is April 16. Informa-
tion on the projects and institutes can be found on
www.pontocaspian.eu . Thank you for your attention
and apologies for any cross-posting,
Frank Wesselingh, Program Director
Cynthia Crul, Program manager
Rutger Vos <rutgeraldo@gmail.com >
Stockholm InsectMetagenomics
PHD STUDENT POSITION in INSECT METAGE-
NOMICS
The position forms part of a group of 15 PhD students
now being recruited to the EU-funded Marie Sklodowska-
Curie Innovative Training Network BIG4. The core ofBIG4 is interdisciplinary, cutting-edge research on the
diversity and evolution of the four largest insect orders:
Hymenoptera, Diptera, Coleoptera, and Lepidoptera
(Biosystematics, Informatics and Genomics of the 4 big
insect groups). The program oers unique opportunities
in terms of preparing students for an academic or a
business career. The training will include secondment
to other European labs in the network, and to small
companies in the biotechnology and IT sector. The pro-
gram also includes network-wide training events, and
seeks to build student skills in creativity and innovation.
The position is one of three PhD student positions that
will be formally associated with the Department of Zool-
ogy at Stockholm University, which will award the PhD
degrees. The position will be hosted by the Ronquist lab
at the Swedish Museum of Natural History, which is one
of the world leaders in the development of software for
computational phylogenomics using Bayesian statistical
methods. The lab also has a strong research tradition
in insect systematics and evolutionary biology.
The successful candidate for this position will develop
new methods for analyzing environmental samples us-
ing massively parallel sequencing. In particular, we
will be focusing on methods allowing broad qualitative
and quantitative taxonomic analysis of the insect fauna
found in Malaise trap samples and soil samples. We will
then use these methods to study the composition and
spatial structure of insect faunas.
We are looking for candidates with a broad background,
preferably including studies or training in entomology,
genomics, bioinformatics, and programming. We expect
that you will be creative and independent while being
a good team player. Fluency in spoken and written
English is essential. We will pay particular attention to
scientic and creative talent and potential.
To be eligible for the position, you need to ll the for-
mal requirements to start a PhD program in biology,
broadly construed, and have less than 4 years of research
experience counted as time of employment in research
since receiving the degree for enrollment in a PhD. You
cannot have resided or carried out your main activity
(work or study) in Sweden for more than 12 months in
the 3-year period immediately prior to the recruitment
under the project.
Starting date is August 15, 2015. The position is for
four years.
The Swedish Museum of Natural History (NRM) is one
of the leading institutions of its kind in Europe. It com-
bines a venerable tradition and unique collections with
cutting-edge research in geology, paleontology and biol-
ogy. The museum is close to Stockholm University, theMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 31
Royal School of Engineering (KTH) and the Karolinska
Institute. The Stockholm Phylogenomics Group (http:/-
/phylogenomics.se) engages research groups from all of
these institutions. The Department of Bioinformatics
and Genetics at NRM is focused on research in computa-
tional phylogenetics, population genetics and genomics.
It also runs a DNA sequencing facility and hosts several
national and international infrastructures.
The application should consist of a personal letter,
a statement describing research interests and career
goals (max 3 pages), a CV, and a transcript of your
MSc diploma or equivalent. The application should be
marked with dnr 2.3.1-182-2015 and sent to rekryter-
ing@nrm.se. Applications should be received no later
than May 29, 2015.
Fredrik Ronquist Professor, Dept. Bioinformatics and
Genetics Swedish Museum of Natural History, Stock-
holm
email: fredrik.ronquist@nrm.se
Fredrik.Ronquist@nrm.se
Stockholm InsectPhylogenomics
PHD STUDENT POSITION in INSECT PHYLOGE-
NOMICS
The position forms part of a group of 15 PhD students
now being recruited to the EU-funded Marie Sklodowska-
Curie Innovative Training Network BIG4. The core of
BIG4 is interdisciplinary, cutting-edge research on the
diversity and evolution of the four largest insect orders:
Hymenoptera, Diptera, Coleoptera, and Lepidoptera
(Biosystematics, Informatics and Genomics of the 4 big
insect groups). The program oers unique opportunities
in terms of preparing students for an academic or a
business career. The training will include secondment
to other European labs in the network, and to small
companies in the biotechnology and IT sector. The pro-
gram also includes network-wide training events, and
seeks to build student skills in creativity and innovation.
The position is one of three PhD student positions that
will be formally associated with the Department of Zool-
ogy at Stockholm University, which will award the PhD
degrees. The position will be hosted by the Ronquist lab
at the Swedish Museum of Natural History, which is one
of the world leaders in the development of software for
computational phylogenomics using Bayesian statistical
methods. The lab also has a strong research traditionin insect systematics and evolutionary biology.
The successful candidate for this position will be using
genomic approaches to analyze phylogenetic relation-
ships among gall wasps, which have proved hard to
resolve using traditional methods. The genomic data
will then form the basis for identication and functional
analysis of genes involved in the transitions between
parasitoids, gall inducers and inquilines in this group of
insects.
We are looking for candidates with a broad background,
preferably including studies or training in entomology,
genomics, bioinformatics, and programming. We expect
that you will be creative and independent while being
a good team player. Fluency in spoken and written
English is essential. We will pay particular attention to
scientic and creative talent and potential.
To be eligible for the position, you need to ll the for-
mal requirements to start a PhD program in biology,
broadly construed, and have less than 4 years of research
experience counted as time of employment in research
since receiving the degree for enrollment in a PhD. You
cannot have resided or carried out your main activity
(work or study) in Sweden for more than 12 months in
the 3-year period immediately prior to the recruitment
under the project.
Starting date is August 15, 2015. The position is for
four years.
The Swedish Museum of Natural History (NRM) is one
of the leading institutions of its kind in Europe. It com-
bines a venerable tradition and unique collections with
cutting-edge research in geology, paleontology and biol-
ogy. The museum is close to Stockholm University, the
Royal School of Engineering (KTH) and the Karolin-
ska Institute. The Stockholm Phylogenomics Group
(http://phylogenomics.se) engages research groups from
all of these institutions. The Department of Bioinfor-
matics and Genetics at NRM is focused on research in
computational phylogenetics, population genetics and
genomics. We run a DNA sequencing facility and host
several national and international infrastructures.
The application should consist of a personal letter,
a statement describing research interests and career
goals (max 3 pages), a CV, and a transcript of your
MSc diploma or equivalent. The application should be
marked with dnr 2.3.1-182-2015 and sent to rekryter-
ing@nrm.se. Applications should be received no later
than May 29, 2015.
Fredrik Ronquist Professor, Dept. Bioinformatics and
Genetics Swedish Museum of Natural History, Stock-
holm32 EvolDir May 1, 2015
email: fredrik.ronquist@nrm.se
Fredrik.Ronquist@nrm.se
Stockholm InsectTaxonomy
BiodiversityInformatics
PHD STUDENT POSITION in INSECT TAXONOMY
/ BIODIVERSITY INFORMATICS
The position forms part of a group of 15 PhD students
now being recruited to the EU-funded Marie Sklodowska-
Curie Innovative Training Network BIG4. The core of
BIG4 is interdisciplinary, cutting-edge research on the
diversity and evolution of the four largest insect orders:
Hymenoptera, Diptera, Coleoptera, and Lepidoptera
('Biosystematics, Informatics and Genomics of the 4 big
insect groups). The program oers unique opportunities
in terms of preparing students for an academic or a
business career. The training will include secondment
to other European labs in the network, and to small
companies in the biotechnology and IT sector. The pro-
gram also includes network-wide training events, and
seeks to build student skills in creativity and innovation.
The position is one of three PhD student positions that
will be formally associated with the Department of Zo-
ology at Stockholm University, which will award the
PhD degrees. The position will be hosted by Savan-
tic AB (http://savanticab.com), a consultant company
specializing in bridging the gap between the research
and business worlds. All consultants have a doctoral de-
gree in physics. Specialty areas include image analysis,
medical technology and environmental technology. The
academic training will be provided by the Ronquist lab
at the Swedish Museum of Natural History, which is one
of the world leaders in the development of software for
computational phylogenomics using Bayesian statistical
methods. The lab also has a strong research tradition
in insect systematics and evolutionary biology.
The successful candidate for this position will focus on
the use of citizen science in accelerating research and
discovery in insect systematics. For a suitable group
of poorly known insects, we will develop visual identi-
cation aids based on advanced image analysis. The
aim is to generate interest among citizen scientists in
contributing to the systematic research on the chosen
group, using a commercially viable app.
We are looking for candidates with a broad background,
preferably including studies or training in entomology,genomics, bioinformatics, and programming. We expect
that you will be creative and independent while being
a good team player. Fluency in spoken and written
English is essential. We will pay particular attention to
scientic and creative talent and potential.
To be eligible for the position, you need to ll the for-
mal requirements to start a PhD program in biology,
broadly construed, and have less than 4 years of research
experience counted as time of employment in research
since receiving the degree for enrollment in a PhD. You
cannot have resided or carried out your main activity
(work or study) in Sweden for more than 12 months in
the 3-year period immediately prior to the recruitment
under the project.
Starting date is August 15, 2015. The position is for
four years.
The Swedish Museum of Natural History (NRM) is one
of the leading institutions of its kind in Europe. It com-
bines a venerable tradition and unique collections with
cutting-edge research in geology, paleontology and biol-
ogy. The museum is close to Stockholm University, the
Royal School of Engineering (KTH) and the Karolin-
ska Institute. The Stockholm Phylogenomics Group
(http://phylogenomics.se) engages research groups from
all of these institutions. The Department of Bioinfor-
matics and Genetics at NRM is focused on research in
computational phylogenetics, population genetics and
genomics. We run a DNA sequencing facility and host
several national and international infrastructures.
The application should consist of a personal letter, a
statement describing research interests and career goals
(max 3 pages), a CV, and a transcript of your MSc
diploma or equivalent. The application should be sent to
Karin Carlsson at Savantic AB (karin@savanticab.com).
Applications should be received no later than May 29,
2015.
Fredrik Ronquist Professor, Dept. Bioinformatics and
Genetics Swedish Museum of Natural History, Stock-
holm
email: fredrik.ronquist@nrm.se
Karin Carlsson Savantic AB
email: karin@savanticab.com
Fredrik.Ronquist@nrm.seMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 33
TexasAMU
GrasshopperPhenotypicPlasticity
Texas A&M University Grasshopper Phenotypic Plas-
ticity
The Song Laboratory of Insect Systematics and Evolu-
tion in the Department of Entomology at Texas A&M
University is looking for a highly motivated and in-
dependent graduate student (Ph.D.) for the Fall 2015
or Spring 2016 semester. This Ph.D. position will be
supported by an ongoing NSF project, focusing on the
evolution of density-dependent phenotypic plasticity in
grasshoppers and locusts, and the student is expected
to develop a dissertation project in line with this NSF
project. The project will involve extensive domestic and
international eldwork, laboratory work involving in-
sect rearing and behavioral assays, as well as functional
genetics using RNA-seq and RNAi.
Qualications:
Bachelors degree in entomology, evolutionary biology
or relevant biological sciences. Masters degree in the
same eld is preferred. Applicants with broad interest
in insects and evolutionary biology are encouraged to
apply.
Minimum GPA of 3.5 and competitive GRE scores
required.
Demonstrated ability to complete projects and publish
results.
Excellent written and oral communication abilities.
Ability to speak Spanish is a plus.
Demonstrated ability to work independently in the eld
is desired.
Currently, a three-year graduate assistantship
($24,000/yr + tuition and benet) is available for
this position, and additional funding will be available
through fellowships and teaching assistantships. The
selected student will have an option to pursue a
doctoral degree through the Department of Entomology
(http://entomology.tamu.edu/), which is one of the best
entomology departments in the country, or through
the newly established Ecology and Evolutionary
Doctoral Program (http://eeb.tamu.edu/), which is an
interdisciplinary program formed by faculty from seven
departments from Texas A&M University.Interested candidates should send CV, statement of
interest and names and contact information of three
references to Dr. Hojun Song at hsong@tamu.edu. Ap-
plications will be considered on a rolling basis until
position is lled. Suggested submission deadline is June
1, 2015. For more information about the Song Lab,
please visit http://schistocerca.org/SongLab/ . Thanks,
Hojun
*Hojun Song, Ph.D.* Assistant Professor Department of
Entomology, Texas A&M University Biological Control
Facility, Room 118-119 College Station, TX 77843-2475
Oce: 979-845-2481 Lab: 979-845-2487 Email:
hsong@tamu.edu Website: schistocerca.org/SongLab
Mailing Address: Minnie Belle Heep Center, Room 412
Campus MS 2475 College Station, TX 77843-2475
Hojun Song <hsong@tamu.edu >
TexasTechU EnvironmentalDNA
Environmental DNA (eDNA) MS Position Available
Description The Barnes Lab in the Department of Nat-
ural Resources Management at Texas Tech University
(http://drbarnes.org/) seeks students interested in con-
ducting fully-funded, master's-level research on the ap-
plication of genetic detection tools to the management
of aquatic invasive species. Specically, students will
have the opportunity to develop and apply environ-
mental DNA tools to monitor aquatic invasive species,
such as the zebra mussel Dreissena polymorpha, across
Texas. Students will also participate in the design and
implementation of manipulative laboratory and/or eld
experiments to explore environmental factors inuencing
the production, persistence, and detection of environ-
mental DNA.
Qualications The start date for this position is Septem-
ber 1, 2015. Applicants must have a bachelor's degree
in ecology, biology, or a related eld by time of hire.
Preference will be given to applicants who have ecolog-
ical research experience in lab and eld settings and
who demonstrate strong written and interpersonal com-
munication skills. Successful applicants will also be
motivated, curious, and able to work independently as
well as within a broader, collaborative lab team.
The Barnes Lab, as part of the Texas Tech University
System, is committed to promoting equal employment
opportunity and armative action throughout our aca-34 EvolDir May 1, 2015
demic community.
Compensation Compensation will include competitive
stipend, health insurance, and Texas Tech University
tuition waiver.
To Apply Interested individuals should compile a cover
letter, CV or resume including GRE scores, under-
graduate transcript (unocial copy is acceptable), and
contact information for three references into a single
.pdf le and submit to Dr. Matthew Barnes via email
(matthew.a.barnes@ttu.edu). The last day to apply for
this position is May 15, 2015.
Dr. Matthew A. Barnes Assistant Professor Texas Tech
University Natural Resources Management <http://-
www.nrm.ttu.edu/ >Phone: 806-834-2122 jTwitter:
@drbarnes <https://twitter.com/drbarnes >jWeb:
drbarnes.org
\Barnes, Matthew A" <matthew.a.barnes@ttu.edu >
UAmsterdam PopulationBiology
*PhD candidate, Population Biology*
*University of Amsterdam*
A PhD position is open with Dr Isabel Smallegange
(http://www.uva.nl/prole/i.smallegange) in the The-
oretical Ecology Research Group within the Insti-
tute for Biodiversity and Ecosystem Dynamics (IBED:
ibed.uva.nl) at the University of Amsterdam. The goal
of this PhD project is to investigate the eects of envi-
ronmental change on the eco-evolutionary population
response of two mite species that dier in life history
speed. The PhD candidate will investigate in multigen-
erational population experiments how harvesting and
environmental variability aect the joint dynamics of
life history traits and population biomass dynamics of
fast Rhizoglyphus robini and slow Naiadacarus arbori-
cola mite populations in the lab and in the eld (in case
of N. arboricola, eld work will be in North America
(Virginia)).
The project starts September 2015. The full-time ap-
pointment will be on a temporary basis for a maximum
period of four years (18 months plus a further 30 months
after a positive evaluation) and should lead to a disserta-
tion (PhD thesis). An educational plan will be drafted
that includes attendance of courses and (international)
meetings. The PhD Student is also expected to as-
sist in the teaching of undergraduates. The full-timegross monthly salary will range from 2,125 in the rst
year to 2,717 in the nal year, according to the Dutch
salary scales for PhD students. The Collective Labour
Agreement Dutch Universities is applicable. The annual
salary will be increased by 8 % holiday allowance and
8.3 % end-of-year bonus.
You must have a Masters degree (or equivalent) in Ecol-
ogy, Evolution or Population Biology and experience
with laboratory experiments, preferably with inverte-
brates. You must have an interest (preferably experi-
ence) in combining theory, laboratory studies, and data
analysis. Good computer skills, including statistical
analysis and preferably also programming in MatLab
or R, are required, as is a willingness to work in a
multidisciplinary environment.
Applications should include (i) a detailed CV including
educational experience, a list of publications (if any)
and the names and contact addresses of two academic
references from which information about the candidate
can be obtained, (ii) a letter describing motivation and
research interests, and (iii) an English writing sample
(e.g. paper, MSc or BSc thesis). Please combine these
materials into a single PDF le.
Applications should be sent before 15 May 2015 23:59,
via email to drs. S.H.M. Jongerius, P&O adviser:
application-science@uva.nl. Please quote the vacancy
number in the subject eld. Interviews, possibly via
Skype, will be held on 11 and/or 12 June 2015.
Dr Isabel Smallegange
Assistant Professor
Institute for Biodiversity and Ecosystem Dynamics
University of Amsterdam
P.O. box 94248
1090 GE Amsterdam
The Netherlands
I.Smallegange@uva.nl
Isabel Smallegange <i.smallegange@uva.nl >May 1, 2015 EvolDir 35
UBern PlantEvolution
The grassland ecology group at Bern University of Ap-
plied Sciences, in collaboration with the Plant Ecology
Section of the Institute of Plant Sciences at the Univer-
sity of Bern, is oering the following vacancy starting
on June 1, 2015 limited to 3 years
PhD position in plant ecology (Switzerland) Eects of
drought and land use on invasibility and biotic lters
including soil biota in semi-natural grassland
Your duties: - Collect plant community data from a
multi-site multi-factorial experiment across Switzerland
including manipulations of precipitation, competition
for light and soil biota and additions of plant species of
contrasting traits and origins - Conduct supplementary
eld and greenhouse experiments to test hypotheses
on how drought impacts biotic interactions between
seedlings, mycorrhizal fungi, and soil-borne pathogens
and herbivores - Collaborate in the Swiss NSF project
Drought legacy eects on grassland invasibility
Your prole: - Enthusiastic and independent student
with a strong interest in conceptual issues of ecology -
Excellent Masters degree in a relevant eld of research,
e.g. - Experience in experimental ecology and in the
design and statistical analysis of ecological experiments
- Good command of English and ambition to publish in
international journals - Good knowledge of species in
grassland and interest in working in the eld
We oer: - Collaboration and support in a team with
plant community ecologists at HAFL - Support and gen-
eral training with the plant ecology group at University
of Bern - Salary in accordance with the Swiss National
Science Foundation
The position is with PD Dr Andreas Stampi
(www.ha.bfh.ch/index.php?id53) and Prof. Dr Markus
Fischer (http://www.botany.unibe.ch/planteco/)
Please use our online application system: www.bfh.ch/-
jobs
Evaluation of applications starts on 4 May 2015
Your contact for any questions you may have about this
job: Michaela Zeiter (michaela.zeiter@ips.unibe.ch)
michaela.zeiter@ips.unibe.chUCalgary
GenomeEvolutionParasites
The Wasmuth lab (www.wasmuthlab.org) is looking
for a graduate student to investigate the link between
genome evolution and the mechanisms that underlie the
success of parasites. This work is part of an NSERC
funded program. The project summary is at the end.
The project is entirely computational, although in close
collaboration with molecular biologists. The student is
expected to have: 1. An undergraduate degree in life
sciences (GPA >3.6 / 4.0 or equivalent). 2. Demonstra-
ble experience with a programming language such as
Python or Perl. 3. A desire to undertake an independent
research project.
While preference will be given to Canadian applicants,
exceptional international applicants will also be consid-
ered.
The Wasmuth lab is situated at the University of Cal-
gary, Canada. The student will be a member of two
research communities. The rst is the Host-Parasite
Interactions training program (www.ucalgary.ca/hpi).
Supported by a $2 million grant from NSERC, HPI
involves 9 PIs across two universities. IT brings to-
gether expertise in genomics, immunology, molecular
biology and ecology. HPI members receive a wealth of
extra training opportunities and to help with research
and future careers. We are also prominent in outreach
projects with the general public, through collaboration
with the Spark Science Centre (www.ucalgary.ca/hpi/-
news-events/community-engagement). Finally, there is
a growing bioinformatics research community, supported
by three new PI hires.
If you are interested, please send me an email (jwas-
muth@ucalgary.ca) with: 1. CV. 2. Transcripts / course
grades. 3. Letter explaining your motivation for un-
dertaking graduate studies. 4. Contact details for two
people that are willing to write a letter of recommenda-
tion.
Summary Species of nematodes are ubiquitous and sig-
nicant parasites of animals and plants. This para-
sitism has evolved multiple times independently from
free-living ancestral species. The biological mechanisms
that support parasitism are encoded in the nematodes'
genomes. The long-term objectives of my research pro-
gram are to understand which regions of the genome36 EvolDir May 1, 2015
evolved, and how this lead to the origin and mainte-
nance of the behaviour and biochemical traits that we
observe in today's parasitic nematodes. Using a com-
bination of genomics, bioinformatics and evolutionary
biology approaches, my research program examines the
evolution of gene duplications and growth of gene fam-
ilies in the genomes of both free-living and parasitic
nematodes. Large gene families are implicated in re-
sponding to an organism's response to its environment.
Changes in these gene families frequently correlate to
the adaptation of a new environment, which can lead
to the emergence of a new species. The fully sequenced
genomes of over 20 nematode species of interest enable
us to test various key questions in species evolution and
to understand host-parasite interactions.
James Wasmuth Assistant Professor, Host-Pathogen In-
teractions, University of Calgary www: wasmuthlab.org
twitter: @jdwasmuth
jwasmuth@ucalgary.ca
UCoimbra Portugal WeedEvolution
*Call for candidates to apply for an FCT *
*We are looking for* candidates to apply for an
FCT (Portuguese Foundation for Science and Tech-
nology) doctoral fellowship for a mixed Ph.D at the
Centre for Functional Ecology of the University of
Coimbra (cfe.uc.pt), and Durham University (https://-
www.dur.ac.uk/).
*The successful candidate* will be expected to develop a
research project to investigate evolution and adaptation
of the invasive weed *Centaurea solstitialis* across broad
biogeographical ranges. The research involves labora-
tory and eld-based work and involves the interaction
with an international network of collaborators from the
USA, Chile, Argentina, Australia, Turkey, Spain, and
the UK. The candidate is expected to spend half of the
time in Portugal and half in the UK.
*The candidate* should have a good scientic back-
ground, with an interest into reproductive and evolu-
tionary ecology, and genetics of invasive weeds. A good
knowledge of the English language, of ecological statis-
tics, or molecular biology is highly desirable. Candidates
should be European or permanent residents, and com-
ply with the conditions to be a candidate for the FCT
Doctoral Grants ( http://www.fct.pt/apoios/bolsas/-
concursos/individuais2015.phtml.en).*The doctoral fellowship includes* a monthly payment
of 980 euros (tax-free), plus an accident insurance and
a monthly contribution to the Portuguese Social Se-
curity system (full healthcare and retirement, but no
unemployment benets). During stages in the UK, the
scholarship will be topped up to 1710 euros monthly
to compensate for dierences in the cost of living. The
scholarship is renewable for up to four years, at the end
of which the candidate is expected to defend his or her
PhD. dissertation thesis.
*A call for fellowship applications* will open during July
and be open until May 11, 2015 (http://www.fct.pt/-
apoios/bolsas/index.phtml.pt), but contacts should be
made before *May 1*, at 6pm Greenwich time. Inter-
ested candidates should send a one page cover letter
describing their research interests and experience, a CV
(explicitly including average scores for B.Sc. and/or
M.Sc.), and the contact information for up to two refer-
ees to Daniel Montesinos (daniel.montesinos@uc.pt) and
Adrian Brennan (a.c.brennan@durham.ac.uk). Informal
inquiries are welcome.
More information about the groups can be found
here: http://cfe.uc.pt/daniel-montesinos https://-
www.dur.ac.uk/research/directory/sta/?mode=-
sta&id=11637 http://www.uc.pt/en/fctuc/ID/-
plantecolevol Daniel Montesinos
Researcher (IF) Centre for Functional Ecology DCV -
FCTUC - Universidade de Coimbra Cal cada Martim
de Freitas 3000-456 Coimbra, Portugal T: (+351) 239
855 223 (ext. 156) http://cfe.uc.pt/daniel-montesinos
Editor-in-Chief Web Ecology www.web-ecology.net
Daniel Montesinos <danimontesinos@gmail.com >May 1, 2015 EvolDir 37
UEastAnglia UGroningen
EvolutionSeychellesWarblers
Excellent PhD opportunity
Funded PhD position working on the Evolution of
promiscuity in Seychelles warblers
with Profs DS Richardson, J Komdeur and Dr H Dug-
dale
Joint position at the University of East Anglia and the
University of Groningen
Deadline 24 April 2015
For more details, eligibility and how to apply go to
https://www.uea.ac.uk/study/-/investigating-the-
evolutionary-forces-underlying-promiscuity-in-the-
seychelles-warbler-richardsonds u15sf- or
http://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=56962&LID=432 David
S Richardson Professor in Evolutionary Ecology and
Conservation Centre for Evolution, Ecology and Con-
servation School of Biological Sciences, UEA, Norwich
NR4 7TJ, England e-mail: david.richardson@uea.ac.uk
http://biobis.bio.uea.ac.uk/biosql/fac show.aspx?ID=-
325 UK Top 15 (14th in the Guardian University
Guide 2015; 15th in the Complete University Guide
2015) UK Top 3 for Student Experience (Times Higher
Education Student Experience Survey 2014) World top
1% (Times Higher Education World Rankings 2013-14)
World Top 100 (Leiden Ranking 2014)
\David Richardson (BIO)"
<David.Richardson@uea.ac.uk >
UFlorida MovementEvolution
*PhD position in movement ecology at the University
of Florida starting Fall 2015*
We seek an ambitious and hard-working PhD student
to lead a project on wood stork movement ecology.
The project will focus on habitat selection and move-
ment responses to environmental stressors (climate
change, weather and urbanization). Using and devel-oping cutting-edge methods in movement ecology, the
student will evaluate individual variation as a basis for
adaptive responses to global change. The work will be
mostly data-driven, relying on an extensive telemetry
data set ( >100 individuals over >10 years), and will not
require additional eld work. Applicants are expected to
demonstrate robust fundamentals in statistics and data
management; knowledge and understanding of R and
PostGIS preferred. Publication records in peer-reviewed
journals in ecology is highly desirable. Applicants must
have a M.S. in ecology, evolutionary biology, behavior,
or a related eld.
This position will be supported by a fellowship of four
years funding plus tuition and benets, expected to
start Fall 2015. The student will be based in Dr.
Mathieu Basille's lab [1], located at the University of
Florida's Fort Lauderdale Research and Education Cen-
ter (FLREC [2]). The lab focuses on species distribution
modeling, from ne-scale movement and habitat selec-
tion to range dynamics. The FLREC is based in Davie,
FL, but class semesters will be held on the main campus
in Gainesville, FL. Davie is a town within the large
Miami metropolitan area in South Florida, just miles
away from the Florida Everglades.
Please apply by sending an email including a cover letter
describing your interest, experience and career goals,
a CV, unocial transcripts and GRE scores, and con-
tact information for three references to Dr. Mathieu
Basille (basille@u.edu). Applications will be processed
in the order they are received until a suitable applicant
is found.
[1] http://ase-research.org/basille/ [2] http://-
rec.ifas.u.edu/ {
~$ whoami Mathieu Basille http://ase-research.org/-
basille ~$ locate {details University of Florida \\Fort
Lauderdale Research and Education Center (+1) 954-
577-6314
~$ fortuneLe tout est de tout dire, et je manque de
mots Et je manque de temps, et je manque d'audace.
{ Paul ~Aluard
basille@u.edu
UGraz Austria BehavioralEvolution
This position has previously been advertised with the
subject matter \PostDoc" in EvolDir (as it can be lled
by either a postdoc or a PhD candidate) and may have38 EvolDir May 1, 2015
gone unnoticed by people searching for PhD opportuni-
ties.
A PhD position in a 3-year project <Coping with
cuckoldry >funded by the FWF (Austrian Science Fund)
is available at the Institute of Zoology at the Univer-
sity of Graz, Austria, in the group of Prof. Kristina
Sefc. The project investigates cuckoldry in a cichlid sh
with biparental brood care. The study species (Vari-
abilichromis moorii, from Lake Tanganyika in Africa)
has high levels of extra-pair paternity (Sefc et al. 2008,
Mol. Ecol. 17, 2531-2543), and we now aim to un-
derstand why nest-holding males failed to evolve more
ecient defenses against cuckoldry. The candidate will
carry out eld work, genetic analysis and behavioral
experiments to answer questions about paternity, brood
care, ospring recognition, mate choice and relatedness
structure within the population.
We are looking for a highly motivated person with an
MSc in a related discipline (e.g., zoology, behavioral
ecology, evolutionary biology). Field work at Lake Tan-
ganyika is an important part of the project (up to four
trips are required); therefore, candidates experienced
with aquatic eld work are particularly encouraged to
apply. Field work will require SCUBA diving in shallow
(<10m) water. The project also includes a large amount
of DNA genotyping (microsatellites) for paternity and
relatedness analyses, such that experience with or an-
ity to DNA lab work is required. Behavioral work in
the lab also involves sh stock management and the
establishment of experimental designs. The candidate
is expected to search, read and understand scientic
literature, and to develop good skills in statistical data
analysis and scientic writing. Excellent written and
oral communication skills in English, team skills, a sense
of responsibility and the ability to take decisions (e.g.
react to unforeseen conditions during eld work) are
required.
The successful candidate is expected to start between
July 1 and September 1, 2015, and to participate in a
eld trip to Lake Tanganyika from mid-September to
November. The gross salary per year (before tax) is
approximately euro 28,000.
Graz is a lively city in the south of Austria, situated in
a beautiful landscape oering manifold opportunities for
outdoor activities. Friendly people, lots of sunshine and
reasonable living expenses contribute to a high quality
of life.
Please send your application including your motivation
for the position, a detailed description of your experience
(eld work, genetic analysis, behavioral experiments),
CV incl. photograph, publication list, and 2 (or more)
referee contacts to kristina.sefc@uni-graz.at. Send youapplication as soon as possible, but latest by April 30.
kristina.sefc@uni-graz.at
UKonstanz MolEvol
Ph.D. position available in molecular evolution, com-
parative genomics and evo-devo at the University of
Konstanz in Germany
The Hector Foundation provides generous funding for
Ph.D. fellowships for the Hector Academy . The fund-
ing applies only to students who are interested in joining
the laboratories of Senior Hector Fellows. These fellow-
ships pay a highly competitive salary and also provide
support for research expenses.
Please visit http://www.hector-fellow-academy.de/en/-
hfa-doctorate/index.htm for more information.
DEADLINE April 30th 2015
Axel Meyers lab at the University of Konstanz welcomes
applications from motivated Masters students who are
interested in the elds of either molecular evolution,
comparative genomics, and / or the evolution of devel-
opmental mechanisms.
The University of Konstanz and the Department of Bi-
ology are among the most highly ranked institutions
in Germany and provide a lively and academically out-
standing research environment. Konstanz is a lovely
historic town located on Lake Constance on the southern
German border to Switzerland.
Additional information can be obtained from:
axel.meyer@uni- konstanz.de <http://konstanz.de/
>, phone: +49 (0) 7531 / 88 - 4163, fax + 49
(0) 7531 / 88 - 3018 or from our website: http://-
www.evolutionsbiologie.uni-konstanz.de Prof. Axel
Meyer, Ph.D. Lehrstuhl f1r Zoologie und Evolutionsbi-
ologie Department of Biology Building M, Room M806
University of Konstanz 78457 Konstanz Germany
fon + 49 (0)7531 88 4163 fax + 49 (0)7531 88 3018
secretary: Ingrid.Bader@uni-konstanz.de tel. + 49
(0)7531 88 3069
www.evolutionsbiologie.uni-konstanz.de Axel Meyer
<axel.meyer@uni-konstanz.de >May 1, 2015 EvolDir 39
UMainz AntLifeHistoryEvolution
PhD - Life History Evolution In Ants
Application deadline 8th of May 2015 The Faculty 10
Biology, Institute of Zoology, Dept. of Evolutionary
Biology at the University of Mainz is searching for
a PhD Student (3 years - 65% TVL E13)
for the research project
Life history evolution in Ants
We invite applications for a 3-years PhD position at the
JG University of Mainz, Germany. The project aims
at understanding the evolution of life history traits and
their genetic basis. Our model systems are Temnothorax
ants and in this project we will use both experimental
and transcriptomic approaches. For more details on the
project, please contact us.
The position requires a Master degree in Biology (or a
related eld). The successful candidate should be highly
motivated and have a strong background in evolutionary
genetics and behavioral ecology. Previous research expe-
riences with transcriptomics, bioinformatics, behavioral
experiments, or social insects are not required but advan-
tageous. Students from every nationality are encouraged
to apply. The working language of the laboratory is
English.
Our young group oers an international, dynamic
and interactive scientic environment and state-of the
art, newly equipped laboratories. Information on our
scientic work including recent publications can be
found under http://www.bio.uni-mainz.de/zoo/evobio/-
318ENG HTML.php. For more information, please
do not hesitate to contact us foitzik@uni-mainz.de or
feldmeye@uni-mainz.de.The University of Mainz hosts
many excellent scientic institutions (http://www.uni-
mainz.de/eng) and Mainz is a historic city located on
the River Rhine with many students and a rich social
and cultural life (http://www.mainz.de).
Interested candidates should send an application (as
a single pdf e-mail attachment) containing a letter of
motivation, a brief statement of their research experi-
ence and interests (max. 1 page), a curriculum vitae
(with the grades of their B.Sc and M.Sc), a copy of
their Master or Diploma thesis, and the names and
email address of 2-3 potential referees to Dr. Susanne
Foitzik (foitzik@uni-mainz.de) or Dr. Barbara Feld-meyer (feldmeye@uni-mainz.de).
Review of applications will begin May 8th 2015. Skype-
interviews are scheduled for mid-May and on-site visits
for beginning of June. Starting date due to the eld
season is August 2015 (15th of August 2015 at the very
latest).
Prof. Dr. Susanne Foitzik Dr. Barbara Feldmeyer
foitzik@uni-mainz.de feldmeye@uni-mainz.de
Prof. Dr. Susanne Foitzik Evolutionsbiologie Institut
f ur Zoologie Johannes Gutenberg Universit at Mainz
Johannes von M uller Weg 6 D-55099 Mainz Germany
Tel: +49 (0) 6131 39 27 840 Fax: +49 (0)6131 39 27
850 Email: foitzik@uni-mainz.de
From: Foitzik, Susanne Sent: Montag, 23. Februar 2015
14:17 To: 'Golding@McMaster.CA' Subject: evoldir:
Open Assistant Prof. position Deadline nishes soon!
Dear Brian I would like to post the following position
on evolDir Thanks for doing this ! Best Susanne
Reminder! Deadline closing soon!
Job announcement
|{
In the Faculty 10 Biology, Zoological Institute, Depart-
ment of Evolutionary Biology at the University of Mainz
is looking for an
Assistant Professor / Junior group leader
(Akademischer Rat at a University / Bes.Gr. A 13
BBesG)
Field: Evolutionary Genomics / Behavioral Genomics
from April 15st 2015 on.
The contract is initially for 3 years with the possibility
of extension to up to a total of nine years depending on
previous employment at German universities (12-year
rule). In case the prerequisites of civil service law are
not fullled, an engagement as a Scientic Assistant
(EG 13 TV-L) is possible. More information on poten-
tial contract length and position can be given on an
individual basis.
We invite applications for an Assistant Professor
(Akademischer Rat / A 13) position in the Depart-
ment of Evolutionary (Prof. Dr. Susanne Foitzik) at
the Institute of Zoology at Johannes Gutenberg Univer-
sity of Mainz, Germany. This young international re-
search team focusses on the evolution, behavior, genetics,
chemical ecology of social insects (http://www.bio.uni-
mainz.de/zoo/evobio/index ENG.php). Collaboration
with other groups of in the department of Evolution-
ary Biology are desirable. Excellent research conditions40 EvolDir May 1, 2015
are available at the newly renovated and well-equipped
genetic and chemical laboratories in Mainz. Further-
more, new climate chambers are available for animal
maintenance. A NextGen sequencing facility is avail-
able on campus. For further information, please contact
foitzik@uni-mainz.de.
We are seeking a highly motivated young researcher
with a strong background in evolutionary genomics or
behavioral genomics to
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UOslo Bioinformatics
Information on how to apply can be found here: http:/-
/uio.easycruit.com/vacancy/1356637/64290? NOTE:
the deadline is in three days (13.04.15).
Department of Informatics PhD Research Fellow in
Bioinformatics A position as PhD Research fellow is
available at the Department of Informatics.
The fellowship will be for a period of 3 years, with no
compulsory work or for a period of 4 years, with 25 %
compulsory work (teaching responsibilities at the depart-
ment) contingent on the qualications of the candidate
and the teaching needs of the department. Starting
date no later than 1 October 2015. No one can be ap-
pointed for more than one xed-term period at the same
institution.
The research fellow will take part in the Centre for
Computational Inference in Evolutionary Life Sciences
(CELS). CELS is a multidisciplinary centre within life
sciences comprising strong research environments in biol-
ogy and statistical and computational methods for data
analysis. CELS addresses fundamental biological ques-
tions related to the genotype-phenotype paradigm, how
the environment aects genome evolution and develop-
ment of methods for integrated analysis of genomic and
other biotic and abiotic data. A main goal is to develop
interdisciplinary research activities generating science
of true interest for computer scientists, statisticians and
biologists.
Job description:
Metagenomics is the study of the genetic material in asample containing a mix of dierent microbial organ-
isms. These samples may have be obtained from such
diverse locations as the gut of an animal (e.g. humans
or shes), from the depths of the oceans, or from the
soil somewhere on earth. Recent advances in DNA se-
quencing technologies have enabled very large amounts
of such data to be obtained for analysis. Extracting bio-
logical meaningful information from these huge datasets
involve hard computational challenges that can only be
solved by good algorithms and ecient parallelization.
Interpreting the data correctly can advance science by
a better understanding of, for example, the diversity
of ecosystems or how the immune system responds to
exposure to microorganisms.
We are seeking a highly motivated candidate to develop
new or improved algorithms and tools for metagenomics
with substantially improved functionality, accuracy or
speed that will be highly valuable for the scientic com-
munity. This is an opportunity to develop open source
software in areas like error detection and removal, clus-
tering, classication as well as genome assembly, where
we have already contributed with tools like SWARM
and VSEARCH. The successful candidate will be em-
bedded in a vibrant bioinformatics environment con-
nected to two Norwegian Centres of Excellence, and
have access to rst-rate computational infrastructure.
The position is associated with the Centre for Compu-
tational Inference in Evolutionary Life Science (CELS)
at UiO. The CELS research environment oers exten-
sive experience with high-throughput sequencing and
assembly of large genomes such as that of Atlantic cod
(doi:10.1038/nature10342). The candidate will be su-
pervised by an interdisciplinary team of scientists and
will collaborate with other PhD research fellows within
CELS.
Requirements:^ a
The Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences has
a strategic ambition of being a leading research faculty.
Candidates for these fellowships will be selected in accor-
dance with this, and expected to be in the upper segment
of their class with respect to academic credentials.
Applicants must hold a Master's degree or equivalent in
bioinformatics or computer science, and need to docu-
ment good software development skills, as well as some
experience with bioinformatics.
The candidate would need to learn ge-
nomics/metagenomics during the project, but no
formal prior knowledge of biology is required.
Candidates without a Master's degree have until 30
June, 2015 to complete the nal exam.
The purpose of the fellowship is research training leadingMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 41
to the successful completion of a PhD degree.
The fellowship requires admission to the PhD pro-
gramme at the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sci-
ences. The application to the PhD programme must be
submitted to the department no later than two months
after taking up the position. For more information see:
Applying and being admitted to the PhD programme
Research education: The PhD programme
A good command of English is required
Salary:
Position code 1017, Pay grade: 50 - 57 (NOK 429 700 -
482 800 per year)
The application must include:
Application letter
CV (summarizing education, positions and academic
work - scientic publications)
Copies of educational certicates, transcript of records
and letters of recommendation
Documentation of English prociency ^ a
List of publications and academic work that the appli-
cant wishes to be considered by the evaluation commit-
tee
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UOslo HybridSpeciesGenomics
PhD-student position on the genomic archivecture of a
hybrid species at University of Oslo
A position as PhD Research Fellow is available at
the Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis
(CEES), Department of Biosciences, Faculty of Mathe-
matics and Natural Sciences.
The PhD project is entitled \The genomic architecture
of a hybrid species" and is part of a larger Research Pro-
gram entitled \On the role of hybridization in evolution
- the case of Eurasian Passer sparrows" funded by the
Norwegian Research Council.
Tentative starting date: June-August 2015.The PhD-project will be part of a larger project us-
ing the Italian sparrow (Passer italiae), the rst docu-
mented case of hybrid speciation in birds (Hermansen
et al. 2011), and its parent species (P. domesticus and
P. hispaniolensis) to investigate how hybridization can
generate novel variation and result in speciation. The
genome of the Italian sparrow is a composite mosaic
of DNA from both parent species' genomes. However,
little is known about the processes molding a homoploid
hybrid genome.
This project applies genomic approaches to develop an
understanding of which factors that have formed the
genome of the Italian sparrow. Whole genome resquenc-
ing and RAD-tag data from three putatively indepen-
dently formed island populations will be used to investi-
gate this. Three questions that will be addressed is the
role of transposable elements in forming the genome,
whether entire networks of genes are repeatedly inher-
ited from the same parent species, and how genetic
integration compares to phenotypic integration. The
successful candidate will be allowed to choose aspects of
genomics of the larger study as best ts her/his research
interests. She/he will also be encouraged to develop
additional, complementary avenues of research. There
will be available genomic data to work on from day
one, but there will also be eld work on Mediterranean
islands!
We are looking for an ambitious candidate who is pas-
sionate about science and has a strong background in
evolutionary biology/genomics/bioinformatics. Inter-
ested candidates should have a Master degree or equiva-
lent in a relevant eld of biology. A special interest in
the eld of speciation and speciation genetics is a plus.
The candidate should be interested in learning and ap-
plying genomic skills to answer evolutionary questions
regarding hybrid speciation. A strong interest in bioin-
formatics and experience with independent program-
ming in unix/python/perl, and genomic data analysis in
R is meriting. We are primarily looking for a candidate
with a strong track record who is highly motivated and
interested in a future career in science.
The position is aliated with the Centre for Ecological
and Evolutionary Synthesis (CEES), under the super-
vision of Dr. Anna Runemark and Prof. Glenn-Peter
S~Atre and the work will be done in collaboration with
our research group currently consisting of four senior re-
searchers, three PhD-students and several MSc-students.
The working language will be English.
Please contact Anna Runemark
Anna.Runemark@ibv.uio (or g.p.satre@ibv.uio.no) for
further information regarding the position!
Please nd a link to the announcement here: http://-42 EvolDir May 1, 2015
uio.easycruit.com/vacancy/1373165/96871?iso=no .
Anna Runemark <anna.runemark@ibv.uio.no >
UOtago BirdGenomics
Title: University of Otago, New Zealand, Bird genomics
A PhD position is available to study the evolution
and conservation of New Zealand bird species with Dr
Michael Knapp at the University of Otago, Dunedin,
New Zealand.
Project details: The New Zealand bird fauna is unique
in the world and a key element of New Zealand's natural
heritage. In the absence of mammals, birds have evolved
to ll their ecological niches. This unusual situation
has for example given rise to the world's largest raptor,
Haast's Eagle, the ecological equivalent of a lion or tiger.
New Zealand is also home to the only alpine parrot in
the world, the Kea, and the world's only ightless parrot,
the Kakapo. The New Zealand bird fauna is a model for
adaptive evolution comparable to the famous Galpagos
nches that inspired Darwin's work. However, due to
their adaptions to a mammal free environment, New
Zealand birds have suered dramatic losses through in-
troduced mammalian predators with many species now
depending on intensive conservation eorts.
Because of their evolutionary relevance, the conservation
of New Zealand birds is of more than national impor-
tance. Understanding the evolution of New Zealand
birds and preserving them for the future are global chal-
lenges. Second generation sequencing technology now
allows us to address these challenges with an unprece-
dented amount of genetic information.
As part of a new, Royal Society funded research pro-
gramme our lab will use genomic data to study the
molecular basis of the adaptations New Zealand birds
have developed to t into their unique environment.
We will also use these data to evaluate and develop
conservation strategies for some of New Zealands most
endangered bird species. We are looking for a PhD stu-
dent with skills in bioinformatics and genomic analyses
to undertake research on bird evolution and conserva-
tion using whole genome data. The ideal candidate
would have skills in programming, with a background
in bioinformatics and a strong training and interest in
genetics.
For scholarship and application details please see:
http://www.nature.com/naturejobs/science/jobs/-515133-phd-projects-in-the-department-of-anatomy-
university-of-otago and http://anatomy.otago.ac.nz/-
phd-opportunities While there is no xed application
deadline, the selection process will start soon so an
early application is advantageous. For questions
about the project, please contact Dr Michael Knapp
(michael.knapp@otago.ac.nz).
Michael Knapp <michael.knapp@otago.ac.nz >
UppsalaU Sweden
ExperimentalEvolution NewGenes
We seek a highly motivated individual with a strong
interest in pursuing a PhD degree in medical microbi-
ology within a research program at Uppsala University.
The projects will focus on mechanisms and dynamics of
evolution, in particular the evolution of new genes.
Project description: The main objective of the project
is to use and develop experimental model systems to
study general mechanisms of evolution, with a focus
on the evolution of new genes and functions. Experi-
mental evolution, microbial genetics and whole genome
sequencing will be the main tools to examine the roles
of factors such as gene duplication, functional trade-os
and genetic variation in the evolution of novel functions.
For the full ad and application form go to:
http://www.uu.se/en/about-uu/join-us/details/-
?positionId=3D63275 More information on:
http://www.imbim.uu.se/Research/Microbiology-
immunology/Andersson Dan I/?languageId=1 For
further details: contact Ass. Prof. Joakim N asvall,
joakim.nasvall@imbim.uu.se
{
Joakim N asvall Dept. of Medical Biochemistry and Mi-
crobiology Uppsala University BMC D7:3 Husargatan 3,
Box 582 75123 Uppsala, Sweden Phone: +46-18-4714604
joakim.nasvall@imbim.uu.se
UQueensland
SexBiasedGeneExpression
Genomics of Sexually Dimorphic Gene ExpressionMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 43
Applications for PhD positions in evolutionary genet-
ics are invited in the lab of Steve Chenoweth at the
University of Queensland. Our group uses genomic and
quantitative genetic approaches to understand the evo-
lution of sex dierences and is currently focused on
theevolution of sexually dimorphic gene expression. We
use both model and non-model Drosophila species and
have recently developed signicant genomic resources
for Drosophila serrata including de novo genome and
transcriptomeassemblies, a panel of 100 re-sequenced
lines and multiple sets of evolvingpopulations. Research
projects will leverage these new resources to developinno-
vative approaches to understand the selective processes
and constraintsthat inuence the evolution of sexual
dimorphism in the transcriptome.
Prior training in the following areas is highly desirable
but not essential: quantitative or population genetics,
bioinformatics, genomics or evolutionary biology.
Qualications
Applicants require either a Bachelor's degree with Hon-
ours, `Master of Science, MPhil or equivalent degrees.
International applicants usually will have published
some work in peer-reviewed journals.Australian and New
Zealand applicants must have received rst class Hon-
ours degrees. Scholarship schemes at the University of
Queensland are highly competitive. The UQ Graduate
School website provides further information on the entry
requirements for admission to the PhD program (http:/-
/www.uq.edu.au/grad-school/our-research-degrees) and
scholarship details. Individuals successful in gaining
a tuition-fee waiver scholarship usually also obtain a
living stipend.
**Application process** Interested candidates
should send a cover letter describing their moti-
vation and research interests along with a CV to
s.chenoweth@uq.edu.au no later than Tuesday April
21st 2015. Short-listed candidates will be asked to
provide further information and documentation and
will be interviewed over Skype. Following, the nal
applicants will be invited to apply for a PhD at UQ.
For further information on the UQ application process
please contact the Postgraduate Administration Ocer
Gail Walter gj.walter@uq.edu.au
**UQ and the School of Biological Sciences** The
School of Biological Sciences is a large and research-
intensive unit at the University of Queensland, one of
Australia'smost prestigious Universities. The School
has broad expertise across the disciplines of ecology and
evolution, molecular and quantitative genetics, devel-
opmental biology, behaviour, plant and animal phys-
iology, and conservation biology. Our research pro-
grams span all scales of biological organisation, frommolecules and cells, to organisms, populations, species
and communities, and take advantage of study animal
and plant systems in a large variety of habitats (see
http://www.biology.uq.edu.au/ for detailed information
on our research programs).
Steve Chenoweth Associate Professor School of Biologi-
cal Sciences University of Queensland St. Lucia, QLD
4072 Australia
www.chenowethlab.org s.chenoweth@uq.edu.au
USouthernMississippi
FishPopulationGenetics
A graduate assistant position (M.S. or Ph.D) is avail-
able in our laboratory to work on population genet-
ics/genomics of marine and coastal shes exploited in
the Gulf of Mexico region. Current lab projects include
exploitation of RAD-Tag sequencing data to generate
linkage maps and/or analyze spatial genetic variation
and population structure with application to the man-
agement of aquaculture programs and sheries conser-
vation.
The successful applicant will be provided a 12-month
full-time Research Assistantship with a tuition waiver.
Candidates should possess a Bachelor's degree in a rele-
vant eld (e.g. Biology, Ecology & evolutionary biology,
Fisheries science, GPA >3.5) when applying for this
position. Skills in programming/script-writing and ex-
perience with molecular techniques are strong assets.
The position is available starting fall 2015.
Interested individuals should send a CV, GRE scores,
and unocial transcripts to:
Eric Saillant, Ph.D Associate Professor Department of
Coastal Sciences The University of Southern Mississippi
Gulf Coast Research Laboratory 703 East Beach Drive
Ocean Springs, MS, 39564 Tel. (1) 228-818-8007 Fax
(1) 228-872-4204 E-mail: eric.saillant@usm.edu
Eric Saillant <eric.saillant@usm.edu >44 EvolDir May 1, 2015
UStAndrews Adaptation
Project title: Genome-scan methods for identifying ge-
nomic regions involved in adaptation to extreme envi-
ronments
Supervisors: Oscar E. Gaggiotti (School of Biology,
University of St Andrews) and Janine Illian (School of
Mathematics & Statistics University of St Andrews)
Climate change can lead to extreme climate and weather
events with dramatic negative impacts on both natu-
ral and domesticated species. Therefore, there is great
interest in identifying genetic variants that may allow
species to adapt to extreme environmental conditions.
The eld of population genomics addresses this problem
by screening genome-wide patterns of DNA polymor-
phism to detect the locus-specic signature of positive
selection. The objective of the doctoral project is to
contribute to this emerging eld by developing state of
the art statistical methodology and a novel genome scan
method to uncover associations between genomic regions
and environment variables (e.g. temperature, aridity)
from the joint analysis of population genomics and en-
vironmental data. The focus will be on spatial and
spatio-temporal Bayesian methods implemented using
the Integrated Nested Laplace Approximation (INLA).
We are looking for an enthusiastic, dynamic, and inde-
pendent student interested in studies at the interface
between statistics and population genomics. Candidates
must have a strong background in statistics and an in-
terest in population genetics and computational biology.
They should also be procient in English. The focus
of the project is on statistical developments and data
analysis so it does not include any lab or eldwork.
Interested candidates should send CV, statement of
interest and names and contact information of three
references to oeg@st-andrews.ac.uk with the subject
header PHD POSITION.
Oscar E. Gaggiotti Professor, MASTS Chair Scottish
Oceans Institute East Sands University of St Andrews
St Andrews Fife KY16 8LB UK http://biology.st-
andrews.ac.uk/contact/staprole.aspx?sunID=-
oeg http://www.congressgenetics.eu/-
default.aspx http://intercrossing.wikispaces.com/-
What+is+INTERCROSSING%3F http://-
scholar.google.co.uk/citations?hl=en&user=-
tfqcdv0AAAAJ Oscar Gaggiotti <oeg@st-andrews.ac.uk >
UZurich OrchidSpeciation
PhD Position \ Ecological genomics of parallel
pollinator-driven speciation in orchids
A PhD position is open for a highly motivated stu-
dent with a keen interest in evolutionary and ecological
questions, and a solid knowledge of genomics and bioin-
formatics/statistics.
The successful candidate will be part of a team in-
vestigating the molecular basis of parallel pollinator-
mediated reproductive isolation and ecological specia-
tion between sexually deceptive orchids of the genus
Ophrys. The project seeks to understand the degree
of convergence, at the phenotypic and molecular lev-
els, of two cases of species divergence mediated by the
same pollinators. In particular, the successful candi-
date will investigate (1) the extent of convergence in
pollinator-attractive traits and reproductive isolation
between species, (2) the extent of similarities in the
genomic architecture underlying these adaptive traits,
and (3) the evolution of specic metabolic pathways
(and their regulation) controlling pollinator attraction.
This multidisciplinary project will involve a combination
of eld work (in the Mediterranean) and state-of the
art tools for phenotypic, metabolomic and ecological
genomic (RNA-Seq and Exome-Seq) characterisation of
natural plant populations. For background information
on the study system, please see e.g. Schl uter & Schiestl
(2008, Trends Plant Sci.), Schl uter & al. (2011, PNAS)
and Sedeek & al. (2013, PLoS One; and 2014, Mol.
Ecol.).
The ideal candidate should be highly motivated and able
to articulate her/his motivation for this project clearly.
S/he should be well organised, with a thorough under-
standing of evolutionary biology, population genetics
and molecular biology, and should have an interest in
orchid pollination. The candidate is expected to be pro-
cient in statistical data analysis, with a good working
knowledge of R and proven experience in bioinformat-
ics, ideally with an ecological genomics background.
Programming skills in other languages (e.g. Delphi or
C/C++) are an advantage. Since the student will have
to prepare libraries for Illumina sequencing, basic labo-
ratory skills are necessary; previous eld experience is a
plus. Prociency in English and good communication
skills are essential, as is a completed MSc degree (orMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 45
equivalent) in biology or a related discipline, and the
proven ability to carry out research independently.
We oer a 3-year PhD position at the Univer-
sity of Zurich, Switzerland, at a competetive salary
(>47kCHF/a before tax) funded by the Swiss National
Science Foundation. The student will be part of the
Institute of Systematic Botany, located in the beau-
tiful Botanic Gardens and within walking distance of
Lake Zurich. The successful candidate will work in a
young, active, interdisciplinary and stimulating environ-
ment and will have access to state-of-the-art tools and
techniques.
Your application should consist of a letter of motivation
(1-2 pages), your CV and (if applicable) publication list,
and the names and e-mail adresses of three academic
referees. The letter of motivation should detail why you
think the project is relevant, why you are personally
interested in it, and why you think you are well-suited
to undertake it. Please send your application (or any
requests for further information) electronically to Dr
Philipp Schl uter (philipp.schlueter at systbot.uzh.ch).
Screening of applications will begin immediately and
continue until the position is lled. The preferred start
date is 1st of June 2015.
philipp.schlueter@systbot.uzh.ch
Vienna PopulationGenetics
reminder: upcoming deadline
PhD positions in Population Genetics
Over the past years, Vienna has developed into one
of the leading centres of population genetics. The Vi-
enna Graduate School of Population Genetics has been
founded to provide a training opportunity for PhD stu-
dents to build on this excellent on site expertise.
We invite applications from highly motivated and out-
standing students with a background in one of the follow-
ing disciplines: bioinformatics, statistics, evolutionary
genetics, functional genetics, theoretical and experimen-
tal population genetics. Students from related disci-
plines, such as physics or mathematics are also welcome
to apply.
Topics include:
| Characterizing piRNA content in D. melanogaster and
D. simulans | Statistical inference for experimental
evolution using pooled NGS data | Population historyand adaptation in natural Arabidopsis populations |
Population trees and polymorphism-aware phylogenetic
models | Episodic selection histories and co-evolution
| Wolbachia infection dynamics in evolving Drosophila
populations | Functional characterization of benecial
alleles in Drosophila | Genomic signature of migration
between populations adapted to dierent environments
| Identication and characterization of naturally oc-
curring variation aecting reproductive diapause in D.
melanogaster | Modied evolve and re-sequence design
| Convergent and adaptive evolution during ecotype
formation in Arabidopsis arenosa | Convergent and
adaptive evolution during high-alpine ecotype formation
in Heliosperma (Cariophylaceae | The role of epistasis
for the invasion, establishment, and survival of locally
benecial mutations
Only complete applications (application form, CV, mo-
tivation letter, university certicates, indication of the
two preferred topics in a single pdf) received by May 03,
2015 will be considered. Two letters of recommendation
need to be sent directly by the referees.
All information about the about available topics, the
training program and the application procedure can be
found at www.popgen-vienna.at julia.hosp@gmail.com
WageningenU DarwinianAgriculture
PhD project (AIO) 'Darwinian Agriculture by fungus-
growing termites'
Laboratory of Genetics, Wageningen University, Wa-
geningen, The Netherlands
Within the recently funded VICI project 'Darwinian
Agriculture. Guided by an ancient farming mutualism',
a PhD position is available. Fungus-growing termites
cultivate fungi of the genus Termitomyces, upon which
they depend for food provisioning. A single colony cul-
tivates a single clone of fungi, i.e. a monoculture, and
this monoculture can remain productive for multiple
decades. The overall question addressed in this project
is how termites can maintain this high productivity of
their monoculture for so long. This question is inspired
by observations in laboratory evolution experiments
showing fast decreases in productivity due to inadver-
tent selection of competitive traits that trade o with
collective performance of the fungi. This PhD project
will involve eld work in South Africa, fungal isolation,
microbial and DNA techniques. The preferred candidate46 EvolDir May 1, 2015
has experience with these techniques and is interested
in evolutionary questions, especially the evolution of
cooperation.
A full-time position (38 hours), initially for 1 year after
which a go/no go decision will be taken on extension
with another three years. Gross salary per month euro
2042,= in the rst year rising to euro 2612,per month
in the fourth year, for a fulltime appointment.
We are looking for a highly motivated, enthusiastic
young researcher with a strong interest in evolutionary
genetics/ecology and microbiology.
Following the European Commission's Guidelines for
Equality between women and men the Max-CROP man-
agement team supports the promotion of women in theEuropean Research Area, and encourages applications
from women.
To apply, please send by email a cover letter, describ-
ing your motivation and suitability for the position,
a detailed CV, and the name and address of two ref-
erees to support your application to Duur K. Aanen
(duur.aanen@wur.nl). The deadline is 15 May 2015. In-
terviews will be held in Wageningen, The Netherlands.
Duur Aanen Laboratory of Genetics Wageningen
University and Research Center The Netherlands
Tel. +31(0)317 483144 Mobile: +31 (0)6 38140916
Fax: +31 (0)317 483146 http://www.gen.wur.nl/UK/-
Sta/Scientic%20Sta/Duur+Aanen \Aanen, Duur"
<duur.aanen@wur.nl >
Jobs
Amsterdam EvolutionSpeciesInteractions . . . . . . . . . . 47
BangorU CichlidGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .47
ColbyCollege ResTech InsectWingEvolution . . . . . . . 48
CollegeWilliamMary 1yr EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . 49
Germany SofjaKovalevskajaAward Jul31Deadline . .49
InstitutPasteur Paris 10 Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . .50
MasseyU NZ EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
MuseumKoenig Bonn TechAssist EvolutionaryGenomics
50
NatlScienceFoundation US ProgramDirector . . . . . . .51
OutreachNotice USFS-Cali GeneticsLabManager . . 51
PlymouthU BehaviourEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
SeniorEditor FuncEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
SmithCollege ResAssist CiliateBiodiversity . . . . . . . . 53
SmithCollege ResAssist MarineCiliates . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Sweden 6 BioinformaticsSupport . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
Trondheim Norway MolecularBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . 54
UCalifornia Berkeley ResTech Choanoagellates . . . 55
UCalifornia Berkeley ResTech EvolGenomics . . . . . . 56UCalifornia SantaBarbara ResTech InvertPhylogenetics
56
UdeConcepcion Chile 2 SystematicsBiodiversity . . . 56
UEastAnglia Summer ModelingMHC . . . . . . . . . . . . . .57
UExeter 4 EvolutionConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
UFlorida BatMoth SummerREU . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
UHawaii Hilo ResTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
UMelbourne 2 StatisticalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
UMelbourne 2 StatisticalGenomics 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
UMississippi DirectorFieldStation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
UNewBrunswick Fredericton Bioinformatics instructor
61
UNottingham TropicalBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
UPorto 3yr Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UTubingen PlantConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .63
UVermont LabTech EvolPhys . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
VirginiaTech LabTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64May 1, 2015 EvolDir 47
Amsterdam
EvolutionSpeciesInteractions
Assistant Professor in Ecology and Evolution (tenure-
track): 24 April deadline
We are seeking outstanding individuals with research
interests at the interface of ecology and evolution, in-
cluding evolution of species interactions, adaptation of
animals to global change, and macro-evolution of traits
in a comparative phylogenetic framework. Specically
we encourage applications of candidates who work with
invertebrate model systems, and who complement the
existing strengths in the Section. The successful can-
didate is expected to develop a vigorous, extramurally
funded research program in her/his area of expertise.
The candidate should provide high quality training to
BSc, MSc and PhDstudents, and teach bachelor and
master courses in Evolution & biodiversity, Human evo-
lution, or courses in their area of specialization.
Requirements - A Ph.D. in Ecology or Evolution, with at
least three years of postdoctoral experience. - Excellent
research accomplishments, as expressed in high-impact
publications - Evidence of successful acquisition of exter-
nal funding - Demonstrated skills in activating teaching
methods for BSc and MSc level courses - Excellent com-
munication skills and ability to work in a team - Fluency
in both written and spoken English.
Further particulars The intended starting date is Novem-
ber 1, 2015. We oer a tenure track position, initially for
the duration of 6 years. After 1 and 5 years the perfor-
mance will be evaluated in terms of publication record,
acquisition success, teaching and academic leadership.
After a successful evaluation permanent employment
will be granted and a path will be outlined for future
academic development.
Terms of employment The starting salary depends on
the experience and qualications and will be commen-
surate with university regulations for academic person-
nel. It ranges from euro 3,324 up to a maximum of
euro 4,551 gross per month based on full-time employ-
ment. You can nd information about the VU Uni-
versity Amsterdam excellent fringe benets of employ-
ment at www.workingatvu.nl . Information Inquiries
about the position can be made to the Head of Sec-
tion prof. dr. Jacintha Ellers (j.ellers@vu.nl). Fur-
ther information about the Department of Ecological
Science and the section Animal Ecology is available
through http://www.falw.vu.nl/en/research/ecological-sciences/index.asp Application Applicants should sub-
mit a complete Curriculum vitae, list of publications,
a statement of research interest and the names and
contact information of three professional references, by
email to: Mrs. Tineke Reus: tineke.reus@vu.nl, with
\TT in Ecology and Evolution" in the subject. Deadline
for applications is 24 April 2015.
toby.kiers@vu.nl
BangorU CichlidGenomics
Research Ocer
Bangor University - School of Biological Sciences
Fixed Term Contract, Salary Range: ^A$31,342 -
^A$37,394 p.a.
Applications are invited for the above 21-month fulltime
BBSRC/NERC-funded post working in the School of
Biological Sciences at Bangor University, as part of a
collaborative project including Bristol University and
The Genome Analysis Centre (TGAC), Norwich. Duties
will include bioinformatic, molecular and morphological
studies of hybridisation between native and introduced
tilapia sh populations from Tanzania, including analy-
sis of full genome sequences.
The post-holder will join a thriving research group at
Bangor University working in the area of genetics, mor-
phology, behaviour and conservation of African cichlid
sh in implementation of this exciting collaborative
project. We aim (1) to assess the extent and predictabil-
ity of introgressive hybridization following introduction
of exotic Oreochromis (mainly Nile tilapia) species into
the range of native species in Tanzania, using genomic
data; 2) to estimate the nature and basis of genomic
introgression, including the types of genes most likely
to introgress into native and exotic phenotypes and to
estimate whether introgression of certain regions is pre-
dictable; 3) to develop a quick economical diagnostic
test of the extent of introgression, using a SNP-chip
based on 100 polymorphisms selected using the full
genome sequences and chosen as diagnostic of the pure
strains to allocate a 'hybrid score' to each individual
and then to use this to calibrate phenotypic methods to
diagnose hybrids; 4) to estimate the relative growth and
ecological niche of pure native and exotic genotypes, as
well as a range of hybrids and relate to phenotype to
allow us to predict the likely outcome of the introduc-
tion 5) to enhance the genomic resources for Tilapia48 EvolDir May 1, 2015
strain improvement through bioinformatics (sequences
of a range of native species), tissue/ sperm cryopreser-
vation in collaboration with WorldFish and advising the
Tanzanian Government agencies on the identication
of candidate stocks for in-situ conservation. The post
holder will be responsible for conducting, analysing and
publishing a series of genomic studies based on tissue
samples obtained from Tanzania in a parallel project
funded by the Leverhulme Trust. This will involve ba-
sic molecular and morphological laboratory studies and
advanced bioinformatic analyses.
Candidates should be educated to PhD standard (or
equivalent) and have previous experience of molecular
laboratory work and quantitative analysis of biological
data, preferably including genome sequences. The suc-
cessful candidate will be expected to commence on or
before 1st July 2015.
Applications will only be accepted via the on-line re-
cruitment website, jobs.bangor.ac.uk. However, in cases
of access issues due to disability, paper application forms
are available by telephoning 01248 383865.
Closing date for applications: Monday, 18th May 2015.
For further details and specic enquiries contact Prof.
George Turner (george.turner@bangor.ac.uk).
Dr Martin Genner Senior Lecturer School of Biologi-
cal Sciences Life Sciences Building 24 Tyndall Avenue
Bristol BS8 1TQ
Phone: +44 (0)117 394 1182 Email:
m.genner@bristol.ac.uk Webpage: http://-
www.bristol.ac.uk/biology/people/martin-j-genner/-
index.html bzmjg@bristol.ac.uk
ColbyCollege ResTech
InsectWingEvolution
Research Technician Position Our lab at Colby College
is searching for a full-time technician with experience
in biological lab research for a continuing project
investigating the development, genetics, and evolution
of alternative wing size morphs in an insect. The
project and position are supported through April 2019.
Waterville, Maine is a beautiful place to live, and Colby
is a great place to work. For more details on the position
please see the posting on Colbys HR site, http://-
www.colby.edu/administration cs/humanresources/-
employment/researchte ch bio42015.cfm or contact
me by e-mail, dave.angelini@colby.edu.Essential Functions and Responsibilities One opening for
laboratory technician to assist research into the develop-
ment biology, genetics and evolution of alternative wing
size morphs in an insect. Technician is responsible for
overseeing daily workings of the lab, conducting experi-
ments and maintaining insect stocks, as well as ordering
supplies and maintaining equipment. Applicants must
be willing to work independently and communicate eec-
tively with the principal investigator. Although student
workers in the lab will be directly supervised by the
principal investigator (faculty member), the technician
will be working alongside undergraduate students, and
will be expected to assist the PI in delegating tasks.
Thus, the technician must have excellent skills in orga-
nization and communication. Clear attention to detail
with accurate record keeping is required. Technician
may also have creative input into the research.
Qualications Applicants should have a minimum of a
bachelors degree in biology or a related subject with
experience working in a research laboratory setting.
Technicians should have knowledge of basic concepts
in molecular biology. Prociency with computers and
Microsoft Excel is required.
Preferred Qualications - Master's degree in a biological
science or 2 years experience as a research assistant -
Experience with molecular genetics methods including
PCR, DNA cloning, RNA synthesis and microinjection -
Experience working in a lab performing next-generation
sequencing - Knowledge of insect development, evolution
or ecology
Interested candidates should submit a letter of interest,
resume and the names and contact information of three
professional references to hr@colby.edu and addressed
to:
Biology Research Technician - Search Committee Hu-
man Resources Colby College 5500 Mayower Hill Wa-
terville, ME 04901-8855
Review of applications will begin May 5 and continue
until the position is lled.
Colby College is committed to equality and diversity
and is an equal opportunity employer. We encourage
inquiries from candidates who will contribute to the
cultural and ethnic diversity of our college. Colby Col-
lege does not discriminate on the basis of race, gender,
sexual orientation, disability, religion, ancestry or na-
tional origin, or age in employment or in our educational
programs.
David R. Angelini, PhD Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Biology Colby College 5734 Mayower Hill
Waterville, ME 04901 - oce phone: 207-859-5734
http://web.colby.edu/aphanotus/ @Aphanotus http://-May 1, 2015 EvolDir 49
www.bugsinourbackyard.org/ @Jhaematoloma
david.r.angelini@gmail.com
CollegeWilliamMary 1yr
EvolutionaryBiol
Visiting Assistant Professor, Evolutionary Biology
The Department of Biology at the College of William
and Mary seeks applications for a non-tenure track
one-year position Visiting Assistant Professor in EVO-
LUTIONARY BIOLOGY, with additional teaching re-
sponsibilities in either Animal Behavior or Conserva-
tion Biology. The candidate is expected to teach a
sophomore-level Evolution of Organisms lecture course
and an upper-level seminar course (in the candidate's
area of expertise) in one semester, and an advanced un-
dergraduate lecture course in either Animal Behavior or
Conservation Biology as well as an upper-level seminar
course (in the candidate's area of expertise) in the other
semester. Postdoctoral experience is preferred. Prior ex-
perience teaching undergraduate courses will be viewed
favorably. The department and College strongly value
excellence in teaching and there are many on-campus
initiatives to aid faculty in developing their teaching
abilities and skills.
The ocial position ad can be found at: https:/-
/jobs.wm.edu/postings/20602 Review begins April
30, 2015 and will continue until an appointment is
made. Submit online a letter of application, curricu-
lum vitae, statement of teaching philosophy, and a
list of courses taken/taught relevant to the position
at www.jobs.wm.edu. Also submit separately online the
names and email addresses of three references who may
be contacted by us with instructions for how to submit
a letter of reference. Information on the undergradu-
ate and Masters degree programs in the Department of
Biology and this position may be obtained at http://-
www.wm.edu/biology .The College is an EEO/AA em-
ployer and actively encourages applications from minori-
ties, women, disabled persons, and veterans.
Questions? Contact John Swaddle, Chair of the Search
Committee (jpswad@wm.edu, 757-221-2231). A full list
of contact information of other biology faculty is avail-
able on the department's website (http://www.wm.edu/-
as/biology).
Dr. John P Swaddle Professor Institute for Inte-
grative Bird Behavior Studies Biology DepartmentCollege of William and Mary Williamsburg, VA
23187-8795 Tel. 757 221 2231 Lab wesite: http:/-
/jpswad.people.wm.edu/ ResearchGate: https://-
www.researchgate.net/prole/John Swaddle/?ev=-
3Dhdr xprf jpswad@wm.edu
Germany SofjaKovalevskajaAward
Jul31Deadline
With the Sofja Kovalevskaja Award, the Alexander
von Humboldt Foundation is oering promising young
researchers from all over the world attractive career
prospects in Germany. Junior research talents of all
disciplines from abroad are given the opportunity to es-
tablish working groups of their own at German research
institutions.
The Sofja Kovalevskaja Award recognises outstanding
talent and creative research approaches with exceptional
conditions: With an award amount of up to euro 1.65
million each winner receives valuable starting capital to
spend ve years pursuing an innovative research project
at a research institute of his or her choice - untroubled
by administrative constraints. In addition, the estab-
lishment of their own junior research team enables the
award winners to lay an important foundation for a
promising academic career at a very early stage. Eight
awards are expected to be granted.
Outstandingly qualied junior academics of all disci-
plines from abroad who completed their doctorate less
than six years ago are eligible to apply for the Sofja
Kovalevskaja Award. It is also possible to submit appli-
cations immediately after nishing one's doctoral studies.
Applications must be submitted by 31 July 2015.
We should be very grateful if you would support our
search for young international research personalities by
disseminating this announcement at your institution
and also asking your colleagues to draw the attention of
appropriately qualied research talents to this academic
award.
Details of the application procedure for the Sofja Ko-
valevskaja Award can be found on our website at:
www.humboldt-foundation.de/skp en. For individual
questions, you are also welcome to contact info@avh.de.
Klaus Reinhardt, Dr. rer.nat. Professor for Ap-
plied Zoology Technische Universit at Dresden D-
01062 Dresden http://tudaz.net Klaus Reinhardt
<k.reinhardt@sheeld.ac.uk >50 EvolDir May 1, 2015
InstitutPasteur Paris 10
Bioinformatics
Ten permanent positions in Bioinformatics and Bio-
statistics at Institut Pasteur (Paris)
The new direction of Institut Pasteur has dened bioin-
formatics and systems biology as strategic priorities. A
Center for Bioinformatics, Biostatistics and Integra-
tive Biologyhas been recently created on the Parisian
Campus. The objective of this center is to federate and
strengthen capacities in bioinformatics in dierent yet
complementary research areas developed within the In-
stitute, such as genomics of hosts and pathogens, biology
of infection, evolutionary genetics, population genetics,
structural biology or health biology.
In this framework, Institut Pasteur proposes 10 perma-
nent positions in bio-informatics and biostatistics for
2015. People will be aliated to the new center and to
the Hub of bioinformatics and biostatistics and will be
supervised by the director of the Center. They may be
assigned for most of their time to research units and /
or platforms to work on dierent projects while being
close to the data and experimental biology.
To apply (deadline: May 15) and know more on these po-
sitions: https://c3bi.pasteur.fr/hub-available-positions
Olivier Gascuel <gascuel@lirmm.fr >
MasseyU NZ EvolutionaryEcol
We seek to appoint a new Lecturer in Ecology within
the Institute of Agriculture and Environment (IAE) at
Massey University's Palmerston North campus, New
Zealand
http://massey-careers.massey.ac.nz/8723/lecturer-in-
ecology Closing date is 30 April 2015
Applicants for the position will have excellent academic
credentials and a PhD in Ecology or related discipline,
a demonstrated track record of high-quality research
outputs and success in obtaining research grants. The
successful candidate will pursue research of international
calibre, attract external research funding, supervise post-
graduate students, and teach at all levels, both withinthe BSc Major in Ecology and also potentially across
related elds (e.g., Conservation Biology, Environmental
Science, Zoology, Physiology, Biometry), engaging in
novel curriculum development for research-led teaching.
The successful candidate will also engage in outreach and
administrative services to the University and broader
academic and professional communities.
We seek candidates whose research programme will com-
plement and enhance the existing Ecology Group re-
search capabilities within IAE, which has strengths in
behavioural ecology, population and community ecol-
ogy, evolutionary ecology, freshwater ecology, plant ecol-
ogy, conservation biology, zoology, and environmental
science and management. The ideal candidates will
also establish collaborations with researchers from other
disciplines within IAE. Applicants from all elds of
Ecology will be considered, but those with expertise in
ecosystem ecology, microbial ecology, landscape ecology,
behavioural ecology, evolutionary ecology, population
ecology, or applied entomology are particularly encour-
aged to apply.
Level of position and salary will be commensurate with
experience.
For further information please visit; http://-
jobs.massey.ac.nz/ Enquiries of a scientic nature
should be directed to Prof Murray Potter (telephone
+64 6 356 9099 ext: 84836; DDI +64 6 9517836;
Fax: +64 6 3505623. Email: m.potter@massey.ac.nz.
Information about the Ecology Group and links to other
IAE pages can be found at http://ecology.massey.ac.nz
. M.Morgan-Richards@massey.ac.nz
MuseumKoenig Bonn TechAssist
EvolutionaryGenomics
Technical Assistant E7 (TV-L 7) to work at the heart of
the Evolutionary and Environmental Genomics group
at the Centre for Molecular Biodiversity Research in
the Museum Koenig, Bonn.
Responsibilities: - Preparation of environmental and
museum samples for molecular work (biological exper-
iments maintenance, sample manipulation and prepa-
ration; DNA and RNA extraction) -Carry out basic
molecular biology procedures as well as specic molecu-
lar techniques for Next Generation Sequencing (NGS)
approaches, such as PCR and library preparation - As-
sess the quality of the NGS libraries (Fragment Analyzer,May 1, 2015 EvolDir 51
RT-qPCR) - Keep good laboratory practice, stock and
reagent preparation; ensure lab safety; assist with the or-
dering and inventory of lab supplies, if needed -Provide
logistics, organisational and technical support for the
Environmental Genomics research team -Develop and
adapt new technologies and protocols and to learn new
techniques
Qualications and requirements: -Education preferably
in the biological or technical eld/ MSc., BSc. Chem-
istry or Biology are welcome or relevant laboratory
experience. - Extensive experience in molecular biol-
ogy techniques and laboratory work. Including at least
two of the following areas: DNA/RNA processing (ex-
traction, purication, quantication), molecular cloning,
next-generation sequencing library preparation, digital
PCR and PCR techniques (PCR, RT-PCR, qPCR). -
Speaking and writing uency in English is considered
essential due to the international nature of the group -
Good Computer skills (MS Word and Excel) and basic
knowledge on DNA sequence software would be a plus -
Strong communication and interpersonal skills, excellent
organizational skills, work independently and the ability
to work as part of a team, highly motivated and with
problem solving skills
The post is xed term until 08/09/ 2016 to cover for
maternity leave. Women will be given preference in
accordance with the country's equality law with the
same qualications. Handicapped applicants will be
preferred in case of equal qualication. The position
is remunerated according to TV-L 7. In addition to
an exciting, autonomous task in an excellent research
institution, we oer you a discounted wholesale ticket
and attending training courses. Please send your CV
and Letter of Intent until the 22/04/2015 by registered
mail post to the Administration Oce, z. Hd. Frau
Heike Lenz, Zoological Research Museum Alexander
Koenig, Centre of Molecular Biodiversity, Adenaurallee
160, 53113 Bonn, Germany. E-mail applications will not
be considered. https://www.zfmk.de/de/zfmk/arbeiten-
am-zfmk/stellenangebote Vera G. Fonseca (PhD) Head
Environmental Genomics Zoological Research Museum
Alexander Koenig (ZFMK), Centre for Molecular Biodi-
versity Research, Adenauerallee 160, 53113 Bonn, Ger-
many Tel.: +49 (0)228 9122 283 Fax: +49 (0)228 9122
295 www.zfmk.de www.bolgermany.de Vera Fonseca
<vfonseca@uni-bonn.de >NatlScienceFoundation US
ProgramDirector
Permanent position at NSF in Population and Commu-
nity Ecology
The Division of Environmental Biology at NSF seeks
applicants for a Program Director in its Population
and Community Ecology cluster. This is a perma-
nent position, with good benets and a salary range
of $107,325 - $167,252. Previous experience at NSF
as a non-permanent Program Director (a \rotator") is
helpful but certainly not essential. The deadline is May
4, 2015 and the application process is relatively simple.
Applicants should have expertise in at least one of the
following: population ecology, species interactions and
community dynamics in terrestrial, wetland or freshwa-
ter habitats.
For details, please see the USAjobs.gov posting (link
below) or contact Doug Levey (dlevey@nsf.gov ). Mem-
bers of underrepresented groups, including individuals
with disabilities, are encouraged to apply.
https://www.usajobs.gov/GetJob/ViewDetails/-
399791500 Leslie J. Rissler, Ph.D. Program Director
Evolutionary Processes Cluster Division of Environmen-
tal Biology National Science Foundation 4201 Wilson
Blvd. Arlington, VA 22230
lrissler@nsf.gov (703) 292-4628 Staord I, Suite 655.13
\Rissler, Leslie J." <LRISSLER@nsf.gov >
OutreachNotice USFS-Cali
GeneticsLabManager
OUTREACH (formal posting to follow) Washington
Oce Forest Management
Lab Manager (Geneticist/Biological Scientist) GS-
0440/0401-09 (Permanent, Full-time) National Forest
Genetics Laboratory (NFGEL) Location/Duty Station:
Placerville, CA
About the Position: The USDA Forest Service Forest
Management Sta is lling a permanent, full-time Lab52 EvolDir May 1, 2015
Manager (Geneticist/Biological Scientist) position with
the National Forest Genetics Laboratory (NFGEL). The
NFGEL mission is to link science to management in the
area of genetics. The lab uses molecular genetic markers
(protein and DNA) in plant material to provide baseline
genetic information, determine the eect of management
on the genetic resource, support genetic improvement
programs, and contribute information in the support of
conservation and restoration programs, especially those
involving native and TES (threatened, endangered, and
sensitive) species.
The primary duties of the position are to (1) conduct
molecular genetic analyses of plants, (2) maintain a
safe and functioning molecular genetic laboratory, (3)
maintain the identity and proper processing of all sam-
ples received, and (4) provide technical guidance and
instruction to laboratory sta.
The position will be located in Placerville, California
(El Dorado County) at the Institute of Forest Genetics
in the Apple Hill area. It is being advertised at the
GS-9 level and will be lled based on qualications and
experience of the individual selected.
Placerville is located on Highway 50 about 30 miles east
of Sacramento. Highway 50 is a major trans-Sierra route
between the State Capitol at Sacramento and scenic
Lake Tahoe. The community is located in the foothills
of the Sierra Nevadas at an approximate elevation of
2500 feet. Placerville is a full service community.
Vacancy Announcement : The vacancy announcement
for this position will be posted on the U.S. Govern-
ment's ocial website for employment opportunities at
www.usajobs.gov .
Outreach Response: Interested applicants, or those de-
siring further information, should complete an outreach
form. Please contact Valerie Hipkins (NFGEL Direc-
tor) at 530-622-1609 or email at vhipkins@fs.fed.us for
instructions.
Many thanks, Jenn
Jennifer DeWoody, PhD Geneticist Forest Service
National Forest Genetics Lab p: 530-621-6883 jade-
woody@fs.fed.us www.fs.fed.us
Caring for the land and serving people
jadewoody@fs.fed.usPlymouthU BehaviourEvolution
Plymouth University, Devon, UK Lecturer/Associate
Professor (Senior Lecturer/Reader) in Animal Behaviour
and Welfare
The School of Biological Sciences at Plymouth Univer-
sity is looking to appoint dynamic and enthusiastic aca-
demics to contribute to its ongoing success and growth.
The School has existing research and teaching strengths
in areas of ecology, animal behaviour, microbiology, food
security, ecotoxicology, and environmental risk assess-
ment.
You will have experience of research in animal behaviour
and /or animal welfare to complement our existing re-
search and teaching prole. We particularly encour-
age applications from those whose research focuses on
the mechanistic underpinning of animal behaviour and
animal welfare (e.g. physiology, neurobiology). Al-
though there is some exibility the post holder will
be required to deliver teaching in animal physiology
and/or health within the general wider context of be-
haviour and welfare. For informal discussion on this
post please contact Dr Sarah Collins, Associate Pro-
fessor in Animal Behaviour, tel: 01752584616 email:
sarah.collins@plymouth.ac.uk
Full details:
http://www.jobs.ac.uk/job/AKW611/lecturer-
associate-professor-senior-lecturer-reader-in-animal-
behaviour-and-welfare/ Dr Michael Thom Lecturer
in Evolutionary Biology School of Biological Sciences
University of Plymouth PL4 8AA +44(0) 1752 5
84473 http://www5.plymouth.ac.uk/sta/mthom
michael.thom@plymouth.ac.uk
SeniorEditor FuncEcology
The journal /Functional Ecology/ is seeking a Senior
Editor to strengthen and complement the current edi-
torial team and to continue raising the Journal's pro-
le worldwide. The Journal's Senior Editors are sup-
ported by an international board of Associate Edi-
tors and dedicated editorial oce personnel. The Se-May 1, 2015 EvolDir 53
nior Editors work together to determine Journal strat-
egy and to increase the reputation and quality of the
Journal, in addition to making decisions on submitted
manuscripts. Further details about the Journal and
its current editorial team can be found on the journal
website www.functionalecology.org . Applications are
welcome from leading scientists from any eld who could
contribute to the Journal's development in topical and
developing areas, but we particularly seek applications
from ecologists (including evolutionary ecologists) with
expertise in the areas of animal physiology or plant-
animal interactions and who are enthusiastic about in-
creasing the journals online prole through the use of
social media and/or multimedia (e.g. interviewing au-
thors in podcasts, coordinating production of videos
highlighting author contributions). Applications from
those who could help increase the geographic or gender
diversity of the board would be welcome.
Editors must be highly motivated, decisive, and be out-
standing communicators that are expected to act with
probity. They must have an excellent understanding
of their own eld of ecology, as well as the wider dis-
cipline; have experience of refereeing and the editing
processes; a commitment to maintaining the high edito-
rial standards of the journal; and an interest in ongoing
developments within academic publishing. This post is a
part-time three-year contract (current salary c. ^A$5,900
per annum) located at the holder's host university or
organisation. Some additional support is available to
facilitate attendance at meetings with other BES jour-
nal editors and to act as ambassadors for the journal at
relevant conferences.
Please see the *full job description* here: http://-
www.britishecologicalsociety.org/wp-content/uploads/-
Publ FEAdvert-for-FE-editor April-2015.pdf. The
post can be discussed further with the Executive Editor,
Professor Chuck Fox (cfox@uky.edu).
To apply, please send your CV and a letter stating
what you have to oer to the Journal and how you
would contribute to developing it over the next three
years to Andrea Baier, Senior Managing Editor: an-
drea@britishecologicalsociety.org.
Interviews will take place on Wednesday 17th June 2015.
{ Dr. Charles W. Fox Professor and Director of Graduate
Studies Department of Entomology University of Ken-
tucky Lexington, KY 40546-0091 phone: 859-257-7474
e-mail: cfox@uky.edu web: www.uky.edu/ ~cfox Charles
Fox<cfox@uky.edu >SmithCollege ResAssist
CiliateBiodiversity
Greeting Colleagues,
We are hoping to hire research assistant to work on
the biodiversity of marine ciliates within the Biological
Sciences department at Smith College, USA.
The research project involves the use of molecular tools
to explore biodiversity of eukaryotic microorganisms,
particularly ciliates, in marine environments. The RA
will also maintain data in a well-organized database,
with attention paid to details of completeness and qual-
ity. This research project focuses on characterization
of near-shore communities of oligotrich and choreotrich
ciliates using DGGE and next generation sequencing
technologies. This is a grant-funded, limited-term posi-
tion with the possibility of renewal.
You can nd more details and submit your materials
through:
https://smithcollege.hiretouch.com/search-jobs (search
for \research assistant')
Please forward this email and attachment to anyone you
think might be interested in this position.
Thank you Dr. Jean-David Grattepanche and Dr. Laura
A. Katz
Jean-David GRATTEPANCHE , Postdoc-
toral fellow PhD in Biological Oceanog-
raphy jgrattepanche@smith.edu http://-
jeandavidgrattepanche.weebly.com Katz lab De-
partment of Biological sciences Smith College 44
College Lane Northampton. MA 01063
"Jean-David GRATTEPANCHE (Smith mail)\
<jgrattepanche@smith.edu >
SmithCollege ResAssist
MarineCiliates
Greeting Colleagues,
We are hoping to hire research assistant to work on
the biodiversity of marine ciliates within the Biological54 EvolDir May 1, 2015
Sciences department at Smith College, USA.
The research project involves the use of molecular tools
to explore biodiversity of eukaryotic microorganisms,
particularly ciliates, in marine environments. The RA
will also maintain data in a well-organized database,
with attention paid to details of completeness and qual-
ity. This research project focuses on characterization
of near-shore communities of oligotrich and choreotrich
ciliates using DGGE and next generation sequencing
technologies. This is a grant-funded, limited-term posi-
tion with the possibility of renewal.
Attached is a detailed description of the position.
Please forward this email and attachment to anyone you
think might be interested in this position.
Thank you Dr. Jean-David Grattepanche and Dr. Laura
A. Katz
Jean-David GRATTEPANCHE , Postdoc-
toral fellow PhD in Biological Oceanog-
raphy jgrattepanche@smith.edu http://-
jeandavidgrattepanche.weebly.com Katz lab De-
partment of Biological sciences Smith College 44
College Lane Northampton. MA 01063
\Jean-David GRATTEPANCHE (Smith mail)"
<jgrattepanche@smith.edu >
Sweden 6 BioinformaticsSupport
Six (6) permanent positions providing advanced bioin-
formatics support, located at SciLifeLab Bioinformatics
Platform nodes across Sweden.
The SciLifeLab bioinformatics platform
(www.scilifelab.se/platforms/bioinformatics/) is a
national infrastructure in rapid growth and develop-
ment, now looking for 6 permanent sta members
to join the Bioinformatics Long-term Support team
(a.k.a WABI), placed at bioinformatics nodes in Ume a,
Link oping, G oteborg, and Lund. The advertised sta
will be fully integrated in the national Bioinformatics
Long-term support team, and will aid the build-up of
the national platform by establishing local platform
nodes.
To be considered for these positions * you now need to
submit a formal application to the respective university,
following the below links * you will have to apply to
each position individually if you are open to work in
any of the cities below.Please follow the links for more information and appli-
cation forms: Lund: https://lu.mynetworkglobal.com/-
en/what:job/jobID:62539/where:4/ G oteborg http:/-
/www.chalmers.se/en/about-chalmers/vacancies/-
?rmpage=3Djob&rmjob=3D3027 Ume a https://-
umu.mynetworkglobal.com/en/what:job/jobID:63586/-
where:4/ Link oping http://www.liu.se/jobba/-
lediga-jobb?l=3Den&&rmpage=3Djob&rmjob=-
3D1701&rmlang=UK We are looking forward to
receive your applications at the latest May 7, 2015 (a
week later for Link oping). You are always welcome
to contact both the local contact person or the
Bioinformatics Long-term Support managers regarding
these positions.
Bj orn Nystedt, bjorn.nystedt@scilifelab.se,
+46 (0)73-402 62 31 Thomas Svensson,
thomas.svensson@scilifelab.se, +46 (0)73-625 14
88 Managers, SciLifeLab Bioinformatics Long-term
Support www.scilifelab.se/platforms/bioinformatics/
Bjorn Nystedt, PhD Manager, SciLifeLab Bioinfor-
matics Long-term Support (WABI) www.scilifelab.se/-
facilities/wabi/ BMC E10:3206, entrance C11 Husar-
gatan 3, SE-752 37 Uppsala
Phone: 018 - 471 4413 E-mail:
bjorn.nystedt@scilifelab.se
bjorn.nystedt@scilifelab.se
Trondheim Norway
MolecularBiodiversity
Associate Professor of Molecular Biodiversity
The NTNU University Museum is seeking a highly qual-
ied and motivated candidate for an associate professor
position in molecular biodiversity. The position is part
of NTNU's strategic focus on young, ambitious and ex-
cellent researchers (the \Onsager fellowships") and is
nanced for 6 years. After this time it is expected that
the candidate will obtain full professor qualications
and permanent employment.
The position in molecular biodiversity is central in the
Department of Natural History's strategy for further
increasing the use of next generation sequencing data in
studies of patterns and changes of biodiversity in time
and space. More specically, the successful candidate
will carry out cutting-edge research within the eld of
evolutionary and environmental genomics, and extensive
experience in handling and analyzing complex genomicMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 55
data sets using custom scripts and open source tools is
expected. Background in population genomics, phyloge-
netics and prociency in statistics is considered essential.
The candidate must have experience in team-work and
is expected to be working with broad research topics
within evolutionary biology and ecology.
The successful applicant will have a strong interest in
evolutionary biology and a PhD in biodiversity science
(molecular ecology, molecular systematics or closely re-
lated elds of evolutionary biology research) or bioin-
formatics. Experience in analyses of dierent types of
molecular data is an advantage. Applicants must docu-
ment excellence in research during and after completed
PhD, be goal-oriented and able to deliver results when
expected. Excellent skills in written and spoken English
and creative problem-solving abilities are expected.
Application deadline is 25 May 2015.
For full job description, please see http://-
www.jobbnorge.no/en/available-jobs/job/112322/-
associate-professor-of-molecular-biodiversity More
information about the department and the posi-
tion can be obtained from Head of Department
Torkild Bakken, phone: +47 73 59 23 82, e-mail
torkild.bakken@ntnu.no; Professor Hans K. Stenien,
phone: +47 73 59 22 84; e-mail hans.stenoien@ntnu.no;
Professor Torbjrn Ekrem, phone: +47 73 59 78 12,
e-mail torbjorn.ekrem@ntnu.no.
Information about Trondheim can for instance be found
here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trondheim Hans
K. Stenien professor of biology, NTNU University Mu-
seum http://www.ntnu.edu/employees/hans.stenoien
\Hans K. Stenien" <hans.stenoien@ntnu.no >
UCalifornia Berkeley ResTech
Choanoagellates
*http://www.hhmi.org/careers/2370 <
http://www.hhmi.org/careers/2370 >*
*Job Summary: *
The Howard Hughes Medical Institute has an exciting
opportunity for a Research Technician to join one of its
laboratories at the University of California, Berkeley.
The laboratory studies choanoagellates, the closest liv-
ing relatives of animals, to reconstruct animal origins
and investigate molecular mechanisms underlying host-
microbe interactions. We seek a highly motivated andexceptionally organized biologist to assist in develop-
ing genetics and genome editing in the emerging model
choanoagellate species S. rosetta. Individuals seeking
an exciting research opportunity are invited to apply.
*Principal Responsibilities: *
- Perform ow cytometry to track ploidy changes in
choanoagellates. - Generate and perform microscopy
to screen for choanoagellate mutants. - Isolate, catalog,
and characterize new mutant strains. - Prepare DNA
and RNA for gene delivery. - Troubleshoot methods for
gene delivery, including transfection and electroporation.
- Keep meticulous laboratory records. - Participate in
laboratory meetings and planning sessions. - Read liter-
ature relevant to research areas as required. - Assist lab
members in a variety of cellular and molecular biology
techniques in other projects ongoing in the lab.
*Preferred Qualications: *
- Bachelors or Masters degree in Biology, Bioengineering
or a related eld. - Knowledge of basic principles of
genetics, gained through coursework or prior laboratory
experience. - At least one year of experience working
in a laboratory setting. - Experience with molecular
biology techniques, ow cytometry, microscopy, tissue
culture, and sterile technique. - Demonstrated ablil-
ity to troubleshoot and perform a variety of new tech-
niques. - Exceptional organizational skills and record
keeping. - Strong oral and written communication. -
Self-motivated, detail-oriented and able to perform com-
plex tasks eectively and independently with general in-
struction, while being engaged in a collaborative project.
*To apply*, please send a single .pdf le that includes
the following to Heather L. Middleton (Lab Manager,
kinglab@berkeley.edu) with the following:
Cover letter
Resume, emphasizing prior research experience
Contact information for three references
Course transcripts
Please include \Research Technician" in the subject line
of your email. Application Deadline: Open Until Filled
*HHMI is an Equal Opportunity Employer*
N King <nicoleking.ucb@gmail.com >56 EvolDir May 1, 2015
UCalifornia Berkeley ResTech
EvolGenomics
Research Technician in Evolutionary Genomics UC
Berkeley
The Rosenblum Lab at UC Berkeley is looking for a
research technician to join a dynamic research group
and contribute to a number of projects that use genomic
tools to address fundamental questions about the pro-
cesses that generate and threaten biological diversity.
The research technician will be involved in collecting
and analyzing molecular datasets, with a particular em-
phasis on RAD, RNAseq, and exon capture projects.
The research technician will also share responsibility for
day-to-day lab operations including laboratory admin-
istration, regulatory compliance, and mentoring under-
graduate researchers. Start-date will be in summer 2015,
and initial appointment will be for one year. More infor-
mation about research activities in the Rosenblum Lab
is available at http://nature.berkeley.edu/rosenblum .
Preferred qualications include a Bachelor's or Master's
degree in Biology (or related eld), strong molecular wet-
lab training, and excellent organizational skills. Ability
to communicate clearly, work independently, and in-
teract collaboratively is essential. If interested, please
send a single pdf that contains a letter of interest, a
CV, and the contact information for three references
to rosenblum@berkeley.edu by Thursday May 7, 2015.
The letter of interest should be no more than one page
and address prior research experience, career goals, and
t for the position.
rosenblum@berkeley.edu
UCalifornia SantaBarbara ResTech
InvertPhylogenetics
The Lab of Todd Oakley at UCSB is seeking to hire
a lab manager/lab technician. A major project will
be to help develop target enrichment protocols for in-
vertebrate phylogenetics. This position would be ideal
for a recent or graduating biology undergraduate with
experience with molecular techniques and an interest in
evolution and invertebrate zoology.To apply, please follow the link to the UCSB HR website:
jobs.ucsb.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind9032
Todd Oakley <todd.oakley@lifesci.ucsb.edu >
UdeConcepcion Chile 2
SystematicsBiodiversity
*TWO TENURE TRACK POSITIONS IN SYSTEM-
ATICS AND BIODIVERSITY*
*UNIVERSIDAD DE CONCEPCION (CHILE), DE-
PARTMENT OF ZOOLOGY*
Description: The Department of Zoology at Universidad
de Concepci on, Chile, invites applications for two tenure-
track faculty positions at the Assistant Professor level
to strengthen the areas of Systematics and Biodiversity.
Both positions are available starting August 1st, 2015.
The ideal candidate for the rst position has broad ex-
pertise in Ecophysiology, Comparative Physiology and
related disciplines. The ideal candidate for the second
position has broad expertise on Marine Invertebrates.
We welcome applications from candidates employing
integrative approaches that address relevant scientic
questions across multiple disciplines, such as taxonomy,
systematics, ecology, genetics, evolution, conservation
and biogeography.
Qualications: Ph.D. degree in biology or related eld,
postdoctoral experience and a record of academic accom-
plishments. These may include, but are not limited to,
research experience demonstrable through publications
and grants; undergraduate and postgraduate courses
implemented in his/her area of expertise; and partici-
pation in international conferences. Fluency in Spanish
language is an advantage.
Responsabilities: Develop an integrative research pro-
gram in Ecophysiology or Marine Invertebrates, while
securing funding for basic or applied science from gov-
ernment and other agencies; teach a course in his/her
area of expertise and be committed to both undergrad-
uate and graduate education; and mentor graduate and
undergraduate students. Interactions with other re-
search groups within and outside the Department are
encouraged.
Applications: interested candidates should send (1) a
cover letter specifying which academic position he/she
is applying to (Ecophysiology: ZOO-01; Marine In-
vertebrates: ZOO-02), (2) a *curriculum vitae*, (3)May 1, 2015 EvolDir 57
statement of research interests and plans, and (4) two
recommendation letters sent in separate covers to: Uni-
versidad de Concepci on, Direcci on de Personal, Casilla
160-C, Correo 3, Universidad de Concepci on, Con-
cepci on, Chile. Alternatively, a single PDF le with
all the documentation required can be sent to evalu-
ating.committee@gmail.com. Informal enquiries can
also be made to this email address. Deadline for ap-
plications is May 16 th, 2015. Additional informa-
tion about the Department of Zoology and about Uni-
versidad de Concepcion can be found on the website:
http://www.natura.udec.cl/departamentos/zoologia/
Dr Daniel Gomez-Uchida
Assistant Professor Dept Zoology
@dgomezuchida
dgomezu@udec.cl
Dr Daniel G omez Uchida Assistant Professor De-
partmento de Zoolog a & Interdisciplinary Center for
Aquaculture Research (INCAR) Universidad de Con-
cepci on Casilla 160-C Concepci on, Chile Tel +56-41-
2726579 Fax +56-41-2238982 dgomezu@udec.cl http:/-
/www2.udec.cl/ ~dgomezu/ Daniel Gomez Uchida
<dgomezu@udec.cl >
UEastAnglia Summer
ModelingMHC
Title of post: \Paid internship to model MHC evolution"
We are looking for an undergraduate to undertake a paid
internship this summer at the University of East Anglia,
UK, to implement a novel model of MHC evolution,
which we are developing.
Info, and candidate specications can be found here:
http://tinyurl.com/lytx83g Candidates can be from any
quantitative discipline, but not environmental science.
Cheers, Jackie Lighten UEA
Jackie Lighten <jackielighten@gmail.com >UExeter 4 EvolutionConservation
The adverts for our pending academic positions at the
CEC http://biosciences.exeter.ac.uk/cec/ are now live:
For Professor in Biosciences (Ref: P48365) and For (3
positions) Lecturer/Senior Lecturer/Associate Professor
in Biosciences (Ref: P48364)
Applicants should be broadly aligned with one or more
of our key areas (ecology, conservation, evolution, be-
haviour). However we are particularly interested in
strengthening our activities in disease, population and
community ecology as well as ecological and evolutionary
genomics. Interest from independent research fellows
are also welcomed.
Interested applicants should contact either Brendan
Godley (B.J.Godley@exeter.ac.uk) or Nina Wedell
(N.Wedell@exeter.ac.uk).
See: https://jobs.exeter.ac.uk/-
hrpr webrecruitment/wrd/run/-
ETREC107GF.open?VACANCY ID@1631CBWV&WVID817591jNg&LANG=
USA https://jobs.exeter.ac.uk/-
hrpr webrecruitment/wrd/run/-
ETREC107GF.open?VACANCY ID5055CBU5&WVID817591jNg&LANG=
USA Prof DJ Hosken University of Exeter, Cornwall
Tremough, Penryn TR10 9FE UK
01326 371843 D.J.Hosken@exeter.ac.uk
http://biosciences.exeter.ac.uk/sta/-
index.php?web idUvid hosken DJ Hosken
<D.J.Hosken@exeter.ac.uk >
UFlorida BatMoth SummerREU
We are seeking 2 undergraduate REU students this sum-
mer to assist in a project on the evolution of bat-moth
intersections. Please see below for this opportunity, and
send to anyone that might be interested.
RESEARCH EXPERIENCES FOR UNDERGRADU-
ATES (REU) - SUMMER 2015
We are seeking applicants for two NSF Research Expe-
rience for Undergraduates (REU) positions in Summer
2015 with a particular interest in systematic entomology58 EvolDir May 1, 2015
and museum collections to take part in an NSF-funded
research project on the evolution of bat-moth interac-
tions. The students will gain experience in digitization,
geometric morphometrics, molecular data acquisition,
phylogenetic analysis and potential co-authorship in a
resulting publication.
The students will spend the equivalent of 10 weeks full-
time working on the project between June-August 2015,
with hours somewhat exible, and will receive a stipend.
The project will take place at the McGuire Center for
Lepidoptera and Biodiversity, Florida Museum of Natu-
ral History, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL. Both
students must be a citizen or permanent resident of the
USA and enrolled as an undergraduate student at a
US institution in Fall 2015 (although not necessarily
registered for classes). The project is in collaboration
with the Barber Lab at Boise State University, and the
students will be involved in projects lead by Drs. Akito
Kawahara and Jesse Barber. I stipend of $2500/month
will be provided to cover housing and other expenses,
and additional funds could be available for travel to a
scientic conference.
Recent relevant publications include: Barber, J., Leavell,
B.C., Keener, A.L., Breinholt, J.W., Chadwell, B.A.,
McClure, C.J.W., Hill, G.M., Kawahara, A.Y. 2015.
Moth tails divert bat attack: Evolution of acoustic
deection. Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences, USA 112(9): 2812-2816.
Kawahara, A.Y., Breinholt, J.W. 2014. Phylogenomics
provides strong evidence for relationships of butteries
and moths. Proceedings of the Royal Society B, Biolog-
ical Sciences 281: 20140970.
Barber, J.R., Kawahara, A.Y. 2013. Hawkmoths pro-
duce anti-bat ultrasound. Biology Letters 9: 20130161.
Eligibility: Applicants must: 1) Be enrolled as an under-
graduate student in Fall 2015 (though not necessarily
registered for classes).
2) Be a citizen or permanent resident of the USA.
3) Have a basic understanding of biological nomencla-
ture, an interest in evolutionary biology and sucient
manual dexterity to handle fragile museum specimens.
A proven interest in systematic biology is a distinct
advantage.
Application requirements:
1. Statement of interest in the project (less than 400
words), including general research interests, experience
and professional goals, and specic interest in this
project.
2. CV, including full name, current institution, major,
date of rst enrollment and expected graduation date,overall GPA and major GPA.
The above documents should be sent by e-mail as attach-
ments to Dr. Akito Kawahara,kawahara@mnh.u.edu,
copied to Ms. Geena Hill, geena.hill4@gmail.com.
3. One letter of recommendation from a faculty or sta
member at your current or prior institution. This letter
should be sent by e-mail directly from the referee to Dr.
Akito Kawahara,kawahara@mnh.u.edu, copied to Ms.
Geena Hill, geena.hill4@gmail.com. For more informa-
tion contact Akito Kawahara (kawahara@mnh.u.edu)
or Ms. Geena Hill (geena.hill4@gmail.com). Further
information on this project can be found at: http:/-
/www.mnh.u.edu/mcguire/kawahara/ Application
Deadline: April 20, 2015
Akito Y. Kawahara Assistant Curator of Lepidoptera
McGuire Center for Lepidoptera and Biodiversity
Florida Museum of Natural History University of Florida
Powell Hall, 3215 Hull Road Gainesville, FL 32611-
2710 USA Tel: 352.273.2018 Fax: 352.392.0479 Email:
kawahara@mnh.u.edu http://www.mnh.u.edu/-
mcguire/kawahara/ kawahara@mnh.u.edu
UHawaii Hilo ResTech
Regular, Full-Time, RCUH Non-Civil Service position
with the University of Hawaii at Hilo (UH Hilo), Tropi-
cal Conservation Biology and Environmental Sciences
(TCBES), Centers for Research Excellence in Science
and Technology (CREST) Program's Dynamic Interac-
tions of Symbioses and Environment (DISE) sub-project,
located in Hilo, Hawaii. Continuation of employment
is dependent upon program/operational needs, satis-
factory work performance, availability of funds, and
compliance with applicable Federal/State laws.
*MONTHLY SALARY:* Commensurate with qualica-
tions.
*DUTIES:* Prepares and analyzes genomic and tran-
scriptomic data. Prepares and analyzes metabolomic
and proteomics data. Prepares scientic manuscripts
for publication. Advises faculty, graduate students, and
undergraduate students in the analysis and manage-
ment of genomic data on various local and University
of Hawaii (UH) system data storage systems. Provides
eld and laboratory mentorship to TCBES Master's
students and UH Hilo undergraduates. Collaborates
with Principal Investigators (PIs) on technical writing
to include annual and/or interim reports, peer-reviewedMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 59
articles, and related works.
*PRIMARY QUALIFICATIONS: EDUCA-
TION/TRAINING:* Master's Degree from an
accredited college or university in Genetics, Bioinfor-
matics, or related eld. *EXPERIENCE: * Three to
ve (3-5) years of experience in conducting experiments
in genomics, genetics, proteomics, and/or metabolomics.
*ABIL/KNOW/SKILLS:* amiliarity with software
programs such as Trimmomatic, Trinity, Transdecoder,
Trinotate, Remote Scanning Electron Microscopy
(RSEM), JoinMap, and CLC Genomics Workbench, as
well as genome, transcriptome, and protein databases.
Ability to analyze genomic, transcriptomics, proteomics,
and metabolomics data from Next-Gen sequencing
technologies such as Ion-Torrent, 454 and Illumina.
Excellent written and oral communications skills *POL-
ICY AND/OR REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS: *
As a condition of employment, employee will be subject
to all applicable RCUH policies and procedures and,
as applicable, subject to University of Hawaii's and/or
business entity's policies and procedures. Violation
of RCUH's, UH's, or business entity's policies and/or
procedures or applicable State or Federal laws and/or
regulations may lead to disciplinary action (including,
but not limited to possible termination of employment,
personal nes, civil and/or criminal penalties, etc.).
*SECONDARY QUALIFICATIONS:* PhD from an ac-
credited college or university in Genomics, Bioinformat-
ics, or related eld. Demonstrated experience supervis-
ing/mentoring research students. Experience working in
multi-investigator teams. Experience in successfully sub-
mitting peer reviewed articles in genomics, proteomics,
transcriptomics, and/or bioinformatics for publication.
*INQUIRIES: * Misaki Takabayashi 932-7595 (Hawaii).
*APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:* Please go to
www.rcuh.com, click on 'Employment'; select 'Apply'
and navigate to 'See Job Announcements and/or Apply
for a Job.' You must submit the following documents
online to be considered for the position: 1) Cover Letter,
2) Resume, 3) Salary History, 4) Supervisory References,
5) Copy of Degree(s)/Transcript(s)/Certicate(s). All
online applications must be submitted/received by the
closing date (11:59 P.M. Hawaii Standard Time/RCUH
receipt time) as stated on the job posting. If you do
not have access to our system and the closing date
is imminent, you may send additional documents to
rcuhhr@rcuh.com. If you have questions on the ap-
plication process and/or need assistance, please call
(808)956-8344.
EEO/AA Employer. Please apply before 04/04/2015
Dr. Donald Price Director TCBES Graduate ProgramProfessor of Biology
Science and Technology Building 109 University of
Hawaii at Hilo Hilo, HI 96720
808-932-7178 donaldp@hawaii.edu
http://tcbes.uhh.hawaii.edu/ http://hilo.hawaii.edu/-
depts/biology/ https://sites.google.com/a/hawaii.edu/-
price-lab-at-university-of-hawaii/ Donald Price
<donaldp@hawaii.edu >
UMelbourne 2 StatisticalGenomics
LECTURER IN STATISTICAL GENOMICS (UP TO
2 POSITIONS)
School of Mathematics and Statistics, Faculty of Science,
The University of Melbourne, Australia
Salary: AUD$89,955 - AUD$106,817 p.a. plus 17%
superannuation
The School of Mathematics and Statistics is seeking to
expand its expertise in Statistical Genomics. In par-
ticular, the successful applicants will contribute to the
research agenda of the school around Statistical Ge-
nomics which is under the broad leadership of Professor
D Balding. Two appointments may be made to suitable
candidates.
The successful applicants are expected to undertake
methodological research and supervise research students
in the development and application of cutting-edge sta-
tistical methods for applications in the life sciences,
preferably in statistical genetics/genomics or related
areas of computational biology. He/she should have a
commitment to teaching and will be expected to teach
statistics subjects to life sciences students, as well as to
students of mathematics and statistics.
The University of Melbourne provides a wide range of
opportunities for exciting research collaboration. The
Parkville precinct has the greatest concentration of bi-
ological and medical research in Australia, and among
the greatest internationally. The recent appointment of
Prof David Balding to a joint position between Mathe-
matics/Statistics and Biosciences and the establishment
of a new Centre for Systems Genomics, expected to be
fully operational by the end of 2015, form part of new
initiatives to strengthen the involvement of statisticians
in the advances being made in genomics and computa-
tional biology, that the successful applicant will have the
opportunity to contribute to and benet from. Several60 EvolDir May 1, 2015
new appointments have also strengthened the Math-
ematical and Computational Biology research group
within the School, providing further opportunities for
collaboration and cross-fertilisation of research ideas.
Employment Type: Up to two full-time (1.0 FTE)
continuing positions available Enquiries only to: Pro-
fessor David Balding Tel +61 3 8344 3730 Email
david.balding@unimelb.edu.au Close date: 10 May 2015
For position information and to apply online go to http:/-
/hr.unimelb.edu.au/careers, go to 'Job Search and Job
Alerts', click on the relevant option ('Current Sta' or
'Prospective Sta') and search under the job title or job
number 0033578.
Lynne Pryor Advertising Ocer Recruitment, Aca-
demic Promotion and Employee Separation Finance
and Employee Services, University Services Level 1,
Elizabeth Murdoch Building, University of Melbourne
VIC 3010 Telephone +61 3 834 44397 Email advertising-
hr@unimelb.edu.au
advertising-hr <advertising-hr@unimelb.edu.au >
UMelbourne 2 StatisticalGenomics 2
Apologies for previous send of this post which appar-
ently was unreadable for some and so I am resending.
These are not explicitly evolution-related posts but those
with evolutionary interests and a strong math/stat back-
ground are welcome to apply:
|-
University of Melbourne, Australia, School of Maths &
Stats, Faculty of Science. Two lectureships (continuing)
in Statistical Genomics
Salary: $AU89,955 - $AU106,817 p.a. plus 17% super-
annuation
Depending on experience and interests, the appointees
may be able to play a central role in our new inter-
disciplinary Centre for Systems Genomics which will
open later this year, and the newly-formed Math &
Comp Biology research group as well as the Stats group
within Maths & Stats. An aliation with the School of
BioSciences is also possible. For further details please
see position description document available at the link
below.
http://jobs.sta.unimelb.edu.au/ci/en/job/885443/-
lecturer-in-statistical-genomics-up-to-2-positions
Closing date is May 10, 2015.David Balding Schools of BioSciences and Maths &
Stats University of Melbourne
ph +613 8344 3730 internal 43730 mob +614 6652 0579
dbalding@unimelb.edu.au
https://sites.google.com/site/-
baldingstatisticalgenetics/home
david.balding@unimelb.edu.au
UMississippi DirectorFieldStation
DIRECTOR THE UNIVERSITY OF MISSISSIPPI
FIELD STATION
Applications for the position of Director of the Univer-
sity of Mississippi Field Station (UMFS) are invited.
This is a half-time, non-faculty position. The successful
applicant has the option to bring in additional salary
from sponsored funding.
The applicant should be a recognized scientic leader
with a strong background in research administration,
including scal, personnel and scientic management.
A Master of Science degree is required and may be in
any discipline related to the mission of the program,
which is to foster ecosystem stewardship by providing
a natural laboratory and infrastructure for research,
education and service, and by cultivating scientic in-
formation and understanding of upland watersheds in
the lower Mississippi River Basin and similar habitats
(http://baysprings.olemiss.edu/site/mission). Excellent
communication skills are required, with experience re-
lated to ecosystem stewardship.
The Director is responsible for the administration and
supervision of activities within the UMFS, including
scal management and budgeting, strategic planning,
establishment of research and operations policies, identi-
cation and allocation of resources for research support,
and safeguarding and enhancing the research environ-
ment and reputation of the UMFS. The Director will
foster interdisciplinary collaborations between scientists
who may have an interest in conducting research at
the UMFS and will be responsible for obtaining exter-
nal funding in support of infrastructure and scientic,
educational and outreach objectives.
Applications must include a letter of interest stating
how the applicant meets the qualications, a curriculum
vitae, and the names, addresses, and phone numbers
of three references (who will not be contacted until theMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 61
latter stages of the search). Evaluation of applications
will begin immediately and continue until the position is
lled. The desired appointment date is July 1, 2015, but
is negotiable. Applications should be made online at:
https://jobs.olemiss.edu Questions may be addressed
to: Dr. Robin C. Buchannon, rcb@olemiss.edu
The University of Mississippi is an
EOE/AA/Minorities/Females/Vet/Disability/Title
VI/Title IX /504/ADA/ADEA employer.$B!I(B
William J. Resetarits, Jr. Professor of Biology
and Henry L. and Grace Doherty Chair in Fresh-
water Research Department of Biology The Univer-
sity of Mississippi P.O. Box 1848 University, MS
38677-1848 Phone: (662) 915-5804 Fax: (662) 915-
6554 http://www.olemiss.edu/resetaritslab wresetar
<wresetar@olemiss.edu >
UNewBrunswick Fredericton
Bioinformatics instructor
The University of New Brunswick (UNB) Biology De-
partment is seeking a Bioinformatician at the Instructor
level to support departmental research and to teach
courses at the graduate and undergraduate levels. The
position involves developing bioinformatic tools and de-
signing strategies to facilitate handling and analysis of
large datasets generated by NGS platforms (DNA-seq,
RNA-seq), in addition to proteomic, metabolomic, and
other high-throughput analyses. It is expected that the
successful candidate will participate in projects with
UNB Biology researchers that are focused on functional,
evolutionary and environmental genomics. The selected
candidate will provide support by generating and curat-
ing sequence databases, administrating bioinformatics
software, and consulting with individual researchers to
develop novel analytical approaches. The incumbent
will oer bioinformatics courses and training workshops
at undergraduate and graduate levels focused on pro-
gramming, database management, processing of NGS
datasets (e.g., sequence quality control, assembly) and
downstream analysis (e.g., gene annotation, SNPs anal-
ysis, phylogenetic analysis). Opportunities are available
to create synergies within the Department, the Univer-
sity, and the broader region (e.g., accessing ACEnet or
other high performance computer resources).
This tenure track position is available beginning July 1,
2015. Applicants must have a Ph.D. in computational
biology, life sciences, or a related discipline, and shouldhave demonstrated, or the potential for, excellence in
teaching. The candidate is expected to have experi-
ence handling large NGS datasets (e.g., gene expression
data, complete genomic sequences) and knowledge of
computer languages common to bioinformatics.
Applicants should send, in hard copy, a curriculum vitae,
a teaching dossier (including teaching philosophy and
prior teaching experience), a statement of research inter-
ests, and the names of three referees willing to provide
letters of reference, to:
c/o Melanie Lawson, Department of Biology^ aPO Box
4400^ aUniversity of New Brunswick Fredericton, NB,
E3B 5A3 Canada
The deadline for applications is May 29, 2015.
All qualied candidates are encouraged to apply; how-
ever, Canadians and permanent residents will be given
priority. Applicants should indicate current citizenship
status.
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEW BRUNSWICK IS COM-
MITTED TO THE PRINCIPLE OF EMPLOYMENT
EQUITY
This position is subject to budgetary approval
Jason Addison <ja.addison@gmail.com >
UNottingham TropicalBiol
Assistant Professor in Tropical Biology (permanent, full-
time), School of Life Sciences, University of Nottingham,
UK
Salary: $34,233 to $45,954 per annum.
Closing Date: Sunday 10 May 2015
Reference: MED072215
Website: http://jobs.nottingham.ac.uk/-
Vacancy.aspx?id=3D4227&forced=3D1 Some context:
We are interested in hearing from applicants with
expertise in tropical environments from any area of
what might loosely be called \organismal" biology,
including ecology, conservation, evolutionary biology,
environmental physiology and parasitology. The job is
being created to coincide with the start of a new degree
in Tropical Sciences, and the successful candidate will
play a role in the organisation and delivery of that
degree. However, it is a standard Research & Teaching
post for a research-led UK university, with the successful
candidate being expected to focus on establishing an62 EvolDir May 1, 2015
excellent independent research programme, whilst
gradually developing a contribution to teaching and
admin. Assistant Professor at Nottingham is equivalent
to a traditional Lectureship in the UK.
Here is the formal job advert:
Applications are invited to the above role to lead and de-
liver individual and collaborative research and teaching
in the area of Tropical Biology, and make a contribution
to the direction of research programmes in the School
of Life Sciences. Strong candidates will be considered
from any area of Tropical Biology, but applications will
be especially welcome from those working in tropical
biodiversity, conservation and marine biology.
The role holder will be expected, where appropriate,
to develop and win funding for innovative research pro-
grammes, and to make a signicant contribution to their
academic unit via leadership, administrative manage-
ment and/or co-ordination of specic initiatives.
The role holder will play a signicant role in the planning
and organisation of the new Tropical Sciences degree pro-
gramme. Their contribution to teaching will restricted
at the start of the post, but in later years is likely to
include contributions to residential eld course(s) in
Malaysia. The role holder is also likely to be required to
visit the University of Nottingham campus in Malaysia
for teaching, planning and administrative purposes.
Candidates must hold A PhD or equivalent in a relevant
subject, have excellent oral and written communication
skills, specialist knowledge in Tropical Biology and an
excellent publication record, with a Higher Education
teaching qualication or equivalent being desirable.
As part of the application process, please identify what
you consider to be your best 4 papers to date.
This is a full-time permanent role available from 1
September 2015.
Informal enquiries may be addressed Prof Jan Bradley
(jan.bradley@nottingham.ac.uk). Please note that ap-
plications sent directly to this Email address will not
be accepted.
Tom.Reader@nottingham.ac.ukUPorto 3yr Biodiversity
INVITED CHAIR IN BIODIVERSITY REN - BIODI-
VERSITY
Applications are open for an Invited Research
Chair in Biodiversity to be hosted by CIBIO-
InBIO (https://cibio.up.pt/) - Research Centre In
Biodiversity and Genetic Resources-Research Network
in Biodiversity and Evolutionary Biology, and by
the University of Porto (http://sigarra.up.pt/up/en/-
WEB PAGE.INICIAL), sponsored by REN (http://-
www.ren.pt/?culture=en-GB) - Redes Energ eticas Na-
cionais and FCT (http://www.fct.pt/index.phtml.en) -
Portuguese Foundation for Science and Technology.
CIBIO-InBIO is a young and highly dynamic research
centre located near Porto, in Northern Portugal, which
conducts world-class research in the elds of biodiversity
and evolution. The Centre oers great opportunities for
multidisciplinary research and hosts 18 research groups,
which include over 160 PhD level researchers, and over
100 MSc and PhD students, from many dierent coun-
tries. The Centre has state of the art ecology and molec-
ular laboratories and conducts research projects at a
global scale. Besides CIBIO-InBIO, the University of
Porto hosts several top-level research centres in the elds
of environmental and life sciences, providing multiple
opportunities for collaborative projects. CIBIO-InBIO
oers a vibrant, multicultural and enthusiastic working
atmosphere. In addition, the Northern region of Por-
tugal provides rich cultural and outdoor activities and
Porto is a world-heritage city and the capital of Port
wine.
We seek a talented and outstanding scientist to con-
duct innovative research in the eld of biodiversity, fo-
cusing particularly on the impact of the activities of
REN. The successful candidate will have a background
in biology and biodiversity, with at least ve years of
postdoctoral experience and a strong research record,
including a signicant list of relevant publications in
peer reviewed journals, supervision of MSc and PhD
students, and demonstrated ability to attract external
research funding. S/he is expected to develop a top-
level and independent research program, to establish
solid collaborations, attract national and international
funding, and contribute to graduate and undergraduate
teaching.
The Invited Chair will be supported partly by RENMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 63
and partly by FCT and will have an initial duration of
three years. The contract is equivalent to the position
of Full Professor/Coordinating Researcher (gross annual
salary ca. euro 65.000) and will be complemented with
research money to cover costs with personnel, equipment
and eldwork.
Applications for this position will include a detailed
CV, a research statement and a motivation letter, as
well as the email contact of three referees. Applications
will be reviewed immediately and will be open until the
position is lled. There is no obligation to hire any of
the candidates.
Applications should be sent to diretor@cibio.up.pt. We
aim to ensure that no applicant receives less favorable
consideration on the grounds of gender, marital status,
age, nationality, ethnic origin or religious belief.
Applications are open from the 21st of April to the 21st
of May 2015.
The selected applicant is expected to start in June 1st,
2015.
Informal enquiries can be made to diretor@cibio.up.pt.
Click here (http://www.eracareers.pt/opportunities/-
index.aspx?task=global&jobId=59953) to see the advert
in eracareers.
Maria Jo ~A$o Guimar ~A$es Fonseca CIBIO - Centro de
Investiga c ~A$o em Biodiversidade e Recursos Gen eticos/
InBIO Laborat orio Associado, Universidade do Porto
Campus Agr ario de Vair ~A$o Rua Padre Armando Quin-
tas 4485-661 Vair ~A$o Portugal
t: +351 252 660 411 Ext. 285 f: +351 252 661 780
e: divulgacao@cibio.up.pt w: http://cibio.up.pt f:
https://www.facebook.com/cibio.inbio CIBIO Di-
vulga c ~A$oUTubingen PlantConservation
The Plant Ecology Group at the University of T ubingen
is searching for a
*Senior Research Assistant in Plant Ecology**.*
The position is equivalent to a Lecturer or Assistant
Professor position (German pay scale E13 TV-L). It is
not tenured but scheduled for an initial period of three
years with an option for extension. The starting date is
negotiable, but an ideal starting time is Sept. 1st, 2015.
The candidate is expected to develop an own indepen-
dent research portfolio that is compatible with the gen-
eral research interests of the Plant Ecology Group. In
addition, the position includes teaching (four hours per
week during semester time) on an undergraduate and
graduate level in the eld of Plant Ecology, Conservation
Biology, Botany and/or Evolution.
We are searching for an ecologist with excellent the-
oretical and practical knowledge in the eld of plant
ecology and a strongly conceptual approach to science.
The focus of his/her interests and skills should be on
one or more of the following elds: plant population
ecology, community ecology, biotic interactions, global
change biology, invasion biology, theoretical ecology, or
ecological modeling.
The candidate should hold a Ph.D. in ecology or a re-
lated eld and should ideally have some Post-Doctoral
experience. Furthermore, the candidate should have
excellent skills in designing and analysing ecological ex-
periments. Botanical knowledge, teaching experience
and some knowledge of German is welcome but no must.
The University seeks to raise the number of women
in research and teaching and therefore urges qualied
women academics to apply for these positions.
Disabled candidates will be given preference over other
equally qualied applicants.
Please send your application including a letter of in-
terest, a teaching and research concept, CV and a
list of publications to *Prof. Dr. Katja Tielb orger
(vegetation@bot.uni-tuebingen.de) *to whom also in-
quiries should be addressed. Please also make sure that
two letters of reference will be sent to the above address
independently.
The deadline for applications is June 15th, 2015, or until
the position is lled.64 EvolDir May 1, 2015
<Ennius et sapines et fortis et alter Homerus, ut critici
dicunt, leviter curare videtur, quo promissa cadant et
somnia Pythagorea
\\"Tielb orger, Katja \\" <katja.tielboerger@uni-
tuebingen.de >
UVermont LabTech EvolPhys
Lab Technician Ecological and Evolutionary Physiology
The Lockwood Lab in the Department of Biology at the
University of Vermont is looking to hire a motivated
and skilled individual to work as a technician in our new
research lab. We study how the environment shapes the
evolution and biogeography of populations and species.
In particular, we are interested in how populations will
respond to changing climate conditions. We integrate
approaches in genetics, genomics, biochemistry, and de-
velopmental biology to connect molecular processes to
whole-organism phenotypes in an ecological context.
The technician will assist the PI in managing the lab
and conducting research, with the opportunity for co-
authorship on scientic publications. The lab oers an
exciting, integrative and supportive work environment,
with opportunities to be involved in a wide range of
research projects.
Minimum qualications:
- A bachelor's degree in a related eld or an equivalent
combination of education and relevant experience in
physiology, evolution, ecology, molecular biology, and/or
developmental biology - Experience preparing reagents,
gel electrophoresis, PCR, western blot, enzyme kinetics,
and immunohistochemistry - Exceptional organizational
skills and ability to accomplish tasks independently -
Ability to master detailed laboratory procedures - Ex-
cellent communication and computer skills
Preferred qualications:
- Experience with maintenance of Drosophila stocks -
Experience with husbandry of marine organisms - Ex-
perience with confocal uorescence microscopy - Strong
background in physiology, ecology, evolutionary biology,
and/or genetics
To apply, please visit https://www.uvmjobs.com/-
and search for Posting # S206PO. Please submit a
CV/resume, contact information for three (3) refer-
ences, and a cover letter that highlights your previouslaboratory experience. Review of applicants will begin
immediately and continue until position is lled. The
position will ideally begin in June. This is a full-time
position, initially appointed for a period of 12 months
with benets. The position can be extended for at least
one year depending on performance.
For more information about the Lockwood Lab visit
http://www.uvm.edu/ ~bllockwo/. Please contact Brent
Lockwood (bllockwo@uvm.edu) if you have any ques-
tions.
Brent L. Lockwood Assistant Professor Department
of Biology University of Vermont Marsh Life Sciences
Building, Rm 203 109 Carrigan Drive Burlington, VT
05405
bllockwo@uvm.edu
VirginiaTech LabTech
The McGlothlin lab at Virginia Tech is looking for a
laboratory technician to assist in research on the evolu-
tionary genetics of lizards and snakes using molecular
and classical quantitative genetic methods. The suc-
cessful candidate will supervise the maintenance and
upkeep of a safe laboratory environment; maintain a
large laboratory breeding colony of Anolis lizards; super-
vise a group of undergraduate animal care technicians;
and maintain the laboratory records of research, stocks,
inventory, purchasing, and personnel.
The ideal candidate will have demonstrated ability to ef-
fectively manage time, organize data, and communicate
eectively; ability to interact with professional conduct;
curiosity and enthusiasm for science; working or edu-
cational experience in molecular biology (e.g. PCR);
and experience caring for captive animals. Preference
will be given to applications with a bachelor's degree
in biology or a related discipline and experience with
reptile husbandry.
For more details or to apply, visit https://-
listings.jobs.vt.edu/postings/56241. Inquiries should
be directed to Dr. Joel McGlothlin at joelmcg@vt.edu.
Joel W. McGlothlin Virginia Tech, Dept. of Biological
Sciences Derring Hall 2125, 1405 Perry St. Blacksburg,
VA 24061 http://www.faculty.biol.vt.edu/mcglothlin
Email: joelmcg@vt.edu Phone: (540) 231-0046 Oce:
Derring Hall 4002
joelmcg@vt.eduMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 65
Other
AGA Award Recipients . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
ASN Awards RegionalMeetings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .65
Australia VolFieldAssist FairyWrens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .66
Funding research . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Hintelmann award . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
JehovahsWitness Responds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
NationalGeographic BiodiversityProject . . . . . . . . . . . 67OrthoMaM databasev9 update . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Phyloseminar DanielPark Apr22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .69
Transport blood samples answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .69
UMelbourne VolFieldAssist AvianPersonality . . . . . .70
Using SPAGEDI software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
AGA Award Recipients
The American Genetic Association (AGA) is proud to
announce the recipients of the 2015 Ecological, Evolu-
tionary and Conservation Genomics (EECG) Awards,
an annual research grant for student or postdoctoral
research. In this inaugural year, we were fortunate to
have a large pool of excellent applications spanning ge-
nomics questions and approaches. We thank all of the
applicants and congratulate the seven awardees on their
ne proposals!
William Gammerdinger (University of Maryland) { The
emergence and decay of sex chromosomes in Tilapia
Evelyn Lise Jensen (University of British Columbia) {
Looking through the bottleneck: genomic analysis of
historic and contemporary patterns of genetic varia-
tion in an endangered Gal apagos tortoise (Chelonoidis
ephippium)
Cathleen Jewell (Indiana University) { Disentangling
the genetic basis of self-incompatibility and unilateral
incompatibility in the wild tomato clade (Solanum sect.
Lycopersicon)
Piotr Lukasik (University of Montana) { Inter-
generation transmission of a complex symbiotic con-
sortium
Daniel Portik (University of California - Berkeley) { The
evolution of sexual dichromatism in hyperoliid frogs
Katherine Solari (Stanford University) { High-elevation
genomics: How species in the genus Ochotona have
evolved to live with limited oxygen
Michael White (Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center) { Se-
quencing the threespine stickleback Y chromosome: avertebrate model system for sex chromosome evolution
Anjanette Baker^ a Managing Editor, Journal of Heredity
http://jhered.oxfordjournals.org/ Manager,^ a American
Genetic Association
http://www.theaga.org/^ a 2030 SE Marine
Science Dr Newport, OR 97366 https://-
www.facebook.com/AmericanGeneticAssociation
AGAJOH@oregonstate.edu
ASN Awards RegionalMeetings
ASN Awards for Support of Regional Meetings in Ecol-
ogy, Evolution and Behavior
The American Society of Naturalists solicits proposals
from organizers of regional meetings in the elds of
ecology, evolution and behavior. The purpose of these
small awards is to promote increased participation in
regional meetings that fall along the research interests
supported by the ASN and to use this support as a
way of recruiting new membership to ASN. The awards
typically provide subsidized registration for ASN mem-
bers at these regional meetings. Organizers of regional
meetings should submit a one-page proposal describing
the research focus of the meeting for which funds are
requested as well as details of the meeting such as antic-
ipated number of participants, meeting venue and dates.
Please also include a brief budget justifying the amount
requested. We anticipate funding 3-5 awards and award
amounts are usually between $1000-$1500.
Please send proposals to the ASN Regional Soci-
ety Liaison Committee Chair Renee Duckworth at
rad3@email.arizona.edu by May 10th.66 EvolDir May 1, 2015
rad3@email.arizona.edu
Australia VolFieldAssist FairyWrens
Volunteer eld assistant
We are looking for a motivated and hardworking individ-
ual to assist us with eldwork on a study of ecoimmunol-
ogy and sperm-ejaculate interactions in the red-backed
fairy-wren near Brisbane (Queensland) Australia during
the Austral Spring-Summer.
Time period: mid-September to mid-December 2015 (3
months).
Duties: catching birds using mist nets, regular monitor-
ing of colour-banded birds during the breeding season
to assess breeding stage and monitor nesting activity,
assistance with sample collection (e.g. blood, sperm),
data entry and proong, and general assistance with
gear and logistics. We will work 6 days a week and
workdays will be long and require an early start.
Qualications: Enthusiasm, self-motivation and a strong
work ethic are essential. The working language is En-
glish, thus good knowledge of English is a requirement.
Must be early riser, willing to be physically active dur-
ing the working period, tolerant to heat, and enjoy basic
shared living conditions. Applicants with previous bird
experience (e.g. monitoring colour-banded birds, mist
netting) are preferred, but highly motivated individuals
lacking experience will also be considered. Outdoor
experience will also be valued. Finally, a driving li-
cense is highly preferential. This is a volunteer position,
but accommodation and food will be provided when at
the research site. The assistant provides own cost of
travelling to/from the site.
Applications should contain a cover letter highlighting
previous relevant experience, a short CV and the names
and contact information for 2-3 referees that are famil-
iar with eldwork skills. For further enquiries or to
submit applications send an e-mail to Diana Carneiro
(diana.carneiro@nhm.uio.no). Review of applications
will begin 15th May 2015, and continue until the position
is lled.
Diana Carneiro
PhD research fellow Natural History Museum University
of Oslo Postboks 1172, Blindern 0318 Oslo Norway
Personal page: http://www.nhm.uio.no/english/about/-
organization/research-collections/people/decarnei/ di-ana.carneiro@nhm.uio.no
Funding research
Do scientists pay out-of-pocket to be researchers?
Dear EvolDir Readers,
Most of science is funded by research grants or other
nancial contributions that support science. However,
sometimes, researchers may pay out-of-pocket for ex-
penses that are never reimbursed. We are investigating
whether this practice (using personal funds to pay for
research expenses) is commonplace. If so, what types of
things do we spend our personal funds on?
If you are an active scientist over the age of 18, please
consider taking our survey. We hope that by collecting
data on this topic, we will start a conversation on this
important issue. Our objective is to analyze and present
these results within a scientic publication.
The survey link, as well as information on informed
consent, is here: http://goo.gl/forms/ZAtzAqGRMw
We appreciate all participants, and encourage you to
circulate this survey within your professional networks.
All data will be completely anonymous, and we do not
ask any questions that will enable your responses to be
personally identiable.
If you have any questions for us, please do not hesitate
to contact Dr. Edward Hind or Dr. Brett Favaro at
scispends@gmail.com
Best regards
Dr. Edward Hind Dr. Brett Favaro
e.hind@outlook.com e.hind@outlook.com
Hintelmann award
17th R. J. H. Hintelmann Scientic Award for Zoo-
logical Systematics at Zoological State Collection Mu-
nich www.zsm.mwn.de established by Mrs. Elisabeth
Hintelmann in memory of her husband Robert J. H.
Hintelmann
For outstanding achievements in zoological systematics,May 1, 2015 EvolDir 67
phylogenetics, faunistics or zoogeography and evolution-
ary biology studying animals, the association Freunde
der Zoologischen Staatssammlung M1nchen e.V.has
the pleasure to announce the 17th R.J.H. Hintelmann
Scientic Award. The prize has the value of Euro 5,000.-
and its target group are young post-graduate scientists.
The price is being awarded annually since the year 2000:
www.zsm.mwn.de/events/wiss preise.htm . This prize
is awarded not only in appreciation of the previous
scientic performance of the applicant, but the prize-
winner will also be given the opportunity to continue
his/her research work in coordination with the Zoolo-
gische Staatssammlung M1nchen (ZSM). This may be
carried out either by visiting the ZSM or by being pro-
vided with ZSM materials for work elsewhere. The 17th
R.J.H. Hintelmann Scientic Award will be presented
on January 15, 2016 during a ceremony at the ZSM in
Munich, where the prize-winner has to provide a short
lecture on his/her research topics.
Nominations may name any young post-graduate scien-
tist, not yet in a permanent position, with outstanding
performance in one or more of the elds mentioned
above. The pertaining proposal or application should
provide an account of the candidates scientic achieve-
ment. In addition, curriculum vitae, list of publications,
and selected reprints (not more than ve) have to be
submitted (please submit in printed as well as digital
form, e.g. on a CD-Rom). The submitted documents
remain with the awarding association.
Candidates may be nominated by any zoologist; self-
nomination and repetitive application over several years
are also possible. The prize-holder is elected on absolute
majority basis by a jury appointed by the executive
committee of the Freunde der Zoologischen Staatssamm-
lung e.V.Depending on the quality of applications the
association reserves the right to withhold the award in
any given year.
Please send applications or nominations until July 25,
2015 to the following address:
Freunde der Zoologischen Staatssammlung M1nchen
e.V. R. J. H. Hintelmann-Wissenschaftspreis
M1nchhausenstrasse 21 D-81247 M1nchen, Germany
For further information please contact: Michael Balke
under kaefer@zsm.mwn.de
And see here: http://www.zsm.mwn.de/events/-
wiss preise.htm Munich, April 2015
Dr Michael Balke Zoologische Staatssammlung
M1nchhausenstrasse 21 D-81247 M1nchen
kaefer@zsm.mwn.de http://zsm-entomology.de/-
wiki/Coleoptera https://sites.google.com/-site/zsmaquaticinsectlab/ Michael Balke
<michael balke@yahoo.de >
JehovahsWitness Responds
Jehovah's Witnesses Respond
Dear EvolDir,
In response to my letter (EvolDir, January 17, 2015)
about the misquotation of my work on evolution by
Jehovah's Witnesses (JWs) in their magazine Awake!,
making me appear as if I support creationist view of the
origin of life, Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of
Pennsylvania, the corporation that runs the magazine,
has written to inform me that they have removed the
quote from the magazine as it appears on their web-
site and that the quote will not appear in copies of the
magazine that might be printed in the future.
After my letter appeared on EvolDir I received a large
number of enquiries from ex-Jehovah's Witnesses alert-
ing me about the misquotation. Ex-JWs have made use
of my letter on their websites and internet talk shows
to rebut JWs' stand on creation vs. evolution.
Rama Singh
Rama S Singh <singh@mcmaster.ca >
NationalGeographic
BiodiversityProject
Short version:
Join a global snapshot of biodiversity for National Geo-
graphic's Great Nature Project
Our goal is to record as many species as possible from all
over the world, and we need your help to put biodiversity
on the map.
http://greatnatureproject.org/events/global-snapshot-
2015/ |{
Long version:
Get ready for a global snapshot of biodiversity May
15-25 with National Geographic!
>From May 15 to 25, our goal is to motivate people to68 EvolDir May 1, 2015
explore biodiversity wherever they are and document as
many species as possible. Everything observed between
May 15 and 25 and uploaded to greatnatureproject.org
or iNaturalist.org will automatically be counted for the
global snapshot.
How to participate: -Go outside and snap photos of
plants, fungi, and animals. -Upload your photos on
greatnatureproject.org, iNaturalist.org, or using the
iNaturalist mobile app (which is versioned for Spanish,
Portuguese, French, Italian, Japanese, and Swedish).
-Include information about where and when you saw it.
-Identify what you saw! Just nd the taxonomic group
that corresponds to the extent of your knowledge. Some-
times observations start at the level of 'owering plant'
or 'fungus'{ that's ok. You can also get help from other
people. -Help other members of the community iden-
tify what they saw! You can suggest identications for
observations made by other people and make comments.
What happens to observations submitted to the Great
Nature Project? The Great Nature Project was not cre-
ated to answer a specic question. Rather, your photo-
documented observations contribute to a database of
records that scientists, decision makers, and even you
can use to answer questions about where and when dif-
ferent species occur. Observations with identication
agreement are shared with the Global Biodiversity In-
formation Facility (GBIF). To download data submitted
to the Great Nature Project, please use the download
tools from iNaturalist. To see examples of the kind of
research that often uses observations from iNaturalist,
check out GBIF.
Help spread the word! We created a toolkit of
materials including yers, banners, and postcards,
which you can share with any individuals or or-
ganizations who you think might be interested in
participating. Please contact us at greatnature-
project@ngs.org if you have trouble accessing the
materials on Google Drive. https://drive.google.com/-
folderview?idzV0qT0Q6H4leWQxTkc4bzkyT0k&usp=-
sharing Ways to engage: -Create an account for yourself
and try it out. -Spread the word via email. -Print a yer
from the toolkit and post it in an oce, information
booth, or trailhead. The yer was created especially
with parks and nature centers in mind! -Host an event.
You could organize a photo walk, use the assets in the
toolkit to help promote it, and show people how to
participate in the Great Nature Project. You could do
a bioblitz to inventory species in a yard or park (nd
out more about bioblitzes at natgeoed.org/bioblitz).
iNaturalist has many useful tools to keep track of
observations within certain boundaries such as parks
(learn more at inaturalist.org/projects).If you want to receive updates in the future about
the Great Nature Project, please create an account.
http://greatnatureproject.org/register/ Sincerely, Car-
rie Seltzer, Ph.D., Julie Brown, Mary Ford, and the
rest of National Geographic's Great Nature Project
team National Geographic Society 1145 17th Street,
NW Washington, DC 20036-4688 USA 202-862-8239
\Seltzer, Carrie" <cseltzer@ngs.org >
OrthoMaM databasev9 update
Dear Evoldir members,
We are pleased to announce the release of OrthoMaM
version 9: a new update of our database of mammalian
orthologous single-copy nuclear markers (exons and
CDS).
It can be browsed and queried at:
http://www.orthomam.univ-montp2.fr/ This new ver-
sion 9 is based on EnsEMBL release v79 (April 2015)
and now includes 7,349 exons and 14,526 CDS align-
ments for up to 43 mammalian species.
New features in this realeases includes:
- Requests on 43 species (based on EnsEMBL v79,
March 2015). - New species: Papio anubis, Chloro-
cebus sabaeus, Ovis aries. - Exon detection has been
improved. - Raw alignements have been computed with
MAFFT. - Alignments which contain sequences leading
to very high branch lengths in the corresponding ML
phylograms were not excluded
If you use OrthoMaM for your research please cite:
Douzery, E. J., Scornavacca, C., Romiguier, J., Belkhir,
K., Galtier, N., Delsuc, F., & Ranwez, V. (2014). Or-
thoMaM v8: a database of orthologous exons and cod-
ing sequences for comparative genomics in mammals.
Molecular Biology and Evolution 31:1923-1928.
or
Ranwez, V., Delsuc, F., Ranwez, S., Belkhir, K., Tilak,
M. K., & Douzery, E. J. (2007). OrthoMaM: a database
of orthologous genomic markers for placental mammal
phylogenetics. BMC Evolutionary Biology 7:241.
We hope this will be of use to members of the evolution-
ary community.
Frederic Delsuc and co-authors
{May 1, 2015 EvolDir 69
Fr ed eric DELSUC Institut des Sciences de l'Evolution
UMR5554-CNRS-IRD-EPHE Universit e de Montpellier
Place Eug ene Bataillon 34095 Montpellier Cedex 05
France Tel: (+33) 4 67 14 39 64 FAX: (+33) 4 67 14 36
10 Email: Frederic.Delsuc@univ-montp2.fr
Frederic.Delsuc@univ-montp2.fr
Phyloseminar DanielPark Apr22
Next on http://phyloseminar.org/ :
Ebola virus epidemiology, transmission, and viral evo-
lution from four months of sequencing in Sierra Leone
(Overview) Daniel Park Broad Institute Tuesday, May
12, 2015, 9:00 AM PDT
Adding to the work reported in Gire, et al (Science, 2014)
which sequenced Ebola viruses from the rst three weeks
of the epidemic in Sierra Leone, we here present analyses
of 150 additional viral genomes sampled from EVD cases
at Kenema Government Hospital between the months
of June to September 2014. We describe continued evi-
dence for sustained human-to-human transmission with
no additional zoonotic events, and preliminary results
concerning new lineages from Guinea. We also charac-
terize the epidemiological history of the limited number
of exported viruses from the country. We also observe
a slowing of the viral substitution rate over the course
of the outbreak, consistent with the increased eect of
purifying selection as the outbreak continues over time.
These ndings allow a closer view of viral evolution dur-
ing its extended time in human populations and provide
critical insights into the movement of the virus through
the region.
This is the rst talk in a pair of talks from collaborators
Daniel Park and Gytis Dudas concerning their analysis
of Ebola virus sequences.
Frederick \Erick" Matsen, Assistant Member
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center http:/-
/matsen.fredhutch.org/ matsen@fredhutch.orgTransport blood samples answers
Dear all, I would like to thank all of you in the evoldir
community for your very helpful replies to my question
on sending blood samples in ethanol internationally. We
are still deciding exactly what to do, but I had some
very good suggestions to send the blood+ethanol by
courier (or even normal post) without the dry ice / ice
packs, which would mean the packaging would be much
smaller and lighter and hence cheaper. Provided IATA
guidelines are followed*, some people had good experi-
ence taking samples as checked luggage, however it was
pointed out to me that in the end the pilot has a nal
decision of whether to accept the luggage, even if all
of the paperwork is in order (which could end up with
quite a stressful experience at the airport!). Others had
suggestions for alternative storage solutions including
lysis buer and RNAlater. And I had many people
emphasising the importance of checking the regulations
and ensuring that all the paperwork at both ends of the
journey is prepared thoroughly. I have compiled all the
replies below, following a copy of my initial message.
Thank you again for your excellent ideas! Very best
wishes, Anna asanture@gmail.com
*from my understanding, in my case where we have
eppendorfs of ~1mL of blood, these should be put in
a hard container (i.e. an eppendorf box), sealed in a
plastic bag, an absorbant material wrapped around and
then sealed inside another plastic bag, and then up to
10 of these boxes (i.e. <1L total ethanol) can be pack-
aged together to form one package for either posting via
airmail or checking in as checked luggage. Airline's own
guidelines may dier.
*Original email: * I would very much appreciate some
pointers for how to transport blood samples stored in
ethanol internationally (from UK to New Zealand). I
had been intending to bring a chilly bin full of samples
on dry ice* / ice packs on a ight from the UK to New
Zealand with me, however I have recently become aware
that many (all?) airlines classify ethanol as a dangerous
good** and restrict the total volume that can be checked
in. According to FAA guidelines (which I'm not sure
apply globally, but Air New Zealand's guidelines seem
very similar) I think you are not allowed more than 1L
of total ethanol.
>From what I have read, the alternative is to send as a
dangerous good with one of the international carriers70 EvolDir May 1, 2015
e.g. Fedex, however this is likely to be prohibitively ex-
pensive. An online quote suggests the chilly bin we have
in mind would cost around NZD $2,500 to transport,
and this is before I've even mentioned the 'hazardous'
contents.
Any help would be very much appreciated!
With many thanks, Anna Santure University of Auck-
land, New Zealand
*also a dangerous good... **apparently litres of duty
free gin, vodka, wine and rum are not dangerous goods
though!
*Responses - thank you all again!* # I can only tell
you something you probably won't like so much: my
experience is to best leave it to a carrier, which is indeed
expensive. I use World Courier a lot, much more reliable
than FedEx or DHL etc. they are known to loose a lot of
their packages, I would not risk that. Dry ice/ ice packs
are usually not permitted on ights and I can only say
the very best about World Courier, they are fast and
professional, which you can see in their prices :( contact
their oce and ask about prices, but you can expect
about double than FedEx. I guess it really depends on
how valuable those samples are, but they know how to
handle transport and customs.
# I've own with ethanol samples several times before.
The easiest thing to do is to pour o as much of the
ethanol as possible before transporting them and then
top them up once you arrive at your destination. Of
course, this is a lot easier if the sample is tissue - I'm not
quite sure how it would work with blood. Perhaps you
could spin them down and pour the top ethanol layer
o and then just transport them as blood samples'?
# About your question, depending on how serious the
checks you think will be and how important/unique are
the samples, you could decide to just put them in your
checked luggage (maybe paying also for an extra lug-
gage) and cross your ngers. In case the material you're
transporting needs some sort of permit to be exported
from the UK or imported in NZ, make sure you have one
so that in case of problems you can always show them
the documents. Otherwise, you can always have some
sort of ocial letter. I doubt they'll be willing to stick
their face in blood samples to check if they're in ethanol.
At that point they'll be more concerned if you're bring-
ing some sort of bio-hazard rather than the ethanol. So
the idea is: you put them in your luggage and then you
have some ocial document stating that those samples
are safe and you're allowed to transport them. I know
this is not exactly sticking to the rules but I know some
people who have done this in inter-continental ights.
/This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UMelbourne VolFieldAssist
AvianPersonality
Volunteer eld assistants
We are looking for eld assistants to help monitor a
colour-banded population of superb fairy-wrens near
Melbourne, Australia for a study on animal personali-
ties. Time periods: Four-month minimum, commencing
late-August, late-September, or Dec/Jan. Duties in-
clude catching birds for personality testing before and
after the breeding season (Oct-Jan), and regular census-
ing of colour-banded birds during the breeding season,
searching for and monitoring nests, behavioural observa-
tions, video analysis, and data proong. Working days
are long, with early starts six days a week. Enthusiasm,
self-motivation, and a strong work ethic are a must. The
study is based at Serendip Sanctuary, a small reserve
on the outskirts of Melbourne. Qualications: expe-
rience monitoring colour-banded birds, nest-searching,
and mist-netting. Must also be early riser, physically t,
able to work in extreme weather conditions, and enjoy
basic shared living conditions. Onsite accommodation in
a house with shared dorm-style room is provided, but as-
sistants cover travel to the site and their own food costs.
The project will reimburse up to AUD$750/mo towards
receipted food and travel expenses. For more informa-
tion contact: Michelle Hall (hall.mATunimelb.edu.au).
To apply, please email a letter outlining previous rele-
vant eld research experience, and a resume including
names and contact information for 3 referees that are
familiar with your mist-netting and/or nest-searching
experience.
Dr Michelle L Hall Research Fellow School of Bio-
Sciences Building 147 (Old Zoology) University of
Melbourne Melbourne, Vic, 3010 Australia Email:
hall.mATunimelb.edu.au Phone: 0431 515271 Web:
http://michellelhall.wordpress.com/ Michelle Louise
Hall<hall.m@unimelb.edu.au >May 1, 2015 EvolDir 71
Using SPAGEDI software
Hi all,I am trying to use SPAGEDI v 1.5 to compare Rst
and Fst statistics by pRst. However the manual is not
helpful on how to compute these calculations. Would
someone know what steps to follow?
Thanks and best regards
Michael J. Jowers
michael jowers <michaeljowers@hotmail.com >
PostDocs
AuburnU EvolutionaryPhysiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
BRC Hungary ComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
ColoradoStateU EvolutionInfectiousDisease . . . . . . . .73
ColoradoStateU MountainLion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
CornellU MetabolicCooperation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
CornellU MicrobiomesDrosophila . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
DukeU evolutionaryorganismalbiomechanics . . . . . . . 75
FieldMuseum Chicago InsectPlantEvolution . . . . . . . 75
GeorgiaTech MarineMicrobiomes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
HarvardU FunctionalEvolutionaryEpigenetics . . . . . .77
IISER-TVM Kerala India EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . 77
IndianaU EvolutionDevelopmentalPlasticity . . . . . . . 78
INRA France ConservationModeling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .79
Kaiserslautern ProtistDiversityBiogeography . . . . . . 79
KAUST EcolEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
LavalU EvolGenomicsSystemsBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
MACN BuenosAires ArachnidSystematics . . . . . . . . . 81
MichiganStateU 2 TheoreticalMicrobialEvolution . . 81
MonashU 2 QuantBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Montpellier EvolutionMalaria . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Montpellier PathogenEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .83
NHGRI EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
NorthCarolinaStateU PopGenSelshGenes . . . . . . . . .84
Paris CaenorhabditisVirusEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
PrincetonU TermiteEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
RoyalBotanicGardensKew TreePhylogenomics . . . . . 86
RoyalBotanicGardens UK SorbusGenetics . . . . . . . . . 87
RutgersU ExperimentalEvolution Virus . . . . . . . . . . . 87RutgersU PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
StellenboschU EvolutionaryBreakpoints . . . . . . . . . . . 88
Stockholm BayesianBiodiversityAnalysis . . . . . . . . . . .89
Switzerland PhylogeneticCommunityAnalyses . . . . . 89
Sydney MolecularEvolutionPhylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . 90
TulaneU Louisiana HostPathogenEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
UAdelaide AncientHumanPopulationGenetics . . . . . 91
UBath Genomics Molecular Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
UBritishColumbia EvolutionaryTheory . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
UCalifornia Irvine Buttery VisionTranscriptomics 93
UChile HumanGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
UCollegeCork 5 EvolutionaryBehaviouralBiol . . . . . .94
UCollege London PathogenEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
UdelosAndes TeachingEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
UEdinburgh TelomereEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
UGraz Austria PDF PhD Cuckoldry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
UIdaho 6 BiolModeling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .97
UKonstanz 2and5year ComparativeGenomics . . . . . .97
ULausanne AmphibianSexChrom Evolution . . . . . . . 98
ULeicester HpyloriEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .99
UMaryland EvolutionaryGenomics Mutation . . . . . . 99
UMaryland TheorPopGen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .100
UMichigan PlantGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
UNewHampshire BeeBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .101
UOslo FungalMolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .101
UOttawa Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
UPittsburgh 2 PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .103
UTuebingen 2 FishEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10472 EvolDir May 1, 2015
UVirginia PlantEcologicalGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
UWashington EvolutionaryGeneticsAging . . . . . . . . 105
UZurich HumanLifeHistoryEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
VirginiaTech MolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106Wageningen PhDorPDF ExperimentalEvolution . . 106
WashingtonStateU EvolEcologyInsectPlantInteract 107
AuburnU EvolutionaryPhysiology
Postdoctoral Fellow in Evolutionary Physiology at
Auburn University
The Hood lab at Auburn University is looking to hire a
post-doctoral scholar to evaluate the role of mitochon-
dria in tradeos between reproduction and longevity
in the house mouse. A focus of the project will be to
evaluate mtDNA mutation rates using high through-
put sequencing approaches. A strong background in
genomics, physiology, and life history theory and excel-
lent communication, organization, and leadership skills
are required. The individual will be expected to assist
with training and mentoring graduate students and un-
dergraduates, develop synergistic projects, write grants,
and produce rst authored papers and contribute to
co-authored papers. This is a one-year position with
the possibility of renewal pending satisfactory work.
Dr. Wendy Hood operates the laboratory. Information
about the lab and abstracts for funded projects can be
found at: thehoodlaboratory.com.
Applicants must have a Ph.D. in an appropriate eld.
The candidate selected for this position must be able
to meet eligibility requirements to work in the United
States at the time the appointment is scheduled to be-
gin and continue working legally for the proposed term
of employment. Women and minorities are strongly
encouraged to apply.
This announcement is informal in nature and candidates
of interest will be asked to submit a formal application
for complete consideration after initial screening.
If interest please send a CV and a statement of interest
to Wendy Hood at wrhood@auburn.edu (please note
our mail system is limited to 25Mb messages). Receipt
of application will be conrmed within 3 days. Review
of applications will begin April 20, 2015 and continue
until a suitable applicant is found.
Wendy R Hood, PhD Assistant Professor, Auburn Uni-
versity Department of Biological Sciences Auburn, AL
36849 334-844-7437
Email: wrhood@auburn.edu Web: thehoodlabora-tory.com
Wendy Hood <wrh0001@auburn.edu >
BRC Hungary
ComparativeGenomics
POSTDOC POSITION IN COMPARATIVE GE-
NOMICS AND BIOINFORMATICS
Applications are invited for a bioinformatics postdoc-
toral position in ^ athe research group of Laszlo G Nagy
(Synthetic and Systems Biology Unit, Biological Re-
search Center, Szeged, Hungary). We are now looking
to hire new people with a background in bioinformat-
ics, phylogenetics or fungal evolution. The Lab oers
excellent training opportunities in fungal comparative
genomics, cutting edge projects, abundant funding, an
inspiring atmosphere and extensive collaborator net-
work.
The primary focus of the lab is understanding the general
principles of convergent evolution and fungal multicellu-
larity through comparative genomics, transcriptomics
and single-cell transcriptomics of multicellular fruiting
bodies in Basidiomycetes. Fruiting bodies represent
some of the most complex morphological structures
found in fungi, yet, their developmental and evolution-
ary origins are hardly known. Complex fruiting bodies
have evolved independently several times in the Basid-
iomycetes, oering an excellent model system to study
the genetic mechanisms of convergent evolution.
The successful Candidate has: - PhD in bioinformatics,
evolutionary biology, mycology or other relevant eld -
Experience in genomics, Perl and/or Python scripting -
Good team player traits - Experience in working with
fungi is a plus
Contact and application - The starting date of the
project is September 2015. The position will last for
one year with the possibility of extension up to 4 years.
If interested, send a motivation letter along with your
CV to Laszlo Nagy (lnagy@brc.hu).
{ Dr. Laszlo Nagy Fungal Evolution & Genomics Lab
Synthetic and Systems Biology Unit, Institute of Bio-May 1, 2015 EvolDir 73
chemistry Biological Research Center, HAS Hungary
http://group.szbk.u-szeged.hu/sysbiol/nagy-laszlo-lab-
index.html lnagy@brc.hu
ColoradoStateU
EvolutionInfectiousDisease
Postdoctoral Fellowship: Ecology and Evolution of In-
fectious Disease
We are seeking to recruit a highly motivated postdoc-
toral researcher to work on an NSF funded Ecology
and Evolution of Infectious Diseases grant, studying
the impacts of landscape structure and managementon
disease transmission in Puma concolor. This exciting
project will be based in the laboratory of Dr. Sue Van-
deWoude at Colorado State University, and involves
close collaboration with a diverse interdisciplinary team.
We are seeking an individual with experience in analysis
of pathogen evolution and a communication skill set
conducive to assist with management of a large inter-
disciplinary program. This project spans disciplines
of host and pathogen molecular evolution to modeling
analysis that can inform wildlife management practices.
Experience in writing technical or scientic reports and
manuscripts, excellent communication skills, and ability
to interact productively with a diverse group of collabo-
rators is required. Technical expertise in evolutionary
biology including viral detection, viral genomic deter-
mination and analysis, pathogen phylogenetic analysis,
and disease ecology are skill sets highly relevant to this
position. Expertise in database management, genomics,
familiarity with next generation sequencing technolo-
gies, biostatistical and bioinformatics analysis is also
desirable.
The successful applicant will conduct guided but in-
dependent laboratory-based research leading to rst
author publications. The position will provide men-
torship to students and technical sta, develop annual
technical reports, coordinate sample receipt, processing
and archiving, and manage a large and complex sample
database. The ideal candidate will demonstrate initia-
tive, creativity, and will have excellent organizational
skills; we also seek candidates with enthusiasm who
work well as part of a team as well as independently.
The position is funded with two years with potential
to extend for an additional year. Salary is commen-
surate with experience level. The position start date
is exible but we hope to employ someone by August15, 2015. Application review will begin after April
19, 2015 and continue until the position is lled. For
full job description and TO APPLY please see http://-
jobs.colostate.edu/postings/14500
Application materials include: 1. A 1-2 page cover letter
outlining how the applicant1s professional background
and experience match the required and preferred qual-
ications for the position. 2. A CV/resume including
current contact information. 3. Three professional refer-
ences that include name, telephone numbers and e-mail
addresses, or copies of letters sent from referees.
CSU is an EO/EA/AA employer and conducts back-
ground checks on all nal candidates.
\VandeWoude,Susan" <Sue.Vandewoude@ColoState.EDU >
ColoradoStateU MountainLion
POSTDOC POSITION IN MOUNTAIN LION LAND-
SCAPE GENOMICS AND DISEASE ECOLOGY
We are seeking to recruit a highly motivated postdoc-
toral researcher to work on an NSF funded Ecology
of Infectious Diseases grant, focusing on the impacts
of landscape structure and management on disease
transmission in Puma concolor. This postdoctoral
position will be based in the laboratory of W. Chris
Funk at Colorado State University, and involve close
collaboration with other PIs (Sue VandeWoude and
Kevin Crooks at CSU, Meggan Craft at the University
of Minnesota, and Scott Carver at the University
of Tasmania; http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/-
showAward?AWD ID=1413925&HistoricalAwards=-
false).
The main duty of this postdoc will be to conduct land-
scape genomics analysis of mountain lions from multiple
study regions to test the eects of landscape features on
gene ow. In addition, this postdoc will work with an-
other postdoc and the PIs to integrate these landscape
genomics results into network modelling to test the ef-
fects of host movement on disease dynamics. There will
also be opportunities to address additional questions
regarding the tness eects of genetic variation using
this dataset.
Required qualications and skills: We are seeking an in-
dividual with expertise in landscape genomics, excellent
writing ability, and strong interpersonal skills. The can-
didate should have experience in the collection of NGS
data (especially RAD seq library prep), bioinformatics74 EvolDir May 1, 2015
pipelines to assemble Illumina reads and call SNPs, GIS,
and landscape genetic analysis. The candidate should
also have a strong publication record, excellent commu-
nication skills, and be up-to-date on the latest advances
in population genomics and landscape genetics.
Start date and duration: The position start date is
exible but we hope to employ someone by August 15,
2015. Funding is available for 2 years pending satisfac-
tory performance with potential for an additional year
depending upon available funding and project direction.
Applications: Send a 1-page letter describing why
you are interested in this job and your relevant
experience; your CV; and the names and contact
information for three references to Chris Funk at
Chris.Funk@colostate.edu. Review of applications will
start May 10th and will continue until a strong candidate
is hired.
Salary: $40,000-$44,000 the rst year depending on
experience.
Colorado State University does not discriminate on the
basis of race, age, color, religion, national origin or an-
cestry, sex, gender, disability, veteran status, genetic
information, sexual orientation, or gender identity or
expression. Colorado State University is an equal op-
portunity/equal access/armative action employer fully
committed to achieving a diverse workforce and complies
with all Federal and Colorado State laws, regulations
and executive orders regarding non-discrimination and
armative action. The Oce of Equal Opportunity is
located in 101 Student Services.
Colorado State University is committed to providing a
safe and productive learning and living community. To
achieve that goal, we conduct background investigations
for all nal candidates being considered for employment.
Background checks may include, but are not limited to,
criminal history, national sex oender search and motor
vehicle history.
W. Chris Funk, Associate Professor Department of
Biology Colorado State University 1878 Campus De-
livery Fort Collins, CO 80523-1878 Tel: 970-491-
3289 Fax: 970-491-0649 E-mail: Chris.Funk at
colostate.edu URL: http://wp.natsci.colostate.edu/-
funklab/ Chris.Funk@colostate.eduCornellU MetabolicCooperation
\Job: Evolution of Metabolic Cooperation in Insect-
Microbial Symbiosis"
A postdoctoral position in animal-microbial interactions
is available immediately in the laboratory of Dr Angela
Douglas (Cornell University, USA), to join a research
team investigating the evolution of metabolite exchange
between symbiotic bacteria and their animal hosts. The
goals are to determine (1) how the coevolved metabolic
networks of the interacting organisms are integrated, in-
cluding network properties that may increase metabolic
cooperation and reduce conict among the partners; and
(2) the contribution of systems-level variation in network
properties to the functional variation among symbioses
involving bacteria with genetically equivalent metabolic
capabilities. The research involves metabolic modeling,
including metabolic network reconstruction and ux
balance analysis, together with genome/transcriptome
sequencing and metabolite analysis in the context of
coevolved symbioses; prior experience of working with
genomes is essential, and experience of metabolic model-
ing and/or symbiotic associations is strongly preferred.
The successful candidates will join an integrated team
of researchers committed to understand the evolution
and function of animal-bacterial symbioses (http://-
www.angeladouglaslab.com/).
Applications from candidates with a PhD in a biological
discipline should be sent by email to Angela Douglas
(aes326@cornell.edu). Please include a CV, statement
of research, and details of three referees. The covering
letter should include an explanation of how your quali-
cations and experience make you a good candidate for
this position. Informal inquiries are welcome. To ensure
full consideration, all materials should be received by
May 8, 2015; however, applications will be accepted
until the position is lled.
Angela E. Douglas Daljit S. and Elaine Sarkaria Profes-
sor of Insect Physiology and Toxicology Department of
Entomology and Department of Molecular Biology and
Genetics 5134 Comstock Hall Cornell University Ithaca,
NY 14853 USA
Tel. +1-607-255-8539 FAX +1-607-255-0939 email
aes326@cornell.edu http://www.angeladouglaslab.com/
aes326@cornell.eduMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 75
CornellU MicrobiomesDrosophila
\Job: Evolution of Microbial Communities in Drosophila"
A postdoctoral position to investigate the coevolution-
ary interactions between drosophilid ies and their gut
microbiota is available in the laboratory of Dr Angela
Douglas (Cornell University, USA). The successful can-
didate will be strongly motivated to use metagenomics
and related high throughput sequence data to establish
how microbial diversity, stability and function covary
with phylogeny and function of dierent Drosophila y
species. The position contributes to a NSF-funded team
across three laboratories (with Dr John Jaenike, Univer-
sity of Rochester and Dr Greg Loeb, Cornell University),
and is highly collaborative. Applicants will have a PhD
in a biological discipline and expertise in next-generation
sequencing and analysis, with a proven track record of
eective research output. Prior microbiome research
and expertise in (meta)genomics, bioinformatics and
multivariate statistics, and experience of team-working
are an advantage. The successful candidates will join an
integrated team of researchers committed to understand
the evolution and function of animal-bacterial symbioses
(http://www.angeladouglaslab.com/).
Applications should be sent by email to Angela Douglas
(aes326@cornell.edu). Please include a CV, statement
of research, and details of three referees. The covering
letter should include an explanation of how your quali-
cations and experience make you a good candidate for
this position. Informal inquiries are welcome. To ensure
full consideration, all materials should be received by
May 8th, 2012; however, applications will be accepted
until the position is lled.
Angela E. Douglas Daljit S. and Elaine Sarkaria Profes-
sor of Insect Physiology and Toxicology Department of
Entomology and Department of Molecular Biology and
Genetics 5134 Comstock Hall Cornell University Ithaca,
NY 14853 USA
Tel. +1-607-255-8539 FAX +1-607-255-0939 email
aes326@cornell.edu http://www.angeladouglaslab.com/
aes326@cornell.eduDukeU
evolutionaryorganismalbiomechanics
Postdoctoral Scientist in Integrative Organismal Biology
A postdoctoral position is available in the Patek labora-
tory<http://www.thepateklab.org/ >at Duke Univer-
sity to examine the evolution and biomechanics of fast
biological movements across the tree of life. Our inte-
grative and comparative research program links biome-
chanical analyses and eld work with phylogenetic com-
parative analyses and modeling. We are looking for
a candidate with experience in one or more of these
areas. The candidate may have a background in biology,
engineering and/or physics. A Ph.D. is required. The
appointment will be for 12 months with the possibility
for renewal contingent on performance. The annual
salary range for this position will be commensurate with
experience, starting at $42,840. The start date is ex-
ible, preferably in summer or fall of 2015 or winter of
2016.
Applications will be accepted and evaluated on an on-
going basis until the position is lled. Please email a
letter explaining your interest in and qualications for
the position, a curriculum vitae, research statement,
up to three pdf reprints, and contact information for
three professional references to: Prof. Sheila Patek,
sheila.patek@duke.edu
FieldMuseum Chicago
InsectPlantEvolution
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSOCIATE IN THE
MOREAU AND REE LABS AT THE FIELD MUSEUM
ON INSECT-PLANT COEVOLUTION
When, where, and how did insect-plant associations
arise, and how did this aect their evolutionary and
ecological trajectories?
We seek an outstanding postdoctoral researcher to ad-
dress this general question, including but not limited
to studies emphasizing data-mining and phylogenetic
reconstructions of co-evolutionary history. Potential
general topics include plant-pollinator, plant-herbivore,76 EvolDir May 1, 2015
or other symbiotic interactions, or questions involving
historical biogeography and ecological assembly (e.g.,
did insect groups specialized on desert plants evolve
from non-plant-associated desert insects, or from plant-
associated relatives outside the deserts?).
The successful candidate will work in collaboration be-
tween Dr. Corrie Moreau (www.moreaulab.org) and
Dr. Richard Ree (www.reelab.net) in the museum's
Integrative Research Center. In addition to conducting
primary research, the candidate will work with educa-
tors in the museum's Learning Center to create a K-12
level classroom exercise and lesson plan focused on the
tree of life.
The Field Museum oers a dynamic research community
in evolutionary biology that includes resident curators,
senior scientists, postdocs, and graduate students, as
well as numerous associates at the University of Chicago,
the University of Illinois at Chicago, the Chicago Botanic
Garden, the Morton Arboretum, and Argonne National
Labs. Chicago combines world-class urban amenities
and culture with aordable costs of living.
Applications should include: 1) a cover letter including
contact information for three references and preferred
start date in 2015 (summer or fall preferred), 2) CV,
and 3) a short proposal (2 page maximum) describing a
research project tting the theme of evolution of insect-
plant interactions. (Important note: funds for new data
collection will be limited, so projects should rely heavily
or exclusively on existing data.)
The initial term of appointment is one year, renewable
for an additional year upon satisfactory progress. Com-
petitive salary depending on prior experience. Review
of applications will begin on 7/7/2015. Outstanding
candidates will be contacted for an interview.
Applications must be submitted electronically
through the following application system: http://-
app.hireology.com/s/41990 Informal inquiries may be
directed to Rick (rree@eldmuseum.org) and/or Corrie
(cmoreau@eldmuseum.org).
Corrie Saux Moreau, Ph.D. MacArthur Associate
Curator - Insects Integrative Research Center De-
partment of Science and Education Field Museum
of Natural History 1400 South Lake Shore Drive
Chicago, IL 60605 USA Oce: (312) 665-7743
Fax: (312) 665-7754 Email: cmoreau@eldmuseum.org
Moreau Lab website: http://www.moreaulab.org/-
FMNH website: http://eldmuseum.org/users/corrie-
moreau Field Museum Women in Science: http:/-
/eldmuseum.org/womeninscience Corrie Moreau
<cmoreau@eldmuseum.org >GeorgiaTech MarineMicrobiomes
Postdoc in Marine Microbiome Research
The Stewart lab at Georgia Tech is looking for a postdoc-
toral fellow to study the microbiome of coral reef shes.
The postdoc will work jointly with Dr. Stewart and Dr.
Danielle Dixson in the School of Biology to understand
the diversity and evolution of the reef sh microbiome
and its role in sh health and ecology. The work will
involve collections at diverse eld sites (e.g., Belize, Aus-
tralia), experiments using aqua-cultured sh species,
and a blend of molecular and bioinformatic analyses.
The project utilizes a partnership with a major breeder
and distributor of ornamental reef sh, enabling ma-
nipulations of diverse host species over developmental
gradients and comparisons to wild populations. Re-
search tasks will involve both culture-dependent and
independent methods, with the latter focused on com-
parative analysis of single-cell genomic, metagenomic,
and metatranscriptomic datasets. The postdoc will be
encouraged to develop independent lines of research with
in the broader goals of the project, and will work collab-
oratively with Dr. Stewart, Dr. Dixson, and graduate
students to perform research and synthesize results for
publication.
The ideal candidate will be enthusiastic, motivated by
experimental and analytical challenges, and procient in
bioinformatics and molecular microbiology techniques.
Candidates should have a Ph.D. focusing on microbiome
or symbiosis research (or a related topic). Knowledge
of marine biology and microbial evolution is highly de-
sirable.
The School of Biology at Georgia Tech is a dynamic
research environment with a strong core of researchers in-
terested in marine systems, microbiology, and genomics.
The Institute oers exceptional resources for bioinfor-
matics and high-performance computing, and exciting
opportunities for cross-departmental collaboration with
computational scientists and earth and atmospheric sci-
entists. Georgia Tech was recently voted one of the
best places to work, and Atlanta is consistently ranked
among the top ten places to live for young professionals.
This position begins in late summer/fall 2015, although
there is exibility in the start date. Funding is available
for at least two years, but is contingent upon satisfac-
tory progress in year one; applicants should express
their ability to commit to the project for the initial twoMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 77
years. Application materials should be emailed to the
same address and should include a cover letter (describ-
ing your interest in the position, work experience, and
availability), CV, and contact information (name, email,
phone number) for at least three references. Please in-
clude the word \Postdoc" in the subject line. Salary
will be competitive and commensurate with experience
and will include fringe benets. Review of applications
will begin on May 1 and continue until the position is
lled.
Informal inquiries about the position can be sent to
Frank Stewart at frank.stewart@biology.gatech.edu. Ad-
ditional details about the Stewart lab can be found at
http://marine-micro.biology.gatech.edu/ Georgia Tech
is a unit of the University System of Georgia and an
Armative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer and re-
quires compliance with the Immigration Control Reform
Act of 1986.
frank.stewart@biology.gatech.edu
HarvardU
FunctionalEvolutionaryEpigenetics
***Postdoctoral Position in Functional and Evolutionary
Epigenetics***
The Lemos laboratory at Harvard University T. H. Chan
School of Public Health is searching for a postdoctoral
fellow in functional and/or evolutionary epigenetics. Op-
portunities include projects with both experimental and
computational components. Ideal applicants must be ex-
tremely curious and motivated by science, be genuinely
enthusiastic, and have the ability to work independently
within a collegial and collaborative team. Applicants
should expect a creative and fun research environment
in which I can provide plenty of individual mentoring
and support to develop your own interests and ideas.
Applicants must be US-citizen or permanent residents
and have a PhD at the time of the appointment. Re-
view of applications will start immediately. This specic
position must be lled by July 1st. (Informal enquires
of interested candidates with other timeframes or back-
grounds are also welcome)
Applications should be sent to ble-
mos@hsph.harvard.edu. Please send a cover letter
(max 2 pages) describing your research interests and
experience, a C.V. and contact information for three
references.Bernardo Lemos Assistant Professor Harvard T. H. Chan
School of Public Health http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/-
faculty/bernardo-lemos/ www.lemoslab.org ble-
mos@hsph.harvard.edu
IISER-TVM Kerala India
EvolutionaryEcol
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION AT IISER-
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM, KERALA, INDIA.
A postdoctoral position in Evolutionary Ecology is avail-
able at IISER Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala, India, in
the Vanasiri Evolutionary Ecology Group of Ullasa Ko-
dandaramaiah (www.vanasiri.in)
DEADLINE: Screening of applications will start April
30th, but will continue until a suitable candidate is
found.
SALARY: Rs. 43,200 - 48,000 per month (including
Housing Rent Allowance; commensurate with experi-
ence)
RESEARCH SUBJECT(S): Our research group works
on various questions within evolutionary ecology in-
cluding prey-predator interactions, insect-hostplant co-
evolution, parasite-host co-evolution, biogeography, phy-
logeography, population genetics, etc. More information
at www.vanasiri.in/research. Currently used model sys-
tems include dierent insects (primarily butteries),
plants and reptiles.
Collaborations with candidates who can design projects
that complement ongoing work in the group are welcome.
I also welcome collaborations with candidates through
projects on new kinds of questions, and/or new model
organisms, which will enrich research in our group. The
permanent campus of IISER Thiruvananthapuram is an
outstanding location (see www.vanasiri.in/facilities) for
ecological and evolutionary studies.
You are encouraged to contact me informally (ul-
lasa@iisertvm.ac.in) to discuss your ideas and their fea-
sibility before sending in your formal application.
SELECTION: Selection will be based on the scientic
credentials of the candidate (needless to mention, a PhD
is a must), quality of the research proposal and feasibil-
ity of carrying out the research proposal. The formal
advertisement, including details about how to apply is
here http://iisertvm.ac.in/openings/read opening/115
DURATION: The initial contract will be for 1 year,78 EvolDir May 1, 2015
but can be extended to 2 years based on performance.
The selected candidate is expected to join as soon as
possible.
LIFE IN KERALA AND THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
(TRIVANDRUM): The coastal city of Thiruvanantha-
puram is the capital of Kerala, and has a rich cultural
heritage. It is within a stone's throw away from world-
famous beaches such as Kovalam and Varkala, and lovely
backwater tourism areas such as Poovar. Several hill
stations (e.g Ponmudi) and wildlife sanctuaries are close
by. Being a major medical tourism destination, the city
has excellent medical care facilities.
It is a relatively small city, and the cost of living tends
to be considerably lower than in bigger Indian cities. A
2-bedroom apartment can be had for Rs 8,000 - 10,000
per month. There are plenty of options for dining out -
a meal at a decent local restaurant can start from Rs 50,
but a good meal with a drink even in a ve-star hotel
usually costs less than Rs 1000. Costs for groceries and
other daily needs can be looked up here (www.kada.in).
Taxis can be hired from Rs 10 per km (with a mini-
mum fare of Rs 50), while the cost of driving your own
small car (not for the faint-hearted!) is about Rs 5 per
kilometer (petrol: Rs 67/litre, diesel: Rs 55/litre).
Ullasa Kodandaramaiah ullasa@iisertvm.ac.in
IndianaU
EvolutionDevelopmentalPlasticity
Postdoctoral Fellow: Evolution of developmental plas-
ticity, Ragsdale Lab, Indiana University
A postdoctoral position is available in the laboratory of
Erik Ragsdale, Department of Biology, Indiana Univer-
sity, Bloomington. Our lab investigates the genetic reg-
ulation and evolution of developmental plasticity, specif-
ically a polyphenism that involves novel morphological
and ecological traits. The focal species of this research is
the nematodePristionchus pacicus, an emerging model
system for evolutionary developmental genetics, which
our lab studies using forward and reverse genetics, trans-
genics, and genome-wide approaches.
Recent work on P. pacicus, which alternatively develops
into a microbe-feeding or a predatory morph in response
to dierent environmental cues, has begun to reveal the
genes comprising a developmental switch that regulates
its polyphenism. This entry point into the genetics of a
morphological dimorphism allows a mechanistic analysisof polyphenism in an animal model. Moreover, this sys-
tem is embedded in a solid phylogenetic infrastructure
that exhibits a broad range of feeding morphologies and
ecologies. Given the laboratory availability of many
species and populations of Pristionchus, this system of-
fers a unique opportunity to discover how genetic factors
and their interactions evolve to assume or modify the
regulation of developmental plasticity.
The project will involve functional genetics, modeling
of population-level processes, phylogenetic comparative
analyses, and/or experimental evolution to determine
the evolutionary signicance of dened genetic mech-
anisms of polyphenism. For the position, we seek a
collegial and intellectually driven individual with a re-
cent Ph.D. in evolutionary biology or a related eld.
A background in population genetics and/or evolution-
ary modeling is especially desirable. Strong molecular
biology skills are a plus but relevant training will be
provided as necessary. The position will be funded for
two years, with the potential to extend for an additional
year. Salary will be commensurate with experience, and
full benets are included.
To apply, please submit (i) a letter of application, (ii)
a full CV, (iii) a statement of research interests, and
(iv) contact information for three references electroni-
cally to http://indiana.peopleadmin.com/postings/1527
Review of applications will start immediately and will
continue until the position is lled. The exact start date
is exible but can begin as soon as the position is lled.
Inquiries about the position can be directed to Erik
Ragsdale (ragsdale@indiana.edu). Additional informa-
tion about research in the Ragsdale lab can be found at:
http://www.indiana.edu/ ~ragslab/ Bloomington is a
vibrant college town located in scenic southern Indiana,
close to several natural parks and wilderness areas, and
it enjoys a local culture exceptionally rich in music, art,
and theater.
Indiana University is an Equal Employment and Ar-
mative Action employer and a provider of ADA services.
All qualied applicants will receive consideration for em-
ployment without regard to age, ethnicity, color, race,
religion, sex, sexual orientation or identity, national
origin, disability status, or protected veteran status.
Erik J. Ragsdale, PhD Assistant Professor of Biology
Indiana University Bloomington, IN 47405, USA
www.indiana.edu/ ~ragslab \Ragsdale, Erik"
<ragsdale@indiana.edu >May 1, 2015 EvolDir 79
INRA France ConservationModeling
Call for applications for a Postdoctoral Fellowship Pro-
visioning and stability of multiple ecosystem services in
agroecosystems A postdoctoral fellowship is proposed at
CNRS Moulis and INRA Agroecology in collaboration
with CNRS CEBC to develop theory on the magni-
tude and stability of multiple ecosystem services, such
as crop production, pollination and conservation, and
their synergies and trade-os depending on the spatial
arrangement of agricultural landscapes.
Application deadline: 9 May 2015 Eligibility deadline by
Agreenskills (see below): 26 April 2015 Date of recruit-
ment: from 1st August 2015 Open to: Young researchers
holding a PhD with less than 7 years of postdoctoral re-
search experience Fellowship: ^ a :3500=^a:5000permonth
Eligibility Applicants must: - Hold a PhD (or PhD will
have been awarded by the date of recruitment); - Have
less than 7 years of research experience after their PhD;
- Have spent no more than 12 months in France during
the 3 years prior to the date of recruitment; - Be able
to write and speak English or French uently; - Have at
least 1 publication in a peer-reviewed journal;
Application Candidates interested in the postdoctoral
research position should contact Sabrina Gaba (sab-
rina.gaba@dijon.inra.fr). The postdoctoral project
is part of Agreenskills (http://www.agreenskills.eu/),
hence candidates are evaluated and selected through two
selection rounds per year for both programs: - Before
April 26th 2015: Candidates interested in the research
project will have to full the eligibility criteria (de-
scribed below) and to complete an online application
through the secure area of the AgreenSkills web portal.
Applicants will have to provide a detailed CV. - Before
May 9th 2015: Once declared eligible, candidates will
be able to apply by proposing a research project that is
relevant to the elds of interest of the research teams.
INRA <http://www.inra.fr >*SabrinaGaba* *Charg ee
de recherches * sabrina.gaba@dijon.inra.fr *Centre
INRA de Dijon* T el. : +33 (0)3 80 69 31 87 Fax :
+33 (0)3 80 69 32 62
17, rue de Sully, BP 86510 21065 Dijon Cedex France
http://www6.dijon.inra.fr/umragroecologie Sur twitter:
@sabrina gaba Sur twitter: @ZA PVS
Sabrina Gaba <sabrina.gaba@dijon.inra.fr >Kaiserslautern
ProtistDiversityBiogeography
Postdoc position in protist biodiversity/biogeography
in Kaiserslautern, Germany
A two-year postdoc position is available in the DFG-
Emmy-Noether Independent Junior Research Group for
Microbial Diversity at the University of Kaiserslautern.
This work is part of a 5-year high-throughput sequenc-
ing study of the diversity and biogeography of soil-
inhabiting protists in rainforests in Costa Rica, Panama,
and Ecuador. Fieldwork is possible, although not re-
quired.
The candidate for this position must have excellent bioin-
formatic skills (ecient shell, python, and R scripting)
and knowledge of basic statistics. Additional require-
ments: a Ph.D. in biology or computer science; good
working knowledge of English, both written and verbal;
motivation and ability to work independently. Salary
follows DFG guidelines (E13).
The Microbial Diversity research group is headed by Dr.
Micah Dunthorn. Other work in the group includes de
novo genome sequencing and meiotic gene inventories
to evaluate putative asexuality in ciliates and other pro-
tists, and ciliate molecular phylogenetics. This group is
located in the Department of Ecology.
If interested, please send an e-mail with a single pdf
containing your C.V., a description of your motiva-
tion and research interests, reprints of published pa-
pers, and contact details of two academic references to:
dunthorn@rhrk.uni-kl.de Applications will be screened
until the position is lled. Starting date: Fall 2015.
Micah Dunthorn http://www.bio.uni-kl.de/-
microbialdiversity/ Micah Dunthorn
<dunthorn@rhrk.uni-kl.de >
KAUST EcolEvolutionaryGenomics
*Postdoctoral and PhD Fellowship in Bioinformatics and
Ecological/Evolutionary Genomics and Epigenomics of
Coral Reef organisms.*80 EvolDir May 1, 2015
A Postdoctoral and a PhD Position are currently avail-
able in the Integrative Systems Biology lab at the
King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
(KAUST)
In the Integrative Systems lab we work on many dier-
ent and diverse projects applying computational and
lab-based analyses using new technology to understand
biological processes on the molecular level. We are
part of the KAUST Environmental Epigenetics program
(KEEP).
http://systemsbiology.kaust.edu.sa http://-
keep.kaust.edu.sa The largest and newest projects
in the lab focus on trans-generational adaptation to
fast changing environments due to climate change and
in particular on the understanding of the molecular
regulatory mechanisms at the base of this adaptation.
We mainly study Coral Reef organisms such reef shes
and marine sponges. We are seeking a highly motivated
postdoc or PhD student to work on the computational
analysis of long-term experimental projects on various
marine organisms. We are using Next Generation
Sequencing approaches (mostly Illumina based) in order
to collect and integrate genome-wide measurements
such as genome, transcriptomics, proteomics, and
methylomes sequencing datasets.
KAUST is an extremely diverse environment and our
lab is currently made up of people from 12 dierent
countries of origin. Apart from being a new Univer-
sity Campus with cutting-edge technologies, it is also
a community. Within KAUST there is the University
campus, two large sports centers, many restaurants, a
town center, a cinema, a marina, diving facilities (it is
located directly on the Red Sea coast), a beach with
water sports facility etc. http://www.kaust.edu.sa/
Requirements:
Postdoc candidates should have or be close to obtaining
a Ph.D. or equivalent degree. PhD students should have
nished or be about to nish their Masters degree.
Preferred degrees are in bioinformatics, computational
biology, computer science, molecular biology, or a closely
related eld. Candidates with a background in evolution-
ary biology and Next Generation Sequencing approaches
are particularly encouraged to apply.
Programming skills and experience in the application of
computational methods to genomic data are preferred.
A procient level of English is required and good com-
munication and writing skills are a must.
Postdoc salary is from 55.000$ per year upwards de-
pending on experience. The appointment is for two
years initially and can be extended for another year.
Generous furnished housing and health care is provided,plus an annual airfare to the country of origin and a
large relocation fee are paid.
PhD fellowship: 25.000$ per year and 30.000$ when the
student becomes a PhD candidate. Furnished housing
and health care is provided, plus an annual airfare to
the country of origin and a relocation fee are paid.
Interested applicants can send a CV, a letter of interest,
and the names of two potential references to Timothy
Ravasi: timothy.ravasi@kaust.edu.sa.
If you have any questions about life in KAUST and
Saudi Arabia, please feel free to either contact myself or
a female postdoc in our lab: celia.schunter@kaust.edu.sa
Looking forward to hearing from you.
Timothy Ravasi Associate Professor of Bioengineering
Associate Professor of Computer Science Division of
Biological and Environmental Sciences & Engineering
Division of Applied Mathematics and Computer Sciences
King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
Thuwal 23955-6900 Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Oce
+966-2-808-2387
Celia Schunter <celiaschunter@gmail.com >
LavalU EvolGenomicsSystemsBiol
Postdoctoral position in evolutionary genomics/systems
biology at Laval University
The Landry lab at Laval University (http://-
landrylab.ibis.ulaval.ca/) is recruiting a postdoctoral
fellow to work on a project in evolutionary genomics or
systems biology.
The study subjects could include for instance the evo-
lution of regulatory networks during ecological speci-
ation, the evolution of reproductive incompatibilities,
the evolution of anti-fungal resistance, the predictabil-
ity of evolution during adaptation and the molecular
architecture of compensatory evolution at the level of
protein interaction networks. Our study models are the
budding yeasts of the genus Saccharomyces but other
experimental models could also be used.
Laval University is one of the most important research
universities in Canada and is located in Quebec City, a
lively city with a vibrant culture that oers an excep-
tional quality of life.
Starting dates would be between January 2016 and July
2016. The candidate must be highly motivated, haveMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 81
a PhD in biology or in a related eld, have a strong
background in evolutionary biology and at least some
basic training in bioinformatics (Perl, Python, R) and
genomics.
Interested candidates should send a single PDF le with
a CV, a list of publications, a one-page statement of
research interests and the contact information for three
referees.
The position will be open until a candidate is found.
Christian
Christian Landry, PhD Professeur agr eg e Chercheur
Junior II du FRQS D epartement de Biologie Institut de
Biologie Int egrative et des Syst emes/PROTEO Local
3106, Pavillon Charles-Eug ene-Marchand 1030, Avenue
de la M edecine Universit e Laval Qu ebec (Qu ebec) G1V
0A6 Canada
http://landrylab.ibis.ulaval.ca/ T el ephone: 418-656-
3954 T el ecopieur: 418-656-7176
Christian Landry <Christian.Landry@bio.ulaval.ca >
MACN BuenosAires
ArachnidSystematics
23 April 2015
Call for a postdoctoral candidate - MACN, Buenos Aires,
Argentina, iv.2015
The laboratory of systematics and biology of arach-
nids at the Argentinean Museum of Natural Sciences
is looking for a candidate for a postdoctoral fellow-
ship of CONICET. Our lab has a strong background in
taxonomic and phylogenetic studies of spiders (Mart n
Ram rez), scorpions (Andr es Ojanguren) and opilionids
(Abel P erez Gonz alez) with access to scanning electron
microscope, molecular laboratory, library, and an ex-
cellent collection of arachnids. Our group has research
funding and has collaborations with research teams in
arachnology around the world. All this, combined with
our strong relationships with the major arachnological
collections and curators worldwide, oers an exceptional
atmosphere and a good basis for developing a career in
arachnology.
The objective of this call is to select a candidate who
will submit a proposal for the 2015 call of postdoctoral
fellowships from CONICET.
Those who are interested must send a complete CV anda letter of intention. After a rst round of evaluation
the top candidates will be called for a personal interview
or videoconference. The deadline for application is May
20, 2015 and results will be communicated on May 25.
The selected candidate will submit a proposal (in June)
to the 2015 call for fellowships of CONICET and awards
will be eective during the period of April 2016-2018.
Details Postdoctoral candidate for molecular systemat-
ics of arachnids. We seek one candidate with a good
publication record, experience and skills in obtaining
and analyzing molecular data for phylogenetic recon-
structions, ability to design studies and train students.
This position is expected to lead the work in the molec-
ular laboratory, generate and complement existing data
of spiders, scorpions, solpugids and opilionids, to test
hypotheses of biogeographic origins, divergence times,
inter-species and higher level relationships, and the evo-
lution of selected organ systems. Taxonomic knowl-
edge of arthropods is favorable. Specic inquiries con-
cerning this call and submission of application docu-
ments should be directed to Mart n Ram rez, email:
ramirez@macn.gov.ar
Mart n J. Ram rez Curador General & Divisi on Arac-
nolog a Museo Argentino de Ciencias Naturales - CON-
ICET Av. Angel Gallardo 470, C1405DJR Buenos Aires,
Argentina tel +54 11 4982-8370 int. 169 fax +54 11
4982-6670 int. 172
Sara Ceccarelli <saracecca@hotmail.com >
MichiganStateU 2
TheoreticalMicrobialEvolution
Two postdoctoral positions are available in the Klaus-
meier lab at Michigan State University's Kellogg Biolog-
ical Station to develop trait-based models for complex
microbial communities. We will study the evolution and
ecology of syntrophic networks and competition in vari-
able environments, and develop computational tools for
trait-based modeling. Experience with ecological and
evolutionary modeling, adaptive dynamics, stochastic
spatial simulations, bifurcation theory, and Mathemat-
ica and background in microbial ecology are benecial
but not required.
Both positions are for one year initially, renewable for a
second year depending on performance and continued
funding. Start date is as soon as possible after June 1,
2015. Interested applicants should email a CV, a brief
statement of research interests and accomplishments,82 EvolDir May 1, 2015
and the names and contact information of two refer-
ences to Christopher Klausmeier (klausme1@msu.edu).
Review of applications will begin May 1 and continue
until lled.
See <http://preston.kbs.msu.edu >and <
http://www.kbs.msu.edu >for more info on the
lab and KBS, and email if you have questions.
Christopher Klausmeier Kellogg Biological Station &
Department of Plant Biology Michigan State University
Hickory Corners MI 49060
Phone: (269) 671-4330 Web: http://-
preston.kbs.msu.edu/ Email: klausme1@msu.edu
Christopher Klausmeier <klausme1@msu.edu >
MonashU 2 QuantBiology
2 x Two year post docs in quantitative biology (with
an option for a further 2 years) are available in
the Marshall group. See http://jobs.monash.edu.au/-
jobDetails.asp?sJobIDs=534343 for details.
Prof. Dustin Marshall School of Biological Sciences
Monash University, Clayton Campus Victoria, Australia,
3800 Ph: +61 (3) 9902-4449
Dustin Marshall <dustin.marshall@monash.edu >
Montpellier EvolutionMalaria
Post-doc position in Montpellier on disease ecology of
malaria in Bobo-Dioulasso
During the last century, WHO have led public health
interventions that resulted in spectacular achievements
such as the worldwide eradication of smallpox and the
elimination of malaria from the Western world. How-
ever, besides major successes achieved in control of
infectious diseases, most elimination/control programs
remain frustrating in many tropical countries where
specic biological and socio-economical features have
prevented implementation of disease control over broad
spatial and temporal scales. Emblematic examples in-
clude malaria, dengue, yellow fever, measles and HIV.
There is consequently an urgent need to develop af-
fordable and sustainable disease control strategies thatcan target the core of infectious disease transmission in
highly endemic areas.
Focusing on Dengue transmission in Phnom Penh (Cam-
bodia) and on malaria spreading in Bobo-Dioulasso
(Burkina Faso), the PANIC project (Pathogens NIChe:
a new approach for infectious diseases control) aims
to develop conceptual, empirical and theoretical frame-
works to envision optimized public health strategies for
vector-borne diseases by considering the most recent
advances in ecology and evolution of infectious diseases.
Funded by the Agence Nationale de la Recherche (ANR,
www.agence-nationale-recherche.fr) for ve years, this
project involves French, Burkinabese and Cambodian
researchers from various elds (entomology, virology,
epidemiology, disease ecology, modeling) to tackle this
issue.
Within this context, we are seeking for a post-doctoral
fellow who will focus on data analyses to quantify the
contribution of (i) mosquito population dynamics, (ii)
change in human behavior and (iii) resident immunity
on the spatio-temporal transmission of malaria in Bobo-
Dioulasso. Most of the data relevant to this project
(household socio-economic data, epidemiological time
series and mosquito population dynamics from dierent
neighborhoods) are already available, and additional
data will be collected in the eld at the beginning of the
project. Therefore, several stays have to be expected in
Bobo-Dioulasso, with exible durations.
The ideal candidate will have a PhD in epidemiol-
ogy or in ecology and evolution of infectious diseases
and a trans-disciplinary prole with evidence of scien-
tic autonomy. Good knowledge in statistics and/or
a rst experience on the infectious diseases epidemiol-
ogy/dynamics in southern countrieswill be greatly ap-
preciated. This position is for two years, starting ideally
in September 2015, in MIVEGEC lab in Montpellier
(www.mivegec.ird.fr).
Interested candidates should apply by June 1st by send-
ing (1) a letter of motivation, (2) a CV with publi-
cation list, and (3) the names, institutions and email
addresses of three references to Dr. Benjamin Roche at
benjamin.roche@ird.fr.
{ Benjamin Roche, PhD
Labs: International Center for Mathematical and Com-
putational Modeling of Complex Systems (UMMISCO)
Infectious Diseases: Vector, Control, Genetic, Ecology
and Evolution (MIVEGEC) Centre for Ecological and
Evolutionary Research on Cancer (CREEC)
Postal address: Research Institute for Development
(IRD) 911, avenue Agropolis BP 64504 34394 Montpel-
lier Cedex 5 FranceMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 83
Phone:+33629585460 e-mail:roche.ben@gmail.com
web:http://roche.ben.googlepages.com Benjamin
Roche <roche.ben@gmail.com >
Montpellier PathogenEvolution
*Postdoctoral Scientist in Analysis of pathogen interac-
tions and pathogen communities*
A 24 months Postdoctoral Scientist position is avail-
able in September 2015 at the Institute of Research for
Development (IRD), in Montpellier, France. The work
will be performed in the research group headed by Dr.
Benjamin Roche. The project is funded by a grant from
the Agence Nationale de la Recherche (ANR).
Scientic context: The proposed project will study how
pathogen interactions, through immunological, ecologi-
cal or social mechanisms, can take place in space and
time to shape pathogen communities in human popu-
lations. In addition of the intriguing knowledge pro-
duced in fundamental ecology by this project, major
public health perspectives are also expected. To answer
these questions, two unique datasets are available in this
project. The rst one, focusing at a population scale,
includes weekly notications of more than 30 pathogens
within an homogeneous area. The second dataset, tar-
geting an individual scale, relies on a human cohort
involving more than 4,000 individuals who have been
screened for about 15 pathogens.
Position description: The candidate will combine theo-
retical modeling of multi-pathogen systems with cutting-
edge statistical analysis of the available dataset in or-
der to: (i) characterizing robustly the dierent kind of
pathogen interactions, (ii) understanding the ecologi-
cal pressures shaping pathogen communities and (iii)
predicting the outcomes of the dierent public health
strategies on the structure of pathogen communities.
The candidate will have a PhD in Biological Sciences and
a demonstrated experience in ecological/epidemiological
modeling of infectious diseases. Interested candidates
should apply by June 1st by sending (1) a letter of moti-
vation, (2) a CV with publication list, and (3) the names,
institutions and email addresses of three references to
Dr. Benjamin Roche at benjamin.roche@ird.fr.
Living at Montpellier:http://www.agropolis.org/-
english/guide/index.html
{ Benjamin Roche, PhDLabs: International Center for Mathematical and Com-
putational Modeling of Complex Systems (UMMISCO)
Infectious Diseases: Vector, Control, Genetic, Ecology
and Evolution (MIVEGEC) Centre for Ecological and
Evolutionary Research on Cancer (CREEC)
Postal address: Research Institute for Development
(IRD) 911, avenue Agropolis BP 64504 34394 Montpel-
lier Cedex 5 France
Phone:+33629585460 e-mail:roche.ben@gmail.com
web:http://roche.ben.googlepages.com Benjamin
Roche <roche.ben@gmail.com >
NHGRI EvolutionaryGenomics
Computational and Statistical Genomics Branch Na-
tional Human Genome Research Institute National In-
stitutes of Health
Postdoctoral Fellowship in Bioinformatics and Evolu-
tionary Genomics
A postdoctoral training position is currently available
in the Computational and Statistical Genomics Branch
(CSGB) of the National Human Genome Research Insti-
tute (NHGRI). The position is located in the laboratory
of Andy Baxevanis, Ph.D., whose research group uses
comparative genomics approaches to better-understand
the molecular innovations that drove the surge of diver-
sity in early animal evolution. The overarching theme
of Dr. Baxevanis' research program is focused on how
non-traditional animal models convey critical insights
into human disease research.
With this translational context in mind, Dr. Baxeva-
nis' group is currently leading an international eort to
sequence two cnidarian species: Hydractinia echinata
and Hydractinia symbiolongicarpus. The regenerative
abilities of these colonial hydrozoans make them ex-
cellent models for the study of key questions related
to pluripotency, allorecognition, and stem cell biology,
work that will be signicantly advanced by the availabil-
ity of high-quality whole-genome sequencing data from
these organisms. In addition, and in collaboration with
colleagues at the Whitney Marine Laboratory of the Uni-
versity of Florida, the group has now begun sequencing
Chaetopterus, a polychaete worm that exhibits excep-
tional regenerative abilities; this organism also shows
particular promise for advancing our understanding of
early developmental processes and bioluminescence. The
successful applicant will have the opportunity to develop84 EvolDir May 1, 2015
and apply bioinformatics approaches to these and other
large-scale genomic data sets, focusing on the evolu-
tion of specic protein families, with an emphasis on
examining their putative roles in disease causation.
Candidates should have or be close to obtaining a Ph.D.
or equivalent degree in bioinformatics, computational
biology, computer science, molecular biology, or a closely
related eld. Candidates with a background in evolu-
tionary biology are particularly encouraged to apply.
Programming skills and experience in the application
of computational methods to genomic data are highly
desirable. Applicants must possess good communica-
tion skills and be uent in both spoken and written
English. The ability to learn how to use new software
and quickly become expert in its use, critical think-
ing, problem-solving abilities, and the ability to work
semi-independently are required.
The NIH Intramural Research Program is on the
Bethesda, Maryland campus and oers a wide array
of training opportunities for scientists early in their ca-
reers. The funding for this position is stable and oers
the trainee wide latitude in the design and pursuit of
their research project. The successful candidate will
have access to NHGRI's established and robust bioinfor-
matics infrastructure, as well as resources made available
through NIH's Center for Information Technology (CIT)
and the National Center for Biotechnology Information
(NCBI).
Interested applicants should submit a curriculum vitae,
a detailed letter of interest, and the names of three po-
tential referees to Dr. Baxevanis at andy@mail.nih.gov.
For more information on CSGB and NHGRI's Intramu-
ral Research Program, please see http://genome.gov/-
DIR/ . DHHS and NIH are Equal Opportunity Em-
ployers and encourage applications from women and
minorities.
andy@mail.nih.gov
NorthCarolinaStateU
PopGenSelshGenes
Postdoc: Population Genetics of Selsh Genetic Element
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:
Selsh genetic elements have been studied for over a
century, and as far back as the 1960s researchers became
interested in using the power of selsh genetic elementsto drive genes into pest species to suppress their im-
pacts (Gould et al. 2006). Until recently, the focus of
applied work was on naturally occurring elements. In
the past decade some progress was made on developing
synthetic elements that mimicked natural meiotic drive
and selective embryo-killing, but de-novo creation of a
gene-drive system in a pest species was elusive. With
the harnessing of the bacterial CRISPR-Cas9 system in
the past few years there has been a revolution brewing in
this eld (Esvelt et al. 2014, Oye et al. 2014). In March
2015 a pivotal article by Gantz and Bier (2015) came
out in Science on-line demonstrating a CRISPR-Cas9
construct in Drosophila with strong gene drive. This
proof of principle has gained much attention.
Prospects are good that very soon a single student could
engineer a system for driving deleterious or behavior
modifying genes into pest populations. Not everyone
is comfortable with these developments and there has
even been a call for a moratorium on certain experi-
ments. There are also concerns about nefarious use of
the technology.
The bottom-line is that progress in molecular biology is
ahead of the population genetic work needed to build
systems that are less risky but accomplish changes in
the public interest.
We have been funded by the NIH and the W. M. Keck
Foundation to conduct this kind of population genetic
research. Our focus has been on mosquitoes that trans-
mit dengue and malaria, but we are also interested in
other biological systems (There is hope that these self-
ish genetic elements can save endangered species like
Hawaiian honeycreepers and specic seabirds (Gould
2008, Esvelt et al. 2014).
The postdoc in this position will build a set of simple
to complex models to examine the expected dynamics
of gene drive systems in mosquitoes and other taxa.
The most detailed model that we have developed simu-
lates the population dynamics and population genetics
of Aedes aegypti, the vector of dengue, in a city on the
Amazon river, Iquitos, for which there are rich data sets
on both mosquito dynamics and dengue epidemiology
(e.g. Magori et al. 2009, Okamoto et al 2014). An
accompanying epidemiological model is currently under
development. The goals of two other postdocs in our
group are to expand the mosquito model and the hu-
man epidemiology model to encompass the entire city of
about 400,000 people. The postdoc in this new position
will collaborate with the other postdocs to use these
detailed models to test gene drive systems, but will also
develop more generic models (e.g. Huang et al. 2010).
In addition to working on model development and analy-May 1, 2015 EvolDir 85
sis, the person in this position will have the opportunity
to collaborate in an interdisciplinary research group
composed of mosquito ecologists, disease epidemiolo-
gists, molecular biologists, biomathematicians, ethicists,
and scientists from disease-endemic countries. We are
dedicated to taking seriously the ethical and political
issues surrounding this technology.
DESIREABLE SKILLS: A background in population
genetics and the ability to program in C++ (or knowl-
edge of a related programming language), and training
in evaluation of mechanistic models.
TO APPLY: email a cover letter and CV to
Fred Gould@ncsu.edu
References:
Esvelt, K. M., A. L. Smidler, F. Catteruccia, G.
M. Church. 2014. Concerning RNA-guided gene
drives for the alteration of wild populations. eLife.
10.7554/eLife.03401.
Gantz, V. M. and Bier, E. 2015. The mutagenic
chain reaction: A method for converting heterozy-
gous to homozygous mutations. Science 24 April
2015- 442-444. Published online 19 March 2015
[DOI:10.1126/science.aaa5945]
Gould, F. 2008. Broadening the application of evolu-
tionarily based genetic pest management. Evolution 62:
500V510.
Gould, F., K. Magori, Y. X. Huang 2006 Genetic strate-
gies for controlling mosquito-borne diseases. American
Scientist. 94 (3): 238- 246.
Huang, Y., Lloyd, A.L., Legros, M., Gould, F. 2010.
Gene-drive into insect populations with age and spatial
structure: a theoretical assessment. Evol. Appl. ISSN
1752-4571.
Magori, K., M. Legros, M. Puente, D. A. Focks, T. W.
Scott, A. Lloyd, F. Gould. 2009. Skeeter Buster: a
stochastic, spatially-explicit modeling tool for studying
Aedes aegypti population replacement and population
suppression strategies. PLoS Negl Trop Dis 3(9): e508.
doi:10.1371/journal.pntd.0000508
Okamoto, K. W., Robert M. A., Gould, F., Lloyd,
A. L.2014) Feasible Introgression of an Anti-pathogen
Transgene into an Urban Mosquito Population without
Using Gene-Drive. PLoS Negl Trop Dis 8(7): e2827.
doi:10.1371/journal.pntd.0002827.
Oye, K. A. et al. 2014. Regulating gene drives. Science.
345:626-628 Published online 17 July 2014
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Paris CaenorhabditisVirusEvolution
Postdoc and technician positions F elix lab, Paris, France
Co-evolution of Caenorhabditis and viral pathogens
A postdoctoral position and a technician position are
available in the laboratory of Marie-Anne F elix, Ecole
Normale Sup erieure, Paris, France to study the mecha-
nistic basis of the evolution in sensitivity of the nema-
todes C. elegans and C. briggsae to three viral pathogens.
On the host side, the molecular basis of observed varia-
tion in sensitivity and specicity will be studied using
quantitative genetic methods (cf. Ashe et al. eLife 2013,
2:e00994) and molecular genetics. On the virus side,
changes in host specicity will be studied using trans-
genic reconstitution of the viruses in Caenorhabditis
(Jiang et al. J. Virology 2014, 88:11774). The positions
are for two to three years starting from 1 October 2015.
For interested candidates, please send a letter of moti-
vation, a Curriculum Vitae and a list of three referees.
Do not hesitate to contact me if you have questions.
Marie-Anne F elix e-mail: felix@biologie.ens.fr
http://www.ibens.ens.fr/?rubrique29&lang=en The lab
is located in the center of Paris.
Marie-Anne Felix Institute of Biology of the Ecole Nor-
male Sup erieure (IBENS) 46 rue d'Ulm, 75230 Paris
cedex 05, France 8th oor. Oce: Room 801. Lab:
Room 817. mail: felix@biologie.ens.fr Tel: +33-1-44-32-
39-44 http://www.ibens.ens.fr/?rubrique29&lang=en
STRAINS: http://www.justbio.com/worms/index.php
felix@biologie.ens.fr
PrincetonU TermiteEvolution
Postdoctoral Research Associate Position in Ecology, to
work with Professors Robert M. Pringle and Corina E.
Tarnita in the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology, Princeton University.
https://jobs.princeton.edu/applicants/jsp/shared/-
position/JobDetails css.jsp?postingId!0311 Applica-86 EvolDir May 1, 2015
tions are invited for a postdoctoral research associate
position on the ecology of self-organized spatial
patterning and termite ecosystem engineers in African
savannas. The goal of this project is to explore, using a
diverse suite of theoretical and empirical approaches,
how termite colonies interact with each other and their
environment to generate regular spatial patterning at
multiple scales and across multiple trophic levels. The
specic aims of the planned work are to mechanistically
test theoretical predictions stemming from recent work
in this system about how termite-generated spatial
patterning (a) is created and maintained, (b) shapes
broader community and ecosystem properties, and (c)
responds to climatic variability.
For further information about these ideas and the study
system in central Kenya, see:
Bonachela, JA, et al. 2015. Science 347:651-655 (http:/-
/www.sciencemag.org/content/347/6222/651.abstract)
Pringle, R.M., et al. 2010. PLoS Biol-
ogy 8:1000377 (http://journals.plos.org/plosbiology/-
article?id.1371/journal.pbio.1000377)
We will also work with the postdoctoral researcher to
identify and explore novel theoretical dimensions, as
well as the applicability of results to diverse ecosystems
worldwide. The successful candidate will be jointly
mentored by Pringle and Tarnita and will be embed-
ded within Pringles laboratory in Princeton; eldwork
will be conducted at the Mpala Research Centre in
Laikipia, Kenya, and possibly other locations within
Africa. Beyond Pringles and Tarnitas research groups,
the successful candidate will have the opportunity to
interact extensively with Princetons EEB Department
and with project collaborators elsewhere.
Candidates are required to have a Ph.D. in biology, en-
tomology, biogeochemistry, ecohydrology, soil science,
physics, or a related eld. We particularly seek can-
didates with experience in experimental ecology who
desire to conduct eldwork in Africa. We emphasize that
although this work is theoretically motivated, formal
mathematical training is not required; what is required
is an ability to think conceptually and work creatively
with colleagues from diverse disciplinary backgrounds.
Expertise in one or more of the following areas, while
not essential, would be highly benecial: molecular biol-
ogy, insect behavior, soils analysis, population genetics,
modeling and computation, GIS and remote sensing.
The appointment is for one year initially, with the possi-
bility of renewal up to three years, based on performance
and funding. Salary is competitive and commensurate
with experience, and benets are included. This po-
sition is available immediately and is subject to theUniversity's background check policy.
Applicants should apply online to Req #1500214 and
submit a curriculum vitae, a brief statement of research
interests and experience, one PDF reprint or writing
sample representing your best work, and a cover letter
with names and contact information of three referees.
We encourage applications from members of groups un-
derrepresented in Science, Technology, Engineering, and
Mathematics. Princeton University is an equal oppor-
tunity employer and all qualied applicants will receive
consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, disability status,
protected veteran status, or any other characteristic
protected by law.
This link should bring you directly to the job posting:
https://jobs.princeton.edu/applicants/jsp/shared/-
position/JobDetails css.jsp?postingId!0311
Robert M. Pringle Assistant Professor Department of
Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Princeton University,
Princeton, NJ 08544 Lab Website
Rob Pringle <rpringle@princeton.edu >
RoyalBotanicGardensKew
TreePhylogenomics
Two Phylogenomics Research Fellows posts
We are seeing to recruit two interlinked active phyloge-
nomic research fellows who will join a team of plant
phylogenetic and evolutionary experts in the Depart-
ment of Comparative Plant and Fungal Biology at Royal
Botanic Gardens, Kew, UK. The posts will provide the
appointed research fellows with the opportunity to en-
gage with the latest advances in next generation se-
quencing technologies to address both pure and applied
research questions, with a focus on tree genomics, con-
servation and seed science. The focus of the two posts
are 1) Establishing a genomic library for South-East
Asian trees for biodiversity analysis, conservation and
authentication, and 2) Evolution and diversication of
a \recalcitrant" tree family in the Asia-Pacic.
For further information, including an overview
of the research proposed for each post, and to
apply, please see https://careers.kew.org/vacancy/-
phylogenomics-research-fellows-217344.html Dr
Ilia Leitch (i.leitch@kew.org) Dr William Baker
(w.baker@kew.org) Dr Felix Forest (f.frest@kew.org)May 1, 2015 EvolDir 87
F.Forest@kew.org
RoyalBotanicGardens UK
SorbusGenetics
We are now looking to appoint a postdoc to work on
Sorbus genetics, focusing on S. porrigentiformis, using
next generation sequencing methods. This two-year job
is now live on Kew.org and Kewnet. Please share the
following link on EvolDir.
https://careers.kew.org/vacancy/postdoctoral-research-
assistant-sorbus-genetics-213956.html Dr Michael F.
Fay FLS Head of Genetics Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew
Richmond Surrey TW9 3AB UK
Chief Editor, Botanical Journal of the Linnean Society
Tel (44) (0) 20 8332 5315 Fax (44) (0) 20 8332 5310
Mike Fay <M.Fay@kew.org >
RutgersU ExperimentalEvolution
Virus
Research-Teaching Postdoc in Experimental Evolution
A full-time postdoctoral position is available in the Duy
Lab (http://www.rci.rutgers.edu/ ~siobain/) at Rutgers
University to carry out experimental evolution research
with the model RNA virus bacteriophage phi6. This
70% research position will focus on how epistasis af-
fects viral emergence in novel hosts. The remaining
30% of the position involves teaching and developing
teaching prociency: designing a new undergraduate
experimental evolution lab course with the PI, team-
teaching undergraduate courses in evolution, and design-
ing and teaching activities to middle school students.
This position is ideal for candidates wanting to estab-
lish a teaching portfolio while conducting postdoctoral
research on the evolution of infectious disease.
The postdoc will be responsible for developing hy-
potheses, designing experiments, conducting wet lab
research, analyzing results, preparing/presenting data
at national/international conferences, generating high
quality journal publications and assisting in grant prepa-
ration. Additionally, the postdoc is expected to par-ticipate in our highly collaborative laboratory environ-
ment, and assist in supervision of undergraduate student
projects. The position is funded for 2.5 years by the
NSF and Rutgers School of Environmental and Bio-
logical Sciences, though renewal after the rst year is
contingent on performance.
Ideal candidates will have a strong background in molec-
ular evolution, population genetics and microbiology,
and have previously worked and published in either
experimental evolution or molecular phage/virology
research. The successful applicant will be highly or-
ganized, have strong interpersonal skills, and have a
demonstrated ability to communicate clearly in English.
Applicants must have a PhD/have successfully defended
their dissertation in a relevant biological science before
taking up the position.
The Duy lab combines computational and wet lab
approaches to understand short term and long term
patterns in viral evolution. Individuals in the lab focus
on viruses of mammals, plants and microbes, though
dsRNA phage phi6 is currently the dominant experi-
mental system in the lab.
Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey, is a leading
national public research university. New Brunswick is
within an hours drive of New York City and beaches
on the Atlantic Ocean, and within a 90 minute drive of
Philadelphia and the Appalachian Trail. New Jersey is
one of the most ethnically diverse states, with over 20%
of the population having immigrated to the US.
Application review will start on 4/22/15 and will con-
tinue until the position is lled. The start date is exible,
but start dates in summer 2015 are preferred.
Salary is based on qualication and experience.
Any informal queries should be emailed to Siobain Duy
(duy@aesop.rutgers.edu)
To apply, please send the following items to
duy@aesop.rutgers.edu: (1) a cover letter stating pre-
ferred start date (2) a curriculum vitae, including pre-
vious research and teaching experience, and contact
information for three references, and (3) a brief state-
ment of research interest and career goals.
Rutgers is an equal opportunity/armative action em-
ployer, and candidates from all backgrounds are encour-
aged to apply.
Siobain Duy Associate Professor (as of 7/1/15) De-
partment of Ecology, Evolution and Natural Resources
School of Environmental and Biological Sciences Rut-
gers, The State University of New Jersey
duy@AESOP.Rutgers.edu88 EvolDir May 1, 2015
RutgersU PopulationGenomics
Postdoctoral position in Population Genomics at Rut-
gers University
Seeking qualied applicants for a post-doctoral position
with Andrew Kern in the Department of Genetics and
the Human Genetics Institute of New Jersey at Rutgers
University. The position is NIH funded to work on meth-
ods development for parameter inference in Isolation
with Migration (IM) models. This work will be done
in collaboration with the lab of Jody Hey at Temple
University.
More information about the Kern lab can be found
here: http://kernlab.rutgers.edu . More information
about the department can be found here: http://-
genetics.rutgers.edu/. The Kern lab is located on the
Busch campus of Rutgers University, in central New
Jersey, and is in easy commuting range to New York
City.
The ideal candidate would hold a Ph.D. and have a
record of research achievement in population genet-
ics, computational biology, computer science, statis-
tics, or a related eld. A background in compar-
ative/population/evolutionary genomics is of course
highly desirable. In addition the candidate should
have experience programming in C, a scripting language
(Ruby, Python, or Perl is ne), and would ideally be
comfortable with cluster computing environments.
Review of applications will begin immediately and con-
tinue until the positions are lled. The position could be-
gin as early as July, 2015. Interested candidates should
submit an electronic version of their CV along with a
cover letter describing their qualications and relevant
experience to Andrew Kern (kern@biology.rutgers.edu)
Andrew Kern Assistant Professor of Genetics Rutgers
University website: http://kernlab.rutgers.edu email:
kern@biology.rutgers.edu
Kern@dls.rutgers.eduStellenboschU
EvolutionaryBreakpoints
A post-doctoral position in comparative genomics is
available in the Evolutionary Genomics Group, Depart-
ment of Botany and Zoology at Stellenbosch University
to investigate the genomic structure of evolutionary
breakpoint regions in mammals.
Our recent data suggest that the number of meiotic
DSBs (initiated in the early stages of meiosis) and -
nal crossover events are inuenced by how the genome
is organized into chromosomes. Here we extend this
work by inferring recombination rates in evolutionary
breakpoints that dene chromosomal rearrangements
by focusing on two index species with available SNP
data, human and mouse. The rationale for this ap-
proach is that high-density single-nucleotide polymor-
phisms (SNPs) can be used to produce high-resolution
recombination maps using linkage disequilibrium (LD)
patterns which are good estimators of the location of
recombination events in progeny. It has been argued
that rates of recombination might vary considerably
between species when comparing high-resolution (kb)
recombination maps but these dierences disappear at a
broader scale (Mbp) where closely related species tend
to have similar average rates of recombination. It is our
intention to combine SNP data with whole-comparative
genomics in order to infer recombination rates and in-
vestigate signatures of selection.
Applicants should have a PhD in a relevant area (evolu-
tionary biology, genomics, bioinformatics or genetics).
We are looking to appoint an enthusiastic postdoc with
a strong interest in evolutionary biology that includes a
background in population/statistical genetics. Require-
ments are a competitive publication record and skills in
programming.
The incumbent will work closely with researchers
in two other groups: Dr Aurora Ruiz-Herrera (Uni-
versitat Aut onoma de Barcelona, Spain, http://-
grupsderecerca.uab.cat/evolgenom/) and Professor Jiri
Rubes (Veterinary Research Institute, Czech Republic)
but will be located in the Stellenbosch lab. The ap-
pointment is for one year with the possibility of renewal
contingent upon satisfactory progress. This position is
available immediately.
Expressions of interest should be sent to Terry Robin-May 1, 2015 EvolDir 89
son (tjr@sun.ac.za) and should include the names and
contact details of 2-3 referees, a full CV and a cover-
ing letter that highlights the appropriateness of your
expertise and why you are interested in the position.
Professor Terence J. Robinson Evolutionary Ge-
nomics Group Stellenbosch University Private Bag X1
Matieland 7602 South Africa E-mail: tjr@sun.ac.za Tel:
+27 21 808 39 55 Fax: +27 21 808 24
\Robinson, TJ, Prof <tjr@sun.ac.za >
Stockholm
BayesianBiodiversityAnalysis
POSTDOC in BAYESIAN BIODIVERSITY ANALY-
SIS
Our group develops methods for Bayesian phylogenetic
and phylogenomic inference, with numerous applications
across the life sciences. We focus on applications to
problems in evolutionary biology, biogeography and bio-
diversity, but the software we produce, MrBayes (http:/-
/mrbayes.net) and RevBayes (http://revbayes.com), is
widely used for other problem areas as well.
In this project, funded by the Swedish Research Council,
we will focus on analyses of data from massively parallel
sequencing eorts using RevBayes, our R-like comput-
ing environment. RevBayes is based on graphical model
concepts, and is primarily intended for Bayesian analysis
of complex evolutionary models. Within this general
context, the successful candidate will have great free-
dom in formulating her or his project. The project can
be focused on method development or empirical anal-
yses, but should include a substantial computational
component.
The ideal candidate should have a doctoral degree in evo-
lutionary biology, bioinformatics, mathematics, statis-
tics, or computer science. Regardless of your back-
ground, you should be familiar with biological research
problems, be comfortable with mathematical and sta-
tistical reasoning, and have solid computational and
programming skills. We will pay particular attention to
scientic talent and potential.
The position is for two years with preferred starting
date in the early fall of 2015. The Swedish Museum of
Natural History (NRM) is one of the leading institutions
of its kind in Europe. It combines a venerable tradition
and unique collections with cutting-edge research in
geology, paleontology and biology. The museum is closeto Stockholm University, the Royal School of Engineer-
ing (KTH) and the Karolinska Institute. The Stock-
holm Phylogenomics Group (http://phylogenomics.se)
engages research groups from all of these institutions.
The Department of Bioinformatics and Genetics at NRM
is focused on research in computational phylogenetics,
population genetics and genomics. We run a DNA
sequencing facility and host several national and inter-
national infrastructures.
The application should consist of a personal letter, a de-
scription of the planned research project (max 5 pages),
and a CV. Mark your application with dnr 2.3.1-181-
2015 and send it to rekrytering@nrm.se no later than
May 29, 2015.
Fredrik Ronquist Professor, Dept. Bioinformatics and
Genetics Swedish Museum of Natural History, Stock-
holm
email: fredrik.ronquist@nrm.se
Fredrik.Ronquist@nrm.se
Switzerland
PhylogeneticCommunityAnalyses
Postdoctoral Research Fellowship in Phylogenetic Com-
munity Analyses
Job description You will analyze community data of
plants and of plant-animal interactions, and you will
explore phylogenetic, functional and taxonomic patterns
and interaction networks. The data are collected in a Eu-
ropean (Biodiversa) project, which fo-cuses on relation-
ships and scale-dependencies of the dierent biodiversity
levels in landscapes of varying intensity of agricultural
land use. You will be part of a small international team
and collaborate with European partners in this project.
In addition, you will be involved in other projects on a
range of niche- and trait-evolutionary and community
phylogenetic topics that are currently investigated in
the lab of Niklaus E. Zimmermann at WSL.
Requirements A PhD in biology, phylogenetics or en-
vironmental sciences is required. You are interested
in questions regarding biodiversity, macroecology, and
niche and trait evolution. Signicant experience in phy-
logenetic community and comparative analyses, biodi-
versity and statistical modelling (in the R environment)
are expected. You are exible, highly motivated to work
in an international team and you have excellent English
skills.90 EvolDir May 1, 2015
Additional Information The Swiss Federal Institute
for Forest, Snow and Landscape Research WSL
(www.wsl.ch) is part of the ETH Domain. It em-
ploys approximately 500 people working on the sus-
tainable use and protection of the terrestrial en-
vironment. If you have specic questions, please
contact Dr. Niklaus E. Zimmermann by email
(niklaus.zimmermann <at>wsl.ch) or consult the home-
page (www.wsl.ch/sta/niklaus.zimmermann) for fur-
ther information.
Application Instructions: Please online (https://-
apply.reine.ch/273855/0492/index.html?cid=1) with
your CV including your publication list, a cover letter
that explains your motivation, a maximum two-page
statement of your re-search experience and interest, and
a list of three professional references.
- Full-time. 42 hours. - Normal Hiring Range: CHF
85?000.-/year ( ~85?000.-) - Grant funded for two years,
extension possible if funding is secured.
Review of candidates will begin after May 27th, 2015
Niklaus E. Zimmermann Swiss Federal Research In-
stitute WSL Dynamic Macroecology Group CH-8903
Birmensdorf, Switzerland
niklaus.zimmermann@wsl.ch
Sydney
MolecularEvolutionPhylogenetics
Postdoc: Molecular evolution and/or phylogenetic meth-
ods
Description Fellowships are available to come and work
with my group in Sydney, Australia, for up to 6 months
(indeed, you could apply to work with any group in
Australia).
If you are a recent PhD graduate, and have interests
that overlap with our lab, please get in touch with an
email that outlines your interests, along with a copy of
your CV, to:
robert.lanfear@mq.edu.au
Specic projects include (but are not limited to):
1. Investigating the accumulation of somatic mutations
in individual plants
2. Various projects examining the causes and conse-
quences of variation in rates of molecular evolution
among taxa (plants and animals)3. Developing and applying methods for model selection
and data ltering in phylogenetics
For more information on the research our lab, please
visit:
www.robertlanfear.com/research The fellowships pro-
vide a good salary, as well as covering all travel and
other costs. They are competitive, but success rates
are quite high. Recent PhD graduates with at least one
publication are competitive. More information on the
fellowships themselves can be found here:
https://internationaleducation.gov.au/-
endeavour%20program/scholarships-and-fellowships/-
international-applicants/pages/international-
applicants.aspx and the list of eligible countries
can be found here:
https://internationaleducation.gov.au/-
Endeavour%20program/Scholarships-and-
Fellowships/Participating countries/Pages/-
Participating%20Countries%20and%20Regions.aspx
Yours,
Rob Lanfear
{ Rob Lanfear ARC Future Fellow and Senior Lecturer,
School of Biological Sciences, Macquarie University, Syd-
ney
phone: +61 (0)2 9850 8204 www.robertlanfear.com
robert.lanfear@mq.edu.au
TulaneU Louisiana
HostPathogenEvol
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSOCIATE
Host-Pathogen Evolution/Amphibian Conservation
The Voyles lab is seeking a Postdoctoral Research Asso-
ciate to participate in an NSF funded project investigat-
ing the evolution of virulence in an amphibian disease
system. The successful applicant will also collaborate
with project PIs at Tulane University, and UC Berkeley.
Outcomes of this work will likely help shape conservation
strategies for amphibians in the region.
The successful applicant will be primarily based in
Panama. Potential projects may include (1) eld studies
focused on understanding infection patterns in amphib-
ian communities at multiple sites in Western Panama,
(2) laboratory infection experiments, and (3) analyses
of host and pathogen genetic and immunological data.May 1, 2015 EvolDir 91
Research experience in infectious disease, including eld
and laboratory skills, are expected, as are skills in data
analysis and writing. Prociency in conversational Span-
ish and prior experience leading eld teams in tropical
regions are preferred.
This is a two year position, with the extension to a sec-
ond year being contingent upon satisfactory progress.
The position is available starting summer, 2015 (nego-
tiable start date). Review of applications will begin
May 1 2015 and continue until a suitable candidate is
found.
To apply, please send (1) a cover letter, (2) CV,
(3) statement of research interests/experiences, and
(4) names and contact information for three refer-
ences to Dr. Jamie Voyles (jvoyles@nmt.edu or
jamie.voyles@gmail.com).
For more information about this and other research
projects going on in our laboratories, please visit our
websites at:
http://voyleslab.weebly.com/ http://tulane.edu/-
sse/eebio/people/cori/ http://nature.berkeley.edu/-
rosenblum/ Corinne L. Richards Zawacki, Ph.D.
email:cori@tulane.edu
Ken and Ruth Arnold Early Career Professor in Sci-
ence and Engineering Assistant Professor, Department
of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Tulane University,
New Orleans, Louisiana
\At night I went out into the dark and saw a glimmering
star and heard a frog and nature seemed to say, well do
not these suce?" - Ralph Waldo Emerson
Cori Zawacki <coririchards@gmail.com >
UAdelaide
AncientHumanPopulationGenetics
ARC Postdoctoral Research Associate Human Evolu-
tionary Genetics Australian Centre for Ancient DNA
(ACAD), The University of Adelaide Salary: 1.0 FTE,
Level A, AU$76,283-81,836 per annum plus up to 17 %
Superannuation applies.
Project: Biomedical population genetics of ancient hu-
man DNA
A 3 year post-doctoral position is available on a project
using bioinformatics techniques to analyse ancient hu-
man biomedical and genomic information, with a focuson the origins and spread of diseases. The position will
head an internationally competitive research team work-
ing closely with Harvard, Max Planck Institutes, Sanger
Centre and UCSD, to develop and apply eld leading
population genetics approaches. The aim of the program
is to trace the evolution and spread of biomedically rele-
vant markers through ancient populations and genomes,
using existing and newly generated data. The position
will work closely with the new ACAD-Australian Na-
tional Data Service Online Ancient Genome Repository
(OAGR) for ancient human genome and microbiome
data, as well as population genetics specialists, archae-
ologists, and ancient DNA researchers from around the
world.
The project is situated within the ACAD and will com-
bine state state-of-the-art genetics, bioinformatics, and
genomics tools, and is funded by the Australian Research
Council (ARC) for a period of 3 years with immediate
start. The project is embedded in an ARC Laureate
FL140100260 Using ancient genomes and microbiomes
to reconstruct human history to Prof. Alan Cooper.
The successful applicant will head a team that utilises
anthropological and archaeological collections to gener-
ate paleogenomics data. While the position focuses on
bioinformatics and population genetics analyses, there
is scope for the generation of new ancient human data
using the large collections of material available at ACAD
and collaborators. S/he will develop and integrate ana-
lytical methods and pipelines for the analysis of large
ancient genomic datasets, and co-supervise a group of
postgraduate students in collaboration with overseas
colleagues and the Universitys School of Mathematical
Sciences.
Applicants should have completed a PhD in biomedi-
cal genetics, population genetics, bioinformatics, bio-
statistics, ancient DNA or any relevant discipline, and
preferentially have a keen interest in human evolution,
disease, and archaeology. The successful appointee will
have evidence of strong oral and written communication
and organisation skills, demonstrated abilities to publish
in scientic journals, present research at international
conferences/committees, but also to present research in
a meaningful and appealing format to the public. The
applicant is expected to be passionate about research,
capable of working both independently and as part of
a larger team, and have demonstrated leadership skills.
Experience with postgraduate student supervision is
desirable.
Enquires about the job specications should be directed
to Dr Laura Weyrich (laura.weyrich@adelaide.edu.au)
or Prof Alan Cooper (alan.cooper@adelaide.edu.au). In-
terested applicants are encouraged to send a CV in-92 EvolDir May 1, 2015
cluding a cover letter detailing, background experience
and motivation, and addressing the key selection cri-
teria of the job aspects above. Note applicants are
invited to formally apply through the University of Ade-
laides job listing page at http://www.adelaide.edu.au/-
jobs/ . For more information about ACAD, check out
(http://en.gravatar.com/acadadelaide) for links to Twit-
ter, Facebook, YouTube, our blog, recent publications
and our ocial website.
Prof. Alan Cooper, ARC Laureate Fellow
Darling Blg (DP 418), Rm 209b University of Adelaide
North Terrace Campus South Australia 5005 Australia
Email: alan.cooper@adelaide.edu.au Ph: 61-8-8313-
5950/3952 Fax: 61-8-8313-4364
http://en.gravatar.com/acadadelaide - blogs, YouTube,
Twitter http://www.adelaide.edu.au/acad/ - Ocial
Website
CRICOS Provider Number 00123M
alan.cooper@adelaide.edu.au
UBath Genomics Molecular
Evolution
Postdoc: UBath.Genomics.Molecular.Evolution
We are recruiting a postdoc to work on a project focused
on understanding the evolutionary processes shaping
natural variation. The project integrates genome se-
quences from a large collection of naturally occurring
strains of a social amoeba with high throughput phe-
notyping, with the ultimate goals of understanding the
molecular basis of natural variation and the patterns of
selection shaping underlying sequence variation. The
postdoc will contribute primarily to genome reconstruc-
tion, association analyses (including both GWAS and
candidate gene based approaches) and application of
molecular evolution models to sequence data, but will
also contribute to the generation of data in the initial
phase of the project.
Candidates should have an appropriate background in
evolutionary or statistical genetics (including bioinfor-
matics). Skills related to the handling of large scale
sequence data are essential. Some skills in molecular
quantitative genetics and the analysis of molecular evo-
lution are preferred but not required.
The successful candidate will be based in Prof JasonWolf's Lab at the University of Bath, working in close
collaboration with Prof Laurence Hurst (also in Bath),
Prof Chris Thompson (Univ. of Manchester). The can-
didate will also work with collaborators at the Federal
University of S ~A$o Carlos (Brazil).
The position is xed-term of 36 months at ^A$31,342
and is set to start at the end of May 2015, with later
start dates subject to approval by the funding agency.
For further information and to apply please see
www.bath.ac.uk/jobs/Vacancy.aspx?ref=SS3006 Note
that there are additional positions associated with this
project:
A Research Technician (also based in Bath) who will
support all aspects of the project, including culturing of
strains, performing phenotyping assays, the preparation
of genomic DNA samples and the processing of data
sets. This position is xed-term of at least 24 months
(possibly up to 30 months) and available to start as
early as the end of May 2015, but later start dates are
not a problem (as long as the start date is no later than
October 2015)
For further information and to apply please see: https:/-
/www.bath.ac.uk/jobs/Vacancy.aspx?ref=SS3028 A
postdoc based in Manchester, who will focus on ex-
perimental validatation of the causal roles of natural
genetic variants using cutting edge molecular and gene
replacement techniques. This position is xed-term of
36 months at ^A$30,434 and is set to start at the end of
May 2015, with later start dates subject to approval by
the funding agency.
Application forms and further particulars can be
obtained at: https://www.jobs.manchester.ac.uk/-
displayjob.aspx?jobid=9511 Laurence D. Hurst Pro-
fessor of Evolutionary Genetics Department of Biology
and Biochemistry University of Bath Bath Somerset,
UK BA2 7AY
Tel: +44 (0)1225 386424 Fax: +44 (0)1225
386779 Email: l.d.hurst@bath.ac.uk Website: http://-
people.bath.ac.uk/bssldh/LaurenceDHurst/Home.html
Laurence Hurst <hurst.laurence@googlemail.com >
UBritishColumbia
EvolutionaryTheory
A postdoctoral position is available in the research group
of Michael Doebeli at the University of British Columbia
in beautiful Vancouver, Canada.May 1, 2015 EvolDir 93
I am looking for an independent and creative theoreti-
cian who is interested in working in one or more of the
following areas:
Evolution in high-dimensional phenotype spaces: trade-
os, frequency-dependence, and diversication
Modelling complex microbial ecosystems using a bottom-
up approach based on metabolic interactions
Modelling multi-level selection, e.g. evolution of multi-
celluarity, cultural group selection
Applicants should have a proven track record of scientic
publication.
Start date: July 1, 2015, or later Duration: initial ap-
pointment for 1 year, renewable Salary: 44K (CAD) p.a.
+ benets
The postdoc will be be based in the Biodiversity Re-
search Centre (http://www.biodiversity.ubc.ca), an ex-
citing and highly interactive research community com-
prising many excellent scientists in ecology and evolu-
tion.
To apply, please send cv and 2-3 letters of recommenda-
tion to doebeli@zoology.ubc.ca.
Michael Doebeli
Michael Doebeli, PhD, FRSC Department of Zoology
University of British Columbia 6270 University Boule-
vard Vancouver BC Canada V6T 1Z4
email: doebeli@zoology.ubc.ca phone: (604) 822-3326
fax: (604) 822-2416
http://www.zoology.ubc.ca/ ~doebeli Michael Doebeli
<doebeli@zoology.ubc.ca >
UCalifornia Irvine Buttery
VisionTranscriptomics
Physiological genomics of vision and smell in butteries
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, IRVINE
Postdoctoral Scholar
A NSF-funded postdoctoral scholar position is available
in the laboratory of Dr. Adriana Briscoe at University of
California, Irvine. Research in the Briscoe lab is aimed
at understanding the molecular evolution of sensory
systems (particularly color vision) in butteries. The
postdoctoral researcher will characterize the transcrip-
tomes of sensory tissues across the Heliconius and/or
Adelpha/Limenitis phylogeny and in related outgrouptaxa using RNA-Sequencing of 1) adult compound eyes
to identify gene networks involved in the evolution of
novel photoreceptors and sexual dimorphisms in eye
morphology and visual function, 2) adult antennae to
identify novel olfactory receptors associated with sex-
specic dierences in behavior. The successful candidate
will also be primarily responsible for the development
of a Galaxy pipeline (collaboratively with Dr. Todd
Oakley at UC Santa Barbara), which will facilitate the
phylogenetically-informed annotation of chemosensory
networks to complement an existing pipeline for eye-
related genes.
Successful candidates will collaborate with a dynamic
team of behaviorists, physiologists, and evolutionary
biologists at UC Irvine and other institutions. Re-
quired qualications include a recent Ph.D. (earned
in 2010 or later) in molecular biology, biochemistry, or
related elds. Desirable qualications include expertise
in bioinformatics, comparative genomics, molecular evo-
lution and/or in qPCR and in preparation of libraries
for Next-Generation sequencing, a strong publication
record, excellent writing and communication skills, and
a willingness to do eld work (mainly to collect organ-
isms for study). Experience with in situ hybridization
would be useful but not essential. Duration of position
is dependent upon performance (annual appointments,
with potential for renewal), and salary will be com-
mensurate with experience. Applications submitted by
May 15, 2015 will be given full consideration, although
applications will be reviewed until the position is lled.
Qualied candidates should submit curriculum vitae, a
one-page statement of research interests, and names and
contact information for three references to the following
on-line recruitment URL:
https://recruit.ap.uci.edu/apply/JPF02793 For more
information about this position contact Dr. Adriana
Briscoe at abriscoe@uci.edu.
The University of California, Irvine is an Equal Oppor-
tunity/Armative Action Employer advancing inclusive
excellence. All qualied applicants will receive consid-
eration for employment without regard to race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, disability, age, protected
veteran status, or other protected categories covered by
the UC nondiscrimination policy.
abriscoe@uci.edu94 EvolDir May 1, 2015
UChile HumanGenomics
We are seeking candidates for a Postdoctoral position
in Genetics to study the demographic history of settlers
of Patagonia. The postdoc will work in a genomics
and bioinformatics laboratory and will have available
microarray genotyping data and whole genome sequence
data from modern and ancient DNA from Patagonia
(Chile and Argentina). He/she will also be responsible
for generating and analyzing new data. Travel oppor-
tunities to our collaborators laboratory, Carlos Busta-
mante <http://med.stanford.edu/bustamantelab/ >
in Stanford University.
Requisites:
* PhD in Genetics, Evolution or related eld obtained
between January 1st 2012 and November 1st 2015. *
A motivation letter * A recommendation letter from a
direct supervisor * Writing uency in English
Desired skills:
* Strong background in quantitative or population ge-
netics * Bioinformatic skills at user level * Spanish or
willingness to learn
Funding:
* Through a FONDECYT Postdoctoral fellow-
ship<http://www.conicyt.cl/fondecyt/2015/04/08/-
concurso-postdoctorado-2016/ >(Spanish). * Success-
ful applicants will apply for funding with the sponsorship
and assistance of the laboratory PI (application will be
in English).
Deadline:
* *May 8 2015*
Postdoc start date:
* November 2015
Interested should inquiries and application material to
Dr. Ricardo Verdugo (raverdugo@u.uchile.cl).
Ricardo A. Verdugo S., M.V., Ph.D. Assistant Pro-
fessor Human Genetics Program, ICBM Faculty of
Medicine, University of Chile Independencia 1027,
Santiago, Chile Phone: +56 (2) 2978 9527 raver-
dugo@u.uchile.cl http://genomed.med.uchile.cl \Ri-
cardo A. Verdugo" <raverdugo@u.uchile.cl >UCollegeCork 5
EvolutionaryBehaviouralBiol
Up to 5 Research positions in Evolutionary Behavioural
Ecology
3The evolutionary ecology of cognition across a het-
erogeneous landscape2(EVOECOCOG: ERC funded
project)
Why do individuals vary in their cognitive abilities?
EVOECOCOG takes the disciplines of cognition and
evolutionary biology into a natural setting to answer this
question. It aims to do this by investigating a variety
of proximate causes and population-level consequences
of individual cognitive variation using a great tit Parus
major population. The project represents one of the rst
large-scale integrative studies of cognitive performance
on any wild population.
Three objectives capture the project1s broad scope: 1)
To characterise proximate causes of variation in cogni-
tive and other associated traits, including personality, all
of which can inuence similar ecologically important be-
haviour. Quantitative genetic, social, parasite-mediated,
and physiological causes will be explored. 2) To examine
links between these traits, key functional behaviours and
trade-os, e.g., space use, niche specialization, predation,
parental care and promiscuity; and 3) To examine the
consequences of this variation for life histories, tness,
natural and sexual selection.
Dates: Application deadline is 1 June 2015. Interviews
will be held initially by Skype within 2 weeks. Start
dates are mid-July or as soon thereafter as possible.
For further information, please contact Prof. John L.
Quinn at j.quinn@ucc.ie
University College Cork is one of Ireland1s largest and
most successful universities. The research would be
conducted in the School of BEES which consists of 20
faculty (including 3 holders of current ERC grants),
ca. 20 postdocs and 50 PhD students across Zoology,
Ecology, Plant Sciences and Geology. Cork is situated
on the south coast of Ireland, 2.5 hours from Dublin,is
served by an international airport, has a population of
about 200,000, and is on the doorstep of some of the
most beautiful coastline in Europe.
\Quinn. John" <J.Quinn@ucc.ie >May 1, 2015 EvolDir 95
UCollege London
PathogenEvolution
Postdoc position available in the lab of Richard Gold-
stein in the Division of Infection and Immunity at Uni-
versity College London (UCL), developing computa-
tional models to study the evolution of pathogens.
The post holder will carry out research in the area of
computational molecular evolution, with particular in-
terest in viral evolution. This will include development
of new models for phylogenetic analysis, and the applica-
tion of these models in a variety of biological contexts in
order to generate understanding and insight, including
of viral evolution and virus-host interactions.
Deadline for application is 4 May. The post is funded
by the MRC and expires 31 March 2017. The post
is potentially extendible depending on continuation of
funding.
For details and to apply see https://atsv7.wcn.co.uk/-
search engine/jobs.cgi?owner=5041178&ownertype=-
fair&jcode=1457831 { Professor Richard Goldstein
Infection & Immunity UCL Cruciform Building 90
Gower Street London, WC1E 6BT +44 (0)20 3108 2206
r.goldstein@ucl.ac.uk
UdelosAndes TeachingEvolution
Universidad de los Andes - Teaching Postdoc Position
The Department of Biological Sciences (DCB) at the Uni-
versidad de los Andes (Bogot a, Colombia) seeks to ll
1-2 positions for teaching postdoctoral researchers. The
selected candidates will serve as full-time visiting pro-
fessors, at least one of which must start July 27th, 2015.
Applicants must possess a Ph.D. before the starting date.
Preferences will be given to candidates interested in de-
veloping or promoting new research perspectives within
the DCB via collaborations with existing research labora-
tories (see http://cienciasbiologicas.uniandes.edu.co/).
The selected candidates should also be willing to men-
tor undergraduate and graduate students. Teaching
responsibilities include 1-2 undergraduate non-majorscourses in ecology or cellular biology (depending on the
expertise of the postdoc and the Department's needs)
per semester. The selected candidate may choose to
oer or participate in additional courses in areas of his
or her interest at the graduate level. Spanish uency is
required.
The teaching postdoc position is guaranteed for the rst
year, with an optional second year conditional upon
satisfactory performance and available funding.
Interested persons should send a CV, two recommenda-
tion letters and a cover letter that outlines the appli-
cant's interest in this position and potential research
topics to be pursued at Los Andes, and identies poten-
tial advisors and collaborators within the DCB. Appli-
cation materials should be submitted electronically by
May 11, 2015 to the email address below.
Comit e de Contrataciones Profesorales Departamento
de Ciencias Biol ogicas ccontbio@uniandes.edu.co
Further inquiries may be directed to:
Andrew J. Crawford Associate Professor and postdoc-
toral committee chair Department of Biological Sciences,
Universidad de los Andes Tel. +57 1 339-4949 ext 3270
Email: aj.crawford244@uniandes.edu.co
Carlos Daniel Cadena Ordo nez
<ccadena@uniandes.edu.co >
UEdinburgh TelomereEvolution
*Post-doc available: **//*
*/Evolutionary ecology of life-long telomere dynamics
in a wild mammal population/**at the University of
Edinburgh**/
/*
*A postdoctoral position is available for 2.5 years in Dan
Nussey's group at the University of Edinburgh investi-
gating the evolutionary ecology and genetics of telomere
dynamics in a wild Soay sheep population. *
Telomeres are repetitive DNA sequences that cap the
ends of vertebrate chromosomes. They play at pivotal
role in the maintenance of genomic integrity and reg-
ulation of senescence at a cellular level, and there is
growing interest across disciplines in the utility of telom-
ere length measured in blood cells as a biomarker of
ageing and health.
The project, funded by BBSRC, is based on the long-96 EvolDir May 1, 2015
term study of Soay sheep on St Kilda and will utilise a
large freezer bank of blood samples ( >8000) collected
since 1990 to measure telomere dynamics from birth to
death for thousands of individuals, alongside other ge-
netic, phenotypic, life history and tness data collected
as part of the study.
The post-doc will work closely with an established and
experienced team in the laboratory to generate leuko-
cyte telomere length (LTL) measurements from these
blood samples. Their principal responsibility will be
to analyse the data produced to address key questions
for both evolutionary ecologists and telomere biologists,
including: (1) To what degree early-life LTL versus life-
long changes in LTL drive population-level variation
in LTL, (2) How do early-life environmental conditions
and genes contribute to LTL variation, (3) How does
natural selection act on LTL across the entire lifespan.
Contact Dan Nussey dan.nussey@ed.ac.uk or see http:/-
/nussey.bio.ed.ac.uk/ for more information Or search for
job reference 033045 at https://www.vacancies.ed.ac.uk
for application details.
{ Dan Nussey
BBSRC David Phillips fellow & Reader in Evolutionary
Ecology, Institute of Evolutionary Biology, University
of Edinburgh, The Kings Buildings, West Mains Road,
Edinburgh EH9 3JT
Tel: +44 (0)131 6505494 Email: dan.nussey@ed.ac.uk
Website:http://nussey.bio.ed.ac.uk/ Dan Nussey
<dan.nussey@ed.ac.uk >
UGraz Austria PDF PhD Cuckoldry
A PhD or PostDoc position in a 3-year project <Coping
with cuckoldry >funded by the FWF (Austrian Science
Fund) is available at the Institute of Zoology at the Uni-
versity of Graz, Austria, in the group of Prof. Kristina
Sefc.
The project investigates cuckoldry in a cichlid sh
with biparental brood care. The study species (Vari-
abilichromis moorii, from Lake Tanganyika in Africa)
has high levels of extra-pair paternity (Sefc et al. 2008,
Mol. Ecol. 17, 2531-2543), and we now aim to un-
derstand why nest-holding males failed to evolve more
ecient defenses against cuckoldry. The PhD/postdoc
candidate will carry out eld work, genetic analysis and
behavioral experiments to answer questions about pa-
ternity, brood care, ospring recognition, mate choiceand relatedness structure within the population.
We are looking for a highly motivated person with an
MSc or PhD in a related discipline (e.g., zoology, be-
havioral ecology, evolutionary biology). Field work at
Lake Tanganyika is an important part of the project
(up to four trips are required); therefore, candidates
experienced with aquatic eld work are particularly
encouraged to apply. Field work will require SCUBA
diving in shallow ( <10m) water. The project also
includes a large amount of DNA genotyping (microsatel-
lites) for paternity and relatedness analyses, such that
experience with or anity to DNA lab work is required.
Behavioral work in the lab also involves sh stock man-
agement and the establishment of experimental designs.
The candidate is expected to search, read and under-
stand scientic literature, and to develop good skills in
statistical data analysis and scientic writing.
Excellent written and oral communication skills in En-
glish, team skills, a sense of responsibility and the ability
to take decisions (e.g. react to unforeseen conditions
during eld work) are required.
The successful candidate is expected to start between
July 1 and September 1, 2015, and to participate in a
eld trip to Lake Tanganyika from mid-September to
November. The gross salary per year (before tax) is
approximately euro 49,500 (PostDoc) or euro 28,000
(PhD).
Graz is a lively city in the south of Austria, situated in
a beautiful landscape oering manifold opportunities for
outdoor activities. Friendly people, lots of sunshine and
reasonable living expenses contribute to a high quality
of life.
Please send your application including your motivation
for the position, a detailed description of your experience
(eld work, genetic analysis, behavioral experiments),
CV incl. photograph, publication list, and 2 (or more)
referee contacts to kristina.sefc@uni-graz.at. Please indi-
cate whether you apply as PhD or postdoctoral student.
Send you application as soon as possible, but latest by
April 23.
For further information, please contact me at
kristina.sefc@uni-graz.at. General information about
the University, the Institute of Zoology and the
group can be found at http://www.uni-graz.at/-
en/, http://zoologie.uni-graz.at/en/, http://www.uni-
graz.at/ ~sefck/ .
\Sefc, Kristina (kristina.sefc@uni-graz.at)"
<kristina.sefc@uni-graz.at >May 1, 2015 EvolDir 97
UIdaho 6 BiolModeling
Center for Modeling Complex Interactions The NIH-
funded Center for Modeling Complex Interactions
(CMCI) at the University of Idaho will create the in-
tellectual, cultural, and physical environment to fos-
ter convergence in interdisciplinary biomedical research.
The Center will address complex biomedical problems
across all levels of biological organization, from bio-
physical to ecological, beginning with the study of viral
co-infection. Co-infection is a common but understudied
area of infectious disease. The focal point of CMCI is
the Collaboratorium, a space and a culture for collabo-
rative modeling. It will bring together faculty from both
the empirical and modeling realms with postdoctoral
scientists who reside in the Collaboratorium and devote
full-time eort to collaborative modeling.
We currently have openings for four postdocs in the
Collaboratorium and two in experimental laboratories:
1) epidemiological and biostatistical modeling
(SP000473P) 2) transcriptomic and proteomic analysis
and modeling (SP000470P) 3) deterministic and
agent-based modeling (SP000472P) 4) molecular
modeling of proteins (SP000471P) 5) pathogenesis
of viral coinfection in mice(SP000474P) 6) molecular
biology of viral coinfection in ies (SP000475P)
To apply, go to http://apptrkr.com/608848 and search
by the posting number following each positon. Review
of applications will begin May 18, 2015. Applications
will be accepted until all positions are lled.
The University of Idaho is an equal opportunity and
armative action employer. It is the policy of the re-
gents that equal opportunity be aorded in education
and employment to qualied persons regardless of race,
color, national origin, religion, sex, age, disability, or
status as a disabled veteran or Vietnam-era veteran.
It is also the policy of the University of Idaho to not
discriminate based on sexual orientation.
Contact Center for Modeling Complex Interactions:
cmci@uidaho.edu or http://www.uidaho.edu/sci/cmci
Philip Lagao <philip@jobelephant.com >UKonstanz 2and5year
ComparativeGenomics
Postdoc positions (2-years or 5-years) available in molec-
ular evolution, comparative genomics and evo-devo at
the University of Konstanz in Germany
The Zukunftskolleg at the University of Konstanz pro-
vides generous funding for two types of Postdoctoral
fellowships. The funding for 2-year or 5-year fellowships
is meant to support postdocs on their way towards aca-
demic independence. These fellowships also oer the
opportunity to apply for signicant internal funding for
research expenses.
Zukunftskolleg Fellows need an academic sponsor and
host laboratory. Zukunftskolleg Fellows should therefore
propose research projects that t with a particular host
laboratory at the University of Konstanz and should be
of collaborative and interdisciplinary nature.
Please visit https://www.zukunftskolleg.uni-
konstanz.de/funding-programmes/fellowship/ for
more information.
DEADLINE: May 18th 2015
Axel Meyers lab at the Department of Biology at the
University of Konstanz welcomes applications from mo-
tivated Ph.D. biologists or postdocs who are interested
in the elds of either molecular evolution, compara-
tive genomics, and / or the evolution of developmental
mechanisms. More specic information on our ongoing
research projects can be found on the Meyer-Lab's www
pages.
http://www.evolutionsbiologie.uni-konstanz.de The
University of Konstanz is among the most highly ranked
institutions in Germany and provide a lively and aca-
demically outstanding research environment. Konstanz
is a lovely historic town located on Lake Constance on
the southern German border to Switzerland.
Additional information can be obtained from:
axel.meyer@uni- konstanz.de , phone: +49 (0) 7531 /
88 - 4163, fax + 49 (0) 7531 / 88 - 3018 or from our
website: http://www.evolutionsbiologie.uni-konstanz.de
. Applications should be received by the Zukunftskolleg
before May18th, 2015.
Prof. Axel Meyer, Ph.D. Lehrstuhl f1r Zoologie und
Evolutionsbiologie Department of Biology Building M,
Room M806 University of Konstanz 78457 Konstanz98 EvolDir May 1, 2015
Germany
fon + 49 (0)7531 88 4163 fax + 49 (0)7531 88 3018
secretary: Ingrid.Bader@uni-konstanz.de tel. + 49
(0)7531 88 3069
www.evolutionsbiologie.uni-konstanz.de Axel Meyer
<a.meyer@uni-konstanz.de >
ULausanne AmphibianSexChrom
Evolution
Post doc: UNI-Lausanne, sex-chromosome evolution in
amphibians
Sex-determination systems within the frog family
Ranidae appears extramely dynamic, with sex chro-
mosomes that dier between closely related species or
even conspecic populations. However, data gathered
so far suggest that transitions occur among a limited
set of chromosome pairs (out of a total of 13), and that
male heterogamety is mostly conserved despite the high
turnover. We want to further investigate these patterns
across the family, document the evolution of sex-linked
genes recently involved in non-recombining regions, and
ultimately understand the reasons for the high rate of
turnover.
We have already collected samples of sexed adults and
sibships from a series of species from dierent genera
(Rana, Lithobates and Pelophylax), and developed a
RADseq approach that allows us to identify sex chro-
mosomes from these samples. The successful candidate
will participate in the sampling eort to get additional
species from the radiation, and take over the develop-
ment and utilization of RADseq approaches in order
to build sex-specic recombination maps, identify sex-
linked markers, and map these markers to a reference
genome. He/she will also have to analyze the patterns
of transitions in a phylogenetic framework, and char-
acterize patterns of X-Y dierentiation. We expect
candidates to have a solid background in evolution-
ary genomics and population genetics. Experience in
RADseq or sequence capture and one or more scripting
languages will be an advantage. The position is initially
for one year with the possibility to renew for two more
years.
You will join a team already active and experienced in
the eld of sex-chromosome evolution, presently largely
focused on the model species Rana temporaria. The phy-
logeny of ranid frogs is well resolved, and the RADseqapproach already well mastererd in our lab. We are now
in the process of assembling a draft genome for Rana
temporaria, and expect it to be fully available by the
end of June. The Department of Ecology and Evolution
is large and thriving, with many research groups active
in evolutionary ecology. It provides excellent facilities
for research and training (see http://www.unil.ch/dee/-
). The Dorigny campus oers excellent facilities for
molecular and evolutionary biology, including multiple
Illumina sequencers and the Vital-IT high-performance
computing cluster.
Applications including CV, publication list, research
statement and addresses of references, should be sent by
e-mail to nicolas.perrin@unil.ch. Applications received
by Sunday May 3 will receive full consideration
Nicolas Perrin
Recent papers from our lab on sex-chromosome evolu-
tion
Rodrigues et al. 2015. Sex-chromosome dierentiation
and 'sex races' in the common frog (Rana temporaria).
Proc. B 282: 20142726, DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2014.2726
Blaser et al. 2014. Sex-chromosome turnovers: the hot
potato model. Am. Nat. 183: 140-146.
Dufresnes et al. 2014. Sex-chromosome dierentiation
parallels postglacial range expansion in European tree
frogs (Hyla arborea). Evolution 68: 3445-3456.
Rodrigues et al. 2014. Geographic variation in sex-
chromosome dierentiation in the common frog (Rana
temporaria). Mol. Ecol. 23: 3409-3418.
Blaser et al. 2013. Sex-chromosome turnover induced
by deleterious mutation load. Evolution 67: 635-645.
Brelsford et al. 2013. Homologous sex chromosomes
in three deeply divergent anuran species. Evolution 67:
2434-2440.
Rodrigues et al. 2013. Within-population polymor-
phism of sex-determination system in the common frog
(Rana temporaria). JEB 26: 1569-1577.
Grossen et al. 2012. The evolution of XY recombina-
tion: sexually antagonistic selection versus deleterious
mutation load. Evolution 66: 3155-3166
Guerrero et al. 2012. Cryptic recombination in the
ever-young sex chromosomes of Hylid frogs. JEB 25:
1947-1954.
Grossen et al. 2011. Temperature-dependent turnovers
in sex-determination mechanisms: a quantitative model.
Evolution 65: 64-78.
Stoeck et al. 2011. Ever-young sex chromosomes in
European tree frogs. PLoS Biol 9(5): e1001062.May 1, 2015 EvolDir 99
Perrin Nicolas <Nicolas.Perrin@unil.ch >
ULeicester HpyloriEvolution
Research Associate
College of Medicine, Biological Sciences and Psychology
Genetics
Salary Grade 7 - $32, 277 to $37,394 per annum
Open Ended Contract, subject to Fixed Term Funding.
Funding is available from 1 July 2015 for up to 3 years
The Beleza lab at the Department of Genetics of the
University of Leicester is seeking a highly motivated
and qualied Post-doctoral scholar who is interested in
playing a leading role in a large, collaborative project
that aims to characterise the genomic variation and
genomic ancestry of H. pylori isolated from infected
individuals of the admixed population of Cape Verde,
West Africa. Key aspects of the role are co-coordination
of the sample collection in Cape Verde, application of ba-
sic microbiology methodologies, generation and analysis
of whole-genome sequencing data from isolated strains.
The role will also include working with colleagues to
generate and analyse high dense genotyping of the hu-
man hosts. The project aims to study host-pathogen
co-evolution in the development of disease in an endemic
admixed population. The post will be for 3 years with
a proposed start date of the 1st of June 2015.
You will have a PhD in Molecular Genetics, Microbi-
ology or related subject and have extensive experience
in standard techniques of microbiology and molecular
genetics. Additional computer programing skills will be
considered an advantage. Applications should consist of
an up-to-date CV as well as a cover letter including the
applicants motives to apply and the contact details of
two referees. Only complete applications will be consid-
ered. All applications should be sent before 27th May
2015.
Applications should be submitted to Dr Sandra Beleza
(sdsb1@le.ac.uk), who can also provide additional infor-
mation about the vacancy.
{ Sandra Beleza, PhD Lecturer in Genetics University
of Leicester Adrian Building University Road Leicester,
LE1 7RH UK
Phone: +44 (0)116 294 4548 email:
sdsb1@leicester.ac.uk; sbeleza@gmail.com\Beleza, Sandra (Dr.)" <sdsb1@leicester.ac.uk >
UMaryland EvolutionaryGenomics
Mutation
Post Doctoral Position Available in the lab of Charlie
Fenster, University of Maryland Collaborators: Stephen
Wright (University of Toronto), Matt Rutter (College
of Charleston), Detlef Weigel (Max Planck Institute,
T ubingen).
We are seeking a postdoc to analyze the relationship be-
tween sequence and phenotype for Arabidopsis thaliana
mutation accumulation lines. The postdoc is expected
to be a key component in the integration of the various
labs with a home base in the Fenster lab. Consequently
there are incredible opportunities to collaborate with
one of the world's most productive plant molecular labs
(Weigel Lab), a leader in the intersection of genomics
and evolution (Wright lab), and additional leaders in the-
oretical and evolutionary genetics and plant population
ecology (J. Agren Uppsala University, T. Lenormand
CNRS Montpellier, and E. Imbert University of Montpel-
lier). We also oer the opportunity to integrate research
ndings with undergraduate education and outreach to
K-12 education (Rutter lab). The Fenster lab is diverse
with interests and students spanning from plant oral
evolution to evolutionary genetics.
The open postdoc position is an opportunity for the
basic discovery of mutations. Specically, we seek a post-
doc that will use computational approaches to quantify
the mutational origins of genetic variation at the se-
quence level to further our understanding of the role of
mutation and selection as determinants of patterns of
genetic variation at the within and among species levels.
The postdoc will also have the opportunity to help set-
up the eld experiments to study de novo mutations in
the Swedish and French sites.
The successful applicant may have a range of skills
from evolutionary ecology to computational genomics.
The successful applicant will therefore have sucient
quantitative skills and a predilection for quantitative
approaches combined with a passion for evolutionary
biology.
Preferred starting date is summer 2015. Salary is in the
high $ 40's K, but also includes generous benets.
Briey, the role of mutation to evolutionary process
depends on the rate and type of mutation and the100 EvolDir May 1, 2015
eects that the new mutations have on tness. Yet
how the eects of naturally occurring mutations both
enable and shape the evolution of diversity remains
largely unexplored. Quantifying and analyzing these
parameters requires broad, integrative approaches. Re-
cent conceptual and experimental advances now allow
a more comprehensive treatment of the eects of mu-
tations on evolutionary diversication. In particular,
whole-genome sequencing is now so inexpensive that it
is possible to directly conrm and dene the action of
mutation. The specic aims of the project are to ana-
lyze completely sequenced mutation accumulation lines
in light of their phenotypes, including tness, across a
range of natural environments. In addition, there will be
the opportunity to develop a web-based educational tool
for undergraduates that will explore recent advances in
the study of mutati on.
We expect rapid publications spanning the elds of ge-
nomics, bioinformatics, evolutionary modeling and with
sequence and tness data, the chance to discover new
patterns with important evolutionary consequences.
If interested, please contact C. Fenster: Cfen-
ster@umd.edu & cc Matt Rutter: RutterM@cofc.edu
Please include in one attached document a brief state-
ment of interest, relevant skills, publication list and the
names of at least two colleagues who can provide letters
of reference.
References:
Ossowski, S , K. Schneeberger, J.L. Lucas-Lledo, N.
Warthmann, R.M. Clark, R.G. Shaw, D. Weigel, and
M. Lynch. 2010. The Rate and Molecular Spectrum of
Spontaneous Mutations in Arabidopsis thaliana. Science
327: 92-94
Rutter, M. T., F. H. Shaw and C. B. Fenster. 2010.
Spontaneous mutation parameters for Arabidopsis
thaliana measured in the wild. Evolution, 64: 1825-
1835.
Rutter, M., A. Roles, J. Conner, R. Shaw, F. Shaw,
K. Schneeberger, S. Ossowski, D. Weigel and C. B.
Fenster. 2012. Brief Communication: Fitness of Ara-
bidopsis thaliana mutation accumulation lines whose
spontaneous mutations are known. Evolution, 66: 2335-
2339.
RutterM@cofc.eduUMaryland TheorPopGen
The recently-established Johnson lab (http://-
life.umd.edu/biology/plfj/) at the University of
Maryland, College Park (\UMD") is recruiting a
postdoctoral fellow in theoretical population genetics.
Current topics of interest include: 1) developing meth-
ods to analyze intra-individual diversity of the T cell
repertoire 2) developing methods to estimate contami-
nation levels in ancient DNA 3) mutation rate evolution.
Our group is entirely theoretical/computational but
collaborates with experimentalists to focus our work on
relevant biological problems. The new postdoc will be
encouraged to work on established projects within the
lab as well as develop independent research of mutual
interest.
We are located within the Biology department, which
contains strong empirical evolutionary biologists, and
are aliated with the Center for Bioinformatics and
Computational Biology (http://www.cbcb.umd.edu/).
UMD is located on the subway line just outside of Wash-
ington, DC, which facilitates connections to nearby bi-
ological research institutions (e.g., NIH; Smithsonian).
In addition to the world-class research opportunities,
the DC area is a thriving and vibrant place to live with
numerous cultural institutions (many with free admis-
sion!), three major airports (DCA, BWI, IAD), excellent
public transportation, and a large community of young
professionals.
Qualications: - PhD in biology, computational biology,
genetics, statistics or similar eld. - strong mathematics
/ bioinformatics / biostatistics background - knowledge
of at least one major programming language (C, C++,
Java, Perl, Python, etc.) - experience with R - comfort
working in a Linux/Unix environment
Interested individuals should write to Philip Johnson
(plfj@umd.edu). To apply, email your cv, contact in-
formation for at least two references, and a cover letter
outlining your research interests and relevant experience.
Applications will be reviewed beginning May 1, 2015
and continue until the position is lled. Salary will
be commensurate with experience and the position is
benets eligible.
The University of Maryland is an Equal Opportunity
Employer Minorities and Women Are Encouraged to
ApplyMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 101
plfj@umd.edu
UMichigan PlantGenomics
A postdoctoral position is available in the Baucom lab
located in the Ecology and Evolutionary Biology De-
partment at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor.
Members of the lab work on projects that range from
plant evolutionary ecology to plant population genet-
ics and comparative genomics. For this postdoctoral
position, we seek an enthusiastic and independent re-
searcher to work on a USDA funded project address-
ing landscape genetic inuences on gene ow between
populations of the common morning glory, Ipomoea
purpurea that exhibit variable levels of resistance to
the herbicide RoundUp. The post-doctoral associate
will be expected to integrate GIS information with pat-
terns of neutral marker data to assess the inuence of
landscape features on the genetic connectedness of pop-
ulations. Other projects and themes in the lab that
may be of interest to the post-doctoral applicant are
the following: herbicide resistance evolution, adapta-
tion from standing versus novel genetic variation, and
genomic basis of ecologically relevant traits. See (http:/-
/sites.lsa.umich.edu/baucom-lab) for more information
about our ongoing projects.
The work requires basic molecular lab and eld ecol-
ogy experience, along with previous experience analyz-
ing large datasets and basic command line capabilities.
Funding for this position is available for 1 year with the
possibility of extension to a 2nd year, contingent upon
satisfactory progress. To apply, please send a single pdf
with a cover letter, a CV, 1-2 representative publications,
and names and contact information for 3 references to
rsbaucom@umich.edu by May 1, 2015. Start date is
exible but preference will be given to candidates that
can begin in August 2015. The University of Michigan
is an equal opportunity/armative action employer.
Regina S Baucom Assistant Professor 2059 Kraus Nat-
ural Science Building 830 North University Dept of
EEB University of Michigan Ann Arbor, MI 48109 (734)
647-8490 http://sites.lsa.umich.edu/baucom-lab rsbau-
com@umich.eduUNewHampshire BeeBiodiversity
The laboratory of Dr. Sandra Rehan is seeking a postdoc
to conduct research on native bee biodiversity, pollina-
tion ecology and conservation. This 16-month posi-
tion at the University of New Hampshire involves eld
collection of native bees in New England, taxonomic
identication of local species, biodiversity and ecologi-
cal modelling. We are seeking expertise in pollination
biology, especially plant-pollinator networks and iden-
tication of native bees. Possibilities for extension of
the initial 16-month appointment exist. Candidates
should demonstrate a track record of publication; have
strong organizational, written, and oral communica-
tion skills; and be able to work both independently
and as part of a collaborative team. For further in-
formation, please feel free to contact Dr. Rehan (san-
dra.rehan@unh.edu; www.unhbeelab.com). Interested
applicants should email a curriculum vitae, a 1-2 page
statement of research interests that explicitly describes
professional qualications for this position, and contact
information for three referees. Review of applications
will begin April 10th. This position must commence
on/before June 1st 2015.
Sandra Rehan, Assistant Professor Department of Bi-
ological Sciences University of New Hampshire 191
Rudman Hall, 46 College Road Durham, NH, USA
03824 oce phone: (603) 862-5310 email: san-
dra.rehan@unh.edu website: www.unhbeelab.com san-
dra.rehan@gmail.com
UOslo FungalMolecularEvolution
Three year position as Postdoctoral Research Fellow in
fungal molecular ecology available at the University of
Oslo, Norway:
Soil fungi play important functional roles in forest ecosys-
tems; while saprotrophic taxa are essential for organic
matter decomposition; mycorrhizal root-associated fungi
mediate the link between living plants and the below-
ground community. Recent studies indicate that plant-
fungi interactions through mycorrhiza aect the e-
ciency of decomposition by fungi, and works as a main102 EvolDir May 1, 2015
driver for soil carbon sequestration in forest ecosystems.
The goal of this project (MycoSoil), which is funded
by the Norwegian Research Council, is to make funda-
mental progress in the understanding of the community
ecology and functions of fungi in boreal forest soils,
how they are organized spatiotemporally and how they
inuence on carbon sequestration processes. We will
take advantage of linking the project to two long-term
surveys of boreal forests. State-of-the-art DNA metabar-
coding and metatranscriptomics approaches will be used
to analyze spatiotemporal variation in the soil fungal
communit ies.
For more information see http://uio.easycruit.com/-
vacancy/1352849/96323?iso=no or contact H avard
Kauserud at haavarka@ibv.uio.no
havard.kauserud@ibv.uio.no
UOttawa Bioinformatics
Postdoctoral Position in Bioinformatics - University of
Ottawa The Corradi Lab is currently seeking a post-
doctoral fellow in Bioinformatics to work on projects
related to Comparative and Population Genomics. The
research will be led by Dr. Nicolas Corradi and car-
ried out in a CIFAR (Canadian Institute for Advanced
Research) - aliated laboratory located in the Depart-
ment of Biology of the University of Ottawa, Canada.
Website: http://corradilab.weebly.com/ The position
is initially funded for one year, with the possibility of
renewal for up to three years, depending on performance.
The candidate is expected to work on two ongoing lab
projects:
1) Populations genomics of global samples of the bee-
pathogen Nosema ceranae
The recent decline in global populations of honey-bees
has been attributed to a many factors, including infec-
tions from the microsporidian pathogen Nosema ceranae.
Despite the potential threat that this parasite may have
on global bee populations, the basic biology of this
species is not well understood.
The present project aims to increase our knowledge of
the N. ceranae ^A^As biology by exploring the extent, na-
ture and function of genome diversity that exist both
within and between dozens of parasite samples iso-
lated globally (i.e. Spain, France, Turkey, Thailand,
USA..etc ^A^A').
2) Population genomics of global isolates of the modelplant symbiont, Rhizophagus irregularis
The Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi (AMF) are ubiqui-
tous plant symbionts that improve the ability of roots to
uptake nutrients from soil and provide protection against
plant pathogens. These organisms are intriguing as they
harbor many nuclei within one cytoplasm throughout
their entire life cycle. The genetic organization of these
nuclei has been debated for years, but recent genome
analyses in our lab are providing essential insights to
this debate.
The proposed project aims to increase our knowledge
of biology and evolution of these curious fungi and crit-
ical symbionts by investigating the genome diversity
within and across dierent strains of the model AMF R.
irregularis sampled globally.
For specic enquiries please contactDr. Nicolas Corradi
(ncorradi@uottawa.ca).
Applicants are expected to have a strong background in
either comparative genomics or populations genomics.
Experience in either population genetics, environmental
genomics, metagenomics, or ab-initio gene annotation
and programming will be seen as an asset for the nal
selection of the candidate. Training in bioinformatics
(Perl, Python, or R) is desired.
A complete application package includes a CV, a one-
page description of past research accomplishments and
future goals, and the names and e-mail addresses of at
least 2 references. The position opens immediately, and
evaluation of applications will continue until a suitable
candidate is found.
The University of Ottawa is a large, research-intensive
university, hosting over 40,000 students and located
in the downtown core area of Canada ^A^As capital city
(http://www.science.uottawa.ca/fac/welcome.html).
Ottawa is a vibrant, multicultural city with a very high
quality of life (http://www.ottawatourism.ca/fr/)
Applications can be sent to Dr. Nicolas Corradi (ncor-
radi@uottawa.ca).
Representative publications:
Pelin A., Selman M., Laurent Farinelli, Aris-Brosou
S. and N. Corradi. 2015. Genome analyses suggest
the presence of polyploidy and recent human-driven
expansions in eight global populations of the honeybee
pathogen Nosema ceranae. Environmental Microbiology
Ropars J. and N. Corradi. 2015. Heterokaryotic vs
Homokaryotic Mycelium in the Arbuscular Mycorrhizal
Fungi: Dierent Techniques, Dierent Results? New
Phytologist
Corradi, N. 2015. Microsporidians: Intracellular Para-May 1, 2015 EvolDir 103
sites Shaped by Gene Loss and Horizontal Gene Transfer.
Annual Review of Microbiology
Riley R., Charron P., Idnurm A., Farinelli F., Yolande
D. , Martin F. and N. Corradi. 2014. Extreme diver-
sication of the mating type ^AChigh ^Ac\mobility
group (MATA ^Ac\HMG) gene family in a
plant ^Ac\associated arbuscular mycorrhizal fun-
gus. New Phytologist
Tisserant E., Malbreil M. et al. 2013. Genome of an
arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus provides insight into the
oldest plant symbiosis. PNAS
Nicolas Corradi Professeur Agr ^A^Ag^A^A / Associate Pro-
fessor Boursier de l'Institut canadien en recherches
avanc ^A^Aes / Fellow of the Canadian Institute for Ad-
vanced Research Universit ^A^A d'Ottawa / University
of Ottawa D ^A^Apartement de biologie / Department of
Biology Pavillon Gendron / Gendron Hall Bureau 257
/ Room 257 30 Marie Curie Priv. Ottawa ON Canada
K1N 6N5 Tel. +1 (613) 5625800 # 6563
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UPittsburgh 2 PlantEvolution
Two Postdocs in Plant Evolution & Ecology at the
University of Pittsburgh
Seeking two Postdoctoral fellows to join a collaborative
project examining functional, population genetic and
ecological mechanisms underlying success of polyploid
plants.
The work aims to predict the eect of whole genome
duplication on ecological and evolutionary responses to
environmental change. The postdocs will identify the
ecological, population genetic and genomic factors that
underlie functional trait (e.g., phenotypic plasticity in
repose to climate, tolerance of drought and freeze) varia-
tion, ecological amplitude and gene expression diversity
using the wild strawberry (Fragaria) as a model system
(see Liston et al 2014. AJB101:1686-1699; Johnson et al
2014 Bot J Linn Soc 176:99-114). The specic goals are
to 1) characterize functional responses to climate and
how they vary with natural variation in ploidy, with
experimental hybridization and whole genome duplica-
tion, 2) analyze gene expression (transcriptomes) andphysiological traits of natural and synthetic polyploids
and their diploid progenitors in the greenhouse and com-
mon gardens at climatically diverse sites, 3) use NGS of
target-captured sequence from natural populations of
plants to identify patterns of genetic diversity and signa-
tures of selection, reconstruct phylogenetic relationships
and generate high density linkage maps (Tennesson et
al 2014 GBE 6:3295-3313).
Postdoc candidates are sought with expertise in one
of two areas (with ample opportunities for cross train-
ing between them): 1) Population genetic, comparative
genomics, transcriptome analysis to address ecological
or evolutionary questions 2) Population, physiological
or functional plant ecology Candidates interested in a
combination of eld work and genomic work especially
encouraged to apply.
Responsibilities will include the establishment and mon-
itoring of experiments in the eld and under controlled
conditions in the lab, collection and analysis of popu-
lation genetic/genomic, phenotypic and physiological
data, and the preparation of manuscripts for publica-
tion. Ability to travel between eld sites in Oregon and
laboratory in Pennsylvania is required.
In addition to cross training, the project aords opportu-
nities for international travel and training as part of an
US-China international research collaboration, and to
design and implement additional allied projects tailored
to the skills and interests of the postdoc.
The postdoc position is for two years, renewable for
additional years. Start date is negotiable, but June 2015
is preferred.
The project is collaboration among the labs of Dr. Tia-
Lynn Ashman, Department of Biological Sciences at the
University of Pittsburgh and Dr. Aaron Liston, Depart-
ment of Botany and Plant Pathology, and Dr. Richard
Cronn US Forest Service at Oregon State University.
TO APPLY: Please send a CV and a description of your
experience and interests as relevant to the position to
tia1@pitt.edu, along with the names and contact infor-
mation for three referees. In a covering letter clearly
highlight skills and experience related to key responsi-
bilities. Informal enquiries are also welcome!
Application materials will be reviewed as they are re-
ceived, until positions are lled.
Dr. Tia-Lynn Ashman Professor Department of Biolog-
ical Sciences University of Pittsburgh Pittsburgh, PA
15260-3929 412-624-0984 http://www.pitt.edu/ ~tia1/
\Ashman, Tia-Lynn" <tia1@pitt.edu >104 EvolDir May 1, 2015
UTuebingen 2 FishEvolution
Two positions for a Postdoctoral Academic Associate
in marine visual ecology
The Animal Evolutionary Ecology unit studies the evo-
lution of mechanisms used by marine sh to modify am-
bient light by uorescence or reective structures. We
study the adaptive function and underlying mechanisms
of these processes using state-of-the-art spectrometry.
Our focus is on co-evolutionary interactions between
light-radiating sh species and the optical properties of
their prey and predators as well as counter-adaptations
in the latter. We have >150 saltwater tanks in 4 rooms
with controlled light conditions for individual perfor-
mance assessment in dedicated tasks.
The successful candidate has a PhD in any or all of
the following: Visual ecology, comparative analyses,
theoretical and empirical analysis of light in natural
environments, animal pigmentation, colour vision, bio-
optics or neuroanatomy. A good background in statistics
and experimental design is required. She/he is expected
to develop a high-prole research programme, teach in
marine/visual ecology and supervise students at the
BSc, MSc and PhD level (120 h/year). Teaching is in
English. Experience with diving is an asset.
Formal employment procedures will be carried out by
the Universitys Central Administration. The position
is fulltime and limited to three years, with optional
prolongation. The pay grade classication E13 refers to
the German federal public service scale (TV-L).
Disabled candidates will be given preference over other
equally qualied applicants. The University seeks to
raise the number of women in research and teaching and
therefore urges qualied women to apply.
Please send a single PDF to oce.michiels@biologie.uni-
tuebingen.de including a motivation letter as well as a
full CV. Please include details on research interests and
accomplishments, teaching experience, external funding
plus names and email addresses of at least two refer-
ees. Screening will commence on 15 May 2015, and will
continue until suitable candidates have been identied.
Earliest appointment is 1 July 2015.
Prof. Dr. N. Michiels, University of T1bingen, Depart-
ment of Biology, Institute of Evolution and Ecology,
Auf der Morgenstelle 28, 72076 T1bingen, Germany
(nico.michiels@uni-tuebingen.de).Faculty of Science Department of Biology Institute of
Evolution and Ecology Animal Evolutionary Ecology
Nico Michiels <nico.michiels@uni-tuebingen.de >
UVirginia PlantEcologicalGenetics
The Department of Biology at the University of Vir-
ginia invites applications for a postdoctoral Research
Associate position in the lab of Dr. Laura Galloway.
The position is supported by an NSF-funded project
to explore the relationship between biogeography and
mating system evolution in American bellower (Cam-
panulastrum americanum).
Mating systems are evolutionarily labile and variation is
often explained by hypotheses focusing on the context-
dependent benets of selng (e.g. reproductive assur-
ance). However, mating system evolution may be driven
by historical changes in genetic load. In particular, col-
onization from glacial refugia to current distributions
often entailed bottlenecks and small population sizes
that shape population genetic structure and hence po-
tential for mating system evolution. Our goal is to
integrate studies of biogeography and mating system
using Campanulastrum americanum, a North Ameri-
can herb in which preliminary data indicate reduced
inbreeding depression and greater autogamy in sites
where phylogeographic data suggest recent colonization.
The Research Associate will work with the PI, our col-
laborator Jeremiah Busch (Washington State Univ),
and lab personnel to design and lead research in the
lab and eld. The Research Associate will conduct
greenhouse studies of genetic load and mechanisms of
autogamy, eld studies of factors that underlie pollen
limitation, estimate population selng rate and inter-
act with collaborators determining population genetic
structure. The position also involves data management
and dissemination, preparing manuscripts, and mentor-
ing graduate and undergraduate students. The ideal
candidate will enjoy working both in a team and in-
dependently, and may use the appointment to develop
and pursue additional related studies. Finally, this po-
sition will coordinate outreach activities at Mountain
Lake Biological Station and an Environmental Studies
Academy at a local high school.
Demonstrated expertise in ecological genetics includ-
ing eld and greenhouse work and strong written and
oral communication skills are required. Experience in
evolutionary genetics is desirable.May 1, 2015 EvolDir 105
The completion of a PhD degree in Biology or related
eld by the appointment start date is required. Pre-
ferred appointment start date is Summer 2015. This is a
two-year appointment; the appointment may be renewed
for an additional year, contingent upon availability of
funds and satisfactory performance.
To apply, please submit a candidate prole through
Jobs@UVA (https://jobs.virginia.edu) and electronically
attach: curriculum vitae with list of publications, a
cover letter that summarizes research interests and pro-
fessional goals, and contact information for three (3)
references; search on posting number 0616239.
Review of applications will begin May 9, 2015; however,
the position will remain open until lled.
Questions regarding this position should be directed to:
Dr. Laura Galloway (lgalloway@virginia.edu)
Questions regarding the Candidate Prole process or
Jobs@UVA should be directed to: Rich Haverstrom
(rkh6j@virginia.edu)
The University will perform background checks on all
new hires prior to making a nal oer of employment.
The University of Virginia is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action Employer. Women, minorities,
veterans and persons with disabilities are encouraged to
apply.
lg8b@eservices.virginia.edu
UWashington
EvolutionaryGeneticsAging
The Promislow lab (http://www.promislowlab.org) at
the University of Washington in Seattle is seeking an en-
thusiastic, independent postdoctoral researcher to work
on an NIH-funded project on the systems biology of
aging in Drosophila. We are interested in understanding
the role of genomic and metabolomic network structure
on aging. The long-term goal of our lab is to better
understand proximate and evolutionary causes and con-
sequences of aging in natural populations.
The successful applicant will have the opportunity carry
out both empirical and computational studies. This
project on the biology of aging in Drosophila inte-
grates population genetics, molecular genetics, genomics,
metabolomics, demography, and network analysis. The
ideal candidate will have experience in one or more of
these elds.The position is initially available for two years, and can
be extended for additional years, but the University of
Washington policy is to oer a one year appointment
with subsequent renewals. Start date is exible, though
ideally in the Fall or Winter of 2015.
Applications should be emailed by May 15, 2015 to
Daniel Promislow (promislo@uw.edu). Applicants are
requested to send a single PDF le that includes a
cover letter including names and contact information
of three references, a CV and one or two representative
publications.
The University of Washington is an armative action,
equal opportunity employer. The University is building
a culturally diverse faculty and sta and strongly encour-
ages applications from women, minorities, individuals
with disabilities and covered veterans.
Daniel Promislow <promislo@u.washington.edu >
UZurich
HumanLifeHistoryEvolution
An 18-month postdoc position funded by the Swiss Na-
tional Science Foundation is available in my group at
the University of Zurich on \The Evolution and Ge-
netics of Life-Histories over Three Centuries of Human
Civilisation".
In this project you will use a unique genealogical dataset,
covering three centuries and including thousands of in-
dividuals, to investigate how human life-histories are
shaped by genes, culture and the environment. Com-
bining ideas and techniques from biology, sociology and
history, you will provide new insights into life as we
know it.
This project requires someone who is independent and
creative, and who has a highly quantitative and evo-
lutionary mind-set. The ideal candidate furthermore
has experience with the handling and analysis of large
individual-based datasets, (quantitative genetic) mixed
models and has excellent R programming skills. While
some knowledge of the German language would be an
advantage, it is not essential.
Our group works together closely with several other
groups within our institute (www.ieu.uzh.ch), which
makes for a stimulating and social working environment.
The institute is very international and the working lan-
guage is English.106 EvolDir May 1, 2015
Although the earliest possible starting date is June 1
2015, the actual starting date is negotiable.
Zurich consistently ranks amongst the cities with the
highest quality of life. While it oers all the pleasures
of living in a bigger city, thanks to its central location
and excellent public transport system, it is easy to get
out of the city and head for the mountains.
Applications should include 1) a cover letter, including a
brief description of what you have to oer to the project
and our group, and what you hope to get back in return,
2) a detailed curriculum vitae and 3) the contact details
of three references. This should be sent as a single pdf
le to erik.postma@ieu.uzh.ch
Review of applications starts on 27 April 2015, but
candidates are considered until the position is lled.
If you have any questions, don't hesitate to contact me
(erik.postma@ieu.uzh.ch), or visit www.erikpostma.net .
{ Erik Postma
Institute of Evolutionary Biology and Environmental
Studies University of Z urich-Irchel Winterthurerstrasse
190 CH-8057 Z urich Switzerland
Phone: +41 (0)44 635 49 73 Fax: +41 (0)44 635 68 18
Skype: erik postma
e-mail: erik.postma@ieu.uzh.ch
website: www.erikpostma.net
erik.postma@ieu.uzh.ch
VirginiaTech MolecularEvolution
An NSF-funded postdoctoral position is available in the
lab of Dr. Joel McGlothlin in the Department of Biolog-
ical Sciences at Virginia Tech. The successful candidate
will collaborate with Dr. McGlothlin on a project inves-
tigating the evolution of voltage-gated sodium channels
across birds and reptiles. The project will use DNA
target enrichment to capture and sequence the sodium-
channel gene family in a wide variety of species in order
to characterize the evolutionary history of resistance
to tetrodotoxin and other prey defenses. The postdoc
will be responsible for both bioinformatic analyses of
existing genomes and the generation and analysis of
new sequences. The ideal candidate will possess both
laboratory skills in molecular evolutionary genetics and
experience mining and analyzing large genetic datasets.
Minimum qualications include a Ph.D. (completed byJuly 2015) in biology, ecology and evolutionary biology,
or a related eld; strong oral and written communica-
tion skills; the ability to work independently and as
part of a research group; and a demonstrated ability
to eciently produce strong peer-reviewed publications.
Candidates with a background in molecular evolution
or bioinformatics will be given preference.
Interested candidates should submit a curriculum vi-
tae and statement of interest upon applying online at
https://listings.jobs.vt.edu/postings/56245. Two let-
ters of recommendation should be sent via email to
joelmcg@vt.edu. Review of applications will begin June
1, 2015.
Virginia Tech does not discriminate against employ-
ees, students, or applicants on the basis of age, color,
disability, gender, gender identity, gender expression,
national origin, political aliation, race, religion, sexual
orientation, genetic information, veteran status, or any
other basis protected by law. For inquiries regarding
non-discrimination policies, contact the executive direc-
tor for Equity and Access at 540-231-8771 or Virginia
Tech, North End Center, Suite 2300 (0318), 300 Turner
St. NW, Blacksburg, VA 24061. If you are an individ-
ual with a disability and desire accommodation please
contact the hiring department.
Additional information: McGlothlin lab: http://-
www.faculty.biol.vt.edu/mcglothlin Application link:
https://listings.jobs.vt.edu/postings/56245 Biological
Sciences at VT: http://www.biol.vt.edu/ Ecology, Evo-
lution, and Behavior at VT: http://www.biol.vt.edu/-
eeb/index.html Joel W. McGlothlin Virginia Tech, Dept.
of Biological Sciences Derring Hall 2125, 1405 Perry St.
Blacksburg, VA 24061 http://www.faculty.biol.vt.edu/-
mcglothlin Email: joelmcg@vt.edu Phone: (540) 231-
0046 Oce: Derring Hall 4002
joelmcg@vt.edu
Wageningen PhDorPDF
ExperimentalEvolution
Project: Within the collaborative project \Interrogat-
ing bacterial social interactions in droplets" (funded
by Human Frontiers in Science Program), a position
is available for a PhD student or postdoc in the Lab-
oratory of Genetics at Wageningen University. The
student/postdoc will use novel milliuidic technology
to test for bacterial social interactions mediated by theMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 107
enzyme TEM beta-lactamase. This enzyme protects
against beta-lactam antibiotics and functions in the
periplasmic space, from where it may leak out of the
cell. We have recently used this enzyme as an experi-
mental model for adaptation to novel beta-lactams in
in vitro evolution experiments (e.g. Salverda et al. 2011
PLoS Genet. 7: e10011321; Schenk et al. 2012 PLoS
Genet. 8: e1002783; Schenk et al. 2015 Evol. Appl.
8: 248-260). In the present project, we want to extend
our knowledge of the tness consequences for produc-
ers and non-producers of this enzyme. This will be
done by introducing bacteria in many parallel 100-nL
droplets and monitoring the population-dynamic and
evolutionary consequences of enzyme production. The
student/postdoc will be part of an international consor-
tium, involving two microbial experimental evolutionists
(Paul Rainey at Massey University, New Zealand, and
Arjan de Visser at Wageningen University, The Nether-
lands), a colloid-chemist (J er^ ome Bibette at ESPCI,
France) and a theoretical biophysicist (Naama Brenner
at Technion, Israel).
Prole: We seek a highly motivated person with a strong
background in bacterial genetics and preferably experi-
ence with micro/milliuidics. Experience with microbial
and molecular lab techniques are an absolute require-
ment, experience with milliuidics, handling large data
sets and evolutionary theory are important benets.
The selected person will be initially appointed for 1
year, after which a \go/no go" decision will be taken
on extension to a total of 4 years (PhD student) or 3
years (postdoc). Salary will be according to the Dutch
salary scales for PhD students and postdocs taking ex-
perience into account. The project can start as soon as
we have found a suitable candidate, but no later than 1
December 2015.
Applications: Enquiries and applications (including CV,
letter explaining motivation and suitability for the po-
sition, and names and contact info of two references)
should be sent before 1 June 2015 to Arjan de Visser
(Arjan.devisser@wur.nl).
Prof. Arjan de Visser Laboratory of Genetics Wa-geningen University Droevendaalsesteeg 1 6708PB Wa-
geningen The Netherlands P: + 31 317 483144 M: Ar-
jan.devisser@wur.nl W: http://www.wageningenur.nl/-
en/Persons/dr.-JAGM-Arjan-de-Visser.htm \Visser,
Arjan de" <arjan.devisser@wur.nl >
WashingtonStateU
EvolEcologyInsectPlantInteract
POSTDOC: Genomic ecology/evolution of insect-
induced phenotypes
A postdoctoral position is available in the Nabity Lab
(www.nabitylab.org) at Washington State University in
Pullman, WA, where we focus on understanding insect-
induced plant phenotypes using eco-physiological and
genomic assessment of both plants and insects. The ideal
candidate must have earned a PhD in plant biology, ento-
mology, or related subjects in the past 5 years. The can-
didate should also possess a strong interest in evolution-
ary ecology or genetics and computational/bioinformatic
experience with sequence data. The successful candidate
will be expected to perform eld and lab-based experi-
ments, conduct/learn bioinformatics analyses, and work
well with students. The position is available for up to 2
years, depending on performance, with a preferred start
date of August/September 2015 (actual start date is
exible). Research will focus on aphid-like phylloxerids,
their modes of plant manipulation, and the evolution
of gall induction, but independent research in line with
the lab goals will be encouraged. Please send a CV,
a description of research interests, and contact infor-
mation for 3 references by email to Dr. Paul Nabity
(paul.nabity@wsu.edu) by June 1, 2015.
Dr Paul D. Nabity, Assistant Professor Dept. of
Entomology Washington State University http://-
www.nabitylab.org paul.nabity@wsu.edu108 EvolDir May 1, 2015
WorkshopsCourses
Alaska AnimalBehavior Jun10-14 TravelAward . . . 108
AMUPoznan Poland Bioinformatics Jul6-10 . . . . . . 108
Barcelona HistoricalBiogeography Jun15-19 . . . . . . 109
Barcelona PopGeneticsR Oct5-9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .109
FridayHarbor ComparativeEmbrylogy Jun15-Jul17 110
Glasgow BayesianModeling Aug26-Oct31 . . . . . . . . . 110
Glasgow Bioinformatics Oct19-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
Ilhabela Brazil PhylogeneticComparativeMethods Jul2-
5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 112
ImperialCollege London 1yrMastersEvolution . . . . 112
LakeheadU DNAMethods May5-Jun25 . . . . . . . . . . . 113
Maine Seaweeds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .113NatlUIreland Bioinformatics May11-16 . . . . . . . . . . . 114
Orleans France TreeParasites Aug23-28 . . . . . . . . . . 114
Raleigh NC BioinformaticsPracticalTools May18-22 115
SB-Rosco Choanoagellates Jun16-19 . . . . . . . . . . . 116
SeattleSummerInst Apr24Deadline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116
SwissAlps Adaptation Jun17-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116
SwissAlps Adaptation Jun17-20 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 117
TGAC Norwich UK RADseq and Stacks Jun8-12 .118
UBristol BayesianPhylogenetics Jul30-31 . . . . . . . . . 118
UNordland NGS NonModelOrganisms May27-Jun5 119
Alaska AnimalBehavior Jun10-14
TravelAward
Announcement: NSF Workshop and Symposium at 2015
Animal Behavior Society Meeting
At the 2015 Animal Behavior Society Meeting, held in
Anchorage, AK June 10-14, ABS and NSF will sup-
port a symposium and workshop titled, 'It's about time:
Understanding temporal variation in behavior.'
Many aspects of animal behavior involve change over
time. If researchers do not consider time, they miss a
number of functionally important processes. The gen-
eral importance of timing in animal behavior is widely
appreciated, but often not explicitly addressed. Further-
more, researchers who do explicitly address temporal
variation do so in distinctly dierent ways. By bringing
together researchers from diverse elds of study, the
symposium and workshop will:
1. Outline important unresolved temporal issues in an-
imal behavior, 2. Facilitate integration among elds
that explicitly study temporal variation in behavior
and those that are impacted by temporal variation,
3. Arm researchers with tools to experimentally test
and analyze temporal patterns of behavior, 4. Insti-
gate collaborations among researchers, with a particular
focus on the professional development of early-career
researchers, 5. Generate an overview paper co-authored
by all participants, and 6. Produce novel research plans
for competitive grant proposals.
The National Science Foundation is funding awards of$700 to support travel costs for researchers to attend
the symposium and participate in the workshop. Re-
searchers from underrepresented groups and early-career
researchers are particularly encouraged to apply. To ap-
ply, send a CV and brief cover letter to Andy Dosmann
(dosmann1@stanford.edu) describing how your research
interests are relevant to the meeting, why you want to
attend the meeting, and what you hope to gain from
it. To ensure consideration, send materials by April 15,
2015. Please forward to anyone that might be interested
in participating.
For additional information on the workshop and
symposium, email dosmann1@stanford.edu. For
general information on the ABS Meeting, visit
www.animalbehaviorsociety.org/2015 Andrew John
Dosmann <dosmann1@stanford.edu >
AMUPoznan Poland Bioinformatics
Jul6-10
Category: Course Topic:
AMUPoznan.Poland.Bioinformatics.RNA.July6-10
Dear colleagues,
We are extremely happy to announce 11th edition of
Poznan Summer School of Bioinformatics. This meeting
takes place at Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznan
(Poland) from 6th to 10th July 2015.
This year's course will cover modern approaches to RNA
analyses, including subjects like:May 1, 2015 EvolDir 109
1. Introduction to RNA biology 2. Applications of next-
generation sequencing in RNA studies 3. Transcriptome
sequencing, assembly and gene expression estimation
4. Identication and analysis of microRNAs and other
small RNAs 5. long non-coding RNAs 6. Secondary
and tertiary structures of RNAs
The course is suitable both for beginners and for those
who already have some basic knowledge in computa-
tional biology and nd it necessary and interesting to
learn more about bioinformatic applications in RNA
studies. Our school consists of lectures and hands-on -
this combination should t best your needs as you have
a chance to try out the discussed methods yourself.
For further information please visit our website: http:/-
/bioinformatics-school.pl Please forward this announce-
ment to anyone who might be interested.
Best regards, PSSB Organizing Committee Contact:
genomics@amu.edu.pl
Bioinfo School <genomics@amu.edu.pl >
Barcelona HistoricalBiogeography
Jun15-19
Dear colleagues,
This is the last call for the course \HISTORICAL BIO-
GEOGRAPHY: FUNDAMENTALS AND APPLICA-
TIONS", June 15-19, 2015.
INSTRUCTORS: Dr. Lone Aagesen (IBODA, CON-
ICET, Argentina) and Dr. Claudia A. Szumik (Miguel
Lillo Foundation, CONICET, Argentina).
PLACE: Facilities of the Centre of Restauraci o i In-
terpretaci o Paleontologica, Els Hostalets de Pierola,
Barcelona (Spain).
WEBPAGE: http://www.transmittingscience.org/-
courses/biog/historic-biogeography/ This course
provides basic knowledge on selected theoretical and
methodological problems of historical biogeography.
We aim to provide the practical skills to enable the
students to carry out empirical biographical analyses.
A considerable part of the course is therefore allocated
to practical problems as well as to the use of computer
programs specically developed for biogeography
analyses.
Organized by: Transmitting Science, the Institut Catal a
de Paleontologia Miquel Crusafont and the Centrede Restauraci o i Interpretaci o Paleontologica de Els
Hostalets de Pierola.
For more information you can write to
courses@transmittingscience.org
Please feel free to distribute this information between
your colleagues if you consider it appropriate.
With best regards
Soledad De Esteban Trivigno Transmitting Science
www.transmittingscience.org Soledad De Esteban Triv-
igno<soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org >
Barcelona PopGeneticsR Oct5-9
Dear colleagues,
Registration is open for the workshop \Exploratory
Methods for Population Genetics Using R", October 5-
9, 2015. Instructors: Dr . Emmanuel Paradis [ (Institut
de Recherche pour le D eveloppement, France) and Dr.
Thibaut Jombart (Imperial College London, UK).
PLACE: Facilities of the Centre de Restauraci o i In-
terpretaci o Paleontologic, Els Hostalets de Pierola,
Barcelona (Spain).
COURSE WEBPAGE: http://-
www.transmittingscience.org/courses/stats/applied-
r-for-bio/ This course is for post-graduate students
and researchers who want to acquire knowledge on
the analysis of population genetic data using R. The
topics covered will include basic concepts in population
genetics (descriptive statistics, allele frequencies,
graphical exploration of data, linkage disequilibrium),
the classical analysis of temporal and spatial structure
(Fst and its variants -Gst, D, ...-, AMOVA, haplotype
networks, mismatch distribution), and some advanced
topics such as multivariate analyses and the coalescent.
How to handle and manipulate variant calling format
(VCF) les, which are becoming the standard for
storing large-scale population genetic data from NGS
technologies, will also be covered.
The objectives of the course are: (i) to learn the theo-
retical and practical bases of population genetics, (ii)
to know how to choose a strategy of population genetic
analysis, (iii) to be able to handle the appropriate tools
for analysis of population genetic data, from the simplest
to the most advanced ones.
This course is co-organized by Transmitting Science,110 EvolDir May 1, 2015
the Institut Catal a de Paleontologia M. Crusafont and
the Centre de Restauraci o i Interpretaci o Paleontologic.
Places are limited and will be covered by strict registra-
tion order.
Please feel free to distribute this information between
your colleagues if you consider it appropriate.
With best regards
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno, Ph.D. Course Director
courses@transmittingscience.org Transmitting Science
<http://www.transmittingscience.org/ >
soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org
FridayHarbor
ComparativeEmbrylogy Jun15-Jul17
Hello,
There are still spots open in the Comparative Inverte-
brate Embryology course at the Friday Harbor Labs
(June 15 to July 17, 2015). It's a great course for any-
one interested in the evolution of development, animal
evolution, developmental mechanisms, life histories, or
anything else involving early animal life stages. The
Friday Harbor Labs is also a wonderful place to experi-
ence: not only does it have a truly amazing diversity of
organisms, but it is in a beautiful location, and provides
opportunities to interact with a broad community of
biologists from all over.
Please see http://depts.washington.edu/fhl/-
studentSummer2015.html#SumA-4 for the course
description.
Thanks for taking a look.
{Mickey
Michelangelo von Dassow <mvondass@gmail.com >
Glasgow BayesianModeling
Aug26-Oct31
Applied Bayesian modeling for ecologists and epidemi-
ologists (statistics course)
This 6 day course will be held at SCENE (Scottish Cen-tre for Ecology and the Natural Environment), Glasgow,
United Kingdom from August 26th - 31st October 2015
The course is being delivered by Dr. Matt Den-
wood (University of Copenhagen) and Prof. Jason
Matthiopoulos (University of Glasgow)
This application-driven course will provide a founding in
the basic theory & practice of Bayesian statistics, with a
focus on MCMC modeling for ecological & epidemiolog-
ical problems. Starting from a refresher on probability
& likelihood, the course will take students all the way to
cutting-edge applications such as state-space population
modeling & spatial point-process modeling. By the end
of the week, you should have a basic understanding of
how common MCMC samplers work and how to program
them, and have practical experience with the BUGS
language for common ecological and epidemiological
models. The experience gained will be a sucient foun-
dation enabling you to understand current papers using
Bayesian methods, carry out simple Bayesian analyses
on your own data and springboard into more elaborate
applications such as dynamical, spatial and hierarchical
modeling.
Cost is ^A$585 for the 6 days including lunches and re-
freshments or ^A$765 for an all-inclusive option which in-
cludes the addition of accommodation, breakfast, lunch,
dinner and refreshments.
For further details or questions or to register
please email oliverhooker@prstatistics.co.uk or visit
www.prstatistics.co.uk Please feel free to distribute
this material among colleagues if you think it is suitable
Course timetable: Day 1: Revision of likelihoods Proba-
bility & likelihood - Conditional, joint & total probabil-
ity, independence, Baye's law - Probability distributions
- Uniform, Bernoulli, Binomial, Poisson, Gamma, Beta
& Normal distributions - their range, parameters &
common uses - Likelihood & parameter estimation by
maximum likelihood - Numerical likelihood proles &
maximum likelihood Introduction to Bayesian statistics
- Relationship between prior, likelihood & posterior dis-
tributions - Summarising a posterior distribution; The
philosophical dierences between frequentist & Bayesian
statistics, & the practical implications of these - Ap-
plying Bayes' theorem to discrete & continuous data
for common data types given dierent priors - Building
a posterior prole for a given dataset, & compare the
eect of dierent priors for the same data
Day 2: MCMC Introduction to MCMC - The curse of
dimensionality & the advantages of MCMC sampling
to determine a posterior distribution - Monte Carlo in-
tegration, st&ard error, & summarising samples from
posterior distributions in R - Writing a Metropolis algo-May 1, 2015 EvolDir 111
rithm & generating a posterior distribution for a simple
problem using MCMC Markov chains, autocorrelation
& convergence; - Denition of a Markov chain - Auto-
correlation, eective sample size & Monte Carlo error
- The concept of a stationary distribution & burnin; -
Requirement for convergence diagnostics, & common
statistics for assessing convergence - Adapting an exist-
ing Metropolis algorithm to use two chains, & assessing
the eect of the sampling distribution on the autocorre-
lation Introduction to BUGS & running simple models
in JAGS - Introduction to the BUGS language & how a
BUGS model is translated to an MCMC sampler during
compilation - The dierence between deterministic &
stochastic nodes, & the contribution of priors & the like-
lihood - Running, extending & interpreting the output
of simple JAGS models from within R using the runjags
interface
Day 3: Common models for JAGS and BUGS Using
JAGS for common problems in biology - Understanding
and generating code for basic generalised linear mixed
models in JAGS - Syntax for quadratic terms and inter-
action terms in JAGS Essential tting tips and model
selection - The need for minimal cross-correlation and
independence between parameters and how to design
a model with these properties - The practical methods
and implications of minimizing Monte Carlo error and
autocorrelation, including thinning - Interpreting the
DIC for nested models, and understanding the limita-
tions of how this is calculated - Other methods of model
selection and where these might be more useful than
DIC
Day 4: The exibility of MCMC General guidance for
model specication - The exibility of the BUGS lan-
guage and MCMC methods - The dierence between
informative and diuse priors - Conjugate priors and
how they can be used - Gibbs sampling State space
models - Hierarchical and state space models - Latent
class and mixture models - Conceptual application to
animal movement - Hands-on application to population
biology - Conceptual application to epidemiology
Day 5: Practical guidance for Bayesian methods in
practise Additional Bayesian methods
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlGlasgow Bioinformatics Oct19-23
BIOINFORMATICS FOR BIOLOGISTS - 19th - 23rd
October 2015 - SCENE, Glasgow, United Kingdom
The handling of large data-sets has become intractable
without some level of bioinformatic literacy. Many biol-
ogists nd that there is a steep learning curve to develop
the condence required to explore their genomics data-
sets eectively. This bioinformatics short course includes
a rich collection of hands-on instruction and lectures
specically intended to help novice users become com-
fortable with a range of tools currently used to analyse
next-generation data. There is no prerequisite for this
course other than a willingness to learn and to work
hard throughout the week.
The course will be held at SCENE (Scottish Center
for Ecology and the Natural Environment), Glasgow,
United Kingdom.
The course is 5 days long and will have a day
spent on each of the following; Linux, RNAseq,
Assembly, Annotation and Python, more details
on each of these day long modules and the
course can be found at <http://prstatistics.co.uk/-
bioinformatics%20for%20biologists/index.html >
Costs start at $540 course only (student rate) and
includes lunches and refreshments or $715 for an
all-inclusive option (student rate) which includes all
accommodation and meals full pricing and details
on accommodation can be found via the website
www.prstatistics.co.uk or for questions email oliver-
hooker@prstatistics.co.uk
Please feel free to distribute this information among
friends and colleagues where suitable
Other upcoming courses include; ANALYSIS OF STA-
BLE ISOTOPE DATA USING SIA-R; GENETIC
DATA ANALYSIS IN R; APPLIED BAYESIAN MOD-
ELLING FOR ECOLOGISTS AND EPIDEMIOL-
OGISTS; SPATIAL ANALYSIS OF ECOLOGICAL
DATA USING R; ADVANCING IN R; further details
on all of these can be found at www.prstatistics.co.uk
oliverhooker@prstatistics.co.uk112 EvolDir May 1, 2015
Ilhabela Brazil
PhylogeneticComparativeMethods
Jul2-5
Intensive short course on phylogenetic comparative
methods in R
We are pleased to announce a new graduate-level in-
tensive short course on the use of R for phylogenetic
comparative analysis. The course will be four days
in length and will take place at the Hotel Ilha Flata
(http://www.ilhaat.com) in Ilhabela, Sao Paulo State,
Brazil, from the 2nd to the 5th of July, 2015. This
course is funded by the National Science Foundation.
The course is free of cost, and accommodation at the
course venue, as well as breakfast & lunch on all course
days, is included for all accepted students. There will be
a small number of travel stipends available for qualied
students and post-docs. Applicants are welcome from
any country, but are especially encouraged from the
Latin American region.
Topics covered will include: an introduction to the R
environment and programming language, tree manipula-
tion, independent contrasts and phylogenetic generalized
least squares, ancestral state reconstruction, models of
character evolution, diversication analysis, and com-
munity phylogenetic analysis. Course instructors will
include Dr. Liam Revell (University of Massachusetts
Boston), Dr. Luke Harmon (University of Idaho), and
Dr. Mike Alfaro (University of California, Los Angeles).
Instruction in the course will be primarily in English,
thus all students must have a basic working knowledge
of scientic English. To apply for the course, please
submit your CV along with a short (maximum 1 page)
description of your research interests, background, and
reasons for taking the course. Admission is competitive,
and preference will go towards students with background
in phylogenetics and a compelling motivation for taking
the course. Applications should be submitted by email
to ilhabela.phylogenetics.course@gmail.com by May 1st,
2015. Questions can be directed to liam.revell@umb.edu.
{ Liam J. Revell, Assistant Professor of Bi-
ology University of Massachusetts Boston
web: http://faculty.umb.edu/liam.revell/ email:
liam.revell@umb.edu blog: http://blog.phytools.org
Liam.Revell@umb.eduImperialCollege London
1yrMastersEvolution
Dear All,
Admissions are currently open for the 1-year Masters
courses at the Silwood Park (our campus in Berkshire
near Ascot) of the Department of Life Sciences, Impe-
rial College London. We are an international centre for
research and training in ecology, evolution, biological
conservation and climate-driven ecosystem dynamics.
The Department of Life Sciences at Imperial College
London is one of the largest life sciences groups world-
wide. The Department has an outstanding international
reputation for research and excellent facilities for post-
graduate research and education.
We oer a range of Masters courses <http://-
www.imperial.ac.uk/visit/campuses/silwood-park/-
prospective-students/msc-and-mres-courses/ >in
theoretical, empirical and applied ecology, evolution,
and conservation at Silwood Park and at the Natural
History Museum London. Our courses are taught in
partnership with other organisations such as the Royal
Botanical Gardens Kew, The Grantham Institute, Zoo-
logical Society of London, Durrell Wildlife Conservation
Trust, Thomson Ecology, CABI and Surrey Wildlife
Trust.
Our courses cover a range of topics, and are an ideal
stepping stone towards a career into scientic research
and academics, conservation, applied biosciences, or
consultancy. You will learn new skills, conduct your
own cutting-edge research and use your science to tackle
real-world challenges, while being part of a lively, inter-
national community devoted to postgraduate research
and training.
*Our Courses:*
MRes Biosystematics (based at the Natural History Mu-
seum) (https://www.imperial.ac.uk/study/pg/courses/-
life-sciences/biosystematics/)
MSc/MRes Computational Methods in Ecology and
Evolution (http://www.imperial.ac.uk/life-sciences/-
postgraduate/masters-courses/-msc-in-computational-
methods-in-ecology-and-evolution-cmee/)
MSc Conservation Science (http://www.imperial.ac.uk/-
study/pg/courses/life-sciences/conservation-science/)
MSc Ecological Applications http://-May 1, 2015 EvolDir 113
www.imperial.ac.uk/life-sciences/postgraduate/-
masters-courses/msc-in-ecological-applications/
MSc/MRes Ecology, Evolution and Conservation
(fulltime or part-time options available) http://-
www.imperial.ac.uk/life-sciences/postgraduate/masters-
courses/masters-in-ecology-evolution{conservation-
msc-and-mres/ MRes Ecosystem and Environmental
Change (new for 2015) (http://www.imperial.ac.uk/-
life-sciences/postgraduate/masters-courses/mres-in-
ecosystem-and-environmental-change/)
MSc Taxonomy and Biodiversity (based at the
Natural History Museum) (http://www.imperial.ac.uk/-
life-sciences/postgraduate/masters-courses/msc-in-
taxonomy{biodiversity/)
MRes Tropical Forest Ecology (new for 2015) (http://-
www.imperial.ac.uk/life-sciences/postgraduate/masters-
courses/mres-in-tropical-forest-ecology/)
* Key benets*
*
Join a top department (1 ^st in the UK for Biological
Sciences in REF2014 http://www.imperial.ac.uk/-
life-sciences/about/ref-2014/) at a top univer-
sity (2 ^nd in the QS World University Rank-
ings http://www.topuniversities.com/university-
rankings/world-university-rankings/2014, 9 ^th in
The Times Higher Education World University
Rankings http://www.timeshighereducation.co.uk/-
world-university-rankings/2014-15/world-ranking,
22^nd in the Shanghai Ranking 2014/2015 http://-
www.shanghairanking.com/ARWU2014.html).
*
Our graduates go successfully into PhDs and jobs in
Europe, the USA and internationally with a success
rate.
*
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
LakeheadU DNAMethods
May5-Jun25
Practical DNA Training Program Summer Special:A two-week (9 business days) intensive laboratory-based
training program designed to teach participants the
fundamentals of molecular techniques including DNA
extraction, amplication (using PCR), sequencing and
interpretation.
This training program is oered at various times through-
out the year and we will work with you to nd a suitable
time for training. The cost of the training program is
now $2500.00.
The next scheduled times for the Practical DNA Train-
ing Program are: May 5 - 15, 2015, May 25 - June 4,
2015, June 15 - 25, 2015
For more information please contact us at 807-343-8877
or email paleodna@lakeheadu.ca or visit our website at
www.ancientdna.com and click on 'Training Programs'.
Thank you.
Karen.
Karen Maa Administrative Assistant Paleo-DNA Lab-
oratory 1294 Balmoral Street, 3rd Floor Thunder Bay,
Ontario P7B 5Z5 Telephone: 1-866-DNA-LABS or 1-
807-343-8616
Karen Maa <kmaa@lakeheadu.ca >
Maine Seaweeds
Greetings all-
Please join us for a terric week in the wilds of Maine
just outside Acadia National Parks Schoodic Peninsula
at the Eagle Hill Institute.
Jessica Muhlin and Nic Blouin promise an exciting in-
troductory week to marine algae.
The algae are a complex group of organisms living in
both freshwater and marine environments. This short
course will focus on marine macroalgae, or seaweeds,
and is designed to introduce taxonomic, systematic,
physiological, and ecological aspects of Maine seaweeds.
Through eld, lecture, and laboratory experiences, we
will survey the seaweeds and habitats found in the Gulf
of Maine, examine the evolutionary processes that led
to the diversication of seaweeds, and learn life histories
as well as the processes that inuence the distribution
of seaweeds over space and time in the Gulf of Maine.
We will also include a module on ethnobotany and the
economic importance of seaweeds in the North Atlantic.
The course is limited to 15 students to ensure an inimate114 EvolDir May 1, 2015
learning environment.
Complete information for associated costs, application
information and details about Eagle Hill can be found
here:
http://www.eaglehill.us/index.shtml http://-
www.eaglehill.us/programs/nhs/nhs-calendar.shtml
A Downloadable yer can be accessed here: http://-
www.eaglehill.us/programs/nhs/seminar-yer-pdfs/-
2015Seaweed MuhlinBlouin.pdf Jessie Muhlin
(jessica.muhlin@mma.edu) is an Associate Professor of
Marine Biology at Maine Maritime Academy where she
teaches courses in the Corning School of Ocean Studies.
Her research interests focus on the reproductive ecology,
population genetics and food web ecology of fucoid
seaweeds in the northwestern Atlantic. Jessie is also
actively involved in art-science collaborations using
marine algae as inspiration. She is committed to
educating the public on the importance and fascinating
aspects of the algae and she regularly presents in
educator workshops.
Nic Blouin (nblouin@mail.uri.edu) is a postdoctoral fel-
low at the University of Rhode Island. Nics primary
scientic interests revolve around how evolutionary pres-
sure drives adaptation in seaweeds. He uses a combi-
nation of eld observations and whole genome data to
understand how genomic changes aect life histories.
Nic also has experience with seaweed aquaculture in
Maine and in Asia, and has used intertidal collecting
forays and art-making as a way to help students un-
derstand the interconnectivity of the environment and
ecological success in the intertidal zone. Along with
Jessie, Nic has extensive knowledge of Maines marine
algal community.
Jessie and Nic have been working together on various
projects for over 10 yrs.
nic blouin <nblouin69@gmail.com >
NatlUIreland Bioinformatics
May11-16
Hi folks,
I would like to draw your attention to this year's edition
of our Bioinformatics and Phylogenetics Summer School,
which will take place from May 11th-16th, inclusive.
The details are here:
http://bioinf.nuim.ie/bioinformatics-phylogenetics-summer-school-2015/ Please pass this email on to
anybody you think might be interested.
Regards,
James.
{ James McInerney PhD DSc, Bioinformatics & Molecu-
lar Evolution Unit, Department of Biology, National Uni-
versity of Ireland Maynooth, Co. Kildare, Ireland. web-
site | http://bioinf.nuim.ie/james-mcinerney/ mciner-
ney.james@gmail.com
Orleans France TreeParasites
Aug23-28
Dear Colleagues,
The *5th International Workshop on the* *Genetics of
Tree-Parasite Interactions* will take place at*Orl eans,
France, 23-28 August 2015*.
The *deadline for abstract submission has been extended
to the **15th of April*, which means that the deadlines
for early bird registration and for abstract submission
are now the same.
All abstracts must be submitted online follow-
ing this link <https://colloque.inra.fr/tree-parasite-
interactions2015/Abstract-submission >.
colloque international Genetics of tree-parasite interac-
tions
*PLEASE NOTE* : because several of you wondered
how restrictive the term \genetics" is, we would like to
tell you also what this workshop is not.
*THIS WORKSHOP IS NOT RESTRICTED TO
BREEDERS AND PLANT GENETICISTS* !!
Maybe we should think of another name for the next
edition of this workshop to make things clearer ...
As you can see from the tentative program <
https://colloque.inra.fr/tree-parasite-interactions2015/-
Program2 >, all aspects of tree-pathogen interactions,
host side, pathogen side, from the cell to the land-
scape, will be covered. As an example, those of
you not dealing with genetics at all but studying
resistance/virulence/aggressiveness mechanisms will
perfectly t into the \/Resistance / tolerance and
virulence / aggressiveness //*MECHANISMS*//and
their genetic determinants/" session eventhough the
genetic determinants are far from being elucidated.May 1, 2015 EvolDir 115
Sessions: 1 - Novel challenges due to EMERGING or
NON-NATIVE pests and pathogens 2 - PHENOTYP-
ING resistance and MONITORING parasites at dierent
scales 3 - Resistance / tolerance and virulence / aggres-
siveness MECHANISMS and their genetic determinants
4 - Understanding host-parasite co-evolution: a require-
ment for DURABLE breeding & management strategies
5 - POPULATION GENETICS of pests, pathogens and
vectors 6 - New GENOMIC tools and resources 7 - From
genetics to management: INNOVATIVE strategies for
disease/pest control
Again, at this stage, the program is only tentative and
it will all depend on the audience and on the submit-
ted talks. The last session, entitled \/From genetics
to management: //*INNOVATIVE*//strategies for dis-
ease/pest control/" could also include some talks on
biological control ...
Organizers would like to remind you that there
are *only 80 rooms available* at the Confer-
ence Hotel <https://colloque.inra.fr/tree-parasite-
interactions2015/Practical-information#Ancre venue >,
so please make your hotel booking as soon as possible.
We can advise you a few other hotels once this one is full
but all of them are at non negligeable walking distance.
So, please, do not restrain yourself from participating
but *take your ticket **as soon as possible *(click here to
visit de conference's website <https://colloque.inra.fr/-
tree-parasite-interactions2015 >) as the number of par-
ticipants will be limited for practical reasons and to
foster discussions.
Please note that registration fees *not only* include
full access to the scientic program and all conference
material *but also* the following :
* a welcome cocktail reception (Sunday evening)
* the following meals: Monday (Lunch+Diner), Tuesday
(L+D), Thursday (L+D)
* coee breaks: Monday (2), Tuesday (2), Thursday (2),
Friday (1)
* Field trip + picnic basket + reception diner (Wednes-
day)
which means that *participants will have very little
additional expenses except travelling and lodging*.
*Finally, for PhD students and their mentors, please
remember also the oer below :*
We are pleased to announce that thanks to the following
sponsors :
R esultat de recherche d'images pour \us forest ser-
vice" occhio <http://www.occhio.be/ >Hettich <
http://www.hettichlab.com/ >*are oering ** free registration fees **to 4 PhD stu-
dents !!!* (i.e. 500 euro discount each)
To encourage those of you who have to support high
travel expenses, priority will be given to PhD students
who come from distant countries and who are accom-
panied by one fully paying participant from the same
laboratory.
Applicants must*submit their* abstract through the
online submission system <https://colloque.inra.fr/-
tree-parasite-interactions2015/Abstract-submission >
before April 1st 2015 and *reply this message* providing
the following details :
*- name: - institution/laboratory: - country and approx-
imative travel expenses with details: - age:
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Raleigh NC
BioinformaticsPracticalTools
May18-22
Hi Everyone-
We have a few spots left. If you have interest in par-
ticipating in our Raleigh workshop being held at HQ
Raleigh (http://hqraleigh.com/) , please drop us a line
and let us know.
A description of the course and application are here:
https://biodatatraining.wordpress.com If you need fur-
ther information, we are happy to answer any questions
you have.
We have a good mix of graduates, postdocs, and PIs for
the workshop and believe it will synergistic group.
Hope to see you in Raleigh. Nic and Ian
Spring workshop in Bioinformatics
Raleigh, North Carolina May 18 - 22, 2015
The handling of large datasets has become intractable
without some level of bioinformatic literacy. Many bi-
ologists nd that there is a steep learning curve to de-
velop the condence required to explore their genomics116 EvolDir May 1, 2015
datasets eectively. This bioinformatics short course
includes a rich collection of hands-on instruction and
lectures specically intended to help novice users be-
come comfortable with a range of tools currently used
to analyze next-generation data. There is no prereq-
uisite for this course other than a willingness to learn
and to work hard throughout the week. All workshop
exercises will be implemented via VirtualBox and focus
on Illumina data.
Course participation is limited to to 25 students to
ensure an intimate learning environment.
Course instuctors: Nic Blouin, PhD & Ian Misner PhD
Full course information/topics, contact, in-
structor info, and application instructions at
https://biodatatraining.wordpress.com BioData
<biodatatraining@gmail.com >
SB-Rosco Choanoagellates
Jun16-19
We invite all members of the choanoagellate research
community to participate in the 2015 International
Choanoagellate Workshop. The goal of this meeting
will be to build the choanoagellate research community
by fostering collaborations and providing a forum for
presenting research on choanoagellate biology. Past
meetings have featured research on topics as diverse
as evolution, microbial ecology, uid dynamics, host-
microbe interactions, cell biology, comparative genomics,
biomineralization, and more!
The workshop will be held at the Station Bi-
ologique Rosco <http://www.sb-rosco.fr/centre-de-
conferences.html >beginning the evening of Tuesday,
June 16 and nishing late afternoon on Friday, June 19.
Rosco is accessible either by a short taxi ride from the
Brest airport or by train from the CDG airport.
*At this time, we invite you to register for the meeting
by May 1, 2015 at this link*: http://goo.gl/forms/-
QmLYlbSBgD All attendees are encouraged to either
present a talk or a poster. When registering, please
provide a title and abstract, and indicate your preferred
presentation type. Speakers will be selected based on
talk titles and a goal of highlighting the full breadth of
research ongoing in the community.
If you have any questions about the meeting, please don't
hesitate to contact us at choanoagellate@gmail.com.
We look forward to seeing you!*Nicole King* Investigator, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute Professor of Genetics, Genomics and Develop-
ment Department of Molecular and Cell Biology Uni-
versity of California, Berkeley
kinglab.berkeley.edu www.hhmi.org/scientists/nicole-
king Lab Manager: Heather Middleton (middle-
tonhl@berkeley.edu) Administrative Assistant: Rosa
Lewandowski (rlewando@berkeley.edu)
nicoleking.ucb@gmail.com
SeattleSummerInst Apr24Deadline
The deadline for scholarship applications is on Friday
April 24 for:
Summer Institute in Statistical Genetics Summer Insti-
tute in Statistics and Modeling for Infectious Diseases
Summer Institute in Statistic for Big Data
Details are available at http://-
www.biostat.washington.edu/suminst Bruce Weir
Department of Biostatistics University of Washington
Box 359461 Seattle, WA 98195-9461
Bruce Weir <bsweir@uw.edu >
SwissAlps Adaptation Jun17-20
Workshop announcement - registration deadline ap-
proaching (15 April 2015)
A few places are still available in our workshop on \The-
oretical and empirical evidence of adaptations" to be
held in La Fouly (Valais, Switzerland) on June 17-20,
2015.
The aim of the proposed symposium is to bring together
experimental, empirical and theoretical evolutionary bi-
ologists, all working to resolve fundamental questions
at the center of a century-old debate.
For example: What is the distribution of tness eects
of new, segregating, and xed mutations? What is the
relative importance of adaptation vs. genetic drift in the
evolution of natural populations? What are the genetic
and genomic bases of adaptations and speciation(s)?
By combining expertise across wet and dry lab biology,May 1, 2015 EvolDir 117
and due to the progress of new genomic technologies, it
is becoming increasing possible to gain traction on these
questions which are fundamental to any basic under-
standing of the very mode and tempo of the evolutionary
process.
The workshop will bring together top researchers in the
eld with graduate students and junior researchers in La
Fouly, a remote and beautiful location in the Swiss Alps
(see www.lafouly.net), allowing for close interactions and
vivid exchanges due to the very limited number of par-
ticipants (max. 35). The scientic program will consist
in 2 1/2 days of a mixture of talks by invited speakers
and students, and poster sessions. The workshop will
end with a hike to some nearby magnicent view points
over the Mont Dolent and Mont-Blanc region.
Conrmed invited speakers:
Prof. Peter Andolfatto, Princeton University (US) Prof.
Joachim Hermisson, University of Vienna (AT) Dr. Fe-
licity Jones, Friedrich Miescher Laboratory of the Max
Planck Society, T ubigen (DE) Prof. Hanna Kokko, Uni-
versity of Zurich (CH) Prof. Bret Payseur, University
of Wisconsin (US) Prof. Ole Seehausen, University of
Bern & EAWAG (CH) Prof. Olivier Tenaillon, Institut
national de la sant e et de la recherche m edicale, Paris
(FR)
Cost:
400 CHF, including conference fees, all meals and ac-
commodation (with sleeping bags). Free attendance for
CUSO students.
Web site and registration:
http://www.cuso.ch/activity/?p=3D1128&id=3D2243
The organizers:
Laurent Excoer Je Jensen Stephan Peischl Claudia
Bank
Dr. Claudia Bank School of Life Sciences ~Acole Poly-
technique F ed erale de Lausanne (EPFL), Switzerland
and Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics
Email: claudia.bank@ep.ch Webpage: http:/-
/people.ep.ch/claudia.bank Jensen lab: http://-
jensenlab.ep.ch klaudiebank@gmail.comSwissAlps Adaptation Jun17-20 2
Please nd below an updated version of the previous
announcement, this time including a functional link to
the registration webpage.
Workshop announcement - registration deadline ap-
proaching (15 April 2015)
A few places are still available in our workshop on \The-
oretical and empirical evidence of adaptations" to be
held in La Fouly (Valais, Switzerland) on June 17-20,
2015.
The aim of the proposed symposium is to bring together
experimental, empirical and theoretical evolutionary bi-
ologists, all working to resolve fundamental questions
at the center of a century-old debate.
For example: What is the distribution of tness eects
of new, segregating, and xed mutations? What is the
relative importance of adaptation vs. genetic drift in the
evolution of natural populations? What are the genetic
and genomic bases of adaptations and speciation(s)?
By combining expertise across wet and dry lab biology,
and due to the progress of new genomic technologies, it
is becoming increasing possible to gain traction on these
questions which are fundamental to any basic under-
standing of the very mode and tempo of the evolutionary
process.
The workshop will bring together top researchers in the
eld with graduate students and junior researchers in La
Fouly, a remote and beautiful location in the Swiss Alps
(see www.lafouly.net), allowing for close interactions and
vivid exchanges due to the very limited number of par-
ticipants (max. 35). The scientic program will consist
in 2 1/2 days of a mixture of talks by invited speakers
and students, and poster sessions. The workshop will
end with a hike to some nearby magnicent view points
over the Mont Dolent and Mont-Blanc region.
Conrmed invited speakers:
Prof. Peter Andolfatto, Princeton University (US) Prof.
Joachim Hermisson, University of Vienna (AT) Dr. Fe-
licity Jones, Friedrich Miescher Laboratory of the Max
Planck Society, T ubigen (DE) Prof. Hanna Kokko, Uni-
versity of Zurich (CH) Prof. Bret Payseur, University
of Wisconsin (US) Prof. Ole Seehausen, University of
Bern & EAWAG (CH) Prof. Olivier Tenaillon, Institut
national de la sant e et de la recherche m edicale, Paris118 EvolDir May 1, 2015
(FR)
Cost:
400 CHF, including conference fees, all meals and ac-
commodation (with sleeping bags). Free attendance for
CUSO students.
Web site and registration:
http://bit.ly/1OTRLPy (If this link does not work, you
can access the workshop page via the newsfeed entry on
the Jensen lab webpage: http://jensenlab.ep.ch)
The organizers:
Laurent Excoer Je Jensen Stephan Peischl Claudia
Bank
{
Dr. Claudia Bank School of Life Sciences ~Acole Poly-
technique F ed erale de Lausanne (EPFL), Switzerland
and Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics
Email: claudia.bank@ep.ch Webpage: http:/-
/people.ep.ch/claudia.bank Jensen lab: http://-
jensenlab.ep.ch klaudiebank@gmail.com
TGAC Norwich UK RADseq and
Stacks Jun8-12
Hi All,
We will be hosting a RAD sequencing and analysis
course in June at TGAC in the UK.
http://www.tgac.ac.uk/361 Division/training-
programme/courses-workshops/tgac-events/genotyping-
by-sequencing/ This course will discuss the RAD
molecular protocol and the computational analysis
of RAD data. We will start from the beginning in
presenting analysis techniques, providing participants
with a solid base of UNIX before we move on to
analyzing data with Stacks.
- We will analyze data with and without a reference
genome, focusing on analyzing data to look for popula-
tion structure in the de novo case, and doing Fst genome
scans in the reference genome case.
- We will also have two guest speakers who will present
their RAD analyses, including sex determination in
shes and the eects of toxins on populations of trout.
- Students will have an opportunity to interact with the
instructors, guest speakers, and fellow attendees givinglots of time to talk strategy and research tactics.
The course will run from June 8 through the 12th at
The Genome Analysis Centre (TGAC) in Norwich, UK.
The application deadline is April 24th.
Please forward this message on to any local mailing lists
if you think there may be interest.
Thanks and best wishes,
julian
Julian M Catchen, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Animal Biology University of Illinois, Urbana-
Champaign
jcatchen@illinois.edu; @jcatchen
jcatchen@illinois.edu
UBristol BayesianPhylogenetics
Jul30-31
Bayesian Methods to Estimate Species Divergence Times
30th and 31st of July of 2015 Life Sciences Building,
University of Bristol, UK
Course organised by Mario dos Reis (University College
London), Ziheng Yang (University College London) and
Philip Donoghue (Bristol University)
In this two-day workshop we will introduce the theory
and practice of Bayesian statistical methods to analyze
molecular, morphological and fossil data to estimate
the times of divergence of species on a phylogeny. The
workshop is aimed at scientists (graduate students, post-
docs and established academics) interested in using the
methods in their own research. Attendees will learn how
to write their own basic MCMC Baysian phylogenetics
program (in R), and will learn how to use specialized
packages such as Beast, MCMCTree and MrBayes for
divergence time estimation. There will be emphasis on
analysis of genome-scale data. The workshop will also
introduce attendees to the newer methods for combined
analysis of morphological and molecular data (so-called
total evidence dating). In particular, there may be an
opportunity for attendees to learn how to analyse con-
tinuous morphological data (such as landmarks) with
the program MCMCTree.
For more info and registration: http://bit.ly/1INFQxZ
Queries: mario.barros@ucl.ac.uk
{ Mario dos ReisMay 1, 2015 EvolDir 119
mario.barros@ucl.ac.uk mariodosreis.wordpress.com
Associate sta Department of Genetics, Evolution and
Environment University College London London, WC1E
6BT, UK
mariodosreis@gmail.com
UNordland NGS
NonModelOrganisms May27-Jun5
PhD course: High throughput sequencing of non-model
organisms
Faculty of Biosciences and Aquaculture, University of
Nordland, Norway. This course will run 27 May - 5
June 2015. Application deadline is 30 April.
High throughput sequencing technologies are being ap-plied to a wide range of important topics in biology.
However, the analyses of non-model organisms, for which
little previous sequence information is available, pose
specic problems. This course addresses the specic
strengths and weaknesses of alternative HTS technolo-
gies, the computational resources needed for HTS, and
how to analyze non-model species using HTS. The course
consists of a practical training module, HTS bioinformat-
ics training, and lecturing/seminars of HTS approaches
specically targeting non-model organisms.
We accept a maximum of 10 students. The closing date
for applications is 30 April 2015.
If you have questions regarding the course, please con-
tact Prof. Truls Moum at tmo@uin.no
Please nd a detailed course description and application
form here: http://www.uin.no/no/om-uin/fakulteter-
og-sentre/fakultet-for-biovitenskap-og-akvakultur/-
artikler/Sider/High-throughput-sequencing-of-non-
model-organisms.aspx Kind regards, Jeanett
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a once
monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope), but
should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain old
ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category120 EvolDir May 1, 2015
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better chance
of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.