E v o l D i r
August 1, 2004
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Forward
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same ﬁeld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be “bulletin board” in nature, if there is a “discussion” style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Forward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Afterward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 482 EvolDir August 1, 2004
Conferences
BertinoroItaly ComparativeGenomics Oct16-19 . . . . . 2
Gordon Jul31-Aug5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Hinxton TranscriptDiversity Nov22-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
KansasCity Genes Ecology Oct2-3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Krakow EuropeanSocietyEvolBiol 2005 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Leiden Endosymbionts Sep6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
MEEGID VII . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Marseilles EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6Marseilles EvolBiol Sep22-24 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
NorthCarolina SEEPAGE Sept10-12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
QuebecCity PlantGenomics Aug29-Sep1 . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
ReadingUK PopGenetics Dec14-17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
SandbjergDenmark EvolStress Aug22-26 2 . . . . . . . . . . 8
SandbjergDenmark EvolStress Aug22-26 3 . . . . . . . . . . 9
Shropshire EvolBiol Aug29-Sept3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
BertinoroItaly
ComparativeGenomics Oct16-19
Call For Papers
Second RECOMB Satellite Workshop on Comparative
Genomics
Location: BICI Bertinoro International Center for In-
formatics, Bertinoro, Italy, see
http://www.cs.unibo.it/bici/ IMPORTANT DATES:
Submission Deadline: August 30, 2004. Notiﬁcations
to Authors: September 16, 2004. Workshop: October
16-19, 2004 Information on participation, registration,
accommodations, and travel can be found at:
http://www.nada.kth.se/ ˜ jensl/recombcg2004.html
Organizers: Jens Lagergren, Stockholm Bioinformat-
ics Center & KTH; Aoife McLysaght, Trinity College;
Nancy Moran, University of Arizona Bernard Moret,
University of New Mexico; David Sankoﬀ, University
of Ottawa.
Scope: The increasing availability of complete genomes
from diverse organisms oﬀers unprecedented research
opportunities. Intergenomic comparison of various
kinds of maps is revelatory of many types of genomic
events central to biological, medical and bioinformatics
research in the post-genomic era. Computational biol-
ogy has a key role to play in many aspects of this work:
understanding patterns and processes of genomic evo-
lution, mapping genome-level mutational events, andthe eﬀective use of these maps by bioinformatics tools.
Genomic data oﬀer an alternative approach to phylo-
genetic reconstruction, based on genome-level events
rather than nucleotide or amino-acid substitutions.
The core of comparative genome analysis is the estab-
lishment of the correspondence between genes (orthol-
ogy analysis) or other genomic features in diﬀerent or-
ganisms. It is these intergenomic maps that make it
possible to trace the evolutionary processes responsible
for the divergence of two genomes. A multitude of evo-
lutionary events acting at various organizational levels
shape genome evolution. At the lowest level, point mu-
tations aﬀect individual nucleotides. At a higher level,
large chromosomal segments undergo duplication, lat-
eral transfer, inversion, transposition, deletion and in-
sertion. Ultimately, whole genomes are involved in pro-
cesses of hybridization, polyploidization and endosym-
biosis, often leading to rapid speciation. The complex-
ity of genome evolution poses many exciting challenges
to developers of mathematical models and algorithms,
who have recourse to a spectra of algorithmic, statis-
tical and mathematical techniques, ranging from ex-
act, heuristic, ﬁxed parameter and approximation al-
gorithms for problems based on parsimony models to
Monte Carlo Markov Chain algorithms for Bayesian
analysis of problems based on probabilistic models.
The RECOMB Satellite Workshop on Comparative Ge-
nomics is a forum on all aspects and components of this
ﬁeld, ranging from new quantitative discoveries about
genome structure and process to theorems on the com-
plexity of computational problems inspired by genome
comparison.
David Sankoﬀ <sankoﬀ@uottawa.ca >August 1, 2004 EvolDir 3
Gordon Jul31-Aug5
The Gordon Conference on evolutionary and ecological
functional genomics (EEFG) is focused on the genes
that aﬀect ecological success and evolutionary ﬁtness
in natural environments and populations. This inter-
disciplinary research area seeks to understand the func-
tional signiﬁcance of genomic variation for wild organ-
isms (microbial, plant, and animal) in natural biolog-
ical communities. The EEFG Gordon Research Con-
ference will showcase the successes and achievements of
the ﬁeld to date; examine novel models of collabora-
tion, interdisciplinary training, and information man-
agement; and map out future directions and priorities.
When: Jul 31 - Aug 5, 2005
Where: Queen’s College, Oxford, UK
Organizers: Chair - Thomas Mitchell-Olds Vice-Chair
- Greg Wray
We are soliciting suggestions and advice for out-
standing potential speakers in this area. Self-
nominations are welcome. Beginning about 25 July
2004 we plan to organize the list of invited speak-
ers for this conference. Please send suggestions to
<mailto:tmo@ice.mpg.de >tmo@ice.mpg.de. Thanks
for your help.
Thomas Mitchell-Olds <tmo@ice.mpg.de >
Hinxton TranscriptDiversity
Nov22-23
Title: Symposium on Alternate Transcript Diver-
sity - Data, Biology, and Therapeutics Date : Nov
22-23, 2004 Venue: European Bioinformatics Insti-
tute, Hinxton, Cambridgeshire, UK URL : http://-
www.ebi.ac.uk/information/events/atd-sympo/ Alter-
native splicing is a major versatile mechanism that gen-
erates diversity in the human transcriptome. Its regu-
lation is complex and is an important means of physi-
ological control. Its disruption is associated with many
diseases, including cancer, multiple sclerosis, heart fail-
ure and neurodegenerative disorders. The realizationthat alternative splicing is an important way of con-
trolling gene expression has spawned several large-scale
eﬀorts to create bioinformatics resources on alternate
transcripts and protein isoforms. These include: com-
putational methods and tools to delineate and charac-
terize alternate transcript structures; databases of al-
ternate transcripts and protein isoforms; and annota-
tions that describe the physiology, pathology and evo-
lution of alternate transcript generation. These eﬀorts
require community-based collaborations involving com-
putational biologists, bioinformaticians and experimen-
tal biologists. This symposium aims to bring together
this community to discuss these resources.
–== Programme Committee ==–
Ewan Birney (EMBL-EBI, UK) Ian Dix (AstraZeneca,
UK) Daniel Gautheret (INSERM, France) Stefan
Stamm (University of Erlangen, Germany) Alphonse
Thanaraj Thangavel (EMBL-EBI, UK) - Chair
–== Local Organizing Committee (all at EMBL-EBI,
UK) ==–
Cath Brooksbank Liz Ford Paul Matthews Lisa Mul-
lan - Chair Jean-Jack Riethoven Alphonse Thanaraj
Thangavel Eleanor Whitﬁeld
–== Speakers ==–
* Ewan Birney (EMBL-EBI, UK) * Laurent Bracco
(ExonHit Therapeutics, France) * Steven Brenner
(Univ. California Berkeley, USA) * John Castle
(Rosetta Inpharmatics, USA) * Ian Dix (AstraZeneca,
UK) * Daniel Gautheret (INSERM, France) * Winston
Hide (SANBI, South Africa) * Tim Hubbard (Sanger
Institute, UK) * Tadashi Imanishi (NIAIST, Japan) *
Adrian Krainer (CSHL, USA) * Christopher Lee (Univ.
California Los Angeles, USA) * Christopher Smith
(Univ. Cambridge, UK) * Rotem Sorek (Compugen,
Israel) * Stefan Stamm (Univ. Erlangen, Germany) *
Alphonse Thanaraj (EMBL-EBI, UK) * Eleanor Whit-
ﬁeld (EMBL-EBI, UK) This list will be updated as fur-
ther speakers are conﬁrmed.
In addition to the talks by invited speakers, oral presen-
tations of selected poster submissions will be arranged.
–== Programme ==–
The full programme will be posted in due course
on the symposium web pages http://www.ebi.ac.uk/-
information/events/atd-sympo/ . The programme will
include a combination of invited talks, poster sessions
and talks selected from poster abstracts. Topics in-
clude, but are not limited to:
* High-throughput identiﬁcation and computational
documentation of alternate transcripts and protein iso-
forms * Regulation of alternative splicing and computa-4 EvolDir August 1, 2004
tional tools to identify regulatory motifs * Elucidating
the causes and eﬀects of variant formation * Disease-
relevant variants and therapeutic applications
Abstracts of the invited talks and poster presentations
will be made available in the symposium proceedings.
–== Registration ==–
DEADLINE: 30 September, 2004.
Please register online using the form at www.ebi.ac.uk/-
information/events/atd-sympo/registration . When
you register you will be sent an automatically generated
e-mail message that includes your registration number.
Please keep a record of this as you will need it to submit
your poster abstract.
The registration fee is £GBP 150. This covers the cost
of lunches and refreshments, an abstract book and the
conference dinner. Registration payments should be
made in GBP (pounds sterling) by bank transfer or
personal cheque.
Payment by cheque: Please make personal cheques
payable to ’Industry Workshops’ and send with your
name and registration number (this will be sent to you
when you register online) to the following address:
Liz Ford EMBL-EBI Wellcome Trust Genome Campus
Hinxton Cambridge, CB10 1SD UK
Payment by bank transfer: If you wish to pay your reg-
istration fee by bank transfer, please contact Liz Ford,
ford@ebi.ac.uk for more details Bottom of Form
–== Poster-abstract submission instructions ==–
ABSTRACT-SUBMISSION DEADLINE: 30 Septem-
ber 2004
Abstracts will be considered for presentation in poster
sessions. Selected posters will be included for oral pre-
sentation. * Authors whose abstracts are selected for
poster and/or oral presentation will be notiﬁed by Oc-
tober 20, 2004. * Please submit your abstract using the
online submission form at
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
KansasCity Genes Ecology Oct2-3Please help us inform members of your EvolDir Direc-
tory about our upcoming Ecological Genomics Sympo-
sium. Detailed information can be found at our web-
site, www.ksu.edu/ecogen . You are invited to attend
the 2nd Annual “Genes in Ecology, Ecology in Genes”
Symposium on October 2 & 3, 2004, at the DoubleTree
Hotel in Overland Park, Kansas (Kansas City metro
area). Ecological Genomics is an emerging ﬁeld at
the interface of ecology, evolution and genomics that
seeks to place the functional signiﬁcance of genes and
genomics into an ecological and evolutionary context.
Symposium participants will learn about this new in-
terdisciplinary ﬁeld from leaders at the forefront of eco-
logical and evolutionary functional genomics. (See the
featured speaker list below.) The Kansas ecological ge-
nomics initiative comprises over 30 faculty from three
universities. Learn about their research, too.
Participants are invited to share their own research at
a poster session on Saturday. Poster topics are not lim-
ited to Ecological Genomics.
If you have any questions, please contact us at (785)
532-3482 or ecogen@ksu.edu. The attached brochure
and links for registration and hotel reservations are now
posted to our website, www.ksu.edu/ecogen . Please
share this announcement with colleagues and students
who are interested in learning more about the emerging
ﬁeld of Ecological Genomics.
Act now to ﬁnalize your Symposium registration and
hotel reservation before 5 p.m. on Tuesday, August
31st.
“Ecology in Genes, Genes in Ecology” Featured Speak-
ers: Joy Bergelson, University of Chicago, “The evolu-
tion of disease resistance in Arabidopsis” Hopi Hoek-
stra, University of California, San Diego, “Genetic ar-
chitecture of adaptive coloration in beach mice” Robert
B. Jackson, Duke University, “Ecological genomics and
ecosystems” Michael Lynch, Indiana University, “The
origins of genome complexity” Alison E. Murray, Desert
Research Institute, “Microbial genomics goes to the en-
vironment - where some like it hot, and others like
it cold” Michael Purugganan, North Carolina State
University, “Ecological genomics of Arabidopsis ﬂower-
ing” W. Kelley Thomas, Hubbard Center for Genome
Studies, University of New Hampshire, “Daphnia: An
emerging model system for ecological and evolutionary
genomics” Thomas G. Whitham, Merriam-Powell Cen-
ter for Environmental Research, Northern Arizona Uni-
versity, “Community and ecosystem genetics: A conse-
quence of the extended phenotype”
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas NSF
EPSCoR and The Kansas Technology Enterprise Cor-
poration.August 1, 2004 EvolDir 5
Thank you!
Doris R. Merrill Administrative Assistant Ecological
Genomics of Kansas KSU Division of Biology 231
Ackert Hall Manhattan, KS 66506-4901 Voice: 785-
532-3482 Fax: 785-532-6653 E-mail: dmerrill@ksu.edu
http://www.ksu.edu/ecogen/
Doris Merrill <dmerrill@ksu.edu >
Krakow EuropeanSocietyEvolBiol
2005
REMINDER: CALL FOR SYMPOSIA for the 10th
Congress of the European Society for Evolutionary Bi-
ology, Krakow, Poland, 2005
We would like to kindly inform that the dead-
line of symposia submission is July 31, 2004: All
submissions should be made by website http://-
www.eko.uj.edu.pl/eseb/ . Any enquiries should be
send to eseb2005@eko.uj.edu.pl with “symposium”
written as a subject.
INTERNET RESOURCES: Congress website: http:/-
/www.eko.uj.edu.pl/eseb/ Full text of symposia
call available at: http://www.eko.uj.edu.pl/eseb/-
call.html PDF version of symposia call: http://-
www.eko.uj.edu.pl/eseb/Call forsymposia.pdf
10th Congress of the European Society for
Evolutionary Biology Krakow, Poland, 2005
www: http://www.eko.uj.edu.pl/eseb/ email:
eseb2005@eko.uj.edu.pl
Leiden Endosymbionts Sep6
This is a ﬁrst announcement for the one-day sympo-
sium:
Acquired Genomes: Evolutionary consequences of en-
dosymbionts 6 september 2004 Leiden, The Nether-
lands
The role of symbiosis in the creation of biodiversity has
been amply demonstrated by Lynn Margulis in her re-
cent book Acquired Genomes and in her previous work
in which she has compiled convincing evidence that mi-
tochondria of the eukaryotic cell and chloroplasts inplant cells have evolved into essential organelles from
a free living micro-organisms. These acquired genomes
represent major innovative steps in evolution.
Exploring how the acquisition and domestication of ini-
tially free-living organisms proceeds is an exciting ﬁeld
of study. Intracellular symbionts and their eukaryotic
hosts have initially conﬂicting interests, and the evolu-
tionary arms races between them do not necessarily re-
sult in mutualistic relations between previous enemies,
as the Eukaryotes might lose the race and end up being
hijacked by the symbiont.
This symposium aims at bringing together researchers
in the ﬁeld of endosymbionts.
Conﬁrmed invited speakers (titles and abstracts will fol-
low, check the website http://wwwbio.leidenuniv.nl/-
˜eew/G1/index.html for details):
Lynn Margulis (University of Massachussets/Amherst,
U.S.A.) Fabrice Vavre (Universit´ e de Claude Bernard-
Lyon 1, France) Richard Stouthamer (University of
California Riverside, USA) Rob Butcher (University of
Bath, UK) Hans Breeuwer (University of Amsterdam,
The Netherlands) Bart Pannebakker (Leiden Univer-
sity, The Netherlands)
Contributed presentations in the form of poster pre-
sentations are welcome. Posterboards will be available
during the breaks.
Please registrer by sending an e-mail with your contact
details and whether you wish to present a poster to:
Gerdi Dijkstra: oecologie@rulsfb.leidenuniv.nl
We aim at keeping the symposium free of charge.
Kind regards,
Bart Pannebakker
Bart A. Pannebakker Institute of Biology - Leiden
University Van der Klaauw Laboratory - Section
of Animal Ecology / Section of Evolutionary Biol-
ogy P.O. Box 9516, 2300 RA Leiden, The Nether-
lands Tel. (+31) 71 527 4990 ; Fax (+31) 71 527
4900 Email: pannebakker@rulsfb.leidenuniv.nl http:/-
/wwwbio.leidenuniv.nl/˜pannebakker/index.html
Bart Pannebakker <pannebakker@rulsfb.leidenuniv.nl >
MEEGID VII
Dear All:6 EvolDir August 1, 2004
FINAL SCIENTIFIC PROGRAMME OF MEEGID
VII A total of 455 Abstracts have been accepted for
MEEGID VII, including papers for both MEEGID Ses-
sions and MEEGID-EMOP shared sessions. The Or-
ganising Committee apologies for the delay in making
this programme available, only due to several keynote
speakers sending their summaries very late (up to even
the beginning of July). The very large number of del-
egates makes it impossible to send an email to each
participant individually notifying details about their
communications. Therefore, we kindly request you to
look for the details in the entry “Deﬁnitive Scientiﬁc
Programme of MEEGID VII” of the NEWS of the
MEEGID VII web-site:
http://www.uv.es.emop9/MEEGID HOW TO KNOW
DATE, TIME, SESSION AND ROOM FOR YOUR
PRESENTATION(S) To ﬁnd a paper and know date,
time, session and room for presentation, proceed as fol-
lows: 1.- Enter in http://www.uv.es.emop9/MEEGID
2.- Click “Deﬁnitive Scientiﬁc Programme of MEEGID
VII” in the NEWS. 3.- Click MEEGID VII PRO-
GRAMME to directly obtain the whole MEEGID VII
Programme on your computer desktop (Acrobat Reader
ﬁle). 4.- In this Programme, MEEGID sessions include
Abstract Nos. 1-43 and can be easily followed by look-
ing at Plenary Sessions, Express Debates and MEEGID
Symposia directly at the beginning of the Programme,
as abstracts are numbered consecutively. 5.- MEEGID-
EMOP shared Symposia, Workshops and Monographic
Sessions include Abstracts Nos. 44-455. MEEGID-
EMOP shared communications show the MEEGID VII
number at left and the EMOP IX number at the end
of the title in parentheses. To know date, time, session
and room for presentation in MEEGID-EMOP shared
communications, whether download the MEEGID VII
PROGRAMME pdf ﬁle to your computer and simply
use search for name in your Acrobat Reader program
or go to the entry “Deﬁnitive Scientiﬁc Programme of
EMOP IX” in the NEWS of the EMOP web-site <<
http://www.uv.es/emop9 >> and follow the instruc-
tions noted by using the Author Index.
PRESENTATION GUIDELINES Details about com-
munications for (i) Keynote presentations, (ii) Express
debates, (iii) Oral papers and (iv) Poster presentations
available in the entry “Presentation Guidelines” in the
NEWS.
HONORARY COMMITTEE Already available in the
corresponding entry “Honorary Committee” in the
NEWS.
NEW INFORMATION Details on Doc Reception and
Last Registration, a modiﬁcation related to the Get
Together Party of Sunday July 18, the Time Tableand Transport for Social Events, and the Shuttle Ser-
vice available in the entry “Modif.& New Info” in the
NEWS.
According to the very large number of papers received
from very numerous delegates from countries from all
continents, we are pleased to say that this meeting has
been very successful. We hope you will enjoy the very
rich scientiﬁc programme and wish you a pleasant stay
in Valencia.
MEEGID VII Organising Committee
Marseilles EvolBiol
Dear all,
The 8th evolutionary biology meeting’s preliminary
program is already aviable for consultation on our
web site www.up.univ-mrs.fr/evol/congres and we in-
vite you to come and see it!
Considering the great number of participants to this
new appointment, we had this year to look for a new
place to meet and found a very conveniant localisa-
tion near the main train station of the town. Thus,
the meeting will take place at Saint Charles University,
place you will also be able to discover on our web site.
To conclude, we draw your attention to the fact that
you still have the possibility to present one poster,
therefore, we invite you not to hesitate if you wish to
do so.
Hoping hearing from you very soon,
Gaelle, for the organizers of the 8th evolutionary biol-
ogy meeting. congres evolution@hotmail.com
Marseilles EvolBiol Sep22-24 2
Association pour l’´ etude de l’´ evolution biologique. Uni-
versit´ e Aix-Marseille I centre Saint Charles Laboratoire
EGEE (Evolution, G´ enome, Environnement) 3 place
Victor Hugo 13331 Marseille cedex 03 FRANCE
Dear colleagues, I inform you that the deﬁnitive scien-
tiﬁc program of the 8th evolutionary biology meeting at
Marseilles as well as the social events are now avaibleAugust 1, 2004 EvolDir 7
onhttp://www.up.univ-mrs.fr/evol/congres/ . More-
over, we exceptionaly still accept a few inscription for
posters. If you were interested, please send us an ab-
stract and register directly on the meeting web site.
Best regards,
Pierre Pontarotti. congres evolution@hotmail.com
NorthCarolina SEEPAGE Sept10-12
SEEPAGE 2004
September 10-12, Swannanoa, North Carolina
Please note the corrected URL for the SEEPAGE 2004
website:
http://salamander.uky.edu/SEEPAGE/ David
Weisrock, Ph.D. University of Kentucky T.
H. Morgan School of Biological Sciences
http://salamander.uky.edu David Weisrock
<weisrock@uky.edu >
QuebecCity PlantGenomics
Aug29-Sep1
Final Announcement The 2nd Canadian Plant Ge-
nomics Workshop is being held in Qu´ ebec City, August
29 - September 1st 2004, at the Loews Le Concorde
Hotel.
Keynote Speakers: Marc Vidal, Harvard Medical
School, Boston MA Interactome Networks John Quack-
enbush, The Institute for Genomic Research, Rockville,
MD Expression proﬁling for the analysis of biological
systems Joseph Ecker, The Salk Institute, La Jolla, CA
Genome-wide discovery of transcription units and func-
tional elements in Arabidopsis James Zhang, Mendel
Biotechnologies, Hayward, CA Functional genomics of
plant transcription factors - from Arabidopsis in the lab
to tomatoes in the ﬁeld Fathey Sarhan, Universit´ e du
Qu´ ebec ` a Montr´ eal, Montr´ eal, QC Functional genomics
and discovery of novel genes associated with abiotic
stresses in cereals Gerald Tuskan, Oak Ridge National
Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN The International Populus
Genome Consortium Intended to promote and enhance
networking, this workshop will bring together renownedinternational and Canadian genomics researchers, all
within the context of one of the most historic cities in
North America. Functional genomics will be the major
theme, with prominent speakers addressing a diverse
range of subjects, spanning from the C. elegans inter-
actome to the International Populus Genome Consor-
tium. Morning symposia will be followed by concurrent
workshops in the afternoon that will address a number
of technical and biological topics. These will include
proteomics, metabolomics, transgenomics, expression
proﬁling and bioinformatics.
Deadline for the reduced rate for the Loews Le Con-
corde hotel (800-463-5256) has been extended to Thurs-
day, 29July04 and the early registration extended to
30July04.
The complete program, registration instructions, list of
partners and organizing committee members are avail-
able at www.cpgw-acgp.ca .<<Final Announcement-
En.pdf >>
“Rutledge, Bob” <BRutledge@exchange.cﬂ.forestry.ca >
ReadingUK PopGenetics Dec14-17
This is a preliminary announcement that the the 38th
Population Genetics Group Meeting (Pop Group) will
be held in Reading, UK, from the evening of Tuesday
14 December to lunchtime Friday 17 December, 2004.
Invited speakers are
Rasmus Nielsen (Cornell/Copenhagen) Steve Oliver
(Manchester) Sara Via (Maryland)
The cost of board and lodging plus conference fee will
be around 190 GBP. Registration details will be an-
nounced at the beginning of August.
Mark Beaumont
– Mark A. Beaumont, School of Animal and Microbial
Sciences, University of Reading, Whiteknights, P.O.
Box 228, Reading RG6 6AJ, UK
Tel 0118 987 5123 X 7707 Fax 0118 931 0180
Email: m.a.beaumont@reading.ac.uk WWW: http://-
www.rubic.rdg.ac.uk/˜mab/8 EvolDir August 1, 2004
SandbjergDenmark EvolStress
Aug22-26 2
Second announcement:
Symposium
Progress in Environmental Stress, Adaptation and Evo-
lution
August 22-26, 2004 at Sandbjerg, Denmark
Sponsors:
European Society of Evolutionary Biology (ESEB)
Center for Environmental Stress Research and Faculty
of Sciences, University of Aarhus (DK)
Aim:
Most organisms and populations have to cope with hos-
tile environments, threatening their existence. Their
ability to respond phenotypically and genetically to
these challenges and to evolve adaptive mechanisms is,
therefore, crucial. The aim of the symposium is to un-
derstand, from an evolutionary perspective, the impact
of stress on biological systems. We have invited speak-
ers that at diﬀerent organizational levels, from genes
to individuals and populations, explore how organisms
adapt to (extreme) environments genetically and phys-
iologically, how stress changes genetic structure and af-
fects life histories and how environmental and genetic
stress shape selection pressure and causes extinction of
populations.
These issues have already been dealt with in a sym-
posium on stress and evolutionduring the 5th Interna-
tional Congress of Evolutionary Biology and System-
atics in Budapest (1966), and in the end resulted in
a book edited by us Environmental Stress, Adaptation
and Evolution (1997)published in the Birkh¨ auser EXS
series (EXS 83). It is now nearly ten years later and
knowledge and (genomic) techniques in this research
ﬁeld have progressed rapidly. Therefore, we are think-
ing a follow-up to be timely and are organising this
small, 3 day symposium on the same issues
Structure:
The number of participants will be limited to around
50, of which 15 are reserved for invited speakers (for list
see below). There will be room for maximal 40 presen-
tations of which 25 are open for contributed talks (25
min.). In conjunction with the symposium a specialthematic issue of the Journal of Evolutionary Biology
will be published on the topic that will contain high
quality papers by the invited speakers. In addition, it
will be possible for contributed papers to be included
in this special issue of JEB. This will ensure that the
papers get lots of exposure in this thematic setting. Pa-
pers for the special issue will be selected by the organis-
ers of the symposium and the chief editor of JEB, Juha
Merila. Mind that all manuscripts, including those of
the invited speakers, will not be treated favourably for
this special issue. They are subject to normal, rigor-
ous peer-review and scope limits of the journal: they
have to address important evolutionary, and not purely
functional, problems.
Participation:
Those that are interested in the symposium topic
and want to participate and/or present a paper are
kindly invited to contact the organisers from now
on. Please do send your application to Corneel
Vermeulen ( <mailto:c.j.vermeulen@biol.rug.nl >
c.j.vermeulen@biol.rug.nl) who will collect
and structure applications (but for safety
do send also a cc to both Volker Loeschcke
(<mailto:volker.loeschcke@biology.au.dk >
volker.loeschcke@biology.au.dk) and Kuke
Bijlsma ( <mailto:r.bijlsma@biol.rug.nl >
r.bijlsma@biol.rug.nl)), not later than the 7th of
June. As we, in addition to the invited speakers,
can only accommodate around 35 participants, the
symposium might easily become full. If this is
the case the organisers will select participants and
contributions that seem to ﬁt that symposium and
the special volume of JEB the best. Therefore it is
important that tentative participants provide a few
lines about their research interests, and if they want to
present a contribution, please provide also a title and
a substantial abstract (up to 200 words). Membership
of ESEB is not prerequisite, but gives a discount of the
conference fee and might give some priority.
Practical information:
Title: Progress in Environmental Stress, Adaptation
and Evolution
Date: August 22-26, 2004
Deadline: June 7, 2004 (you will hear about acceptance
not later than June 15, 2004).
Organisers: Volker Loeschcke, Dept. of Ecology and
Genetics, University of Aarhus (DK)
Kuke Bijlsma, Evolutionary Genetics, University of
Groningen (NL)
Place: Sandbjerg Manor House, in the south of Jutland,August 1, 2004 EvolDir 9
Denmark. This is a conference centre of the Univer-
sity of Aarhus in a very nice and rural setting, easily
reached by train and plane. For info see: <http://-
www.sandbjerg.dk/en/ >www.sandbjerg.dk/en/ .
Participants: maximal number approximately 50 (ex-
cept for some invited speakers allotted to ESEB mem-
bers).
Costs: The conference fee is Euro 450 for ESEB mem-
bers Euro 550 for non-members. (Thus ESEB members
get a discount of Euro 100, which is more than twice
the yearly membership fee including the printed version
of
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
SandbjergDenmark EvolStress
Aug22-26 3
Due to late withdrawl we have still 3 to 4 places vacant
for the ESEB sponsored workshop on environmental
stress, adaptation and evolution, Aug. 22-26, Sandb-
jerg, Denmark; for further information on the sympo-
sium see below; if you are interested to attend, send
asap an email to Corneel with cc to Kuke and me (for
email addresses see below); if you want to give an oral
presentation, also send an abstract; we will accept on
ﬁrs com ﬁrst served basis to ﬁll the last spots. kind
regards Kuke and Volker
Symposium:
Progress in Environmental Stress, Adaptation and Evo-
lution
August 22-26, 2004 at Sandbjerg, Denmark
Sponsors:
European Society of Evolutionary Biology (ESEB)
Faculty of Sciences and Center for Environmental Stress
Research, University of Aarhus (DK)
Aim:
Most organisms and populations have to cope with hos-
tile environments, threatening their existence. Their
ability to respond phenotypically and genetically to
these challenges and to evolve adaptive mechanisms is,therefore, crucial. The aim of the symposium is to un-
derstand, from an evolutionary perspective, the impact
of stress on biological systems. We have invited speak-
ers that at diﬀerent organizational levels, from genes
to individuals and populations, explore how organisms
adapt to (extreme) environments genetically and phys-
iologically, how stress changes genetic structure and af-
fects life histories and how environmental and genetic
stress shape selection pressure and causes extinction of
populations.
These issues have already been dealt with in a sympo-
sium on stress and evolution during the 5th Interna-
tional Congress of Evolutionary Biology and System-
atics in Budapest (1966), and in the end resulted in
a book edited by us Environmental Stress, Adaptation
and Evolution (1997) published in the Birkh¨ auser EXS
series (EXS 83). It is now nearly ten years later and
knowledge and (genomic) techniques in this research
ﬁeld have progressed rapidly. Therefore, we are think-
ing a follow-up to be timely and are organising this
small, 3 day symposium on the same issues
Structure:
The number of participants will be limited to around
50, of which 15 are reserved for invited speakers (for list
see below). There will be room for maximal 40 presen-
tations of which 25 are open for contributed talks (25
min.). In conjunction with the symposium a special
thematic issue of the Journal of Evolutionary Biology
will be published on the topic that will contain high
quality papers by the invited speakers. In addition, it
will be possible for contributed papers to be included
in this special issue of JEB. This will ensure that the
papers get lots of exposure in this thematic setting. Pa-
pers for the special issue will be selected by the organis-
ers of the symposium and the chief editor of JEB, Juha
Merila. Mind that all manuscripts, including those of
the invited speakers, will not be treated favourably for
this special issue. They are subject to normal, rigor-
ous peer-review and scope limits of the journal: they
have to address important evolutionary, and not purely
functional, problems.
Participation:
Those that are interested in the symposium topic
and want to participate and/or present a paper are
kindly invited to contact the organisers from now
on. Please do send your application asap to Corneel
Vermeulen ( <mailto:c.j.vermeulen@biol.rug.nl >
c.j.vermeulen@biol.rug.nl) who will collect
and structure applications (but for safety
do send also a cc to both Volker Loeschcke
(<mailto:volker.loeschcke@biology.au.dk >
volker.loeschcke@biology.au.dk) and Kuke10 EvolDir August 1, 2004
Bijlsma ( <mailto:r.bijlsma@biol.rug.nl >
r.bijlsma@biol.rug.nl)). As we, in addition to the
invited speakers, can only accommodate around 35
participants, the symposium might easily become over-
booked. If this is the case the organisers will select
participants and contributions that seem to ﬁt that
symposium and the special volume of JEB the best.
Therefore it is important that tentative participants
provide a few lines about their research interests, and
if they want to present a contribution, please provide
also a title and a substantial abstract (up to 200
words). Membership of ESEB is not prerequisite, but
gives a discount of the conference fee and might give
some priority.
Practical information:
Title: Progress in Environmental Stress, Adaptation
and Evolution
Date: August 22-26, 2004
Organisers: Volker Loeschcke, Dept. of Ecology and
Genetics, University of Aarhus (DK)
Kuke Bijlsma, Evolutionary Genetics, University of
Groningen (NL)
Place: Sandbjerg Manor House, in the south of Jutland,
Denmark. This is a conference centre of the University
of Aarhus in a very nice and rural setting, easily reached
by train and plane. For info see:/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Shropshire EvolBiol Aug29-Sept3
Final announcement for participants
10th Meeting of PhD Students in Evolutionary Biol-
ogy 29th August-3rd September 2004 Preston Montford
Field Centre, Shropshire, UK
There are around 15 places still available on this con-
ference. It aims to bring together PhD students from
all over Europe to discuss current topics in evolution-
ary biology; topics range from molecular evolution to
conservation biology.
Please see http://students.bath.ac.uk/bspght for fur-
ther details. As the conference is quite soon please
note that, once registration has been conﬁrmed, pay-
ment should be set up within 5 days.
GradStudentPositions
France INRA AnimalGenomeExpression . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Leuven FishGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Paris EvoDevo NerveCells . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
UBern AdaptiveRadiation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
UEastAnglia MHC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
UEdinburgh GenomeAnalysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14UNewSouthWales ConservationBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
UPotsdam EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
USussex NeuralGeneEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
UWalesBangor ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
France INRA
AnimalGenomeExpressionDear colleagues,
We are pleased to inform you that the INRA Jouy-en-
Josas research centre site ( www.jouy.inra.fr ) has been
accepted as a Marie Curie Early Stage Training siteAugust 1, 2004 EvolDir 11
in the ﬁeld of the Regulation and Variability of Ani-
mal Genome Expression (named the RIVAGE project)
. We will soon welcome several students for Ph.Ds
and shorter training stages. You will ﬁnd more infor-
mations at the following internet address: http://mc-
opportunities.cordis.lu/results.cfm fellowships number:
63 to 75
Information on the RIVAGE project will be posted
at the following address: http://www.jouy.inra.fr/-
europe/rivage/index.shtml Eligibility conditions are
explained at http://europa.eu.int/comm/research/-
fp6/mariecurie-actions/action/level en.html# we are
a non-international organisation and a mono partner
EST .
At present, 5 Ph-D fellowships are open to european
students :
Genetic variability and immunity in hens, contact
pinard@dga2.jouy.inra.fr
Replication or propagation of TSE infectious agent:
role of speciﬁc cell types contact vilotte@jouy.inra.fr
Mechanisms involved in melanoma regression, contact
VINCENTN@dsvidf.cea.fr
Genome expression and cell diﬀerentiation, contact vi-
gnon@jouy.inra.fr
Role of fatty acids in embryonic development, contact
Gilles.Charpigny@jouy.inra.fr
If you are aware of students that could be inter-
ested, could you please pass on the information to
them. Please do not hesitate to contact us at ri-
vage@jouy.inra.fr
Thanking you very much in advance for your help,
Yours sincerely,
On behalf of the RIVAGE committee, Etienne Verrier
–
Prof. Etienne VERRIER verrier@inapg.fr UMR Gene-
tique et Diversite Animales INA Paris-Grignon /
Depnt. Sciences Animales / GER Genetique Elevage
et Reproduction INRA / Depnt. Genetique Animale
16 rue Claude Bernard, 75235 PARIS cedex 05, France
verrier@inapg.fr
Leuven FishGenomics
MARINE GENOMICS EUROPE FP6 Network of Ex-cellence funded by the European Commission
PhD studentship in bioinformatics and ﬁsh genomics
A 3 year PhD studentship funded by the FP6
NoE “Marine Genomics Europe” ( <http://-
www.sb-roscoﬀ.fr/marine-genomics-europe/MGE-
PhD-announcement-KULeuven.pdf >http://www.sb-
roscoﬀ.fr/marine-genomics-europe/MGE-PhD-
announcement-KULeuven . pdf) is available at
the Laboratory of Aquatic Ecology of the Katholieke
Universiteit Leuven starting 1 October 2004. Topic:
analysis of EST data from seabass and seabream.
Initial training in bioinformatics and programming
will be provided at Bielefeld University (Prof. Folker
Meyer) and advanced training in genomic analysis at
NERC-British Antarctic Survey (dr. Melody Clark).
You will have access to the “Marine Genomics Europe”
ﬁsh EST data and in doing so will work closely with
CCMAR, Univ. do Algarve, Faro (Prof. Adelino
Canario). You will learn how to automatically analyse,
annotate and submit EST data and prepare a database
to combine the ﬁsh ESTs. Examples of analysis
include: overall statistics, gene discovery/diversity
ratios, gene content by tissue, gene functional content,
comparative analysis of both the seabass and seabream
ESTs, cluster analysis, polymorphism screening,
plus comparison to publicly available data in Fugu,
Zebraﬁsh and Medaka. There will be time to follow
a related project of his/her own choosing such as
population SNP frequencies.
The K.U.Leuven was founded in 1325 and has a
student enrollment of 28,000. Leuven ( <http://-
www.leuven.be/ >http://www.leuven.be ) is an histori-
cal university town with a very high and pleasant stan-
dard of living.
Candidates with a M.Sc. or equivalent in either life
or engineering sciences and some training in bioin-
formatics, a very strong academic record, an inter-
est in marine sciences and perfect knowledge of En-
glish (TOEFL score of at least 580), should send a
letter of motivation, their CV (including course tran-
scripts) and three letters of recommendation before 15
August 2004 to: Prof. Filip Volckaert Katholieke Uni-
versiteit Leuven Laboratory of Aquatic Ecology, Re-
search Group on Fish Genetics Ch. de B´ eriotstraat 32
B-3000 Leuven, BELGIUM Phone: +32 16 32 39 72
(oﬃce) or +32 16 32 39 66 (secretariat) Fax: +32 16
32 45 75 <mailto:ﬁlip.volckaert@bio.kuleuven.ac.be >
Mailto:ﬁlip.volckaert@bio.kuleuven.ac.be
URL:<http://www.kuleuven.ac.be/bio/eco >http://-
www.kuleuven.ac.be/bio/eco >12 EvolDir August 1, 2004
Paris EvoDevo NerveCells
Paris, EvoDevo Nerve cell
Ph-D position in Universite Pierre et Marie Curie, Paris
A three years Ph-D fellowship is available in our team
“Evolution and Development” (Department Systemat-
ics, Evolution, Adaptation), University Pierre et Marie
Curie, Paris, to work on the origin and early evolu-
tion of nerve cells. The work will aim at isolating
and characterizing molecules involved in the process
of neuronal diﬀerentiation in selected species of phyla
Ctenophora and Cnidaria. Currently we work with
Pleurobrachia pileus (a ctenophoran), Clytia hemis-
phaerica and Podocoryne carnea (hydrozoan cnidari-
ans). Experimental strategies will involve the search
for homologues of key molecules, known from bilate-
rian models to act in neuronal diﬀerentiation, by PCR
search and through the analysis of EST sequences (4000
EST sequences from P. pileus and 4000 from C. hemis-
phaerica will be available next fall at the beginning of
the Ph-D). Candidate molecules will be further charac-
terized through expression pattern studies and func-
tional experiments (mRNA injection, RNAi / mor-
pholino). Together with embryos and adults of the
model species, gene function will be tested in the con-
text of in vitro transdiﬀentiation of jellyﬁsh muscle cells
into neurons. Results will be interpreted in a phyloge-
netic framework in order to formulate hypotheses on the
origin and early evolution of nerve cells. Our collabora-
tions include Evelyn Houliston (Villefranche, France),
Volker Schmidt (Bale, Switzerland) and Mark Martin-
dale (Hawai, USA). The Ph-D will start at the begin-
ning of next October. The salary will be 1 040 &#8364;
monthly. Candidates should be under 25 years old at
the end of 2004, and be citizens of the European Union,
or at least they should have obtained their Master de-
gree in a country belonging to the European Union
or one of the following European countries: Andorra,
Bulgaria, Croatia, Russia, Iceland, Norway,Rumania,
Switzerland, Turkey, Vatican. Candidates should be
highly motivated and have a good background in de-
velopmental biology and genetics, and an experience
with molecular biology techniques. Competences in
zoology, phylogeny and genomics will be appreciated.
To apply send a CV, motivation letter and a letter of
recommendation to Michael.Manuel@snv.jussieu.fr (or
by post mail to the address below) before August 25.
There will be an interview of pre-selected candidates onMonday 6th September in Paris.
Dr. Michael MANUEL Maitre de Conferences (As-
sistant Professor) Universite Pierre et Marie Curie
(Paris 6) Equipe Evolution et Developpement, UMR
7138 “Systematique, Adaptation, Evolution” Bat. B,
7eme etage, piece 705 9 quai St Bernard 75 005 Paris,
FRANCE
tel. 33 (0) 1 44 27 34 69 33 (0) 6 14 65 48 05 fax 33 (0)
1 44 27 32 58 e-mail Michael.Manuel@snv.jussieu.fr
“ ( Michael Manuel 25/04/2001 ) ”
<mmanuel@snv.jussieu.fr >
UBern AdaptiveRadiation
Two PhD positions in Ecology and Genetics of Adap-
tive Radiation
Two 3-years PhD projects are available in the research
group of Ole Seehausen in both the Aquatic Ecology
section of the Institute of Zoology, University of Bern,
Switzerland and the Limnological Research Station of
the EAWAG, Kastanienbaum, Switzerland, to investi-
gate the interaction between ecological processes and
geographical events in the speciation and adaptive di-
versiﬁcation of whiteﬁsh (Coregonidae) in alpine lakes.
One PhD project would involve building a molecular
phylogeny for many populations and ecotypes of alpine
coregonids using AFLPs and mitochondrial DNA se-
quence variation and collection of morphological and
ecological data for the same populations. The data
will be used to reconstruct colonization and hybridiza-
tion scenarios and test hypotheses for morphological
and ecological adaptation. Another project will re-
volve around quantiﬁcation of ecological resource pro-
ﬁles available for whiteﬁsh populations in diﬀerent lakes
and experimental quantiﬁcation of diet preference pro-
ﬁles to generate adaptive landscapes. These will be
used to predict ecological whiteﬁsh diversity. Morpho-
logical and ecological diversity and gene ﬂow (molecu-
lar markers) will be quantiﬁed between ecotypes within
lakes, and will be compared with predictions derived
from the environment.
We are looking for enthusiastic, dedicated students
with a master’s degree or equivalent (e.g. Diplom) in
Biology and background in evolutionary and ecological
theory and/or population genetics. The phylogeny
project will involve a large amount of work in the
laboratory, extracting DNA, PCR, fragment separationAugust 1, 2004 EvolDir 13
and sequencing on automated sequencers, genetic data
analysis and phylogenetic methods. The project will
also involve morphometric data collection and analysis
and some ﬁeldwork for collection of samples. Some
experience in the molecular lab and/or with genetic
data analysis will be advantagous. The population
project will involve work in the molecular lab too,
but will also have a large component of ﬁeld work
in Swiss lakes, morphometrics, and a component of
experimental work with life ﬁsh in aquaria. Expe-
rience with quantitative aquatic ﬁeld work, and/or
morphometric or population genetic data analysis will
be advantageous, as will be experience with handling
and maintaining life ﬁsh. A clean driving licence will
be required, and a diving licence might be helpful.
Both students must be able to work independently,
as well as in small teams. They will interact with
the large community of population biologists, ecol-
ogists and geneticists at the Institute of Zoology
(<http://www.zoology.unibe.ch/index.php >http://-
www.zoology.unibe.ch/index.php ) and the population
and system ecologists at the Limnological Re-
search Station ( <http://www.eawag.ch/research e/-
kastanienbaum/e index.html >http://www.eawag.ch/-
research e/kastanienbaum/e index.html ). Besides
research, PhD students are expected to contribute to
undergraduate teaching and supervision (teaching load
not exceeding 10 percent of working time). Salaries
will be according to Swiss National Science Foundation
(SNF) salary schemes.
Conceptual background: The theory of speciation has
often been polarized between the views that speciation
is driven by external (geographical) events that isolate
populations, or by environmental pressures and eco-
logical processes within populations. The geographi-
cal hypothesis came to the forefront during the modern
synthesis and dominated speciation theory for several
decades. The ecological hypothesis, which originated
in the early days of evolutionary theory, has seen a re-
vival in the last decade. The mechanisms associated
with these alternative ideas have often been studied
in isolation, except in the framework of reinforcement.
A diﬀerent and possibly more general form of interac-
tion between ecological processes and external events
is now in discussion: that the merging of lineages after
periods of independent evolution (hybridization) gen-
erates populations with genetic properties that allow
adaptive sympatric diversiﬁcation in response to eco-
logical pressures, and that are unlikely to arise in con-
tinuously panmictic populations. Although speciation
would be sympatric, driven by ecology, transient geo-
graphical isolation would generate the genetic variation
that makes adaptive evolutionary responses possible.Our research group been investigating the adaptive ra-
diations of African cichlid ﬁsh, e.g. the roles of ecology,
historical contingency and hybridization in speciation.
Alpine radiations of salmoniform ﬁsh are
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UEastAnglia MHC
Gastrointestinal parasites, MHC genes and ﬁtness in a
wild avian population
Within vertebrates, the major histocompatibility com-
plex (MHC) genes within an individual determine how
well it copes with the array of parasites it encoun-
ters in its environment. An individuals’ ﬁtness (sur-
vival and reproductive success) will therefore, at least
in part, depend upon the MHC genes it contains. Gas-
trointestinal parasites (GI) occur worldwide and can
be extremely detrimental to the ﬁtness of individuals.
Few studies have assessed the impact of GI parasites
from an evolutionary perspective, and even fewer have
taken into account the aﬀect of the MHC. None have
done so using birds. This project will investigate the
aﬀect of GI parasites and their interaction with the
MHC in the simple and isolated system provided by the
Cousin Island population of Seychelles warbler (Acro-
cephalus sechellensis). PCR-based molecular protocols
will be used to screen MHC, while microscopic inves-
tigation of eggs within faecal samples will provide a
non-invasive method for determining the intensity of
GI parasites within individuals. Fieldwork to continue
the population monitoring and the collection of samples
and ﬁtness data will be done in conjunction with the
Seychelles warbler research project team. The results
will contribute towards determining the importance of
MHC variation and parasite-mediated selection in wild
animal populations.
Dr David S. Richardson and Prof. Jan Komdeur:
Jointly funded by UEA and JK (University of Gronin-
gen, Holland) for three years starting January 2005.
Further details
We are looking for an enthusiastic, dedicated and re-
silient student with an interest in evolutionary and
molecular ecology. The student will spend a large part14 EvolDir August 1, 2004
of their time in the laboratory, isolating parasite eggs
from faeces, extracting DNA and using basic molec-
ular techniques such as PCR and DGGE. Therefore,
although not essential, molecular lab experience will be
an advantage, as will good organisational skills. Field-
work will be for 2-3 months per year and, as the ﬁeld
site is small and isolated, the student must be able to
work well independently, or within a small group. The
studentship will be based at UEA with D. S. Richard-
son, but will visit Groningen each year.
This PhD is being re-advertised as the start date has
now been delayed until January 2005. Previous appli-
cants do not need to re-apply. This position is open to
all EU citizens. Although there is no oﬃcial deadline
please apply ASAP. We expect to interview candidates
in early September
Please send the completed UEA application form, two
references (completed reference forms) ASAP. Both
forms and application details are available at http://-
www.uea.ac.uk/bio/studentships/welcome.html When
complete, please sign, date and return the form with all
the necessary documentation to:
Graduate Studies Oﬃce +44 (0)1603 593002
Science Group Fax +44 (0)1603 593045
University of East Anglia Email scipg@uea.ac.uk
Norwich NR4 7TJ UK Web site 0000,0000,FF00 http:/-
/www.uea.ac.uk For informal enquiries contact
Dr. David S. Richardson
Telephone 01603 591496
email david.richardson@uea.ac.uk
FAX 01603 592250
Dr. David S. Richardson School of Biological Sciences,
University of East Anglia, Norwich NR4 7TJ England
Telephone 01603 591496 email
david.richardson@uea.ac.uk FAX 01603 592250
UEdinburgh GenomeAnalysis
Dear Everyone
The MSc Quantitative Genetics and Genome Analysis
course ( www.QGen.co.uk ) at the University of Edin-
burgh has been awarded 3 BBSRC and 6 NERC stu-
dentships from September to students from the UK.
This year there has been a high number of non-UK stu-dents applying to attend the MSc course and for some
reason a low number of UK applicants.
As a result, there are three NERC studentships cur-
rently unallocated and I would appreciate if you could
direct any students, whose interests lay in the relevant
subject area, towards the MSc course.
Many thanks Neil Cameron
———————————————————–
Neil Cameron Institute of Cell, Animal and Population
Biology University of Edinburgh King’s Buildings,
West Mains Road, Edinburgh EH9 3JT Direct line
+44 131 650 5490 FAX +44 131 650 6564 E-mail
n.cameron@ed.ac.uk Web www.QGen.co.uk
———————————————————–
UNewSouthWales
ConservationBiology
2 x Ph. D. positions (ARC Australian Postgraduate
Awards-Industry)
Conserving our Carnivores: the application of molecu-
lar genetics to the conservation management of quolls
The University of New South Wales, in conjunction
with its research partners (NSW Department of Envi-
ronment and Conservation, Vic Department of Sustain-
ability and Environment, WA Department of Conser-
vation and Land Management, NT Department of In-
frastructure, Planning and Environment, Environment
ACT, TAS Department of Primary Industries, Wa-
ter and Environment, and the Zoological Parks Board
of New South Wales) is seeking two PhD students
in molecular ecology, population genetics and forensic
identiﬁcation of quolls.
Quolls, the largest native marsupial predators on main-
land Australia, occupy a pivotal ecological niche. All
species are declining and are threatened by a variety
of interacting environmental processes. This program
brings together seven wildlife agencies in a nationwide
partnership for understanding and protecting quolls.
We will provide new genetic data to test current pop-
ulation and conservation theories using four species of
quolls as model taxa to inform us about past histories of
populations and to measure parameters of importance
to on-ground managers. Results of these projects will
help guide management practices for both short- and
long-term conservation of these species.August 1, 2004 EvolDir 15
Both scholarships oﬀer an annual tax-free stipend of
$23,294, relocation and thesis production expenses, and
ample ﬁeld work in spectacular but remote and rugged
regions. These positions are available from July 2004.
Applicants must be permanent residents in Australia
or Australian/NZ citizens and should hold a ﬁrst class
honours degree, or equivalent qualiﬁcation in a disci-
pline such as molecular ecology, conservation genetics,
ecology or a related ﬁeld. Interested applicants should
submitted a cover letter with a detailed CV (including
two referees) to Dr Karen Firestone, Zoological Parks
Board of New South Wales, PO Box 20, Mosman, NSW
2088. Applications will be accepted until the positions
are ﬁlled. Further details and enquiries should be di-
rected to kﬁrestone@zoo.nsw.gov.au or phone (02) 9978
4608.
Dr. Karen Firestone
Conservation Biologist Adjunct Lecturer Zoological
Parks Board of NSW Biological Earth & Environmen-
tal Sciences PO Box 20 University of NSW Mosman,
NSW 2088 Sydney, NSW 2052 Australia Australia
ph: +61 2 9978 4608 ph: +61 2 9385 2198 fax:
+61 2 9978 4613 fax: +61 2 9385 1558 email: kﬁre-
stone@zoo.nsw.gov.au email: kﬁrestone@unsw.edu.au
“Firestone, Karen” <KFirestone@zoo.nsw.gov.au >
UPotsdam EvolBiol
PhD grant for 30 months (prolongation possible)
A PhD grant for 30 months (prolongation possible) is
immediately available in the newly established gradu-
ate school “Earth Surface Processes”:
“Recent and fossil DNA as indicators of past environ-
mental change”
In this project, the distribution of limnic organisms will
be assessed in lake sediments of diﬀerente age (recent to
several 10,000 years old), making use of modern molec-
ular genetic techniques. The project objective is to re-
veal the impact of climatic change on limnic organisms.
This is a joint project of the Institute of Biochemistry
and Biology and the Institute of Geosciences at the Uni-
versity of Potsdam.
Applicants must hold a university degree (Diplom oder
Master of Science, preferably in biology or biochem-
istry). They should appreciate interdisciplinary re-
search. Familiarity with modern molecular genetictechniques (PCR etc.) is desired.
The University of Potsdam is an equal opportunity em-
ployer. If equally qualiﬁed, disabled applicants will be
preferably considered. The University of Potsdam aims
at increasing the number of female researchers and en-
courages qualiﬁed females to apply.
Please send your application before 31st of July 2004
to: Prof. Dr. Ralph Tiedemann, University of Pots-
dam, Institute of Biochemistry and Biology, Evolution-
ary Biology/Systematic Zoology, Karl-Liebknecht-Str.
24-25, Haus 26, D-14476 Potsdam, Germany, Email:
tiedeman@rz.uni-potsdam.de
Prof. Dr. Ralph Tiedemann Universitaet Pots-
dam Institut fuer Biochemie und Biologie Evolutions-
biologie/Spezielle Zoologie Karl-Liebknecht-Str. 24-
25, Haus 25 D-14476 Potsdam Germany Tel: +49-
331-977-5249, -5253 (Sekretariat) Fax: +49-331-
977-5070 Email tiedeman@rz.uni-potsdam.de http://-
www.bio.uni-potsdam.de/spezzoo/index.htm
USussex NeuralGeneEvol
The University of Sussex has a BBSRC funded PhD
position open for this coming year on the “Evolution
of Neural Genes”. The content of the project is
ﬂexible but topics which might be considered are
adaptive evolution of neural genes, and the evolu-
tion of neural gene speciﬁc anti-sense RNA genes.
The PhD will be supervised by Adam Eyre-Walker
(http://www.lifesci.sussex.ac.uk/CSE/members/-
aeyrewalker/ aeyrewalker.htm) and Michael O’Shea
(http://www.sussex.ac.uk/biology/proﬁle2007.html ).
It is funded by the BBSRC so UK citizens receive
fees and a stipend (EU citizens only get their fees
paid). Please send a CV to Adam Eyre-Walker
(a.c.eyre-walker@sussex.ac.uk) with a list of three
referees. Applications must be received by the end of
end of July.
Adam Eyre-Walker Centre for the Study of Evolution
& School of Biological Sciences University of Sussex
Brighton BN1 9QG
tel : 01273 67848016 EvolDir August 1, 2004
UWalesBangor
ConservationGenetics
UWales Bangor: Conservation genetics/forensics stu-
dentship
Title: The development and application of genetic
markers for wildlife forensics.
University of Wales Bangor, School of Biological Sci-
ences. PhD Studentship available to eligible EU per-
sons with an intended start date of 4 Oct 2004.
The supervisor Prof. R.S. Thorpe and the small busi-
ness sponsor is Wildlife DNA Services Limited.Project outline: This project aims to explore the ap-
plication of population genetic markers to the problem
of individual identiﬁcation in wildlife crime. The work
will focus on investigating the ability of species-speciﬁc
markers to discriminate between closely related indi-
viduals, and determining the minimum size of reference
population necessary to present DNA proﬁles as foren-
sic evidence. Some work will be carried out on birds of
prey but the remit is broader.
For application forms contact Stu-
dentship.enquiries@sbs.bangor.ac.uk it is in-
tended to lodge further information on http://-
biology.bangor.ac.uk/research/opportunities/ –
Professor R S Thorpe School of Biological Sciences
University of Wales Bangor Gwynedd LL57 2UW
Tel 01248 382312 Fax 01248 371644 email
r.s.thorpe@bangor.ac.uk
“Prof. R S Thorpe” <r.s.thorpe@bangor.ac.uk >
Jobs
ETHZurich HostParasite . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
LeidenU Phycologist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
LincolnU Entomology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
MelbourneU GeneticsLecturer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
NSF Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
PurdueU LabManager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Seattle FishGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
UAlaska Fairbanks MammalianEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
UAngers EvolBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
UBritishColumbia MicrobialGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20UFribourg EcolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
UHawaii Tech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
UHawaiiHilo TempAssistProf . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
UHouston EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
ULausanne ResTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
UMontreal programmer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
UMuenster PlantEvolEcol 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
UNebraska Fisheries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
URochester ResearchTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
ETHZurich HostParasite
ASSISTANT POSITION Evolutionary ecology of host-
parasite interactions
ETH Zurich
We seek to ﬁll the position of an Assistant (senior re-searcher) in the group of Ecology & Evolution (Exper-
imental Ecology, P. Schmid-Hempel). The ideal can-
didate works in the ﬁeld of evolutionary ecology of
host-parasite interactions, which can also include the
study of immune defences. Interest in using insects as
a model system and experience in molecular techniques
is advantageous. We expect willingness to collaborate
with other people in the group and to contribute to its
teaching commitments. Salary according to qualiﬁca-
tion and local scale; starting date negotiable. PositionsAugust 1, 2004 EvolDir 17
are typically held for 2 - 6 years. More information on
www.eco.ethz.ch and by email (psh@env.ethz.ch - after
15 Aug). Review of applications with CV, publication
list and addresses of referees starts 25 Sept 2004.
Prof. Paul Schmid-Hempel ETH Zurich, Ecol-
ogy & Evolution ETH-Zentrum NW CH-8092 Zurich
Ph: +41 1 633 6033 or 6048 Fax: +41 1 632
1271 psh@env.ethz.ch www.eco.ethz.ch Paul Schmid-
Hempel <psh@env.ethz.ch >
LeidenU Phycologist
SYSTEMATIC PHYCOLOGIST (tenure track) Va-
cancy number: 4-169
The candidate should have a PhD degree and sub-
sequent experience in the taxonomy and molecular
systematics of algae, an excellent publication record,
and knowledge of herbarium curation. The candidate
should also have experience in integrating molecular
data into traditional systematics. The establishment
of an active research program and pursuit of external
funding is part of the job requirements. A strong com-
mitment to the teaching of undergraduate and graduate
students is mandatory. Supervision of the molecular
research of PhD and MSc students working on higher
plants and macrofungi will also belong to the tasks of
the successful candidate. The ability to speak Dutch or
the willingness to learn Dutch is required.
Salary in the ﬁrst two years ranging from EURO 2179,-
/ 3344,- per month depending on experience. The
tenure track formula implies that following a proba-
tionary period of two years, a further three year con-
tract with adapted salary scale will lead to tenure if all
task elements of the job descriptions are successfully
fulﬁlled.
Please send your application, stating research interests
and speciﬁc research goals/targets (the research goals
should ﬁt into the general mission statement and re-
search programme of the NHN and PCNE (see our
website at www.nationaalherbarium.nl ), a CV and the
names of 3 references to: Prof. dr. P. Baas, Einstein-
weg 2, room A216, 2333 CC Leiden The Netherlands
or mailto:BAAS@NHN.leidenuniv.nl
publicatiedatum WEB: 26-7-2004 closing date: 1
September 2004
–Joe Zuccarello <zuccarello@nhn.leidenuniv.nl >
LincolnU Entomology
Lecturer in Entomology Bio-Protection and Ecology
Division Lincoln University, New Zealand Vacancy
04/59
Due to a recent retirement, we are seeking a Lecturer in
Entomology. The successful candidate will have ento-
mological skills and experience in one or more of the fol-
lowing areas: biodiversity, evolutionary biology, biosys-
tematics, biosecurity, molecular biology. The appointee
will teach ﬁrst year biology and advanced entomology
classes, make a contribution to Masters level subjects,
as well as supervise the research of postgraduate stu-
dents.
Research activity is an important part of academic per-
formance, and the appointee will be encouraged to pub-
lish widely and actively seek external research funding.
To support this outcome, the appointee will be closely
associated with the Entomological Research Museum
and the National Centre for Advanced Bio-Protection
Technologies.
For an Information Pack please visit our website
www.lincoln.ac.nz/jobs , or contact the Human Re-
sources Section, phone +64 3 325-3613, fax +64 3 325-
3870, email trottc@lincoln.ac.nz Please quote the cor-
rect vacancy number on your application.
Adrian Paterson
Patersoa@lincoln.ac.nz
MelbourneU GeneticsLecturer
LECTURER POSITION - The Department of Genet-
ics at the University of Melbourne seeks a Lecturer who
will conduct research in the area of Genetics and will be
expected to teach in the areas of evolutionary and pop-
ulation genetics, genomics and bioinformatics. The po-
sition will be expected to conduct research which leads
to publication in quality international journals and will
contribute to teaching and course design at undergrad-
uate and postgraduate levels including supervision of
B.Sc(Hons) and postgraduate students. For more in-18 EvolDir August 1, 2004
formation contact Assoc. Prof. James Camakaris or
Assoc. Prof Chris Cobbett, tel: + 61 3 8344 6246,
email genetics-info@unimelb.edu.au or for a position
description and details on how to apply please go to:
http://www.hr.unimelb.edu.au/jobs/ Many thanks
–
Veronique Bergeron Manager Department of Genet-
ics The University of Melbourne Ph: +61 (0)3
8344 6250 Fax: +61 (0)3 8344 5139 Email: berg-
eron@unimelb.edu.au
Veronique Bergeron <bergeron@unimelb.edu.au >
NSF Director
Directorate for Biological Sciences Oﬃce of the Assis-
tant Director
June 28, 2004
Dear Colleague:
The Directorate for Biological Sciences (BIO) an-
nounces a nationwide search to ﬁll the position of
Deputy Director, Division of Environmental Biology
(DEB).
The Deputy Division Director works closely with the
Division Director in overseeing and carrying out the
day-to-day operations and management of the Division.
They work together as a team providing strong advo-
cacy for program activities within the context of BIO
long range plans and NSF’s strategic plan and manag-
ing resources eﬀectively to nurture new and emerging
science opportunities as well as ongoing eﬀorts. In the
absence of the Division Director, the Deputy must be
prepared to assume this role.
The Division of Environmental Biology (DEB) is re-
sponsible for programs with a total annual budget of
approximately $108 million. These programs are cur-
rently identiﬁed by four clusters- ecosystem science
which supports investigations of whole-system ecologi-
cal processes and relationships in ecosystems across a
diversity of spatial and temporal scales; ecological biol-
ogy which supports studies of community ecology and
population interactions that reveal causal mechanisms
and patterns for a wide range of habitats and taxa;
population and evolutionary processes which supports
studies of population properties that lead to variation
within and among populations; and systematic biology
and biodiversity inventories which supports general sci-ence of systematics, including the inventory of global
species diversity and studies of predictive classiﬁcation
systems that reﬂect the history of life.
Deputy Division Directors in the BIO Directorate come
to their positions with an established record of scien-
tiﬁc research and demonstrated leadership experience.
Deputy Division Directors must work well with people,
be eﬀective communicators and act as mentors to con-
tinuously develop the diversity of talents and skills of
their colleagues, especially those representing underrep-
resented minority groups and persons with disabilities.
This position is a career appointment in the Federal
Senior Executive Service. You may access the position
announcement that includes information on application
procedures at
http://www.nsf.gov/pubs/2004/s20040091/-
s20040091ac.pdf General inquires should be directed
to:
Dr. Michael R. Willig Division of Environmental Biol-
ogy Tel: (703) 292-8480 Fax: (703) 292-9064 E-Mail:
mwillig@nsf.gov
Applications may be transmitted electronically to ex-
ecsrch@nsf.gov or mailed to :
National Science Foundation Executive Personnel and
Development Branch Division of Human Resource
Management 4201 Wilson Boulevard, Room 315 Ar-
lington, VA 22230
The Executive Personnel and Development Branch may
be reached by telephone at (703) 292-8755.
I look forward to any help you may be able to oﬀer
in this search for outstanding candidates and encour-
age you to consider your interest in this position. The
deadline for receipt of applications is July 23, 2004.
Sincerely,
Mary E. Clutter Assistant Director mcourtne@nsf.gov
PurdueU LabManager
A Lab Manager is needed to help run a large genetics
lab at Purdue University. This is a multi-investigator
lab-not a core facility-that serves four Principal Inves-
tigators (PIs) and their associated staﬀ. The incum-
bent will: maintain supplies and equipment; train stu-
dents and staﬀ in laboratory procedures and equipment
operation; develop and improve laboratory protocols;August 1, 2004 EvolDir 19
maintain laboratory equipment and ensure compliance
with radiation and other safety requirements; submit
compliance paperwork as required; and provide regular
brieﬁngs to PIs.
The position requires a degree in Biology, Botany, Zo-
ology, Genetics or a closed related ﬁeld. One year ex-
perience in molecular biology and the previous super-
vision of technical personnel is required, as is ﬂuency
in spoken and written English. Experience with mi-
croarrays and automated DNA sequencers desired. In-
terested parties should contact J. Andrew DeWoody
(dewoody@purdue.edu), Dept. of Forestry & Natural
Resources, 1159 Forestry Building, Purdue University,
West Lafayette IN 47907-1159. Women and minorities
are encouraged to apply. Purdue University is an equal
opportunity employer.
Seattle FishGenetics
The Genetics and Evolution Program at the North-
west Fisheries Science Center, Seattle, is looking for
a highly motivated recent graduate (undergraduate or
masters) for an internship in ﬁshery genetics. The suc-
cessfully applicant will work in our genetics laboratory
on a project using genetic techniques to estimate ﬁsh
abundance. The one year position is funded through
the Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education
(ORISE – http://www.orau.gov/orise.htm ), and pays
approximately $40,000. We are looking for someone
with molecular genetics experience who is interested in
applying molecular methods to problems in natural re-
source management. If interested, please send a CV
and brief (1/2 page or less) letter of interest to Michael
Ford (mike.ford@noaa.gov). Position is limited to US
citizens. We are looking for some to start as soon as
possible, and the position will remain open until ﬁlled.
Seehttp://www.nwfsc.noaa.gov/ for more information
about the Northwest Fisheries Science Center.
mike.ford@noaa.gov mike.ford@noaa.gov
UAlaska Fairbanks MammalianEcol
The Department of Biology and Wildlife and the In-
stitute of Arctic Biology at the University of AlaskaFairbanks seeks applications for a tenure-track posi-
tion in Wildlife Ecology at any level. Applicants must
have earned a Ph.D. in Wildlife Ecology or a closely re-
lated discipline. Postdoctoral and teaching experience,
a strong record of extramural funding, the ability to
supervise graduate students, to collaborate with fellow
faculty, and to interact with state and federal resource
management agencies are preferred.
We seek a broadly trained mammalian ecologist to con-
duct quantitative research that addresses basic and
applied questions relevant to sustainability, harvested
species, or predator-prey systems that have applicabil-
ity at the state, national, and international levels. This
position is 50% research and requires a teaching load
of two courses per year, to include an undergraduate
wildlife course and development and collaboration on
graduate oﬀerings. Numerous ﬁeld stations and labo-
ratory facilities are available at IAB to conduct research
on captive and wild animals, including the R.G. White
Large Animal Research Station, Animal Quarters, Too-
lik Field Station, Bonanza Creek LTER site, Spatial
Ecology Laboratory, Alaska Center for Environmental
Statistics, Alaska Geobotany Center, and the DNA Se-
quencing Core Facility. Extensive collections are avail-
able for study at the Univ. of Alaska Museum. The
successful candidate will have the opportunity to inter-
act and collaborate with 30 faculty studying a diverse
array of topics. The Biology and Wildlife department
has approximately 300 undergraduate and 110 graduate
students, including 40 Ph.D. students. Applicants are
encouraged to consult the Institute/departmental web-
site, and faculty proﬁles at http://mercury.bio.uaf.edu
before applying.
Applications will be reviewed starting 17 Septem-
ber 2004. Please provide an applicant form
(http://www.alaska.edu/hr/forms/PDF ent/-
applicant form ent.pdf ), cover letter, curriculum
vitae, statement of research interests, statement of
teaching interests, letters from 3 references and submit
to: Eric Rexstad, C/O UAF Human Resources, P.O.
Box 757860, Fairbanks, Alaska 99775-7860, Phone
(907) 474-7700, Fax (907) 474-5859. Please reference:
PCN#20245, REQ# FF20424501 . If you have speciﬁc
questions about this announcement, please contact
Eric Rexstad, (907) 474-7159, e.rexstad@uaf.edu.
The University of Alaska Fairbanks is an Equal Oppor-
tunity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer and Educational
Institution. Women, protected, and minority appli-
cants are encouraged to apply.
Link Olson <Link.Olson@uaf.edu >20 EvolDir August 1, 2004
UAngers EvolBiology
Position in Evolutionary biology at University of
Angers (France)
Un poste de maˆ ıtre de conf´ erence en biologie animale
´ evolutive est susceptible dˆ etre ouvert ` a luniver-
sit´ e dAngers (section 68 CNU). La date de prise
en fonction serait le 01/02/05 ou le 01/09/05. Il
concerne des candidats ayant r´ ealis´ e un stage post-
doctoral, justiﬁant dune exp´ erience en ´ ecologie et
maˆ ıtrisant les techniques de g´ en´ etique des populations.
Le candidat devra ´ egalement ˆ etre inscrit sur les
listes daptitude au poste de maˆ ıtre de conf´ erence.
(http://www.education.gouv.fr/personnel/-
enseignant superieur/enseignant chercheur/-
antares.htm )
Enseignement: lenseignant-chercheur devra participer
` a la formation des ´ etudiants en biologie animale et
´ ecologie et plus particuli` erement dans les domaines de
l´ ecologie des zones humides, de la syst´ ematique et de la
biologie des populations. Une bonne connaissance du
fonctionnement des zones humides et lutilisation des
outils de g´ en´ etique ´ ecologique serait appr´ eci´ ee
Recherche : le travail de recherche concerne les
probl´ ematiques de dispersion et de distribution des
vert´ ebr´ es d´ evelopp´ ees dans lUMR Paysages et Biodi-
versit´ e. Ce poste sinscrit dans une perspective de spa-
tialisation des donn´ ees g´ en´ etiques dans les structures
de paysage. Le chercheur devra travailler notamment
` a l´ etude de la diversit´ e g´ en´ etique et des ﬂux de g` enes
` a diﬀ´ erentes ´ echelles (des individus aux esp` eces). Des
applications ` a l´ ecologie ´ evolutive, la biologie de la con-
servation ou l´ ecologie comportementale sont possibles.
Une exp´ erience de la mod´ elisation constituerait un
plus appr´ eci´ e. Pour des informations compl´ ementaires,
veuillez contacter(voir ci-dessous)
A permanent position in evolutionary biology is
expected to start at the university of Angers (France)
on February 1st 2005 or September 1st 2005. This
position (maitre de conferences) includes 192 h teach-
ing per year. The candidate should be recorded on
the liste daptitude au poste de maitre de confer-
ences section CNU 68. Teaching is to be done in
French. ( http://www.education.gouv.fr/personnel/-
enseignant superieur/enseignant chercheur/-
antares.htm )Teaching: the applicant will teach animal biology and
ecology, with a special focus on wetland ecology, sys-
tematics, and population biology. Good knowledge on
wetland ecology and population genetics would be much
appreciated.
Research: the applicant should have a post-doctoral
experience in ecology and justify skills in population
genetics. Research will focus on vertebrate dispersion
and distribution and is to be integrated in the themes of
the research unit Landscapes and Biodiversity. The re-
searcher will focus on the study of genetic diversity and
gene ﬂow at diﬀerent scales (from individuals to species)
with the main objective to analyze genetic data in rela-
tion with lanscape structure (landscape genetics). Ap-
plications to evolutionary ecology, conservation biology
or behavioral ecology are possible. Experience in mod-
elisation would be welcome. For further information,
please contact:
Professeur Thierry Lod´ e Laboratoire d´ ecologie UMR
Paysages et Biodiversit´ e Universit´ e dAngers
thierry.lode@univ-angers.fr Phone: 33.2.41.73.53.53.
Fax: 33.2.41.73.53.52. http://sciences.univ-angers.fr/-
ecologie Laboratory of Animal Ecology UMR Land-
scape and Biodiversity University of Angers Facult´ e
des Sciences Campus de Belle-Beille 2 bvd Lavoisier
F-49045 Angers France +33/ 2 41 73 50 30
http://sciences.univ-angers.fr/ecologie/ Jean Secondi
<jean.secondi@univ-angers.fr >
UBritishColumbia
MicrobialGenomics
Below I’ve pasted a job ad from the Department of Mi-
crobiology and Immunology at the University of British
Columbia.
I’m not sure exactly what prokaryotic envirogenomics
is, but I’m sure it overlaps with evolution. Several of us
in the Dept. of Zoology are working on microbial evolu-
tion and ecology (myself, Sally Otto, and Michael Doe-
beli), and we’d love to have another colleague nearby.
Don’t let the priority given to Canadians put you oﬀ
- UBC hires on scientiﬁc merit. And you couldn’t ask
for a better place to live than Vancouver.
Rosie Redﬁeld
THE UNIVERSITY OF BRITISH COLUMBIAAugust 1, 2004 EvolDir 21
The Department of Microbiology and Immunology,
University of British Columbia, has two tenure track
positions available for investigators whose research in-
terests lie within one of the following two broad areas:
1) prokaryotic gene regulation, envirogenomics of envi-
ronmentally relevant organisms or communities, ecol-
ogy, 2) cellular microbiology, innate immunity. At
least one of the selected candidates would be eligible
for a Canadian Research Chair, a prestigious funding
program that was created to attract and retain out-
standing young scientists. Although we anticipate hir-
ing at the Assistant Professor level, appointment at a
more senior level is possible for suitably qualiﬁed appli-
cants. The Department of Microbiology and Immunol-
ogy has a strong research record and a thriving grad-
uate program. The nominated candidates will beneﬁt
from shared departmental equipment and modern lab-
oratory facilities within a newly erected Life Sciences
Building that will be home to more than 100 multi-
disciplinary research teams. The University of British
Columbia hires on the basis of merit and is commit-
ted to employment equity. All qualiﬁed applicants are
encouraged to apply; however, Canadian citizens and
permanent residents will be given priority (applicants
should identify citizenship and/or immigration status).
Interested individuals should send their CV, summary
of proposed research activity over the next ﬁve years,
and the names of three referees to Nancy Kan, Secre-
tary to the Head, Department of Microbiology and Im-
munology, 300 - 6174 University Boulevard, Vancouver,
BC, V6T 1Z3, Canada. Electronic (PDF) submissions
can also be sent to nancyk@interchange.ubc.ca. The
deadline for applications is August 15, 2004. is August
15, 2004.
UFribourg EcolEvol
The Faculty of Science of the University of Fribourg
(Switzerland) invites applications for a position of
FULL PROFESSOR IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLU-
TION
in the Unit of Ecology and Evolution of the Department
of Biology, starting as soon as possible.
The successful candidate will conduct his/her own
research, attract external funding, contribute to the
teaching programme for students in Biology and En-
vironmental Sciences and take turns in directing the
Department. Teaching is in French or German, andthe candidates should be willing to acquire a working
knowledge of the other language.
Candidates are requested to send before September 30,
2004 a curriculum vitae (including a list of publications
and a record of both funding and teaching experience)
and a one page description of his/her research projects
to Prof. Marco Celio, Dean, Faculty of Sciences, Uni-
versity of Fribourg, Mus´ ee 6a, CH-1700 Fribourg.
Further information under www.unifr.ch/biol or by
Jean-Pierre.Metraux@unifr.ch, head of the Depart-
ment. Jean-Pierre.Metraux@unifr.ch, head of the De-
partment.
UHawaii Tech
http://workatuh.hawaii.edu/zoom job.php?2996 Re-
search Support PBB, Coral Molecular Biology Research
Technician, position number 0077572T, UHM Hawaii
Institute of Marine Biology, (Coconut Island, Kaneohe
Bay), temporary, NTE Jun-30-2005, renewal subject to
funding availability, satisfactory performance and pro-
gram needs Duties: Coordinate and facilitate research
activities in Dr. Gates’s laboratory; set up microcosms
for experimental manipulations, collect samples, isolate
tissues by dissection; perform and troubleshoot molec-
ular biology tasks including the extraction and quan-
tiﬁcation of nucleic acids, PCR, 3 and 5’ RACE, cDNA
library construction, cloning and sequencing; develop,
hybridize and scan microarrays; analyze DNA sequence
and microarray data using a variety of software pack-
ages; perform routine microscopy; implement appro-
priate university, state, and federal ﬁscal and safety
policies; perform other duties as assigned. Minimum
qualiﬁcations: Completion of a pertinent baccalaure-
ate educational degree and relevant professional experi-
ence; competency in technical knowledge, critical think-
ing skills, communication skills and interpersonal skills;
demonstrated hands-on experience in a biological lab-
oratory setting; working knowledge of the principles,
practices and techniques of cell and molecular biology;
demonstrated ability to operate and maintain personal
computers, and working knowledge of the software nec-
essary to complete analyses of the data generated in
the laboratory; demonstrated ability to supervise sub-
ordinates, manage work priorities and projects, and
manage employee relations; alternatively, any equiva-
lent combination of education and/or professional work
experience that provides the required education, knowl-
edge, skills and abilities as indicated. Desirable quali-22 EvolDir August 1, 2004
ﬁcations: Practical experience with cell and molecular
techniques including nucleic acid extraction, plasmid
puriﬁcation and restriction digests, protein and nucleic
acid analysis, molecular cloning, and sequencing; ex-
perienced diver and boat operator; knowledge of form
and style of research analyses and writing. Pay range:
minimum $3056/month To apply: Submit cover letter
indicating how you satisfy the minimum and desirable
qualiﬁcations, oﬃcial transcripts, 3 letters of recom-
mendation, UH Form 64 Application address: P.O. Box
1346, Kaneohe, HI 96744 Inquiries: Dr. Ruth D. Gates
808-236-7420 rgates@hawaii.edu Date posted: Jul-14-
2004 Closing date: Jul-29-2004
The University of Hawai’i is an equal opportu-
nity/aﬃrmative action institution. All qualiﬁed appli-
cants will be considered, regardless of race, sex, age,
religion, color, national origin, ancestry, disability, mar-
ital status, sexual orientation, or status as disabled vet-
eran or veteran of Vietnam era.
Employment is contingent on satisfying employment el-
igibility veriﬁcation requirements of the Immigration
Reform and Control Act of 1986. Appointments to
positions are subject to campus recruitment guidelines
and the collective bargaining agreement.
APT applicants with re-employment rights or priority
status are responsible for informing the recruiting unit,
which will verify eligibility with the employing unit as
provided by the BU 08 contract.
Rob Toonen <toonen@hawaii.edu >
UHawaiiHilo TempAssistProf
Assistant Professor of Biology: Position No. 86432T,
University of Hawaii at Hilo, College of Arts & Sciences,
temporary, nine-month appointment to begin approxi-
mately August 2004 and NTE July 31, 2005; pending
position clearance and funding, with possibility of reap-
pointments.
Duties: Teach undergraduate courses in cell and molec-
ular biology, evolution and general ecology and intro-
ductory biology.
Minimum Qualiﬁcations: Ph.D. from an accredited col-
lege or university in a biological science discipline ap-
propriate to the position, demonstrated expertise in
conservation biology/genetics.
Desirable Qualiﬁcations: Teaching experience at thecollege or university level, familiarity with Hawaiian
ecosystems and conservation issues. Salary: Competi-
tive. To Apply: Submit curriculum vitae, letter of ap-
plication, and the names and e-mail addresses of three
recent references to: Dr. Donald Price, Biology De-
partment, University of Hawai’i at Hilo, 200 W. Kawili
St., Hilo, Hawai’i.
Inquires: Dr. Donald Price, ph. 808-974-7365, fax 808-
974-7393, email donaldp@hawaii.edu.
Dr. Donald K. Price co-Project Director - Hawaii
NSF EPSCoR Program Director - TCBES Masters Pro-
gram - UH Hilo Associate Professor of Biology - UH
Hilo Ecology, Evolution and Conservation Biology - UH
Manoa 200 W. Kawili Street University of Hawaii Hilo,
HI 96720 808-974-7365 fax 808-974-7693 email: don-
aldp@hawaii.edu
UHouston EvolBiol
FACULTY POSITION IN EVOLUTIONARY BIOL-
OGY
The Department of Biology and Biochemistry at the
University of Houston invites applications for a tenure-
track Assistant, Associate or Full Professor position in
Evolutionary Biology to complement existing strengths
within the Division of Ecology and Evolution. Can-
didates are welcomed from all areas of evolutionary
biology, including those using theoretical, molecular,
ecological, or experimental approaches. The position
requires an earned doctorate and postdoctoral expe-
rience. The successful candidate is expected to main-
tain a nationally competitive externally funded research
program and participate in graduate and undergradu-
ate teaching. The Department has spacious laborato-
ries and oﬀers competitive startup packages. Please
submit curriculum vitae, list of publications, state-
ment of research interests, and arrange for three let-
ters of recommendation to be sent directly to: Dr.
Dan Graur, Chair, Evolutionary Biology Search Com-
mittee, Department of Biology and Biochemistry, Uni-
versity of Houston, Houston, TX 77204-5513 (E-mail:
dgraur@uh.edu). All materials must be received by Oc-
tober 1, 2004.
UH is an Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Action Em-
ployer. Minorities, women, veterans and persons with
disabilities are encouraged to apply.
– Dan Graur, Ph.D. John and Rebecca Moores Profes-August 1, 2004 EvolDir 23
sor Department of Biology & Biochemistry University
of Houston Houston, TX 77204 USA
email: dgraur@uh.edu Tel: 713-743-7236 Fax: 713-743-
2636 Homepage: nsm.uh.edu/ ~dgraur
Dan Graur <dgraur@uh.edu >
ULausanne ResTech
A research technician position is available at the Uni-
versity of Lausanne, Switzerland from October 1st or
later, as part of a project on the evolution of reproduc-
tive traits in the plant Silene latifolia, Caryophyllaceae
(http://www.unil.ch/dee/page7005 en.html ). Appli-
cants would ideally have laboratory experience and fa-
miliarity with experimental work. The tasks include
laboratory work (microsatellite DNA; assays of pollen
viability, pollen tube growth rates, enzyme activity),
and collaboration with greenhouse experiments. The
position is for initially 2 years, and may prolonged.
If interested, please contact:
Dr. G. Bernasconi Swiss NSF Professorial Fellow Cur-
rent address: Institute of environmental Sciences Uni-
versity of Zurich Winterthurerstr. 190 CH 8057 Zurich
Switzerland Email: bernasco@uwinst.unizh.ch
Application deadline: 15th August 2004 For application
send: CV, name and address of two referees.
The Department of Ecology and Evolution of the
University of Lausanne, Switzerland, provides a very
lively intellectual and social environment ( http://-
www.unil.ch/dee/page5090 en.html ).
Lausanne, located in Switzerland at the shore of Lake
Geneva, oﬀers very high quality of life and outstand-
ingly beautiful surroundings (Alps, Jura mountains,
Lake; see http://www.lausanne-tourisme.ch/ ).
UMontreal programmer
Company/Institution: Robert-Cedergren Centre for
Bioinformatics & Genomics, Universite de Montreal
Job Title: Development Programmer
Job Description: The position entails primary respon-sibility for the maintenance and development of web
interfaces for the two bioinformatics databases GOB-
ASE ( http://megasun.bch.umontreal.ca/gobase/ ) and
PEPdb ( http://amoebidia.bcm.umontreal.ca/public/-
pepdb/agrm.php ), written principally in PHP but also
involving Java. The candidate will further be respon-
sible for the maintenance of existing bioinformatics-
related software and development of new code, includ-
ing Perl scripts and C programs. The development will
occur in a primarily Linux-based environment. The
successful candidate will be a member of a closely inte-
grated development team comprised of other program-
mers and database curators.
Requirements:
At least 3 years’ programming experience Proﬁciency in
Perl/PHP and SQL Familiarity with C and Java Strong
Linux background Good communication skills A work-
ing familiarity with the concepts of molecular biology
would be highly useful
Availability: The position is available immediately.
Contact:
Emmet A. O’Brien, Database Group Leader Departe-
ment de Biochimie Universite de Montreal Pavil-
lon Roger Gaudry (P. principal) H-307-13 2900
Edouard-Montpetit Montreal QC, H3T 1J4 eo-
brien@bch.umontreal.ca
Emmet O’Brien <eobrien@BCH.UMontreal.CA >
UMuenster PlantEvolEcol 2
The University of Muenster (Germany) seeks to appoint
a
Full Professor of Botany (C4/W3 salary scale)
in succession of Prof. von Willert.
Candidates should have an excellent track record of re-
search in EVOLUTIONARY ECOLOGY and should
have worked on genotypic and phenotypic adaptation
in natural populations using experimental techniques.
The candidate is expected to contribute in part to com-
pulsory teaching units, including basic botany (plant
evolution; plant functional morphology and adaptation;
ﬁeld trips). Applicants must hold a doctorate and have
a postdoctoral track record of independent academic
research and teaching (German Habilitation or equiv-
alent experience). Foreign candidates are expected to24 EvolDir August 1, 2004
acquire suﬃcient language skills for teaching in German
within 2 years after taking up the position.
The position is substantially equipped, comprising an
annual budget and core funding for scientiﬁc and tech-
nical posts.
The professorship will play a central role in a new in-
stitute in evolutionary biology and biodiversity studies
which will be formed by the merger of the existing in-
stitutes of “Plant Ecology and “Animal Evolution and
Ecology. In 2005 another professorship in the area of
Botany will be advertised in this unit.
The WWU seeks to increase the proportion of female
staﬀ members in the faculty and therefore urges in-
terested female candidates to apply. In case of equal
qualiﬁcations, preference will be given to disabled ap-
plicants.
Applicants should send their CV, copies of transcripts
and degree certiﬁcates, a list of publications and grant
income to date, and a research plan not later than
6 August 2004 to the Dean of the School of Biologi-
cal Sciences, University M¨ unster, Hindenburgplatz 55,
48143 M¨ unster, Germany. Electronic submissions in
pdf-format and informal inquiries should be sent to:
dekanat.bio@uni-muenster.de.
Prof. Dr. Nico K. Michiels Institute of Animal Evo-
lution and Ecology Westphalian Wilhelms-University
Muenster Hueﬀerstrasse 1, D-48149 Muenster, Ger-
many
Tel. +49 (0)251 83 24661 Mobile +49 (0)170 4758003
Fax. +49 (0)251 83 24668
michiels@uni-muenster.de http://www.uni-
muenster.de/Biologie.EvoEco/Evolbio/ Nico Michiels
<michiels@uni-muenster.de >
UNebraska Fisheries
FISHERIES ECOLOGIST
The School of Natural Resources (SNR), University
of Nebraska-Lincoln, invites applications for a tenure-
track, 12-month assistant professor faculty position in
ﬁsheries ecology (50% research/50% teaching). Re-
search focus on ﬁsh ecology with a quantitative, in-
terdisciplinary approach to addressing critical issues
such as species-habitat interactions, predator-prey dy-
namics, and community bioenergetics preferred. Posi-
tion complements and interacts with faculty in ﬁsheriesand wildlife, the new Cooperative Fish and Wildlife
Research Unit, SNR hydrological sciences, and the
Nebraska Game and Parks Commission. Research
responsibilities include development of a successful
research program; publications in refereed journals;
strong record of extramural grant funding; and su-
pervision of graduate students and post doctoral re-
search associates. A key faculty for the Fisheries and
Wildlife major, this person must be strongly committed
to undergraduate and graduate teaching. Teaching re-
sponsibilities include Ichthyology; Fisheries Science; a
new graduate-level course in area of specialization (e.g.,
Reservoir Fisheries Ecology and Management, River
Fisheries Ecology and Management, Ecological Statis-
tics); and participation in undergraduate and graduate
seminars. Requires a Ph.D. in ﬁsheries ecology, ecol-
ogy, or related ﬁeld, with expertise in quantitative ap-
proaches to population, community, and/or ecosystem
research, and experience with interdisciplinary and col-
laborative research. More information at SNR website:
http://snr.unl.edu . Interested candidates should send
a signed letter of application, curriculum vitae, state-
ments of teaching and research interests, and three let-
ters of reference to:
Chair, Fisheries Ecologist Search Committee School
of Natural Resources University of Nebraska-Lincoln
307 Biochemistry Hall Lincoln, NE 68583-0758 E-mail:
pfreeman1@unl.edu
Review of applications begins on September 15, 2004
and continues until the position is ﬁlled or the search
is closed.
The University of Nebraska is committed to a pluralis-
tic campus community through aﬃrmative action and
equal opportunity and is responsive to the needs of dual
career couples. We assure reasonable accommodation
under the Americans with Disabilities Act. Contact
Sharon Kelly at (402) 472-9873 for assistance.
gorti1@unl.edu
URochester ResearchTech
Description: A research technician IV position is avail-
able at the University of Rochester, in Rochester New
York conducting studies of intracellular bacteria in in-
sects. The position is part of a 5-year NSF funded
project to investigate molecular genetics, ecology and
evolution of Wolbachia, a widespread and important
group of intracellular bacteria found in invertebrates.August 1, 2004 EvolDir 25
Duties/Qualiﬁcations:The ideal applicant will be famil-
iar with standard molecular genetic techniques such as
DNA and RNA preparations, diagnostic and quantita-
tive PCR, cloning, and sequencing. Some experience
with programs for sequence reactions and alignments
is desirable. Other duties will include maintenance of
insect cultures, ordering supplies, reagent preparation,
and other tasks as assigned. Must be able to work
independently and maintain good records of work com-
pleted. B.S. or M.S. in Biology or related disipline.Conditions: This position is available now and will be
funded through the life of the grant (2003-2008) and
possibly beyond.
Instructions: Send resume and cover letter to Cathy
Westbrook via email at cwestbro@mail.rochester.edu
or mail at the University of Rochester, Dept. of Biol-
ogy, 226 Hutchison hall, River campus, Rochester, N.Y.
14627-0211. Phone:585-275-3889. fax 585-275-2070
Other
AFLP sea anemones . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
BSA and PCR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
BSA inhibition PCR answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Bulked Samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Cephus samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Collecting plants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
DNA Barcoding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Dried leaves extraction answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Flow cytometry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Fluorescent Labelling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Gel extraction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Hawaiian Gobies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30Hybridization Studies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
MOLPHY problems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
SNP data analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Seed Ovule ratios . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Software Tree-Puzzle v5 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Speciation Bottlenecks answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Speciation bottleneck . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Speciation bottleneck 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Tetraploid micros answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Water voles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
AFLP sea anemones
Dear all,
I am about to start AFLP analysis on a population of
the anemone Condylactis gigantea. There is little men-
tion of AFLP analysis on Cnidarians in the literature
as far as I can see.
I would be really interested to hear from anyone who
may have attempted AFLP with any type of Cnidar-
ian. I am currently struggling with the joys of getting
a good yield of reasonably intact genomic DNA, but
getting there I think.
Hope someone can oﬀer some advice.Best regards
Alex
Alexander Venn Ph.D. Candidate Department of Biol-
ogy (area 2) University of York PO Box 373 York YO10
5YW UK E: Alexandervenn@yahoo.com T: +44 1904
438611
BSA and PCR
Hi all, Does anybody know if too much BSA (used to
counter inhibition in PCR) can actually inhibit PCR
itself? If yes, does anybody have a feel for the concen-26 EvolDir August 1, 2004
tration at which it becomes detrimental? Thanks for
your help Tom Gilbert
Dr Tom Gilbert Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Uni-
versity of Arizona Tucson AZ 85721-0088
Tel: 520-621-1960 Fax: 520-621-9190
mtpg@email.arizona.edu
BSA inhibition PCR answers
Dear All, Last week I wrote and asked ’Can too much
BSA inhibit PCR’. I got back a lot of very useful in-
formation, and most people who wrote to me asked if I
could summarize the ﬁndings. So, here goes....
The simple answer seems to be deﬁnitely yes, if its
acetylated and people should be warned that a lot of
the BSA that comes with restriction enzymes is acety-
lated, so for PCR buy speciﬁc non-acetylated BSA! New
England Biolabs supplies a popular ready made solu-
tion. I personally have been using Sigma’s powdered
form (#B6917) that I dilute to 10mg/ml and freeze
(and use 1ul in a 25ul RXN).
As for whether non-acetylated BSA inhibits, the answer
seems to be yes, but the concentration at which inhibi-
tion starts all depends on the particular extract (which
naturally contains a whole host of variables), and the
enzyme being used for the PCR.
It seems that usual’ levels of BSA used for PCR to
counter inhibition are about 0.1-0.4mg/ml ﬁnal concen-
tration, but some people have observed success at up
to 10mg/ml (readers should note that such cases were
accidental’ application, not done for any beneﬁt!). The
highest level that anybody speciﬁcally seemed to use
was 3mg/ml, on unpuriﬁed alkali lysed plant extracts.
In contrast however, at least one person who replied
has speciﬁcally tested the issue, and in his case found
BSA inhibited at any level above 0.1mlg/ml.
On a further note, various people mentioned observ-
ing the PCR becoming gelatinous during cooling above
certain concentrations (eg 5mg/ml), and becoming so
gelatinous above 10mg/ml that the PCR couldn’t be
run on a gel. From my own personal experience I will
add that the concentration that this seems to become a
problem appears to depend on the enzyme (or at least
its buﬀer). For example, I have seen PCRs using ABI’s
Taq Gold’ and Invitrogen’s Platinum Taq’ ﬁll with what
we like to call snot’ during the PCR process, at BSA
levels where Invitrogen’s Platinum Taq Hiﬁ’ is ﬁne. Oneobservation that may explain the diﬀerence it is that
Gold and Platinum use MgCl2 as a buﬀer, whereas Hiﬁ
uses MgSO4 (I’ve no idea why, but it correlates nicely)
As for the actual inhibition, most people reported a
peak’ of eﬃciency at particular concentrations, either
side of which the ampliﬁcation success drops oﬀ (al-
though fairly slowly it would seem). So overall it seems
that it anyone really cares, they will need to optimize
for particular sample/extraction method/enzyme com-
binations.
Thanks to all those who replied with very useful infor-
mation: Anne Chenuil, Rob Cruickshank,Will Goodall-
Copestake,Alistair Jump, Jeﬀ Lozier, Connie Mulligan,
Olivier Rasp´ e, Dominik Refardt, Scott Santos, Henri
Thomassen, Rajenda Whitlock, Sam Wisely, Craig
Wilding
Hope this summary is of use to some people out there
Tom Gilbert Tom Gilbert
Bulked Samples
Hello Everyone,
I am a phd student working with microsatellite markers
in oat. I work with bulked samples and am experiencing
problems with entering these data in ordinary programs
for analysis, since these only accept two possible alleles
for codominant data. I get on occation three and could
in theory get even more - since the data derive from
thirty individuals bulked into one test-sample. Does
anyone have experience with entering this kind of data
into e.g. ntsys or phylip?
thank you Louise Nersting
Cand. Scient. Louise Grau Nersting Risoe National
Laboratory DK-4000 Roskilde phone +45 46 77 41 89
louise.grau.nersting@risoe.dk
Cephus samples
A student in our lab is working on a wide scale DNA
based -phylogeographic study of the wheat stem sawﬂy
(Cephus cinctus), a destructive insect pest of wheat inAugust 1, 2004 EvolDir 27
the Northern Great Plains. We are also interested in
the relationship between Cephus species using mt and
nuclear gene sequences. However, we do not have any
sample from C. hyalinatus which is known from east-
ern Asia including Japan. Is there someone who have
well conserved specimen of this species (or closely re-
lated species) and is ready to send specimens to us to
complement our analysis? 95%-96% ethanol is suitable
for storing and shipping the material. However, we will
also accept samples that have been ﬁxed in formalin or
dried.
Please contact me on the address given below.
Many thanks and best wishes,
Marie-Claude BON, PhD European Biological Control
Laboratory USDA, ARS Campus International of Bail-
larguet 34980 Montferrier sur Lez France Tel: (33) 4 99
62 30 41 Fax: (33) 4 99 62 30 49 mcbon@ars-ebcl.org
Collecting plants
Dear All.
A few weeks ago I posted a summary of the responses
I received following my queries about high throughput
methods of preparing dried leaves for PCR. Based on
these responses (from people largely working on decidu-
ous trees and some Mediterranean shrubs)and my own
experience, I suggested collecting the youngest leaves
available.
I’ve since been contacted by Mike Fay (head of genetics
at the Jodrell lab at RBG Kew) who reports diﬃculty in
obtaining ampliﬁable DNA from young leaves in some
groups of species. This highlights the importance of
checking the methods to be used with unfamiliar species
before embarking on large-scale collections of material.
Mike’s advice follows:
*********
In our experience, in some groups of plants, at least,
young leaves give unampliﬁable DNA due to the pres-
ence of inhibitory chemistry not present in more more
tissues. This is deﬁnitely the case in some legumes
among others. It is probably due to the plant produc-
ing compounds to prevent insect predation before the
leaves have hardened oﬀ.
Our standard advice is to collect fully expanded leaves
that have not begun to senesce. This works well for the
vast majority of plants (our DNA bank contains nearly20K samples extracted following this recommendation).
Flowers can be used as an alternative - they produce
far less by way of secondary chemistry, cuticle etc. than
leaves in most cases, and in really problematic cases
(e.g. some tropical orchids) for which we get next to no
amp. from leaves, ﬂoral DNA performs well. It is also a
way round problems with plants with succulent leaves
or other tissues - e.g. cacti, many terrestrial orchids
etc. We routinely extract from ﬂowers of Dactylorhiza,
Orchis etc. when these are available in preference to
leaves.
********
— Dr. A.S. Jump
Aﬃliation: Centre de Recerca Ecol` ogica i Aplicacions
Forestals (CREAF)
Current address:
Departamento de Gen´ etica Molecular IBMB-CSIC
C/Jordi Girona 18 08034 Barcelona Spain Tel: 0034
934006100 ext 256 Fax: 0034 932045904 Fax: 0034
932045904
DNA Barcoding
Dear Evoldir / Taxacom / PEET members,
ANNOUNCEMENT AND REQUEST FOR HELP
Special Debate: DNA Barcoding, Thursday, 23rd
September, Univ. of Illinois, Champaign-Urbana, Illi-
nois As part of the forthcoming PEET meetings this
September ( http://www.conferences.uiuc.edu/peet/ ) I
will be chairing a debate on DNA barcoding at the Uni-
versity of Illinois. Speaking in defense of barcoding will
be Paul Hebert (University of Guelph), arguably the
founder of the barcoding movement. Speaking against
will be Kip Will (University of California), a voice of
caution who has recently published on the pitfalls of
molecular taxonomy. I am keen to engage the wider
taxonomic community beyond PEET grant holders in
this debate and this is where you can help...
I am looking for a diverse selection of questions that
can be put to Paul and Kip by a student panel as part
of the debate. These questions should cover the full
spectrum of issues associated with the application of
DNA barcoding, from its use in taxon identiﬁcation and
discovery, through to its practical and political ram-
iﬁcations if barcoding is to become more widely ap-
plied within taxonomy. If you would like to submit a28 EvolDir August 1, 2004
question, reply to me personally (OFF LIST PLEASE)
at “vsmith@inhs.uiuc.edu”, preferably with the subject
line “DNA Barcoding Debate”.
The proceedings of this meeting will be published (sub-
ject to peer review) in question and answer format in a
forthcoming issue of Systematic Biology. All questions
selected will be credited with their author unless they
would prefer to remain anonymous. This is an excellent
opportunity to ask questions to two of the leading au-
thorities on genetic barcoding and get a direct answer
- don’t miss it!
All questions will be considered, and just to make things
more interesting they will not be disclosed to Paul
Hebert or Kip Will until they are asked on the day
of the debate!
Thanks and apologies for cross posting,
Vince Smith
–NOTE MY NEW ADDRESS AS OF JULY 04–
Dr. Vincent S. Smith Illinois Natural History Survey
607 East Peabody Drive Champaign, IL 61820-6970
USA Phone (until end of July ’04): +1 (217) 244-
9267 Phone (Aug ’04 onwards): +1 (217) 265-0831 Fax:
+1 (217) 333-4949 E-mail: vsmith@inhs.uiuc.edu Web:
http://darwin.zoology.gla.ac.uk/˜vsmith/
Dried leaves extraction answers
Dear all.
Several weeks ago I posted a query regarding techniques
and potential pitfalls of high-throughput systems of
DNA extraction from silica-gel dried leaves. I received
almost as many questions as answers in reply; the ques-
tions regarded just about every aspect of working with
dried leaves from collection through to genotyping. Be-
low is a summary of information from my experience
and that of all who replied to my original query.
Regards.
Alistair Jump
1) Sample collection: Collect the youngest tissue you
can. In newly unfolding leaves there are more cells per
area and therefore you get a higher yield of DNA from
the same mass of leaf. Even more important, the tissue
is likely to contain far fewer secondary metabolites and
therefore it is much easier to obtain clean DNA from
young tissue. For some species it may be near impossi-ble to use simple methods to purify DNA from mature
leaves.
2) Preservation: Dry rapidly using an excess of silica gel
(for example a 10:1 ratio gel:leaf by mass) a mixture of
20-200 mesh size silica gel with 6-16 mesh indicating gel
is ideal. The faster the leaf samples dry - the better the
DNA quality, so dry small pieces of leaf (around 2 cm2)
and cut out ﬂeshy midribs if necessary. If you have
to collect very succulent tissue using desiccants then
separate and discard the water storage layer and dry
the photosynthetic layer of the leaf/stem. Calcium sul-
phate (’Drierite’) can also be used to dry samples (but
requires higher temperatures to reactivate it if reused).
Store dried leaves with some active desiccant at room
temperature or in a cold room if you have access to one.
Protect them from light. When reusing desiccants, they
can be baked to sterilise them. If you bake either type
at too high a temperature it destroys the indicator and
can impair their ability to absorb water - so check the
instructions ﬁrst! Chase and Hill (1991) Taxon 40:215-
220 give more information on using silica gel for drying
leaves for DNA extraction.
3) Sample disruption: Several people sounded almost
tearful in their description of how much the tissue
lyser/mixer mill had reduced the labour involved in pro-
cessing hundreds of samples! The consensus is that it
works well as long as you get the sample into the bottom
of the tube and the steel (or preferably tungsten) bead
on top (a ﬂat piece of leaf adhering to the side of the
tube will not be ground). Cooling the rack of tubes in
liquid nitrogen before grinding in the machine will im-
prove the grinding of tougher dried samples. A common
problem when working with dried leaves is the build up
of static electricity. This may be solved by grinding the
leaves after cooling the racks in liquid N. Where this re-
mains a problem, be very careful when opening the caps
to avoid losing sample and consequent risk of cross con-
tamination. Grinding dried leaves in extraction buﬀer
may produce degraded DNA, whereas grinding them
after freezing with liquid nitrogen will yield excellent
quality DNA if they have been dried rapidly.
4) Extraction/puriﬁcation method: Do not presume
that the method you use for extracting DNA from fresh
leaves will work as well if the same leaves are dried. In
some cases, changes in the leaf chemistry during dry-
ing can cause problems. If you are going to carry out
a large scale sample collection, the cautious approach
is to check you can get useable DNA from dried leaves
before you collect them!
In general: the Quiagen DNeasy plant 96 kit
was considered well worth the money and has
been used with a variety of often diﬃcult species.August 1, 2004 EvolDir 29
Other multiple extraction and puriﬁcation proto-
cols suggested were Mogg and Bond (2003) Molec-
ular Ecology Notes 3: 666-668 and one from
the Somers lab at U Minnesota - to be found
at: http://bioplasticscollaborative.coafes.umn.edu/-
uniplate DNA extraction.htm#
Another approach is to PCR from crude plant ex-
tracts without purifying the DNA (simple alkaline ly-
sis) - in combination with a modiﬁed PCR buﬀer. This
has more limited applicability, but it can save a huge
amount of time and money when useable. In all cases
when working with crude extracts you should check the
reliability of such methods against ’clean DNA’ con-
trols before commencing a large scale genotyping op-
eration. Inhibition of PCR by components of the ex-
tract may be locus speciﬁc, so it is unwise to use them
with multi-locus markers such as ISSR or for markers
requiring digestion/ligation steps such as AFLP. How-
ever, they may be used with single locus markers such
as microsatellites if tested properly. See Jump et al.
(2003) New Phytologist 160: 359-370 and Xin et al.
(2003) Biotechniques 34: 820-826 for methods.
— Dr. A.S. Jump
Aﬃliation: Centre de Recerca Ecol` ogica i Aplicacions
Forestals (CREAF)
Current address:
Departamento de Gen´ etica Molecular
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Flow cytometry
Dear EvolDir members,
Has anyone of you had any experience with performing
ﬂow cytometry (DAPI staining) on leaf material that
has been dried with silica gel? Any hints on how to
optimize the procedure as well as other experiences are
highly appreciated.
We use a PA from Partec with their standard mutual
extraction/staining buﬀer, normally on fresh leaf mate-
rial, with great satisfaction. However, with dried ma-
terial we do not get consistent results so far. The highresolution kit does not seem to provide any better re-
sults than the regular kit.
Thanks in advance, cheers, Marc Stift.
Institute for Biodiversity en Ecosystem Dynamics Ex-
perimental Plant Systematics Universiteit van Amster-
dam stift@science.uva.nl
stift@science.uva.nl
Fluorescent Labelling
I am after advice...
I have a collection of tail feathers obtained from Long-
tailed wagtails. If possible I would like to look at extra-
pair paternity using these samples.
I have been unable to ﬁnd microsatellite markers for
this species or the genus and in any case do not have
the funds to purchase microsatellite primers. But for
future reference, I would like to know if there are any
developed for this or closely related species or if any
microsatellites have been used in this species.
As an alternative to radioactivity I have been looking at
ﬂuorescent labelling of minisatellites and wonder if any-
one can tell me if ﬂuorescent labelling might be more
sensitive than radiolabelling?
If anyone has expereince in using feathers in minisatel-
lite analysis?
My reason for asking is I am wondering if the use of ﬂu-
orescent labelling might provide a way to analyse these
samples using minisatellite analysis.
201302042@ukzn.ac.za
Gel extraction
Dear all,
we currently have a problem with puriﬁcation of PCR
products from gels: bands cut from gels are no longer
suitable for downstream applications such as restriction
digests or sequencing although the puriﬁed DNA looks
okay on the gel afterwards (which makes the gel extrac-
tion kits quite useless). What we already tried to solve
the problem: - use diﬀerent batches of kits (Qiagen,30 EvolDir August 1, 2004
Macherey Nagel). The kits shouldn’t be the problem:
using exactly the same procedure and buﬀers for the
direct puriﬁcation of PCR products, the DNA works
perfectly afterwards. - use of the diluted restriction en-
zyme buﬀer for elution of DNA from columns instead
of the provided elution buﬀer did not change the re-
sults (after the last washing step, the columns were
left open and incubated at 50 degrees centrigrade for
a few minutes in order to completely evaporate resid-
ual ethanol from the last wash buﬀer - directly puriﬁed
PCR products work perfectly after this treatment) -
using diﬀerent agaroses, diﬀerent buﬀers (plus checking
buﬀer components in turn), diﬀerent sources of ultra-
pure water for electrophoresis, diﬀerent loading dyes
etc. did not solve the problem. - using three diﬀer-
ent UV tables (all 312 nm), putting intensity to 70%,
minimizing exposure time of bands to UV during cut-
ting etc. also did not solve the problem. - trying it in
a diﬀerent lab (with our/their buﬀers, our/their kits,
their agarose and UV table also did not improve the
digest. Digests work perfectly when samples are not
electrophoresed and cut from gel, but directly puriﬁed
from the PCR product. But of course, if you do have
extra bands in some PCRs which you can’t get rid of
by optimizations, you would like to use the option to
excise the proper product. There is some digestion, and
there is also some result from sequencing, but incom-
plete and of very bad quality. (In my former lab this
worked as it should, for restriction digests as well as for
sequencing.)
We and also the technical support from Qiagen (Czech
Republic and Germany) don’t have any idea left what
could be wrong. The odd thing is that quality and
yield of puriﬁed gel-extracted DNA when visualized on
gel seem completely ordinary. So what is inhibiting the
enzymes then? We suspect some damage done to the
DNA somewhere in the procedure, but which and at
what step does it occur?
Is anybody out there who has an additional idea or who
has had the same problem and has solved it?
Best wishes,
Judith
Dr. Judith Fehrer Institute of Botany CZ-25243
Pruhonice
phone +420 2 71015215 fax +420 2 67750031 email:
fehrer@ibot.cas.cz
Judith Fehrer <fehrer@ibot.cas.cz >Hawaiian Gobies
Microsatellite Folks -
I’m an undergraduate at Clemson University doing my
honors thesis project under Dr. Margaret Ptacek and
Dr. Richard Blob looking at the genetic diversity of
three diﬀerent species of Hawaiian gobies (Sicyopterus
stimpsoni, Awaous guamensis, and Lentipes concolor).
I am looking for previously developed microsatellite
primers that could be used for these or any closely re-
lated species (such as Stenogobius hawaiiensis). If you
have any information that would assist me in my search,
please contact me at LSDURHA@clemson.edu. Thank
you.
Sincerely, Lisa Durham LSDURHA@clemson.edu
“Margaret B. Ptacek” <mptacek@CLEMSON.EDU >
Hybridization Studies
I am doing a meta-analysis on hybridization in animal
taxa looking at various factors that contribute to the
frequency of hybridization and success of hybrids.
I am trying to gather all the papers I can on animal hy-
bridization that have been conducted for any purpose
(hybrid zones, repro isolation, etc).
My purpose for this message is to locate any past, un-
published studies that are sitting around in ﬁle cabinet
drawers, or from obscure or non-English language jour-
nals. I am trying to prevent the “publication bias” that
can aﬀect meta-analyses, so would like to do a system-
atic search for any known research.
Please email me at ecowriter@ev1.net or (alternate)
holtcamp@rice.edu
Thanks in advance! Wendee
Wendee Holtcamp ~~ecowriter@ev1.net Freelance
Writer & Photographer ~~www.greendzn.com Ph.D.
Student, Rice University, Ecology & Evolutionary Bi-
ologyAugust 1, 2004 EvolDir 31
MOLPHY problems
I am currently experiencing diﬃculties with the online
version of MOLPHY 2.3, Programs for molecular phy-
logenetics based on maximum likelihood (Adachi and
Hasegawa, 1996), website: http://bioweb.pasteur.fr/-
seqanal/interfaces/prot nucml.html . Is anyone familiar
with the workings of this particular interface as I am
after some advice? Any feedback would be greatly ap-
preciated.
Adam Miller
admiller@deakin.edu.au Postgraduate Research School
of Ecology and Environment, Deakin University, PO
Box 423 Warrnambool, 3280 Victoria, Australia –
Adam Miller Postgraduate Research School of Ecology
and Environment, Deakin University, PO Box 423 War-
rnambool, 3280 Victoria, Australia Phone: 03 55633569
Fax: 03 55633462
admiller@deakin.edu.au
SNP data analysis
Dear Evoldir people, we would like to receive sugges-
tion about the best statistic analysis for SNP data. We
have genotyped 60 mammals populations for 12 SNP
loci and we are wondering wich kind of analysis is the
most suitable for them and which softwares can be suit-
able to peerform it. Any suggestion will be welcome.
Cheers, Irene
– Dr. Irene Cappuccio Dipartimento di Produzioni
Animali Laboratorio n 308, II piano Universit` a della
Tuscia Via S. Camillo de’Lellis 01100 Viterbo Oﬃce
Tel. Number +390761357447 Mobile Tel. Number
+393404646789 FAX Number +390761357434 E-mail:
cappucci@unitus.it
Irene Cappuccio <cappucci@unitus.it >Seed Ovule ratios
EvolDir members,
Lawrence Harder, Shane Richards, and I are collecting
seed-ovule ratios and outcrossing estimates to evaluate
some predictions we have generated regarding mixed
mating in plants. These data are occasionally available
in the literature, but I suspect that the collective expe-
rience of the EvolDir contains much more. We would
greatly appreciate any unpublished data or pointers to
published sources.
Speciﬁcally, we are looking for three things: 1) The
number of ovules produced per ﬂower; 2) The number
of seeds matured per ﬂower; 3) An outcrossing rate esti-
mate for the species, preferably estimated with genetic
markers.
If any of the unpublished data are the result of exper-
imental manipulations of resources, pollen abundance,
etc. please include some details of the manipulations.
Thanks in advance for any data.
Take care, Matt —– Matthew Routley Post-Doctoral
Fellow Department of Biological Sciences University of
Calgary Calgary, AB, Canada T2N 1N4
Email: routley@ucalgary.ca / mroutley@mac.com
Web: http://homepage.mac.com/mroutley/ IM:
mroutley@jabber.org / mroutley@mac.com Phone:
403 2203557
Matthew Routley <mroutley@mac.com >
Software Tree-Puzzle v5 2
Dear colleage,
After a more or less ’silent’ release 5.1, I am announcing
the next TREE-PUZZLE release. (Please note: a bug
has been ﬁxed, which tended to produce less resolved
trees. Hence, versions prior to 5.2 should not be used
anymore!)
TREE-PUZZLE 5.2 —————
Heiko A. Schmidt, Juelich, Germany. Korbinian Strim-
mer, Munich, Germany. Arndt von Haeseler, Duessel-32 EvolDir August 1, 2004
dorf/Juelich, Germany.
July 2004
http://www.tree-puzzle.de DESCRIPTION ———–
TREE-PUZZLE is a computer program to reconstruct
phylogenetic trees from molecular sequence data ap-
plying maximum likelihood. It implements a fast tree
search algorithm, quartet puzzling, that allows anal-
ysis of large data sets and automatically assigns esti-
mations of support to each internal branch. TREE-
PUZZLE also computes pairwise maximum likelihood
distances as well as branch lengths for user speciﬁed
trees. Branch lengths can be calculated with or with-
out a molecular-clock assumption. In addition, TREE-
PUZZLE oﬀers likelihood mapping, a method to inves-
tigate the support of a hypothesized internal branch
without computing an overall tree and to visualize the
phylogenetic information content of a sequence align-
ment. For a set of user provided trees a consensus
tree can be computed or the trees can be evaluated
inferring ML value and ML branchlengths. TREE-
PUZZLE also conducts a number of statistical tests
on the data set and/or the set of trees provided by
the user (chi-square test for homogeneity of base com-
position, likelihood ratio to test the clock hypothe-
sis, 1- and 2-sided Kishino-Hasegawa test, Shimodaira-
Hasegawa test, and Strimmer-Rambaut’s expected like-
lihood weights - ELW). The models of substitution pro-
vided by TREE-PUZZLE are TN, HKY, F84, GTR, SH
for nucleotides, Dayhoﬀ, JTT, mtREV24, BLOSUM 62,
VT, WAG for amino acids, and F81 for two-state data.
Rate heterogeneity is modeled by a discrete Gamma
distribution and by allowing invariable sites. The cor-
responding parameters (except for GTR in this release)
can be inferred from the data set.
CHANGES ——-
What’s new in TREE-PUZZLE 5.2:
- TREE-PUZZLE has now inplemented a faster recur-
sive quartet puzzling algorithm giving the same result
but signiﬁcantly reducing the running time.
- The GTR model is now available for DNA data. How-
ever, its free parameters are not (yet) estimated auto-
matically.
- The limits on the number of sequences to be 4 <=
n<= 257 are removed for the estimation of parame-
ters, pairwise distances as well as likelihood mapping.
(The lower limit 4 is of course still valid for quartets, as
is the upper limit for quartet puzzling, due to memory
addressing problems by overﬂows. However, the second
limit will be extended soon.)
- Besides the evaluation (ML branch length, ML value)and testing (Shimodaira-Hasegawa, Kishino-Hasegawa,
ELW) of a set of usertrees, now also a consensus tree can
be computed for which branch lengths and ML value are
estimated.
- The output ﬁle preﬁx can now be changed using a
commandline switch (-preﬁx=) to ease, for example,
batch analyses that are using the same datasets but
diﬀerent models/parameters.
- The random number generator has been changed to
use the free SPRNG library which implements high
quality random which in turn gives signiﬁcantly better
time performance (especially in parallel runs) compared
to the old implementation.
- The parameter estimation now has been also par-
allelized (in close collaboration with E. Petzold; cf.
Schmidt et al. 2003 for more details).
- Furthermore a number of bugﬁxes have been incor-
porated: - WAG matrix data has been corrected. - A
bug that tended to make trees reconstructed less re-
solved has been rectiﬁed (old TREE-PUZZLE versions
should, hence, not be used anymore). - The KH tests
have been altered to not artiﬁcially reject a tree if the
variance between it and the best tree is too small. - KH
tests have been ﬁxed in their precision, because they
tend to reject tree topologies that are almost identi-
cal to the ’best tree’, i.e., for which the variance is too
small. - a number of further minor bugs.
...ﬁnally there will be pre-compiled executables again
for Linux, Mac OS X, and Windows.
Best wishes, Heiko Schmidt
Heiko Schmidt von-Neumann Institut fuer Computing
Tel.: 02461 / 61-3893 Forschungsgruppe Bioinformatik
Fax.: FZ Juelich Email: he.schmidt(AT)fz-juelich.de
D-52425 Juelich Web: http://www.fz-juelich.de/nic/
Associated member of: Institut fuer Bioinformatik Tel.:
0211 / 81 - 11 914 HHU Duesseldorf Fax.: 0211 / 81
- 15 767 Universitaetsstr. 1, Geb. 25.02.02 Email:
hschmidt(AT)cs.uni-duesseldorf.de
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Speciation Bottlenecks answersAugust 1, 2004 EvolDir 33
Dear all,
Thank you very much again for all your help with my
question about bottleneck at speciation. As many of
you asked me to put the anwers received on the EvolDir
directory, here they are. Best regards,
Bego˜ na
1- Hola Begona,
lo que nosotros hacemos es calcular por simulacion de
una poblacion en expansion tras un bottleneck, la prob-
abilidad (likelihood) de obtener un nivel de polimor-
ﬁsmo como el que tenemos (te envio el PDF de un paper
en el que hacemos ese analisis, “Demographic modelling
of european population”, table 1). Como ves, el bot-
tleneck puede ser completamente independiente de la
especiacion (ya que para nosotros no era importante),
pero si tu sabes el tiempo de especiacion, puedes incluir
ese parametro en tus simulaciones y ya esta.
2- Querida Bego˜ na, Intenta DnaSP 4.0 - un programa
escrito en Universidad de Barcelona
3- Dear Begona There is a computer programme called
Bottleneck which I think uses microsatellite data. I’m
sure someone else will provide the details I don’t have
them with me at the moment. If no one does then come
back to me and I will try to ﬁnd the details.
4- Hi Bego˜ na, Have you tried that program BOTTLE-
NECK on your microsatellite data yet? it is available
athttp://www.montpellier.inra.fr/URLB/bottleneck/-
bottleneck.html 5-http://lifesci.rutgers.edu/˜heylab/-
HeylabSoftware.htm#WHI don’t think WH does quite
what you want but perhaps there are modiﬁcations
ofthat software. At least it estimates the size of the
ancestral pop. which mayindicate the potential for a
bottleneck?
6- Hello Bego˜ na, In response to your questions on the
evoldir server, Gordon Luikart and Jean-Marie Cornuet
are the best references I have seen for testing bottle-
necks (although your use of the word “speciation” I am
unsure about–I have only used these programs for intra-
speciﬁc datasets). L & C are incredibly articulate and
I highly recommend you read anything they have writ-
ten. They have provided empirical data on a software
program written by Piry et al. There is also a program
tested by Garza and Williamson that uses a diﬀerent
metric for testing for bottlenecks from that of L & C us-
ing usat data. You will probably have to write to Garza
directly or ﬁnd his website from his paper for his pro-
gram (actually supported, I believe, by Williamson).
Here are the references pasted from my Endnote ﬁle.
Good luck. Cindy Taylor, PhD Scripps Institution of
Oceanography UC, San Diego Cornuet, J.-M., and G.Luikart. 1996. Description and power analysis of two
tests for detecting recent population bottlenecks from
allele frequency data. Genetics 144:2001-2014. Garza,
J. C., and E. G. Williamson. 2001. Detection of re-
duction in population size using data from microsatel-
lite loci. Molecular Ecology 10:305. Luikart, G., and
J.-M. Cornuet. 1998. Empirical evaluation of a test
for identifying recently bottlenecked populations from
allele frequency data. Conservation Biology 12:228-
237. Luikart, G., J.-M. Cornuet, and F. W. Allendorf.
1999. Temporal changes in allele frequencies provide
estimates of population bottleneck size. Conservation
Biology 13:523-530. Luikart, G. L., F. W. Allendorf,
J.-M. Cornuet, and W. B. Sherwin. 1998. Distortion of
allele frequency distributions provides a test for recent
population bottlenecks. Journal of Heredity 3:238-247.
Piry, S., G. Luikart, and J.-M. Cornuet. 1999. BOT-
TLENECK: a computer program for detecting recent
reductions in the eﬀective population size using allele
frequency data. J Hered 90:502-503.
7- Dear Begona, A number of coalescent-based meth-
ods can estimate the population size through time of
a population using genetic data. This would allow you
to measure the population size at the time of specia-
tion. BEAST, GENIE, Mark Beaumont’s software and
BATWING can all do this...
8- Bego˜ na, Here’s an old one for a specialized case, but
you may ﬁnd some ideas here: HILTON, H., R. M.
KLIMAN, and J. HEY, 1994 ˆA Using hitchhiking genes
to study adaptation and divergence during speciation
within the Drosophila melanogaster species complex.
Evolution 48:1900-1913 These guys used hitchiking to
time the split between sister Drosophilas pp., as I recall.
9- Bego˜ na, i did not see your original email nor the
replies sent to you.So this may be something you are
already aware of, but Laurent Excoﬃer has written
the simulation software that you need. Its called SIM-
COAL and is avail at http://cmpg.unibe.ch/software/-
simcoal/ . With SIMCOAL you can specify times of
divergence and changes in population size, and then
generate molecular data under these conditions. Typi-
cally what you would want to do is draw distributions
(from the simulations) of common diversity
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html34 EvolDir August 1, 2004
Speciation bottleneck
Dear colleagues,
Does someone know a software to test for a bottle-
neck at speciation either with microsatellite or sequence
data?
Thanks!
Bego˜ na
Bego˜ na Mart´ ınez-Cruz Phd Student Department of
Applied Biology Estaci´ on Biol´ ogica de Do˜ nana Avda.
Mar´ ıa Luisa s/n 41013 SEVILLA Spain Telf. +34 954
232340 Fax +34 954 621125
Bego˜ na Mart´ ınez Cruz <bemar@ebd.csic.es >
Speciation bottleneck 2
Dear all,
Thank you very much for your quick answers. How-
ever, what I am looking for is not to test for a recent
bottleneck (as Bottleneck or M do) but for an histori-
cal bottleneck, at the time of speciation of two closely
related taxa. I am thinking in a software based on the
coalescent model that simulates the split and estimates
whether the divergence resulted in a bottleneck for the
descendant species at the time of split.
Thanks again,
Bego˜ na
Bego˜ na Mart´ ınez-Cruz Phd Student Department of
Applied Biology Estaci´ on Biol´ ogica de Do˜ nana Avda.
Mar´ ıa Luisa s/n 41013 SEVILLA Spain Telf. +34 954
232340 Fax +34 954 621125
Bego˜ na Mart´ ınez Cruz <bemar@ebd.csic.es >
Tetraploid micros answers
Dear Evoldir,Here are the responses I got for the questions regarding
tetraploid microsatellite problem, which I posted in the
forum about a month ago.I got some useful suggestions
but in my opinion the problem is not yet completely
solved. I am very much thankful to all of you who re-
sponded my question.
The question I posted was as following:
Dear evoldir,
I am a Ph.D. student in forest genetics and working
with a forest tree species called sycamore (Acer pseu-
doplatanus) which is a tetraploid species. I am using
nuclear microsatellite marker to study the genetic struc-
ture of above mentioned species. Since the species is
tetraploid I am getting 1 to 4 bands per locus per sam-
ple and to score alleles depending on dosage eﬀects is
not working (diﬃcult to diﬀerentiate alleles). I am get-
ting diﬃculties to interprate such types of bands. I
would be grateful if anyone can suggest me how to in-
terprate such types of bands and what types genetic
variation parameter can be estimated from such types
of data using which programme.
ANSWERS:
I already noticed your post at the EvolDir, but did not
reply as I was a bit short on time and thought that
others might also be able to help you. However, if you
did not yet get the answers you needed, I can help you
by giving my view on your problem.
It was nice of Ruzica to suggest my program to you,
but I am afraid it might not entirely what you are
looking for, though it might be of use, depending on
your research question. My program is in priciple
meant for use with asexually reproducing species, and
as most asexuals are polyploid, the program can han-
dle polyploid data. Most of the program’s function-
ality is rather useless if you are working on a sexual
species. However, the program does allow you to cal-
culate and export genetic distance matrices (also using
Ruzica’s method). You can use this matrix then to
make a tree (eg. UPGMA) and draw some conclusions
from that or to do other things that people usually do
with genetic distances. You can ﬁnd the program on
www.science.uva.nl/ ˜ meirmans . More useful hoew-
ever would be to forget about my program and do an
Amova. In that case you might score your msats as
if they were dominant markers and use these as an
input ﬁle. Someone called JENCZEWSKI published
something Amova’s on polyploids in Molecular Ecol-
ogy in 1999, if I remember correctly, but those were on
RAPDs. If you do want to use your data asd codomi-
nant, you would have to think of a way to calculate aAugust 1, 2004 EvolDir 35
chi-square distance matrix for your data to use as an
input.
Furthermore there is the excellent program called
SPAGEDI, written by Olivier Hardy, that can calcu-
late Fst using polyploid data. However the bias that
arises from not knowing the dosage of your alleles is
hard to asses, though I know people who have done Fst
calculations on data from polyploids like that.
Just out of interest: are all A. pseudoplatanus polyploid
or are there also diploids somewhere? And something
that has been b ugging me for quite sometime: is poly-
ploidy as frequent in trees as it is in herbs? I never
before heard of polyploid trees, though I never took
the eﬀort to look for it...
Hope I have helped you with this, if you have any fur-
ther questions, don’t hesitate to ask.
Greetings, Patrick
Patrick G. Meirmans Institute for Biodiversity and
Ecosystem Dynamics Evolutionary Botany University
of Amsterdam Kruislaan 318 1098 SM Amsterdam The
Netherlands
Tel. +31 (0)20 525 7856 Fax. +31 (0)20 525 7832
http://www.science.uva.nl/˜meirmans
Hi,
The short answer is:
“There is no standard approach to population genetic
stats in a polysomically inheriting polyploid in which
you can’t identify allele dosage. The is certainly no
software to do so.”
However,
If you can score allele dosage, then use Spagedi (Hardy
and vekemans)
If it has disomic inheritance, then I have an approach
(and a beta of a text-interface program) that will give
some statistics.
My program will work with a polyploid with polysomic
inheritance (i.e. give you numbers), but inference would
be harder.
I have attached the (very ’beta’) doumentation for my
program. Included are some helpful references.Darren
Darren Obbard Plant Sciences,Oxford (Currently re-
siding in Norwich, UK) darren.obbard@plants.ox.ac.uk
Mobile: +44 07968 838 635 Home: +44 01603 259 670
I had exactly the same problem when I scored microstel-
lites in a tetraploid Echium vulgare. I did not trust the
estimation of number of copies of the alleles, based on
the signal intensity. I ended up noting only the pres-
ence or absence of ampliﬁed alleles. I wrote it in my
primer note. Korbecka G, Vrieling K, Squirrell J, et al.
(2003) Characterization of six microsatellite
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Water voles
I have a Masters student who wishes to carry out a
phylogeographic project on the water vole, Arvicola
terrestris using cytochrome-b sequences. We would be
very grateful if anybody could send us tissue samples
(hair follicles, dried tissue...) from areas away from
North Wales, UK. Please note that in the UK at least,
a Home Oﬃce license is needed to collect tissue from
live mammals so please check your national legislation!
If you are PIT-tagging, we can get enough DNA from
the hypodermic needle but we would need to supply
you with appropriate presvation material.
Thanks in advance.
Chris
–
Dr. Chris Gliddon School of Biological Sciences Uni-
versity of Wales, Bangor LL57 2UW United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1248 382533 FAX: +44 (0)1248 382569 Mo-
bile: +44 (0)7941 06042336 EvolDir August 1, 2004
PostDocs
AlbertEinsteinCollegeMed EvolSystemsBiol . . . . . . . 36
CornellU Drosophila Immunity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Dublin GenomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
ETHZurich HostParasite . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Edinburgh AnimalBreeding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
MidwesternU EvolPhysiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
NatHistMuseum Polychaetes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
PortlandStateU PlantEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
PurdueU MolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
SUNYStonyBrook Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
UArizona phylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
UBritishColumbia Phylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40UCDavis PlantEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
UCIrvine SocialInsectGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
UCLA 2 EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
UCSantaBarbara LabManager MatingSystemsEvol 42
UCopenhagen GeneDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UGeorgia StatMathEpidemiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
ULausanne Reproduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
USheﬃeld ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
USussex Postdoc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UWalesBangor LizardSpeciationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . 45
WashingtonU EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
AlbertEinsteinCollegeMed
EvolSystemsBiol
Post Doctoral Research Fellow in Evolutionary Systems
Biology Seaver Foundation Program in Bioinformatics,
Albert Einstein College of Medicine,
Postdoctoral research position is available in compu-
tational/systems biology. The program’s focus is the
study of complex gene networks and their evolution.
Applicants could have skills in any of several areas of
evolutionary, molecular, computational, or systems bi-
ology and/or genetics, and development biology. We
encourage applicants from any of these ﬁelds. We par-
ticularly encourage applicants working on model organ-
isms who are interested in strengthening their theoret-
ical and computational scholarship.
The position is available immediately and for the dura-
tion of 1-3 years; Salary (in the range of $35K to $40K,
plus beneﬁts) will be commensurate with experience.
If interested, please send your curriculum vitae and
the names of at least two references to: Prof. Aviv
Bergman Department of Pathology Seaver Foundation
Program in Bioinformatics, Albert Einstein College of
Medicine, Jack and Pearl Resnick Campus, 1300 Morris
Park Avenue, Bronx, NY 10461.
E-mail: abergman@aecom.yu.edu
– Aviv Bergman Ph.D. Professor Albert Einstein Col-
lege of Medicine 1300 Morris Park Ave. (Belfer 902A)
Bronx, NY 10461 Phone (718) 430-2942 Fax: (718) 430-
8541 e-mail: abergman@aecom.yu.eduAviv Bergman <abergman@aecom.yu.edu >
CornellU Drosophila Immunity
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION
An NSF funded postdoctoral position is available in
Brian Lazzaro’s lab at Cornell University to study the
evolution of innate immune responses in Drosophila.
The successful applicant will be expected to develop his
or her own research project, but possible broad topic
areas include a) coevolution between Drosophila and
its microbial pathogens, or b) the relationship between
genetic and phenotypic variation in immunity. Ideal
applicants will have a background in population genet-
ics, quantitative genetics or evolutionary biology and
will have some experience in insect immunity, microbi-
ology, or Drosophila genetics. The Lazzaro lab is in the
Cornell department of Entomology, and is physically
and intellectually close to the departments of Molecu-
lar Biology and Genetics and Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology. The successful applicant will have the oppor-
tunity to take advantage of these and other linkages
across campus.
Support for this position is available immediately, but
start date is negotiable. Applications should include a
CV, a brief statement of research interests and experi-
ence, and contact information for three references.
Applications and inquiries may be directed to: Brian
Lazzaro, Ph.D. 4138 Comstock Hall Cornell University
Ithaca, NY 14853August 1, 2004 EvolDir 37
email: bl89@cornell.edu
Cornell University is committed to creating a more di-
verse and inclusive campus in which to work, study,
teach and serve.
Dublin GenomeEvolution
Bioinformatics / Molecular Evolution
Postdoctoral Opportunities
Postdoctoral fellowships are available in Prof. Ken
Wolfe’s group at Trinity College Dublin (Ireland). The
projects will involve using bioinformatics and compar-
ative genomics methods to study genome evolution in
eukaryotes. Particular interests in the lab include the
evolution of polyploid species, clustering of functionally
related genes, and fungal genomics.
These fellowships form part of a 5-year research pro-
gramme supported by Science Foundation Ireland. For
further information about the lab, see wolfe.gen.tcd.ie.
Very competitive salaries will be available for outstand-
ing applicants.
Previous experience in molecular evolution, bioinfor-
matics, and/or computer programming experience in C
/ Perl / SQL is essential. Candidates should submit a
cover letter and curriculum vitae, including the names
of two referees, by mail or e-mail to: Prof. Kenneth H.
Wolfe, Department of Genetics, Smurﬁt Institute, Trin-
ity College, Dublin 2, Ireland (Tel. +353 1 6081253; e-
mail khwolfe@tcd.ie). Informal enquiries are welcome.
Closing date 8 August 2004.
Trinity College is an Equal Opportunities Employer.
ETHZurich HostParasite
POST-DOC POSITION Evolutionary ecology of host-
parasite interactions ETH Zurich
In the group of Ecology & Evolution (Experimental
Ecology, P. Schmid-Hempel) a post-doc position will
be available by 2005. The project is on the evolution-
ary ecology of host-parasite interactions, either on ques-
tions of immune defence strategies, or on the problem
of genetic interactions, depending on interest and qual-iﬁcation. It most likely will use our established model
system (bumble bees and their parasites). Experience
in molecular techniques is advantageous. Salary accord-
ing to local scale; starting date negotiable, the position
is for 2 years and may be extendable. More informa-
tion on www.eco.ethz.ch and by email (psh@env.ethz.ch
- after 15 Aug). Review of pplications with CV, publi-
cation list and addresses of referees starts 25 Sept 2004.
Prof. Paul Schmid-Hempel ETH Zurich, Ecol-
ogy & Evolution ETH-Zentrum NW CH-8092 Zurich
Ph: +41 1 633 6033 or 6048 Fax: +41 1 632
1271 psh@env.ethz.ch www.eco.ethz.ch Paul Schmid-
Hempel <psh@env.ethz.ch >
Edinburgh AnimalBreeding
RESEARCHER, ANIMAL BREEDING & GENETICS
Scottish Agricultural College, EDINBURGH, UK
SAC, in conjunction with the Roslin Institute, are seek-
ing a postgraduate with experience in animal breeding
or quantitative genetics to work on a project aimed to
investigate the links between breeding for scrapie re-
sistance and economically important production and
health traits in sheep.
The successful candidate will join a multidisciplinary
team researching the optimal breeding strategies for
scrapie resistance in the context of an overall genetic
improvement programme. The post is available for 3
years.
Candidates should hold a postgraduate qualiﬁcation in
animal breeding, quantitative genetics or a closely re-
lated discipline. Strong communication, computer and
mathematical/statistical skills are required. Knowledge
in epidemiological modelling and animal breeding in-
dustry and database management skills will be an ad-
vantage.
The salary will be in the region of £19,585 - £32,995 per
annum. A ﬁnal salary Pension Scheme is in operation.
Applications close 16 August 2004.
For further details and application packs see our web-
site: http://www.sac.ac.uk/jobvacancies . Application
packs are also available from Human Resources, Scot-
tish Agricultural College, West Mains Road, Edinburgh
EH9 3JG, UK.
Tel: (+44) 0131 535 4343 (answering machine), Fax:38 EvolDir August 1, 2004
(+44) 0131 535 4322, HumanResources@ed.sac.ac.uk.
Please quote reference R&D/SLS/103/04.
***********
Loeske Kruuk Institute of Cell, Animal and Population
Biology University of Edinburgh Edinburgh EH9 3JT,
UK Tel. (44) 131 650 5515 Fax (44) 131 650 6564
***********
Loeske Kruuk <Loeske.Kruuk@ed.ac.uk >
MidwesternU EvolPhysiology
POST-DOCTORAL POSITION IN EVOLUTION-
ARY PHYSIOLOGY
An NSF-funded postdoctoral position is immediately
available for an individual interested in examining the
evolution of respiratory patterns of terrestrial insects.
The project is broadly comparative and will include in-
sects from Arizona and southern Africa. This study will
be conducted under the guidance of Dr. Michael Quin-
lan (Midwestern University) and Dr. Allen Gibbs (Uni-
versity of Nevada at Las Vegas). Dr. Steven Chown
(University of Stellenbosch, South Africa) is a collab-
orator on this project and will provide access to the
African species. The successful candidate will be based
primarily in the Phoenix area, though he or she will
be expected to travel to UNLV on occasion. Money
is available for some travel to the Chown lab at the
University of Stellenbosch.
Candidates having experience in one or more of the fol-
lowing areas will be given preference: (1) respiratory
physiology, especially of terrestrial invertebrates, (2)
phylogenetic comparisons of physiological traits, and
(3) insect metabolism and water balance. A Ph.D.
in biology or a related discipline is required. Initial
appointment will be for one year and is renewable
upon satisfactory performance. Applicants must sub-
mit a complete curriculum vitae and names and con-
tact information for two references to Michael Quin-
lan, Department of Basic Science, Midwestern Univer-
sity, 19555 N. 59th Ave, Glendale, AZ 85308 (email
mquinl@midwestern.edu). Review of applications will
begin immediately.
Persons interested in this position may also contact
Allen Gibbs (agibbs@arl.arizona.edu) for more infor-
mation.NatHistMuseum Polychaetes
Department of Zoology The Natural History Museum
Post-Doctoral Research Assistant Polychaete Research
Group Salary to £23,000
Molecular genetics of deep-sea polychaetes A 6-month
research position is available to study polychaete worms
collected from deep-sea chemosynthetic habitats on the
California Slope. These habitats include hydrothermal
vents, whale-carcasses, kelp-parcels and wood-parcels.
The aim of the project is to obtain a variety of nuclear
and mitochondrial DNA sequences in order to address
questions regarding the degree of gene-ﬂow between
these ephemeral island’ habitats, the genetic structure
of their populations and the phylogenetic position of the
species that occupy them. One of the main goals of the
project is to examine the linkages between chemosyn-
thetic habitats of geologic origin (such as hydrothermal
vents and seeps) and those of biogenic origin (such as
whale-carcasses). A skilled molecular biologist, with
sound knowledge of phylogenetic, phylogeographic or
population genetic analysis is required. Knowledge of
deep-sea ecology and polychaete taxonomy is not re-
quired, but would be desirable. Although the specimens
for the project have already been collected, there will
be an opportunity to collect more on an oceanographic
research cruise on the California slope.
This project will be jointly supervised by Dr Adrian
Glover (The Natural History Museum), Dr Thomas
Dahlgren (Tj¨ arn¨ o Marine Biological Laboratory, Swe-
den) and Prof Craig Smith (University of Hawaii).
For full details of requirements, a full job description
and equal opportunities form please Email: PDRA@hs-
scientiﬁc.co.uk, or write to: The Natural History Mu-
seum, c/o Hudson Shribman Scientiﬁc Recruitment,
Vernon House, Sicilian Ave, London, WC1A 2QS. Ap-
plication will be by CV & covering letter including a
summary of your research interests.
Closing date: 20th August 2004. Dr Adrian
Glover Zoology Department The Natural History Mu-
seum Cromwell Rd, London SW7 5BD, U.K.
020 7942 5056 (oﬃce) 077 666 484 40 (mobile)
http://homepage.mac.com/adrianglover http://-
homepage.mac.com/adriangloverAugust 1, 2004 EvolDir 39
PortlandStateU PlantEvol
Post-Doctoral Position in the Evolutionary Ecology of
Invasive Plants
A post-doctoral position is available for studies of
life history evolution in a newly invasive grass in the
Willamette Valley of Oregon. The work will focus on
examining evolutionary changes associated with range
expansion and the transition to an aggressive-invasive
life history. The work includes a mixture of ﬁeld and
greenhouse studies with opportunities to participate in
genetic marker analyses and to develop related projects
of mutual interest. An individual with a background
in plant ecology and ﬁeld biology, and an interest in
molecular markers would be particularly suitable for
this position.
The work will be conducted at Portland State Uni-
versity and at nearby ﬁeld sites in and around the
Willamette Valley. The successful candidate will join
an active group of graduate and undergraduate stu-
dents in the Plant Ecological Genetics lab at PSU
(http://web.pdx.edu/ ˜ cruzan/ ), and will have the
opportunity to participate in genetic marker stud-
ies in collaboration with Alisa Ramakrishnan ( http:/-
/web.pdx.edu/%7Eramakris/index.htm ). Opportuni-
ties for interactions and collaborations with a broad
range of faculty, post-docs, and graduate students
are available in the Department of Biology ( http://-
www.bio.pdx.edu/ ), and in related departments at PSU
and local colleges in Portland.
Interested applicants should send a CV, statement of
research interests, and a list of three referees to Mitch
Cruzan (Cruzan@pdx.edu).
If you are interested in this position and plan to attend
the Ecological Society of America meetings in Portland
next month please contact me so we can arrange a time
to meet.
–
Mitch Cruzan, Associate Professor Department of Bi-
ology Portland State University, Box 751 Portland, OR
97207 Phone: 503-725-8391 Fax: 503-725-3888 Web-
page:<http://web.pdx.edu/˜cruzan/ >PurdueU MolEvol
A postdoc position in evolutionary genetics is avail-
able at Purdue University. The successful applicant
will be highly motivated to develop one of several
projects in molecular evolution, population genetics,
or genetic parentage assessment. Demonstrated exper-
tise in computer programming, automated DNA se-
quencers, and/or microarrays is required. Purdue is
a large university ( >38,000 students) and collabora-
tions with colleagues are common. Salary and ben-
eﬁts are very competitive. Interested parties should
send a current CV, relevant reprints, and a statement
of research interests & experience to Andrew DeWoody
(dewoody@purdue.edu), Dept. of Forestry & Natural
Resources, Purdue University, West Lafayette Indiana.
International applicants will be considered if they hold
the correct visa(s). Women and minorities are encour-
aged to apply. Purdue University is an equal opportu-
nity employer.
SUNYStonyBrook Genomics
Postdoc in metabolic genomics and molecular evolution
An NIH supported postdoctoral position is available to
work on the molecular evolution, population genetics,
physiology, and functional genomics of metabolic genes
in Drosophila. The position is for two years and is avail-
able starting immediately, although there is ﬂexibility
in any start date.
Applicants could possess skills in any of several areas in-
cluding Drosophila genetics, molecular evolution, pop-
ulation genetics, or physiological genetics.
If interested please contact Walt Eanes, Department of
Ecology and Evolution, Stony Brook University, Stony
Brook, NY 11794 or e-mail walter@life.bio.sunysb.edu.
Walter F. Eanes Professor Dept. of Ecology and Evo-
lution State University of New York Stony Brook, New
York 11794
weanes@notes.cc.sunysb.edu40 EvolDir August 1, 2004
UArizona phylogenetics
Judith Becerra and I have postdoc funding for someone
who can work with us on comparative ecology in a phy-
logenetic framework. The subject areas are plant-insect
interactions and evolution of plant adaptive traits. Ide-
ally we want someone who has familiarity and experi-
ence working with the theory and software used in phy-
logenetic comparative biology. A good background in
statistics and computer programming would be a plus.
This is a one or two year position, with possibility of
renewal for a third. We have a very strong program
in ecology and evolutionary biology with may grad stu-
dents and postdocs, making this a good environment for
postdoctoral work. Please contact us at Judith Becerra
<becerra@Ag.arizona.edu >or venable@u.arizona.edu
The website with the job posting is:
www.UACareerTrack.com/ . Look under Postdocs,
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology.
-Larry Venable and Judith Becerra Departments
of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology and En-
tomology University of Arizona Our websites:
http://eebweb.arizona.edu/faculty/venable/ http://-
eebweb.arizona.edu/Faculty/Becerra/ Larry Venable
<venable@email.arizona.edu >
UBritishColumbia Phylogenetics
Computational phylogenetics postdoctoral position
available in the laboratory of Wayne Maddison at the
University of British Columbia
We seek a postdoctoral computational biologist or
computer scientist to contribute to the NSF-funded
CIPRes project (Cyber Infrastructure for Phylogenetic
Research, http://www.phylo.org ). The CIPRes project
is developing a software framework to enable larger and
more ﬂexible phylogenetics analyses through a modu-
lar architecture and distributed computing. Candidates
should be skilled in programming in Java, C++ or re-
lated languages. Ideally, the successful candidate would
also be conversant in evolutionary biology.
The particular duties of this postdoc will be to par-ticipate in the design and programming of (1) the
general CIPRes framework and (2) Mesquite, http:/-
/www.mesquiteproject.org . Work on the framework
will focus on the design of intermodule communication.
Work on Mesquite will have as goals both the integra-
tion of Mesquite into the CIPRes system and improve-
ment of Mesquite’s analytical capabilities. Mesquite’s
modules span diverse areas of evolutionary analysis,
from simulations of molecular evolution, to population
genetics and coalescence, morphometrics and compara-
tive method, and likelihood ancestral state reconstruc-
tion. Which area is the target of improvement may
depend on the background and interests of the candi-
date.
Starting date can be as early as September 2004. Salary
is US$30,000, plus beneﬁts. Funding is available for 3
years; whether we oﬀer 1, 2 or 3 years to the success-
ful candidate is a subject for negotiation. The Uni-
versity of British Columbia ( http://www.ubc.ca ) is lo-
cated in Vancouver, Canada, a beautiful city nestled be-
tween mountains and sea ( http://www.ubc.ca/about/-
vancouver.html ).
To apply, send to me (wmad-
disn@interchange.ubc.ca and cc’d to Karen Needham
<needham@zoology.ubc.ca >) the following: (1) your
curriculum vitae, (2) statement of research interests,
(3) statement of expertise relevant for this project, and
(4) the names of 3 referees and their email addresses.
Application review will commence as early as August
1 and continue until the position is ﬁlled.
I will be in the ﬁeld for the month of July; if you have
questions please send email both to me and to Karen
Needham (needham@zoology.ubc.ca).
–
——————————————————–
Wayne Maddison Professor and Canada Research Chair
Departments of Zoology and Botany 6270 University
Boulevard University of British Columbia Vancouver,
BC V6T 1Z4 Canada
email: wmaddisn@interchange.ubc.ca FAX: (604) 822-
2416
Mesquite: http://mesquiteproject.org MacClade:
http://macclade.org Salticidae: http://salticidae.org
Tree of Life: http://tolweb.org Home page: http://-
salticidae.org/wpm/home.html
UCDavis PlantEvolAugust 1, 2004 EvolDir 41
Post-Doc on the Evolutionary Genetics of the Invasive
Barbed Goatgrass
A two-year post-doctoral position at UC Davis is avail-
able as part of a project funded by the USDA to
study range expansion of the invasive barbed goatgrass
(Aegilops triuncialis). The major focus of the post-
doctoral research will involve using a variety of molec-
ular approaches to quantify the genetic bottleneck in-
volved in the introduction into California, and to exam-
ine the biogeography of invasive lineages in their native
range. In addition, because barbed goatgrass is an al-
lotetraploid with multiple origins, this system is ideal
to address questions relating to polyploid speciation.
We are looking for a highly motivated individual with
a Ph.D. degree and with the demonstrated ability
to carry out outstanding research. The successful
candidate must have substantial experience in high-
throughput genotyping and a strong record in popu-
lation genetic and phylogenetic analyses. We also em-
phasize the ability to interact and work collaboratively
with others, as the post-doc will work closely with a
technician and undergraduate researchers. In addition
to the molecular ecology, the project as a whole involves
substantial quantitative genetic and ecological genetic
experiments. While no experience in this area is re-
quired, the candidate can expect to hone their expertise
in ﬁeld demography.
The position is available 1 October 2004, but the start
is ﬂexible to some degree. Salary and beneﬁts are com-
petitive, and UC Davis is an excellent academic envi-
ronment for a post-doc in plant evolutionary biology
and species invasions. Our lab group has excellent in-
teractions with our colleagues in plant physiology, evo-
lutionary genetics and molecular biology.
We will begin reviewing applications on September 1
2004. Please send a letter of interest and a C.V., and
the names and contact information for three references
to:
Prof. Kevin Rice, Agronomy and Range Science One
Shields Ave, University of California Davis, Davis, CA
95616 kjrice@ucdavis.edu
UCIrvine SocialInsectGenetics
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION - Genetics and behav-
ior of social insects.
The Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biologyat UC Irvine is currently seeking a Postdoctoral Re-
searcher in the laboratory of Dr. Neil Tsutsui.
We are seeking a Postdoctoral Researcher to study the
genetics, behavior, and social structure of social insects.
Previous work has focused on the invasive (but charis-
matic) Argentine ant (Linepithema humile). In this
species, genetic changes during introduction have al-
tered individual behavior and, in turn, the social or-
ganization of introduced populations. These changes
have contributed to the Argentine ant’s invasive success
by promoting the formation of massive “supercolonies”
in the introduced range. Future research will explore
the ontogenetic and biochemical components of nest-
mate recognition in both invasive and non-invasive so-
cial insects. Publications from previous research can be
downloaded from http://tsutsuilab.bio.uci.edu/ The
successful applicant must have a strong background
in molecular techniques, population genetics and data
analysis, and previous experience in behavioral ecology
is desired. Salary will be commensurate with experi-
ence. Generous beneﬁts are included.
Review of candidates and applications will begin Aug.
8, 2004. Applicants should submit a curriculum vita,
a brief statement of research interests, and the name,
address and phone number of two references to:
Dr. Neil D. Tsutsui Department of Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology 321 Steinhaus Hall University of Cali-
fornia, Irvine Irvine, CA 92697-2525
Applications or queries can also be sent to: ntsut-
sui@uci.edu.
UCLA 2 EvolBiol
TWO POSTDOCTORAL POSITIONS AT UCLA
Two postdoctoral positions are available in the Cen-
ter for Tropical Research, Institute of the Environment
and the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology at UCLA. We are seeking two broadly trained
evolutionary biologists with strong backgrounds in the
application of molecular genetic techniques to natural
populations. The positions are available for one year
with the possibility of renewal.
EVOLUTIONARY PROCESSES AND CONSERVA-
TION - We are particularly interested in evolution-
ary biologists and ecologists with experience working
at the intra-speciﬁc level and with broad knowledge of
molecular genetic techniques, especially the application42 EvolDir August 1, 2004
AFLPs. The successful candidate will work as part of
an interdisciplinary team investigating the evolution-
ary processes that give rise to and maintain biologi-
cal diversity in the western Amazonian region of South
America, especially Ecuador. The ultimate aim of the
investigation is to develop a model that can integrate
biological point locality and process data (e.g., genetic
and morphological information and estimates of con-
nectivity among populations) with remotely sensed en-
vironmental parameters to quantify patterns of species
range and diversity in tropical regions. These data will
be combined with data from other taxa to prioritize
areas for conservation eﬀorts.
ECOLOGY OF AVIAN DISEASES - The successful
candidate will work as part of an interdisciplinary team
investigating the eﬀects of deforestation on the preva-
lence of blood-borne pathogens in African rainforest
birds. Using existing CTR samples, as well as collecting
new ones, and using PCR-based detection methods and
molecular phylogenetics, the candidate will work col-
laboratively investigating how long-term anthropogenic
changes in habitats aﬀect the prevalence of infectious
diseases in natural populations. The three main objec-
tives of the study are to: 1) determine how pathogen
prevalence changes over time within diﬀering rainfor-
est habitats, some of which have remained unaltered,
and some of which have gone through habitat conver-
sion, 2) determine the host- and habitat- speciﬁcities
of blood-borne pathogens to assess the degree of host-
switching that may occur in diﬀering habitats, and 3)
determine, using remote sensing data, the environmen-
tal variables that best correlate with pathogen preva-
lence and develop models that will aid in the prediction
of how ecological change will aﬀect disease prevalence
and the likelihood of host switching.
The postdoctoral fellows will also have the opportu-
nity to explore broader questions related to population
diversiﬁcation and microevolutionary processes. They
will be expected to interact and collaborate with post-
doctoral researchers and graduate students working on
a broad range of ecological and evolutionary projects.
Other Center for Tropical Research projects include: 1)
investigations of the mechanisms of speciation, 2) pop-
ulation structure and conservation of migrant birds and
connectivity, and 3) seed dispersal and forest regenera-
tion. Interested candidates should mail or e-mail a CV,
a brief description of research interests, and names and
contact information for three references to:
Thomas B. Smith, Ph.D. Professor, Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology (formerly Organismic Biology, Ecology,
and Evolution) Director, Center for Tropical Research
Institute of the Environment University of California,
Los Angeles 1609 Hershey Hall Box 951496 Los Ange-les, CA 90095-1496 USA
E-mail: tbsmith@ucla.edu Phone: (310) 206-6234
Fax: (310) 825-5446 http://www.ioe.ucla.edu/-
ctr and http://www.obee.ucla.edu/ tbsmith
<tbsmith@obee.ucla.edu >
UCSantaBarbara LabManager
MatingSystemsEvol
Postdoctoral Research/Lab Manager Position Depart-
ment of Ecology, Evolution and Marine Biology Mazer
Lab University of California, Santa Barbara
Life History, Developmental, and Mating System Evo-
lution in the genus Clarkia (Onagraceae)
A 12-month lab manager/research position beginning in
January 2005 is available to supervise a comprehensive
greenhouse experiment while the principal investigator
is on leave as Program Director at the National Science
Foundation. The optimal candidate will also partici-
pate fully in the data management, statistical analy-
sis, and anticipated publication of this work. While
a postdoctoral candidate is the most desirable, other
candidates with suﬃcient research, laboratory, statisti-
cal and leadership experience will also be considered.
An individual with a background in plant evolution-
ary ecology, quantitative genetics, statistical analysis
of multivariate data, and plant development would be
particularly suitable for this position.
The successful candidate will direct and conduct a com-
parative greenhouse study to measure genetic and on-
togenetic components of gender allocation in two sub-
species of Clarkia xantiana (Onagraceae): the predom-
inantly outcrossing C. xantiana ssp. xantiana, and the
predominantly selﬁng C. xantiana ssp. parviﬂora (see
attachment for lovely photos!) The work is also de-
signed to seek evidence for evolutionary constraints on
life history and ﬂoral development rates by estimating
the genetically based correlation between rates of in-
dividual and ﬂoral development. Experience in image
analysis and in automated pollen-counting is desirable
but not necessary (training will be provided).
The candidate will be expected to recruit and to su-
pervise 6 - 10 undergraduate assistants at UCSB who
will participate as research-for-credit interns, assisting
in sample-collection and - processing in the greenhouse
and lab. Depending on the experience of the candi-
date, there may be the opportunity to teach courses inAugust 1, 2004 EvolDir 43
Botany and Introductory Biology (for additional com-
pensation).
The work will be conducted at the University
of California, Santa Barbara. The successful
candidate will join an active group of gradu-
ate and undergraduate students in the Depart-
ment of Ecology, Evolution, and Marine Biology
at UCSB ( http://www.lifesci.ucsb.edu/eemb/faculty/-
mazer/index.html ), and will have the opportunity to
develop independent or collaborative research.
Anticipated annual salary: ~$34,400 with beneﬁts (with
no teaching responsibilities); $38,000 - $44,000 with
beneﬁts (with one or two one-quarter courses to teach;
a PhD. and experience teaching plant biology are re-
quired).
Interested applicants should send a CV, state-
ment of research interests, and a list of three
referees (with e-mail addresses and telephone num-
bers ) to Susan Mazer (mazer@lifesci.ucsb.edu
<mailto:mazer@lifesci.ucsb.edu > and
smazer@nsf.gov). You may also reach me by phone at:
703-292-7121. In addition, if you plan to attend the
Ecological Society of America meetings in Portland
during August 1 - 6, 2004, please contact me so we can
arrange a time to meet.
Dr. Susan J. Mazer Program Director Ecological Stud-
ies Cluster (BIO/DEB) Ecology Program National Sci-
ence Foundation 4201 Wilson Blvd., rm 614 Arlington,
VA 22230 Phone: 703-292-7121 FAX: 800-208-8980
UCopenhagen GeneDiversity
A post doc position is available at the Department of
Evolutionary Biology, University of Copenhagen.
January 2003 the Carlsberg Foundation granted 5 years
of support for the project Molecular Diversity and Evo-
lution. The grant includes 10 post doc years, 2 PhD
stipends and running costs.
The project has two major components: 1. Evolution of
processes responsible for gene product diversity. Focus
will initially be upon alternative splicing in evolution
and 2. Evolution of regulatory networks based on non-
coding RNA. The overall perspective for these studies
is the molecular evolution of organism complexity. The
intention of this research is to better understand the re-
lationship between phenotypic evolutionary change and
the evolution of basic molecular processes. The projectwill focus upon molecular experimentation in collabo-
ration with on-site bioinformaticians.
With this post doc position we speciﬁcally wish to focus
on diﬀerential splicing and its regulation. The candi-
date will be responsible for the experimental work in
this connection and supervision of PhD and Msc stu-
dents. The project is internationally well connected and
is in a strong bioinformatic and molecular environment.
The Post doc is potentially for 3 years with a yearly
renewal. There is a three month probation.
The position is open until ﬁlled. Send applications to:
Professor Peter Arctander, parctander@zi.ku.dk
Information on Danish post doc and PhD rules and reg-
ulations, including salaries and taxation, are available
athttp://www.ku.dk/english/ Further information
from Professor Peter Arctander, parctander@zi.ku.dk
+45 2875 1310 Department of Evolutionary Biology,
Universitetsparken 15, DK-2100 Copenhagen ?, Den-
mark
Arctander <Parctander@bi.ku.dk >
UGeorgia StatMathEpidemiology
Postdoctoral Research Associate Institute of Ecology,
University of Georgia, USA
Applications are invited for a postdoctoral fellowship
in Statistical and Mathematical Epidemiology, funded
by the National Science Foundation. The successful
applicant will be involved in the development of novel
statistical and time-series methods to explore potential
interactions between diseases in epidemiological data.
Initially, the project will focus on childhood infections
in Europe and the USA, but there is scope for studying
other candidate infections in various locations around
the globe.
A PhD in statistics, applied mathematics or a highly
quantitative ﬁeld is essential. Previous experience in
the analysis of ecological or epidemiological systems
would be desirable though not essential.
The position is for three years with a salary of $35,000
per year, plus fringe beneﬁts.
Informal enquiries may be addressed to
Pej Rohani +1 706 542 9249, e-mail:
<mailto:rohani@uga.edu >rohani@uga.edu.
Candidates should send a detailed CV, together with a44 EvolDir August 1, 2004
statement of research interests and three references to
Pej Rohani, Institute of Ecology, University of Georgia,
Athens GA 30602. Electronic applications are encour-
aged.
Review of applications will start on August 30 and will
continue until a suitable candidate has been identiﬁed.
Pejman Rohani <rohani@uga.edu >
ULausanne Reproduction
A postdoctoral position is available to work on the evo-
lution of reproductive traits in the dioecious Silene lat-
ifolia ( http://www.unil.ch/dee/page7005 en.html ) at
the University of Lausanne. The position is for 18
months and is available from October 1st or later.
Applicants could have skills and interests in any of sev-
eral areas of evolutionary ecology of plants (mating sys-
tem evolution, pollination biology, population genet-
ics).
If interested, please contact
Dr. G. Bernasconi Swiss NSF Professorial Fellow Cur-
rent address: Institute of environmental Sciences Uni-
versity of Zurich Winterthurerstr. 190 CH 8057 Zurich
Switzerland Email: bernasco@uwinst.unizh.ch
Application deadline: 15th August 2004 For application
please send: CV, publication list, name and address of
two referees.
The Department of Ecology and Evolution of the
University of Lausanne, Switzerland, provides a very
lively intellectual and social environment ( http://-
www.unil.ch/dee/page5090 en.html ).
Lausanne, located in Switzerland at the shore of Lake
Geneva, oﬀers very high quality of life and outstand-
ingly beautiful surroundings (Alps, Jura mountains,
Lake; see http://www.lausanne-tourisme.ch/ ).
USheﬃeld ConservationGenetics
UNIVERSITY OF SHEFFIELD
DEPARTMENT OF ANIMAL & PLANT SCIENCESThe following post was advertised (with others) in New
Scientist on 19 June:
The UK Population Biology Network (UKPopNet) is
a network of ﬁve Universities (Aberdeen, East Anglia,
Leeds, Sheﬃeld, York) and the Centre for Ecology and
Hydrology. It is funded by NERC with additional sup-
port from English Nature to develop research in popu-
lation biology in the UK. As part of a three-year pro-
gramme of projects, network members are currently
seeking to recruit staﬀ.
This post will investigate the genetic signiﬁcance, sus-
tainability and adaptive potential of declining popula-
tions of plants and animals (primarily insects) using
molecular markers. The appointee must have a PhD
and experience in molecular and evolutionary genetics.
The post is full time for 1 year initially and is avail-
able from 1 October 2004. Funding is expected to be
available for a further 2 years.
For further details go to: http://www.shef.ac.uk/jobs/-
jobdetails.php?ﬁle=job list&ID=2411&start=16
Post reference no. PR1056
Closing date 09 July 2004
Informal enquiries may be addressed to Terry Burke
(t.a.burke@sheﬃeld.ac.uk / +44(0)114 222 0096)
– –
USussex Postdoc
The University of Sussex is seeking nominations for
two 9-10 month Leverhulme Post-doc positions. These
are open to non-UK citizens and can be taken up as
late as feb 2006. Unfortunately we need to nominate
someone by july 26th. If you are interested in being
nominated to work with David Waxman, Joel Peck,
Lindell Bromham or Adam Eyre-Walker within the
Evolution Group at Sussex, then please contact Adam
Eyre-Walker (a.c.eyre-walker@sussex.ac.uk). More de-
tails about the group can be found at http://-
www.lifesci.sussex.ac.uk/CSE/ and about the fellow-
ship at http://www.leverhulme.org.uk/grants awards/-
grants/visiting fellowships/ Adam Eyre-Walker Centre
for the Study of Evolution & School of Biological Sci-
ences University of Sussex Brighton BN1 9QG
tel : 01273 678480 tel : 01273 678480August 1, 2004 EvolDir 45
UWalesBangor
LizardSpeciationGenetics
UWales Bangor . Lizard Speciation Genetics
Postdoctoral position in speciation/population genetics
of Caribbean anoles.
The BBSRC funded position in Prof R S Thorpe?s lab-
oratory is available for three years from 1/10/04, or
as soon as possible thereafter, for someone with a PhD
in molecular ecology/evolution and experience of devel-
oping/screening nuclear markers such as microsatellites
and SNPS. The post involves substantial ﬁeldwork in
the southern Lesser Antilles, molecular laboratory work
and data analysis. Application forms from Human Re-
sources, University of Wales Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57
2DG. Closing date 19/08/04. Further information on
http://biology.bangor.ac.uk/research/opportunities/ –
Professor R S Thorpe School of Biological Sciences Uni-
versity of Wales Bangor Gwynedd LL57 2UW
Tel 01248 382312 Fax 01248 371644 email
r.s.thorpe@bangor.ac.uk
“Prof. R S Thorpe” <r.s.thorpe@bangor.ac.uk >
WashingtonU EvolBiolThis is a second notice, but note the addition of a
second position. ———- 2 POSTDOCTORAL FEL-
LOWS WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY in ST. LOUIS
TYSON RESEARCH CENTER Washington Univer-
sity in St. Louis, Missouri invites applications for two
[2] Postdoctoral Fellowships in Ecology, Environmental
Sciences, or Evolutionary Biology to be based at the
Tyson Research Center, a 2,000-acre tract of land lo-
cated 20 miles from campus. The fellows will be respon-
sible for developing research programs independently or
in conjunction with Washington University faculty and
involving undergraduates in research conducted at the
Center. In addition, the fellows will be expected to
teach one course during the school year. One fellow
will teach Conservation Biology, and this position can
start no later than Jan. 1, 2005. The other fellow will
teach a course to be determined later and can start
no later than June 2005. More information on Tyson
can be found at http://www.biology.wustl.edu/tyson/-
. Applicants should include a curriculum vitae and a
statement of the research to be conducted at the Center,
and arrange to have two letters of recommendation sent
on the applicant’s behalf. In addition, state which posi-
tion and start time interests you most, and what sort of
ﬂexibility you have. If applying for the second position,
also include a brief statement of the course you might
teach. All materials should be sent electronically to
Jonathan Losos, Ph.D., (losos@biology.wustl.edu), and
to Jon Chase, Ph.D. (jchase@biology2.wustl.edu). Ap-
plicant review will begin July 31 and continue until the
positions are ﬁlled. Washington University is an Equal
Opportunity Employer.
Jonathan Chase <jchase@biology2.wustl.edu >
WorkshopsCourses
ColdSpringHarbor ComputationalGenomics Nov5-11
46
Denmark Hybridization Nov27-30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46UFribourg ExperimentalEvol Oct4-5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4746 EvolDir August 1, 2004
ColdSpringHarbor
ComputationalGenomics Nov5-11
Course announcement - Application deadline, July 15,
2004
===
Cold Spring Harbor COMPUTATIONAL GENOMICS
NOVEMBER 5 - 11, 2003
INSTRUCTORS:
Pearson, William, Ph.D., University of Virginia, Char-
lottesville, VA Smith, Randall, Ph.D., SmithKline
Beecham Pharmaceuticals, King of Prussia, PA
Beyond BLAST and FASTA - This course presents
a comprehensive overview of the theory and practice
of computational methods for gene identiﬁcation and
characterization from DNA sequence data. The course
focuses on approaches for extracting the maximum
amount of information from protein and DNA sequence
similarity through sequence database searches, statisti-
cal analysis, and multiple sequence alignment. Addi-
tional topics include gene recognition (exon/intron pre-
diction), identifying signals in unaligned sequences, and
integration of genetic and sequence information in bio-
logical databases. The course combines lectures with
hands-on exercises; students are encouraged to pose
challenging sequence analysis problems using their own
data. The course makes extensive use of local WWW
pages to present problem sets and the computing tools
to solve them. Students use Windows and Mac work-
stations attached to a UNIX server; participants should
be comfortable using the Unix operating system and a
Unix text editor.
The course is designed for biologists seeking advanced
training in biological sequence analysis, computational
biology core resource directors and staﬀ, and for scien-
tists in other disciplines, such as computer science, who
wish to survey current research problems in biological
sequence analysis.
The primary focus of the Computational Genomics
Course is the theory and practice of algorithms used
in computational biology, with the goal of using cur-
rent methods more eﬀectively and developing new al-
gorithms. Students more interested in the practical as-
pects of software development are encouraged to ap-
ply to the Cold Spring Harbor Bioinformatics - Writing
Software for Genome Research Course.
For additional information and the lecture schedule andproblem sets for the 2003 course, see:
http://www.people.virginia.edu/˜wrp/cshl03
===
To apply to the course, ﬁll out the form at:
http://meetings.cshl.org/course app.htm
===
Denmark Hybridization Nov27-30
First Announcement of Workshop and Ph.D. course:
“Natural hybridization and introgression: from ge-
nomics to ecology” Denmark, November 27. -30. 2004
The goal of this workshop is to discuss genetics, ge-
nomics and ecology of hybridization and gene intro-
gression. We will concentrate on newer ﬁndings on the
eﬀects of speciﬁc genes and -interactions, genotype x en-
vironment interactions, changes in genomes subsequent
to hybridization, gene expression, regulation etc. The
role of hybridization in evolution is more debated and
empirically better supported than ever, due to new in-
sights into genetics, genomics and ecology of hybrids. It
is now widely recognized that hybridization may have
a variety of evolutionary and ecological consequences,
and a major goal is to understand their frequencies,
conditions and mechanisms. At the same time, hy-
bridization and introgression is becoming increasingly
relevant for human management of e.g. survival of in-
digenous populations, invasive species, genetically mod-
iﬁed organisms, maintenance of genetic resources, etc.
Three invited speakers will take part in the workshop:
Allison Snow, Professor at Dept. of Evolution, Ecol-
ogy, and Organismal Biology, Ohio State University
(http://www.biosci.ohio-state.edu/ ˜ asnowlab/-
allison.htm <http://www.biosci.ohio-state.edu/-
˜ asnowlab/allison.htm ): “Eﬀects of hybridization
between crops and their weedy relatives: the po-
tential for rapid evolutionary change.” Michael
Arnold, Professor at Dept. of Genetics, University
of Georgia ( http://www.genetics.uga.edu/faculty/-
bio-Arnold .html <http://www.genetics.uga.edu/-
faculty/bio-Arnold .html ), “Natural Hybridization and
evolution: from genetics to ecology and back again”.
Andreas Madlung, Assistant Professor at Biology
Department, University of Puget Sound ( <http:/-
/www.ups.edu/biology/faculty/madlung.htm >):
“Genomic structure and stability, epigenetic changesAugust 1, 2004 EvolDir 47
and transposon activity in auto- and allopolyploid
hybrids of Arabidopsis.”
In addition, there will be oral and poster presentations
by participating researchers and Ph.D. students. But
most importantly, there will be plenty of time for dis-
cussion and exchange of ideas.
The course will take place at a course facility ca. 50
km north of Copenhagen. Participation fee, including
room and board, will be 270 EUR maximum, possi-
bly lower. Travel at the participants own expense. A
maximum of 30 persons can take part in the work-
shop. Students will receive a certiﬁcate stating their
participation (active, if presenting research, or pas-
sive) to be used for university credits. For prelimi-
nary registration (to be conﬁrmed later), send an e-
mail to Mette Hansen, mha@kvl.dk. Please indicate
whether you would like to give an oral presentation
or poster , and enclose a brief abstract of its content
(please note: only few presentations will be accepted).
For more information, contact thure.hauser@risoe.dk
<mailto:thure.hauser@risoe.dk >, fax: +45 4677 4160.
Organizing committee: Thure Hauser, Senior Scientist,
RisøNational Lab.; Christian Damgaard, Senior Scien-
tist, National Environmental Research Inst.; Erik Kjær,
Professor, Forest Genetics, Royal Veterinary and Agri-
cultural Univ.; Dorte Bekkevold, Scientist, and Einar
Eg Nielsen, Senior Scientist, Danish Institute for Fish-
eries Research.
UFribourg ExperimentalEvol Oct4-5
Experimental Evolution Workshop 4-5 October 2004
Application deadline extended!
Fribourg Ecology & Evolution Days 2004
University of Fribourg, Departement of Biology, Fri-
bourg, Switzerland,
http://www.unifr.ch/biol/ecology/expevo04/-
index.html When does natural selection favor
the evolution of ecological specialization as opposed to
a generalist lifestyle, and why? Does conﬂict betweenthe sexes lead to an evolutionary arms-race? What
factors aﬀect the evolution of parasite virulence? Is
mutation rate molded by evolution? Is evolution
repeatable and reversible? Studying evolution in real
time under experimental conditions is a powerful way
of addressing these questions.
This workshop will bring together several invited speak-
ers and a number of younger researchers using exper-
imental evolution to address diverse questions. The
talks will be followed by plenary discussion. The sym-
posium will be free (no registration fee).
Conﬁrmed invited speakers: * James B. Anderson (Uni-
versity of Toronto, Canada) * Graham Bell (McGill
University, Montreal, Canada) * Angus Buckling (Uni-
versity of Bath, UK) * Santiago Elena (University of
Valencia, Spain) * William Rice (University of Cali-
fornia, Santa Barbara, USA) * Gregory Velicer (Max-
Planck Institute of Developmental Biology, T¨ ubingen,
Germany)
We have time for about 15 contributed talks of 20 min.
The workshop is supported by the University of
Fribourg, Switzerland and the TROISI `EME CY-
CLE de CONF ´ERENCE UNIVERSITAIRE DE
SUISSE OCCIDENTALE. ( http://www.cuso.ch/3e-
cycle/biologie.html )
Organizers: Tadeusz Kawecki & Dieter Ebert Uni-
versity of Fribourg, Departement of Biology, Fri-
bourg, Switzerland Email: tadeusz.kawecki@unifr.ch
dieter.ebert@unifr.ch
For more information on the workshop and for reg-
istration check: http://www.unifr.ch/biol/ecology/-
expevo04/index.html For more information on Ecol-
ogy and Evolution in Fribourg check: http://-
www.unifr.ch/biol/ecology/index.html –
Dieter Ebert [ Mailto:dieter.ebert@unifr.ch ] Universit´ e
de Fribourg, Departement de Biologie, Ecologie et Evo-
lution, Chemin du Musee 10 1700 Fribourg, Switzer-
land http://www.unifr.ch/biol/ecology/index.html Tel.
+41-(0)26-300 88 69, Fax +41-(0)26-300 96 98
Please visit the web-page dedicated to the late W.D.
(Bill) Hamilton: http://www.unifr.ch/biol/ecology/-
hamilton/hamilton.html http://www.unifr.ch/biol/-
ecology/hamilton/hamilton.html
Instructions48 EvolDir August 1, 2004
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here — Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from ‘blackballed’ addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned oﬀ and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf ﬁle.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
‘on vacation’, etc, style messages are automatically ﬁltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail’s your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word ﬁles, as HTML ﬁles, as L ATEX ﬁles, Excel ﬁles, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains one of the keywords
“Conference, Grad, Job, Other:, Postdoc, Workshop” and then the message stands a better chance of being
correctly parsed.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and ﬁlters. So please do not expect an instant
response.
Afterward
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.