E v o l D i r
March 1, 2008
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Forward
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same ﬁeld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be “bulletin board” in nature, if there is a “discussion” style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Forward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
Afterward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 912 EvolDir March 1, 2008
Conferences
Arlington ParasiteEvolutionSymposia Jun27-30 . . . . . 2
Barcelona SMBE 2008 Jun5-8 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Barcelona SMBE 2008 Jun5-8 BarcodeSymposia . . . . 3
Barcelona SMBE 2008 Jun5-8 CallForAbstracts . . . . 4
Barcelona SMBE 2008 Jun5-8 NetworkEvolutionSym-
posium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Barcelona SMBE 2008 Jun5-8 UndergradDiversityPro-
gram . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Barcelona SMBE Jun5-8 WalterFitchPrize . . . . . . . . . . 6
ColdSpringHarbor PlantBioinformatics Apr7-10 . . . . 6
Ghent Euro-Evo-Devo Jul29-Aug1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
GlasgowU TextMining Feb21-22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Jean EarlyMetazoanEvolution Oct17-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
KansasCity ArthropodGenomics Apr11-13 Deadline 10
KoenigMuseum Biodiversity May19-30 . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Marseilles EvolBiology Sep24-26 movies . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Myshkin Russia RodentEvolution Jul24-28 . . . . . . . . 11
NHM London Speciation Mar12-13 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
PortTownsend Evo-WIBO Apr18-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
QuebecCity PopConservGenetics IUFRO Aug24-29 13
RaleighNC BehaviorEvolution Jun4-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13Rostock CrustaceanPhylogenetics Oct7-11 . . . . . . . . . 13
Rostock CrustaceanPhylogenetics Oct7-11 correction
14
StMalo France TE evolution Apr20-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Tokyo TetrapodAdaptation Jun9-13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Toulouse BehaviourEvolution Apr14-17 . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
UBritishColumbia EarlyCareer Female Evolutionary-
Biologists May11 Registration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
UEdinburgh ParasitoidGeneticsGenomics Jun5-6 . . 17
UIowa Evolution of Sex Jun16-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
UMichigan EarlyCareerScientistsSymposium Mar15 18
UMinnesota Evolution 2008 Jun20-24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
UMinnesota Evolution 2008 Jun20-24 OnlineRegistra-
tion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
UMontpellier HumanEvolution Apr2-4 . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
UOregon EvoDevo Apr4-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
UOregon EvoDevo Symposium Apr4-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Valencia MarineBiodiversity Nov11-15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Valencia MarineBiodiversity Nov11-15 2 . . . . . . . . . . . 21
YaleU Evolution in Health Feb21 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Arlington
ParasiteEvolutionSymposia
Jun27-30
Dear Colleagues,
It is my pleasure to announce the 83rd Annual meeting
of the American Society of Parasitologists (ASP) in Ar-
lington, Texas (June 27-30, 2008). This year there are
three symposia that address the evolutionary biology
of parasites (see below). Thus, I would like to invite all
who are interested in the ecology, evolution, and phy-
logenetics of parasites to attend and participate (oral
or poster presentations). Please see the ASP web site
(http://asp.unl.edu/ ) for meeting details and the call
for papers. Abstracts are due March 7, 2008.
I would also like to invite those interested in the evo-lutionary biology and ecology of parasites to become
members of ASP. ASP has a long history of supporting
and advocating research in the ﬁelds of ecology, evolu-
tion, and phylogenetics. For more details on becoming a
member, please visit the web site ( http://asp.unl.edu/-
).
Symposia ASP President’s Symposium: “Lessons from
the tree of life: Illuminating macro-parasite biology
through molecular phylogenetic frameworks” organized
by Steve Nadler and George Cain. Speakers: James
G. Baldwin (Nematodes) Mart¨ ı¿1
2n Garc¨ ı¿1
2a (Acan-
thocephalans) Peter D. Olson (Platyhelminthes).
Special Symposium: “Evolutionary Ecology of Host-
Ecto-Parasite Interactions” organized by Dale Clayton
and Sarah Bush. Speakers: Michal Polak on behav-
ioral ecology on how mites physically block copulation
of their host ﬂies Mark R. Forbes on host-parasite in-
teractions between damselﬂies and Mites 1 TBA.
Special Symposium: “Population genetics of para-
sites: from geography to genes” organized by CharlesMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 3
Criscione. Speakers: Noah Whiteman (geographic
scale): Comparative geographic structures of ectopar-
asites: using parasite life history characters to pre-
dict genetic structure among host populations Charles
Criscione (within host population): Molecular epi-
demiology and landscape genetics of Ascaris: eluci-
dating transmission dynamics with molecular markers
Michelle Steinauer (within individual hosts): Parent-
age analyses/mating dynamics of Schistosoma mansoni
within hosts; Tim Anderson (population genetics of
parasite genes): Loci under selection in malaria.
I hope to see you in Arlington.
Sincerely,
Charles D. Criscione, Postdoctoral Scientist Depart-
ment of Genetics Southwest Foundation for Biomedical
Research P.O. Box 760549 San Antonio, Texas 78245-
0549 Phone: (210)-258-9722 Fax: (210)-258-9796 CV
and pdf reprints: www.geocities.com/cooch2000/ Web
page: www.sfbr.org/pages/genetics cv.php?u9
Shipping Address Department of Genetics Southwest
Foundation for Biomedical Research 7620 NW Loop
410 San Antonio, Texas 78227-5301
ccriscio@sfbrgenetics.org
Barcelona SMBE 2008 Jun5-8 2
Dear SMBE members,
The Organizing Committee is pleased to invite you
to attend the 2008 annual meeting of the Society for
Molecular Biology and Evolution (SMBE) that will be
held on June 5-8, in Barcelona, Spain.
Conference registration and abstract submission is now
available online at the SMBE 2008 website ( http:/-
/www.smbe2008.com/ ). The site also contains addi-
tional information on accommodation and travel, con-
ﬁrmed speakers, as well as the Walter M. Fitch Prize
competition for young investigators, postdocs and grad-
uate student travel awards, and the Undergraduate Di-
versity Mentoring Program awards.
IMPORTANT DATES
Abstract Submission Deadline: March 3 Early Regis-
tration From January 17 to March 10. Walter Fitch
Prize Deadline: March 3 Undergraduate Diversity Men-
toring Program Awards Deadline: February 15
SYMPOSIUM TOPICSAnimal domestication genomics Animal molecular Evo-
Devo Beyond scans for selection: Studying the phe-
notypes Bioinformatics for molecular evolution Dating
divergence: The Tower of Babel of geneticists and pale-
ontologists? Drosophila population genomics Evolution
of gene regulation Evolutionary comparative genomics
Evolutionary genomics of human and pathogen inter-
actions Evolutionary radiations and molecular phy-
logeny Genetics and molecular biology of speciation
Genome variation: Lessons from the human genomes
Genomic evidence for natural selection and implica-
tions Genomics for crop evolution and improvement
Models of genome evolution and phylogenomics Molec-
ular and evolutionary epidemiology Molecular phylo-
geography and population genetics Network evolution
and systems biology Popgen in space! Theory and infer-
ence in spatial population genetics RNA world: Emer-
gence of life on earth Spontaneous mutations and their
evolutionary consequences The ancestral eukaryotic cell
The crossroads between prokaryotic genomics, ecology
and adaptation The X - an eXceptional chromosome!
Transposable elements: diversity, dynamics and evolu-
tionary impact on host genomes What would/should
we do with a million DNA barcodes?
ORGANIZING COMMITTEE
Chairs Carmen Segarra (Universitat de Barcelona)
Julio Rozas (Universitat de Barcelona)
Members Montserrat Aguade (Universitat de
Barcelona) Pere Are (Institut de Recerca i Tecnologia
Agroalimenteries) Jaume Bertranpetit (Universitat
Pompeu Fabra) Jose Castresana (Consejo Superior de
Investigaciones Cienteﬁcas) Roderic Guige (Universitat
Pompeu Fabra) Elvira Juan (Universitat de Barcelona)
Marta Riutort (Universitat de Barcelona) Alfredo Ruiz
(Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona) Mauro Santos
(Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona) Lluis Serra
(Universitat de Barcelona)
Julio Rozas Carmen Segarra www.smbe2008.com
SMBE <info@smbe.org >
Barcelona SMBE 2008 Jun5-8
BarcodeSymposia
Barcelona, SMBE2008 Conference June5-8 What
would/should we do with a million DNA barcodes?
Dear Evoldir Members,
We would like to invite you to submit your ab-4 EvolDir March 1, 2008
stracts (talks and posters) for the symposium What
would/should we do with a million DNA barcodes? ±
at the 2008 annual meeting of the Society for Molecu-
lar Biology and Evolution (SMBE) in Barcelona, Spain.
Symposium description: The number of formally de-
scribed species that have been DNA barcoded and
added to the BOLD database now exceeds 30,000. In
this fast moving ﬁeld it is now indispensable to propose
an update. The aim of this symposium would be to
clarify the current progress and limitation of barcoding
and its methodologies. The symposium would attempt
to answer: What is the power of barcoding? What are
its limits? What are the best methods to analyse bar-
coding? How could the concept be improved? What
would/should we do with a million DNA barcodes?
Conﬁrmed Main Speakers: Eldredge Bermingham
(Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute, USA); Tim-
othy Barraclough (Imperial College London, UK)
Details of the conference: SMBE2008 runs from the
5th-8th June 2008. Details of the conference, including
online abstract submission can be found here: http:/-
/www.smbe2008.com/ Abstract submission deadline:
March 3, 2008
Symposium organisers: Axel Meyer (University of Kon-
stanz, Germany) Stphane Hemmerter (University of
Technology, Sydney; The Institute for the Biotechnol-
ogy of Infectious Diseases, Australia)
stephane hemmerter <hemmerter@yahoo.fr >
Barcelona SMBE 2008 Jun5-8
CallForAbstracts
SMBE 2008, Barcelona. Annual Meeting of the Society
for Molecular Biology and Evolution
Just a friendly reminder that the deadline to submit
your abstracts (talks and posters) to the Barcelona
SMBE2008 meeting is March 3, 2008.
MEETING INFORMATION www.smbe2008.com IM-
PORTANT DATES Deadline for the Abstract Submis-
sion (talk and posters): MARCH 3. Deadline for ap-
plying to the Walter Fitch Prize: MARCH 3.
SYMPOSIUM TOPICS Animal domestication ge-
nomics Animal molecular Evo-Devo Beyond scans for
selection: Studying the phenotypes Bioinformatics for
molecular evolution Dating divergence: The Tower of
Babel of geneticists and paleontologists? Drosophilapopulation genomics Evolution of gene regulation Evo-
lutionary comparative genomics Evolutionary genomics
of human and pathogen interactions Evolutionary radi-
ations and molecular phylogeny Genetics and molec-
ular biology of speciation Genome variation: Lessons
from the human genomes Genomic evidence for natu-
ral selection and implications Genomics for crop evolu-
tion and improvement Models of genome evolution and
phylogenomics Molecular and evolutionary epidemiol-
ogy Molecular phylogeography and population genet-
ics Network evolution and systems biology Popgen in
space! Theory and inference in spatial population ge-
netics RNA world: Emergence of life on earth Spon-
taneous mutations and their evolutionary consequences
The ancestral eukaryotic cell The crossroads between
prokaryotic genomics, ecology and adaptation The X
- an eXceptional chromosome! Transposable elements:
diversity, dynamics and evolutionary impact on host
genomes What would/should we do with a million DNA
barcodes?
Julio Rozas Carmen Segarra www.smbe2008.com
jrozas@ub.edu jrozas@ub.edu
Barcelona SMBE 2008 Jun5-8
NetworkEvolutionSymposium
Dear Evoldir readers,
We invite submissions of abstracts for the Network
Evolution and Systems Biology symposium at the
SMBE2008 Conference June 5-8 in Barcelona. A de-
scription of the symposium follows. Please note our
special encouragement of paired talks by collaborating
theoreticians and experimentalists.
SMBE2008 Conference June 5-8, Barcelona Network
Evolution and Systems Biology
A central aim of molecular evolutionary biology is to
understand the molecular changes underlying the evo-
lution of complex traits. Complex traits, by their na-
ture, are the products of networks of interacting factors.
It is therefore necessary to understand how variation in
these networks produces phenotypic variation, and how
evolutionary forces acting on phenotypic variation in
turn shape the underlying molecular networks. Recent
advances in genomics and systems theory are beginning
to contribute to this understanding. It is therefore an
excellent time to showcase leading research, to evalu-
ate the challenges that remain, and to encourage theMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 5
wider community of molecular evolutionary biologists
to incorporate network thinking into their work.
Questions to be considered include (but are not limited
to): What are the causes and consequences of robust-
ness in regulatory networks? How much variation do
regulatory networks harbor? Does cryptic genetic vari-
ation contribute to phenotypic divergence? Does net-
work topology constrain evolutionary divergence? Do
evolutionary forces constrain network topology? Does
phenotypic invariance imply network conservation?
These questions require both empirical and theoretical
investigation, and the proposed symposium will feature
talks from both experimentalists and theoreticians. Be-
cause it is often extremely valuable, yet diﬃcult, for
“wet” and “dry” scientists to collaborate, priority will
be given to work that integrates theory and experiment.
Indeed, a novel aspect of our proposed symposium is
that we will welcome paired talks, in which two col-
laborating scientists (e.g., a modeler and a molecular
biologist) will be allocated adjacent timeslots, with ti-
tles clearly emphasizing their link.
Invited Speaker: Marie-Anne F´ elix (Institut Jacques
Monod), “Robustness and evolution of the Caenorhab-
ditis vulval intercellular signaling network”
Co-organizers: Mark Siegal (New York University),
Joanna Masel (University of Arizona)
Abstract deadline: March 3, 2008
Conference website: http://www.smbe2008.com/
Barcelona SMBE 2008 Jun5-8
UndergradDiversityProgram
DEADLINE–FEBRUARY 15
SMBE Undergraduate Diversity Mentoring Program
Awards
Program Outline
The Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution
(SMBE) is pleased to make available 10 awards for
undergraduate students from underrepresented groups
to participate in a Diversity Mentoring Program. The
goals of this program are: (1) to promote diversity at
the SMBE annual meeting, (2) to provide students with
the opportunity to experience the excitement of attend-
ing and presenting at an international scientiﬁc confer-
ence, and (3) to foster enthusiasm for molecular biologyand evolution as well as a possible career in this ﬁeld.
To achieve these goals, each recipient of an SMBE Un-
dergraduate Diversity Mentoring Program Award will
be paired with two mentors, one a senior graduate stu-
dent and the other a postdoctoral fellow or faculty
member (who may or may not be the student’s current
advisor).
Speciﬁc mentoring activities will include:
* Attending conference sessions with the student, an-
swering questions about the basic concepts being pre-
sented, and, more generally, explaining the goings-on
at a multi-day scientiﬁc conference. * Interacting with
the student during some mealtimes, coﬀee breaks and
other social gatherings. * Introducing the student to
other undergraduates, graduate students, postdoctoral
fellows and faculty members as a way of facilitating
connections with potential future graduate supervisors
and colleagues. * Attending the poster session and
SBME Undergraduate Diversity Program Award recep-
tion with the student in order to minimize/overcome
the anxiety often felt by ﬁrst-time conference atten-
dees. * Serving as a contact point for the student to
help resolve any issues surrounding conference registra-
tion, travel and accommodation.
Eligibility
Candidates must currently be enrolled as undergradu-
ate students (Bachelor’s level degree) or have graduated
within the last 6 months at the time of application and
be from groups underrepresented in our scientiﬁc disci-
pline.
Meeting Participation
Recipients of an SMBE Undergraduate Diversity Men-
toring Program Award will be invited to present their
research at a special reception / poster session on Fri-
day, June 6, attended by their mentors, supervisors and
other interested conference participants.
Award
10 awards will be handed out. Awards recipients will
receive a travel award to cover the cost of airfare, ac-
commodation, and Meeting registration expenses. The
travel award amount will not exceed US $1,000 for
within-Europe contestants and $1,500 for all other con-
testants. Each participant will also receive an online
student membership to the Society journal, Molecular
Biology and Evolution, for the year of 2009.
Application
1. Faculty members may nominate undergraduates
by sending a brief letter/email of recommendation
to Laura Katz (Lkatz[at]email.smith.edu) and John6 EvolDir March 1, 2008
Archibald (john.archibald[at]dal.ca). The letter should
outline the student’s eligibility for the award and con-
ﬁrm their current academic status. Also indicate if your
student would be able to present a poster.
OR
2. Students may apply for the award themselves by
providing information on their background, academic
status and an email address for their current supervi-
sor. Students should also indicate whether they are
able to present a poster.
The deadline for receipt of nominations/applications is
February, 15.
John M. Archibald, Ph.D. Assistant Professor and As-
sociate Graduate Coordinator Scholar, CIFAR Pro-
gram in Integrated Microbial Biodiversity Department
of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology Dalhousie Univer-
sity Sir Charles Tupper Medical Building 5850 College
Street, Halifax, Nova Scotia B3H 1X5, Canada
Phone: (902) 494-2536 Fax: (902) 494-1355 Web-
page: http://myweb.dal.ca/jmarchib/ Nirenberg’s sec-
ond reading in Moscow electriﬁed the audience, Crick
later wrote. (Whereupon, in the interest of historical
accuracy, Seymour Benzer, who had been in Moscow
too, mailed Crick a photograph taken of that audience,
in which several people appeared to be asleep.)
Horace Freeland Judson, The Eighth Day of Creation
John Archibald <jmarchib@dal.ca >
Barcelona SMBE Jun5-8
WalterFitchPrize
Barcelona, SMBE 2008 Meeting
Beginning with the ﬁrst annual meeting of the Society
for Molecular Biology & Evolution (SMBE) in 1993, the
Walter M. Fitch Symposium has provided a forum for
young investigators (students and Postdocs) to show-
case their exemplary research. The selection committee
will nominate 8 individuals to enter the competition on
the basis of the abstracts submitted.
This year, the winner will receive a US $1,000 gift check.
In addition, all selected contestants will receive a travel
award to cover the cost of airfare, accommodations,
and meeting registration expenses. The travel award
amount will not exceed US $1,000 for within-Europe
contestants and $1,500 for all other contestants.Each selected participant will also receive an online stu-
dent/postdoc MBE membership for the year of 2009.
More information: SMBE 2008 website ( http://-
www.smbe2008.com/ ).
IMPORTANT DATES Walter Fitch Prize Deadline:
March 3 SMBE Abstract Submission Deadline: March
3 Early Registration From January 17 to March 10.
Undergraduate Diversity Mentoring Program Awards
Deadline: February 15
Julio Rozas Carmen Segarra www.smbe2008.com
jrozas@ub.edu jrozas@ub.edu
ColdSpringHarbor
PlantBioinformatics Apr7-10
Thank you for letting everyone know about this meet-
ing!
The iPlant Collaborative inaugural conference “Bring-
ing Plant and Computing Scientists Together to Solve
Plant Biology’s Grand Challenges” will be held at Cold
Spring Harbor Lab, NY, from the evening of April 7 to
noon April 10. The purpose of this conference is: 1) to
explain the nature of the project and 2) to promote and
facilitate community discussion of grand challenges, rel-
evant data and computation tools, and cyberinfrastruc-
ture development necessary to solve such grand chal-
lenges. The conference will be webcast live to allow for
interactive participation by viewers not present in per-
son at the conference (and will be archived at <http://-
www.iplantcollaborative.org/ >. Additional webcasts,
podcasts, etc. will also be conducted (and archived at
<http://www.iplantcollaborative.org/ >) to introduce
the community to the project and to explain how to
participate in it. Community-organized Grand Chal-
lenge Workshops will follow later in 2008 for more in-
depth discussion and debate of which Grand Challenges
are the most compelling and most tractable.
To participate in the conference in person, please
pre-register at <http://www.iplantcollaborative.org/-
meetings/ipc/register-042008 >. Participation will be
balanced among disciplines, both across the plant sci-
ences and the computing sciences, as well as by type of
institution, geography, etc., and must ensure participa-
tion by underrepresented minorities (which is why we
need to have a pre-registration process). Participants
will be selected with Board of Directors oversight to
ensure broad representation. Registration and logisticsMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 7
will be handled by Cold Spring Harbor Meetings and
Courses.
The plant and computing sciences community, through
the external Board of Directors (Chair, Robert Last,
MSU), will choose several grand challenges by late
2008/early 2009 towards which Collaborative resources
will be directed (i.e., the BoD will make all such
major decisions, NOT project PI’s. See <http://-
www.iplantcollaborative.org/ >for more details on the
process.)
A draft of the conference program is as follows:
Bringing Plant and Computing Scientists Together
to Solve Plant Biology’s Grand Challenges
@
Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory
April 7-10, 2008
Organized by
The iPlant Collaborative:
a cyberinfrastructure-centered community
for a new plant biology
Monday evening (April 7) Dinner 5:30PM 7PM
Introduction and Project Overview 8PM Francine
Berman, Director San Diego Supercomputer Center,
<http://www.sdsc.edu/about/Director.html <http:/-
/www.sdsc.edu/about/Director.html > > “Opportuni-
ties and Challenges in Cyberinfrastructure Develop-
ment” Conﬁrmed 9PM Kathleen Carley, Director of
the Center for Computational Analysis of Social and
Organizational Systems (CASOS) Tentative
Tuesday morning (9-12:30) I. Nature and function of
networks and systems: from single cell to complex
organism, and from metabolism to ecosystem Elliott
Meyerowitz, CalTech Conﬁrmed Eric Mjolsness, UC
Irvine Conﬁrmed Noel (Missy) Holbrook, Harvard Ten-
tative Dennis Shasha, NYU Conﬁrmed
12:30-2 Lunch
Tuesday afternoon (2-4:30pm) 2 PM Break-out groups
on Data and Algorithms: (1) systems and networks:
transcriptome, proteome and metabolome data (e.g.,
microarrays vs. new sequencing approaches)
(2) development, diﬀerentiation, morphology, anatomy:
phenotypic (morphological and developmental) data (3)
organismal biology, physiological ecology and ecosys-
tems: environmental (abiotic) and biotic interaction
data 3:30 Reports of breakout groups and discussion
by conf participants
4:30 Wine and cheese in foyer of Grace Auditorium6PM Dinner
Tuesday evening session (7:30 - 10pm) II. Software de-
velopment and architecture, data management, sys-
tems analysis and design 7:30 co-PIs Lincoln Stein and
Sudha Ram: iPlant’s Integrated Solutions Team and
the community’s Grand Challenge Teams: a collabora-
tion to build prototype cyberinfrastructures (aka Dis-
covery Environments) to solve the community’s most
compelling grand challenges in the plant sciences
Wednesday morning session (9-12:30) III. Gene to pro-
tein to phenotype; genotype-phenotype relationships A.
Genetic and evolutionary diversity: population genet-
ics, systematics and phylogenomics Magnus Nordborg,
USC Invited Speaker TBD B. Protein modeling: pre-
diction of function and interactions David Baker, U.
Washington <http://depts.washington.edu/bakerpg/
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Ghent Euro-Evo-Devo Jul29-Aug1
*Euro-Evo-Devo* *Ghent, 29 July-1 August 2008*
*Call to participate* You are invited to participate in,
and contribute to, the Second Meeting of the Euro-
pean Society for Evolutionary Developmental Biology
in Ghent, 29 July-1 August 2008. The scientiﬁc pro-
gram will consist of plenary sessions, symposia, con-
tributed talks and a poster session, see our website:
*http:// evodevo.eu/ *
*Call for abstracts* You are invited to submit an ab-
stract for a constributed talk or poster. Online submis-
sion will begin on February 19, 2008. Please submit
your abstract before *April 15, 2008*
*Keynote speakers * - *Walter** **Gehring* /(Basel,
Switzerland) /- The history of Hox - *J**ane Langdale*
/(Oxford, U.K.) /- Evolution of meristems and leaves
- *Angela Nieto* /(Alicante, Spain) /- The Snail gene
family in development and evolution - *Kevin Peter-
son* /(Dartmouth, USA) /- Molecular palaeobiology -
*Sabine Zachgo* /(K¨ ı¿1
2ln, Germany) - The evolution
of bilateral symmetry in ﬂowers/
*Symposia:* *-Development as bridge between micro-
and macroevolution *Organizer(s): Jukka Jernvall8 EvolDir March 1, 2008
(Helsinki) *-**Nodes for change: the molecular systems
underlying developmental evolution *Organizer(s):
Claudio Alonso (Cambridge) and Miltos Tsiantis (Ox-
ford) *-Origin and diversiﬁcation of seeds and ﬂowers
*Organizer(s): G¨ ı¿1
2nter Thei¨ ı¿1
2en (Jena) *-Fossilized
ontogenies** *Organizer(s): Marcelo S¨ ı¿1
2nchez-
Villagra (Z¨ ı¿1
2rich) *-History of Evo-Devo** *Orga-
nizer(s): Scott Gilbert (Swarthmore) *-Evolutionary
Developmental Genomics** *Organizer(s): David Fer-
rier (St. Andrews), Pedro Martinez (Barcelona) *-
Theoretical contributions of evo-devo to evolution-
ary theory** *Organizer(s): Isaac Salazar-Ciudad
(Helsinki) and Gerd B. M¨ ı¿1
2ller (Vienna) *-Evolution
of plant form** *Organizer(s): Paula Rudall (Kew),
Rolf Rutishauser (Z¨ ı¿1
2rich) *-Evolution of axis for-
mation and axial patterning in basal metazoans**
*Organizer(s): G¨ ı¿1
2nter Plickert (K¨ ı¿1
2ln), Yulia
Kraus (Moscow) *-Bioinformatics** *Organizer(s): Di-
dier Casane (Paris) *-Evolution of head and brain
(the arthropod head problem) *Organizer(s): Gre-
gor Bucher (G¨ ı¿1
2ttingen) *-Canalization, robustness
and developmental stability *Organizer(s): Vincent
Debat (MNHN Paris), Tom Van Dooren (Leiden) *-
Mesenchymal development and evolution of the verte-
brate head *Organizer(s): Shigeru Kuratani *-Multi-
level modeling of morphogenesis *Organizer(s): Pauline
Hogeweg and Stan Mar¨ ı¿1
2e (Utrecht) *-Human Evo-
Devo** *Organizer(s): Christian Klingenberg (Manch-
ester), Neus Martinez (Barcelona) *-Saltation** *Or-
ganizer(s): Richard Bateman (Kew), Jean Deutsch,
(Paris) *-From polyphenism to complex life cycles**
*Organizer(s): Alessandro Minelli, Giuseppe Fusco
(Padua) *-Evolution and development of segmen-
tation** *Organizer(s): Wim Damen (K¨ ı¿1
2ln) *-
Adaptive Developmental Plasticity** *Organizer(s):
Caspar J. Breuker (Oxford), Melanie Gibbs ((Louvain-
la-Neuve) *-Stem cells, regeneration and cancer** *Or-
ganizer(s): Ram Resheﬀ (Haifa), John Nagy (Scotts-
dale), Eckhard Witten (Sunndals¨ ı¿1
2ra), Ann Huysse-
une (Ghent)
The International Tribolium Meeting will again be
held as a satellite meeting of the EED meeting,
on 29 July 2008 in Ghent and it is organized
by Sue Brown, Martin Klingler and Ernst Wim-
mer (information: klingler@biologie.uni-erlangen.de
<mailto:klingler@biologie.uni-erlangen.de >).
*Registration* Online registration will begin 19th
February 2008 and the deadline for early fee registra-
tion is 15 April 2008: * http:// evodevo.eu/. *
The all-in fee is 230 Euro for students and 270 Euro
for non-students (including post-docs) and 80 Euro for
accompanying persons. The late fee will be 100 Euro
more expensive for students and non-students. The feeincludes a welcome party (29/7), three lunches (30/7,
31/7, 1/8), two dinners (30/7, 31/7) and the member-
ship fee for the society for two years (20 Euro for two
years). The conference dinner (1/8) is not included.
The price for the conference dinner which will be held
in an old monastery is 40 Euro.
*Lodging* Student rooms are available as package for
four nights at a ﬁrst come ﬁrst serve basis. The price for
the four night package including breakfast is 140 Euro
(35 Euro per night). Hotels have reasonable prices,
most are around 100 to 110 Euro (tax and breakfast
included), but there are also some cheaper and some
more expensive ones.
*Further information will become available from the So-
ciety website: * * http:// evodevo.eu/ *
We look forward to seeing you in Ghent!
*Executive committee EED * *Philip Donoghue* Fri-
etson Galis *G*¨ ı¿1
2*nter Theissen* *Eckhard Witten**
***
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
GlasgowU TextMining Feb21-22
Event on 21st-22nd February - in Glasgow
The Scottish Bioinformatics Forum will be hosting a
two-day event on Thursday 21st-22nd February
Location: Kelvin Gallery, Hunterian Museum, Glasgow
University
Title: Finding Hidden Knowledge: Text Mining for Bi-
ology and Medicine
Two days of talks by leading international speakers
from academia and industry (backgrounds to include
biology, medicine, pharmaceuticals, bioinformatics, on-
tologies and text mining).
Poster/demo sessions for participants to present recent
work and speciﬁc information needs
Ample time for informal discussion nad networking in-
clding a reception with wine and food
More information can be found http://-
www.sbforum.org/events.php Please book thisMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 9
event to help us gauge numbers for the catering
http://www.sbforum.org/eregister.php?e id3 We
look forward to seeing you on Thursday 21st/22nd
February.
Sandra Borthwick, Executive Assistant Scottish Bioin-
formatics Forum The Royal Society of Edinburgh 22-26
George Street Edinburgh EH2 2PQ
Tel: +44 (0)131 240 2783 Fax: +44 (0)131
240 2786 email: sandra.borthwick@sbforum.org
www.sbforum.org
Sandra Borthwick <sandra.borthwick@sbforum.org >
Jean EarlyMetazoanEvolution
Oct17-20
International symposium: NONBILATERIAN ANI-
MAL MODEL ORGANISMS 2008 www.namo2008.de
October 17-20, Altes Schloss Dornburg/Saale, Jena,
Germany
1. Circular
SYMPOSIUM RATIONALE: Study of the early evolu-
tion of multicellular animals (Metazoa) holds the key to
some of the most important questions in Evolutionary
Biology. In recent decades gene and genome data have
strongly inﬂuenced our understanding about the phy-
logenetic relationship of the main metazoan clades and
of their developmental biology, but other ﬁelds such
as comparative morphology and physiology have also
provided new insight into animal organization. The
use of model organisms has greatly contributed to our
expanding knowledge of animal body plans, but the
most widely used model organisms (Caenorhabditis,
Drosophila, Danio, Xenopus, Mus and Gallus) are all
representatives of bilaterian animals; there is a seri-
ous absence of models to use for understanding early
metazoan evolution. The need for new widely avail-
able nonbilaterian model organisms has become pro-
nounced, and while some models have been identi-
ﬁed for Cnidaria, none exist for the Porifera. The
fully sponsored NAMO2008 symposium (ﬁnal funding
commitment pending) aims at catalyzing the process
of choosing models for research on early evolution of
metazoan organization. Recent progress but also the
most important questions, tasks and the ﬁrst steps that
nonbilaterian animal research should take will be ad-
dressed. NAMO 2008 will bring together scientists from
various disciplines who are all specialized in diﬀerentnonbilaterian animal groups and catalyze the process of
establishing new nonbilaterian animal model organisms
that can be studied in detail by every lab worldwide.
We also aim at input from existing bilaterian model or-
ganism communities (e.g. the Caenorhabditis elegans
community).
VENUE: The symposium venue, the 1000 year-old cas-
tle Altes Schloss Dornburg near Jena, will help to create
an exclusive working environment for a unique, inter-
disciplinary team of experts. The castle provides the
ideal retreat for exchange of ideas across disciplines and
for fostering new alliances and pathways. Two days
of combined presentations (invited perspectives) and
workshops (discussion and exchange of ideas) will result
in a synopsis of the current questions and proposed new
directions for future research. In addition NAMO2008
will put together recommendations concerning the se-
lection of new animal models as well as mechanisms to
promote use of these experimental models world-wide.
PARTICIPANTS: The symposium will be open for a
limited number of participants: 21 invited contribu-
tors and 45 assorted participants representing graduate
students, postdoctoral researchers and senior scientists,
who will be chosen by their excellence of research and
expression of interest plus an abstract.
FURTHER INFORMATION: visit www.namo2008.de
for further information and our symposium poster.
MAILING LIST: You will be able to register for our
mailing list to make sure you will not miss the 2nd Cir-
cular and the opening of the registration.
COVERED PERSPECTIVES & KEYNOTE SPEAK-
ERS: ORIGIN OF MULTICELLULAR ANIMALS
Claus Nielsen, Denmark THE NEED FOR NEW
MODEL ORGANISMS Ronald A. Jenner, Great
Britain PALEONTOLOGY OF NONBILATERIAN
ANIMAL GROUPS Andrew H. Knoll, USA SE-
LECTED TOPICS: PORIFERA Maja Adamska, Nor-
way Noriko Funayama, Japan April Hill, USA
Sally P. Leys, Canada Michael Nickel, Germany
Gert W¨ orheide, Germany SELECTED TOPICS:
CNIDARIA & CTENOPHORA Thomas Bosch, Ger-
many Allen G. Collins, USA Mark Martindale, USA
Katja Seipel, Great Britain Uli Technau, Austria SE-
LECTED TOPICS: PLACOZOA Ana Signorovitch,
USA GENOMICS OF NON-BILATERIAN ANIMALS
Claire Larroux, Australia John R. Finnerty, USA Den-
nis Lavrov, USA LESSONS FROM BILATERIAN
MODEL ORGANISMS David C. Hall, USA Peter
Ladurner, Austria Sheldon McKay, USA
SCIENTICIF COMMITTEE: Maja Adamska, Sars
Centre, Bergen, Norway Dennis Lavrov, Iowa State10 EvolDir March 1, 2008
University, Ames, USA Sally Leys, University of Al-
berta, Edmonton, Canada Michael Nickel, Friedrich-
Schiller-Universit¨ at Jena, Germany Gert W¨ orheide,
Georg-August-Universit¨ at G¨ ottingen, Germany
LOCAL ORGANIZER: Michael Nickel Friedrich-
Schiller-Universit¨ at Jena Institut f¨ ur Spezielle Zo-
ologie und Evolutionsbiologie Erbertstr. 1 07743
Jena Germany Email contact via webpage form at
www.namo2008.de
m.nickel@uni-jena.de m.nickel@uni-jena.de
KansasCity ArthropodGenomics
Apr11-13 Deadline
SYMPOSIUM: NEW INSIGHTS FROM ARTHRO-
POD GENOMES April 11-13, 2008, in Kansas City
This is a friendly reminder that Friday, February 29,
is an important deadline for submitting a poster ab-
stract for presentation at the 2nd Annual Arthropod
Genomics Symposium. Abstract Guidelines can be
found at www.ksu.edu/agc/symposium.shtml . Febru-
ary 29 is also the deadline to receive discounted early
registration fees. After February 29, we will continue
to welcome your registration to attend the Sympo-
sium at a slightly higher cost. A brochure and com-
plete information with links for registration and hotel
reservations can be downloaded at www.ksu.edu/agc/-
symposium.shtml .
SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM: The main symposium ses-
sions will take place on Friday-Saturday, April 11-12.
Speakers will present new insights from genomic ap-
proaches in arthropods and describe the development
of tools for genomic analysis. Optional workshops
are scheduled for Thursday and Friday evenings. An
evening of jazz and KC barbeque is planned for Sat-
urday night. On Sunday morning, participate in a
roundtable discussion with the ArthropodBase Consor-
tium. Activities will conclude by noon on Sunday.
FEATURED SPEAKERS: John Kenneth Colbourne,
Indiana University, Preservation, expansion and in-
vention of crustacean genes with reference to insect
genomes. Christine G. Elsik, Georgetown University,
Unusual base composition of the honey bee genome.
Sarjeet S. Gill, University of California, Riverside,
Mosquito midgut interactions with bacterial toxins.
Catherine A. Hill, Purdue University, Tick genome or-
ganization and evolution. Thomas Kaufman, IndianaUniversity, The latest news from CNN: What the 12 se-
quenced Drosophila genomes have told us about rapidly
evolving genes and positive selection. J. Robert Manak,
University of Iowa, Empirical annotation of arthropod
genomes using tiled genomic microarrays. Subbarat-
nam Muthukrishnan, Kansas State University, Func-
tional genomics of insect chitin metabolism. Hugh M.
Robertson, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign,
What we’ve learned about the insect chemoreceptors
from arthropod genome projects. Bruce R. Schatz, Uni-
versity of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, BeeSpace: In-
teractive functional analysis of arthropod genomic data.
Jeﬀ Stuart, Purdue University, Avirulence, sex determi-
nation, and a physical map of the Hessian ﬂy genome.
Judy Willis, University of Georgia, Insect cuticular
proteins: Annotation, proteomics, expression, evolu-
tion. Evgeny Zdobnov, University of Geneva, Medical
School, Switzerland, A comparative perspective on in-
sect genomes.
POSTER SESSIONS: There will be two poster sessions,
limited to ﬁrst 150 abstracts received before Friday,
February 29. A few platform presentations will be cho-
sen from submitted poster abstracts.
WORKSHOPS AND ROUNDTABLE DISCUSSION:
On Thursday evening, a workshop on “Community
Contributions to Genome Annotation” will feature a
presentation on use of the Apollo Genome Annota-
tion Curation Tool by Dr. Chris Elsik (BeeBase). On
Friday evening, Dave Clements (NESCent) and Scott
Cain (CSHL) will lead a workshop, “Chado Databases
and Integration with GMOD Tools.” Throughout the
meeting, arthropod genome database and bioinformat-
ics tool developers will be available for individual train-
ing. On Sunday morning, participate in a roundtable
discussion led by members of the ArthropodBase Con-
sortium regarding the generation of integrated arthro-
pod genome databases and tools for genome analysis,
and community curation. Symposium attendees are in-
vited to participate in these additional events.
VENUE: The symposium will take place at the historic
Muehlebach Hotel (operated by Marriott) in downtown
Kansas City.
KANSAS CITY JAZZ AND BARBEQUE: Partici-
pants are encouraged to stay Saturday night for an op-
tional evening of jazz and KC barbeque in the historic
18th and Vine district.
REGISTRATION: The registration fee will be $275
($150 for graduate and undergraduate students), and
will include a welcome reception Thursday evening,
breakfast and lunch on Friday and Saturday, and light
refreshments at the Friday poster session. Additional
fees apply for the Apollo Workshop Thursday eveningMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 11
and Saturday night dinner.
INFORMATION: Contact Doris Merrill at dmerrill@k-
state.edu or 785-532-3482. To receive future Sympo-
sium announcements, send your contact information to
dmerrill@k-state.edu.
SYMPOSIUM WEBSITE: www.k-state.edu/agc/-
symposium.shtml
DEADLINES: February 29, 2008 - Poster abstracts
(limited to ﬁrst 150 received) February 29, 2008 - Early
registration March 20, 2008 or until room block is ﬁlled
- Hotel reservations
Please share this announcement with colleagues and
students!
Susan J. Brown, Professor Director, Center for Ge-
nomic Studies on
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
KoenigMuseum Biodiversity
May19-30
The Convention on Biological Diversity will have its
ninth Confernece of the Parties (COP 9) in Bonn, Ger-
many, from 19 to 30 May 2008. There will be an asso-
ciated scientiﬁc meeting “Biodiversity Research - Safe-
guarding the Future” at the Museum Koenig, Bonn,
Germany, from May 12 - 16, 2008.
Further Information please visit www.preCOP9.org .
Swen Renner
– Dr. Swen C Renner Phone: +49 711 8936 172 Fax:
+49 711 8936 100
Staatliches Museum fur Naturkunde Stuttgart Na-
tional Focal Point for the Global Taxonomic Initiative
(GTI) of the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD)
Rosenstein 1, 70191 Stuttgart, GERMANY www.gti-
kontaktstelle.de renner.smns@naturkundemuseum-
bw.deMarseilles EvolBiology Sep24-26
movies
Dear all,
We are pleased to inform you that the ﬁrst movies of
the oral presentations of the 11th Evolutionary Biology
Meeting at Marseilles are now available on the web site:
http://sites.univ-provence.fr/webtv (select channel 2)
Please note also that the next edition of the Evolution-
ary Biology Meeting at Marseilles will take place on
24th 25th 26th September 2008. The following sub-
jects will be discussed: - Evolutionary biology concepts
and modelisations for biological annotation; - Biodi-
versity and Systematics; - Comparative genomics and
post-genomics (at all taxonomic levels); - Functional
phylogeny; - Environment and biological evolution; -
Origin of Life and exobiology; - Non-adaptative versus
adaptative evolution.
Please, do not hesitate to visit our website to ﬁnd more
information http://sites.univ-provence.fr/evol-cgr
Yours sincerely,
Axelle Pontarotti
Egee@univ-provence.fr
Myshkin Russia RodentEvolution
Jul24-28
Dear Colleagues,
It is a great pleasure for us to invite you to partici-
pate in the 11th International Conference on Rodent
Biology (Rodens et Spatium), which will be held at
the end of July (approximately 24-28 July), 2008 in
Myshkin,Russia.
The Conference will be hosted by A.N.Severtsov Insti-
tute of Ecology and Evolution of the Russian Academy
of Sciences, Russian Theriological Community and
Myshkin Municipal District Administration. The three
most recent Rodent Conferences have been held in Bel-
gium (2002), Poland (2004) and Italy (2006), with 130-
150 ’rodentologists’ from 25-30 countries in attendance12 EvolDir March 1, 2008
at each.
The aims of the Conference are to bring together sci-
entists studying rodents from all over the world, to
associate mammalogists from East and West for fu-
ture collaboration and to exchange scientiﬁc informa-
tion and experiences through the discussion of various
issues. It’s for the ﬁrst time the Conference takes place
in Russia and we’ll be pleased to acquaint you with our
country, its people, history and nature.
Myshkin is a tiny old town in the historical region of
old Russia (Yaroslavl region, 250 km North of Moscow).
Its name can be translated as “Little Mouse Town” and
it was proclaimed by its citizens as “The World Capi-
tal of Mice”. Despite being among the smallest towns
in Russia (6000 inhabitants), it possesses 10 museums,
including the world’s only Mouse Museum. Many fa-
mous old cities and towns are near Myshkin, includ-
ing Yaroslavl, Uglich, Rostov-the-Great, and Pereslavl-
Zalessky. Myshkin is situated on the high bank of the
Volga, the largest river of Europe, and surrounded by
picturesque landscapes and untouched countryside.
The year 2008 is the Year of Mouse in the Oriental Cal-
endar and it is declared to be a special Festival Year in
Myshkin. Thus, it’s a special place and time for those of
us studying rodents to meet and discuss our researches.
Conference information can be obtained from the
website www.sevin.ru/rodensetspatium/index.html or
by contacting Olga Osipova (o osipova@mail.ru) or
Tatyana Chistova (tachi@mail.ru) of the Organizing
Committee.
YOU ARE WELCOME TO PRELIMINARY REGIS-
TRATION via website.
We would be grateful to you if you spread this infor-
mation among your colleagues.
We look forward to seeing you in July 2008 and hope
your stay in Myshkin,Russia will be both useful and
enjoyable.
vdeﬀontaine@ulg.ac.be vdeﬀontaine@ulg.ac.be
NHM London Speciation Mar12-13
2
Speciation Symposium, London 12-13 March 2008
The third Natural History Museum Speciation Sympo-
sium will be held from 1pm (ﬁrst talk 2pm)on 12 March
to lunchtime on 13 March in the Museum’s Flett Lec-ture Theatre, Exhibition Road, London.
The Keynote Address will be by Prof. Leo Beukeboom
(Groningen) on ’Speciation in Nasonia wasps’.
Other speakers include Roger Thorpe (Bangor), James
Cook (Reading), Benjamin Isambert and Harald
Schneider (NHM), Albert Phillimore (Imperial), Phi-
line Feulner and Juan Galindo (Sheﬃeld), Magdalena
Zarowiecki (NHM and Manchester).
Booking for participants is not necessary.
We will try to reserve a table for dinner on 12 March. If
you wish to attend the meal, please email Roger Butlin
(r.k.butlin@sheﬃeld.ac.uk).
We will not be providing accommodation so you might
like to look at London hotels now. For a list of hotels
within easy reach of the Museum, please contact Ralph
Harbach (reh@nhm.ac.uk).
Ralph Harbach and Roger Butlin
r.k.butlin@sheﬃeld.ac.uk r.k.butlin@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
PortTownsend Evo-WIBO Apr18-20
The 2008 meeting of “Evo-WIBO* evolutionary biolo-
gists in the Paciﬁc Northwest” will take place April 18-
20, 2008 at Ft. Worden State Park in Port Townsend,
Washington. We averaged about 140 people attending
the 2004 and 2006 meetings and have expanded our ca-
pacity for this year, but please register early to make
sure that we have a slot for you. We have made every
eﬀort to keep costs down (registration covers all hous-
ing and food), and a simple goal of the meeting is to
have a good time with friends, old and new.
Registration and general information is available at:
http:// www.zoology.ubc.ca/evo-wibo The conference
begins with a Friday night gala reception and ends
by noon on Sunday. The meeting has no concurrent
sessions, and talks and posters are presented by fac-
ulty, postdocs and students. The slate of talks will
be chosen by the organizing committee. We strongly
encourage faculty to nominate/encourage outstanding
students and postdocs to give platform talks (send an
email to Dick Gomulkiewicz, gomulki@wsu.edu, with
suggestions). Dolph Schluter will be giving the plenary
talk for the meeting Sunday morning.
*Evo-WIBO stands for Evolutionary Biologists from
Washington, Idaho, British Columbia and Oregon, al-
though we draw much more widely than that, includingMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 13
Alaska, Alberta, California, and Montana.
– Richard Gomulkiewicz gomulki@wsu.edu PHONE:
(509) 335-2527 FAX: (509) 335-3184 http://-
www.wsu.edu/˜gomulki/ Department of Mathematics;
P.O. Box 643113 or School of Biological Sciences; P.O.
Box 644236 Washington State University Pullman,
WA 99164 USA
gomulki@wsu.edu gomulki@wsu.edu
QuebecCity PopConservGenetics
IUFRO Aug24-29
INTERNATIONAL IUFRO-CTIA 2008 JOINT
CONFERENCE < http://www.iufro-ctia2008.ca
>www.iufro-ctia2008.ca
The Executive Committee is pleased to invite you to at-
tend the 2008 Joint Conference of the IUFRO Working
Groups 2.04.01 (Population, ecological and conserva-
tion genetics) and 2.04.10 (Genomics), along with the
Canadian Tree Improvement Association (CTIA) that
will be held in Quebec City, August 24-29, 2008, includ-
ing satellites activities and workshops. It will be hosted
by Laval University and its partners, under the theme
Adaptation, Breeding and Conservation in the Era of
Forest Tree Genomics and Environmental Change.
The conference venue (Loews Le Concorde) is located
near the beautiful Battle Fields, the St-Lawrence River
and the historical city.
CONFIRMED KEYNOTE SPEAKERS include David
Neale (USA) and Antoine Kremer (France); other con-
ﬁrmed invited speakers are Thomas Byram (USA),
Yousry El-Kassaby (Canada), Matias Kirst (USA), and
Antje Rohde (Belgium). More to come...
The IUFRO-CTIA main conference event will be held
from Monday, August 25 to Thursday, August 28. The
CTIA Working Groups on Tree Seeds and Wood Qual-
ity will hold their workshops on Monday, August 25.
The ﬁrst Arborea-Treenomix Joint Workshop on spruce
genomics will be held on Monday, August 25. The 2nd
CONFORGEN Conference will be held on Friday, Au-
gust 29.
CONFERENCE REGISTRATION AND CALL FOR
PAPERS ARE NOW AVAILABLE ONLINE at the
IUFRO-CTIA 2008 website ( <http://www.iufro-
ctia2008.ca >http://www.iufro-ctia2008.ca).
The site also provides additional information on accom-modation, on-line room booking, main conference pro-
gram, workshops and ﬁeld trips.
IMPORTANT DATES: *CALL FOR PAPERS SUB-
MISSION DEADLINE: APRIL 15, 2008. * EARLY
REGISTRATION DEADLINE: APRIL 15, 2008.
Looking forward to see you in Quebec City next sum-
mer,
The Executive Committee,
Jean BOUSQUET, Laval University Jean BEAULIEU,
Canadian Forest Service Andre RAINVILLE, Ministere
des Ressources Naturelles et de la Faune du Quebec
John MACKAY, Laval University
< http://www.iufro-ctia2008.ca >www.iufro-
ctia2008.ca
info@iufro-ctia2008.ca info@iufro-ctia2008.ca
RaleighNC BehaviorEvolution
Jun4-7
2008 Annual Meeting, American Genetic Association
2008, June 4-7, 2008. “Genetics and Genomics of Be-
havior.” Key Lecturer: Mariana Wolfner.
This conference will explore current status and future
trends in the genetic architecture of behavior, neuroge-
netic mechanisms of behavior, and evolution of behav-
ior. In addition to a stellar group of invited speakers,
there will be an opportunity for platform presentations
from participants who submit abstracts.
Competitive scholarships for travel and registration will
be available for students and postdoctoral fellows.
Details and registration at
www.agasymposium2008.org agajoh@oregonstate.edu
agajoh@oregonstate.edu
Rostock CrustaceanPhylogenetics
Oct7-11
Advances in Crustacean Phylogenetics
1st International Symposium to be held in Rostock,
Germany, 7-11 October 200814 EvolDir March 1, 2008
2nd CIRCULAR
Dear Colleagues, We would like to invite you to the ﬁrst
international symposium on Advances in Crustacean
Phylogenetics. The symposium will take place from
7 - 11 October 2008 in Rostock. We are pleased to
announce that 25 high proﬁle international speakers
have aﬃrmed their attendance. They will provide us
with a broad overview of the following topics: (1) the
place of crustaceans within arthropods, (2) the phy-
logeny of single sub-taxa and (3) the contribution of
certain character complexes to the phylogeny of Crus-
tacea. These talks are scheduled to take 30 mins, plus
10 mins discussion per talk, spread over the four days.
In addition, the conference is open for posters on all
aspects of crustacean phylogeny! The best student
posters will be awarded by The Crustacean Society!
Alongside the stimulating scientiﬁc program, there will
be space and time for individual discussions and social
events. On Wednesday evening there will be a river
cruise to the Baltic Sea, including an excellent ﬁsh buf-
fet. On Thursday afternoon a general poster session
will be held which will be preluded by a public lec-
ture. On Friday there will be an excursion to the newly
built Ozeaneum in Stralsund, followed by a visit to a
site near Stralsund where thousands of Eurasian cranes
rest on their migration South. We hope the program
will tempt you to come to the historic city of Rostock
to hear about and discuss with us recent Advances in
Crustacean Phylogenetics.
Organizers and Venue Stefan Richter, Christian
Wirkner, Ole Sten Moller Universitat Rostock, Allge-
meine & Spezielle Zoologie Universitatsplatz 2, D-18055
Rostock, Germany Phone +49 (0)381 498-6261 FAX
+49 (0)381 498-6262 Please visit our home page for fur-
ther information http://www.biologie.uni-rostock.de/-
zoologie/acp home.html
On behalf of the ACP 2008 organizers: Prof. Stefan
Richter Dr. Christian Wirkner Dr. Ole S. Moller
—
Dr. Ole S. Moller
Wissenschaftlicher Mitarbeiter Allgemeine und
Spezielle Zoologie Institut fur Biowissenschaften,
Universitat Rostock Universitatsplatz 2 D-18055
Rostock
Tel: (+49) 381 498 6279 Funk: (+49) 0177 5155354
Fax: (+49) 381 498 6262
ole.moeller@uni-rostock.de
http://www.biologie.uni-rostock.de/zoologie/-
moeller.htm osmoller@snm.ku.dkRostock CrustaceanPhylogenetics
Oct7-11 correction
A small but important typo rendered the link to the
ACP homepage non-functional; Below you will ﬁnd the
correct one! Sorry about that :-)
Advances in Crustacean Phylogenetics
1st International Symposium to be held in Rostock,
Germany, 7-11 October 2008
2nd CIRCULAR
Dear Colleagues, We would like to invite you to the ﬁrst
international symposium on Advances in Crustacean
Phylogenetics. The symposium will take place from
7 - 11 October 2008 in Rostock. We are pleased to
announce that 25 high proﬁle international speakers
have aﬃrmed their attendance. They will provide us
with a broad overview of the following topics: (1) the
place of crustaceans within arthropods, (2) the phy-
logeny of single sub-taxa and (3) the contribution of
certain character complexes to the phylogeny of Crus-
tacea. These talks are scheduled to take 30 mins, plus
10 mins discussion per talk, spread over the four days.
In addition, the conference is open for posters on all
aspects of crustacean phylogeny! The best student
posters will be awarded by The Crustacean Society!
Alongside the stimulating scientiﬁc program, there will
be space and time for individual discussions and social
events. On Wednesday evening there will be a river
cruise to the Baltic Sea, including an excellent ﬁsh buf-
fet. On Thursday afternoon a general poster session
will be held which will be preluded by a public lec-
ture. On Friday there will be an excursion to the newly
built Ozeaneum in Stralsund, followed by a visit to a
site near Stralsund where thousands of Eurasian cranes
rest on their migration South. We hope the program
will tempt you to come to the historic city of Rostock
to hear about and discuss with us recent Advances in
Crustacean Phylogenetics.
Organizers and Venue Stefan Richter, Christian
Wirkner, Ole Sten Moller Universitat Rostock, Allge-
meine & Spezielle Zoologie Universitatsplatz 2, D-18055
Rostock, Germany Phone +49 (0)381 498-6261 FAX
+49 (0)381 498-6262 Please visit our home page for fur-
ther information http://www.biologie.uni-rostock.de/-
zoologie/acp home.htm On behalf of the ACP 2008
organizers: Prof. Stefan Richter Dr. Christian WirknerMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 15
Dr. Ole S. Moller
—
Dr. Ole S. Moller
Wissenschaftlicher Mitarbeiter Allgemeine und
Spezielle Zoologie Institut fur Biowissenschaften,
Universitat Rostock Universitatsplatz 2 D-18055
Rostock
Tel: (+49) 381 498 6279 Funk: (+49) 0177 5155354
Fax: (+49) 381 498 6262
ole.moeller@uni-rostock.de
http://www.biologie.uni-rostock.de/zoologie/-
moeller.htm osmoller@snm.ku.dk
StMalo France TE evolution
Apr20-23
Dear All,
The French Society of Genetics and the French Trans-
position Community (CNRS) are happy to announce
an International Congress on Transposable genetic el-
ements. Transposable elements are at the heart of bi-
ology. Since their discovery in the 1940’s, they have
been shown to contribute signiﬁcantly to genome struc-
ture, evolution and function. Their study aims at un-
derstanding their biological success and to character-
ize their contribution to fundamental biological func-
tions. The increasing interest in these elements is
strongly linked to our recent knowledge of genome
organization and function. They are major play-
ers of phenotypic diversity but they are also involved
in diverse human pathologies. Transposable element
studies cover a broad spectrum of organisms and a
large variety of biological processes and methodolo-
gies. The aim of this international congress, a “pre-
miere” in Europe, is to integrate recent knowledge
to design new concepts and to identify future orien-
tations of research. Several topics will be covered
such as, the evolution and activity of transposable el-
ements, their dynamics within genomes and popula-
tions, their mechanisms of transposition and control
and their impact on genomes. The congress will be
held on April 20-23, 2008 at “Palais du Grand Large”,
St Malo, France. (“ EUDORA=”AUTOURL“ http://-
www.pgl-congres.com/index.aspx?VersionId=2 http:/-
/www.pgl-congres.com/index.aspx?VersionId=2 ). The
preliminary program, the registration form and thewebsite can be found at the following address: http:/-
/www.icte2008.com/ The deadline to register to
ICTE2008 with preferential rates and to submit an ab-
stract for an oral or a poster presentation has been
postponed to February 10, 2008. Deadline for abstract
submission (oral and poster presentations): February
10, 2008. Deadline for preferential rate: February 10,
2008. Do not wait for the last minute. The web site of
the International Congress on Transposable Elements
(ICTE) that will be held in France is open at the fol-
lowing address. http://www.icte2008.com/ We would
be grateful if you could distribute this as widely as pos-
sible.
Best wishes, The organising committee Pierre Capy
Abdelkader Ainouche Dominique Anxolab´ eh` ere Alain
Bucheton Mick Chandler Pascale Lesage Fran¸ cois Mal-
let Didier Mazel Chantal Vaury
M. L. AINOUCHE Evolution des Genomes et Specia-
tion, Equipe MOB (Mecanismes ` a l’Origine de la Biodi-
versite) UMR CNRS 6553 Ecobio, Universite de Rennes
1 Campus Scientiﬁque de Beaulieu, Bat. 14A 35 042
Rennes Cedex France Ph. 33 (0)2 23 23 51 11 Fax 33
(0)2 23 23 50 47
Malika Ainouche <Malika.Ainouche@univ-rennes1.fr >
Tokyo TetrapodAdaptation Jun9-13
FIFTH CONFERENCE ON SECONDARY ADAPTA-
TION OF TETRAPODS TO LIFE IN WATER
When: June 9-13, 2008 Where: National Museum of
Science and Nature, Tokyo, Japan Abstracts due: End
of February Conference Website/Email list: http:/-
/www.kahaku.go.jp/english/news/2007/secad08/ The
tri-annual conference on the secondary adaptation of
tetrapods to life in water brings together a highly in-
terdisciplinary group of scientists who are interested in
the processes of evolution and the change of form and
function through the adaptation of terrestrial tetrapods
to aquatic environments.
Following successful meetings in France (1996), Den-
mark (1999), New Zealand (2002) and the USA (2005),
the 2008 conference will be held in Japan for the ﬁrst
time in Asia.
In addition to the open sessions, the 2008 confer-
ence will feature: Pre-symposium keynote lectures
open to the public (with English-Japanese translation)
Cetacean anatomy workshop with guided dissections by16 EvolDir March 1, 2008
Dr. T. K. Yamada (co-organizer) Exhibition of aquatic
tetrapods newly opened at the National Museum of Na-
ture and Science
padam@ucla.edu
Toulouse BehaviourEvolution
Apr14-17
4th meeting in Ecology & Behaviour April 14-17, 2008
Toulouse
Meeting point : EcoleNationale de Formation
Agronomique BP22687 2route de Narbonne 31326Cas-
tanet Tolosan cedex
The 4thmeeting in Ecology & Behaviour is mostly or-
ganised by and for PhD studentsand post-docs. It aims
to gather young and senior researchers from diverse-
backgrounds extending from animal behaviour to ecol-
ogy and evolutionarybiology. The ﬁve sessions will be
introduced by established researchers and oral presen-
tations will be given in English. In the ﬁrst evening a
plenary session will take place and a documentary ﬁlm
will be shown the night after. These 2 events will be
open to the public and followed by a discussion. Half
a day will be devoted to visit the Muse dHistoire Na-
turelle de Toulouse ±.
Program :
Group-living, Conﬂicts and Cooperation - J. Krause
Behaviour and Cognition - N. Clayton & M. Giurfa
Foraging strategies - V. Fourcassi & J.-L. Hemptinne
Habitat use, dipersal and reproductive strategies - J.
Clobert & M. Hewison Signals and host/parasite inter-
actions - P. Heeb & K. McCoy Plenary talk, scientiﬁc
documentary ﬁlm and discussion - P.-H. Gouyon, J.
Orivel & B. Thierry
Participation :
To submit a talk or a poster, please complete the
form available on the following website: http://-
www.uappu.org/serl/pmwiki.php . Save your ﬁle as:
yourname sessionname.doc and send it by email to
serl08@uappu.org. Please put the name of the session
in the subject of the message. Deadlineto submit sum-
maries: February 20th, 2008. Summaries have to be
written in English, with no more than 250 words. 10-
minute-length talks will be given in English, with 3-5
minutes questions after it.
Registration is free of charges. Accommodation andmeals are oﬀered by our partners.
For more information: http://www.uappu.org/serl/-
pmwiki.php With the best wishes, The organizingcom-
mittee serl08@uappu.org
Gabor Czirjak <czirjakgabor@yahoo.com >
UBritishColumbia EarlyCareer
Female EvolutionaryBiologists
May11 Registration
The Symposium for Women Entering Ecology and Evo-
lution Today (SWEEET) is now open for registration
for senior doctoral graduate students, post-docs, and
early career scientists. The goal of this symposium is to
address issues that inﬂuence the advancement of women
from postgraduate degrees into academic and govern-
ment positions in the ﬁelds of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology.
Canadian women scientists are signiﬁcantly underrep-
resented in scientiﬁc positions at universities, govern-
ment agencies and in industry. Interestingly, women are
much better represented in the upper graduate level and
postdoctoral programs leading to these careers than
they are as professionals in the ﬁelds. One factor that
may contribute this phenomenon is a lack of informa-
tion speciﬁcally targeted at women as they endeavor
to make the critical leap from their training to a career
track. This symposium will to address this gap by iden-
tifying concrete tips and tools for getting an academic
or government job, developing a research program, net-
working, mentoring, and establishing work-life balance.
When: Sunday May 11, 2008 in conjunction with the
3rd annual meeting of the Canadian Society for Ecology
and Evolution ( http://www.ecoevo.ca/ubc2008 ).
Where: Green College at the Univer-
sity of British Columbia, Vancouver, B.C.
(www.greencollege.ubc.ca/ )
Format: Series of presentations by senior scientists
(including academic faculty, academic administration,
government scientists), followed by roundtable discus-
sions.
Cost: No charge
How to register: http://www.ecoevo.ca/ubc2008/-
SWEEET/registration.html Deadline for registration:
March 15, 2008. Participants will be randomly selected
from the applications, ensuring even geographic repre-March 1, 2008 EvolDir 17
sentation.
Suggested accommodations: ( http://www.ecoevo.ca/-
ubc2008/en/residences.htm )
Please see our website for more information
(http://www.ecoevo.ca/ubc2008/SWEEET/-
index.html ) or contact the organizing committee
(sweeet2008@gmail.com) with speciﬁc questions or
comments.
We look forward to receiving your application and to
meeting you in May!
Sincerely, SWEEET Organizing Committee
Dr. Risa Sargent UFA Assistant Professor, University
of Ottawa
Dr. Carrie Holt Scientist, Fisheries and Oceans Canada
Dr. Katrina Dlugosch Postdoctoral Fellow, University
of British Columbia
katrina.dlugosch@gmail.com
UEdinburgh
ParasitoidGeneticsGenomics Jun5-6
Genetic and Genomic Approaches for Parasitoid Be-
havioural Ecology BEPAR workshop 5-6 June 2008
Institute of Evolutionary Biology, University of Edin-
burgh, U.K.
We are very pleased to invite you to Edinburgh
this summer for an ESF-funded workshop under the
BEPAR framework. The two-day workshop will ex-
plore the new tools becoming available to parasitoid
behavioural ecologists, focusing in particular on novel
genetic and genomic approaches. We will consider the
ways in which advances in population genetics and ge-
nomic analysis can help us address questions old and
new in parasitoid insects, including biological control,
life history evolution, interspeciﬁc interactions and re-
productive decision-making.
The workshop will mix invited expert speakers with
research talks from delegates, with a focus on early-
career researchers. Discussion sessions will also be
a key feature. There will also be a poster session.
For many species of parasitoid, the use of genetic ap-
proaches remains limited. We therefore expect spo-
ken and poster presentations to vary in the approaches
taken (including non-genetic studies), allowing us to
explore to what extent emerging technologies can helpaddress outstanding questions. Novel research areas,
involving genetics are not, are therefore extremely wel-
come as well.
Researchers with no or little experience in genetics or
genomics are especially encouraged to participate, as
the workshop speciﬁcally aims to unlock the use of ge-
netic information to a wide audience of parasitoid be-
havioural ecologists.
Conﬁrmed keynote speakers for the workshop are: -
John Werren (University of Rochester, NY, USA) - The
Nasonia genome project: Implications to parasitoid ge-
netics - Leo Beukeboom (University of Groningen, The
Netherlands) - Sex determination and life history - Amy
Toth (University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, USA)
- TBA - Bart Pannebakker (University of Edinburgh,
UK) - Genetics of sex allocation behaviour in Naso-
nia parasitoids - Hans Smid (Wageningen University,
The Netherlands) - Ecology of learning in insect para-
sitoids: from genes to behaviour - Lex Kraaijeveld (Uni-
versity of Southampton, UK) - Evolutionary forces on
defence and counter-defence in a host-parasite interac-
tion - Saskya van Nouhuys (University of Helsinki, Fin-
land, and Cornell University, Ithaca, NY, USA) - Host
specialization by Cotesia parasitoids: Cryptic species
groups and community structure
The workshop will have an all-inclusive registration fee
of ¨ ı¿1
2120 (this includes accommodation, breakfasts and
lunches). Accommodation is available for the nights of
4th and 5th June, with some rooms available (at no ex-
tra charge) for 6th June. Delegate number is limited to
80. The workshop and accommodation will be located
at Pollock Halls, University of Edinburgh.
Registration and abstract submission is via our website
http://www.biology.ed.ac.uk/bepar2008/Home.html .
Registration will remain open until the workshop
is fully occupied. The deadline for submission of
spoken or poster presentations is Friday 2nd May
2008. Links with information about travel to and from
Edinburgh and the workshop locations are available on
the website. Further details concerning the scientiﬁc
program will appear shortly. Until then, enquiries can
be sent to David Shuker (david.shuker@ed.ac.uk).
We very much look forward to welcoming you to Edin-
burgh this June.
David Shuker, Leo Beukeboom, Jetske de Boer, Bart
Pannebakker and Louis van de Zande (Universities of
Edinburgh and Groningen) –
Bart Pannebakker Institute of Evolutionary Biology
School of Biological Sciences University of Edin-
burgh West Mains Road Edinburgh EH9 3JT Scot-
land UK e-mail: Bart.Pannebakker@ed.ac.uk tel: +4418 EvolDir March 1, 2008
(0) 131 650 5553 fax: +44 (0) 131 650 6564
http://westgroup.biology.ed.ac.uk/BartP/BartP.html
Bart.Pannebakker@ed.ac.uk
UIowa Evolution of Sex Jun16-19
3EVOLUTION OF SEX & RECOMBINATION: IN
THEORY AND IN PRACTICE2
June 16-19, 2008, at the University of Iowa, Iowa City,
USA.
http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/sexrec The Roy J.
Carver Center for Comparative Genomics and the De-
partment of Biology at the University of Iowa an-
nounces an international conference on the evolution
of sex & recombination. This conference will immedi-
ately precede the 2008 Evolution meeting taking place
in nearby Minneapolis, Minnesota (June 20-24).
Talks will be given by invited speakers at both the ju-
nior and senior level. There will also be opportunities
for contributed talks and posters to be given by con-
ference attendees at all levels of seniority. A number
of travel awards (10-15) will be provided to deserving
students and postdocs.
Topics will include: -Advantages of sexual reproduction
-Experimental evolution of sex -Estimating recombina-
tion rates -Mating types & sex determination -Linkage,
selection & population size -Sex chromosomes -Sex &
pathogenesis -Sexual selection -Sexual conﬂict
Conﬁrmed speakers include: Philip Awadalla Univer-
sity of Montreal Doris Bachtrog University of Califor-
nia, San Diego Graham Bell McGill University Rhona
Borts University of Leicester Bernardo Carvalho Uni-
versidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro Andy Peters Uni-
versity of Wisconsin-Madison Brian Charlesworth Uni-
versity of Edinburgh Nick Colegrave University of Edin-
burgh Tim Cooper University of Houston Ursula Good-
enough Washington University-St. Louis Joe Heit-
man Duke University Michael Hood Amherst College
Alex Kondrashov University of Michigan Curt Lively
Indiana University Stephanie Meirmans University of
Bergen Bill Rice University of California, Santa Bar-
bara Isa Sch¨ on Royal Belgian Institute of N.S. Marcy
Uyenoyama Duke University Jerry Wilkinson Univer-
sity of Maryland Cliﬀ Zeyl Wake Forest University
Check the conference website for details regard-
ing registration, accommodation, etc.: http://-
ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/sexrec/registration.php A sym-posium issue to be published in Journal of Heredity is
being planned.
All enquiries are encouraged (including potential spon-
sors) and should be directed to the organizers:
sexrec@uiowa.edu
On behalf of the organizing committee,
John Logsdon –
John M. Logsdon, Jr., Ph.D. Associate Professor Direc-
tor, Roy J. Carver Center for Comparative Genomics
University of Iowa Department of Biological Sciences
319 335 1082 oﬃce 310 Biology Building 319 335 1083
lab Iowa City, IA 52242-1324 319 335 1069 FAX
email <john-logsdon@uiowa.edu >web <http:/-
/www.biology.uiowa.edu/ccg/ > < http://-
euplotes.biology.uiowa.edu >
john-logsdon@uiowa.edu john-logsdon@uiowa.edu
UMichigan
EarlyCareerScientistsSymposium
Mar15
Dear Colleagues,
On Saturday March 15, 2008, the Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology Department at the University of Michi-
gan will sponsor the fourth annual U-M Early Career
Scientists Symposium. This one-day symposium is fo-
cused on the topic of NETWORKS IN ECOLOGY
AND EVOLUTION. It is truly an international sym-
posium with our 10 speakers coming from 5 diﬀerent
countries (i.e. USA, Spain, Switzerland, Canada, and
Brazil).
PLEASE REGISTER (for free!) TODAY at http://-
lessons.ummu.umich.edu/2k/ yss/registration.
Additional information available at http://-
www.sitemaker.umich.edu/ yss2008/home.
The symposium includes keynote talks by ANDREAS
WAGNER (University of Zurich) and JORDI BAS-
COMPTE (Biological Station of Do˜ nana, Spanish Re-
search Council).
Other speakers at the event are: Stefano Allesina Na-
tional Center for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis,
Santa Barbara, California Postdoctoral Associate
Paulo Guimar˜ aes Universidade Estadual de Campinas
(UNICAMP), Brazil Postdoctoral AssociateMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 19
Christian Landry University of Montreal, Quebec,
Canada NSERC Postdoctoral Fellow, Department of
Biochemistry
Sasha Levy New York University, New York Postdoc-
toral Fellow
Emily Stuart Minor University of Maryland Center
for Environmental Science, Appalachian Laboratory,
Frostburg, Maryland National Parks Ecological Re-
search Postdoctoral Fellow
Kristi Montooth Indiana University, Bloomington As-
sistant Professor, Department of Biology
Samraat Pawar University of Texas at Austin Ph.D.
candidate, Section of Integrative Biology
Steve Proulx Iowa State University, Ames Assistant
Professor, Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology
Patricia J. Wittkopp, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Ecol-
ogy and Evolutionary Biology Molecular, Cellular and
Developmental Biology 1061 Natural Science Build-
ing University of Michigan Ann Arbor, MI 48109-
1048 tel: 734.763.1548 (oﬃce); 734.647.5483 (lab)
fax: 734.763.0544 www.umich.edu/ ˜ pwlab wit-
tkopp@umich.edu wittkopp@umich.edu
UMinnesota Evolution 2008
Jun20-24
Online registration is now available for Evolution 2008,
the annual meeting of the Society for the Study of Evo-
lution, the Society of Systematic Biologists, and the
American Society of Naturalists, to be held June 20-
24, 2008 on the Minneapolis campus of the University
of Minnesota.
Please visit http://www.evolution2008.org The dead-
line for receipt of presentation titles including posters
and talks is April 1, 2008. Participant registration
should be completed by May 2, 2008 to qualify for
discounted rates. Evolution 2008 is the premier an-
nual opportunity for sharing scientiﬁc research related
to evolution. Symposia, concurrent talks, and posters
will be presented by 1,200 expected participants. Re-
lated activities include exhibits, an opening reception,
a picnic, a banquet, and two poster receptions.
The University of Minnesota venue is in the heart of
Minneapolis, a vibrant metropolitan area of four mil-
lion people that oﬀers a diverse array of cultural, enter-
tainment, dining, and sporting opportunities. It also apoint of departure for pre- or post- meeting exploration
of Minnesota; from its Boundary Waters Canoe Area,
Lake Superior and the port of Duluth, the prairies of
southwestern Minnesota, to the headwaters of the Mis-
sissippi River at Lake Itasca.
We look forward to welcoming you to Evolution 2008
and are eager to answer your questions to make your
participation a productive and memorable experience.
Questions may be directed questions to Heather Dorr
(cceconf3@umn.edu).
On behalf of the societies, the organizing committees,
and the University of Minnesota, thank you for your
participation.
George Weiblen Evolution 2008 Program Chair Asso-
ciate Professor, Department of Plant Biology Herbar-
ium Curator, Bell Museum of Natural History
gweiblen <gweiblen@umn.edu >
UMinnesota Evolution 2008
Jun20-24 OnlineRegistration
Online registration is now available for Evolution 2008,
the annual meeting of the Society for the Study of Evo-
lution, the Society of Systematic Biologists, and the
American Society of Naturalists, to be held June 20-
24, 2008 on the Minneapolis campus of the University
of Minnesota.
Please visit http://www.evolution2008.org SSB mem-
bers should be sure to mark the box that identiﬁes you
as an SSB member because meeting proceeds (if any)
will be divided among the three societies according to
proportional representation. All SSB proceeds will as
always be used for student awards. If your membership
is not current, you can renew online now to receive
the member discount: http://systbio.org/?q=node/6
The deadline for receipt of presentation titles including
posters and talks is April 1, 2008. Participant regis-
tration should be completed by May 2, 2008 to qualify
for discounted rates. Evolution 2008 is the premier an-
nual opportunity for sharing scientiﬁc research related
to evolution. Symposia, concurrent talks, and posters
will be presented by 1,200 expected participants. Re-
lated activities include exhibits, an opening reception,
a picnic, a banquet, and two poster receptions.
The University of Minnesota venue is in the heart of
Minneapolis, a vibrant metropolitan area of four million
people that oﬀers a diverse array of cultural, entertain-20 EvolDir March 1, 2008
ment, dining, and sporting opportunities. It is also a
point of departure for pre- or post- meeting exploration
of Minnesota; from its Boundary Waters Canoe Area,
Lake Superior and the port of Duluth, the prairies of
southwestern Minnesota, to the headwaters of the Mis-
sissippi River at Lake Itasca.
We look forward to welcoming you to Evolution 2008
and are eager to answer your questions to make your
participation a productive and memorable experience.
Questions may be directed to Heather Dorr (cce-
conf3@umn.edu).
On behalf of the societies, the organizing committees,
and the University of Minnesota, thank you for your
participation.
George Weiblen Evolution 2008 Program Chair Asso-
ciate Professor, Department of Plant Biology Herbar-
ium Curator, Bell Museum of Natural History
SSB <SSBMembership@BurkInc.com >
UMontpellier HumanEvolution
Apr2-4
Reduced registration fees - Last 2 days
EHBE
European Human Behaviour and Evolution Conference
2-4 April 2008
University of Montpellier
<http://www.ehbe08.com/ >www.ehbe08.com
Charlotte Faurie & Michel Raymond Conference or-
ganizers European Human Behaviour and Evolution
Conference (EHBE 2008) <http://www.ehbes.com/-
>www.ehbes.com
Institut des Sciences de l’Evolution (CNRS UMR 5554)
Universite Montpellier II - CC 065 Place Eugene Batail-
lon F-34095 Montpellier cedex 05 TEL: +33 (0)467 144
632 FAX: +33 (0)467 143 622
ehbe08@univ-montp2.fr
UOregon EvoDevo Apr4-6UOregon.EvoDevo.Apr4-6
Hello Fellow Researchers,
On behalf of the NSF IGERT Trainees at the Univer-
sity of Oregon, I would like to remind EvolDir members
about the 2008 NSF IGERT Symposium on Evolution,
Development and Genomics entitled “From Patterns to
Process: Bridging Micro- and Macro-evolutionary con-
cepts through Evo-Devo”.
The symposium will be held in Eugene, Oregon at the
Valley River Inn from April 4 - 6, 2008.
Information on registration, speakers and poster sub-
mission can be found on the website:. http:/-
/evodevo.uoregon.edu/symposium.html The sympo-
sium has been organized by the IGERT-associated
graduate students at the University of Oregon. We are
very proud of the invited speakers and we look forward
to an intellectually stimulating and enjoyable sympo-
sium. We hope that you can attend!
Please feel free to contact me with any questions.
Cheers, Conor O’Brien
Cresko Lab Center for Ecology & Evolutionary Biology
University of Oregon cobrien1@uoregon.edu
cobrien1@uoregon.edu Center for Ecology & Evolution-
ary Biology University of Oregon Eugene, OR 97403
cobrien1@uoregon.edu
UOregon EvoDevo Symposium
Apr4-6
UOregon.EvoDevo Symposium.Apr4-6
This is a reminder that the registration deadline for
the 2008 Evolution, Development and Genomics Sym-
posium is March 1st!
WHERE: Eugene, Oregon at the Valley River Inn
WHEN: April 4 - 6, 2008.
KEYNOTE SPEAKERS: Jerry Coyne - University of
Chicago Greg Wray - Duke University
SCHEDULED SPEAKERS: Detlev Arendt - European
Molecular Biology Laboratory Bill Cresko - University
of Oregon Bernie Degnan - University of Queensland
Hopi Hoekstra - Harvard University Mark Martindale
- University of Hawaii Daniel Meulemans - California
Institute of Technology Leonie Moyle - Indiana Univer-March 1, 2008 EvolDir 21
sity Fred Nijhout - Duke University Kevin Peterson -
Dartmouth College Stephan Schneider - University of
Oregon Mike Wade - Indiana University Deneen Wellik
- University of Michigan
FURTHER INFORMATION: http://-
evodevo.uoregon.edu/symposium.html The sympo-
sium has been organized by the NSF IGERT-associated
graduate students at the University of Oregon. We
are very proud of the invited speakers and we look
forward to an intellectually stimulating and enjoyable
symposium. We hope that you can attend!
Please feel free to contact me with any questions.
Cheers, Conor O’Brien
Cresko Lab / Bradshaw-Holzapfel Lab Center for Ecol-
ogy & Evolutionary Biology University of Oregon co-
brien1@uoregon.edu
Valencia MarineBiodiversity
Nov11-15
Dear all
There will be a *marine biogeography session* at the
*World conference on marine biodiversity*, that will be
held in Valencia(Spain), 11-15 november 2008.
We invite you to submit your proposals for oral pre-
sentations (15 minutes)and posters. Suggestions for in-
vited speakers or name (and CV) of scientists from a
developing country susceptible to be invited are wel-
come.
Abstracts for oral presentations, and poster titles are
expected to be sent to me or Filipe by the 30 march
2008.
< http://www.marbef.org/worldconference/-
programme.php >
**Marine biogeography and comparative phylogeogra-
phy: joining paleontologists, taxonomists, ecologists
and geneticists**
This session aims at using the unique opportunityof an
international marine biology congress to join scientists
who usedistinct approaches for studying the geograph-
ical distribution of species and populations, in an eco-
logical as well as a historical perspective. During the
last ten years, an increasing number of studies of ma-
rine phylogeography were published. Data from molec-
ular markers provide patterns which interpretation, interms of historical anddemographical events, is now at
the point of becoming extremely morepowerful. This
is made possible by the availability of new analytical
tools associated with the possibility of analysing mul-
tiple independent molecular markers for the same sam-
ple. However, without life history knowledge, ecologi-
cal, taxonomical and paleontological/paleogeographical
information, genetic data do not allow to assess the tim-
ing and causes of past dispersal, vicariance, expansion
and extinction events. Joining these competences pro-
vides a powerful frame to predict the evolution of bio-
diversity in response to global change. The GeBIRM
consortium (NoE MarBEF), joining marine phylogeog-
raphy scientists studying several taxa across European
seas, attempts to ﬁnd patterns common across taxa.
GeBIRM partners are strongly willing to exchange in-
formation with scientists from other ﬁelds.
Chairs : Anne Chenuil <chenuil@univmed.fr >and Fil-
ipe Alberto <falberto@ualg.pt >
Thank you in advance for your contributions
Anne
– Anne CHENUIL
UMR 6540 CNRS DIMAR Centre d’Ocanologie de
Marseille Station Marine d’Endoume Chemin de la Bat-
terie des Lions 13007 MARSEILLE Tel.: +33 (0)4 91
04 16 17 Fax: +33 (0)4 91 04 16 35
<http://www.com.univ-mrs.fr/DIMAR/ >
Anne CHENUIL
PLEASE USE NOW MY NEW EMAIL AD-
DRESS : <anne.chenuil-maurel@univmed.fr >or
<chenuil@univmed.fr >
THAT WILL REPLACE THE OLD ONE
<chenuil@com.univ-mrs.fr >
UMR 6540 CNRS DIMAR Centre d’Ocanologie de
Marseille Station Marine d’Endoume Chemin de la Bat-
terie des Lions 13007 MARSEILLE Tel.: +33 (0)4 91
04 16 17 Fax: +33 (0)4 91 04 16 35
<http://www.com.univ-mrs.fr/DIMAR/ >
Anne CHENUIL <chenuil@com.univ-mrs.fr >
Valencia MarineBiodiversity
Nov11-15 2
Dear all22 EvolDir March 1, 2008
’Feedback eﬀects between the genetic components of
biodiversity and ecosystem stability’ will be one of the
sessions proposed at the World conference on marine
biodiversity in Valencia(Spain), 11-15 november 2008
(http://www.marbef.org/worldconference/ ).
Electronic submission of proposal are welcome for oral
presentations(12 m. presentation + 3 m. discussion)
and posters until April 1st ( http://www.marbef.org/-
worldconference/registration.php ).
If you have any question, please contact us ( Sophie
Arnaud-Haond <sarnaud@ifremer.fr >or Janine Olsen
<j.l.olsen@rug.nl >)
Feedback eﬀects between the genetic components of bio-
diversity and ecosystem stability
Chairs: Sophie Arnaud-Haond and Janine Olsen
Genetic diversity is one of three forms of biodiver-
sity recognized by the IUCN as deserving conservation
along with species and ecosystems. The genetic compo-
nents of biodiversity substantially determine the ability
of populations and species to adapt to environmental
changes and are, in turn, aﬀected by such change. The
two parts of this circular interaction have to be under-
stood: 1) How does genetic diversity inﬂuence, quali-
tatively and quantitatively, the ability of populations
to adapt to sudden environmental changes; and 2) To
what extent is the genetic architecture of populations
and species modiﬁed by those processes?
Increasing human driven alteration of the environment
and global change are the two main factors aﬀecting
ecosystem stability and resilience through species de-
clines and distribution shifts. Using examples drawn
from the intertidal, sub-tidal and pelagic biotas involv-
ing invertebrates, ﬁsh and macrophytes this sympo-
sium will gather presentations reporting results from in
situ and manipulative ﬁeld experiments that contrast
stressed/non-stressed populations.
Some examples of invited aims: 1) genetic diversity and
community diversity; 2) genetic diversity and popula-
tion/community resistance or resilience; 3) rapid ge-
netic adaptation to new environmental conditions; 4)genetic changes on impacted populations; 5) climate
change and range shifts.
Sophie.Arnaud@ifremer.fr Sophie.Arnaud@ifremer.fr
YaleU Evolution in Health Feb21
The Yale Symposia on Evolution in Health and Disease
will take place on February 21 and April 17, 2008, at
the Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut.
They will bring together leading researchers to dis-
cuss recent, exciting progress in applying evolutionary
thinking to a broad range of issues in medical research
and practice.
Please call this opportunity to the attention of faculty,
postdoctoral fellows, graduate students, and advanced
undergraduates by forwarding this email to them.
Those interested can get details and register at the sym-
posium web site:
http://www.yale.edu/evomedsymposia Please note
that there is a small fee for registration, payable on-
line by credit card, and that this fee covers the costs
of lunch and a reception that follows the talks in the
evening, allowing the audience to meet and chat with
the speakers. Your registering will give the organizers
the accurate head count they need to order the food.
For the organizing committee,
Stephen C. Stearns Edward P. Bass Professor of Ecol-
ogy and Evolutionary Biology
Other members of the organizing committee:
Durland Fish, Professor of Epidemiology and Public
Health Charles Lockwood, Professor of Obstetrics, Gy-
necology, and Reproductive Sciences Stephen Malaw-
ista, Professor of Medicine Paul Turner, Associate Pro-
fessor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
stephen.stearns@yale.edu stephen.stearns@yale.edu
GradStudentPositionsMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 23
ImperialCollegeLondon EvolutionDiversity . . . . . . . . 23
MacquarieU FishBrainEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
MaxPlanckInst Ornithology EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . 24
MaxPlanck PlantMolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
NatlUIreland Geneﬂow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Oslo 3 CenterEcolEvolSynthesis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
StateUNewYorkAlbany EvolImmuneFunction . . . . . . 71
TexasStateU FishEvolEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
UCollegeLondon BiodiversitySpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . 28
UCollegeLondon Evol of SexualTriats in Flies . . . . . 29
UEastAnglia LifeHistoryEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
UFlorida LifeHistoryEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30UGlasgow HostParasiteMetapopulation . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UGroningen EvolEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UHelsinki MathBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
UNottingham Evolution Vocal Communication . . . . 33
UOxford HumanPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
UppsalaU GenomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
UStAndrews Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
UVermont ArthropodEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
WageningenU AvianEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
WageningenU WildBoarPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
ImperialCollegeLondon
EvolutionDiversity
NERC-funded PhD Project - Evolutionary dynamics in
multi-species assemblages
Division of Biology, Imperial College London, Silwood
Park Campus, UK Supervisor: Tim Barraclough
Environments change over a range of time-scales.
Therefore, a key task for understanding the dynamics
of living systems, and for predicting the impacts of hu-
man activity on those systems, is to understand how
ecosystems respond to environmental change. How-
ever, most studies have considered ecological responses
(changes in species abundance and distribution) and
evolutionary responses (changing genotypes and adap-
tation) separately. For example, ecosystem studies
normally assume that species attributes are ﬁxed, un-
der the assumption that evolution operates over much
longer timescales than ecological processes. In contrast,
evolutionary studies mostly consider single species or
pairs of interacting species such as pathogens and hosts.
Yet, most organisms live in species rich assemblages in
which the characteristics and responses of co-occurring
species could have a big impact on how each species in
turn responds to a given environmental change.
This project will use theory, evolution experiments and
ﬁeld surveys of bacteria from the tree-holes of beech
(1) to test key hypotheses concerning the interaction
between evolutionary and ecological responses to envi-
ronmental change. Does diversity inhibit evolution as
predicted by recent theoretical models (2)? Can evolv-
ability explain which species survive periods of environ-
mental change? Do species coevolve according to Red
Queen dynamics or is the abiotic environment a more
important source of selection?We’re looking for a student with a good ﬁrst de-
gree and Masters degree (or equivalent experience).
NERC funding is open to UK residents or EU nation-
als who have spent the last three years in the UK for
education or employment ( www.nerc.ac.uk/funding/-
available/postgrad/eligibility.asp ). We also invite ap-
plications from other students who have access to their
own funding sources, for example scholarships through
their home countries.
To apply, please reply by the 29th February, but prefer-
ably ASAP, sending a CV and a brief letter explaining
why you are interested in this PhD to Tim Barraclough
at t.barraclough@imperial.ac.uk.
References 1) Bell, T, JA Newman, BS Silverman, SL
Turner, & AK Lilley.2005. The contribution of species
richness and composition to bacterial services. Nature
436: 1157-1160 2) De Mazancourt C, E Johnson & TG
Barraclough 2008. Biodiversity inhibits species’ evolu-
tionary responses to changing environments. Ecology
Letters. In Press.
——— Dr. Timothy G. Barraclough, Reader in Evo-
lutionary Biology, Imperial College London and Royal
Botanic Gardens, Kew
——— Division of Biology Imperial College
London Silwood Park Campus Ascot, Berk-
shire SL5 7PY, UK Telephone: +44 (0)20 7594
2247 Fax: +44 (0)20 7594 2339 Web-page:
www.imperial.ac.uk/people/t.barraclough ———
**MSc course - Ecology, Evolution & Conservation**
www3.imperial.ac.uk/naturalsciences/courses/pg/ls/ecology
———
t.barraclough@imperial.ac.uk24 EvolDir March 1, 2008
MacquarieU FishBrainEvolution
Evolution & Development of cerebral lateralisation:
Fishes as model organisms
Macquarie University is oﬀering a PhD scholarship to
International or Australian student to work on the
above research topic in the Department of Biological
Sciences starting 2008. The research will be conducted
under the supervision of Dr Culum Brown ( http://-
www.bio.mq.edu.au/beef/ ) and will comprise a mixture
of lab and ﬁeld based experiments. The research is sup-
ported by the ARC.
The project: Cerebral lateralisation refers to the func-
tional partitioning of information processing between
the two hemispheres of the brain and is often overtly
expressed as lateralised behavioural traits such as hand-
edness. Previous research has focussed on the neural
mechanisms behind cerebral lateralisation, yet surpris-
ingly little is known about its function and the ﬁtness
beneﬁts it may provide animals in their natural environ-
ments. This project will address these questions by ex-
amining the development and function of lateralisation
using an evolutionary approach. The research will de-
termine the relative costs and beneﬁts associated with
cerebral lateralisation in the day to day lives of ﬁshes
occupying a range of natural environments and, in do-
ing so, identify its ecological correlates and phyloge-
netic constraints. This research will address fundamen-
tal questions pertaining to the evolution of cognition in
vertebrates using Australian rainbowﬁsh as a model.
The candidate: The student for this program of re-
search will have a background in behavioural ecology
or comparative psychology. Experience working with
ﬁshes is preferential. A ﬁrst class honours degree (or
equivalent) is required for enrolment in the PhD pro-
gram at Macquarie University. Some evidence of pub-
lication is desirable.
Further reading: Brown et al (2007)Animal Behaviour,
74, 231-238. Brown (2005) Behavioural and Brain Sci-
ences, 28(4), 591-592. Brown et al (2004) Proc. Roy.
Soc. Lond. B (suppl), 271, S455-S457.
Contact: Dr Culum Brown cbrown@bio.mq.edu.au for
more information
Culum Brown <culumbrown@yahoo.com >MaxPlanckInst Ornithology
EvolutionaryEcol
Max-Planck-Institute for Ornithology, Germany
We oﬀer: PhD Position in Evolutionary and Physiolog-
ical Ecology
Job description: We are looking for a PhD student
(m/f) in evolutionary and physiological ecology.
The PhD position is part of the project /Evo-
lutionary consequences of an urbanizing world/
funded by the Volkswagen-Foundation within the
research initiative /Evolutionary Biology/ ( http://-
www.volkswagenstiftung.de/index.php?id=3&L=1 <
http://www.volkswagenstiftung.de/index.php?id=-
3&L=1 >). In this project we study the urbanization
of animals and its ecological and evolutionary conse-
quences. The human impact in the global biosphere
now controls many major facets of ecosystem function.
One of the most striking man-made environmental
changes is the existence and rapidly ongoing spread of
urban areas. Human ecological impact has enormous
evolutionary consequences as well and can greatly
accelerate evolutionary change in the species around
us. Anecdotal observations and recent studies suggest
that urbanization does not only aﬀect the overall
species composition and certain aspects of the phenol-
ogy but may change the behavior and physiology of
individuals thriving in urban areas, as well. Using a
combined ﬁeld- and laboratory approach the aim of
this PhD-project is to investigate whether urban life
changes the general behavioral disposition (similar to
the personality types in humans) and the underlying
physiological coping mechanisms (e.g. stress physiol-
ogy) of European blackbirds (/Turdus merula/). A
common garden experiment will be used to examine
the potential evolutionary consequences of the rapidly
urbanizing world.
Requirements: We are looking for an enthusiastic per-
son, who is interested in behavioral ecology, physiol-
ogy (endocrinology) and evolution, with good organiza-
tional skills, able to work independently as well as in a
team (ﬁeld experience with birds is advantageous), who
would like to take this unique opportunity to combine
ﬁeld with lab work at the well-equipped Max-Planck-
Institute for Ornithology.
Appointment: Starting date is May 1 2008. The ap-March 1, 2008 EvolDir 25
pointment will be on a temporary basis for a maxi-
mum of 4 years. The gross salary starts at approxi-
mately 1400,- per month depending on age and experi-
ence (TV¨ oD 13/2, Stufe 1).
Information: Additional information about
this appointment is available upon request
from Jesko Partecke (partecke@orn.mpg.de
<mailto:partecke@orn.mpg.de > or ++49-8152-
373-117). More general information about the
Max-Planck-Institute for Ornithology can be found on
our website ( http://orn.mpg.de/ ).
Application: Please send your application includ-
ing complete curriculum vitae, a transcript of
the university diplomas, a summary of the Mas-
ter’s (Diploma’s) thesis and names of three refer-
ees to Dr. Jesko Partecke at the Dept. Be-
havioral Ecology and Evolutionary Genetics, Max-
Planck-Institute for Ornithology, Von-der-Tannstr. 7,
82346 Andechs/Erling, Germany, or by email to
partecke@orn.mpg.de <mailto:partecke@orn.mpg.de >.
The closing date for application is March 31 2008, and
the interviews will take place in the ﬁrst week of April.
partecke@orn.mpg.de partecke@orn.mpg.de
MaxPlanck PlantMolEvol
Dear EvolDir members,
I have a 3 year PhD position opening this coming
November. The work will be done in my group, the
student will register at a German university to obtain
the degree (the choice is open), and in addition the stu-
dent will register with and follow the guidelines of the
“International Max Planck Research School” in Jena
(http://imprs.ice.mpg.de ).
We are using population genetic approaches to un-
derstand the origin and evolution of apomixis (asex-
ual reproduction through seed) in Boechera (wild rela-
tive of Arabidopsis) and in Hypericum perforatum (St
John’s Wort). We have recently ﬁnished a large project
whereby we have identiﬁed over 6000 diﬀerentially ex-
pressed genes in the microdissected ovules of sexual
and apomictic Boechera (using SuperSAGE and 454 se-
quencing), and we are performing similar experiments
in Hypericum. As the projects in my group are all on-
going, the subject of the PhD work is thus not ﬁxed
and partially dependent on our present work.
If you are interested in applying for the position,please send me an email and we could discuss poten-
tial projects which also fall within your own interests.
Experience with molecular biology methods (DNA and
RNA work, microarrays, microsatellites, etc.) are not
required, but would be an advantage.
I would also require a list of references (contacts) and
CV so I can evaluate your application.
The IPK is a very well-equipped institute located about
2 hours Southwest of Berlin, in the foothills of the Harz
mountains.
Best wishes, Tim
Dr. Tim Sharbel Apomixis Research Group Leader
Dept. of Cytogenetics and Genome Analysis Leibniz
Institute of Plant Genetics and Crop Plant Research
(IPK) Corrensstraße 3, D-06466 Gatersleben Germany
Apomixis Group Webpage http://-
www.ipk-gatersleben.de/Internet/Forschung/-
CytogenetikGenomanalyse/Apo mixis
International Max Planck Research School (IMPRS)
faculty member http://imprs.ice.mpg.de/people/-
Faculty Members.htm?mp=3D12 IPKWebpage
www.ipk-gatersleben.de tel: +049 (0)39482 5608 fax:
+049 (0)39482 5137
sharbel@ipk-gatersleben.de sharbel@ipk-gatersleben.de
NatlUIreland Geneﬂow
Highly motivated candidate sought for PhD position in
Ireland.
Project title: Assessing the impact of stochastic gene-
ﬂow events in potato crops.
The studentship will focus on investigating the impact
of foraging pollinators and the spatial arrangement of
plants on pollen ﬂow between cultivated potato plots.
Recent work by Teagasc Oak Park and NUI Maynooth
has cast doubt on the accepted isolation distance for
GM potato cultivars and highlighted the role both of
foraging pollinators (particularly the pollen beetle M.
aenus) and wind breaks in skewing expected inverse-
exponential pollen and gene ﬂow dispersal patterns be-
tween cultivar plots. Building on established molecu-
lar (microsatellite) and morphological marker protocols
within the host research team, this project will utilise
a variety of experimental planting strategies to investi-
gate the dynamics of stochastic pollination events using26 EvolDir March 1, 2008
conventional potato varieties. The project will combine
molecular marker-based gene ﬂow methods and spatial
analysis of insect ﬂight patterns.
The project will be supervised by Dr. Conor Meade
at the Molecular Ecology Laboratory, NUI Maynooth
in collaboration with Dr. Ewen Mullins, Teagasc Oak
Park. The stipend for the position is 16,500 per annum,
plus allowances for fees and travel. The start date for
the position is June/July 2008. The National Univer-
sity of Ireland, Maynooth is located in a small univer-
sity town 30km from Dublin and hosts one of the lead-
ing biological science clusters in Ireland. Applications,
including a personal statement, an up to date CV, and
the names and contact details of three academic referees
should be sent to conor.v.meade at nuim.ie, or posted
to:
Dr. Conor Meade Molecular Ecology Laboratory De-
partment of Biology NUI Maynooth Co. Kildare, Ire-
land.
This project is funded by the Department of Agricul-
ture and Food Research Stimulus Programme 2007-
2010. NUI Maynooth is an equal opportunities em-
ployer.
Non-European Students: As this grant does not cover
non-EU postgraduate fees unfortunately you must have
access to your own funding to be considered for this po-
sition.
– Dr. Conor Meade Department of Biology National
University of Ireland, Maynooth Co. Kildare, Ireland.
Tel. +353-1-708-6386 fax. +353-1-708-3845
http://www.may.ie/academic/biology/-
cmgeneﬂow.shtml conor.v.meade@may.ie
conor.v.meade@may.ie
Oslo 3 CenterEcolEvolSynthesis
3 Doctoral Research Fellow (PhD stipendiat)
3 POSITIONS AS DOCTORAL RESEARCH FEL-
LOW (PhD stipendiat)
available at the Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary
Synthesis (CEES), Department of Biology, Faculty of
Mathematics and Natural Sciences, University of Oslo.
Candidates with background in molecular biology, or-
ganismal biology, theoretical biology and statistics are
encouraged to apply.The positions is available for a period of four years with
25% compulsory work.
The CEES is a centre for integrative biological research
that has recently been awarded the status of a national
centre of excellence by the Norwegian Research Coun-
cil. The centre is an important part of the Depart-
ment of Biology, and researchers at CEES collaborate
with many of the faculty staﬀ that are not directly
connected to the centre. The purpose of the CEES
is to combine competence from various ﬁelds of biol-
ogy, molecular biology, bioinformatics and statistics in
order to approach major, but still unresolved, scien-
tiﬁc challenges. An overall goal is to achieve an in-
creased understanding of how living organisms respond
and adapt to environmental changes. The centre has
funding to engage in cutting-edge research, it features a
modern and well-equipped molecular lab facilitated for
high-throughput sequencing, as well as a broad spec-
trum of ﬁeld facilities. We are focusing both on devel-
opment of new theoretical/ statistical methods/models
and on diverse ecological and evolutionary questions
in empirical systems ranging from microorganisms and
plants to aquatic and terrestrial vertebrates. On-going
research includes subjects such as gene ﬂow and the
early stages of diversiﬁcation, selection and evolvabil-
ity, evolutionary eﬀects of human-altered ecological sys-
tems (e.g., harvesting and climate change) and genetic
aspects of reproductive isolation. Read more about
our research and possible research projects at http:/-
/www.cees.uio.no/about/vacancies/sﬀ2008.html . We
are looking for qualiﬁed and motivated individuals and
oﬀer broad training possibilities in biology and statis-
tics within a stimulating academic environment.
The CEES provides an international and inspiring re-
search environment. The centre is chaired by Nils Chr.
Stenseth and currently employs 17 faculty members,
33 postdocs/researchers, 27 PhD students, 25 Master
students, and 33 oﬃcial collaborators. The PhD can-
didates will each have at least two supervisors and will
be trained as part of a collaborative, inter-disciplinary
research team.
A detailed plan for the dissertation work will be devel-
oped in collaboration with the supervisors within the
ﬁrst term of the program, 25% of the four years will
be devoted to teaching-related duties. The fellowship
period may be reduced within the framework of per-
taining regulations based on previously held research
fellowship positions. A good command of English is re-
quired of all students attending the University of Oslo.
International students who are not native speakers of
English must document their proﬁciency in English by
taking one of the following internationally recognised
tests: TOEFL - Test of English as a Foreign LanguageMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 27
(test result of min. 600 PBT or 250 CTB or 100 IBT)
or IELTS - International English Language Testing Ser-
vice (test result of 7,0 or more)
Application for the PhD positions requires a Master’s
degree or equivalent experience.
The purpose of the fellowship is research training lead-
ing to the successful completion of a PhD degree.
Applicants should submit a letter of applica-
tion describing their scientiﬁc experience and in-
terests, a project description, at least 2 refer-
ences/recommendation letters, curriculum vitae and
four sets of copies of certiﬁcates.
Please consult our web page ( http://www.cees.uio.no/-
about/vacancies/sﬀ2008.html ). and do not hesitate to
contact any members or the centre leader Nils Chr.
Stenseth (n.c.stenseth@bio.uio.no) for more informa-
tion. When evaluating the application, emphasis will
be given to the project description and the applicant’s
academic and personal prerequisites to carry out the
project. Applicants may be called for an interview.
Appointment to a research fellowship is conditional
upon admission to the Faculty’s research training
program. See the following URL for further details
and guidelines for appointment to research fellowships
at the University of Oslo: http://www.uio.no/-
admhb/reglhb/personal/tilsettingvitenskapelig/-
guidelinesresearchfellowship.xml Applications should
be sent to the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural
Sciences, (marked with the REF:NR.), Attn.: Senior
Executive Oﬃcer Bente Schjoldager, P.O.Box 1032,
0315 OSLO, NORWAY.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
StateUNewYorkAlbany
EvolImmuneFunction
I am currently recruiting students to join my lab in the
Department of Biological Sciences at the State Univer-
sity of New York at Albany. Highly motivated students
interested in the evolutionary ecology of immune func-
tion and pathogen/host interactions are encouraged to
apply. Experimental and genetic/genomic approachesare used in my lab to understand factors contributing
to the evolutionary maintenance of disease suscepti-
bility in Drosophila populations. Current projects in-
clude examining the causes and consequences of ’costs’
of immunity, the evolution of cooperative virulence
mechanisms, characterization and evolution of natural
pathogens of Drosophila, and the evolution of sexual
conﬂict, sex-biased gene expression, and implications
for immune function. (See: http://www.albany.edu/-
faculty/kmckean/Site/McKean LabHome.html )
U. Albany is committed to expanding graduate re-
search opportunities in the evolutionary ecology of dis-
ease (EED). An interdisciplinary doctoral-research em-
phasis has recently been initiated, with participating
faculty from the Department of Biological Sciences
and the Department of Anthropology, as well as re-
searchers from the Department of Biomedical Sciences
at the Wadsworth School of Public Health. The EED
program has sponsored seminar series, various journal
clubs and discussion groups, as well as a formative cur-
riculum relevant to this interesting and rapidly grow-
ing ﬁeld of research. Information on this program and
other participating faculty can be found here: http://-
www.albany.edu/biology/EED/index.html . U. Albany
is located in Albany, the capitol of the state of New
York. Centrally located between the Catskill and the
Adirondack parks, the region provides abundant op-
portunities for outdoor recreation, and is also close to
the metropolitan centers of New York City, Boston and
Montreal.
Interested students should contact me directly (km-
ckean@albany.edu). More information concerning
the application process can be found here: http:/-
/www.albany.edu/biology/gradprograms/index.html .
Students accepted into the program are guaranteed sup-
port for 4 years. Review of applications will begin im-
mediately for students starting in the Fall of 2008.
Please use the following links to ﬁnd out more about:
The Department: http://www.albany.edu/biology/
The Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Program:
http://www.albany.edu/biology/gradprograms/-
EEB.html The University: http://www.albany.edu/
The City of Albany: http://www.albany.org/ Dr.
Kurt A McKean Department of Biological Sciences
329BI SUNY at Albany 1400 Washington Ave. Albany,
NY 12222 Phone (oﬃce): 518-442-4367 Fax: 518-442-
4767 kmckean@albany.edu http://www.albany.edu/-
faculty/kmckean/Site/McKean LabHome.html
kmckean@albany.edu kmckean@albany.edu28 EvolDir March 1, 2008
TexasStateU FishEvolEcol
BEHAVIORAL ECOLOGY OF SAILFIN AND AMA-
ZON MOLLIES
Teaching/Research Assistantship for M. S.
Applications are being sought for one student interested
in pursuing an academic career studying various aspects
of the behavior of sailﬁn and Amazon mollies start-
ing no later than June 2008. Amazon mollies, Poecilia
formosa, are a unisexual (all female) species of molly
that are essentially sexual parasites as they require
sperm from the closely related bisexual sailﬁn molly,
P. latipinna but don1t use it to fertilize their eggs.
Conﬂict exists between male sailﬁn mollies that pre-
fer to mate with conspeciﬁcs and the Amazon mollies
that require matings with these males. We have three
months of summer funding for a Research Assistant
to work on some aspects of this system and can sup-
ply Instructional Assistant (teaching labs) for the fall
and spring terms. See http://www.bio.txstate.edu/-
˜ gabor/gabor.htm for details about our lab and our
research interests.
The Department of Biology oﬀers a strong environment
in evolutionary ecology as the basis for training in be-
havioral ecology. Students will beneﬁt from interactions
with other faculty interested in evolutionary questions
such as: Jim Ott (Insect-plant interactions and ecolog-
ical genetics), Noland Martin (Plant population genet-
ics), and Chris Nice (Speciation in insects and phylo-
geography). We have both General Biology and Pop-
ulation and Conservation Biology MS programs avail-
able.
GRE (verbal and quantitative) scores of 1000
for MS, and a GPA of 2.75 are minimum re-
quirements. For more information on admissions
seehttp://www.bio.txstate.edu/grad/GradGuide.html
. Please also see the Department of Biology ( http:/-
/www.bio.txstate.edu/ ) and Texas State University
(http://www.txstate.edu/ ) web sites for more informa-
tion.
To apply for this job please send a statement of in-
terest and a CV/resume of related research, course-
work, GPA, GRE, and any other relevant experience
by February 28, 2008 to Caitlin Gabor by email (gabor
at txstate.edu). Reference letters for top candidates
will be solicited at a later date. Applications will be
reviewed as they come in, and may also be reviewedafter the target date if the position has not been ﬁlled.
Caitlin Gabor <gabor@txstate.edu >
UCollegeLondon
BiodiversitySpeciation
NERC-funded PhD studentship (available from Sept.
2008) - Biodiversity and speciation in African white-
eyes (Aves: Zosterops)
Department of Biology, University College London. Su-
pervisors: Drs Julia Day (UCL) and Robert Prys-Jones
(CASE partner, Natural History Museum)
A prevalence of cryptic species in the tropics has re-
cently been documented using DNA taxonomy (e.g.
Hebert 2004). The genus Zosterops (white-eyes) is a
species-rich lineage of birds, with high dispersal capa-
bilities. Traditionally, species diagnosis has been based
on colour and song, yet these birds have subtle plumage
variation and as such are particularly cryptic. The
African species complex is no exception, with recent
mtDNA data (Warren et al. 2006) highlighting discor-
dance between traditional taxonomy based on morphol-
ogy and conclusions based on genetics. It currently re-
mains unclear to what extent the numerous species and
subspecies in mainland Africa are genetically distinct
and how they are related to one another. The focus
of this project will be to assess the overall biodiversity
of mainland African Zosterops using a multigene phy-
logeny. The biogeographic history and diversiﬁcation
of this lineage will be examined through phylogenetic
inference, with a strong focus on East African species,
in order to test the inﬂuence of climate with regards to
speciation (e.g. Kozack & Wiens 2007).
References: Kozak KH & Wiens JJ 2007. Proc. R. Soc.
B. 274: 2995-3003; Hebert PND et al. 2004. PNAS: 101
14812-14817; Warren BH et al. 2006. Mol. Ecol. 15:
3769-3786.
Enquiries and applications (including covering letter,
CV & contact details of two referees) to: Dr Julia Day:
email: j.day@ucl.ac.uk. Ideally applicants will have a
post-graduate qualiﬁcation and will have a good under-
standing of molecular biology and phylogenetics. Ap-
plicants need to meet residency criteria of UK Research
Councils. Closing date March 19th 2008.
Dr Julia J. Day Department of Biology University Col-
lege London Darwin Building Gower Street LondonMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 29
WC1E 6BT
Tel: 0044 (0)20 7679 2660 - internal ext. 32660 Fax:
+44 (0)20 7679 7096 Email j.day@ucl.ac.uk
Julia Day <j.day@ucl.ac.uk >
UCollegeLondon Evol of
SexualTriats in Flies
Dear Evoldir members,
Please bring this advert to the attention of potential
applicants.
Best wishes,
Kevin Fowler
Position available from Sept. 2008
BBSRC-funded PhD studentship - Molecular and cel-
lular basis of sexual traits in stalk-eyed ﬂies
Stalk-eyed ﬂy research group, UCL (group leaders:
Kevin Fowler, Hazel Smith & Andrew Pomiankowski)
In stalk-eyed ﬂies the eyes are laterally displaced
through expansion of the head capsule. Males of species
such as Teleopsis dalmanni, have greatly exaggerated
eyespan which is used as a sexual display. We are eval-
uating ’good genes’ and ’direct beneﬁt’ models of sexual
selection with particular focus on the relationships be-
tween male eyespan, male fertility and ejaculate quality.
Little is known about the molecular and cellular basis
of sexual traits or the mechanisms by which correla-
tions between them are generated. We have identiﬁed
several genes expressed during the development of the
eye-stalks and the male reproductive system. The stu-
dent will characterise the developmental function and
regulation of these genes. They will also exploit re-
cently established transgenic protocols in T. dalmanni
to perform functional studies using RNAi- mediated
knockdown in transgenic ﬂies.
Reference: Warren I & Smith H. 2007. Stalk-eyed ﬂies
(Diopsidae): modelling the evolution and development
of an exaggerated sexual trait. BioEssays 29: 300-307.
Additional background information available at http:/-
/www.ucl.ac.uk/stalkie/stalkie/research.html .
Enquiries and applications (including covering letter,
CV & contact details of 2 referees) to: Dr Kevin Fowler:
email: k.fowler@ucl.ac.uk. Applicants ought to have a
good degree in a relevant subject. Interest and enthusi-asm for evolutionary and developmental genetics would
be beneﬁcial. Applicants need to meet residency crite-
ria of UK Research Councils. Closing date March 19th
2008.
ucbhkof@ucl.ac.uk
UEastAnglia LifeHistoryEvolution
NERC CASE PhD studentship, 2008
The making of a successful male: an integrated study
of male reproductive success in a pest insect.
Start: October 2008.
Location: School of Biological Sciences, University of
East Anglia, Norwich, NR47TJ and Oxitec Ltd, Abing-
don, OX14 4RX.
Supervisors: Tracey Chapman, Matt Gage ( http://-
www1.uea.ac.uk/cm/home/schools/sci/bio ) and Luke
Alphey (CASE partner) ( http://www.oxitec.com/ ).
Aim: To take a broad approach to integrate the un-
derstanding of fundamental, evolutionarily-important
traits in insect pest control.
Summary: Male reproductive success comprises pre-
and post-mating components that are rarely subject to
integrated study. This studentship will address this,
and apply pure and applied research approaches to a
pest of signiﬁcant economic importance for which trans-
genic insect technology is well advanced. We have ap-
plied experimental evolution to the Mediterranean fruit
ﬂy (medﬂy) and now seek to determine reproductive
ﬁtness and divergence in male reproductive traits. We
predict that males evolving under increased sexual com-
petition will evolve more eﬀective courtship and signif-
icantly higher post-mating competitiveness. This will
reveal the traits that make a successful male medﬂy,
and also whether pre- or post-mating traits are more
strongly selected. The student will pursue this work
at a novel molecular level by utilising the expertise of
the CASE partner to conduct a targeted transcriptional
analysis of important male reproductive proteins in the
evolved lines. The project will extend into the applied
domain by testing whether pre- and post-mating traits
in evolved lines and in transgenics produced for a novel
method of insect control, vary predictably in their re-
sponse to the key environmental variable of nutritional
status. The results will reveal potential trade-oﬀs and
the likely eﬃcacy of the control strains under varying30 EvolDir March 1, 2008
conditions.
Training: The student will join the Evolu-
tion, Ecology and Biodiversity Group at UEA
(http://bioweb2.bio.uea.ac.uk/research/themes/-
organismsenvironment/eeb.html ). The School of
Biological Sciences at UEA ( http://www.uea.ac.uk/-
bio/) provides an excellent Ph.D. research and training
environment in a Grade 5 research department. The
CASE partner Oxitec employs 24 research staﬀ and is
an exciting and challenging environment in which to
work. It is at the forefront on a world-wide scale in
the development of insect transgenesis. The link with
Oxitec will therefore provide invaluable insight and
experience for the student into work in the commercial
world, and will oﬀer technical expertise of the highest
standard.
Eligibility: Applicants should have a strong de-
gree in biological sciences or genetics. The full
award is available only to residents of the UK,
or those satisfying NERC eligibility requirements
(http://www.nerc.ac.uk/funding/available/postgrad/-
eligibility.asp ). The award includes a standard NERC
stipend supplemented by 1000GBP per annum by the
CASE partner. The student will spend years 1 and 3
at UEA and year 2 with the CASE partner.
Applications: Informal enquiries to Tracey Chap-
man (tracey.chapman@uea.ac.uk). Formal applica-
tions should be made via the Faculty of Science
Post-Graduate Oﬃce (scipg@uea.ac.uk), see http://-
biobis.bio.uea.ac.uk/Resproject/how toapply.html for
full details. There is no formal closing date and the
position will remain open until ﬁlled.
“Chapman Tracey Dr (BIO)”
<Tracey.Chapman@uea.ac.uk >
UFlorida LifeHistoryEvolution
Are you interested in understanding the mechanisms
underlying adaptive life history evolution and pheno-
typic plasticity? I am currently seeking graduate stu-
dents to join our research group at the University of
Florida. We take an integrative approach to under-
standing life history plasticity and life cycle evolution
in insects that includes combining analyses of costs and
beneﬁts, organismal and cellular physiology, molecular
genetics, and population genetics. Examples of possible
projects include:1) Mechanisms of phenotypic plasticity in insect hiber-
nation/diapause (combining organismal biology, physi-
ology, microarray genomics, and high-throughput pro-
teomics)
2) Consequences of body size and nutrient storage on
the costs and beneﬁts of diapause.
3) Physiology of reproductive plasticity including iden-
tifying and testing candidate molecules and pathways
for the control of reproductive timing and allotment
and diapause.
4) Evolution of diapause strategies and the role of dia-
pause strategies in diversiﬁcation and speciation.
A possible project would be to study the physiologi-
cal basis of adaptive shifts in life history timing in the
apple maggot, Rhagoletis pomonella R. pomonella is a
model system for studying the evolution of insect-host
plant associations and sympatric speciation. (yes, the
one from all the textbooks!) Historically, R. pomonella
larvae fed on the fruits of hawthorns (Crataegus sp.)
but radiated onto domesticated apple (Malus pumila)
after its introduction to North America. In areas where
both hosts occur, apple and hawthorn populations form
genetically distinguishable host races. The timing and
depth of diapause (overwintering dormancy) are criti-
cal life-history traits diﬀerentially adapting apple and
hawthorn-infesting populations of R. pomonella to dif-
ferences in the fruiting times of their respective hosts,
generating reproductive isolation in the process. Phys-
iological traits such as nutrient storage and metabolic
rate aﬀect diapause length and timing in other insects.
We will test the hypothesis that adaptive diﬀerences in
diapause length between the apple and hawthorn host
races are mediated by energetics, particularly the ac-
cumulation of metabolic fuel prior to diapause and its
utilization during diapause.
We will determine the functional importance of nutrient
storage and metabolism to diapause length and timing
for apple and hawthorn host races of R. pomonella in
the ﬁeld and lab; and then equate any observed dif-
ference in fuel storage, body size, and metabolic rate
with allelic variation at loci that have diverged between
the host races. Linking allele frequencies to diapause-
associated nutrient storage and metabolism will provide
the basis for our ultimate goal of identifying the speciﬁc
physiological, biochemical, and genetic alterations un-
derlying adaptive host plant-mediated life history evo-
lution in the two R. pomonella host races.
Additional projects could include addressing similar
questions about plasticity in diapause responses and the
physiological basis of costs of diapause on reproduction
and dispersal in ﬂesh ﬂies.March 1, 2008 EvolDir 31
The student would join Dan Hahn’s group in the De-
partment of Entomology and Nematology at the Uni-
versity of Florida ( http://danhahn.ifas.uﬂ.edu/ ) and
will have signiﬁcant interactions with Jeﬀ Feder’s group
in the Department of Biological Sciences at Notre Dame
(http://www.nd.edu/˜biology/JeﬀreyFeder.shtml ). In-
terdisciplinary training at UF could include course-
work, research, and interactions across campus includ-
ing the Department of Zoology, the USDA Center for
Medical and Vetrinary Entomology, various depart-
ments in the medical school, and more. Tuition, health
care, and a competitive salary are included.
Interested students please contact Dan Hahn (da-
hahn@uﬂ.edu) right away including a copy of your re-
sume and a short statement of interests.
Daniel A. Hahn Assistant Professor Department of En-
tomology and Nematology The University of Florida
P.O. Box 110620 Gainesville, Fl 32611-0620 da-
hahn@ifas.uﬂ.edu Phone: 352-392-1901x156 Fax: 352-
392-0190
http://danhahn.ifas.uﬂ.edu/
dahahn@uﬂ.edu dahahn@uﬂ.edu
UGlasgow
HostParasiteMetapopulation
PhD position: Host-parasite dynamics in a naturally
fragmented landscape
Division of Environmental & Evolutionary Biology,
University of Glasgow Supervisor: Roman Biek
The spatial and evolutionary dynamics of host-parasite
systems are frequently discussed in the context of
metapopulation theory. Yet, the applicability of
metapopulation concepts to parasite dynamics in natu-
ral systems has rarely been demonstrated. This project
will investigate the combined population dynamics of
wild rodents and their diverse parasite community in
a system of natural islands situated within Scotland’s
largest lake (Loch Lomond). Islands vary in size and in
their degree of geographic isolation, providing an ideal
situation to examine the eﬀects of host population size
and gene ﬂow on parasite prevalence and distribution.
The project will have a signiﬁcant ﬁeld component since
multiple populations will need to be sampled by live-
trapping several times a year.
How to apply: Applications are invited from stu-dents who either hold, or expect to obtain, a First
or Upper Second class Honours degree, a Masters, or
an equivalent degree in a relevant subject. Previous
ﬁeld experience would be highly advantageous. Please
note that this studentship only covers fees for UK or
EU students. The student will join a new and dy-
namic research group at the Division of Environmen-
tal & Evolutionary Biology at the Faculty of Biomed-
ical and Life Science ( http://www.gla.ac.uk:443/ibls/-
staﬀ/staﬀ.php?who=3DPeS˜PA ).
Please send a copy of your CV, together with a cover
letter describing your interest in and suitability for this
project, and the names and contact details of two aca-
demic referees to Dr. Roman Biek (from whom fur-
ther details may be obtained): r.biek@bio.gla.ac.uk;
Division of Environmental and Evolutionary Biology,
Faculty of Biomedical and Life Sciences, Graham Kerr
Building, University of Glasgow, Glasgow G12 8QQ.
Emailed applications are encouraged.
Review of applications will start immediately and will
continue until the position is ﬁlled.
r.biek@bio.gla.ac.uk r.biek@bio.gla.ac.uk
UGroningen EvolEcol
PhD position in climate change ecology for an evolu-
tionary ecologist with ﬁrm ﬁeld experience.
Climate change will have an enormous impact on
ecosystems, leading to habitat changes and spectacu-
lar range shifts. For evolutionary ecologists it gives the
exciting possibility to study evolutionary processes dur-
ing a researchers lifetime. We have good evidence that
birds so far adapted their breeding time insuﬃciently to
climate change, resulting in some spectacular popula-
tion declines. The crucial question is what individuals
should do when they become locally maladapted.
In the Animal Ecology Group of the University of
Groningen a four-year PhD-studentship is available to
work on the eﬀect of timing of avian breeding in re-
lation to timing of food availability. The idea is that
birds breeding in strongly seasonal habitats, like forests,
should match their hatching date with the local peak
in food availability. Due to climate change, this cater-
pillar food peak has advanced much stronger than the
birds hatching date. Some bird species now raise their
oﬀspring too late to proﬁt from the food peak, feeding
their chicks apparently on a suboptimal diet. One inter-32 EvolDir March 1, 2008
esting question is why some insects are so much better
as food than other insects. Another important question
is whether individuals V facing advanced spring phenol-
ogy V would disperse to more northern areas, where the
food peak is later. Such movements may speed up an
evolutionary process because they may transport genes
for earlier migration and earlier breeding to the north,
on which selection can act. However, there may also
be disadvantages of moving, because individuals may
be locally adapted to their natal sites (food, parasites,
etc.). The idea of this PhD project is that we address
the seasonality of forest environments at diﬀerent lati-
tudes (including tree, insect and bird phenology), and
how the birds exploit seasonality at these diﬀerent sites.
With an experimental translocation of birds to north-
ern breeding latitudes, the candidate could experimen-
tally test the ﬁtness consequences of dispersal to more
northern breeding areas. In an ongoing project we also
aim to estimate long-distance dispersal over latitudes
in response to climate change, with the use of stable
isotopes.
For this project we are looking for a keen evolutionary
ecologist with good ﬁeld experience. The candidate is
supposed to work both with birds and insects, so broad
ﬁeld ecological knowledge is a prerequisite. The candi-
date should be able to work independently in the ﬁeld,
but will be part of a highly collaborative group at the
University of Groningen.
Conditions of employment
The University of Groningen oﬀers a fellowship is for
a period of four years which period should be ﬁnished
with a Ph.D. examination. The stipend is £´ a 1583,-
per month and will be adjusted to general price move-
ments once a year. After one year, the performance of
the candidate will be evaluated to decide whether there
is suﬃcient progress to expect a successful completion
of the PhD thesis within the remaining three years. A
training programme is part of the agreement. You and
your supervisor will make up a plan for the additional
education and supervising that you speciﬁcally need.
The research will take place in the Ecology research
group, being part of. the Centre for Ecological and
Evolutionary Studies (CEES) The supervisor will be
Dr. Christiaan Both. Applications should be done be-
fore 7 March 2008, and addressed to Christiaan Both
by email. The appointment should start at 1 May 2008
to make use of the 2008 ﬁeld season.
Information
Information about the position can be obtained
from Christiaan Both (phone ++31)-50-3632235 or -
3632040), c.both@rug.nlhttp://www.rug.nl/biologie/animalecol On CEES
http://www.rug.nl/cees On the Faculty of Mathemat-
ics and Natural Sciences http://www.rug.nl/fwn C
Both <c.both@rug.nl >
UHelsinki MathBiology
Postdoc and PhD positions in Mathematical Biology
The Mathematical Biology Group at the Department
of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of
Helsinki, Finland (leader Dr. Otso Ovaskainen) is seek-
ing outstanding, highly motivated candidates to join
research projects at the interface between mathematics
and ecology and evolutionary biology. Successful candi-
dates may have their training either in mathematics or
in biology, the main criteria being the potential to per-
form top-quality research. We anticipate hiring up to
4 postdoctoral researchers or Ph.D. students over the
next 3 years. Research projects will be developed in
conjunction with the interests of the successful candi-
dates, focused on the following areas:
1. The roles of space and stochasticity in population
dynamics
2. Metacommunity dynamics of wood-decaying fungi
3. Animal movement in heterogeneous environments
4. Bayesian approaches in evolutionary quantitative
genetics
The PhD student positions are available for 4 years.
The postdoc positions are for 1 year, with the possibil-
ity of a 2-year extension.
The Mathematical Biology group is part of the
Metapopulation Research Group (leader prof. Ilkka
Hanski), which is a Centre of Excellence in Research
supported by the Academy of Finland. We oﬀer an
international research environment with excellent pos-
sibilities to cooperate with experts in mathematics,
statistics, population biology, and evolutionary ecology.
Salary and social beneﬁts according to the University of
Helsinki Salary system, around 2,300 /month for PhD
students and 3,100 /month for post docs (the latter
negotiable).
Applications including a short CV (max 3 pages), list
of publications, and the e-mail addresses of two re-
searchers willing to write a letter of reference should
be sent to otso.ovaskainen@helsinki.ﬁ with cc to tu-
uli.ojala@helsinki.ﬁ; write either “postdoc position” orMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 33
“ PhD student position” on the subject line. For
more details on the research projects and on the appli-
cation procedure, see http://www.helsinki.ﬁ/science/-
metapop/MBG/positions/index.htm Deadline for ap-
plications 14th March 2008, starting date 1st May 2008
(negotiable).
Otso Ovaskainen Academy Research Fellow Depart-
ment of Biological and Environmental Sciences P.O.
BOX 65 (Viikinkaari 1) 00014 University of Helsinki
FINLAND
otso.ovaskainen@helsinki.ﬁ otso.ovaskainen@helsinki.ﬁ
UNottingham Evolution Vocal
Communication
The following PhD research project is available in my
group.
Vocal communication in goats (Capra hircus)
The research will examine vocal communication in this
species from an evolutionary biology perspective. The
work will largely be ﬁeld-based and combine observa-
tions with recordings and playback experiments. Some
experience of the equipment and software used in vocal
communication research would be advantageous.
The deadline for applications is 05 February 2008. You
should be available for interview in the UK during early
March.
Unfortunately, full funding for this position is only
available to UK citizens.
Please contact me via email if you are interested.
Alan
Dr. Alan McElligott The School of Biology Biol-
ogy Building The University of Nottingham University
Park Nottingham NG7 2RD UK amcellig1@yahoo.ie
Tel + 44 (0) 115 951 3231 Fax + 44 (0) 115 951 3251
http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/biology/ Alan McEllig-
ott<amcellig1@yahoo.ie >
UOxford HumanPopGenetics
The Peopling of the Mediterranean: A Genetic Per-spective
The studentship will focus on the investigation of the
historical and pre-historical processes that have led to
the human peopling of the Mediterranean region: the
role played by the Last Glacial Maximum Refugia in
the preservation of Palaeolithic diversity and the subse-
quent re-peopling of the continent; the demographic im-
pact of the Neolithic revolution; the dissection of more
recent historical events, as the Greek colonisation of
Southern Italy and Sicily. The questions, deﬁned within
an archaeological and historical framework, will be in-
vestigated by the genetic analysis of populations liv-
ing in the Mediterranean. Y chromosome and mtDNA
data will be generated and analysed using a phylo-
geographic framework, to identify signatures of demo-
graphic changes and population admixture/migration.
Data from uniparentally transmitted markers will be
complemented by genome-scan analysis, to provide a
reﬁned picture of the speciﬁc demographic questions.
The studentship will combine molecular genetics tech-
niques with population genetics analysis. In particular,
the laboratory work will include STR analysis, sequenc-
ing and SNP genotyping. Data analysis will focus on
phylogeoagraphy, lineage dating and population admix-
ture.
To apply please complete the University application
form (available from: www.admin.ox.ac.uk/gsp/ ) and
include two references from
academic referees (follow procedure in Booklet A).
Please submit two copies of the application forms and
all supporting material to the Graduate Administrator,
Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, South
Parks Road, Oxford, OX1 3PS (and NOT the address
detailed on the application form). Closing date: 29
February 2008
The University of Oxford is an Equal Opportunities
Employer.
Funding Notes: UK Research Council funded.
Competition Funded Project (European Students
Only)
This research project is one of a number of projects at
this institution. It is in competition for funding with
one or more of these projects. Usually the project which
receives the best applicant will be awarded the funding.
The funding is available to citizens of a number of Eu-
ropean countries (including the UK). In most cases this
will include all EU nationals. However full funding may
not be available to all applicants and you should read
the full department and project details for further in-
formation.34 EvolDir March 1, 2008
Non-European Students: In most cases if you have the
correct qualiﬁcations and access to your own funding,
either from your home country or your own ﬁnances,
your application to work with this supervisor will be
considered.
Cristian Capelli <cristian.capelli@zoo.ox.ac.uk >
UppsalaU GenomeEvolution
PhD studentship in genome evolution
at the Department of Medical Biochemistry and Micro-
biology, Uppsala University. Available immediately.
We are looking for a highly motivated person inter-
ested in doing a PhD in comparative and population
genomics. His/her project will focus on using compu-
tational approaches to study speciation and adaptation.
Summary: Newly sequenced genomes can allow us to
answer longstanding questions about the genetic basis
of speciation and adaptation. By using genomic com-
parisons between species, and analyzing patterns of ge-
netic diversity within populations, we aim to under-
stand how new species form, why some genes undergo
accelerated evolution, and how genetic variation is af-
fected by domestication.
We intend to develop new methods to compare vari-
ation in divergence time across two genomes, and to
use them to study the timing and nature of the specia-
tion process in humans and chimpanzees. We are also
analyzing forces that cause rapid evolution of genes in
humans, and whether genes with accelerated evolution-
ary rates could be implicated in human-speciﬁc adap-
tation. Finally, we are studying whether domestication
has led to an accumulation of deleterious mutations in
modern-day dogs.
The successful candidate will work on these projects
under the supervision of Matthew Webster (Uppsala
Univ.) and co-supervised by Kerstin Lindblad-Toh
(Uppsala Univ. and Broad Institute of Harvard and
MIT).
Qualiﬁcations: The person we are looking for ideally
has a degree at Masters level (or equivalent) in biology,
bioinformatics, mathematics, computer science or other
relevant area. He/she should have strong interests in
evolution, comparative genomics, population genetics,
statistics and computer programming.
The main task of the student is to focus on his/her doc-toral studies. Some additional work at the institution,
involving teaching etc., can be part of the position (max
20%). Information on the PhD education programme
in the department can be found at the following web-
page: http://www.medfarm.uu.se/forskarutbildning/-
index.shtml .
Further information: please contact Matthew Webster,
matthew.webster@imbim.uu.se , tel: +46 18-471 4525.
Union representatives are Anders Grundstr¨ om, SACO-
r˚ adet, tel: +46 18-471 5380, Carin S¨ oderh¨ all, TCO/ST,
tel: +46 18-471 1996 and Stefan Djurstr¨ om, SEKO, tel:
+46 18-471 3315.
Please submit your application with a CV containing
the names and email/phone numbers for two references
and a one page personal letter where you describe your-
self, your area of expertise and your interests, no later
than March 20, 2008 to: Registrar, UFV-PA 2008/515,
Box 256, 751 05 Uppsala, Sweden, fax +46 18-471 2000.
If you apply by fax you will have to send the paper
version as well at the latest a week after application
deadline.
Matt Webster <matthew.webster@imbim.uu.se >
UStAndrews Bioinformatics
Dear all,
We are seeking applicants for a PhD position, as fol-
lows.
REGULATORY REGIONS IN THE HUMAN
GENOME
Despite recent advances in genomics, our understand-
ing of the processes regulating transcription remains
poor. The project will use bioinformatic methods to
predict transcription factor binding sites from sequence
and microarray data. In collaboration with colleagues,
predictions will be tested and reﬁned by laboratory ex-
periments. Joint-funded by the Biotechnology and Bi-
ological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC) and the
Bute Medical School, University of St Andrews.
Supervisors:
Dr Daniel Barker, http://bio.st-andrews.ac.uk/staﬀ/-
db60.htm and Professor Richard Iggo, http://-
medicine.st-andrews.ac.uk/staﬀ/ri20.htm For further
details (towards the bottom of the page) and applica-
tion forms, see:
http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/-March 1, 2008 EvolDir 35
projectSummaries.aspx?psry Important note on
funding:
A successful candidate would receive funding to cover
university fees and a stipend; some non-UK, EU appli-
cants are only eligible for “fees-only” support. To be
considered for ﬁnancial support, applicants must meet
the BBSRC residence requirements. Please see:
http://www.bbsrc.ac.uk/funding/studentships/-
studentship eligibility.pdf Applicants who do not
meet the BBSRC residence criteria for PhD funding
must provide evidence of full funding as part of their
application.
Informal enquiries are welcome. Please contact Daniel
Barker, email db60@st-andrews.ac.uk or tel. +44
(0)1334 463598.
Best regards,
Daniel
– Daniel Barker http://bio.st-andrews.ac.uk/-
staﬀ/db60.htm db60@st-andrews.ac.uk db60@st-
andrews.ac.uk
UVermont ArthropodEvolution
Please help me in circulating this graduate assistantship
with potential students. This position will start this fall
at the University of Vermont. The application deadline
is March 1.
Graduate Teaching Assistantship in Agroecology and
Sustainable Pest Management (MS or PhD) ?C The
University of Vermont, Department of Plant and Soil
Sciences seeks a graduate assistant. Research themes
include: 1) understanding the evolutionary origins of
insect pests in agriculture, 2) how ecological and an-
thropogenic factors inﬂuence pest outbreaks in agroe-
cosystems, and 3) using ecological information to im-
prove sustainable pest management. Please click here
for a full description of the position.
http://www.uvm.edu/%7Epss/?Page=pssdeptweb/-
gradopps.htm&SM=graduate menu.htm One of the
my research interests are in the evolution of arthropods
in agriculture. I am interested in the histories in insect
pests, their population structure, and how they evolved
to become pests. My research involve population ge-
netics, ecology, and insect-plant interactions. Many
of the most famous cases of rapid speciation have
involved agricultural systems.Closing date: March 1
Contact Information
Yolanda H. Chen, Assistant Professor Department of
Plant & Soil Science
University of Vermont Email:
*Yolanda.Chen@uvm.edu; ychen@irrialumni.org*
Fax: 802-656-4656
Yolanda Chen <yfanslow@gmail.com >
WageningenU AvianEvolution
Dear all,
there are a few possibilities of master projects within
the framework of ornithology, ecology and genetics
which I would like to share with you. If anybody is in-
terested in more information please check my webpage
(http://www.reg.wur.nl/UK/Staﬀ/Kraus/ ). Master
projects will be carried out at the Resource Ecology
Group (Prof. H.H.T. Prins) at Wageningen University
(The Netherlands). This can also be changed accord-
ing to other requirements, e.g., as studies carried out
elsewhere than Wageningen. Here only the headings:
- Developing a SNP set in the mallard, Keywords: ge-
nomics; SNPs; in silico (starting Apr. - Jul. 2008) -
The genetic link of mallards between North America
and Europe, Keywords: molecular ecology; bird mi-
gration; SNPs; connectivity of gene pools; population
genetics (starting Jun. - Aug. 2008) - The inﬂuence
of migration strategy on body condition in mallards,
Keywords: physiology; body condition; heterozygosity;
stable isotopes (starting Oct. - Nov. 2008)
Starting dates, titels and also any content can be dis-
cussed freely. The information given is just to give you
an impression the coarse ideas and opportunities
Looking forward to hearing from you, Robert
Robert H. Kraus PhD student Wageningen University
Resource Ecology Group Droevendaalsesteeg 3a ’Lu-
men’ Building, Number 100 6708 PB Wageningen The
Netherlands
Phone +31 317 483530 Fax +31 317 419000
Email robert.kraus@wur.nl http://www.reg.wur.nl/-
UK/Staﬀ/Kraus/ robert.kraus@wur.nl36 EvolDir March 1, 2008
WageningenU
WildBoarPopGenetics
PhD researcher ’Wild Boar Population Genetics’
(Gelderland), 38 hours per week Wageningen Univer-
sity and Researchcentre
Job description
The aim of this project is to analyze the eﬀects of the
population structure of the European Wild Boar on the
prevalence and transmission of parasites, as well as the
selective eﬀects on immune related genes. The Wild
Boar is increasing its range, reaching levels previously
unrecorded. This has already contributed to spread of
many contagious diseases. This can negatively aﬀect
the ﬁtness and trophy quality of game species, public
health, livestock health, and the conservation of endan-
gered species.
Wild Boar populations throughout Europe will be sam-
pled that diﬀer with respect to population size and den-
sity, connectivity and migration with other populations,
and parasite prevalence. One will try to relate various
classes of immune related genes to individual ﬁtness, es-
timated by morphometric and reproductive character-
istics and the presence of parasites. Parasite exposure
will be estimated amongst others by antibody preva-
lence. Additionally, comparisons will be made with
neutral genetic markers.
Requirements
University Graduate
You have a university Master’s degree with specializa-
tion in animal ecology, genetics or population genetics.
Organization
Wageningen University and Researchcentre Resource
Ecology Group
De Resource Ecology Group verricht onderzoek en on-
derwijs op het gebied van populatie-ecologie van grote
herbivoren, met speciale aandacht voor de interactie
tussen herbivoren en de vegetatie.
De voornaamste onderzoeksterreinen zijn savannes,
graslanden in tropische en gematigde gebieden.
Het meeste onderzoek wordt uitgevoerd door de post-
docs en PhD-studenten, ondersteund door de staf. Re-
sultaten hebben betrekking op de natuurbescherming
en beheer.Conditions of employment
Estimated maximum salary per month: eur 1500 - 2000
Employment basis: Temporary for speciﬁed period
Duration of the contract: 1 year
Maximum hours per week: 38
Additional conditions of employment:
It concerns a vacancy for four years; appointment will
initially take place for a period of one year to evaluate
suitability; if suitability is determined to be adequate,
the employment contract will be extended for the re-
maining duration of the PhD programme. Maximum
salary amount is 1933 Euro’s a month (gross), scale
promovendi, based on a fulltime employment.
Additional Information
Additional information about the vacancy can be ob-
tained from:
Dr W.F. van Hooft
Telephone number: 0317-484320
E-mail address: pim.vanhooft@wur.nl
Or additional information can be obtained through one
of the following links.
* About the department
Application
You can apply for this job before 01-03-2008 by sending
your application to:
Wageningen UR, afd HRM, departement Omgev-
ingswetenschappen
C. Linders
Postbus 47
6700 AA wageningen
E-mail address: vacatures.dow@wur.nl
You can apply for this job before 1-03-2008 by send-
ing your application, mentioning the referencenumber,
preferably to: vacatures.dow@wur.nl or by post to Wa-
geningen UR, dept. HRM Environmental Sciences, to-
wards Clim Linders, P.O. box 47, 6700 AA Wageningen.
When applying for this job always mention the vacancy
number DOW-08-REG-06-J.
The short URL code for this job opening is: 00363-2415.
You can use this as a direct link to the job by adding
the code to the URL www.academictransfer.org/
Dr. Pim van Hooft
LecturerMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 37
Wageningen University
Resource Ecology Group
Droevendaalsesteeg 3a 6708 PB Wageningen The
Netherlands
E-mail: pim.vanhooft@wur.nl
<mailto:pim.vanhooft@wur.nl >Tel: +31-317-484320
Fax: +31-317-484845
Building ’Lumen’, building number 100 (central wing,
ﬁrst ﬂoor), room 1.320
Internal post: Bode number 95
Pim.vanHooft@wur.nl Pim.vanHooft@wur.nl
Jobs
CornellU BioinformaticsProgrammer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
CostaRica EvolTropicalStudies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
GenevaU EvolutionaryAnthropology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
ImperialCollegeLondon ShortResearchProject
WildlifeEpidemiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
InstZooLondon Tech MHCMolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
LosAngeles NHM CuratorialAssist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Marseille EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
MichiganStateU GeneticalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
NESCent BioinformaticsProgrammer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
NESCent SummerTraining Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . 42
NorthCarolinaStateU HeadDeptGenetics . . . . . . . . . . 43
RoyalHolloway 5 EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UBath PopBioLectureship correction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44UGeorgia InsectParasiteEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
UHelsinki Programmer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
ULibredeBruxelles PlantInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
UNottingham FrozenArkProject . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Uppsala AnimalEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Uppsala EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
URichmond Two one-year positions EvolutionaryBiol-
ogy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
USouthCarolina Tech 454Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . 49
USydney ChairGeneticsComputationalBiol . . . . . . . . 49
Vienna Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
WoodsHole ResAssist MarineEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
YorkU MolecularEvolution LabTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
CornellU
BioinformaticsProgrammer
Bioinformatics Programmer/Analyst Position at Cor-
nell University
The Department of Biological Statistics and Computa-
tional Biology at Cornell University seeks a highly mo-
tivated individual to develop software tools, databases,
and web resources to support the research group of
Dr. Adam Siepel. Responsibilities of the position in-
clude but are not limited to: (1) Developing, maintain-
ing, and supporting a software package called PHAST
(PHylogenetic Analysis with Space/Time models) forphylogenetic analysis and comparative genomics; (2)
Assisting in genome-wide comparative genomic analy-
ses, by developing scripts and utilities, running analyses
on large compute clusters, and integrating, organizing,
and analyzing program output; (3) Maintaining and im-
proving a local mirror of the UCSC Genome Browser;
and (4) Developing and maintaining the general soft-
ware and database infrastructure of the lab.
Minimum qualiﬁcations include: Bachelor’s degree in
computer science, engineering, or a related ﬁeld, and
2-3 years of experience in software development. Ex-
perience with C/C++. Basic knowledge of algorithms,
data structures, and object-oriented programming. Ex-
perience in a Unix/Linux environment, including proﬁ-
ciency in shell scripting, and scripting in a language
such as Perl or Python. Experience with relational
databases (mysql or similar). Basic knowledge of web38 EvolDir March 1, 2008
programming (HTML). Strong interpersonal skills and
ability to work as part of a diverse team. Strong oral
and written communication skills. Ability to man-
age multiple projects in a dynamic environment with
changing priorities. Ability to work independently and
solve problems as they arise. Interest in molecular bi-
ology, genetics, and evolution, and willingness to learn
concepts and terminology from these ﬁelds as needed.
Some experience in bioinformatics, statistics, or ma-
chine learning is desirable but not required.
The Siepel Lab does interdisciplinary research at the in-
terface of computer science, statistics, and genomics, in-
cluding both development of novel computational meth-
ods and analysis of the latest genome-wide data sets.
Recent research has focused on the discovery of novel
human genes, the identiﬁcation of functionally impor-
tant noncoding elements in mammalian genomes, and
the detection of genomic sequences that are potentially
responsible for key diﬀerences between humans and
other primates. This work depends critically on the or-
ganization and management of very large data sets, on
the development and maintenance of reliable software
tools, and on the eﬃcient implementation of algorithms
for genome-wide analyses. The group is dynamic and
interactive, and most projects require close teamwork
among students, postdocs, and staﬀ. The candidate
will have opportunities to contribute to scientiﬁc pub-
lications, and to expand his or her knowledge of evo-
lutionary genomics, computational statistics, machine
learning, and other relevant scientiﬁc areas.
Term: This is a 2-year position with possible extension.
Salary: A competitive salary commensurate with expe-
rience and skills will be oﬀerred, and a full beneﬁts plan
is available.
For the complete job ad, with instructions
for applying, see https://cornellu.taleo.net/-
servlets/CareerSection?art ipaction=-
FlowDispatcher&ctx=1&ﬂowTypeNo=13&pageSeq=-
2&art servlet language=en&reqNo=123569&csNo=-
10164 For more information about the Siepel Lab, see
http://compgen.bscb.cornell.edu/ ˜ acs/ Adam Siepel
<acs4@cornell.edu >
CostaRica EvolTropicalStudies
Brian,
An evolutionary biologist would be perfect for the job.I wrote that someone with a Ph.D. in evolutionary bi-
ology it is qualiﬁed for the job. Please let me know if I
have to make it more speciﬁc
Thanks vivian
Resident Professor for the Undergraduate Semester
Abroad Program
Organization for Tropical Studies
The Organization for Tropical Studies (OTS) is seeking
applicants for the position of Resident Professor with
the OTS-Duke University Undergraduate Semester
Abroad Program in Costa Rica. This is a ﬁeld-based
program designed to provide undergraduate students
with outstanding training in tropical ecology, ﬁeld re-
search, environmental science and policy, and Spanish
language and culture. Successful applicants will work
closely with the Education Director, program coordina-
tor and other Resident Professors in curriculum design
and implementation, and will be responsible for team
teaching 3 ﬁeld-based courses in tropical ecology, envi-
ronmental science and policy, and ﬁeld research. The
ﬁeld research course includes the supervision of student
independent projects, and emphasizes hypothesis test-
ing. The position is based in Costa Rica, and requires a
commitment to 8-9 weeks in the ﬁeld and several weeks
in the oﬃce during each semester.
This is a full-time appointment beginning August 15,
2008. At least a one-year commitment is required.
Qualiﬁcations:
Ph.D. in biology, evolutionary biology, ecology, or a re-
lated ﬁeld.
Professional research experience in the tropics.
A strong interest in team teaching and interdisciplinary
collaboration.
Experience in ﬁeld-based education and hands-on ex-
periential teaching a plus.
Excellent communication skills.
Bilingual (Spanish/English).
Ability to work a ﬂexible schedule and to spend 9+
weeks, twice a year, living with students and other fac-
ulty at ﬁeld stations.
Anticipated Start Date:
August 15, 2008
Application deadline:
April 1st, 2008
To apply:
Submit cover letter, curriculum vitae with list of 3 refer-March 1, 2008 EvolDir 39
ences, statement of teaching philosophy and statement
of research interests to the Undergraduate Program Co-
ordinator, Vivian Mendez. Electronic applications are
preferred and may be submitted online via the OTS
website ( www.ots.ac.cr <http://www.ots.ac.cr/ >).
Web-based submissions require that all application ma-
terials be in one word or pdf ﬁle. Email submissions
may be made to vmendez@ots.ac.cr.
OTS is an equal opportunity and aﬃrmative action em-
ployer.
Vivian Mendez <vmendez@ots.ac.cr >
GenevaU EvolutionaryAnthropology
The Faculty of Sciences of the University of Geneva
(Switzerland) has an opening for a position as
Full or Associate professor (professeur ordinaire ou ad-
joint) in Evolutionary Anthropology
Full-time appointment. Teaching will be in French.
The successful candidate is expected to conduct a re-
search group. Anthropological research in biometry,
epidemiology or demography of present and / or past
human populations will be considered with particular
attention ; social anthropology is excluded. The po-
sition is also opened for Assistant Professors (Tenure
Track).
DEGREE REQUIREMENT : Ph.D or equivalent.
STARTING DATE : August 1st, 2008, or as agreed
Applicants with relevant experience in research and
teaching should send their application before April 11,
2008 to : Dean of The Faculty of Sciences, Quai E.-
Ansermet 30, CH-1211 Geneve 4, Switzerland, where
further information concerning the job description and
working conditions may be obtained.
Applications from women are particularly welcome.
For more information, please contact the Department
of anthropology and ecology at +41 22 379 69 67. –
Prof. Alicia Sanchez-Mazas Laboratory of Anthropol-
ogy, Genetics and Peopling history (AGP) Department
of Anthropology and Ecology University of Geneva 12,
rue Gustave-Revilliod Case postale, 1211 Geneve 4,
Switzerland Tel. +41 (0)22 379 69 84 Fax +41 (0)22
379 31 94 http://agp.unige.ch/en/ Alicia.Sanchez-
Mazas@anthro.unige.chImperialCollegeLondon
ShortResearchProject
WildlifeEpidemiology
ImperialCollegeLondon.ShortResearchProject.WildlifeEpidemiology
Summer Research Assistant Based at Imperial College
London and the University of Aberdeen, United King-
dom
Temporal and Spatial Dynamics of a Vector-borne
Wildlife Disease System
Fixed term: 4 months Start date: 1 May 2008 (slightly
ﬂexible) Salary: £1851 per month
We are seeking a graduate or higher level researcher
with good quantitative skills to join a 4 month project
starting May 2008 to investigate the epidemiology of
Louping Ill (LI), a tick-borne wildlife disease aﬀecting
northern areas of the United Kingdom. The LI system
involves a variety of hosts, including red grouse, moun-
tain hares, sheep and red deer, and is of economic im-
portance to sheep and grouse moor management. This
project aims to develop models of the temporal and spa-
tial dynamics of LI transmission between tick vectors
and the hosts of the disease, exploring the impact of
seasonality and host density on LI epidemiology. The
project would be suitable as the placement project for
an appropriate Masters course.
The successful applicant will have an interest in ecology
and epidemiology along with programming skills (for
example in C++, Mathematica or Matlab) and abil-
ity to analyse diﬀerential equations. The applicant will
be based primarily at the Centre for Population Biol-
ogy, Silwood Park Campus, Imperial College London,
and will have opportunities to visit the University of
Aberdeen.
Applications (including CV and cover letter) or
enquiries should be sent to Dr Penelope Han-
cock (p.hancock@imperial.ac.uk) or Dr Steve Palmer
(s.palmer@abdn.ac.uk).
Websites:
http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/cpb http:/-
/www.aces.ac.uk/projects/ http://-
www3.imperial.ac.uk/people/p.hancock http://-
www.abdn.ac.uk/biologicalsci/staﬀ/details.php?id=-
3Ds.palmer&ﬁt40 EvolDir March 1, 2008
Closing date: 20th March 2008
p.hancock@imperial.ac.uk p.hancock@imperial.ac.uk
InstZooLondon Tech MHCMolEvol
INSTITUTE OF ZOOLOGY ZOOLOGICAL SOCI-
ETY OF LONDON
RESEARCH TECHNICIAN POST MOLECULAR
ECOLOGY Starting salary £18.978 to £20,827 (includ-
ing London Weighting) Dependent on relevant experi-
ence
Applications are invited for a post as research techni-
cian on a NERC-funded project to investigate the evo-
lution of major histocompatibility genes in divergent
morphs of Arctic charr in relation to parasite load. Ex-
perience in molecular biology techniques, particularly
DNA cloning, sequencing and microsatellite genotyp-
ing, is essential. Also, previous experience in morpho-
metric techniques and/or parasite identiﬁcation will be
advantageous.
The post is for 20 months and is available from 1st April
2008.
For informal enquiries contact: Dr W.C. Jordan
(bill.jordan@ioz.ac.uk Tel: 020 7449 6631).
Applications, with a current CV and names and full
contact details of three referees, should be sent to Hu-
man Resources, Zoological Society of London, Regent’s
Park, London NW1 4RY, UK (email HR@zsl.org), from
whom further details are available.
CLOSING DATE: 11th March 2008
Read about the Institute of Zoology on http://-
www.zoo.cam.ac.uk/ioz/ and ZSL’s work on http://-
www.zsl.org REGISTERED CHARITY NO. 208728
w.jordan@ucl.ac.uk w.jordan@ucl.ac.uk
LosAngeles NHM CuratorialAssist
The Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County
is inviting applications for the position of Curatorial
Assistant in our Marine Biodiversity Processing Cen-
ter. We seek an individual with expertise in crus-taceans, mollusks, echinoderms, or other marine inver-
tebrate groups. Our research collections are used in
a broad variety of systematic and evolutionary stud-
ies. This position will complement existing staﬀ and
reﬂect the institution’s commitment to the Center. The
successful individual will assist with curation, sorting,
databasing, and physical integration of collections into
the museums marine invertebrate collections. Appli-
cant should have a B.S. degree in Biology, at least one
year of experience with one of the taxonomic groups
noted above and knowledge of contemporary museum
collection and specimen conservation techniques. Good
oral and written communication skills are essential
and experience with collection databasing is desirable.
Learn more about the Museum by visiting http://-
www.nhm.org . For an overview of the Center visit
http://collections.nhm.org . This position is full-time
and available immediately. Salary: $36,500/year plus
full beneﬁts.
Please send your curriculum vitae, name and contact
information for three referees, and a cover letter that
describes your curatorial experience to:
Regina Wetzer, PhD. Director, Marine Biodiversity
Processing Center Natural History Museum of Los An-
geles County 900 Exposition Blvd., Los Angeles, CA
90007 rwetzer@nhm.org
Regina Wetzer <rwetzer@atiniui.nhm.org >
Marseille EvolutionaryBiology
An assistant professor position in Evolutionary Biology
(concepts and bioinformatic) will be open this year the
Laboratoire Evolution biologique et Mod¨ ı¿1
2lisation lab
. For more information contact Pierre Pontarotti
UMR 6632 Universite de Aix Marseille/CNRS .
Laboratoire Evolution biologique et Modelisation
, case 19 3 place Victor Hugo 13331 Marseille
Cedex 03 France http://sites.univ-provence.fr/evol/
Pierre.Pontarotti@univ-provence.fr
MichiganStateU GeneticalGenomics
Genetical Genomics postdoctoral position in the De-March 1, 2008 EvolDir 41
partment of Animal Science, Michigan State University
Applications are invited for a one-year postdoctoral po-
sition in genetical genomics. The successful applicant
can reside either at the University of Wisconsin un-
der the supervision of Dr. Guilherme Rosa, Depart-
ment of Dairy Science or at Michigan State Univer-
sity under the supervision of Dr. Robert Tempelman
in the Department of Animal Science. The success-
ful applicant will participate in a USDA funded re-
search project involving 960 F2 pigs generated from
a Duroc x Pietrain resource population established at
Michigan State University. The research project has
a rich and comprehensive database containing growth,
carcass merit, meat quality and sensory phenotypes as
well as genetic marker data on F0, F1 and F2 pigs. In
addition, gene expression microarray data comparing
within-litter phenotypic extremes for loin muscle area
and backfat based on a selective phenotyping experi-
mental design is available. Excellent training in statis-
tical genetics is required, particularly with respect to
quantitative trait loci (QTL) analysis. Experience with
multiple trait QTL analysis and linkage disequilibrium
mapping is highly desired. The ultimate objectives of
the project will be to estimate QTL eﬀects for gene
expression jointly with observed phenotypes in an ef-
fort to discover new candidate genes for growth, carcass
merit and meat quality, as well as to infer upon poten-
tial regulatory pathways. The successful candidate is
then expected to assist in the development of statis-
tical methodologies that integrate genetical genomics
information into schemes used for improving livestock
populations as well as publish their ﬁndings in a timely
fashion. Applications will be accepted until the posi-
tion is ﬁlled. This position can be ﬁlled immediately.
Interested candidates are encouraged to email their cur-
riculum vitae and names of two references jointly to
Dr. Robert Tempelman (tempelma@msu.edu) and Dr.
Guilherme Rosa (grosa@wisc.edu).
tempelma@msu.edu tempelma@msu.edu
NESCent
BioinformaticsProgrammer
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NES-
Cent) ( http:// nescent.org) seeks a highly motivated
Bioinformatics Programmer responsible for design, im-
plementation, and maintenance of databases and sur-
rounding software used by both evolutionary biologyresearchers and educators, and by NESCent adminis-
tration. The position is within the Center’s informatics
team.
NESCent’s Informatics program ( http://-
informatics.nescent.org ) oﬀers a vibrant environment
with ample opportunities to interact and work closely
with a wide array of researchers in evolutionary biology
and related disciplines. Aside from supporting the IT
needs of the Center administration, the group provides
visiting and resident scientists with cutting-edge
electronic collaboration infrastructure and software en-
gineering capabilities ranging from modern multi-tiered
applications with highly interactive user interfaces
to sound data models with integrated semantics. In
addition, the Center’s Informatics program pursues an
ambitious agenda of cyberinfrastructure initiatives to
promote interoperability, data and service integration,
and open development among the evolutionary biology
community. Above all, we are enthusiastic about our
work, the stimulating atmosphere at the Center, and
the potential of informatics to enable more and better
science.
Job Description:
The incumbent will work within the Center’s informat-
ics team with other software developers and system sup-
port staﬀ, and collaborate with scientists visiting or res-
ident at the Center as well as other Center staﬀ. The
responsibilities of the job range from designing data
models, to architecting and implementing server-side
middleware, service-oriented APIs, and managing data
ﬂow. The incumbent will gather requirements from sci-
entists, Center staﬀ, and collaborating developers and
translate these into functional and technical speciﬁca-
tions; analyze, design, develop, maintain, document,
and test new and existing database schemas, object
models, APIs, and software; use and contribute to ex-
isting and emerging standards; create technical docu-
mentation, present work at scientiﬁc meetings, and con-
tribute to scientiﬁc publications. The incumbent will
also collaborate with the Assistant Director of Infor-
matics and Center Leadership to advise of priorities,
problems and proposed solutions; to assist in setting
priorities and goals for scientiﬁc database support, to
structure development with respect to speciﬁc timelines
and milestones, and to make decisions required to cre-
ate and deploy database applications.
Required Qualiﬁcations:
* Bachelor’s degree (M.S. or Ph.D. preferred) in biol-
ogy, computer science, or related ﬁeld. Four or more
years of signiﬁcant experience in designing and imple-
menting database and database- interfacing technol-
ogy, or an equivalent combination of relevant educa-42 EvolDir March 1, 2008
tion and experience. * Experienced in the use of ma-
jor relational database management systems (prefer-
ably PostgreSQL). * Knowledge of relational data mod-
eling, and proven experience with translating domain
models into normalized relational schemas. * Thorough
command of SQL, including DDL, and understanding
of advanced elements of SQL (e.g., sub-queries, views,
integrity enforcement) * Knowledge of and experience
with object-relational mapping technologies, preferably
in Java (e.g., CMP, JDO, Hibernate). Demonstrated
ability to architect, design, and implement object mod-
els and middleware on top of databases (preferably in
Java). * Proven team orientation, and outstanding in-
terpersonal and communication skills.
Preferred Qualiﬁcations:
The ideal candidate has a rigorous background in soft-
ware engineering best practices, and has demonstrated
the ability to independently and collaboratively man-
age the entire life cycle of projects involving multiple
scientiﬁc stakeholders. In addition, the ideal candidate
has demonstrated deep knowledge as well as current
awareness in emerging trends in one or more of the fol-
lowing areas: * Advanced database technologies such as
SQL server-side programming (e.g., database triggers,
PL/SQL, PL/pgSQL) and data warehousing (OLAP,
Data Marts). * Elements of the semantic web (such as
DL, RDF, OWL, ontologies, reasoning, software agents)
and service-oriented software architecture (SOA) (such
as Web Services, SOAP, REST, RMI). * Evolutionary
Biology or a related ﬁeld.
The demonstrated ability to contribute to scholarly
publications is highly desirable.
Beneﬁts:
NESCent oﬀers comprehensive beneﬁts (health, dental,
vision, leave, 403b, etc) and a competitive salary com-
mensurate with qualiﬁcations and experience.
How to Apply:
Please send cover letter, resume, and the contact infor-
mation for
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.htmlNESCent SummerTraining
Bioinformatics
Summer Training Opportunity for Graduate Students
or Postdocs in Data Curation and Informatics
The Phenoscape project ( http://phenoscape.org ) is a
pioneering eﬀort in the use of ontologies to relate tra-
ditional character descriptions from ﬁsh evolutionary
studies to zebraﬁsh genetics and mutant phenotypes.
We have summer funding for graduate students and
postdocs interested in gaining expertise in informat-
ics and the application of ontologies to evolutionary,
anatomical, developmental, and genetic data. Oppor-
tunities are available to work with our personnel in data
curation using ontologies (at the Academy of Natural
Sciences, Philadelphia, or at the University of South
Dakota) or in database and application programming
(at the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center, http:/-
/nescent.org ).
Stipends of $5,000 will be given to participating stu-
dents to cover travel, room and board for 12 weeks (a
shorter term of 10 weeks is possible). To apply, please
provide the information below via email (in Word or
PDF format) to Dr. Paula Mabee (pmabee@usd.edu)
before March 15, 2008. Funding decisions will be made
by April 1.
Required information: 1. Cover sheet with your name,
current status (grad or postdoc), institutional aﬃli-
ation and research supervisor, dates of proposed ex-
change, and a summary (150 word maximum) describ-
ing the relevance of the internship opportunity to your
research.
2. A brief description (1 page maximum) of your cur-
rent research, its goals, and an indication of where you
are in your research time line. Please provide some
details of the type of training that you already have
experience with (e.g., morphology, paleontology, molec-
ular/developmental biology, informatics, computer sci-
ence).
3. A curriculum vitae no longer than 2 pages listing ed-
ucational background (including relevant coursework),
work experience, publications, and presentations.
4. A letter of recommendation from your advisor, and
the names and contact information of two other refer-
ences.
Reporting Requirement: Recipients will be expected to
submit a 1-page report describing the accomplishmentsMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 43
and value of the training within one month after the
end of the internship.
Further inquiries about the position may be directed to
Dr. Mabee by email, or by phone at (605) 677-6171.
NESCent, the Academy of Natural Sciences, and
the University of South Dakota are equal opportu-
nity employers. Applications from women and un-
derrepresented minorities are speciﬁcally encouraged.
PhenoScape is committed to releasing all software code
as open source.
– Hilmar Lapp -:- NESCent -:- informatics.nescent.org
:
hlapp@nescent.org
NorthCarolinaStateU
HeadDeptGenetics
Job: NCSU Dept Head Genetics
The Department of Genetics at North Carolina State
University seeks applications for the position of Head
of the Department of Genetics . This is an outstanding
opportunity for an established scientist who has a broad
appreciation for the role of a basic science department
within a land grant university. The successful candi-
date will 1) provide dynamic and innovative leadership
in graduate and undergraduate education,
2) foster a positive environment conducive to high qual-
ity basic research, 3) conduct an active, externally
funded research program, and 4) be a strong and ef-
fective voice for the department within the University
and across the broader scientiﬁc community.
The Department of Genetics is one of ﬁve basic sci-
ence departments within the College of Agriculture and
Life Sciences at NCSU. The Department is approach-
ing its ﬁftieth year and has long been recognized in-
ternationally for its faculty strengths in quantitative,
population, evolutionary, molecular and developmental
genetics. Traditionally strong in research and gradu-
ate education, we have held graduate training grants
in plant genetics and quantitative genetics, and have
trained a large number of graduates who have gone on
to highly successful careers in academia, industry and
government. Currently the Department is strengthen-
ing its commitment to undergraduate education, in-
cluding developing new curricula and establishing an
undergraduate major in Genetics.The Department is comprised of a core of 20 full-
time faculty members, several of whom have interna-
tional reputations in evolutionary and molecular genet-
ics. The Department is among the best-funded depart-
ments in the College and over the past 5 years, our
faculty has received millions of dollars in research funds
from NIH, NSF, USDA, and private foundations. More-
over, the Department provides a key integrative role at
NCSU and we have an additional 19 associate and ad-
junct members. Associate faculty members have their
tenure home in other departments, including Forestry ,
Food Science , Plant Biology , Plant Pathology , Ento-
mology , Molecular and Structural Biochemistry , Zo-
ology , Crop Science and Animal Science , but may
teach courses and train graduate students within Ge-
netics. This arrangement provides for a highly diverse
and dynamic teaching and research faculty.
The Genetics Department is housed in a newly-
remodeled building with ample space for research and
teaching. We have a well-developed genomics and
bioinformatics infrastructure and are next door to a
large vertebrate animal research facility and a phy-
totron for environmentally controlled experiments. In
addition, there are ample greenhouse and experimental
farm facilities.
North Carolina State University, together with the Uni-
versity of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and Duke Uni-
versity, form a strong base for the world-famous Re-
search Triangle Park. Our relationships with RTP pro-
vide numerous opportunities for research and training
interactions, as well as a viable source of employment
for our graduates.
The position announcement can be viewed in its en-
tirety on the Department of Genetics Web site: http:/-
/www.cals.ncsu.edu/genetics/ . Applicants should sub-
mit a letter of interest, curriculum vitae, statement
of their philosophy/vision as a Department Head to
include research and teaching functions, and 3 - 5
representative publications electronically to http://-
ncsu.edu/jobs , position number 01-64-0714.
Nominations and questions concerning this position
should be sent to Damian Shea, Chair Genetics Head
Search Committee, Department of Zoology, Campus
Box 7617, NC State University, Raleigh, NC 27695-
7617 or via email to d shea@ncsu.edu .
Review of applications will begin 15 February 2008 and
continue until the position is ﬁlled.
fredgould@ncsu.edu fred gould@ncsu.edu44 EvolDir March 1, 2008
RoyalHolloway 5
EvolutionaryBiology
Royal Holloway is seeking to ﬁll ﬁve permanent posi-
tions in Biology in various areas. For those with an
evolution interest the senior lecturer/reader position in
biological sciences (equivalent to associate professor) is
probably most relevant. We are seeking to employ in
someone in the area of organismal biology/plant biol-
ogy area, and in are particularly in interested in the
areas highlighted.
Feel free to contact me if you need further information
on this position
Vincent Jansen (vincent.jansen@rhul.ac.uk)
ROYAL HOLLOWAY SCHOOL OF BIOLOGICAL
SCIENCES
The School of Biological Sciences ( <http://-
www.rhul.ac.uk/biological-sciences >) constitutes
3 highly-integrated and dynamic research centres:
Biomedical Sciences, Plant Molecular Sciences; and
Ecology, Evolution & Behaviour. In addition, staﬀ
are associated with Faculty-based inter-departmental
research centres in Computational Biology, Neuro-
science and Nanobiotechnology. The School holds
grade 5 research assessment (2001 RAE) status, and
a maximum grade 24 teaching quality assessment
(QAA) rating. Research and teaching activities are
underpinned by technologies spanning functional
genomics, metabolomics, molecular genetics, micro-
biology, gene therapeutics, computational & systems
biology, advanced cell biology, model organism analy-
sis, population studies, ecology, evolutionary biology,
mathematical biology and advanced microscopy
facilities.
Applications are invited for ﬁve academic posts in the
School.
Lecturers (2) in Biomedical Sciences (Ref KB/4926)
Applications in the ﬁelds of neurosciences, cell sig-
nalling, molecular microbiology/parasitology, infection
and immunity or epidemiology are especially welcome.
Lecturer in Chemical Biology (Ref KB/4927)
Candidates should have a strong background in chem-
istry to contribute to bioscience chemistry teaching and
research experience especially in the ﬁelds of medicinalchemistry, nutraceuticals, natural product chemistry or
cell signalling.
Professor/Reader in Neuroscience (Ref KB/381 )
Applicants should have expertise in molecular and cel-
lular neuroscience or neurophysiology.
Senior Lecturer/Reader in Biological Sciences (Ref
KB/4928)
Applicants with particular interest in the areas of be-
haviour/behaviour ecology, modelling or ecological ge-
nomics are especially welcome.
Informal enquiries are welcome to the Head of School,
Professor Peter Bramley (tel. +44 (0)1784 443555;
email: p.bramley@rhul.ac.uk)
Salaries in the range of: Lecturer £36,927 - £43,073
p.a., Senior Lecturer £44,925 - £51,017 p.a. Professo-
rial salaries are negotiable starting at £53,229 p.a. All
salaries are inclusive of London Allowance.
All posts are tenable from 1 September 2008 unless oth-
erwise stated in the further details.
The closing date for all posts is 27 February 2008.
Further details and a copy of the application
form are available at www.rhul.ac.uk/Personnel/-
JobVacancies.htm < http://www.rhul.ac.uk/-
Personnel/JobVacancies.htm >
We positively welcome applications from all sections of
the community.
Vincent Jansen
School of Biological Sciences Royal Holloway, Univer-
sity of London Egham, Surrey TW20 0EX, U.K.
Tel : (..) 44 1784 443179 Fax : (..) 44 1784
470756 Email: vincent.jansen@rhul.ac.uk Web
: http://www.rhul.ac.uk/Biological-Sciences/-
AcademicStaﬀ/Jansen/ Vincent.Jansen@rhul.ac.uk
Vincent.Jansen@rhul.ac.uk
UBath PopBioLectureship
correction
POPULATION BIOLOGY LECTURESHIP, UNI-
VERSITY OF BATH
Ref: 08H025A
Title: Lecturer in Population Biology - 08H025A
Department: Biology and BiochemistryMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 45
Description: Applications are invited from outstanding
and highly motivated individuals for a Lectureship in
population biology. The subject area is deﬁned broadly
and can include, but is not limited to, experimental evo-
lution/ecology, comparative and ecological genomics,
behavioural ecology, evolutionary ecology and conserva-
tion biology. You should have demonstrated excellence
in original research and achievement in a relevant area,
and the potential to develop and sustain a productive
research programme at Bath. You will be expected to
contribute to undergraduate and postgraduate teach-
ing in the department. The appointment will be held
in the Department of Biology and Biochemistry which
is RAE grade 5 and very well equipped for molecu-
lar life science research. Further information about the
Department is available at http://www.bath.ac.uk/bio-
sci/Informal enquiries are welcome and should be di-
rected to the Head of Department, Dr Richard Hooley
on bssrah@bath.ac.uk
Salary: In the range 33,779 - 40,335
Contact: Please email: jobs@bath.ac.uk or call 01225
386924 quoting ref number 08H025A
Closing Date: 28th February 2008
Further Particulars: http://www.bath.ac.uk/jobs/-
jobdesc.cgi?08H025A Professor Tamas Szekely Profes-
sor of Biodiversity Dept of Biology and Biochemistry,
University of Bath, Bath BA2 7AY, UK 01225 383676
(phone), 01225 386779 (fax), T.Szekely@bath.ac.uk
(email) http://www.bath.ac.uk/bio-sci/biodiversity-
lab/index.htm SEX, SIZE AND GENDER ROLES:
evolutionary studies of sexual size dimorphism http:/-
/www.oup.com/uk/catalogue/?ci=9780199208784
bssts@bath.ac.uk
UGeorgia InsectParasiteEvolution
The Department of Entomology at the University of
Georgia is developing a core research area in the study
of parasite- and microbial-insect interactions and evolu-
tion. As part of this initiative, the Department seeks to
ﬁll two positions at the level of Assistant or Associate
Professor. Areas of interest include pathogenic or sym-
biotic associations, as well as studies on vector species
in animal or plant systems. Candidates using innova-
tive approaches in the molecular sciences, evolutionary
genetics, or ecology will be carefully considered. Ex-
pertise in Entomology and elsewhere on campus oﬀers
unique collaborative potential in genetics, genomics,parasitology, microbiology, ecology, and evolution.
Applicants must have a Ph.D. degree (or equivalent)
and suitable experience. Successful candidates will be
expected to establish a strong extramurally funded re-
search program and contribute to instruction in the De-
partment. To apply, submit a cover letter, curriculum
vitae, and a description of research and teaching in-
terests by email to: entomolo@uga.edu (open search in
the subject line). Applicants should arrange to have
3 letters of reference sent to: Open Search Commit-
tee, c/o Dr. M. R. Strand (Chair), Department of
Entomology, University of Georgia, 413 Biological Sci-
ences, Athens, GA 30602-2603. Complete applications
received by March 31, 2008 are assured of full consid-
eration.
Ken Ross
– Kenneth G. Ross Department of Entomology Uni-
versity of Georgia Athens, GA 30602-2603 USA (706)
542-7699 kenross@uga.edu
UHelsinki Programmer
The Mathematical Biology Group at the Department
of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University
of Helsinki, Finland (leader Dr. Otso Ovaskainen) is
seeking an outstanding, highly motivated Scientiﬁc Pro-
grammer. The position is available for 2 years, with the
possibility of a 3-year extension.
The candidate is required to have a MS degree (PhD
degree being counted as an advantage) in computer
science, computational biology, bioinformatics, statis-
tics, engineering, math, or a related ﬁeld. The main
selection criterion is the applicant’s ability and experi-
ence in scientiﬁc computing with both functional lan-
guages (Mathematica) and object-oriented languages
such as C# (Microsoft Visual Studio), Object Pascal
(CodeGear Delphi), or C++ (CodeGear C++ Builder).
In particular, expertise with advanced matrix opera-
tions (e.g. sparse matrix algebra), MCMC computa-
tions (e.g. adaptive Bayesian methods), and spatial
statistics is appreciated.
The successful candidate will be responsible for de-
veloping and maintaining algorithms used in research
projects at the interface between mathematics and ecol-
ogy and evolutionary biology. The main emphasis is
on developing eﬃcient algorithms for computationally
heavy problems, but the work involves also develop-46 EvolDir March 1, 2008
ment and documentation of user-friendly interfaces.
The Mathematical Biology group is part of the
Metapopulation Research Group (leader prof. Ilkka
Hanski), which is a Centre of Excellence in Research
supported by the Academy of Finland. We oﬀer an
international research environment with excellent pos-
sibilities to cooperate with experts in mathematics,
statistics, population biology, and evolutionary ecology.
Salary and social beneﬁts according to the University
of Helsinki Salary system, depending on the experience
and performance of the employee (2,300 - 3,500 ? /
month).
Applications including a short CV (max 3 pages)
and the e-mail addresses of two researchers will-
ing to write a letter of reference should be
sent to otso.ovaskainen@helsinki.ﬁ with cc to tu-
uli.ojala@helsinki.ﬁ; write “scientiﬁc programmer”
on the subject line. For more details on our
research projects and on the application proce-
dure, see http://www.helsinki.ﬁ/science/metapop/-
MBG/positions/index.htm Deadline for applications
14th March 2008, starting date 1st May 2008 (nego-
tiable).
Otso Ovaskainen Academy Research Fellow Depart-
ment of Biological and Environmental Sciences P.O.
BOX 65 (Viikinkaari 1) 00014 University of Helsinki
FINLAND
otso.ovaskainen@helsinki.ﬁ otso.ovaskainen@helsinki.ﬁ
ULibredeBruxelles PlantInteractions
Free University of Brussels (ULB)
Academic position in Organism Biology
Specialisation: Interactions of plants and other organ-
isms
The Universit´ e Libre de Bruxelles invites applications
for a full-time academic position in Organism Biology,
to begin 1st October 2008.
Applicants must have a PhD in Biology or Agronomy
(or equivalent)
Research
The candidate must demonstrate his/her capacity to
conduct high quality research in the ﬁeld of interactions
of plants with other organisms. He/she will establish
a vigorous, independent research program. The can-didate is expected to favour a whole-organism, plant-
centered, approach.
Teaching
The candidate will join the teaching staﬀ in plant
biology in the “Acad´ emie Universitaire Wallonie-
Bruxelles”. He/she will participate in graduate instruc-
tion and training in botany (including lectures, practi-
cals, ﬁeld work). He/she will supervise Master and PhD
theses.
For further details, please get in touch with Prof. Yves
ROISIN, D´ epartement de Biologie des Organismes, Tel
+32 2 650 4512, yroisin@ulb.ac.be.
Applicants should provide:
.A complete curriculum vitae including teaching expe-
rience and publication list, presented as required in
the following webpage: http://www.ulb.ac.be/tools/-
CV-type.rtf .A teaching project
.A research project (max. 3500 signs)
.A commented list of his/her most signiﬁcant publica-
tions.
Applications should be sent in duplicate to: The Rec-
tor, Universit´ e Libre de Bruxelles, Avenue FD Roo-
sevelt, 50, B-1050 Brussels, Belgium.
An electronic copy of the application should be submit-
ted to Prof. Yves ROISIN, yroisin@ulb.ac.be
Deadline for applications: 15 March 2008
Please refer to the oﬃcial version of this document (in
French) for further details: http://wwwdev.ulb.ac.be/-
greﬀe/ﬁles/2011.pdf
Yves Roisin <yroisin@ulb.ac.be >
UNottingham FrozenArkProject
The Frozen Ark Project is an international consortium
that aims to save the DNA of endangered animals be-
fore they go extinct. It is not a substitute for saving
the animals themselves, but a necessary ’back-up’ to
store the information they contain. Details about the
project can be found at http://www.frozenark.org It is
expected that the post will be advertised shortly. How-
ever, its funding is conditional on ﬁnding a candidate
of suﬃcient merit. To avoid a ’catch 22’ situation, we
need to solicit informal expressions of interest.
We seek an exceptional person who is not only a dis-March 1, 2008 EvolDir 47
tinguished scholar and teacher but is also able to run
an international organisation, to recruit new members,
and to raise additional ﬁnancial support. The post will
be based at the University of Nottingham, associated
with the evolutionary research group within the School
of Biology. It will require extensive national and in-
ternational travel to liaise with current and prospec-
tive consortium members, and to organise international
meetings. Very good personal and organisational skills
will be necessities.
Salary will be in the range for a full professorship in
The UK. Excellent laboratory and oﬃce space will be
available, along with technical and secretarial help.
If you are interested in the post, and can meet the cri-
teria, please write, telephone or email informally and
conﬁdentially to Bryan Clarke (not to evoldir!).
Professor B.C. Clarke FRS Institute of Genetics Queens
Medical Centre Clifton Boulevard Nottingham NG7
2UH England
Tel: +44 (0) 1949 81243
Email: bryan.clarke@nottingham.ac.uk
Uppsala
AnimalEvolutionaryGenetics
The Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences an-
nounces a position as
PROFESSOR IN MOLECULAR ANIMAL EVOLU-
TIONARY GENETICS
at the Department of Animal Breeding and Genetics,
Faculty of Veterinary Medicine and Animal Science
(This text can also be found at: http://-
dokument.slu.se/ansti/taf/ledans rd.taf?function=-
3DsluwebbaktE ) Deadline March 25.
Ref nr 110/08 Subject description: Molecular genet-
ics, especially exploration of the genome in domestic
animals and the eﬀects of genes on the variation in pro-
duction and diseases of domestic animals and in other
traits of importance for animal welfare and the interac-
tion with man.
Duties: Overall responsibility for research and teach-
ing at bachelor and master levels within the subject.
Main duties include research, education at doctorate
level and teaching within the department’s comprehen-
sive teaching task at bachelor and master levels, as wellas the associated administration. International collab-
oration is expected.
An applicant who meets the criteria for appointment
as professor has shown both academic and pedagogic
skills. Equal importance shall be attached to the eval-
uation of pedagogic skills as to the evaluation of aca-
demic qualiﬁcations.
Criteria for assessment include the degree of scien-
tiﬁc and pedagogic skills required for the appointment.
Moreover, the degree of administrative and other skills
that are important with regard to the appointment’s
scientiﬁc content and duties will be considered. The
degree of skill in developing and leading activities and
staﬀ at the university, as well as the ability to collabo-
rate with the outside community and to convey infor-
mation about research and development work will also
be considered.
In the appointment, importance shall be attached to
scientiﬁc and pedagogic skills of which importance shall
particularly be attached to scientiﬁc skills. Importance
shall be attached to both current research and capacity
to independently initiate and lead innovative and pio-
neering research, ability and interest to attract external
funding as well as the applicant’s well documented sci-
entiﬁc competence on a high international level within
the subject area. A good ability to collaborate with re-
searcher on the national and international level is also
important. When considering pedagogic proﬁciency,
importance shall be attached to experience in planning,
carrying out and evaluating teaching, as well as super-
vision and examining.
The scientiﬁc and pedagogic works that the applicant
wants to cite must be given in the application and one
copy of each must be submitted to the Rector. A max-
imum of ten scientiﬁc and ten pedagogic works, includ-
ing popular science and research information, can be
submitted. A complete publication list must be sub-
mitted, where cited works are indicated. When the
three expert evaluators have been selected according to
communication from the administrator one copy of each
cited work must be sent to each one of the experts.
SLU (the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences)
develops our understanding and sustainable use of bi-
ological natural resources. This is achieved through
research, teaching, environmental monitoring and as-
sessment and information extension.
About 5000 bachelor, master and doctorate students
are enrolled at SLU. 3000 people are employed at the
University. The turnover is about 2,2 billion SEK. Main
campuses are located at Ultuna, Alnarp, Skara, and
Ume¨ ı¿1
2.48 EvolDir March 1, 2008
The Faculty of Veterinary Medicine and Animal Sci-
ence is one of four faculties at SLU with 450 employees
and 1000 bachelor, master and doctorate students. The
Faculty oﬃce and most of the departments are located
in Uppsala, but important research and teaching activ-
ities are also carried out in Skara.
The faculty is the only faculty in Sweden with a spe-
ciﬁc responsibility for teaching and research in veteri-
nary medicine and animal science. The research and
education aim to promote the health and well-being of
animals as well as humans and to develop a biologically
and economically sustainable animal management.
The faculty’s research area comprises animal manage-
ment, animal health, animal welfare, veterinary public
health and the inﬂuence of animals for the health and
well-being of humans. Within all these areas research
and education are conducted at bachelor, master and
doctorate levels.
The Department of Animal Breeding and Genetics is re-
sponsible for education at bachelor, master and doctor-
ate levels, research and research information on molec-
ular genetics and bioinfomatics, quantitative genetics
with biometry, genetic evaluations and strategies for
sustainable breeding programmes for diﬀerent domes-
tic animal species. Extensive collaboration takes place
with the animal breeding industry both nationally and
internationally as well as with institutions responsible
for R&D in
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Uppsala EvolutionaryGenetics
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR IN EVOLUTIONARY GE-
NETICS AND GENOMICS
at the Department of Evolutionary Biology, Evolution-
ary Biology Centre, Uppsala University, Sweden
The Department conducts evolutionary genetic re-
search with increasing genomic emphasis, see http://-
www.egs.uu.se/evbiol/ . The position concerns research
that uses genomic data or tools to address evolutionary
questions.
To qualify for appointment as Assistant Professor, thecandidate needs to have a PhD. Priority is given to ap-
plicants who have completed their PhD within 5 active
years of the application deadline. When judging scien-
tiﬁc expertise particular attention will be paid to exper-
tise in large-scale analysis of genomic data, for example,
DNA sequences, polymorphisms or gene expression.
The Evolutionary Biology Centre ( http://-
www.ebc.uu.se ) is situated in recently-built localities
in central Uppsala. The working atmosphere is inter-
national with a regular recruitment of post-docs from
abroad. The Centre constitutes an exciting arena for
multidisciplinary research in evolutionary biology in a
broad sense, housing some 400 scientists and graduate
students, and with research programs in ecology,
systematics, genetics, genomics, functional genomics,
and developmental biology. Uppsala University is
the oldest university in Scandinavia and the city of
Uppsala is a vibrant student town with beautiful
surroundings conveniently situated close to Stockholm.
The full announcements including instructions on how
to apply is available at http://www.personalavd.uu.se/-
ledigaplatser/269forass eng.html Closing date is March
6, 2008. For further information please contact Hans
Ellegren (Hans.Ellegren@ebc.uu.se).
Professor Hans Ellegren Dept of Evolutionary Biology
Evolutionary Biology Centre Uppsala University Nor-
byv¨ agen 18D SE-752 36 Uppsala Sweden
Email: Hans.Ellegren@ebc.uu.se Phone: +46-18-
4716460 Fax: +46-18-4716310
Lab home page: http://www.egs.uu.se/evbiol/-
index.html My home page: http://www.egs.uu.se/-
evbiol/Persons/Hans.html Hans.Ellegren@ebc.uu.se
Hans.Ellegren@ebc.uu.se
URichmond Two one-year positions
EvolutionaryBiology
Two One-Year Visiting Positions in Ecology and/or
Evolution: University of Richmond:
The Biology Department at the University of Richmond
seeks to ﬁll two visiting positions beginning August 1,
2008. We are looking for broadly trained biologists with
expertise in the ecological and/or evolutionary sciences.
We seek individuals with a strong commitment to high
quality undergraduate education. Teaching expecta-
tions include participation in the introductory courses
of Evolution and/or Ecology, and upper-level electivesMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 49
in area of expertise. Field biologists are especially en-
couraged to apply. Candidates should hold a Ph.D.
degree or be ABD with an anticipated completion by
Fall 2008. Candidates are encouraged to provide evi-
dence of teaching excellence. The application deadline
is March 15, 2008, but qualiﬁed applicants will be con-
sidered until the positions are ﬁlled. The University of
Richmond is committed to developing a diverse faculty
and student body, and to modeling an inclusive campus
community which values the expression of diﬀerences
in ways that promote excellence in teaching, learning,
personal development, and institutional success.
Details on the position and the application procedures
can be found at: http://as.richmond.edu/teaching/-
searches/biology.html If anyone has speciﬁc ques-
tions about these positions, please email Malcolm Hill
(mhill2@richmond.edu).
Please send completed applications to: Chair, E&E
Search Committee Biology Department University of
Richmond Richmond, VA 23173 (804) 289-8871
mhill2@richmond.edu
USouthCarolina Tech
454Bioinformatics
Immediate opening for skilled master’s level student
for Research Technician II position at the University
of South Carolina ($32K/year with beneﬁts). Po-
sition is part of the rapidly growing Environmen-
tal Genomics Core facility ( http://www.sph.sc.edu/-
engencore/index.htm ) with emphasis on Roche/454
FLX pyrosequencing. Knowledge of Perl and Linux a
plus. Please send email of 3 references and CV to en-
gencore@gwm.sc.edu with “454 technician position” in
subject line.
– Environmental Genomics Core Facility Director
921 Assembly Street, Room 413 University of South
Carolina Columbia SC 29208 (t) 803-777-4338 (l)
831-777-3999 (e) engencore@gwm.sc.edu (w) http://-
www.sph.sc.edu/engencore/
Joe Jones <engencore@gwm.sc.edu >USydney
ChairGeneticsComputationalBiol
Chair in Animal Genetics and Computational Biology
Faculty of Veterinary Science Reference No.: S08/057
With the retirement of Professor Frank Nicholas after a
long and distinguished career in Animal and Veterinary
Genetics, applications are invited from suitably quali-
ﬁed people for the Chair in Animal Genetics and Com-
putational Biology in the Faculty of Veterinary Science
at the University of Sydney. This chair has been created
with a vision for the future in animal systems-biology
and to provide leadership in research and education in
animal quantitative genetics and computational biol-
ogy, and its application to relevant industries.
The successful candidate will be a distinguished and
active researcher and educator with strong leadership
qualities and a commitment to multidisciplinary ap-
proaches and have a strong track record in quantitative
genetics and/or computational biology, with a focus on
the livestock industries.
A proven record of gaining high levels of external sup-
port and research funding together with an ability to
attract and supervise a strong team of postgraduate re-
search students and postdoctoral fellows, provide lead-
ership in postgraduate coursework through the Animal
Breeding Management degree program, develop a post-
graduate course in animal computational biology, and
contribute to and improve undergraduate educational
experiences in the BVSc and BAnVetBioSc degrees will
be essential.
The Professor of Animal Genetics and Computational
Biology is expected to be an eﬀective communicator,
with the capacity to involve and gain support of all
relevant sectors of the livestock industries, to engage
in research with impacts for the whole of the livestock
sector, through national and international collabora-
tions, whilst enhancing Faculty research, particularly
through postgraduate research and coursework oppor-
tunities. Strong internal collaborations with the Fac-
ulty’s Advanced Technologies in Animal Genetics and
Reproduction (Reprogen) group and the University’s
Centre for Mathematical Biology and Sydney Bioinfor-
matics are expected.
The position is full-time continuing, subject to the com-
pletion of a satisfactory probation and/or conﬁrmation50 EvolDir March 1, 2008
period for new appointees. Membership of a University-
approved superannuation scheme is a condition of ap-
pointment for new appointees.
Further speciﬁc information about the posi-
tion can be obtained from the Director of Re-
progen, Professor Herman W. Raadsma (e-
mail:raadsma@camden.usyd.edu.au, phone +61 2
9351 1603), Professor Christopher Moran (e-mail:
Chris.Moran@vetsci.usyd.edu.au phone +61 2 9351
3553, or the Dean, Professor Leo Jeﬀcott, e-mail:
dean@vetsci.usyd.edu.au .
For general enquiries including those about
the application process and to apply, contact
Kevin Mitchell, Senior Recruitment Manager on
+61-2-9036-7294 or at srsacademic@usyd.edu.au
<mailto:srsacademic@usyd.edu.au >to receive a full
information pack.
Remuneration package: $160,975 p.a. (which includes a
base salary Professor Level E $136,515 p.a., leave load-
ing and up to 17% employer’s contribution to superan-
nuation)
Closing: 21st March 2008
The University is a non-smoking workplace and is com-
mitted to the policies and principles of equal employ-
ment opportunity and cultural diversity. The Univer-
sity reserves the right not to proceed with any appoint-
ment for ﬁnancial or other reasons.
———– ) ( Imke Tammen Dr.med.vet., M.Ed.
(Higher Education) -(**)- Senior Lecturer in Ani-
mal Biotechnology / oo / |||Postgraduate Coordi-
nator - Camden * || ||Reprogen: Centre for Advanced
Technologie in Animal Genetics and Reproduction
The University of Sydney 425 Werombi Road
PMB3, Camden NSW 2570, Australia http:/-
/www.vetsci.usyd.edu.au/reprogen/ < http://-
www.vetsci.usyd.edu.au/reprogen/ >
FAX: +61-2-46550618 Phone: +61-2-46550604
(Camden) +61-2-93518620 (Sydney) email: itam-
men@camden.usyd.edu.au
Imke Tammen <i.tammen@usyd.edu.au >
Vienna Bioinformatics
Tenure track group leader position in bioinformatics
Details about the position and the host institutioncan be found at: http://i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/pop/-
opportunities.html We are searching for dynamic and
enthusiastic scientist with an excellent track record and
preferably with a proven ability to attract extramural
funding. Candidates should have a strong interest to
interact with research groups on the campus as well
in the Vienna Research Area. Interest in evolutionary
biology and population genetics would be a bonus.
Vienna oﬀers an excellent environment for the future
post holder, as strong groups in bioinformatics (Arndt
von Haeseler, David Kreil) and evolutionary & popu-
lation genetics (Reinhard B¨ urger, Joachim Hermisson,
Christian Schl¨ otterer) provide opportunities for future
collaborations.
Apart from a great scientiﬁc environment, Vienna also
oﬀers an extraordinary quality of living. Aﬀordable
housing, excellent public transport, great restaurants,
two operas, 2 music centers, many theaters and muse-
ums in combination with a pleasant climate make Vi-
enna one of the most attractive cities in Europe.
Further questions and applications should be sent
to Christian Schl¨ otterer (christian.schloetterer@vu-
wien.ac.at, +43-1-250775603)
The search will continue until the position is ﬁlled. For
full consideration applications need to be received be-
fore 14.3.2008
Christian Schl¨ otterer Institut f¨ ur Tierzucht und
Genetik Veterin¨ armedizinische Universit¨ at Wien Josef
Baumann Gasse 1 1210 Wien Austria/Europe
phone: +43-1-250775603 fax: +43-1-
250775693 http://i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/pop/-
popgen.html christian.schloetterer@vu-wien.ac.at
christian.schloetterer@vu-wien.ac.at
WoodsHole ResAssist
MarineEvolution
Full-Time Research Assistant [RA II or III] Biology De-
partment Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution
Application Deadline: March 30, 2008
Ref#: 08-02-03
The Biology Department at WHOI seeks a highly moti-
vated individual to join the Tim Shank lab as a full-time
Research Assistant II or III. The successful applicant
will contribute to projects that focus on the ecology and
evolution of fauna from chemosynthetic, seamount, andMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 51
other marine ecosystems.
Responsibilities include but are not limited to the: 1)
generation of integrative ecological and genetic data
(via DNA and RNA extractions, standard and quanti-
tative PCR, and high throughput DNA sequencing); 2)
performance of genetic analyses for population genetic
and phylogenetic studies; 3) management of laboratory
activities; and 4) active participation in sea-going re-
search expeditions.
Education: B.A., B.S. or M.S. in biology, ecology, or a
related ﬁeld and prior experience in an active research
lab are desired. Excellent written, verbal, and interper-
sonal skills, attention to detail, and a strong work ethic
are essential.
Applicants should have an interest in ecology, evolu-
tion, oceanography, molecular biology, and conserva-
tion, while possessing a genuine drive to perform basic
research. This position requires an independent, orga-
nized, and motivated individual with laboratory experi-
ence. Salary and placement level will be commensurate
with experience and education.
Potential applicants are encouraged to visit the
Shank lab website at http://www.whoi.edu/science/-
B/people/tshank/, and the Biology Department web-
site at http://www.whoi.edu/science/B/dept/ . Appli-
cation for this position (ref #08-02-03) should be con-
ducted using WHOI’s on-line Career Center at http:/-
/jobs.whoi.edu/ . Timothy M. Shank Biology De-
partment, MS 33 Woods Hole Oceanographic Institu-
tion Woods Hole, MA 02543-1049 phone: 508-289-3392
fax: 508-457-2134 http://www.whoi.edu/science/B/-
people/tshank/ http://oceanexplorer.noaa.gov/edu/-
oceanage/05shank/welcome.html tshank@whoi.edu
tshank@whoi.edu
YorkU MolecularEvolution LabTech
York University’s Molecular Evolution Lab (YUMEL)has a fulltime lab technician position starting as soon
as March 24, 2008. Lab research will involve working
on an exciting project examining patterns of extrapair
paternity and genetic screening of blood parasites in
purple martins (Progne subis), a migratory songbird.
Skill set will include (but not be limited to) DNA ex-
tractions, running agarose gels, DNA quantiﬁcation,
conventional and rt-Q PCR, and fragment analysis us-
ing an automated DNA sequencer. Relevant molecular
lab experience is required. The successful candidate
must also have excellent interpersonal communication
skills, be very responsible, hard working, willing to pay
close attention to detail and accuracy, have strong com-
puter skills, be very organized, have high regard for
working safely with chemicals and equipment, and en-
joy working in a collegial environment. The successful
candidate will work closely with the YUMEL manager
and lead researcher, but also must be comfortable work-
ing independently.
Salary will be approximately $2,000/mo, commensu-
rate with lab experience. This is an excellent opportu-
nity for a recent BSc or molecular biotechnology grad-
uate with molecular evolution lab experience to obtain
fulltime employment in a dynamic and supportive uni-
versity research environment, while also gaining valu-
able lab research experience and exposure to cutting
edge techniques.
Please submit (via email) as three separate attach-
ments: (1) a cover letter summarizing your suitabil-
ity for this position; (2) a one-page research statement
thoroughly detailing your relevant research interests
and experience; and (3) a current resume/curriculum
vita. Please also include e-mail and telephone contact
information for three (3) appropriate references at the
end of your resume/curriculum vita. Review of appli-
cations begins March 10, 2008.
Email applications to:
Dr. Scott A. Tarof, Ph.D. 203H Lumbers Building
Dept. of Biology York University Toronto, ON M3J
1P3 (starof@yorku.ca)
starof@yorku.ca starof@yorku.ca
Other52 EvolDir March 1, 2008
ABI Veriti reviews . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
CallforEuropean PopGenetics Research Consortia Con-
Gen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
DNA extraction formol answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Grouper DNA extraction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Haplotype network building . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
Heparin and DNApreservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
HighMolWeight DNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
Moss samples needed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
Nb estimation using linkage answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Plant ﬁxed heterozygote micros . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56Pollinia DNA extraction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Program to rename sequences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Sampling Australian Skates Rajidae . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Software DAMBE 5 0 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Software TreeRot BugFix . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Sorbus micros . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Thomson spams authors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Trout LDH purpose . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
UGlasgow VolunteerFieldAssist GreatTitEvolution 60
UGroningen VolFieldAssist EvolAvianLifeHistory . 60
ABI Veriti reviews
Hello all.
My lab has received an aggressive oﬀer from ABI to sell
us their Veriti 96-well thermocyclers. These are fairly
new machines (about a year old), and we wondering
if anyone out can comment on their experience with
them. Any quirks? Any issues? Any good things?
Any reviews positive or negative would be greatly ap-
preciated.
Thank you.
Anders.
ag2057@columbia.edu ag2057@columbia.edu
CallforEuropean PopGenetics
Research Consortia ConGen
The ESF Programme on “Integrating Population Ge-
netics and Conservation Biology: merging theoreti-
cal, experimental and applied approaches” (ConGen)
is launching a Call for European Research Consortia.
More information is available in the attached document
and on the following website:
http://www.esf.org/congen ************ Call for
ConGen European Research Consortia
The ESF Research Networking Programme on “Inte-
grating Population Genetics and Conservation Biol-
ogy: merging theoretical, experimental and applied ap-
proaches” (ConGen) aims at providing a venue for con-certed action in the ﬁeld of conservation genetics com-
bining and integrating theoretical, experimental and
applied approaches. The Programme, which runs until
November 2009, pursues these objectives by training
young scientists through travel, exchange grants and
courses, and by organising workshops.
To ensure long-standing collaborative research in the
ﬁeld of conservation genetics beyond November 2009,
the Steering Committee (SC) has decided to promote
and stimulate the establishment of European Research
Consortia that successfully can apply for research fund-
ing from diﬀerent granting organisations like the EU.
To this end, the SC has decided to provide funding
to organise an initiating discussion meeting between
prospective collaborating researchers. ConGen is oﬀer-
ing a maximum of 7500 EUR for such a 2-3-day meet-
ing. We expect collaboration between researchers from
at least four diﬀerent European countries. The Call is
open for all researchers working within or having aﬃl-
iations to institutions eligible for support by, or which
are part of, agencies that are Member of the ESF. How-
ever, some preferences may be given to consortia which
include a signiﬁcant number of, or are chaired by, re-
searchers from ConGen contributing countries ( http:/-
/www.congen.biz orhttp://www.esf.org/congen ).
Application procedure
Applications should include:
(i) a clear description of the long-term aims of the con-
sortium and the research questions addressed (1 A4
page), (ii) prospects about the possibility of getting
further funding in a general way (iii) name and aﬃl-
iation of all participants of the consortium including a
short CV providing expertise and ﬁve recent relevant
publications of each participants (iv) the name of the
researcher leading the consortium (Chair) responsible
for the application (v) and a calculation of the costs of
the meeting.
DeadlineMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 53
The next ConGen SC meeting is scheduled for the ﬁrst
week of March 2008. We, therefore, would like to re-
ceive pre-applications by 1 March 2008, so that the
SC already can get an impression of the propective
at its meeting. Please send your pre-application by
email to the Chair and Co-Chair of the Programme,
namely Kuke Bijlsma (r.bijlsma[at]rug.nl) and Volker
Loeschcke (volker.loeschcke[at]biology.au.dk).
The deadline for submitting full applications online will
be 1 April 2008.
***********
Celine Seewald Life, Earth and Environmental Sci-
ences unit (LESC) European Science Foundation 1 quai
Lezay Marnesia BP 90015 67080 Strasbourg Cedex
France T. +33 3 88 76 71 58 F. +33 3 88 37 05 32
cseewald@esf.org
Celine Seewald <cseewald@esf.org >
DNA extraction formol answers
With this I am posting the responses (mainly the ref-
erences I was given) I received for my question:
“I need to extract DNA from ﬁsh specimens that have
been in formol for 3 years to less than six months. If
anyone has had success extracting DNA in such circum-
stances, I would extremely appreciate if you could share
the protocol used”
Cheers, Ella
1. Jingjing Li, Xianghua Liao, and Hong Yang. 2000.
Molecular Characterization of a Parasitic Tapeworm
(Ligula) Based on DNA Sequences from Formalin-Fixed
Specimens. Biochemical Genetics, Vol. 38, Nos. 9/10,,
309-322
2. Selma O. Klanten, Lynne van Herwerden and J.
Howard Choat. 2003. ACQUIRING REEF FISH DNA
SEQUENCES FROM FORMALIN-FIXED MUSEUM
SPECIMENS. BULLETIN OF MARINE SCIENCE,
73(3): 771-776, 2003
3. Rosembaum et al. 1997. Mol. Ecol 6: 677-681,
4. Andrew M. Shedlock, MargoG. Haygood1, Theodore
W. Pietsch and Paul Bentzen. 1997. Enhanced
DNA Extraction and PCR Ampliﬁcation of Mitochon-
drial Genes from Formalin- Fixed Museum Specimens.
BioTechniques 22:394-400
5. Coombs et al. 1999. Nucleic Acid Research 27(16):e12-
6. Dear Ella, I extracted DNA from some paratypes
that had been in formalin for a few weeks before being
transferred to alcohol. I dissected out tissue - muscle,
liver, spleen and then put the tissues through a series
of 1/10 TE/alcohol soaks. I started with either 40%
or 50% EtOH / 60% or 50% 1/10 TE and worked the
EtOH up to 90% EtOH /10% 1/10 TE. I left the tissues
in each for 24 hours. I think I may have done the ﬁrst
one twice. The DNA was degraded but I was able to
get enough to amplify 400-500 bp pieces.
Best, Peter Wimberger Professor, Biology University of
Puget Sound Tacoma, WA
Ella V´ azquez Dom´ ınguez Instituto de Ecolog´ ıa,
UNAM Tel. (5255) 5622 9015 Ap. postal 70-
275 Fax. (5255) 5616 1976 Ciudad Universitaria
evazquez@ecologia.unam.mx M´ exico DF 04510
http://www.ecologia.unam.mx/-
academicos/vazquez/ella contacto.htm
evazquez@miranda.ecologia.unam.mx
evazquez@miranda.ecologia.unam.mx
Grouper DNA extraction
Dear Evoldir I am working on a species of grouper, Plec-
tropomus areolatus. I am trying to extract the DNA
and it does not work. I think that the problem oc-
curs during the ﬁrst steps since the ﬁn tissue is never
lysed: the ﬁn remains intact after 4-5 hours incubation
at 56C with the lysis buﬀer with added proteinase K.
I have tested several extraction methods/kit: - Extrac-
tion in CTAB - Extraction with Qiagen Kit “DNeasy
blood and tissue kit”. - Kit Puregen with cell lysis so-
lution, proteinase K, protein precipitation, isopropanol
- Extraction with Chelex. Did anybody encounter this
problem? Does anyone have suggestions? Many thanks
in advance. Please reply elisabeth.rochel@univ-perp.fr
Cheers Elisabeth
Please note my new email address!!!
cecile.fauvelot@univ-perp.fr
Dr. Cecile FAUVELOT Charge de Recherche Institut
de Recherche pour le Developpement (I.R.D.) UR 128
- Coreus (Communautes Recifales et Usages) Centre
de Biologie et d’Ecologie Tropicale et Mediterranenne
Universite de Perpignan, 52 Av. Paul Alduy - 66860
Perpignan cedex, France Tel : (33) (0)4 68 66 20 55,
Fax : (33) (0)4 68 50 36 8654 EvolDir March 1, 2008
Web page: http://www.ird.nc/COREUS Personal web
page: http://www.ecology.unibo.it/page/cecile.htm
Haplotype network building
Hi all.
I am attempting to build a network of mtDNA haplo-
types for a segment of the control region for the ﬂatﬁsh
Paralichthys lethostigma. Because this region is hyper-
variable, attempts to recover a network without a high
degree of reticulation and median vectors have so far
been unsuccessful. I have tried star-contraction, chang-
ing the value of epsilon, weighting transversions as high
as 3:1 over transitions, to no avail. Just about the only
thing that works is to invoke the frequency >1 ﬁlter,
which eliminates singleton haplotypes (those that occur
only in a single individual) from the network. This re-
sults in a very clean network with only two reticulations
that can be resolved systematically.
My question is this. Has anyone come across literature
or done their own investigations as to how the frequency
>1 criterion aﬀects the accuracy of network topology?
Speciﬁcally, I want to use my resolved MP network for
nested clade analysis or a coalescent approach, but I
haven’t worked out whether or not these methods re-
main meaningful if a great deal of haplotypes have been
eliminated from the dataset in non-random fashion.
Thanks in advance for any ideas on this.
Joel Anderson Natural Resource Specialist Perry R.
Bass Marine Fisheries Research Station Coastal Fish-
eries Division, Texas Parks and Wildlife ph: (361) 972-
5483 fax: (361) 972-6352
Joel.Anderson@tpwd.state.tx.us
Heparin and DNApreservation
Dear all,
I am planning to draw blood from small lizards using
glass micro hematocrit capillary tubes (i.e. minicaps)
and to preserve it on FTA cards (or analogues) for latter
genotyping using microsatellite DNA loci. Minicaps are
available with and without heparin. Although heparinis recommended for easier collection of blood, I do not
know the implications of heparin on DNA preservation
and latter ampliﬁcation.
I wonder whether anyone may aid me in deciding on the
most suitable minicaps (i.e. with or without heparin)
for my purposes.
Best regards, Pedro Moreira
Pedro Lopes Moreira Centro de Biologia Ambiental
Faculdade de Ci¨ ı¿1
2ncias da Universidade de Lisboa
Campo Grande C2 1749-016 Lisboa, Portugal
pedrolmoreira@yahoo.com
HighMolWeight DNA
Dear Evoldir members We are interested in extracting
high molecular weight DNA from fresh tissues (not cell
cultures), and would like to know if anyone has any ex-
perience or expertise in this area? In particular we are
keen to minimise shearing to the DNA, so aim to avoid
conventional kits that tend to shear things down to un-
der 100kb. So if anyone has any suggestions, we would
love to hear from you Thanks in advance for your help
Tom Gilbert
mtpgilbert@gmail.com
Dr Tom Gilbert Associate Professor/Lektor Depart-
ment of Biology University of Copenhagen Univer-
sitetsparken 15 DK2100 Copenhagen Denmark
mtpgilbert@gmail.com
Moss samples needed
Dear all,
I’m a ﬁrst year PhD student working on the genetic di-
versity of genus Dicranum Hedw. (Musci, Bryophyta).
I going to do a phylogeny of this genus but as I have
problems to get good DNA from herbarium samples,
I need fresh material. That is to say 10 to 15 game-
tophytes (plants) from diﬀerent populations from the
most countries. I’m interrested by all the species even
the most commons. Besides I need some informations
about the sampling place (coordinates...). You’ll ﬁnd aMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 55
sheet to ﬁll with this e-mail or I can send it to you if
you can’t read it.
Thanks in advance,
Amelie PICHONET
PhD Student, Teaching Assistant National Museum of
Natural History Departement of Systematique and Evo-
lution, Bryology Team Case 39, 57 rue Cuvier 75005
Paris - France Tel : 00 33 1 40 79 31 88 Fax : 00 33 1
40 79 35 94 Email : pichonet@mnhn.fr
pichonet@mnhn.fr
Nb estimation using linkage answers
Here is my original question:
Dear EvolDir folks,
I have a sample from a single cohort of juvenile frogs
and am wondering if I can apply the linkage disequi-
librium method (as implemented in the NeEstimator
program) to this sample to get an estimate of the ef-
fective number of the parents ( *N*b) that produced
the juvenile cohort. Can anyone verify or refute this?
I have microsatellite genotype data for the juveniles as
well as the adults, so I will have an *N*b estimate from
the temporal method as well. I am hoping to use the
LD method to get an additional estimate of *N*b.
Any of your comments on this issue will be greatly ap-
preciated!
Thank you,
Ivan
———–
And here are the answers I received:
Yes, you certainly can get an estimate of parental Nb
from your samples of juvenile frogs (you can also get
another estimate from your sample of adults). You can
get such an estimate from NeEstimator, but you might
want to consider as an alternative a program (LDNe)
we wrote and have described in a paper in press at
Mol. Ecol. Notes. LDNe has a couple of advantages
over other methods based on linkage disequilibrium: *
it implements the bias correction described in Waples
2006 (Con. Genetics 7:167-184.) * It provides sepa-
rate estimates based on diﬀerent user-speciﬁed criteria
for excluding rare alleles. this facilitates evaluation of
potential biases from use of microsat data.it is easy to use and reads standard input ﬁles (FSTAT,
GenePop). you can access the program, user’s manual,
and related ﬁles at http://ﬁsh.washington.edu/xfer/-
LDNE/ you might also consider using OneSamp (re-
cently described in an online early paper by Tallmon
et al. in Mol. Ecol. Notes). this program uses ap-
proximate Bayesian computation methods to derive an
estimate of eﬀective size based on a single sample.
for your temporal estimate, if you have sampled the
adults non-lethally you have Plan I samples and you
should make sure you use an estimator that accounts
for the correlation in allele frequencies between parents
and oﬀspring. this requires an estimate of N, the total
number of adults your initial sample was (presumably
randomly) sampled from.
best wishes, and let me know if you have any questions.
Robin Waples
Regarding your question posted on EvolDir:
First of all I suspect you already have the references on
this method? Here are some - there may be more:
Bartely D, Bagley M, Gall G, Bentley B (1992). Use
of linkage disequilibrium data to estimate eﬀective size
of hatchery and natural ﬁsh populations. Conservation
Biology, 6, 365-375.
England PR., Cornuet J-M, Berthier P, Tallmon DA,
Luikart G (2006). Estimating eﬀective population size
from linkage disequilibrium: severe bias in small sam-
ples. Conservation Genetics, 7, 303-308.
Hill WG (1981). Estimation of eﬀective population
size from data on linkage disequilibrium. Genetical Re-
search, Cambridge, 38, 209-216.
Waples RS (1991). Genetic methods for estimating the
eﬀective size of cetacean populations. Report of the
International Whaling Commission (special issue 13),
279-300.
Waples RS (2005). Genetic estimates of contemporary
eﬀective population size: To what time periods do the
estimates apply? Molecular Ecology, 14, 3335-3352.
Weir BS, Hill WG (1980). Eﬀect of mating structure
on variation in linkage disequilibrium. Genetics, 95,
477-488.
I’ve used Ne estimator to estimate the number of breed-
ers from a single cohort of amphibian progeny as you
outline. With my dataset (40 tadpoles per population
and 9 microsatellite markers), I deﬁnitely received es-
timates within a plausible range, when applying this
method. Not knowing the actual number of breeders
in the various populations, I had no way of testing
the reliability however. I can only say that in gen-56 EvolDir March 1, 2008
eral the results appeared in the range we expected, and
that large populations yielded a larger Ne-estimate than
small populations.
Nonetheless, I think you should be very careful to use
any of the Ne methods isolated, and the results should
always be interpreted with caution. To employ sev-
eral methods in combination and use a large number of
polymorphic markers would of course be preferable.
I would be very keen to see the answers you get, so
please post them, if you receive anything useful. Also,
I would appreciate to learn your opinion and experi-
ences with the method once/if you chose to apply it to
your data.
Cheers,
Morten
Morten E. Allentoft
M.Sc., Ph.D. candidate
School of Biological Sciences
University of Canterbury
Private Bag 4800
Christchurch New Zealand
———–
Ivan C. Phillipsen Department of Zoology Ore-
gon State University Corvallis, OR 97331-2914
philliiv@science.oregonstate.edu
Plant ﬁxed heterozygote micros
Dear Evoldir members,
I am working with microsatellite in diploid plant
species. We have tested six microsatellite primers de-
scribed for congener species. However, two of them
showed ﬁxed heterozygotic genotype. Somebody knows
what can produce ﬁx heterozygote in a microsatellite
locus?
Thank in advance,
Miguel Angel
Dr. Miguel Angel Gonzalez Perez Departamento de Bi-
ologia Campus Universitario de Taﬁra Universidad de
Las Palmas de Gran Canaria 35017 Las Palmas Islas
Canarias Spain
Phone: +34.928.45.45.43 Fax: +34.928.45.29.22 e-mai:HYPERLINK “mailto:mgonzalez@becarios.ulpgc.es”
mgonzalez@becarios.ulpgc.es
mgonzalez@becarios.ulpgc.es
Pollinia DNA extraction
I am working with the common milkweed plant (as-
clepias syriaca) and I need to extract DNA from the
pollinia. I was wondering if anyone knows of any pro-
tocols speciﬁc to pollinia (asclepias or orchids) DNA
extraction or just for extracting DNA from very small
amounts of plant material? Thank you.
Aaron Howard Georgetown University Department of
Biology 37th and O Street NW Reiss 406 Washington
DC 20057
doublearon83@gmail.com
Program to rename sequences
Hello Everybody,
Does anyone knows whether there is a program which is
able to automatically rename the sequences in a (fasta
or other format) ﬁle ?
In other words a program which is able to assign a new
identiﬁcation number to each sequences written in the
ﬁle ?
Why ? because many bioinformatic programs truncate
sequences when names are too long and lead sometimes
to redundant names and then to a corrupted ﬁle which
often kill the computing process and generate an error
...
Thanks a lot in advance for the solutions !
Xavier
– Xavier Bailly Station Biologique de Roscoﬀ Place
George Teissier BP 74 29682 Roscoﬀ Cedex France
tel: (00 33) 2 98 29 23 23 fax: (00 33) 2 98 29 23 24
email: bailly@sb-roscoﬀ.fr http://www.sb-roscoﬀ.fr/
bailly@sb-roscoﬀ.fr bailly@sb-roscoﬀ.frMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 57
Sampling Australian Skates Rajidae
Dear Evoldir members, I am a PhD student in Envi-
ronmental Sciences at the University of Bologna (Italy)
and I work within the group of Dr. Fausto Tinti ( http:/-
/www.dipartimentobiologia.it/research/rutinti.asp <
http://www.dipartimentobiologia.it/research/rutinti.asp
>). Since 2000 the Tinti’s group has been focusing re-
search activities on the micro- and macro-evolutionary
patterns and mechanisms in marine ﬁsh of the
North-eastern Atlantic and Mediterranean. Rel-
evant achievements have been obtained with the
reconstruction of spatial and temporal evolutionary
patterns and processes of cartilaginous ﬁsh (Raji-
dae) and the development of on-line data bank for
the monitoring and conservation of Mediterranean
skates and rays ( http://www.med-skate.unibo.it <
http://www.med-skate.unibo.it/ >).
Some publications are: - Valsecchi, E., Pasolini, P.,
Bertozzi, M., Garoia, F., Ungaro, N., Vacchi, M.,
Sabelli, B., Tinti, F. 2005. Rapid Miocene-Pliocene
dispersal and evolution of Mediterranean rajid fauna as
inferred by mitochondrial gene varation. J. Evol Biol.,
18:436-446 - Tinti, F., Ungaro, N., Pasolini, P., De Pan-
ﬁlis, M., Garoia, F.,Guarniero, I., Sabelli, B., Marano,
G., Piccinetti, C. 2003.Development of molecular and
morphological markers toimprove species-speciﬁc mon-
itoring and systematic of North-East Atlantic and
Mediterranean skates (Rajiformes). J. Exp.Mar. Biol.
Ecol. 288: 149-165.]
At present we are investigating the bio-geographical
phylogeny of Rajidae on a broader range, with both
an interdisciplinary bio-geographical and molecular ap-
proach. The main goal is to test the hypothesis of a
Tertiary Gondwanic dispersal and evolution of Raji-
dae, along northward evolutionary pathways. For this
purpose we would need to extend the analysis to aus-
tral hemisphere faunas. Presently, we have already col-
lected samples from several location in South-western
Atlantic (Brazil and Argentina) and South-eastern At-
lantic (South Africa). Since in a period between March-
May 2008 I will be in Australia, Sydney; I would like
to make the most of my staying, trying to collect some
tissue samples from Rajidae species occurring in that
area.
Thus, I’m wondering if anyone of you think there might
be any opportunity for me to join some sampling cam-paign where I can collect those ﬁshes or to have access
to voucher specimen collection already available. The
sampling of individuals consists of the collection of a
digital picture and of a small part of ﬁn or muscle tissue
which will be stored in ethanol 80% into microtubes.
In the case you are so kind to help me, I will be ﬁnan-
cially fully supported by the University of Bologna. I
also have some friends already working at University
of New South Wales that can host me and help me in
organizing any required travel.
I only need support for the search of samples.
I hope that this will be the beginning of a fruitful col-
laboration between our research groups. If you should
need further details, don’t hesitate to contact me. Also,
any advice is welcome.
Looking forward your kind reply I thank you for your
time and attention.
Best regards Alessia Cariani Dott.ssa Alessia Cariani
Molecular Genetics for Environmental & Fishery Re-
sources Laboratory -GenMAP- Interdept. Center for
Research in Environmental Sciences -CIRSA- Univer-
sity of Bologna via Sant’Alberto, 163 I-48100 Ravenna,
Italy Tel.+39 0544 937408 Fax +39 0544 937411 E-mail:
alessia.cariani@unibo.it
Alessia Cariani <alessia.cariani@unibo.it >
Software DAMBE 5 0 5
Dear All,
I have uploaded a new version of DAMBE (ver-
sion 5.0.5, at http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca/dambe.asp )
with many improvements. Here is a partial list relevant
to evolutionary biologists:
1. Much improved ML method.
The maximum likelihood method is now much faster (it
was fast to start with because the function was mostly
based on the fastDNAML program), and generate bet-
ter trees than many other comparable programs. You
may use highly diverged sequences to test its perfor-
mance against other phylogenetic software. Or you
may just use the included vertCOI.fas ﬁle to try it
out (Click ’File |Open standard sequence ﬁle’ and select
vertCOI.fas).
In addition to speed, I have also added a tree editor for
you to input prior knowledge about the phylogenetic58 EvolDir March 1, 2008
relationship among OTUs. Typically we know the phy-
logenetic relationships among a subset of OTUs, and
we really just need to resolve the phylogenetic rela-
tionship of the rest of the ingroup. When you click
’Phylogenetic |Maximum likelihood |DNAML’, you can
change the runmode to ’Start with a partial tree’ in
the ML dialog box. This will start a tree editor with a
star tree. If you use the included vertCOI.fas ﬁle, then
you will have eight leaves all branching oﬀ the same
root. Just drag the nodes to each other to create a
new tree, or drag OTUs (whose phylogenetic relation-
ships are unknown a priori) to the garbage bin. The
result should be an unrooted but fully resolved partial
tree. Now click ’File |Export and exit’ and then click the
’Run’ button to do a maximum likelihood reconstruc-
tion. Supplying a subtree decreases the time spent in
creating the initial ML tree which will then be rear-
ranged (depending on how you set the options). It is
important that the subtree is a very good one because
otherwise rearranging the initial ML tree will be time-
consuming, thus defeating the purpose of creating the
initial subtree.
(This “initial subtree” option has in fact been avail-
able in DAMBE since its publication, but users often
monkey-wrench a wrong tree, either with OTU names
in the tree diﬀerent from those in the sequences or
with wrong tree format. The result is always the same:
DAMBE crushes. Introducing a tree-drawing function
hopefully will eliminate this problem.)
2. Evaluating statistical support of alternative topolo-
gies:
If you choose to keep more than one tree in the ML
dialog box, then the relative support of the alterna-
tive trees will be evaluated by three tests, the paired-
sample t-test, the SH test and the RELL test. While
these tests are all based on site-speciﬁc log-likelihood
(lnL), the paired-sampled t-test will always generate
the same result, but the other two tests are from boot-
strapping results and will consequently diﬀer slightly
between runs. C/C++ programmers can get the im-
plementation of such tests in several open-source pro-
grams (e.g., PAML), VB programmers may ask me for
an implementation in VB.
If you have several diﬀerent trees and wish to evalu-
ate their relative statistical support, you may choose
the user tree as the runmode option. If you use
the vertCOI.fas ﬁle, then you may choose the vert-
COITree4.nhm ﬁle which contains four diﬀerent trees.
3. Selecting best-ﬁtting nucleotide substitution models.
For model selection among nucleotide-based substitu-
tion models, three commonly used criteria were im-plemented, the hierarchical likelihood ratio test, AIC,
and BIC. To try the function, read in a sequence ﬁle,
e.g., vertCOI.fas, and click ’Phylogenetics |Select best
nuc. sub. model’. You will be asked to either create
a new tree or import a user tree from a tree ﬁle. In
either case, the previously mentioned tree editor will
be shown: choosing ’New tree’ option will start with
a star tree in the tree editor, and choosing ’User tree
from tree ﬁle’ will display the tree in the tree editor
just to make sure that the tree is displayed properly.
You should ensure that the tree from tree ﬁle has OTU
names identical to those sequence names. If you use the
vertCOI.fas ﬁle, I recommend that you choose the “User
tree from tree ﬁle’ option and open the vertCOIUn-
rooted.dnd which contains an unrooted tree. Remem-
ber to click ’File |Export and exit’ in the tree-drawing
window. Click the ’Run’ button and DAMBE will eval-
uate substitution models from JC69 to GTR based on
likelihood ratio test, AIC and BIC. I personally con-
sider BIC a conceptually wrong criterion for evaluating
substitution models. We normally should use a sim-
ple model with limited data (e.g., when sequences are
short), but can aﬀord to use a parameter-rich model
with long sequences. The BIC criterion tends to tell
us to do the opposite, i.e., it favors parameter-rich
model when sequences are very short, but is against
parameter-rich models when sequences are very long.
What a silly criterion it is! The model evaluation is in
fact done with a minor modiﬁcation of the
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Software TreeRot BugFix
Thanks to reports from users, we’ve been able to ﬁx
a few minor and one major problem in TreeRot ver-
sion 3. If you use the program for determining decay
indices (Bremer support) and/or partitioned support,
please trash your current version of the program and
download it again.
Thanks, Mike
http://people.bu.edu/msoren/TreeRot.html Michael
Sorenson Associate Professor Department of Biology
Boston University 5 Cummington St. Boston, MA
02215March 1, 2008 EvolDir 59
(617) 353-6983 FAX: (617) 353-6340
msoren@bu.edu msoren@bu.edu
Sorbus micros
Dear Evoldir members,
Nowadays, we are working in conservation genetics and
population genetic in Sorbus aria, native specie from
the Canary Islands. Is there somebody that has char-
acterized and isolated microsatellite loci in Sorbus sp?
Thank in advance,
Miguel Angel
Dr. Miguel Angel Gonz¨ ı¿1
2lez P¨ ı¿1
2rez Departamento
de Biolog¨ ı¿1
2a Campus Universitario de Taﬁra Univer-
sidad de Las Palmas de Gran Canaria 35017 Las Palmas
Islas Canarias Spain
Phone: +34.928.45.45.43 Fax:
+34.928.45.29.22 e-mai: HYPERLINK
“mailto:mgonzalez@becarios.ulpgc.es”mgonzalez@becarios.ulpgc.es
mgonzalez@becarios.ulpgc.es
Thomson spams authors
Dear Colleagues,
A few years ago I began to receive many email and
paper mail advertisements at my work addresses from
companies selling scientiﬁc products. Most of these
messages were of no interest to me, and their numbers
have increased to the point of becoming a nuisance.
It turns out that Thomson Scientiﬁc (the Web of Sci-
ence and Science Citation Index people) may be be-
hind this ﬂood of spam and junk mail that many of
us receive. Thomson oﬀers a product called “Scientiﬁc
Direct” that harvests author contact information from
the papers that we publish and sells it to marketers.
Here is a description from their website ( http://-
scientiﬁc.thomson.com/products/scientiﬁcdirect/ ):
“The Process is Simple First, you consult with one of
our list selection experts to create highly focused pro-
ﬁles. These proﬁles are then run against the multidis-ciplinary Thomson Scientiﬁc database. The resulting
names are sent to you in the form of postal addresses or
e-mail addresses, chosen carefully from the more than
500,000 international authors who have published pa-
pers in the top scientiﬁc, peer-reviewed journals.”
I was disappointed to read this. I have never provided
my contact information in a scientiﬁc paper with the
goal of it being used to send me spam or thousands of
pages of worthless and wasteful paper catalogues.
If you wish to contact Thomson about this practice, I
suggest beginning here:
http://scientiﬁc.thomson.com/press/mediacontacts/
or here: customsales@thomson.com Please let me know
if you get a reply.
Thanks,
Steve
Steve Jordan Department of Biology Bucknell Uni-
versity Lewisburg, PA 17837 Oﬃce: 310 Bio.
Bldg. +1 570-577-1254 Lab: 331 Bio. Bldg.
+1 570-524-3816 Fax: +1 570-577-3537 http://-
www.facstaﬀ.bucknell.edu/sdjordan/jordan.html
steve.jordan@bucknell.edu
Trout LDH purpose
Dear colleagues,
I am looking for colleagues who have used the method of
McMeel/Ferguson (see ref. bellow) on trout LDH-C1.
I would like to discuss on the results with people who
have analysed both allozymes AND gene ampliﬁcation;
because of surprising discrepancies.
Patrick Berrebi
McMeel O. M., Hoey E. M. and Ferguson A. (2001) Par-
tial nucleotide sequences, and routine typing by poly-
merase chain reaction-restriction fragment length poly-
morphism, of the brown trout (Salmo trutta) lactate
dehydrogenase, LDH-C1*90 and *100 alleles. Molecu-
lar Ecology 10, 29-34.
Patrick BERREBI - Directeur de recherche CNRS
UMR 5554 “Institut des Sciences de l’Evolution”
Equipe Genetique et Environnement / Metapopula-
tions, Conservation et Co-Eolution Universite Montpel-
lier II, CC 065. Place E. Bataillon 34095 Montpellier
Cedex 5 (France)60 EvolDir March 1, 2008
berrebi@univ-montp2.fr France 04 6714 3732 - Interna-
tional 33 4 6714 3732 Fax France 04 6714 3622 - Interna-
tional 33 4 6714 3622 Web: http://www.isem.cnrs.fr/-
spip.php?article526 berrebi@univ-montp2.fr
UGlasgow VolunteerFieldAssist
GreatTitEvolution
Research assistants needed for ﬁeld work on great tits
and blue tits in spring/summer 2008
We are currently looking to recruit volunteers for a re-
search project investigating breeding ecology in blue
tits and great tits. Fieldwork assistant posts are avail-
able April-June 2008. Posts are available for varying
periods starting on diﬀerent dates.
Field activities include nestbox monitoring, measuring
eggs and nestlings, clutch size manipulation, inverte-
brate sampling, nestbox camera setup and video anal-
ysis.
You will be working as part of a team with
Dr Kathryn Arnold ( www.gla.ac.uk:443//ibls/staﬀ/-
staﬀ.php?who=PGe ˜ Pn ) and Dr. Terje Lislevand at
the University of Glasgow, UK.
Requirements: An interest in animal ecology and an-
imal behaviour. Candidates should preferably have a
background in biological sciences. Experience with han-
dling birds is preferred but not essential.
Posts are available for at least 3 weeks. Applicants
must be reasonably ﬁt and able to climb ladders (for
ﬁeldwork).
Basic living costs and travel within the UK will be cov-
ered. Accommodation during ﬁeldwork is provided at
ﬁeld station of Glasgow University, SCENE, Rowar-
dennan, within Loch Lomond National Park ( http:/-
/www.gla.ac.uk/departments/scene/ ).
E-mail applications are accepted and encouraged.
Please send a CV with a covering letter and details
of two referees (academic or ﬁeld biology related - with
e-mail address) to:
Lindsay Henderson Division of Environmental and
Evolutionary Biology, Graham Kerr Building, Uni-
versity of Glasgow, G12 8QQ Scotland, UK (E-mail:
l.henderson.1@research.gla.ac.uk)
Please remember to indicate dates you are available.
Closing date: Friday 14th March.Dr. Terje Lislevand http://www.gla.ac.uk/-
departments/eeb/researchinterests/pdra/-
terjelislevand/ tl37r@udcf.gla.ac.uk
UGroningen VolFieldAssist
EvolAvianLifeHistory
Volunteer ﬁeld assistant needed for work on Skylarks
and Woodlarks in the Netherlands
Volunteers are needed between April and mid of July
2008 for a research project investigating ˆ a Seasonal dy-
namics in the evolution and ecology of avian life histo-
ries: an integrative ﬁeld study of disease risk, energetics
& immunology, in members of the Lark family Alaudi-
daeˆ a.
Our goal is to better our understanding of how diﬀerent
lark species all over the world cope with seasonal and
environmental variation. Improved knowledge of avian
physiology is important to understanding more clearly
how life histories evolve since the range of life history
traits that species can adopt are likely constrained by
their physiology. Thus, by understanding the physio-
logical mechanisms behind adaptation to seasonal and
environmental variation, we will be able to better ex-
plain how such variation might lead to diﬀerent life
histories in diﬀerent habitats. The project is carried
out by the Animal Ecology Group of the University of
Groningen / The Netherlands.
With this advertisement we are looking for volunteer
ﬁeld assistants helping with the ﬁeld work on Skylarks
and Woodlarks in the Netherlands.
Volunteers will participate in the ﬁeld work of an in-
ternational research team. The main task of the volun-
teer will be searching for nests, observing colour-ringed
birds and catching Larks. Participation in investiga-
tions using modern eco-immunological and physiologi-
cal methods is also possible.
Field work area is a dune and heather area in the
Drents-Friese Wold National Park in the northern
Netherlands. The study area contains about 50 pairs
of Woodlarks and about 100 pairs of Skylarks as well
as many other interesting species.
Applicants must have good experience with ornithologi-
cal ﬁeld work and bird observations. Time and length of
stay can be agreed on personal preferences. We provide
housing and food, but volunteers must pay their ownMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 61
travel costs (a small contribution to these costs might
be possible, depending on the outcome of a grant appli-
cation). The working language of the group is English.
Applicants must be prepared for cold and rainy condi-
tions requiring warm outdoor gear, including hats and
gloves.
To apply: Please send a CV, a covering letter address-
ing any relevant experience, two references with e-mail
addresses and the time you would be available to the
address below.
If you have any questions please feel free to contact me
Arne Hegemann
Please forward this message to people who might beinterested.
Arne Hegemann, Animal Ecology Group, Centre
for Ecological and Evolutionary Studies, Univer-
sity of Groningen, P.O. Box 14, 9750 AA Haren,
The Netherlands, tel +31 (0)50 363-3409, email
a.hegemann@rug.nl
ˆA
Arne Hegemann Animal Ecology Group Centre for Eco-
logical and Evolutionary Studies University of Gronin-
gen P.O. Box 14 9750 AA Haren The Netherlands
tel +31 (0)50 363-3409 email a.hegemann@rug.nl
Arne Hegemann <a.hegemann@rug.nl >
PostDocs
BangorU 2 FishPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
CambridgeU SystemsBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
Cardiﬀ ParasiteInvasion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
DalhousieU ComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
FrenchGuyane TreePhylogeography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
HarvardU ExpEvolution MetabolicSystems . . . . . . . . 65
KansasStateU Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Montpellier 1year EvolutionOfSenescence . . . . . . . . . . 66
Montpellier DiseaseModeling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Montpellier Forest Genetic Diversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Oslo 4 CenterEcolEvolSynthesis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Porto Portugal Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
QueenMaryU ViralVirulenceEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
StateUNewYorkAlbany EvolImmuneFunction . . . . . . 71
UAkron BiomaterialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
UAlaskaFairbanks Evolution of PlantBudDormancy 72
UAzores SubterraneanBioDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
UCaliforniaIrvine PlantComparativeGenomics . . . . . 73UCBerkeley ComparativeBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
UFribourg EvolutionaryPlantEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
UGeorgia EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
UHelsinki Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
UHelsinki MathBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
ULaval SalmonidFunctionalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
UMissouriStLouis PlantPhyloSystematics . . . . . . . . . . 77
UPenn DiseaseEcoEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
UPittsburgh AquaticEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
USDA BeltsvilleMD ComparativePopGenetics . . . . . 78
USheﬃeld 2 MolecularAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
UTennesseeKnoxville EvolutionaryTheory . . . . . . . . . 80
UTexasAustin MolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
UToronto EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
UZurich Post-copulatory sexual selection . . . . . . . . . . 81
WesternWashingtonU TundraPhylogeography . . . . . 82
BangorU 2 FishPopGenetics
Position 1. EU-funded Post Doc in Molecular Ecology,
Bangor UniversitySchool of Biological Sciences, Bangor University POST-
DOCTORAL RESEARCH OFFICER IN MOLECU-
LAR ECOLOGY (08-7/107) Salary: 21,478 - 23,883,
R&A Grade 1A The structure of ﬁsh populations and
traceability of ﬁsh and ﬁsh products: FishPopTrace
Applications are invited for a full time 3 year
EU-funded Postdoctoral Research Oﬃcer in Molecu-62 EvolDir March 1, 2008
lar Ecology to work in the Molecular Ecology and
Fisheries Genetics Laboratory (MEFGL) ( http://-
biology.bangor.ac.uk/research/mefgl/ ) at Bangor to in-
vestigate population genetic structure and traceability
of commercial marine ﬁshes in European waters. The
appointee will be primarily responsible for the devel-
opment of a forensically-validated marker system (sin-
gle nucleotide polymorphisms, SNPs) to identify stocks
of commercial marine ﬁshes, especially, cod, Gadus
morhua, as a basis for description of population genetic
structure and for traceability. The appointee will also
assist the Bangor team in coordinating the 15-partner
consortium (FishPopTrace), comprising ﬁsh biologists,
geneticists, forensic biologists and representatives of the
ﬁshing and commercial sectors.
The successful candidate should have experience in
the application of molecular tools, in particular SNPs
and/or microsatellites, and familiarity with analysis of
molecular genetic data. The candidate will have a
Ph.D. in molecular ecology, with research interests in
population genetic structure, ﬁsheries genetics, foren-
sics, or related topics. Furthermore, good communica-
tion, presentation skills and a strong commitment to
timely publication of results will be essential.
The Molecular Ecology and Evolution Group at Ban-
gor is organized into 2 main areas: The Molecular Ecol-
ogy and Fisheries Genetics Laboratory (MEFGL), and
the Evolution of Reptiles Unit. Both laboratories share
common molecular facilities, group meetings and of-
ﬁce space. The MEFGL team currently comprises 30
scientists engaged in projects focusing on the popula-
tion and species biodiversity of primarily aquatic ani-
mals, providing a dynamic interactive environment. It
is housed in the new, £8 million Environment Centre
Wales, comprising a suite of fully integrated molec-
ular laboratories including a 96 lane ABI automated
sequencer/genotyper and a Beckman-Coulter capillary
sequencer, an ABI 7900HT Fast Real-Time PCR sys-
tem, wide range of thermal cyclers and associated sup-
port, and a new dedicated ancient DNA facility. Bioin-
formatic facilities are enhanced by a dedicated Biowulf
cluster and server, with a new bioinformatics suite lo-
cated adjacent to the molecular laboratories.
Applications and Informal Enquiries Application forms
and further particulars should be obtained by con-
tacting Human Resources, Bangor University, Bangor,
Gwynedd LL57 2DG; tel: (01248) 382926/388132; e-
mail: personnel@bangor.ac.uk, quoting 08-7/107. Po-
sition summaries are also available via the group web-
site:
http://biology.bangor.ac.uk/research/mefgl/-
mefgl opportunities.htm . The closing date forapplications is February 22nd 2008. Informal enquiries
can be made by contacting Professor Gary Carvalho
(g.r.carvalho@bangor.ac.uk; +44(0)1248382100)),
or Dr Martin Taylor (m.taylor@bangor.ac.uk; +44-
1248382344.
– Si Creer Post Doctoral Research Fellow Molecu-
lar Ecology and Fisheries Genetics Group School of
Biological Sciences University Wales, Bangor Bangor
Gwynedd LL57 2UW UK
e-mail: s.creer@bangor.ac.uk Tel: +1248 382302
Fax: +1248 371644 Home Page: http://-
biology.bangor.ac.uk/ ˜ bssa0d/ “S.Creer”
<bssa0d@bangor.ac.uk >
Position 2. NERC funded Post Doc in Molecular Ecol-
ogy, Bangor University
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH OFFICER IN
MOLECULAR ECOLOGY (ref: 08-7/111) Starting
salary: 21,478 R&A Grade 1A
Population structure of cod around the UK: scale,
mechanisms and dynamics
Applications are invited for a 19 month Postdoc-
toral Research Oﬃcer in Molecular Ecology to work
in the Molecular Ecology and Fisheries Genetics
Laboratory (MEFGL) ( http://biology.bangor.ac.uk/-
research/mefgl/ ) at Bangor to investigate population
genetic structure and the development of spatially-
resolved population models for cod (Gadus morhua) in
UK and NW European coastal waters. The appointee
will be primarily responsible for the development and
screening of cod populations using single nucleotide
polymorphisms, (SNPs) to assess levels of structuring.
Data will be integrated with partner results from mi-
crosatellites, tagging studies, and otolith microchem-
istry to generate spatially resolved population dynam-
ics models
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
CambridgeU SystemsBiology
University of Cambridge, UK
Research Associate in Systems BiologyMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 63
Department of Physiology, Development and Neuro-
science
Vacancy Reference No: PM03000 Salary: £25,134-
£32,796
Limit of tenure applies*
We seek a post-doctoral Research Associate to join an
interdisciplinary BBSRC funded project to study the
dynamics of gene regulatory networks in the ﬂy. The
major aims are to elucidate the temporal characteris-
tics of the transcriptional response to Notch signalling,
and to develop predictive models from these data that
will inform our understanding of the regulatory circuits.
This post will focus on the development of stochastic
models of network connectivity, and the statistical tools
for inference in such models, using time courses of ex-
pression and ChIP-chip data. The post will be based
in the Cambridge Systems Biology Centre, home to a
number of research groups working in systems biology
(seehttp:// www.sysbiol.cam.ac.uk/index.php ).
The successful applicant will have a PhD or equiva-
lent in computational biology or a relevant quantitative
ﬁeld such as statistics, applied mathematics, engineer-
ing or physics. Experience in computational statistics
and strong programming skills in languages such as R,
Matlab or C++ is required. Experience in statistical
analysis and/or stochastic modelling in molecular biol-
ogy will be an advantage.
Questions may be addressed to Dr Sarah Bray
(sjb32@mole.bio.cam.ac.uk) or Prof Simon Tavare
(st321@cam.ac.uk). Applications, to include a current
CV and contact details of three referees in pdf for-
mat only, plus form PD18 (parts I & III, download-
able from www.pdn.cam.ac.uk/jobs ), should be sent to
reception@pdn.cam.ac.uk.
Consideration of applicants will begin 14 March 2008.
* Limit of tenure: up to three years
Closing date: 14 March 2008.
The University values diversity and is committed to
equality of opportunity.
The University has a responsibility to ensure that all
employees are eligible to live and work in the UK.
s.tavare@damtp.cam.ac.uk s.tavare@damtp.cam.ac.uk
Cardiﬀ ParasiteInvasionMarie Curie Research Fellow/Senior Research Fellow in
Molecular Ecology
Cardiﬀ School of Biosciences, U.K.
This post is ﬁxed-term for 24 months, or until 30 April
2010 if appointed as a Marie Curie Fellow or Fixed-term
for 18 months, or until 30 April 2010 if appointed as a
Marie Curie Senior Fellow.
Closing date: 3 March 2008.
In a global economy, the transfer of parasites to novel
hosts can pose a major threat to both farmed and wild
animal stocks. The eﬀects of parasite invasion can have
signiﬁcant impacts on rural economies and biodiversity,
but are diﬃcult to evaluate in the short-term, since
adaptation to new hosts occurs over an evolutionary
time-scale. This project will study neutral genetic vari-
ation and adaptive evolution of morphology and viru-
lence of gyrodactylid parasites associated with histori-
cal translocations of the guppy (Poecilia reticulata).
This group of ﬁsh-parasites may comprise ca. 20,000
species, the majority of which are still unknown to sci-
ence. Gyrodactylids are renowned for their colonization
abilities and pathogenicity, and one species alone, Gy-
rodactylus salaris has cost the Norwegian Salmon In-
dustry >500 million in 25 years. Gyrodactylids demon-
strate biological plasticity including host-shifts, an evo-
lutionary characteristic important for parasite invasion.
We will utilise a multi-disciplinary approach integrat-
ing morphometrics, molecular ecology and experimen-
tal parasitology to identify and describe novel species,
to study their invasion potential, and to establish DNA
barcoding for this group.
You must have a strong background in evolutionary
biology, genetics, ecology and/or epidemiology. You
will join a team of parasitologists (Cardiﬀ and Oslo)
and evolutionary biologists (Cardiﬀ and Hull) engaged
in a four-year Transfer of Knowledge (ToK) Marie
Curie Programme (GYROSCOPE). You will be based
in Cardiﬀ for 18 to 24 months, dependent on the posi-
tion, but there will be the possibility of short periods
of ﬁeldwork overseas.
You should have a PhD submitted in an appropriate
discipline (awaiting PhD viva) and expertise in para-
sitology/microscopy or molecular biology are essential.
(Marie Curie Fellow). For Marie Curie Senior Fellow,
a PhD and experience of microsatellite, AFLP and/or
SNP analysis are essential.
In order to comply with EU ToK appointment
requirements, applicants must be able meet the
eligibility criteria. For example, British nation-
als would not normally be eligible to apply for64 EvolDir March 1, 2008
this post. Further information regarding eli-
gibility can be found at: http://ec.europa.eu/-
research/fp6/mariecurie-actions/action/level en.html
And http://www.ukro.bbsrc.ac.uk/mariecurie/-
fp6/application info/handbooks/05 handbooks/-
0508 mchandbook tok.pdf For further information,
contact Dr. Jo Cable (e-mail: cablej@cardiﬀ.ac.uk),
Prof. Mike Bruford (BrufordMW@cardiﬀ.ac.uk)
and/ or Dr. Cock van Oosterhout (C.van-
oosterhout@hull.ac.uk). For general information
on the Schools of Biological Sciences at Cardiﬀ Uni-
versity and the University of Hull visit our websites at
http://www.cardiﬀ.ac.uk/biosi/research/biodiversity/-
index.html and http://www.hull.ac.uk/biosci/-
staﬀ/academic/MolecularEcologyandEvolution/-
CockvanOosterhout.html respectively.
Salary: EU-funded positions, salary dependent on
EU experienced researcher qualiﬁcations approximately
*28,000 per annum (Marie Curie Fellow) or approxi-
mately *41,928 per annum. (Marie Curie Senior Fel-
low).
To work for an employer that values and promotes
equality of opportunity, visit www.cardiﬀ.ac.uk/jobs
telephone + 44 (0) 29 2087 4017 or email vacan-
cies@cardiﬀ.ac.uk for an application form quoting va-
cancy number 2008/0128.
Joanne Cable <cablej@Cardiﬀ.ac.uk >
DalhousieU ComparativeGenomics
POSTDOCTORAL OR RESEARCH ASSISTANT
POSITIONSX
Bioinformatics, comparative genomics, endosymbiosis
and genome evolution
Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology,
Dalhousie University Halifax, Nova Scotia CANADA
We seek highly skilled and self-motivated researchers
at the postdoctoral and/or research assistant level to
explore the impact of secondary endosymbiosis on eu-
karyotic genome evolution and cell biology. Speciﬁcally,
the research will revolve around the bioinformatic anal-
ysis and interpretation of nuclear genome sequences
from two unicellular algae ( http://www.jgi.doe.gov/-
sequencing/why/CSP2007/guillardia.html ).
The Archibald and Gray Laboratories are part of
a collegial and internationally recognized community
of comparative genomics and molecular evolution re-searchers at Dalhousie University. The successful appli-
cants will have the opportunity to work collaboratively
with these researchers and with those at other institu-
tions. Demonstrated skills in bioinformatics, compar-
ative genomics and genome evolution are essential, as
are strong written and oral communication abilities.
The positions are available starting May 1, 2008 (actual
start date negotiable) and will run for an initial 1-year
period, with the possibility of extension to 3 years given
satisfactory performance. All qualiﬁed and interested
persons are encouraged to apply. Applicants should
email (1) a brief cover letter outlining their qualiﬁca-
tions and research interests, (2) a Curriculum Vitae and
(3) contact information for three references to:
John Archibald and Michael Gray jmarchib@dal.ca
http://myweb.dal.ca/jmarchib/,
http://www.biochem.dal.ca/faculty/facultypages/gray/
CLOSING DATE: April 15, 2008.
John Archibald <jmarchib@dal.ca >
FrenchGuyane TreePhylogeography
We seek a broadly-trained and enthusiastic researcher
to investigate the phylogeographic history of tree com-
munities in French Guyane.
The postdoctoral position is funded by CNRS for 2 yr
and will be based at the University of Toulouse (UMR
5174 CNRS) where the applicant will work with Jerome
Chave. The targeted starting date is September, 1st or
October 1st 2008.
Candidates must be experienced in DNA sequencing
and phylogenetic/ phylogeographical analyses, prefer-
ably with additional experience in comparative phylo-
genetics and/or approaches using phylogenies to test
models of species assembly. They must have the ca-
pacity and willingness to conduct ﬁeld work at remote
sites. Experience in taxonomy of neotropical plants will
be favoured.
More details on the project can be found on the CNRS
website https://www2.cnrs.fr/DRH/post-docs08/-
?pid=1&action=view&id=591&lang=en as well as
general conditions for applications to CNRS post-
doctoral positions http://www2.cnrs.fr/en/349.htm
Closing date for applications is 30 March 2008. To ap-
ply, candidates should ﬁll the CNRS application form
https://www2.cnrs.fr/DRH/post-docs08/medias/tpl/-March 1, 2008 EvolDir 65
pdf/publique/doss-candidat pdocs.pdf and email it
with a full CV to Jerome Chave (chave@cict.fr) and
Brigitte Crouau-Roy (bcrouau@cict.fr)
“\”C. Thebaud \“”<thebaud@cict.fr >
HarvardU ExpEvolution
MetabolicSystems
Postdoctoral position in experimental evolution of
metabolic systems
Applications are being entertained for an NIH-funded
postdoc position in the lab of Christopher Marx in the
Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology
at Harvard University ( www.oeb.harvard.edu/faculty/-
marx/ ). This project is conducted in close collabora-
tion with the lab of co-PI, Daniel Segre at Boston Uni-
versity (prelude.bu.edu). An abstract describing the
project’s aims and goals is listed below.
Outstanding candidates from a variety of relevant back-
grounds will be considered, but particular attention will
be paid to those who have experience in biochemistry,
microbial physiology, metabolism, or analytical chem-
istry. Applications will be reviewed upon receipt, and
the position is available as soon as possible. Salary
will be determined based upon candidate qualiﬁcations.
Please send a CV and a statement of research inter-
ests in relation to the project to Christopher Marx
(cmarx@oeb.harvard.edu).
Systems-level physiological basis of selection and epis-
tasis in adaptation.
Is it possible to predict both the potential for selec-
tion and epistatic interactions across a biological net-
work? Here we propose to quantitatively address the
physiological basis of adaptation through the integra-
tion of experimental and computational approaches.
Our model system is one in which the central, essen-
tial and highly interconnected metabolic pathway of
Methylobacterium has been disabled and replaced with
a foreign, unrelated pathway. The unique advantage of
this engineered system is that this replacement specif-
ically results in a 3-fold reduction in ﬁtness, growth
rate and metabolic ﬂux, as well as 2.5-fold lower yield
and a 30-fold redistribution of ﬂux within the central
metabolic hub. Because this alteration directly causes
sub-optimal performance, we hypothesize that this will
focus selection upon this subsystem during experimen-
tal evolution such that adaptation will largely proceedthrough mutations in the substituted pathway and/or
those that it physiologically interacts with. Further-
more, we suggest that increasingly extended and veri-
ﬁed mathematical models of this metabolic subsystem
and its connections to the metabolic network will allow
us to make testable predictions of the ﬁtness eﬀects of
altering the activity of individual system components,
as well as epistatic interactions between enzymes. Our
preliminary results support both our model’s predic-
tions and the assertion that adaptation will strike this
central metabolic hub. Our speciﬁc aims are to 1.) ex-
plore the potential for selection with metabolic models
and directly test predictions by modulating expression
levels of enzymes, 2.) evolve replicate populations of
the ancestral strain and examine phenotypic and ge-
netic changes throughout the course of adaptation and
3.) test the role of epistasis in the adaptive trajecto-
ries observed or synthesized. The result of this project
will be a novel model system and conceptual framework
to apply a comprehensive, systems biology approach to
understanding the physiological basis of selection and
epistasis in adaptation. It also represents the opportu-
nity to address adaptation occurring after introduction
of new genetic material via horizontal gene transfer.
We anticipate that placing selection and epistasis into a
quantitative framework will have public health impacts
ranging from the adaptation of pathogens, the model-
ing of metabolic diseases, to prognostic predictions of
the ’adaptive’ fate of a population of cancer cells with
mutated oncogenes and tumor supressors.
Christopher J. Marx Assistant Professor of Biology De-
partment of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology Har-
vard University Biological Laboratories, Room 3083 16
Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 617.496.8103
617.495.8848 (fax) www.oeb.harvard.edu/faculty/-
marx/ Christopher Marx <cmarx@oeb.harvard.edu >
KansasStateU Genomics
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH FELLOWSHIP IN
ECOLOGICAL GENOMICS at Kansas State Univer-
sity
To view the following announcement on a webpage,
please visit
http://www.k-state.edu/ecogen/Recruit-Postdoc-
EcogenVS.htm .
A postdoctoral research fellowship is available through
the Ecological Genomics Institute ( www.k-state.edu/-66 EvolDir March 1, 2008
ecogen ) at Kansas State University (K-State). Our
interdisciplinary Institute seeks to understand re-
sponses of organisms to their natural environ-
ment by combining functional genomic and ecolog-
ical/evolutionary approaches. The postdoctoral fel-
low will have access to excellent university resources
including the Konza Prairie Biological Station, a
core Long-Term Ecological Research (LTER) site
(www.climate.konza.ksu.edu ), the K-State Gene Ex-
pression Facility ( www.k-state.edu/gene-exp ), and in-
frastructure of the Division of Biology and Departments
of Entomology, Agronomy and Plant Pathology. For
additional information about the Ecological Genomics
Institute please visit the Ecogen website!
Candidates must have excellent oral and written com-
munication skills, demonstrate evidence of past re-
search achievement, and have completed requirements
for a Ph.D. by the start date. This full-time position
provides a competitive salary and beneﬁts. The antici-
pated start date is summer 2008.
Full applications must include:
1. A cover letter detailing your qualiﬁcations and pro-
posed start date.
2. A research proposal (three page maximum, not in-
cluding references). *Proposals utilizing genetic and/or
genomic approaches to examine ecologically relevant
traits or interactions will receive highest priority.
3. A current curriculum vitae.
4. Two letters of recommendation from referees who
are familiar with the applicant’s research. Major advi-
sor or members of supervisory committee preferred.
Completed applications can be e-mailed to Doris Mer-
rill at dmerrill@k-state.edu.
Applications can also be sent by regular mail to:
Ecological Genomics
Kansas State University
Division of Biology, Ackert Hall
Manhattan KS 66506-4901
Review of applications will begin March 15, 2008.
This position is sponsored by a Kansas State University
Targeted Excellence Award in Ecological Genomics.
K-State is an Equal Opportunity Employer, and ac-
tively seeks diversity among its employees.
Doris Merrill, Program Coordinator
(785) 532-3482, www.ksu.edu/ecogen
PLAN NOW TO ATTEND THE 6th ANNUAL ECO-LOGICAL GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM: Genes in Ecol-
ogy, Ecology in Genes
November 14 - 16, 2008, in Kansas City.
Visit http://www.k-state.edu/ecogen/symp2008-
Brief.html for more details.
dmerrill@ksu.edu dmerrill@ksu.edu
Montpellier 1year
EvolutionOfSenescence
Applications are invited for a one-year CNRS funded
postdoctoral position on the general theme: Evolu-
tion of senescence and sexual conﬂicts: investigations
through experiments and natural populations.
The candidate will study the interplay between the
evolution of senescence and sexual selection, using
long-term observational data from birds and exper-
imental data from manipulations on a freshwater
hermaphroditic snail. The post-doc will be based
at the Centre dˆ aEcologie Fonctionnelle et Evolutive
(CNRS, UMR 5175) in Montpellier, where the appli-
cant will work with Anne Charmantier, Patrice David,
and Philippe Jarne. The post can start on September
1st or October 1st 2008 and will run for one year. Gross
salary will be 2500ˆ a ¬permonth.
More details on the project and candidate pro-
ﬁle<https://www2.cnrs.fr/DRH/post-docs08/?pid=-
1&action=view&id=587&lang=en >can be found on
the CNRS website, as well as general conditions <
http://www2.cnrs.fr/en/349.htm >for applications to
CNRS postdocs.
Closing date for applications is 30 March 2008;
candidates should download the application
ﬁle < https://www2.cnrs.fr/DRH/post-docs08/-
medias/tpl/pdf/publique/doss-candidat pdocs.pdf
>from the CNRS website and send it to
Anne Charmantier (anne.charmantier@cefe.cnrs.fr
<mailto:anne.charmantier@cefe.cnrs.fr >).
Best wishes, Anne Charmantier
If the hyperlinks do not work, copy and paste
the links below: - project and candidate proﬁle:
https://www2.cnrs.fr/DRH/post-docs08/?pid=-
1&action=view&id=587&lang=en - application ﬁle:
https://www2.cnrs.fr/DRH/post-docs08/medias/tpl/-
pdf/publique/doss-candidat pdocs.pdf Nous recrutons
un postdoctorant pour un contrat CNRS de 1 an surMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 67
le sujet : Evolution de la s ˜Ac/circlecopyrtnescence et conﬂits
sexuels : approches exp ˜Ac/circlecopyrtrimentale et en population
naturelle.
Le candidat ˜Ac/circlecopyrttudiera lˆ ainteraction entre
lˆ a˜Ac/circlecopyrtvolution de la s ˜Ac/circlecopyrtnescence et la s ˜Ac/circlecopyrtlection
sexuelle, sur la base dˆ aanalyses de donn ˜Ac/circlecopyrtes˜A long
terme dans une population dˆ aoiseau, ainsi que dˆ aune
exp˜Ac/circlecopyrtrience men ˜Ac/circlecopyrte sur un escargot dˆ aeau douce.
Cette ˜Ac/circlecopyrttude sera bas ˜Ac/circlecopyrte au Centre dˆ aEcologie
Fonctionnelle et Evolutive (CNRS, UMR 5175) de
Montpellier ; le postdoctorant y travaillera avec Anne
Charmantier, Patrice David et Philippe Jarne. La prise
de fonction se fera le 1er Septembre ou 1er Octobre
2008, pour une dur ˜Ac/circlecopyrte de 1 an. Le salaire brut est de
2500 ˆ a ¬parmois.
Vous trouverez sur le site du CNRS les d ˜Ac/circlecopyrttails sur le
projet et le proﬁl du candidat <https://www2.cnrs.fr/-
DRH/post-docs08/?pid=1&action=view&id=587 >
ainsi que sur les conditions et proc ˜Ac/circlecopyrtdure de candi-
dature <https://www2.cnrs.fr/DRH/post-docs08/ >
pour les postdocs CNRS.
Les candidats ont jusquˆ aau 30 mars 2008 pour
adresser un dossier de candidature <https://-
www2.cnrs.fr/DRH/post-docs08/medias/tpl/pdf/-
publique/doss-candidat pdocs.pdf >˜A Anne Char-
mantier (anne.charmantier@cefe.cnrs.fr).
Dr Anne Charmantier CEFE-CNRS, UMR 5175 1919,
route de Mende F34293 Montpellier Cedex 5 France
Tel : +33 4 67 61 32 05 Fax : +33 4 67
41 21 38 Email : anne.charmantier@cefe.cnrs.fr
<mailto:arnaud.gregoire@cefe.cnrs.fr >
Anne.CHARMANTIER@cefe.cnrs.fr
Montpellier DiseaseModeling
Dear Colleagues,
Applications are invited for a one-year CNRS funded
postdoctoral position on the general theme: Inference
of epidemiological processes by maximum likelihood
analysis of genetic data; application to Malaria.
The candidate will implement and evaluate the per-
formance of coalescent algorithms for likelihood infer-
ence under models of recent population expansions and
apply them to malaria biology. The post-doc will
be based at the Institut des Sciences de l’Evolution
(CNRS, UMR 5554) in Montpellier, where the appli-cant will work with Fran¸ cois Rousset and collaborators
in Montpellier, (Fran¸ cois Renaud, CNRS/IRD) and
Paris (Rapha¨ el Leblois, Museum National d’Histoire
Naturelle, CNRS UMR 5202). The post can start on
September 1st or October 1st 2008 and will run for one
year. Gross salary will be 2500? per month.
More details on <https://www2.cnrs.fr/DRH/post-
docs08/?pid=1&action=view&id=532&lang=en >the
project and candidate proﬁle can be found on the CNRS
website, as well as <http://www2.cnrs.fr/en/349.htm
>general conditions for applications to CNRS postdocs.
Closing date for applications is 30 March 2008; candi-
dates should download the <https://www2.cnrs.fr/-
DRH/post-docs08/medias/tpl/pdf/publique/doss-
candidat pdocs.pdf >application ﬁle from the
CNRS website and send it to Francois Rousset
(<mailto:francois.rousset@univ-montp2.fr).
Best wishes,
F. Rousset
If the hyperlinks do not work, copy and paste the links
below:
- project and candidate proﬁle: <
https://www2.cnrs.fr/DRH/post-docs08/-
?pid=1&action=view&id=532&lang=-
en >https://www2.cnrs.fr/DRH/post-
docs08/?pid=1&action=view&id=532&lang=en
- application ﬁle: < https://-
www2.cnrs.fr/DRH/post-docs08/medias/-
tpl/pdf/publique/doss-candidat pdocs.pdf
>https://www2.cnrs.fr/DRH/post-
docs08/medias/tpl/pdf/publique/doss-
candidat pdocs.pdf
frousset@univ-montp2.fr
Montpellier Forest Genetic Diversity
Postdoc
Projet post-doctoral 2007 Reference P-EFPA-4 Axe
de recherche INRA : Environnement et espace ru-
ral Departement de recherche : Ecologie des forests,
prairies et milieux aquatiques (EFPA) Champ the-
matique du departement : Adaptation des organ-
ismes et des populations e leurs milieux Nom de
l’unite de recherche : UMR Biodiversite, genes et
communautes (BIOGECO) Responsable de l’unite :68 EvolDir March 1, 2008
A Kremer Responsable scientiﬁque : C Plomion
(Christophe.Plomion@pierroton.inra.fr) (INRA), JM
Bouvet (CIRAD) Titre : Etude de la diversite nucleo-
tidique de genes candidats impliques dans la compo-
sition chimique du bois chez l’eucalyptus et le pin /
Pattern of nucleotide diversity in candidate genes for
wood chemical properties in eucalyptus and pine
Discipline(s) scientiﬁque(s) : Genetique des popula-
tions, genetique moleculaire, Genomique / Population
genetics, Molecular genetics, Genomics This project is
driven by our desire to understand the genetic basis of
wood formation, a unique feature of trees, and by our
ambition to exploit this knowledge to accelerate and
improve tree breeding for wood and end-use proper-
ties. There is a great need to accelerate breeding in
forest trees because of their long generation times and
the projected demand for increased production of good
quality ﬁbres. However, ecological concerns and mar-
ket acceptability require knowledge-based, non-GMO
tree improvement. In this context, our goal will be to
identify genes and nucleotide polymorphisms that gov-
ern naturally occurring phenotypic variation of wood
and end-use properties in breeding populations of Pi-
nus pinaster and Eucalyptus urophylla, two species be-
longing to the main forest tree genera used in industrial
plantations.
Rational/Backgroung : During the past 40 years, op-
timisation of sylvicultural practices combined with the
introduction of improved varieties have contributed to
increase the productivity of our forest in temperate and
tropical regions. Gains in productivity have often been
followed by a reduction in harvest age which has led to a
greater proportion of lower quality juvenile wood being
harvested. In order to maintain the utility of planta-
tion grown wood, there is now a critical need to focus
breeding eﬀorts on the improvement of wood quality.
INRA and CIRAD have developed multidisciplinary re-
searches in order to study whether these traits are vari-
able and heritable and whether simple and early selec-
tion criteria can be deﬁned. In addition, QTL analysis
and the tool kits of genomics have been used in con-
cert in order to identify the genes putatively involved
in wood properties.
Objectives : The main objective of this project is to
study the landscape of nucleotide variation of candi-
date genes for wood chemical composition, as a pre-
requesite toward the application of gene assisted selec-
tion. First, the level and structuration of the diversity
will be described in the genetic pool from which the
breeding populations were derived. Second and keep-
ing in mind the potential adaptive value of wood, we
will test whether the pattern of nucleotide diversity is
compatible or not with the eﬀect of natural selection.Methodology, Partner, and Schedule: Re-sequencing
and cloning will be used to describe nucleotide diver-
sity in a discovery panel of 20-40 genotypes. In Euca-
lyptus, emphasis will be made on cellulose biosynthesis
related genes. The study will be carried out in Mont-
pellier for one year, within the forest genetics unit of
CIRAD ( http://www.cirad.fr/ur/genetique forestiere ).
In pine, 2000 amplicons are being re-sequenced in USA
(NSF project coordinated by D Neale), and will be used
in association study for several wood properties includ-
ing chemical composition. Genes for which SNPs will
be signiﬁcantly associated with trait variation will be
selected for full length resequencing. The study will be
carried out in Bordeaux for one year, within the BIO-
GECO research unit ( http://www.pierroton.inra.fr/-
biogeco/ ). Nucleotide and haplotype diversity, extent
of linkage disequilibrium, departure from the neutral
model of evolution will be the main outputs of this
study. In perspectives, relevant polymorphisms will be
selected for association mapping in both species.
–
Jean-Marc Bouvet CIRAD, Biologcal System Depart-
ment Head of Research Unit 39: “Genetic Diversity
and Breeding of Forest Tree Species” Campus inter-
national de Baillarguet TA A-39/C 34398 Montpel-
lier Cedex 5 FRANCE Tel: 33 (0)4 6759 3728 Fax:
33 (0)4 6759 3732 Web site : http://www.cirad.fr/-
ur/genetique forestiere Personal web site : http:/-
/agents.cirad.fr/index.php/jean-marc.bouvet@cirad.fr
jean-marc.bouvet@cirad.fr
Oslo 4 CenterEcolEvolSynthesis
4 Post-doctoral Research Fellow/ alt. Researcher
4 POST-DOCTORAL RESEARCH FELLOW/alt.
RESEARCHER POSITIONS
available at the Center for Ecological and Evolutionary
Synthesis (CEES), Department of Biology, Faculty of
Mathematics and Natural Sciences, University of Oslo.
The positions are available for a period of three years
and are funded by the Norwegian Research Council.
The CEES is a centre for integrative biological research
that has recently been awarded the status of a national
centre of excellence by the Norwegian Research Coun-
cil. The centre is an important part of the Depart-
ment of Biology, and researchers at CEES collaborate
with many of the faculty staﬀ that are not directlyMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 69
connected to the centre. The purpose of the CEES
is to combine competence from various ﬁelds of biol-
ogy, molecular biology, bioinformatics and statistics in
order to approach major, but still unresolved, scien-
tiﬁc challenges. An overall goal is to achieve an in-
creased understanding of how living organisms respond
and adapt to environmental changes. The centre has
funding to engage in cutting-edge research, it features a
modern and well-equipped molecular lab facilitated for
high-throughput sequencing, as well as a broad spec-
trum of ﬁeld facilities. We are focusing both on devel-
opment of new theoretical/ statistical methods/models
and on diverse ecological and evolutionary questions
in empirical systems ranging from microorganisms and
plants to aquatic and terrestrial vertebrates. On-going
research includes subjects such as gene ﬂow and the
early stages of diversiﬁcation, selection and evolvabil-
ity, evolutionary eﬀects of human-altered ecological sys-
tems (e.g., harvesting and climate change) and genetic
aspects of reproductive isolation. Read more about
our research and possible research projects at http:/-
/www.cees.uio.no/about/vacancies/sﬀ2008.html . The
post-docs/researchers we seek will play an important
part in the integrative work of the CEES and we par-
ticularly look for individuals with strong interests and
abilities for inter-disciplinary scientiﬁc work. Two of
the positions will be allocated for theoretical biology
and statistics, while the remaining two positions are
open for candidates with any relevant background.
The CEES provides an international and inspiring re-
search environment. The centre is chaired by Nils Chr.
Stenseth and currently employs 17 faculty members, 34
postdocs/researchers, 27 PhD students, 25 Master stu-
dents, and 33 oﬃcial collaborators.
Applicants must hold a degree equivalent to a Norwe-
gian doctoral degree in biology, statistics or other rel-
evant ﬁelds. The main purpose of post-doctoral/ re-
searcher fellowships is to qualify researchers for work in
top academic positions within their disciplines. Appli-
cants should submit a letter of application describing
their scientiﬁc experience and interests with emphasis
on how they expect to contribute to the CEES,
a project description, at least 2 references/letters of
recommendation, curriculum vitae including a list of
published work, four sets of copies of certiﬁcates, and
copies of at most ﬁve publications. When evaluating
the application, emphasis will be given to the project
description and the applicant’s academic and personal
prerequisites to carry out the project. Applicants may
be called for an interview.
Please consult our web page ( http://www.cees.uio.no/-
about/vacancies/sﬀ2008.html ) and do not hesitate tocontact any members or the centre leader Nils Chr.
Stenseth (n.c.stenseth@bio.uio.no) for more informa-
tion.
Applicants who have already been employed as post
doc may be employed as researcher (1109). Please
also refer to the regulations pertaining to the condi-
tions of employment for postdoctoral/researcher po-
sitions: http://www.uio.no/admhb/reglhb/personal/-
tilsettingvitenskapelig/guidelinespostdoctor.xml Ap-
plications should be sent to the Faculty of Mathemat-
ics and Natural Sciences, (marked with the REF:NR.),
Attn.: Senior Executive Oﬃcer Bente Schjoldager,
P.O.Box 1032, 0315 OSLO, NORWAY.
The University of Oslo wishes to attain a more equal
gender distribution for academic positions. Therefore,
women are in particular encouraged to apply.
The University of Oslo has an agreement for all em-
ployees aiming to secure rights to research results a.o.
—–
For further information please contact: Professor Nils
Christian Stenseth, phone: +47 22854584, e-mail:
n.c.stenseth@bio.uio.no.
For more information on the positions and the centre,
please see: http://www.cees.uio.no/about/vacancies/-
sﬀ2008.html Post-doctoral research fellowship, SKO
1352
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Porto Portugal Genomics
Job/Fellowship Reference: C2007-CIIMAR/Genomic
and Proteomic/06 b
Genomics and Proteomics Research Assistant
Job summary: The CIIMAR opens a position for post-
doctoral fellow to develop studies in genomics and pro-
teomics of eukaryotes and prokaryotes, to estimate the
responses of model organisms to the presence of tox-
ins and xenobiotics in the environment and potential
use as biomarkers. The PhD to be hired, whether Por-
tuguese of foreign national, must have at least 3 years of
relevant post-doc experience and a signiﬁcant scientiﬁc70 EvolDir March 1, 2008
production in molecular toxicology.
Job description: The Centre of Marine and Environ-
mental Research of the University of Porto (CIIMAR)
opens a position for a scientist to work in genomics and
proteomics applied to ecotoxicology, focusing in the
identiﬁcation of the eﬀects and mechanisms of toxicity
of toxins and xenobiotics. This will be used to analyze
speciﬁc toxicant pathways and mechanisms of action
and to asses the risk of exposure to contaminants.
The CIIMAR is one of the leading centres in this
research ﬁeld in Portugal. The CIIMAR is part of
the CIMAR ? Associate Laboratory. The CIMAR ?
LA is dedicated to research and to dissemination and
transfer of technology in Aquatic Sciences. Its main
objective is to carry out basic and applied research
on the processes occurring in aquatic ecosystems
including the study of impacts of human activities
on these ecosystems. The CIIMAR members are
organized in diﬀerent laboratories. More information
about CIIMAR and CIMAR ? LA can be found at
http://www.cimar.org orhttp://www.eracareers.pt/-
opportunities/index.aspx?task=global&jobId=8661
The PhD to be engaged, for an initial 5 year period.
Preferentially, the candidate should have experience
in real-time PCR, cDNA arrays, hybridization and
analysis. Also background on in situ hybridization
and immunohistochemestry will be an advantage.
Experience in extraction/puriﬁcation techniques using
chromatographic separation will be considered. The
candidate must have solid knowledge on research
techniques used for protein expression studies, namely
extraction, puriﬁcation and quantiﬁcation of proteins,
2 ? DE and analysis of results from MALDI-TOF and
LC-MS-MS. The successful candidate will collaborate
in the supervision of PhD students and post-docs. The
job implies the submission and coordination of national
and international projects, within the scope of the
research lines of the two laboratories. The candidate
will be assigned to the staﬀ of the Laboratory of
Environmental Toxicology ( http://www.ciimar.up.pt/-
letox ) and Laboratory of Ecotoxicology Augusto Nobre
(http://www.ciimar.up.pt/lean ), joining research
studies between those two laboratories. Payment will
be made in accordance with the position of Assistant
Researcher (salary before taxes ca. 42.000?). The selec-
tion panel will be constituted by: Maria Armanda Reis
Henriques (President of the Jury, CIIMAR, University
of Porto, Portugal); V´ ıtor Vasconcelos (CIIMAR,
University of Porto, Portugal); Pedro Moradas Ferreira
(IBMC, University of Porto, Portugal); and Cl´ audia
Wiegand (IGB, Berlin, Germany). Candidates should
apply by sending a cover letter, curriculum vitae and
copies of academic certiﬁcates. All documents must besent by email, in PDF format and with clear indication
of the Job Reference and the title for this particular
position. Use the email: eafonso@ciimar.up.pt
Vacant posts: 1 Type of contract: Contrato a termo
certo Job country: Portugal Job city: Porto Job com-
pany/institute: CIIMAR
Application deadline: 21 Abril 2008 (The Application’s
deadline must be conﬁrmed on the Job Description)
2. Dados de contactos da organiza¸ c˜ ao 2. Organiza-
tion contact data Organization/institute: CIIMAR -
Centro Interdisciplinar de Investiga¸ c˜ ao Marinha e Am-
biental Address: Rua dos Bragas, n.o¯289 Porto - 4050
- 123 Portugal Email: eafonso@ciimar.up.pt Website:
http://www.cimar.org 3. Habilita¸ c˜ oes acad´ emicas 3.
Required education Level Degree: PhD
Degree ﬁeld: Biological sciences
4. L´ ınguas exigidas 4. Required languages Language:
English Priority: High Reading: Excelent Writing: Ex-
celent Comprehension: Excelent Conversation: Exce-
lent
vmvascon@fc.up.pt
QueenMaryU
ViralVirulenceEvolution
We are looking for an experienced Postdoc to investi-
gate the evolution of virulence in the chickenpox virus
(varicella-zoster).
The project builds on previous work in our group
(Quinlivan et al 2007, PNAS 104,208) which investi-
gated live vaccine strains than have caused rashes. You
would use reverse genetics to reconstruct live viruses
carrying the relevant mutations. These viruses will be
analysed in epithelial models to determine whether the
rash mutations in the vaccine strain confer a replication
advantage in skin.
You should have a PhD and preferably at least 3 years
post doctoral research experience. A background in vi-
rology, genetics or cell biology is preferred. Experience
with any or all of the following: sequencing technolo-
gies, cell culture, recombinant DNA technology, and
confocal microscopy would be helpful. Further details
of the project are available from Prof Judy Breuer, Cen-
tre for Infectious Disease (Tel +44 20 7882 2308, email
j.breuer@qmul.ac.uk) or Prof Richard Nichols (Biolog-
ical & Chemical Sciences, Queen Mary Univ. LondonMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 71
R.A.Nichols@qmul.ac.uk )
Formal details of the post and application pro-
cedure are here: http://webspace.qmul.ac.uk/-
ranichols/advert.pdf r.a.nichols@qmul.ac.uk
r.a.nichols@qmul.ac.uk
StateUNewYorkAlbany
EvolImmuneFunction
Post-Doctoral Associate: Pathogen/host interaction,
Ecological Immunology
I am currently recruiting a post-doctoral associate to
join my lab in the Department of Biological Sciences at
the State University of New York at Albany. Highly
motivated individuals interested in the evolutionary
ecology of immune function and pathogen/host inter-
actions are encouraged to apply. Experimental and ge-
netic/genomic approaches are used in my lab to under-
stand factors contributing to the evolutionary mainte-
nance of disease susceptibility in Drosophila popula-
tions. Current projects include examining the causes
and consequences of ’costs’ of immunity, the evolu-
tion of cooperative virulence mechanisms, characteriza-
tion and evolution of natural pathogens of Drosophila,
and the evolution of sexual conﬂict, sex- biased gene
expression, and implications for immune function.
(See: http://www.albany.edu/faculty/kmckean/Site/-
McKean LabHome.html )
Applicants must hold a Ph.D. from a college or uni-
versity accredited by the US Department of Education
or internationally recognized accrediting organization.
The successful candidate will possess a working famil-
iarity with population genetics, evolutionary ecology
and basic molecular biology (PCR, cloning, sequenc-
ing, SNP identiﬁcation, RNA extraction and expression
analysis). Experience with Drosophila will be looked
upon favorably, but is certainly not necessary. The suc-
cessful candidate will be encouraged to pursue his/her
own ideas and projects.
In addition, the post-doc will have the opportunity to
interact with participating faculty, post-docs and stu-
dents in the new Ecology and Evolution of Disease
(EED) initiative at U.Albany. The EED initiative is
an interdisciplinary program with faculty from the De-
partment of Biological Sciences and the Department of
Anthropology, as well as researchers from the Depart-
ment of Biomedical Sciences at the Wadsworth School
of Public Health. The EED program has sponsoredseminar series, various journal clubs and discussion
groups, as well as a formative curriculum relevant to
this interesting and rapidly growing ﬁeld of research.
Information on this program and other participating
faculty can be found here: http://www.albany.edu/-
biology/EED/index.html .
The initial appointment will be for one year with the
possibility of renewal for another year. Salary and bene-
ﬁts are competitive. Interested applicants should send a
cover letter detailing their experience and interests, CV
and contact information for 3 references to Dr. Kurt
McKean (kmckean@albany.edu). Applicants must ad-
dress in their applications their abilities to work with
and instruct a culturally diverse population. Initial re-
view of applications will begin immediately and will
continue until the position is ﬁlled. The University at
Albany is an EO/AA/IRCA/ADA employer.
U. Albany is located in Albany, the capitol of the state
of New York. Centrally located between the Catskill
and the Adirondack parks, the region provides abun-
dant opportunities for outdoor recreation, and is also
close to the metropolitan centers of New York City,
Boston and Montreal.
Dr. Kurt A McKean Department of Biological
Sciences 329BI SUNY at Albany 1400 Washing-
ton Ave. Albany, NY 12222 Phone (oﬃce): 518-
442-4367 Phone (cell): 518-488-7273 Fax: 518-442-
4767 kmckean@albany.edu http://www.albany.edu/-
faculty/kmckean/Site/McKean LabHome.html kmck-
ean@albany.edu kmckean@albany.edu
UAkron BiomaterialEvolution
Postdoctoral Position in Evolutionary Spider Silk
Biomechanics
A postdoctoral position is available to work on the
evolution of silk biomechanics and spider webs in col-
laboration with Dr. Todd Blackledge at the Univer-
sity of Akron. Spider silk is an exceptional biomate-
rial with high performance properties that make it a
model for biomimetic applications in medicine and in-
dustry. This interdisciplinary NSF funded project seeks
to understand how the mechanical function of spider
silk evolves during behavioral transitions in web archi-
tecture. Primary responsibilities will include charac-
terizing the material properties of silks spun by diverse
species of spiders. In addition, signiﬁcant opportunities
exist to develop independent projects that incorporate72 EvolDir March 1, 2008
ecological, physiological, materials science or engineer-
ing approaches to spider silk. More information is avail-
able at http://www3.uakron.edu/biology/blackledge/-
index.htm .
This project is part of the University of Akron’s grow-
ing emphasis on integrated bioscience research. It takes
advantage of Akron’s world renowned expertise in ma-
terials science and provides postdocs with opportunities
for training in diverse ﬁelds. The Akron area provides
an exceptional lifestyle - a low cost of living with more
than a dozen local parks and the scenic Cuyahoga Val-
ley National Park on its doorstep. Other highlights
include access to a variety of local sports and cultural
events, including the nearby metropolitan city of Cleve-
land.
Salary will start at $34,000 annually, depending upon
experience, plus full beneﬁts, and will include funding
for travel expenses for conferences and research. The
position is available for up to two years. The starting
date is ﬂexible, but summer 2008 is preferred. Candi-
dates should have received their Ph.D. by the start of
the appointment. To apply, candidates should submit a
cover letter detailing research goals, curriculum vitae,
up to 3 representative publications, and the contact
information for 3 references. Applications should be
submitted to Todd Blackledge, Department of Biology,
University of Akron, Akron, OH 44325-3908, USA, via
mail or sent via email (Blackledge@uakron.edu). Re-
view of applications will begin late March and continue
until ﬁlled.
Todd A. Blackledge Assistant Professor Department of
Biology University of Akron Akron, OH 44325-3908
Voice: (330) 972-7264 Fax: (330) 972-8445 Email:
blackledge@uakron.edu http://www3.uakron.edu/-
biology/blackledge/index.htm tab27@uakron.edu
tab27@uakron.edu
UAlaskaFairbanks Evolution of
PlantBudDormancy
UNIVERSITY OF ALASKA FAIRBANKS INSTI-
TUTE OF ARCTIC BIOLOGY
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN PLANT EVOLU-
TIONARY GENETICS
A postdoctoral position is available in my lab to ex-
amine the genetic basis and evolution of variation in
bud dormancy across a latitudinal cline in poplar. Iam particularly interested in an individual with skills
or interest in population genomics, QTL or association
mapping, and/or bioinformatics. The successful appli-
cant will be working on a multi-year project to con-
duct an association and comparative mapping study
in conjunction with labs in Canada, Minnesota and
Sweden. Applicants with backgrounds in evolutionary
and/or ecological genetics and bench and/or computa-
tional/statistical skills and interests are encouraged to
apply. The ideal candidate will be organized, pay close
attention to detail, and be able to work independently
and in groups. The successful applicant also will be
expected to work closely with graduate and undergrad-
uate students working on the project.
The start date is July 1, but considerable ﬂexibility
can be negotiated. The initial appointment is for 1
year, with an additional 2 years’ funding available con-
ditional on satisfactory performance. The annual start-
ing salary for this position is $40,000 and includes ben-
eﬁts. The University of Alaska is an equal opportunity
employer and applications from candidates from groups
underrepresented in the life sciences are encouraged to
apply.
Review of applications will begin on February 19
and continue until the position is ﬁlled. Please
apply for JOB08-54 Position Number 921391 at <
www.uakjobs.com/applicants/Central?quickFinda938
>and include a statement of your interest and
qualiﬁcations for the position, a CV, a statement of
your research interests, and the names and contact
information for 3 personal references.
The Olson lab is a part of a vibrant program in ecology
and evolutionary biology at the University of Alaska
Fairbanks. More information concerning our lab can
be found at http://users.iab.uaf.edu/ ˜ matt olson/-
labsite.htm ; additional information concerning the
Institute of Arctic Biology can be found at http://-
www.iab.uaf.edu/ . For additional information con-
cerning this position, please contact Matt Olson at
matt.olson@uaf.edu.
Matt Olson <matt.olson@uaf.edu >
UAzores SubterraneanBioDiversity
Paulo Alexandre Vieira Borges E-Mail:
pborges@uac.pt
POST-DOC POSITIONMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 73
Post-Doctoral Grant Under the scope of the Project
PTDC/AMB/70801/2006 A position will be available
for a Post-Doctoral Grant holder under the scope
of the project “Understanding Underground Biodi-
versity: Studies in Azorean Lava Tubes” (reference
PTDC/AMB/70801/2006), funded by the Foundation
for Science and Technology, Ministry of Science, Tech-
nology and Higher Education of Portugal (FCT). The
research work will take place in the Centre for Agri-
cultural Research and Technology of the Azores (Uni-
versity of The Azores), under the following conditions:
1. Duration, regime of activity and payment: 1.1 Du-
ration: The grant is due to start on February, 2008
and will last for 12 months. It can be renewed for
a maximum of 36 months, depending on the periodic
evaluation of the performance of the grant holder. In-
suﬃcient performance will lead to termination of the
grant. 1.2 Regime of activity: The grant holder will
perform the work required under the grant terms in
exclusivity, according to the Regulation for Advanced
Education of Human Resources of the funding in-
stitution (FCT) ( http://www.fct.mctes.pt/pt/apoios/-
formacao/ambitoprojectos ). 1.3 Payment: Payment is
in accordance to the values established by the fund-
ing institution (FCT): monthly payments of 1495,00 +
79,57 (voluntary social security payment). Payments
are carried out by bank transfer to the account of the
grant holder.
The grant holder will also have an insurance against
work accidents. 2. Object of activity: 2.1 The objec-
tives of the Project, as far as this grant is concerned,
are: a. Study the biodiversity of microbial bioﬁlms in
lava tubes, identifying the microorganisms they contain
by culture-dependent and culture-independent meth-
ods. b. Study the antimicrobial potential of mi-
croorganisms from caves against antibiotic resistant,
pathogenic microbial strains. c. Understand the phys-
ical environment within the caves. d. Find biological
indicators that serve as surrogates for evaluating the
biodiversity of microbial bioﬁlms. e. Provide informa-
tion to various types of target groups (politicians, tech-
nicians, scientists, teachers, visitors, etc.) to spread
the obtained knowledge and to promote a balanced ex-
ploitation of the caves. 2.2 Within this project, the
grant holder will carry out work that requires employ-
ing: a) Molecular biology techniques; b) Techniques
for the maintenance of microbial cultures; c) Chem-
ical, instrumental analysis techniques, such as chro-
matographic techniques; d) Field work in the area of
speleology. 3. Scientiﬁc supervision: Dr. Maria de Lur-
des Enes Dapkevicius; Dr. Paulo Borges; Dr. Rosalina
Gabriel; Dr. C ˜Ac/circlecopyrtlia Silva, Dr. Diana Northup. 4.
Qualiﬁcation and requirements: Candidates must havea PhD in Biological Sciences, Microbiology, Biochem-
istry, Molecular Biology or similar areas, with good
classiﬁcation. Candidates that have proved previous ex-
perience in microbiology, molecular biology techniques,
systems for maintaining microbial cultures, instrumen-
tal chemistry and good language skills (both in writ-
ing and speaking) of Portuguese or English will be pre-
ferred. 5. Criteria for the evaluation of the applica-
tions: The evaluation of the applications will be based
on the merit of the candidate, taking into account its
academic education, its curriculum and previous expe-
rience in scientiﬁc research of relevance for the project.
The curriculum evaluation may be completed with and
interview, if judged necessary by the jury. 6. Doc-
uments for application: 6.1 Applications will be for-
malized by means of a motivation letter addressed to
the president of the jury, to which the following doc-
uments must be attached: a) Copy of the document
that proves the obtention of the academic degree(s),
with a list of all marks obtained in each subject in the
course; b) Copy of the legal identiﬁcation document;
c) Detailed Curriculum vitae (maximum 10 pages); d)
Support letters (maximum 2). 6.2 If the documents re-
quired in a) to c) of the previous item are not presented
by the candidate, the application is not valid. Note:
The present announcement will be published in http://-
www.angra.uac.pt/gba . 7. Applications: Applications
will take place within January 14th and January 28th,
2008 (date of the postal stamps). Applications must be
sent by post to:
Dr. Maria de Lurdes Enes Dapkevicius Universidade
dos Azores Departamento de Cincias Agrrias CITA-A
Terra Ch 9701-851 Angra do Herosmo Portugal
Additional informations may be obtained from mari-
aenes@notes.angra.uac.pt or pborges@uac.pt, as well as
by phone +351 295 402 200 (Prof. Dr. Maria de Lurdes
Enes Dapkevicius or Prof. Dr. Paulo Borges).
Paulo Alexandre Vieira Borges <pborges@uac.pt >
UCaliforniaIrvine
PlantComparativeGenomics
A postdoctoral position in plant evolutionary genetics
is available on or after April 1, 2008 in the Department
of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology at the University of
California, Irvine. The aim of the project is compar-
ative evolutionary analysis of plant genomic sequence
data, particularly comparisons of Arabidopsis thaliana74 EvolDir March 1, 2008
to the new genome sequences of Arabidopsis lyrata and
Capsella rubella. The successful applicant must have a
PhD and demonstrated expertise in molecular evolution
and bioinformatics methods. To apply for this position,
please send a statement of interest, a CV, and contact
information for 3 references to the contact information
below:
Applications due by: 02/29/08 The position will remain
open until ﬁlled.
Contact information:
Dr. Brandon S. Gaut Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology 5221 McGaugh Hall University
of California, Irvine Irvine, CA 92697-2525 e-mail:
bgaut@uci.edu
The University of California, Irvine has an active ca-
reer partner program, is an equal opportunity employer
committed to excellence through diversity, and has a
National Science Foundation Advance Gender Equity
Program.
bgaut@uci.edu
UCBerkeley
ComparativeBiodiversity
JOB TYPE Post Doctoral Scholar, 2.5 years (beginning
March 1, 2008)
JOB AREA University of California, Museum of Ver-
tebrate Zoology (MVZ)
JOB NOTES:
The Museum of Vertebrate Zoology at UC Berkeley is
currently engaged in a long-term project to document
changes in diversity and distributions of small mammals
and birds in California through re- surveys of sites orig-
inally examined by Joseph Grinnell and colleagues in
the early 20th Century. The intent is to use these data
to test the performance of model-based predictions of
species responses to changes in climate and land-cover,
and thereby improve on predictions of future responses.
There is considerable scope for creativity within the
broad goals of the project. With support from the Na-
tional Science Foundation, we seek to recruit two ver-
tebrate ecologists V one at the postdoctoral level and
the other a ﬁeld biologist. Further information can be
found at http:// mvz.berkeley.edu/Grinnell/index.html
or by contacting the Director of the MVZ, Craig Moritz,
at craigm@berkeley.edu.DUTIES: The Post Doctoral vertebrate ecologist will
document changes in diversity and distributions of
small mammals and birds in California through re-
surveys of sites originally examined by Joseph Grinnell
and colleagues in the early 20th C. The intent is to use
these data to test the performance of model-based pre-
dictions of species responses to changes in climate and
land-cover, and thereby improve on predictions of fu-
ture responses. The appointee is expected to lead a ﬁeld
team, analyze data and prepare papers for publication.
QUALIFICATIONS: The ability to lead ﬁeld survey
teams, often in remote locations requiring back-packing
and camping, and to commit to extensive periods in the
ﬁeld. Experience with specimen preparation is required
as well as strong analytical skills, ﬁeld experience in
small mammal survey, and the ability to communicate
its goals and outcomes. Prior experience with spatial
modeling or analyses would be an advantage. A PhD
and experience in a relevant discipline is required.
Salary range is $34,752 to $41,496 commensurate with
skills and experience.
To apply for the postdoctoral position: Please email
the MVZ Director, Craig Moritz, craigm@berkeley.edu,
with a two to four page statement of interest describing
your personal and professional background, experience,
interests and goals, your CV, transcripts of graduate
coursework, and the names and addresses of three refer-
ences. You may also apply via mail to the MVZ, Direc-
tor Craig Moritz, University of California, 3101 VLSB,
Berkeley, CA 94720-3160. The application deadline is
February 22, 2008.
The University of California is an equal opportu-
nity/aﬃrmative action employer.
Chris Conroy
Chris Conroy <ondatra@berkeley.edu >
UFribourg
EvolutionaryPlantEcology
Postdoctoral Position in Evolutionary Plant Ecology
Rationale: The European knapweed Centaurea macu-
losa, introduced from Central Europe into North Amer-
ica during the late 19th century, where it covers now an
area larger than Switzerland, has become a model for
research on the ecological and evolutionary causes and
consequences of invasions. We aim to explore the roleMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 75
of rapid evolutionary processes in the invasion success
of C. maculosa. This involves the analysis of selection
exerted by herbivorous insects (biocontrol agents) on
plant life-history traits in diﬀerent environments and
the study of genetic factors (especially polyploidisation)
underlying evolutionary change in the exotic range.
We seek a highly motivated person to conduct ﬁeld and
greenhouse experiments, and various lab studies (cross-
ing experiments, molecular markers, ﬂow cytometry,
phenotypic traits, etc.). We are part of a large national
and international network with which to candidates is
expected to interact. New ideas and complementary
studies are of course highly invited.
Requirements
- doctoral degree in experimental plant ecology or evo-
lution, or related disciplines; - knowledge of, and ex-
perience in one or several of the following areas of re-
search is highly desirable: population ecology, popula-
tion genetics, plant-herbivore interactions, experimen-
tal design and statistics.
Salary and conditions Salary dependent on age and sta-
tus (gross salary in the ﬁrst year about CHF 70’000).
Start date: preferentially on 1 April 2008. The posi-
tion will also include support of research activities of
our group. The position is for 1 year, but may be ex-
tended depending on funding.
Applications
Applicants should send their CV, including the publi-
cation list, a short summary of research experience and
interests, and the names of two professional referees to
the address below (preferably by e-mail).
For further information, please contact:
Prof. Dr. Heinz Mueller-Schaerer, D´ epartement de
Biologie, Unit´ e Ecologie et Evolution, Universit´ e de
Fribourg, Chemin du Mus´ ee 10; CH-1700 Fribourg,
SWITZERLAND.
tel: + (41) (0) 26-300 88 35 direct, ++ 50 secr., fax: +
(41) (0) 26-300 96 98;
e-mail: heinz.mueller@UNIFR.CH; http://-
www.unifr.ch/biol/ecology/ This is a joint position
between H. M¨ uller-Sch¨ arer (Uni Fribourg) and Urs
Schaﬀner (CABI Europe-Switzerland, Del´ emont)
within the National Centre of Competence in Research
(NCCR) Plant Survival, funded by the Swiss National
Science Foundation.
heinz.mueller@unifr.ch heinz.mueller@unifr.chUGeorgia EvolutionaryBiology
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION, available immediately.
A postdoctoral position is available to study theoret-
ical and/or experimental aspects of evolution in the
lab of Dave Hall at the University of Georgia. Area
of interest is open. Current projects in the lab are
aimed at understanding chromosome evolution, adap-
tation and epistasis. We are seeking an enthusiastic
and motivated person to work on evolutionary ques-
tions using mathematical models and/or experiments
with yeast. The Hall lab is located in the Genetics
Department, which includes a diverse group of highly
interactive faculty ( www.genetics.uga.edu ). The lab
is also a member of the UGA Center for the Study
of Evolution, which encompasses almost forty labs
from across the university ( www.genetics.uga.edu/-
evolution/evoluga.html ). There are thus numerous op-
portunities for professional development both within
the Genetics Department and across campus.
Applicants should have a PhD in evolutionary biology.
We oﬀer a competitive salary, with full beneﬁts. Fund-
ing is guaranteed through June 2009. The successful
applicant will be expected to seek additional funding.
Applications should include a curriculum vitae and the
names of three references. Applications and inquiries
should be sent to Dave Hall at davehall@uga.edu or
Life Sciences - Genetics, The University of Georgia,
Athens GA 30602-7223. For more information on the
Hall lab, visit: http://mendel.genetics.uga.edu/ . dav-
ehall@uga.edu davehall@uga.edu
UHelsinki Bioinformatics
Post-doctoral Research Associate in Molecular evolu-
tionary biology/Bioinformatics
We seek a post-doctoral researcher with train-
ing/experience in bioinformatics and large-scale se-
quencing to conduct research in two projects based on
454-sequencing and related to population dynamics and
molecular evolution. The post doc will work in a large
international research group.76 EvolDir March 1, 2008
One project is concerned with a highly variable gene
(Pgi) with strong association with individual perfor-
mance and ﬁtness in the Glanville fritillary butterﬂy,
which has been the focus of large-scale research since
1991. The research involves sequencing and analysis
of large population samples. The second project is
concerned with the identiﬁcation and quantitative mea-
surement of the abundances of fungal species in decom-
posing tree trunks. This project is related to an ERC-
funded project on metacommunity dynamics of poly-
porous fungi. In both projects the sequencing will be
carried out at the nearby high-throughput laboratory
of the Institute of Biotechnology, University of Helsinki,
using massive parallel sequencing methods.
PhD and prior experience with bioinformatics and
molecular biology methods is required. Strong can-
didates would additionally have interest in molecular
evolution and/or population genetics. The position is
available for two years with possible extension for up to
two more years.
We oﬀer a highly international research environment
with excellent possibilities to interact with researchers
in ecology and evolutionary biology, molecular biology,
mathematics, and statistics. Salary and social beneﬁts
according to the University of Helsinki Salary Scale,
around 3,100 ? / month (negotiable based on experi-
ence).
Applications including a short CV (max 3 pages),
list of publications, and the e-mail addresses of
two researchers willing to write a letter of refer-
ence should be sent to ilkka.hanski@helsinki.ﬁ (cc tu-
uli.ojala@helsinki.ﬁ; write “mol ecol post doc posi-
tion” on the subject line). For more details on
the research group see http://www.helsinki.ﬁ/science/-
metapop/ . Applications are due by February 29. The
position will remain open until ﬁlled.
Ilkka Hanski Research professor University of
Helsinki http://www.helsinki.ﬁ/science/metapop
otso.ovaskainen@helsinki.ﬁ otso.ovaskainen@helsinki.ﬁ
UHelsinki MathBiology
Postdoc and PhD positions in Mathematical Biology
The Mathematical Biology Group at the Department
of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of
Helsinki, Finland (leader Dr. Otso Ovaskainen) is seek-
ing outstanding, highly motivated candidates to joinresearch projects at the interface between mathematics
and ecology and evolutionary biology. Successful candi-
dates may have their training either in mathematics or
in biology, the main criteria being the potential to per-
form top-quality research. We anticipate hiring up to
4 postdoctoral researchers or Ph.D. students over the
next 3 years. Research projects will be developed in
conjunction with the interests of the successful candi-
dates, focused on the following areas:
1. The roles of space and stochasticity in population
dynamics
2. Metacommunity dynamics of wood-decaying fungi
3. Animal movement in heterogeneous environments
4. Bayesian approaches in evolutionary quantitative
genetics
The PhD student positions are available for 4 years.
The postdoc positions are for 1 year, with the possibil-
ity of a 2-year extension.
The Mathematical Biology group is part of the
Metapopulation Research Group (leader prof. Ilkka
Hanski), which is a Centre of Excellence in Research
supported by the Academy of Finland. We oﬀer an
international research environment with excellent pos-
sibilities to cooperate with experts in mathematics,
statistics, population biology, and evolutionary ecology.
Salary and social beneﬁts according to the University of
Helsinki Salary system, around 2,300 /month for PhD
students and 3,100 /month for post docs (the latter
negotiable).
Applications including a short CV (max 3 pages), list
of publications, and the e-mail addresses of two re-
searchers willing to write a letter of reference should
be sent to otso.ovaskainen@helsinki.ﬁ with cc to tu-
uli.ojala@helsinki.ﬁ; write either “postdoc position” or
“ PhD student position” on the subject line. For
more details on the research projects and on the appli-
cation procedure, see http://www.helsinki.ﬁ/science/-
metapop/MBG/positions/index.htm Deadline for ap-
plications 14th March 2008, starting date 1st May 2008
(negotiable).
Otso Ovaskainen Academy Research Fellow Depart-
ment of Biological and Environmental Sciences P.O.
BOX 65 (Viikinkaari 1) 00014 University of Helsinki
FINLAND
otso.ovaskainen@helsinki.ﬁ otso.ovaskainen@helsinki.ﬁMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 77
ULaval
SalmonidFunctionalGenomics
POSTDOCTORATE POSITION IN SALMONID
FUNCTIONAL GENOMICS
We are currently looking for a postdoctorate candi-
date to be involved in our ongoing research program
on the elucidation of genetic basis of phenotypic dif-
ferentiation and adaptive divergence among popula-
tions of salmonid ﬁshes. This multidisciplinary project
is funded by NSERC (Canada) and part of the re-
search program of the Canadian Research Chair in Ge-
nomics and Conservation of Aquatic Resources held by
Louis Bernatchez, as well as The R¨ ı¿1
2seau Aquaculture
Qu¨ ı¿1
2bec. The project also involves co-investigator
Nicolas Derome (functional and microbial genomics)
and Celine Audet (comparative physiology).
The speciﬁc objective of the proposed research will be
to develop a genetic map for the brook charr, Salvelinus
fontinalis, that will be built from SNP markers to be
identiﬁed by 454 sequencing and genotyped using the
Sequenom technology, phenotypic QTL, as well as gene
expression QTL (eQTL) analysed by means of a 30,000
gene cDNA microarrays.
We are primarily looking for a candidate with strong
laboratory skills in genotyping and transcriptomics, a
solid theoretical background in quantitative genetics
and mapping, as well as expertise in bioinformatics,
management and analysis of large data bases. The po-
sition is available now and will be oﬀered for 2 years
with a possibility of extending to a third year.
To apply, please send a cover letter describing your re-
search interests, a complete CV and names of three
references by e-mail to Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca
To learn more about ...
Quebec city : <http://www.quebec-travelguide.com/
>http://www.quebec-travelguide.com/ http://-
www.quebec-guidetouristique.com/ Laval University :
<http://www.ulaval.ca/ >http://www.ulaval.ca/
The Canadian Research Chair in Ge-
nomics and Conservation Genetics <
http://www2.bio.ulaval.ca/louisbernatchez/-
>http://www2.bio.ulaval.ca/louisbernatchez/
Louis Bernatchez
Titulaire de la Chaire de recherche du Canada enG¨ ı¿1
2nomique et Conservation des Ressources Aqua-
tiques
D¨ ı¿1
2partement de biologie Pavillon Charles-Eug¨ ı¿1
2ne
Marchand Universit¨ ı¿1
2Laval, Quebec QC G1K 7P4
Canada
T¨ ı¿1
2l: 418 656-3402 Fax: 418 656-2043 Couriel:
Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca Web: http://-
www.bio.ulaval.ca/louisbernatchez/
Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca
UMissouriStLouis
PlantPhyloSystematics
VACANCY ANNOUNCEMENT
Post-doctoral position description E. Desmond Lee
Laboratory of Molecular Systematics University of
Missouri-St. Louis
Two post-doctoral positions are available in the Depart-
ment of Biology, University of Missouri St. Louis, each
for one year. 1. Phylogenetic systematics of switchgrass
and its relatives. A Ph.D. and experience in plant evo-
lutionary biology or molecular systematics are required.
Preference will be given to applicants with experience
working with low-copy nuclear genes. 2. Evolution-
ary developmental genetics of grass inﬂorescences. A
Ph.D. and experience in molecular biology or genetics
are required; basic familiarity with plant morphology is
also essential. Applications should include a brief cover
letter outlining qualiﬁcations and interests, curriculum
vitae, and names, phone numbers, and email addresses
of three references. Send applications via email to Dr.
Elizabeth A. Kellogg, tkellogg@umsl.edu. Review of
applications will begin on March 1, 2008 and will con-
tinue until positions are ﬁlled.
The University of Missouri-St. Louis is an aﬃrmative
action, equal opportunity employer, committed to ex-
cellence through diversity.
Elizabeth A. Kellogg E. Desmond Lee and Family
Professor of Botanical Studies Department of Biol-
ogy University of Missouri-St. Louis St. Louis, MO
63121 Tel: 314-516-6217; FAX: 314-516-6233 http:/-
/www.umsl.edu/services/kellogg/ Elizabeth Kellogg
<kellogge@umsl.edu >78 EvolDir March 1, 2008
UPenn DiseaseEcoEvol
Post Doc The Brisson lab at the University of Pennsyl-
vania is seeking a highly motivated post-doc to work at
the interface of ecology, evolution, and human health.
There are several potential projects involving Borrelia
burgdorferi, the causative agent of Lyme disease, and
other vector- borne diseases.
We aim to address causes of variation in host and
pathogen populations and their consequences to bac-
terial and host evolution and to public health using
a combination of laboratory, ﬁeld, and computational
studies. Speciﬁc projects include integrating across
scales of biological complexity (i.e. molecular-level,
organism-level, and population-level) to identify the
molecular and ecological mechanisms maintaining the
polymorphisms and to determine the consequences of
these mechanisms on the distribution and abundance
of B. burgdorferi and on human Lyme disease risk. Ad-
ditionally, we aim to use our acquired understanding of
the life-history strategy and ecological conditions that
promote human disease risk to address current public
health issues.
The position requires a highly motivated, enthusiastic,
and enquiring individual with a background in evo-
lutionary biology, ecology, statistics, or related ﬁelds.
Molecular and ﬁeld experience are advantageous. Good
quantitative skills are essential.
The University of Pennsylvania has a strong group of
evolutionary biologists and ecologists in the biology de-
partment that frequently interact with each other and
with an accomplished group of microbiologists in the
Medical and Veterinary schools.
The position is available as early as June 2008; the
starting date is ﬂexible and we are willing to wait for
an outstanding candidate.
For informal enquiries and formal applications includ-
ing curriculum vitae, list of publications, a one page
statement of research interests and the names of three
potential referees (all in a single ﬁle if applying by
email), can be submitted to:
Dustin Brisson Department of Biology University of
Pennsylvania Leidy Laboratories, 326 433 South Uni-
versity Avenue Philadelphia PA 19104-6018
http://www.bio.upenn.edu/faculty/brisson/ http://-
brisson.bio.upenn.edu/ dbrisson@sas.upenn.eduDustin Brisson <dbrisson@sas.upenn.edu >
UPittsburgh AquaticEvolution
POST-DOCTORAL POSITION
AQUATIC ECOLOGY, EVOLUTION, BEHAVIOR,
OR ECOTOXICOLOGY
Second notice: Applications are invited for a post-
doctoral position at the University of Pittsburgh in any
area of aquatic ecology or evolution under the direction
of Dr. Rick Relyea. Current areas of research in the Re-
lyea Lab include inducible defenses (and other forms of
phenotypic plasticity), predator-prey communication,
animal mating systems, disease ecology, and commu-
nity ecotoxicology in aquatic communities. Interested
applicants should propose potential research ideas that
either build upon our existing work or add interesting
new dimensions to areas currently being pursued.
The post-doc will reside on the main campus in Pitts-
burgh from September to March each year and reside
at the University’s biological ﬁeld station from April
to August ( www.pitt.edu/˜biology/pymatuning.htm ).
For more information about the ﬁeld station’s aquatic
facility, go to www.pitt.edu/ ˜ relyea/facilities.html .
The starting salary is $34,000 plus excellent health ben-
eﬁts. To ensure a productive ﬁeld season in 2008, the
latest start date is 1 April 2008 (a completed Ph.D. is
required prior to the start date).
Applicants should send a cover letter, cv, a research
statement (including potential research projects), and
letters of reference to Dr. Rick Relyea (relyea@pitt.edu)
by 15 February 2008 or until position is ﬁlled (all in pdf
format).
relyea+@pitt.edu
USDA BeltsvilleMD
ComparativePopGenetics
I would appreciate it if you would post the following op-
portunity for a 2-year posdoctoral position in my USDA
laboratory to explore comparative population genetics
and genomics of animal parasites.March 1, 2008 EvolDir 79
http://www.afm.ars.usda.gov/divisions/hrd/-
hrdhomepage/vacancy/08056.htm ANNOUNCE-
MENT NO:
RA-08-056H
POSITION:
Research Molecular Geneticist/ Research Microbiolo-
gist/ Research Biologist (Bioinformatics)
LOCATION:
Beltsville, Maryland
DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES: The position is located
in the Animal Parasitic Diseases Laboratory of the An-
imal and Natural Resources Institute, Beltsville, Mary-
land (Metropolitan Washington, DC). The incumbent
will identify evolutionarily distinct and conserved char-
acteristics of genomes of animal parasites that com-
promise livestock and human health using population
genetic analyses derived from high throughput ’next
generation’ genome sequencing. The incumbent will
identify and evaluate attributes of zoonotic pathogens
(acquired by people from animals) and those occurring
in related, less- studied parasites of animals. The in-
cumbent will elucidate how agricultural activities have
shaped parasite evolution and dispersal by comparing
the extent and distribution of genetic variability among
parasites in livestock, wildlife and human beings. Re-
search responsibilities will include obtaining DNA from
parasites, preparing and sequencing genomic libraries,
and developing and analyzing resulting databases in
order to identify conserved and variable markers, es-
tablish the extent of synteny among related parasite
genomes, and test hypotheses related to the phyloge-
netic origins of genes implicated as virulence factors in
model systems.
QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS: Recent Ph.D.
in Microbiology, Biology, Genetics, or a closely related
ﬁeld is required. Experience generating, managing, and
analyzing genetic and genomic data is desirable.
INFORMATION ON SALARY AND APPLICATION
PROCEDURES FOR POSTDOCTORAL POSI-
TIONS is available at: http://www.afm.ars.usda.gov/-
divisions/hrd/hrdhomepage/vacancy/pd962.html
INFORMATION ON EMPLOYEE BENEFITS is
available at: http://www.usajobs.opm.gov/ei61.asp
FOR SPECIFIC INFORMATION ON THE DUTIES
AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THIS POSITION OR
TO SUBMIT AN APPLICATION, CONTACT:
Dr. Benjamin M. Rosenthal USDA/ARS 10300 Balti-
more Avenue Room 104 Beltsville, MD 20705 Phone:
(301) 504-5408 Fax: (301) 504-8979
“Rosenthal, Benjamin”<Benjamin.Rosenthal@ARS.USDA.GOV >
USheﬃeld 2 MolecularAdaptation
Two Marie Curie postdoctoral positions are available
at the University of Sheﬃeld to work on an EC funded
project, MAERO (Molecular Adaptation in Ecologi-
cally Relevant Organisms). Both positions are funded
until at least the end of 2009 and hopefully for two
years. The aim of this project is to analyse high-
throughput genome sequence data to distinguish be-
tween patterns of selection and demography in wild
populations of organisms studied by members of the
Molecular Ecology lab at the University of Sheﬃeld
(which houses the research groups of Terry Burke,
Roger Butlin & Jon Slate).
Fellow 1 will work on Arabidopsis lyrata a close rel-
ative of A thaliana. Considerable ecological and ge-
nomic data are available from experimental and wild
populations from around Europe, collected as part of
a larger collaboration investigating the genetic basis of
how species adapt to abiotic stress at range margins.
The A lyrata genome is currently being sequenced ( >
3 million Trace Files are already available).
Fellow 2 will study the molecular evolution of passer-
ine (songbird) genes, possibly with an emphasis on the
role of sexual selection driving the evolution of genes
associated with plumage variation. Passerine genomics
tools are advancing rapidly with the ﬁrst genome (zebra
ﬁnch) about to be released and several other classical
ecological model species (e.g. great tit, song sparrow,
ﬂycatcher) now being analysed with genomics tools.
The fellows will join two other Marie Curie fellows
who have recently started on the MAERO project (one
studying Soay sheep and the other Littorina winkles).
Both positions have very generous salaries, and consid-
erable academic freedom provided they remain within
the overall theme of the project. They are ideal posi-
tions for somebody working towards academic indepen-
dence. At least one of the fellows must be a European
national, although scientists that have worked in the
UK in the last three years are ineligible for the posts.
UK nationals working overseas may be eligible. We
hope to ﬁll the positions as soon as possible, but they
remain open until suitable candidates can be found. A
background or expertise in one or more of the following
areas would be highly desirable: bioinformatics, molec-
ular evolution, statistical genetics, computer science,80 EvolDir March 1, 2008
evolutionary population genetics. This posts are not
predominantly lab-based; rather we are seeking people
who enjoy analysing large datasets.
The Department of Animal & Plant Sciences ( http:/-
/www.shef.ac.uk/aps/ ) is one of the strongest organis-
mal biology departments in Europe, and Sheﬃeld is a
vibrant yet inexpensive city close to the beautiful Peak
District National Park. Informal enquiries and requests
for further information should be addressed to Jon Slate
(j.slate@sheﬃeld.ac.uk).
Dr Jon Slate Dept. Animal & Plant Sciences University
of Sheﬃeld Tel: 0114 2220048 Fax: 0114 2220002 Web:
http://www.jon-slate.staﬀ.shef.ac.uk/
Jon Slate <j.slate@sheﬃeld.ac.uk >
UTennesseeKnoxville
EvolutionaryTheory
Post-doctoral Fellowship in Evolutionary Theory
Applications are sought for a one-year (with possibil-
ity to renew for another year) post-doctoral research
position in Evolutionary Theory. This position will be
held jointly at the labs of Dr. Sergey Gavrilets and Dr.
Francisco ´Ubeda in the Departments of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology and Mathematics at the Univer-
sity of Tennessee, Knoxville. These are active, dynamic
and international labs composed currently by 7 gradu-
ate students and 2 postdocs from 8 countries in 4 con-
tinents.
The research topic is fairly open, although special
consideration will be given to applicants develop-
ing theory on: kin selection, non-mendelian inheri-
tance (meiotic drive, gene conversion), non-mendelian
expression (genomic imprinting), sexual antagonism,
and social evolution. The position may begin any-
time after Feb the 30 ^th 2008. Salary will ad-
just to candidate qualiﬁcations. More information
about the labs and the department can be found
at: http://eeb.bio.utk.edu/ To apply, send a CV
and a one-page statement of research interest and re-
search plans to Sergey Gavrilets (gavrila@tiem.utk.edu
<mailto:gavrila@tiem.utk.edu >) and Francisco ´Ubeda
(fubeda@utk.edu <mailto:fubeda@utk.edu >) via e-
mail. Please include the names of 2-3 potential referees,
but applicants need not solicit reference letters at this
stage. Review of applications will begin on February
15, 2008, and continue until the position is ﬁlled.Francisco Ubeda <fubeda@utk.edu >
UTexasAustin MolecularEvolution
The lab of Dr. Sara Sawyer at UT Austin is seeking
a highly motivated post-doc to work at the interface
of molecular evolution and virology. There are sev-
eral potential projects with available funding. Among
other things, our lab studies the process of retrovi-
ral integration in hopes that this will help us under-
stand the deadly reservoir of HIV genomes which in-
tegrate into the chromosomes of infected people. It
is this reservoir that makes HIV essentially incurable
once someone has become infected. We have devel-
oped model systems in yeast and human cells to test
the implications of evolutionary innovation on this pro-
cess. Please see our website to read about our other
research interests. ( http://www.people.cornell.edu/-
pages/mrd6/sara/ ) Austin is one of America’s great-
est “un-discovered” cities. Highly cosmopolitan, you
will also ﬁnd warm weather, sunshine, and a culture of
wonderful independent music, fantastic food, mountain
biking, and water sports. We are aggressively recruit-
ing only the very top candidates to come work in our
new lab.
Sara Sawyer Assistant Professor University of Texas at
Austin Section of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology
Institute for Cellular and Molecular Biology
1 University Station, A4800 Austin, TX 78712
http://www.people.cornell.edu/pages/mrd6/sara/
saras@mail.utexas.edu
Sara Sawyer <saras@mail.utexas.edu >
UToronto EvolutionaryBiology
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
<www.eeb.utoronto.ca >at the University of Toronto
invites applications for Departmental Postdoctoral Fel-
lowships in the areas of Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology, broadly deﬁned. One position is available this
year, and we expect that another will become available
next year through an ongoing EEB Post-Doctoral Fel-
lowship Program. Positions are for two years, subjectMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 81
to review after one year, and can begin as early as July
1, 2008. The salary is $40,000 Canadian per year, with
research expenses covered by the Post-Doctoral Advi-
sor.
The Fellow will be a fully participating member in the
Department. Candidates must identify and communi-
cate with a potential advisor (or advisors) in advance of
the application process. All full-time faculty members
at the St. George (downtown) campus of the Univer-
sity of Toronto are eligible to serve as advisors (see <
www.eeb.utoronto.ca/postdoc/ >for a list of potential
supervisors). Opportunities for teaching in an upper
level course may be available.
To apply, applicants should ﬁrst contact and obtain the
agreement of a faculty advisor (or co-advisors). After-
wards, applicants should submit a cover letter clearly
indicating the proposed faculty advisor(s), a curriculum
vitae, copies of 2 publications, and a short (1-3 pages)
description of past research accomplishments and fu-
ture research plans. Applicants should include names
and e-mail addresses for two potential referees. Appli-
cants should also indicate the date they will be available
to begin the position. All application materials must be
submitted as PDF’s in a single email to: Jan Haugan
jhaugan@eeb.utoronto.ca .
For more information about the Department, con-
tact your potential supervisor. Queries regarding the
fellowship program should be directed to Demetrios
Voudouris dvoudouris@eeb.utoronto.ca . Review of ap-
plications will begin on March 21, 2008.
Toronto is a vibrant, multicultural city on the shore
of Lake Ontario, with rich cultural options in the arts,
music and ﬁlm, ethnic cuisine, and a high quality of
life. The EEB department is home to an interactive,
collegial group of ecologists, geneticists, and evolution-
ary biologists, and currently supports a strong group of
Post-Doctoral Fellows with diverse research interests.
–
John Stinchcombe Department of Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology University of Toronto, 25 Willcocks St.
Toronto, ON Canada M5S 3B2
416-946-5986
http://www.botany.utoronto.ca/ResearchLabs/-
StinchcombeLab/ stinchcombe@eeb.utoronto.ca
stinchcombe@eeb.utoronto.caUZurich Post-copulatory sexual
selection
A postdoctoral position is available from 1st April, or as
arranged, in the Zoological Museum of the University of
Zurich, Switzerland. The successful applicant will join
an active research group, headed by Prof. Paul Ward,
working on post-copulatory sexual selection in the yel-
low dung ﬂy, Scathophaga stercoraria. The biology of
the species is well known and methods for a number of
research directions well-developed.
The precise research topic(s) within the broad theme
will substantially depend on the interests and back-
ground of the applicant. However, preference will be
given to candidates with backgrounds in evolutionary
biology or insect immunology or physiology.
Applicants must have a completed Ph.D. Postdoctoral
experience would be advantageous. A knowledge of, or
a willingness to learn, German would also be advanta-
geous. A small amount of teaching, in either English or
German, will be required. The position will be oﬀered
for two years in the ﬁrst instance, with the possibility
of annual renewal to a maximum of six years.
Please send a curriculum vitae, publication list and a
one-page statement of research interests to zmdirek-
tion@zm.uzh.ch. Applications should be sent by the
3rd March 2008.
Applicants for a previous similar position need not re-
apply
Enquiries to Prof. Paul Ward, Zoological Museum of
the University of Zurich, Winterthurerstr. 190, CH-
8057 Zurich, Switzerland. Email: pward@zm.uzh.ch.
Prof Paul I Ward Direktor Zoologisches Museum der
Universit¨ at Z¨ urich Winterthurerstrasse 190 CH 8057
Z¨ urich Switzerland Phone +41 44 635 4760 Fax +41
44 635 4780 email: pward@zm.uzh.ch
Administration: Sabine Marty Mail: zmdirek-
tion@zm.uzh.ch Phone +41 44 635 4761
Paul Ward <pward@zm.uzh.ch >82 EvolDir March 1, 2008
WesternWashingtonU
TundraPhylogeography
Post-doctoral Position: Tundra Phylogeography
A postdoctoral position is available to study how the
diﬀerent environmental histories of arctic and alpine
refugia aﬀected genetic divergence in tundra plants.
The successful candidate will be responsible for estimat-
ing the demographic histories of various species through
population genetic and phylogeographic analyses on
multiple, anonymous loci and performing comparative
analyses of all study species in a coalescent framework.
The position includes the possibility of ﬁeldwork in the
arctic and alpine tundras of North America and Russia.
This is an outstanding opportunity for an early-career
scientist to engage in collaborative research and gain
advising experience with a diverse group of undergrad-
uate and graduate students.Candidates must have a Ph.D. in evolutionary biology
or a related ﬁeld prior to beginning the position. Strong
experience in molecular techniques is required, while ex-
perience in phylogeography, botany, and arctic/alpine
environments are preferred. This is a one-year position
with a possible extension to two years depending on
job performance. To apply, please submit a cover letter
describing research experience and future goals, as well
as other experience relevant to the position; a CV; and
three letters of reference. Application materials should
be sent to eric.dechaine@wwu.edu or via postal courier
to Mary Ann Merrill, AAF Post-doctoral Position, Biol-
ogy Department MS 9160, Bellingham, WA 98225 USA.
Review of application materials will begin on March 15,
2008 and will continue until the position is ﬁlled. For
additional information about the position, please see
http://myweb.facstaﬀ.wwu.edu/˜dechaie . WWU is an
equal opportunity/aﬃrmative action employer.
Eric DeChaine, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Biology, BI 237 Western Washington Uni-
versity 516 High St. Bellingham, WA 98225-
9160 Tel: 360.650.6575 Fax: 360.650.3148 email:
Eric.DeChaine@wwu.edu
Eric DeChaine <Eric.DeChaine@wwu.edu >
WorkshopsCourses
ItalianSociety SchoolforEvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . 82
Malaysia BorneoBiodiversity Jul1-Aug5 . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Montreal PopulationGenomics May20-23 . . . . . . . . . . 84
NatlUIreland MolEvol summer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Norway ArabidopsisMolEvol Aug26-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Portal Arizona IntlBeeCourse August . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
Portugal MEPA08 MolEvol Apr14-18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
Seattle StatGenetics SISG Registration open . . . . . . 86TrinityCollegeDublin IntegratingEcolEvol . . . . . . . . . 86
UBologna 9thWinterBioinformaticsSchool Feb11-15 87
UNottingham MolecularEvolutionDiversity . . . . . . . . 88
UWashington StatisticalGenetics Online . . . . . . . . . . . 89
Valencia MolEvol May12-16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
Valencia Phylogenetics May12-16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
WoodsHole MolEvol Jul27-Aug15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
ItalianSociety
SchoolforEvolutionaryBiologyLa SIBE, Societa Italiana di Biologia Evoluzionis-
tica ( www.sibe-iseb.it ), in collaborazione con il Parco
Nazionale Gran Paradiso ( www.pngp.it ), organizza la
scuola sull’evoluzione per studenti di Master e Dot-
torato, dal titolo: ’La logica della scoperta evolutiva:
strategie sperimentali, metodi statistici e tecniche diMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 83
inferenza’.
La Scuola, che si terra presso la sede di valle del Servizio
Scientiﬁco e Sanitario del PNGP (Cogne, Ao) dal 15 al
18 Maggio 2008, a particolarmente indicata per studenti
interessati allo studio dell’evoluzione ed all’inizio della
propria carriera di ricerca (Master e primo o secondo
anno di Dottorato), ed ospitera un massimo di 15 parte-
cipanti. Previa disponibilita di posti, verranno accolte
domande anche da laureandi, da dottorandi all’ ultimo
anno o da chi ha gia concluso il dottorato. Il numero
limitato di studenti garantira un’interazione continua
ed eﬃcace tra studenti e docenti. Il corso ha una du-
rata di 3 giorni (15-17 maggio), seguiti da un’ escursione
ﬁnale (18 Maggio).
Come si studia l’evoluzione? Quali sono le strategie
sperimentali pia adatte per aﬀrontare le tematiche evo-
lutive? Qual a il contributo che le varie discipline por-
tano alla nostra comprensione dell’evoluzione? Come si
integrano teoria ed osservazioni nell’inferenza in campo
evolutivo? Come tradurre un risultato di natura sta-
tistica in una “legge della natura”? L’ obbiettivo
della Scuola SIBE 2008 a fornire agli studenti gli stru-
menti concettuali necessari allo studio dell’evoluzione
con l’ausilio di lezioni teoriche ed esempi tratti da di-
verse discipline biologiche, discussioni con i docenti
sulle lezioni svolte ed esercitazioni pratiche. Gli stu-
denti avranno anche l’opportunita di discutere il pro-
prio progetto di ricerca con i docenti e a tale scopo sono
incoraggiati a preparare una breve presentazione orale
(15 minuti) od un poster.
Il corso sara completato da 3 seminari per la divul-
gazione dei risultati di ricerca (come presentare un
poster, come fare un talk, come scrivere un articolo
scientiﬁco) e da almeno un journal club nel quale sara
mostrato come dissezionare un articolo scientiﬁco, dal
momento che divulgare i propri risultati e presentarli in
modo eﬃcace a un aspetto fondamentale del lavoro di
ricerca, cosa come imparare a leggere in modo critico
un lavoro scientiﬁco.
La scuola si avvale della collaborazione di ricerca-
tori noti a livello internazionale come docenti (indicati
sotto), e pertanto le lezioni saranno tenute in inglese:
John Endler (University of Exeter): Ecologia
ed evoluzione del comportamento animale http://-
www.psychology.ex.ac.uk/staﬄist.php?id=1160 Lynda
Delph (Indiana University): Ecologia evolutiva e ripro-
duzione nelle piante http://www.bio.indiana.edu/-
˜ delphlab/ Curt Lively (Indiana State University):
Evoluzione e coevoluzione: sesso e diversita genetica
nei sistemi ospite-parassita http://www.indiana.edu/-
˜ curtweb/ Paolo Sordino (Stazione Zoologica Anton
Dohrn di Napoli): EvoDevoIl costo di iscrizione alla Scuola a di 200 ? ed in-
clude: l’alloggio in due foresterie oﬀerte dal Parco
Nazionale Gran Paradiso (i partecipanti dovranno mu-
nirsi di sacco-a-pelo), l’uso cucina nelle foresterie per
la cena con la spesa gia fatta, e pranzo o cena sociale
l’ultimo giorno (quest’ ultimo da deﬁnire). Il pranzo
durante i 3 giorni della scuola a carico dei partecipanti
ai quali forniremo una lista di ristoratori con prezzi con-
venzionati.
Per le pre-iscrizioni, inviare una e-mail a Isabella
Capellini (Isabella.Capellini@durham.ac.uk) e Ivan
Scotti (ivan.scotti@cirad.fr), indicando in breve il
vostro livello di preparazione (laureandi, master, PhD
e a quale anno di corso, concluso il PhD), il titolo e il
tema del vostro progetto di ricerca, i vostri interessi sci-
entiﬁci, e l’indirizzo email del vostro relatore di tesi di
dottorato o di laurea. Allegate inoltre il vostro CV. Il
tutto deve essere inviato entro il 1 Marzo2008. I risul-
tati della selezione saranno comunicati per email entro
il 30 Marzo.
Per ogni ulteriore informazione potete contattare Is-
abella Capellini o Ivan Scotti.
——— Isabella Capellini, PhD
Evolutionary Anthropology Research Group Depart-
ment of Anthropology Durham University 43 Old Elvet,
Durham DH1 3HN (United Kingdom)
phone: +44 (0)191 3346187
isab972@yahoo.co.uk
Malaysia BorneoBiodiversity
Jul1-Aug5
Course announcement: Harvard University/CTFS-AA
Field Biology Course: ‘The Biodiversity of Borneo’
2008
The Harvard University Summer School, the Arnold
Arboretum, and the Center for Tropical Forest Science
(CTFS-AA) will oﬀer a ﬁeld biology course to be held
in Sarawak and Sabah (East Malaysia) from 1 July to
5 August 2008. Ten US students will join 10 South-
east Asian students to study terrestrial and marine
biodiversity, ecology and conservation, with instruc-
tors from Harvard University and other institutions
(including Sabah Parks, Sabah Forest Research Cen-
ter, Sarawak Forestry Corp., Univ. Malaysia Sabah,
Yayasan Sabah).84 EvolDir March 1, 2008
The forests and reefs of northwest and north Borneo
have some of the highest levels of alpha-diversity in
the world. The forests are home to orang-utans, horn-
bills, rhinos and as many as 5,000 tree species, and the
reefs oﬀer some of the best diving in the world. We
will visit world-class parks and reserves (e.g., Lambir,
Kinabalu and the Maliau Basin), to gain a thorough
understanding of abiotic controls on species composi-
tion, and will contrast processes that maintain biodi-
versity in forests with those operating on coral reefs.
Throughout Borneo, intensive logging and marine har-
vesting have occurred for many years. Our course will
explore the complexities of conservation today, includ-
ing trips to sustainably-managed, carbon-traded, and
restored forests. We will also provide opportunities for
the students to meet people living in and oﬀ the forest,
to understand their motivations for forest conversion
and conservation, and to consider the human health
dimensions of forest change.
A key feature will be the development of skills in re-
search project design, execution and analysis, based
around the statistical platform ‘R’ The students will
complete two independent projects, from conception
to presentation, and participate in a group project on
the coral reef. The students will gain database and
web publishing skills by developing a community digi-
tal record of the trip.
The course is aimed at advanced undergraduates, re-
cent graduates currently active in biological research,
and postgraduate entry-level students. For more infor-
mation on the course (including instructions for appli-
cation), see:
http://www.summer.harvard.edu/2008/programs/-
abroad/borneo/ Queries and completed application
materials should be directed to Cam Webb, c/o
<borneo2008@phylodiversity.net >. The deadline for
US applicants is 3 March 2008.
cwebb@oeb.harvard.edu cwebb@oeb.harvard.edu
Montreal PopulationGenomics
May20-23
Montreal Spring School of Population Genomics and
Genetic Epidemiology May 20 - 23, 2008 Montreal,
Quebec, Canada
General Information www.montrealspringschool.ca
The main objective of the School is to provide train-ing in rapidly developing disciplines that are becoming
increasingly important in health sciences. It includes
genetic epidemiology and human evolutionary genet-
ics, population genomics and bioinformatics, integrat-
ing tools of formal analysis with data retrieval and ex-
tensive use of internet resources. The training will be
based on real-data examples from the research of the
instructors’ laboratories. In one module we will also
present genealogical resources speciﬁc to Quebec and
introduce informatics methods for their use in popula-
tion analysis and epidemiology. The School consists of
four days of workshops: genetic epidemiology including
biostatistics (2 days), population genomics (1.5 days),
and Quebec population resources (0.5 days).
The School, organized by Dr Damian Labuda from
CHU Sainte-Justine, will be held at the Universite de
Montreal, Pavillon Lionel-Groulx, 3150 Jean-Brillant
Street, Room C3001, in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
Faculty
Alexandre Alcaes Laboratory of Human Genetics of In-
fectious Diseases Institut National de la Sante et de la
Recherche Medicale University Paris Rene Descartes,
Necker Medical School Paris, France
Philip Awadalla Assistant Professor Department of Pe-
diatrics, Universite de Montreal CHU Sainte-Justine
Research Center Montreal, Canada
Luis B. Barreiro Unit of Human Evolutionary Genetics
Institut Pasteur Paris, France
Louis Houde Departments of Informatics and Math-
ematics Universite du Quebec e Trois-Rivieres Trois-
Rivieres, Canada
Alexandre Montpetit Genome Quebec Innovation Cen-
tre McGill University Montreal, Canada
Llues Quintana-Murci Unit of Human Evolutionary Ge-
netics Institut Pasteur Paris, France
Marie-Helene Roy-Gagnon CHU Sainte-Justine Re-
search Center Montreal, Canada
Erwin Schurr McGill Centre for the Study of Host Re-
sistance Departments of Human Genetics and Medicine
McGill University Montreal, Canada
Marc Tremblay Department of Human Sciences Univer-
site du Quebec e Chicoutimi Chicoutimi, Canada
Helene Vezina Department of Human Sciences Univer-
site du Quebec e Chicoutimi Chicoutimi, Canada
Application Procedures
If you wish to participate in the workshop, please sub-
mit (i) the completed application form, including a
statement explaining your interest in the School, ac-March 1, 2008 EvolDir 85
companied by one-page CV and (ii), if a travel award is
requested (see below), a short letter explaining your ﬁ-
nancial needs, accompanied by a letter of support from
your academic advisor (if applicable). Please submit
these documents by e-mail to Ms. Dominika Kozub-
ska (info@montrealspringschool.ca) no later than Fri-
day, February 24, 2008.
damian.labuda@umontreal.ca
NatlUIreland MolEvol summer
Undergraduate research experience at the Summer
School of Molecular Evolutionary Research (the
SoMER school) in Ireland.
The Department of Biology of the National Univer-
sity of Ireland, Mynooth is announcing its ﬁrst sum-
mer School of Molecular Evolutionary Research (the
SoMER school). Our aim is to provide research training
and expertise to enthusiastic undergraduate students
with a special interest in molecular evolution, and more
generally evolutionary biology.
Every student will be integrated into an active re-
search group at the Department of Biology of the NUI
Maynooth, and will be assigned an individual research
project. A key focus of the school is that every stu-
dent should experience every one of the steps involved
in evolutionary research. The students will thus par-
ticipate in ﬁeld work where they will sample biological
specimens, they will extract and sequence DNA from
the samples they collected, and they will use bioinfor-
matics/computational techniques to analyse the data
they generated.
Other activities will include one day workshops carried
out by members of the Department of Biology and in-
vited external speakers (see our website for details).
The SoMER school will run for ten weeks, starting the
9th of June 2008, and will accept 10 students. It is open
to undergraduate students from every country and na-
tionality. The only requirement is that you must have
a strong interest in evolutionary biology, and an inter-
est in pursing a career in this research area. For every
student, funding will be available in the form of a 300
per week salary. Travel expenses will also be covered,
up to 300 for EU students, and up to 800 for non-EU
students. On-campus, discounted self-catering accom-
modation will be provided for the SoMER students.
The SoMER school will be based in the Departmentof Biology of the NUI Maynooth, which is very con-
veniently located in the Irish countryside, only 34 Km
(21 Miles) from Dublin City International Airport, and
28 Km (17 Miles) from Dublin city centre. Maynooth
is very well connected to Dublin through regular train
and bus services.
Maynooth is a picturesque village, which has hosted
universities and colleges since 1795, and currently hosts
two independent universities: The National University
of Ireland, Maynooth, and a branch of the Pontiﬁcal
University (St. Patrick’s College). Maynooth’s cultur-
ally rich history is reﬂected in the architectural beauty
of the old campus, and if you are a non-Irish student it
is fair to say that Maynooth is probably the ideal place
to carry out a research experience, while experiencing
life in Ireland.
Visit our website http://bioinf.nuim.ie/ureka/ if you
are interested and would like to apply.
Alternatively send us an e-mail: ureka2008@gmail.com
The deadline to apply to the SoMER school is the 14th
of March.
Dr. Davide Pisani Laboratory of Evolution-
ary Biology The National University of Ireland,
Maynooth Maynooth, Co. Kildare, Ireland Da-
vide.Pisani@nuim.ie
Norway ArabidopsisMolEvol
Aug26-29
AMEGO 2008
The Arabidopsis Molecular Evolution Group
(AMEGO) is a Nordforsk funded network of Ara-
bidopsis research groups from Denmark, Finland,
Norway and Sweden. AMEGO will in the period 2007-
2009 arrange international workshops and PhD courses
focusing on Arabidopsis evolution and molecular
ecology
This years Arabidopsis molecular evolution workshop
will be held 26-29 August 2008. The workshop and
the PhD course will be held in the Norwegian moun-
tains (Jotunheimen), close to natural sites of Arabidop-
sis lyrata.
The workshop with talks and posters will be held on
Tuesday 26 and Wednesday 27 Aug. Invited speaker
on this years workshop is Dr. Markus A. Koch, Uni-
versity of Heidelberg. On Thursday 28 there will be ex-86 EvolDir March 1, 2008
cursions to natural Arabidopsis populations in the Nor-
wegian mountains, while on Friday 29 Aug we will hold
the PhD course. The topic of this years PhD course is
“Genomics and bioinformatic resources on Arabidopsis
lyrata”, and will be led by Dr. Mikkel Schierup and Dr.
Jesper Bechsgaard, Aarhus University.
For information about the AMEGO 2008 PhD course
and workshop, please have a look at our home page
www.molecol.net . To go directly to the regis-
tration page, please go to http://www.bio.ntnu.no/-
amego 2008/pomelding/skjema.php . Best regards,
Hans K. Stenoien
–
Hans K. Stenoien, PhD Department of Biology Nor-
wegian University of Science and Technology N-7491
Trondheim, Norway
Phone: +47 7359 6096 Mobile: +47 9189 7592 Fax:
+47 7359 6100
stenoien@bio.ntnu.no
Portal Arizona IntlBeeCourse
August
The AMNH’s bee course will be held in late Au-
gust. It is suitable for anyone interested in ﬁnding
out how to identify bees. Information can be found
at:http://research.amnh.org/invertzoo/beecourse/ L
P<laurencepacker@yahoo.com >
Portugal MEPA08 MolEvol
Apr14-18
MEPA08 - Molecular Evolution, Phylogenetics and
Adaptation April 14th - April 18th 2008
Highly practical training course. Applications will open
6 weeks before. Extremely popular.
Deadline for applications: March 21st 2008
http://gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt Thanks Pedro Fernan-
des GTPB Organizer
Pedro Fernandes <pfern@igc.gulbenkian.pt >Seattle StatGenetics SISG
Registration open
The registration page for the 2008 Summer Insti-
tute in Statistical Genetics is now open at http://-
www.biostat.washington.edu Bruce
Bruce Weir <bsweir@u.washington.edu >
TrinityCollegeDublin
IntegratingEcolEvol
Undergraduate Research in the School of Natural
Sciences, Trinity College Dublin http://www.tcd.ie/-
naturalscience/UREKA “Integrating Ecology and Evo-
lution in a Changing World” is a summer, undergrad-
uate research programme based in Dublin, Ireland. Its
aim is to provide research training and experience, as
well as an introduction to Ireland, to national and in-
ternational undergraduate students. Students will work
within active research groups in Trinity College Dublin,
Ireland’s premier university.
Full funding is available for ten students to participate
in this 10-week programme, from 23rd June - 29th Au-
gust 2008. International students are also entitled to
assistance with travel costs.
All applications must be received by 29th February.
The School of Natural Sciences, comprising the depart-
ments of Botany, Geography, Geology and Zoology, and
the Centre for the Environment, hosts internationally
acclaimed biological, physical and social scientists. It
provides a dynamic and exciting research environment,
with ~40 academic staﬀ, ~20 post-doctoral fellows, and
~120 graduate students. The summer undergraduate
research programme cuts across the ecology and evo-
lution research strands within the School, and oﬀers
projects ranging from climate change to behaviour to
phylogenetics , and training in both practical labora-
tory and ﬁeld skills, as well as generic science commu-
nication skills. Students will be embedded within active
research groups and receive direct training from PIs, as
well as post-doctoral fellows and graduate students. AMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 87
weekly seminar programme will cover research ethics,
the transition to graduate school, current topics in ecol-
ogy and evolution, and science communication. At the
end of the programme students will both write up and
present their research project at a one-day symposium.
In addition to the science, an active social programme
will introduce students to the delights of Dublin, and
the beauty and history of Ireland.
Requirements: - completion (in 2008) of the penulti-
mate year of an undergraduate biological science degree
- proﬁciency in English (written and spoken) - willing-
ness to work hard, and ability to work independently -
strong interest in the project of choice - aspiration to
pursue research in ecology or evolution
Your application must include a CV, a completed ap-
plication form, which you will download from the web-
site ( http://www.naturalscience.tcd.ie/UREKA ), and
2 references (download the form from the website). De-
tails for the application process can be found on the
website. All materials must be received by Friday 29
February 2008
Research Projects: Grass phylogenetics; Parasite im-
pacts on host ﬁtness; Shrimp feeding ecology; Plant
biodiversity in conservation areas; Sociality in bad-
gers; Spatiotemporal dynamics of plant communities;
Genes and development in vertebrates; Phylogeny of
Thai plants; Land-use change and soil microbes; Crop
greenhouse emissions; Growth and resource availability
in bivalves
For more details, please see: http://-
www.naturalscience.tcd.ie/UREKA or e-mail: ﬁ-
molony@tcd.ie
mabrown@tcd.ie
UBologna
9thWinterBioinformaticsSchool
Feb11-15
9th Bologna Winter School on Bioinformatics
GRAND CHALLENGES IN COMPUTATIONAL BI-
OLOGY New developments for solving the unsolved
problems of Computational Biology
University of Bologna, Giorgio Prodi Hall, Piazza San
Giovanni in Monte Bologna (Italy)
Feb 11-15, 2008In our century grand challenges are at hand in Science.
Great expectations have been generated in diﬀerent
ﬁelds by the increasing role and impact of computing
and computer science in processing terabytes of data.
In our era the ’computational thinking’ of computer
science meets the empirical and theoretical methods
of Natural Sciences, from Physics to Biology with an
un-precedent eﬀort of accelerating breakthroughs and
beneﬁts to society. Ongoing projects aim at under-
standing the universe and the origin of life for better
helping to preserve and protect our planet. Simulation
and modeling go global and the novelty is that this is
so also in Biology, where Bioinformatics and Computa-
tional Biology help in understanding basic mechanisms
from molecular biology to systems/organismic biology
in order to revolutionizing medicine and healthcare.
Data acquired at molecular level from diﬀerent species
and/or individuals need to be analyzed at large and in-
tegrated in order to investigate our common origins and
how we diﬀerentiated from each others, also in relation
to environmental factors. Worldwide-integrated plat-
forms for scientiﬁc computing, implementing also new
mathematical and statistical approaches, and based on
new computing paradigms need to be implemented for
real time processing of the enormous amount of ex-
perimental data, produced at hyperbolic rate by ge-
nomics and proteomics eﬀorts. New ideas and/or re-
organization of scientiﬁc eﬀorts with a better collabo-
ration among researchers in theoretical, computational,
experimental areas of investigation are urgently needed.
In the 9th edition of the Bologna Winter School in
Bioinformatics, we will then ask the question of what
grand challenges Computational Biology and Bioinfor-
matics will explore in the next decade. Diﬀerent sub-
jects focusing as a test case on the human genome,
including genome annotation, biodiversity, alternative
splicing and its regulation, epigenetics, information
transfer from 1D to 3D genetic code, cellular function
and simulation, genomic medicine, SNPs and maladies
will be reviewed to highlight present results and future
perspectives to cope with the requirement of integrating
computation with molecular description to understand
basic principles of Biology.
LECTIO MAGISTRALIS
Complexiy at the fundamental level - Antonino
Zichichi, CERN, Geneva, CH
TEACHERS - Giovanni Aloisio, University of Lecce, IT
- Patrick Aloy, Institute for Research in Biomedicine,
Barcelona, ES - Francesco Beltrame, University of
Genova, IT - Jaume Bertranpetit, University “Pom-
peu Fabra”, Barcelona, ES - Alvis Brazma, Euro-
pean Bioinformatics Institute, Hinxton, UK - Joaquin88 EvolDir March 1, 2008
Dopazo, Centro de Investigacien “Principe Felipe”,
Valencia, ES - Arne Elofsson, Stockholm University,
SE - Roderic Guig¨ ı¿1
2, University “Pompeu Fabra”,
Barcelona, ES - David T. Jones, University College,
London, UK - Arthur Lesk, PennState University,
USA - Giuseppe Martini, National Research Council,
Roma, IT - Christine Orengo, University College, Lon-
don, UK - Modesto Orozco, Institute for Research in
Biomedicine, Barcelona, ES - Graziano Pesole, Univer-
sity of Bari, IT - Bernhard Schelkopf, Max Planck Insti-
tute, Tuebingen, DE - Aldo Tagliabue, ALTA srl, Siena,
IT - Willie Taylor, National Institute for Medical Re-
search, London, UK - Anna Tramontano, University
“La Sapienza”, Roma, IT - Alfonso Valencia, Centro
Nacional de Investigaciones Oncolegicas, Madrid, ES
Additional Information: http://-
www.biocomp.unibo.it/ ˜ school2008/ Contact:
school2008@biocomp.unibo.it
For Application send a short C.V. to
school2008@biocomp.unibo.it You will be notiﬁed
by e-mail of acceptance. Deadline for application:
January 29, 2008
gigi@biocomp.unibo.it
UNottingham
MolecularEvolutionDiversity
UK Summer School in Molecular Evolution and Diver-
sity
The BBSRC (UK) are running a Summer School in
Molecular Evolution and Diversity at the University
of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK, from Monday, the
14th July until Saturday, the 19th July 2008. The
Summer School is designed mainly for postgraduate
and postdoctoral researchers in quantitative aspects of
Evolutionary Biology, looking at genetic variation both
between- and within- species.
The course is mainly, although not exclusively, for early
career researchers who wish to gain a greater under-
standing of the quantitative and theoretical tools that
will aid their interpretation of evolutionary data. The
course will include plenary talks from experts in pop-
ulation genetics and molecular evolutionary analyses.
There will be practical (computer) sessions, intended to
help participants in the analysis of sequence and other
types of data, and to understand how these analyses
can be used to study important biological questions.Those chosen for the project will be asked to present
a short talk or a poster about their research project or
planned project.
Places on the course are free, and, while we expect 90%
of those chosen for the course to be postdoctoral or
postgraduate researchers, 10% of places have been re-
served for more experienced researchers. All those cho-
sen will be expected to attend the whole meeting. We
are unable to pay travel expenses for those attending
the course.
Applications will be via the website: http:/-
/www.nottingham.ac.uk/biology/apps/summer-
school/ On the application form will ask for a poster
or talk title and abstract, and also the supervisor’s
name (if relevant) and department and institution.
Places are not restricted to BBSRC-funded researchers.
The deadline for applications is Friday, 28th March
2008.
The Summer School will cover the following areas of
micro- and macro-evolution: Genetic Diversity Within
Populations Genetic Drift and the Coalescent Muta-
tion and Selection Recombination and its Impact of
Genetic Variation The Detection of Selection from Pop-
ulation Genetic Data Genetic Diversity Between Popu-
lations Phylogeography of Humans and Other Species
Measurement of Interpopulation Genetic Variation Ge-
netic Variation Between Species Alignment of DNA se-
quences Tree-Building Evolution of Development and
Environmental Genomics The Evolution of Develop-
ment Patterns of Selective Constraint in the Genome
Microbial Evolution and Systems Biology The Study of
Fitness at the Genomic Scale Gene Networks Recom-
bination, Selection and Genetic Variation in Microbial
Populations
Plenary Speakers will include: Brian Charlesworth,
Deborah Charlesworth, Paul Sharp, Peter Keightley
(University of Edinburgh) Susan Ptak (Max Planck In-
stitutefor Evolutionary Anthropology, Leipzig) Martin
Lercher (Heinrich Heine University, Dusseldorf) Mark
Jobling (University of Leicester) John Brookﬁeld, John
Armour (University of Nottingham) Daniela Delneri
(University of Manchester) Tim Anderson (Southwest
Foundation for Biomedical Research, San Antonio)
If you have any questions please contact John Brook-
ﬁeld at
John.Brookﬁeld@nottingham.ac.uk
Brookﬁeld John <John.Brookﬁeld@nottingham.ac.uk >March 1, 2008 EvolDir 89
UWashington StatisticalGenetics
Online
We are please to present the ﬁrst University of Washing-
ton Online Course Oﬀering of the Statistical Genetics
STAT/BIOST 550 class:
Statistical Genetics I; Discrete Mendelian traits ( http:/-
/www.stat.washington.edu/thompson/Stat550/-
Online 2008/announce.shtml )
with instructor Professor Elizabeth Thompson ( http:/-
/www.stat.washington.edu/thompson/ )
The course will be oﬀered in this new format for the
ﬁrst time in Spring (mid-March to mid-June, 2008).
This is a new version of the on-campus class oﬀered at
UW since 2000, and oﬀered previously through NCSU
Distance Learning (2000, 2001, 2004).
The format will be internet-based with visual and audio
presentations and email/discssion board interations.
For more information about the course content
please contact Professor Elizabeth Thompson (eath-
omp@u.washington.edu), Department of Statistics,
University of Washington.
For information about tuition and registra-
tion please contact Shannon Kuyper (sgar-
ton@EXTN.washington.edu) University of Washington
Extension Oﬃce.
eathomp@u.washington.edu eath-
omp@u.washington.edu
Valencia MolEvol May12-16
Thrid Course on Molecular Evolution, Phylogenetics
and Phylogenomics
12 - 16 May 2008, Valencia. Spain
Hernan Dopazo and Toni Gabaldon, Co-ordinators
The course aims to provide the necessary background
to understand the basic concepts from comparative and
evolutionary biology that are frequently used in molec-
ular biology and bioinformatics analyses. The courseconsists in ﬁve full-day sessions with an adequate bal-
ance between theory and computer practice, oriented
to solve frequent problems and hypothesis testing. The
course includes a session of phylogenomic analysis and
functional annotation including the most recent devel-
opments in this area. Among other tools, attendees will
become familiar with Phylip, Phyml, PAML, TreePuz-
zle, MrBayes, Modeltest programs and tools developed
in our department such as Phylemon, FatiGO, FatiS-
can, and ETE. The course is mainly intended for profes-
sionals in the ﬁeld of biology and chemistry who work
on areas related to biological sequence analysis.
Course fee is 300 euros, meals included. A limited num-
ber of grants will be available.
Local Instructors: Leonardo Arbiza, Jaime Huerta,
Marisa Marcet, Toni Gabald??n and Hernan
Dopazo.Bioinofrmatics Department.Centro de In-
vestigacion Principe Felipe (CIPF)
Invited Instructors: David Posada, University of Vigo
(Spain) and Rafael Zardoya, MNCN-CSIC (Madrid,
Spain)
More information:
http://bioinfo.cipf.es/courses/mol evolphylo 3ed/
Application Deadline: 14th May 2008 The oﬃcial
language is English.
H –
Hernan J. Dopazo, PhD Comparative Genomics Unit,
Bioinformatics Department, Centro de Investigacian
Principe Felipe c/ ep Avda. Autopista del Saler 16
(Junto al Oceanograﬁco), 46012, Valencia, Spain. Tfn:
(34) 96 328 96 80 ext: 1008 Fax: (34) 96 328 97
01 hdopazo@cipf.es http://hdopazo.bioinfo.cipf.es Her-
nan Dopazo <dopazoh@gmail.com >
Valencia Phylogenetics May12-16
Thrid Course on Molecular Evolution, Phylogenetics
and Phylogenomics
12 - 16 May 2008, Valencia. Spain
Hern´ an Dopazo and Toni Gabald´ on, Co-ordinators
The course aims to provide the necessary background
to understand the basic concepts from comparative and
evolutionary biology that are frequently used in molec-
ular biology and bioinformatics analyses. The course
consists in ﬁve full-day sessions with an adequate bal-90 EvolDir March 1, 2008
ance between theory and computer practice, oriented
to solve frequent problems and hypothesis testing. The
course includes a session of phylogenomic analysis and
functional annotation including the most recent devel-
opments in this area. Among other tools, attendees will
become familiar with Phylip, Phyml, PAML, TreePuz-
zle, MrBayes, Modeltest programs and tools developed
in our department such as Phylemon, FatiGO, FatiS-
can, and ETE. The course is mainly intended for profes-
sionals in the ﬁeld of biology and chemistry who work
on areas related to biological sequence analysis.
Course fee is 300 euros, meals included. A limited num-
ber of grants will be available.
Local Instructors: Leonardo Arbiza, Jaime Huerta,
Marisa Marcet, Toni Gabald´ on and Hern´ an
Dopazo.Bioinofrmatics Department.Centro de In-
vestigaci´ on Pr´ ıncipe Felipe (CIPF)
Invited Instructors: David Posada, University of Vigo
(Spain) and Rafael Zardoya, MNCN-CSIC (Madrid,
Spain)
More information:
http://bioinfo.cipf.es/courses/mol evolphylo 3ed/
Application Deadline: 14th May 2008 The oﬃcial
language is English.
H –
Hernan J. Dopazo, PhD Comparative Genomics Unit,
Bioinformatics Department, Centro de Investigacian
Principe Felipe c/ ep Avda. Autopista del Saler 16
(Junto al Oceanograﬁco), 46012, Valencia, Espa˜ na.
Tfn: (34) 96 328 96 80 ext: 1008 Fax: (34) 96 328
97 01 hdopazo@cipf.es http://hdopazo.bioinfo.cipf.es
Hernan Dopazo <hdopazo@cipf.es >
WoodsHole MolEvol Jul27-Aug15
Workshop on Molecular Evolution, Woods Hole, 2008
http://workshop.molecularevolution.org/mbl/ 27 July
- 8 August 2008, and extended topics session 8 August
- 15 August 2008
Application Deadline 3 March 2008
Michael P. Cummings, Director
The Workshop on Molecular Evolution has been theﬁnest course in the subject since it was started in
1988. The Workshop consists of a series of lectures,
demonstrations and computer laboratories that cover
various aspects of molecular evolution. A distinguish-
ing feature of the Workshop is a well-equipped com-
puter laboratory with Apple Macintosh computers and
servers for comparative analysis of molecular data. Au-
thors and experts in the use of computer programs
and packages such as BEAST, Clustal W and Clustal
X, FASTA, GARLI, LAMARC, MAFFT, MrBayes,
PAML, PAUP*, PHYLIP, and Seaview provide demon-
strations and consultations. This two-week program is
designed for established investigators, postdoctoral fel-
lows, and advanced graduate students with prior ex-
perience in molecular evolution and comparative ge-
nomics. Scientists with a strong interest in molecular
evolution, systematics, and population genetics are en-
couraged to apply. Enrollment is limited to 60 students,
and 15 students will be admitted to an extended top-
ics session for the purpose of analyzing their research
data sets. Many participants ﬁnd the extended topics
session to be especially useful.
Topics to be covered include:
* Databases and sequence matching: database search-
ing: protein sequence versus protein structure; homol-
ogy; mathematical, statistical, and theoretical aspects
of sequence database searches * Phylogenetic analysis:
theoretical, mathematical and statistical bases; sam-
pling properties of sequence data; Bayesian analysis;
hypothesis testing * Maximum likelihood theory and
practice in phylogenetics and population genetics: coa-
lescent theory; maximum likelihood estimation of pop-
ulation genetic parameters * Molecular evolution inte-
grated at organism and higher levels: population bi-
ology; biogeography; ecology; systematics and conser-
vation * Molecular evolution and development: gene
duplication and divergence; gene family organization;
coordinated expression in evolution * Comparative ge-
nomics: genome content; genome structure; genome
evolution * Molecular evolution integrated at lower lev-
els: biochemistry; cell biology; physiology; relationship
of genotype to phenotype
2008 Fees: $2400 (room and board at no additional
charge), plus an additional $850 for the extended top-
ics session.
More information is available on the Workshop web site
-
http://workshop.molecularevolution.org/mbl/
mike@umiacs.umd.edu mike@umiacs.umd.eduMarch 1, 2008 EvolDir 91
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here — Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from ‘blackballed’ addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned oﬀ and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf ﬁle.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
‘on vacation’, etc, style messages are automatically ﬁltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail’s your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word ﬁles, as HTML ﬁles, as L ATEX ﬁles, Excel ﬁles, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
“Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:” and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and ﬁlters. If the message is caught by one of the
ﬁlters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterward
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.