E v o l D i r
February 1, 2009
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same ﬁeld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be “bulletin board” in nature, if there is a “discussion” style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1012 EvolDir February 1, 2009
Conferences
AMNH NewYork Health and Environment Apr2-3 . . 2
AMNH NewYork PathogenEvolution Apr2-3 . . . . . . . . 3
Fribourg Switzerland Polyploidization Sep7-8 . . . . . . . 4
Galapagos GalapagosScienceSymposium Jul20-24 . . . 5
IowaCity SMBE Jun3-7 Update . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Irakleio Crete ConservationBiol Sep22-26 . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Irakleio Crete ConservationBiol Sep22-26 Corrected 6
LeibnizInst ConservationEvolutionaryGenomics Sep21-
24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Leiden Systematics Aug10-14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Lyon EvolutionBehaviour Apr6-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
ManchesterU TropicalEvolution Mar30-31 . . . . . . . . . . 9
Marseilles 13thEvolutionaryBiology Sep22-25 . . . . . . . 9
Marseilles 13thEvolutionaryBiology Sep22-25 2 . . . . . 9
Ottawa SystemsBiology Apr23-24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Shanghai MolSystemsBiol Jun21-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Switzerland EvolutionOfSexDetermination Jun17-20
11
Turin ESEB2009 EvolutionaryTranscriptomics Aug24-
29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Turin ESEB2009 SexualSelection Aug . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Turin ESEB asexual Aug24-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Turin ESEB EarlyEvolution Aug24-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Turin ESEB EcoGenetics Aug24-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13Turin ESEB EvoDevo Aug24-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Turin ESEB EvolutionaryApplications Aug24-29 . . 14
Turin ESEBi Ecol Selection Aug24-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Turin ESEB KinSelection Aug24-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Turin ESEB MaleFemaleCoevolution Aug24-29 . . . . 15
Turin ESEB meeting Aug24-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Turin ESEB NaturalVarition Aug24-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Turin ESEB OriginsOfNovelty Aug24-29 . . . . . . . . . . 17
Turin ESEB ParasiteEvolution Aug24-29 . . . . . . . . . . 17
Turin ESEB PollinatorSelection Aug24-29 . . . . . . . . . 18
Turin ESEB Polyploidy Aug24-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Turin ESEB Selection Aug24-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Turin ESEB SexualConﬂict Aug24-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Turin ESEB Speciation Aug24-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Turin ESEB SubdividedSelection Aug24-29 . . . . . . . . 21
Turin ESEB SystemsBiol Aug24-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Turin ESEB TradeOﬀs Aug24-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Turin ESEB Transitions to social life Aug24-29 . . . . 23
UFloridaGainesville SEEC Mar27-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
UFlorida SEEC Mar27-29 CallForAbstracts . . . . . . . 24
Uruguay Darwin200 Sep3-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
USheﬃeld Evolution of insect immunity Jul15-17 . . 25
Zurich NicheEvolution Jul3-4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
AMNH NewYork Health and
Environment Apr2-3
EXPLORING THE DYNAMIC RELATIONSHIP BE-
TWEEN HEALTH AND THE ENVIRONMENT The
Center for Biodiversity and Conservation Milstein Sci-
ence Symposium American Museum of Natural History
New York City, New York, USA April 2 and 3, 2009
http://cbc.amnh.org/health Health and the environ-
ment are deeply intertwined for populations, species,
and ecosystems, as well as for human lives and liveli-
hoods. Human endeavors in agriculture, energy and
food production, transportation, and infrastructure de-
velopment can have far-reaching and signiﬁcant impacton the health of humans and the environment. Under-
standing these relationships is increasingly critical in
the context of our changing world and the accelerating
loss of biodiversity.
This two-day conference will present a diversity of view-
points and experiences, spanning the natural, medical,
and social sciences, as well as policy planning. Pre-
senters will discuss knowledge/data gaps and the limi-
tations of current approaches, and examine innovative
methods that move beyond speculation to a grounded
understanding of impacts and realistic solutions. Par-
ticular emphasis will be placed on consideration of mul-
tiple and interacting stressors and decision making for
maximizing beneﬁts to both health and the environ-
ment.
Call For Posters
Alimited number of posters will be accepted for pre-February 1, 2009 EvolDir 3
sentation during the Symposium. Posters that address
any aspect of the relationship between health and the
environment will be considered. See the Symposiumˆ as
main themes.
Supplementary topics may include, but are not limited
to:
ˆ a Links between the health of plants, wildlife, domes-
tic animals, and/or humans ˆ a Anthropogenic drivers of
disease emergence ˆ a Environmental change and disease
ecology ˆ a Environmental change and pathogen evolu-
tion ˆ a Pathogen discovery in natural reservoirs ˆ a Ecol-
ogy of host-pathogen interactions ˆ a Climate change
and health ˆ a Health-related ecosystem functions and
services ˆ a Environmental sustainability and health ˆ a
Health and biodiversity conservation ˆ a Capacity build-
ing in environment and health
Members of a Poster Selection Committee will deter-
mine which abstracts are to be accepted based on their
relevance and general level of interest.
Abstract Submission Deadline: 30 January 2009
The Poster Session and Reception will be held on the
evening of Thursday, 2 April 2009.
To be considered for the Poster Session, please
submit an abstract (see Sample Abstract Sub-
mission). http://symposia.cbc.amnh.org/archives/-
biocultural/pdf-docs/sample-abstract-submission.pdf
Abstract Format Authors - List the contributing au-
thors with the name of the presenting author in CAPI-
TAL LETTERS. Order should be last name ﬁrst for the
ﬁrst author, but ﬁrst name ﬁrst for all other authors.
Write out full ﬁrst names.
Addresses - List each contributing authorˆ as institu-
tional aﬃliation, including its city, state/province, and
country. For the presenting author only, include an
email address in parentheses at the end of the address.
If there are multiple addresses, indicate by superscript
numeral.
Title - Titles are limited to 150 characters or less.
Abstract - The body of the abstract is limited to 300
words and should not exceed one paragraph. Begin
with a statement of the problem or objectives and end
with a clear conclusion.
Name of contact - Provide the name of the contact per-
son for necessary correspondence, including notiﬁcation
of abstract acceptance. Include the contact personˆ as
complete mailing address and country. Also provide an
email address.
Abstracts may be submitted by email to
posters@amnh.org. The subject line of the emailshould read ˆ aPoster Submission.ˆ a
Poster Abstract Submission Deadline: 30 January 2009
Selection Committee Notiﬁcation: 9 February 2009
If you require a decision before January 30 (e.g., for visa
requirements to travel to New York), please state so in
your email and we will do our best to accommodate
your request.
All poster presenters must register for the symposium
by Friday, 13 February, to guarantee inclusion in the
Poster Session and in the printed Program.
Please Note: The American Museum is unable to
provide ﬁnancial support to poster presenters for
travel or accommodation. For a list of hotels, stu-
dent centers, and hostels in the neighborhood of the
Museum, visit http://cbc.amnh.org/health Sergios-
Orestis Kolokotronis, PhD Sackler Institute for Com-
parative Genomics American Museum of Natural His-
tory Central Park West at 79th Street New York, NY
10024 -USA- tel +1 212 313 7654 koloko@amnh.org
http://softlinks.amnh.org koloko@amnh.org
AMNH NewYork
PathogenEvolution Apr2-3
EXPLORING THE DYNAMIC RELATIONSHIP BE-
TWEEN HEALTH AND THE ENVIRONMENT
CALL FOR POSTERS: SESSION ON PATHOGEN
EVOLUTION AND THE ENVIRONMENT The Cen-
ter for Biodiversity and Conservation Milstein Sci-
ence Symposium American Museum of Natural History
New York City, New York, USA 2 & 3 APRIL, 2009
http://symposia.cbc.amnh.org/health Health and the
environment are deeply intertwined for populations,
species, and ecosystems, as well as for human lives and
livelihoods. Understanding these relationships is in-
creasingly critical in the context of our changing world
and the accelerating loss of biodiversity. This two-day
conference will present a diversity of viewpoints and ex-
periences, spanning the natural, medical, and social sci-
ences, as well as policy planning. Please visit http://-
symposia.cbc.amnh.org/health for the list of conﬁrmed
speakers and the program so far.
Call For Posters
A limited number of posters will be accepted for pre-
sentation during the Symposium. Posters that address
any aspect of the relationship between health and the4 EvolDir February 1, 2009
environment will be considered; we would like to in-
vite posters on the role of the environment on pathogen
evolution. See the Symposium$B!G(Bs main themes at
http://symposia.cbc.amnh.org/health .
Abstract Submission Deadline: 5 February 2009
The Poster Session and Reception will be held on the
evening of Thursday 2 April 2009.
To be considered for the Poster Session, please
submit an abstract (see sample). http://-
symposia.cbc.amnh.org/archives/biocultural/pdf-
docs/sample-abstract-submission.pdf Abstract Format
Authors - List the contributing authors with the name
of the presenting author in CAPITAL LETTERS.
Order should be last name ﬁrst for the ﬁrst author,
but ﬁrst name ﬁrst for all other authors. Write out full
ﬁrst names.
Addresses - List each contributing author$B!G(Bs in-
stitutional aﬃliation, including its city, state/province,
and country. For the presenting author only, include an
email address in parentheses at the end of the address.
If there are multiple addresses, indicate by superscript
numeral.
Title - Titles are limited to 150 characters or less.
Abstract - The body of the abstract is limited to 300
words and should not exceed one paragraph. Begin
with a statement of the problem or objectives and end
with a clear conclusion.
Name of contact - Provide the name of the contact
person for necessary correspondence, including noti-
ﬁcation of abstract acceptance. Include the contact
person$B!G(Bs complete mailing address and country.
Also provide an email address.
Abstracts may be submitted by email to
posters@amnh.org. The subject line of the email
should read $B!H(BPoster Submission.$B!I(B
Poster Abstract Submission Deadline: 5 February 2009
Selection Committee Notiﬁcation: 9 February 2009
If you require a decision before 5 February (e.g., for visa
requirements to travel to New York), please state so in
your email and we will do our best to accommodate
your request.
All poster presenters must register for the symposium
by Friday 13 February, to guarantee inclusion in the
Poster Session and in the printed Program.
Please Note: The American Museum is unable to
provide ﬁnancial support to poster presenters for
travel or accommodation. For a list of hotels, stu-
dent centers, and hostels in the neighborhood of theMuseum, visit http://cbc.amnh.org/health Sergios-
Orestis Kolokotronis, PhD Sackler Institute for Com-
parative Genomics American Museum of Natural His-
tory Central Park West at 79th Street New York, NY
10024 -USA- tel +1 212 313 7654 koloko@amnh.org
http://softlinks.amnh.org Sergios-Orestis Kolokotronis
<koloko@amnh.org >
Fribourg Switzerland
Polyploidization Sep7-8
*MINISYMPOSIUM ANNOUNCEMENT*
POLYPLOIDIZATION, PLANT FITNESS AND
TROPHIC INTERACTIONS
Fribourg Ecology & Evolution Days 2009
Fribourg(Switzerland), 7-8 September 2009
The evolutionary success and potential selective ad-
vantage of genome duplication through polyploidy is
a widespread evolutionary phenomenon and a common
speciation mechanism in plants. Recent studies indi-
cate an association of polyploidy with successful weeds
and plant invaders. Little is yet known about the man-
ifold underlying mechanisms, and the relative impor-
tance of auto- vs. allo-polyploidisation, the latter in-
cluding hybridization. Surprisingly, ecological and evo-
lutionary eﬀects of polyploidy on shaping interspeciﬁc
interactions within natural communities are largely un-
known, although changes in plant traits related to poly-
ploidy have been exploited in agriculture to produce
crop varieties that are also more resistant to natural
enemies.
In this workshop, we will bring together scholars from
both ecology and evolution, and from plant and animal
biology to discuss concepts and new developments in
this yet greatly under-researched, but highly promising
ﬁeld. (Flyer)
Conﬁrmed invited speakers:
- Brian Husband (Univ. of Guelph, CA) - Zuzana
M¨ unzbergov´ a (Charles Univ. Praha, CZ) - Scott Nuis-
mer (Univ. of Idaho, Moscow, USA) - John Pannell
(Univ. of Oxford, GB) - Yves van de Peer (Univ. of
Gent, BE) - Kristina Schierenbeck (USDA-ARS, Reno,
USA)
The meeting is open and there is no registration fee,
but online registration is required.February 1, 2009 EvolDir 5
Talk/poster submission deadline: 1 July 2009 Registra-
tion deadline: 1 August 2009
Info:heinz.mueller@unifr.ch
Web site and Registration: www.unifr.ch/biol/-
ecology/Polyploidy09 Organisers Heinz M¨ uller-
Sch¨ arer, Patrik Mr´ az & Louis-Felix Bersier, Univ. of
Fribourg, CH Jasmin Joshi, Univ. of Potsdam, D Urs
Schaﬀner, CABI Del´ emont, CH
Please distribute this information to all researchers and
students potentially interested!
Best wishes,
Louis-F´ elix Bersier
Prof Louis-F´ elix Bersier Unit of Ecology and Evolution
Department of Biology, University of Fribourg Ch. du
Mus´ ee 10 CH-1700 Fribourg, Switzerland
louis-felix.bersier@unifr.ch louis-felix.bersier@unifr.ch
Galapagos
GalapagosScienceSymposium
Jul20-24
Galapagos Science Symposium: the role of science in
developing a sustainable future
20-24 July 2009 Charles Darwin Research Station Gala-
pagos, Ecuador
The meeting is in recognition of the 50th anniversary of
the Charles Darwin Research Station and the Darwin
anniversaries. Scientists, scholars and experts on Gala-
pagos, evolution, Darwin, conservation and biodiversity
will be featured.
Meeting ﬂyer including a tentative program and
speakers: http://www.darwinfoundation.org/ﬁles/-
about-us/pdf/Symposium%202009%20PP %20-
%20PC-Web-Distribute.pdf
Peter H Wimberger <pwimberger@ups.edu >
IowaCity SMBE Jun3-7 Update
**SMBE 2009, Iowa City**
The 17th annual meeting of the Society for MolecularBiology and Evolution-SMBE 2009-will be held in Iowa
City June 3-7, 2009, on the campus of The University of
Iowa. Visit our meeting website ( http://smbe2009.org )
for the most current information.
REMINDER: Contributed Symposium Proposals due:
Monday, January 12th
UPDATES: Registration opens: February 2nd (or
sooner) Early registration closes: April 1st Abstract
deadline for consideration as Fitch Prize: March 16th
Abstract deadline for consideration as contributed talk:
April 1st (all abstracts received after April 1st will be
posters) Abstract deadline for inclusion in the program
book: May 15th
On behalf of the organizers, we’ll see you soon in Iowa
City! John
–
John M. Logsdon, Jr., Ph.D. Associate Professor Direc-
tor, Roy J. Carver Center for Comparative Genomics
University of Iowa Department of Biology 319 335 1082
oﬃce 310 Biology Building 319 335 1083 lab Iowa City,
IA 52242-1324 319 335 1069 FAX
email <john-logsdon@uiowa.edu >web<http://-
ccg.biology.uiowa.edu ><http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu
> < http://euplotes.biology.uiowa.edu ><http://-
euplotes.biology.uiowa.edu >
john-logsdon@uiowa.edu john-logsdon@uiowa.edu
Irakleio Crete ConservationBiol
Sep22-26
*Dear Sir,* *I am sending you this mail in order to
announce the 1st Circular of the Scientiﬁc Conference
“11 International Congress on the Zoogeography and
Ecology of Greece and Adjacent Regions”.*
* 1st Circular*
Dear colleague,
It is my pleasure to invite you to participate in the Sci-
entiﬁc Conference “*/11 ^th International Congress on
the Zoogeography and Ecology of Greece and Adjacent
Regions/*”, which will take place in Irakleio (Crete,
Greece), September 22-26, 2009. Please, ﬁnd attached
information (First Circular) about this Scientiﬁc Con-
ference. We hope that you or some of your colleagues
will be interested to attend the Conference.6 EvolDir February 1, 2009
Sessions will convene in the mornings and early after-
noons and will include lectures by invited speakers, as
well as talks and poster presentations selected from sub-
mitted abstracts. The invited key speakers are:
*Prof. Robert Whittaker*, Biodiversity Research
Group, Oxford University Centre for the Environment,
UK
*Dr. Kevin de Queiroz*, National Museum of Natural
History, Smithsonian Institution, USA
*Prof. Kevin N. Laland, * Centre for Social Learning
and Cognitive Evolution, School of Biology, University
of St. Andrews, Scotland
*Dr. Thord Fransson, *Swedish Museum of Natural
History, Sweden
*Prof. Carlo Heip*, Centre for Estuarine and Marine
Ecology (CEME) and General Director of the Royal
Netherlands Institute of Sea Research, The Netherlands
*Prof. Fritz F. Steininger*, Research Institute and Nat-
ural History Museum Senckenberganlage, Frankfurt am
Main, Germany
*Prof. Gary R. Carvalho, *School of Biological
Sciences, University of Bangor, Environment Centre
Wales, Bangor, UK
*We will appreciate very much also if you dissemi-
nate this information among your colleagues and en-
courage them to participate.* Further information can
be found at: www.nhmc.uoc.gr/iczegar11 <http://-
www.nhmc.uoc.gr/iczegar11 >.
We are inviting abstract submissions for
oral and poster presentations in the “11 ^th
ICZEGAR”. Abstracts should be submitted on-
line at www.nhmc.uoc.gr/iczegar11 <http://-
www.nhmc.uoc.gr/iczegar11 >by February 20, 2009.
We will send a new message to re-announce the
opening of registration and abstract submission. The
deadline for receipt of abstracts, early registration, and
hotel reservations will be May 31, 2009.
I look forward to welcoming you in Irakleio (Crete) for
a scientiﬁcally stimulating and socially enjoyable meet-
ing.
With best regards,
On behalf of the Organizing Committee
Nikos Poulakakis
–
11iczegar <11iczegar@nhmc.uoc.gr >Irakleio Crete ConservationBiol
Sep22-26 Corrected
*1st Circular*
Dear colleague,
It is my pleasure to invite you to participate in the Sci-
entiﬁc Conference “*/11 ^th International Congress on
the Zoogeography and Ecology of Greece and Adjacent
Regions/*”, which will take place in Irakleio (Crete,
Greece), September 21-25, 2009. Please, ﬁnd attached
information (First Circular) about this Scientiﬁc Con-
ference. We hope that you or some of your colleagues
will be interested to attend the Conference.
Sessions will convene in the mornings and early after-
noons and will include lectures by invited speakers, as
well as talks and poster presentations selected from sub-
mitted abstracts. The invited key speakers are:
*Prof. Robert Whittaker*, Biodiversity Research
Group, Oxford University Centre for the Environment,
UK
*Dr. Kevin de Queiroz*, National Museum of Natural
History, Smithsonian Institution, USA
*Prof. Kevin N. Laland*, Centre for Social Learning
and Cognitive Evolution, School of Biology, University
of St. Andrews, Scotland**
*Dr. Thord Fransson*, Swedish Museum of Natural
History, Sweden**
*Prof. Carlo Heip*, Centre for Estuarine and Marine
Ecology (CEME) and General Director of the Royal
Netherlands Institute of Sea Research, The Netherlands
*Prof. Fritz F. Steininger*, Research Institute and Nat-
ural History Museum Senckenberganlage, Frankfurt am
Main, Germany
*Prof. Gary R. Carvalho, *School of Biological
Sciences, University of Bangor, Environment Centre
Wales, Bangor, UK
*We will appreciate very much also if you dissemi-
nate this information among your colleagues and en-
courage them to participate.* Further information can
be found at: www.nhmc.uoc.gr/iczegar11 <http://-
www.nhmc.uoc.gr/iczegar11 >.
We are inviting abstract submissions for
oral and poster presentations in the “11 ^thFebruary 1, 2009 EvolDir 7
ICZEGAR”. Abstracts should be submitted on-
line at www.nhmc.uoc.gr/iczegar11 <http://-
www.nhmc.uoc.gr/iczegar11 >by February 23, 2009.
We will send a new message to re-announce the
opening of registration and abstract submission. The
deadline for receipt of abstracts, early registration, and
hotel reservations will be May 31, 2009.
I look forward to welcoming you in Irakleio (Crete) for
a scientiﬁcally stimulating and socially enjoyable meet-
ing.
With best regards,
On behalf of the Organizing Committee
Nikos Poulakakis
–
11iczegar <11iczegar@nhmc.uoc.gr >
LeibnizInst
ConservationEvolutionaryGenomics
Sep21-24
On behalf of the Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife
Research (IZW) and the European Association of Zoos
and Aquaria (EAZA) I would like to invite you to the
“7th International Conference on Behaviour, Physiol-
ogy and Genetics of Wildlife”,
The Conference will be held between the 21st and 24th
September 2009 in Berlin, Germany.
The aim of the meeting is to foster an exchange of
ideas between wildlife scientists from diﬀerent disci-
plines with an interest in both wild and captive mam-
malian species.
The main topics of the conference are:
- Life History & Maternal Eﬀects
(Pat Monaghan, Universtity of Glasgow, UK)
- Stress & Disturbance
(Marco Apollonio, Universita Sassari, Sardinien)
- Reproduction Biology
(David Wildt, Smithsonian National Zoological Park,
USA)
-Evolutionary Genomics in Conservation
(Pierre Taberlet, Universit´ e Joseph Fourier, Grenoble,France)
-Conservation Biology
(Eric Dinerstein, senior scientist WWF USA, Washing-
ton, USA)
The Conference oﬀers several workshops: - Evolution-
ary Genomics in Conservation (Pierre Taberlet, Simone
Sommer, IZW)
- Communication in Mammals and Birds (Francesco
Bonnadonna, Centre d’Ecologie Fonctionnelle et Evo-
lutive, Montpellier, France, Martin Dehnhard, IZW)
- Welfare and Conservation (Eric Dinerstein, senior sci-
entist WWF USA, Washington, USA)
- Nutrition and Energetics (Carlos Martinez del Rio,
University of Wyoming, USA, Sylvia Ortmann, IZW,
Christian Voigt, IZW)
- Behavioural Rhythms (Serge Daan, University of
Groningen, The Netherlands)
- Research by, in, with and for zoos, aquaria and other
ex situ-institutions (Kirstin Leus, Zoo Antwerp, Bel-
gium)
A practical training workshop on non-invasive monitor-
ing of hormones will be run during the week before the
conference (Martin Dehnhard, IZW).
You will ﬁnd more information about the confer-
ence on our homepage at: http://www.izw-berlin.de/-
willkommen.html
Yours sincerely, Simone Sommer
Prof Dr Simone Sommer Evolutionary Genetics,
Leibniz-Institute for Zoo- and Wildlife Research &
Evolutionary Ecology, University of Potsdam Leibniz-
Institute for Zoo- and Wildlife Research (IZW) Alfred-
Kowalke Str. 17 D-10315 Berlin Tel. +49 30 5168 315
Fax +49 30 5126 104
SOMMER@izw-berlin.de
Leiden Systematics Aug10-14
Dear colleagues,
The National Herbarium of the Netherlands and the
National Museum of Natural History Naturalis want to
announce
“Systematics” BioSystEU 2009 10-14 August 2009
The combined:8 EvolDir February 1, 2009
First meeting of BioSyst EU
Seventh Biennial Conference of the Systematics Asso-
ciation
11. GfBS-Jahrestagung
BioSyst EU (www.biosyst.eu <http://www.biosyst.eu
>), the federation of European systematic societies,
was founded in 2006. It aims to provide a European
platform to:
* promote research, teaching, and training in all areas
of systematic biology * encourage collaboration and in-
terchange among researchers, coordinate national and
international eﬀorts * support and represent researchers
in countries lacking formal systematic societies * repre-
sent systematic biology in the European parliament
Participarting societies include:
GfBS - Gesellschaft f¨ ur Biologische Systematik (Ger-
many)
NOBIS - Network of Biological Systematics Austria
(Austria)
SFS - Soci´ et´ e Fran¸ caise de Syst´ ematique (France)
Swiss Systematics Society (Switzerland)
The Systematics Association (UK)
The conference will be the ﬁrst of a series of quadrennial
European conferences for biological systematics. These
meetings will encourage both formal and informal col-
laboration among systematic biologists and other inter-
ested researchers across Europe.
Sessions will include major themed symposia; timely
’how-to’ talks on important emerging topics by lead-
ers in the ﬁeld, and generous time allocation for con-
tributed papers or posters by students and established
researchers on any topic in systematics.
The conference is open to everyone; we especially
encourage participation of research students and re-
searchers in the early stages of their careers.
Student Bursaries
To encourage student participation, competitive bur-
saries will cover registration, accommodation costs and
the conference dinner (but not travel) for students pre-
senting a paper on their own research work. For details
and an online application form, see the Systematics As-
sociation website: www.systass.org . Deadline for Reg-
istration and Submission of Abstracts 30th June 2007.
A late registration surcharge will apply after this date.
Conference venue
Leiden houses the major biodiversity collections of the
National Museum of Natural History Naturalis and theNational Herbarium of the Netherlands. It has one
of the largest and most attractive historical town cen-
tres of the Netherlands, and is centrally located with
excellent connections to Amsterdam, The Hague and
Schiphol Airport. The conference venue is within walk-
ing distance of Leiden Central Station
For more information, registration and booking details,
see www.biosyst.eu <http://www.biosyst.eu >or con-
tact Peter Hovenkamp Hovenkamp@nhn.leidenuniv.nl
<mailto:Hovenkamp@nhn.leidenuniv.nl > (National
Herbarium of the Netherlands, Leiden University
branch).
Prof. dr. E.F. Smets
Scientiﬁc Director National Herbarium of the Nether-
lands Leiden University branch P.O. Box 9514 2300 RA
Leiden The Netherlands
www.nationaalherbarium.nl
Lyon EvolutionBehaviour Apr6-10
5thˆA/lessmuchEvolution & Behaviour ˆA/greatermuchMeeting
Monday 6 - Friday 10 April 2009, Lyon (France).
The “Evolution & Behaviour” Meeting is an interna-
tional meeting with the main purpose of promoting
postgraduate research and interactions between young
researchers in Behavioural Evolution. One speciﬁcity of
this meeting, which is organized by the SERL PhD stu-
dents association, is that it is free for all participants:
you only have to pay for your trip to Lyon.
This year, the “Evolution & Behaviour” Meeting con-
sists of four days of conferences divided into six themes:
* Sexual Selection * Foraging * Parasitism and preda-
tion * Habitat selection and dispersal * Collective be-
haviour * Applied Behavioural ecology
Each session will be introduced by two invited profes-
sors specialized in this ﬁeld of research, followed by 8-10
postgraduate student research presentations and dis-
cussions. In addition, poster sessions and three “theme
evenings” designed for a broad public are planned.
The number of participants will be limited to 100 post-
graduate students.
Participants are expected to give a 10-minute talk. In
order to register please submit the abstract of your
talk (or poster) (300 words maximum) on the website:
http://serl2009.univ-lyon1.fr (see the website for sup-February 1, 2009 EvolDir 9
plementary information). Registration and submission
of abstracts are opened until March 2nd.
Hope to see you in April,
SERL Association 2009.
oudenhove@biomserv.univ-lyon1.fr
oudenhove@biomserv.univ-lyon1.fr
ManchesterU TropicalEvolution
Mar30-31
Open to ecologists and evolutionary biologists working
on tropical systems
3rd British Ecological Society -Tropical Ecology Group
Early Career Researcher Meeting - FINAL CALL FOR
ABSTRACTS - DEADLINE 31ST JANUARY
Held at: Manchester Metropolitan University, Manch-
ester UK 30th & 31st March 2009
Plenary Speakers: Robin Chazdon (University of Con-
necticut) Charles Sheppard (University of Warwick)
Plus: Lloyd Peck - UK NERC Biodiversity theme leader
will be speaking
Registration: £60 before 31st Jan 2009; £70 after this
date (En suite B & B accommodation available for
£39.50) Abstract closing date 31st January 2009 50%
discount for students - limited availability, contact or-
ganizers NOW!
CONTACT: Francis Brearley
(f.q.brearley@mmu.ac.uk) or Jenny Rowntree (jen-
nifer.rowntree@manchester.ac.uk)
Facebook page: http://www.facebook.com/-
editevent.php?info&eid=3D40770566187#/event.php?
eid@770566187
jkrowntree@mac.com
Marseilles 13thEvolutionaryBiology
Sep22-25
Dear All,
We are pleased to inform you that the 13th Evolution-
ary Biology Meeting at Marseilles will take place on 22-25 September 2009 and that you can register at http:/-
/sites.univ-provence.fr/evol-cgr The following subjects
will be discussed:
- Evolutionary biology concepts and modelisations for
biological annotation; - Biodiversity and Systematics; -
Comparative genomics and post-genomics (at all tax-
onomic levels); - Functional phylogeny; - Environment
and biological evolution; - Origin of Life and exobi-
ology; - Non-adaptative versus adaptative evolution; -
The/lessmuchminor/greatermuchphyla: their usefulness in evolutionary
biology knowledge.
For more information, do not hesitate to go on: http:/-
/sites.univ-provence.fr/evol-cgr
Best wishes and Happy New Year!
Axelle Pontarotti
Universite EGEE <Egee@univ-provence.fr >
Marseilles 13thEvolutionaryBiology
Sep22-25 2
Dear All,
We are pleased to announce you that the early deadline
of the 13th Evolutionary Biology Meeting at Marseilles
22-25 September 2009, Marseilles, France will be on
31st January.
For more information, do not hesitate to go on: http:/-
/sites.univ-provence.fr/evol-cgr Best wishes,
Axelle Pontarotti
Universite EGEE <Egee@univ-provence.fr >
Ottawa SystemsBiology Apr23-24
The Ottawa Institute of Systems Biology and the Na-
tional Research Council are organizing a symposium
entitled “Progress in Systems Biology Symposium: The
Brain and Mind”. This Symposium will take place in
Ottawa on April 23rd and 24th 2009. More informa-
tion on the symposium is available at www.oisb.ca <
http://www.oisb.ca >. I would appreciate if you could
forward the information to other researchers that might
be interested in this symposium.10 EvolDir February 1, 2009
Location: National Research Council of Canada, 100
Sussex Drive, Ottawa,Canada
Keynote Speakers
Dr. Seth Grant, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute,
Cambridge, England Dr. Hanfa Zou, National Chro-
matographic R&A Center, Dalian, China Dr. Ar-
turas Petronis, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada
Dr. Alexandra Golby, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
USA Dr. Frank Sharp, University of California, Davis,
USA Dr. Freda Miller, University of Toronto, Toronto,
Canada
Early Bird Registration Deadline and Poster Submis-
sion: March 1, 2009
For more information and to register, please visit:
www.oisb.ca Contact information: sysbio@uottawa.ca
or phone (613) 562-5800 ext. 8073
Regards, Daniel
Dr. Daniel Figeys Director, Ottawa Institute of Sys-
tems Biology Canada Research Chair in Proteomics
and Systems Biology Professor, Department of Bio-
chemistry University of Ottawa BMI department, room
4510D 451 Smyth Road Ottawa, Ontario K1H 8M5
(613) 562 5800 ext 8674 613-562-5655 (fax)
Rachel Figeys Assistant to the OISB Director Room
4510E, 451 Smyth Road University of Ottawa,
Faculty of Medicine Ottawa, Ontario, K1H 8M5
Phone: 613-562-5800 x 8073 Fax: 613-562-5655 Email:
sysbio@uottawa.ca <mailto:sysbio@uottawa.ca >or
rﬁgeys@uottawa.ca <mailto:rﬁgeys@uottawa.ca >
Website: www.oisb.ca <http://www.oisb.ca >
Daniel Figeys <dﬁgeys@uottawa.ca >
Shanghai MolSystemsBiol Jun21-25
11th International Conference on Molecular Systems
Biology http://www.picb.ac.cn/icmsb2009 June 21-25,
2009 Chinese Academy of Sciences - Max Planck
Society Partner Institute for Computational Biology,
Shanghai, China
For the past years, active research in systems biology
has generated many promising and intriguing exper-
imental, theoretical, and computational results. At
the 11th International Conference on Molecular Sys-
tems Biology (ICMSB’09, Shanghai), world experts
from many relevant ﬁelds will meet in Shanghai topresent and discuss recent advances and new appli-
cations in molecular systems biology, and exchange
emerging research ideas. We strongly encourage par-
ticipation by young researchers and graduate students
from all over the world. The ICMSB’09 will be hosted
by the CAS-MPG Partner Institute for Computational
Biology (PICB). The city of Shanghai is a dynamic cen-
ter of economy, commerce, science and technology in .
It provides an excellent environment for scientists to
interact and identify potential collaborations.
We are now open to accept contributed talks and
posters for all areas in molecular systems biology in-
cluding (but not limited to) the following topics:
* Mathematical modeling and simulation of biosystems
and their evolution * Functional genomics and pro-
teomics * Identiﬁcation and analysis of gene regula-
tory networks * Identiﬁcation and analysis of protein-
protein interaction networks * Identiﬁcation and analy-
sis of metabolic networks * Computational approaches
to complex genetic diseases * Synthetic biology and cir-
cuitry
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE
March 15, 2009
SCIENCE ADVISORY BOARD
Rui Alves, Universidad de Lleida, Spain William Atch-
ley, North Carolina State University, USA Xiaoya
Chen, Institute of Plant Physiology and Ecology, CAS
Andreas Dress, CAS-MPG Partner Institute for Com-
putational Biology Jianfeng Feng, Warwick University,
UK Bailin Hao, Fudan University, China Li Jin, Fudan
University |CAS-MPG Partner Institute for Compu-
tational Biology Eduardo Mendoza, Ludwig Maximil-
ians University, Germany Albert Sorribas, Universidad
de Lleida, Lleida, Spain Martin Vingron, Max Planck
Institute for Molecular Genetics, Germany Eberhardt
Voit, Georgia Institute of Technology, USA
ORGANIZING COMMITTEE
Su-shing Chen, CAS-MPG PICB, CAS Haipeng Li,
CAS-MPG PICB, CAS Kun Tang, CAS-MPG PICB,
CAS Shuhua Xu, CAS-MPG PICB, CAS Jin Yang,
CAS-MPG Partner Institute for Computational Biol-
ogy
Haipeng Li, Dr. Laboratory of Evolutionary Genomics
CAS-MPG Partner Institute for Computational Biol-
ogy Chinese Academy of Sciences Yue Yang Road 320
Shanghai, 200031 China
Tel: +(86)-21-54920460 Fax: +(86)-21-54920451 E-
mail: lihaipeng@picb.ac.cnFebruary 1, 2009 EvolDir 11
Switzerland
EvolutionOfSexDetermination
Jun17-20
We open registration for a 3-days meeting (June 17-
20, 2009) on the evolution of sex-determination mech-
anisms. Brief description and address for registration
athttp://www.unil.ch/dee/page62605 fr.html Invited
speakers include D.Charlesworth, W Rice, RH Devlin,
F.Janzen, L.Beukeboom, M.Beye, and M.Kirkpatrick
The meeting will take place in a small village in the
Swiss Alps (La Sage, Val d’Herens)
Fees are Euro 300.- , including inscription and full ac-
commodation.
When registering, please send a short statement of re-
search interests, and an abstract if you plan to con-
tribute a talk.
Deadline 1st of March 2009
Nicolas Perrin Dept. Ecology & Evolution University
of Lausanne (Switzerland) http://www.unil.ch/dee/-
page5090 en.html Tel (0041) 21 692 41 84 new mail:
nicolas.perrin@unil.ch
Nicolas Perrin <Nicolas.Perrin@unil.ch >
Turin ESEB2009
EvolutionaryTranscriptomics
Aug24-29
We invite interested people to submit abstracts for
oral/poster presentation in the symposium “Evolution-
ary transcriptomics”, which will take place at the next
congress of the European Society for Evolutionary Bi-
ology (24-29 August 2009, Turin, Italy)
This symposium will focus on genome-wide analysis of
gene expression, with emphasis on the genetic mech-
anisms, ecological conditions, and selective forces re-
sponsible for expression variation within species and/or
expression divergence between species.
To submit your abstract (deadline 15 February 2009)
and get useful information about the congress, pleasego to http://www.eseb2009.it/uk EVOLUTIONARY
TRANSCRIPTOMICS In recent years, the fundamen-
tal role of gene expression in shaping phenotypes has
been recognized. The tempo and mode of expression of
a particular gene, i.e. of a transcript, can inﬂuence an
organism’s morphology, physiology and behavior. As
such, the regulation of gene expression is an important
evolutionary process and variation in gene expression
levels provides a substrate for natural selection. High-
throughout methods, such as microarrays, have made it
possible to investigate the expression level of all genes
in the genome, i.e. the transcriptome. An increasing
number of researchers are using these methods to eval-
uate the role of the transcriptome in phenotypic evolu-
tion. These include studies of gene expression polymor-
phism within populations to understand the forces that
maintain/limit expression variation, as well as compar-
ative studies that seek to identify the speciﬁc expression
changes underlying phenotypic diﬀerences. There are
many open questions in this ﬁeld that researchers are
only now beginning to address. Examples include the
role of selective versus neutral forces in driving the evo-
lution of gene expression, and the relative importance
of cis- versus trans- regulation in transcriptome evolu-
tion. The aim of this symposium is to bring together
leading experts to discuss and share information in this
fast-growing area of research, which encompasses ﬁelds
such as evolution, development and ecology.
Organizers: John Parsch, University of Munich, Ger-
many (parsch@bio.lmu.de) Lino Ometto, University of
Lausanne, Switzerland (lino.ometto@unil.ch)
Lino Ometto
University of Lausanne Department of Ecology and
Evolution Biophore, UNIL-Sorge CH-1015 Lausanne
Switzerland
phone +41 (0)21 692 4193 eMail lino.ometto@unil.ch
Italian Society for Evolutionary Biology www.sibe-
iseb.it lino.ometto@unil.ch lino.ometto@unil.ch
Turin ESEB2009 SexualSelection
Aug
There is a symposium to be held at the European So-
ciety for Evolutionary Biology Congress in Turin, Italy
(August 2009) entitled ˆ aAre ˆ aGood Genesˆ a theories of
sexual selection ﬁnally sinking into the sunset?ˆ a The
rationale behind this symposium is described below.12 EvolDir February 1, 2009
Abstracts for oral or poster presentations need to be
submitted to the main conference web site at http:/-
/www.eseb2009.it/uk/ by February 15th. Unfortu-
nately, we cannot oﬀer any ﬁnancial help.
Rationale
ˆ aGood Genesˆ a models and interpretations of mate
choice have dominated sexual selection since at least
1975, and much of the empirical research in behavioural
ecology and evolutionary genetics has emphasised the
maintenance of genetic variation of indicator traits and
ﬁtness. In the last ten to ﬁfteen years, views of sex-
ual selection have shifted to emphasise exploitation and
sexual conﬂict, which predicts cheating and sexually an-
tagonistic coevolution. Also, studies of genotype by en-
vironment interaction and indirect genetic eﬀects have
demonstrated that there are numerous ways in which
genetic variation can be maintained for sexually advan-
tageous traits and ﬁtness. Many of these recent results
make the maintenance of genetic variation in sexually
selected traits easier to understand. However, in turn
this raises the question of whether such genetic varia-
tion is likely to provide predictable genetic beneﬁts for
oﬀspring. Can sexually antagonistic selection maintain
adaptive mate choice? Is there any need to invoke good
genes explanations for elaborate sexual traits any more?
We encourage speakers from both sides of the argument
to apply, and we hope that the deliberately provocative
tone will prompt a lively exchange of views.
Invited speakers: Adam Chippendale (assessment of ex-
tent and signiﬁcance of antagonistic genetic variation
in Drosophila). Anna Qvarnstr¨ om (empirical studies of
natural genetic variation in birds)
Organisers: Mike Ritchie, University of St Andrews,
Scotland. mgr’AT’st-and.ac.uk Nathan Bailey, Univer-
sity of California, Riverside, USA. nathanb’AT’ucr.edu
–
Mike Ritchie School of Biology Dyers Brae House Uni-
versity of St Andrews St Andrews, Fife Scotland KY16
9TH
Phone 0 (44 outside UK) 1334 463495 Fax 0 (44 outside
UK) 1334 463366
Website: http://bio.st-andrews.ac.uk/staﬀ/mgr.htm
PDFs etc: http://biology.st-and.ac.uk/supplemental/-
ritchie/papers.aspx Mike Ritchie <mgr@st-
andrews.ac.uk >Turin ESEB asexual Aug24-29
Conference: Turin.ESEB asexual.Aug24.29
We invite submissions of abstracts for talks in our
symposium ’The genetic consequences of reproductive
modes: insights from asexual species’, which will be
held at the 2009 congress of the European Society for
Evolutionary Biology (24-29 August, Turin, Italy).
For abstract submission and information, follow this
linkhttp://www.eseb2009.it/uk Submission deadline
of abstracts is February 15th, 2009.
This Symposium will explore experimental work that
has started to unravel the evolution of asexual repro-
duction at the genetic level.
Conﬁrmed speakers
David Mark Welch, Marine Biological Laboratory, USA
Shannon Hedtke, Univeristy of Texas, USA
Given the overlap between our session and several oth-
ers, please feel free to contact us regarding whether your
abstract would be appropriate for our session.
Please send questions to both:
Karine Van Doninck, University of Namur, Belgium
kvandoni@fundp.ac.be Diego Fontaneto, Imperial Col-
lege London, UK d.fontaneto@imperial.ac.uk
Karine Van Doninck <karine.vandoninck@fundp.ac.be >
Turin ESEB EarlyEvolution
Aug24-29
Dear colleagues,
We would like to invite interested people to submit ab-
stracts for oral and poster presentations for the sympo-
sium “EARLY EVOLUTION”, which will take place at
the next conference of the European Society for Evolu-
tionary Biology in Turin, Italy (24-29 August 2009).
Description: The molecular era has had a profound im-
pact on our view of early evolution, notably by allow-
ing reconstructing a tree of life describing the history ofFebruary 1, 2009 EvolDir 13
present-day organisms and their evolutionary relation-
ships. Since the ﬁrst trees of life based on comparison
of ribosomal RNA sequences around thirty years ago,
a number of hypotheses have been put forward on the
origin of the three domains of life, Eukarya, Archaea,
and Bacteria, as well as the nature of the last univer-
sal common ancestor (LUCA). Debate is still lively and
continuously revived with the accumulation of genomic
data and use of new analytical approaches, such as phy-
logenomics. The symposium is designed to put together
scientists working on diﬀerent aspects of early evolu-
tion. We will consider proposals in diﬀerent areas of
investigation, including the origin and evolution of the
three domains of life and their relationships, the origin
and evolution of early metabolic pathways and cellular
structures, the mechanisms for genome evolution such
as horizontal gene transfer and the origin of operons,
and the evolution of regulatory signals and networks.
Invited speakers: Puriﬁcation Lopez-Garcia (Univer-
sity of Paris Sud, France) Paola Londei (University of
Rome La Sapienza, Italy)
To submit your abstract (deadline 15 February 2009)
and obtain further information about the congress,
please go to http://www.eseb2009.it/uk Organisers:
Simonetta Gribaldo, Institut Pasteur, Paris, France si-
monetta.gribaldo@pasteur.fr Renato Fani, University
of Florence, Italy renato.fani@uniﬁ.it
simo@pasteur.fr simo@pasteur.fr
Turin ESEB EcoGenetics Aug24-29
We invite submissions of abstracts for talks in our sym-
posium ’Ecological Genetics in the Genomic Era’, which
will be held at the 2009 congress of the European So-
ciety for Evolutionary Biology (24-29 August, Turin,
Italy).
For abstract submission and information, follow this
link ( http://www.eseb2009.it/uk ) Submission deadline
of abstracts is February 15th, 2009.
This session focuses on research integrating ecology,
molecular biology, and evolution with the goal of un-
derstanding how genetic variation aﬀects performance
and ﬁtness in the wild. Our emphasis will be on sys-
tems where the ecology is well understood and genomic
resources are being developed and applied.
Conﬁrmed speakersJon Slate, University of Sheﬃeld, UK
Thomas Lenormand, Universite Montepellier, France
Given the overlap between our session and several oth-
ers, please feel free to contact us regarding whether your
abstract would be appropriate for our session.
Please send questions to either/both:
Christopher W. Wheat, Penn State Univ & University
of Helsinki cww10@psu.edu
Jay F. Storz, School of Biological Sciences University
of Nebraska jstorz2@ unl.edu Christopher W. Wheat,
Ph. D.
http://www.christopherwheat.net Postdoctoral Fellow
Pennsylvania State University & University of Helsinki
Christopher W. Wheat, Ph. D.
http://www.christopherwheat.net Postdoctoral Fellow
Pennsylvania State University & University of Helsinki
cww10@psu.edu
Turin ESEB EvoDevo Aug24-29
Dear friends,
we invite you to consider the opportunity to contribute
to the evo-devo symposium we are organizing at ESEB
2009, the congress of the European Society for Evolu-
tionary Biology (Turin, Italy, 24-29 August 2009).
The congress website is at http://www.eseb2009.it/
Here is a short outline of our symposium:
31. The evolution of development across the species
boundary
Organisers: Giuseppe Fusco, University of Padova,
Italy (giuseppe.fusco@unipd.it) and Alessandro
Minelli, University of Padova, Italy (alessan-
dro.minelli@unipd.it)
This symposium will explore the hitherto neglected re-
lationships between the evolution of development and
microevolution, with emphasis on speciation. This ap-
proach is largely complementary to the traditional focus
on comparisons between distantly related model organ-
isms.
Invited speakers: Gregory Wray, Duke University, USA
and Barbara Gravendeel, University of Leiden, The
Netherlands14 EvolDir February 1, 2009
Deadline for registration and submission of abstracts is
February 15.
Cordially yours
Giuseppe Fusco and Sandro Minelli
Giuseppe Fusco Department of Biology Univer-
sity of Padova Via U. Bassi 58/B I-35131 Padova
Italy tel. +39.049.827.6238 fax +39.049.827.6230
e-mail giuseppe.fusco@unipd.it webpage http://-
dept.bio.unipd.it/fusco
Giuseppe Fusco <giuseppe.fusco@unipd.it >
Turin ESEB
EvolutionaryApplications Aug24-29
We are inviting abstract submissions for oral and poster
presentations for the symposium “Evolutionary appli-
cations”, which is sponsored by Wiley-Blackwell, to be
held for a full day on August 26 2009 at the European
Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB) meeting in
Turin, Italy (August 24-29 2009).
Abstracts must be submitted online at http://-
www.eseb2009.it/uk/ by February 15 2009 latest.
There will be time for 14 oral presentations including
three by invited speakers (see below). The organiz-
ers will choose among the abstracts who will be ac-
cepted for both oral and poster presentations based on
the quality and importance of scientiﬁc content of the
abstracts. The organizers will communicate their de-
cisions to the corresponding authors of abstracts by
March 31st. Wiley-Blackwell as well as the chief and
managing editors of the journal Evolutionary Applica-
tions will convey the senior author of all oral presenta-
tions for a diner in one of the ﬁne restaurants of Turin.
DESCRIPTION OF SYMPOSIUM: The average rate
of loss for animal and plant populations and their habi-
tats is estimated to be 1% per year with two-thirds of
the world’s terrestrial land area now devoted to sup-
porting human populations, either through agriculture,
ﬁsheries, urbanization or infrastructure. Growing em-
pirical evidence indicates that these human activities
are altering the evolutionary trajectories of species im-
perative to our natural heritage and economic well-
being. While resource managers have largely focused
on threats causing population declines and extinction,
little attention is being paid to the consequences of al-
tering the course of evolution of species found in thesehuman altered environments. In this context, the main
goal of this symposium is to highlight the growing rel-
evance of utilizing concepts from evolutionary biology
to address biological questions of health, social and eco-
nomic relevance. We feel that such symposium is par-
ticularly timely given the current general trend to limit
resources available for conducting basic research in evo-
lution compared to other research disciplines.
CONFIRMED INVITED SPEAKERS: Dieter Ebert,
Univeristy of Basel, Switzerland Juha Meril¨ a, Univer-
sity of Helsinki, Finland Steve Stearns, Yale University,
USA
We are looking forward to seeing you in Turin.
The organizers : Louis Bernatchez, Universit´ e
Laval, Canada (Louis.Bernatchez@bio.ulaval.ca)
Dany Garant, Universit´ e de Sherbrooke, Canada
(Dany.Garant@USherbrooke.ca)
Dany.Garant@USherbrooke.ca
Dany.Garant@USherbrooke.ca
Turin ESEBi Ecol Selection
Aug24-29
Dear EvolDir,
We would like to invite abstract submissions for oral
and poster presentations at the upcoming European
Society for Evolutionary Biology meetings in Turin
this summer ( http://www.eseb2009.it/uk/ ) for a sym-
posium entitled:
The phenotype-ﬁtness map re-visited: agents of se-
lection and the importance of ecology in evolutionary
studies.
This symposium aims to assemble evolutionary stud-
ies that seek to identify, understand and describe the
agents of natural and/or sexual selection, and the spe-
ciﬁc environmental factors, such as food resources, so-
cial environments, predation, among others that shape
the selective landscape. We would especially like to
highlight studies that illustrate how knowledge of spe-
ciﬁc ecological factors plays an important role in under-
standing the process of selection in the wild.
The symposium will be open to 5 oral presentations
from submitted abstracts and will also feature two in-
vited speakers:
Stevan Arnold (Oregon State University, Corvalis)February 1, 2009 EvolDir 15
Craig Benkmann (University of Wyoming, Laramie).
For pre-submission enquires, please email the organiz-
ers:
Alexis Chaine: <mailto:alexis.chaine@ecoex-
moulis.cnrs.fr >alexis.chaine@ecoex-moulis.cnrs.fr
Erik Svensson: Erik.Svensson@zooekol.lu.se
Alexis Chaine <alexis.chaine@EcoEx-Moulis.cnrs.fr >
Turin ESEB KinSelection Aug24-29
ines: 57
We are inviting abstract submissions for oral and poster
presentations for the symposium “Recent Advances in
Kin Selection”, to be held on August 29 2009 at the Eu-
ropean Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB) meet-
ing in Turin, Italy (August 24-29 2009).
For abstract submission and further information, please
visit http://www.eseb2009.it/uk/ by February 15 2009.
DESCRIPTION OF SYMPOSIUM
The aim of this symposium is to discuss recent advances
in Kin Selection Theory, including the evolution of al-
truism and spite, intragenomic conﬂict, and social evo-
lution.
INVITED SPEAKERS
Alan Grafen, Oxford University http://users.ox.ac.uk/-
˜ grafen Stuart West, Oxford University http://-
westgroup.biology.ed.ac.uk ORGANIZERS
Francisco Ubeda, University of Tennessee, USA Email:
fubeda@utk.edu Web: http://www.tiem.utk.edu/-
˜ fubeda/ Andy Gardner, University of Edinburgh,
UK Email: andy.gardner@ed.ac.uk Web: http://-
www.biology.ed.ac.uk/research/groups/gardner –
Andy Gardner Royal Society University Research
Fellow
Institute of Evolutionary Biology School of Biological
Sciences University of Edinburgh West Mains Road Ed-
inburgh EH9 3JT United Kingdom
Email: andy.gardner@ed.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0) 131 535
4110 Fax: +44 (0) 131 650 6564
http://www.biology.ed.ac.uk/research/groups/-
gardner/ The University of Edinburgh is a charitable
body, registered in Scotland, with registration number
andy.gardner@ed.ac.uk andy.gardner@ed.ac.ukTurin ESEB
MaleFemaleCoevolution Aug24-29
ESEB conference, Turin, 24th-29th August 2009
We invite abstracts for oral and poster contributions
to a symposium: - Male-female coevolution - from
molecules to species’ to be held at the 12th Congress
of the European Society for Evolutionary Biology from
the 24th-29th of August in Turin, Italy. For fur-
ther information and to register, please see: http:/-
/www.eseb2009.it/uk/ Conﬁrmed invited speakers:
Mariana Wolfner (Cornell); Kerry Shaw (Cornell); Mo-
hamed Noor (Duke).
Symposium summary: The study of male- female co-
evolution has gained increasing attention in evolution-
ary ecology and is of particular interest given the
potential roles of sexual selection and sexual conﬂict
in species formation. Sexual selection, occurring at
the premating or postmating level has been shown
to shape a number of morphological and physiologi-
cal traits. These changes can ultimately reduce gene
ﬂow and lead to the evolution of reproductive isola-
tion. Our understanding of phenotypic trait evolu-
tion due to male-female coevolution is currently being
rapidly augmented by studies of the underlying genes
and molecules involved. Advances in molecular biology,
and particularly genomics, are now allowing researchers
to observe the evolutionary processes resulting from in-
teractions between the sexes. In this symposium we
aim to provide a synthesis of the current knowledge
of male-female coevolution from the level of the gene
to the whole organism. This symposium will provide
a synthesis of recent advances in our understanding of
male - female coevolution, covering evolution in molec-
ular, morphological and physiological traits and the role
of sexual selection and sexual conﬂict in driving these
changes will be investigated.
We look forward to meeting you in Turin
Claudia Fricke and Tracey Chapman
School of Biological Sciences, University of
East Anglia, UK e-mail: c.fricke@uea.ac.uk;
tracey.chapman@uea.ac.uk
“Chapman Tracey Dr (BIO)”
<Tracey.Chapman@uea.ac.uk >16 EvolDir February 1, 2009
Turin ESEB meeting Aug24-29
The 12th Congress of the European Society for Evolu-
tionary Biology will be held in Torino, Italy, August 24
-29, 2009
The structure of the congress is similar to previous
meetings, each day starting with a plenary keynote
speaker, followed by 30 parallel symposia. Other events
will be the traditional John Maynard Smith lecture and
the presidential address of the new President of ESEB,
prof. Siv Andersson, University of Uppsala.
The congress will cover the ﬁeld of evolutionary bi-
ology in a wide sense, but with emphasis on pro-
cesses and mechanisms of evolutionary phenomena.
For description of symposia, abstract submission, ho-
tel accommodation, social events and updates please
visit the congress website www.eseb2009.it <http://-
www.eseb2009.it/ >
Registration is now open. No more that 1200 partici-
pants can be accepted. Deadline for early registration
(reduced price) and submission of abstracts is 15th of
february 2009. Gabriella Sella & Cristina Lorenzi
– Maria Cristina Lorenzi
Dipartimento di Biologia Animale e dell’Uomo, Uni-
versita’ di Torino Via Accademia Albertina 13, 10123
Torino, Italy tel. +39 011 670 4512 fax. +39 011 670
4508
e-mail: cristina.lorenzi@unito.it
Cristina Lorenzi <cristina.lorenzi@unito.it >
Turin ESEB NaturalVarition
Aug24-29
Dear Colleagues,
We invite submissions of abstracts for talks or poster
presentations for our symposium on ˆ aFunctional anal-
ysis of natural variationˆ a at the 2009 congress of the
European Society for Evolutionary Biology (24th-29th
August, Turin Italy).
For abstract submission and information about thecongress, please go to http://www.eseb2009.it/uk Note
that the deadline for submission of abstracts is Febru-
ary 15th 2009.
Our symposium is aimed at researchers in the ﬁelds
of evolution, population genetics and development and
will discuss the application of the latest technology to
identify adaptive natural variation and the functional
characterization of natural variation in a range of or-
ganisms.
Organisers: Jean-Michel Gibert (Jean-
Michel.Gibert@zoo.unige.ch), Alistair McGregor
(alistair.mcgregor@vu-wien.ac.at) and Christian
Schl¨ otterer (christian.schloetterer@vu-wien.ac.at)
Functional analysis of natural variation
It is well understood that natural populations carry a
wealth of molecular variation. While it has been as-
sumed for a long time that most of this variation is
neutral, there is increasing evidence that a large pro-
portion is functionally diﬀerent and thus subjected to
diﬀerent evolutionary forces.
After the ﬁrst phase in the genomics projects, which
were focusing on the sequencing of one genome for each
species, the emphasis has now shifted to the genome
wide characterization of natural variation. In particu-
lar the new generation of sequencing technology (454,
Solexa etc.) is contributing to a hitherto unprece-
dented wealth of information about naturally occur-
ring sequence variation. Nevertheless, the advances in
cataloging natural variation are not matched with our
advances in understanding the functional diﬀerences
among the naturally occurring alleles.
Compared to classic forward genetics, which typically
isolated mutations with strong eﬀects, naturally occur-
ring alleles are expected to show only subtle diﬀerences
in function, which may nevertheless have dramatic ef-
fects in nature. Hence, the analysis of natural variation
requires new approaches and tools to understand the
functional diﬀerences of naturally occurring alleles.
The symposium aims to gather researchers using the
latest technology to identify adaptive natural variation
and those using a broad range of methods to function-
ally characterize natural variation in a range of organ-
isms.
Alistair P. McGregor
Institut f¨ ur Populationsgenetik Veterin¨ armedizinische
Universit¨ at Wien Josef Baumann Gasse 1 1210 Vienna
Austria
Tel: +43-1250-77-4326 Fax: +43-1250-77-4390
http://i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/pop/-February 1, 2009 EvolDir 17
McGregor website/mcgregor home.html Alistair
McGregor <alistair.mcgregor@vu-wien.ac.at >
Turin ESEB OriginsOfNovelty
Aug24-29
Dear Colleagues,
We would like to invite interested people to submit ab-
stracts for oral and poster presentation in the sympo-
sium “ON THE ORIGINS OF NOVELTY IN DEVEL-
OPMENT AND EVOLUTION: FROM CRYPTIC GE-
NETIC VARIATION TO GENETIC ACCOMMODA-
TION”, which will take place at the next congress of
the European Society for Evolutionary Biology (24-29
August 2009) in Turin, Italy
To date, speakers include Andreas Wagner (University
of Zurich, Switzerland), Susan A. Foster (Clark Univer-
sity, USA), and Ian Dworkin (Michigan State Univer-
sity, USA).
To submit your abstract (deadline 15 February 2009)
and get further information about the congress, please
go to http://www.eseb2009.it/uk To learn more about
the goals of this symposium please see the a summary
of the symposium proposal below.
>>>> ON THE ORIGINS OF NOVELTY IN DE-
VELOPMENT AND EVOLUTION: FROM CRYPTIC
GENETIC VARIATION TO GENETIC ACCOMMO-
DATION
The origins of novel features is both one of the oldest
and, at the same time, one of the most poorly under-
stood frontiers in evolutionary biology. While evolu-
tionary biologists have developed powerful theoretical
frameworks and experimental tools to understand the
evolutionary modiﬁcation of existing traits, we know
remarkably little about the ecological, genetic, and de-
velopmental mechanisms, and the interactions between
them, that mediate the origin of novel features. In fact,
even the terminology is often misleading and consider-
able debate exists regarding exactly what constitutes
novelty in evolution. Where does variation end and in-
novation begin?
Recent progress in evo-devo and allied disciplines may
now allow us to move beyond current roadblocks in our
understanding of the mechanics of innovation. Specif-
ically, the canalizing nature of development, the accu-
mulation of cryptic genetic variation free to drift within
populations until freed by above-threshold environmen-tal or genetic perturbations and the process of evolution
by genetic accommodation, provide a set of interrelated
mechanisms of much unexplored potential to explain
rapid diversiﬁcation, recurrence of lost phenotypes as
well as the origins of novel features.
The proposed symposium is designed to make two im-
portant contributions. (1) First, on a general level it
is intended to bring together scientists whose work fo-
cuses on the evolution of developmental mechanisms
underlying evolutionary novelties and adaptive radia-
tions, and the ecological mechanisms driving such evo-
lution. In this context, the symposium hopes to foster a
discussion on (a) what constitutes innovation in evolu-
tion, (b) the developmental properties that facilitate as
well as constrain evolutionary innovation, and (c) the
population-genetic and ecological forces that guide such
evolution in natural populations. (2) On a more spe-
ciﬁc level, this symposium will explore the causes and
consequences of cryptic genetic variation and its contri-
butions to evolutionary diversiﬁcation and innovation.
In this context the symposium hopes to (a) facilitate a
better understanding of the interplay between develop-
mental processes, environmental variation, and genetic
properties of populations as well as (b) design strategies
to evaluate the importance of genetic accommodation
in nature.
Lastly, the symposium is designed to facilitate an in-
tegration of micro- and macroevolution (by focusing
on both population-level evolution and cladogenesis),
to transcend taxonomic boundaries (by including pre-
sentations across phyla as well as on organismal in-
teractions) and conceptual boundaries (by integrating
across morphology, behavior, physiology, genetics, and
genomics). As such this symposium hopes to make an
important contribution towards a better understand-
ing of the nature of innovation in evolution including
its causes, mechanisms, and consequences.
Organizers: Armin Moczek, Indiana University, Bloom-
ington (armin@indiana.edu) Emilie Snell-Rood, Indi-
ana University (emcsnell@indiana.edu)
emcsnell@indiana.edu emcsnell@indiana.edu
Turin ESEB ParasiteEvolution
Aug24-29
We are inviting abstract submissions for oral and poster
presentations in the symposium “Integrating ecology
with parasite evolution” to be held on August 2818 EvolDir February 1, 2009
2009 at the European Society for Evolutionary Bi-
ology(ESEB) meeting in Turin, Italy (August 24-29
2009).
Abstracts should be submitted online at http://-
www.eseb2009.it/uk/by February 15 2009.
DESCRIPTION OF SYMPOSIUM: The enormous
abundance of parasites and their eﬀects on wild pop-
ulations, agriculture and human health have given rise
to a rapidly growing ﬁeld centered on using evolution-
ary principles to understand infectious disease. This
ﬁeld does not only signiﬁcantly contribute to our gen-
eral understanding of evolutionary theory, but also has
the potential to provide new ways of tackling disease.
The last few decades have seen much progress in un-
derstanding general evolutionary processes in parasite
biology, and have also revealed the important role of
genetic interactions between hosts and parasites. How-
ever, much less attention has been paid to the eﬀect of
the ecological conditions under which hosts and para-
sites interact. This is a serious problem, because em-
pirical studies are increasingly showing that in-host and
external environmental factors (e.g. temperature, host
diet and the presence of competitors) can shape para-
site virulence, life-histories, within-host dynamics and
transmission. The aim of this symposium is to bring
together theoreticians and empiricists to explore how
ecology inﬂuences the evolution of parasites. This will
not only advance understanding of the basic processes
by which parasites evolve, but also provide a basis to
predict the consequences of human interventions on in-
fectious disease.
INVITED SPEAKERS: Mike Boots, University of
Sheﬃeld, UK Anna-Liisa Laine, University ofHelsinky,
Finland
ORGANIZERS: Sarah Reece, University of Edinburgh,
UK (Sarah.Reece@ed.ac.uk) Jacobus de Roode, Emory
University, USA (jacobus.deroode@emory.edu)
jderood@emory.edu jderood@emory.edu
Turin ESEB PollinatorSelection
Aug24-29
You are invited to submit abstracts for oral / poster
presentation in the symposium “Pollinator-mediated
selection in ﬂoral evolution”, which will be held in the
ESEB meeting in Turin, Italy, at August 29th 2009.
Please submit your abstract through the website http:/-/www.eseb2009.it/ . Deadline for abstract submission
and early registration - 15 February 2009.
Symposium description Pollination biology is an excit-
ing ﬁeld at the nexus of evolutionary genetics, ecology,
behavior and plant and animal phylogenetics. Many
pollination studies have accumulated in the last century
on many plant species, and researchers are starting to
bridge the gap between population-level processes (e.g.,
pollinators and plants communities), lineage-scale phe-
nomena (e.g., adaptive divergence, male/female func-
tion), and the molecular genetics underlie them. It
is an ideal time to assess the progress to date in de-
veloping a cohesive framework for understanding the
role of pollinators in ﬂoral evolution and to lay the
groundwork for future research directions. There is a
solid evidence for selection on ﬂoral traits that is me-
diated by pollinators’ preferences and ﬂower-pollinator
ﬁt. Evolution in response to pollinator-mediated se-
lection is a multi-layer process. First, it depends on
the ﬂower’s ability to evolve - the genetic variation of
ﬂoral traits and its constraints. Second, pollinators’
preferences and behavior is inﬂuenced by many factors,
some of which are ﬂoral traits. Finally, phylogenetic
and biogeographical patterns aﬀect both ﬂoral diver-
gence and plant-pollinator communities. In short, pol-
lination should be considered as an evolutionary process
that involves many components simultaneously - from
quantitative genetics to community ecology. This sym-
posium will bring together researchers whose work rep-
resents methodological and theoretical advances in the
discipline. It will provide a forum for the synthesis of
the results from several areas of evolutionary research,
and will produce comprehensive view of the evolution-
ary aspects of pollination. First, the genetic basis of
ﬂoral evolution will be examined from the plant point
of view. Second, the interface of ﬂoral traits, pollina-
tor’s behavior, and selection will be investigated. And
third, pollination systems will be explored in the broad
context of phylogeny and biogeography.
Invited speakers Thomas Hansen, University of Oslo,
Norway Rebecca Irwin, Dartmouth College, USA
Symposium organizers Scott Armbruster, University
of Portsmouth, UK. scott.armbruster@port.ac.uk Yu-
val Sapir, Tel Aviv University, Israel. sapiryu-
val@gmail.com
sapiryuval@gmail.comFebruary 1, 2009 EvolDir 19
Turin ESEB Polyploidy Aug24-29
We’d like to invite you to submit an abstract for
our symposium entitled “Polyploidy at the population
level: ecological and population genetic consequences in
plants and animals”, which will take place at the next
ESEB conference (24-29 august, Turin, Italy). We will
have space for ﬁve contributions besides the two invited
contributions.
ORGANISERS:
Marc Stift (m.stift@bio.gla.ac.uk), University
of Glasgow http://www.gla.ac.uk/departments/-
ecologyevolutionarybiology/researchinterests/pdra/-
marcstift/ Barbara Mable (b.mable@bio.gla.ac.uk),
University of Glasgow http://www.gla.ac.uk:443/ibls/-
staﬀ/staﬀ.php?who=PQdGnd SUMMARY
Our symposium will focus on the eﬀects of polyploidy
on ecological adaptation, with the goal of bringing to-
gether researchers that work on polyploidy in diﬀer-
ent groups, including (but not necessarily limited to)
plants, ﬁshes, amphibians, planarians and crustaceans.
INVITED SPEAKERS
Brian Husband (plants), University of Guelph http:/-
/www.uoguelph.ca/ib/people/faculty/husband.shtml
James Bogart (amphibians), University of
Guelph http://www.uoguelph.ca/ib/people/faculty/-
bogart.shtml SUBMISSION
To submit your abstract (deadline 15 February 2009)
and information about the congress, please go to
http://www.eseb2009.it/uk POLYPLOIDY AT THE
POPULATION LEVEL: ECOLOGICAL AND POPU-
LATION GENETIC CONSEQUENCES IN PLANTS
AND ANIMALS
Polyploids (individuals with more than two genomes)
are common in many groups of organisms, including
plants, amphibians, ﬁsh, reptiles and crustaceans. In
addition, recent genome analyses indicate that many
extant diploids have a polyploid history. The potency
of genome duplications to drive evolution can be ex-
plained by the mere fact that polyploids inherently con-
tain more (redundant) genetic material for selection to
work on than diploids.
Research on polyploids has been strongly biased to-
wards plants, and has tended to focus on genomic
questions concerning diﬀerences in gene expression andepigenetics between diploids and polyploids. Unfortu-
nately, such studies are limited to model organisms with
a well known genome, and often to a limited number of
samples within these. An ecological approach is more
universally applicable, and may therefore provide more
insights into the diﬀerences and similarities of polyploid
evolution in a wide range of organisms.
With our symposium, we would like to oﬀer the ESEB
community a platform to discuss what is known about
the eﬀects of polyploidy on ecological adaptation. To
achieve this, we intend to bring together researchers
that work on polyploidy in diﬀerent groups, including
(but hopefully not limited to) plants, ﬁshes, amphib-
ians, planarians and crustaceans.
Marc Stift Barbara Mable
Division of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Gra-
ham Kerr Building University of Glasgow Glasgow
G12 8QQ, SCOTLAND Oﬃce: +44 (0)141 330 6637
m.stift@bio.gla.ac.uk b.mable@bio.gla.ac.uk
m.stift@bio.gla.ac.uk m.stift@bio.gla.ac.uk
Turin ESEB Selection Aug24-29
Dear all,
We would like to invite abstracts for oral and poster
presentations for our symposium “From the selﬁsh gene
to species extinction: levels of selection in evolution”.
This will tale place at the 2009 ESEB meeting in Turin
between the 24th and 29th of August 2009. We have
space for 10 oral presentations, including two by in-
vited speakers. Please see below for a description of
the symposium.
Abstracts must be submitted online at http://-
www.eseb2009.it/uk/ by the 15th of February 2009 at
latest.
INVITED SPEAKERS Professor David Sloan Wilson,
University of Binghampton, NY, USA ( http://-
evolution.binghamton.edu/dswilson/ ) Professor
Samir Okasha, University of Bristol, UK ( http:/-
/www.bristol.ac.uk/philosophy/department/staﬀ/-
so.html )
DESCRIPTION OF SYMPOSIUM Evolution is by its
very nature a hierarchical entity. Genes are arranged
in individuals, which form part of groups within popu-
lations of various species. The levels of selection debate
has resurfaced recently in the ﬁeld of social evolution.20 EvolDir February 1, 2009
In some part, this resurfacing has reinvigorated old de-
bates in social evolution. However, there are also major
unanswered questions, including whether there is true
group adaptation in nature and how often selection acts
at levels above kin groups. In particular, we are just be-
ginning to appreciate how selection on multiple species
can lead to the evolution of mutualisms, and how ex-
tinction and speciation can aﬀect the distribution of
species properties that we see in nature.
We wish to draw a range of evolutionary biologists, such
as those working on speciation, ecologists interested in
species extinction as well as sociobiologists interested
in group and kin selection to address these questions.
We also hope to foster discussion between empiricists
and theorists to ask how multilevel selection can be ad-
dressed in the laboratory and the ﬁeld. The renewed
recent interest in the role of levels of selection in evo-
lutionary biology has implications for all areas of evo-
lutionary biology, particularly to those studying social
evolution, mutualisms, speciation and macroevolution.
We therefore expect our symposium to attract a wide
range of interest from across all areas of evolutionary
biology.
REGISTRATION AT: http://eseb2009.it/uk/-
page.asp?PID3 The Organisers, Daniel Rankin
(University of Zurich - d.rankin@bioc.uzh.ch) Kevin
Foster (Harvard University - kfoster@cgr.harvard.edu)
— Dr Daniel J. Rankin Department of Biochemistry
University of Zurich Building Y27, Winterthurstrasse
190 CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland
http://www.rankin.sk/ e-mail: d.rankin@bioc.uzh.ch
Oﬃce: +41 (0)44 63 56143 Fax: +41 (0)44 63 56862
d.rankin@bioc.uzh.ch d.rankin@bioc.uzh.ch
Turin ESEB SexualConﬂict
Aug24-29
We invite interested people to submit abstracts for
oral/poster presentation in the symposium “Intralo-
cus Sexual Conﬂict: Detection, Resolution and Conse-
quences”, which will take place at the next congress of
the European Society for Evolutionary Biology (24-29
August 2009, Turin, Italy)
Organizers: Adam Chippindale, Queen’s Uni-
versity, Canada (chippind@queensu.ca) Steve
Chenoweth, University of Queensland, Australia(s.chenoweth@uq.edu.au).
Summary
The symposium explores the proposition that sex-
speciﬁc selection on loci shared by females and males
creates a genetic load that depresses the ﬁtness of sex-
ual populations, and that a distinct suite of genetic
mechanisms have evolved to remediate this conﬂict.
Conﬁrmed Invited Speakers
William Rice, University of California at Santa Barbara
Barry Sinervo, University of California at Santa Cruz
To submit your abstract (deadline 15 February
2009) and get useful information about the congress,
please go to <http://www.eseb2009.it/uk >http://-
www.eseb2009.it/uk INTRALOCUS SEXUAL CON-
FLICT
Females and males are often selected to pursue diﬀer-
ent strategies to maximize reproductive success, result-
ing in two distinct forms of evolutionary conﬂict. First,
there may be direct conﬂict over the timing of repro-
duction and control of fertilization. Such interlocus
conﬂict appears to be widespread and associated with
intersexual coevolution of reproductive structures and
behaviours, potentially via an ’arms race’ dynamic be-
tween loci. A second kind of conﬂict can arise within a
locus, either when the ﬁtness rank of segregating alleles
diﬀers between the sexes, or when optimal gene expres-
sion levels diﬀers between the sexes. This intralocus
sexual conﬂict is intrinsic to the evolution of dimor-
phic sexes but appears soluble, insofar as the genome
can quarantine sexually antagonistic alleles and regu-
late gene expression in a sex-speciﬁc way.
Recently several quantitative genetic analyses, span-
ning a diverse range of taxa (e.g. dioecious plants,
insects, and terrestrial vertebrates), have pointed to
substantial levels of intralocus sexual conﬂict in both
wild and domesticated populations, manifested most
often as a negative intersexual genetic correlation for
ﬁtness. With this recent ﬂood of empirical work, several
unexpected consequences have emerged that require
further consideration. For example, intralocus sexual
conﬂict may compromise the operation of ’good genes’
processes in sexual selection, maintain genetic variance
for ﬁtness, inﬂuence the evolution of sex chromosomes,
and drive the evolution of genomic imprinting alongside
other genetic mechanisms of sex-speciﬁc gene regulation
and ontogeny. Finally, failure of the genome to resolve
intralocus conﬂict reduces mean population ﬁtness by
sustaining genotypes that are maladapted to their cur-
rent sexual environment of expression, a phenomenon
that has been dubbed the ’gender load’, adding to the
list of costs to sex.February 1, 2009 EvolDir 21
With the recent surge of interest in intralocus sexual
conﬂict and many empirical challenges remaining, the
symposium dedicated speciﬁcally to this form of sexual
conﬂict, will provide an excellent opportunity to bring
together both empiricists and theoreticians to explore
these emerging issues. We particularly encourage early-
career researchers to apply.
Steve Chenoweth ARC Research Fellow / Senior
Lecturer School of Biological Sciences University of
Queensland Australia 4072
phone: +617-3365-2188 fax: +617-3365-1655
www.sib.uq.edu.au
s.chenoweth@uq.edu.au s.chenoweth@uq.edu.au
Turin ESEB Speciation Aug24-29
We invite abstract submissions for oral and poster
presentations in the symposium “Frontiers in Specia-
tion Research: proximal and causal mechanisms of be-
havioural divergence” to be held on August 28 2009 at
the European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB)
meeting in Turin, Italy (August 24-29 2009).
Abstracts should be submitted online at http://-
www.eseb2009.it/uk/ by February 15 2009. Unfortu-
nately, we cannot oﬀer any ﬁnancial support.
Description of the symposium: Three-quarter day sym-
posium, on the 28th of August 2009 150 years after the
publication of Darwin’s seminal work ’On the Origin of
Species’, how new species arise remains an unresolved
and fascinating riddle. The aim of this symposium is to
cover new challenges in speciation research, addressing
in particular the evolution of behavioural divergence in-
volved in reproductive isolation. It will bring together
researchers working on diﬀerent types of behaviour in-
volved in premating isolation (e.g. mate choice, habi-
tat choice, pollinator choice) and developing various
approaches (e.g. behavioural ecology, neurophysiol-
ogy, genomics) to explore the mechanisms favouring
behavioural divergence and reproduction isolation. A
key point of this symposium will be to illustrate the
more integrated view of behavioural divergence that is
nowadays emerging, which combines consideration of
the causal with the proximal mechanisms of receiver
and/or signal divergence. Particular attention will be
given to studies addressing the genomics of behavioural
divergence, the role of non-genetic mechanisms in pro-
moting the evolution of premating isolation (culturaltransmission, imprinting, epigenetics etc.) and the neu-
rophysiological basis of behavioural divergence.
Invited speakers: ESEB invited speaker: Jeﬀrey Feder,
University of Notre Dame, USA. Mark Blows, Uni-
versity of Queensland, Australia. FroSpects (Euro-
pean Science Foundation) invited speakers: Glenn-
Peter Sætre, University of Oslo, Norway. Florian Schi-
estl, ETH Z¨ urich, Switzerland. Katie Peichel, Fred
Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, USA
We expect to have 5 contributed talks. There
is no limit on the number of poster presenta-
tions. Organisers: Carole Smadja, University of
Sheﬃeld, United Kingdom (c.smadja@sheﬃeld.ac.uk)
Anneli Hoikkala, University of Jyv¨ askyl¨ a, Finland (an-
neli.hoikkala@jyu.ﬁ) Axel Meyer, University of Kon-
stanz, Germany (axel.meyer@uni-konstanz.de) Roger
Butlin, University of Sheﬃeld, United Kingdom
(r.k.butlin@sheﬃeld.ac.uk)
Carole Smadja, PhD Marie Curie Research Fellow
Website: http://www.carole-smadja.staﬀ.shef.ac.uk <
http://www.carole-smadja.staﬀ.shef.ac.uk/ >
Department of Animal and Plant Sciences The Univer-
sity of Sheﬃeld (S102TN)
Email: c.smadja@sheﬃeld.ac.uk Telephone: +44
(0)114 2220112 Fax: +44 (0)114 2220002
C.Smadja@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
Turin ESEB SubdividedSelection
Aug24-29
*Symposium 14: SELECTION IN SUBDIVIDED
POPULATIONS*
Dear EvolDir members,
We are pleased to invite you to submit abstract
for our symposium at ESEB 2009, the congress
of the European Society for Evolutionary Bi-
ology (Turin, Italy, 24-29 August 2009 http:/-
/www.eseb2009.it/ < https://mpizmail.mpiz-
koeln.mpg.de/egroupware/redirect.php?go=-
http%3A%2F%2Fwww.eseb2009.it%2F >). Our
symposium will bring together people interested in
how selection interacts with population structure to
shape phenotypic and molecular variation of ecolog-
ical importance. Both experimental and theoretical
contributions are welcome.22 EvolDir February 1, 2009
Organizers: J. de Meaux (demeaux@mpiz-
koeln.mpg.de <mailto:demeaux@mpiz-koeln.mpg.de >)
and P. K. Ingvarsson (par.ingvarsson@emg.umu.se
<mailto:par.ingvarsson@emg.umu.se >)
*Invited speakers: Johanna Schmitt (Brown Univer-
sity, USA) and Jerˆ ome Goudet (University of Lausanne,
Switzerland). *
Deadline for registration and submission of abstracts is
February 15.
Turin ESEB SystemsBiol Aug24-29
We are inviting abstract submissions for oral and poster
presentations for the symposium “Evolutionary sys-
tems biology”, to be held for 3/4 of a day on August 25
2009 at the European Society for Evolutionary Biology
(ESEB) meeting in Turin, Italy (August 24-29 2009).
Abstracts must be submitted online at http://-
www.eseb2009.it/uk/ by 15 February 2009 latest.
Our symposium is aimed at researchers with an interest
in bridging the genotype-phenotype gap with mechanis-
tic models. These models may quantify aspects of any
level of the adaptive landscape with a view towards con-
necting empirical evidence from diﬀerent levels. This
can be done using theoretic, computational, genomic,
experimental, systems biology or other approaches and
might target anything from very speciﬁc molecular sys-
tems to whole organisms.
Conﬁrmed invited speakers: Laurence Hurst, Univer-
sity of Bath, UK Roy Kishony, Harvard University,
USA
We are looking forward to seeing you in Turin.
The organizers Laurence Loewe, CSBE, University
of Edinburgh, UK (Laurence.Loewe@evolutionary-
research.net ) Bal´ azs Papp, Biological Research Cen-
ter of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Hungary
(pappb@brc.hu)
About evolutionary systems biology
Evolutionary genetics has a long history of successful
quantitative modelling, especially in areas where func-
tional details can be abstracted by selection coeﬃcients.
Molecular biology has a long history of uncovering func-
tional details and has recently started to engage in
quantitative modelling at a larger scale, giving rise to
current systems biology. We propose to bring thesetwo ﬁelds together to help elucidate some fundamental
problems in evolutionary biology. Such a synthesis has
the potential to provide a mechanistic basis for in silico
predictions of many important parameters of evolution,
including distributions of mutational eﬀects, robustness
and epistasis. Central to this approach is the deﬁnition
of ﬁtness correlates that can be computed using mecha-
nistic models of individuals. One possible aim for mod-
elling in evolutionary systems biology could be to deﬁne
computable ﬁtness correlates that can be calibrated ex-
perimentally by measuring mutant properties.
This ambitious goal can inspire experimental and the-
oretical work at many levels of the adaptive landscape.
These levels include: 1. Changes in genotypes im-
pact predicted molecular structures (like protein struc-
tures). 2. Changes in molecular structures impact pre-
dicted molecular functions (like enzyme reaction rates).
3. Changes in molecular functions impact predicted
properties of reaction networks (see systems biology).
4. Changes in reaction network properties impact pre-
dicted ﬁtness correlates (need to be deﬁned for each
model). How ﬁtness correlates are mapped to ﬁtness
is deﬁned at even higher levels (see life-history evolu-
tion). All levels ultimately need to be brought together
to facilitate computational predictions of realistic mu-
tational eﬀects, robustness, epistasis and adaptive evo-
lution.
In this symposium we aim to bring together researchers
with an interest in the adaptive landscape at any level
and researchers who want to contribute towards a syn-
thesis of evolutionary genetics with mechanistic mod-
els of life. We believe that the new excitement in sys-
tems biology is an excellent opportunity for progress in
many fundamental evolutionary questions, if the new
models that are being constructed can be extended to
include ﬁtness correlates that turn them into powerful
tools for investigating the adaptive landscape. We also
expect systems biology to beneﬁt from including the
rich quantitative approaches that have been developed
within evolutionary genetics.
Laurence.Loewe@ed.ac.uk Laurence.Loewe@ed.ac.uk
Turin ESEB TradeOﬀs Aug24-29
We invite interested people to submit abstracts for oral
and poster presentations in the symposium “ Genetic
trade-oﬀs in ﬁtness-traits: theory, evidence, and impli-
cations”, to be held at the 2009 congress of the Euro-February 1, 2009 EvolDir 23
pean Society for Evolutionary Biology (24-29 August
2009, Turin, Italy)
Bringing together theoreticians, geneticists and evolu-
tionary ecologists, this symposium will examine the
genetic relationships among ﬁtness related traits and
discuss their role for selective trade-oﬀs, evolutionary
trajectories, and the maintenance of genetic diversity;
with examples spanning laboratory systems and natu-
ral populations.
Abstracts must be submitted by February 15 2009 lat-
est. For full details of the ESEB congress and online
registration see http://www.eseb2009.it/uk/ Sympo-
sium outline:- Selective trade-oﬀs are fundamental to
our understanding of many ﬁelds in evolutionary biol-
ogy; from life history theory to behavioural ecology and
social evolution. However, while routinely assumed in
optimality modelling approaches, there has been sur-
prisingly little scrutiny of the genetic mechanisms as-
sumed to underly ﬁtness trade-oﬀs. Consequently, even
where the selective forces can be measured, important
questions remain. How generally do selective trade-oﬀs
between traits serve as evolutionary constraints? How
do trade-oﬀs between sexes or across spatial or tempo-
ral environments determine evolutionary trajectories?
To what extent can trade-oﬀs act to maintain genetic
diversity for phenotypic traits, or for ﬁtness itself? The
aim of this symposium is to address such questions by
bringing together theoreticians, geneticists and evolu-
tionary ecologists. We will have a particular empha-
sis on the need to examine the genetic relationships
among traits involved in selective-trade oﬀs, with ex-
amples spanning laboratory systems and natural pop-
ulations.
Organisers:- Alastair Wilson, University of Edinburgh,
Alastair.Wilson@ed.ac.uk Kathi Foerster, University of
Lausanne, Katharina.Foerster@unil.ch
– Alastair J Wilson NERC Research Fellow
Alastair.Wilson@ed.ac.uk
http://wildevolution.biology.ed.ac.uk/index.html
http://wildevolution.biology.ed.ac.uk/awilson/-
index.html tel. 0131 6513608
Institute of Evolutionary Biology School of Biological
Sciences The University of Edinburgh Ashworth Labo-
ratories The King’s Buildings West Mains Road Edin-
burgh EH9 3JT, UK
Alastair.Wilson@ed.ac.uk Alastair.Wilson@ed.ac.ukTurin ESEB Transitions to social life
Aug24-29
We would like to invite abstract submissions for oral
and poster presentations at the upcoming European
Society for Evolutionary Biology meetings in Turin
this summer ( http://www.eseb2009.it/uk/ ) for a sym-
posium entitled: Selective forces shaping transitions to
social life
Organisers: Trine Bilde, University of Aarhus,
Denmark (Trine.Bilde@biology.au.dk) Patrizia
d’Ettorre, University of Copenhagen, Denmark
(pdettorre@bio.ku.dk)
Description: This symposium aims at identifying and
integrating the general principles underlying transitions
to social life across a broad range of taxa, in order to
advance our understanding of both the proximate and
ultimate forces underlying these major transitions in
evolution.
Conﬁrmed speakers: Ashleigh Griﬃn, University of
Edinburgh, UK Jacobus J. Boomsma, University of
Copenhagen, Denmark
For submission of abstracts see http:/-
/www.eseb2009.it/uk/ Trine Bilde
<trine.bilde@biology.au.dk >
UFloridaGainesville SEEC Mar27-29
Abstracts for papers and posters are now being ac-
cepted for the Southeastern Ecology and Evolution
Conference (SEEC), to be held March 27-29, 2009 at
the University of Florida in Gainesville. Graduate stu-
dents, undergraduate students, and postdoctoral re-
searchers are invited to submit an abstract for SEEC.
Presenters should be aﬃliated with a college or univer-
sity in the southeastern United States, or with a school
from outside the region but doing their research in the
southeast. Abstracts related to ecology and evolution
are welcomed. Examples of topics from previous con-
ferences are: behavior, biodiversity, conservation, func-
tional morphology, population ecology, and systemat-
ics.24 EvolDir February 1, 2009
Abstracts should be no more than 250 words, and may
be sent to seec2009@gmail.com.
Along with your abstract please submit the following:
Name
Institutional aﬃliation
Status (undergraduate, graduate, or postdoc)
Whether the abstract is for a paper or poster presenta-
tion
If you would like to volunteer to moderate paper pre-
sentations
Abstracts will be reviewed by the SEEC 2009 Program
Committee, and presenters will receive notiﬁcation with
further details about the presentations (time, format,
etc.). Awards will be given for the best talk and best
poster at the conclusion of the conference.
The deadline for submitting abstracts is *Tuesday,
February 10, 2009*.
Registration information and further details about the
conference may be found at our website, http://-
snre.uﬂ.edu/seec . seec2009@gmail.com
UFlorida SEEC Mar27-29
CallForAbstracts
Abstracts for papers and posters are now being ac-
cepted for the Southeastern Ecology and Evolution
Conference (SEEC), to be held March 27-29, 2009 at
the University of Florida in Gainesville. Graduate stu-
dents, undergraduate students, and postdoctoral re-
searchers are invited to submit an abstract for SEEC.
Presenters should be aﬃliated with a college or univer-
sity in the southeastern United States, or with a school
from outside the region but doing their research in the
southeast. Abstracts related to ecology and evolution
are welcomed. Examples of topics from previous con-
ferences are: behavior, biodiversity, conservation, func-
tional morphology, population ecology, and systemat-
ics.
Abstracts should be no more than 250 words, and may
be sent to seec2009@gmail.com.
Along with your abstract please submit the following:
Name
Institutional aﬃliationStatus (undergraduate, graduate, or postdoc)
Whether the abstract is for a paper or poster presenta-
tion
If you would like to volunteer to moderate paper pre-
sentations
Abstracts will be reviewed by the SEEC 2009 Program
Committee, and presenters will receive notiﬁcation with
further details about the presentations (time, format,
etc.). Awards will be given for the best talk and best
poster at the conclusion of the conference.
The deadline for submitting abstracts is *Friday, Jan-
uary 30, 2009*.
Registration information and further details about the
conference may be found at our website, http://-
snre.uﬂ.edu/seec . SEEC 2009 <seec2009@gmail.com >
Uruguay Darwin200 Sep3-6
Dear Colleagues,
Is with great pleasure that we would like to invite you to
the meeting “150 years of Darwin’s Evolutionary The-
ory: a South American Celebration” to celebrate the
150 years of Darwin’s theory, together with 200 of his
birth. The event will take place in Uruguay between the
3 and 6 of September 2009. We have chosen the location
of Punta del Este-Maldonado to host this meeting not
only for the natural beauty of this place, but also be-
cause its symbolic meaning since Charles Darwin spent
more than 10 weeks there during the southern fall and
winter of 1833 as part of his voyage in the HMS Beagle.
This meeting is part of a series of meetings con-
vened by the International Union of Biological Societies
(IUBS) and supported by UNESCO that are being an-
nounced worldwide. We are expecting to host several
researchers, particularly young researchers, from South
America and all over the world. We are convinced that
this event will evolve in a unique opportunity to ex-
change ideas of the diﬀerent issues of the evolutionary
theory and related topics between a wide and diverse
audience.
The main meeting will count with plenary lectures de-
livered by ﬁrst line researchers in the ﬁeld, up to now
the conﬁrmed speakers are:
Prof. Giorgio Bernardi, Stazione Zoologica Anton
Dohrn, Italy Prof. Daniel Dennett, Tufts University,February 1, 2009 EvolDir 25
USA Prof. Douglas Futuyma, Stony Brook - State Uni-
versity of New York, USA Prof. Takashi Gojobori, Na-
tional Institute of Genetics, Japan Prof. Eviatar Nevo.
Weissman Institute, Israel Prof. Emile Zuckerkandl, In-
stitute of Molecular Medical Sciences, California, USA.
Several Symposia will be also organized, the conﬁrmed
ones are:
Evolutionary Genomics and Molecular Evolution (Co-
Chairs: Fernando Alvarez and Hugo Naya) Evolution-
ary Physiology (Chair: Francisco Bozinovic) Viral Evo-
lution (Chair: Juan Cristina) Darwinism and Society
(Chair: Amilcar Davyt) Paleontology and Evolution
(Co-Chairs: Richard Fari˜ na and Sergio Mart´ ınez)
Finally Poster Sessions covering all areas of Evolution
will take place during the meeting.
The surroundings of Punta Del Este are rather extraor-
dinary, with sea, countryside and sierras. Several social
activities before and after the meeting will be organized
including a horse ride following Darwin’s path through
the sierras.
Darwin in his daily accounts of his voyage commented
colourfully several anecdotes as well as scientiﬁc data
collected in these lands. According to these records,
Darwin spent a productive time in this place, as he put
it:
“[last days have been employed]... in arranging & writ-
ing notes about all my treasures from Maldonado”.
We will be very happy to receive you next september
in Uruguay.
Yours evolutively,
Dr. Daniel E. Naya
On behalf of the organizing comitee
For more information follow this link:
www.darwin200.edu.uy
or send questions to: darwin200@fcien.edu.uy
Dr. Daniel E. Naya Seccion Evolucion, Universidad
de la Rep´ ublica, Uruguay & Centro de Estudios Avan-
zados en Ecolog´ ıa y Biodiversidad, P. Universidad
Cat´ olica de Chile, Chile
“Daniel E. Naya” <dnaya@fcien.edu.uy >
USheﬃeld Evolution of insect
immunity Jul15-17Royal Entomological Society International Symposium
Insect Infection and Immunity: Evolution, Ecology and
Mechanisms
followed by contributed sessions on e.g. comparative
genomics, evolutionary ecology of predation
In Sheﬃeld, UK, July 15-17 2009
The meeting, organized by Stuart Reynolds (Bath, UK)
and Jens Rolﬀ (Sheﬃeld, UK) will consist of three ple-
nary sessions running in the morning of each day on
insect immunity. Speakers include:
Bruno Lemaitre (EPF Lausanne, CH) Mike Kanost
(Kansas State University, USA) David Schneider (Stan-
ford University, USA) George Dimopoulos (John Hop-
kins Malaria Research Institute, USA) Fotis Kafatos
(Imperial College, UK) Greg Hurst (University of
Liverpool, UK) Jean-Michel Drezen (University of
Tours, France) Jean Luc Imler (Institut de Biolo-
gie Mol ˜Ac/circlecopyrtculaire et Cellulaire, Strasbourg, France)
Jacob Koella (Imperial College, UK) Shelley Adamo
(Dalhousie, Canada) Lex Kraaijeveld (University of
Southampton, UK) Brian Lazzaro (Cornell University,
USA) Paul Schmid-Hempel (ETH Zurich, CH) Mike
Siva-Jothy (University of Sheﬃeld, UK)
The afternoon, organized by Klaus Reinhardt, Roger
Butlin and Mike Siva-Jothy (all Sheﬃeld, UK), will see
thematic sessions with the opportunity to contribute
talks and posters on:
Insect Immunity (chair Petros Ligoxygakis, Oxford)
Comparative Genomics (chair Casey Bergman, Manch-
ester) Invited Speaker: Jack Werren, Rochester, USA
General Entomology (chair Mike Siva-Jothy, Sheﬃeld)
Stanislav Gorb, Kiel, Germany Paul Buckland,
Sheﬃeld, UK
Predation (chair Dirk Mikolajewski, Sheﬃeld) Johanna
Mappes, Jyv¨ askyl¨ a, Finland Robby Stoks Leuven, Bel-
gium
Range Expansion (chair Janis Antonovics Vir-
ginia/Sheﬃeld) Jane Hill, York, UK Rosa Menendes,
Lancaster, UK
Chemical Ecology (chair Stephen Martin, Sheﬃeld)
Tbc
The conference dinner will be in a Victorian museum
and pre-ceded by a plenary talk by Naomi Pierce from
Harvard.
The Society oﬀers excellent support for students: stu-
dents can apply for support of up to 50% of all costs
(travel, accommodation, registration). Also, as confer-
ence dinners are very good networking opportunities,26 EvolDir February 1, 2009
the dinner is only ˆA£15 for students. Early application
is strongly recommended. Applications must be made
by letter or email (bill@royensoc.co.uk) to the Regis-
trar at the RES oﬃce and the deadline for receipt is
1st May 2009.
Daytime childcare is available on request (child-
care.ento2009@sheﬃeld.ac.uk).
Registration and details http://www.royensoc.co.uk
(there is a link to Ento ˆ a09 in the middle
of the page) General questions: Vi Nguyen
ento2009@sheﬃeld.ac.uk. Kirsty Whiteford
kirsty@royensoc.co.uk Scientiﬁc programme: Klaus
Reinhardt: ento2009@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
Jens Rolﬀ <JOR@sheﬃeld.ac.uk >
Zurich NicheEvolution Jul3-4
*CONFERENCE ANNOUNCEMENT*
NICHE EVOLUTION - A unifying concept for system-
atics, ecology, palaeontology and conservation biology
3-4 July, 2009. Excursion on 5 July. Zurich, Switzer-
land
www.systbot.uzh.ch/niche MOTIVATION Evolution
of ecological niches, in their various guises, has be-
come a central theme in several research ﬁelds of bi-
ology. We argue that niches, how they evolve, and the
consequences of their evolution, aﬀect a wide range of
disciplines in organismal and evolutionary biology, and
as such could be seen as a unifying thread.
In this meeting we will explore the interdisciplinary im-
pact of evolving niches, and so bring together system-
atists, invasion biologists, biodiversity specialists, ecol-
ogists, and palaeontologists. We want to explore the
commonality of evolving niches. The focus is more on
concepts than methods (although, of course, the meth-
ods used will impact massively on the concepts). The
emphasis is more on how to understand the evolution of
a niche, rather than the deﬁnition of the niche. There
will be some talks on the basics of niches to set the
stage for the topics of niche evolution. The idea is to
bring people together working in this ﬁeld and to pro-vide a forum to discuss developments, prospects and
needs with various users and specialists. Therefore, the
program is structured to provide ample time for discus-
sions between and after the sessions.
PLACE The meeting will take place at the Institute
of Systematic Botany of the University of Zurich, situ-
ated in the botanical garden of the University of Zurich,
within easy reach of public transport.
TALKS Only invited talks will be given, and contribu-
tions as posters are welcome. There will be an evening
poster session.
Invited speakers include William Bond, Jeannine
Cavender-Bares, Alastair Culham, Catherine Graham,
Antoine Guisan, Sabine Jakob, Jennifer Lau, Peter Lin-
der, Signe Normand, Peter Pearman, Townsend Peter-
son, Bob Ricklefs, Nicolas Salamin, Walter Salzburger,
Harald Schneider, Jonathan Silvertown, Wilfried Thuil-
lier and Niklaus Zimmermann.
POST-CONFERENCE ONE-DAY EXCURSION
There will be an excursion for Sunday, 5 July, into
the Alps. We will cross the Susten Pass (2’250 m).
On Susten Pass we will visit the Steingletscher glacier,
which has shown a dramatic reduction in the past
decades, thus exposing much new habitat. We will
be able to see the plant successions into these newly
exposed habitats. This shows very dramatically the
eﬀect of climate change, and the potential new habitats
exposed.
ORGANISERS Peter Linder, Alexandre Antonelli,
Rafael W¨ uest (Systematic Botany, University of
Zurich), Niklaus Zimmermann and Peter Pearman (In-
stitute of Forest, Snow and Landscape Research, WSL,
Zurich), Harald Schneider (Natural History Museum,
London), Frank Blattner (IPK Gatersleben) and Nico-
las Salamin (Computational Phylogenetics, University
of Lausanne)
REGISTRATION IS OPEN, at www.systbot.uzh.ch/-
niche Please distribute this information to all re-
searchers and students potentially interested!
Best wishes,
Dr Alexandre Antonelli Institute of Systematic Botany
Zollikerstrasse 107 CH 8008 Z¨ urich Switzerland Ph:
+41 (0)44 634 8416 Fax: +41 (0)44 634 8403 alexan-
dre.antonelli@systbot.uzh.ch
Alexandre Antonelli <alexandre.antonelli@systbot.uzh.ch >February 1, 2009 EvolDir 27
GradStudentPositions
LausanneU GenomicsEvolutionSymbiosis . . . . . . . . . . 27
LundU Internship SexualSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
MaxPlanckInst HostParasite CoEvolution . . . . . . . . . 28
MemorialU EvolutionaryEcolCod . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Muenster Germany HostParasiteCoevolution . . . . . . 80
Munich EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
NHN-Leiden PlantSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
NorthCarolinaStateU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
StonyBrookU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UAntwerp DamselﬂyEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UBern 2 EvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
UBern PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
UCollegeLondon SoftTissueEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
UCork Ireland ArabidopsisReproductionGenetics . . 35
UEastAnglia FlyReproduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
UFribourg EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
UGlasgow IntrogressionDiseaseMammals . . . . . . . . . . 36UGuelph MarineTemperatureAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . 37
UHawaiiHilo EvolutionaryDivergences . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
UInnsbruck IntegrativeBiodiversityResearch Ants . . 39
UKiel FishStressEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
ULausanne Evolution of InvasiveSpecies . . . . . . . . . . . 41
ULondon BatMateChoice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
ULouisiana EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
ULouvain TetrahymenaBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UNorthCarolina Wilmington ConservationGenetics 43
UNorthernColorado PlantPhylogeography . . . . . . . . . 43
UNottingham AdaptiveRadiation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UOttawa CarletonU Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
UPF Barcelona EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
URhodeIsland ComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
UWyoming MolEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
LausanneU
GenomicsEvolutionSymbiosis
PhD studentship in Lausanne: Genomics, Evolution &
Symbiosis
We are seeking a highly motivated student with an
interest in molecular biology, genomics and/or evolu-
tionary ecology to join our group working on symbiotic
mycorrhizal fungi. These important fungi form mu-
tualistic symbioses with most plants, improving plant
growth and inﬂuencing diversity of ecosystems. Al-
though the fungi grow clonally, they have a highly un-
usual genome organization, harbouring genetically dif-
ferent nuclei that are passed from one generation to the
next (see Hijri & Sanders, Nature 2005; Kuhn, Hijri &
Sanders, Nature 2001). The main goals of our research
are to understand how selection, drift, genetic exchange
and recombination act on these fungi and how this can
be used to create more beneﬁcial strains of the fungi
for use in sustainable agriculture. A selection of pos-
sible projects include: - Stability/heritability of fungal
traits associated with improved growth of rice - Evolu-
tionary genomics and population genomics of AM fungi
- Population genetics of mycorrhizal fungi in natural oragricultural systems - Linking quantitative changes in
genetically diﬀerent nuclei with important phenotypic
traits The candidate should be familiar with molecu-
lar biology or genomics/ bioinformatics and have an
interest in applying this knowledge to evolutionary &
ecological questions. He/she should also be willing to
interact with the other group members working on evo-
lution and population biology of mycorrhizal fungi (see
list of recent publications on our web site). The suc-
cessful candidate must have a Masters degree (MSc)
in order to qualify for our PhD program. We are lo-
cated in the Department of Ecology and Evolution at
the University of Lausanne (Switzerland). The Dept.
of Ecology and Evolution in Lausanne is situated on the
shores of Lake Geneva and provides a pleasant & excit-
ing research environment and a strong PhD program.
It is also one of the largest institutions in Europe for
research in ecology and evolutionary biology, compris-
ing 17 diﬀerent research groups. A genomics research
centre also exists at the same site.
The studentships are for a period of 3 years. Start-
ing date ideally by late spring 2009 but this date can
be extended for exceptional candidates. Closing date
for application is 15 February 2009. To apply, appli-
cants should send a CV plus a letter of motivation
by EMAIL to Ian Sanders, Dept of Ecology and Evo-
lution, University of Lausanne, Switzerland. Email:
ian.sanders@unil.ch: Tel: +41 21 692 4261. More28 EvolDir February 1, 2009
details can be found about our group at: http://-
www.unil.ch/dee/page7238.html
iansanders@me.com
LundU Internship SexualSelection
Internships available
Internships are available for students interested in evo-
lutionary ecology in general, and sexual selection and
speciation in particular.
We are looking for highly motivated and enthusiastic
students, with a strong interest in ecology and evo-
lution, and who are prepared to work independently,
both in the ﬁeld and the laboratory. Students will
work in close collaboration with PhD-students at the
Department of Animal Ecology, Lund University. 1-2
studentships are available for a project with Skyros wall
lizard (the project is described in more details below),
ﬁeld work will be conducted in Greece.
Fieldwork will take place between late February and
late April (2 months). It would be of advantage if you
have a driver’s license. You are expected to work on
a schedule that is ﬂexible and organized by your advi-
sor, and be able to coordinate between the other team
members in the group. Time and length of stay can
be agreed on personal preferences. We provide housing
and travel costs, but students are expected to ﬁnd as
cheap ﬂights as possible to Athens, where we will meet
up. The working language of the group is English. If
you are interested, please send us an e-mail announcing
your interest no later than the 20th of January 2009.
1) Detailed project description Main Coordinators:
Anna Runemark (Anna.Runemark@zooekol.lu.se) and
Erik Svensson (Erik.Svensson@zooekol.lu.se)
Skyros wall lizard Podarcis gaigeae is a lizard species
endemic to the island of Skyros. They are common
on both the main island and the islets surrounding
it. On at least two of the surrounding islets, the
lizards have developed island gigantism with signiﬁ-
cantly larger body size than the ones on the mainland.
Previous work from our lab has shown that the islet
populations also diﬀer from the population on the main
island in frequency of the six throat colour phenotypes
which are present in the species. Mate preferences also
seem to diﬀer between the two studied islets and the
main island. Other selection pressures, such as pre-dation, have also been shown to diﬀer between these
populations.
Our ﬁeldwork aims are to investigate if the larger body
size on the islets is a general phenomenon and if there
is a consistent pattern in the frequency of throat colour
phenotypes on the islets. Indirect quantiﬁcation of pre-
dation pressure in the populations will also be a part
of the ﬁeldwork. Our study populations are found on
the island of Skyros, Greece, where the ﬁeld work will
be based.
The populations on the main island are within a short
distance from the ﬁeld base (1-2 hours by car) whereas
transportation to the islets will be done with the help
of local boat owners and is weather sensitive. We will
visit several populations repeatedly during the ﬁeld sea-
son. At each population, we will ﬁrst catch about 30
lizards. For some populations, morphological measures
and photographs as well as DNA samples will be taken
in the ﬁeld. Some populations will be brought into
the laboratory for recording of morphological data and
sampling of DNA.
At the ﬁeld sites, basic data to describe the ecological
setting of the population (ground cover, possible preda-
tors, etc.) will be recorded, and measurements of the
reaction distances (proxy of predation pressure) of the
lizards will be done. For a subset of the study pop-
ulations mate choice experiments will be done in the
laboratory. Finally, the ecological and morphological
data will get entered into a database and analysed.
Anna Runemark <Anna.Runemark@zooekol.lu.se >
MaxPlanckInst HostParasite
CoEvolution
Graduate position: 2 PhD positions in host-parasite
co-evolution
There are openings for two 3-year PhD positions at the
Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology to work
in the ﬁeld of host-parasite co-evolution.
The speciﬁc goal for these positions is to identify evolu-
tionary pressures exerted by parasites on the host im-
mune system and how such interactions could lead to
the maintenance of sexual reproduction. Research will
be conducted using our established model organism, the
three-spined stickleback.
Depending on the scientiﬁc interest of the candidates,February 1, 2009 EvolDir 29
the work can be extended to the molecular level of host-
parasite (e.g. MHC, virulence genes) interactions.
The successful candidates should be highly moti-
vated and have a background in evolutionary biol-
ogy. The candidates will collaborate with the team
working on immunogenetics, immunology, popula-
tion genetics, parasitology, speciation and behavioural
ecology both in the lab and in the ﬁeld. De-
tails about the department’s research activities can
be found under: http://www.evolbio.mpg.de/english/-
abteilungen/evolutionsoekologie/index.html The Insti-
tute is located in Pl¨ on (Northern Germany, between
Hamburg and the Baltic Sea) and oﬀers a stimulating
research environment dedicated to evolutionary biology
with links to the Christian Albrechts University Kiel,
and the Leibniz Institute for Marine Sciences (IFM-
Geomar) in Kiel. The Institute provides state-of-the-
art laboratories and equipment, including facilities for
genome analysis.
To apply, students are required to have a
Diplom/Master degree (or equivalent). Please
send your application including a CV and address of
two references by e-mail (milinski@evolbio.mpg.de).
The positions will remain available until ﬁlled.
We encourage also foreign students to apply since the
working language in the group is English. The Max
Planck Society is an equal opportunity employer and
encourages female scientists and scientists with disabil-
ities to apply.
–
Prof. Manfred Milinski Executive Director Max-
Planck-Institute for Evolutionary Biology (former Max-
Planck-Institute of Limnology) Department of Evolu-
tionary Ecology August-Thienemann-Strasse 2 D-24306
Ploen, Germany
direct: +49-(0)4522 763 254 Sec: +49-(0)4522
763 253 Fax: +49-(0)4522 763 310 email: milin-
ski@evolbio.mpg.de http://www.mpil-ploen.mpg.de/
milinski@mail.evolbio.mpg.de
MemorialU EvolutionaryEcolCod
PhD/MSc opportunities - Evolutionary Ecology of
Farmed/Wild Cod
Funded graduate student projects are available with the
evolutionary ecology of ﬁshes research groups lead byDr. Ian Fleming & Dr. Craig Purchase at Memorial
University. These projects will also involve collabora-
tors from Fisheries & Oceans Canada (Dr. Ed Trippel
[St. Andrews] and Dr. John Brattey [St. John’s]).
Project 1 (preferably PhD level): Mating experiments
to determine the potential for interbreeding between
farmed and native wild cod, and thus the potential for
the introduction of aquaculture/non-native traits into
the wild where they may have a negative impact.
Project 2 (preferably PhD level): Determination of the
likelihood of inbred cod reproducing within cages, and
the subsequent quality of embryos released into the en-
vironment. Lab experiments to determine if hybrid oﬀ-
spring between farmed and wild populations will have
depressed growth and survival relative to native ﬁsh,
and whether such eﬀects may be mitigated by using
farmed stocks derived from local populations.
Project 3 (MSc level): Determination of factors which
may reduce the motivation of cod to escape from cages.
Tagging studies to determine the fate of escaped ﬁsh
and whether they can be easily recaptured.
All projects have ﬂexibility and the scope to address
additional questions. Start dates are from March to
September 2009. Major scholarship holders will receive
generous top-ups to their awards.
Information on our research groups can be found
at http://www.ucs.mun.ca/ ˜ cfpurchase/ and
http://www.mun.ca/osc/iﬂeming/bio.php Information
on graduate studies at MUN can be found at http:/-
/www.mun.ca/sgs/home/ Prospective candidates
should email a cover letter, CV, oﬃcial transcripts and
contact information for three people who can serve as
references. Review of applicants will begin Feb 1/09
and continue until the positions are ﬁlled.
Dr. Craig Purchase Assistant Professor, Biology De-
partment Memorial University of Newfoundland
St. John’s, Newfoundland, A1B 3X9,
Canada T: (709)737-4452, F:(709)737-3018
craig.purchase@mun.ca www.ucs.mun.ca/ ˜ cfpur-
chase cfpurchase@mun.ca cfpurchase@mun.ca
Muenster Germany
HostParasiteCoevolution
Graduate position: Muenster (Germany) - Ecological
Immunology and Host-Parasite Coevolution30 EvolDir February 1, 2009
We invite applications for a PhD position in the group
of Animal Evolutionary Ecology at the Institute for
Evolution and Biodiversity, University of Muenster,
Germany ( http://ieb.uni-muenster.de/ ).
We are seeking highly motivated students with a back-
ground in evolutionary ecology, immunology or para-
sitology. Experience with molecular techniques is ad-
vantageous. Successful candidates will work in the ﬁeld
of ecological immunology and host-parasite coevolu-
tion. Research goals will include the evolution of spe-
ciﬁc memory and phenotypic plasticity in immune re-
sponses, using the red ﬂour beetle Tribolium castaneum
as a model organism. Working language of the lab is
English.
Muenster hosts many excellent scientiﬁc institutions
and is a dynamic city with a high number of students
and a rich choice of social, cultural and sporting fa-
cilities (see http://www.muenster.de/ en/ for further
details).
Interested candidates should send applications (prefer-
entially as E- mail attachment) containing a CV, a list
of publications (if available), a research statement and
the addresses of two potential referees to:
Prof. Joachim Kurtz, Institute for Evolution and
Biodiversity, University of Muenster, Hueﬀerstr. 1,
DE-48149 Muenster, Tel. +49 251 83 24 661,
joachim.kurtz@uni-muenster.de
Closing date is February 22nd, 2009.
Prof. Dr. Joachim Kurtz
University of Muenster Institute for Evolution and Bio-
diversity, Animal Evolutionary Ecology Group Hueﬀer-
str. 1, D-48149 Muenster, Germany Phone: + 49 251
83 24661 Fax: + 49 251 83 24668 joachim.kurtz@uni-
muenster.de http://www.uni-muenster.de/Evolution/
joachim.kurtz@uni-muenster.de
Munich EvolutionaryGenomics
PhD Student Position: Evolutionary/Functional Ge-
nomics
A PhD student position in Evolutionary and Functional
Genomics is available at the University of Munich. The
student will join a collaborative research group study-
ing natural selection in structured populations and be
enrolled in the Munich Graduate School for Evolution,
Ecology and Sytematics (EESLMU).The project involves the analysis of gene expression
variation in natural populations of Drosophila. This in-
cludes a microarray survey of gene expression variation,
with particular focus on adaptive regulatory changes
between ecologically diﬀerentiated populations. It also
includes DNA sequence analysis and transgenic exper-
iments to study the evolution of gene regulatory ele-
ments.
The University of Munich has a strong, interactive
group in evolutionary biology, including theoreticians
and experimentalists working on both plant and animal
systems. We have an international group and the every-
day working language is English. The Department of
Biology is housed in the new, state-of-the-art BioCenter
on the University of Munich High-Tech campus. More
information is available on the web at:
http://evol.bio.lmu.de/EvoGen.html PhD students
will receive a salary according to the German pay scale
(E13/2 TV-L). Applicants should have a master’s de-
gree or equivalent in biology or a related ﬁeld. In addi-
tion, laboratory experience in molecular biology and/or
genetics is desired. Interested candidates should send a
CV, statement of interest, and contact information of
two potential referees as a single PDF ﬁle to Prof. John
Parsch (parsch@bio.lmu.de).
Review of applications will begin on Feb. 20, 2009 and
will continue until the position is ﬁlled.
The University of Munich is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer and has an aﬃrma-
tive action policy for the disabled.
John Parsch <parsch@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de >
NHN-Leiden PlantSystematics
Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences
Vacancy number 8-251
The National Herbarium of the Netherlands, Leiden
University branch (NHN-L) and Hortus botanicus Lei-
den are oﬀering a position for a:
PhD-candidate in Plant Systematics (fulltime, 38 hours
per week)
The NHN-L houses one of the leading herbarium col-
lections in Europe and has two active, internationally
oriented scientiﬁc research groups. The PITA group
(Plant diversity of the Indo-Paciﬁc and tropical Asia)February 1, 2009 EvolDir 31
has a strong focus on the ﬂora of South-East Asia,
and the PCNE group (Phanerogams and Cryptogams
of the Netherlands and Europe) focuses on the ﬂora of
the Netherlands and groups as the algae, mosses and
macrofungi. The Hortus botanicus provides a rich col-
lection of living plants with special emphasis on Orchi-
daceae, Apocynaceae (Dischida, Hoya), myrmecophytic
Rubiaceae, and carnivorous plants.
Our collections are par excellence useful for anatomical
and molecular/evo-devo (incl. ancient DNA) studies,
and for bioinformatics research.
Who ﬁts the shoe?
You must have a degree (drs./MSc) in Biology and
a strong interest and experience in plant taxonomy
preferably including molecular and/or SEM/TEM tech-
niques. To obtain the available position you have to
write a research proposal of max 2 pages, preferably
based on the collections available and the research per-
formed at the NHN and/or botanical garden. Other re-
search projects are also welcomed if the main focus is on
morphology, anatomy and phylogenetics. As a person
you are a driven and self-conﬁdent scientist with excel-
lent technical, analytical and communicational skills.
The position
We oﬀer you an appointment at Leiden University for
a period of one year; after evaluation the appointment
can be extended for another three years.
You do not need to pay a tuition fee. The gross monthly
salary is 2000,- in the ﬁrst year and increases pro-
gressively each year to 2558,- in the fourth year. The
appointment includes pension build-up and facilitates
other beneﬁts in accordance to the Collective Labour
Agreement for Dutch Universities (CAO Nederlandse
Universiteiten).
The appointment must lead to the completion of a
PhD thesis within four years. During your appoint-
ment you will be supervised by one of the staﬀ mem-
bers of the NHN or Hortus botanicus as your co-
promotor/co-advisor. Prof. Dr. Erik Smets is pro-
motor/advisor. A PhD student at the NHN-L is
imbedded in the Leiden University Graduate School of
Science ( www.graduateschools.leidenuniv.nl <http:/-
/www.graduateschools.leidenuniv.nl/ >) and the Re-
search School Biodiversity ( www.science.uva.nl/ibed/-
biodiversity/ ). These schools oﬀer PhD courses on gen-
eral (e.g. eﬀective time management, scientiﬁc writing,
presentation skills, etc.) and specialist subjects (molec-
ular phylogenetics, economic botany, web-based taxon-
omy, etc.); in coordination with their supervisors PhD
candidates are allowed to compile their own course pro-
gram. Additionally, PhD students participate in theteaching at the BSc level at Leiden University. In gen-
eral ca. 80% of the time is spend on your PhD research
and ca. 20% on teaching and following courses.
For further information please contact
Dr. J.B. Mols, Mols@NHN.Leidenuniv.nl
or visit http://www.nationaalherbarium.nl
< http://www.nationaalherbarium.nl/ >
and http://www.hortusleiden.nl < http://-
www.hortusleiden.nl/ >.
Applications using the vacancy number and including
a complete CV with marks obtained, a research pro-
posal of two pages, and the names, telephone numbers
and email addresses of at least two referees (who have
agreed to be contacted) should be submitted before
February 16th 2009 and only to:
Leiden University / Faculty of Mathematics and Natu-
ral Sciences
Attn. Ms. M. van Schoonhoven, Human Resource Ad-
viser
Human Resource department
P.O. Box 9504
2300 RA Leiden
The Netherlands
Or by mail to m.vanschoonhoven@science.leidenuniv.nl
<mailto:m.vanschoonhoven@science.leidenuniv.nl >
More information on working for the University can be
found on: www.medewerkers.leidenuniv.nl <http://-
www.medewerkers.leidenuniv.nl/ >(Dutch site only)
and on www.leidenuniv.nl/en/staﬀ (English site with
information for international staﬀ and PhD students).
Dr. J.B. Mols Instituutsmanager Nationaal Herbarium
Nederland Universiteit Leiden vestiging P.O. Box 9514
2300 RA Leiden Nederland Tel: +31 (0) 71 5273527
Fax: + 31 (0) 71 5273522
“Mols, J.B. (Johan)” <Mols@nhn.leidenuniv.nl >
NorthCarolinaStateU
EvolutionaryBiol
Dr. Marc Johnson’s lab of Evolutionary Ecology
(www.evoeco.org ) at North Carolina State University
is accepting applications for graduate school in the De-
partment of Plant Biology. North Carolina State Uni-
versity oﬀers broad training in ecology and evolution32 EvolDir February 1, 2009
and is ideally suited for students interested in interdis-
ciplinary research that incorporates both lab and ﬁeld
components. Students will have the opportunity to in-
teract with colleagues across multiple departments in-
cluding Biology, Entomology, Genetics, and Statistics.
Research in the lab focuses on the molecular and pheno-
typic evolution of plant defenses, the ecological eﬀects
of genetic variation and evolution on communities, and
the coevolution between plant hosts and their insect
parasites. Students are free to work on any topic related
to the lab’s foci. For more information on this research
please visit www.evoeco.org . There are presently two
positions open in the lab that will be funded by a com-
bination of research assistantship (50%) and teaching
assistantship (50%) support. Students can expect to
earn ca. 20K (USD) per year, and tuition and health
insurance will be covered on top of this. Students enter-
ing the graduate program in plant biology are required
to have a bachelor’s degree in plant biology or a re-
lated undergraduate program that includes biological,
physical and mathematical science training. Students
will be considered regardless of race, gender, religion,
nationality, or physical ability.
Interested students are encouraged to send a covering
letter and CV/resume to marc johnson@ncsu.edu by
January 25, 2009. The cover letter should outline the
applicant’s research interests as they relate to evolu-
tion or ecology, past research experience, and why the
student would like to do graduate work at NCSU.
Marc Johnson, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Plant Biology North Carolina State Uni-
versity Campus Box 7612, Gardner Hall Raleigh
NC, 27695 Oﬃce: 919-515-0478, Lab: 919-515-
0479 Web: www.evoeco.org marc johnson@ncsu.edu
marc johnson@ncsu.edu
StonyBrookU EvolutionaryBiol
GRADUATE OPPORTUNITIES IN ECOLOGY AND
EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY
The Department of Ecology and Evolution at Stony
Brook University is recruiting graduate students for
Fall 2009. Our graduate program trains students in
Ecology, Evolution and Biometry. The following fac-
ulty are seeking graduate students for their labs:
H. Resit Akcakaya http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/-
ee/akcakayalab/ Stephen B. Baines http://-
life.bio.sunysb.edu/ ˜ sbaines/ Michael A. Bellhttp://life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/belllab/ David O.
Conover http://www.msrc.sunysb.edu/ ˜ conover
Liliana M. D´ avalos http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/-
ee/davaloslab/Welcome.html Daneil Dykhuizen
http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/dykhuizenlab/ Walter
F. Eanes http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/eaneslab/
John G. Fleagle http://gibbon.anat.sunysb.edu/-
Department/jﬂeagle.html Lev Ginzburg http://-
life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/people/ginzbgindex.html Jessica
Gurevitch http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/gurevitchlab/
Jeﬀrey Levinton http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/-
marinebio/levinton.main.html Steve Munch http:/-
/msrc.sunysb.edu/people/munch.htm Dianna K
Padilla http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/padillalab/-
padilla/index.htm Massimo Pigliucci http://-
www.genotypebyenvironment.org Joshua Rest http:/-
/life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/restlab/ F. James Rohlf
http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/morph John J. Wiens
http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/wienslab/homepage.html
Pat C. Wright http://icte.bio.sunysb.edu For more
information regarding the Graduate Program in Ecol-
ogy and Evolution see: http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee
and http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/programs.htm
The deadline for receipt of all application materials
is January 18. For additional assistance, e-mail
our Graduate Program Coordinator, Iris Roth,
iroth@notes.cc.sunysb.edu
lmdavalos@gmail.com
UAntwerp DamselﬂyEvolution
PhD POSITION - UNIVERSITY OF ANTWERP
(BELGIUM)
PhD position at the Department of Biology -
Evolutionary Ecology group http://www.ua.ac.be/-
hans.vangossum Duties and research:
Preference goes to a candidate with a keen interest for
evolution, behaviour and ecology. Research topic is the
study of the causes and consequences of coexistence of
multiple discrete female damselﬂy (Insecta: Odonata)
morphs (with genetic base). Intriguingly, one female
morph much resembles the conspeciﬁc male’s pheno-
type to such extent that intraspeciﬁc mimicry in the
context of sexual conﬂict has been suggested. Several
studies indicate frequency-and density-dependent selec-
tion. Broad aim of the PhD research is study of causes
and consequences of variation in social environments
(densities and frequencies of males and female morphs)February 1, 2009 EvolDir 33
on the success, behaviour and phenotype of males and
females. Fieldwork is planned at several locations in
Europe (such as Belgium, Netherlands, Spain). It also
is expected for the candidate to take part in a limited
amount of teaching assistance.
Requirements:
* Degree in Biology (also students that ﬁnish later this
term are encouraged to apply).
* Preparing a PhD. The job oﬀer is for two years, while
typically 4 years are required to complete a PhD in
Belgium. Therefore, the candidate will need to apply
for additional funding for which several possibilities are
available (e.g.; www.fwo.be <http://www.fwo.be/ >,
www.iwt.be <http://www.iwt.be/ >).
* Owner of a driver’s license.
* Preferentially the candidate also is used to advances
statistical methods. The ﬁeld work requires indepen-
dence, ﬂexibility and a taste for adventure.
Oﬀer and further information:
Full time job from March 1 2009 or later (as agreed)
for a period of two years. For further please contact me
at: email hans.vangossum@ua.ac.be or phone ++ 32 3
265 32 82
Procedure?
CV and motivation letter are awaited before 15 Febru-
ary 2009 and can be send to Hans Van Gossum, by
email (hans.vangossum@ua.ac.be), or post: Hans Van
Gossum, Universiteit Antwerpen, Departement Biolo-
gie, Onderzoeksgroep Evolutionaire Ecologie, Groenen-
borgerlaan 171, 2020 Antwerpen, Belgium, Europe.
Please also provide the contact details for two persons
willing to write a letter of recommendation. On Mon-
day 16 July 2009 you will be informed whether you
have been selected for further interview and how selec-
tion will be continued.
Van Gossum Hans <hans.vangossum@ua.ac.be >
UBern 2 EvolutionaryEcol
VACANCY FOR 2 PhD-STUDENTSHIPS
two PhD positions are available in our group. We
work on bird-parasite interactions using wild popula-
tions of great tits around Bern, Switzerland. Current
projects include the genetics of local adaptation, the in-
teraction between predation and parasitism, parasitesand oxidative stress, parasite-induced developmental ef-
fects on song, and eﬀects of oxidative stress on sperm
traits. For information on previous projects please go
to (http:// evolution.unibe.ch). PhD-students are in
general expected to deﬁne their own topics within this
framework. If a student has substantial interests in an-
other theme, however, it is also possible to develop it
into a PhD-project. PhD-students are well supported
during all processes of identifying interesting questions,
experimental design, ﬁeld- and labwork, analysis and
writing. The PhD-dissertation usually consists of 3-5
papers published in the top ecological and evolutionary
journals. The positions are available immediately, for
a period of 3 years with a possible extension of an ad-
ditional year if needed. Salary is in the range of 39k
sFr per annuum. Given equal qualiﬁcation preference
will be given to women in order promote women in aca-
demic careers. The positions ara available until ﬁlled
by suitable candidates.
The University of Bern is located in the town of Bern,
which is a world heritage site. It is close to several
lakes, the Jura mountains and the alps.
Please send a CV and statement of interests by e-mail
to:
Heinz RICHNER, Prof Dept of Biology Evolutionary
Ecology Lab University of Bern, Baltzerstr.6 CH-3012
Bern, Switzerland Tel 0041 31 631 3009 (S.Maurer, sec-
retary) e-mail: richner@esh.unibe.ch
heinz richner <heinz.richner@esh.unibe.ch >
UBern PlantEvolution
We are seeking a PhD student highly motivated to work
on determinants of the invasiveness of clonal plants.
The work will be part of a Sino-Swiss collaborative
research project, which will involve ﬁeld work in Eu-
rope and China, and experimentation on multiple clonal
plant species in greenhouse and garden. Ideally, the
candidate for this position should have a background
in experimental ecology and basic knowledge of statis-
tical methods (including generalized linear models).
The positions will be with Dr Mark van Kleunen
and Prof. Dr Markus Fischer in the Plant Ecology
group at the Institute of Plant Sciences of the Univer-
sity of Bern ( http://www.botany.unibe.ch/planteco/-
index.php ), Switzerland. Our collaborators in China
are Dr Fei-Hai Yu, Prof. Dr. Ming Dong and a Chinese34 EvolDir February 1, 2009
PhD student (position not ﬁlled yet) in the State Key
Lab of Vegetation and Environmental Change, Institute
of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing.
We oﬀer a stimulating research environment in a beau-
tiful city close to the Alps. In addition to projects on
invasive plants, our group is involved in projects on
evolutionary and molecular plant ecology, plant popu-
lation biology and community ecology. The position is
funded by the Swiss Science Foundation for a period
of three years starting on February 1, 2009. Salaries
(before taxes) rise from CHF 37 200 in the ﬁrst year to
CHF 43 200 in the third year.
Requirements for the positions include a Masters degree
(or equivalent) in biology, a drivers license, ﬂuency in
German and English and good collaboration skills.
Applicants should e-mail a letter of application, a cur-
riculum vitae and contact details of two references to
Mark van Kleunen at vkleunen@ips.unibe.ch. In the
letter of application, the applicant should motivate why
she or he wants to do a PhD and why she or he wants
to work on plant invasions. The applicant should also
present details on her or his experimental and statistical
skills. The application deadline is January 15, 2009.
For more information on this position, the project and
research in our lab contact Mark van Kleunen at vkle-
unen@ips.unibe.ch.
Mark van Kleunen
Institute of Plant Sciences University of Bern Altenber-
grain 21 3013 Bern Switzerland
Phone Tel. +41 31 631 49 23 Fax +41 31
631 49 42 e-mail vkleunen@ips.unibe.ch http://-
www.staﬀ.unibe.ch/vkleunen/ van Kleunen Mark
<mark.vankleunen@ips.unibe.ch >
UCollegeLondon
SoftTissueEvolution
Title:
The evolution of soft tissues characters and hard tissue
corollaries across the order Primates.
Supervisors:
Dr Helen Chatterjee (UCL Research Department of Ge-
netics, Evolution and Environment). Primary Supervi-
sor
Dr Margaret Clegg (Department of Palaeontology, Nat-ural History Museum) CASE partner. Secondary Su-
pervisor
Deadline for applications: 1st February 2009. To apply
please send an email to Dr Helen Chatterjee outlin-
ing your interest and experience, along with a CV to
h.chatterjee@ucl.ac.uk Only applicants with previous
experience of anatomical dissection and/or a relevant
MSc will be selected. This position is open to UK citi-
zens only.
Outline:
The primate phylogeny is one of the best studied parts
of the tree of life, with numerous molecular phyloge-
nies having been proposed for most primate families
and genera. Despite this persistent interest there is
still surprising little known about the evolution of non-
molecular phylogenetic characters such as hard and soft
tissue morphology; this is in spite of the diverse range
of fossils representing numerous stages of primate evo-
lution dating as far back as 55 million years ago. Given
the extensive and continually growing, if incomplete,
fossil record for primates it is crucial we gain a better
understanding of the evolution of morphological char-
acters.
The aim of this PhD is to deﬁne a broad set of hard
and soft tissues characters with a view to creating a
cross-taxic database covering a wide range of primates,
including all of the major groups (lemurs, lorises, tar-
siers, new and old world monkeys and apes). Previous
research (Gibbs et al., 2000) has shown that soft tis-
sue characters are informative in phylogenetic analyses
across higher primates and this PhD seeks to expand
and build upon these initial ﬁndings. Data will be
acquired through extensive dissections using wet col-
lections housed at the Royal College of Surgeons of
England Museums (principally the Osman Hill Primate
Collection) and the Natural History Museum. Data
will include: muscle ﬁbre function and type, muscle
attachment sites, visceral dimensions and shape, and
function-speciﬁc innervations.
These data will then be mapped onto an existing molec-
ular phylogeny recently produced by Chatterjee et al.
(In review) using the phylogenetic comparative method
(e.g. Independent Contrast) in order to investigate
the timing and mode of character acquisition, imple-
mented via programs such as CAIC and Mesquite. This
method will allow predictions about the timing of par-
ticular morphological adaptations (such as arboreal-
ity, bipedalism) and through analogy and comparison,
the likely functional specialisations of extinct primates.
The research will aﬀord a better understanding of the
relationship between soft tissue characters and their
hard tissue corollaries (such as muscle attachment sitesFebruary 1, 2009 EvolDir 35
on bones). Furthermore, it will provide methodologi-
cal support for the value of character mapping using
PCM which allows analysis of trait coevolution and,
through comparison with socio-ecological parameters,
the identiﬁcation of ecophysiological and ecomorpho-
logical traits.
Chatterjee, H.J., Ho, S.Y.W., Barnes, I., & Groves, C.
(In review). A New Combined Molecular Phylogeny
for the Order Primates, with Relaxed-Clock Estimates
of Divergence Times using Multiple Fossil Calibrations.
Molecular Biology and Evolution.
Gibbs, S, Collard, M. & Wood, B. (2000). Soft-tissue
characters in higher primate phylogenetics. Proc. Natl.
Acad. Sci. USA. 97 (20), 11130-11132
To apply please send an email to Dr Helen Chatter-
jee outlining your interest and experience, along with
a CV to h.chatterjee@ucl.ac.uk Only applicants with
previous experience of anatomical dissection and/or a
relevant MSc will be selected. This position is open to
UK citizens only.
Dr Helen Chatterjee Deputy Director and Lecturer in
Biology UCL Museums & Collections and Research De-
partment of Genetics, Evolution and Environment.
Darwin Building University College London Gower
Street London WC1E 6BT
Tel: 020 76794113 (Internal ext. 34113) Fax: 020
76797096 Email: h.chatterjee@ucl.ac.uk http://-
www.ucl.ac.uk/museums http://www.ucl.ac.uk/-
museums/learning/touch research http://-
www.ucl.ac.uk/biology
Helen Chatterjee <h.chatterjee@ucl.ac.uk >
UCork Ireland
ArabidopsisReproductionGenetics
UniCork(Ireland).ArabidopsisReproductionGenetics
3 PhD Positions (Arabidopsis Reproductive Genetics)
The Genetics & Biotechnology lab of Dr. Charles
Spillane at University College Cork, Ireland is seeking
applicants for 3 PhD positions within the lab to work on
genomic imprinting, dosage eﬀects and apomixis tech-
nology development in Arabidopsis thaliana. The Sci-
ence Foundation Ireland (SFI) funded research will in-
volve work on genetics, epigenetics, molecular biology,
microscopy and genomics techniques, and signiﬁcantexposure to bioinformatics. The successful applicants
will work closely with postdocs and other research team
members working on these areas within the lab. We are
seeking highly motivated applicants who are eager to
develop a long-term career in plant research. In partic-
ular, we encourage applicants who have prior practical
experience of Arabidopsis and/or molecular genetics or
genomics research (e.g. as RAs, interns, etc) in research
lab/institute settings. Applicants should send an e-mail
outlining research interest and motivations, including;
(a) your C.V. (list grades, interests and experimental
skills) & (b) contact details and e-mail addresses for 3
referees to:
Dr. Charlie Spillane, Genetics & Biotechnology Lab,
Biochemistry Dept & Biosciences Institute, Univer-
sity College Cork, LM 2.10, Cork, Ireland. E-mail:
c.spillane@ucc.ie
The deadline for applications is Wednesday 18th Febru-
ary 2009.
Dr. Charlie SPILLANE, SFI Investigator & Senior Lec-
turer, Genetics & Biotechnology Lab, Dept of Biochem-
istry & Biosciences Institute, University College Cork
(UCC), 2.10, Lee Maltings, Cork, IRELAND
[T] 00-353-21-4904124 (oﬃce) [E] c.spillane@ucc.ie
[W] www.ucc.ie/spillane “Spillane, Charles”
<C.Spillane@ucc.ie >
UEastAnglia FlyReproduction
PhD: School of Biological Sciences, University of East
Anglia, Norwich, UK
Applicants are invited for a PhD studentship to start
October 2009.
Title: Is it all in the nose? The role of odorants in
reproduction Synopsis: Recent research, particularly
in the model organism Drosophila melanogaster, has
highlighted roles for odorants (smells) in the perception
of the external and internal reproductive environment.
For example, many odorant receptors and their binding
proteins are highly expressed in the male and female re-
productive systems. This project aims to test the role
of odorants in reproduction, both in the detection of,
and response to, mating rivals and to reveal the role of
odorants in determining fertility. The role of external
odorants: male D. melanogaster respond adaptively to
variation in the average level of sperm competition in
a population by increasing mating duration and ulti-36 EvolDir February 1, 2009
mately their reproductive success. How males perceive
the presence of rivals is not yet known, although the
detection of pheromones is a possibility. The role of
internal odorants: the presence of odorant binding pro-
teins and receptors in the reproductive system suggests
novel roles for odorants in determining fertility. The
aim of this project is to test, using mutants, the hy-
pothesis that males and females that are mutant for
odorant receptors and binding proteins in the repro-
ductive system have lowered fertility.
Eligibility for funding: full fees and stipend are avail-
able for students satisfying UK residence requirements;
fees only are available for students satisfying EU resi-
dence requirements. Funding for this award will be de-
termined as a result of a competition within the School.
To apply, complete an application form to be found at:
http://www.uea.ac.uk/bio/courses/bioresdegrees
Informal enquiries, please contact
tracey.chapman@uea.ac.uk
– – Tracey Chapman School of Biological Sciences Uni-
versity of East Anglia Norwich Norfolk NR4 7TJ UK
Phone: + 44 (0)1603 593210 FAX: + 44
(0)1603 592250 Web: http://biobis.bio.uea.ac.uk/-
biosql/fac show.aspx?ID=365 Tracey Chapman
<Tracey.Chapman@uea.ac.uk >
UFribourg EvolutionaryGenetics
PhD position in evolutionary biology
Project: Evolutionary genetic consequences of small vs.
large population size in Daphnia
A PhD position is available at the University of Fri-
bourg, Switzerland, in the research group of Christoph
Haag. We are looking for a highly motivated candi-
date with interests and a solid background in the ﬁelds
of evolutionary biology, population genetics, and / or
molecular evolution. The PhD project is concerned
with the evolutionary genetic consequences of small vs.
large population size in Daphnia and will involve ex-
perimental work on Daphnia, analyses of sequences,
genotyping, and, potentially, ﬁeld work. Details of the
project will be worked out with the candidate, to ac-
commodate interests and strength.
The starting date is negotiable (any time from April
2009 onwards). Funding from the University of Fri-
bourg is for three years (annual salary is ca. CHF35,000). Some knowledge of French or German is help-
ful in every day life, but the working language in the
group is English. A Diploma or Masters degree (or
equivalent) in biology or related subject is necessary
for admission. Fribourg is a lively town with over a
quarter of the population being students.
To apply, please send an e-mail with the application
materials in a single pdf ﬁle to Christoph Haag. Appli-
cation materials should include a CV, a list of publica-
tions, and a short (less than one page) statement of re-
search interests. Please give names and email addresses
of two persons who are willing to write a letter of rec-
ommendation. Applications received before 6 February
2009 will be given full consideration. Interviews will
take place in late February / early March.
Further information and address for application: Dr.
Christoph Haag E-mail: christoph.haag@unifr.ch, Tel:
+41 26 300 88 71 Web: http://www.haagliautard.net/-
christoph haag.htm For more information about the
Ecology and Evolution in Fribourg see http://-
www.unifr.ch/biol/ecology/ christoph.haag@unifr.ch
christoph.haag@unifr.ch
UGlasgow
IntrogressionDiseaseMammals
Funded PhD position available
Project: Disease and genetic introgression from domes-
tic species as global risk factors in mammalian conser-
vation Supervisors: Dr R Biek & Dr S Cleaveland -
University of Glasgow
Around the world, natural habitat is rapidly being
converted into landscapes dominated by humans and
human-associated species. Thus, wildlife populations
everywhere are increasingly likely to live in direct or
potential contact with domesticated species. This pro-
vides opportunities for disease spread and in some cases
even genetic exchange between domestics and wildlife,
often resulting in signiﬁcant conservation challenges.
Among wild mammals, disease is considered an impor-
tant threat for a large proportion of endangered car-
nivores and artiodactyls (IUCN Red Data Book). Cu-
riously, this proportion is much higher for these two
groups, possibly because they also contain our most
ubiquitous domesticated mammals (Pedersen 2007).
While the problems of disease transfer and introgres-
sion are well documented for certain species and loca-February 1, 2009 EvolDir 37
tions, there has been little attempt to examine these
phenomena systematically and on a global scale. This
PhD project would attempt to ﬁll this knowledge gap,
primarily through statistical analysis of existing data
as well as spatial and mathematical modelling. Us-
ing these tools, the student would aim to identify risk
factors (e.g. behavioural, socio-economic, taxonomic,
geographic, etc) associated with the transfer of domes-
tic mammal diseases or genes into wildlife populations
and develop and test conservation strategies to min-
imise these risks. There would also be potential op-
portunities to integrate the developed approaches with
ongoing research at Serengeti National Park, where do-
mestic/ wildlife interactions are a major management
issue.
The student would join two lab groups with a common
research focus on disease dynamics in wild and domes-
tic animal populations. We are part of the Boyd Orr
Centre for Population and Ecosystem Health ( http:/-
/www.gla.ac.uk/departments/boydorr/ ) which consti-
tutes a multi- disciplinary and vibrant community of re-
searchers at Glasgow University whose expertise ranges
from veterinary sciences and behavioural ecology to epi-
demiological modelling and geographical information
systems.
Project starts October 2009, funding is guaranteed
for 3 years (annual stipend of £13,290, tuition fees
are paid). Candidates must either hold, or expect to
obtain, a First or Upper Second class Honours de-
gree, a Masters, or an equivalent degree in a rele-
vant subject and must be eligible by residence for a
UK research council studentship. Candidates from EU
countries outside the UK are eligible for award sub-
ject to particular conditions ( http://www.nerc.ac.uk/
funding/available/postgrad/eligibility.asp); candidates
from outside the EU are not eligible. Background in
veterinary sciences and previous experience with statis-
tics, modelling, population genetics or databases would
be advantageous.
Please send a copy of your CV, together with a cover
letter describing your interest in this project, your
suitability for it, and the names and contact details
of at least two academic referees to Dr. Roman
Biek (from whom further details may be obtained):
r.biek@bio.gla.ac.uk
Review of applications will start immediately and will
continue until the position is ﬁlled.
References:
Cleaveland S, Laurenson MK and Taylor LH 2001
Diseases of humans and their domestic mammals:
pathogen characteristics, host range and the risk ofemergence. Phil Trans Roy Soc B 356: 991-999
Pedersen, AB, KE Jones, CL Nunn, S Altizer. In-
fectious diseases and extinction risk in wild mammals.
2007. Cons Biol 21(5): 1269-1279
r.biek@bio.gla.ac.uk r.biek@bio.gla.ac.uk
UGuelph
MarineTemperatureAdaptation
Graduate Position (MSc or PhD) in Marine Ecological
Genetics: Global warming may allow predators from
the subtropics to extend their geographical range into
Canada. Range expansions into Canadian waters oc-
curred during the 1997/1998 El Ni˜ no event when the en-
tire West Coast experienced abnormally warm sea sur-
face temperatures. This provided an excellent preview
of what eﬀects global warming might have on coastal
ecosystems because several predator species more typ-
ical of California, including the Paciﬁc mackerel and
the lined shore crab, became temporarily common in
Barkley Sound, Vancouver Island and impacted the
distribution of native prey species. Prey species from
Canada have not co-evolved with these specialized sub-
tropical predators and consequently may go extinct un-
less they can quickly adapt.
I suspect that non-indigenous intertidal invertebrate
species with free-swimming larval stages are more likely
to extend their range into Canada if average sea surface
temperatures permanently increase than species with
direct development. Additionally, I am curious whether
temperate prey species are more vulnerable to invading
tropical predators than the temperate ones they have
coevolved with.
We are doing experiments to predict what ecological
and evolutionary eﬀects these invading species may
have on native Canadian species. We have transplanted
small predatory crabs to wave-exposed shores by build-
ing them concrete shelters near Bamﬁeld Marine Sci-
ences Centre. We have tethered gastropods diﬀer at
diﬀerent distances from the shelters and ﬁnd that they
were most likely to be preyed upon if they were within
2 metres of the shelters and if they have thin shells.
We have used microsatellites to estimate the popula-
tion boundaries (demes) of the snails so we could see
how this compared with the selection gradient created
by the predators. This work is funded by my NSERC
Discovery grants.38 EvolDir February 1, 2009
Requirements: Grade average of A- (3.7 or 80%) or
better for the last two years of undergraduate studies.
Canadian citizen or permanent resident B.Sc. in biol-
ogy, ecology or zoology Interest in conservation biology,
molecular ecology, near shore oceanography. Experi-
ence with marine intertidal ﬁeld work or with molecu-
lar ecological lab work an asset. Should be available to
start graduate work by September 2009.
Contact Information: Dr. Elizabeth Boulding
Department of Integrative Biology University
of Guelph Guelph, Ontario N1G 2W1 Email:
boulding@uoguelph.ca Home page: http://-
www.uoguelph.ca/ ˜ bouldlab/ Elizabeth Grace
Boulding Associate Professor and Academic Advisor
MFWB Oﬃce: room 1464 New Science Complex
Department of Integrative Biology 50 Stone Road
East University of Guelph Guelph, Ontario N1G
2W1 Canada oﬃce phone: (519) 824-4120 x54961 lab
phone: (519) 824-4120 x58156 fax: (519) 767-1656
Email: boulding@uoguelph.ca webpage: http://-
www.uoguelph.ca/˜bouldlab/ boulding@uoguelph.ca
UHawaiiHilo
EvolutionaryDivergences
Graduate Student Positions in the Tropical Conser-
vation Biology and Environmental Sciences (TCBES)
M.S. Program at UH Hilo
< http://www2.hawaii.edu/ ˜ tcbes/ >
http://www2.hawaii.edu/ ~tcbes/
Priority deadline for applications to TCBES is 1 Febru-
ary 2009
- to study local adaptation and evolutionary divergence
of native Hawaiian species - Hawaiian Picture-winged
Flies and Ohia lehua (Metrosideros polymorpha).
We are looking for several students to work with Dr.
Donald Price, Dr. Elizabeth Stacy and Dr. Cam
Muir in the TCBES M.S. Program at the University
of Hawaii at Hilo.
Students selected for these positions will receive $22,000
annual salary and will enroll in the TCBES Program in
August 2009. These students will join a vibrant re-
search community in evolutionary genetics at UH Hilo,
comprising faculty, postdocs, and graduate and under-
graduate students.
Students working with Dr. Donald Price (<mailto:donaldp@hawaii.edu > donaldp@hawaii.edu
< http://www2.hawaii.edu/ ˜ donaldp/ >
www2.hawaii.edu/ ~donaldp/) will investigate the
Hawaiian Picture-winged Drosophila, a remarkably
diverse group of insects endemic to Hawaii. We are
investigating the biological diversity of these species
and adaptation of several species to elevation and
temperature gradients. We will investigate the process
of local adaptation along multiple elevation and tem-
perature gradients by examining variation in behavior
and morphology, reproductive barriers through be-
havioral observations, neutral genetic variation using
DNA sequencing and genotyping, and gene expression
among populations.
Students working with Dr. Elizabeth Stacy (es-
tacy@hawaii.edu www2.hawaii.edu/ ~estacy/) will join
a team that examines the mechanisms of speciation us-
ing multiple varieties of Ohia lehua (Metrosideros poly-
morpha) a common, endemic tree species that appears
to be in the early stages of diversiﬁcation. This project
will use molecular, ﬁeld, and greenhouse methods to
contrast patterns of neutral and expressed genetic vari-
ation among habitat-associated varieties and to quan-
tify the ﬁtness of intra-speciﬁc hybrids. Together, these
studies will allow estimation of the strength of isolation
of the gene pools of varieties on the same and diﬀerent
islands, insight into the molecular genetic changes that
accompany divergence into multiple varieties, and de-
termination of the stage and strength of reproductive
barriers between varieties.
Students working with Dr. Cam Muir (
<mailto:cmuir@hawaii.edu > cmuir@hawaii.edu
< http://www2.hawaii.edu/ ˜ cmuir >
www2.hawaii.edu/ ~cmuir) will join a program that
uses genetic techniques to address evolutionary
questions on inbreeding and declining populations,
adaptation to novel environments, speciation, and
hybridization. A variety of organisms and topics have
been studied in the Muir lab including population
structure of anchialine shrimp and amphidromous ﬁsh,
genetic diversity of Picture-winged Drosophila, gene
expression of two species of Picture-winged Drosophila
diﬀerently adapted to temperature extremes, and
divergence rates in several species of Drosophila and
endemic crickets.
We encourage students of Native Hawaiian, Paciﬁc Is-
lander, or other under-represented ancestries to ap-
ply to the Tropical Conservation Biology and Environ-
mental Science Master’s program at the University of
Hawaii at Hilo and join our research teams. For infor-
mation on the TCBES Program and application pro-
cedures, visit: <http://www2.hawaii.edu/ ˜ tcbes/ >
http://www2.hawaii.edu/˜tcbes/ . A Bachelor’s degreeFebruary 1, 2009 EvolDir 39
in biology is preferred with courses or experience in
ecology and evolutionary biology. Priority application
deadline for the TCBES Program is 1 February 2009
with applications accepted after that time, if positions
are available. To discuss these positions further, please
contact the individual faculty above.
Elizabeth Stacy Assistant Professor Department of Bi-
ology TCBES Graduate Program University of Hawaii
at Hilo 200 West Kawili Street Hilo, HI 96720 Phone:
808-933-3153 Fax: 808-974-7693
estacy@hawaii.edu estacy@hawaii.edu
UInnsbruck
IntegrativeBiodiversityResearch
Ants
MOLECULAR ECOLOGY, INSTITUTE OF ECOL-
OGY, UNIVERSITY OF INNSBRUCK
PhD position
The University of Innsbruck, Austria, seeks to hire at
the PhD student level in the area of molecular ecology.
The position is a 4-years position at the Molecular Ecol-
ogy group of the Institute of Ecology, starting from 1
April 2009.
The recently founded Molecular Ecology group uses the
exciting opportunities oﬀered by the advance in molecu-
lar biology, to study ecology as a snap-shot in the spa-
tiotemporal continuum of evolving biodiversity. Data
from multiple sources are integrated to enhance the suc-
cess of biodiversity research. The research focuses on
terrestrial animals. The group’s mission is to centre on
the Alpine Space, by interdisciplinary means, and in
international collaboration networks.
***Responsibilities***
1. participation in an interdisciplinary and integrative
biodiversity research project on ants (see Project de-
scription), i.e., addressing of population genetic, phylo-
geographic, phylogenetic and taxonomic questions re-
lating to the delimitation of cryptic species, and the
evolution and evolutionary ecology of cryptic diversity
2. application of molecular genetic lab techniques
(mtDNA, microsatellites, possibly AFLP) and associ-
ated inference methods (gene ﬂow analysis, phyloge-
netic reconstruction, phylogeographic analysis coupled
with ecological niche modelling), morphometry and sta-
tistical methods related to discriminant analysis as wellas elaboration of formal taxonomic consequences (anal-
ysis of type specimens, descriptions under the ICZN)
3. ﬁeldwork
4. contact and collaboration with a range of scientists
at the Faculty of Biology in Innsbruck, at other Aus-
trian research facilities and internationally
5. preparation of manuscripts
6. participation in the PhD program of Inns-
bruck University; see <http://www.uibk.ac.at/-
fakultaeten-servicestelle/pruefungsreferate/studien/c
0912001w.html >
***Selection criteria***
A. completed study of biology, MSc level
B. demonstrated research experience in population ge-
netics, phylogeography, phylogenetics or taxonomy of
arthropods
C. keen interest in evolution and ecology
D. ability to work eﬀectively as part of a multi-
disciplinary team
E. ﬂexibility in the course of progressing research
F. ability to work independently
G. ability to work under pressure
H. good knowledge of oral and written English
***PhD supervisor***
Birgit C. Schlick-Steiner
***Salary***
The annual gross salary is Euro 21,932.40; should at
some stage teaching possibilities arise and the success-
ful candidate opts for at least 2 hours of teaching per
week, the salary would be increased accordingly
***Project description***
An outstanding number of cryptic species was
discovered in the European Tetramorium caespi-
tum/impurum ant complex but very recent, unpub-
lished evidence suggests that intermediate forms be-
tween two of the cryptic species may occur, necessi-
tating to revisit the present species delimitations, also
through additional molecular markers.
Central hypotheses to be tested for the whole complex
hence include whether observed genetic and phenetic
variation is intraspeciﬁc vs. interspeciﬁc and whether or
not gene ﬂow occurs among species, recently and/or in
the evolution of the complex. Via an interdisciplinary,
integrative approach the project aims at (i) deﬁnitive
species delimitations including taxonomic acts, and (ii)40 EvolDir February 1, 2009
elucidation of the evolutionary patterns that shaped the
cryptic diversity (e.g., parallel evolution? convergence?
plesiomorphy? introgression?) and how they were me-
diated (e.g., palaeoclimatic dynamics? ecological niche
shifts? interspeciﬁc competition?).
Collaborators include Birgit Schlick-Steiner (Univer-
sity of Innsbruck; PhD supervision), Bernhard Seifert
(Senckenberg Museum of Natural History Goerlitz;
morphometry and taxonomy), Lacey Knowles (Univer-
sity of Michigan; coupled phylogeographic and ecologi-
cal niche modelling), Karl Moder (University of Applied
Life Sciences and Natural Resources Vienna; statistics),
Florian Steiner (University of Innsbruck; project coor-
dination).
Further reading:
Schlick-Steiner et al 2006 Molecular Phylogenetics and
Evolution 40:259-273
Schlick-Steiner et al 2007 Trends in Ecology and Evo-
lution 22: 391-392
Moder et al 2007 Journal of Zoological Systematics and
Evolutionary Research 45: 82-87
Steiner et al 2006 Myrmecologische Nachrichten 8: 175-
180
Steiner et al 2008 Conservation Genetics 9: 757-759
Schlick-Steiner et al 2007 Biological Journal of the Lin-
nean Society 91: 247-255
Steiner et al 2008 Diversity and Distributions 14: 538-
545
***How to apply***
To apply, please submit, by E-mail to <fss-
technik@uibk.ac.at >, with cc to <birgit.schlick-
steiner@uibk.ac.at >, and with the subject line “Chiﬀre:
BIO-5459 - Bewerbung um ein wissenschaftliche Stelle”:
a cover letter
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UKiel FishStressEvolution
The Leibniz Institute of Marine Sciences (IFM-
GEOMAR) at the University of Kiel is one of the lead-ing institutes in marine research in Germany. Its ma-
jor goal is fundamental research in all areas of marine
sciences. For more information please visit www.ifm-
geomar.de . The Leibniz Institute of Marine Sciences at
the University of Kiel (IFM-GEOMAR), is oﬀering a
PhD position in ﬁsh stress evolution and trancriptomics
in the newly founded research unit Evolutionary Ecol-
ogy of Marine Fishes
Job Description The PhD project is one of 8 in-
terrelated projects within the project cluster NEMO
(=ˆ aNachhaltige Ernaehrung mit Marinen Organismenˆ a
- sustainable use of aquatic organisms). We are seeking
a highly motivated and enthusiastic candidate who is
expected to pursue a doctoral thesis aside from work-
ing within the project. The holder of the position
should perform transcription analysis using state-of-
the art tools (Q-PCR, 454 transcription proﬁling, ar-
ray technology) in cod and turbot. Behavioral and
physiological assays will partly be provided by other
projects within the cluster. Our goal is to identify in
controlled experiments the impact of stressors such as
crowding, food types and temperature on ﬁsh behavior
and welfare, and its interaction with population origin.
Another focus will be the genetic eﬀects of domestica-
tion on transcription patterns. Through the cluster of
excellence ˆ aThe Future Oceanˆ a access to high through-
put genomic facilities is provided. Candidates with a
freshwater background are also encouraged to apply,
provided they commit to entering the marine world.
Qualiﬁcation We request a Msc or Diploma degree in
Biology, Evolution, Ecology, Genetics or a related sub-
ject.
This is a half time position is available for a period of
3 years. The salary depends on qualiﬁcation up to the
class 13 TV-L of the German tariﬀs for public employ-
ees. Working language in the group is English. The
Leibniz-Institute of Marine Sciences is an equal oppor-
tunity employer and encourages female scientists and
scientists with disabilities to apply.
Please send your applications for this post not later
than 27 February 2009 by normal mail using the key-
word “ﬁsh gene expression” to the following address:
Leibniz-Institut f¨ ur Meereswissenschaften an der Uni-
versit¨ at Kiel Personalb¨ uro Wischhofstraße 1-3 D-24148
Kiel GERMANY
Please give name and address of two references and
mention the keyword on the envelope and on the appli-
cation. A re-addressed envelope is greatly appreciated.
Questions are answered by Prof. Reinhold Hanel
(rhanel@ifm-geomar.de) or Prof. Thorsten ReuschFebruary 1, 2009 EvolDir 41
(treusch@ifm-geomar.de).
Prof. Dr. Reinhold Hanel Leibniz-Institut f¨ ur
Meereswissenschaften IFM - GEOMAR Dienstgeb¨ aude
Westufer D¨ usternbrooker Weg 20 D-24105 Kiel Ger-
many ><((((ˆA> < ˆA))))><Tel: +49 431 600 4556
Fax: +49 431 600 4553 e-mail: rhanel@ifm-geomar.de
www.ifm-geomar.de Reinhold Hanel <rhanel@ifm-
geomar.de >
ULausanne Evolution of
InvasiveSpecies
We have an open position for a Ph.D. student to study
the evolutionary history of the environmental niche in
invasive species in Europe.
Evolutionary Niche dyNamics of Invasive Species (EN-
NIS)
The project seeks to understand the relationship be-
tween the evolutionary history, niche variation and ac-
companying variation in the distribution of species.
The project will focus on plant clades that have nat-
uralized and invasive member species in Switzerland
and central Europe. We will use an interdisciplinary
approach that includes activities in niche modeling,
phylogenetic reconstruction and modeling trait evolu-
tion. The research includes characterization of the en-
vironmental niches and distribution of clade members
using multivariate statistics and niche-based species
distribution modeling, sequencing DNA, use of se-
quence and phylogenetic databases, and use of other
databases on the distribution of invasive species. Col-
lection of material for sequencing, and additional data
on species global distributions may involve visiting
national herbaria, botanical gardens, individual re-
searchers, and doing ﬁeldwork throughout the sum dis-
tribution of the species in the focal clades. Phylogenetic
reconstruction of evolutionary relationships will be un-
dertaken using likelihood and Bayesian methods. Mod-
eling of evolutionary processes of ecological diversiﬁca-
tion will be approached through the use of experimental
software and the development of original algorithms.
This is a fully-funded 3-year Ph.D. with stipend, travel
money, etc. You would be associated with both the De-
partment of Ecology and Evolution at the University
of Lausanne and the Swiss Federal Research Institute
WSL near Zurich. (Knowledge of French or German is
not required)<http://www.unil.ch/dee > < http://www.wsl.ch >
See the following websites for info: http:/-
/www2.unil.ch/phylo http://www.wsl.ch/-
personal homepages/pearman Application deadline is
15 February 2009
For more information, feel free to contact either:
Peter B. Pearman Pearman@wsl.ch Or Nicolas Salamin
Nicolas.Salamin@unil.ch
“Peter B. Pearman” <pearman@wsl.ch >
ULondon BatMateChoice
Funded PhD position (start Oct 09) - MATE CHOICE
IN HORSESHOE BATS Supervisor: Dr S Rossiter -
Queen Mary, University of London, UK
The genetic basis of mate choice might rely on over-
all relatedness between partners, or on speciﬁc genetic
proﬁles. For example, recent studies of a range of taxa
show that gamete interaction, storage and fertilisation
can be controlled by genes expressed on the surface of
sperm and eggs as well as in semen and the female re-
productive tract.
The students will study behaviour in a wild popula-
tion of horseshoe bats in the UK. Speciﬁcally, he or she
will combine parentage and pedigree analyses based on
neutral and functional genetic markers to test for the
determinants of mate choice. This project will also in-
volve collaboration with colleagues from the University
of Bristol.
Training will be provided in molecular methods (DNA
isolation, PCR, sequencing, microsatellite genotyping)
and statistical analyses (pedigree construction, mod-
eling). The student will be expected to undertake a
limited amount of ﬁeldwork. A driving license, a back-
ground in genetics and an enthusiasm for quantitative
approaches will be advantageous.
Questions or applications are invited from candidates
with, or expecting to obtain, at least an upper-second
class honours degree in an area relevant to the project.
Send your CV, the names and contact details of two
academic referees, a covering letter and a note of where
you saw the studentship advertised, to Dr. S. Rossiter
(s.j.rossiter@qmul.ac.uk).
Deadline - 2nd February 2009
REFERENCES Swanson & Vacquier (2002) Nature42 EvolDir February 1, 2009
Genetics 3: 137-144 Rossiter et al. (2005) Nature, 437:
408-411 Rossiter et al. (2006) Molecular, Ecology 15:
3035-3043
- Please pass on to applicants who you think might be
interested -
IMPORTANT NOTE ON FUNDING A success-
ful candidate would receive funding (covering fees
and stipend) via the Natural Environment Re-
search Council. This funding is ONLY possi-
ble for candidates who meet the residence crite-
ria described here: http://www.nerc.ac.uk/funding/-
available/postgrad/eligibility.asp Stephen Rossiter
<s.j.rossiter@qmul.ac.uk >
ULouisiana EvolutionaryBiol
Doctoral Fellowships and other assistantships are avail-
able for students joining the program in Environmen-
tal and Evolutionary Biology at the University of
Louisiana.
We will be awarding six fellowships to Ph.D. students
entering Fall 2009. University Fellows are funded for 3-
4 years at $15,750 per 9 months (with tuition waiver),
and have limited teaching responsibilities. BoR Fel-
lows are funded for 4 years at $25,000 per year (with
tuition waiver) and have no formal teaching duties. El-
igibility requirements include US citizenship (or per-
manent residency) or degree from a US institution. We
will also have teaching and research assistantships avail-
able for incoming Ph.D. students. Rather than reply-
ing to this message, potential applicants are strongly
encouraged to directly contact prospective advisors
at the University of Louisiana. Their contact infor-
mation and research interests can be found at our
departmental web site ( http://biology.louisiana.edu/-
). More information is also available at our gradu-
ate program web site ( http://www.ucs.louisiana.edu/-
˜ pll6743/biogradstudies.htm ). The department of Bi-
ology has approximately 25 faculty members and 70
graduate students. Areas of strength include ecology,
conservation biology, evolution, and marine/coastal bi-
ology.
– Paul Leberg Professor and Graduate Coordinator De-
partment of Biology University of Louisiana Lafayette
For more information on my research please
visit: http://www.ucs.louisiana.edu/ ˜ pll6743/
For more information about the graduate pro-gram please visit: http://www.ucs.louisiana.edu/-
˜ pll6743/biogradstudies.htm and http://-
biology.louisiana.edu/ PO Box 42451 Lafayette,
LA 70504 Leberg@Louisiana.edu 337-482-6637 337-
482-5660 (Fax)
Paul Leberg <leberg@louisiana.edu >
ULouvain TetrahymenaBiodiversity
Ph.D. position, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium
Experimental study of metapopulation dynamics and
viability with microcosms of a unicellular microorgan-
ism, Tetrahymena thermophila
Eﬃcient biodiversity conservation requires a clear un-
derstanding of factors aﬀecting (meta)population vi-
ability. Our research team studies the impact of
major perturbations (habitat fragmentation, climate
change...) on determinants of (meta)population vi-
ability (like habitat quality, demography, dispersal,
metapopulation dynamics...).
We are currently looking for a highly motivated stu-
dent to start a Ph.D. within the framework of a new
and stimulating project focusing on the experimental
study of metapopulation dynamics and viability with
microcosms of a unicellular microorganism, Tetrahy-
mena thermophila. Such microcosms are simpliﬁed ver-
sions of real world systems, with a level of control and
replication impossible to achieve on real populations.
We intend to use such microcosms to unravel the com-
plex links between life history traits, population struc-
ture and viability. More information on the project
is available on http://www.uclouvain.be/en-81937.html
(see also BMC Evol. Biol. 7, 133 for our previous
work). This project nicely complements our ongoing
research on threatened butterﬂy metapopulations.
Candidates should have excellent CV, with a back-
ground in ecology, conservation biology or evolution-
ary biology. Some research experience, and/or publica-
tions, in these ﬁelds are an asset.
You will work within a young research team at the Bio-
diversity Research Centre of the Universit´ e catholique
de Louvain (UCL) in Belgium: the Quantitative Con-
servation Biology Group (5 researchers) headed by
Prof. Nicolas Schtickzelle ( www.uclouvain.be/quant-
cons-biol ). Our university is in the French-speaking
part of Belgium (Louvain-la-Neuve, close to Brus-
sels). Lab meetings and other scientiﬁc activities areFebruary 1, 2009 EvolDir 43
in English. The project will involve close collabora-
tion with the French CNRS lab “Station d’Ecologie
exp´ erimentale de Moulis” (Dr. Jean Clobert), including
stays there (near the Pyrenees mountains). Dr. Clobert
is a leading expert in ecology and is using Tetrahymena
systems to study questions related, among others, to
dispersal, cooperation and their evolution.
This Ph.D. position is for 12 months. Once in Belgium,
you are expected to apply for a grant to continue and
ﬁnish your Ph.D. (4 years on average in Belgium). Sev-
eral options are available, and our past record of success
rate is high. The starting date is negotiable from March
to July.
If you are interested, please send an e-mail message to
nicolas.schtickzelle@uclouvain.be in which you explain
why you would like to join us on this project, attach
your CV as a separate document, and arrange for one
reference letter to be sent separately to support your
application.
Please submit your ﬁle no later than March 1st 2009.
Prof. Nicolas Schtickzelle Research Associate (FNRS)
& Lecturer
Quantitative Conservation Biology Biodiversity Re-
search Centre Universite catholique de Louvain Croix
du Sud 4 B-1348 Louvain-la-Neuve Belgium
phone : +32 10 47 20 52 fax : +32 10 47 34 90 oﬃce:
building Carnoy, room C.157
nicolas.schtickzelle@uclouvain.be http://-
www.uclouvain.be/quant-cons-biol
UNorthCarolina Wilmington
ConservationGenetics
Graduate M.S. Positions in Conservation Genetics, in
the lab of Dr. Brian Arbogast, University of North
Carolina, Wilmington. I am anticipating accepting two
M.S. students into my lab for Fall 2009. The broad fo-
cus of research will be conservation genetics and statis-
tical phylogeography. Potential projects include conser-
vation genetics of isolated populations of the northern
ﬂying squirrel in the Appalachian Mountains and com-
parative phylogeographic studies of mammals. Conser-
vation genetic projects on other taxonomic groups are
also possible depending on funding and student inter-
est. Students will be housed in a newly outﬁtted ge-
netics laboratory on UNCW’s main campus and haveaccess to an extensive molecular genetics core facility at
UNCW’s Center for Marine Science. Successful appli-
cants should have some background in population ge-
netics or phylogenetics, modern molecular skills (PCR
etc.) and an interest in ﬁeldwork. Applicants with
experience using microsatellites are especially encour-
aged to apply. Stipends for these positions are approx-
imately $14,000 per year and include an out-of state
tuition waiver and research funds. Additional funds to
cover In-State tuition may also be available.
Please Visit the Arbogast Lab Page at: http://-
people.uncw.edu/arbogastb/ Information on the grad-
uate program at UNCW can be found at http://-
www.uncw.edu/bio/grad-ms.html Interested parties
should contact Dr. Arbogast at: arbogastb@uncw.edu
Brian Arbogast, Ph. D. Department of Biology and
Marine Biology University of North Carolina Wilming-
ton, NC 28403
Phone: (910) 962-2644 Fax: (910) 962-4066 Email: ar-
bogastb@uncw.edu
Arbogastb@uncw.edu Arbogastb@uncw.edu
UNorthernColorado
PlantPhylogeography
Graduate positions (MS or PhD) in Plant Phylogeogra-
phy in the lab of Dr. Mitchell McGlaughlin, School of
Biological Sciences, University of Northern Colorado.
I am seeking a MS student for an NSF funded project
examining phylogeography in Lotus (Fabaceae) from
the California Channel Islands. This project is exam-
ining the phylogeographic relationship of two species
of Lotus found on the Channel Islands, with particular
interest in rates of gene ﬂow and isolation by distance.
The selected student will collect low copy nuclear se-
quence data from all sampled taxa. I am looking for
a student with DNA sequence experience or extensive
experience with PCR methods, an understanding of co-
alescence and incomplete lineage sorting, and a willing-
ness to carry out computer based data analysis. This
project has two years of RA support with an anticipated
start date of August 2009.
Additionally, I am recruiting MS or PhD students in-
terested in the population genetics, conservation, spe-
ciation, and phylogeography of plant species. Doctoral
students are encouraged to develop projects within the
scope of research in my lab and masters students can44 EvolDir February 1, 2009
develop their own projects or work on research already
initiated in the lab. Funding is available to support
graduate students through teaching and research assis-
tantships, scholarships, and grants.
For more information please visit my lab website:
http://www.unco.edu/mcglaughlinlab/ or the depart-
ment website: http://www.unco.edu/nhs/biology/-
index.htm The University of Northern Colorado is a
public institution with about 11,000 undergraduate and
1,500 graduate students, located in Greeley, Colorado.
Greeley is situated 50 miles northeast of Denver and
20 miles east of the rockies, with easy access to Rocky
Mountain National Park and other outdoor activities.
Interested applicants should send a letter of in-
terest and CV to Dr. Mitchell McGlaughlin
(Mitchell.mcglaughlin@unco.edu). To apply, stu-
dents will need to submit a complete application to
the UNC School of Biology ( http://www.unco.edu/-
nhs/biology/students/gradapp-instructions.html )
and Graduate School ( http://www.unco.edu/grad/-
index.html ). There is no ﬁxed application deadline,
but applications are reviewed when they are received.
– Mitchell McGlaughlin, Ph.D. Assistant Pro-
fessor 501 20th Street, Ross Hall 1560 Univer-
sity of Northern Colorado Greeley, CO 80639
970-351-2139 Mitchell.McGlaughlin@unco.edu
http://www.unco.edu/mcglaughlinlab
Mitchell.McGlaughlin@unco.edu
Mitchell.McGlaughlin@unco.edu
UNottingham AdaptiveRadiation
Graduate position: Adaptive radiation and host-
parasite interactions in three-spined sticklebacks
An enthusiastic student is sought to do a PhD on the
ecological causes of evolutionary diversiﬁcation in the
adaptive radiation of three-spined sticklebacks, Gas-
terosteus aculeatus. The successful student will con-
tribute to shaping their own project, but possible
themes include:
(1) The geographic mosaic of coevolution between stick-
lebacks and their parasites. This project would use ar-
tiﬁcial infection experiments and immunological assays
to explore inter-population variation in host resistance
and parasite virulence, their quantitative genetic basis
and their contribution to the evolution of reproductive
isolation. (see e.g. Brodie, Ridenhour & Brodie, 2002;Thompson, 2005). (2) The role of parasites in the evolu-
tion of senescence. You would explore variation in rates
of (actuarial and immune function) senescence between
stickleback populations to see whether these are asso-
ciated with variation in parasite burdens or virulence
(see e.g. Reznick et al., 2004; Williams et al., 2006).
(3) Phenotypic plasticity and speciation in sticklebacks.
This project would investigate the contribution of plas-
ticity in ecologically relevant traits (including immune
function) to facilitating the invasion of novel environ-
ments and the accumulation of reproductive isolation
(see e.g. Price, Qvarnstrom & Irwin, 2003; Pigliucci,
Murren & Schlichting, 2006).
Any project is likely to combine aquarium based work
with lab-reared sticklebacks, immunological assays and
molecular or quantitative genetics to explore natural
variation among populations in the adaptive radia-
tion of sticklebacks on the island of North Uist in
the Scottish Outer Hebrides. Populations of three-
spined sticklebacks on this island are very numerous
and diverse, occurring as isolated freshwater popula-
tions, freshwater populations that hybridise with ma-
rine three spined sticklebacks in deﬁned hybrid zones,
and sympatric, isolated population pairs of marine and
freshwater ’species’.
Applicants should have a good degree in a relevant sub-
ject, and an interest and enthusiasm for evolutionary
biology. Previous ﬁeld work experience and a full driv-
ing licence would be beneﬁcial but are not required.
The School of Biology, University of Nottingham has
at least 5 PhD studentships to begin in October 2009.
These will be awarded, on a competitive basis, to the
best applicants across the School.
Prospective students should send a CV and a one page
outline of how they would tackle the project to An-
drew MacColl (andrew.maccoll@nottingham.ac.uk) be-
fore 30 January 2009.
Andrew MacColl School of Biology, University of Not-
tingham, University Park, Nottingham, NG7 2RD,
U.K.
References Brodie, E.D., et al. (2002) Evolution, 56,
2067-2082. Pigliucci, M., et al. (2006) J. Exp. Biol.,
209, 2362-2367. Price, T.D., et al. (2003) PRSB., 270,
1433-1440. Reznick, D.N., et al. (2004) Nature, 431,
1095-1099. Thompson, J.N. (2005) The Geographic
Mosaic of Coevolution University of Chicago Press,
Chicago. Williams, P.D., et al. (2006) Trends Ecol.
Evol., 21, 458-463.
This message has been checked for viruses but the
contents of an attachment may still contain software
viruses, which could damage your computer system:February 1, 2009 EvolDir 45
you are advised to perform your own checks. Email
communications with the University of Nottingham
may be monitored as permitted by UK legislation.
Andrew.Maccoll@nottingham.ac.uk
UOttawa CarletonU Bioinformatics
GRADUATE OPPORTUNITIES IN BIOINFORMAT-
ICS
Multiple graduate positions in bioinformatics are avail-
able for Fall 2009 at the University of Ottawa and at
Carleton University. The following faculties are seeking
graduate students for their labs:
- Stephane Aris-Brosou (BIO/MAT): computa-
tional molecular evolution, http://aix1.uottawa.ca/-
˜ sarisbro/ - David Bickel (BCH/MAT): sta-
tistical genomics and systems biology, http://-
www.statomics.com/ - Frank Dehne (CS), pro-
tein interaction prediction, RNA aptamer design,
http://lab.dehne.net - James Green (CS): pattern
classiﬁcation and multicore acceleration, http:/-
/www.sce.carleton.ca/faculty/green - Evangelos
Kranakis (CS): computational molecular biology,
http://www.scs.carleton.ca/ ˜ kranakis/ - David
Sankoﬀ (MAT/BIO/CS): mathematical genomics, evo-
lution, http://albuquerque.bioinformatics.uottawa.ca/
- Xuhua Xia (BIO): bioinformatics and molecular
evolution, http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca Besides intra-
mural collaborations and cosupervision, the program
beneﬁts from tight collaborations with the Ottawa
Institute of Systems Biology ( http://www.oisb.ca/ ),
a strong medical campus ( http://www.ohri.ca/ and
http://www.cheo.on.ca/) and from the presence of fed-
eral Research Centres such as the National Research
Council ( http://www.nrc-cnrc.gc.ca/ ), Agriculture
Canada ( http://www.agr.gc.ca/ ), Health Canada
(http://www.hc-sc.gc.ca/), the Canadian Food In-
spection Agency ( http://www.inspection.gc.ca/ ), or
Statistics Canada ( http://www.statcan.ca/ ). These
Institutes and research Centres oﬀer both training and
job opportunities to our students.
For more details on the Bioinformatics program, please
see:
http://www.grad.uottawa.ca/Default.aspx?tabid=-
1727&monControl=Profs&ProgId=826 Addi-
tional information can be obtained from the pro-
gram coordinators: Drs. Stephane Aris-Brosou(sarisbro@uottawa.ca) and Michel Dumontier
(Michel Dumontier@carleton.ca).
Stephane Aris-Brosou, PhD Assistant Professor De-
partment of Biology, Department of Mathematics &
Statistics University of Ottawa 30 Marie Curie Pr. Ot-
tawa, ON, K1N 6N5 CANADA
Stephane Aris-Brosou <sarisbro@uottawa.ca >
UPF Barcelona
EvolutionaryGenomics
Funded PhD scholarship in evolutionary genomics
and Systems Biology in Pompeu Fabra University
(Barcelona).
The group of Evolutionary Biology in the Experimental
Sciences and Health Department of the Pompeu Fabra
University oﬀers one PhD scholarship in the ﬁeld of
Evolutionary Genomics. Selected candidate will have
the opportunity to develop novel research lines that
will contribute to the understanding of the biology
of genomes at evolutionary, molecular and biomedical
level. The successful candidate would work on integrat-
ing diﬀerent bioinformatics tools for the identiﬁcation
of network structures of genes and metabolic pathways
under selective forces.
Our group oﬀers an unusual and highly formative re-
search frame, in which leading edge computational re-
sources and experimental laboratory facilities are com-
bined to achieve our research goals.
Particular priority will be given to candidates with
background on bioinformatics. Programming and gen-
eral computational skills are desirable, but all candi-
dates will be considered.
If you are interested, please send
your CV to Jaume.bertranpetit@upf.edu
<mailto:Jaume.bertranpetit@upf.edu >
or Haﬁd.laayouni@upf.edu
<mailto:Haﬁd.laayouni@upf.edu >
– Haﬁd Laayouni Centro de Investigaci´ on Biom´ edica en
red Epidemiolog´ ıa y Salud P´ ublica (CIBERESP) IBE,
Institut de Biologia Evolutiva (UPF-CSIC) Parc de Re-
cerca Biom` edica de Barcelona (PRBB) Dr. Aiguader,
88. 08003 Barcelona Tel. (34) 93-316-0845 Fax: (34)
93-316-0901 Spain
Haﬁd Laayouni <haﬁd.laayouni@upf.edu >46 EvolDir February 1, 2009
URhodeIsland
ComparativeGenomics
There will be an opening for a Ph.D. student in the
Lane lab ( http://cels.uri.edu/bio/lanelab/ ) at the Uni-
versity of Rhode Island for the fall semester (2009)
to work on comparative genomics of red algal para-
sites. I am looking for a motivated and organized stu-
dent to help explore this unusual and exciting system.
The ideal candidate would already have a Master’s de-
gree and have experience with molecular techniques
(DNA/RNA extraction, PCR, cloning and sequencing)
and bioinformatic/phylogenetic analyses. Some pro-
gramming knowledge would be an asset, but a willing-
ness to learn is essential. As part of their fellowship, the
student would be expected to TA during the academic
year.
The Lane lab is well equipped to carry out molecular
investigations in a variety algal taxa and will be moving
within the month to the newly built Center for Biotech-
nology and Life Sciences on the URI Kingston campus,
which will house much of the university’s substantial
genomics infrastructure. Additionally, there are on-
going opportunities for collaboration with the labs of
Drs. Goldsmith, Jenkins, Rynearson and Udwary. The
university has a strong tradition of marine research and
the Lane lab is part of a growing multi- departmental
concentration in marine genomics.
Rhode Island oﬀers numerous opportunities for out-
door activities and hundreds of miles of sandy beaches.
The Kingston campus is located 20 minutes from New-
port and 30 minutes from Providence, each oﬀering a
unique culture, including live entertainment and dozens
of restaurants.
Interested individuals should send a CV, letter of in-
terest and contact information for three references asa single PDF to me at clane@mail.uri.edu by January
23rd. Please indicate in your letter 1) previous rele-
vant experience, 2) why you are interested in pursuing
a Ph.D., and 3) your interest in comparative genomics.
For further details about the position, project and lab,
feel free to contact me
Chris Lane Assistant Professor Department of Bi-
ological Sciences University of Rhode Island 100
Flagg Road Kingston, RI., 02881 ph (401) 874-2683
fax (401) 874-4256 http://cels.uri.edu/bio/lanelab/
clane@mail.uri.edu
UWyoming MolEvolution
Ph.D. Positions in Evolutionary Biology at University
of Wyoming
Several positions are currently available for Ph.D. stu-
dents in the Liberles Research Group at University of
Wyoming. Applicants should have skills in program-
ming, some knowledge of statistics, protein structure,
and molecular biology, as well as an interest in evolu-
tion. Research projects include several areas in phy-
logenetics and/or the evolution of protein structure.
For more details on research in the Liberles Research
Group, please see
http://www.wyomingbioinformatics.org/-
LiberlesGroup .
University of Wyoming is located in Laramie, WY, 2
hours north of Denver in the rocky mountains. It is an
ideal location for those with interests in skiing (both
downhill and cross country), rock climbing, hiking, ....
To apply, please send a CV, statement of research in-
terests, and contact information for three references, to
liberles@uwyo.edu. Informal inquiries before applica-
tion are welcome.
“David A. Liberles” <liberles@uwyo.edu >
JobsFebruary 1, 2009 EvolDir 47
Avian FieldAssistants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
ChicagoBotanicGarden SummerResearch PlantEvolu-
tion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
CornellU OysterAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
FHCRC UWashington DiseaseDynamics . . . . . . . . . . . 48
KansasStateU LabTech PlantGeneticVariation . . . . . 49
London Biodiversity 2ProjectManagers . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
MBL WoodsHole ResAssistant BacterialEndosym . 50
NorthCarolinaStateU LabTech EvolutionaryBiol . . . 50
NorthDakotaStateU EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51UBasel FieldAssist BirdMigrationEvolution . . . . . . . . 51
UEdinburgh FieldAssist SoaySheep . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
UNSW Sydney GenomeSequencingManager . . . . . . . 52
UppsalaU EvoDevo Research and PhD . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
USFWS NewMexico ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . 54
UTexas LabTech MarinePhylogeography . . . . . . . . . . . 54
UVictoria PopulationBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
UWyoming Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Avian FieldAssistants
FIELD ASSISTANTS needed, 15 April - 15 August
(ﬂexible) to aid DR. ELLEN KETTERSON in a study
of the breeding biology of Dark-eyed Juncos. At least
one position is available at each of two locations: Moun-
tain Lake Biological Station in SW Virginia and the
Black Hills National Forest of South Dakota. Respon-
sibilities may include mist netting, blood sampling,
nest ﬁnding, behavioral observation, GPS, and data
entry. Applicants must be able to distinguish colored
leg bands in the ﬁeld, enjoy working outdoors (even
in bad weather), be self-motivated and demonstrate a
willingness to learn new skills, be able to work well
with others, and be willing to do minor manipulative
research with animals. Experience strongly preferred
but not absolutely necessary. However, motivation is a
primary consideration: the work is sometimes hard and
demanding and can require long hours. Transportation
allowance, room, board, and stipend (amount depen-
dent upon experience and level of funding for project)
provided. The work is very rewarding if you are in-
terested in animal behavior and like to be outdoors.
Write to Amy Dapper, Field Assistant Position, De-
partment of Biology, Indiana University, 1001 E. 3rd
St., Bloomington, IN 47405 or email (preferred) adap-
per@indiana.edu. Please include a summary of your
background, your reasons for applying for this position,
your site preference (VA or SD) and the names and
email addresses of 3 people who might evaluate your
work or potential. REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS
WILL BEGIN 1 FEB 2009, but applications will be
accepted until positions are ﬁlled. Please contact Amy
Dapper ( adapper@indiana.edu) with any questions re-
garding these positions.
amy.dapper@gmail.comChicagoBotanicGarden
SummerResearch PlantEvolution
Summer ﬁeld research experience for undergrads and
recent graduates
Are you interested in gaining ﬁeld research experience
and learning about the ecology and evolution of plants
and plant-animal interactions in fragmented prairie?
We are looking for 3-5 summer ﬁeld researchers for
an NSF-funded project on habitat fragmentation of the
tallgrass prairie. We are investigating how small plant
population size inﬂuences inbreeding, demography, pol-
lination, and herbivory in the purple coneﬂower, Echi-
nacea angustifolia. This is a great summer internship
or co-op for those interested in ﬁeld biology or conser-
vation research.
No experience is necessary, but you must be enthusi-
astic and hard-working. You will survey natural plant
populations, measure plant traits in experimental plots,
hand-pollinate plants, observe & collect insects, and as-
sist in all aspects of research. Housing is provided and
there is a stipend. Undergraduate students have the
opportunity to do an independent project as an REU
participant.
If you want more information or wish to apply, please
visit this website http://echinacea.umn.edu/ or contact
Stuart Wagenius. Applications due 6 March 2009.
Stuart Wagenius, Ph.D. Conservation Scientist Divi-
sion of Plant Science and Conservation Chicago Botanic
Garden 1000 Lake Cook Road Glencoe, IL 60022 phone:
847 835 6978 fax: 847 835 5484
email: stuart09@echinaceaproject.org web: http://-
echinacea.umn.edu SWagenius@chicagobotanic.org48 EvolDir February 1, 2009
CornellU OysterAdaptation
Date: 23 December 2008
Department of Natural Resources Cornell University
Position: FIELD RESEARCH ASSISTANT
Description: Help perform an NSF-funded ﬁeld experi-
ment designed to examine diﬀerential oyster adaptation
to warm-temperate and subtropical estuaries in eastern
Florida. Field work is based out of Fort Pierce, Florida
and the Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institution.
Duties: The successful applicant will gain experience
conducting ﬁeld and laboratory research. Major ﬁeld
objectives will be to measure oyster growth, health, dis-
ease resistance, and reproductive development. Specif-
ically, the assistant will help with oyster spawning and
larval culture, photograph juvenile oysters over a time
series at multiple ﬁeld sites, help deploy, monitor and
retrieve ﬁeld equipment, sample water for phytoplank-
ton and oyster tissue for DNA analyses, and retrieve
data from remote data loggers.
Requirements: The ideal applicant will be available to
work in Florida from Mid-March through August 2009.
Must be able to lift 50 lbs. Extensive driving will be
necessary ’ a clean driving record is desirable and the
candidate must have held a U.S. driver1s license for
at least three years. Some ﬁeld and/or laboratory ex-
perience is desired. Please note that ﬁeldwork can be
strenuous and that much of the outdoor work will be
performed in hot and sometimes rainy conditions. No
scuba diving is required but regular entry into shallow
water is necessary. This is a paid position and costs
for travel to Florida and housing (but not food) will be
provided.
Instructions: Please submit an application through
the Cornell Human Resources site at http://-
www.ohr.cornell.edu/jobs/ . Under3Staﬀ (non-
academic)and Librarian positions2search for job 10261.
Applications will be accepted at least until January 10
and then until the position is ﬁlled. Informal inquires
can be made with Martha Burford (mob8@cornell.edu)
Payment: $9/hour for 40hours/week for 22 weeks.
Background information on the project: http://-
www.dnr.cornell.edu/HareLab/harelab.html#divzoo
CORNELL CONTACT INFORMATION: Martha
O. Burford, Ph.D. Postdoctoral Associate Depart-ment of Natural Resources 208 Fernow Hall Cornell
University Ithaca, NY 14853 Phone: 607.255.5685
Fax: 607.255.0349 mobile:831.419.7586 E-mail:
mob8@cornell.edu
FLORIDA CONTACT INFORMATION: Martha O.
Burford, Ph.D. NSF Oyster Project Harbor Branch
Oceanographic Institute C/O Dr. John Scarpa
5600 U.S. 1 North Fort Pierce, FL 34946 Phone:
772.465.2400, ext. 402 Fax: 772.466.6590
mob8@cornell.edu mob8@cornell.edu
FHCRC UWashington
DiseaseDynamics
Associate or Assistant Member KW - 22181
Faculty Position in Mathematical Modeling of Immune
responses and Within-host Dynamics of Infectious Dis-
eases
The Vaccine and Infectious Disease Institute of the Fred
Hutchinson Cancer Research Center (FHCRC) and the
University of Washington (UW) are jointly recruiting a
full-time faculty position at the Assistant or Associate
Member level in the Public Health Sciences Division of
the FHCRC with a joint appointment as an Assistant
or Associate Professor without tenure in the Depart-
ment of Global Health at the UW. Preference is given
to those with a professional expertise in mathematical,
statistical and computational methods for understand-
ing the dynamics of immune responses and pathogens.
Ph.D. qualiﬁcation is required in one of the following ar-
eas: evolutionary biology, evolutionary ecology, mathe-
matics and biology, population biology, or related ﬁeld.
The applicant should have a strong track record in ba-
sic immunology, the biology of infectious diseases, the
use of deterministic and stochastic modeling, analytic
and computational approaches, and statistical analy-
sis. Expertise the area of HIV, inﬂuenza, TB, malaria,
HSV2, dengue, cholera, or other important infectious
diseases in the developing and developed world will be
particularly welcomed. This individual will be expected
to develop an independent research program. A vital
role of this position will be to forge collaborations be-
tween colleagues at FHCRC and UW; the successful
candidate should have a proven ability to establish pro-
ductive collaborations with both theorists and experi-
mental immunologists. Salary DOE + excellent bene-
ﬁts. Interested candidates may submit a CV, a concise
statement of their research plan, and three (3) lettersFebruary 1, 2009 EvolDir 49
of reference to:
Helen Pagal Vaccine and Infectious Disease Institute
Public Health Sciences Division Fred Hutchinson Can-
cer Research Center 1100 Fairview Ave. N., LE-400
P.O. Box 19024 Seattle, WA 98109
The University of Washington and the Fred Hutchinson
Cancer Research Center are aﬃrmative action, equal
opportunity employers. We are dedicated to the goal
of building a culturally diverse and pluralistic faculty
and staﬀ committed to teaching and working in a mul-
ticultural environment and strongly encourage applica-
tions from women, minorities, individuals with disabil-
ities and covered veterans. The University of Washing-
ton, a recipient of the 2006 Alfred P. Sloan award for
Faculty Career Flexibility, is committed to supporting
the work-life balance of its faculty.
“Otis, Stephanie” <sotis@fhcrc.org >
KansasStateU LabTech
PlantGeneticVariation
POSITION - Research Assistant
JOB RESPONSIBILITIES The Toomajian laboratory
in the Department of Plant Pathology at Kansas State
University seeks applications for a full time laboratory
research technician. The RA will join a new labora-
tory investigating patterns of genetic variation in nat-
ural populations of plants and fungi with the aim of
understanding the genetics of adaptation and processes
involved in genome evolution. The lab spans the inter-
section of computational biology, evolution, and func-
tional genomics. The RA will be expected to partici-
pate in research projects in the ﬁeld of molecular popu-
lation genetics/genomics. Techniques used will include:
plant growth and care, genetic crosses, nucleic acid iso-
lation, PCR, DNA genotyping and sequencing, and re-
lated sample preparation. The RA will also assist in
supervision and training of laboratory personnel, main-
tain records, manage biological materials, oversee labo-
ratory compliance issues and contribute to the mainte-
nance and running of the laboratory. For questions and
informal inquiries, please contact Chris Toomajian, De-
partment of Plant Pathology, Kansas State University,
toomajia@ksu.edu.
For a full description, including required and preferred
qualiﬁcations, and more information about the lab, see
https://sites.google.com/site/toomajianlab The ap-pointee is expected to contribute towards the research
eﬀort of the laboratory and department, and to de-
velop his/her research expertise through the pursuit of
deﬁned projects. The appointee will be expected to
work both as a member of a team and independently
under limited supervision and will have the opportu-
nity to contribute to research publications (including
co-authorship).
TO APPLY Please submit by email or hard copy: (1)
a cover letter, including your anticipated start date,
(2) a curriculum vitae, (3) a statement describing your
research experiences and interests, and (4) names, ad-
dresses, telephone numbers and email addresses of at
least three referees to: Dr Chris Toomajian, Depart-
ment of Plant Pathology, 4024 Throckmorton Plant Sci-
ences Center, Kansas State University, Manhattan, KS
66506-5502, email: toomajia@ksu.edu; Tel: 785-532-
0879. Please address in your application how you meet
the required and preferred qualiﬁcations. Review of
applications will begin January 27, 2009; screening will
continue until the position is ﬁlled.
Kansas State University is an equal opportunity, af-
ﬁrmative action employer and actively seeks diversity
among its employees. Background checks required.
chris.toomajian@gmail.com
London Biodiversity
2ProjectManagers
Associate Project Managers in Biodiversity
2 POSTS AVAILABLE
Hours of work: 36 per week (excluding lunch breaks)
Job status: Casual Contract ending 26 November 2009
or 1 January 2010 (depending of the post)
Salary per annum: GBP 20,972
Department and location: Jodrell Laboratory RBG
Kew and Imperial College London (Silwood Park)
Job Details
To assist Dr Vincent Savolainen, a dual appointee be-
tween RBG Kew ands Imperial College in the man-
agement, day-to-day research and student teaching and
training of the following 2 Projects:
- HOTSPOTS ’Understanding and Conserving the
Earth’s Biodiversity Hotspots’50 EvolDir February 1, 2009
- ’BRIDGE - ’Bridging Information on Tree Diversity
in French Guiana and a Test of Ecological Theories’ -
To produce molecular phylogenetic data sets for the
project including DNA barcodes for tree species of bio-
diversity hotspots in French Guyana and South Africa.
Essentials: University degree (eg BSc) in relevant sub-
ject.?Basic knowledge of molecular techniques (PCR
and DNA sequencing) ?Experience of working as part
of a team. ?Familiarity with Microsoft Oﬃce packages.
?Ability to use own judgement and make independent
decisions on molecular work.?Be highly self motivated
and understand when to refer project problems to oth-
ers.
Desirable: An MSc and ﬂuency in Molecular Biol-
ogy (DNA extraction, PCR and sequencing) ?Com-
puting skills in phylogenetic and genetic softwares,
eg: PAUP, MacClade and BEAST?Phylogenetics and
Project Management
CLOSING DATE: 9am, Friday 30 January 2009
INTERVIEW DATE: Friday 6 February 2009
FURTHER DETAILS AND APPLICATION PACKS
AThttp://www.kew.org/aboutus/jobs/ Dr Vincent
Savolainen Reader in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
Imperial College London, and Royal Botanic Gardens,
Kew Silwood Park Campus Buckhurst Road, Ascot,
Berkshire, SL5 7PY, UK Tel +44 (0)20 7594 2374
Fax +44 (0)20 7594 2339 v.savolainen@imperial.ac.uk
http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/people/v.savolainen
“Savolainen, Vincent” <v.savolainen@imperial.ac.uk >
MBL WoodsHole ResAssistant
BacterialEndosym
~~~ Research Assistant, Bacterial endosymbionts,
Woods Hole, Mass. ~~~
We are looking for a highly motivated research assistant
to contribute to our studies of bacterial endosymbionts
at the Marine Biological Lab in Woods Hole. We are ex-
ploring gene expression patterns, population dynamics,
and genome evolution among endosymbionts that live
within ant hosts. We’re also using pyrosequencing and
computational approaches to examine genome variation
across diverse host-associated bacteria. This position is
ideal for someone interested in functional and compar-
ative genomics, molecular biology, nutritional physiol-
ogy, evolution, bioinformatics, and/or microbiology.Responsibilities will include high-throughput sequenc-
ing, DNA and RNA extractions, real-time quantitative
PCR, microscopy, rearing of ants in the lab, and general
lab maintenance and organization. Data analysis will
include DNA sequence alignment, genome comparisons,
phylogenetic analysis, and use of molecular databases
in a UNIX/LINUX environment. Experience with any
or all of the above is ideal.
Requirements include a Bachelor’s or Master’s degree in
biology or a related ﬁeld, as well as previous molecular
biology experience in a research setting. Exceptional
organizational and record-keeping skills are essential.
The position is available immediately, although it may
be possible to start in early summer if you’re complet-
ing an academic program.
For additional information and application instruc-
tions, please see:
mbl.simplehire.com/applicants/Central?quickFindP611
or go to: https://mbl.simplehire.com/ >>Research
>>“Research Assistant I or II, Molecular analysis of
bacterial endosymbionts”
Please contact me (jwernegreen@mbl.edu) with any
questions.
-Jen
Jennifer Wernegreen Associate Scientist Josephine Bay
Paul Center for Comparative Molecular Biology and
Evolution Marine Biological Lab 7 MBL Street Woods
Hole, MA 02543
jwernegreen@mbl.edu http://jbpc.mbl.edu/-
labs-wernegreen.html Jennifer Wernegreen
<jwernegreen@mbl.edu >
NorthCarolinaStateU LabTech
EvolutionaryBiol
Research Assistant Department of Plant Biology North
Carolina State University, Raleigh NC
Dr. Marc Johnson’s lab ( www.evoeco.org ) in Plant Bi-
ology at North Carolina State University invites appli-
cations for a Research Assistant seeking a career in ecol-
ogy and evolutionary biology focusing on plant-insect
interactions. The Research Assistant will serve as the
technician for the lab and will assist with multiple as-
pects of research investigating the molecular and pheno-
typic evolution of plant defenses, the ecological eﬀectsFebruary 1, 2009 EvolDir 51
of genetic variation and evolution on communities, and
the coevolution between plant hosts and their insect
parasites.
Applicants are expected to have a B.Sc. degree or
higher in biology and a minimum of two years expe-
rience conducting research in a related ﬁeld. The prin-
ciple duties of the research associate pertain to the de-
sign and implementation of experiments, the collection
of data, and lab management. Experiments will be con-
ducted in the laboratory, greenhouse, and in the ﬁeld,
and applicants should be proﬁcient with basic molec-
ular procedures (DNA/RNA extraction, PCR, elec-
trophoresis, molecular cloning, sequencing), and will-
ing to learn how to grow and maintain plants, maintain
insect colonies, and assist with large ﬁeld experiments.
Duties will also include contributing to lab manage-
ment like safety awareness, ordering, chemical inven-
tories and the repairs of minor equipment. Computer
literacy is expected.
The starting salary will be commensurate with educa-
tion and qualiﬁcations ($32,000-40,000 plus beneﬁts).
The successful candidate is expected to start on ap-
proximately March 1, 2009.
To apply, please send a CV/resume, cover letter, as well
as the names and addresses of at least three references
by February 1 to marc johnson@ncsu.edu.
Marc Johnson, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Plant Biology North Carolina State Uni-
versity Campus Box 7612, Gardner Hall Raleigh
NC, 27695 Oﬃce: 919-515-0478, Lab: 919-515-
0479 Web: www.evoeco.org marc johnson@ncsu.edu
marc johnson@ncsu.edu
NorthDakotaStateU EvoDevo
North NorthDakotaStateUniv.EvoDevo
The Department of Biological Sciences at North Dakota
State University has a 9-month, tenure-track faculty
position in evolutionary developmental biology at the
rank of Assistant Professor, available fall 2009 (16 Au-
gust 2009). The position is 40% teaching, 50% re-
search, and 10% service. The successful candidate is
expected to develop an externally-funded dynamic re-
search program that complements existing strengths in
the department. Teaching duties include 1 course per
semester and advisement of undergraduate and gradu-
ate students. The position will be highly competitivewith regard to start-up funds, space, and salary.
Candidates must have 1) a Ph.D. degree from an ac-
credited institution in a discipline appropriate to evo-
lutionary/developmental biology; 2) relevant postdoc-
toral experience, (3) demonstrated research experience
in evolutionary/developmental biology that comple-
ments existing strengths in the department and evi-
dence of peer-reviewed publication; 4) evidence of abil-
ity to develop an externally-funded research program;
5) evidence of ability to teach at the undergraduate
and graduate levels; 6) strong oral, written, and inter-
personal communication skills, including demonstrated
ability to work/collaborate with others. Preference will
be given to candidates with 1) an application of their re-
search program to evolutionary aspects of developmen-
tal biology 2) background in studying genetic and de-
velopmental bases to evolutionarily and ecologically im-
portant traits; 3) experience with non-model systems.
Apply for this position through NDSU’s online appli-
cation system at:
jobs.ndsu.edu/applicants/Central?quickFindP727
Applicants should complete an online application and
submit the following items 1) a letter of application, 2)
a curriculum vitae, 3) a description of research interests
(2 pages maximum), 4) a statement of teaching interests
and philosophy (1 page maximum), and 5) reprints of
a maximum of three representative publications. Only
online applications will be accepted.
For questions regarding this position,
feel free to contact the Evolutionary De-
velopmental Biologist* *Search Commit-
tee at ndsu.biological.sciences@ndsu.edu
<mailto:ndsu.biological.sciences@ndsu.edu >.
Review of applications will begin February 15, 2009,
and continue until a suitable applicant pool has been
established.
Steve Travers <Steven.Travers@ndsu.edu >
UBasel FieldAssist
BirdMigrationEvolution
Field assistants and bird ringers in evolution of bird
migration
Eight ﬁeld assistant positions are available in an inter-
national research project on the evolution of migration
patterns and communication in nightingales (Luscinia52 EvolDir February 1, 2009
megarhynchos).
The project is run by the Swiss Ornithological Insti-
tute ( www.vogelwarte.ch , Dr. Steﬀen Hahn), the Re-
search Station Petite Camargue Alsacienne, Univer-
sity of Basel ( www.camargue.unibas.ch, Dr. Valentin
Amrhein), and the Netherlands Institute of Ecology,
NIOO-KNAW ( www.nioo.knaw.nl, Prof. Dr. Marc
Naguib).
Fieldwork will be done from April to June 2009, at
the Research Station Petite Camargue Alsacienne in
France ( www.camargue.unibas.ch ), and at a study site
near Bologna, Italy.
We are looking for two qualiﬁed bird ringers and for
six ﬁeld assistants. Field assistants will participate in
systematic surveys of territory settlement and assist
bird ringers in capturing and banding the birds. To in-
vestigate vocal communication in nightingales, we will
record songs and conduct playback experiments. Field
work will include nocturnal bicycle trips, and ﬁeld as-
sistants are expected to work on their own at night and
in the early morning.
Field assistants will receive 1000 euros per month, and
qualiﬁed bird ringers will receive 1500 euros per month.
Applicants are expected to stay for the entire ﬁeld sea-
son from the beginning of April to the beginning of June
2009. The language at the study sites will be English.
The positions will be ﬁlled as soon as possible. Appli-
cations should be in English and should include, in one
single pdf or word ﬁle, a curriculum vitae and a letter
of motivation. Bird ringers should indicate their level
of experience and include their ringing licences into the
application. Please provide names and email addresses
of two persons who are willing to write a letter of rec-
ommendation, and send applications by email to the
following addresses:
Valentin Amrhein, pca.recherche@orange.fr Steﬀen
Hahn, steﬀen.hahn [at] vogelwarte.ch
valentin amrhein <pca.recherche@orange.fr >
UEdinburgh FieldAssist SoaySheep
SOAY SHEEP RESEARCH - ST KILDA SPRING
2009
FIELDWORK ASSISTANTS
We are currently looking for volunteers for this year’sSoay sheep Spring expedition to St. Kilda, a group
of islands 180 km oﬀ the coast of north-west Scotland.
The expedition runs for two time periods of mid Febru-
ary until the beginning of April, and mid March until
early May.
Activities: - Population census of sheep using telescopes
and hand-held computers - Mortality searches - Sys-
tematic daily searches to record the birth of lambs -
Catching lambs for tagging and identiﬁcation purposes
Requirements: . Must be available for the full period
of one of the time periods stated . Must be ﬁt, St Kilda
has a very demanding terrain; ability to run essential .
A background in Biological Sciences
Travel to the island will be by helicopter from Benbec-
ula (Outer Hebrides) and the team will stay in cottages
built by the original inhabitants of St Kilda (since re-
stored by the National Trust for Scotland). Expenses
incurred whilst travelling in Scotland will be reimbursed
and food/accommodation on island are provided. This
is an ideal opportunity to gain ﬁeld experience in large
mammal research and to visit St Kilda, the remotest of
British islands.
If you wish to apply for this work please send: a CV
with covering letter, contact phone number and details
of two referees that can be contacted immediately by
email.
CONTACT: Jill Pilkington EMAIL:
j.pilkington@ed.ac.uk
UNSW Sydney
GenomeSequencingManager
Genome Sequencing Manager (Research Fellow) Fac-
ulty of Science SCHOOL OF BIOTECHNOLOGY
& BIOMOLECULAR SCIENCES REF. 6340NET A
full-time position is available for a period of one year
commencing early 2009. The successful applicant will
be responsible for the operation of the Next-Generation
Sequencing Facility in the Ramaciotti Centre for Gene
Function Analysis within the School of Biotechnology
& Biomolecular Sciences. The position will work with
a group of highly dedicated individuals to provide
genomic sequencing, methylation analysis, ChIP-Seq
and RNA-Seq services for research institutions in the
Sydney/Newcastle area. This is a one year ﬁxed term
position with a possibility of renewal. Salary range
for Research Fellow is A$75,413- A$88,902 per yearFebruary 1, 2009 EvolDir 53
(plus 9% employer superannuation plus leave loading).
Applicants should systematically address the selection
criteria in their applications. Women and people
from EEO groups are encouraged to apply. Please
direct any enquiries to Prof. Ian Dawes on telephone
(61 2) 9385 2089 or email i.dawes@unsw.edu.au
Information Package: www.hr.unsw.edu.au//services/-
recruitment/jobs/ info/pd16010907.pdf School Web
site: www.babs.unsw.edu.au Job Advertisement:
http://www.hr.unsw.edu.au/services/recruitment/
jobs/16010907.html
Applications close : 13 February 2009
a.wilton@unsw.edu.au a.wilton@unsw.edu.au
UppsalaU EvoDevo Research and
PhD
>From Graham Budd : graham.budd@pal.uu.se
We are happy to announce two positions in the Palaeo-
biology Programme of the Dept of Earth Sciences, Up-
psala University, Sweden. The ﬁrst is a four year re-
search position (Forskarassistenttj¨ anst) and the second
is a PhD position on the origin of insects. Both palaeon-
tological and evo-devo applicants are warmly welcomed
for both positions. Details follow for both.
Graham Budd
graham.budd@pal.uu.se Uppsala University hereby de-
clares the following position to be open for application:
Assistant Professor/Research Associate in Palaeobiol-
ogy
at the Department of Earth Sciences.
Current research in the department includes Protero-
zoic biodiversity and ecology; the Cambrian Explo-
sion and exceptionally preserved biotas, with partic-
ular expertise in arthropods, mollusks, brachiopods;
Early organic-walled microbiota (prokaryotes and eu-
karyotes); and evo-devo.
Appointment period: The position can be held for a
maximum of 4 years.
Nature of duties: The position is oriented towards re-
search in Palaeobiology. It is principally a research ap-
pointment but will also involve teaching at basic, ad-
vanced and postgraduate level and supervision of stu-
dents at postgraduate level.
Qualiﬁcations required: To qualify for appointment asAssistant Professor/Research Associate you must have
a PhD or an equivalent foreign degree. Priority is given
to applicants who have completed their PhD within 5
years of the application deadline. Furthermore, accord-
ing to Uppsala University’s general employment regu-
lations, it is also a requirement that teachers possess
the necessary skills and qualiﬁcations to carry out their
duties proﬁciently.
The ability to teach in Swedish or English is a require-
ment.
Criteria for ranking: In ranking qualiﬁed applicants
particular importance will be attached to scientiﬁc ex-
cellence in palaeobiology. The teaching competence in-
cluding the planning, carrying out and evaluation of
teaching and examinations, as well as the supervision
of students, will also be evaluated.
A documented ability to initiate/lead and organise re-
search project(s) is highly desirable. The ability to co-
operate and good communication skills are required.
The candidate’s aptitude in interacting with the sur-
rounding community, informing people about research
and development work are also important.
Ability to inform people about research and develop-
ment work is demonstrated by popular scientiﬁc activi-
ties, for example participating in extramural education,
publishing popular scientiﬁc papers and participating in
public discussions on topics of education and research.
In ﬁlling this position, the university aims to recruit
the person who, in a combined evaluation of compe-
tence, skills and documented qualiﬁcations, is judged
most suitable to carry out and develop the work-in-
hand and to contribute to a positive development of
the department and programme.
Personal circumstances that may be of positive rele-
vance to the application, for example parental leave,
should be mentioned in the list of qualiﬁcations (CV).
Uppsala University is striving to achieve a more even
gender balance in its research and teaching staﬀ and
women are especially invited to apply for this position.
How to apply: The application must be written in
English and the applicant is required to submit two
copies of documents and one copy of publications
according to instructions found on the web site <
http://www.teknat.uu.se/english/instructions.php
>http://www.teknat.uu.se/english/instructions.php
or available from Jenny Lundstr¨ om, phone+46 18
471 1798, e-mail Jenny.Lundstrom@uadm.uu.se . For
further information about the position, please contact
Professor Lars Holmer, phone +46 18 4712761, e-mail
Lars.Holmer@pal.uu.se . The trade union represen-54 EvolDir February 1, 2009
tatives are Anders Grundstr¨ om, SACO (the Swedish
Confederation of Professional Associations), phone
+46 18 471 5380, Carin S¨ oderh¨ all, TCO/ST (the
Swedish Confederation of Professional Employees),
phone +46 18 471 1996 and Stefan Djurstr¨ om, SEKO
(the Union of Service and Communication Employees),
phone +46 18 471 3315.
Applications should be directed to the Vice-chancellor
and mailed so as to arrive at Uppsala University, Reg-
istrarZs Oﬃce UFV-PA 2008/3116, Box 256, S-751 05
Uppsala, Sweden or fax +46 18 471 2000, no later than
February 28, 2009. E-mail applications may be sent to
registrator@uu.se . An application sent by fax or e-mail
must be followed by a signed original of the application
sent within a week of the deadline.
This advertisment is also available on the web at
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
USFWS NewMexico
ConservationGenetics
Position is located in Southeastern New Mexico with
the US Fish and Wildlife Service. Dexter’s web-
site can be viewed at http://www.fws.gov/southwest/-
ﬁsheries/dexter/index.html . This vacancy will soon be
open to the general public.
To apply, go to Http://usajobs.gov, search with the
Vacancy Id number FWS2-09-001
INTERDISCIPLINARY (Fish & Wildlife Biologist OR
Fish Biologist)
SALARY RANGE:46,625.00 - 73,329.00 USD per year
OPEN PERIOD:Monday, January 26, 2009 to Friday,
February 13, 2009 SERIES & GRADE:GS-0482,0401-
09/11 POSITION INFORMATION:Full-Time Perma-
nent PROMOTION POTENTIAL:11 DUTY LOCA-
TIONS: 1 vacancy - DEXTER, NM WHO MAY BE
CONSIDERED: Applications will be accepted from
current and former competitive service Federal employ-
ees, and people eligible under special hiring authorities.
MAJOR DUTIES:
Top(Embedded image moved to ﬁle: pic27446.gif)Employee will conduct applied research projects for the
Dexter NFHTC as directed by supervisor. This in-
cludes the application of advanced molecular tools to
solve genetic management problems, using appropriate
molecular techniques and knowledge of conservation bi-
ology to assist regional partners in endangered species
management.
Employee uses subject matter expertise to enhance and
facilitate applied research conducted at the Center.
This may include expertise in physiology, nutrition,
conservation genetics, herpetology, or pathogens. In-
cumbent is responsible for participating in multi-agency
stakeholder meetings related to new and ongoing re-
search. Provides subject matter expertise for diverse,
complex, and multi-disciplinary planning eﬀorts with
public and private groups of state, local, and Federal
agencies to achieve Service policies, objectives, and
goals.
Prepares objective and complete written reports and
other documents and delivers oral presentations based
on investigations conducted. Prepares written corre-
spondence, reports, and papers for publication, based
on peer reviewed literature, observations made, and
investigations conducted. Advanced expertise is used
to analyze current conditions and assess implications
of management actions on threatened and endangered
species.
Connie Keeler-Foster, Ph.D. Research Leader Dexter
National Fish Hatchery and Technology Center 7116
Hatchery Road, P. O. Box 219 Dexter, NM 88230 Phone
575.734.5910 ext 16, Fax 575.734.6130
Connie KeelerFoster@fws.gov
UTexas LabTech
MarinePhylogeography
Laboratory Technician, Marine Science Institute, Uni-
versity of Texas at Austin
I am looking for a highly motivated and organized sci-
entist to help manage a new lab at the Marine Science
Institute, University of Texas. Laboratory work will in-
clude DNA extraction, PCR, gel quantiﬁcation, geno-
typing, cloning and analysis of genotypic and sequence
data. The work also will include maintaining a labora-
tory database, general laboratory tasks, and supervis-
ing students working in the lab. Fieldwork will involve
scuba diving from research vessels or small boats, andFebruary 1, 2009 EvolDir 55
will include collecting samples and population surveys.
The ideal applicant would have a bachelor’s or master1s
degree in biology or related ﬁeld. Applicants must have
the appropriate citizenship/visa status to work in the
U.S. and should have experience with population ge-
netic and molecular systematic techniques. The labo-
ratory is located at Port Aransas, coastal Texas.
Questions regarding the position should be directed to
Dr. Luiz A. Rocha (rocha@mail.utexas.edu - 361-749-
6845)
Additional information about the department and lab
can be found at http://www.utmsi.utexas.edu/ Appli-
cations materials consist of (1) a brief cover letter; (2)
CV, (3) PDF ﬁles of up to three representative publi-
cations, (4) names of scientists who can be contacted
for letters of reference. Materials should be submitted
through the University1s website (posting # 09-01-23-
01-4222). Direct link:
http://utdirect.utexas.edu/pnjobs/-
pnjobsvw.WBX?comp=3D0&job nbr=-
3D090123014222 The University of Texas at Austin is
an Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer.
All qualiﬁed applicants will receive consideration for
employment.
rocha@mail.utexas.edu
UVictoria PopulationBiology
Department of Biology University of Victoria Assistant
Professor Position in Population Biology
The Department of Biology at the University of Victo-
ria invites applications for a tenure-track assistant pro-
fessor position in POPULATION BIOLOGY. We seek
individuals who are strongly quantitative and whose
research addresses fundamental population-level ques-
tions in evolution, ecology and/or genetics. Applicants
whose research complements strengths in the depart-
ment, particularly in the areas of marine and freshwater
biology, and plant or microbial ecology and evolution,
are especially encouraged. Information about our de-
partment can be found at http://web.uvic.ca/biology/
To apply, please arrange to have a curriculum vitae,
statement of teaching interests (graduate and under-
graduate) and research interests and plans, copies of
three publications, and contact information for three
references sent to: biochair@uvic.ca or Population Bi-
ology Search Committee, Department of Biology, Uni-versity of Victoria, PO Box 3020, STN CSC, Victoria,
British Columbia, Canada. Review of applications will
begin on February 28, 2009 and continue until a suit-
able candidate is identiﬁed.
The University of Victoria is an equity employer and
encourages applications from women, persons with dis-
abilities, visible minorities, Aboriginal Peoples, people
of all sexual orientations and genders, and others who
may contribute to the further diversiﬁcation of the Uni-
versity.
All qualiﬁed candidates are encouraged to apply; how-
ever, in accordance with Canadian Immigration re-
quirements, Canadians and permanent residents will be
given priority.
Steve Perlman
UWyoming Bioinformatics
Research Scientist in Bioinformatics
(Position #4939)
The University of Wyoming Bioinformatics Core is
seeking to hire a Research Scientist to be located in
the Department of Molecular Biology. The position
will involve leadership of both the collaborative service
and research elements of the Bioinformatics Core. The
service component of the position will consist of col-
laborating with biological researchers on bioinformatics
problems, resulting in co-publication and novel uses of
bioinformatics on campus. A candidate with a history
of interdisciplinary collaboration would be preferred.
Common research topics for collaboration in this po-
sition will include phylogenetics, microarray statistics,
and protein homology modeling, among other areas.
The research component will involve developing an in-
dependent bioinformatics or computational biology re-
search program. The successful candidate will submit
grants and research papers. Research in any area of
bioinformatics or computational biology will be consid-
ered. The successful candidate will have the oppor-
tunity to supervise graduate students in the Molecular
Biology and/or MCLS (Molecular and Cellular Life Sci-
ences) Ph.D. programs depending upon qualiﬁcations.
Funding for one Ph.D. student will be provided with
the position. The anticipated start date of the position
will be June 1, 2009, although alternative start dates
may be negotiated. The successful candidate should
have a Ph.D. in a relevant area, proﬁciency in statistics56 EvolDir February 1, 2009
and programming, and knowledge of molecular biology.
To apply, send your CV and a statement of research
accomplishments, future research interests, and inter-
disciplinary background by email to liberles@uwyo.edu.
In addition, arrange to have three letters of recommen-
dation sent directly by the letter writer by email to the
same email address. Review of applications will be-
gin on March 9, 2009 and continue until the position
is ﬁlled. Inquiries about details of the position may be
directed to Dr. David Liberles (liberles@uwyo.edu).
The main campus is in Laramie, a safe, vibrant, smallcity ina scenic valley between the Laramie and Medicine
Bow Ranges of the Rocky Mountains. Laramie is a two-
hour drive north of Denver, Colorado.Located at 7200
feet, Laramie and its surrounding areas oﬀer abundant
outdoor recreational opportunities. The university and
the region provide a rich array of cultural activities.
More information about the university and its geo-
graphic setting is available on the university’s web site,
http://www.uwyo.edu . The University of Wyoming is
an EO/AA employer.
“David A. Liberles” <liberles@uwyo.edu >
Other
Astrobiology Summer Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Austria SummerFellowship EvolutionaryModeling . 57
Brazilian mouse samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Bryophyte phylogeny genes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Coauthor missing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Darwin year stuﬀ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Distance software question . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
DNA from ETA cards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
DNA from ETA cards answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
DNA preservation liquids answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Dobzhansky and Fisher Prize nominations . . . . . . . . . 61
Dublin MuseumSummerResearch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Ecuador VolunteerFieldAssist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
Edinburgh FieldVolunteers BlueTits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
EvolDir on Twitter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
GalapagosIslands VolunteerFieldAssist . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Genome Biology Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
HIV sequence database tool . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
J Bioinformatics Seq Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Journal ContributionsToZoology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
MarieCurie candidates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Micro software TETRA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65mtDNA inheritance mussels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
NatlCenterScienceEdu WhyEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
NESCent USouthDakota SummerTraining Compara-
tiveOntology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Next-Gen Sequencing Survey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Oomycete Diatom Genomes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Petition for Evolutionary Biology in the Netherlands
68
Question on Kingroup Software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Redimensioned BIOSYS-2 software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Samova question . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Sequence alignment and translation answers . . . . . . . 69
Sequence alignment and translation question . . . . . . 69
Software DAMBE on OSX . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Software GLMM R package . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Software IDEA 2 4 4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Translation and alignment answers 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
UArkansas UndergradResearchExperience . . . . . . . . . 71
UK Systematics ResearchFunding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
UMinnesota Summer undergraduate research . . . . . . 71
Volunteer Tit Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Astrobiology Summer Program2009 Astrobiology Summer Program for undergradu-
ates
Penn State will once again host the Astrobiology Sum-
mer Program (ASP), supported by the National Science
Foundation and NASA Astrobiology Institute. Under-February 1, 2009 EvolDir 57
graduates with an interest in astrobiology and contem-
plating a career in the sciences are encouraged to ap-
ply. Participants receive a stipend, travel, and living
expenses, and conduct research for ten weeks at Penn-
sylvania State University under the guidance of astrobi-
ology faculty mentors. Research topics are diverse and
include (among others) the early evolution of life on
Earth, the early Earth environment, and search for life
elsewhere. Among the summer activities is a ﬁeld trip
to NASA Headquarters, NASA-Goddard Space Flight
Center, the Smithsonian’s Air and Space Museum and
Udvar-Hazy Center. The application deadline is Febru-
ary 15th, 2009.
For more information, visit http://evo.bio.psu.edu/-
asp/ or contact Blair Hedges, sbh1@psu.edu.
sbh1@psu.edu sbh1@psu.edu
Austria SummerFellowship
EvolutionaryModeling
Summer Fellowships for Young Scientists at the Inter-
national Institute for Applied Systems Analysis
Funding is available for PhD students interested in
three months of collaborative research on
Evolutionary and Ecological Modeling
in population ecology, evolutionary ecology, community
ecology, spatial ecology, and ﬁshery ecology.
Young scientists from all countries are eligible for
stipends, provided by IIASA’s Evolution and Ecology
Program, contributing to travel and accommodation
costs. Students from Austria, China, Egypt, Estonia,
Finland, Germany, India, Japan, Korea, the Nether-
lands, Norway, Pakistan, Poland, Russia, South Africa,
Sweden, and the USA are eligible for fellowships pro-
viding travel, accommodation, and living expenses.
Summer research projects are invited in any of the fol-
lowing areas
Fisheries-induced Evolution Adaptive Speciation Adap-
tive Dynamics Food Web Evolution Evolution of Co-
operation Evolutionary Conservation Biology Spatially
Explicit Evolutionary Models Moment-based Spatial
Models
Previous experience with implementing and studying
evolutionary or ecological models will be an important
asset. Potential applicants are welcome to send infor-mal inquiries about speciﬁc research interests and plans
to Ulf Dieckmann (dieckmann@iiasa.ac.at).
Online applications have to be submitted before Jan-
uary 19, 2009.
Since 1977, the annual Young Scientists Summer Pro-
gram (YSSP) of the International Institute for Applied
Systems Analysis (IIASA) in Laxenburg, Austria, has
attracted 1400+ students from 70+ countries. The
YSSP 2009 will take place from June1 to August 31,
2009. IIASA is located in the former summer palace
of Austria’s royal family, ca. 15 km south of Vienna.
IIASA’s summer program oﬀers exceptional opportu-
nities for acquiring experience in an international and
interdisciplinary research environment. Research train-
ing is based on regular personal interaction with advis-
ing scientists, and typically leads to a publication in
an international journal (as well as to a chapter in a
candidate’s PhD thesis).
Some useful links:
+ http://www.iiasa.ac.at/Admin/YSP/reg-info/-
more about theprogram.html Details about the
summer program, and online application
+www.iiasa.ac.at/Research/EEP Information about
IIASA’s Evolution and Ecology Program
+www.iiasa.ac.at/Research/EEP/Students.html Ex-
amples of successful YSSP projects
+www.iiasa.ac.at/docs/IIASA Info.html General in-
formation about IIASA
Ulf Dieckmann Program Leader Evolution and Ecol-
ogy Program International Institute for Applied Sys-
tems Analysis A-2361 Laxenburg Austria
Email dieckmann@iiasa.ac.at Phone +43 2236 807
386 Phone secretary +43 2236 807 231 Fax +43
2236 807 466 or +43 2236 71313 Web http://-
www.iiasa.ac.at/Research/EEP Online reprints http:/-
/www.iiasa.ac.at/˜dieckman FishACE Network http:/-
/www.iiasa.ac.at/Research/EEP/FishACE FinE Net-
work http://www.iiasa.ac.at/Research/EEP/FinE
dieckmann@iiasa.ac.at dieckmann@iiasa.ac.at
Brazilian mouse samples
Dear EvolDir members,
I’m a PhD student at the University of York and I’m
looking for house mouse (Mus musculus) samples from58 EvolDir February 1, 2009
Brazil for a phylogeography study. If you’re interested
in a collaboration please e-mail me at sg542@yotk.ac.uk
and I’ll be happy to further discuss that with you.
Even if you don’t work with rodents but have access to
little tail tips or any other tissue samples, it would be
very much appreciated.
Even if your cat brings you mice from the barn it’s just
ﬁne!
Looking forward to hear from you!
Thanks in advance,
Soﬁa Gabriel
P.S. If you’re Brazilian you’re very welcome to reply in
Portuguese.
sg542@york.ac.uk sg542@york.ac.uk
Bryophyte phylogeny genes
Dear all,
I am doing a molecular phylogeny of a bryophyte genus
and for that purpose I’m looking for informative nu-
clear regions expect ITS region. GapC/Cp as well as
GapA/B seem to be promissing regions regarding the
few litterature (e.g. Stone, 2006).
But primers and sequences on NCBI are rare and PCR
do not amplify well !
Do you have any advices using theses genes for phy-
logeny purpose ? Do you know other nuclear regions
that can ﬁt ?
Thanks in advance, and best whishes for this new year,
Am´ elie
Am´ elie PICHONET
PhD Student, Teaching Assistant National Museum of
Natural History Departement of Systematique and Evo-
lution, Bryology Team Case 39, 57 rue Cuvier 75005
Paris - France Tel : 00 33 1 40 79 31 88 Fax : 00 33 1
40 79 35 94 Email : pichonet@mnhn.fr
pichonet@mnhn.frCoauthor missing
Hi,
I’m desparately trying to ﬁnd out the whereabouts of
the co-author of a paper that I have just submitted: Dr
Kelley Whitaker. She has done genetic work on corals
and a few years ago, she was based in Pretoria, South
Africa. She may presently be in Australia.
Anyone who knows her contact details should please get
in touch with me asap.
Thanks, Peter Teske (Peter.Teske@bio.mq.edu.au)
Dr Peter R. Teske Postdoctoral Researcher Molec-
ular Ecology Lab Dept. of Biological Sciences,
E8C Macquarie University Sydney, NSW 2109
Australia Phone: +61 2 9850 8190 Fax: +61 2
9850 8245 E-mail: Peter.Teske@bio.mq.edu.au Web-
site: http://www.bio.mq.edu.au/molecularecology/-
people.htm Publications: http://www.ru.ac.za/-
academic/departments/botany research/peter/ Pe-
ter.Teske@bio.mq.edu.au Peter.Teske@bio.mq.edu.au
Darwin year stuﬀ
A friend and I have put together a series of Darwin Year
items for sale, with 50% of the proﬁts donated to con-
servation charities and 50% used in developing online
evolution resources.
http://www.darwinyear2009.com Have a look and let
me know if you think it would be ok to write a message
on this.
- R
Dr. T. Ryan Gregory Assistant Professor Department
of Integrative Biology University of Guelph, Guelph,
Ontario N1G 2W1 CANADA
http://www.genomesize.com/gregorylab/February 1, 2009 EvolDir 59
Distance software question
Dear all.
Does anybody out there know a software that will
build a genetic distance dendogram for POPULA-
TIONS with bootstrap values based on individual
RAPD/RFLP/ISSR/AFLP proﬁles?
I would greatly appreciate your help.
Walter A Boeger UFPR-Brazil
wboeger@ufpr.br
DNA from ETA cards
Our lab has a collection of dried avian blood (nucle-
ated red blood cells) samples on Whatman FTA cards.
Some samples consist of only a small spot of blood,
while others contain several drops of blood with the
sample soaking through and visible on the back of the
card.
Rather than using a sample disk directly in a PCR, we
are interested in extracting total genomic DNA to be
used as a stock solution in downstream sequencing. I’m
wondering if anyone has experience with this, and might
be able to provide advice on types of kits/protocols
used. Also, any input on DNA quality/yield, sample
variation, punch tools, and sample disk diameter would
be appreciated.
Thanks in advance, Jeﬀ DaCosta Boston University
dacostaj@bu.edu dacostaj@bu.edu
DNA from ETA cards answers
Thanks for all that responded to my query about the
extraction of total gDNA from avian blood samples on
FTA cards. Below is the original post followed by many
useful replies.*****Original post***** Our lab has a collection of
dried avian blood (nucleated red blood cells) samples
on Whatman FTA cards. Some samples consist of only
a small spot of blood, while others contain several drops
of blood with the sample soaking through and visible
on the back of the card.
Rather than using a sample disk directly in a PCR, we
are interested in extracting total genomic DNA to be
used as a stock solution in downstream sequencing. I’m
wondering if anyone has experience with this, and might
be able to provide advice on types of kits/protocols
used. Also, any input on DNA quality/yield, sample
variation, punch tools, and sample disk diameter would
be appreciated.
*****Papers***** Smith lm & LA Burgoyne. 2004.
Collecting archiving and processing DNA from wildlife
samples using FTA databasing paper. BMC Ecology.
4:4.
Borisenko AV et al. 2008. DNA barcoding in surveys of
small mammal communities: a ﬁeld study in Suriname.
Mol. Ecol. Res. 8: 471-479.
McClure Mc et al. In press. Extraction of DNA from
FTA cards for use on the Illumina iSelect BeadChip.
Animal Genetics. (Whatman GenSolve Kit vs Phe-
nol:Chloroform:Isoamyl alcohol extraction)
Barbanera, F et al. In press. Human-mediated intro-
gression of exotic chukar (Alectoris chukar, Galliformes)
genes from East Asian into native Mediterranean par-
tridges. Biol. Invasions.
*****FTA Elute***** The new product from What-
man - ’FTA elute cards’ - requires only water both for
puriﬁcation and elution, and is much more eﬃcient. If
you plan to sample avian blood later on, I would rec-
ommend switching to FTA elute.
*****Hole punches***** In terms of punches -
the Harris Micro-Punch lasts forever and is a
good investment: http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/-
labware/labware-products.html?TablePage=-
3D17216376 http://www.whatman.com/-
PRODFTAPuriﬁcationReagentandAccessories.aspx
My preference is a 1.2 mm punch - if I need more
DNA, I punch a card several times. This is also the
optimal size to use the disk directly in PCR in a 12.5
or 25 ul reaction.
Don’t get Harris Unicore punches, they don’t last!
To ensure that your punch lasts, get self-healing Harris
cutting mat: http://www.sigmaaldrich.com/catalog/-
ProductDetail.do?N4=3DZ708755 |SIGMA&N5=-
Product%20No. |BRAND KEY&F=SPEC *****Hole
punches 2***** Oh, and for the punches, I simply60 EvolDir February 1, 2009
bought the smallest available punch-out tool in the
scrapbook department at Michael’s (the craft store).
*****Taq for PCR***** Regarding PCR... Platinum
Taq from Invitrogen is one of the best enzymes to deal
with samples from FTA cards.
*****Qiagen DNeasy Kit***** We do this kind of work
regularly. We have tried a number of extraction kits
and organic extraction methods and now use only the
Qiagen DNAeasy Tissue Kit. We use a small pair of
dissecting scissors to cut out a small piece of the paper
(and usually cut it up into pretty small pieces) because
they can be cleaned between samples. The ﬁnal step in
the Qiagen kit is an elution in AE (or you can use TE
or TLE depending on what you want the DNA stored
in). This is one thing that can help control the DNA
yield. We use 2 elutions, 100 ul of AE twice but you can
change that to a 100 and a 50 ul elution to get higher
concentrations. I suggest playing around a little with
how much paper to use depending on the blood spot
- our experience has been that even a very small spot
works just ﬁne - and so for very heavily soaked paper
you may want to use less and/or elute with a higher
volume of TLE, TE or AE buﬀer.
We get consistently excellent yield (anywhere from 10
or 20 to >100 ng/ul) and the DNA is very good quality.
We have used it primarily for microsatellite work but
also for sequencing (mostly mtDNA) and for AFLPs.
This is our working protocol for gauze and for paper
(we tend to use ﬁlter paper - and have used other kinds
of unlikely things - depends on the people in the ﬁeld!)
Everything not listed follows the manufacturer protocol
for “Puriﬁcation of Genomic DNA from Whole Nucle-
ated or Non-nucleated Animal Blood,”
DNA was extracted from the blood on the gauze using
a DNeasy Tissue kit (Qiagen) following the manufac-
turer’s protocol, “Puriﬁcation of Genomic DNA from
Whole Nucleated or Non-nucleated Animal Blood,”
with modiﬁcations. Rather than adding 5-10 µL anti-
coagulated blood to 20 µL proteinase K in the bottom
of a 1.5 mL microcentrifuge tube, a sample
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
DNA preservation liquids answersG’day folks
My original post is followed by the various suggestions I
got for alternative methods for preserving DNA. Thank
you very much to all the people who sent me messages.
I tried to incorporate most of the emails I received, but
some were a little redundant.
Cheers Peter
G’day folks
I was wondering if folks have any experience with pre-
serving DNA in the ﬁeld in liquids other than ethanol?
My target organisms are ﬁshes, but I’m sure diﬀerent
liquids work on most groups just ﬁne. It some parts of
the world ethanol can be very diﬃcult and/or expensive
to obtain. Are there any good viable alternatives that
can be obtained in third world countries that should be
ok that people have experience with? Isopropanol is of-
ten available it seems, but I’ve only seen one report that
suggested it should be ok. Also, I guess the isopropanol
one would buy in a pharmacy varies depending on who
makes it and the country (wikipedia says that in the
USA and the UK Isopropyl Rubbing Alcohol is made
of ethanol, not isoproyl).
One paper looked at preservation of spiders, and found
RNAlater and propylene glycol worked well. Another
paper on aphids found acetone was good, as was diethyl
ether, and ethyl acetate. I’m not sure though how easy
these are to obtain, or safely these can be transported
though (RNAlater is too expensive to consider).
I also searched the archives, but suprisingly this doesn’t
seem to be a topic that has come up before.
Thanks Peter Unmack
Details of the diﬀerent things people suggested are
given below. It seems like laundry detergent and salt
may be the best options, while silica gel is good for
small tissue samples. I’m rather leary of DMSO as that
stuﬀ has the potential to be dangerous (it makes your
skin highly permeable to everything), and as noted by
one respondant, some tubes tend to leak. I’d be really
interested to hear anything further from folks who have
used detergent or salt for preservation.
Here are the responses.
You can also consider dry storage of DNA, as im-
plemented in FTA cards: http://www.whatman.com/-
FTAandFTAElute.aspx At our lab we work almost ex-
clusively with ﬁsh tissue, from both marine and fresh-
water species, and our preferred method of preserving
DNA in the samples prior to extraction is air-drying
in blotter paper, with each sample in a separate coin
envelope. I am not sure if this would work for you in a
humid location, as the key to high quality DNA seemsFebruary 1, 2009 EvolDir 61
to be rapid drying of the tissue, but barring access to
a dessicator, a sunny windowsill works just ﬁne. This
method also makes storage and transport of tissues a
breeze.
DMSO
20% DMSO saturated with NaCl for a variety of
species, including ﬁsh - easier to transport on planes
than alcohols, and preserves well at RT for extended
periods (see Amos, W. & Hoelzel, A.R. 1991. Long-
term preservation of cetacean tissue at ambient tem-
perature for molecular genetic analysis. IWC Special
Issue 13:99-104).
DMSO is typically available as ’horse liniment’ or vet-
erinary rubbing compound in country stores in the US,
or from local vets. Pour in NaCl or table salt to sat-
uration, collect the supernatant ﬂuid. DMSO tends to
leak from regular eppendorf tubes, you’ll want to use
gasketed tubes or paraﬁlm.
NaCl
I used 5M NaCl solution to preserve bat wing mem-
brane in the ﬁeld, prior to extraction. For memory, I
think it also worked well for Quokka ear tissue.
Saturated table salt (NaCl) in clean water works well
for small arthropods.
silica gel
When ethanol is not available then the best alternative
is dessication with silica gel. I know of a few studies
that used acetone successfully, but in my experience
isopropanol and rnalater are not reliable.
Laundry detergent.
Someone once told me that they used washing powder
to preserve specimen when they go sampling in muslim
countries where it is rather hard to get alcohol. There
is actually a protocol for extracting DNA with laundry
detergent - I attach the pdf!
However, since it is tricky to do all the extraction steps
“in the wild” preserving your samples in detergent is
also an option. I have tried to preserve freshwater snails
when I had no access to alcohol and it seems to have
worked ok. I haven’t “properly” tested the quality of
the DNA but I got quite a lot of DNA out of those
animals using commercial kits and a chelex extraction
protocol. In the ﬁeld I just put the snails as they were
into the powder, hoping that their excess water would
mix with the detergent powder which would then seep
into the cavities preserving the tissues. However, I also
prepared some snails out of their shells before I stored
them in the powder and they gave much better results.
Perhaps it would be even better to dissolve the washingpowder ﬁrst and then store the tissue in the liquid.
I DID put the snails straight into the powder, but I
think it would be
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Dobzhansky and Fisher Prize
nominations
Final reminder from the Society for the Study of Evolu-
tion Nomination/application deadlines: Fisher Prize -
January 31st, 2009 Dobzhansky Prize - February 15th,
2009
For further details see this month’s issue of Evolution,
orhttp://www.evolutionsociety.org Dale H. Clayton,
Ph.D. (outgoing secretary) Professor, Dept. of Biol-
ogy 257 South 1400 East Univ. of Utah Salt Lake
City, Utah 84112-0840 Phone: 801-581-6482 FAX: 801-
581-4668 http://darwin.biology.utah.edu Dale Clayton
<clayton@biology.utah.edu >
Dublin MuseumSummerResearch
Dear all,
This summer programme oﬀers research projects and
activities for students in organismal biology using bio-
logical collections, combining resources from University
College Dublin, the National Museum of Ireland, and
the National Botanic Gardens. Students must apply to
work with a speciﬁc research group.
Please circulate this notice to undergraduate students
and other colleagues who may be in contact with po-
tential summer students. Note the closing date for ap-
plications is March 29 2008.
Collections-Based Biology in Dublin Undergraduate
Research Experience & Knowledge Award (CoBiD-
UREKA)
Full funding for the 10-week programme will be pro-
vided for 10 successful candidates, including assistance62 EvolDir February 1, 2009
with air transportation to and from Dublin, accommo-
dation in Dublin, and a small weekly living allowance,
as well as research project expenses. The programme
is open to students of all nationalities.
Term dates: June 15 to August 21 2008
Students must submit an application form (available
online) and arrange for a letter of support to be
sent to <UREKA@ucd.ie >For application instruc-
tions, research group descriptions, and more informa-
tion: http://www.ucd.ie/ureka/ Applications must be
received by 29 March 2009
Kind regards,
The UREKA Team
Collections-based Biology in Dublin Undergraduate Re-
search Experience & Knowledge Award www.ucd.ie/-
ureka ureka@ucd.ie
Ecuador VolunteerFieldAssist
VOLUNTEER FIELD ASSISTANT POSITION,
RAINFOREST FROG BEHAVIOR AND SPECIA-
TION
We have two positions for ﬁeld assistants to help with
research on mate choice and the selective forces driving
speciation in rainforest frogs. This work will focus on
video monitoring and ﬁeld observation of frog preda-
tors. Assistants will work directly with two PIs, Kim
Hoke and Chris Funk at Colorado State University.
TIME PERIOD: Three months, starting early February
2009. Some ﬂexibility on dates possible.
LOCATION: Amazonian Ecuador near the Napo River.
FUNDING: All travel and lodging expenses will be cov-
ered, including plane tickets and food.
QUALIFICATIONS: Applicant must have a BS in Bi-
ology or a related ﬁeld and experience in ﬁeld ecology
or behavioral ecology. Past experience in the tropics is
desirable. Applicants must have a yellow-fever vacci-
nation, passport, and minimal international traveler?s
insurance (as included with an International Student
Identity Card).
TO APPLY: Send a CV, names of 3 references, and a
cover letter explaining why you are interested in helping
with this research to kimhoke@colostate.edu.
ChrisW. Chris Funk, Assistant Professor Department of
Biology Colorado State University Fort Collins, CO
80523-1878 Tel: 970-491-5947 Fax: 970-491-0649
E-mail: Chris.Funk at colostate.edu URL: http://-
rydberg.biology.colostate.edu/funklab/ “Funk,Chris”
<Chris.Funk@colostate.edu >
Edinburgh FieldVolunteers BlueTits
NEEDED: FIELD ASSISTANTS
BLUE TITS in EDINBURGH April-June 2009
We are looking for 2 volunteers to assist with ﬁeldwork
from April to June. The project will focus on the evo-
lutionary ecology of blue tits with all ﬁeldwork carried
out on a population near Edinburgh, Scotland, UK.
The ﬁeldwork will involve nest monitoring and measur-
ing of chick and adult birds. Candidates should have an
interest in ecology and evolutionary biology, and prefer-
ably have experience in handling birds. A high level of
ﬁtness is necessary.
Accommodation costs are covered and will be in pri-
vate accommodation in the city. The ﬁeld site is about
15 minutes from the city centre and transport will be
provided.
If you wish to apply for a post then please send a CV
with a covering letter and details of two referees (aca-
demic or ﬁeld biology related - with e-mail address) to
Jarrod Hadﬁeld, indicating dates you are available. E-
mail applications are preferred and are to be received
by Tuesday 10th March.
Contact: Dr Jarrod Hadﬁeld
E-mail: j.hadﬁeld@ed.ac.uk Institute of Evolutionary
Biology Kings Buildings University of Edinburgh Edin-
burgh EH9 3JT
– The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body,
registered in Scotland, with registration number
SC005336.
Jarrod Hadﬁeld <j.hadﬁeld@ed.ac.uk >
EvolDir on Twitter
With the aim of liberating EvolDir posts from myFebruary 1, 2009 EvolDir 63
cluttered email inbox I’ve created a Twitter feed for
EvolDir. See http://bioguid.info/services/evoldir/ for
details, or go straight to http://twitter.com/evoldir to
follow.
Regards
Rod
Roderic Page Professor of Taxonomy DEEB, FBLS
Graham Kerr Building University of Glasgow Glasgow
G12 8QQ, UK
Email: r.page@bio.gla.ac.uk Tel: +44 141 330 4778
Fax: +44 141 330 2792 AIM: rodpage1962@aim.com
Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/proﬁle.php?id=-
1112517192 Twitter: http://twitter.com/rdmpage
Blog: http://iphylo.blogspot.com Home page:
http://taxonomy.zoology.gla.ac.uk/rod/rod.html
r.page@bio.gla.ac.uk r.page@bio.gla.ac.uk
GalapagosIslands
VolunteerFieldAssist
Voluntary Field Assistants Required
Galapagos Islands, 17th Feb - 13th May 2009
The Galapagos sea lion project is an investigation into
immune system ontogeny and the diﬀerential ability of
the sexes to respond to infection in the Galapagos sea
lion (Zalophus wollebaeki). Sea lions are well suited
to studies of sexual selection because they are sexu-
ally dimorphic and live in crowded conditions that can
lead to high levels of pathogen-driven mortality. I’m
using a combination of ﬁeld challenge experiments and
laboratory techniques to characterise how males and fe-
males combat infection. This research will contribute
to my PhD <http://www.zoo.cam.ac.uk/ioz/people/-
brock.htm >and follows on from previous work carried
out by my supervisor.
Two ﬁeld assistants are sought to help with the sam-
pling of sea lion pups on the Galapagos Islands of San
Cristobal and Santa Fe between 17th February and 13th
May 2009. We will tag as many pups as possible and
recapture them as frequently as is feasible to examine
body condition, carry out an eye exam and take a blood
sample. This process requires three people as the pups
need to be restrained, data needs to be recorded and
samples need to be processed on site. Blood samples
and data will be further processed in the Galapagos Ge-
netics Epidemiology and Pathology Laboratory in theevenings. Some camping may be involved, so applicants
must be comfortable working in remote environments
with minimum conveniences.
While food and accommodation are provided, volun-
teers will have to cover the cost of their ﬂights. Ideal
candidates will have a good degree in biological sci-
ences, ﬁeld experience in remote locations, an interest
in evolutionary biology and functional Spanish. Vet-
erinary ﬁeld and lab experience would be useful but
are not required. Priority will be given to Ecuadorian
applicants.
Please get in touch if you would like more information
and to apply please include a CV and covering letter
(paddy.brock@ioz.ac.uk). The deadline for applications
is Thursday 22nd January.
Paddy Brock Institute of Zoology Zoological Society of
London Regent’s Park London NW1 4RY Tel: 00 44
(0) 20 7449 6496 Email: paddy.brock@ioz.ac.uk http:/-
/www.zoo.cam.ac.uk/ioz/people/brock.htm
Paddy Brock <Paddy.Brock@ioz.ac.uk >
Genome Biology Evolution
Dear all,
The Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution
(SMBE) has launched a new online journal named
Genome Biology and Evolution (GBE) [ http://-
www.oxfordjournals.org/page/3423/1], which has an
editorial board [ http://www.oxfordjournals.org/page/-
3423/4] that brings together top expertise from the full
breadth of evolutionary and population genomics.
The scope [ http://www.oxfordjournals.org/page/-
3423/5] of GBE is focused on genome evolution and it
will report the most signiﬁcant advances as genomic
technology continues to enrich our understanding of
the evolutionary process. Like its established sister
journal, MBE [ http://www.oxfordjournals.org/page/-
3423/6], GBE is built to be the leading journal in
its ﬁeld. The journal is an open access publication
and, thanks to SMBE, publication will be free for
all accepted papers that are submitted during 2009
(starting in 2010, open access fees will be charged).
Color ﬁgures are free, there are no page charges, and
accepted papers are published within days to meet the
demands of a rapidly developing ﬁeld.
In 2007 more than 2,000 scientists in the ﬁeld partic-64 EvolDir February 1, 2009
ipated in our survey in which we at SMBE sought to
ﬁnd out what the ﬁeld needs and wants. The result of
that survey is GBE, which is designed to serve a sig-
niﬁcant and growing discipline at the interface between
molecular evolution and genomics.
To submit an article to GBE, consult the In-
structions to authors ( http://www.oxfordjournals.org/-
page/3423/3 ) and submit your paper at http://-
mc.manuscriptcentral.com/gbe Sign up here - http:/-
/www.oxfordjournals.org/page/3423/2 to receive table
of contents alerts.
We hope that you are as excited about the journal as
we are, and we hope that you will keep GBE keenly
in mind for the publication of your best genome evolu-
tionary work.
With best wishes,
Takashi Gojobori, Founding Editor William Martin,
Editor-in-Chief Michael Lynch, President of SMBE
“Jianzhi Zhang” <jianzhi@umich.edu >“Jianzhi
Zhang” <jianzhi@umich.edu >
HIV sequence database tool
HIV evolution colleagues,
After a good start, the webtool for Los Alamos HIV
sequence database queries at http://fortinbras.us/hivq
has run afoul of internet issues. These are being re-
solved, with invaluable help from LANL. In the mean-
time, I have made a Perl program available that pro-
vides a command-line interface to the LANL DB, al-
lowing you to make the same kind of queries directly
on and from your own machine. Please see the distri-
bution at http://fortinbras.us/hivqpl . You need to be
able to run Perl, but do not need any Perl programming
skills to run this script. Internet tests are included in
the distribution, so that you can tell immediately upon
installation whether it will run on your setup.
If you have any diﬃculties, questions or comments,
please email me directly. This will both help you and
improve the software.
Thanks, Mark Jensen
maj@fortinbras.usJ Bioinformatics Seq Analysis
From jbsa@acadjourn.org Thu Jan 22 06:13:46 2009
Journal of Bioinformatics and Sequence Analysis
www.academicjournals.org/JBSA Introducing ”Jour-
nal of Bioinformatics and Sequence Analysis“ * *
Dear Colleague,
The *Journal of Bioinformatics and Sequence Analy-
sis (JBSA)* is a multidisciplinary peer-reviewed jour-
nal published that will be monthly by Academic Jour-
nals ( http://www.academicjournals.org/JBSA ). JBSA
is dedicated to increasing the depth of the subject
across disciplines with the ultimate aim of expanding
knowledge of the subject.
*Editors and reviewers*
JBSA* *is seeking qualiﬁed researchers to join its edi-
torial team as editors, subeditors or reviewers. Kindly
send your resume to JBSA@acadjourn.org
*Call for Papers*
JBSA will cover all areas of the subject. The journal
welcomes the submission of manuscripts that meet the
general criteria of signiﬁcance and scientiﬁc excellence,
and will publish:
Original articles in basic and applied research
Case studies
Critical reviews, surveys, opinions, commentaries and
essays
We invite you to submit your manuscript(s) to
JBSA@acadjourn.org for publication in the Maiden
Issue (April 2009). Our objective is to inform au-
thors of the decision on their manuscript(s) within
four weeks of submission. Following acceptance, a pa-
per will normally be published in the next issue. In-
struction for authors and other details are available
on our website; http://www.academicjournals.org/-
JBSA/Instruction.htm JBSA is an Open Access Jour-
nal
One key request of researchers across the world is un-
restricted access to research publications. Open ac-
cess gives a worldwide audience larger than that of any
subscription-based journal and thus increases the visi-
bility and impact of published works. It also enhances
indexing, retrieval power and eliminates the need forFebruary 1, 2009 EvolDir 65
permissions to reproduce and distribute content.JBSA
is fully committed to the Open Access Initiative and
will provide free access to all articles as soon as they
are published.
Best regards,
*Precious Ejegi* Editorial Assistant Journal of Bioin-
formatics and Sequence Analysis (JBSA) E-mail:
JBSA@acadjourn.org www.academicjournals.org/-
JBSA jbsa@acadjourn.org jbsa@acadjourn.org
Journal ContributionsToZoology
Other: Old journal has new focus
Contributions to Zoology The journal Contributions to
Zoology ’..since 1848..’ solicits high-quality papers in
all systematics-related branches of Zoology and Paleon-
tology. Preference will be given to manuscripts dealing
with conceptual issues and to integrative papers. Re-
views and alpha-taxonomic contributions may be con-
sidered for publication, but acceptance will depend on
their high quality and exceptional nature. The jour-
nal is published by the National Museum of Natural
History Naturalis, Leiden and the Zoological Museum
Amsterdam and is freely available online since 1997 at
www.ctoz.nl . Editor-in-Chief: J.W. Arntzen - Leiden
Advisory Editorial Board: N.H. Barton -
Klosterneuburg, Austria B. David - Dijon, France
C. Groves - Canberra, Australia D.A.T. Harper -
Copenhagen, Denmark G.M. Hewitt - Norwich, UK
M. Laurin - Paris, France A. Minelli - Padova, Italy
C. Nielsen - Copenhagen, Denmark H. Philippe -
Montr´ eal, Canada G. Vermeij - Davis, California, USA
Associate Editors: L.W. van den Hoek Ostende - Lei-
den J. Miller - Leiden V. Nijman - Oxford, UK M.
Schilthuizen - Leiden R.W.M. van Soest - Amsterdam
R. Vonk - Amsterdam
For manuscript preparation and submission see
www.ctoz.nl
CTOZ <CTOZ@naturalis.nl >
MarieCurie candidatesDear all, In the context of the next Marie Curie’s call
we are looking for higly motivated candidates in order
to prepare together a research project and send an ap-
plication in our lab in Marseille ( http://www.com.univ-
mrs.fr/DIMAR/ ).
The main research topics would be: - Molecular evo-
lution of bindin a prezygotic isolation molecule in
Spatangoid sea urchins: sexual conﬂict or speciation
reinforcement ? - Gene expression analyses and stress
response in Mediterranean invertebrates: plasticity and
natural selection in a context of environmental change.
The candidates must have a PhD with enough publica-
tions and experience in the corresponding themes (ex-
perienced researchers). They should not have resided
or carried out their main activity (work , studies, etc)
in France for more than 12 months in the 3 years im-
mediately prior to the reference date. According to
the situation, this could be an Intra-European Fellow-
ship, or a Reintegration Grant. Please e-mail your
CV and your motivations to didier.aurelle@univmed.fr
and anne.chenuil@univmed.fr Best Regards Didier and
Anne
– Didier AURELLE
Courriel: didier.aurelle@univmed.fr / au-
relle.didier@gmail.com
Maˆ ıtre de Conf´ erences UMR 6540 DIMAR Universit´ e
de la M´ editerran´ ee / Centre d’Oc´ eanologie de Marseille
Station Marine d’Endoume Rue de la batterie des Lions
13007 Marseille FRANCE Tel: + 33 4 91 04 16 18 Fax:
+ 33 4 91 04 16 35
didier.aurelle@univmed.fr
Micro software TETRA
Dear Evoldir members
Does anyone know more about TETRA software? I
ve read the Mol. Ecol Res article (TETRA: an im-
proved program for population genetic analysis of al-
lotetraploid microsatellite data Wan-Jin Liao, Bi-Ru
Zhu, Yan-Fei Zeng, Da-Yong Zhang, Journal: Molec-
ular Ecology Resources,ISSN: 1755-098X, Vol: 8, Issue:
6,Date: 2008, 1260)
TETRA is a improvement of a previous program
TETRASAT by S. Markwith that only allowed 15 par-
tial heterozygote samples in microsatellite data.
about it and became enthusiastic however the66 EvolDir February 1, 2009
site indicated to download the software ( http://-
ecology.bnu.edu.cn/zhangdy/TETRA/TETRA.htm )
gave me a ﬁle that when executed looks like a suspi-
cious ﬁle (with questions marks in the window, wrong
words on buttons like CANCLE instead of CANCEL) I
can not get other download. Does any one know about
it, where to download or how to install it properly?
Thank you very much Helena
Helena Cotrim, PhD Jardim Botˆ anico da Universidade
de Lisboa, Museu Nacional de Hist´ oria Natural. Rua
Escola Politecnica 58 1250-102 Lisboa Tel: +351-213
921 882 Fax: +351-213 921841
Helena Cotrim <hmcotrim@fc.ul.pt >
mtDNA inheritance mussels
Dear Evoldir members,
has anyone looked for the presence of DUI (doubly uni-
parental inheritance of mitochondrial DNA) in the in-
vasive freshwater mussel Dreissena polymorpha or in
other dreissenids?Or is anyone planning to do that? I
have been looking in the literature but it seems that
nobody has payed attention to it.
Thanks
Carlos Saavedra
Dr. Carlos Saavedra Instituto de Acuicultura de Torre
de la Sal Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Cient´ ıﬁcas
12595 Ribera de Cabanes (Castell´ on), SPAIN Phone
+34 964 319 500 Ext 48 FAX +34 964 319 509 E-mail:
saavedra@iats.csic.es
Carlos Saavedra <saavedra@iats.csic.es >
NatlCenterScienceEdu
WhyEvolution
The National Center for Science Education has joined
with the Coalition on Public Understanding of Sci-
ence to help put together content for their Year
of Science website http://www.yearofscience2009.org/-
home/ .One part of the website for February (which
focuses on Evolution) will highlight scientists and theirresearch, and speciﬁcally why evolution is important to
their work.
We are asking for interested researchers to submit the
information below. We will then incorporate their in-
formation into the website.
Responses can be sent to Louise Mead at
mead@ncseweb.org
Thank you.
1. Name and institution
2. BRIEFLY describe your research focus, in language
that the general public would understand.
3. Why is evolution important to your research?
Unfortunately, we are fast approaching February, so re-
sponses must be submitted by January 30th.
Sincerely, Louise S. Mead, Ph.D. Education Project Di-
rector National Center for Science Education 420 40th
Street Suite 2 Oakland, CA 94609 510-601-7203
Louise Mead <mead@ncseweb.org >
NESCent USouthDakota
SummerTraining
ComparativeOntology
Summer Training Opportunities for Graduate Students
and Postdocs Phenoscape ( http://phenoscape.org ) is a
pioneering eﬀort to apply ontologies to comparative bi-
ology. The project aims to relate traditional character
descriptions from ﬁsh evolutionary studies to zebraﬁsh
genetics and mutant phenotypes. This is being achieved
by a large-scale data curation eﬀort, as well as the de-
velopment of new software and database technologies.
We are oﬀering summer traineeships for graduate stu-
dents and postdocs interested in gaining expertise in
informatics and the application of ontologies to evolu-
tionary, anatomical, developmental, and genetic data.
Opportunities are available to work as part of the
Phenoscape team on data curation or open source soft-
ware/database development. Participants would be lo-
cated at the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center,
http://nescent.org or the University of South Dakota.
Stipends of $5,000 will be given to participants to cover
travel, room and board for 10-12 weeks.
To apply, please provide the following: 1. A cover let-
ter of no more than 2 pages with >1. your name >February 1, 2009 EvolDir 67
2. your current status (grad or postdoc) >3. your in-
stitutional aﬃliation and research supervisor >4. the
dates of the proposed exchange, and your preferred lo-
cation (Durham, >North Carolina or Vermillion, South
Dakota) >5. your current research goals, and an indi-
cation of where you are in your >research timeline >
6. the relevance of the internship opportunity to your
research and/or career >goals. >7. the extent of
your background training in, e.g., morphology, paleon-
tology, >molecular/developmental biology, program-
ming, computer or information science. 2. A curricu-
lum vitae (max. 2 pages) listing educational history
(including relevant coursework), work experience, pub-
lications, and presentations. 3. A letter of recommen-
dation from your advisor/supervisor, and the names
and contact information for two other references.
Applications should be sent via email (in Word or PDF
format) to Dr. Paula Mabee (pmabee@usd.edu) be-
fore March 15, 2009. Funding decisions will be made
by April 1, 2009. Further inquiries about the position
may be directed to Dr. Mabee by email, or by phone
at (605) 677-6171.
Reporting Requirement: Recipients will be expected to
submit a 1-page report describing the accomplishments
and value of the training within one month after the
end of the internship.
NESCent and the University of South Dakota are equal
opportunity employers. Applications from women
and underrepresented minorities are speciﬁcally encour-
aged. Phenoscape is funded by NSF grant BDI-0641025
from the National Science Foundation.
Paula Mabee <paula.mabee@usd.edu >
Next-Gen Sequencing Survey
Dear Evoldir members,
Please take the time to ﬁll out a very short next-gen
implementation survey posted at:
https://www.surveymonkey.com/s.aspx?sm=-
oHz60bWePPN 2fPgcDFk0BeQ 3d3d It should
not take more than 5 minutes to complete. All partici-
pants will receive the stats from the survey including
service pricing, demand for the technology and the
level of subsidy labs are receiving for NGS.
The intent of the survey is to gather data for the up-
coming ABRF meeting ( http://www.abrf2009.org ), tobe presented in the Monday, Feb. 9th afternoon Con-
current Workshop. It complements data from some re-
cent surveys that will also be presented at that session.
Thank you in advance for your time!!
Helaman Escobar DNA Sequencing and Genomics
Cores University of Utah dna@cores.utah.edu
Oomycete Diatom Genomes
Genome Project Solutions announces the release of ver-
sion 2 of our evolutionary analysis of the complete
genomes of four oomycetes and their diatom outgroups.
Results can be seen at http://-
oomycetes.genomeprojectsolutions-databases.com/
.
At this release, we are analyzing approximately 100,000
total genes. We use a unique, graph-based method to
cluster genes into families while considering the evo-
lutionary relationships among the organisms, and then
perform a maximum likelihood phylogenetic analysis on
each set of genes. We assign all orthologous and paral-
ogous relationships and determine when each gene du-
plication or loss occurred.
Users can see the multiple sequence alignments and
phylogenetic trees of all genes, compare intron-exon
structures, and see maps of the relative arrangements
of homologous genes across all genomes.
Learn more about this project and see our analy-
sis of the oomycete and diatom genomes at http://-
oomycetes.genomeprojectsolutions- databases.com/.
Learn more about our method at http://-
genomeprojectsolutions.com/PHRINGE project.html
Learn more about our organization at http://-
genomeprojectsolutions.com/ . Jeﬀrey L. Boore, Ph.D.
Chief Executive Oﬃcer Genome Project Solutions 1024
Promenade Street Hercules, CA 94547
http://GenomeProjectSolutions.com 1 (877) 867-0146
(toll free)
Associate Adjunct Professor, University of California
Berkeley Guest Researcher, Joint Genome Institute and
Berkeley National Lab
jlboore@GenomeProjectSolutions.com Fri Jan 9
21:21:01 2009 jlboore@GenomeProjectSolutions.com
Fri Jan 9 21:21:01 200968 EvolDir February 1, 2009
Petition for Evolutionary Biology in
the Netherlands
Dear Evoldir members,
I would like yo bring to your attention the following
situation. Because of reorganization in some Dutch
Universities and money cutting in research, several col-
leagues from Leiden University will be ﬁred by the end
of the year if we do not react. They might be ﬁred any-
way, but I think that we should at least do our best for
this not to happen.
The following evolutionary biologists will be ﬁred or
will not be able to continue their research: Jacques van
Alphen (Marie Curie professor of Excellence), Tom Van
Dooren, Frietson Galis (president of the European So-
ciety for Evolutionary Developmental Biology), Sacha
Gultyaev, Patsy Haccou (Executive vice-president of
the European Society of Evolutionary Biology), Ken
Kraaijeveld, Femmie Kraaijeveld, Hans Metz (retired,
but still very active) Rino Zandee.
People in Leiden have just set up a petition, which
you will ﬁnd here : <http://evodevo.eu/petition/ >
http://evodevo.eu/petition/
I strongly encourage you to sign this petition, which will
be sent to every person in the Netherland government
who might be able to do something.
I think it is quite incredible that Darwins’year will see
an entire and excellent department of evolutionary ecol-
ogy close down and leave people without a job (even
those with a “permanent” job!) because of budget re-
strictions. As written in the petition, although evolu-
tionary biology will be heavily cut, molecular biology
will be spared. This is part of an alarming national
trend. Unfortunately, with growing creationism in Eu-
rope, and budget cuttings elsewhere (including, alas!
France) I am afraid the Dutch trend will soon become
international.
Please react ASAP !
Isabelle Olivieri President of the European Society for
Evolutionary Biology 2007-2009
Universit´ e Montpellier 2, cc 65 Institut des Sciences de
l’Evolution (ISEM, UMR 5554) Place Eug` ene Bataillon
34095 Montpellier cedex 05 Tel. 33 (0)4 67 14 37 50 Fax
33 (0)4 67 14 36 22 Portable 33 (0)6 86 43 19 45
Isabelle Olivieri <Isabelle.Olivieri@univ-montp2.fr >Question on Kingroup Software
Dear all,
I am having problems since last Monday for accessing
the Kingroup software webpage at www.kingroup.org .
Does anyone knows if has it been moving to another
address?
Thank you very much, Sincerely
Carolina I. Mi˜ no, MSc. Doctoral Student Laborat´ orio
de Gen´ etica de Aves Departamento de Gen´ etica e
Evolu¸ c˜ ao Universidade Federal de S˜ ao Carlos Rodovia
Washington Luis km 235 SP-310 CEP: 13565-905 Mon-
jolinho. S˜ ao Carlos,SP, Brazil. Phone number: +55 16
3351 8391 (Work) Fax: +55 16 3351 8377 Mobile: +55
16 91190380
Carolina Minio <carolinaianido@yahoo.com.ar >
Redimensioned BIOSYS-2 software
Hi All
Many thanks to the EvolDir community for providing
me with the BIOSYS-2 software following my previ-
ous post. As it happens, my version was not corrupt
and merely needed to be redimensioned and recom-
piled. However, not knowing the second thing about
compiling, and unable to ﬁnd the suggested compiler
(Microsoft FORTRAN Compiler 5.1) or a living FOR-
TRAN expert, I have spent two months struggling with
it. Would anyone perhaps have a version of BIOSYS-2
that has already been redimensioned (essentially I need
the number of alleles it can handle to be increased from
10 to 22)? Appreciate anyone’s help (or a borrowed
copy of the compiler).
Many thanks!
Gavin
South African Institute for Aquatic Biodiversity Pri-
vate Bag 1015 Grahamstown 6140 South Africa
Tel: +27 (0)46 603 5843 Fax: +27 (0)46 622 2403
http://www.saiab.ac.za Alternative e-mail:
gavingouws@gmail.com <mailto:gavingouws@gmail.com >February 1, 2009 EvolDir 69
Gavin Gouws <g.gouws@saiab.ac.za >
Samova question
Dear all,
I have a question about SAMOVA analysis. A reviewer
worries about the use of SAMOVA that I have recently
performed in a submitted paper. The classical phylo-
genetic analysis splits my dataset into well-supported
distinct clades that are geographically strictly parap-
atric. In order to investigate whether each clade may
be further subdivided into distinct geographical groups
(that would not be well supported in the phylogenetic
tree), I have conducted independant SAMOVAs within
each clade.
Although this approach has been previously reported
in the literature, it is inaccurate according to my re-
viewer. I can not follow his point, and wonder if I’m
really wrong. Note that running a SAMOVA on the
entire dataset only allows me to retrieve the groups al-
ready found with the phylogenetic analyses (i.e major
clades), and so is of limited interest for my purpose.
I would be very grateful for comments or suggestions
about this question.
Many thanks for your attention,
Carine Brouat brouat@mpl.ird.fr
– Carine Brouat Centre de Biologie et Gestion des Pop-
ulations Campus International de Baillarguet CS 30016
34988 Montferrier sur Lez Cedex Tel : (33) 4 99 62 33
09 (lab) / (33) 4 90 16 03 43 (pers.) Fax : (33) 4 99 62
33 45
Carine Brouat <brouat@mpl.ird.fr >
Sequence alignment and translation
answers
A number of people wanted to see the responses I got
in looking for software that can translate an alignment
into amino acids, align based on on amino acids, and
back translate to the original DNA sequences. Two
PC - only programs seems the most commonly used,
MEGA and BioEdit but a number of other programswere also suggested. here they are....
MEGA - PC and linux BioEdit -PC RevTrans
http://www.cbs.dtu.dk/services/RevTrans/ Ge-
nious - there is a freeware version, but I don’t
know yet whether the freeware version includes this
function. DAMBE -PC and LInux PAL2NAL
http://coot.embl.de/pal2nal/ Bioperl toolkit
TransAlign http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-
2105/6/156 aa2dna http://www.bio.psu.edu/-
People/Faculty/Nei/Lab/software.htm Biopython
MacClade DNAstar (not free) Prank/ Prankster:
http://www.ebi.ac.uk/goldman-srv/prank SeaV-
iew http://pbil.univ-lyon1.fr/software/seaview.html
Christopher Balakrishnan Institute for Genomic
Biology University of Illinois phone: 617-905-2910
https://netﬁles.uiuc.edu/cbala/www/ Christopher
Balakrishnan <cbala@igb.uiuc.edu >
Sequence alignment and translation
question
Dear EvolDir Readers,
I am looking for something which I am sure must exist,
but I am having trouble ﬁnding:
I am looking for software with which I can take DNA se-
quences (from multiple taxa), translate them to amino
acids, conduct amino acid sequence alignment (using
Clustal and/or other), and then back- translate to the
original DNA sequences (while maintaining the align-
ment).
Ideally this software would run on a mac.... I am not
working with particularly huge ﬁles ( ~1 to 5 kb per seq,
~10 - 20 taxa)
It seems to me that programs like CLC Sequence
Viewer, and eBiox can translate into amino acid and do
alignment, but they do not keep the underlying DNA
sequences, so you cannot back translate to the original
sequences (you can translate back to random or most
frequent codons in CLC).
The ancient and beloved Se-Al allows you to toggle eas-
ily between DNA and amino acid, but doesn’t have any
alignment algorithms.
Any ideas for a good software package?
Thanks!
Chris70 EvolDir February 1, 2009
Christopher Balakrishnan Institute for Ge-
nomic Biology University of Illinois phone:
617-905-2910 cbala@igb.uiuc.edu https://-
netﬁles.uiuc.edu/cbala/www/ Christopher Bal-
akrishnan <cbala@igb.uiuc.edu >
Software DAMBE on OSX
Dear All,
I have added instructions on how to install and run
DAMBE on Macintosh/Linux computers. See instruc-
tions at
http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca/dambe.asp Best Xuhua
Dr. Xuhua Xia CAREG and Biology Department
University of Ottawa 30 Marie Curie, P.O. Box 450,
Station A Ottawa, Ontario Canada K1N 6N5 Tel:
(613) 562-5800 ext 6886 Fax: (613) 562-5486 URL:
http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca Xuhua.Xia@uottawa.ca
Xuhua.Xia@uottawa.ca
Software GLMM R package
Dear Evoldir members,
I’ve written a GLMM package for R that is
now downloadable ( http://cran.r-project.org/web/-
packages/MCMCglmm/index.html ).
It ﬁts standard mixed models to several types of distri-
bution (Gaussian, Poisson, Exponential, Binary, Bino-
mial, Multinomial, Zero- inﬂated Poisson) More than
one response variable can be modeled at the same time
and these can come from diﬀerent distributions. Pedi-
grees and Phylogenies can be ﬁtted as random eﬀects
as in “animal models” and the comparative method.
Meta-analysis models can be ﬁtted (even in conjunc-
tion with other terms, e.g. a phylogeny)
It uses MCMC, as REML/ML procedures are not very
robust for ﬁtting GLMM’s. However, I’ve kept it simple
to use and made it fast.
There are some other functions in the package for ma-
trix comparisons, matrix visualisation, tensor analysis,
random number generators on pedigrees/phylogenies +
more.Thanks,
Jarrod
Jarrod Hadﬁeld <j.hadﬁeld@ed.ac.uk >
Software IDEA 2 4 4
Dear Evoldir members,
A new version of IDEA (Interactive Display for Evo-
lutionary Analyses) has been released to sourceForge
(http://ideanalyses.sourceforge.net/main.html )
IDEA (Interactive Display for Evolutionary Analyses)
is a graphical interface for PAML (Yang, Z., 1997),
a popular package for conducting molecular evolu-
tion analyses on phylogenies and associated sequences.
IDEA1s organized parameter-entry interface for codeml
and baseml prevents common errors and adds op-
tions to reconstruct phylogenetic trees using PHYLIP
(Felsenstein, J., 1989) and to combine the results of re-
peated analyses for increased accuracy. Many datasets
may be analyzed in parallel. IDEA1s output display
for codeml analyses of sites-based evolutionary models
features an interactive tabular summary of results, visu-
alizations of selective pressure along genes, interactive
histograms and depictions of phylogenetic trees with
branch lengths proportional to the estimated number
of nucleotide substitutions.
Release Name: IDEA 2.4.4
Updates in the new version: - support of PAML 4.1; -
ability to browse for visualization errors within IDEA;
- ﬁxes a bug that prevented the visualization of se-
lective constraints along a gene (sites-based analyses)
when many omega values were excessively high; - ﬁxes
a bug that omitted the LRT results for single-dataset
analyses.
IDEA has been published in BMC Bioinformat-
icshttp://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2105/9/524
Best regards, Joana
Joana C. Silva, Ph.D. Assistant Professor
Institute for Genome Sciences & Dept Microbiology and
Immunology University of Maryland School of Medicine
BioPark II, Room 645 801 W. Baltimore St. Baltimore,
MD 21201
jcsilva@som.umaryland.edu Ph:410.706.6721
Fax:410.706.6777February 1, 2009 EvolDir 71
Translation and alignment answers 2
Thanks again for all the responses!
A few more came in that I did not list on that previ-
ous message. Again, these are software that can trans-
late DNA alignments to amino acids, conduct sequence
alignments (Clustal or other), and then back- translate
to the original DNA sequences while maintaining the
alignment.
Matlab, MBEToolbox (Matlab toolbox for Molecular
Biology & Evolution) http://www.bioinformatics.org/-
mbetoolbox/ Hyphy http://www.hyphy.org/ Tran-
lator X http://homepage.mac.com/maxtelford/-
FileSharing9.html Christopher Balakrishnan Institute
for Genomic Biology University of Illinois phone:
617-905-2910 https://netﬁles.uiuc.edu/cbala/www/
Christopher Balakrishnan <cbala@igb.uiuc.edu >
UArkansas
UndergradResearchExperience
REU Summer Research Program in the Arkansas
Ozarks Assessment and Sustainable Management of
Ecosystem Services
The University of Arkansas is conducting a Research
Experience for Undergraduates (NSF/REU) during
summer of 2009 for up to 15 undergraduates who have
completed at least 3 semesters of coursework. The fo-
cus of this REU is on ﬁeld-based research on ecologi-
cal services, and each student will work with a faculty
mentor on issues ranging from water quality to ecology
of birds and black bears in the Ozarks. This program
works primarily with federally recognized Native Amer-
ican tribes and Native American students. However,
all other interested students are encouraged to apply.
This 10-week program consists of a one-week immer-
sion course on ﬁeld methods, 8 weeks of intensive Re-
search Experience and a one week Data Analysis and
Symposia. Room and board are included at the Uni-
versity of Arkansas, as well as a $400 weekly stipend
and a travel allowance.
University of Arkansas REU Program: 10-week sum-mer program, 1 June to 7 August 2009 Stipend $4000,
onsite room and board, round-trip travel costs Detailed
Program Information: www.ecoreu.uark.edu/ Applica-
tions due: February 15, 2009
For applications and more information, contact:
Heather Sandefur 207 Engineering Hall University of
Arkansas Fayetteville, AR 72701 ofc: 479.575.7585
email: hsandef@uark.edu
Questions about this program can also be directed to
Dr. Marty Matlock (mmatlock@uark.edu) or Dr. Kim-
berly Smith (kgsmith@uark.edu).
wetges@uark.edu
UK Systematics ResearchFunding
Collaborative Scheme for Systematics Research
(CoSyst) Application deadline: 15 March 2009
A call for the third round of the BBSRC Collabora-
tive Scheme for Systematics Research (CoSyst) is an-
nounced. The initiative is intended to support prelim-
inary collaborative research that will form the basis of
novel responsive mode proposals to UK Research Coun-
cils, with a substantial systematics component. The
scheme is administered by The Linnean Society and
the Systematics Association.
NOTE: Collaborations involving non-UK-based part-
ners are not eligible for this scheme.
Further information and application forms are avail-
able from the websites of the Linnean Society : http:/-
/www.linnean.org/index.php?id=335 and the Sys-
tematics Association http://www.systass.org/awards/-
cosyst.shtml .
“Amanda Read (SO)” <Amanda.Read@bbsrc.ac.uk >
UMinnesota Summer undergraduate
research
Dear Undergraduate Student,
I write to invite you to apply for our summer undergrad-
uate research program in Risk Analysis for Introduced72 EvolDir February 1, 2009
Species and Genotypes at the University of Minnesota.
Please see our website at: isg-igert.umn.edu.
This program provides support and unique opportu-
nities for undergraduate students. We strongly value
a diverse learning environment and encourage applica-
tions from persons of color. Applicants must be US
citizens or permanent residents.
Many pressing questions currently face the scien-
tiﬁc and policy communities regarding introduced
species and genotypes. I invite you to review
some of the critical research projects that you
could help with as a summer researcher at: isg-
igert.umn.edu/faculty/full faculty info.htm.
This is a wonderful opportunity for you to prepare for
graduate school or to polish your skills in preparation
for a career in environmental science or policy. If you
plan to graduate later than the summer of 2009 you are
qualiﬁed to apply.
The program provides: * Summer stipend of $4500 for
the 10-week program * Assistance for housing in the
Twin Cities * Assistance for travel * Cutting-edge re-
search experiences on invasive species and GMOs * An
opportunity to present the results of your research to
other scientists * Training in risk analysis * Collabora-
tive research opportunities
To learn more about this summer opportunity and
how to apply please visit our website at: isg-
igert.umn.edu/summer undergrads
Applications are due 15 February 2009. Apply to the
Life Sciences Summer Undergraduate Research Pro-
grams directly at: http://www.cbs.umn.edu/main/-
summer research/ApplInstr.html Be sure to indicate
you are applying to the IGERT: Risk analysis for intro-
duced species and genotypes program.
If you have questions contact me (Dr. Ray Newman
at RNewman@umn.edu) or Dr. Susan Solarz at the
IGERT Program (isgigert@umn.edu).
Our program is sponsored by the National Science
Foundation as a part of their Integrative Graduate Ed-
ucation and Research Traineeship ( www.igert.org ) pro-
gram. IGERT trains scientists and policy workers to
address the global questions of the future.
Please do not hesitate to contact me or Susan for fur-
ther information or to chat about our summer program
for undergraduate students.
All the best, Ray Newman –
Ray Newman, Prof. Fisheries Director of Graduate
Studies, Fisheries, Wildlife & CB Water Resources Sci-
ence 120 Hodson Hall Proj. Dir., ISG-IGERT Uni-versity of Minnesota Internet: RNewman@umn.edu
1980 Folwell Ave. Phone: (612) 625-5704 St.
Paul, MN 55108-6124 FAX: (612) 625-5299 http:/-
/fwcb.cfans.umn.edu/personnel/faculty/newman.php
Le hasard ne favorise que les esprits prepares Chance
favors only the prepared mind -Pasteur
Ruth Shaw <rshaw@superb.ecology.umn.edu >
Volunteer Tit Evolution
RESEARCH ASSISTANTS NEEDED
SPRING/SUMMER 2009
We are currently looking to recruit enthusiastic volun-
teers to work on a research project investigating indi-
vidual variation in steroid hormones and ﬁtness in a
population of blue tits. Research will be conducted in
stunning oak woodland on the banks of Loch Lomond,
Scotland, UK.
Positions are available between April-June 2009. Al-
though starting and ending dates are ﬂexible, you
must be available to work for at least 2 weeks.
You will be working as part of a team with Dr
Kathryn Arnold and Dr Britt Heidinger of the Uni-
versity of Glasgow ( www.gla.ac.uk:443//ibls/staﬀ/-
staﬀ.php?who=PGe ˜ Pn ). This is a great opportu-
nity to gain valuable experience in several ﬁeld re-
search techniques including: nest box monitoring, mea-
suring eggs and nestlings, invertebrate sampling and
behavioural observations. Basic living costs will be
covered and accommodation during ﬁeldwork will be
provided at the University of Glasgow ﬁeld station,
SCENE, within Loch Lomond National Park ( http:/-
/www.gla.ac.uk/departments/scene/ ).
Requirements: A strong interest in animal ecology and
behaviour. Applicants must be reasonably ﬁt and able
to climb ladders (for ﬁeldwork). Preference will be
given to candidates with a background in biological sci-
ences and experience handling birds but this is not es-
sential.
General inquires and formal applications should
be sent to: Lindsay Henderson (E-mail:
l.henderson.1@research.gla.ac.uk). Applications
must include: a CV, cover letter and two referees (aca-
demic or ﬁeld biology related V with e-mail addresses).
Be sure to indicate the dates that you are available.
If it is not possible to send applications via email,
please send them by post to: Lindsay Henderson,February 1, 2009 EvolDir 73
Division of Environmental and Evolutionary Biology,
Graham Kerr Building, University of Glasgow, G12
8QQ Scotland, UK
Closing date: Friday 20th March.Lindsay Henderson Division of Ecology and Evolution-
ary Biology, Faculty of Biomedical and Life Sciences,
Graham Kerr Building, University of Glasgow, Glas-
gow G12 8QQ, UK
Lindsay Hendenson <9904916h@student.gla.ac.uk >
PostDocs
ARS Delaware HostRangeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
CalTech SelﬁshGeneticElements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
ColoradoStateU PlantEvolution and Genomics . . . . 74
CornellU CanineEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Duesseldorf 2 GenomeEvolutionaryNetworks . . . . . . . 75
EmoryU HostParasite . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Frankfurt Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
IFREMER France TheoreticalGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
ImperialCollege 3 Speciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
ImperialCollegeLondon StatisticalPopGenetics . . . . . 79
Marine DNA Barcodes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Muenster Germany HostParasiteCoevolution . . . . . . 80
Netherlands Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
UAntwerp damselﬂyEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
UBasel EvoltuionaryGenomics EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . 82UBasel PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
UBritishColumbia Marine Protist Diversity . . . . . . . . 83
UCaliforniaBerkeley SexChromosomes . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
UFrankfurt ModelSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
UGeneva PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
UJyvaskyla SpeciesInteractions PhDandPostdoc . . . 85
UMaryland EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
UOviedo EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
Uppsala EvolutionComplexTraits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
UTennessee EvolutionaryTheory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
UToronto BehaviouralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
UToronto EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
Vienna EvolutionGeneExpression . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
ARS Delaware HostRangeEvolution
POST-DOCTORAL RESEARCH ON DYNAMIC
HOST RANGE IN PARASITOIDS
As part of a project on the evolution of host range in
parasitic Hymenoptera, we are studying the behavioral
plasticity of host range in generalists versus specialists
that are quite closely related (Heraty et al. 2007. Mol
Biol Evol 45: 480-493). In this research, we plan to de-
termine whether parasitoids with diﬀerent host ranges
are more likely to accept low-quality species of hosts
when their physiological state (i.e., age, egg load, and
nutritional status) would suggest that they are unlikely
to be able to lay all of their eggs.QUALIFICATIONS: Ph.D. in evolutionary ecology
or related subject. Experience with insect para-
sitoids desirable. LOCATION: USDA-ARS, Newark,
Delaware SALARY: $47,810 per year plus beneﬁts DU-
RATION: 1 year with possibility of extension CON-
TACT: Dr. Keith Hopper; 302-731-7330 ext 238;
Keith.Hopper@ars.usda.gov ARS is an equal opportu-
nity employer.
Keith R. Hopper, PhD USDA-ARS-BIIR, 501 South
Chapel St., Newark, DE 19713; phone 302-731-7330
x238; fax 302-737-6780; keith.hopper@ars.usda.gov
khopper@udel.edu
CalTech SelﬁshGeneticElements74 EvolDir February 1, 2009
Mosquitoes are essential vectors for major human dis-
eases such as dengue, yellow fever and malaria. An
attractive approach to suppressing these diseases in-
volves replacing the wild pest population with modi-
ﬁed counterparts unable to transmit disease (popula-
tion replacement). An essential component of such a
strategy involves the use of a genetic drive mechanism
able to promote the spread of genes conferring disease
resistance, even if their presence carries a ﬁtness cost.
We have developed a synthetic selﬁsh genetic element
(Medea) that is able to drive population replacement in
Drosophila [Chen et al., (2007) A synthetic maternal-
eﬀect selﬁsh genetic element drives population replace-
ment in Drosophila. Science. 316: 597-600].
Postdoctoral positions are available to study the ba-
sic biology of microRNAs, cell death, spermatogenesis
and other developmental pathways in Drosophila and
mosquitoes, which are tools necessary for the devel-
opment of Medea and other selﬁsh genetic elements.
We are also interested in the development of novel self-
ish genetic elements able to bring about local popu-
lation elimination, as well as methods for engineering
reproductive isolation. Population genetic engineering
is an exciting new research area with many opportuni-
ties. Postdoctoral candidates should hold recent Ph.D.
and/or M.D. degrees.
We (http://www.its.caltech.edu/˜haylab/ ) are an ener-
getic and well- funded team with modern lab space lo-
cated in sunny Pasadena. We seek to expand our group
with the addition of highly motivated candidates with
experience in molecular and population genetics, cell
biology, developmental biology and modeling. Close in-
teractions with other labs at Caltech and in the South-
ern California area (UCLA, UC Irvine, UC Riverside
and USC) make the environment collegial and stimu-
lating.
Contact:
Bruce A. Hay Professor Division of Biology, MC 156-29
California Institute of Technology 1200 East California
Boulevard Pasadena, CA 91125
haybruce@caltech.edu haybruce@caltech.edu
ColoradoStateU PlantEvolution and
Genomics
Postdoctoral Associate in Rice Evolution and Ge-
nomics, Fort Collins, ColoradoA postdoctoral position is available at Colorado State
University. The successful applicant will work in the
Plant Evolutionary Genetics Lab of Dr. John McKay
(www.mckaylab.colostate.edu ). We are looking for a
highly motivated individual with a PhD in Evolution,
Plant Physiology or Molecular Genomics and with the
demonstrated ability to carry out outstanding research
in Plant Genetics and Physiology. Preference will be
given to candidates with experience with training and
experience in Statistical Genomics/Bioinformatics and
Quantitative Genetics. The successful applicant will
interact and work collaboratively with others including
Drs. Jan Leach and Dan Bush and their labs at Col-
orado State and Dr. Hei Leung and our collaborators
at IRRI.
This Postdoctoral position is part of a collaboration to
explore the evolution and genetic basis plant growth
and physiology in rice. The goal of the project is to
identify and physiologically characterize genes under-
lying naturally-occurring variation in growth rates and
biomass production in rice using genome-wide molecu-
lar techniques and whole-plant physiology.
The position is available summer 2009, but the start is
ﬂexible to some degree. Salary and beneﬁts are com-
petitive, and CSU is an excellent academic environ-
ment for the study of plant biology. Our lab group
has excellent interactions with colleagues in bioinfor-
matics, plant physiology, ecology, evolutionary genetics
and molecular biology. Fort Collins is located on the
Front Range of the Rockies and is ranked highly among
great places to live.
If you are interested in this position, please send a let-
ter of interest and a C.V. in pdf format via e-mail to
jkmckay@colostate.edu
“McKay,John” <John.McKay@ColoState.EDU >
CornellU
CanineEvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoctoral position in canine evolutionary genomics
at Cornell University
Seeking qualiﬁed applicants for a post-doctoral position
with Nate Sutter in the College of Veterinary Medicine
at Cornell University (Ithaca, New York). The research
focuses on the evolution of the domestic dog genome,
the dog’s rapid acquisition of extreme phenotypic di-
versity, and the genetics of body size.February 1, 2009 EvolDir 75
While the dog is our primary object of study due to
the wealth of selected inbred lines that vary 50 fold in
mass, we are also investigating morphologic diversity
in the horse. In a related project, we are exploring the
pattern of retrotransposon insertions in the dog genome
and relating those insertion mutations to traits.
Candidates who wish to combine computational and
bioinformatic approaches with experimental biology are
highly encouraged to apply. The ideal candidate will
hold a Ph.D. and have a record of productive research in
molecular genetics or possibly statistical genetics, com-
putational biology or a related ﬁeld. Programming and
database experience (perl, SQL, etc.) is desirable but
not required.
Cornell’s College of Veterinary Medicine is a highly
stimulating research environment that features expert
veterinary specialist colleagues, a busy vet hospital, and
basic and clinically focused research labs. Ithaca is a
small town situated in the heart of the “ﬁnger lakes”
wine and tourism region of upstate New York. It has
great schools and innumerable waterfalls and hiking
trails within easy driving distances.
Interested applicants should submit an electronic ver-
sion of their CV, the names and contact informa-
tion for three references, and a brief cover letter de-
scribing their qualiﬁcations and relevant experience to
nbs39@cornell.edu. The position is for two years and is
available immediately.
Nate Sutter Assistant Professor of Medical Genetics
Cornell University nbs39@cornell.edu
Nathan Sutter <nbs39@cornell.edu >
Duesseldorf 2
GenomeEvolutionaryNetworks
Duesseldorf.GenomeEvolutionaryNetworks.2postdocs
The Institute of Botany III, University of D¨ usseldorf,
laboratory of Dr. William Martin, is currently seeking
to ﬁll two full-time postdoctoral positions to study the
application of networks in genome evolution.
The Institute oﬀers a modern and supportive work-
ing environment with solid funding and has re-
cently received an Advanced Grant from the Euro-
pean Research Council to investigate the properties
and utility of networks in genome evolution, speciﬁ-
cally as it applies to non-treelike processes of micro-bial evolution, lateral gene transfer among prokary-
otes and endosymbiosis among eukaryotes in partic-
ular. Information about our ongoing research ac-
tivities can be found at http://www.molevol.de/lab/-
publications.html . 1. Prokaryotes. Postdoctoral po-
sition (biologist/bioinformatician/computer scientist;
three years with possibility of extension for additional
two years). Candidates should have a PhD in Mathe-
matics or Informatics with a good working knowledge
of biology or a PhD in Biology with a good working
knowledge of computer science (programming skills).
Experience with networks, experience using MatLab
or related tools and ideally a basic working knowledge
of genome biology and will be advantageous. Salary
is the standard for university postdoctoral researchers
according to E14, the position can be ﬁlled immedi-
ately. The project aims to investigate modularity in
prokaryote gene sharing patterns, hierarchical manifes-
tations thereof, and network attributes of prokaryote
genome evolution at various taxonomic levels (including
strains). Candidates should be able to work indepen-
dently and to should show an interest in co-supervision
of PhD students.
2. Eukaryotes. Postdoctoral position (biolo-
gist/bioinformatician/computer scientist; three years
with possibility of extension for additional two years).
Candidates should have a PhD in Mathematics or Infor-
matics with a good working knowledge of biology or a
PhD in Biology with a good working knowledge of com-
puter science (programming skills). Experience with
networks, experience using MatLab or related tools
and ideally a basic working knowledge of genome bi-
ology and will be advantageous, as will familiarity with
genome sequences and the role of endosymbiosis in eu-
karyote evolution. Salary is the standard for university
postdoctoral researchers according to E14, the position
can be ﬁlled immediately. The project aims to iden-
tify and investigate the nature of gene sharing patterns
between prokaryotes and eukaryotes using network ap-
proaches, and the network properties of the data. Can-
didates should be able to work independently and to
should show an interest in co-supervision of PhD stu-
dents.
Interested candidates should send their application as
a single pdf ﬁle including c.v. with publication list
and contact details of two potential references to Prof.
William Martin (w.martin@uni-duesseldorf.de). Initial
deadline for applications is March 31 but appilications
will be accepted until both positions are ﬁlled.
– Prof. Dr. William Martin Institut fuer Botanik
III Heinrich-Heine Universitaet Duesseldorf Universi-
taetsstr. 1 40225 Duesseldorf76 EvolDir February 1, 2009
Germany
Tel : ++49-211-811-3011 Fax : ++49-211-811-
3554 e-mail : w.martin@uni-duesseldorf.de web :
http://www.molevol.de W.Martin@uni-duesseldorf.de
W.Martin@uni-duesseldorf.de
EmoryU HostParasite
Postdoc: Emory University, Host-parasite interactions
Post-Doctoral Position, Host-parasite interactions
Emory University, Atlanta, GA USA Laboratories of
Drs. Jacobus de Roode and Nicole Gerardo
A postdoctoral position is available for research on the
coevolutionary interactions between monarch butter-
ﬂies, their parasites and their larval host plants. The
project would focus on identifying the molecular basis
of host resistance to parasitism, and involve a combi-
nation of functional genomics, experiments and ﬁeld-
work. The postdoc would assemble sequences derived
from 454 sequencing of cDNA, annotate genes using ex-
isting genome databases of insects and protozoan par-
asites, and implement statistical analyses to compare
the transcriptome of infected and uninfected individu-
als. He/she would also carry out experiments to study
the expression of candidate resistance genes in infected
and uninfected monarchs, and in monarchs reared on
diﬀerent host plant species. Additional projects may
focus on the population genetics and co-phylogenies of
monarchs and their parasites in natural populations.
This is a joint project between the laboratories of
Jacobus de Roode and Nicole Gerardo. Both labs
combine ﬁeld work, experimentation and molecular ge-
netics to study host-parasite coevolution, and address
questions related to virulence evolution, mutualism,
and the molecular evolution of host resistance. The
labs are part of Emory’s Population Biology, Ecology
and Evolution program, which has a strong focus
on host-parasite interactions and molecular genetics.
For more information on the labs and program, see:
http://www.biology.emory.edu/research/deRoode/
http://www.biology.emory.edu/research/Gerardo/
www.biomed.emory.edu/PROGRAM SITES/PBEE/
Candidates must have a strong background in bioinfor-
matics, with emphasis in functional genomics and gene
annotation, and should have an interest in evolutionary
biology and host-parasite interactions. The postdoc is
also expected to take part in the training of graduate
and undergraduate students.The position will be available for 1 year initially, with
the possibility of a 1-2 year extension. Salary will be
based on experience and will follow NIH guidelines;
beneﬁts will be provided. Applications should be sent
by 6 February 2009 to jderood@emory.edu, and be ac-
companied by a short research statement, a CV and
the names of 3 referees. The postdoc would ideally
start no later than April 2009, but the starting date is
negotiable.
***This job is a readvertisement to extend the applica-
tion deadline; if you have already applied for it, there is
no need to reapply; your application will be considered
after the 6 Feb deadline.***
For more information, please contact Jacobus de Roode
on jderood@emory.edu or 404 727 2340.
jderood@emory.edu jderood@emory.edu
Frankfurt Biodiversity
The Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre (BiK-
F) has recently been founded by the Sencken-
berg Gesellschaft f¨ ur Naturforschung, the Goethe-
Universit¨ at Frankfurt am Main, and additional part-
ners. It is funded by the Federal State of Hesse through
its Initiative for the Development of Scientiﬁc and Eco-
nomic Excellence (LOEWE). The mission of the Centre
is to carry out internationally outstanding research on
the interactions of biodiversity and climate change at
the organism level. The Project Area A “Evolution and
Climate” invites applications for the position of a
PostDoc Position Model Selection PG A1 (Ref. #A21)
BAT IIa
The applicant will be responsible to infer the relation-
ship between major climatic events and cladogenesis of
selected taxa. Phylogenetic hypotheses will be tested
by model selection methods for a correlation between
climatic changes and speciation/radiation events. Par-
ticipation in university teaching is possible, while the
acquisition of external research funding is highly de-
sired. The applicant should hold an earned Ph.D. in
biology, with a strong background in statistical phy-
logenetics. She or he should already have experience
with phylogenetic inference and should be interested in
linking evolutionary and climate change issues. Prac-
tical experience in molecular work is desired, but not
mandatory. Applicants should have a strong publica-
tion record. Very good written and oral English lan-February 1, 2009 EvolDir 77
guage skills, willingness to learn at least basic German
and interest in joining a multidisciplinary research team
are required, as well as proven organizing abilities.
Salary and beneﬁts are according to a public service
position in Germany (BAT IIa).
The Research Centre BiK-F advocates gender equal-
ity. Women are therefore strongly encouraged to apply.
Equally qualiﬁed severely handicapped applicants will
be given preference.
The contract shall start as soon as possible and will
be restricted to 24 months. Review of the application
starts on February 1st 2009 and will continue until the
position is ﬁlled. The duty station will be Frankfurt am
Main, Germany.
Please send your application by mail or e-mail, includ-
ing a detailed CV, 3 references, a list of publications
and up to ﬁve selected re/e-prints to Prof. Dr. Dr.
h.c. V. Mosbrugger, Scientiﬁc Coordinator Biodiver-
sity and Climate Research Centre, Senckenberganlage
25, D-60325 Frankfurt am Main, Germany. E-mail
to Service and Finances: recruiting@senckenberg.de.
For enquiries about the position and the contract con-
ditions please write to Prof. Dr. B. Stribrny (E-
mail: bernhard.stribrny@senckenberg.de) and for sci-
entiﬁc enquiries to Prof. Dr. Annette Klussmann-
Kolb (E-mail: Klussmann-Kolb@bio.uni-frankfurt.de)
or PD Dr. M. Pfenninger (E-mail: pfenninger@bio.uni-
frankfurt.de).
Ursula Maurer M.A. Wissenschaftliches Koordi-
nationsb¨ uro LOEWE - Biodiversit¨ at und Klima
Forschungszentrum BiK-F Besucheradresse: Georg-
Voigt-Straße 16 Postadresse: Senckenberganlage 25 D-
60325 Frankfurt am Main
Tel.: 069-7542-1819 Fax: 069-7542-7904 info-bik-
f@senckenberg.de www.senckenberg.de/bik-f
Ursula Maurer <Ursula.Maurer@senckenberg.de >
IFREMER France
TheoreticalGenetics
Postdoctoral position in theoretical genetics at the
French Institute of Research for the Exploitation of the
Sea (IFREMER), Port-en-Bessin, France
A postdoctoral position is available at the Fisheries
Unit of the French Institute for the Exploitation of
the Sea (IFREMER, Port-en-Bessin, France). The suc-cessful applicant will be expected to set up new meth-
ods to assess temporal quantitative genetic diﬀerentia-
tion within wild exploited populations by: (i) develop-
ping statistical methods to estimate temporal quantita-
tive genetic diﬀerentiation within natural populations
(temporal Qst) based on regressing (generalized linear
mixed models) temporal phenotypic diﬀerentiation on
temporal diﬀerentiation at neutral markers (temporal
Fst) according to the same principle as already exist-
ing methods for spatial diﬀerentiation (Ritland, 2000);
(ii) extending this method to include environmental co-
variates as potentially responsible for a phenotypically
plastic component in temporal phenotypic diﬀerentia-
tion; and (iii) applying the developed methods to two
case studies: growth and maturation of North sea and
Channel cod and sole.
The position is co-funded by the European Research
Network FinE, Fisheries-induced Evolution ( http:/-
/www.iiasa.ac.at/Research/EEP/FinE/Home.html )
and IFREMER. The FinE project is set up to inves-
tigate the prevalence of ﬁsheries-induced evolutionary
changes in life-history traits of exploited ﬁsh stocks
in European and North American waters. The aims
are to unravel the underlying mechanisms of changes
ranging from the phenotypic to the genetic level, to
evaluate their consequences on population and ﬁsheries
dynamics, and to provide recommendations for evo-
lutionarily enlightened management. This objective
necessitates the development and application of novel
methodological tools for investigating ﬁeld data both
at phenotypic and genetic levels, together with the
setup of relevant experiments on model species and the
careful construction of theoretical models suitable for
complementing ﬁeld data analyses and for evaluating
managerial options. More precisely, the present posi-
tion is intimately related to Task 2.4 of WorkPackage
2 on Genetic analysis ( http://www.iiasa.ac.at/-
Research/EEP/FinE/Tasks.html#wp2 ). The project
is coordinated by the International Institute for
Applied Systems Analysis (Laxenburg, Austria) and
relies on 18 teams spread in 15 European countries and
Canada.
Applicants should have a PhD in theoretical popula-
tion/quantitative genetics or in theoretical evolutionary
ecology with a strong background in modelling and/or
theoretical statistics. Some knowledge in life history
theory and/or ﬁsh ecology and/or ﬁsheries would be an
advantage. According to IFREMERs fellowship rules,
applicants must be less than 35 years old on Decem-
ber the 31st, 2008, own their PhD since less than 36
months and should not have been employed as post-
doctoral fellow by IFREMER before. The work will
be conducted within the Fisheries Unit (IFREMER,78 EvolDir February 1, 2009
Port-en-Bessin, France) in collaboration with the two
teams involved in the molecular genetic work on the
two case studies: the Laboratory of Aquatic Ecology
(Prof. F. Volckaert and Dr. G. Maes, Catholic Univer-
sity of Leuven, Leuven, Belgium) for sole and the Popu-
lation Genetic Group (Dr. E. E. Nielsen, National Insti-
tute of Aquatic Resources, Technical University of Den-
mark, Silkeborg, Denmark) ( http://www.iiasa.ac.at/-
Research/EEP/FinE/Teams.html ). The position is for
a duration of 18 months with a monthly gross salary of
around 2 600 .
IFREMER ( www.ifremer.fr/anglais/ ) is a national re-
search institute aﬃliated with the Ministry of Educa-
tion, Research and Technologies, the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Fisheries, the Ministry of Environment and
Sustainable Development, and the Ministry of Equip-
ment, Transport, and Housing. The Institute conducts
research in all ﬁelds of marine science among which ﬁsh-
eries and aquaculture sciences and the management of
marine living resources. The Institute has about 1700
employees located in 24 marine stations distributed
along the French coastline. The Fisheries Unit in Port-
en-Bessin is part of a marine station located on the
coast of the English Channel at 30 km from Caen, Nor-
mandy, France. It consists of about 35 persons among
whom 15 senior researchers and 15 technicians in ma-
rine and ﬁsheries science. Normandy is one of the most
renowned regions in France for its food and its sur-
roundings, which oﬀers numerous opportunities for out-
door activities both on the seaside and inland. Caen is
a lively town located only 2 hours away from Paris by
train or car.
For more information please contact Bruno Ernande by
email
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
ImperialCollege 3 Speciation
3 x Postdoc Research Associates in Speciation Ge-
nomics/Biology and Biodiversity
(Refs: NS2009006JT, NS2009007JT and
NS2009008JT)
Imperial College London Division of Biology Depart-ment of Life Sciences Silwood Park Campus
Salary: GBP 26,580 - 38,730 p.a.
This is an exciting opportunity for three Research As-
sociates with an interest in Speciation. The success-
ful candidates will carry out cutting edge research in-
vestigating the mechanisms of speciation in - but not
restricted to - plants on islands (e.g. Lord Howe
Island, Australia, see Nature 441:210). You must
have a PhD or equivalent qualiﬁcation in biodiver-
sity,evolution, ecology, genetics or a closely related dis-
cipline.
The successful candidates will have solid backgrounds
in molecular evolution, population genetics and ge-
nomics, statistics and/or modelling with a strong in-
terest in evolutionary biology and biodiversity. The
posts are funded for 2-3 years by a European Re-
search Council Advanced Grant and the Royal So-
ciety. The successful candidates will work closely
with Dr Vincent Savolainen and his research group,
seehttp://www3.imperial.ac.uk/people/v.savolainen
Further details and an application form can be ob-
tained from the College employment website: http:/-
/www3.imperial.ac.uk/employment see details at:
http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/employment/research/-
ns2009006jt http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/-
employment/research/ns2009007jt http://-
www3.imperial.ac.uk/employment/research/-
ns2009008jt Completed application forms accom-
panied by a cover letter, curriculum vitae and the
name and contact details of two referees should be
sent to: Mrs Diana Anderson, Imperial College Lon-
don,Silwood Park Campus, Buckhurst Road, Ascot,
Berkshire, SL5 7PY or - preferably by e-mail: to
d.anderson@imperial.ac.uk
Closing date: 16 February 2009.
Dr Vincent Savolainen Reader in Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology Imperial College London,
and Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew Silwood Park
Campus Buckhurst Road, Ascot, Berkshire, SL5
7PY, UK Tel +44 (0)20 7594 2374 Fax +44
(0)20 7594 2339 v.savolainen@imperial.ac.uk
http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/people/v.savolainen
v.savolainen@imperial.ac.uk
ImperialCollegeLondon
StatisticalPopGeneticsFebruary 1, 2009 EvolDir 79
Postdoctoral position in human population genetics at
EBI/Imperial College
The Vertebrate Genomics Team at the European Bioin-
formatics Institute (EBI) seeks a post-doctoral re-
searcher to participate in the analysis of human ge-
netic diversity. The post holder will have the oppor-
tunity to work with the dense genotyping data now
being produced for large cohorts including those asso-
ciated with diseases in the Wellcome Trust Case Con-
trol Consortium and world-wide population diversity
as exempliﬁed by the 1000 Genomes project and the
Human Genome Diversity Panel. Genome-wide data
generated by various high-throughput projects can be
eﬀectively combined. As a result, it is now possible
to work on datasets including thousands of complete
human genomes from a large number of populations.
The aim of the project is to exploit this extraordinary
wealth of data to reﬁne our understanding of past hu-
man demography and exploit novel approaches to de-
tect regions of the human genome under natural selec-
tion. The analyses will take advantage of a new pow-
erful geographically-explicit framework currently devel-
oped by Andrea Manica (Cambridge) and Francois Bal-
loux (Imperial College). Some general background of
the project can be found in the publications listed be-
low.
* Handley LJL; Manica A; Goudet J; Balloux F. 2007.
Going the distance: human population genetics in a
clinal world. Trends in Genet. 23:432-439.
* Linz B; Balloux F; Moodley Y; Manica A; et al. 2007.
An African origin for the intimate association between
humans and Helicobacter pylori. Nature. 445:915-918.
* Manica A; Amos W; Balloux F; Hanihara T. 2007.
The eﬀect of ancient population bottlenecks on human
phenotypic variation. Nature. 448:346-348.
* Liu H; Prugnolle F; Manica A; Balloux F. 2006.
A geographically explicit genetic model of worldwide
human-settlement history. Am J Hum Genet. 79:230-
237.
The post-holder will be primarily based at the EBI but
is expected to spend some of his/her time in Francois
Balloux’s group at Imperial College London. Further
particulars of the post and information for interested
applicants can be found at the following URL:
http://www-db.embl.de/jss/servlet/-
de.embl.bk.emblGroups.JobsPage/08068EB I.html
f.balloux@imperial.ac.uk f.balloux@imperial.ac.ukMarine DNA Barcodes
Institute: Centre for Microbial Diversity and Evolu-
tion, Departments of Zoology & Botany, University of
British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
Subject: Biodiversity, evolution and single cell barcod-
ing of marine microeukaryotes.
Number of Postdoctoral Research Positions: Two posi-
tions are available.
Tasks: The post-doc candidates will examine the
diversity of several groups of marine microeukary-
otes (including excavates, chromalveolates, rhizari-
ans and meiofaunal animals) from global marine
samples using molecular markers. Selected mark-
ers (barcodes) will be developed from available cul-
ture collections and compared with sequence diver-
sity from natural marine samples. The candidate
will also participate in development of protocols for
high throughput sequencing of barcode genes from
single cells linked to microscopy. The candidates
will be part of the Centre for Microbial Diversity
and Evolution at UBC ( www.cmde.science.ubc.ca/ ) as
well as the International Barcode of Life initiative
(www.dnabarcoding.org/ ). The following UBC labora-
tories will support and supervise one PDF each; how-
ever, collaborative work between the two labs is ex-
pected.
Laboratory webpages: The Leander Lab
(www.botany.ubc.ca/bleander/ ) The Keeling Lab
(www.botany.ubc.ca/keeling/ )
Required skills: The successful candidates will have
completed a PhD with a focus on barcoding, microbial
biodiversity, protist molecular evolution/systematics,
or a relevant ﬁeld. The candidates must have a strong
record of productivity, skills in molecular biology and
analysis of sequence data. Skills in microscopy and
background knowledge of marine biology and protist
diversity are also highly desirable.
Starting date and duration: The appointments may be-
gin as early as Sept. 2009. The appointments will be
for one year initially, with continuation to four years
depending on performance.
Application deadline: March 31, 2009.
Contact: Applicants should send a letter of appli-
cation, current curriculm vitae, and contact infor-80 EvolDir February 1, 2009
mation of two references to both Patrick Keeling
and Brian Leander: bleander@interchange.ubc.ca and
pkeeling@interchange.ubc.ca.
Brian S. Leander Associate Professor Departments of
Zoology and Botany University of British Columbia
#3529-6270 University Blvd. Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4
CANADA
Web: http://www3.botany.ubc.ca/bleander/-
index.html Email: bleander@interchange.ubc.ca
Tel: 604 822-2474 (oﬃce), 604 822-4892 (lab) Fax: 604
822-6089
bleander@interchange.ubc.ca blean-
der@interchange.ubc.ca
Muenster Germany
HostParasiteCoevolution
Postdoc: Muenster (Germany) - Ecological Immunol-
ogy and Host-Parasite Coevolution
A postdoctoral research associate position (for up to six
years) is available in the group of Animal Evolutionary
Ecology at the Institute for Evolution and Biodiver-
sity, University of Muenster, Germany ( http://ieb.uni-
muenster.de/ ) from April 2009.
We invite applications for a research associate to estab-
lish a vigorous research group in the evolutionary ecol-
ogy of immune defense and/or host-parasite coevolu-
tion. Requirement for the position is a PhD degree and
research experience in a biological ﬁeld. A background
in evolutionary ecology and experience with molecu-
lar techniques are advantageous. We are particularly
interested in candidates who want to work with the
ﬂour beetle Tribolium castaneum as a model organism.
Current projects of the group focus on the evolution of
speciﬁc memory and phenotypic plasticity in immune
responses and the adaptation of host immune defenses
to parasites and vice versa. Working language of the
lab is English.
Successful candidates will develop externally funded
research programs, direct graduate students and con-
tribute to teaching in the ﬁelds of evolution, ecology
and biodiversity of animals. The position will include
some teaching and administrative duties. The position
is paid according to TV-L 13.
The University of Muenster seeks to increase the pro-
portion of female staﬀ members and therefore stronglyencourages interested female candidates to apply. In
addition, preference will be given to qualiﬁed disabled
applicants.
Muenster hosts many excellent scientiﬁc institutions
and is a dynamic city with a high number of students
and a rich choice of social, cultural and sporting fa-
cilities (see http://www.muenster.de/ en/ for further
details).
Interested candidates should send applications (prefer-
entially as E- mail attachment) containing a CV, a list
of publications, a research statement and the addresses
of 3 potential referees to:
Prof. Joachim Kurtz
Institute for Evolution and Biodiversity, University of
Muenster, Hueﬀerstr. 1, DE-48149 Muenster, Tel. +49
251 83 24 661, joachim.kurtz@uni-muenster.de
Closing date is February 22nd, 2009.
Prof. Dr. Joachim Kurtz
University of Muenster Institute for Evolution and Bio-
diversity, Animal Evolutionary Ecology Group Hueﬀer-
str. 1, D-48149 Muenster, Germany Phone: + 49 251
83 24661 Fax: + 49 251 83 24668 joachim.kurtz@uni-
muenster.de http://www.uni-muenster.de/Evolution/-
joachim.kurtz@uni-muenster.de joachim.kurtz@uni-
muenster.de
Netherlands Bioinformatics
The Centraalbureau voor Schimmelcultures (CBS) is an
independent research institute of the Royal Netherlands
Academy of Arts and Sciences, situated on the campus
of the largest university in the Netherlands (Utrecht).
It studies fungal biodiversity in the widest sense, focus-
ing on three priority areas, agriculture, human health,
and industry (indoor air and food). Presently there
are 5 research groups with a total of about 80 employ-
ees. The institute maintains a large culture collection
of fungi and yeasts, and research groups such as those
of Pedro Crous (Evolutionary Phytopathology), Robert
Samson (Applied and Industrial Mycology), Sybren de
Hoog (Origins of Pathogenicity in Clinical Fungi), Teun
Boekhout (Yeast and Basidiomycete Research), and
Vincent Robert (Bioinformatics). Additional informa-
tion is available on our website: www.cbs.knaw.nl . The
group of Dr. Vincent Robert currently has a vacancy
for aFebruary 1, 2009 EvolDir 81
Postdoc full time (38 hours/week)
Description of the project: The CBS is looking for a
post-doctoral candidate with a strong background in
bioinformatics and/or informatics sensu stricto to form
part of the newly established group on bioinformatics.
Strong programming skills are required in one or sev-
eral of the following languages: Visual Basic.Net, Vi-
sual C++.Net and Asp.Net. The successful applicant
will be integrated within the existing team of developers
and will work on a number of research subjects ranging
from genome analyses, analyses of systematic data to
the creation of databases and associated software and
specialized bioinformatics tools. In agreement with the
group leader, the candidate will also be able to develop
his/her own research themes. There are ample oppor-
tunities to apply for additional grants. The institute
supplies excellent resources and facilities; the language
of internal communication is English.
Duration: The position is an appointment for ﬁve years.
Salary: According to3CAO-Nederlandse
Universiteiten2, ( CAO-NU), scale 10 or 11 depending
on age and experience.
Location: Utrecht (The Netherlands)
Information: Applicants should send complete curricu-
lum vitae with a list of publications and the names
and contact information of at least three references.
Further information can be obtained from and appli-
cations can be submitted to the bioinformatics group
leader: Dr Vincent Robert, CBS Fungal Biodiversity
Centre, Uppsalalaan 8, 3584 CT Utrecht, the Nether-
lands, stating vacancy CBS 2009-03 in the upper left
corner or via e-mail (v.robert@cbs.knaw.nl or person-
eelszaken@niob.knaw.nl).
Sujeevan Ratnasingham <sratnasi@gmail.com >
UAntwerp damselﬂyEvolution
POSTDOC POSITION - UNIVERSITY OF
ANTWERP (BELGIUM)
Postdoc position at the Department of Biology
-Evolutionary Ecology group with Hans Van
Gossum http://www.ua.ac.be/hans.vangossum
Note that this same position was earlier an-
nounced as only available for graduate students
(at: http://evol.mcmaster.ca/ ˜ brian/evoldir/-
GradStudentPositions/UAntwerp.DamselﬂyEvolution )but now is opened to also being available for postdoc
applicants.
Duties and research:
Preference goes to a candidate with a keen interest for
evolution, behaviour and ecology. Research topic is the
study of the causes and consequences of coexistence of
multiple discrete female damselﬂy (Insecta: Odonata)
morphs (with genetic base). Intriguingly, one female
morph much resembles the conspeciﬁc male’s pheno-
type to such extent that intraspeciﬁc mimicry in the
context of sexual conﬂict has been suggested. Several
studies indicate frequency-and density-dependent selec-
tion. Broad aim of the research is study of causes and
consequences of variation in social environments (den-
sities and frequencies of males and female morphs) on
the success, behaviour and phenotype of males and fe-
males. Fieldwork is planned at several locations in Eu-
rope (such as Belgium, Netherlands, Spain).
Requirements:
* PhD in Biology, keen interest for ecology and evolu-
tion and for behavioural work.
* Owner of a driver’s license. * EU citizen, but not
Belgian.
* Preferentially the candidate also is used to advances
statistical methods. The ﬁeld work requires indepen-
dence, ﬂexibility and a taste for adventure.
Oﬀer and further information:
Full time job from March 1 2009 or later (as agreed) for
a period of approximately 18 months. Salary ranges
from 1650 to 2600 Euro monthly, tax free, but from
which 14% goes to Social Security.
For further please contact me at: email
hans.vangossum@ua.ac.be or phone ++ 32 3 265
32 82
Procedure?
CV and motivation letter are awaited before 15 Febru-
ary 2009 and can be send to Hans Van Gossum, by
email (hans.vangossum@ua.ac.be), or post: Hans Van
Gossum, Universiteit Antwerpen, Departement Biolo-
gie, Onderzoeksgroep Evolutionaire Ecologie, Groenen-
borgerlaan 171, 2020 Antwerpen, Belgium, Europe.
Please also provide the contact details for two persons
willing to write a letter of recommendation. On Mon-
day 16 February 2009 you will be informed whether
you have been selected for further interview and how
selection will be continued.
Van Gossum Hans <hans.vangossum@ua.ac.be >82 EvolDir February 1, 2009
UBasel EvoltuionaryGenomics
EvoDevo
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN CICHLID EVOLU-
TIONARY GENOMICS/EVO-DEVO
A postdoctoral position in evolutionary genomics/evo-
devo is available in the group of Dr. Walter Salzburger
at the University of Basel, Switzerland ( http://-
www.evolution.unibas.ch/salzburger/ ). The position is
funded by a Starting Grant of the European Research
Council (ERC), a new European funding body set up to
support excellent investigator- driven research ( http:/-
/erc.europa.eu ).
The ERC Starting Grant ’INTERGENADAPT’ runs
for a period of ﬁve years. It will focus on the identiﬁ-
cation of the molecular basis of adaptation, evolution-
ary innovation and diversiﬁcation in one of the most
exciting model systems for evolutionary research, the
adaptive radiations of cichlid ﬁshes in the East African
Great Lakes Tanganyika, Malawi and Victoria. These
lakes harbor ecologically and morphologically highly di-
verse species ﬂocks counting hundreds of endemic cich-
lid species each. We are interested in the genetic and
developmental basis of the morphogenesis of sexually
and naturally selected traits that might be crucial to
the cichlid’s evolutionary success (e.g. mouth morphol-
ogy, pharyngeal jaw apparatus, color and pigmentation
patterns; see Salzburger, 2009, Mol. Ecol.). To do so,
we will apply cutting edge technologies. The forthcom-
ing cichlid genome will certainly facilitate these eﬀorts.
We are looking for a highly motivated, open-minded,
creative and socially skilled young researcher that
shares our enthusiasm in the study of evolution. Ideally,
the candidate has some background in one or several
of the following ﬁelds: bio-informatics, developmen-
tal biology, (cichlid) ﬁsh biology, evolutionary biology,
evo-devo, evolutionary genomics, molecular evolution,
and/or transcriptomics.
The initial appointment will be made for one year,
with a possible extension to up to three years. The
salary ranges between CHF 55’000 and CHF 70’000
(per year; after tax), depending on experience. The
position is available right now, the starting date is ne-
gotiable though.
To apply, please send
(1) your CV, (2) a list of your publications, (3) a state-ment of your research interests, (4) a statement why
you would like to join our team, and (5) the names of
two persons who can be contacted for a reference letter
to the following email address:
salzburgerlab-dib@unibas.ch
Please also use this email address for informal enquiries.
Deadline for submission is January 30th, 2009.
With best Wishes,
Walter Salzburger
Dr. Walter Salzburger, Assistant Professor
Zoologisches Institut, Universit¨ at Basel Vesalgasse 1,
4051 Basel, Switzerland
tel. +41 (0) 61.267.0303; fax. +41 (0)
61.267.0301 iPhone: +41 (0) 78.888.1776 eMail:
walter.salzburger@unibas.ch web: http://-
www.evolution.unibas.ch/salzburger/ ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION:
The Salzburger Lab ( http://www.evolution.unibas.ch/-
salzburger/ ) is a young, multinational, open-minded,
enthusiastic and creative team. We are, at present,
about twelve people. Our main model systems are East
African cichlid ﬁshes, although we also study the adap-
tive radiation of Antarctic notothenioid ﬁshes and the
diversiﬁcation of Alpine taxa. We also develop our own
software. Core of the Salzburger Lab is an excellently
equipped molecular laboratory with an AB 3130xl ge-
netic analyzer, an epMotion pipetting workstation, a
StepOne Plus and Veriti gradient PCR machines, re-
search microscopes, etc.
The Salzburger group is based within the evolution-
ary biology group of the University of Basel’s Zoolog-
ical Institute ( http://www.evolution.unibas.ch ). The
evolutionary biology group promotes higher education
and up-to- date research in organismic and evolution-
ary biology, thereby complementing existing strengths
in life-sciences at the University of Basel. The evolu-
tionary biology group is located in the Vesalianum in
the historical part of Basel, in close proximity to other
University institutes, the University hospital and the
Biozentrum of the University of Basel.
The University of Basel ( http://www.unibas.ch/ ) is
Switzerland’s oldest University with a strong focus on
“Culture” and “Life Sciences”. About 9’000 undergrad-
uates and 2’000 postgraduate and doctoral students are
enrolled in Basel. The University is regularly ranked
among the best 100 Universities worldwide and top-ten
in the German speaking countries.
Basel ( http://www.basel.ch ) is located in north-February 1, 2009 EvolDir 83
western Switzerland on the river Rhine and borders
Germany (Baden-W¨ urttemberg) and France
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UBasel PopulationGenetics
Postdoc positions in microbial population genetics and
evolutionary genomics
Universitat Basel, Switzerland Zoologisches Institut
A postdoc position is available at the Institute of Zo-
ology at Basel University. I am looking for a highly
motivated post-docs with interest in the evolutionary
genetics of host-parasite interactions. The position is
funded to work on the population genetics and evolu-
tionary genomics of the microparasites (bacteria and
microsporidians) of Daphnia. A background in evo-
lutionary genetics, including knowledge of molecular
methods is essential. Excellent written, verbal, and in-
terpersonal skills, a superb work ethic, and the ability
to think creatively and critically are desired. The start-
ing date it is ﬂexible. The positions are initially for 1
years, but can be extended to up to 4 years.
The post-docs will be part of Dieter Ebert’s group
working on the co-evolution of host-parasite inter-
actions, focusing on the Daphnia system. De-
tails about the group can be found under: http://-
evolution.unibas.ch/ Please send application by E-mail
to Dieter Ebert (dieter.ebert@unibas.ch). Applications
(1 pdf ﬁle, please) should include a CV, a list of publica-
tions and a 1 page description of your research interests
and motivation. Please give names and email addresses
of two persons who are willing to write a letter of rec-
ommendation. Applications received before 15. Feb.
2009 will be given full consideration. Interviews will be
held soon after.
Contact information: Prof. Dr. Dieter Ebert, Uni-
versit¨ at Basel, Zoologisches Institut, Vesalgasse 1,
4051 Basel, Switzerland, Email: dieter.ebert@unibas.ch
Tel.(Sekretariat) +41-(0)61-267 03 60; Fax +41-
(0)61-267 03 62. http://evolution.unibas.ch/ di-
eter.ebert@unibas.ch dieter.ebert@unibas.chUBritishColumbia Marine Protist
Diversity
Institute: Centre for Microbial Diversity and Evolu-
tion, Departments of Zoology & Botany, University of
British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
Subject: Biodiversity, evolution and single cell barcod-
ing of marine microeukaryotes.
Number of Postdoctoral Research Positions: Two posi-
tions are available.
Tasks: The research post-docs will examine the di-
versity of several groups of marine microeukaryotes
(including excavates, chromalveolates, rhizarians and
meiofaunal animals) from global marine samples using
molecular markers. Selected markers (barcodes) will be
developed from available culture collections and com-
pared with sequence diversity from natural marine sam-
ples. The PDFs will also participate in development
of protocols for high throughput sequencing of bar-
code genes from single cells linked to microscopy. The
PDFs will be part of the Centre for Microbial Diversity
and Evolution at UBC ( www.cmde.science.ubc.ca/ ) as
well as the International Barcode of Life initiative
(www.dnabarcoding.org/ ). The following UBC labora-
tories will support and supervise one PDF each; how-
ever, collaborative work between the two labs is ex-
pected.
Laboratory webpages: The Leander Lab
(www.botany.ubc.ca/bleander/ ) The Keeling Lab
(www.botany.ubc.ca/keeling/ )
Required skills: The successful candidates will have
completed a PhD with a focus on barcoding, microbial
biodiversity, protist molecular evolution/systematics,
or a relevant ﬁeld. The candidates must have a strong
record of productivity, skills in molecular biology and
analysis of sequence data. Skills in microscopy and
background knowledge of marine biology and protist
diversity are also highly desirable.
Starting date and duration: The appointments may be-
gin as early as Sept. 2009. The appointments will be
for one year initially, with continuation to four years
depending on performance.
Application deadline: March 31, 2009.
Contact: Applicants should send a letter of appli-
cation, current curriculm vitae, and contact infor-84 EvolDir February 1, 2009
mation of two references to both Patrick Keeling
and Brian Leander: bleander@interchange.ubc.ca and
pkeeling@interchange.ubc.ca.
Brian S. Leander Associate Professor Departments of
Zoology and Botany University of British Columbia
#3529-6270 University Blvd. Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4
CANADA
Web: http://www3.botany.ubc.ca/bleander/-
index.html Email: bleander@interchange.ubc.ca
Tel: 604 822-2474 (oﬃce), 604 822-4892 (lab) Fax: 604
822-6089
bleander@interchange.ubc.ca blean-
der@interchange.ubc.ca
UCaliforniaBerkeley
SexChromosomes
UC Berkeley, Evolutionary genomics
A Postdoctoral position is available in the laboratory
of Doris Bachtrog. Research in the lab combines com-
parative, computational and functional genomics ap-
proaches with evolutionary theory and modeling to
study evolutionary and functional aspects of sex chro-
mosome diﬀerentiation in Drosophila to address ques-
tions including: (1) How and why do Y chromosomes
degenerate? (2) How does genetically inactive hete-
rochromatin form on an evolving Y? (3) How does in-
tragenomic conﬂict between the sexes shape the func-
tional divergence of sex chromosomes? (4) How is
dosage compensation acquired on an evolving X?
Funds are available to support this position for up to
three years. The position is immediately available and
the search continues until the position is ﬁlled.
To apply, please submit by email a CV, a brief descrip-
tion of research interests (no more than one page), and
the names and contact information for two references
to Doris Bachtrog (dbachtrog@berkeley.edu)
For further information about our research program,
please visit our website and the departmental website:
http://ib.berkeley.edu/labs/bachtrog/ http:/-
/ﬁsher.berkeley.edu/cteg/index.html http://-
ib.berkeley.edu/ Doris Bachtrog University of
California, Berkeley Department of Integrative Biol-
ogy Center for Theoretical Evolutionary Genomics
Berkeley, CA 94720-3140 phone: (510)-325-9547
Doris Bachtrog <dbachtrog@ucsd.edu >UFrankfurt ModelSelection
The Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre (BiK-
F) has recently been founded by the Sencken-
berg Gesellschaft f¨ ur Naturforschung, the Goethe-
Universit¨ at Frankfurt am Main, and additional part-
ners. It is funded by the Federal State of Hesse through
its Initiative for the Development of Scientiﬁc and Eco-
nomic Excellence (LOEWE). The mission of the Centre
is to carry out internationally outstanding research on
the interactions of biodiversity and climate change at
the organism level. The Project Area A “Evolution and
Climate” invites applications for the position of a Post-
Doc Position ˆ aModel Selectionˆ a PG A1 (Ref. #A21)
BAT IIa
The applicant will be responsible to infer the relation-
ship between major climatic events and cladogenesis of
selected taxa. Phylogenetic hypotheses will be tested
by model selection methods for a correlation between
climatic changes and speciation/radiation events. Par-
ticipation in university teaching is possible, while the
acquisition of external research funding is highly de-
sired.
The applicant should hold an earned Ph.D. in biology,
with a strong background in statistical phylogenetics.
She or he should already have experience with phy-
logenetic inference and should be interested in linking
evolutionary and climate change issues. Practical expe-
rience in molecular work is desired, but not mandatory.
Applicants should have a strong publication record.
Very good written and oral English language skills, will-
ingness to learn at least basic German and interest in
joining a multidisciplinary research team are required,
as well as proven organizing abilities. Salary and ben-
eﬁts are according to a public service position in Ger-
many (BAT IIa).
The Research Centre BiK-F advocates gender equal-
ity. Women are therefore strongly encouraged to apply.
Equally qualiﬁed severely handicapped applicants will
be given preference. The contract shall start as soon as
possible and will be restricted to 24 months. Review
of the application starts on February 1st 2009 and will
continue until the position is ﬁlled. The duty station
will be Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
Please send your application by mail or e-mail, includ-
ing a detailed CV, 3 references, a list of publications
and up to ﬁve selected re/e-prints to Prof. Dr. Dr.February 1, 2009 EvolDir 85
h.c. V. Mosbrugger, Scientiﬁc Coordinator Biodiver-
sity and Climate Research Centre, Senckenberganlage
25, D-60325 Frankfurt am Main, Germany. E-mail
to Service and Finances: recruiting@senckenberg.de.
For enquiries about the position and the contract con-
ditions please write to Prof. Dr. B. Stribrny (E-
mail: bernhard.stribrny@senckenberg.de) and for sci-
entiﬁc enquiries to Prof. Dr. Annette Klussmann-
Kolb (E-mail: Klussmann-Kolb@bio.uni-frankfurt.de)
or PD Dr. M. Pfenninger (E-mail: pfenninger@bio.uni-
frankfurt.de).
Markus Pfenninger <Pfenninger@bio.uni-
frankfurt.de >
UGeneva PopulationGenomics
Post-doc positions on Population Genomics in Geneva
One or more post-doc positions are available starting
October 2009 in the group of Manolis Dermitzakis.
Prof. Dermitzakis (currently at the Sanger Institute in
Cambridge) will be relocating and establishing a group
at the Department of Genetic Medicine and Develop-
ment at the University of Geneva Medical School in
Switzerland. The main interests of the group are: (i)
population genomics of human gene expression using
both array and RNA sequence data in large samples
(i) whole-genome and targeted resequencing of human
population samples to study the eﬀect of common and
rare variants on complex traits and disease (i) quantita-
tive genetics of cellular phenotypes. The Department is
highly interactive with many groups working on human
genomics. Tthe group will have close collaborations and
links with the groups of Stylianos Antonarakis, Evgeny
Zdobnov as well as colleagues from cell biology. Ad-
ditional close collaborators are: Alexandre Reymond,
Henrik Kaessmann, Sven Bergman and Jacqui Beck-
man in Lausanne and Laurent Excoﬃer in Bern.
The positions will be funded by an endowment from the
Louis-Jeantet Foundation and/or pending grant appli-
cations.
Interested applicants should send their CV and state-
ment of research interests to md4@sanger.ac.uk
Oﬃcial announcement for the positions will follow later
in the year.
Some recent work from our group is listed below:
Dimas, A., B.E. Stranger, C. Beazley, C. Ingle, R. Finn,M. Ritchie, M. Dunning, P. Deloukas, S. Tavare and
E.T. Dermitzakis. 2008. Exploring epistatic eﬀects be-
tween regulatory and protein-coding variation. PLoS
Genetics e1000244
Dermitzakis, E.T. 2008. From gene expression to dis-
ease risk. Nature Genetics 40: 492-493
Stranger, B.E., A. Nica, A. Dimas, M.S. Forrest, C.
Beazley, M. Dunning, C.P. Bird, C.E. Ingle, D. Koller,
S. Tavar´ e, P. Deloukas and E.T. Dermitzakis. 2007.
Population genomics of human gene expression. Na-
ture Genetics 39: 1217-1224.
Stranger, B.E., M.S. Forrest, M. Dunning, C.E. Ingle,
C. Beazley, N. Thorne, R. Redon, C. Lee, C. Tyler-
Smith, N. Carter, S.W. Scherer, S. Tavar´ e, P. Deloukas,
M.E. Hurles and E.T. Dermitzakis. 2007. Relative im-
pact of nucleotide and copy number variation on gene
expression phenotypes. Science 315: 848-853.
**PLEASE NOTE: TELEPHONE NUMBER
CHANGE**
Emmanouil (Manolis) Dermitzakis, PhD Senior
Investigator Population and Comparative Ge-
nomics The Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute
Wellcome Trust Genome Campus Hinxton, Cam-
bridge CB10 1HH UK e-mail: md4@sanger.ac.uk
Tel: +44 (0)1223 492322 Fax: +44 (0)1223 494919
URL: http://www.sanger.ac.uk/Teams/Team16/ <
http://www.sanger.ac.uk/Teams/Team16/ >
md4@sanger.ac.uk md4@sanger.ac.uk
UJyvaskyla SpeciesInteractions
PhDandPostdoc
We are welcoming applicants for the postdoctoral re-
searcher to join our international Evolutionary ecology
of the species interactions -group to work on the theme
Maintenance of color polymorphism and evolution of
reproductive isolation. As a model species we use the
wood tiger moth (Parasemia plantaginis). This species
has a wide geographical distribution and it exhibits
color polymorphism locally and geographically. Some
main goals of the project are 1) to understand relative
importance of between- versus within-population pro-
cesses for color polymorphism and 2) genomic analyses
to elucidate genetics of color and associated phenotypic
traits. Another main themes in the project are evolu-
tion of predator-prey interactions; evolution of apose-
matism and mimicry.86 EvolDir February 1, 2009
Postdoc is available at the University of Jyvaskyla, Fin-
land. www.jyu.ﬁ Other main themes in our research
group are predator-prey interactions and evolution of
warning signals and evolution of pathogen virulence.
Applicants should have a PhD degree in a relevant bi-
ological discipline, and a strong interest in evolution-
ary biology. We expect strong experience with molec-
ular ecology methods. You will join the Centre of Ex-
cellence in Evolutionary Research at University of Jy-
vaskyla ( http://www.jyu.ﬁ/science/-laitokset/bioenv/-
evoluutiotutkimus/en/ ).
The position will be available for 1 year initially,
with the possibility of a 1-4 year extension. Ap-
plications should be sent by 31st January 2009 (to
carita.a.lindstedt@jyu.ﬁ), and be accompanied by a
short research statement, a CV and the names of 3
referees. The starting day is ﬂexible but would ideally
start no later than April 2009.
Apply by sending (1) a signed letter of application (no
more than one A4 page), including the motivation for
your application (2) a CV and (3) two reference names
with contact details (phone number and e-mail address)
by February 15th 2009, to
Informal enquiries welcome
We are welcoming applicants for the PhD student
to join our international Evolutionary ecology of the
species interactions -group to work on the theme Main-
tenance of color polymorphism and evolution of repro-
ductive isolation. As a model species we use the wood
tiger moth (Parasemia plantaginis). This species has
a wide geographical distribution and it exhibits color
polymorphism locally and geographically. Some main
goals of the project are 1) to understand relative impor-
tance of between- versus within-population processes
for color polymorphism and 2) genomic analyses to
elucidate genetics of color and associated phenotypic
traits. Another main themes in the project are evolu-
tion of predator-prey interactions; evolution of apose-
matism and mimicry.
PhD-position is available at the University of Jy-
vaskyla, Finland. www.jyu.ﬁ Other main themes in
our research group are predator-prey interactions and
evolution of warning signals and evolution of pathogen
virulence.
Applicants should have a McS -degree in a relevant
biological discipline, and a strong interest in evolu-
tionary biology. You will join the Centre of Excel-
lence in Evolutionary Research at University of Jy-
vaskyla ( http://www.jyu.ﬁ/science/-laitokset/bioenv/-
evoluutiotutkimus/en/ ).The position will be available for 4 years. Appli-
cations should be sent by February 15th 2009 (to
carita.a.lindstedt@jyu.ﬁ), and be accompanied by a
signed letter of application (no more than one A4 page),
including the motivation for your application, short re-
search statement, a CV and the names of 3 referees.
The starting day is ﬂexible but would ideally start no
later than April 2009.
Informal enquiries welcome
Johanna Mappes <mappes@bytl.jyu.ﬁ >
UMaryland EvolutionaryGenomics
POST-DOC POSITION in EVOLUTIONARY GE-
NOMICS
A POSTDOCTORAL FELLOW position is open in
Joana Silva1s group at the Institute for Genome Sci-
ences ( http://www.igs.umaryland.edu/ ), at the Univer-
sity of Maryland School of Medicine, for an enthusiastic,
highly motivated individual interested in studying eu-
karyotic genome evolution. In particular, this project
aims to understand the molecular mechanisms that un-
derlie the evolution of genome nucleotide composition,
and uses the genus Plasmodium as a system. The
project includes both laboratory and molecular evolu-
tion analysis components, and is tightly integrated with
the genome sequence and annotation information avail-
able for several Plasmodium species.
The ideal candidate will have a doctoral degree in
Molecular Biology, Genetics, Evolution, or a related
ﬁeld, and will be thoroughly familiar with the ﬁelds
of molecular evolution and phylogenetics. The candi-
date must have extensive experience with traditional
molecular biology techniques (including DNA isolation,
PCR, cloning, primer design) and molecular evolution
and phylogeny estimation software (e.g., PAML, Hy-
Phy, DnaSP, PAUP*, MrBayes, BEAST). This posi-
tion is ideally suited for someone capable of integrat-
ing traditional (single-gene) approaches with genomics
data and methodologies, and of making use of state-
of-the-art bioinformatics and sequencing technology in-
frastructures. Programming skills in languages such
as C/C++ and Perl, and experience with relational
databases and SQL, are a plus. A publication record in
evolutionary biology is a must. The initial appointment
is for two years and is available immediately.
The successful candidate will beneﬁt from a commu-February 1, 2009 EvolDir 87
nity of very interactive research labs, a large group
of bioinformatics programmers and a variety of labo-
ratory, sequencing and computational resources avail-
able in a world class genomics institute, that sup-
ports basic, genomic and translational research. To
apply, please send a CV, a statement of research
interests (include reason for applying to this posi-
tion; 2 pages maximum) and contact information
for three references to IGS-jobs@som.umaryland.edu
<mailto:IGS-jobs@som.umaryland.edu >. Additional
inquiries about the position can be sent to Joana Silva:
jcsilva@som.umaryland.edu.
AA/EOE/ADA
jcsilva@som.umaryland.edu jc-
silva@som.umaryland.edu
UOviedo EvolutionaryGenetics
Post-doc Juan de la Cierva in Evolutionary Genetics
Post-doc researchers interested in seed dispersal ecology
and genetics may apply to a Juan de la Cierva Pro-
gramme fellowship for developing a project entitled Ef-
fects of landscape conﬁguration on individual dispersal
kernels of bird-dispersed trees in the Cantabrian wood-
lands: ecological vs genetic approach. The Juan de la
Cierva Programme funds three-year contracts with a
gross salary of 25,250 euros per year.
The successful candidate will lead his/her project and
will integrate in a multidisciplinary research team com-
posed of two collaborative labs: the Plant-Animal In-
teractions Lab at the University of Oviedo (Daniel
Garc´ ıa, www.uniovi.es/danielgarcia ), which will act as
host lab for the candidate, and the Unit of Forest
Genetics and Ecophysiology at CIFOR-INIA (Santi-
ago C. Gonz´ alez-Mart´ ınez, www.plantevol.arrakis.es/-
scgonzalez.htm ). Research work will be funded by cur-
rent projects from both labs and future complementary
applications made by the candidate.
The aim of the project is to model seed dispersal ker-
nels in Crataegus monogyna and Ilex aquifolium from
estimates of dispersal distance obtained from the anal-
ysis of individual genotypes of seeds and trees, and
to relate the shape of kernels to the conﬁguration of
the fragmented landscape in the Cantabrian mountains.
The work will require ﬁeld sampling, intensive anal-
ysis of populations genetic structure using molecular
tools (isolation and characterization of loci microsatel-lite for C. monogyna and I. aquifolium, genotyping of
mother focal plants and seeds), and kernel modelling
using both ecological (inverse modelling) and genetic
(paternity/parentage and indirect) methods.
The call and the candidate requirements are published
in the web page of the Spanish Ministry of Science (see
below). In short, the candidate should have a PhD de-
gree obtained after September, the ﬁrst, 2005, and at
least a 12-month post-doc experience if the PhD degree
was obtained between September the ﬁrst, 2005 and
31st of August, 2007. Selection of candidates is based
on their own scientiﬁc quality (publication in highly-
scored international journals, background in Popula-
tion Genetics and Ecology, and training in molecular
techniques) and on the quality of the project and the
hosting lab.
The application should be performed by the hosting In-
stitution, through the oﬃcial web of the Spanish Min-
istry, after a previous selection of the candidates made
by the research supervisors (Daniel Garc´ ıa and Santi-
ago C. Gonz´ alez-Mart´ ınez).
For a pre-selection of candidates, they should send
an e-mail letter of interest, their CVs, and the e-
mail of two colleagues for recommendation references to
Daniel Garc´ ıa (danielgarcia@uniovi.es) and Santiago C.
Gonz´ alez-Mart´ ınez (santiago@inia.es), before the 31st
of January, 2009.
Instructions: Instructions, documents and FAQs are
in http://web.micinn.es/contenido.asp?menu1=-
1&menu2=3&dir=03 Plan IDI/00-LIAs/-
00@LIARRHH/02-Contratacion/01-JCierva
Daniel Garc´ ıa Depto. de Biolog´ ıa de Organis-
mos y Sistemas Universidad de Oviedo C/ Rodrigo
Ur´ ıa s/n, Oviedo 33071, Spain danielgarcia@uniovi.es
www.uniovi.es/danielgarcia fax: 34 985 104866
AND
Santiago C. Gonz´ alez-Mart´ ınez Center of Forest Re-
search, INIA Carretera de La Coru˜ na km 7.5, 28040
Madrid, Spain Ph +34 913471499 Fax +34 913572293
e-mail: santiago.c.gonzalez.martinez(no
sp@m)gmail.com web: www.plantevol.arrakis.es/-
scgonzalez.htm Find me in Skype: san-
tiago.c.gonzalez.martinez Have a look to
Evoltree NoE at www.evoltree.eu santi-
ago.c.gonzalez.martinez@gmail.com88 EvolDir February 1, 2009
Uppsala EvolutionComplexTraits
Postdoc: Genetics and Evolution of Complex Traits
We are looking for Post-Docs to join our young and
growing group working in Computational Genetics. We
provide a supportive environment, giving you the op-
portunity to develop your career to the next level. We
are looking for enthusiastic and motivated individuals
and strongly believe in an interdisciplinary approach,
so we encourage applicants with a non-standard back-
ground to apply. We are based in Uppsala, Sweden
at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences and
also have links with Uppsala University. Initially the
appointments will be for one year, with the possibility
of extension for up to four years.
An increased understanding of the genetics and evolu-
tion of complex traits is not only of fundamental scien-
tiﬁc interest but is of paramount importance for future
developments in most areas of biology, including hu-
man medicine and agriculture. We aim to provide new
insights into complex-trait genetics by using and devel-
oping new computational methods in the areas of math-
ematical modelling, statistical analysis and simulation.
We also conduct empirical work where we establish our
own experimental animal populations and characterize
these phenotypically and genetically using e.g. genome-
resequencing and high-density genotyping - all with an
aim to validate and replicate important ﬁndings.
A successful applicant should have relevant scientiﬁc
education (Ph.D. degree or similar) and an interest in
quantitative, population and/or evolutionary genetics.
A strong mathematical / statistical background and
programming experience is an advantage.
Aside from work, you will have the chance to get to
know Uppsala, which is a pretty university town, no-
table for its castle and cathedral. It is 40 minutes by
train from Stockholm. We get some snow in winter and
beautiful long summer days.
If you are interested in joining our team or have more
questions about us or our work, please contact ¨Orjan
Carlborg (Orjan.Carlborg@hgen.slu.se)
We look forward to hearing from you!
Weblinks: http://www.computationalgenetics.se
http://www.slu.se http://www.lcb.uu.se http:/-
/en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uppsala Selected recentpublications: * Carlborg, ¨O. and Haley, C. Epistasis:
too often neglected in complex traits studies? Nature
Reviews Genetics 2004 5: 618-625. * Carlborg, ¨O.,
Jacobsson, L., ˚Ahgren, P., Siegel, P., Andersson, L.
Epistatsis and the release of genetic variation during
long-term selection. Nature Genetics 2006 38:418-20.
* Gjuvsland, A., Hayes, B., Plahte, E., Omholt, S.,
Carlborg, ¨O. Statistical epistasis is a generic feature
of gene regulatory networks. Genetics 2007 175:.411-
420. * Le Rouzic, A., Siegel, P. and Carlborg, ¨O.
Phenotypic Evolution from Genetic Polymorphisms in
Radial Network Architectures. BMC Biology 2007,
5:50. * Alvarez-Castro, J., le Rouzic, A. and Carlborg,
¨O. How to perform meaningful estimates of genetic
eﬀects. PLOS Genetics 2008 May 2; 4(5):e1000062 *
Le Rouzic, A., Alvarez-Castro, J. and Carlborg, ¨O.
Dissection of the genetic architecture of body weight in
chicken reveals the impact of epistasis on domestication
traits. Genetics 2008 179:1591-1599.
¨Orjan Carlborg Department of Animal Breeding
and Genetics Swedish University of Agricultural
Sciences Box 7023 SE-750 07 Uppsala Sweden
Email: orjan.carlborg@hgen.slu.se Phone: +46-
18-672001 Mobile: +46-76-2109114 Fax: +46-
18-672848 Web: http://www.orjancarlborg.com ;
http://www.computationalgenetics.se
Orjan.Carlborg@hgen.slu.se Or-
jan.Carlborg@hgen.slu.se
UTennessee EvolutionaryTheory
Postdoctoral Fellowship Opportunities with NIMBioS
The National Institute for Mathematical and Biolog-
ical Synthesis (NIMBioS) provides an opportunity for
postdoctoral scholarship at the interface between math-
ematics and biological science at the University of Ten-
nessee. Highest priority will be given to those with
explicit plans to develop their ability to eﬀectively
carry on research across these ﬁelds. We are partic-
ularly interested in requests to support research that
integrates diverse ﬁelds, requires synthesis at multiple
scales, and/or makes use of or requires development
of new mathematical/computational approaches. NIM-
BioS Postdoctoral Fellows are chosen based upon indi-
cations that the applicant’s research plans are consis-
tent with the mission of NIMBioS, the applicant has
the demonstrated ability to carry out the proposed re-
search, and the opportunities provided through NIM-February 1, 2009 EvolDir 89
BioS will enhance the capacity for the research to be
completed in an eﬃcient and timely manner. For addi-
tional information on NIMBioS, visit www.nimbios.org
<http://www.nimbios.org/ >. Support: annual
stipend of $51,000, full University of Tennessee em-
ployee fringe beneﬁts, and an annual travel allowance of
$2,000. To Apply: Submit a brief project description,
references, and CV following the guidelines available at
http://www.nimbios.org/postdocs/postdoc.html to Dr.
Chris Welsh at cwelsh@utk.edu. Deadline: NIMBioS
postdoctoral requests for support are reviewed twice a
year and the selected researchers are oﬀered positions
at NIMBioS where they conduct research that is mostly
self-directed. The deadline for activities beginning 1
September 2009 is 1 March 2009.
Dr. Christopher Welsh Deputy Director, NIMBioS 569
Dabney Hall Knoxville, TN 37996 (865)974-9334
cwelsh@utk.edu
“Welsh, Christopher J E” <cwelsh@utk.edu >
UToronto BehaviouralEvolution
The Rowe and Sokolowski labs are seeking a Postdoc-
toral Fellow to join an investigation of the pleiotropic
eﬀects of the rover/sitter foraging gene on the life his-
tory and mating behaviour of Drosophila melanogaster.
A successful candidate will have a Ph.D. in evolutionary
biology, evolutionary genetics, behaviour genetics or a
related ﬁeld. Expertise in manipulation of Drosophila
is beneﬁcial but not essential. Duration of appointment
is two years, with the second year contingent upon per-
formance during ﬁrst year.
This is a joint project that would involve research in
the labs of Profs. Locke Rowe and Marla Sokolowski,
within the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology at the University of Toronto.
Toronto is a vibrant, multicultural city on the shore
of Lake Ontario, with rich cultural options in the arts,
music and ﬁlm, ethnic cuisine, and a high quality of
life. The EEB department is home to an interactive,
collegial group of ecologists, geneticists, and evolution-
ary biologists, and currently supports a strong group of
Post-Doctoral Fellows with diverse research interests.
To apply, please submit by email a CV, a statement of
past and current research interests (no more than one
page), and the names and contact information for two
references to Penelope Gorton (p.gorton@utoronto.ca).Deadline for applying is March 30, 2009.
For further information about our research programs,
please visit our websites and the departmental website:
http://labs.eeb.utoronto.ca/rowe/ http://-
www.erin.utoronto.ca/ ˜ w3forage/ http://-
www.eeb.utoronto.ca/ Contact: Locke Rowe, 416-
978-1486, locke.rowe@utoronto.ca Marla Sokolowski,
905-828-5326, marla.sokolowski@utoronto.ca
John Stinchcombe <john.stinchcombe@utoronto.ca >
UToronto EvolutionaryBiol
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
<www.eeb.utoronto.ca >at the University of Toronto
invites applications for Departmental Postdoctoral Fel-
lowships in the areas of Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology, broadly deﬁned. One position is available this
year, and we expect that another will become avail-
able next year through an ongoing EEB Post-Doctoral
Fellowship Program. Positions may continue for two
years, subject to review after one year, and can begin
as early as July 1, 2009. The salary is $40,000 Cana-
dian per year, with research expenses covered by the
Post-Doctoral Advisor.
The Fellow will be a fully participating member in the
Department. Candidates must identify and communi-
cate with a potential advisor (or advisors) in advance of
the application process. All full-time faculty members
at the St. George (downtown) campus of the Univer-
sity of Toronto are eligible to serve as advisors (see <
www.eeb.utoronto.ca/postdoc/ >for a list of potential
supervisors). Opportunities for teaching in an upper
level course may be available.
To apply, applicants should ﬁrst contact and obtain the
agreement of a faculty advisor (or co-advisors). After-
wards, applicants should submit a cover letter clearly
indicating the proposed faculty advisor(s), a curriculum
vitae, copies of 2 publications, and a short (1-3 pages)
description of past research accomplishments and fu-
ture research plans. Applicants should include names
and e-mail addresses for two potential referees. Appli-
cants should also indicate the date they will be available
to begin the position. All application materials must
be submitted as PDF’s in a single email to: Elizabeth
Rentzelos <chairsec.eeb@utoronto.ca >.
For more information about the Department, con-
tact your potential supervisor. Queries regarding the90 EvolDir February 1, 2009
fellowship program should be directed to Demetrios
Voudouris <demetrios.voudouris@utoronto.ca >Re-
view of applications will begin on March 20, 2009.
Toronto is a vibrant, multicultural city on the shore
of Lake Ontario, with rich cultural options in the arts,
music and ﬁlm, ethnic cuisine, and a high quality of
life. The EEB department is home to an interactive,
collegial group of ecologists, geneticists, and evolution-
ary biologists, and currently supports a strong group of
Post-Doctoral Fellows with diverse research interests.
–
John Stinchcombe Department of Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology University of Toronto, 25 Willcocks St.
Toronto, ON Canada M5S 3B2
416-946-5986
http://labs.eeb.utoronto.ca/stinchcombe/
john.stinchcombe@utoronto.ca
Vienna EvolutionGeneExpression
A 2-year postdoctoral position is available to work on
the evolution of gene expression in Drosophila
Background: The recent technological breakthrough of
massively parallel sequencing has the potential to re-
place currently existing methods for expression proﬁl-ing. In addition to intraspeciﬁc transcriptome analyses,
this method also allows the comparison of gene expres-
sion between species.
The successful candidate will serve a central role in
bridging the gap between experimentalists generating
expression data and functional biologists performing
tests on interesting obtained from the expression anal-
yses. We are searching for an individual with strong
bioinformatic sills, a solid background in biology, and
excellent communication aptitude.
The post is based at the Institute of Population Ge-
netics at the VUW, Vienna. The Vienna Research
Area has a strong network of research groups interested
in population genetics, statistical genetics and bioin-
formatics providing an excellent scientiﬁc environment
(e.g. N. Barton, R. B¨ urger, U. Diekmann A. Futschik,
A. v. Haeseler, J. Hermisson, I. Hofacker, C. Kosiol, P.
Schuster, K. Sigmund, C. Vogl).
The position is immediately available and the search
continues until the position is ﬁlled.
Applications should be sent to C. Schl¨ otterer
(christian.schloetterer@vu-wien.ac.at), including the
names and emails of two academic references and a brief
description of the research interests.
Christian Schl¨ otterer Institut f¨ ur Populationsgenetik
Veterin¨ armedizinische Universit¨ at Wien Josef Bau-
mann Gasse 1 1210 Wien Austria/Europe
phone: +43-1-25077-4300 fax: +43-1-25077-4390
http://i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/pop/index.html
WorkshopsCourses
Banﬀ MathematicalEvolutionaryBiol May10-17 . . . . 91
BodegaBay AppliedPhylogenetics Mar7-13 . . . . . . . . 91
DTU-Aqua Denmark ThermalAdaptation Jun15-19 92
GulbenkianPT GTPBcourses Mar3-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
HinxtonUK AdvancedDrosophilaGeneticsGenomics
Aug9-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
KelloggBiol TheoPopBiol June . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
LaFouly Switzerland EvolutionaryBiol Jun20-26 . . . 94
LakeTahoe InvasiveSpecies Mar19-22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95Montreal Population Genomics Genetic Epidemiology
May19-22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
NESCent DatabaseInteroperability Hackathon . . . . . 97
Portugal MolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
UMichigan SpeciesTrees Jan10-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
UTennessee TheoreticalEvolution Jun1-Jul24 . . . . . . 99
UVirginia FieldBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
WoodsHole MolEvol Jul26-Aug7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100February 1, 2009 EvolDir 91
Banﬀ
MathematicalEvolutionaryBiol
May10-17
BIRS International Summer School on The Mathemat-
ics of Invasions in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology.
Date: May 10-17, 2009
Location: Banﬀ International Research Station
Website: www.mast.queensu.ca/ ˜ summerschool/-
index.htm The summer school is aimed at graduate
students in applied mathematics, biology and epidemi-
ology, who wish to learn important mathematical tech-
niques for modeling biological invasions. The empha-
sis will be on practical, hands-on experience for build-
ing and analyzing models, coupled with lectures on
key techniques. Examples will be drawn from a va-
riety of areas including ecological invasions of so-called
‘pest’ species, and the emergence of novel pathogens
like SARS and avian inﬂuenza. A major focus will be
on techniques for incorporating evolutionary change in
the mathematical models.
Each student will be expected to develop and analyze
a model of their choosing during the period of the sum-
mer school, in collaboration with a small group of other
students.
Organizers: Troy Day (Queen’s), Fred Brauer (UBC),
James Watmough (New Brunswick), Jianhong Wu
(York), Rachel Bennett (Queen’s)
Please visit the course website for more information and
to apply.
Troy Day Departments of Mathematics & Biology
Jeﬀery Hall Queen’s University Kingston, ON, K7L
3N6, Canada Phone: 613-533-2431 Mobile: 613-217-
2431 Fax: 613-533-2964 tday@mast.queensu.ca http:/-
/www.mast.queensu.ca/˜tday/ troy.day@mac.com
BodegaBay AppliedPhylogenetics
Mar7-13
Note: Due to the holiday season we have extended the
deadline for applications. The new deadline is Friday9 January. Students will be notiﬁed via e-mail by 12
January of acceptance.
UC Davis WORKSHOP IN APPLIED PHYLOGE-
NETICS at Bodega Marine Laboratory, Bodega Bay,
California
March 7-13, 2009
Sponsored by the
University of California, Davis and Bodega Marine Lab-
oratory (additional ﬁnancial support provided by the
University of Rochester, and NESCent)
Introduction. Phylogenetic methods have revolution-
ized modern systematics and become indispensable
tools in evolution, ecology and comparative biology,
playing an increasingly important role in analyses of
biological data at levels of organization ranging from
molecules to ecological communities. The construction
of phylogenetic trees is becoming a methodology that is
well-deﬁned, with broad agreement on the central issues
and questions. A nearly standard set of topics is now
taught as part of the curriculum at many colleges and
universities. On the other hand, application of phylo-
genetic methods to interesting problems outside of sys-
tematics is an area of special excitement, innovation,
and controversy, and perspectives vary widely.
In March, 2009, for the tenth year, we will teach a work-
shop for graduate students interested in applying phy-
logenetic methods to diverse topics in biology. The one-
week course will be an intensive exploration of problems
to which modern phylogenetic tools are being applied.
We cover a range of topics in biogeography, ecology,
conservation biology, phylogenomics, functional mor-
phology, macroevolution, speciation, and character evo-
lution. The course starts with recent advances in phylo-
genetic methodology, and then focuses on methods and
tools that can be brought to bear on these “applied”
issues in the context of a given phylogeny.
The course will be held entirely at the Bodega Marine
Lab on the Northern California coast, which has ex-
tensive computing resources and on-site housing. The
course format will involve equal parts of lecture, discus-
sion, and training in software and internet tools. One
afternoon during the week will be left free for ﬁeld trips
to local natural areas.
Speciﬁc Topics to be Covered
* Finding, evaluating and interpreting phylogenetic
trees; phylogenetic databases * Recent advances in
tree reconstruction: Bayesian inference; stochastic
optimization strategies; divide-and-conquer methods;
Garli; gene-tree species tree resolution * Analysis of
character evolution–theory: parsimony, likelihood and92 EvolDir February 1, 2009
Bayesian approaches; null models and statistical test-
ing * Analysis of character evolution–form and func-
tion of complex character systems * Phylogeography;
coalescent methods for inferring migration rates and
patterns * Phylogenetic comparative methods * Phy-
logenetic perspectives on biodiversity and conservation
biology * Data mining of sequence databases for phylo-
genetic analysis * Estimation of divergence times from
sequence data, analysis of diversiﬁcation rates * Eco-
logical Phylogenetics, biogeography
Instructors for the main workshop.
* Peter Wainwright * Brad Shaﬀer * Brian Moore *
Michael Donoghue * Bruce Rannala * Jonathan Eisen
* Rich Glor * Justen Whittall * Greg Pauly * Samantha
Price * Stephen Smith * Phil Spinks * Robert Thomson
plus guest lecturers!!
Prerequisites. Students should have some familiarity
with phylogenetic methods through previous course-
work. Some experience with PAUP, PHYLIP, or other
programs for phylogeny reconstruction will be assumed.
Admission and Fees. Students will be admitted based
on academic qualiﬁcations and appropriateness of re-
search interests. The course fee is $450. This includes
room and board at BML for duration of the course (ar-
riving March 7, leaving March 14) and transportation
from Davis to BML.
Application Deadline. Applications are due by Jan-
uary 9, 2009. Please send a completed application
form (available at http://bodegaphylo.wikispot.org/-
2009 Course Announcement ) and one letter of rec-
ommendation from your major advisor. Appli-
cations should be sent via email as PDFs to
pqspinks@ucdavis.edu. Sorry, but due to the limited
size of the class, postdocs and faculty are discouraged
from applying. Students will be notiﬁed via e-mail by
12 January of acceptance.
Send all application materials to
Dr. Phillip Q. Spinks Department of Evolution and
Ecology 2320 Storer Hall University of California Davis
Davis, CA 95616 email:pqspinks@ucdavis.edu
pqspinks@ucdavis.edu pqspinks@ucdavis.edu
DTU-Aqua Denmark
ThermalAdaptation Jun15-19Workshop announcement:“Thermal adaptation in
aquatic ectotherms”, Denmark, June 15-19 2009.
Dear all
We would like to announce the workshop “Thermal
adaptation in aquatic ectotherms” to be held in Den-
mark from the 15th to the 19th of June 2009. The
workshop is funded by the ThermAdapt network under
the European Science Foundation and organized by the
Section for Population Genetics, National Institute of
Aquatic Resources, Technical University of Denmark.
The workshop will be held at the Mols Laboratory, a
ﬁeld station located in a national park near Aarhus.
Background
Aquatic organisms are expected to be aﬀected by future
climate changes, but knowledge about their response
to these challenges is generally lacking. Understand-
ing thermal adaptation requires insights from cellular
through organism to population levels of biological or-
ganization. In this workshop, we intend to bring to-
gether researchers from population genetics and molec-
ular and evolutionary physiology in a cross-disciplinary
environment to foster exchange of ideas and improve
our understanding of responses to thermal changes in
aquatic organisms and populations. The workshop will
be organized as sessions with presentations by all work-
shop participants, leaving good time for discussions
both during and between sessions.
Invited speakers include
Craig Primmer, University of Turku, Finland
Hans Otto P¨ ortner, AWI, Bremerhaven, Germany
Luc De Meester, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Bel-
gium
Patricia Schulte, University of British Columbia,
Canada
Thorsten Reusch, Leibniz-Institut fuer Meereswis-
senschaften, Kiel, Germany
Attendance
Attendance is limited to 35 participants. Accommo-
dation and meals are funded by the ThermAdapt net-
work. Please send an email to Jakob Hemmer-Hansen
(jhh@aqua.dtu.dk) with a short description of your area
of research if you are interested in participating in the
workshop.
Relevant information
Getting there:
The Mols ﬁeld station is located just 15 minutes from
Aarhus Airport (Tirstrup) and 45 minutes from the city
of Aarhus. Transport to/from trains and planes will beFebruary 1, 2009 EvolDir 93
arranged.
ThermAdapt network:
http:// www.esf.org/ activities/ research-networking-
programmes/ life-earth-and-environmental-sciences-
lesc/ current-esf-research-networking-programmes-
in-life-earth-and-environmental-sciences/ thermal-
adaptation-in-ectotherms-linking-life-history-
physiology-behaviour-and-genetics-thermadapt.html
Section for Population Genetics, Technical University
of Denmark:
http://www.aqua.dtu.dk/English/-
Recreational ﬁsheries/Population genetic group.aspx
Mols ﬁeld station:
http://www.naturhistoriskmuseum.dk/molslab/
Organizers
Jakob Hemmer-Hansen Dorte Bekkevold Thomas
Damm Als Einar Eg Nielsen
Michael Møller Hansen Section for Population Genetics
National Institute of Aquatic Resources (DTU Aqua)
Technical University of Denmark Vejlsoevej 39 DK-
8600 Silkeborg Denmark
GulbenkianPT GTPBcourses
Mar3-6
Dear Evoldir members
The Gulbenkian Training Programme in Bioinformat-
ics (GTPB) has now issued its list of courses for 2009.
At least two of them (MEPA and MMPG) are of yin-
terest to the evoldir community
MEPA09 - Molecular Evolution, Phylogenetics and
Adaptation - March 3-6 IB09- Introductory Bioinfor-
matics ENSGEN09 - Browsing on genomes with EN-
SEMBL, Mining with BIOMART ENSAPI09 - Com-
para API, Programming workshop MDAGB09 - Mi-
croarray Data Analysis IPN09 - Interactions, Pathways
and Networks BFB09 - Biostatistical Foundation in
Bioinformatics WPAT09 - Workﬂows and Programat-
ically Accessible Tools MLB09 - Machine Learning in
Bioinformatics MMPG09 -Molecular Markers and Pop-
ulation Genetics TM09 -Translational Medicine MBL09
- Mining Biomedical Literature BPB09 - Bioinformat-
ics using Python for Biologists MDARB09 - Microar-ray Data Analysis using R and Bioconductor GB09 -
Genome Bioinformatics RNAB09 - RNA Bioinformat-
ics BCR09 - Bioinformatics in Cancer Research SB09 -
Structural Genomics PDA09 -Proteomics Data Analy-
sis
MEPA09 is scheduled for March 3-6th, applications are
about to open
GTPB courses are displayed in our website http://-
gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt where information is regularly
updated.
I will send a message to EVOLDIR when applications
open for MEPA09 and MMPG09, but the announce-
ment of our 2009 program may also be of interest to
the community.
Thanks Pedro
Pedro Fernandes GTPB Coordinator Instituto Gul-
benkian de Ciˆ encia Apartado 14 2781 OEIRAS POR-
TUGAL http://gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt Pedro Fernan-
des<pfern@igc.gulbenkian.pt >
HinxtonUK AdvancedDrosophilaGe-
neticsGenomics
Aug9-23
Wellcome Trust Advanced Course in Drosophila Genet-
ics and Genomics
9-23 August 2009
Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton UK
This will be an advanced, discussion-based course on
the genetics and genomics of Drosophila. The in-
tended audience is postdoctoral and graduate students
now working in a ﬂy lab, or students who have re-
cently completed a PhD in another ﬁeld and are moving
into Drosophila research for their postdoctoral studies.
However, students with other backgrounds will be con-
sidered on their merits.
Topics covered will include: - advanced genetics - de-
velopmental genetics - genetic analysis of sex determi-
nation - the Drosophila genome(s) - databases and re-
sources - evolutionary genetics - neurogenetics - genetic
analysis of complex characters - genetic screens - mo-
saics and P-element systems - meiosis
Course organisers: Michael Ashburner (University of
Cambridge, UK) Scott Hawley (Stowers Institute for
Medical Research, USA) Casey Bergman (University94 EvolDir February 1, 2009
of Manchester, UK)
Guest lecturers: Steve Russell (University of Cam-
bridge, UK) Ruth Lehmann (New York University
School of Medicine, USA) Daniel St Johnston (The
Gurdon Institute, Cambridge, UK), Kent Golic (Uni-
versity of Utah, USA) Brian Charlesworth (University
of Edinburgh, UK), Trudy Mackay (North Carolina
State University, USA), Leslie Vosshall (The Rocke-
feller University, USA) Bruce Baker (Stanford Univer-
sity, USA).
Prerequisites: Applicants should be postdoctoral sci-
entists or senior PhD students actively engaged in
Drosophila research. The course is subsidised by the
Wellcome Trust for scientists based at academic insti-
tutions anywhere in the world.
Cost: This is a residential course, without exception,
and although the course is subsidised by the Wellcome
Trust for academics there is a charge of £1400 towards
board and lodging (sharing a twin room with en suite
bathroom, subject to availability), or £1800 (private
room and en suite) for academic applicants.The fee for
commercial (non- academic) applicants is £3600.
Bursaries: Limited bursaries are available for academics
(50 per cent of fee) and are subject to open competition.
Applications: Applicants will be required to complete
an application form containing their CV together with a
300-word outline of the relevance of the course to their
research. Please note that documentation supporting
their application will be required from the applicant’s
supervisor/ head of department.
Application deadline: 10 April 2009
For full details please visit: http://-
www.wellcome.ac.uk/Professional-resources/Courses-
and-conferences/Advanced-Courses/Courses/-
WTX027650.htm casey.bergman@manchester.ac.uk
casey.bergman@manchester.ac.uk
KelloggBiol TheoPopBiol June
Mathematics and Field Ecology Summer Program
**Scholarship Support Available**
15 June - 31 July for Undergraduate and Graduate
Students at Kellogg Biological Station, Michigan State
University http://www.kbs.msu.edu/ELME Kellogg
Biological Station (KBS) will once again host the sum-
mer program known as ELME, Enhancing Linkages be-tween Mathematics and Ecology. ELME is a course-
work based research experience designed for students
with an interest in applying mathematics to questions
in ecology and evolution. The program is designed
for students both with and without formal training in
mathematics. Participants in the full program take 3
one-week math courses on topics that are relevant to
ecology/evolution and then apply these tools in a four-
week ﬁeld ecology/evolution course. Students can en-
roll in a subset of the ELME courses if that better ﬁts
their needs and schedules.
Mathematics 1-week courses:
Introduction to Theoretical Population Biology - MTH
490.431 Robin E. Snyder, Case Western Reserve Uni-
versity June 15 - June 19
Game Theory and Adaptive Dynamcis- MTH 490.432
Christopher Klausmeier, Kellogg Biological Station,
MSU June 22 - June 26
Maximum Likelihood Analysis in Ecology - MTH
490.433 Don Schoolmaster, Kellogg Biological Station,
MSU June 29 - July 3
Ecology 4-week course:
Field Ecology and Evolution - ZOL/PLB 440 Gary Mit-
telbach, and Jen Lau, Kellogg Biological Station, MSU
July 6 - July 31
Undergraduate Fellowships ($1500, plus housing,
travel, and tuition) are available for students enrolling
in the full ELME program. Graduate scholarships
are available for tuition and housing. More infor-
mation about KBS and the ELME program is avail-
able at http://www.kbs.msu.edu/ELME . The applica-
tion deadline for enrollment and scholarships is 2 March
2009.
– Donald R. Schoolmaster Jr. Ph.D. ELME Coordina-
tor Postdoctoral Research Associate Kellogg Biological
Station 3700 Gull Lk. Dr. Hickory Corners, MI
schoolm4@msu.edu schoolm4@msu.edu
LaFouly Switzerland
EvolutionaryBiol Jun20-26
Evolutionary Biology Workshop in the Alps
La Fouly, Switzerland, 20-26 June 2009
This is a graduate course based on a concept developed
by Steve Stearns and John Maynard Smith. Target par-February 1, 2009 EvolDir 95
ticipants are advanced master students and students in
the ﬁrst half of their PhD. Taking place in a beauti-
ful small Alpine village (La Fouly), it will allow you
to focus while being able to enjoy the landscape and
the Alpine ﬂora. The goals are to develop the following
skills:
* developing your scientiﬁc ideas through discussions
in groups; * thinking critically and expressing oneself
clearly; * turning a general idea into a research project;
* discovering the many layers of a scientiﬁc project:
digging deep; * writing a grant proposal and defending
it; * interacting with the faculty in an informal setting
It is you, the students, who will be in charge in this
course. You will work with *your* ideas, you will de-
cide yourself what the important questions in broadly
deﬁned evolutionary biology are, you will choose one,
and propose a research project that will address it. The
faculty will visit the groups during the discussions to
answer your questions and provide coaching and they
will give you feedback on your proposal, but they will
generally take the back seat. Additionally, the fac-
ulty will give informal talks about their research and
be available for informal discussion. The language of
the course is English.
Faculty: Mark Kirkpatrick (University of Texas,
Austin), John Taylor (University of California, Berke-
ley), Ian Sanders and Tad Kawecki (both University of
Lausanne, Switzerland).
Costs: there is no tuition fee; the participants will cover
the costs of room and board (approximately CHF 420.-
).
For more information see http://www.unil.ch/ee/-
page63533.html To apply, send a single ﬁle (pdf or rtf)
containing a short motivation letter, a cv and the name
of your scientiﬁc advisor to to tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch,
with “Evolution Workshop Application” in the subject
ﬁeld. Deadline March 15.
– Tadeusz J. Kawecki Associate Professor Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolution University of Lau-
sanne Biophore CH 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland
tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch
LakeTahoe InvasiveSpecies
Mar19-22
Special Workshop: Synthesizing Ecology and Evolution
for the Study of Invasive SpeciesOrganizers: Carol Lee, Kristina Schierenbeck, Robert
Holt
We have organized a workshop to promote the integra-
tion of ecological and evolutionary perspectives and ap-
proaches into the study of invasive species. Our aim is
to create a venue in which discussion among the partici-
pants would lead to novel synthetic research and papers
that reﬂect the novel syntheses. For example, the inte-
gration of population genetics and population dynamics
could yield insights into the lag period of invasions, evo-
lutionary responses to novel environments, and range
expansions, oscillations, and extinctions. Also, inte-
grating empirical data on ecological factors, such as
predation or competition, with genetic factors, such as
quantitative genetic variance or the genomic architec-
ture of critical traits, could enhance our understanding
of factors that limit invasions, improve the eﬃcacy of
predictive models, including those that might aid in bi-
ological control. Invasive species provide an ideal test-
ing ground for many basic evolutionary theories, and
we hope that this workshop will help expand this po-
tential.
This event will be held March 19-22, 2009 at North Lake
Tahoe, California, USA. The workshop will consist of
talks by invited speakers (listed below), group discus-
sions, and posters sessions. Conference attendance will
be limited to 100, so we recommend registering early!
The workshop will take place during prime ski season
at the scenic Granlibakken Conference Center & Lodge,
which is nestled between trees, mountains, and Squaw
and Alpine Ski Resorts. The Reno-Tahoe International
Airport provides ready access to Lake Tahoe, and from
a number of major airports.
The all-inclusive meeting package of $799.00 (single-
occupancy) or $608.00 (double occupancy) includes
conference registration fees; three nights lodging
(Thursday, Friday, and Saturday), dinner on Thursday,
three meals on Friday and Saturday, and breakfast and
lunch on Sunday. Day passes to the conference (confer-
ence attendance + lunch) are available at $120 per day
or $252 for the entire conference.
We recommend that you plan on arriving a few days
early or a stay a few days later if you plan to take
advantage of the local skiing, showshoeing, ice-skating,
and hiking opportunities. On site amenities include ski
lessons and on-site cross country ski trails.
The registration deadline is February 15. You
may register at http://www.granlibakken.com <
https://silk.csuchico.edu/exchweb/bin/redir.asp?URL=3D http:/-
/www.granlibakken.com >. The user name and
password are: usda0996 EvolDir February 1, 2009
If you would like to present a poster, please
submit a title to Kristina Schierenbeck
(ka.schierenbeck@ars.usda.gov) by March 10.
List of Invited Speakers and Tentative Titles:
Richard Gomulkiewicz, Robert Holt & Scott Nuismer
Genetic complexity, adaptation, and invasion in harsh
environments
Alex Perkins Eﬀects of evolutionarily labile interspeciﬁc
interactions on spatial spread dynamics
Judith Miller The fate of neutral mutations arising dur-
ing invasions
Andrew Kanarek & Colleen Webb Allee eﬀects and in-
vasion success through coupled evolutionary and eco-
logical dynamics
Carol Eunmi Lee, Yuseob Kim & Davorka Gulisija Test-
ing for genetic signatures of selection during indepen-
dent invasions into novel environments
Marc Kramer Application of climate models to under-
stand and model environmental processes
Andy Suarez, Neil Tsutsui & David Holway Insights
into invasion success from comparing the biology of ant
invaders in their native and introduced ranges
Kevin Rice The role of trans-generational plasticity (i.e.
maternal eﬀects) in biological invasions
George Gilchrist & Raymond Huey Developmental
plasticity evolves during biological invasions
Heinz M¨ uller-Sch¨ arer Adaptive evolutionary change in
an invasive plant: Tracking its evidence
Elizabeth Leger & Erin Espeland Evolution of native
plants in response to invaders
George Roderick & Maria Navajas Evidence for evolu-
tionary change in classical biological control and what
this says about invasions
Kristina A. Schierenbeck USDA/ARS, Research Leader
Exotic & Invasive Weeds Unit 920 Valley Road Reno,
Nevada 89512
Work: 775-784-6057 ext. 222 Cell: 530-591-9907
Ka.Schierenbeck@ARS.USDA.GOV
Montreal Population Genomics
Genetic Epidemiology May19-22
Montreal - May 19-22 2009www.MontrealSpringSchool.ca
Description:
The main objective of the School is to provide train-
ing in rapidly developing disciplines that are becoming
increasingly important in health sciences. It includes
genetic epidemiology and human evolutionary genetics,
population genomics and bioinformatics. The training
will be based on real-data examples from the research
of the instructors’ laboratories. In one module we will
also present genealogical resources speciﬁc to Quebec
and introduce informatics methods for their use in pop-
ulation analysis and epidemiology. The School consists
of four days of lectures and computer labs, starting with
basic concepts and methods of analysis in biostatistics
and population genetics before turning to genetic epi-
demiological applications.
Application Procedures:
If you wish to participate in the workshop, please visit
our website for instructions and to download the appli-
cation form. All applications should be submitted no
later than Friday, February 27, 2009.
Because of a limited number of places, participants
will be selected based on their academic/scientiﬁc back-
ground, research record, and their speciﬁc research in-
terests and needs.
Registration fees: 250$
Faculty:
Alexandre Alcais, Paris, France Philip Awadalla, Mon-
treal, Canada
Luis B. Barreiro, Chicago, IL Louis Houde, Trois-
Rivi` eres, Canada
Lluis Quintana-Murci, Paris, France Marie-H´ el` ene Roy-
Gagnon, Montreal, Canada
H´ el` ene V´ ezina, Chicoutimi, Canada Rob Sladek, Mon-
treal, Canada (Invited speaker)
Scientiﬁc Committee:
Jamie Engert, Montreal, Canada France Gagnon,
Toronto, Canada
Maja Krajinovic, Montreal, Canada Julian Little, Ot-
tawa, Canada
Erwin Schurr, Montreal, Canada Terry-Lynn Young,
St. Johns, Canada
Organized by:
Damian Labuda, Philip Awadalla and Marie-H´ el` ene
Roy-Gagnon for the R´ eseau de M´ edecine G´ en´ etique Ap-
pliqu´ ee (RMGA) of the Fonds de la recherche en sant´ e
du Qu´ ebec (FRSQ), CHU Sainte-Justine Research Cen-February 1, 2009 EvolDir 97
tre, and Departments of Pediatrics, Biochemistry, So-
cial and Preventive Medicine, and Robert Cedergren
Centre for Bioinformatics and Genomics of the Univer-
sit´ e de Montr´ eal.
To apply or for more information please contact:
Ms. Dominika Kozubska E-mail:
info@montrealspringschool.ca Phone: 514-345-4691
Or visit our website: www.montrealspringschool.ca
Damian Labuda, Ph.D., D.Sc. Professor, Pediatrics
Department, Montreal University Sainte-Justine Hos-
pital Research Center, room B-607 b 3175 Cote Sainte-
Catherine Montreal, PQ Canada H3T 1C5
tel: (514) 345-4931 ext.3586 [sec. 3282] fax: (514) 345-
4731 damian.labuda@umontreal.ca Damian Labuda
<damian.labuda@umontreal.ca >
NESCent DatabaseInteroperability
Hackathon
NESCent Hackathon on Evolutionary Database Inter-
operability
OPEN CALL FOR PARTICIPATION
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NES-
Cent; http:// nescent.org) is sponsoring an “Evolution-
ary Database Interoperability” hackathon aimed at en-
hancing the value (and raising the proﬁle) of impor-
tant community resources for evolutionary and biodi-
versity data by increasing their accessibility to users
and software. We are broadly soliciting applications
for participation from the community. More infor-
mation about the event is available online at http:/-
/evoinfo.nescent.org/Database Interop Hackathon .
A hackathon is an event at which a group of program-
mers who otherwise do not have the opportunity to
interact on a routine basis meet with users and domain
experts to collaboratively develop working code that is
of utility to the community as a whole. The Database
Interoperability Hackathon will bring together devel-
opers from a number of emerging standards for evo-
lutionary data exchange (NeXML; http://nexml.org
), data and metadata semantics (CDAO; http://-
www.evolutionaryontology.org ), and programmatic ac-
cess of evolutionary data providers (PhyloWS; http://-
evoinfo.nescent.org/PhyloWS ) with database program-
mers and metadata experts from a variety of evolution-
ary and biodiversity community resources. In addition,the mix of people will include programmers of embed-
dable widgets, mash-up and aggregation applications
that can showcase the value of the eﬀort for research
applications.
We also welcome comments and suggestions for issues
in database interoperability that could be addressed at
the event but are not yet on our radar. Please email the
organizers at hackathon3@nescent.org with any sugges-
tions you have.
GOALS AND ACTIVITIES
The focus of the programming aspect of the meeting
will be to promote interoperability among online evo-
lutionary databases through the following core set of
activities. 1) Mapping the data and operation seman-
tics of the participating online resources to an ontol-
ogy, CDAO. 2) Implement a NeXML transformation
for participating online resources as a formally deﬁned
query input and data output. 3) Implementation of pro-
grammable web-service interfaces following the emerg-
ing PhyloWS standard. 4) Showcase some of the possi-
bilities that can arise from achieving data provider in-
teroperability through small integration and/or mash-
up oriented prototype applications.
Supporting activities will include discussing input from
end-users, discussing compliance with emerging report-
ing standards (MIAPA) and documentation of solutions
and open problems on the hackathon wiki.
ORGANIZATION
The event will be 5 days in duration and will take place
at NESCent in Durham, North Carolina, on March 9-
13, 2009. Participant travel, accommodation, expenses
for meals, etc, will be paid by NESCent. Logistical and
travel details will be communicated to accepted and
conﬁrmed participants.
The speciﬁc development targets will be selected by the
participants through a hackathon wiki, a mailing list,
and one or more conference calls. The exact agenda for
the event will be developed similarly, but will be largely
devoted to coding time. At the event itself, participants
will self-organize into small subgroups (of 2-5) focused
on particular targets.
The NeXML, CDAO, and PhyloWS standards are
products of the Evolutionary Informatics working
group ( http://evoinfo.nescent.org ), under the auspices
of whom this event is being organized.
CALL FOR PARTICIPATION
We invite all individuals interested in attending to ap-
ply by responding to the questions below. We specif-
ically encourage applications from members of under-
represented groups, speciﬁcally women and minorities,98 EvolDir February 1, 2009
and from graduate students and postdocs.
1. Please indicate if you would be available for all or
only for part of the March 9-13 time period.
2. All code and documentation produced at the event
is to be made available immediately under an OSI-
approved open-source license or a Creative Commons
license. Please indicate if this would pose any diﬃculty
for your participation.
3. Please brieﬂy describe your qualiﬁcations (program-
ming languages, metadata standards, experience with
data schemas, web-service programming, mash-up pro-
gramming, etc).
4. Please state what you would most like to accomplish
at the hackathon, given your current understanding. If
you would not be writing software at the event, please
state how you would like to contribute and how you
would expect to beneﬁt.
5. Please indicate if you are a member of an underrep-
resented group
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Portugal MolEvol
GTPB - the Gulbenkian Training Programme in Bioin-
formatics
Course Announcement - Applications are OPEN
Dear EvolDir mailing list member,
Registration is now open for
MEPA09 - Molecular Evolution, Phylogenetics and
Adaptation
Please visit the GTPB website for details: http://-
gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt or go directly to the MEPA09
webpage: http://gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt/MEPA09
WARNING: we have received an overwhelming number
of positive expressions of interest on this course. Expe-
rience from previous editions tells us that it is likely to
bevery competitive for seats. Our maximum capacity
is 20 seats. Early application is recommended!
Pedro Fernandes– Pedro Fernandes GTPB Coordinator Instituto Gul-
benkian de Ciˆ encia Apartado 14 2781 OEIRAS POR-
TUGAL
Pedro Fernandes <pfern@igc.gulbenkian.pt >
UMichigan SpeciesTrees Jan10-11
Workshop at the University of Michigan, Jan 10-11,
2009
Estimating Species Trees: a Phylogenetic Paradigm for
the 21st Century
NOTE: Given the level of interest in the workshop, we
have increased the number of participants that may at-
tend the computer training to 60. There is not a con-
straint on the number of people that may attend the
seminars on Jan 10 - see website for details and regis-
tration.
Recent computational and modeling advances have pro-
duced methods for estimating species trees directly. Ac-
curate estimates of phylogenetic relationships can be
extracted from genetic data with these new approaches,
sometimes with less data, by directly modeling the
causes of discordance in topology and branch lengths
among gene trees. Such inferences are commonly im-
possible under the traditional phylogenetic paradigm
because of the potential for the idiosyncrasies of gene
trees to obscure the actual history of species divergence.
We are oﬀering this workshop to not only increase the
visibility and use of these methods, but also address a
number of signiﬁcant challenges to estimating species
trees, to assure that the advantages these methods of-
fer reach a broad community of users. The goals of the
workshop are to: (i) provide an understanding of the
theoretical underpinnings of current methodology, (ii)
present empirical examples demonstrating the utility of
current methodology as well as its limitations, and (iii)
oﬀer instruction on the technical aspects involved in us-
ing current software. This will be accomplished through
the combination of a series of lectures (day one) and
hands-on computer training (day two). Participation
in the workshop requires registration (go to http://-
www.ummz.lsa.umich.edu/sptree.html ) and is free for
those attending the lectures (on Jan 10) and is $25 for
those attending the computer training (on Jan 11; see
website for programs that will be covered).
Co-organizers: L. Lacey Knowles, University of Michi-
gan, and Laura S. Kubatko, Ohio State UniversityFebruary 1, 2009 EvolDir 99
Schedule: January 10, Location: East Hall Audito-
rium 1324 8:15 Introduction: L. Lacey Knowles, Species
tree and gene tree heterogeneity: concepts, estimation
and empirical application 8:30 Scott Edwards, Estimat-
ing species trees: empirical comparisons of bayesian,
summary statistic and concatenation methods 9:00
Robb Brumﬁeld, Inferring the speciational history of
hybridizing manakins (Aves) from multi-locus, multi-
allelic data 9:30 Liang Liu, BEST: a bayesian coales-
cent approach for estimating species phylogenies 10:00
Coﬀee break 10:30 Karen Cranston, Species trees and
gene trees from high-throughput sequence data in rice
11:00 Bret Larget, BUCKy: bayesian untangling of con-
cordance knots (applied to yeast and other organisms)
11:30 C´ elcile An´ e, Detecting phylogenetic discordance
on a genome-wide scale 12:00 Lunch break 1:30 Laura
Kubatko, Detecting hybridization in the presence of
incomplete lineage sorting using multilocus data 2:00
Luay Nakhleh, Eﬃcient search for the species tree in the
compatibility graph of gene trees 2:30 Catherine Lin-
nen, Grafting gene trees onto species trees: insights into
speciation and adaptation 3:00 Coﬀee break 3:30 Na-
talia Belﬁore, Multilocus reconstruction of the phyloge-
netic history of recently diverged species: concatenation
vs BEST, a case study with pocket gophers 4:00 Lisle
Gibbs, Species trees and speciation history in Sistrurus
rattlesnakes inferred from multilocus data 4:30 James
Degnan, Probabilities of gene trees in species trees with
intraspeciﬁc sampling 5:00 Laura Kubatko, Closing re-
marks (5 minutes) 6:00 Reception and dinner, Hall of
Dinosaurs, Museum of Zoology January 11, Location:
Shapiro Undergraduate Library, classroom 2054 9:00
James Degnan: program COAL 9:45 Laura Kubatko:
program STEM 10:30 C´ ecile An´ e: program BUCKy
11:15 Dennis Pearl: BEST: A Markov Chain Monte
Carlo approach to species tree estimation 12:00-1:00
Lunch break 1:00-5:00: Work on datasets
Location of the workshop: University of Michigan, Jan-
uary 10-11, 2009.
Invited speakers for workshop: Liang Liu, Harvard Uni-
versity Laura Kubatko, Ohio State University Dennis
Pearl, Ohio State University C´ elcile An´ e, University of
Wisconsin James Degnan, University of Canterbury L.
Lacey Knowles, University of Michigan Luay Nakhleh,
Rice University Karen Cranston, University of Arizona
Bret Larget, University of Wisconsin Robb Brumﬁeld,
Louisiana State Univ. Lisle Gibbs, Ohio State Univer-
sity Scott Edwards, Harvard University Catherine Lin-
nen, Harvard University Natalia Belﬁore, University of
California, Berkeley
For more information please contact: Dr.
L. Lacey Knowles, knowlesl@umich.edu
<mailto:knowlesl@umich.edu >This workshop has been made possible by funds gener-
ously provided by the Museum of Zoology, LSA Dean’s
Oﬃce, and the Oﬃce of Vice President for Research,
University of Michigan, and NSF.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UTennessee TheoreticalEvolution
Jun1-Jul24
Dear Colleagues,
I would greatly appreciate it if you could please pass
this information on to the math and biology under-
graduates at your institution.
Sincerely,
Mike
Research Experiences for Undergraduates 2009 Sum-
mer Program
National Institute for Mathematical and Biological
Synthesis (NIMBioS) at the University of Tennessee,
Knoxville
June 1 - July 24, 2009
Undergraduate majors in math, biology, and related
ﬁelds will live on campus and work in teams with UT
professors on state-of-the-art research projects.
The stipend is $3200. Housing and travel allowance are
provided.
Project research areas: - plant chemical defenses -
codon usage and gene expression - disease modeling
Application information will be available soon on
this site. We encourage applicants from di-
verse backgrounds. Contact Suzanne Lenhart at
lenhart@math.utk.edu for further information.
REU Leadership Team: Suzanne Lenhart, Director,
Mathematics Department Mike Gilchrist, Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology Department Kim Gwinn, Ento-
mology and Plant Pathology Department Steve Wise,
Mathematics Department
For more information see: http://nimbios.org/-
undergraduates/reu.html http://www.nimbios.org/-
docs/REUﬂyer.pdf mikeg@utk.edu mikeg@utk.edu100 EvolDir February 1, 2009
UVirginia FieldBiology
SUMMER 2009 Field Biology Courses and REU Intern-
ships; Mountain Lake Biological Station; MLBS.org
Mountain Lake Biological Station (University of Vir-
ginia) announces its summer ﬁeld biology program:
1) Courses - Field-based undergraduate and graduate-
level biology credit courses and workshops oﬀered by
nationally recruited faculty. 2) NSF REU-Sites Pro-
gram - Undergraduate independent research internship
program now in its 17th year. Work at MLBS fo-
cuses on ﬁeld-based evolution, physiology, and behav-
ior. Courses web page:
http://mlbs.org/courses.html REU web page: http://-
mlbs.org/REU.html Fliers to Distribute or Post:
http://mlbs.org/download/MLBS Poster.pdf http:/-
/mlbs.org/download/MLBS Courses.pdf http:/-
/mlbs.org/download/MLBS REU Poster.pdf ****
Learn all about Mountain Lake opportunities at
MLBS.org **** Thank you very much, Butch Brodie,
Director Eric Nagy, Associate Director
Eric S. Nagy, Ph.D. Associate Director Mountain Lake
Biological Station, Department of Biology University of
Virginia / P.O. Box 400327 Charlottesville, VA 22904-
4327 USA street address: 485 McCormick Road / 219
Gilmer Hall tel: +1-434-243-4989 (+1-540-626-5227
summer) fax: +1-434-982-5626 (+1-540-626-5229 sum-
mer) cel: +1-434-906-3122 eml: enagy@virginia.edu
skype: ﬂightofthesandor web:
virginia.edu/biology/faculty/nagy.htm MLBS web
page: mlbs.org
enagy@virginia.edu
WoodsHole MolEvol Jul26-Aug7
Workshop on Molecular Evolution, Woods Hole
http://workshop.molecularevolution.org/mbl/ 26 July
- 7 August 2009, extended topics session 7 August - 14
August 2009
Application Deadline 2 March 2009
Michael P. Cummings, DirectorThe Workshop on Molecular Evolution has been the
ﬁnest course in the subject since it was started in
1988. The Workshop consists of a series of lectures,
demonstrations and computer laboratories that cover
various aspects of molecular evolution. A distinguish-
ing feature of the Workshop is a well-equipped com-
puter laboratory with Apple Macintosh computers and
servers for comparative analysis of molecular data. Au-
thors and experts in the use of computer programs
and packages such as AWTY, BEAST, Clustal W
and Clustal X, FASTA, FigTree, GARLI, LAMARC,
MAFFT, MrBayes, PAML, PAUP*, and PHYLIP pro-
vide demonstrations and consultations. This two-week
program is designed for established investigators, post-
doctoral fellows, and advanced graduate students with
prior experience in molecular evolution and compara-
tive genomics. Lectures and computer laboratories to-
tal~90 hours of scheduled instruction. An optional
all-computer laboratory of 54+ hours of independent
work with guidance and consultation of some faculty
and teaching assistants is oﬀered during the third week.
Admission is limited and highly competitive, with ad-
missions decisions determined by an international com-
mittee. Many participants ﬁnd the extended topics ses-
sion to be especially useful.
Topics to be covered include:
- Databases and sequence matching: database search-
ing: protein sequence versus protein structure; homol-
ogy; mathematical, statistical, and theoretical aspects
of sequence database searches - Phylogenetic analysis:
theoretical, mathematical and statistical bases; sam-
pling properties of sequence data; Bayesian analysis;
hypothesis testing - Maximum likelihood theory and
practice in phylogenetics and population genetics: coa-
lescent theory; maximum likelihood estimation of pop-
ulation genetic parameters - Molecular evolution inte-
grated at organism and higher levels: population bi-
ology; biogeography; ecology; systematics and conser-
vation - Molecular evolution and development: gene
duplication and divergence; gene family organization;
coordinated expression in evolution - Comparative ge-
nomics: genome content; genome structure; genome
evolution - Molecular evolution integrated at lower lev-
els: biochemistry; cell biology; physiology; relationship
of genotype to phenotype
2009 Fees: $2500 (room and board at no additional
charge), plus an additional $900 for the extended top-
ics session.
More information is available at http://-
workshop.molecularevolution.org/mbl/ Direct link to
application information is - http://gosnold.mbl.edu/-
StudentApp/StudentApp.asp?CourseID=3DMOLE
mike@umiacs.umd.edu mike@umiacs.umd.eduFebruary 1, 2009 EvolDir 101
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here — Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from ‘blackballed’ addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned oﬀ and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf ﬁle.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
‘on vacation’, etc, style messages are automatically ﬁltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail’s your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word ﬁles, as HTML ﬁles, as L ATEX ﬁles, Excel ﬁles, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
“Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:” and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and ﬁlters. If the message is caught by one of the
ﬁlters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.