E v o l D i r
January 1, 2005
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Forward
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same ﬁeld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be “bulletin board” in nature, if there is a “discussion” style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Forward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Afterward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 482 EvolDir January 1, 2005
Conferences
Oslo WilliHennigSociety Jul25-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Oslo WilliHennigSociety Jul25-29 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Paris MathEvol Jun17-21 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
PennStateU NorthEastEcolEvol Mar18-20 . . . . . . . . . . 3RothamstedUK MathMolBiol Mar21-22 . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
UGeorgia SEEC Mar11-13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
UOxford HapMap Mar15-18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Oslo WilliHennigSociety Jul25-29
Announcing the 24 meeting of the Willi Hennig Society,
25-29 July 2005 in Oslo, Norway.
This conference on phylogenetic biology (both the-
oretical and empirical) will be held at the Quality
Fagernes Hotell ( http://www.choicehotels.no/html/en-
gb72665.jsp ) in the beautiful mountains just north of
Oslo, Norway. The start date of the meeting is meant
to coincide with the tail end of the International Botani-
cal Congress ( http://www.ibc2005.ac.at/ ) being held in
Vienna, Austria, from 17-23 August. As such, one hope
is that a large contingent of botanists travelling to the
IBC can also include Hennig XXVI in their schedules.
Single or double rooms with a full pension package will
be available, as will cheaper options for youth hostel
bookings with or without full pension at the nearby
Quality Fagernes Hotell. Package rates have been ne-
gotiated to rather reasonable costs, and all sessions will
be held on-site at the hotel.
Presentations are invited within pre-planned symposia,
or as selected from contributions (e.g., from poster sub-
missions) as time permits. All poster presentations are
welcome. The Willi Hennig Society strongly encourages
participation from students and postdocs on their de-
voping research, either theoretical or empirical. There
are several cash student prizes that will be awarded.
CALL FOR SYMPOSIA PROPOSALS:
Please email Victor A. Albert (vic-
tor.albert@nhm.uio.no) with concrete plans for
symposia, including a 1-2 paragraph description, and
a list of proposed speakers and their topics. Thesesymposia proposals will be assessed in light of other
proposals registered.
Please check back on the Evoldir web site for additional
information on registration prices and travel sugges-
tions as they become available.
Victor A. Albert Professor and Head, Botanical Garden
The Natural History Museums and Botanical Garden
University of Oslo P.O. Box 1172 Blindern NO-0318
Oslo, Norway
Visiting address: Sars’ gate 1, NO-0562 Oslo
+47 22851698 tel +47 22851824 fax +47 48224268 mob
http://folk.uio.no/victoraa/index ﬁles/slide0002.htm
Victor Albert <victor.albert@nhm.uio.no >
Oslo WilliHennigSociety Jul25-29 2
Announcing the 24th meeting of the Willi Hennig So-
ciety, 25-29 July 2005 in Oslo, Norway.
This conference on PHYLOGENETIC BIOLOGY
(both theoretical and empirical) will be held at the
Quality Fagernes Hotell ( http://www.choicehotels.no/-
html/en-gb72665.jsp ) in the beautiful mountains just
north of Oslo, Norway. The start date of the meeting
is meant to coincide with the tail end of the Interna-
tional Botanical Congress ( http://www.ibc2005.ac.at/ )
being held in Vienna, Austria, from 17-23 August. As
such, one hope is that a large contingent of botanists
travelling to the IBC can also include Hennig XXVI in
their schedules. Of course, all other interested parties
in the phylogenetic and phylogenomic community are
also encouraged to attend.January 1, 2005 EvolDir 3
Single or double rooms with a full pension package will
be available, as will cheaper options for youth hostel
bookings with or without full pension at the nearby
Quality Fagernes Hotell. Package rates have been ne-
gotiated to rather reasonable costs, and all sessions will
be held on-site at the hotel.
Presentations are invited within pre-planned symposia,
or as selected from contributions (e.g., from poster sub-
missions) as time permits. All poster presentations are
welcome. The Willi Hennig Society strongly encourages
participation from students and postdocs on their de-
veloping research, either theoretical or empirical. There
are several cash student prizes that will be awarded.
CALL FOR SYMPOSIA PROPOSALS:
Please email Victor A. Albert (vic-
tor.albert@nhm.uio.no) with concrete plans for
symposia, including a 1-2 paragraph description,
and a list of proposed speakers and their topics.
These symposia proposals will be assessed in light of
other proposals registered. SYMPOSIA PROPOSALS
SHOULD FOCUS ON TOPICS OF PHYLOGENETIC
OR PHYLOGENOMIC INTEREST, THEORETICAL
AND/OR EMPIRICAL.
Please check back on the Evoldir web site for additional
information on registration prices and travel sugges-
tions as they become available.
Victor Albert <victor.albert@nhm.uio.no >
Paris MathEvol Jun17-21
Mathematics of Evolution and Phylogeny Institut Henri
Poincar´ e, Paris, June 17-18 and 20-21, 2005.
Web site ————-
http://www.lirmm.fr/MEP05/ Organizers —————
-
Olivier Gascuel (CNRS, Montpellier) Mike Steel (Univ.
Canterbury, Christchurch)
Theme ———-
This conference which follows a similar workshop that
was held in June 2003. The subject is evolution, which
is considered at diﬀerent scales: sequences, genes, gene
families, organelles, genomes, and species. The focus
is on the mathematical and computational tools and
concepts, which form an essential basis of evolutionary
studies. Recent years have witnessed rapid progress inthis area, with models and methods becoming more re-
alistic, powerful, and complex. The goal of the confer-
ence is to provide pedagogical presentations of the main
subjects in the ﬁeld, from basic principles to the cut-
ting edge, with time for discussion and debate. There
will be presentations by some of the leading experts in
the ﬁeld. Each speaker will survey a broad range of
methods, techniques and results. Young scientists will
also be selected, to give short talks or present posters.
Expert Speakers ————————
Elizabeth Allman (Univ. Southern Maine) Laurent Ex-
coﬃer (Univ. Bern) Joe Felsenstein (Univ. Wash-
ington) Dan Gusﬁeld (Univ. Berkeley) Daniel Huson
(Univ. Tuebingen) Bret Larget (Univ. Wiscousin)
Arne Mooers (Univ. Simon Fraser) Pavel Pevzner
(Univ. California) Allen Rodrigo (Univ. Auckland)
Charles Semple (Univ. Canterbury, Christchurch) Mike
Steel (Univ. Canterbury, Christchurch)
Call for Presentations of Young Scientists ——
Young scientists will be selected, to give short talks
or present posters. Those wishing to do so should
email Olivier Gascuel and Mike Steel with an ex-
tended abstract of the intended presentation, with links
to published papers or manuscripts (gascuel@lirmm.fr,
M.Steel@math.canterbury.ac.nz)
Deadline: February 28, 2005,
Location and registration ——
The conference will be held in the French mathematical
Institut Henri Poincare, situated in the centre of Paris,
close to the Luxembourg garden. The registration web
site will be open soon (address is above). The registra-
tion fee is 100 Euros. Early registration are encouraged
as in 2003 the meeting ﬁlled up and registration was
closed (with a waiting list) sometime before the meet-
ing.
LIRMM, 161 rue Ada, 34392 - Montpellier - FRANCE
Tel. (33 or 0 from France) 4 67 41 85 47 Fax. (33 or
0 from France) 4 67 41 85 00 http://www.lirmm.fr/-
˜w3ifa/MAAS/perso.html gascuel@lirmm.fr
gascuel@lirmm.fr
PennStateU NorthEastEcolEvol
Mar18-20
Northeast Ecology and Evolution Conference 20054 EvolDir January 1, 2005
March 18th-20th The Pennsylvania State University
University Park, PA
Registration and abstract submission is now open
for the Northeast Ecology and Evolution Conference
(NEEC), March 18 - 20 at The Pennsylvania State Uni-
versity (University Park, PA). Web registration via our
secure server will remain open until March 4, 2005. Ab-
stracts will be accepted on-line until February 4, 2005.
To register now visit the conference website:
www.ecology.psu.edu/neec NEEC is a professional
meeting organized by graduate students and post-docs
to provide a forum for advanced undergraduates, grad-
uate students, and post-docs to present their research
in the form of a poster or talk. Poster and Talk topics
for NEEC 2005 include animal behavior, biodiversity,
biogeochemistry, biogeography, biological invasions,
chemical ecology, community ecology, conservation
and management, disease ecology, ecophysiology,
ecosystems ecology, eﬀects of climate change, evolution
of development, genome evolution, marine biology,
microbial ecology, molecular ecology, molecular evolu-
tion, paleobiology, philosophy of biology, phylogenetics
and systematics, plant and animal interactions, popu-
lation ecology, population genetics, quantitative trait
mapping, reproductive biology, soil ecology, spacial
ecology and landscape ecology, speciation, symbiosis,
and urban ecology.
The weekend will include a reception and panel dis-
cussion on “Setting Up a Research Program” on Fri-
day night and a keynote banquet on Saturday night.
The keynote speaker will be Dr. Peter Kareiva. Dr.
Kareiva has a very distinguished career in ecological
research and presently serves as Lead Scientist for the
Nature Conservancy. The title of his talk is Conser-
vation Struggles to Mature from “Reactive Teenager”
to “Judicious Adult”: Salmon, Return on Investment,
and Strategic Priorities
For further information visit the conference web-
site at www.ecology.psu.edu/neec or contact us at
neec2005@yahoo.com.
NEEC 2005 Organizing Committee
RothamstedUK MathMolBiol
Mar21-22
MASAMB-2005 (Mathematical and Statistical Aspects
of Molecular Biology)The 15th Annual meeting of ’Mathematical and Statis-
tical Aspects of Molecular Biology’ will take place at
Rothamsted Research, Harpenden on 21 and 22 March
2005.
The conference web site can be found at http://-
www.rothamsted.bbsrc.ac.uk/bab/masamb Bioinfor-
matics and statistical genetics, twin themes of the
long-running series of annual MASAMB meetings (see
the archive at http://www.ebi.ac.uk/goldman-srv/-
masamb ), have gained huge impetus from large-scale
genome sequencing projects and development of high-
throughput biological assay systems, including gene-
expression microarrays. These immense data resources,
and the underlying complexities of molecular and cell
biology, provide exciting research opportunitities for
numerate scientists.
With typically around 60-80 participants from math-
ematics, statistics, computer science, bioinformatics,
biology and related ﬁelds, the MASAMB meetings
provide an intimate setting for exchange of ideas in
methodological and applied research. Research stu-
dents and scientists newly entering the ﬁeld of genomic
research are particularly welcome.
TALKS on research relevant to the workshop are in-
vited. The meeting will contain approximately 12 half-
hour talks selected from participants’ submissions. Ab-
stracts must be submitted using the on-line system at
the MASAMB-2005 web site (see above). Submitted
abstracts will be reviewed by the organising committee
and selected speakers will be informed by 27th January.
Speakers will be asked to make their presentation avail-
able in electronic form for inclusion on this website after
the meeting (pdf or Powerpoint format).
POSTERS (portrait format, maximum depth 120 cm)
on research relevant to the workshop are invited for the
poster sessions to be held on both days. To submit
a poster, send an abstract using the MASAMB-2005
web based abstract submission. Accepted abstracts will
be displayed on the web site. Following the meeting,
posters may be published on this web site (pdf format
required)
REGISTRATION costs £90 (before January 20th)
which includes lunch on both days and the conference
dinner. The cost for full-time students is £60. Late
registrations, after 20th January (if places are avail-
able) will cost £110. Registration must be made using
throough the MASAMB-2005 web system (see address
above). The evening meal will take place at Rotham-
sted.
ACCOMMODATION may be requested through the
workshop website at the designated conference hotelJanuary 1, 2005 EvolDir 5
(Hertfordshire Moat House, Markyate, oﬀering swim-
ming pool and gymnasium) at a preferential conference
rate of £80. Hertfordshire Moat House bookings not
made through the conference website (which generates
the booking form when you register) will have to pay
standard hotel rates. Hotels in the Harpenden area
tend to get fully booked. Please ensure that you ar-
range accomodation at an early date.
Please post this information where others in your de-
partment will see it and tell anyone you think that may
be interested in attending.
Nick Goldman Organising Committee, MASAMB-2005
Nick Goldman tel: +44-(0)1223-492530 EMBL - Euro-
pean Bioinformatics Institute fax: +44-(0)1223-494468
Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge
CB10 1SD, UK
UGeorgia SEEC Mar11-13
**Please Distribute Widely** **Apologies for Cross
Postings**
FIRST CALL FOR ABSTRACTS
SEEC 2005 SOUTHEASTERN ECOLOGY AND
EVOLUTION CONFERENCE THE UNIVERSITY
OF GEORGIA ATHENS, GEORGIA 11-13 MARCH
2005 www.uga.edu/seec REGISTRATION DEAD-
LINE: 4 FEBRUARY 2005
We invite all graduate, undergraduate, and post-
doctoral researchers studying in the environmental and
life sciences to submit abstracts for either oral or poster
presentations at the 2nd annual Southeastern Ecology
and Evolution Conference (SEEC) to be held March 11-
13, 2005, at the The University of Georgia in Athens,
Georgia. Talks will be delivered by Drs. Whit Gibbons,
John Avise and Gary Barrett.
SEEC is a professional meeting intended for students
in the environmental and life sciences to present their
research to their colleagues in a comfortable, fun, and
low stress environment. Such events are designed to
encourage new friendships within our ﬁeld and to share
newly developed research ideas for feedback. While we
expect most SEEC participants to be from the South-
east, we encourage and welcome all interested individ-
uals to submit abstracts and/or attend.
To encourage attendance, registration is only $15 and
covers meeting attendance, two continental breakfasts,snacks, coﬀee, a t-shirt, and $100 cash awards for the
best oral and poster presentations. The early registra-
tion and abstract submission deadline is February 4,
2005, and may be completed at the following web site:
www.uga.edu/seec We look forward to seeing you at
The University of Georgia in Athens for the 2nd An-
nual Southeastern Ecology and Evolution Conference
this March!
For more information, go to www.uga.edu/seec
or email Tom Luhring at tluhring@uga.edu
Thomas Luhring <tluhring@uga.edu >
UOxford HapMap Mar15-18
Conference: Genomic Studies and the HapMap
University of Oxford, UK: March 15-18, 2005
By March 2005, Phase I of the HapMap (600,000 com-
mon SNPs typed in 270 individuals) will be complete
and Phase II (an additional 2.25M SNPs in the same
samples) will be well underway. But there remain many
unresolved questions about how best to utilize this in-
formation in genetic research. This conference will be
hosted by the Department of Statistics at the Univer-
sity of Oxford, and supported in part by the Wellcome
Trust, and its primary focus will be the use of the
HapMap resource in genomic studies: human disease
studies, and other population genetic and evolutionary
analyses.
“Genomic Studies and the HapMap” will provide an
important opportunity for a diverse community of
investigators-those involved directly in the Interna-
tional HapMap Project, those in the broader analysis
community, and those whose focus is disease studies-
to come together to deﬁne and discuss a range of is-
sues related to the use of the HapMap resource. It will
also provide up-to-date assessments of the progress and
results from the project. Invited speakers from out-
side the HapMap project include Andy Clarke, David
Clayton, David Cox, Mark McCarthy, Rasmus Nielsen,
Jonathan Pritchard, Matthew Stephens, and Simon
Tavar´ e. This conference follows a successful meeting
held in the spring of 2004, which brought together well
over 100 participants interested in methods and analy-
sis related to the International Haplotype Map Project.
We invite participation and registration for this meeting
and encourage the submission of abstracts for posters6 EvolDir January 1, 2005
or short presentations.
The deadline for submitting an abstract is January 28,
2005.
The deadline for registration/lodging reservations is
February 25, 2005.Complete instructions for abstract submission and
registration, and further details of the confer-
ence, can be found at the conference Web site,
www.hapmap.org/oxford conference/default.html
<http://www.hapmap.org/oxford conference/-
default.html >.
GradStudentPositions
Brussels EvolSex . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
DalhousieU MarinePopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
LeidenU EvolAnimalBehaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
MountAllisonU DiatomGeneticVariability . . . . . . . . . . 8
NHM London EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
PurdueU PopBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
UAlaskaAnchorageFairbanks EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
UCopenhagen InsectCommunication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UGoettingen MolecularPhylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10UGuelph Abalone Conservation Genetics . . . . . . . . . . 11
UHawaiiManoa SnailEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
ULouisianaMonroe SystematicBotany . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
UMunich PlantPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
UPotsdam PlantPathogens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
URochester EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
VanderbiltU EcolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Brussels EvolSex
PhD opportunities: Marie Curie Research training net-
work (MRTN) SEXASEX - 4 positions available
Students and researchers interested in the paradox of
sex in evolutionary biology are strongly encouraged to
apply for a research position in the European Union
Marie Curie Research Training Network SEXASEX,
which is co- ordinated by Prof. Dr. Koen Martens,
RBINSc, Brussels. Criteria of eligibility include: EU
citizenship, less than 4 years of research experience for
Young Researchers (YR), and a willingness to work in
a European country other than the country of origin.
We seek candidates who are enthusiastic about evolu-
tionary biology, travelling and living abroad, learning
in a multidisciplinary research environment and work-
ing in teams. All appointments will be for 3 years, YR
are oﬀered PhD positions. YR will be expected to ob-
tain a PhD at the end of the project. The application
of female candidates is especially encouraged; detailedinformation on child care facilities at the diﬀerent in-
stitutions will be provided upon request. Aid can be
sought if accompanying spouses also require employ-
ment abroad.
Project overview: Sex is the queen of evolutionary
problems. It will be tackled by SEXASEX in a mul-
tidisciplinary approach, providing training and trans-
fer of knowledge for a total of 360 person-months. 10
network researchers (6 young researchers (YR) and 4
experienced researchers (ER)) will receive training in
9 institutions across as many countries. A wide ar-
ray of research tools will provide excellent training op-
portunities, for example through individual career de-
velopment plans, individual tutoring and secondments,
which will be supplemented by participation in courses
and external workshops. Network-wide training will ex-
ploit the extensive experience of the partner institutions
through ﬁve courses and summer schools for all network
researchers. Complementary skills such as management
and communication (verbal, written) will be developed,
and gender awareness will be raised, in two network-
wide meetings. The networks theoretical and empiri-
cal research will apply 13 major approaches, including
novel genomic and karyological approaches, intraspe-January 1, 2005 EvolDir 7
ciﬁc phylogeography, ecology, behavioural studies, GIS
analyses and theoretical modelling. With this mul-
tidisciplinary toolkit, SEXASEX will investigate why
sex exists at all, given its evolutionary costs, using the
model organism Eucypris virens, a non-marine ostra-
cod species with both sexual and asexual reproduction.
What determines its gender, what are the genomic con-
sequences of long-term asexuality, what is the cohesive-
ness of a species with mixed reproduction, how do asex-
uals and sexuals compete and what is their historical
zoogeography? The pluralistic approach of SEXASEX
is unique and timely, using highly novel methodologies
and dealing with cutting edge science based on Euro-
pean excellence and tradition. Please refer to http://-
www.naturalsciences.be/EVIRENS/ for more informa-
tion.
Send full applications, comprising letter of interest, CV
and coordinates of at least two potential referees before
the 10th of January 2005 to
Dr Isa Sch¨ on, Royal Belgian Institute of Nat-
ural Sciences, Freshwater biology, Vautier-
straat 29, B-1000 Brussels, Belgium E-mail
(Isa.schoen@naturalsciences.be) Fax : +32 2 62
74 113.
Correspondence by email is preferred.
Applications for the following three positions, all start-
ing beginning of May 2005, are now sought:
PhD POSITION 1: HISTORICAL BIOGEOGRAPHY
OF SEXUAL AND ASEXUAL REPRODUCTION IN
FRESHWATER OSTRACODS. Starting date: 1rst
May 2005 Duration: 36 months Salary: country-speciﬁc
plus tax-free mobility allowance Scientists in charge:
Prof. Dr Koen Martens Dr Isa Sch¨ on Location: Brus-
sels, Belgium Place of work: Royal Belgian Institute
of Natural Sciences, Freshwater Biology Approach and
methods to be applied: This project will test hy-
potheses attempting to explain the observed patterns
of geographical parthenogenesis in E. virens in Eu-
rope. Special attention will be given to the post-glacial
recolonisation hypothesis; pathways of recolonisation
from glacia refugia will be reconstructed. Methodology:
Estimates of morphological variability, DNA ampliﬁca-
tion and sequencing of mitochondrial genes, phyloge-
netic and phylogeographic reconstructions using both
classical phylogenetic reconstructions and Nested Clade
Analyses, GIS-based mapping of haplotypes, modelling
Candidate proﬁle: B. S., M.S. or equivalent (e.g.
Diploma) in Biology, Zoology, Molecular Biology, Ge-
netics, Geography or Evolutionary Biology. Some prac-
tical experience with the involved methods or ostracods
is advantageous but not necessarily required. Only non-
Belgian persons are eligible. Ph.D. degree may be eitherapplied for at the Faculty of Biology at the University
of Ghent (or another Belgian university) or at a local
university
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
DalhousieU MarinePopGenetics
Support for a graduate student (PhD or MSc) position
is available to work in the area of population and con-
servation genetics of marine, anadromous or freshwa-
ter ﬁsh in the laboratory of Daniel Ruzzante Depart-
ment of Biology at Dalhousie University, in Halifax,
Nova Scotia, Canada. The student will have interests
in one or more of the following areas: evolutionary biol-
ogy, adaptive radiation, marine ﬁsheries and the eﬀects
of exploitation on diversity, and in applying molecu-
lar genetic methods as well as phenotypic approaches
to the examination of issues related to the interplay
between natural selection and gene ﬂow. Depending
on the project, the work may have a signiﬁcant ﬁeld-
work component. Ideally, the successful candidate will
have some experience with molecular techniques and
should have a strong interest and aﬃnity to population
genetics and statistics. Support is contingent upon ac-
ceptance to the Department of Biology graduate pro-
gram. The Department of Biology has strengths in evo-
lutionary/population and conservation genetics and the
student will conduct the molecular aspects of his/her
research in the Gene Probe Laboratory, a centralized
molecular facility with ample opportunities for interac-
tion with faculty, postdocs and students.
For more information please contact: Daniel E
Ruzzante, Associate Professor and Canada Re-
search Chair in Marine Conservation Genetics,
Department of Biology, Dalhousie University,
Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada, B3H 4J1.(e-mail:
daniel.ruzzante@dal.ca, http://www.dal.ca/ ˜ ruzzante
; Canada Research Chairs http://www.chairs.gc.ca
Daniel.Ruzzante@Dal.Ca8 EvolDir January 1, 2005
LeidenU EvolAnimalBehaviour
Graduate position:
PhD position (AiO) in Animal Behaviour , Institute of
Biology (IBL), Leiden University, the Netherlands
Applications are invited for a research project funded
by the Institute of Biology Leiden (IBL), entitled: “Ur-
ban speciation: A study on habitat-dependent diver-
gence in urban and forest populations of the European
blackbird” to be conducted in the Behavioural Biology
group.
The Behavioural Biology group at Leiden University
investigates various aspects of animal communication.
We are interested in proximate mechanisms underly-
ing behaviour, but also in the evolution of signals and
the impact of signals on evolution. One of our goals is
to gain insight into the role of vocal divergence in the
process of speciation, for which we study a variety of
songbird species.
We are looking for a PhD-student to investigate the
impact of urbanization on communication among male
and female blackbirds (Turdus merula) and whether an-
thropogenic forces drive signal evolution in such a way
that it could promote reproductive divergence. We of-
fer facilities and relevant expertise to embark on this
challenging project within our international group.
Proﬁle: All candidates should have an MSc-degree
(doctoraal) in Biology, preferably with a specialization
in Animal Behaviour. We are especially looking for stu-
dents that have experience with molecular techniques
relevant to population genetics, bird netting in the ﬁeld,
or, to a lesser extent, bioacoustic methodologies.
The appointment is for a maximum of 4 years and is
expected to lead to the completion of a PhD-thesis.
The gross monthly salary is 1813 in the ﬁrst year and
increases progressively each year to 2283 in the fourth
year. Salary and fringe beneﬁts are conform the Col-
lective Employment Agreement for Dutch Universities.
A full description of the project is available and can be
obtained from:
Dr. Hans Slabbekoorn, e-mail:
Slabbekoorn@RULSFB.LeidenUniv.NL website Behav-
ioral Biology Group: http://wwwbio.leidenuniv.nl/-
˜ eew/g6/s5.html Those interested should apply not
later than two weeks after publication of this adver-tisement. We need: curriculum vitae, a cover letter
and names and addresses of three referees. Please
send your application to: Leiden University, Faculty of
Mathematics and Natural Sciences, Ms. M.J.C.A. van
Leeuwen, Human Resource Adviser, P.O. Box 9504,
2300 RA Leiden, The Netherlands.
—————- Dr. Hans Slabbekoorn
Behavioural Biology (IBL) Leiden University
phone: 31 71 527 5049 fax: 31 71 527 4900 ——
———- http://wwwbio.leidenuniv.nl/˜eew/G6/staﬀ/-
slabbekoorn.html slabbekoorn@rulsfb.leidenuniv.nl
MountAllisonU
DiatomGeneticVariability
Graduate Opportunity in Harmful Microorganisms,
Mount Allison University and Fisheries and Oceans
Canada, Biological Station at St. Andrews, New
Brunswick, Canada.
We invite applications for a Masters student in the bi-
ology of harmful diatoms. The student will contribute
to an ongoing research program assessing the genetic
variability of domoic acid producing Pseudo-nitzschia
clones isolated from areas near salmon farming opera-
tions in Passamaquoddy Bay, New Brunswick. Thresh-
olds of each of the clones at which mortalities or stresses
in Atlantic salmon occur under controlled laboratory
conditions will also be examined.
The ideal candidate will have experience with phyto-
plankton culture (preferably diatoms), be familiar with
standard phytoplankton enumeration and cell-viability
techniques as well as standard molecular methodology
(DNA extraction, PCR, etc.).
To apply, please send a resume, transcript, abstract of
Honours Thesis (if applicable) and the contact infor-
mation of three references to Dr. Irena Kaczmarska,
Department of Biology, Mount Allison University, 63B
York Street, Sackville, N.B. E4L 1G7, Canada, e-mail
address: iehrman@mta.ca. Review of applications will
begin immediately and will continues until the position
is ﬁlled. The initial appointment will be for one year,
with continuation of support pending on satisfactory
performance, with the possibility of further extension
by collaborating on future research proposals, includ-
ing international programs.
Alberto Amato PhD student Villa ComunaleJanuary 1, 2005 EvolDir 9
80121 Napoli -Italy- e-mail: amato@szn.it al-
berto.amato3@tin.it Tel.: +39 081 5833-259 - 296
- 219 Fax: +39 081 7641355
www.szn.it Alberto Amato <amato@szn.it >
NHM London EvolBiol
New PhD projects in Evolutionary Biology available at
the Natural History Museum London are detailed at
the following site:
http://www.nhm.ac.uk/science/rco/postgrad/phd/-
studentships NHM 05.htm with an application
deadline of 4th March 2005
Dr Mark Wilkinson Merit Researcher Department
of Zoology, The Natural History Museum, Cromwell
Road, London, SW7 5BD, UK
Tel: +44 (0)20 7942 5164, Fax: +44 (0)20 7942 5054
E-mail: M.Wilkinson@nhm.ac.uk or marw@nhm.ac.uk
Homepage (follow links to download my phylogenetic
software)
<http://www.nhm.ac.uk/zoology/home/-
wilkinson.htm >See also
<http://www.bioinf.org/molsys/ >
m.Wilkinson@nhm.ac.uk
PurdueU PopBiol
Graduate Assistantships at Purdue University
Purdue University is soliciting applications for graduate
assistantships (both M.S. and Ph.D.) in population bi-
ology. Research in our department spans the natural re-
source disciplines, but includes wildlife & ﬁsheries man-
agement, conservation biology & genetics, population
dynamics, and molecular ecology. Motivated and po-
tentially competitive applicants should send a short let-
ter of interest, including cumulative GPA, GRE scores,
and contact information for three references to a po-
tential faculty mentor at the Department of Forestry &
Natural Resources, Purdue University, West Lafayette,
IN 47907-1159. M.S. and Ph.D. assistantships are cur-
rently funded at roughly $16,000 and $18,000 per year,
respectively (plus a substantial waiver of tuition &fees). The cost of living in West Lafayette is low, and we
are only an hour from Indianapolis and two hours from
Chicago. See http://www.agriculture.purdue.edu/-
fnr/html/graduate.html for more information. COM-
PLETE applications must be received by January 5,
2005 to be considered. Women and minorities are en-
couraged to apply. Purdue University is an equal op-
portunity aﬃrmative action employer.
J. Andrew DeWoody 1159 Forestry Building Purdue
University West Lafayette, IN 47907 765-496-6109 de-
woody@purdue.edu
UAlaskaAnchorageFairbanks
EvolBiol
The University of Alaska (Anchorage-Fairbanks) invites
applications for Graduate Study from students with
interests in evolutionary biology, population genetics,
systematics, or molecular ecology. Two-year fellow-
ships, with annual stipends of $22,000, are available
for incoming students (MS or PhD). Support in addi-
tional years is anticipated to be available from teach-
ing and research assistantships. Additional information
on these fellowships and application instructions can
be found at: http://www.alaska.edu/epscor/funding/-
epscorpgagrad.html The Department of Biology and
Wildlife and the Institute of Arctic Biology at UAF pro-
vide a dynamic setting in which to pursue a graduate
degree. Our program is highly collaborative, and oﬀers
a diverse array of graduate student course oﬀerings in
evolutionary biology. The 50 faculty and >100 grad-
uate students oﬀer a vibrant intellectual community
with interests in biological systems. Facilities include a
newly modernized DNA CORE lab with high through-
put sequencing, SNP detection, microarray and pro-
teomics capabilities an ancient DNA extraction facility,
a state of the art greenhouse and animal growth quar-
ters, an extensive collections of Alaskan plants, mam-
mals and birds at the University of Alaska Museum of
the North . Regional study areas include Toolik Field
station and Bonanza Creek LTER.
The location of the University oﬀers unparalleled op-
portunities for research in understudied natural com-
munities (the storied 365 million acre classroom) and
the climate oﬀers a great opportunity to enjoy win-
ter sports and long summer days. The campus is sit-
uated on a sunny hill, overlooking the town of Fair-
banks, with a view of the Alaska Range. Fairbanks10 EvolDir January 1, 2005
is an extremely welcoming community, with many op-
portunities for outdoor sports. Groomed cross coun-
try ski trails start just outside the building, downhill
skiing less than 15 minutes from campus, and many
places for hiking, bird watching and snow machining.
Denali National Park is just 2 hours from campus. Your
graduate-student life will be an unforgettable life-time
experience in this beautiful subarctic region.
Applicants are encouraged to contact faculty with
whom they would like to work, and to specify that
faculty member in their graduate school application.
Additional information on faculty research interests
can be found at http://www.iab.uaf.edu/facstaﬀ.html .
All students applying for graduate work with the
above faculty will be considered for these fellow-
ships. Application instructions can be found http:/-
/www.bw.uaf.edu/bw graduate.html . Review of appli-
cations will begin 1 February 2005.
Matt Olson <matt.olson@uaf.edu >
UCopenhagen InsectCommunication
A 3-year PhD position will be available from July 2005
at Faculty of Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Den-
mark. The position is funded by the European Commu-
nity via a Marie Curie Excellence Grant. The successful
candidate will work in a new research group leaded by
Dr. Patrizia D’Ettorre, which will be integrated in the
laboratory of Prof. Koos Boomsma.
The research project will focus on Chemical Communi-
cation Code of Insect Societies, with a multidisciplinary
approach (behavioural, chemical, electro- and neuro-
physiological analyses and genetics).
Applicants should have a Master degree in Biology or
related disciplines, and are expected to have a back-
ground in Evolutionary Biology. Familiarity with gen-
eral molecular evolutionary techniques, with chemical
ecology techniques and neurophysiology is desirable but
not compulsory.
Applications should include CV, list of publications, re-
search interests and name and email address of one
referee, and be sent by email to Patrizia D’Ettorre
at patrizia.dettorre@biologie.uni-regensburg.de by Jan-
uary 31st 2005.
Dr. Patrizia D’Ettorre Dep. Biology I University of
Regensburg D-93040 Regensburg phone +49 941 943
2996 fax +49 941 943 3304 http://www.biologie.uni-regensburg.de/Zoologie/Heinze/en/staﬀ/dep/-
depe.html patrizia dettorre <patrizia.dettorre@t-
online.de >
UGoettingen
MolecularPhylogenetics
Goettingen, Germany: Research Associate (PhD) posi-
tion in molecular phylogenetics.
We invite applications for a research associate (PhD)
position in a project funded by the German Research
Foundation (DFG) The phylogeny of Calcarea“. The
project is located in the Department of Geobiology
(Working group of Jun.-Prof. Dr. Gert Woerheide)
of the Geoscience Centre of the University of Goettin-
gen (Germany). The Dept. of Geobiology is also part
of the Goettingen Centre for Biodiversity and Ecology.
The project aims to reconstruct phylogenetic relation-
ships among calcareous sponges (Porifera: Calcarea),
primarily using a molecular multi-marker approach.
Calcareous sponges are a small and phylogenetically
unresolved group that plays a pivotal role for under-
standing early metazoan (diploblast) evolution. The
successful applicant will amplify, clone and sequence
multiple loci (rDNA, nuclear protein-coding and mito-
chondrial genes) and integrate data with detailed mor-
phological investigations, data from lipid biomarkers (in
collaboration with Prof. Thiel) and the fossil record (in
collaboration with Prof. Reitner) for a global phyloge-
netic analysis aiming at a well-supported reconstruction
of evolutionary relationships within and among calcare-
ans.
We are seeking a highly motivated applicant with ex-
cellent molecular-phylogenetic skills, demonstrated by
an above-average MSc (or equivalent, e.g. German
Diplom”) thesis. Aﬃnity to bioinformatics and will-
ingness for overseas ﬁeldwork should be given. SCUBA
diving qualiﬁcation and experience desirable but not
essential.
The opportunity to enrol in the new PhD study course
Biodiversity and Ecology“ will be given.
Requirements: Degree in Biology (MA, MSc, or equiv-
alent degree); very good knowledge of molecular lab
techniques and understanding of molecular evolution
including methods to infer molecular phylogenies and
state-of-the art computer programs for such analyses;
excellent English language skills. Good working knowl-January 1, 2005 EvolDir 11
edge of UNIX/LINUX desirable.
Deadline for applications: 15 January 2005. The posi-
tion is available for 2 Years and will be paid according
to the German BATIIa salary scheme (part time).
Application: Send application including CV, PDF’s of
publications (if available), and details of 2 referees as
PDF (only) by email or snail mail to Gert Woerheide
(gert.woerheide@geo.uni-goettingen.de). Informal en-
quiries are also welcome to this address.
The Department of Geobiology of the Geoscience Cen-
tre of the University of Goettingen oﬀers an excellent
multidisciplinary research environment, its particular
strength being due to the close interaction between
Geosciences, the Goettingen Centre for Biodiversity
and Ecology and the Biological Faculty including Bioin-
formatics.
More information, including a position description in
German, can be found at www.geobiology.nu >vacan-
cies or at www.geobiologie.uni-goettingen.de . The Uni-
versity of Goettingen is an equal opportunity employer.
Women and members of minority groups including dis-
abled persons are strongly encouraged to apply.
- Gert W¨ orheide Junior Professor for Geobiology Geo-
science Centre G¨ ottingen Dept. of Geobiology Gold-
schmidtstr.3 37077 G¨ ottingen Germany
Centre for Biodiversity and Ecology University of
G¨ ottingen
phone: +49-(0)551 39 14 177 mobile: +49-(0)178 537
22 33 fax: +49-(0)551-39 79 18
gert.woerheide@geo.uni-goettingen.de
NEW WEBSITES, CHECK ’EM OUT!!
www.geobiology.nu www.geobiologie.uni-
goettingen.de www.gzg.uni-goettingen.de
www.biodiversitaet.gwdg.de gert.woerheide@geo.uni-
goettingen.de
UGuelph Abalone Conservation
Genetics
UGuelph.Abalone Conservation Genetics
I am looking to recruit a new graduate student to work
in my lab at the University of Guelph to begin their
studies in May 2005 to work on the conservation ge-
netics of pinto abalone. The position is initially funded
for two years. Your research will be part of a larger re-search project will develop a selective breeding program
for cultured pinto abalone at the Bamﬁeld Huu-Ay-
Aht Community Abalone Project (BHCAP) in Bam-
ﬁeld, B.C., Canada. The project is lead by Dr. Eliz-
abeth Boulding (Zoology, U. Guelph) in collaboration
with Dr. Ian McMillian (CGIL & APS, U.Guelph) and
Dr. Ussif Rashid Sumaila (Fisheries Centre, U.B.C.).
This breeding program will apply modern animal breed-
ing methodology to improve the cultured population
for economically-important traits, while minimizing in-
breeding accumulation. Such a breeding plan is essen-
tial because of the potential for rapid inbreeding ac-
cumulation resulting from the high fecundity of the
abalone and limited rearing space in the hatchery. Your
role on the team will genotype abalone tissue biopsies
at 12 molecular markers (microsatellites) to monitor
inbreeding, estimate genetic parameters, and to iden-
tify the parents of potential broodstock. Dr. Sumalias
graduate student will help identify important traits to
target for selection by predicting the relative economic
value of these diﬀerent traits in the global marketplace.
Dr. McMillians postdoc will incorporate these eco-
nomic weights into a multitrait selection index that will
be used for genetic evaluation of potential broodstock.
Pinto, or northern, abalone ( Haliotis kamtschatkana )
is a broadcast-spawning marine gastropod that occurs
throughout coastal British Columbia, extending north
into Alaska and south to California. In addition to its
role as a member of a complex marine ecosystem, pinto
abalone is valued as a food and cultural resource by
coastal native peoples, and as a food resource by com-
mercial ﬁshermen and recreational divers. Historically,
abalone populations were healthy enough to support
a traditional ﬁshery by native people and a commer-
cial dive ﬁshery until the late 1980s. In 1990, concern
over reduced population levels instigated a closure to all
harvesting of abalone, a closure that remains in place
today. When populations not only failed to recover un-
der 10 years of protection, but also declined further,
the species was designated threatened by the Commit-
tee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada
(COSEWIC). It seems likely that captive breeding may
be needed reintroduce abalone to areas were they have
become so rare that they fail to ﬁnd prospective mates.
In order to apply, in the ﬁrst instance you need to apply
for admission to the graduate program in the Depart-
ment of Zoology at the University of Guelph: http://-
www.uoguelph.ca/zoology/ . Check the website for ad-
mission requirements, and note that you may have to
write the TOEFL test if English is not your ﬁrst lan-
guage.
The Project TITLE: Conservation genetics of pinto
abalone. OBJECTIVES: Assess the levels of inbreed-12 EvolDir January 1, 2005
ing in captive populations of the pinto abalone. AP-
PROACH: The project will use modern automated mi-
crosatellite analysis on a Beckman 3100 capillary ma-
chine approaches and statistical methodologies to esti-
mate pedigrees and quantitative genetic parameters.
Duties The student will undertake a major part of the
laboratory work, and may have some opportunity to
travel to Bamﬁeld Marine Sciences Centre on Vancou-
ver Island, B.C.. Ideally, he/she will develop his/her
own thesis research based on the project and expand-
ing it. Part of his or her support may come from a
teaching assistantship.
Minimum Qualiﬁcations Background suitable for en-
rollment in the graduate program in the Department
of Zoology. The minimum requirement for admission is
an undergraduate degree in Biology with at least a B
(second class) average.
Desirable Qualiﬁcations Interest in population and
quantitative genetics. Interest in the evolutionary bi-
ology, aquaculture and conservation genetics of mol-
lusks. Previous experience in molecular genetics (DNA
sequencing or microsatellite genotyping) helpful but not
necessary.
Position Details The position is funded by AquaNet of
NSERC Canada initially for a period of 2 years. The
position will begin the summer semester of 2005 (prob-
ably 1 May 2005).
Salary Salary commensurate with qualiﬁcations and ex-
perience. Minimum salary CAN$16,000.00/year.
How to Apply As soon as possible, submit (via e-mail)
a cv and a cover letter explaining your interest to: Dr.
Elizabeth G. Boulding, Department of Zoology, Univer-
sity of Guelph, Guelph, ON N1G 2W1, Canada Tele-
phone: (519) 824-4120 x 54961 FAX: (519) 767-1656,
E-mail: boulding@uoguelph.ca Deadline: Continuous
recruitment, applications will be reviewed beginning 15
January 2005 until the position is ﬁlled.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UHawaiiManoa SnailEvol
To prospective graduate students.We are looking to recruit a new graduate student to
work in my lab at the University of Hawaii on the sys-
tematics, phylogenetics and biogeography of Paciﬁc is-
land succineid land snails. The project is funded by the
National Science Foundation. Dr. Marta deMaintenon
is the co-PI.
In order to apply, in the ﬁrst instance you need to apply
for admission to the graduate program in the Depart-
ment of Zoology at the University of Hawaii: http://-
www.hawaii.edu/zoology/ . Check the website for ad-
mission requirements, and note especially the need to
have not only the general GREs but also it is recom-
mended that you have the Biology subject GRE. If you
are interested, send me an e-mail with a cv and we can
discuss it further.
The following is the formal announcement of the gradu-
ate assistantship that would support the new graduate
student for the initial 2 years. Other funding will be
available to support the student beyond this.
University of Hawaii at Manoa
Center for Conservation Research and Training Paciﬁc
Biomedical Research Center
Graduate Research Assistantship available
The Project TITLE: Revision and phylogeographic
analysis of Paciﬁc island succineid land snails OBJEC-
TIVES: The project will undertake a systematic revi-
sion of the entire Paciﬁc island succineid fauna (about
80 species). In addition, the project will investigate the
evolutionary and geographic origins and diversiﬁcation
of the species and the routes via which, over evolution-
ary time, they have colonized these myriad islands. AP-
PROACH: The project will use both traditional analy-
sis of morphological variation as well as modern DNA
sequencing approaches and analytical methodologies.
Duties The GA will undertake a major part of the lab-
oratory work, and may have some opportunity to travel
in the islands of the Paciﬁc. Ideally, he/she will develop
his/her own dissertation research based on the project
and expanding it.
Minimum Qualiﬁcations Classiﬁed full-time graduate
student admitted to and enrolled in the MS program
in the Department of Zoology. Interest in the evolu-
tionary biology and systematics of mollusks.
Desirable Qualiﬁcations Enrolled in the Ph.D. program
in the Department of Zoology. Experience with phy-
logenetic analysis. Experience in molecular genetics
(DNA sequencing) and/or anatomical dissection and
characterization of mollusks.
Position Details The position is funded by NSF through
the Center for Conservation Research and Training forJanuary 1, 2005 EvolDir 13
a period of 1-2 years. The position is 0.50 FTE (i.e.,
20 hours per week) and will begin the fall semester of
2005 (probably 1 August 2005).
Salary Salary commensurate with qualiﬁcations and ex-
perience. Minimum $1296.50/month.
How to Apply As soon as possible, submit (via e-mail)
a cv and a cover letter explaining your interest to: Dr.
Robert Cowie - cowie@hawaii.edu Phone: (808) 956-
4909
Deadline Continuous recruitment, applications will be
reviewed beginning 15 December 2004 until the position
is ﬁlled.
Dr. Robert H. Cowie Center for Conservation Research
and Training University of Hawaii 3050 Maile Way,
Gilmore 408 Honolulu, Hawaii 96822 USA
Phone: (808) 956 4909 Fax: (808) 956 2647 http://-
www2.hawaii.edu/˜cowie/
“Robert H. Cowie” <cowie@hawaii.edu >
ULouisianaMonroe
SystematicBotany
We are looking to ﬁll one masters student position
for Spring 2005 in evolutionary and systematic botany
at The University of Louisiana at Monroe. The po-
sition comes with a research assistantship to work in
the herbarium (no teaching requirement). Herbarium
NLU is one of the largest herbaria in the southeast with
nearly 500,000 specimens. Interested students should
contact either Kerry Heafner (heafner@ulm.edu) or my-
self.
Russ Minton, Ph.D. Molecular Genetics Lab Co-
ordinator & Curator of Invertebrates Museum of
Natural History Assistant Professor, Department of
Biology University of Louisiana at Monroe Mon-
roe, LA 71209-0520 ph: 318-342-1795 fax: 318-342-
3312 http://www.ulm.edu/ ˜ minton Russ Minton
<minton@ulm.edu >
UMunich PlantPopulationGenetics
Graduate Student Position: Univ. of Munich Plant-PopulationGenetics
A PhD position funded by the German Science Founda-
tion (DFG) is available in the lab of Dr. Laura Rose at
the University of Munich to study the molecular evolu-
tion of plant disease resistance in wild tomato species.
This project will focus on elucidating the type and
strength of natural selection operating on various genes
in a disease resistance pathway within tomato species.
Applicants should have a master’s degree or equivalent
in biology or a related ﬁeld. Previous laboratory ex-
perience and coursework in evolutionary biology and
genetics are strongly recommended. The application
should include a C.V., a 1-2 page statement of previous
research experience, one letter of recommendation and
addresses and telephone numbers of two additional ref-
erees. Applications should be submitted by email and
will be reviewed beginning on January 24, 2005.
The University of Munich has a strong, interac-
tive group in evolutionary biology, consisting of the-
oreticians and experimentalists including Wolfgang
Stephan, John Parsch, Susanne Renner, Martin Par-
niske and Joachim Hermisson. We have a very inter-
national group and the everyday working language is
English. The department is housed in a new, state-of-
the-art BioCenter on the University of Munich High-
Tech campus. More information is available on the
web at: www.zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de/institute/-
zi/abtlgn/evolutionsbiologie Applications and in-
quiries should be sent to:
Dr. Laura Rose Email: rose@zi.biologie.uni-
muenchen.de
Department Biologie II Grosshadernerstr. 2 82152
Planegg-Martinsried Germany
Phone: +49 89 2180 74 150 Fax: +49 89 2180 74 104
The University of Munich is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer and has an aﬃrma-
tive action policy for the disabled.
rose@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de
UPotsdam PlantPathogens
PHD studentship on the role of plant pathogens in a
large biodiversity-ecosystem functioning experiment
Applications are invited for a three-year PhD stu-
dentship in the Botany/Community Ecology lab of the14 EvolDir January 1, 2005
University of Potsdam, Germany, starting on February
1, 2005, or soon thereafter to work within a research
group who is running a large biodiversity experiment to
study eﬀects of manipulated species diversity on ecosys-
tem functioning and trophic interactions in Jena, Ger-
many (see http://www2.uni-jena.de/biologie/ecology/-
biodiv/index.html ). The position is funded by the Ger-
man Science Foundation DFG.
We are looking for a highly motivated student with a
diploma or masters degree in biology, ecology, or plant
pathology to work on the diversity and eﬀect of plant
pathogens in this experiment. The work will involve
- determination especially of fungal pathogens - mon-
itoring of plants in the experiment for abundance and
diversity of pathogenic fungi - growing and monitor-
ing of further phytometer and common garden plants
- with a second PhD student and a lab technician, to
study the relationship between pathogen load, genetic
plant variation, and plant ﬁtness
The work requires high motivation to work with plant
pathogens and in the framework of a large-scale experi-
ment. Desirable qualiﬁcations are experience with pop-
ulation biology, experimental ecology, statistical treat-
ment of ecological data, and team work, and a good
knowledge of grassland plant species and other taxa of
Central Europe.
Preferably by e-mail, applicants should send a motiva-
tion letter, a CV including teaching and research ex-
perience, and the names and e-mail addresses of two
references to the address below (before 31 December).
Prof. Dr. Markus Fischer, Dr. Volker Kum-
mer, Institut f¨ ur Biochemie und Biologie, Uni-
versit¨ at Potsdam, Villa Liegnitz, Lenn´ estr.
7a, D-14471 Potsdam, Germany, Tel. ++49
331 977 4884, e-mail <mailto:ﬁscherm@rz.uni-
potsdam.de >ﬁscherm@rz.uni-potsdam.de ( http://-
www.bio.uni-potsdam.de/spezbot/ )
The Maulbeerallee site of the Institute of Biochemistry
and Biology in Potsdam including the Botanical Gar-
den is situated in the park of the castle of Sanssouci.
Other research ﬁelds include Vegetation Ecology and
Conservation (Florian Jeltsch), Animal Ecology (Di-
eter Wallschl¨ ager), Ecophysiology (Axel Gzik), Micro-
biology (Ingo Schneider), Evolutionary Biology (Ralph
Tiedemann), and Freshwater Ecology (Ursula Gaedke,
Alexander Wacker). Potsdam is located in close vicin-
ity to Berlin. It oﬀers a high quality of life, beautiful
surroundings, and aﬀordable accommodation and living
(seehttp://www.potsdam.de ).
Markus FischerProfessor f¨ ur <http://www.bio.uni-potsdam.de/-
spezbot/index.htm >Bioz¨ onoseforschung/Spezielle
Botanik Institut f¨ ur Biochemie und Biologie Univer-
sit¨ at Potsdam Villa Liegnitz Lenn´ estr. 7a D-14471
Potsdam Germany Tel. ++49 331 977 4884 Fax
++49 331 977 4865 e-mail ﬁscherm@rz.uni-potsdam.de
http://www.bio.uni-potsdam.de/spezbot/ Markus
Fischer <ﬁscherm@rz.uni-potsdam.de >
URochester EvolBiol
I am writing to bring your attention to our Evolution-
ary Biology graduate program here at the University of
Rochester. We have a strong, active and growing group
of evolutionary biologists (see faculty list and research
interests below). We are particularly strong in evolu-
tionary genetics, and our department is noteworthy in
being a “true” Biology Department, with interactions
between evolutionary, molecular, cell, and developmen-
tal biologists, and a number of faculty that “bridge”
between these disciplines. We have just hired two new
junior faculty, Daven Presgraves and Justin Ramsey,
and expect several new hires in the next few years. Fi-
nancial support for graduate students is excellent. It
includes a stipend (currently $22,000 U.S./year), health
beneﬁts, and tuition scholarships for all Ph.D. students
in good standing. The support is particularly good
because Rochester has a relatively low cost of living.
Rochester is a medium-sized city on the south shore of
Lake Ontario in western New York State; it features a
lively cultural life, including the world-famous Eastman
School of Music, a symphony orchestra, several mu-
seums, and a diversity of restaurants and nightspots.
Outdoor attractions include the Finger Lakes region
(which is renowned for sailing and wineries), excellent
downhill and cross-country skiing, and a number of
state and county parks for hiking.
More information on the Department of Biology,
faculty research interests, and application proce-
dures may be found by visiting the graduate pro-
gram web site at www.rochester.edu/College/BIO/-
graduate/index.html . Sincerely yours,
James D. Fry Assistant Professor and co-chair, Gradu-
ate Admissions Committee
Faculty in Evolutionary Biology at the University of
Rochester:
Thomas Eickbush – Molecular biology and evolution:
integration of retrotransposable elements; origin andJanuary 1, 2005 EvolDir 15
evolution of mobile elements; regulation of rRNA genes.
James Fry – Genetics of ecological adaptation in
Drosophila; evolutionary eﬀects of deleterious muta-
tions; quantitative-genetic theory and methodology.
John Jaenike – Ecology and evolution of host-parasite
interactions; sex chromosome meiotic drive; Wolbachia
as male killers and causes of reproductive isolation in
Drosophila; ecology of mycophagous Drosophila.
David Lambert – The evolution of developmental mech-
anisms; early patterning in molluscs and related groups;
cytoskeletal basis of asymmetric cell divisions; evolu-
tion of novel phenotypes.
Allen Orr – Evolutionary genetics: genetics of specia-
tion in Drosophila; genetics and theory of adaptation;
population genetics.
Daven Presgraves – Evolutionary genetics: speciation
genetics; molecular population genetics; genome evolu-
tion.
Justin Ramsey – Evolutionary ecology: mechanisms
of adaptation and speciation in ﬂowering plants; poly-
ploidy and chromosome evolution.
John Werren – Evolutionary genetics: microbial-host
interactions with emphasis on Wolbachia in arthropods,
genetics of speciation and evolution of development; ge-
netics, genetics and evolution of parasitic wasps (Naso-
nia); the role of “selﬁsh” or “parasitic” DNA in evolu-
tion.
jfry@mail.rochester.edu
VanderbiltU EcolEvol
GRADUATE STUDIES IN ECOLOGY AND EVOLU-
TION AT VANDERBILT
Dear colleagues and prospective students,
The Department of Biological Sciences at Vanderbilt
University seeks interested and highly motivated grad-uate students to join a group of laboratories with com-
plementary research interests focusing on ecological and
genetic mechanisms of evolutionary diversiﬁcation. On-
going research investigates all stages of evolutionary
diversiﬁcation (population structure, reproductive iso-
lation, speciation, phylogenetic radiation) and several
fundamental ecological processes (adaptation, ecologi-
cal specialization, symbiosis, social interactions).
Online application to the graduate program is free.
Our group occupies a new (2002) building complete
with our own DNA sequencing facility, abundant envi-
ronmentally controlled rooms, and an adjoining state-
of-the-art greenhouse. Vanderbilt researchers enjoy the
participation of excellent undergraduates and the re-
sources of a thriving medical center. Our beautiful
campus is located in the heart of Nashville, a friendly
and inexpensive city situated amidst the lush rolling
hills of biologically diverse middle Tennessee. Gradu-
ate students receive generous stipends and are trained
in a highly interactive inter-lab community.
Ecology & Evolution faculty, research interests include:
Patrick Abbot (abbot@uts.cc.texas.edu) social evolu-
tion, symbioses, molecular evolutionary genetics in in-
sects and microbes
John Burke (john.m.burke@vanderbilt.edu) genetic ba-
sis of adaptation and speciation in plants
Dan Funk (daniel.j.funk@vanderbilt.edu) ecological
specialization and speciation, phylogenetics, herbivo-
rous insect biology
Manuel Leal (manuel.leal@vanderbilt.edu) animal
communication and mate choice, predator-prey inter-
actions, and sensory ecology in lizards
Dave McCauley (david.e.mccauley@vanderbilt.edu)
population biology, population structure, local adap-
tation in plants and insects
For further information on research and graduate study
at Vanderbilt, please consult our departmental web
page at: http://sitemason.vanderbilt.edu/biosci . Spe-
ciﬁc questions can be directed to any of the above fac-
ulty.
Daniel Funk <daniel.j.funk@vanderbilt.edu >16 EvolDir January 1, 2005
Jobs
ArizonaStateU ComputationalBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Boston AntimicrobialUse . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
BostonU MinoritySummerResearch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
CorvallisOR Tech AdaptationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
EastTennesseeStateU EvolInvertZool . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
HarvardU EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
HarvardU Neuroethology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
IRD France InsectPopDynamics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
IndianaU ResearchAssoc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
IndianaUSouthBend Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Madrid VolunteerFieldAssist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Oslo FieldAssist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
UAlaskaAnchorage EvolutionaryMolPhysiologist . . . 21UArizona EvolCurriculum . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
UCaliforniaRiverside MolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
UCanterbury GeneticsConservationEvolution . . . . . . 23
UConnecticut Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
UConnecticut EvolGenomics ResTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
UNICAMP Brazil EvolGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
UOxford Ornithology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
UPennsylvania DiseaseEcolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
UPennsylvania DiseaseEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
USheﬃeld microsats . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
UWisconsinMilwaukee Zebraﬁsh . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
ArizonaStateU ComputationalBiol
Evolutionary Bioinformatics and Computational Biol-
ogy
The School of Life Sciences and the Biodesign Institute
at Arizona State University invite applications for a
tenure-track assistant professor position in the area of
bioinformatics relating to comparative and evolution-
ary genomics of humans and other animals. The can-
didate must have earned a doctoral level degree with
a research emphasis in computational biology, popu-
lation genetics, or molecular evolution. Preference will
be given to candidates with research programs that em-
phasize theoretical and/or informatics-based analysis of
genome sequence and polymorphism data. Applicant
should show exceptional promise of establishing a vig-
orous, extramurally-funded research program, and will
be expected to participate in undergraduate, graduate,
and interdisciplinary training in the School of Life Sci-
ences ( http://sols.asu.edu ). Senior assistant professors
with vibrant research and teaching portfolios are also
encouraged to apply. Selected individual will be housed
in the Center for Evolutionary Functional Genomics
(http://www.biodesign.org/efg ) in the Biodesign Insti-
tute ( http://www.biodesign.org ), which contains state-
of-the-art computing infrastructure for informatics re-
search. Please send curriculum vitae, statements of re-
search and teaching interests, and names and mailing
addresses (e-mail and postal) of at least three references
to Chair, Bioinformatics Search Committee, Arizona
State University, P.O. Box 874501, Tempe, AZ 85287-
4501. Inquiries, but not application materials, may besent by email. E-mail: sols@asu.edu. The closing date
for receipt of applications is December 27, 2004; if not
ﬁlled, applications will be evaluated weekly thereafter
until the search is closed. Anticipated start date is Au-
gust 16, 2005.
Arizona State University is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer.
Brian C. Verrelli Center for Evolutionary Functional
Genomics The Biodesign Institute Arizona State Uni-
versity (brian.verrelli@asu.edu)
Boston AntimicrobialUse
Applied Research Director for International Public
Health
Opportunity for trained investigator to conduct studies
concerning antimicrobial use and resistance.
Qualiﬁcations Ph.D. or M.D. with at least three years of
post-doctoral experience in microbiology, epidemiology,
population biology or related discipline; team manage-
ment experience; a track record in peer reviewed pub-
lications and grant development. Mathematical model-
ing/risk analysis and infectious disease experience help-
ful.
Responsibilities Leads the organization’s research activ-
ities. Serves as principal investigator on NIH projects
and manager of scientiﬁc consortia and staﬀ engaged
in applied research and grant writing concerning infec-
tious diseases.January 1, 2005 EvolDir 17
§Oversees research coordination and consultant team
§Designs scientiﬁc/clinical research objectives §Engages
APUA’s scientiﬁc advisory board §Analyses laboratory
data on incidence and prevalence of infectious diseases
§Develops and applies statistical methodologies for an-
alyzing data §Takes the lead in large scientiﬁc meet-
ings §Prepares and presents reports and articles for
peer review §Prepares and oversees grant proposals
§Represents organization at various national and inter-
national meetings §Develops global and organizational
partnerships
The Alliance for the Prudent Use of Antibiotics
(APUA) is a global organization dedicated to improv-
ing antimicrobial use through research and education.
Founded in 1981 and located on the Tufts Medical
School campus in Boston, APUA conducts its public
health programs in coordination with aﬃliated chap-
ters in over 50 countries and the leading national and
international public health organizations.
Please forward resume and CV to: APUA Human
Resources 75 Kneeland Street Boston, MA 02111-1901
apua-eaa@tufts.edu
Visit www.apua.org for more information about the Al-
liance for the Prudent Use of Antibiotics.
Revised: 12/29/04
Q:\Administration \Personnel \Open Job
Descriptions \Research Director 12-29-04.doc
Jennifer Deerinwater Operations Department AL-
LIANCE FOR THE PRUDENT USE OF ANTIBI-
OTICS 75 Kneeland St Boston, MA 02145 Tel:
(617)636-0966 Fax: (617)636-3999 www.apua.org
med024 <med024@granite.tufts.edu >
BostonU MinoritySummerResearch
Dear Colleagues,
We are announcing the launch of The Diversity Project,
a new research opportunity for under-represented mi-
nority undergraduate students, beginning in Summer
2005 at Boston University. Students will integrate
hands-on ﬁeld research on Indonesian coral reefs and
cutting edge genetic research at the Marine Biological
Laboratory, Woods Hole, Massachusetts. The project
will explore the origins marine biodiversity in an ef-
fort to improve conservation of these remarkable ecosys-
tems. Students are fully funded for both living andtravel expenses. Visit http://people.bu.edu/pbarber/-
Intro.htm for more information and on-line application.
This research opportunity promises to be a remarkable
personal and professional experience. Please encourage
any students whom you believe would beneﬁt from such
an experience to apply. For further information, please
contact Dr. Paul Barber (pbarber@bu.edu). We look
forward to hearing from you.
Sincerely, Paul Barber
– Dr. Paul H. Barber Boston University Boston Uni-
versity Marine Program 7 MBL Street Woods Hole,
MA 02543 (508)289-7685 phone (508)289-7950 FAX
pbarber@bu.edu http://people.bu.edu/pbarber/ pbar-
ber@bu.edu
CorvallisOR Tech
AdaptationGenetics
GS-0404-07 Biological Technician (13-month term),
PNW Research Station, Forestry Sciences Laboratory,
Corvallis, OR
The Genetics Team of the PNW Research Station will
soon be advertising for a Biological Technician as part
of a research study on the genetics adaptation and evo-
lution in bitterbrush, a key restoration shrub of the
Intermountain West.
This 13-month research support position, funded via
USDA-NRI competitive funds, will be located at the
Forestry Sciences Laboratory in Corvallis, OR. The po-
sition will involve a range-wide survey of molecular ge-
netic diversity in bitterbrush using plastid and nuclear
DNA markers. The position will also include ﬁeld work
at common garden sites in Madras, OR and Powell
Butte, OR, and will involve routine measurements of
bitterbrush plants. Successful applicants will possess
training in biology, botany, chemistry or molecular ge-
netics, and will have demonstrated molecular and ﬁeld
experience.
The Forestry Sciences Laboratory is located in Corval-
lis, OR, and is about 90 minutes south of the Portland
Metro area in the center of the Willamette Valley. Prox-
imity to the Cascades, the spectacular Oregon coast,
Oregon State University, and an excellent quality of
life combine to make Corvallis a one-a-kind community.
For more information on the community, you can con-
tact the Chamber of Commerce (541-757-1505), look
at our local newspaper ( www.gtconnect.com/ ), or visit18 EvolDir January 1, 2005
the City of Corvallis website at www.ci.corvallis.or.us/
. Anyone interested in further information or in receiv-
ing a copy of the vacancy announcement when it opens
should contact Dr. Richard Cronn (541-750-7291;
rcronn@fs.fed.us) before 12/31/2004. Announcements
for this and other USDA Forest Service positions are
posted on USA Jobs ( http://www.usajobs.opm.gov/ ).
Note: The purpose of this Outreach Notice is to deter-
mine the potential applicant pool for the position, and
to establish the appropriate recruitment method and
area of consideration for the advertisement. Responses
received from this outreach notice will be relied upon
to make this determination
rcronn@fs.fed.us
EastTennesseeStateU
EvolInvertZool
Assistant Professor, Invertebrate Zoologist. Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences, East Tennessee State Uni-
versity. Tenure track, 9-month, assistant professor
beginning August 15, 2005. Responsibilities include
teaching introductory biology, invertebrate zoology,
and upper level/graduate courses in area of specializa-
tion. Qualiﬁcations: Ph.D. required by start date; ex-
pectations include development of extramurally funded
research involving B.S. and M.S. students; preference
given to applicants with post-doctoral experience, ex-
pertise in community ecology and potential for research
in Appalachia. The new faculty member will join a de-
partment with a diverse group of 13 faculty members
whose interests range from molecular through popula-
tion biology. The department serves over 200 majors
and about 20 M.S. students. Each year, over 800 stu-
dents enroll in our general education sequences, includ-
ing separate courses with labs for biology majors and
non-majors. The department has full research capabil-
ities in molecular biology and an interdisciplinary In-
stitute of Quantitative Biology in cooperation with the
Department of Mathematics. Specialized facilities in-
clude an open computer lab, multimedia classrooms, in-
ternet access in every lab/classroom, two greenhouses,
a dedicated undergraduate research facility, herbarium,
and animal care facilities. Opportunities also exist for
collaboration with departments of chemistry, health sci-
ences, environmental health and various departments
in the Quillen College of Medicine. Deliberations will
begin on February 1, 2005 and continue until the po-
sition is ﬁlled. Women and other underrepresentedgroups are encouraged to apply. More information
available at http://www.etsu.edu/biology . Send a let-
ter of application, complete curriculum vitae, state-
ments of teaching philosophy and research interests,
copies of transcripts, and three letters of reference to
Dr. Rebecca Pyles, Invertebrate Zoology Search Com-
mittee, at pylesr@etsu.edu.
–
Lev Yampolsky
Department of Biological Sciences East Tennessee State
University Johnson City TN 37614-1710 Phone 423-
439-4359 Fax 423-439-5958
Lev Yampolsky <yampolsk@etsu.edu >
HarvardU EvoDevo
EVOLUTIONARY DEVELOPMENTAL BIOLOGY
Harvard University Department of Organismic and
Evolutionary Biology
The Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy (OEB) at Harvard University invites applications
for one or more faculty positions in the ﬁeld of evolu-
tionary developmental biology. Candidates will be con-
sidered for appointment at either junior or senior levels.
We seek outstanding scientists who will establish an
empirical research program dealing with plants or ani-
mals (vertebrates or invertebrates) and who will teach
both undergraduate and graduate students. We are es-
pecially interested in individuals who conduct rigorous,
experimental tests of general problems in evolutionary
developmental biology, and who employ molecular, ge-
netic, morphological, functional, and/or phylogenetic
approaches. Applications from or information about
women and minority candidates are encouraged.
This search is part of a broader initiative to develop a
large and comprehensive research program in evolution-
ary developmental biology at Harvard University, which
will involve several departments in both the Faculty of
Arts and Sciences and Harvard Medical School. Ap-
plicants should submit a curriculum vitae, statements
of research and teaching interests, representative pub-
lications, and the names and addresses of three refer-
ences to James Hanken, Director, Museum of Compara-
tive Zoology, 26 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138,
USA. Letters of nomination from third parties are also
welcome. Review of applications and nominations willJanuary 1, 2005 EvolDir 19
begin December 15, 2004.
Further information about OEB is available at its web-
site:<http://www.oeb.harvard.edu >. Send e-mail in-
quiries to <aschellhammer@oeb.harvard.edu >.
Harvard University is an Aﬃrmative Action/Equal Op-
portunity Employer.
sedwards@fas.harvard.edu
HarvardU Neuroethology
NEUROETHOLOGY Harvard University Department
of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology
The Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy at Harvard University invites applications for one
or more appointments at either a senior or junior rank
in the ﬁeld of neuroethology. We seek an outstand-
ing scientist who will establish an empirical research
program and teach both undergraduate and gradu-
ate students. The candidate would also be a mem-
ber of the newly formed Center for Brain Science at
Harvard with the opportunity to interact with faculty
from other departments in the Faculty for Arts and
Sciences and Harvard Medical School. We are espe-
cially interested in individuals who conduct rigorous,
ﬁeld and/or laboratory-based tests of general problems
in neuroethology, and who employ genomic, neurobio-
logical, endocrinological and/or behavioral approaches.
We encourage applications from or information about
women and minority candidates.
Applicants should submit a curriculum vitae, state-
ments of research and teaching interests and represen-
tative publications, and should arrange for three letters
of reference to be sent to Naomi E. Pierce, Chair, Neu-
roethology Search, Department of Organismic and Evo-
lutionary Biology, 26 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA
02138, USA. Nominations from third parties are also
welcome. Review of applications and nominations will
begin December 20, 2004.
Further information about the Department is available
at its website: <http://www.oeb.harvard.edu >.Har-
vard University is an Aﬃrmative Action/Equal Oppor-
tunity Employer.
–
Naomi E. Pierce Hessel Professor of Biology Museum
of Comparative Zoology Labs 26 Oxford Street Cam-
bridge, Massachusetts 02138-2902 USA TEL: (617) 495-2576 (oﬃce) (617) 495 4012 (lab) FAX: (617) 495-5667
npierce@oeb.harvard.edu
Naomi Pierce <npierce@oeb.harvard.edu >
IRD France InsectPopDynamics
Dear Colleagues,
A full position for an ecologist specialized in insect pop-
ulation dynamics is open at IRD (Institut de Recherche
pour le D´ eveloppement), France. We are looking for an
ecologist having a good knowledge in insect population
dynamics and modelling and willing to work overseas
on tropical models of economic importance. The re-
cruited ecologist will work in a team of the IRD 072
Research Unit with population geneticists and special-
ists of biological control. He will ﬁrst study a commu-
nity of tropical phytophagous insects including invasive
species in the Andean area of South America. A good
knowledge about invasive species ecology will be ap-
preciated. Application forms are available at IRD web
site : http://www.ird.fr (English version then Recruit-
ment and training)(concours CR1 n13). A knowledge
of French language will be useful. In the French system
a “Charg´ e de recherche de 1` ere classe” is a researcher
having between 5 and 10 years of professionnal expe-
rience after his PhD. For more detailed informations
about this position, please contact J.F. Silvain, Head
of the IRD Research Unit 072 “Biodiversity and evolu-
tion of plant - phytophagous insects - antagonists com-
plexes” (silvain@pge.cnrs-gif.fr). Please, do not hesi-
tate to spread this announcement.
Sincerely,
J.-F. SILVAIN
– Jean-Franois SILVAIN
Directeur de l’unit´ e de recherche IRD “Biodiversit´ e
et ´ evolution des complexes plantes-insectes ravageurs-
antagonistes” (R072) c/o CNRS, Lab. Populations,
G´ en´ etique et Evolution Bat. 13, BP1, 91198 Gif-sur-
Yvette cedex T´ el : 33 (0)1 69 82 37 38 Fax : 33 (0)1 69
07 04 21 Courriel : silvain@pge.cnrs-gif.fr
IndianaU ResearchAssoc20 EvolDir January 1, 2005
The Rieseberg Lab at Indiana University is seeking a
temporary Research Associate to assist in greenhouse
and molecular biology research from January through
August of 2005 (with the possibility of an extension
after this time, depending on lab funding).
Duties will primarily consist of carrying out greenhouse
experiments with sunﬂowers (pollination crosses, seed
germinations, and plant maintenance) as well as rou-
tine molecular biology techniques (including, but not
limited to, DNA extraction, PCR, and microsatellite
genotyping). Assistance with ﬁeld experiments (seed
germination, planting, phenotyping plants) and general
lab maintenance will also be expected.
Preference will be given to candidates with relevant ex-
perience and who have demonstrated interest in pursu-
ing scientiﬁc research.
Minimum skills: -Bachelor’s degree in Biology, Molecu-
lar and Cellular Biology, Genetics or related ﬁeld -Basic
computer skills including word processing (Microsoft
Word) and spread sheets (Microsoft Excel) -Ability to
work independently, to assist graduate students and
post-docs, and to work on multiple projects simulta-
neously
Pay dependent upon education and experience.
Position open until ﬁlled.
The Rieseberg lab uses a combination of ge-
netic and ecological approaches to address ques-
tions in the areas of speciation, domestication,
and conservation biology. For more information
on the lab, please see http://www.bio.indiana.edu/-
facultyresearch/faculty/Rieseberg.html For more in-
formation on this position, please contact either
Amanda Posto (aposto@indiana.edu) or Eric Baack
(ebaack@indiana.edu) by E-mail or phone (855-9018).
Eric Baack 325 Jordan Hall, Dept. of Biology, Indiana
University 1001 E 3rd St Bloomington, IN 47405 ph:
(812) 855-9018 fax: (812) 855-6705
IndianaUSouthBend Bioinformatics
Indiana University South Bend seeks a tenure-track
Assistant Professor of Bioinformatics starting August
2005. We seek a candidate who uses modern experimen-
tal and computational tools in genomics and/or pro-
teomics to address basic biological questions. A Ph.D.
in bioinformatics or related ﬁeld is required. Postdoc-toral experience is preferred. Teaching responsibilities
will include undergraduate courses in bioinformatics,
introductory biology and others related to the indi-
vidual’s area of expertise. The successful candidate
will have the potential for excellence in undergradu-
ate teaching and for developing an externally funded
research program that will involve undergraduate and
Master’s students. Send curriculum vitae, statements
of research interests and teaching philosophy, and three
letters of recommendation to: Chair of Search Commit-
tee, Department of Biological Sciences, Indiana Uni-
versity South Bend, 1700 Mishawaka Avenue, South
Bend IN 46615. Applicant review begins December 15,
2004, until position is ﬁlled. IUSB is an Aﬃrmative
Action/Equal Opportunity Employer and encourages
applications from all qualiﬁed candidates.
dmarr@iusb.edu dmarr@iusb.edu
Madrid VolunteerFieldAssist
BIRD RESEARCH IN SPAIN: VOLUNTEER FIELD
ASSISTANTS NEEDED
Our group (4 people) is studying several questions
about the evolutionary biology of a population of Spot-
less Starlings nesting in nest boxes in an oak wood 50
km. from Madrid. We are looking for ﬁeld assistants
with preferably some ﬁeld experience in bird ringing
and observation. Work will involve capturing, measur-
ing an ringing adult birds and nestlings, setting video
cameras in nest-boxes and scoring behaviour from tapes
and direct observation. Our ﬁeldwork extends from late
March to early July. We are willing to accept peo-
ple that could stay for periods of at least two months
within that time. We can oﬀer free accommodation in
our nearby ﬁeld station as well as a weekly contribution
towards food expenses.
If interested please contact Diego Gil
(dgil@mncn.csic.es)
Diego Gil Departamento de Ecolog´ ıa Evolutiva Museo
Nacional de Ciencias Naturales (CSIC) Jos´ e Guti´ errez
Abascal, 2 28006 Madrid Spain
Diego Gil Departamento de Ecolog´ ıa Evolutiva
Museo Nacional de Ciencias Naturales (CSIC) Jos´ e
Guti´ errez Abascal, 2 28006 Madrid Spain
Tel: 00 34 91 411 13 28, ext. 1111 Fax: 00 34 91 564
50 78 email: dgil@mncn.csic.esJanuary 1, 2005 EvolDir 21
Oslo FieldAssist
BIRD RESEARCH IN NORWAY: FIELD ASSIS-
TANTS NEEDED
We are looking for two ﬁeld assistants in a study on
the singing and spatial behaviour of great tits (Parus
major) in Norway. The project is run in the surround-
ings of Oslo, under the supervision of Prof. Dr. Tore
Slagsvold, between approximately 10 of April and end
of May 2005.
Applicants are expected to sleep in their own tents at
the ﬁeld site, so a robust tolerance for cold weather
and some enthusiasm for outdoor experiences is needed.
Usually, however, most blizzards have already passed
by at the time of ﬁeld work.
We will observe our subjects throughout the breeding
season, each day from before sunrise until after sunset.
The assistants will
- monitor singing activity and territorial behaviour -
help to catch birds - use radio telemetry to track the
birds.
As a contribution towards expenses, we pay 800 euro
for the ﬁeld season.
Please send applications per e-mail, including CV, cover
letter, and two addresses of references to
Dr. Valentin Amrhein
e-mail: anax.pca@wanadoo.fr
Research Station Petite Camargue Alsacienne Univer-
sity of Basel (Switzerland) Rue de la Pisciculture 68300
Saint-Louis France
UAlaskaAnchorage
EvolutionaryMolPhysiologist
Endocrinologist or Molecular Physiologist University of
Alaska Anchorage PCN: 304065
The University of Alaska-Anchorage invites applica-
tions for a tenure-track, tripartite faculty position at
the assistant professor level in the Department of Bio-
logical Sciences The Department of Biological Sciencesoﬀers undergraduate (BS, BA) and graduate (MS) de-
grees in Biological Sciences, and collaborates with the
University of Alaska Fairbanks to confer a PhD degree.
The Department is the academic home to 17 tenure-
track faculty, 2 part-time faculty, and 5 tenured fac-
ulty of the Biomedical Program (WWAMI). Academic
and research focus areas within the Department include
cell and molecular biology, ecology/evolutionary biol-
ogy, and environmental physiology. The Department
is strongly devoted to teaching excellence, strong sci-
ence, and collaborative integration in teaching and re-
search. Additional details regarding the Department’s
faculty and research interests can be found at biol-
ogy.uaa.alaska.edu.
Responsibilities: The incumbent develops a strong re-
search program in the area of endocrinology or molec-
ular physiology, obtains extramural funding, and con-
tributes to the development of the integrative physi-
ology research group within Alaska Experimental Pro-
grams to Stimulate Competitive Research. The assis-
tant professor teaches two courses and one graduate
seminar per year. The standard 5-parts workload con-
sists of 3-parts research, 1-part teaching, and 1-part
university and/or public service.
Qualiﬁcations: APh.D. in biology or relevant scien-
tiﬁc ﬁeld is required. Candidate must have prior post-
doctoral research experience; ﬁrst authored a pub-
lication in a refereed journal; and previous teach-
ing/research experience in a relevant area. Applicant
must have demonstrated ability to obtain extramu-
ral funding and establish an independent research pro-
gram.
Review Date: Review of applications will begin on Jan-
uary 27, 2005, and will continue until position is suc-
cessfully ﬁlled.
Application Process: We do not accept application ma-
terials via e-mail. Please carefully follow the speciﬁc in-
structions given on each vacancy announcement. Please
direct inquiries to Dr. Ian van Tets, Department of
Biological Sciences, via email (aﬁvt@uaa.alaska.edu)
or by telephone (907.786.4705). The application
packet for this position must include: * A University
of Alaska Applicant Form - mandatory when apply-
ing for any UA position (available on our website at
www.uaa.alaska.edu/uaahrs ); * A cover letter (please
note the PCN304065 on your cover letter); * A de-
tailed professional vita containing educational prepa-
ration, work experience, research and publications; *
Copies of teaching/student evaluations; * The names,
email addresses,and telephone numbers of three (3) pro-
fessional references; and * Copy of college transcripts
verifying terminal degree (oﬃcial transcripts will be re-22 EvolDir January 1, 2005
quired prior to hiring).
Please submit the application packet to: Human Re-
source Services University of Alaska Anchorage Admin-
istration Building, Rm 125 (Physical Address) 3211
Providence Drive(Mailing Address) Anchorage, AK
99508-4614
The complete vacancy announcement is available on
the UAA/HRS website at www.ﬁnsys.uaa.alaska.edu/-
uaahrs or in UAA’s Human Resource Services oﬃce lo-
cated in the Administration Building on Alumni Drive,
Anchorage, Alaska. Telephone: (907) 786-4608; Hear-
ing Impaired TTY Phone: (907) 786-1420.
UAA is an AA/EO employer & educational institution.
Applications for employment are subject to public dis-
closure under the Alaska Public Records Act.
UArizona EvolCurriculum
Coordinator of Advising and Curriculum Development
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
at the University of Arizona is seeking candidates for a
full time position to coordinate advising and curriculum
development for our department. This is a year-to-year
appointed position. The person will be expected to
have an extensive background in ecology, evolution and
general biology and will interface regularly with faculty
regarding advising and curriculum development. Du-
ties include regularly advising and counseling students
on academic, curricular, career and personal issues, and
developing recruitment, advising and orientation pro-
grams and materials. This person will have a strate-
gic role, along with academic faculty, in improving and
expanding our undergraduate program in all aspects,
including curriculum-related issues. Additionally, this
person will supervise the undergraduate and graduate
advising staﬀ and coordinate interactions with College
of Science advising personnel. Interested applicants
must submit their materials at www.uacareertrack.com
<http://www.uacareertrack.com/ >(Job #31735).
Duties and Responsibilities:
* Hire, train and supervise advising staﬀ. * Educate ad-
vising staﬀ on advising practices and principles as nec-
essary. * Advise and council undergraduate students
on a day to day basis. * Maintain current and accurate
records on students’ advising and progress. * Conduct
recruitment and orientation functions. * Create and
distribute curriculum and advising documents. * De-sign and implement new approaches to advising and
recruitment. * Track placement of EEB graduates. *
Network at a professional level with faculty regarding
advising and curriculum development. * Help develop
a strategic curriculum plan for the three EEB majors.
Minimum Qualiﬁcations:
* Masters degree in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
or related ﬁeld. * Experience in program coordination.
* Excellent communication and teamwork skills.
Preferred Qualiﬁcations:
* Ph.D. in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology or related
ﬁeld. * Knowledge of University policies and proce-
dures regarding undergraduate and graduate student
admissions and academic progression. * Familiarity
with College of Science curriculum content and require-
ments. * Experience in advising at the undergraduate
level. * Good understanding of teaching and learning
skills.
Amanda Burke <ajburke@email.arizona.edu >
UCaliforniaRiverside MolEvol
Faculty Position: Molecular Evolution
The Institute for Integrative Genome Biology at the
University of California, Riverside (UCR) invites out-
standing applications for an open-level position (assis-
tant, associate or full professor) in molecular evolution
or other areas of molecular genetics and genomics. The
candidate will join a growing, interdisciplinary Institute
with broad interests in genomics and post-genomics bi-
ology, and will be appointed as a faculty member in
the UCR department of his/her discipline. The Insti-
tute is a major campus initiative that brings together
researchers from various biological disciplines, as well
as computational, physical and social sciences ( http:/-
/www.genomics.ucr.edu/ ). The Institute also oper-
ates a Core Instrumentation Facility, providing central-
ized, shared-use equipment in genomics, proteomics,
microscopy and imaging, and bioinformatics. The suc-
cessful candidate would be expected to establish and
maintain a vigorous, innovative research program, and
have a strong commitment to excellence in teaching
at the undergraduate and graduate levels. Applicants
must hold a Ph.D., and postdoctoral experience is es-
sential for candidates at the assistant level. Review of
applications will begin January 1, 2005, with appoint-
ment as early as July 1, 2005. Applications will be ac-January 1, 2005 EvolDir 23
cepted until the position is ﬁlled. Applications should
include a curriculum vita, statement of research and
teaching interests, and have letters of three references
sent (assistant level) or provide names and addresses of
three references (associate and full level) to: Dr. Jian-
Kang Zhu, Director, Institute for Integrative Genome
Biology, 2132 Batchelor Hall, University of California,
Riverside, CA 92521. The University of California is
an Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer.
Norman Ellstrand <ellstrand@ucr.edu >
UCanterbury
GeneticsConservationEvolution
UNIVERSITY OF CANTERBURY
School of Biological Sciences Christchurch, New
Zealand
Lecturer in Genetics, Conservation and Evolutionary
Biology
The School is seeking to a make a ﬁxed-term appoint-
ment in Genetics, Conservation and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy to enhance its teaching and research capacity in
these areas while the permanent staﬀ fulﬁl their re-
search grant commitments. The successful applicant
will be expected to demonstrate academic excellence
in their teaching and research by carrying out innova-
tive and eﬀective lectures and laboratory classes, pub-
lishing their research at the highest level as assessed
by peer-reviewed publications, generating external re-
search funding, and aiding the supervision of postgrad-
uate students.
The School of Biological Sciences has a high national
and international proﬁle. We have an excellent teaching
and research infrastructure and in a recent government
survey, we were judged among the top research depart-
ments at the University of Canterbury . For more in-
formation on the School of Biological Sciences see the
webpage www.biol.canterbury.ac.nz .
Further details about the position are available at
http://www.canterbury.ac.nz/hr/vacancies/science/-
bs13701 0105.shtml .
For more information on the position please
contact Professor Paula Jameson email:
paula.jameson@canterbury.ac.nz
For information on the City of Christchurch see
www.ccc.govt.nz . Applications should include the of-ﬁcial application form, curriculum vitae, together with
separate statements of: recent research achievements;
research goals; expected teaching contributions, includ-
ing a list of the courses within the School the applicant
could teach into; and the names and contact informa-
tion of three referees.
The closing date is 10 January 2005. Anticipated start
date 1 March 2005.
All applications should be sent to The Human Re-
sources Administrator, College of Science , University
of Canterbury , Private Bag 4800, Christchurch , New
Zealand . Email: hr@science.canterbury.ac.nz .
Bruce Waldman <bruce.waldman@canterbury.ac.nz >
UConnecticut Bioinformatics
Bioinformatics Scientist Academic Assistant II/III
The University of Connecticut seeks a Bioinformat-
ics Scientist Academic Assistant II/III) to serve the
biological science community by working within a
newly formed Bioinformatics Facility in the Biotechnol-
ogy/Bioservices Center. Qualiﬁcations include a M.S.
or Ph.D. in bioinformatics and experience or the equiv-
alent skills to handle problems in genomics, gene and
protein expression analysis, database mining, molecu-
lar modeling and programming, and structure- function
domain analysis. Highly desirable are 2 years post M.S.
work experience. The successful candidate will have an
excellent command of verbal and written communica-
tion skills and must use them eﬀectively. Salary com-
mensurate with qualiﬁcations. Please go to our website:
http://www.ucc.uconn.edu/ ˜ wwwbiotc/bioinfrm.html
for a detailed job description. This position is subject
to annual renewal. Screening of candidates will begin
January 3, 2005.
Interested candidates should submit a cover letter, cur-
riculum vitae, and have three letters from professional
referees sent to: Sue Levesque, Search Committee Sec-
retary,Biotechnology/Bioservices Center, University of
Connecticut, 91 North Eagleville Road, Unit 3149,
Storrs, CT 06269-3149. The University of Connecticut
actively solicits applications from minorities, women,
and people with disabilities.
biotctr1@uconnvm.uconn.edu24 EvolDir January 1, 2005
UConnecticut EvolGenomics
ResTech
RESEARCH ASSISTANT II:
The Townsend Laboratory and the Center for Applied
Genetics and Technology are seeking a full time (40
hours per week) Research Assistant II.
Responsibilities Include: Technical assistance in the op-
eration of the Center’s two microarray systems, and
participation in research projects utilizing them, un-
der the general direction of the two Microarray Instru-
mentation Supervisors. The ideal candidate will be able
to: independently carry out established methods; test
and modify or custom-design equipment under super-
vision; perform a variety of specialized and standard
molecular biological tasks; operate, maintain, calibrate,
trouble-shoot and resolve ordinary problems with com-
plex instruments and equipment which may require
substantial training and judgment to use safely and pro-
ﬁciently; and maintain adequate inventory of supplies.
Qualiﬁcations Include: Minimum qualiﬁcation is a
Bachelor’s degree in biology/genetics/microbiology or
equivalent combination of education and experience,
with one to three years experience in a similar position.
A Master’s of Science degree in a biological or techni-
cal ﬁeld, or experience with microarray technology is
desirable.
Application Process: Please send cover letter, resume,
and the names and telephone numbers of three refer-
ences to: Dr. Linda Strausbaugh, University of Con-
necticut, Department of Molecular and Cell Biology,
354 Mansﬁeld Road, Unit 2131, Storrs, CT 06269-2131.
Application deadline is January 1, 2005.
Jeﬀrey P. Townsend, Ph.D.
Assistant Professor Molecular and Cell Biology De-
partment University of Connecticut Storrs, CT 06269
Storrs, CT 06269
UNICAMP Brazil EvolGenetics
Faculty position in Genetics and Evolution at UNI-
CAMP (Brazil)Deadline for applications: December 23, 2004
The “Departamento de Gen´ etica e Evolu˜ ao” of the
State University of Campinas (UNICAMP, SP, Brazil)
invites applications for a tenure track position in Ge-
netics and Evolution. The minimum requirements are
a PhD degree and population genetics knowledge. The
evaluation process will take place between January and
March 2005, and will include an exam and interview in
Portuguese.
For further information and inquiries see the website:
http://www.sg.unicamp.br/procsel/-
ConsultaProcessoST.asp S´ onia Cristina da Silva
Andrade P´ os gradua˜ ao em Gen´ etica e Biologia Molec-
ular Laborat´ orio de Diversidade Gen´ etica Depto. de
Gen´ etica e Evolu˜ ao IB-UNICAMP CxP 6109 CEP
13083-970 fax +551937886235
e-mail: soniac@unicamp.br soniacsan-
drade@hotmail.com
UOxford Ornithology
UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD
Edward Grey Institute
Department of Zoology
Research Fellow in Ornithology Salary on the RS1A
Scale (range: £19460 - £29128)
Applications are invited for a position as Research
Fellow in Ornithology, as part of the Edward Grey
Institute of Field Ornithology in the Department
of Zoology (see http://egizoosrv.zoo.ox.ac.uk/EGI/-
EGIHome.htm ). The main duties of the post holder
will be to conduct research into ornithology that com-
plements the existing strengths and interests of the
institute, and to develop an independently-funded re-
search programme in ornithology. The successful appli-
cant will have a strong research record in any area of
ornithology with relevance to behaviour, conservation,
ecology or evolution of wild populations. Candidates
from other ﬁelds, but with a strong desire to work in or-
nithology, and with clearly transferable skills, may also
apply. Candidates should possess a doctorate in or-
nithology or a related subject, but have no more than
four years’ postdoctoral experience by 30 September
2005.
The position is available for two years with the possi-January 1, 2005 EvolDir 25
bility of extension for a further two years. The starting
date is negotiable, but it is expected that the successful
candidate will be in position from May 2005.
Further particulars are available from
lisa.harris@zoo.ox.ac.uk or from our website http://-
www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/ (click on the jobs link). Applica-
tions (electronic copies are acceptable) should include a
full curriculum vitae, copies of three of the applicant’s
most signiﬁcant publications, and a 2000 word proposal
giving details of the applicant’s past (500 words) and
proposed (1500 words) research, together with the
names and full contact details for three referees. Appli-
cations should be addressed to the Head of Department,
Professor P.H. Harvey FRS, Department of Zoology,
Tinbergen Building, South Parks Road, Oxford
OX1 3PS (e-mail: lisa.harris@zoology.oxford.ac.uk),
quoting reference number AT04056. Informal en-
quiries can be addressed to Professor Ben Sheldon
(ben.sheldon@zoology.oxford.ac.uk). The closing date
for applications is 21 January 2005. Interviews are
likely to take place early in February 2005; those inter-
viewed will be expected to give a brief presentation of
their research achievements and objectives.
UPennsylvania DiseaseEcolEvol
Position in Disease Ecology and Evolution, University
of Pennsylvania
The advertisement below recently appeared in Science
and Nature and on Evoldir. In reposting to Evoldir we
would like to emphasize that this search is very broad-
minded and we would welcome applicants working in
any aspect of disease ecology and evolution, on any or-
ganisms. Also, although the target date for applica-
tions is 10 January, please note that we will continue
to consider applications until the position is ﬁlled.
Faculty Position in Disease Ecology Department of Bi-
ology University of Pennsylvania
The Department of Biology at The University of Penn-
sylvania expects to make a tenure track appointment in
Ecology with a starting date of July 2006. We are seek-
ing a broadly trained scientist whose research addresses
the ecology of diseases of natural animal or plant pop-
ulations. The ideal individual would possess empirical
and theoretical strengths in ecology that are comple-
mented by molecular and microbiological approaches.
Speciﬁc areas of interest include, but are not limited
to, epidemiology and ecology of emerging diseases, ecol-ogy of microbial pathogens, and molecular evolution of
pathogens in natural populations. The successful candi-
date will interact with existing faculty whose strengths
lie in population and community ecology, evolution-
ary biology, microbial biology, genomics, and the tradi-
tional areas of cell and molecular biology.
Candidates will be expected to teach at the undergrad-
uate and graduate levels in addition to maintaining a
vigorous, independent research program. It is antici-
pated that this appointment will be made at the Assis-
tant Professor level. An appointment at the associate
or full professor level with tenure might be available
for an exceptionally well-qualiﬁed candidate. Appli-
cants should submit statements of research and teach-
ing, curriculum vitae, and representative reprints or
manuscripts to:
Chair, Ecology Search Committee Department of Biol-
ogy University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104-
6018
Applicants for this position at the Assistant Profes-
sor level should also arrange to have 3 letters of rec-
ommendation sent to the search committee. Review
of applications will begin January 10, 2005 and con-
tinue until the position is ﬁlled. Further informa-
tion about the Department of Biology can be found at
www.bio.upenn.edu . The University of Pennsylvania
is an Aﬃrmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer.
Women and minorities are encouraged to apply.
paulsnie@sas.upenn.edu paulsnie@sas.upenn.edu
UPennsylvania DiseaseEvol
Faculty Position in Disease Ecology Department of Bi-
ology University of Pennsylvania
The Department of Biology at The University of Penn-
sylvania expects to make a tenure track appointment in
Ecology with a starting date of July 2006. We are seek-
ing a broadly trained scientist whose research addresses
the ecology of diseases of natural animal or plant pop-
ulations. The ideal individual would possess empirical
and theoretical strengths in ecology that are comple-
mented by molecular and microbiological approaches.
Speciﬁc areas of interest include, but are not limited
to, epidemiology and ecology of emerging diseases, ecol-
ogy of microbial pathogens, and molecular evolution of
pathogens in natural populations. The successful candi-
date will interact with existing faculty whose strengths26 EvolDir January 1, 2005
lie in population and community ecology, evolution-
ary biology, microbial biology, genomics, and the tradi-
tional areas of cell and molecular biology.
Candidates will be expected to teach at the undergrad-
uate and graduate levels in addition to maintaining a
vigorous, independent research program. It is antici-
pated that this appointment will be made at the Assis-
tant Professor level. An appointment at the associate
or full professor level with tenure might be available
for an exceptionally well-qualiﬁed candidate. Appli-
cants should submit statements of research and teach-
ing, curriculum vitae, and representative reprints or
manuscripts to:
Chair, Ecology Search Committee Department of Biol-
ogy University of Pennsylvania Philadelphia, PA 19104-
6018
Applicants for this position at the Assistant Professor
level should also arrange to have 3 letters of recom-
mendation sent to the search committee. Deadline for
the receipt of applications is 10 January 2005. Further
information about the Department of Biology can be
found at www.bio.upenn.edu The University of Penn-
sylvania is an Aﬃrmative Action/Equal Opportunity
Employer. Women and minorities are encouraged to
apply.
paulsnie@sas.upenn.edu paulsnie@sas.upenn.edu
USheﬃeld microsats
The following research assistant post was advertised in
New Scientist on 9 and 16 December 2004.
UNIVERSITY OF SHEFFIELD DEPARTMENT OF
ANIMAL & PLANT SCIENCES
A research assistant is required to assist the work of
the Sheﬃeld Molecular Genetics Facility, in particu-
lar in the development and genotyping of microsatellite
markers for a wide range of taxa. Applicants must have
a BSc degree or equivalent and signiﬁcant research ex-
perience in molecular genetics or another relevant disci-
pline. The post is available immediately for one year in
the ﬁrst instance. The Facility has been supported by
the Natural Environment Research Council since 1998
and its funding was recently renewed for the period
through to March 2008. A full-time post is available
but applicants who wish to work on a part-time basis
will be considered.
Salary on the RA1B scale (minimum UKP19,400 pa)Closing date: 6 January 2005
Informal enquiries may be made to Profes-
sor T A Burke, Tel: 0114 222 0096 (e-mail:
t.a.burke@sheﬃeld.ac.uk).
Further information and details on how to make an ap-
plication can be found at http://www.shef.ac.uk/jobs/
(under Current Vacancies/ Research)
(Post reference R3524)
t.a.burke@sheﬃeld.ac.uk t.a.burke@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
UWisconsinMilwaukee Zebraﬁsh
The following position announcement has been adver-
tised and review of applications will begin soon. We are
looking for someone currently working with zebraﬁsh
or other small laboratory ﬁshes. Applicants do not
need to have experience in the area of environmental
health, just a desire to apply ﬁsh model systems to
this area. If you have questions, please contact Michael
Carvan (carvanmj@uwm.edu) or David Petering (pe-
tering@uwm.edu).
ZEBRAFISH DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRON-
MENTAL HEALTH
The University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee invites appli-
cations from outstanding scientists working on the ze-
braﬁsh model system for a tenure track faculty posi-
tion open at any rank (Assistant, Associate, or Full
Professor) in the Department of Chemistry/ Biochem-
istry or Biological Sciences. The new faculty member
will be part of an interdisciplinary research studying
mechanisms of toxicity of chemicals that aﬀect em-
bryonic development and contribute to the onset of
chronic disease. He or she will be able to interact
with exceptionally strong groups in developmental bi-
ology, neuroscience, metal toxicology, signal transduc-
tion, endocrine disruption, and genomics aﬃliated with
the NIEHS Marine and Freshwater Biomedical Sciences
Center. Additional information can be found at http:/-
/www.uwm.edu/Dept/MFB/ . Candidates should send
their curriculum vitae, research plans, a statement
of teaching interests, and three reference letters to:
Dr. David Petering, Department of Chemistry and
Biochemistry, PO Box 413, University of Wisconsin-
Milwaukee, 53201-0413. Application review will be-
gin on December 13, 2004 and continue until the po-
sition is ﬁlled. UW-Milwaukee is an equal opportu-
nity/aﬃrmative action employer.January 1, 2005 EvolDir 27
Other
BiolMedSociety think tank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Evolution simulator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Evolution simulator answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Large Phylogenies editing answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Large Phylogenies publishing answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Major Gene Tests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Mesquite PDTREE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Microsat cloning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Model generator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Outsourcing microsatellites . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Outsourcing sequencing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32Outsourcing sequencing answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
PCR reaction numbers answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
PlantMatingSystemDatabase . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Probability estimation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
ROX size standards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
ROX size standards answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Spectrophotometer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Yeast evol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
real time PCR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
real time PCR answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
BiolMedSociety think tank
Biology, Medicine and Society
Dear colleagues,
I have great pleasure in informing you of the inaugura-
tion of a new think-tank in Montpellier on the theme:
“Biology, Medicine and Society”.
Progress in the biological and medical sciences has been
rapid, pressed forward by the explosion in technology,
in particular in genetics and genomics. These develop-
ments must be accompanied, supported, and put into
perspective by parallel deliberation in the arenas of re-
ligion, psychology, psychoanalysis, history, philosophy
and politics (“Politics” is not meant here in the sense
of politicking, but rather as an elaboration of a vision
of society and the world).
The dialogue between the hard sciences and the social
sciences is a diﬃcult one. Attitudes, sensibilities, and
vocabulary diﬀer. This dialogue, freed from all hege-
monic temptation on both sides, is nevertheless essen-
tial if it is our ambition to draw up a new ethics and
epistemology of biology that is truly adapted to our era.
I believe that this enterprise responds to the expecta-
tions of many (most particularly students, whether they
be in the biomedical sciences or the social sciences),
and I ﬁnd they are indispensable to revitalizing scien-tiﬁc thinking that personally I see falling into a state of
total decay.
This scientiﬁc thought seems to me to be mainly weak-
ened by scientiﬁc taboos, the “gurutizing of science”
and the proliferation of irrational thinking.
Taboos: all subjects relating more or less to a biolog-
ical vision of human nature are a priori heretic. Cer-
tain taboos have perverted and biased the scientiﬁc ap-
proach and, in a new “clerical treason” (Benda), have
resulted in salvaging ideologies whose good intentions
are not much on an excuse. Science has a duty to re-
main objective and neutral. “Only truth is revolution-
ary” (Gramsci). A modern ethics/epistemology of biol-
ogy will be born only if it can be founded on a science
liberated of every taboo.
Gurutizing of science: many of our colleagues have
succumbed to the “guru” syndrome. Awarded with
some title to glory in a very specialized domain, they
proclaim themselves omniscient and pronounce oracles
to decision-makers who are too easily misled by the
aura of the learned scientist on subjects ranging from
global warming to reproductive cloning, and the equal-
ity/inequality of Man. It is urgent that we return
to truly rigorous scientiﬁc thinking, that we establish
strict hierarchies between what has been solidly (but
never deﬁnitively) established and the speculative. The
credibility of science depends on it, given the:
Proliferation of irrational thinking: Scientiﬁc thinking
is in decline, and science is in the throes of considerable
mistrust from the public, who lend a receptive ear to28 EvolDir January 1, 2005
a wide variety of demagogues. We must undoubtedly
banish excessive scientism, smelling sweetly of the 19th
century (the belief that science was capable of resolving
all of society’s problems and that only rational thinking
was the source of true knowledge). However, when it is
a matter of problems falling within the domain of sci-
ence (GMOs, global warming, the biological component
of human nature), obscurantism, superstition and the
irrational should be combatted by revitalized scientiﬁc
thinking.
The “Biology, Medicine and Society” (BMS) think-tank
will be a place for multidisciplinary dialogue, hosting
not only specialists (biologists, physicians, psychoana-
lysts, ethnologists, philosophers, people of letters and
religion, historians, politicians, etc.), but it will also be
a place for high school and university students, non-
specialist citizens, etc. We intend to make it a place
of true debate, able to unite in a spirit of tolerance
participants whose convictions may at ﬁrst seem irrec-
oncilable. A “debate” gathering protagonists who agree
on nearly everything is about as exciting as a ﬂat elec-
troencephalogram. If the controversy focuses on the
theory of evolution, it seems to me unacceptable not to
listen to the point of view of the creationists. If the ge-
netic diversity of the human species is on the table for
debate, the holders of inegalitarian ideas should have
the right to express themselves, under the strict con-
dition that their attitude remains polite and does not
contravene the laws in force. Moreover, a correct atti-
tude will be required of everyone, and, for example, the
intolerant and sarcastic behavior of certain scientists
toward people of religious faith will not be tolerated in
our debates.
The activities of the BMS will consist of oral debates
and conferences, with rotating locations. A web site
will be set up to accommodate written communications.
These communications will be moderated. A true cy-
berjournal could thus be born. Later, if the group’s
activities develop encouragingly, the launch of a new
scientiﬁc journal on the theme will be envisaged. The
publisher
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Evolution simulatorI was wondering if you are aware of any biomolecular se-
quence evolution simulator (such as Seq-Gen) that also
simulates insertions and deletions.
Thank you.
Luay Nakhleh Dept. of Computer Science Rice Univer-
sity Houston, TX 77005
Luay Nakhleh <nakhleh@cs.rice.edu >
Evolution simulator answers
I received very helpful answers to my inquiry, that I’d
like to forward to you so that you post them for those
who may be interested.
Thank you very much. Luay
Luay Nakhleh <nakhleh@cs.rice.edu >o
———
Dear Luay,
I think the standard is ROSE ( http://-
bibiserv.techfak.uni-bielefeld.de/rose/ ), but you
might check out a recent paper by Webb Miller’s group
(attached) and contact Webb if you are interested in
simulating non-coding DNA sequences.
Bests, Jim
Jim Leebens-Mack, PhD Department of Biology and
Huck Institutes of the Life Sciences The Pennsylvania
State University University Park, PA 16802
Ph: 814-865-3083 FAX:814-865-9131 jhl10@psu.edu
———
Dear Luay, Barry Hall has one. It’s the only one I know
of. You can contact him at drbh@mail.rochester.edu
Miriam Barlow
———
ROSE is published and has a simple mode of gap for-
mation.
http://bibiserv.techfak.uni-bielefeld.de/rose/ I have
written another, more powerful, application and am in
the process of writting it up for publication.
–
Reed A. Cartwright Phone: (706) 542-1448 Doc-
toral Student Fax: (706) 542-3910 UniversityJanuary 1, 2005 EvolDir 29
of Georgia Department of Genetics http://-
www.dererumnatura.us/ C232 Life Sciences Bldg
http://www.pandasthumb.org/ Athens, GA 30602-
7223 http://www.georgiascience.org/ ———
Hi, Try http://bibiserv.techfak.uni-bielefeld.de/rose/-
best wishes Dr Georg Fuellen fuellen@alum.mit.edu -
alum.mit.edu/www/fuellen/ - fax 49 251 83 21631 - fon
21637
Large Phylogenies editing answers
Hello, A month ago I asked two questions regarding
large ( >200 taxa) phylogenies. First, how to edit large
phylogenies, and then how to present them for publica-
tion. So many people responded that I have split their
replies into two postings. As I or others try out these
suggestions, I recommend that we continue the online
discussion.
First I asked: First I am seeking advice on software /
instructions for converting a NEXUS tree into a publi-
cation quality image.
ANSWERS TO QUESTION ONE Answers included:
Treeview,
TREEVIEW The program TreeView ( http://-
taxonomy.zoology.gla.ac.uk/rod/treeview.html ) can be
used to display and save a NEXUS tree.
I most commonly use the printing facilities in PAUP*,
but sometimes also use TreeView. I typically pretty-up
my images for ﬁnal presentation in a graphics editor,
as I haven’t found any tree-printing program that gives
me enough ﬂexibility to generate really sophisticated
images. With that said, I’d be interested to hear what
other folks tell you, and very interested in responses to
your question about big trees.
TreeView is a free program that most people I know
use to make pretty trees. It’s pretty simple but works
well. You can download the latest version here: http:/-
/darwin.zoology.gla.ac.uk/ ˜ rpage/treeviewx/ . One
funny thing is that in older versions you could spec-
ify a taxon to root the tree and now you can’t so I’m
going to download an older one also.
Regarding the publication quality image: I’d
prepare the diagram with TreeView ( http://-
taxonomy.zoology.gla.ac.uk/rod/treeview.html ), then
hack it into form as necessary using PowerPoint or
Photoshop (rewriting labels, adding bootstrap values,and so on). [I personally have used PowerPoint in this
manner and would NOT recommend it just doesnt
come out as prettily as CorelDraw and other software
JLC]
With respect to editing the trees: I save the picture
image in Treeview (Rod Page’s application to visualise
NEXUS trees) as a windows metaﬁle (yes, unfortu-
nately, I am a windows user for text editing etc pur-
poses...) and then import this ﬁle into Powerpoint for
editing. You can also use Coreldraw or Adope Photo-
shop etc. You can then save the image of your tree as a
.jpg ﬁle and import this one into your paper. If you are
a UNIX user, there are even better graphics programs
and importing it into Latex should be easy. However, I
haven’t used that root myself.
I suppose you will receive this advice 200
times, but I recommend TreeView http://-
taxonomy.zoology.gla.ac.uk/rod/treeview.html .
TREEVIEW - CONVERTIBLE TO NEWICK?
This link http://workshop.molecularevolution.org/-
resources/ﬁleformats/tree formats.ph p states that
treeview (very similar to treetool) will not read Nexus,
but the page gives instructions on how a Nexus format
tree can be converted to the Newick format. However
http://taxonomy.zoology.gla.ac.uk/rod/treeview/-
help/formats.html states that treeview will read Nexus
format trees.
TREEGRAPH You might check into the software pro-
gram TREEGRAPH. The reference journal article is
as follows: Muller, J. and Muller, K. 2004. TREE-
GRAPH: automated drawing of complex ﬁgures using
an extensible tree description format. Molecular Ecol-
ogy Notes (online early - In press).
SAVE FROM MAC SCREEN, EDIT IN GRAPHICS
SOFTWARE One option: You can open put your tree
into PAUP using the “Get Trees” function. Then from
the “Print Trees” window you can preview your tree
and save it as a .pict ﬁle for use in any drawing pro-
gram. I should note, however, that I think this will only
work in the Macintosh version.
I just saw your message on Evoldir, and I’ve been strug-
gling with the same issues. There is a simple way to
make the trees graphically good (if you are using a
Mac). When in Paup, use the command print tree,
then instead of printing, press the preview button. A
preview of the tree will appear, from there, just press
the button “copy to clipboard” and paste the tree ei-
ther on Corel Draw or Adoba Illustrator. You can edit
it there and get very good results.
You could save the nexus tree as a pic in PAUP and
then open the ﬁle with Adobe Illustrator. Once there30 EvolDir January 1, 2005
you could edit the tree and create a publishable quality
ﬁgure.
Is that NEXUS tree generated by a MAC or PC? With
MACs you can just copy the tree into the clipboard (in
the Print Preview window) and paste it in Word. Word
will then allow you to make changes in that picture ﬁle
according to your needs.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Large Phylogenies publishing
answers
Hello, A month ago I asked two questions regarding
large ( >200 taxa) phylogenies. First, how to edit large
phylogenies, and then how to present them for publica-
tion. So many people responded that I have split their
replies into two postings. As I or others try out these
suggestions, I recommend that we continue the online
discussion.
My second question received not only helpful sugges-
tions but also many emails asking for a copy of any
suggestions. I am not the only one out there with this
problem!!!!
The question was: Second, my tree contains >200 taxa.
How are people handling such phylogenies for publi-
cation purposes? This is an issue that has not been
adequately addressed by journals, and I am soliciting
opinions on what should be done about this (especially
since everyday phylogeny size gets larger and larger).
Should the image be saved to the internet for down-
load? Publish subtrees of interest with remainder as
an online appendix? If so, what type of ﬁle?
ANSWERS TO QUESTION TWO
DONT KNOW HOW TO DO THIS Your question is
very close to my heart. I am also currently writing a
phylogeny paper with >200 taxa. I have not contem-
plated any solutions other than making the names very
small to ﬁt on an A4 size page. [this is just a sample of
many similar responses JLC]
ENTIRE TREE AS FOLD-OUT I just published a
large phylogeny as a fold out in the journal Phycolo-
gia. I will have to do this again as my next tree willhave 438 taxa.
OVERVIEW, WITH SELECT SUBTREES I don’t
think I have ever seen a tree of that size published.
Perhaps you can display an overview tree showing how
the major groups present in your analysis are related
and also show a few select subtrees. Post the com-
plete 200+ member tree and any remaining subtrees as
supplemental data on the web. High resolution GIF
or PNG format images should provide suﬃcient image
quality for trees at a very reasonable ﬁle size.
I’ve attached an example of a solution I’ve used for
the big tree problem (although, I have only about 100
OTUs). Another option would be to break the tree in
half and present it on 2 pages. [Thanks to Dave Weis-
rock for his trees, which reduced large internal clades
to triangles, then presented the tree within the triangle
as a separate ﬁgure. JLC]
I suggest you put the more interesting parts on the
paper, and make a full tree available online (either at
your site or as an electronic appendix to the paper at
the journal’s site). I just saw a paper with an appendix
containing a tree that had several hundred taxa and
was drawn over three pages.
I would be grateful if you could mail me other sug-
gestions that you would receive. Personally, I would
prefer to give a tree with basal relationships and gen-
eral names of subtrees. Subtrees would then be pre-
sented separately. The whole tree should be available
for download.
ENTIRE TREE ON MULTIPLE PAGES, DEPEND-
ING ON THE POINT Working at the HIV Databases
I routinely deal with phylogenetic trees containing over
1,000 taxa. How to best make a viewer of the tree un-
derstand the points I want to address, depends very
much on which taxa are included, and what the overall
pattern of the tree is. A tree built with 1,200 HIV-1
M group subtype B sequences plus a few subtype D
for an outgroup is very “ﬂat” and crowded on the B
branch, so it usually requires a 6 or 7 page tree to show
for example that sequences from one patient nearly al-
ways cluster together, indicating few dual or multiple
infections.
On the other hand, a tree that includes a few hundred
HIV-1 M group sequences, a few HIV-1 O group, plus
SIVs from chimpanzees, sooty mangabeys, red capped
mangabeys, African green monkeys and dozens of other
non-human primate species does not require labelling of
each individual sequence, I can just point to each major
clade and label its species of origin.
CHECK THE HIV LITERATURE I think Bette’s pa-
per may give you some ideas. I like the way sheJanuary 1, 2005 EvolDir 31
saved not only the trees but the inﬁles with site-speciﬁc
rates of evolution and other parameters pre-calculated.
There are at least a hundred other HIV papers that
cover trees of more than 1,000 taxa so you could get
other ideas from them.
ONLINE APPENDIX, TREEBASE The Chase et al.
(1993) phylogeny of angiosperm families has, if I re-
member, diagrams of the main clades which succes-
sively “explode” in on detail. But that takes several
pages. (Ann. Mo. Bot. Gard., 80, 528-580.)
But such big phylogenies are no longer such massive
news in themselves, and also, everyone working in the
ﬁeld is now likely to have the Internet.
I would go for your option “Publish subtrees of inter-
est with remainder as an online appendix”. The online
appendix could have the trees in a PDF-format docu-
ment. This seems to be the only widely useful, fairly
system-independent format. (Do check it on a Mac and
a PC though, as sometimes, weird things happen with
the fonts.)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Major Gene Tests
Dear EVOLDIR,
Does anyone know of a program that performs complex
segregation analysis on data from crosses between in-
bred lines? I have biometric data from parental, F1, F2,
and backcross generations from an interspeciﬁc cross
and wish to test for the presence of a major gene inﬂu-
encing the trait of interest.
Thank you for your help
Nicola Barson
BarsonNJ@cf.ac.uk or nicolabarson@hotmail.com
Mesquite PDTREEI’m trying to export independent contrasts from
the program PDTREE (PDAP package), running in
MESQUITE, to excel or SPSS. Anyone knows how to
do it? Thanks, Tiana Kohlsdorf
– Tiana Kohlsdorf Department of Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology Yale University 165 Prospect St. 06511
New Haven, CT, USA
tiana.kohlsdorf@yale.edu
Microsat cloning
Dear all,
I am currently cloning microsatellite loci for house
sporrows, using an enrichment protocol based on
biotinylated probes (Hamilton et al, BioTechniques
27:500-507; Paetkau, BioTechniques 26: 690-697; both
1999). Most of my microsatellite repeats are too close
to the cloning site, so that I cannot design primers.
I remember that a couple of years ago someone else
had similar problems and posted a question either on
EvolDir or on the microsat newsgroup. Does anybody
have a suggestion why most the repeats are so close to
the cloning site, and how this problem could be recti-
ﬁed? Thanks in advance, happy holiday season every-
one!
John PS: Please reply to wickie1988@yahoo.com
wickie1988@yahoo.com
Model generator
Hi, We have just completed the development of a
fully self-contained substitution model selection appli-
cation. Modelgenerator supports 28 amino acid mod-
els and 24 nucletoide models (base model with three
optional rate distributions: Gamma, Invariable sites,
and Gamma+Invariable sites). Model selection is per-
formed using both the hLRT and AIK tests (Posada
and Crandall, 2001). We have devised a modiﬁed
hLRT for the amino acid models that has shown to
be extremely eﬀective in our simulated data tests
(manuscript in preparation). Our tests have also shown32 EvolDir January 1, 2005
the importance of using Modelgenerator when choosing
a particular amino acid model - as arbitrarily choosing a
model can lead to incorrect or suboptimal phylogenies.
Unlike other popular modeltesting software, Modelgen-
erator does not require the installation of any other
software package (e.g. PAUP*).
We invite you to try this application on your datasets
and welcome any positive or negative feedback on the
application.The application can be downloaded from:
http://bioinf.may.ie/software/modelgenerator Cheers,
Thomas
Posada, D. and Crandall, K.A. (2001) Selecting the
Best-Fit Model of Nucleotide Substitution, Systematic
Biology, 50(4), 580601
– Thomas Keane, Bioinformatics and Pharmacoge-
nomics Lab, Department of Biology, National Univer-
sity of Ireland, Maynooth, Ireland.
http://www.cs.may.ie/distributed http://-
www.cs.may.ie/ ˜ tkeane E: thomas.m.keane@may.ie
P: +353 1 708 6043 F: +353 1 708 3845
Outsourcing microsatellites
I would be happy if anyone could send some informa-
tion about trustworthy companies or institutions deal-
ing with microsatellite library construction (eventually
also primer design) on a commercial basis. I believe the
same inquiry has been directed to evoldir earlier (and I
hope the answers obtained then can be redirected).
Kind regards,
PhD H˚ avard Kauserud E-mail: haavarka@bio.uio.no
Department of Biology, University of Oslo, P.O.Box
1045 Blindern, N-0316 OSLO, NORWAY
Outsourcing sequencing
Dear all,
we are looking for companies or other institutions
which would do fragment analysis (e.g. microsatellites)
and/or DNA sequencing on a commercial basis.
Do you know of any companies? If so, how expensiveare they and how reliable is their service?
I would be very grateful for any information you have.
By the way, I intend to post the collected replies on
Evoldir for everyone else interested in this topic, so
please let me know if your information is open for re-
posting or whether it is conﬁdential.
Many thanks in advance, best wishes,
Hinrich
Dr. Hinrich Schulenburg Department of Evo-
lutionary Biology Institute for Animal Evolution
and Ecology Westphalian Wilhelms-University Hu-
eﬀerstr. 1 48149 Muenster Germany Tel.: +49-
251-8321019 or -8324664 Fax: +49-251-8324668
e-mail: hschulen@uni-muenster.de http://www.uni-
muenster.de/biologie.evoeco/evolbio/
Hinrich Schulenburg <hschulen@uni-muenster.de >
Outsourcing sequencing answers
Dear all,
please ﬁnd below the replies on my enquiry of outsourc-
ing fragment analysis and DNA sequencing.
Many thanks for all the helpful replies, best wishes,
Hinrich
1) Hello, In France we have some corporations that can
oﬀer you this kind of prestations... don’t you have
something like that in Germany? We also have the
“CNG” (National Centre for Genotyping) and maybe
you could ﬁnd more informations on their website :
http://www.cng.fr/ best wishes St´ ephane F´ enart
2) Hallo Herr Schulenburg, wir k¨ onnten Ihre
“ausw¨ artigen Proben” sequenzieren und auch AFLPs
laufen lassen. Wir haben hier einen ABI 3100 (16 Kap-
illaren). Im Moment kann ich Ihnen einen Preis von
ca. 6,50 EUR per Primer anbieten, f¨ ur AFLPs m¨ ussten
wir erst noch kalkulieren. Sie sollten uns 16 oder ein
Vielfaches von 16 schicken. Die Proben sollten wie folgt
beschaﬀen sein: DNA in Wasser (80-100 ng/kb, max.
Vol. 5 µl) und Primer (0,8 pmol/ µl, 2µl), zusammen
ein max. Volumen von 7 µl. Dazu geben wir dann die
Reaktionschemie (1 µl T-Puﬀer 5x und 2 µl Terminator
Ready Reaction Mix) und f¨ uhren alles weitere (Cycle-
Sequencing und Run) durch. Den Preis von 6,50 EUR
habe ich wie folgt kalkuliert: ca. 1 EUR f¨ ur Medien am
Sequenzer (Polymer, Kapillaren-Array etc.), ca. 1,50January 1, 2005 EvolDir 33
EUR f¨ ur Wartungsvertrag und ca. 4 EUR f¨ ur Reak-
tionschemie. Wie weit wir das Enzym f¨ ur Ihre Proben
verd¨ unnen k¨ onnen, m¨ ussen wir erst austesten - evtl.
verringern sich die Kosten f¨ ur die Chemie noch. Wir
liefern Ihnen die ABI-Files per email.
H¨ ore gerne von Ihnen! Mit freundlichen Gr¨ ußen
Thomas Friedl
3) Dear Hinrich, We usually send our sequences
to Macrogen (either PCR products or cloned se-
quences), and get good quality results; you can ne-
gociate godd prices too. Check their website: http:/-
/wgs.macrogen.com/ I would be interested in getting
feed-back from your question concerning microsatellite
services. Best wishes, Malika
4) Dear Hinrich “Macrogen” is a Corean company doing
DNA sequencing. The prices seem to be cheap (around
5$ per sample, 7$ if puriﬁcation needed, express postage
paid). From what I’ve heard, results are reliable and
given within a week (for customers from France for ex-
ample). I don’t know if they propose other services.
“Wildlife Genetics International” is a Canadian com-
pany proposing a wide range of services. See http://-
www.wildlifegenetics.ca/ This information is open. Re-
gards, Thomas Broquet
5) Hi, I have been using sequencing services of Macro-
gen at Korea ( www.macrogen.com ). I am very satis-
ﬁed with the quality and the price is just $5 if you
provide the primers. If you send 10 or more samples,
DHL or Fedex services are paid by them. Usually it
takes around 8 days to get the results (days of travel
included). Unfortunately, they don’t do fragment anal-
ysis. Maria Judite Alves, PhD
6) Lieber Hinrich! Wir nutzen den Sequenzierservice
der Uni Mainz, der unter dem Firmennamen Genter-
prise ( www.genterprise.de ) l¨ auft und sind damit sehr
zufrieden. Den genauen Preis pro Sequenz weiss ich
jetzt nicht auswendig, ist aber durch Verhandlung vari-
abel - am besten dort anfragen! Mikrosatl¨ aufe sind dort
ebenfalls m¨ oglich, das machen wir aber bei der ﬁrma in-
genetix (wien, www.ingenetix.com ) und sind auch dort
sehr zufrieden. Reposting ist ok! Sch¨ one Gr¨ uße aus
Wien, Heino
7) Lieber Herr Schulenburg, ich lasse seit Jahren fuer
diverse Projekte bei GATC Biotech, Konstanz, sequen-
zieren und bin sehr zufrieden. Die machen einen sehr
guten Service, die Prozedur ist sehr komfortabel, und
ich weiss, dass sie auch Mikrosatelliten-Analysen anbi-
eten, habe den Service aber noch nicht benutzt. Hier
ist der link: http://www.gatc.de/de/index.php Der Lis-
tenpreis fuer z.B. single read sequencing ist 17 EUR
und umfasst Qualitaetscheck der DNA, bis 750 bp, dieProben werden einen Monat aufgehoben, sodass man
eventuell mit anderen Primern spaeter sequenzieren
kann, und die Sequenzierreaktion wird einmal wieder-
holt, falls der erste read nicht gut genug war (wenn
man plausibel machen kann, dass da ein Problem bei
denen aufgetaucht ist, machen sie es auf Anfrage auch
ein drittes Mal. Sie sind sehr kulant und entgegenk-
ommend). Sie koennen je nach Umfang der Auftraege
spezielle Konditionen mit ihnen aushandeln. Fuer den
Fall, dass Sie dort Kunde werden, waere es nett, wenn
Sie erwaehnen koennten, dass ich sie darauf aufmerk-
sam gemacht habe. (Ich kriege KEINE Provision. ;-))
Viele Gruesse, J. Fehrer
8) Hi, This is the place we do large scale sequencing and
genotyping. Try to bargain for large scale genotyping.
They do the excellent job http://bmr.cribi.unipd.it
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
PCR reaction numbers answers
Dear members of the Evoldir,
thank you for all the responses to my posting entitled
“Optimizing number of PCR reactions”, sent on the
26th Nov.
As many of you requested a copy of the replies, I am
sending this email with all the information I got until
today.
Thank you,
David
I am extracting DNA from single Daphnia (Crus-
taceans). They have about the size of a fruit ﬂy. I ex-
tract their DNA with the Peqlab kit (only single tubes
available), which is among the cheapest silica matrix
based kits. It yields 200 ul of which I use 1 ul per
reaction and get good results.
A few comments to your questions on evoldir.
1) multiplex-PCR Mulitplex-PCR are used by all foren-
sic genetics labs and the technique is accepted as the
standard in our ﬁeld. The results are reliable and many
labs (including ours) have an accreditation after inter-34 EvolDir January 1, 2005
national standards, and results are acknowledged to be
valid in court. At our department (forensic genetics) we
have a constant challenge in generating DNA-proﬁles
from low-quality and/or low-quantities of DNA. We do
microsatellite-analysis using multiplex-PCR (16 loci pr.
reaction) and we do SNP-analysis using multiplex-PCR
(sofar a maximum of 52 loci pr. reaction) with high-
quality and reproducible results.
2) Re-cycling of genomic DNA We have been doing
some experiments with solid-phase PCR using tissue
(blood or mouth-swaps) on ﬁlter-paper from Whatman
called FTA-cards - pretty expensive but very eﬃcient.
It is a system with a ﬁlter treated in a way that DNA
sticks to the paper, and after some washes to clean (we
simply use 3x wash with water)you simply run PCR
directly on the punch. Works great. To re-use DNA we
have been doing experiments with running 1 or 2 PCR-
cycles on the ﬁlter-punch, remove the punch and con-
tinue the PCR on the ﬁrst generated amplicons. And
transfer the punch to a new tube with new primers (af-
ter a wash) and run PCR on that. So far we have had
good results. We are not using this technique on our
case-work samples, just for experiments to investigate
how we can use small amount of DNA better.
Try multiplexing. It may need a little tweaking to get
it to work, but once it’s running I can see no reason
why the information should be less reliable than that
of single locus pcr. If you have access to a system us-
ing diﬀerently labelled primers, you can do many loci
in one pcr. The manufacturers of such systems typi-
cally supply you with a basic “recipe” for multiplexing,
which is a good starting point. Maybe also try out how
much dna you really need for your pcrs. Maybe you can
dilute your extractions and still get good results. That
would give you many more pcrs. I had some microsats
for which more dilute dna worked even better.
Here’s my favorite PCR ﬂy prep that might solve your
problem. It’s fast, easy and very dirty, but nothing is
lost because there are no phenol extractions or precipi-
tations. However, the freezer shelf life of this one is not
as good, so you might want to aliquot it if you need it
for a long period of time ( >3-6 months). I would try
systematically increasing the volume in some number
of single preps with TE until you lose the signal in your
PCR reactions to see how far you can push the number
of reactions per ﬂy.
SINGLE-FLY DNA PREPS FOR PCR Greg Gloor and
William Engels, Dept. of Genetics, Univ. of Wiscon-
sin, Madison, WI 53706, 608-263-2213, FAX/262-2976,WRENGELS@WISCMACC.BITNET. We have devel-
oped a simple method for the rapid and reproducible
isolation of DNA from single ﬂies for ampliﬁcation by
the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) (Saiki et al, Sci-
ence 239: 487), and direct sequencing by asymmetric
PCR (Gyllensten and Erlich, Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci.
85: 7652). The simplicity of this procedure means that
the problem of contamination with other ampliﬁed or
cloned DNA is greatly reduced. Suﬃcient DNA is ob-
tained from one ﬂy for a minimum of 50 PCR analy-
ses, and the DNA is stable for at least one month in
the refrigerator. A simple modiﬁcation of this tech-
nique allows the isolation of DNA suitable for use in
inverse PCR (Ochman et al, Genetics 120: 621-623).
These methods substantially reduce the time involved
in DNA isolation, and among other uses, allows the
PCR to be used to monitor the segregation of an allele
for which there is no phenotype or transposition of an
unmarked P element (Engels et al. Cell 62: 515-525).
A. DNA PREPARATION PROTOCOL: 1. The squish-
ing buﬀer (SB) is 10 mM Tris-Cl pH 8.2, 1 mM EDTA,
25 mM NaCl, and 200 ug/ml Proteinase K, with the
enzyme diluted fresh from a frozen stock each day. 2.
Place one ﬂy in a 0.5 ml tube and mash the ﬂy for 5 - 10
seconds with a pipette tip containing 50 ul of SB, with-
out expelling any liquid (suﬃcient liquid escapes from
the tip). Then expel the remaining SB. 3. Incubate at
25-37[o]C (or room temp.) for 20-30
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
PlantMatingSystemDatabase
As part of a literature review, I am updating our plant
mating system database previously published in Bar-
rett & Eckert (1990) and Barrett et al. (1996).
In addition to estimates of the outcrossing rate (t =
the proportion of seeds outcrossed, as estimated via
progeny array analysis), I also want to include estimates
of the inbreeding coeﬃcient of reproductively mature
plants (parental F, usually estimated from inferred ma-
ternal genotypes).
If you have data that you are willing to share I would
love to use it in our meta-analysis. Speciﬁcally, I am
very interested in hearing from you if...January 1, 2005 EvolDir 35
(1) you have published estimates of t but did not in-
clude the estimates of F in your paper (note that t and
F are usually estimated simultaneously if you used Ker-
mit Ritland’s MLTR software);
(2) you have unpublished estimates of t or t & F.
If you would like to send me your estimates, please...
- Indicate plant species - List the estimates by popula-
tion (we are interested in both the mean and variance
among populations) . - Include information on the type
(i.e. allozyme, microsat, RAPD, etc.) and number of
genetic markers you used. - If you are sending me F’s
for previously published t’s, please indicate the original
paper and include population name/codes so that I can
match the F’s with the t’s already in the paper. - I am
primarily interested in t based on all marker loci (i.e.
the multilocus outcrossing rate tm), but I’m would also
like to include average single locus estimates (ts) in the
database, if available. - Please email the information to
eckertc@biology.queensu.ca
Thank you very much for your help with this.
Chris Eckert
Department of Biology Queen’s University Kingston,
Ontario, K7L 3N6 Canada
Ph 613-533-6158 Fx 613-533-6617 eck-
ertc@biology.queensu.ca
–
Chris Eckert <eckertc@biology.queensu.ca >
Probability estimation
Dear EvolDir members,
I would ask if someone know who to calculate the prob-
ability that a new mutation that arise suppose 20 gener-
ations ago (and for consequence have a frequency 1/N)
raise a frequency equal or higher than 1% in the present
day population. I know for each generation the number
of individual (N).
many tanks!
Cristina Santos
Cristina Santos Unitat d’ Antropologia Departament
BABVE Ediﬁci C Universitat Aut` onoma de Barcelona
08193 Bellatterra (Barcelona) Spain
orCristina Santos Departamento de Antropologia Univer-
sidade de Coimbra 3000 Coimbra Portugal
Cristina.Santos@uab.es
ROX size standards
Dear all
We have been trying to make our own ROX-labelled
size standards following the methods described by J.
Andrew DeWoody et al. in their published paper
“Universal method for producing ROX-labelled size
standards suitable for automated genotyping” BioTech-
niques 37:348-352 (September 2004). We have run into
a problem of several extra peaks showing up in the
runs (on an Applied Biosystems 3100). The extraneous
ampliﬁcations are smaller in peak height, but larger
in fragment size than the primary amplicon that the
primers were supposed to have only produced. This
happens in every PCR for the diﬀerent standard sizes
using the pBluescript II SK(+) as template DNA. The
standards have been PCR ampliﬁed individually and
the products pooled prior to loading on the 3100. The
extra peaks are present even after increasing the PCR
annealing temperature and reducing the number of
PCR cycles. Has anybody confronted such a problem
in the attempt to produce ones own ROX-labelled size
standard using this method or any other methods? I
would be grateful for any suggestion or explanation of
the problem we have encountered.
Thanks
Seifu Seyoum, Ph.D. Florida Fish and Wildlife Re-
search Institute 100 Eighth Avenue S.E., St. Peters-
burg, FL 33701 Tel: 727-896-8626 x3100/3212 Fax:
727-823-0166 seifu.seyoum@myfwc.com
ROX size standards answers
Dear all
Thank you to everyone who replied with very helpful
suggestions to the problem we were having regarding
the production ROX-labeled size standards in our lab-
oratory.. Here is a compilation of the responses to my
query for all those who might beneﬁt from these com-36 EvolDir January 1, 2005
ments. The extra peaks we were seeing on our ABI 3100
were low and messy, randomly spread throughout the
run after the target size standard fragment. We seem to
have solved the problem, and are now getting good, con-
sistent results. It appears we just needed some further
PCR optimization and template dilution. One thing
which others might ﬁnd useful- we actually are not us-
ing pfu polymerase. We are using a similar product,
Vent polymerase (high ﬁdelity with 3’ to 5’ proofread-
ing). This product was less than 1/3 the cost of pfu, so
we thought we would try it ﬁrst. The Vent polymerase
in conjunction with the methods from the DeWoody et
al. paper will result in signiﬁcant savings in our lab-
oratory. Thank you again to all who responded, and
feel free to contact me for additional information. A
special thanks to Vaughan Symonds for sending me a
copy of his paper “A simple and inespensive method for
producing ﬂuorescently labelled size standard”.
Seifu Seyoum, Ph.D. Florida Fish and Wildlife Re-
search Institute 100 Eighth Avenue S.E., St. Peters-
burg, FL 33701 Tel: 727-896-8626 x3100/3212 Fax:
727-823-0166 seifu.seyoum@myfwc.com
Dear Seifu
Extra peaks show up under denatured conditions, when
both strands of the ROX-standard amplicon are la-
belled. This is true for the commercially available
ROX1000 standard delivered by ABI. So, running sam-
ples under native conditions could be a ﬁrst step.
Secondly, it is known that pseudo-fragments can be
formed after PCR and subsequent restriction of Am-
plicons in a technique called T-RFLP. See Egert &
Friedrich (2003), Applied and Environmental Microbi-
ology 69:2555-2562.
Maybe this helps.
Good luck
S´ ebastien Wielgoss
PhD Student LS Axel Meyer Zoology and Evolutionary
Biology University of Konstanz Germany Hello there,
We are in the process of also creating our own ROX-
labeled size standard using these same protocols. We
have had similar problems with the extra ampliﬁcation
peaks as well on our 310 machine. When I put the se-
quences into a PrimerSelect program from DNAStar to
get the optimal annealing temperature for each frag-
ment and also put in the entire P-Bluescript code, it
shows that there are actually more than one region
where they can amplify. One of two things must be
happening then. Either the problem is simply coming
from the multiple sites within the P-Bluescript plasmid
that can be ampliﬁed by the same primers acting in
opposite fashion as they normally do. (CASS Reverseprimers acting as forward primers or amplifying other
regions). The other option is that simple A-tailing is
happening and that the primers are not as speciﬁc as
they should be, no matter the PCR protocol you use.
We use touchdown PCR with exact optimal annealing
temperatures for each individual fragment. I’m run-
ning the ﬁnal Size standard product today against 8
samples and also the same 8 with ROX 400HD so we’ll
test the eﬀectiveness of the ﬁnal product. Although
some fragments do popup (especially on the 200 frag-
ment for us) they don’t wind up bothering the system.
The dilutions that we have to make to get the peaks to
the same relative intensity as ABI’s size standard virtu-
ally eliminate the smaller peak by lowering it below the
threshold reading limit for the Genescan program. An-
other bonus is that when you actually setup your size
standard ﬁle in Genescan if this is the program you are
using, you can tell it not to use that peak as part of the
size standard. Just tell it that 201.5, in our case, is the
fragment you want it to use all the time and ignore the
other peak. I hope this helps and feel free to contact
me further if you discover anything new.
Best Regards, Ben
Benjamin A. Sikes Johnson Controls National Wet-
lands Research Center/USGS 700 Cajundome Blvd.
Lafayette, LA 70506 +1-337-266-8524
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Spectrophotometer
Dear evoldir members, I am looking into the purchase
of a UV spectrophotometer for routine quantiﬁcation of
RNA, DNA and cells. If any of you has positive or neg-
ative experiences to report with equipment purchased
during the past ﬁve years I would highly appreciate your
feedback. Combined feedback will be posted if deemed
signiﬁcant.
Many thanks in advance,
Markus Friedrich
– Markus Friedrich Associate Professor Department of
Biological Sciences Department of Anatomy and CellJanuary 1, 2005 EvolDir 37
Biology Wayne State University 5047 Gullen Mall De-
troit, MI 48202
oﬃce: 313 577 9612 lab: 313 577 5120 fax: 313 577
6891 web: http://bio.wayne.edu/mf/Markuslab.html
Yeast evol
Dear colleagues,
Does anybody know of a protocol suitable for an intro-
ductory genetics lab course the demonstrates random
drift and natural selection in yeast? Growth would have
to be in ﬂasks or on plates, as we don’t have access to
a chemostat. I’m thinking, for example, of mixing an-
tibiotic sensitive and resistant haploids and following
changes in gene frequencies during growth in the ab-
sence of antibiotic.
Bill Birky C. William Birky, Jr. Professor of Ecol-
ogy and Evolutionary Biology Member, Graduate Inter-
disciplinary Programs in Genetics Biological Sciences
West 1041 E. Lowell University of Arizona Tucson, AZ
85721 Oﬃce phone: 520-626-6513 Lab phone: 520-626-
5108 Fax: 520-621-9190 Email: birky@u.arizona.edu
real time PCR
Dear EvolDir members,
we would like to replace our standard nematode egg
counting procedure from fecal samples by using mi-
croscopes (McMaster technique) with a quantiﬁcation
method of nematode eggs from fecal samples based on
real-time PCR.
We would be very grateful for any advice or comments
on
1) experiences with quantifying parasite eggs by real-
time PCR.
2) preferences on real-time PCR machines (Lightcycler
was recommended to us) and diﬀerent approaches that
are used (SYBR Green, TaqMan, ﬂuorescence dyes etc)
as well on software and associated cost.
Thanks a lot! best,
SimonePD Dr. Simone Sommer University of Hamburg
Biozentrum Grindel Animal Ecology & Conservation
Martin-Luther-King-Platz 3 D- 20146 Hamburg Ger-
many Phone +49 40 42838 4226 Fax +49 40 42838
5980 http://www.biologie.uni-hamburg.de/zim/oeko/-
sommer/forsch.html Simone.Sommer@zoologie.uni-
hamburg.de
real time PCR answers
Dear EvolDir members,
I received very helpful answers to my inquiry. The an-
swers are summarized below.
Thanks a lot!!
Simone
Hallo Simone, ich quanitiﬁziere Parasiten (Microspori-
dien) in Wasserﬂohen mit Real-time PCR. Dazu ver-
wende ich SYBR Green Master Mix von Applied
Biosystems, und normale Primer. Damit habe ich gute
Erfahrungen gemacht. Es lohnt sich aber unter Um-
standen, zum Mix ZUSAETZLICH noch Polymerase
(HotStarTaq Polymerase von Qiagen, 0.25 units per 20
ul Reaktion) dazuzugeben. Auch lohnt es sich mehrere
Primerpaare (mit Primer3: http://frodo.wi.mit.edu/-
cgi-bin/primer3/primer3 www.cgi ) zu bestellen und sie
zu vergleichen, die Unterschiede konnen betrachtlich
sein.
Wir benutzen den Rotor-Gene von Corbett Research.
Ich habe vorher mit dem Light-Cycler gearbeitet.
Die Maschinen sind gleich gut, aber die Software
vom Rotor-Gene bietet mehr (allerdings hat sich der
Light-Cycler in der Zwischenzeit wohl auch verbessert)
und der Rotor-Gene ist einiges gunstiger im Betrieb
(braucht keine speziellen Reaktionsgefasse).
Ich kann mir vorstellen, dass ein Hauptproblem die In-
hibitoren in den Fecal Samples sind. Es gibt zwei Pub-
likationen uber die Quanitiﬁzierungen von Microspori-
dien in Fecal Samples (Menotti et al. 2003a,b).
Viel Gluck, Dominik Dominik Refardt Unit of Ecol-
ogy & Evolution Department of Biology University of
Fribourg chemin du Musee 10 1700 Fribourg Switzer-
land dominik.refardt@unifr.ch http://www.unifr.ch/-
biol/ecology/ebert/group/refardt Fon +41 (0)26 300
88 67 Fax +41 (0)26 300 96 98
Hi Simone In response to your evo-dir enquiry I would
recommend that you buy a taqman machine (from ABI38 EvolDir January 1, 2005
gene) instead of a lightcycler from Roche. The reason is
that you will need to make standard curves to quantify
your mRNA and lightcycler has a limited number of
samples per run after you take into account your stan-
dard curve (I think it is 24 samples in total per run).
Taqman ABI runs oﬀ of 96 well plates giving you plenty
of sample spaces over and above your standard curve(s).
Taqman is a more expensive machine to purchase but
it is deﬁnately worth the extra money. Software should
come with the machine. Regarding methods, FRET
probes are more sensitive than SYBR green. However
FRET probes are very expensive. Qiagen do a good
SYBR green kit. Hope this helps Tracey
Hi Simone, I don’t have any experience with your par-
ticular application of real-time PCR, but I may be able
to help with the diﬀerent machines/approaches. The
real-time machine platform that you choose to use de-
pends on a number of factors - ﬁrstly how much money
you want to spend and secondly what sort of size runs
you will be intending on doing. I have used the applied
biosystems 7900 (384 well format), the applied biosys-
tems 7500 (94 well format) and (brieﬂy) the roche light-
cycler (32 capillary format). The previous order also
corresponds to decreasing cost of the machine! A plate
format machine allows you to process large numbers of
samples at once and lends itself to automation if you
are intending on performing the same run repeatedly -
but these machines have traditionally taken around 1-2
hrs to complete a run. In comparison the light cycler is
a rapid cycler which takes around 30 minutes, but it is
much smaller format than the plates so although faster
you may have to do more runs depending on how many
The two detection approaches that I have tried are Taq-man and SYBR green. Which one you choose to use
depends on how much you are willing to spend and/or
play around optimising your process. The Taqman
probes are very speciﬁc with the speciﬁc primers com-
bined with the probe itself. They can also be designed
for you by applied biosystems if you use their design
service. The only problem with the probes is the cost
as you need to purchase the real-time mix from AB too.
We were running 384 well plates and worked out that
the cost (not including consumables such as plates and
seals) was about NZD $1.70 per well. If you were con-
sidering a high-throughput assay the Taqman probes
would probably work out to be technically easier to
use, but alot more expensive! In contrast SYBR works
out to be about NZD $0.30c per well. With SYBR for
the cost of a pair of primers and some SYBR you can
make the real time mix yourself (its just a PCR with
SYBR added) and the homemade mix works for me just
as well as the comm
All of the machines that I have used come with their
own associated software. Your assay sounds like an
absolute quantiﬁcation - so the analysis involves com-
parisons of your unknowns to a standard curve. The
software associated with the machines that I have used
will do this type of analysis for you - all you need is
a good standard curve. There is also a whole variety
of resources out there on the internet - a particularly
good website
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
PostDocs
CWilliam Mary EvolPhysiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
FloridaStateU RodentMolSyst . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
GeorgetownU TheoPopGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
InstitutPasteur EvolMicrobiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
IowaStateU SalamanderEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
MacquarieU MarineConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . 41
MaxPlanck BehaviouralEvolEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
MaxPlanck EvolMolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42UArizona GenomeEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
UCaliforniaLA AncientDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UCopenhagen InsectCommunication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UGuelph AbaloneLifeStrategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UHertfordshire NetworkModelling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
USheﬃeld QuantGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
USheﬃled miRNA EggHormones . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
WoodsHole 2 MarineEvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45January 1, 2005 EvolDir 39
CWilliam Mary EvolPhysiology
Postdoctoral Position, Evolutionary Physiology, Col-
lege of William and Mary. A postdoctoral position
is available immediately, renewable through May 2009,
to investigate the evolution of complex neuroendocrine
pathways. Applicants should have a PhD prior to
November 2004 and experience in one or more of these
areas: physiological ecology, neuroendocrinology, be-
havior, evolutionary biology, physiology, or cell and
molecular biology. The research focus is on the con-
tribution of genetic variation and phenotypic plastic-
ity to the evolution of a complex neuroendocrine path-
way in mammals. This pathway integrates photope-
riod and other environmental information to regulate
reproductive, physiological and behavioral responses to
seasons. The model system is a wild-derived labora-
tory colony of white-footed mice. The successful can-
didate will conduct collaborative research and assist
in teaching one course in one semester, probably an-
imal physiology. More details on the research are avail-
able at: http://faculty.wm.edu/pdheid . The College of
William and Mary is a “Public Ivy” with 5500 under-
graduate enrollment, an excellent undergraduate pro-
gram, and a strong research tradition. Starting salary
is $35,000 plus beneﬁts. Please send curriculum vitae,
a brief description of research interests/experience, and
the names and contact information of three references
to: Dr. Paul Heideman, Chair, Department of Biology,
P.O. Box 8795, College of William and Mary, Williams-
burg, VA 23187-8795; e-mail: pdheid@wm.edu. Review
of applications begins immediately and continues until
the position is ﬁlled. The College of William and Mary
is an Aﬃrmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer.
Paul D. Heideman, Associate Professor and Chair
^^O^^ ^^ O^^ Department of Biology email:
pdheid@wm.edu College of William and Mary
P.O. Box 8795 FAX: 757-221-6483 Williamsburg, VA
23187-8795 Ph: 757-221-2239
http://pdheid.people.wm.edu/ Paul Heideman
<pdheid@wm.edu >FloridaStateU RodentMolSyst
Graduate student and/or post-doc positions in rodent
molecular systematics
One to two NSF-funded positions are available for a
graduate student and/or post-doctoral fellow beginning
Summer or Fall 2005 to work with Scott Steppan at
Florida State University on molecular systematics. We
are using multiple nuclear genes to infer the phylogeny
of the most diverse clade of mammals, the rodent su-
perfamily Muroidea (containing 1/4 of all mammals)
with special emphasis on the highly diverse Old World
mice and rats (Murinae) and Neotropical mice and rats
(Sigmodontinae). These positions are part of a collab-
orative project with Ronald Adkins at U. Tenn. Mem-
phis (see Steppan et al., 2004. Syst. Biol. 53:533-553).
Successful applicants will have opportunities to develop
independent research questions involving systematics,
molecular evolution, biogeography, macroevolutionary
trends, adaptive radiations, or viral coevolution (for
example). The Ecology and Evolution program is a
highly interactive and supportive environment and now
includes computational phylogenetics with the Com-
putational Evolutionary Biology group (including D.
Swoﬀord and F. Ronquist).
Post-doc applicants should have a Ph.D. in evolu-
tion, systematics, or related ﬁeld and be proﬁcient in
PCR and DNA sequencing. Salary will be competi-
tive. Interested applicants should contact Scott Step-
pan for more information (steppan@bio.fsu.edu). Dead-
line for applications is Jan. 15. Additional infor-
mation on the Steppan Lab is available from http:/-
/bio.fsu.edu/ ˜ steppan/, on the Ecology and Evolu-
tion group at http://www.bio.fsu.edu/ee/index.html,
and the Department (for graduate application, etc) at
http://www.bio.fsu.edu/ . For more information, con-
tact, Dr. Scott Steppan; e-mail: steppan@bio.fsu.edu;
FAX: (850) 644-9829 or mail to: Dept. of Biological
Sciences, Florida State Univ., Tallahassee FL 32306-
1100.
–
=
Scott Steppan Department of Biological Science Florida
State University Tallahassee, FL 32306-110040 EvolDir January 1, 2005
steppan@bio.fsu.edu phone: 850.644.6536 fax:
850.644.9829
http://bio.fsu.edu/˜steppan http://www.bio.fsu.edu/-
faculty-steppan.php Ecology and Evolution Group at
FSU: http://www.bio.fsu.edu/ee/index.html
=
Scott Steppan <steppan@bio.fsu.edu >
GeorgetownU TheoPopGenet
Second posting - note corrected date. Applications due
by December 29th, 2004.
Postdoctoral Position in Theoretical Population Genet-
ics
A full-time, NSF-funded postdoctoral research position
is available to study the evolution of quantitative traits
at Georgetown University, Washington DC.
The successful applicant will collaborate on a project to
model the evolution of quantitative traits determined
by a ﬁnite number of loci (a non-inﬁnitesimal genetic
basis), especially in subdivided populations or heteroge-
neous environments. Desired education and experience:
Ph.D. in mathematics, biology or a related ﬁeld. Math-
ematical scientists should have background in math-
ematical modeling or diﬀerential equations. Biologi-
cal scientists should have background in evolutionary
biology, population genetics, or quantitative genetics.
Experience with statistics or computer simulation pre-
ferred.
Position is for two years. Salary will be commensu-
rate with experience; salary range starts at US$40,000
per year. Beneﬁts (including health insurance) are pro-
vided. Position is available for fall of 2005. Review
of applications will begin on December 29, 2004, and
continue until the position is ﬁlled.
Applications should include a curriculum vitae, a state-
ment of research interests, and (p)reprints of up to three
papers if available. In addition, applicants should ar-
range for two letters of recommendation to be sent.
All materials should be sent by mail to: Prof. Ju-
dith R. Miller, Department of Mathematics, Reiss Sci-
ence Building, Georgetown University, Washington DC
20057 USA.
Interested individuals are encouraged to contact Prof.
Miller at jrm32@georgetown.edu or Prof. Matthew
Hamilton (biology) at hamiltm1@georgetown.edu.Georgetown University is an aﬃrmative action/equal
opportunity employer.
Matthew B. Hamilton, PhD Associate Professor
Georgetown University Department of Biology, Reiss
406 37th and O Streets NW Washington, DC
20057 202-687-5924 (oﬃce) 202-687-5662 (fax) http://-
bioserver.georgetown.edu/faculty/hamilton/
InstitutPasteur EvolMicrobiology
1 post doctoral position, 2 years, begining March 2005
V´ eronique VINCENT, Senior Scientist Reference Lab-
oratory for Mycobacteria Innstitut Pasteur, Paris vvin-
cent@pasteur.fr
DETECTION OF MYCOBACTERIA IN TAP WA-
TER BY IMMUNOMAGNETIC SELECTION My-
cobacteria other than tubercle bacilliare widely present
in the environment and specially in tap water. Envi-
ronmental mycobacteria are a frequent cause of infec-
tion and water is a signiﬁcant vehicle for the transmis-
sion of these organisms. We wish to develop immuno-
magnetic tests for the detection of the mycobacterial
species the most frequently present in tap water and
bioﬁlms. The ideal postdoctoral candidate will have
interest/experience in environmental microbiology and
in raising monoclonal/polyclonal antibodies.
– Veronique Vincent Centre National de Reference des
Mycobacteries
Laboratoire de Reference des Mycobacteries Institut
Pasteur 25 rue du Docteur Roux 75015 Paris Tel: 33
(0)1 45 68 83 60 FAX: 33 (0)1 40 61 31 18 vvin-
cent@pasteur.fr
IowaStateU SalamanderEvol
Postdoctoral Researcher in Evolutionary and Ecologi-
cal Morphology Iowa State University
A postdoctoral position is available to study the role of
ecomorphological variation on the evolution of species
interactions and community structure in Plethodon
salamanders. The position is part of an NSF-funded
CAREER project in the laboratory of Dean Adams,January 1, 2005 EvolDir 41
Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Bi-
ology, Iowa State University. The position calls for
quantitative analyses of cranial morphology in east-
ern Plethodon populations across single and multi-
species communities, in an eﬀort to quantify patterns
of community organization relative to species inter-
actions. Primary responsibilities for this position in-
clude: 1) conducting laboratory research in quantita-
tive morphology, 2) maintaining laboratory databases
and requesting/retrieving specimens from museum col-
lections, 3) analyzing data and writing manuscripts,
and 4) helping to coordinate projects of undergrad-
uate students involved in the project. For addi-
tional information concerning this and other research
projects, please refer to the laboratory web site ( http:/-
/www.public.iastate.edu/˜dcadams ).
Successful applicants should have a Ph.D. in ecology,
evolution, or a related ﬁeld. Strong quantitative and
statistical skills are required. Salary is $30,000 plus
beneﬁts, and funds are available for two years pending
satisfactory progress. The position can begin as early
as March 1 2005. Review of applications will begin im-
mediately and continue until a candidate is selected.
To apply, please send a cover letter, CV, and names
and e-mail addresses of three references to Dean Adams
(dcadams@iastate.edu), Department of Ecology, Evo-
lution, and Organismal Biology, Iowa State University,
Ames, IA 50011-3223, USA.
ISU is an equal opportunity/aﬃrmative action em-
ployer.
Dean Adams <dcadams@iastate.edu >
MacquarieU
MarineConservationGenetics
“POSTDOC IN MARINE CONSERVATION GENET-
ICS, MACQUARIE UNIVERSITY, SYDNEY”
A two-year Postdoctoral position is available to work
on dispersal of marine organisms. The successful can-
didate will join a recently created multi-disciplinary
team (Molecular Ecology Group for Marine Research)
that will study dispersal in four codistributed groups
of marine organisms: sea-urchins, abalones, oysters and
sharks. Results from the four individual projects will be
combined to address key topics in marine biodiversity,
such as design of marine protected areas and conserva-
tion and management of marine resources.Applicants must have a Ph.D. in a relevant area of re-
search, such as conservation genetics or phylogeogra-
phy. Preference will be given to candidates with strong
experience in analyses of gene ﬂow based on microsatel-
lite markers and with a background in marine ecology
and/or oceanography. Familiarity with isolation and
characterization of microsatellites is desirable but not
essential.
The appointee will be responsible for collecting and an-
alyzing data for three of the four projects and supervis-
ing activities of a research assistant. In addition, he/she
is expected to dynamically communicate and collabo-
rate with other members of our thriving research group
(marine biologists, population geneticists and PhD stu-
dents).
Salary will be established according to Macquarie
University guidelines (around $53,500 + 26% on
costs per annum). Please e-mail a letter sum-
marizing research interests and experience along
with a CV including the names, addresses and
e-mails of three referees to Luciano Beheregaray:
<mailto:luciano.beheregaray@bio.mq.edu.au > lu-
ciano.beheregaray@bio.mq.edu.au
Review of applications will begin immediately and con-
tinue until a suitable candidate is identiﬁed. The ap-
pointee is expected to start in March 2005.
For further information about the lab and related
publications please visit our “under construc-
tion” web site at <http://www.bio.mq.edu.au/-
molecularecology >www.bio.mq.edu.au/-
molecularecology or send an e-mail to the address
above.
Dr Luciano B. Beheregaray Department of Biological
Sciences Macquarie University Sydney, NSW 2109 Aus-
tralia Phone: 61(2)9850 8204 Fax: 61(2)9850 8245 E-
mail: Luciano.Beheregaray@bio.mq.edu.au
“Luciano B. Beheregaray”
<Luciano.Beheregaray@bio.mq.edu.au >
MaxPlanck BehaviouralEvolEcol
Behavioral Ecologist, postdoctoral research position
The Max-Planck-Institute of Limnology, Pl¨ on, Ger-
many, is seeking a behavioral ecologist to join the de-
partment of evolutionary ecology.
He/she will work with a team in an integrative project42 EvolDir January 1, 2005
involving immunological, parasitological, population
genetic and molecular immunogenetic approaches. De-
tails about the department’s research activities can be
found under: http://www.mpil-ploen.mpg.de/ The de-
partment’s major goal is to understand the evolutionary
ecology of sexual reproduction and its role in enhancing
immune function in the oﬀspring.
The successful candidate’s part will be to study experi-
mentally which kind of information about the immuno-
genetics of both self and potential partners three-spined
sticklebacks take into account, in addition to other in-
formation, in their mate choice decisions. Experience
with experimental techniques to study the behaviour of
ﬁshes is required. The candidate will collaborate with
the team including PhD students and a scientist who is
familiar with stickleback behavior.
Salary will be according to the guidelines of the Max-
Planck-Society. This postdoctoral research position
is for a two years term and can be extended. For
further information please contact Manfred Milinski
(milinski@mpil-ploen.mpg.de). Please send your appli-
cation including a CV, a list of publications and the
contact information of three references to the above
mentioned e-mail address until February 15.
milinski@alpha1.mpil-ploen.mpg.de
MaxPlanck EvolMolBiol
Molecular Biologist
The Max-Planck-Institute of Limnology, Pl¨ on, Ger-
many, is seeking a molecular biologist to join the de-
partment of evolutionary ecology.
He/she will work with a team in an integrative project
involving immunological, parasitological, population
genetic and behavioral approaches. Details about
the departments’s research activities can be found
under: http://www.mpil-ploen.mpg.de/ The depart-
ment’s major goal is to understand the evolutionary
ecology of sexual reproduction and its role in enhanc-
ing immune function in the oﬀspring.
The speciﬁc goal for this position is to identify the
molecular correlates of immune challenge and pathogen
defence and to explain the functional signiﬁcance of
MHC diversity in the wild.
The successful candidate is expected to further char-
acterize classical MHC loci in the behavioral and eco-logical model organism three-spined stickleback, with
special emphasis on expression analysis.
Experience with modern molecular techniques is ex-
pected, in particular molecular cloning by RT-PCR,
real-time PCR, expression proﬁling and subtractive
PCR techniques.
The candidate will collaborate with the team including
PhD students and one scientist already working on the
immunogenetics of the three-spined stickleback.
Salary will be according to the guidelines of the Max-
Planck-Society. This postdoctoral research position
is for a two years term and can be extended. For
further information please contact Thorsten Reusch
(reusch@mpil-ploen.mpg.de).
Please send your application including a CV, a list of
publications and the contact information of three ref-
erences by e-mail (milinski@mpil-ploen.mpg.de) until
January 31.
–
Prof. Manfred Milinski
Max-Planck-Institute of Limnology Department of
Evolutionary Ecology August-Thienemann-Strasse 2
D-24306 Ploen, Germany
direct: +49-(0)4522 763 254 Sec: +49-(0)4522 763
253 Fax: +49-(0)4522 763 310 email: milinski@mpil-
ploen.mpg.de http://www.mpil-ploen.mpg.de/
milinski@alpha1.mpil-ploen.mpg.de
UArizona GenomeEvol
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCHER GENOME EVO-
LUTION UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA
A Postdoctoral Research position is available to study
the diverse classes of sequences that reside within bacte-
rial genomes and the process of gene degradation on the
evolution and organization of bacterial genomes. Po-
tential projects include both bioinformatic and experi-
mental studies. Applicants could have skills in molec-
ular genetic or microbiological procedures, in bioinfor-
matics or phylogenetic analysis, and/or in evolutionary
or population genetics. Candidates trained in the ﬁelds
of Evolutionary Biology, Microbiology, Computational
Biology, Molecular Biology or Genetics are all encour-
aged to apply. The position is available immediately;
however, the starting date is ﬂexible. Salary (in the
range of $38K to $45K, plus beneﬁts) will be commen-January 1, 2005 EvolDir 43
surate with experience.
If you wish to apply, please send a curriculum vita and
the names of at least two referees (via e-mail) to:
Howard Ochman Department of Biochemistry
and Molecular Biophysics 233 Life Sciences South
University of Arizona Tucson, Arizona 85721
USA 520-626-8355 (phone) 520-621-3709 (fax)
hochman@email.arizona.edu
–
Howard Ochman <hochman@email.arizona.edu >
UCaliforniaLA AncientDNA
Post Doctoral position in Ecology & Evolutionary Bi-
ology, University of California, Los Angeles
Ancient DNA Analysis of Mammal Remains from the
Arctic Permafrost and Elsewhere
I am searching for a post-doctoral candidate with a
good background in molecular techniques to isolate
DNA and genetically type remains of mammals from
the Arctic Permafrost. This three year NSF sponsored
position may also involve other ancient remains from
elsewhere in the New and Old World and may include
a variety of taxa and questions such as intercontinen-
tal migration, climate change, and genetic continuity
within populations. Those interested should send a CV
to me detailing molecular expertise, as well as accom-
plishments, publications and contact information for at
least three individuals willing to write a letter of sup-
port.
Bob Wayne rwayne@ucla.edu
UCopenhagen InsectCommunication
A 1-year postdoctoral position (renewable for another
two years) will be available from July 2005 at Faculty
of Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Denmark. The
position is funded by the European Community via a
Marie Curie Excellence Grant. The successful candi-
date will work in a new research group leaded by Dr.
Patrizia D’Ettorre, which will be integrated in the lab-
oratory of Prof. Koos Boomsma.The research project will focus on Chemical Communi-
cation Code of Insect Societies, with a multidisciplinary
approach (behavioural, chemical, electro- and neuro-
physiological analyses and genetics).
Applicants should just have ﬁnished their PhD in Bi-
ology or related disciplines, and are expected to have
a strong background in Evolutionary Biology. Famil-
iarity with general molecular evolutionary techniques,
with chemical ecology techniques and neurophysiology
is desirable.
Applications should include CV, list of publications, re-
search interests and names and email addresses of two
referees, and be sent by email to Patrizia D’Ettorre
at patrizia.dettorre@biologie.uni-regensburg.de by Jan-
uary 31st 2005.
Dr. Patrizia D’Ettorre Dep. Biology I University of
Regensburg D-93040 Regensburg phone +49 941 943
2996 fax +49 941 943 3304 http://www.biologie.uni-
regensburg.de/Zoologie/Heinze/en/staﬀ/dep/-
depe.html patrizia dettorre <patrizia.dettorre@t-
online.de >
UGuelph AbaloneLifeStrategy
Post Doctoral position available in the Department
of Animal and Poultry Sciences at the University
of Guelph, Ontario, Canada. Our research project
will develop a selective breeding program for cultured
pinto abalone at the Bamﬁeld Huu-Ay-Aht Community
Abalone Project (BHCAP) in Bamﬁeld, B.C., Canada.
The project is lead by Dr. Elizabeth Boulding (Zool-
ogy, U. Guelph) in collaboration with Dr. Ian McMil-
lian (CGIL & APS, U.Guelph) and Dr. Ussif Rashid
Sumaila (Fisheries Centre, U.B.C.). This breeding pro-
gram will apply modern animal breeding methodology
to improve the cultured population for economically-
important traits, while minimizing inbreeding accumu-
lation. Such a breeding plan is essential because of
the potential for rapid inbreeding accumulation result-
ing from the high fecundity of the abalone and limited
rearing space in the hatchery. Dr. Bouldings graduate
student on the team will genotype abalone at 12 molec-
ular markers (microsatellites) to monitor inbreeding,
estimate genetic parameters, and to identify the par-
ents of potential broodstock. Dr. Sumalias graduate
student will help identify important traits to target for
selection by predicting the relative economic value of44 EvolDir January 1, 2005
these diﬀerent traits in the global marketplace. These
economic weights will be incorporated into a multitrait
selection index that will be used for genetic evaluation
of potental broodstock. Pinto, or northern, abalone
(Haliotis kamtschatkana ) is a broadcast-spawning ma-
rine gastropod that occurs throughout coastal British
Columbia, extending north into Alaska and south to
California. In addition to its role as a member of a
complex marine ecosystem, pinto abalone is valued as
a food and cultural resource by coastal native peoples,
and as a food resource by commercial ﬁshermen and
recreational divers. Historically, abalone populations
were healthy enough to support a traditional ﬁshery by
native people and a commercial dive ﬁshery until the
late 1980s. In 1990, concern over reduced population
levels instigated a closure to all harvesting of abalone, a
closure that remains in place today. When populations
not only failed to recover under 10 years of protection,
but declined further, the species was designated threat-
ened by the Committee on the Status of Endangered
Wildlife in Canada (COSEWIC). Dr. McMillan and his
post-doctoral fellow will be responsible for quantitative
genetic analyses relating to the project. Computer sim-
ulation programs will be composed to study alternate
selection and mating strategies and predict their eﬀects
on genetic progress and inbreeding accumulation. Ge-
netic parameters (heritability and genetic correlations)
of the traits measured at BHCAP will be calculated.
A selection index will be developed for genetic evalua-
tion of abalone broodstock. Estimated breeding values
(EBVs) of broodstock will be calculated for measured
traits, and incorporated into the selection index. Re-
search results will be communicated through reports to
BHCAP so that they may be implemented into a prac-
tical breeding program to improve abalone.
The position is available immediately a term of 2 years.
Deadline: Continuous recruitment, applications will be
reviewed beginning 15 January 2005 until the position
is ﬁlled.
Interested researchers are requested to send their CV
and two letters of recommendation to Dr. Ian McMil-
lian imcmilla@uoguelph.ca
“Elizabeth G. Boulding” <boulding@uoguelph.ca >
UHertfordshire NetworkModelling
University of Hertfordshire, UK
Post Doctoral Research Fellow: Computational Mod-elling of Multi-cellular Biochemical Networks
Biocomputation, Algorithms, and Adaptive Systems
Research Groups Science and Technology Research In-
stitute (STRI)
(Ref: L6147AC)
Salary: Up to 30k British Pounds.
A post-doctoral research position (Lecturer or Senior
Lecturer grade) is available to support further devel-
opment of an interactive tool for visualizing and simu-
lating the behaviour of multi-cellular biochemical net-
works. The project is funded by the Wellcome Trust,
and involves restructuring the existing NetBuilder pro-
gram, and design and development of new modules to
extend the use of the software. Details of the research
in the Biocomputation, Algorithms, and Adaptive Sys-
tems Research Groups are featured on the STRI web-
site, http://perseus.herts.ac.uk/uhinfo/research/stri/-
,and information on NetBuilder is found on http://-
strc.herts.ac.uk/bio/maria/NetBuilder/ . The post is
available for two years from January 2005.
A successful candidate will have a background in Bio-
chemistry/Molecular Biology and/or Computer Sci-
ence, a PhD or equivalent experience in an appropri-
ate ﬁeld, as well as strong programming skills and ex-
perience with at least one of the following languages:
C/C++, Python, Java, XML/XSLT. Advantageous
would be previous experience with mathematical mod-
elling of biochemical systems, bioinformatics, software
design and version control, web development, or a
further background in theoretical/evolutionary biology
and systems biology/artiﬁcial life.
We seek someone who can, as part of a team, think and
work independently, who is committed to doing high-
quality research, and can demonstrate excellent com-
munication and scientiﬁc writing skills in English.
Further information and Application Form can be ob-
tained from the Personnel Department, University of
Hertfordshire, College Lane, Hatﬁeld, Herts, AL10
9AB, Tel: 01707 284802 (24 hour voicemail). Please
quote reference: L6147AC
You can apply on-line at http://-
recruitment.herts.ac.uk/recruit/ by Closing Date
of 20 December 2004
———– Prof. Dr. Chrystopher L. Nehaniv Professor
of Mathematical & Evolutionary Computer Sciences
Adaptive Systems & Algorithms Research Groups
School of Computer Science University of Hertfordshire
College Lane Hatﬁeld, Hertfordshire AL10 9AB United
Kingdom e-mail: C.L.Nehaniv@herts.ac.uk phone:
+44-1707-284-470 fax: +44-1707-284-303 URL: http:/-January 1, 2005 EvolDir 45
/homepages.feis.herts.ac.uk/ ˜ nehaniv/welcome.html
Director, EPSRC Network on Evolvability in Biolog-
ical & Software Systems Associate Editor, BioSystems
Associate Editor, Interaction Studies
c.l.nehaniv@herts.ac.uk
USheﬃeld QuantGenetics
The following postdoctoral post was advertised in Na-
ture on 9 December 2004. Note that although the initial
appointment would be for one year, it would be renew-
able for upto 3 further years.
UNIVERSITY OF SHEFFIELD DEPARTMENT OF
ANIMAL & PLANT SCIENCES
A postdoctoral associate is required to assist with an
analysis of components of ﬁtness in the co-operatively
breeding Seychelles Warbler.
This is a collaboration between the Universities of
Sheﬃeld (Terry Burke), East Anglia (David Richard-
son), Groningen (Jan Komdeur) and Alberta (David
Coltman), in which we will exploit the growing pedi-
gree information on the Cousin island population of
Seychelles warblers to obtain new insights on the ge-
netic contribution to behavioural and other traits. This
project will produce a rigorous framework for under-
standing the contribution that environmental and ge-
netic factors, alternative strategies and ecological vari-
ables make towards the overall lifetime reproductive
success of individuals. A suite of microsatellite markers
has been used to deduce the relationships of individuals
in the population. Additional genotyping will be car-
ried out by technical staﬀ in Sheﬃeld (and is therefore
not a requirement of the postdoc).
Applicants should have a PhD in quantitative genet-
ics or evolutionary ecology and ideally have experience
of the analysis of pedigrees using advanced statistical
methods. The post is available immediately.
Salary on the RA1A scale (minimum UKP19,400 pa)
Closing date: 6 January 2005
Informal enquiries may be made to Profes-
sor T A Burke, Tel: 0114 222 0096 (e-mail:
t.a.burke@sheﬃeld.ac.uk).
Further information and details on how to make an ap-
plication can be found at http://www.shef.ac.uk/jobs/
(under Current Vacancies/ Research)
(Post reference R3522)t.a.burke@sheﬃeld.ac.uk t.a.burke@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
USheﬃled miRNA EggHormones
The following postdoctoral post was advertised in Na-
ture on 9 December 2004. Note that although the initial
appointment would be for one year, it would be renew-
able for upto 2 further years.
UNIVERSITY OF SHEFFIELD DEPARTMENT OF
ANIMAL & PLANT SCIENCES
The appointee will be required to investigate the role of
microRNAs in developmental responses to the environ-
ment in birds. The systems to be studied will include
hormonal eﬀects on developing embryos and the genetic
control of condition-dependent plumage.
A PhD or postdoctoral research experience in molecular
genetics, molecular physiology, physiological ecology or
another relevant discipline is essential.
Salary on the RA1A scale (minimum UKP19,400 pa)
Closing date: 6 January 2005
Informal enquiries may be made to Profes-
sor T A Burke, Tel: 0114 222 0096 (e-mail:
t.a.burke@sheﬃeld.ac.uk).
Further information and details on how to make an ap-
plication can be found at http://www.shef.ac.uk/jobs/
(under Current Vacancies/ Research)
(Post reference R3523)
t.a.burke@sheﬃeld.ac.uk t.a.burke@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
WoodsHole 2 MarineEvolBiol
2 POSTDOCTORAL POSITIONS 1 year, beginning
ca. February 2005
Roger T. Hanlon, Senior Scientist Marine Biological
Laboratory, Woods Hole, MA rhanlon@mbl.edu
CUTTLEFISH CAMOUFLAGE AND VISUAL PER-
CEPTION OF SUBSTRATES
Cuttleﬁsh (marine mollusks in the class Cephalopoda)
have an advanced system of adaptive coloration and
seem capable of camouﬂaging themselves against any46 EvolDir January 1, 2005
background substrate. We are seeking answers to how
cuttleﬁsh “decipher” complex visual backgrounds and
make the appropriate choice of which camouﬂage pat-
tern they implement in their skin. We have developed a
visual sensorimotor assay in which we present natural
and artiﬁcial substrates to cuttleﬁsh and we measure
the motor response via video of the resultant body pat-
tern they produce in their skin. The ideal postdoctoral
candidate will have interest/experience in animal be-
havior and visual perception, including aspects of psy-
chophysics.
OCTOPUS ARMS AND SUCKERS: SENSORY CA-
PABILITIES AND MOTION CONTROLOne of nature’s most ﬂexible appendage - the octopus
arm - is a muscular hydrostat that can extend, retract,
bend and rotate anywhere along its length. By study-
ing live octopuses, we have ﬁlmed and cataloged many
movements. Now we wish to study sensory mechanisms
and functions of the arm and suckers, with emphasis
on tactile and chemical capabilities. Techniques will
include behavioral, neural and anatomical approaches
to understand structure and function. Candidates with
an interest in animal behavior and sensory neurobiology
may ﬁnd this position particularly rewarding.
Roger Hanlon <rhanlon@mbl.edu >
WorkshopsCourses
NCStateU Statgen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Switzerland SexualSize Aug21-26 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46UReading MolSystematics Apr5-15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
NCStateU Statgen
Two 3-credit hour graduate courses in statistical genet-
ics will be oﬀerred online by NC State in the Spring of
2005:
ST 610D: Genetic Data Analysis (using draft of “Ge-
netic Data Analysis III”) Taught by Bruce Weir
(weir@stat.ncsu.edu)
ST 610F: Statistical Analysis of Pedigree Data (us-
ing “Statistical Inference from Genetic Data on
Pedigrees”) Taught by Elizabeth Thompson (thomp-
son@stat.washington.edu)
Registration is online at http://distance.ncsu.edu
Bruce Weir <weir@stat.ncsu.edu >Switzerland SexualSize Aug21-26
THE EVOLUTION OF SEXUAL SIZE DIMOR-
PHISM Workshop organized by Wolf Blanckenhorn,
Tamas Szekely & Daphne Fairbairn 21-26 August 2005,
Switzerland
http://www.bath.ac.uk/bio-sci/szekely/workshop/-
SSD%20Workshop2%20webmod.htm We are or-
ganizing an international Workshop on sexual size
dimorphism (SSD) at the Centro Stefano Franscini
Conference Center on Monte Verit` a, near Locarno in
southern Switzerland.
The objectives of the Workshop are to bring to-
gether researchers working on various aspects of SSD;
overview the pattern of SSD in major animal and plant
taxa; investigate the function and mechanisms of SSD.
Our main goal is to adopt a truly interdisciplinary ap-January 1, 2005 EvolDir 47
proach, and encourage all participants to go beyond
his/her speciﬁc research ﬁeld.
We have invited a group of internationally renowned re-
searchers to the Workshop. In addition, we have space
for approximately 35 junior researchers including post-
graduate students and post-docs.
The scientiﬁc program will consist of about 10 plenary
lectures given by invited speakers. There will further
be contributed oral and poster presentations, and dis-
cussion in groups. We welcome post-docs, MSc and
Diploma students, and PhD students. Participants are
expected to attend the entire 5-day workshop, and their
number is limited to 60.
The cost of Workshop will be approximately 950 Swiss
Francs (about 650 Euro or 800 US$) that includes reg-
istration fee, accommodation and all meals. For post-
graduate participants the Association for the Study
of Animal Behaviour (ASAB) has generously provided
support to defer the cost of room and full board. To
qualify for the ASAB support, please contact one of the
organizers.
Abstract submission and registration deadline: 31
March 2005
Please note, that if space is limited applicants oﬀer-
ing a presentation will be preferred. One participant is
expected to present only one oral paper or poster. In-
structions for payment and detailed travel information
will follow with the letter of acceptance.
If you are interested in attending, please email the fol-
lowing details to our conference e-mail address after 1
January 2005: congres2@zoolmus.unizh.ch
1. Full name including title
Gender
2. Institution & Department
3. Contact mailing address including street address,
city and postcode
Phone Fax Email
4. Proposed presentationType of presentation (Talk/Poster)
Title of presentation
Authors including the presenting author (*)
Abstract (max. 250 words)
Keywords (5)
Special technical needs
The Workshop is generously funded by The Centro Ste-
fano Franscini, the Swiss Zoological Society and the Zo-
ological Museum of Zurich.
Best regards,
Wolf Blanckenhorn wolfman@zoolmus.unizh.ch Tamas
Szekely T.Szekely@bath.ac.uk Daphne Fairbairn
daphne.fairbairn@ucr.edu
T Szekely <bssts@bath.ac.uk >
UReading MolSystematics Apr5-15
The Centre for Plant Diversity and Systematics at The
University of Reading is oﬀering an Intensive Course
in Molecular Systematics again in 2005. The 10 day
course will be held from 5th - 15th April 2005.
The course oﬀers:
in-depth coverage of methods in molecular systematics
and comparative sequence analysis
the treatment of theoretical issues in formal lectures
alongside hands-on experience in practical workshops
More details from http://www.plantsci.rdg.ac.uk/-
molecularcourse05.html or directly from Mrs Grace
Barter, Molecular Systematics Intensive Course, Plant
Sciences Laboratories, University of Reading, Reading
RG6 6AS. email: molecular.systematics@reading.ac.uk
Julie Hawkins <j.a.hawkins@reading.ac.uk >
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed48 EvolDir January 1, 2005
in the same order as presented here — Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from ‘blackballed’ addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned oﬀ and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf ﬁle.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
‘on vacation’, etc, style messages are automatically ﬁltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail’s your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word ﬁles, as HTML ﬁles, as L ATEX ﬁles, Excel ﬁles, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
“Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:” and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and ﬁlters. If the message is caught by one of the
ﬁlters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterward
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.