E v o l D i r
June 1, 2011
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same ﬁeld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be “bulletin board” in nature, if there is a “discussion” style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 962 EvolDir June 1, 2011
Conferences
Adelaide Barcode 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Belfast ArthropodSystematics Jul4-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Belfast Systematics Jul4-8 EarlyRegistrationExtended
3
BucknellU MultitrophicInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Galway RECOMB ComparativeGenomics Oct8-10 . . 4
Hawaii Biocomputing Jan3-7 MicrobiomePapers . . . . 5
Jyvaskyla Coevolution Oct4-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Jyvaskyla Speciation Feb27-28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
KansasCity ArthropodGenomics Jun9-12 Deadlines . 7
Kyoto SMBE 2011 Jul26-30 AncientDNAsymposium 8
Kyoto SMBE 2011 Jul26-30 RegistrationDeadline . . . 8
Kyoto SMBE2011 Jul26-30 RegistrationDeadline . . . 9
Linkoping Sweden PhenotypeEvolution Jun16-19 . . 10
Lisbon Phylogeography Nov26-27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
LundU EvolutionFlight Aug29-30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Montpellier ModelsEvolEcol Jun8-10 May13Deadline
11
Norman Evolution2011 Jun17-21 Evolution-
aryMedicine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Norman Evolution2011 Jun17-21 ProgramAvailable 12
Norman Evolution2011 Jun17-21 Registration . . . . . 12Norman Evolution2011 Jun18 EducationOutreach . 13
Norman iEvoBio Informatics Jun21-22 . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Norman iEvoBio Informatics Jun21-22 2 . . . . . . . . . . 14
Norman iEvoBio Jun21-22 CallSoftwareBazaar . . . . 14
Paris MorphologicalEvolution Jun13-15 . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Porto Portugal AncientHumanDNA Nov23-25 . . . . . 16
QueensUBelfast Systematics Jul4-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Roscoﬀ France Coevolution Sep3-7 DeadlineMay20 17
Shanghai LifeScienceModelling Sep25-30 . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Spain EvolutionEpigenetics Sep18-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Stockholm EvolutionEnvironmentChange Jun13 . . . 19
UCalifornia SanFrancisco Evolution and Cancer Jun3-5
19
UCaliforniaSanFrancisco EvolutionCancer Jun3-5 . . 19
USheﬃeld EvolutionaryEcol Sep12-14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
UStAndrews Phylogeny Jun16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
UStAndrews Phylogeny June16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
WestVirginia MalariaEvolution Aug5-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Wuerzburg Germany GermanGeneticsSociety Sep14-16
21
Adelaide Barcode 2
Latest News on the Adelaide Conference * [1]Regis-
tration is now open for the Fourth International Bar-
code of Life conference in Adelaide, Australia! + Regis-
ter before 15 September to beneﬁt from the Early Bird
discounted rate. + Register for the Pre-Conference
Training Event, 28-29 November. + Secure specially-
discounted conference rates on hotels and [2]half-day
excursions. * The [3]Exhibitor Form is now available.
Organisations should apply soon for one of the limited
number of exhibition booths. * Your organization or
project can be highlighted at the conference through
one of the [4]Sponsorship Opportunities. * Have you
[5]submitted your abstract yet? Be sure to do so before
the [6]new deadline. Links:For all links see http://barcodeoﬂife.us1.list-
manage2.com View of the [7]South Australia Museum
along North Terrace, near the University of Adelaide,
site of the Adelaide Barcode Conference.
Belfast ArthropodSystematics
Jul4-8
Arthropod systematics: are morphology, palaeontology
and molecules coming together? is the title of our sym-
posium at the upcoming Systematics Association bien-
nial meeting at Queen1s University Belfast (Northern
Ireland) on 4-8 July 2011. Our symposium is one of four
main symposia scheduled for the biennial meeting, and
is planned to take place on Thursday and Friday 8 and 9June 1, 2011 EvolDir 3
July. For those interested to attend the meeting and our
symposium, registration is now open via www.systass
<http://www.systass >(early bird registration closes
at 5 pm UK time on 23 May 2011). We invite those
interested in contributing a talk or poster to our sym-
posium to please submit your abstract by 1 June 2011
viawww.systass.org <http://www.systass.org >.
The backbone of our symposium will be a series of in-
vited talks given by an exciting selection of internation-
ally renowned experts on the biology and palaeontol-
ogy of arthropods, including Thorsten Burmester, Ja-
son Dunlop, Greg Edgecombe, Georg Mayer, Alessan-
dro Minelli, Jerome Regier, Bj¨ orn von Reumont, Ange-
lika Stollewerk, and Max Telford. These speakers will
cover recent advances in our understanding of arthro-
pod evolution from the perspectives of developmental
biology, comparative morphology, the fossil record, and
phylogenomics.
We have reserved signiﬁcant time for contributed talks
and discussions in our symposium, which we anticipate
will be ﬁlled with lively discussions about the present
and future of arthropod systematics. We look forward
to welcoming you in Belfast in July 2011!
Omar Rota-Stabelli (IASMA Research and Innova-
tion Centre, Edmund Mach Foundation, Trento), Da-
vide Pisani (National University of Ireland, Maynooth),
Ronald Jenner (The Natural History Museum, London)
r.jenner@nhm.ac.uk
Belfast Systematics Jul4-8
EarlyRegistrationExtended
Dear Colleagues,
8th Systematics Association Biennial, 4-8 July 2011,
Queen’s University Belfast
***** EARLY REGISTRATION EXTENDED TO
1ST JUNE 2011*****
Early bird registration for the 8th Systematics Asso-
ciation Biennial, 4-8 July 2011 at Queen’s University
Belfast, has been extended to June 1st 2011.
All details can be found at http://www.systass.org/-
biennial 2011/
We have a very exciting scientiﬁc programme
Scheduled symposia include: - Next Generation Sys-
tematics - Studying Evolution and Diversity in an Eraof Ubiquitous Genomics - Arthropod Systematics: are
Morphology, Palaeontology and Molecules Coming To-
gether? - Algal Systematics: Where Next? - Advances
in Using Museum Specimens and Ancient DNA in Sys-
tematics Research.
The Biennial also presents excellent opportunities for
contributed papers on any aspect of systematics. It
is a great forum for students and young researchers
to present their work and compete for prizes. We are
also oﬀering a number of student bursaries (see http:/-
/www.systass.org/ for details of how to apply for a stu-
dent bursary). You can attend on a daily basis if you
wish.
Details of the biennial, how to register, submit your
abstract (deadline 1st June 2011) and how to apply
for a bursary can be found at http://www.systass.org/-
biennial2011/ and details are below.
On behalf of the conference organisers, we hope to see
you there!
Juliet Brodie, President James Cotton, Programme Of-
ﬁcer Peter Olson, Treasurer Christine Maggs, Local Or-
ganiser
Sponsors: The Linnean Society of London, British Phy-
cological Society, Cambridge University Press, Genetics
Society, Queen’s University Belfast
james.cotton@sanger.ac.uk
BucknellU MultitrophicInteractions
*Conference: Multitrophic Interactions, Warren Abra-
hamson*
Early registration and a call for posters have been ex-
tended until May 15 for an international conference to
be held at Bucknell University in Lewisburg, Pennsyl-
vania, USA on Monday, June 13 and Tuesday, June 14,
2011, entitled “*Evolutionary Ecology across Trophic
Levels* - A Symposium in Honor of Warren Abraham-
son.”
Registration is available from the conference web-
site: http://www.bucknell.edu/x65430.xml Registra-
tion costs have been reduced to $15 for students and
postdocs and $35 for others. Evening meals are no
longer included in this price, and can be selected sepa-
rately if desired. Registration fees will increase on May
16.4 EvolDir June 1, 2011
The conference will feature roughly twenty scientiﬁc
talks to be given by alumni, collaborators, and friends
of the Abrahamson Lab. Conﬁrmed speakers include:
-Doug Allchin, University of Minnesota Twin Cities
-Catherine Blair, Bucknell University
-Jackie Brown, Grinnell College
-Timothy Craig, University of Minnesota-Duluth
-Sarah Diamond, University of North Carolina
-Netta Dorchin, Museum Koenig
-Micky Eubanks, Texas A&M University
-David Hartnett, Kansas State University
-Christine Hawkes, University of Texas at Austin
-John Horner, Texas Christian University
-Jason Irwin, Central Washington University
-Ann Johnson, Florida Natural Areas Inventory
-Eric Menges, Archbold Biological Station
-Patricia Peroni, Davidson College
-Peter Price, Northern Arizona University
-Otto Solbrig, Harvard University
-John Stinchcombe, University of Toronto
-Hilary Swain, Archbold Biological Station
-Mizuki Takahashi, Bucknell University
-Art Weis, University of Toronto
-Michael Wise, Roanoke College
Tentative titles are available on the symposium website.
Topics will address the diversity of subjects and ap-
proaches taken by Abe over his career, from the ecology
and evolution of plant-insect interactions to community
and ecosystem approaches to ﬁre ecology, restoration,
and conservation of natural landscapes.
A contributed poster session is also planned, and can
be selected as part of the registration. Activities will
include a banquet, picnic, and talent show, as well as
regional natural history excursions. Events will be held
in the Elaine Langone Center on the Bucknell Univer-
sity Campus.
Conference fees include daytime meals and snacks, but
not lodging. Additional tickets to the picnic and ban-
quet are available for attendees and guests. Lodging
in Bucknell dormitories is available for $38/night sin-
gle and $30/night double occupancy, with a one-time
key charge of $10. There are many high-quality hotels,
inns, and B&Bs in the region as well.The Bucknell University campus provides easy access
to the downtown shopping, dining, and entertainment
district of Lewisburg, a town noted for its historical
preservation and vibrant culture. Details can be found
at:http://www.lewisburgpa.com/ This conference will
celebrate Warren Abrahamson’s 38 years of service to
Bucknell University and the scientiﬁc community in an-
ticipation of his upcoming retirement in the summer of
2012. During his career, Abe has supervised approxi-
mately 200 undergraduate research students, 18 Mas-
ter’s recipients, and 21 postdoctoral fellows, many of
whom have remained active in science. In 2009 he was
named a AAAS fellow. His main research interests in-
clude 1) multitrophic plant-insect interactions using the
goldenrod system and 2) ﬁre ecology and plant demog-
raphy in Florida’s upland communities.
For more information on Warren Abrham-
son and his work, please visit his lab website:
http://www.facstaﬀ.bucknell.edu/abrahmsn/
Questions and comments can be addressed to
steve.jordan@bucknell.edu
sdjordan@bucknell.edu
Galway RECOMB
ComparativeGenomics Oct8-10
Dear colleagues: This is a second call for papers for
RECOMB Comparative Genomics 2011 and reminder
that the paper submission deadline is approaching next
week. Best, Aaron Darling and Cathal Seoighe
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
RECOMB-CG, 2011 October 8-10, 2011 Galway, Ire-
land http://recombcg.org CONFIRMED KEYNOTE
SPEAKERS
* Ed Green (UC Santa Cruz, USA) * Kateryna Makova
(Penn State University, USA) * Julian Parkhill (Sanger
Institute, UK) * Nikolaus Rajewsky (Max-Delbr¨ uck
Center for Molecular Medicine, Germany) * Christo-
pher Greenman (TGAC, UK) * Jerome Salse (INRA,
France)
KEY DATES Paper submission deadline June 03, 2011
Notiﬁcation of paper acceptance June 24, 2011 Poster
submission deadline September 20, 2011 Workshop Oc-
tober 8-10, 2011 More details available at http://-
recombcg.org THEME AND SCOPE
The continuing advance of DNA sequencing technol-June 1, 2011 EvolDir 5
ogy has produced an avalanche of genome sequence
and genome structural information across the evolu-
tionary spectrum. Transforming that information into
biological knowledge requires creative and innovative
new computational and statistical methods for compar-
ative genomics.
The RECOMB Satellite Workshop on Comparative Ge-
nomics aims to provide the premier forum for new com-
putational developments applied to all aspects of com-
parative genomics. We solicit contributions on topics
including comparison of genome structure and organi-
zation, genome function, and evolution. We particu-
larly encourage contributions that use new computa-
tional methods to acquire new insight into biological
processes. Advances in computational theory are wel-
come, though all submissions should include genome-
scale analyses informed by comparative data.
New for 2011, all peer-reviewed and accepted
RECOMB-CG manuscripts will be published in a sup-
plement to BMC Bioinformatics as open access, author
subsidized, articles.
Speciﬁc topics of interest include but are not limited
to:
Gene and genome duplication Gene family evolu-
tion Genome structural variation Algorithms for com-
parative genomics Genome rearrangement Ancestral
genome reconstruction Multiple genome alignment
Genome sequence comparison Modeling genome evo-
lution Comparative genomics for genome annotation
Gene tree reconciliation Species and gene tree in-
ference Comparative metagenomics Comparative ge-
nomics linked to proteomics, metabolomics, and other
’omic data Comparative genomics and gene expression
and regulation Applications of comparative genomic
methods
CALL FOR PAPERS
Papers should be submitted via the EasyChair sys-
tem. Submissions must be received in electronic form
by 11:59pm (Samoa time), June 3rd, 2011.
Submissions should be typeset as double-spaced A4
pages with 1-inch margins all around in a minimum
of 10 point font. Submissions should be limited to 16
pages, everything included (title, authors, addresses,
abstract, references, ﬁgures, tables). Exceptions to
this limit may be granted by consultation with the
Program Committee Chairs. Authors are encouraged
to use the BMC document templates when preparing
manuscripts. Templates are available in Microsoft and
LaTeX formats. Submitted manuscripts must be ren-
dered to PDF format prior to upload into EasyChair
at the review stage. Submissions must include the cor-responding author’s email address. Papers submitted
for review should represent original, previously unpub-
lished work. At the time the paper is submitted to the
conference, and for the entire review period, the paper
should not be under review by any other conference or
scientiﬁc journal.
At least one author per each successful submission is
required to register and present the paper at the work-
shop. The paper will be included in the conference pro-
ceedings, which will be published in BMC Bioinformat-
ics. Address any questions to the program committee
chairs: Aaron E. Darling (aarondarling at ucdavis.edu)
and Cathal Seoighe (cathal.seoighe at nuigalway.ie)
CONFERENCE CHAIR
Cathal Seoighe (National University of Ireland, Galway,
Ireland)
PROGRAM COMMITTEE CHAIRS
Aaron E. Darling (University of California, Davis,
USA) Cathal Seoighe (National University of Ireland,
Galway, Ireland)
PROGRAM COMMITTEE
Aida Ouangraoua, INRIA Lille, France Anne Bergeron,
UQAM, Canada Benedict Paten, University of Califor-
nia Santa Cruz, USA Bernard Moret, ˜Acole Polytech-
nique F ˜Ac/circlecopyrtd˜Ac/circlecopyrtrale de Lausanne, Switzerland Cedric
Chauve, Simon Fraser University, Canada Craig Nel-
son, University of Connecticut, USA Daniel Falush,
Max Planck Institute Leipzig, Germany Dannie Du-
rand, Carnegie Mellon University, USA Des Higgins,
University College Dublin, Ireland Elisabeth Tillier,
University of Toronto, Canada Eric Lyons, University
of Arizona, USA Gerton Lunter, Oxford University, UK
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Hawaii Biocomputing Jan3-7
MicrobiomePapers
REMINDER:
Submissions for this special session are due 11 July!
We invite high quality manuscripts for publication and
presentation at a special session on Microbiome Studies6 EvolDir June 1, 2011
at the Paciﬁc Symposium on Biocomputing, 3-7 Jan-
uary in Hawaii. Papers will be refereed by top names
in the ﬁeld, and accepted papers will be published in
the PSB proceedings, which are indexed in Medline.
For details (new URL): http://psb.stanford.edu/cfp-
ms/index.html james a. foster university of Idaho
foster@uidaho.edu
Jyvaskyla Coevolution Oct4-7
Symposium on CoEvolution 4th - 7th October 2011,
Jyv¨ askyl¨ a, Finland
We are pleased to announce a special symposium on
Coevolution in Jyv¨ askyl¨ a, Finland (October 4th 7th,
2011).
Our keynote speakers will be Dr. Sheena Cotter from
Queens’ University (Belfast), Dr. Mario Vallejo Mar´ ın
from University of Stirling (Scotland) and Dr. Dagmar
Voigt from University of Kiel (Germany) in addition to
contributions from local professors.
We are accepting oral presentations and posters cov-
ering all aspects of coevolution with emphasis on the
following themes:
1. Mutualism 2. Insect-plant interactions 3. Predator-
prey interactions 4. Multitrophic interactions 5. Sexual
conﬂict 6. Virulence evolution 7. Gene-gene interac-
tions
Please go to https://www.jyu.ﬁ/bioenv/en/divisions/-
eko/coeevolution/coevolution-symposium for more in-
formation and online registration or contact as at co-
evo.symposium@jyu.ﬁ. Registration deadline is August
31st and deadline for abstract submission is July 31st.
The symposium is organized by the post-docs of the
Centre of Excellence in Evolutionary Research and the
Division of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology from the
University of Jyv¨ askyl¨ a. We are particularly keen to
give postdocs a chance to present and discuss their
work on coevolution together with other interested re-
searchers.
Looking forward to meeting you in Jyv¨ askyl¨ a!
On behalf of the organising committee.
— Dr. Sandra Varga Postdoctoral Researcher Depart-
ment of Biological and Environmental Science PO Box
35, FI-40014 University of Jyv¨ askyl¨ a Finlandhttp://users.jyu.ﬁ/ ˜ savarga/ http://-
jyu.academia.edu/SandraVarga Sandra Varga
<sandra.varga@jyu.ﬁ >
Jyvaskyla Speciation Feb27-28
Event: “Progress in understanding the origins of biodi-
versity” Date: 27-28 February 2012 Location: Univer-
sity of Jyvaskyla, Finland
We are pleased to invite you to the conference “Progress
in understanding the origins of biodiversity” organized
by the EU Marie Curie Initial Training Network SPE-
CIATION. The event will be held 27-28 February 2012,
Jyvaskyla, Finland. The conference will consist of ple-
nary sessions, four symposia and posters covering re-
cent advances in speciation and adaptation research.
Registration and abstract submission will be open in
October. There will also be limited space available for
talks by the participants.
Conﬁrmed speakers:
Mark Kirkpatrick, University of Texas, USA Mo-
hammed Noor, Duke University, USA Daven Pres-
graves, University of Rochester, USA Kerry Shaw, Cor-
nell University, USA Patrik Nosil, University of Col-
orado, USA Ilkka Hanski, University of Helsinki, Fin-
land
Organisers: Anneli Hoikkala, Emily Knott, Maaria
Kankare, Venera Tyukmaeva and Jackson Jennings on
behalf of the Marie Curie ITN
Information about the meeting will be available
later on our website http://sites.google.com/site/-
itnspeciation/ . Also for more information contact Ven-
era Tyukmaeva venera.v.tyukmaeva@jyu.ﬁ
– Venera Tyukmaeva Evolutionary Genetics Group
Centre of Excellence in Evolutionary Research Depart-
ment of Environmental and Biological Science P.O. Box
35, 40014, University of Jyv¨ askyl¨ a, Finland
Tel. +358-14-260-4253 Room: YAC421.1
venera.v.tyukmaeva@jyu.ﬁJune 1, 2011 EvolDir 7
KansasCity ArthropodGenomics
Jun9-12 Deadlines
***Print this e-mail from a PDF*** ( http://www.k-
state.edu/agc/symp2011/Announcement5.pdf )
Arthropod Genomics: ˆA Exploring Diversity, Relating
Similarity 5th ANNUAL ARTHROPOD GENOMICS
SYMPOSIUM June 9 - 12, 2011, in Kansas City, USA
www.k-state.edu/agc/symp2011
ˆA
You still have time to register and make arrangements
to attend!!!
ˆA
Deadlines: Wed., May 18 ˆAPoster Abstract Submis-
sions: ˆA Six platform presentations will be chosen from
submitted poster abstracts. ˆA Please follow guidelines
posted to symposium website. Wed., May 18 ˆAHotel
Reservations at the KC Marriott on the Plaza Wed.,
May 18 ˆARegistration: ˆA Registration will continue to
be accepted after May 18 , if space is available.
ˆA
REGISTRATION: The registration fee is $395 ($225
for graduate and undergraduate students) on or be-
fore Wednesday, May 18 , and will include a welcome
reception Thursday evening, breakfast and lunch on
Friday and Saturday , and breakfast on Sunday . ˆA
Access REGISTRATION ONLINE at ˆAhttp://www.k-
state.edu/agc/symp2011/register.html .ˆA
PRE-CONFERENCE MEETINGS: -International Tri-
bolium Meeting, 6/8 and 6/9. -International Aphid
Genomics Consortium, 6/9. ˆA Schedule posted to:
ˆA http://www.k-state.edu/agc/symp2011/images/-
2011 7thIAGC Kansas Program-New.pdf
ˆA
WORKSHOPS June 9: ˆA A pre-symposium workshop,
ˆ aGenome Project 101,ˆ a by Scott Cain, OICR, and Dave
Clements, Emory University; Thursday afternoon, June
9 , 4:00-6:00 p.m.
June 11: ˆA ˆ aComparative genomics with the generic
synteny browser (GBrowse syn): Conﬁguration and
display of various co-linearity data types,ˆ a by Sheldon
McKay, iPlant, will be presented Saturday morning,
June 11 .ˆA
ORGANISM MEETINGS Friday afternoon/evening,
June 10 Meet with scientists who are also working with
your organism of interest during small group gather-
ings. ˆA If you are interested in coordinating topics and
leading discussions as a group leader, please e-mail
dmerrill@ksu.edu . ˆAˆA Additional information will be
posted to the conference website as details are ﬁnal-
ized.
ˆA
POSTER SESSIONS: There will be two poster ses-
sions. ˆA A few platform presentations will be chosen
from submitted poster abstracts. ˆA
ˆA
ROUNDTABLE DISCUSSION: ˆA Participate in a
roundtable discussion with the ArthropodBase Con-
sortium regarding the generation of integrated arthro-
pod genome databases and tools for genome projects. ˆA
Discussion will focus on I5k, led by Kevin J. Hackett,
USDA. ˆA Symposium attendees are encouraged to at-
tend.
ˆA
TENTATIVE SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM ˆAˆA Thurs-
day afternoon, June 9 ˆ a“ Pre-Symposium Workshop
ˆAˆA Thursday evening, June 9 ˆ a” Keynote presentation
and welcome reception ˆAˆA Friday & Saturday, June 10
and 11 - Platform and Poster sessions ˆAˆA Friday after-
noon/evening, June 10 ˆ a“ Organism meetings ˆAˆA Sat-
urday morning ˆ a” Gbrowse syn Workshop ˆAˆA Sunday
morning, June 12 ˆ a“ Roundtable discussion focusing
on I5k with ˆAˆAˆAˆAˆAˆAˆAˆA Kevin J. Hackett, USDA,
and the ArthropodBase Consortium. ˆAˆAˆAˆAˆAˆAˆAˆAˆA
All are invited to attend! ˆAˆAˆA Noon, Sunday, June
12 - Activities will conclude.
ˆA
KEYNOTE SPEAKER: Marc A.T. Muskavitch
DeLuca Professor of Biology Boston College
ˆ aAdvancing vector genetics through the power of
vector genomicsˆ a ˆA FEATURED SPEAKERS: Gregor
Bucher Department of Developmental Biology Georg-
August University, G ´O, Germany ˆ aiBeetle: Genome
wide RNAi screen for embryonic and metamorphic
development in Triboliumˆ a ˆA Owain Edwards Inver-
tebrate Genomics and Evolution, CSIRO Ecosystem
Sciences, Perth, Australia ˆ aDNA methylation and
phenotypic plasticity in the pea aphid, Acyrthosiphon
pisumˆ a
ˆA
Cassandra Extavour Dept of Organismic and Evolu-8 EvolDir June 1, 2011
tionary Biology, Harvard University ˆ aOvercoming the
gene discovery bottleneck for arthropod evo-devo: ˆA
Creating de novo developmental transcriptomesˆ a
ˆA
Toni Gabald ˜A3n Center for Genomic Regulation
(CRG), Barcelona, Spain ˆ aArthropod genomes as seen
through the lens of evolutionˆ a
ˆA
Cheryl Y. Hayashi Department of Biology, University
of California, Riverside ˆ aSpider silks: ˆA Functional and
evolutionary insights into high-performance materialsˆ a
ˆA
Mary Ann McDowell Biological Sciences, University of
Notre Dame ˆ aA tale of two sand ﬂy genomes: ˆA Phle-
botomus papatasi and Lutzomyia longipalpisˆ a
ˆA
Pedro L. Oliveira Instituto de Bioqu ˜A’mica M ˜Ac/circlecopyrtdica,
Programa de Biologia Molecular e Biotecnologia Uni-
versidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro and
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Kyoto SMBE 2011 Jul26-30
AncientDNAsymposium
CALL FOR ABSTRACTS
The DEADLINE for abstract submission for SMBE
2011 in Kyoto is MAY 31*:* http://smbe2011.com/-
important dates.html Please consider submitting an
abstract to the ancient DNA symposium described be-
low. / /NEW APPROACHES IN ANCIENT DNA
*Conﬁrmed speakers: *Alan Cooper, Johannes
Krause,Ludovic Orlando, Mark Stoneking, Eske Willer-
slev
With recent advances in DNA sequencing and DNA
preparation techniques, the study of extinct and long
dead organisms is entering a new era. Previously lim-
ited to short segments of mitochondrial DNA, whole
nuclear genomes are now available from several extinct
species, thus providing new insights into deep evolu-
tionary history. Within the last year for instance - theNeandertal genome, the Denisovan genome as well as
the genome of a Palaeo-Eskimo have become publicly
available. Nevertheless, acquiring high quality DNA
sequence remains a critical challenge, owing to DNA
damage as well as contamination by microbial and con-
temporary DNA. This symposium aims to highlight
current research in ancient DNA with a focus on com-
parative genomics and population genetics of extinct
populations. Methodological and theoretical advance-
ments will be equally presented - promoting a general
forum for the advancement of this novel and exciting
ﬁeld.
*Organizers: *Johannes Krause, Anna-Sapfo
Malaspinas
Anna-Sapfo Malaspinas <sapfo@berkeley.edu >
Kyoto SMBE 2011 Jul26-30
RegistrationDeadline
The 2011 meeting of the Society for Molecular Biology
and Evolution (SMBE) takes place in Kyoto, Japan, on
July 26-30. It is shaping up to be an outstanding inter-
national meeting, though some have expressed concerns
about the residual eﬀect of the earthquake. We would
like to assure you that the conference will go ahead as
planned, despite the earlier disruption caused by the
earthquake in the eastern portions of Japan. Over 250
people have already registered to attend, and the clos-
ing date for early registration at a discounted rate is
coming up soon: May 31. You may of course register
after that date but at a higher cost.
Kyoto is well served by direct international ﬂights to
Osaka airport from many countries, or you can ﬂy to
Tokyo and take the bullet train. Kyoto is located in
western Japan and was not aﬀected by the earthquake
or nuclear accident.
Please visit the meeting website http://-
smbe2011.com/ for more information and program
details. It promises to be an exciting meeting in one of
Japan’s most beautiful and historic cities, and I look
forward to seeing you there.
Yours sincerely,
Ken Wolfe President, SMBE
===Ken Wolfe Smurﬁt Institute of Genetics, Trinity
College, Dublin 2, Ireland. Tel. +353 1 8961253June 1, 2011 EvolDir 9
Kyoto SMBE2011 Jul26-30
RegistrationDeadline
Friday, May 27, 2011
To evoldir people:
SMBE will have this year’s annual meeting at Kyoto,
Japan. Conference website is http://smbe2011.com/-
. Early registration deadline is May 31. This is not
Japan time, but global time, i.e., only when it turned
to be June 1 in all area on earth. But it is ONLY FIVE
DAYS left!
As of May 27, 359 persons from 29 countries/regions
(including 97 from USA, 15 from Germany, 13 from
China, 12 from UK and Taiwan, 9 from France, 8 from
Canada and Sweden, 7 from New Zealand, 6 from Aus-
tralia, Ireland, Spain, and Switzerland, 5 from Den-
mark, 4 from Austria, 3 from Poland, and 127 from
Japan) already registered.
>From “Registration” [ http://smbe2011.com/-
registration.html]: ///// All payments must be made
in Japanese Yen (JPY). ===ˆ erly = JPY 35,000 Late
= JPY 45,000 for Regular SMBE member Early =
JPY 40,000 Late = JPY 50,000 for Regular non-SMBE
member Early = JPY 25,000 Late = JPY 35,000 for
Student/Post-doc SMBE member Early = JPY 30,000
Late = JPY 40,000 for Student/Post-doc non-SMBE
member ====SMBE banquet: JPY 5,000
Registration fee includes: # Attendance to all Sessions
(July 27-31, including SESJ annual meeting) # Pro-
gram Book # Welcome Reception (evening of July 26)
# 3 Lunch boxes (July 27, 28, 29) # Coﬀee Breaks
(July 27-30) * Banquet ticket is not included in the
registration fee. /////
As many of you are aware, the northeast part of
Japan was hit by very strong earthquake on March11,
2011. Kyoto is located in western Japan, and
thankfully was left unscathed. The schedule for the
SMBE2011 Kyoto Conference is unaﬀected. Fur-
thermore, Kyoto is far from the Fukushima nuclear
power plants, and radiation level is normal. Please
see: http://mextrad.blob.core.windows.net/page/-
26Kyoto en.html Current Schedule of SMBE2011 Ky-
oto Conference is as follows; from “Program Overview”
[http://smbe2011.com/program overview.html] —–
Tuesday, July 26Welcome Reception Time: 18:00-20:00 Place: Interna-
tional Hall at Kyoto University Centennial Clock Tower
Hall (Building C)
Wednesday, July 27
Morning Sessions (9:30- 12:00) Room C-1: [Symposium
1] Evolution of modern human Room S-1: [Symposium
2] Gene evolution and phenotypic adaptation Room S-
2: [Workshop 1] Methods for multiple alignment and
phylogenetic tree making for large sequence data set
Room S-3: [Workshop 2] Reverse transcriptase as an
evolutionary force
Afternoon Sessions (13:30- 16:00) Room C-1: [Sympo-
sium 3] Compensatory ﬁtness interactions and genome
evolution Room S-1: [Symposium 4] Symbiosis as the
source of evolutionary novelties Room S-2: [Workshop
3] Natural selection in human populations: beyond clas-
sic sweeps Room S-3: [Workshop 4] Evolutionary di-
versity revealed by comparative transcriptomics Room
C-3: [Workshop 5] Visualizing the geographic and tem-
poral structure of biodiviersity
Evening Sessions (16:30- 19:00) Room C-1: [Sympo-
sium 5] Genome evolution: surprises from microbes
Room S-1: [Symposium 6] Molecular bases of specia-
tion Room S-2: [Workshop 6] Comparative and evolu-
tionary neurogenomics in humans and non-human pri-
mates Room S-3: [Workshop 7] Virus evolution Room
S-4: [Workshop 8] Modeling protein structural and en-
ergetic constraints on sequence evolution
Thursday, July 28
Morning Sessions (9:30- 12:00) Room C-1: [Symposium
7] New approaches in ancient DNA Room S-1: [Sym-
posium 8] Origin and diversiﬁcation of sensory organs
Room S-2: [Symposium 9] Evolutionary systems biol-
ogy Room S-3: [used for additional workshop or con-
tributed oral presentations] Room S-4: [Workshop 9]
Molecular biology and evolution of blood group and
MHC antigens in primates Room C-3: [Workshop 10]
Selective sweeps in complex demographic and genetic
systems
Afternoon Sessions (13:30- 16:00) Room C-1: [Sym-
posium 10] Evolution of genome structure Room S-1:
[Symposium 11] Molecular mechanisms governing mor-
phological divergence of arthropod appendages Room
S-2: [Symposium 12] Evolution as a stochastic process
Room S-3: [Workshop 11] Recombination and the eﬃ-
cacy of selection Room S-4: [Workshop 9; continuation]
Molecular biology and evolution of blood group and
MHC antigens in primates Room C-3: [Workshop 10;
continuation] Selective sweeps in complex demographic
and genetic systems10 EvolDir June 1, 2011
Evening Sessions (16:30- 19:00) Room C-1: [Special
Symposium] Honoring late Walter M. Fitch Room C-1:
[Special Session] History of MBE
Friday, July 29
9:15- 9:30 Welcome to SMBE 2011 at Kyoto by
SMBE2011 Organizing Committees 9:30-10:30 Nei Lec-
ture by Ken Wolfe, SMBE President “Yeast genome
evolution and the aftermath of polyploidization” 10:30-
11:20 Plenary Talk 1 by Manolo Gouy, CNRS, Lyon
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Linkoping Sweden
PhenotypeEvolution Jun16-19
*Link¨ oping Brain Seminar*
*International Workshop *
*Perinatal Eﬀects shaping Individual Phenotypes*
*June 16-19th 2011*
Dear colleagues,
We are organizing a workshop on perinatal eﬀects to
be held at the Link¨ oping University, Sweden and are
happy to welcome our keynote lecturers:*
Frances Champagne*, epigenetic eﬀects of maternal
care (Columbia University),
*Ton Groothuis*, hormone mediated maternal eﬀects
(University of Groningen), and
*Barbara Tzschentke*, perinatal adaptation
(Humboldt-Universit¨ at zu Berlin)
The evolution of phenotypic variation is determined not
only by the underlying genotype but is inﬂuenced to
a great extent by non-genetic factors. Especially the
pre- and postnatal environment has profound impact
on an individual’s phenotype and can result in short-
and long-term modiﬁcations even across generations,
for example through heritable epigenetic alterations of
the genome. In this workshop we want to bring to-
gether researchers from various ﬁelds such as genetics,
endocrinology, physiology, and behavioural biology and
discuss the adaptive nature of perinatal programming
and underlying mechanisms.We welcome you to give an oral or poster presentation!
Deadline for abstract submission is *May 23 ^rd , 2011*
Deadline for registration: *May 30 ^th , 2011*
Please check https://cms.ifm.liu.se/biology/zoology/-
avian/brainseminar-1/index.xml for more information.
E-mail: perinatalBS2011@gmail.com
Vivian Goerlich <vivgo@ifm.liu.se >
Lisbon Phylogeography Nov26-27
CALL FOR PARTICIPANTS in 2-day International
Workshop on Biogeography and Phylogeography of
Fish from the Atlantic
Date: 26-27 November 2011 Location: Lisbon, Portugal
Hosted by Eco-Ethology Research Unit (EERU), ISPA
Over the last several years a number of studies on the
phylogeography of Atlantic ﬁsh have started to shed
light on evolutionary processes in this taxa and in their
marine environment. Some reviews of this literature
have been published illuminating biogeographic pat-
terns, namely diversity patterns, historical refuges, dis-
persal routes and barriers, etc. The aim of the work-
shop is to present and discuss studies and perspectives
on major patterns and give updates on the state of the
art in Atlantic biogeography and phylogeography of ﬁsh
and outline directions for future research.
The Workshop is divided into two major sessions: 1) a
public session, open to all, on Saturday November 26th
2011, with presentation of oral communications; 2) a
session reserved to participants, on Sunday November
27th 2011, with short presentations, and ample time for
discussion and exchange of ideas.
Those interested in participating in the Sunday session
are required to submit a short CV until the 15th of
September. Number of participants in the Sunday ses-
sion are limited in order to guarantee a workshop envi-
ronment and a productive exchange of ideas. Unfortu-
nately, we are unable to subsidize travel/stay expenses,
but there is no registration fee.
Please send personal information and short CV to :
centro.biociencias@ispa.pt
The organizing scientiﬁc committee, which will review
applications, is composed by
V´ ıtor Almada (EERU/ISPA, PT), Emanuel Gon¸ calvesJune 1, 2011 EvolDir 11
(EERU/ISPA, PT), Andr´ e Levy (EERU/ISPA, PT),
Joana Robalo (EERU/ISPA, PT), Giacomo Bernardi,
Ricardo Santos (Univ. Azores, PT), Alberto Brito
(Univ. Laguna, Canarias), Rita Castilho (Univ. Al-
garve, PT), Ricardo Santos (Univ. Azores, PT), Ser-
gio Stefanni (Univ. Azores, PT), Giacomo Bernardi
(Univ. California Santa Cruz, US), Knutsen Halvor
(IMR, Norway), S´ ergio Floeter (UFSC, Brazil), Sophie
von der Heyden (Univ. of Stellenbosch, South Africa)
andrelevy@gmail.com
LundU EvolutionFlight Aug29-30
This symposium is aimed at evolutionary biologists, al-
beit not exclusively. We have planned this meeting
deliberately as an interdisciplinary event to promote
an integrative view on one of the most fascinating be-
haviours - ﬂight!
We are sure that many Evoldir subscribers would be
interested in this event Best wishes on behalf of the
organizers, Sophia Engel
Symposium ˆ aInsect Flightˆ a, 29-30th August 2011
CAnMove Centre for Animal Movement Research Lund
University, Sweden
Animal ﬂight has evolved only four times in history, in
pterosaurs, birds, bats and insects. To date, insects
constitute a majority of the worldˆ as life forms, and
ﬂight appears to have contributed to this inordinate
evolutionary success story.
Because ﬂight links a series of fundamental processes
within both the physical and biological sciences we
aim to provide a plenum for scientists from various
ﬁelds (evolutionary ecology, morphology, physiology,
behaviour, biomechanics) to present insight into the
diﬀerent aspects and implications of insect ﬂight and
to combine aspects from biology and engineering to an
integrated view on insect ﬂight.
Information about CAnMove and the preliminary pro-
gramme can be found at our homepage: http://-
canmove.lu.se/node/715 Registration: Attendance of
the symposium is free, if you want to attend, please
register by ﬁlling in our online-registration form. The
deadline for applications is July 15th
We especially encourage Ph.D. students to present and
discuss their work here. Should you have any questions
regarding the symposium please do not hesitate to con-tact Sophia Engel (sophia.engel@biol.lu.se).
Local organisers: Sophia Engel, Erik Svensson and An-
ders Hedenstr¨ om
Sophia Engel <Sophia.Engel@biol.lu.se >
Montpellier ModelsEvolEcol
Jun8-10 May13Deadline
Dear EvolDir colleagues,
We remind you that you have one week (until Friday,
May 13) to register for the seminar “Models in Evolu-
tionary Ecology” here: http://www.seminar-mee.org/-
home/inscription Thank you to register even if you just
want to attend the discussions!
Student workshop: “Models in Evolutionary Ecol-
ogy”. Montpellier (France), June 8-10, 2011
http://www.seminar-mee.org/ <http://www.seminar-
mee.org/ >
Application deadline: May 13th 2011
We are pleased to invite you to the second edition of
the workshop “models in evolutionary ecology”. This
workshop is organized by PhD students and postdocs,
and is dedicated to students (PhD students, postdocs,
undergrads) but also to researchers interested in theo-
retical approaches in evolutionary ecology and has three
objectives:
- give a broad overview of modelling techniques used in
evolutionary ecology and their relationship with exper-
imental work - encourage dialogue between PhD stu-
dents using diﬀerent approaches - discuss on how to
communicate on the models and their meaning to the
general public
The workshop is intended to favour exchange as
much as possible, and consists in a series of method-
ological sessions by invited researchers, talks by re-
searchers and students, journal clubs, poster sessions
and round-tables. The detailed program is here: http:/-
/www.seminar-mee.org/home/programme <http://-
www.seminar-mee.org/home/programme >Registra-
tion to the workshop is free, but we strongly recom-
mend all participants to present their work or project
in a talk or with a poster.
You can register and submit an abstract before May,
13th. http://www.seminar-mee.org/home/inscription
<http://www.seminar-mee.org/home/inscription >12 EvolDir June 1, 2011
Conﬁrmed faculty:
Thomas Broquet Vincent Devictor Richard Go-
mulkiewicz
Sonia K´ eﬁ S´ ebastien Lion Guillaume Martin Denis
Roze
We look forward to seeing you in June!
The organizers, Ronan Becheler, Fran¸ cois Blanquart,
Benoit Goussen, Etienne Loire and Timoth´ ee Poisot.
http://www.seminar-mee.org/
GOUSSEN Benoit THESARD
<benoit.goussen@irsn.fr >GOUSSEN Benoit THE-
SARD <benoit.goussen@irsn.fr >
Norman Evolution2011 Jun17-21
EvolutionaryMedicine
Evolutionary Medicine Symposium and Luncheon
Sunday, June 19 at Evolution 2011
8:30am-4:30pm
http://www.evolution2011.ou.edu/symposia.html
(Scroll down to SSE symposia)
This symposium will explore the role of evolutionary
biologists in promoting evolutionary thinking in med-
ical education and practice, as well as introduce some
medical questions that are ideally structured for evolu-
tionary research. Speakers from schools of medicine and
public health, as well as more traditional evolutionary
biology research backgrounds will address various top-
ics where an evolutionary approach is a valuable asset
to medical research, where medical data can advance
evolutionary research, and where evolutionary princi-
ples can be used to improve medical practice. The sym-
posium is part of a larger movement to increase aware-
ness of the role of evolutionary biologists in connecting
evolutionary science to the intellectual development of
our future physicians and public health practitioners.
The symposium is open to all.
You are invited to join the speakers for lunch to discuss
this topic further. Space at the lunch is limited and
you must register here by June 12: http://tinyurl.com/-
3qgohsk . For additional information contact Mike An-
tolin (michael.antolin@colostate.edu) or Kristin Jenk-
ins (kjenkins@nescent.org).
Kristin Jenkins, PhD Education and Outreach ProgramNational Evolutionary Synthesis Center 2024 W. Main
Street, Suite A200 Durham, NC www.nescent.org Cell
919.260.7369 Oﬃce 608.203.5390
Kristin Jenkins <kjenkins@nescent.org >
Norman Evolution2011 Jun17-21
ProgramAvailable
Dear Colleagues,
The Evolution 2011 Program is now available for view-
ing on the main page of the meeting’s website. The
links are also on the “Latest News/Updates” page.
http://www.evolution2011.ou.edu/ Also, the di-
rect link to the searchable program is there too
(http://www.evolutionmeeting.org/engine/search/-
index.php?func=summary We are looking forward to
welcoming you all to Norman in a few weeks!
Best wishes!
Larry Weider, Rich Broughton, Ingo Schlupp
Department of Zoology, University of Oklahoma
Tri-Chairs, Evolution 2011 Organizing Committee
“Weider, Lawrence J.” <ljweider@ou.edu >
Norman Evolution2011 Jun17-21
Registration
Registration for the Evolution 2011 meeting will remain
at the current (early-bird) rates throughout the confer-
ence. We will continue to accept talk/poster submis-
sions until 1 June, but those that are not complete by
11:59 pm (CDT) on Thursday 5 May will not appear
in the printed program. Instead, they will be placed in
a “late-breaking evolution” session.
Thanks!
Larry Weider, Rich Broughton, Ingo Schlupp
Dept of Zoology, U. of Oklahoma
Tri-Chairs, Evolution 2011 Organizing Committee
“Weider, Lawrence J.” <ljweider@ou.edu >June 1, 2011 EvolDir 13
Norman Evolution2011 Jun18
EducationOutreach
Outreach workshop at Evolution 2011 This workshop is
for conference attendees who are interested in new ma-
terials for teaching human evolution and evolutionary
medicine. Paul Beardsly of BSCS and Irene Eckstrand
of NIH will present the newly developed NIH/BSCS
Evolutionary Medicine Module. Members of the Com-
municating Human Evolution working group at NES-
Cent will lead discussion of resources for teaching hu-
man evolution. The workshop is Saturday, June 18
10:30am -11:50am and will include lunch so attendees
will be able to attend the Gould lecture at 12:00pm.
There is a $5 fee for lunch. Please register for the work-
shop and lunch by June 11 here: http://tinyurl.com/-
6bpw565 . SSE EVO 101 Workshop: Evolution and
You for K-14 Educators
Are you looking for great ways to engage students in
evolutionary biology? Join us Friday June 17th at the
Convention Center in Norman, OK, to learn about re-
cent developments in evolutionary medicine and human
evolution, preview new teaching materials from the Na-
tional Institutes of Health and the Concord Consor-
tium, and exchange ideas for teaching evolution with
other teachers and researchers. A $25 fee includes cof-
fee and lunch, as well as a variety of materials for teach-
ers to take and use in the classroom such as copies of
the journals Evolution: Education and Outreach and
the American Biology Teacher. Participants will be
eligible to attend the entire Evolution 2011 meeting,
including a lecture by Ken Miller, this years recipi-
ent of the Gould aware for eﬀort in increasing pub-
lic understanding of evolution. For more information
visit this website: http://www.evolution2011.ou.edu/-
workshops.html . Kristin Jenkins, PhD Education and
Outreach Program National Evolutionary Synthesis
Center 2024 W. Main Street, Suite A200 Durham, NC
www.nescent.org Cell 919.260.7369 Oﬃce 608.203.5390
Kristin Jenkins <kjenkins@nescent.org >
Norman iEvoBio Informatics
Jun21-22The Call for Lightning Talks is now open for the 2011
conference on Informatics for Phylogenetics, Evolution,
and Biodiversity (iEvoBio), at http://ievobio.org/ocs/-
index.php/ievobio/2011 . See below for instructions.
Lightning talks are short presentations of 5 minutes.
They are ideal for drawing the attention of the audi-
ence to new developments, tools, and resources, or to
subsequent events where more in-depth information can
be obtained. Please also see our FAQ for more informa-
tion ( http://ievobio.org/faq.html#lightning ). Light-
ning talks will be part of the more interactive afternoon
program on both conference days.
Submitted talks should be in the area of informatics
aimed at advancing research in phylogenetics, evolu-
tion, and biodiversity, including new tools, cyberinfras-
tructure development, large-scale data analysis, and vi-
sualization.
Submissions consist of a title and an abstract at most 1
page long. The abstract should provide an overview of
the talk’s subject. Reviewers will judge whether a sub-
mission is within scope of the conference (see above). If
applicable, the abstract must also state the license and
give the URL where the source code is available so re-
viewers can verify that the open-source requirement(*)
is met.
Review and acceptance of lightning talks will be on a
rolling basis. The deadline for submission is the morn-
ing of the ﬁrst day of the conference (June 21). Note
that the number of lightning talk slots is ﬁnite, and
given the high volume of submissions we experienced
for full talks, the Lightning Talks track may ﬁll up early.
We cannot accept lightning talks until the open-source
requirements are met, and so waiting with that until
the deadline risks that the track is full by that time.
We ask all submitters of lightning talks to be willing to
also serve as reviewers of such, as described above.
Lightning talks are only 1 of 5 kinds of contributed
content that iEvoBio will feature. The other 4 are:
1) Full talks (closed), 2) Challenge entries, 3) Soft-
ware bazaar demonstrations, and 4) Birds-of- a-Feather
gatherings. The Call for Challenge entries remains open
(see http://ievobio.org/challenge.html ), and informa-
tion on the Software Bazaar and Birds-of-a-Feather
sessions is forthcoming. There is also a special focus
session on Metagenomics, Barcoding, and Biodiversity
(http://ievobio.org/program.html#specialsession )
More details about the program and guidelines for con-
tributing content are available at http://ievobio.org .
You can also ﬁnd continuous updates on the confer-
ence’s Twitter feed at http://twitter.com/iEvoBio .
iEvoBio is sponsored by the US National Evolution-14 EvolDir June 1, 2011
ary Synthesis Center (NESCent) in partnership with
the Society of Systematic Biologists (SSB). Additional
support has been provided by the Encyclopedia of Life
(EOL).
The iEvoBio 2011 Organizing Committee: Rob Gu-
ralnick (University of Colorado at Boulder) (co-Chair)
Cynthia Parr (Encyclopedia of Life) (co-Chair) Dawn
Field (UK National Environmental Research Center)
Mark Holder (University of Kansas) Hilmar Lapp
(NESCent) Rod Page (University of Glasgow)
(*) iEvoBio and its sponsors are dedicated to promot-
ing the practice and philosophy of Open Source soft-
ware development (see http://www.opensource.org/-
docs/deﬁnition.php ) and reuse within the research com-
munity. For this reason, if a submitted talk con-
cerns a speciﬁc software system for use by the re-
search community, that software must be licensed
with a recognized Open Source License (see http:/-
/www.opensource.org/licenses/ ), and be available for
download, including source code, by a tar/zip ﬁle ac-
cessed through ftp/http or through a widely used ver-
sion control system like cvs, Subversion, git, Bazaar, or
Mercurial.
robgur@gmail.com
Norman iEvoBio Informatics
Jun21-22 2
The conference on Informatics for Phylogenetics, Evo-
lution, and Biodiversity (iEvoBio) is holding a Chal-
lenge, a competition to create a new software tool, or
add a new feature to an existing platform. Entries to
the Challenge need to respond to its theme, which for
2011 is “Data Integration”.
Improving our understanding of the evolution of life
requires combining data sets from a wide variety of dis-
parate sources. Thus, data integration poses a serious
challenge for evolutionary research. Entries for the 2011
iEvoBio challenge must enable new approaches to data
interoperability or represent an exceptional example of
integrating existing sources of data.
Further information on the nature of challenge entries
and how to submit them can be found on the iEvoBio
website at http://ievobio.org/challenge.html . Selected
candidates will make short oral presentations to demon-
strate their work in a “Challenge session” at the confer-
ence, and if suitable will automatically be entered intothe Software Bazaar track of the conference.
Cash prizes will be awarded for ﬁrst place ($1,000) and
runner-up entries. The winning entries will be selected
by a vote of the iEvoBio meeting participants.
Challenge entries are only 1 of 5 kinds of contributed
content that iEvoBio will feature. The other 4 are:
1) Full talks (closed), 2) Lightning talks, 3) Software
Bazaar entries, and 4) Birds-of-a-Feather gatherings.
The Call for Lightning Talks is currently open (see
http://ievobio.org/ocs/index.php/ievobio/2011/ ) , and
the information on Software Bazaar entries is forthcom-
ing.
More details about the program and guidelines for con-
tributing content are available at http://ievobio.org .
You can also ﬁnd continuous updates on the con-
ference’s Twitter feed at http://twitter.com/ iEvoBio
, or subscribe to the low-traﬃc iEvoBio announce-
ments mailing list at http://groups.google.com/group/-
ievobio-announce iEvoBio is sponsored by the US
National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent) in
partnership with the Society for the Study of Ecolution
(SSE) and the Society of Systematic Biologists (SSB).
Additional support has been provided by the Encyclo-
pedia of Life (EOL).
The iEvoBio 2011 Organizing Committee: Rob Gu-
ralnick (University of Colorado at Boulder) (Co-chair)
Cynthia Parr (Encyclopedia of Life) (Co-chair) Dawn
Field (UK National Environmental Research Center)
Mark Holder (University of Kansas) Hilmar Lapp
(NESCent) Rod Page (University of Glasgow)
hlapp@nescent.org
Norman iEvoBio Jun21-22
CallSoftwareBazaar
The Call for Software Bazaar entries is now open for
the 2011 conference on Informatics for Phylogenet-
ics, Evolution, and Biodiversity (iEvoBio), at http:/-
/ievobio.org/ocs/index.php/ievobio/ 2011. See below
for instructions.
The Software Bazaar features presenters demonstrat-
ing their software live on a laptop. At iEvoBio, this
session takes the place of a poster session, and will be
approximately 2.0 hours in duration. Conference at-
tendees will be able to walk from one demonstration to
the next and open a conversation with the presenters.
Please also see our FAQ for this information ( http://-June 1, 2011 EvolDir 15
ievobio.org/faq.html#software ). The Software Bazaar
is part of the interactive afternoon program on the ﬁrst
conference day.
Entries should be software aimed at advancing research
in phylogenetics, evolution, and biodiversity, and can
include interactive visualizations that have been pre-
computed (such as SVGs, or Google Earth-compatible
KML ﬁles).
Submissions consist of a title, which will typically be the
name of the software (or visualization method) being
presented, the URL of a website where more informa-
tion about the software can be obtained, and the license
under which the source code is available. The provided
website must contain a link to where the source code
(and possibly binaries) can be downloaded. If it is not
obvious from the provided website, the submission must
describe what the software does. Reviewers will judge
whether a submission is within scope of the conference
(see above), and need to be able to verify whether the
open- source requirement(*) is met.
Presenters are expected to bring their own laptops for
presentation, and any auxiliary devices necessary (such
as a mouse). Power will be available at the presenta-
tion tables (110V/60Hz, US-style plugs; international
presenters need to bring a suitable adaptor). Please let
the organizing committee know as much in advance as
possible if you expect to have unusually high demands
for wireless network bandwidth, a large display, or other
hardware. Note that commercial marketing activities
are not permitted - presenters wishing to promote com-
mercial or proprietary services or products should con-
tact the Evolution conference about exhibitor space.
Review and acceptance of Software Bazaar submissions
will be on a rolling basis. The deadline for submission
is the morning of the ﬁrst day of the conference (June
21). As the number of Software Bazaar presentation
slots is ﬁnite, we cannot guarantee the availability of
slots up until the day of the conference. We cannot
accept submissions until the open-source requirements
are met.
We ask all submitters of Software Bazaar presentations
to be willing to also serve as reviewers of such, as de-
scribed above.
Software Bazaar demonstrations are only 1 of 5 kinds
of contributed content that iEvoBio will feature. The
other 4 are: 1) Full talks (closed), 2) Lightning talks,
3) Challenge entries, and 4) Birds-of-a- Feather gath-
erings. The Calls for Challenge entries ( http://-
ievobio.org/challenge.html ) and Lightning Talks (same
submission URL as above) remain open, and informa-
tion on the Birds-of-a-Feather session is forthcoming.More details about the program and guidelines for con-
tributing content are available at http://ievobio.org .
You can also ﬁnd continuous updates on the confer-
ence’s Twitter feed at http://twitter.com/iEvoBio .
iEvoBio is sponsored by the US National Evolutionary
Synthesis Center (NESCent) in partnership with the
Society for the Study of Evolution (SSE) and the Soci-
ety of Systematic Biologists (SSB). Additional support
has been provided by the Encyclopedia of Life (EOL).
The iEvoBio 2011 Organizing Committee: Rob Gu-
ralnick (University of Colorado at Boulder) (Co-chair)
Cynthia Parr (Encyclopedia of Life) (Co-chair) Dawn
Field (UK National Environmental Research Center)
Mark Holder (University of Kansas) Hilmar Lapp
(NESCent) Rod Page (University of Glasgow)
(*) iEvoBio and its sponsors are dedicated to promot-
ing the practice and philosophy of Open Source soft-
ware development (see http://www.opensource.org/-
docs/deﬁnition.php ) and reuse within the research com-
munity. For this reason, software to be demon-
strated to conference attendees must be licensed
with a recognized Open Source License (see http://-
www.opensource.org/ licenses/), and be available for
download, including source code, by a tar/zip ﬁle ac-
cessed through ftp/http or through a widely used ver-
sion control system like cvs, Subversion, git, Bazaar, or
Mercurial. Authors are advised that
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Paris MorphologicalEvolution
Jun13-15
*** Paris Interdisciplinary PhD symposium - June 13-
15th, 2011, Paris - Registration deadline May 15th ***
Dear colleague,
We are pleased to announce the 2nd Paris Interdisci-
plinary PhD symposium, organized by PhD students of
the European interdisciplinary graduate school “Fron-
tiers in Life Sciences”.
This symposium aims at gathering young researchers
(master and PhD students, post-docs) from diverse
ﬁelds (biology, physics, chemistry, mathematics, com-
puter science, ˆ a) together with eminent researchers to16 EvolDir June 1, 2011
discuss and interact in a relaxing and friendly atmo-
sphere, at the heart of Paris (France).
The topic of this year is:
“Shapes in living systems”.
During the meeting, speakers will present their research
in a way accessible to scientists coming from diﬀerent
backgrounds in order to lay grounds for relevant and ex-
citing discussions. Lectures will be supplemented with
thematic round tables, poster sessions and informal din-
ner discussions. Emphasis will be put on interactions,
discussions and exchanges of ideas between all partic-
ipants, students and lecturers alike, giving an oppor-
tunity for young scientists to create networks and get
in touch with the international speakers who will be
present.
For more information please visit the website of the
event: http://symposium.fdv-paris.org . In addition,
this website will also provide an easily-accessible plat-
form to foster interactions between participants before,
during and after the symposium, in particular via a
blog section.
The deadline for online registration to the symposium
is May 15th, 2011.
Please feel free to forward this information to anyone
interested.
We hope to see you in Paris in June!
Best regards,
The Paris Interdisciplinary PhD Symposium 2011 team
http://symposium.fdv-paris.org Conﬁrmed speakers:
Jean-Fran ˜AJoanny, Institut Curie Jacques Prost, ES-
PCI Robert D. Goldman, NorthWestern University
Dennis Discher, University of Pennsylvania Eshel Ben-
Jacob, Tel-Aviv University Ron Eglash, Rensselaer
Polytechnic Institute, Audrey Bennett, Rensselaer
Polytechnic Institute Botond Roska, Friedrich Miescher
Institute Kumaran Ramamurthi, US National Cancer
Institute Patrick Eichenberger, New York University
Nicolas Thoma, Friedrich Miescher Institute Anthony
Herrel, Mus ˜Ac/circlecopyrtum National dˆ aHistoire Naturelle Ker-
wyn Casey Huang, Stanford University Linda Smith,
Indiana University
ˆ a and others ˆ a
– Paris Interdisciplinary PhD Symposium 2011 ED
474 Frontiers in Life Sciences http://symposium.fdv-
paris.org/ Movies of last edition of PIPS (2009) :
http://vimeo.com/album/1554718 Facebook <http:/-
/www.facebook.com/event.php?eid=157704287619668
>, Linked In <http://events.linkedin.com/Paris-
Interdisciplinary-PhD-Symposium/pub/634597 >andtweets on @fdvPIPS
Paris Interdisciplinary PhD Symposium
<symposium@fdv-paris.org >
Porto Portugal AncientHumanDNA
Nov23-25
Dear Evoldir Members,
We are happy to announce that the ***call for
abstracts*** concerning the international conference
“COMPARING ANCIENT AND MODERN DNA
VARIABILITY IN HUMAN POPULATIONS” to be
held in Porto (Portugal), November 23-25, 2011 is now
open!
The aim of the conference is to compare the results
emerging everywhere about the genetic variability of
ancient populations with the modern variability of their
supposed descendants, or with populations inhabiting
the same region. Contemporary ancient DNA technol-
ogy allows the typing of several specimens and a pop-
ulation genetics approach of ancient and remote popu-
lations is now emerging. With this meeting we want to
give emphasis to this new dimension of ancient DNA
studies that equally challenges scholars working with
modern or ancient material.
For more details we invite you to check the fol-
lowing website: http://www.mnhn.fr/mnhn/-
ecoanthropologie/Porto2011/Porto2011 index.html
Thank you!
Franz Manni and Jorge Rocha, convenors
Franz Manni <manni@mnhn.fr >
QueensUBelfast Systematics Jul4-8
***** EARLY REGISTRATION CLOSES IN ONE
WEEK *****
8TH SYSTEMATICS ASSOCIATION BIENNIAL
QUEEN’S UNIVERSITY BELFAST 4-8 JULY 2011
Dear Colleagues,
We are pleased to announce that registration is open
for the 8th biennial conference of the Systematics As-June 1, 2011 EvolDir 17
sociation, held for the ﬁrst time in Northern Ireland!
There is an exciting programme that includes both ple-
naries and thematic symposia, as well as a large number
of contributed sessions. Currently scheduled symposia
include:
- Next Generation Systematics - Studying Evolution
and Diversity in an Era of Ubiquitous Genomics -
Arthropod Systematics: are Morphology, Palaeontol-
ogy and Molecules Coming Together? - Algal System-
atics: Where Next? - Advances in Using Museum Spec-
imens and Ancient DNA in Systematics Research
Symposia will include a mixture of talks from invited
speakers and other contributions. The Biennial also
presents excellent opportunities for contributed papers
on any aspect of systematics and is a great forum for
students and young researchers to present their work.
For further details, please see http://www.systass.org/-
biennial2011/ . On behalf of the conference organisers,
we hope to see you there!
Juliet Brodie, President James Cotton, Programme Of-
ﬁcer Peter Olson, Treasurer Christine Maggs, Local Or-
ganiser
Sponsors: The Linnean Society of London, British Phy-
cological Society, Cambridge University Press, Genetics
Society, Queen’s University Belfast
James Cotton Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Well-
come Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge.
CB10 1SA UK
james.cotton@sanger.ac.uk 01223 494864
james.cotton@sanger.ac.uk
Roscoﬀ France Coevolution Sep3-7
DeadlineMay20
We would like to inform you that the deadline for the
registration to the Jacques Monod Conference “Coevo-
lutionary arms race between parasite virulence and host
immune defense: Challenges from state of the art re-
search” 3-7 September 2011 Roscoﬀ (France), has been
extended to May 20th.
A Jacques Monod Conference entitled “Coevolutionary
arms race between parasite virulence and host immune
defense: Challenges from state of the art research” will
be held at the Marine Station CNRS at Roscoﬀ (France)
from 3rd to 7th September 2011.The conference is organized by Gabriele Sorci (Dijon,
France) and Manfred Milinski (Ploen, Germany).
Deadline for application: May 20 2011
Registration fee (including board and lodging)
400 euros for PhD students
600 euros for other participants
Application for registration
The total number of participants is limited to 115 and
all participants are expected to attend for the whole
duration of the conference. Selection is made on the
basis of the aﬃnity of potential participants with the
topics of the conference. Scientists and PhD Students
interested in the meeting should send:
their curriculum vitae the list of their main publications
for the 3 last years the abstract of their presentation
to the*Chairperson of the conference*
(Gabriele.sorci@u-bourgogne.fr) before the dead-
line. After it, the chairman will select the participants.
Except in some particular cases approved by the
Chairperson, it is recommended that all selected
participants present their work during the conference,
either in poster form or by a brief in- session talk. The
organizers choose the form in which the presentations
are made. No payment will be sent with application.
Information on how and when to pay will be mailed in
due time to those selected.
For further information please visit the following web
site ( http://www.cnrs.fr/insb/cjm/2011/sorci e.html )
Gabriele Sorci (Gabriele.sorci@u-bourgogne.fr) and
Manfred Milinski (milinski@mail.evolbio.mpg.de)
gabriele.sorci@u-bourgogne.fr
Shanghai LifeScienceModelling
Sep25-30
Modelling in the Life Sciences, Shanghai 25-30 Septem-
ber 2011
Dear Colleagues,
On behalf of the programme committee, I am pleased
to anounce an International Conference on Modelling
in the Life Sciences. This will be held at Fudan Univer-
sity, Shanghai, China, on 25th - 30th September 2011.
The conference will cover a broad range of subjects18 EvolDir June 1, 2011
that constitute or closely involve the Life Sciences, and
will include topics where mathematical modelling has
proven to be an indispensible way to gain understand-
ing and knowledge of the science.
Registration and the call for abstracts is now open; see
http://math.fudan.edu.cn/ccsb/con11.htm With re-
gards,
David.
David Waxman dwaxman.biology@gmail.com
www.dwaxman.com David Waxman
<dwaxman.biology@gmail.com >
Spain EvolutionEpigenetics
Sep18-23
EPIGENETICS IN CONTEXT: FROM ECOLOGY
TO EVOLUTION CONFERENCE
Senior and emerging researchers including evolution-
ary ecologists, population geneticists and molecular epi-
geneticists are invited to apply for the **Epigenetics
in Context: From Ecology to Evolution Conference**.
This conference is organised by the European Science
Foundation (ESF) in partnership with the European
Molecular Biology Organization. The conference will
take place on **18 - 23 September 2011** in **Sant
Feliu de Guixols, Spain**.
Submission Deadline: **14 June 2011** **Grants
for Young and Early Stage Researchers avail-
able.** Further information can be found be-
low and at: [www.esf.org/conferences/11357]( http://-
www.esf.org/index.php?id=7235 )
**Epigenetics in Context: From Ecology to Evolu-
tion** **18 - 23 September 2011**
**Chaired by:** **Dr. Vincent Colot**, Ecole Nor-
male Sup ˜Ac/circlecopyrtrieure Paris, FR **Dr. Oliver Bossdorf**,
University of Bern, CH
We would very much appreciate it if you would cir-
culate this announcement among your colleagues and
contacts
Programme
Ecological and Evolutionary Epigenetics is a new
ﬁeld of frontier research at the intersection between
molecular genetics and evolutionary ecology. Research
in this ﬁeld is rapidly expanding because of the growingrealization that epigenetic processes, notably those
involving DNA methylation, might be much more
relevant for ecology and evolution than previously ac-
knowledged. This conference would, to the best of our
knowledge, be the ﬁrst to bring together evolutionary
ecologists, population geneticists and molecular epige-
neticists, with the speciﬁc aim of setting ecological and
evolutionary epigenetics on a strong theoretical and
experimental footing. It will cover research on plants,
animals and humans. [[More]]( http://www.esf.org/-
activities/esf-conferences/details/2011/confdetail357/-
357-preliminary-programme.html )
Invited speakers will include
**Malika Ainouche**, University of Rennes 1, FR
**David Baulcombe**, University of Cambridge, UK
**Justin Borevitz**, University of Chicago, US
**D˜Ac/circlecopyrtborah Bourcˆ ahis**, Institut Curie Paris, FR
**Vicki Chandler**, University of Arizona, US **Car-
oline Dean**, John Innes Center, UK **Regis
Ferri ˜Are**, Ecole Normale Sup ˜Ac/circlecopyrtrieure Paris, FR
**Ueli Grossniklaus**, University of Zurich, CH **Car-
los Herrera**, Estaci ˜A3n Biol ˜A3gica de Do ˜A±ana
CSIC, ES **Eva Jablonka**, University of Tel-Aviv,
IL **Frank Johannes**, University of Groningen,
NL **Claudine Junien**, INRA Jouy-en-Josas, FR
**Bill Kelly**, Emory University, US **Rob Mar-
tienssen**, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, US **Or-
trun Mittelsten Scheid**, Gregor Mendel Institute,
AT **Jerzy Paszkowski**, University of Geneva, CH
**St˜Ac/circlecopyrtphane Ronsseray**, University of Paris 6, FR
**Dirk Sch¨ ubeler**, Friedrich Miescher Institute, CH
**Koen Verhoeven**, Netherlands Institute of Ecology,
NL **Jason Wolf**, University of Bath, UK
How to Participate
Attendance is possible only after successful application.
Full conference programme and application form ac-
cessible from [www.esf.org/conferences/11357]( http://-
www.esf.org/index.php?id=7235 ).
A certain number of grants are available for students
and early stage researchers to cover the conference fee
and possibly part of the travel costs.
Closing date for applications: **14 June 2011**
European Science Foundation <conferences-
info@esf.org >June 1, 2011 EvolDir 19
Stockholm
EvolutionEnvironmentChange
Jun13
Dear EvolDir members,
We would like to invite you to a Symposium on Evo-
lutionary Genetics and Environmental Change. The
event will take place on Monday June 13th, 2011 be-
tween 9am-5pm at St¨ ora H¨ orsalen, the Swedish Mu-
seum of Natural History in Stockholm.
Invited speakers: Juha Merila, University of Helsinki,
Finland Ian Barnes, Royal Holloway University of Lon-
don, UK Thomas Gilbert, University of Copenhagen,
Denmark Nils Christian Stenseth, University of Oslo,
Norway Mattias Jakobsson, Uppsala University, Swe-
den Per Palsboll, Stockholm University, Sweden Jakob
Hoglund, Uppsala University, Sweden
Please register by sending an email with name and title
to: meetsymposium@gmail.com Registration deadline:
June 8th. Registration is not mandatory for attendance
but coﬀee/cake will be provided to those who register.
For more information and the detailed program please
follow the link: http://www.zoologi.su.se/Symposium-
Evolutionary Genetics andEnvironmental Change.pdf
The event is organized by the Molecular Ecology and
EvoluTion forum (MEET).
Kind regards,
Eleftheria Palkopoulou, PhD student Molecular Sys-
tematics Laboratory Swedish Museum of Natural His-
tory Box 50007 SE-104 05 Stockholm SWEDEN Phone:
+46 (0)8 5195 5162
Eleftheria.Palkopoulou@nrm.se
UCalifornia SanFrancisco Evolution
and Cancer Jun3-5
We need you! Because both the process of carcino-
genesis and therapeutic resistance are evolutionary pro-
cesses among somatic cells, evolutionary biology is fun-
damental to cancer biology. However, cancer researchhas suﬀered from a lack of evolutionary biologists. We
hope that you will join the ﬁeld. A good way to start
would be with the following conference:
We are excited to announce the First biannual interna-
tional Evolution and Cancer Conference, June 3-5, 2011
at the University of California San Francisco ( http://-
cancer.ucsf.edu/evolution/conference-2011 ). This con-
ference is being hosted by the new Center for Evo-
lution and Cancer at UCSF ( http://cancer.ucsf.edu/-
evolution ) and the Helen Diller Family Comprehen-
sive Cancer Center. Speakers include Robert Gatenby
(Moﬃtt Cancer Center), Carlo Maley (UCSF), Nicole
King (Berkeley), Douglas Brash (Yale), Brian Reid
(Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center), David
Haig (Harvard), Steven Quake (Stanford), John Pepper
(NCI), David Haussler (UCSC), Athena Aktipis (Ari-
zona State), John Tooby (UCSB), Steven Neuberg (Ari-
zona State), AJ Figueredo (U Arizona), Martie Hasel-
ton (UCLA) and Randolph Nesse (U Michigan).
Registration is required by May 25, but is free ( http:/-
/cancer.ucsf.edu/evolution/conference-2011 ) and lunch
will be provided for registered participants. Questions
should be sent to ECC2011@evolutionandcancer.org.
Location and times: 9am-6pm, June 3, Mission Bay
Conference Center, Fisher Hall, University of Califor-
nia, San Francisco
9am-6pm, June 4-5 Mission Bay, Byers Hall, University
of California, San Francisco
Carlo C. Maley, Ph.D. Associate Professor Director,
Center for Evolution and Cancer Helen Diller Family
Comprehensive Cancer Center Department of Surgery
University of California, San Francisco 2340 Sutter St.
Box 1724 San Francisco, CA 94115
Carlo.Maley@ucsfmedctr.org
UCaliforniaSanFrancisco
EvolutionCancer Jun3-5
Evolution and Cancer Conference USCF June 3-5, 2011
First biannual international Evolution and Cancer Con-
ference To inaugurate the world’s ﬁrst Center for Evolu-
tion and Cancer. Register by May 25th. No fee. 9am-
6pm, June 3, Mission Bay Conference Center, Fisher
Hall, UCSF 9am-6pm, June 4-5 Mission Bay, Byers
Hall, UCSF Leading scientists in the evolutionary biol-
ogy of cancer, theoretical biology and human evolution20 EvolDir June 1, 2011
will [...]
Seehttp://evmedreview.com/?p=695 –
Dr. B. Crespi, FRSC Professor of Evolutionary Biol-
ogy Department of Biosciences Simon Fraser Univer-
sity, Burnaby BC V5A1S6 Canada 778 782 3533 phone
778 782 3496 fax http://www.sfu.ca/biology/faculty/-
crespi/ “crespi@sfu.ca” <crespi@sfu.ca >
USheﬃeld EvolutionaryEcol
Sep12-14
The abstract submission deadline for the 2011 meet-
ing of the British Ecological Society is 22nd May 2011.
Submit your abstract here:
http://www.britishecologicalsociety.org/meetings/-
current future meetings/2011 annual meeting/-
index.php This year’s meeting (12-14th September) is
at the University of Sheﬃeld, UK.
An outstanding pair of keynote addresses and excit-
ing thematic sessions are on oﬀer, including sessions
focused on evolutionary ecology:
Keynotes: BES Lecture: Prof. Jules Pretty Tansley
Lecture: Diana Wall
Thematic Topics: – Applying ecological research to ad-
dress food security and sustainable production – Peat-
land Ecosystems – ’Systems Ecology’ approaches to in-
fectious disease – Parasites and Invasion – The role
of soil ecological processes in ecosystem responses to
global change – The ecological causes of evolution –
Invasive Management
Don’t miss what is probably the largest meeting of ecol-
ogists in Europe!
a.beckerman@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
UStAndrews Phylogeny Jun16
Dear Evoldir,
The ﬁrst meeting of the Scottish Phylogeny Discussion
Group will be at the University of St Andrews on 16th
June 2011, 1 PM to 5:30 PM.Professor Dannie Durand (Carnegie Mellon University)
will talk on “Detecting incomplete lineage sorting and
gene duplication in non-binary species trees”.
Her talk will be followed by several presentations by
researchers based more locally.
Attendance is free, but please register in advance. For
information and registration see:
http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/cegg/spdg Best
wishes,
Daniel
– Daniel Barker http://bio.st-andrews.ac.uk/staﬀ/-
db60.htm The University of St Andrews is a charity
registered in Scotland : No SC013532
db60@st-andrews.ac.uk
UStAndrews Phylogeny June16
Dear Evoldir,
Final reminder -
The ﬁrst meeting of the Scottish Phylogeny Discussion
Group will be at the University of St Andrews, UK, on
16th June 2011, 1 PM to 5:30 PM.
Professor Dannie Durand (Carnegie Mellon University)
will talk on “Detecting incomplete lineage sorting and
gene duplication in non-binary species trees”.
Her talk will be followed by several presentations by
researchers based more locally.
Attendance is free, but please register in advance. For
registration and further details, please see:
http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/cegg/spdg Thank
you,
Daniel
– Daniel Barker http://bio.st-andrews.ac.uk/staﬀ/-
db60.htm The University of St Andrews is a charity
registered in Scotland : No SC013532
db60@st-andrews.ac.ukJune 1, 2011 EvolDir 21
WestVirginia MalariaEvolution
Aug5-7
SECOND ANNOUNCEMENT
International Meeting on Malaria and Related Haemo-
sporidian Parasites of Wildlife
Friday August 5th V Sunday August 7th, 2011
National Conservation Training Center, Shepherd-
stown, West Virginia
Sponsored by the NSF Research Coordination Network
for Haemosporida of Terrestrial Vertebrates1
Organized by: Robert Fleischer and Ellen Martinsen,
Smithsonian Institution Ravinder Sehgal, San Fran-
cisco State University
Dear Colleagues,
The NSF-sponsored Research Coordination Network
for Haemosporida of Terrestrial Vertebrates invites you
to participate in a three-day meeting on Malaria and
Related Haemosporidian Parasites of Wildlife ( http:/-
/malariarcn.org/conference ). The meeting includes a
Plenary address by Dr. Andrew Read, and invited
Keynote talks by Drs. Jane Carlton, Sarah Knowles,
Robert Ricklefs, and Gediminas Valkiunas. There will
also be general paper and poster sessions, plus a tax-
onomy training session and roundtable discussions.
Topics for the meeting center around the Haemosporida
of wildlife and include: haemosporidian systematics
and genomics, species limits and deﬁnitions, generalist
versus specialist parasites, evolution of virulence, ge-
ographic distribution of vectors and hosts, host shifts
and emerging infectious diseases, parasite ecology, and
vector-parasite relationships.
The meeting will commence on Friday morning, Au-
gust 5th, with an optional half-day training session on
haemosporidian classical taxonomy. Keynote talks and
general paper and poster sessions will follow on Friday
afternoon, Saturday, and Sunday morning. The meet-
ing will end on Sunday afternoon, August 7th, with op-
tional roundtable discussions on Limits in the Haemo-
sporidians and Parasite Databases.
All food, lodging and meeting events will take place
at the US Fish & Wildlife Services National Conserva-
tion Training Center in Shepherdstown, West Virginia,
a site easily accessible through Washington, DC, areaairports.
Details, including conference logistics, an overview of
events, the program of invited speakers, and the call
for abstracts are available at http://malariarcn.org/-
conference . Further information can also be obtained
from the meeting organizers (email: MalariaRCNMeet-
ing@gmail.com).
The meeting will be preceded by a four-day workshop,
suitable for beginning investigators, on the ﬁeld, mi-
croscopic, molecular, and analytical methods to study
haemosporidian parasites of wildlife. The workshop will
begin early Monday morning, August 1st and continue
through Thursday night, August 4th (email MalariaR-
CNWorkshop@gmail.com).
1 The Research Coordination Network for Haemo-
sporida of Terrestrial Vertebrates (RCN), sponsored
by the U. S. National Science Foundation and funded
through 2015 at the University of Missouri-St. Louis,
was established to promote communication among re-
searchers working on the ecology and evolution of
haemosporidian parasites of vertebrate wildlife popu-
lations (website: www.malariarcn.org ).
“Fleischer, Robert” <FleischerR@si.edu >
Wuerzburg Germany
GermanGeneticsSociety Sep14-16
Dear colleagues and friends,
we kindly would like to inform you about the upcoming
abstract deadline for the Annual Conference of the Ger-
man Genetics Society (GfG) from 14 to 16 September
2011 in W¨ urzburg, Germany.
The conference traditionally is a meeting point for sci-
entists and students from all ﬁelds of Genetics, includ-
ing evolutionary and population genetics. Leading ex-
perts will present latest developments and research re-
sults in plenary and parallel sessions. A comprehensive
poster exhibition will further promote the scientiﬁc ex-
change and discussions.
Detailed information, including preliminary program,
conference venue and abstract submission details can be
found following the link: http://www.conventus.de/-
index.php?id=genetics2011-home The full list of con-
ference topics include:
ˆ a Developmental genetics ˆ a Disease genetics ˆ a Epige-
netics ˆ a Evolutionary genetics ˆ a Molecular genetics ˆ a22 EvolDir June 1, 2011
Neuro- and behavioral genetics ˆ a Population genetics
and Genetic epidemiology
We welcome abstract submissions for one of these
topics in English language online until 1 June
2011 ( http://www.conventus.de/index.php?id=-
genetics2011-registration ).
Please do not hesitate to contact us for further informa-tion and questions. We are looking forward to welcome
you in W¨ urzburg in September!
Prof. Dr. Karl Schmid University of Hohenheim email:
karl.schmid@uni-hohenheim.de
Dr. Bettina Harr Max-Planck Institute for Evolution-
ary Biology email: harr@evolbio.mpg.de
Bettina Harr <bettina.harr@mac.com >
GradStudentPositions
BangorU NGS biomonitoring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
CEFEMontpellier Forestbiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
EAWAG Switzerland EvolutionaryAdaptation . . . . . 24
Frankfurt FungalMetagenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Jena 8 EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
McGillU 2 ChipmunkEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Montpellier MusSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
UAmsterdam MycologyEvolutionCooperation . . . . . 27
UBern AdaptiveRadiations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
UCapeTown AvianSexualSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
UExeter SexualSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29UExeter ViralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
UHull BiologicalInvasions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
ULaval BacterialAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Umea PlantPopGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UPortsmouth EvolutionPlantSignals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
URennes EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
USherbrooke AvianEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
UUppsala SexualDimorphismAgeing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
UWyoming SageGrouseEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
WWU Munster PlantCoevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
BangorU NGS biomonitoring
PhD position: Enhancing freshwater ecosystem
biomonitoring: deﬁning and testing a next generation
sequencing biodiversity identiﬁcation framework.
Applications are invited for a fully-funded PhD
studentship for full time study in the Molecular
Ecology and Fisheries Genetics Laboratory ( http://-
mefgl.bangor.ac.uk ), School of Biological Sciences, su-
pervised by Dr Simon Creer and Prof Gary Carvalho,
to start no later than October 2011.
Summary of project: Biological indicators are used
to estimate the state of the environment, in associ-
ation with management thresholds for management
action. The need for indicators is driven by globalinitiatives in addition to European legislation. The
UK Environment Agency (EA) mandatorily moni-
tors the health of freshwater ecosystems throughout
Wales. However, traditional monitoring approaches
suﬀer from the identiﬁcation bottleneck problem (e.g.
lack of species-level resolution and the mismatch be-
tween ecosystem diversity and traditional morpho-
logical taxonomy). At the MEFGL we have re-
cently developed a DNA-based biodiversity identiﬁca-
tion (metagenetic) approach that facilitates the iden-
tiﬁcation of biodiversity on a massive scale using
next generation sequencing ( http://www.nature.com/-
ncomms/journal/v1/n7/abs/ncomms1095.html ). Such
approaches may be employed to enhance the ﬁeld of
biomonitoring, following the establishment of a DNA
reference library. In this project, in collaboration with
the Environment Agency ( http://www.environment-
agency.gov.uk/ ) we will populate a DNA reference li-
brary for up to 200 macroinvertebrate indicator species
and test the metagenetic approach using controlled con-June 1, 2011 EvolDir 23
ditions. Full funding and project details can be ac-
cessed here http://www.higherskillswales.co.uk/kess/-
vacancies.php.en Summary of school: The success-
ful applicant will join the large, thriving team in the
MEFGL within the School of Biological Sciences Molec-
ular Ecology and Evolution Group, one of the largest
research areas within the University. Housed within the
new Environment Centre Wales Building, the MEFGL
beneﬁts from fully equipped molecular labs, newly re-
furbished aquarium facilities and advanced bioinfor-
matic analysis capability.
Bangor is located in North West Wales, situated in an
area of outstanding natural beauty between Snowdonia
National Park and the sea ( http://www.bangor.ac.uk/-
bangortv/bangorandthearea.php ). International links
are facilitated easily via both Liverpool and Manchester
airports.
The studentship includes a tax free maintenance
grant of 14k per annum, with full-time fees paid
and additional allowances. A requirement of the
studentship is a minimum 30-day non-remunerated
work placement per annum. More information
on the studentship and application process can be
found at www.higherskillswales.co.uk/kess The po-
sition has some fairly speciﬁc eligibility require-
ments (c.f. below). Informal enquiries regard-
ing these and the project should be addressed to
Dr. Simon Creer (s.creer@bangor.ac.uk; http://-
mefgl.bangor.ac.uk/si.php ) in the ﬁrst instance.
The closing date for formal applications will be 20th
May 2011 and short-listed applicants will be required to
attend an interview, initially scheduled to occur within
the week of 6th-10th June, with an anticipated start
date of no later than October 2011.
Eligibility To be eligible to participate in the KESS pro-
gramme, prospective students must be resident in the
Convergence Area (West Wales and the Valleys) on ap-
plication, and be able to work in the Convergence Area
upon completion of the scholarship.
Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS) is a
pan-Wales higher level skills initiative led by Bangor
University on behalf of the HE sector in Wales. It is
part funded by the Welsh Assembly Governments Eu-
ropean Social Fund (ESF) convergence programme for
West Wales and the Valleys.
– Simon Creer Senior Research Fellow Molecular Ecol-
ogy and Fisheries Genetics Lab Environment Centre
Wales Building School of Biological Sciences Bangor
University Bangor Gwynedd LL57 2UW UK
e-mail: s.creer@bangor.ac.uk Tel: +1248 382302
Fax: +1248 382569 Home Page: http:/-/mefgl.bangor.ac.uk/si.php “Creer,Simon”
<s.creer@bangor.ac.uk >
CEFEMontpellier Forestbiodiversity
Title: Forest biodiversity and ecosystem functioning
Objectives: With an unprecedented eﬀort at the Eu-
ropean level, the EU project FunDivEUROPE (Func-
tional signiﬁcance of forest biodiversity in Europe,
http://www.fundiveurope.eu ) funded within the FP7
ENVironment will examine the multifunctional role
(e.g. productivity, carbon and nutrient cycling, wa-
ter cycling, forest pest resistance) of tree diversity for
forest ecosystem functioning. This will be done by in-
corporating existing tree diversity experiments where
tree species have been experimentally planted at dif-
ferent diversity levels, and the establishment of exper-
imental plots within naturally occurring tree diversity
gradients in six diﬀerent regions of Europe harboring
distinct forest ecosystems types (boreal forest - Fin-
land ; mixed broadleved-coniferous forest - Bialowieza,
Poland ; montane mixed broadleaved-coniferous forest-
Romania ; temperate broadleaf forest - Germany ; sub-
mediterranean deciduous forest - Italy ; mediterranean
evergreen forest - Spain). The PhD thesis advertised
here will focus on carbon and nutrient recycling dur-
ing decomposition of aboveground plant litter across
the diﬀerent forest ecosystems.The two main questions
asked in this PhD project are 1) how does tree diver-
sity aﬀect decomposition of organic matter as a ma-
jor determinant of the ecosystem C cycle and nutrient
ﬂuxes, and 2) whether this biodiversity eﬀect diﬀers
among major European forest ecosystems and to what
extent these diﬀerences are related to climatic condi-
tions. This PhD thesis contributes to an integrative
view of the importance of tree diversity for the produc-
tivity and stability of European forest ecosystems under
climate change. Please contact Stephan H¨ attenschwiler
(stephan.hattenschwiler@cefe.cnrs.fr) for further de-
tails.
Funding/Supervisors: A 3-year PhD salary (starting
in fall 2011) is available from the 4-year Euro-
pean research grant FunDivEUROPE. The PhD
project is supervised by Stephan H¨ attenschwiler
(Centre d’Ecologie Fonctionnelle et Evolutive,
CEFE-CNRS Montpellier) http://www.cefe.cnrs.fr/-
fe/staﬀ/Stephan Hattenschwiler.htm and Michael
Scherer-Lorenzen (University of Freiburg, Germany)24 EvolDir June 1, 2011
http://www.biologie.uni-freiburg.de/data/bio2/-
geobotanik/Scherer-Lorenzen/index.html . Applica-
tions: Applications including CV, letter of motivation
and two letters of recommendation from supervi-
sors of previous projects should be send to Stephan
H¨ attenschwiler. The successfull candidate should
be trained in at least one of the scientiﬁc ﬁelds of
plant ecology, functional ecology, biogeochemistry, or
soil ecology. He/she should also be experienced in
experimental approaches, should work easily in a team,
take responsability and contribute to a collaborative
research eﬀort. He/she should be willing to travel
across Europe for ﬁeld work, and should have an
exceptional capacity to communicate in English.
Experience in chemical analyses, and knowledge in
the statistical analysis of complex data sets would be
welcome.
Dr. Stephan H¨ attenschwiler Center of Functional Ecol-
ogy and Evolution CEFE-CNRS 1919, route de Mende
F-34293 Montpellier cedex 5
New phone and fax number! Tel. +33 (0)4
67 61 32 36 Fax +33 (0)4 67 61 33 36 email:
stephan.hattenschwiler@cefe.cnrs.fr
http://www.cefe.cnrs.fr/fe/staﬀ/-
Stephan Hattenschwiler.htm ESF EuroDIVER-
SITY project: http://biocycle.cefe.cnrs.fr/
stephan.hattenschwiler@cefe.cnrs.fr
EAWAG Switzerland
EvolutionaryAdaptation
Eawag, the Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science
and Technology, is a Swiss-based and internationally
networked aquatic research institute within the ETH
domain (Swiss Federal Institute of Science and Technol-
ogy). It is committed to the ecologically, economically
and socially responsible management of water resources
and aquatic ecosystems.
The Department of Aquatic Ecology seeks a Ph.D. stu-
dent to study
Eco-evolutionary responses of stream insects to glacial
retreat
Climate change induced glacial retreat is occurring
rapidly and in a replicated fashion (i.e. over multi-
ple catchments and continents), providing a natural
experiment for studying organismal and species diver-
sity responses to environmental change. The primaryobjective of the project is to understand the determi-
nants of alpine stream macroinvertebrate responses to
climate change induced glacial recession. The study
will be conducted in replicated glacial systems within
Switzerland and focuses on intraspeciﬁc phenotypic and
genetic variation using experimental and population ge-
netics approaches, in combination with spatio-temporal
patterns in species distribution in nature.
The Department of Aquatic Ecology is situated in
D¨ ubendorf (near Z¨ urich) and oﬀers an international
and dynamic environment with broad expertise in ecol-
ogy and evolution. The working language is English.
The project is conducted in collaboration with Dr.
Katja R¨ as¨ anen and Dr. Irene Keller, Deptartement of
Aquatic Ecology, Eawag, Switzerland. A diploma or
M.Sc. (or equivalent) degree in biology or related area
is mandatory. The ideal candidate has a strong interest
in evolutionary ecology, previous experience in popula-
tion genetics and/or experimental studies and is able
to conduct ﬁeld work under (occasionally) challenging
conditions.
The target starting date for the position is September
2011. The application should include an application
letter (with a statement of research interests and rel-
evant experience), a CV and a list of publications (if
any), copies of academic qualiﬁcations and the names
and e-mail addresses of three referees. The deadline for
applications is June 6, 2011.
Applications must be submitted with the online-
application tool, using the following link: http://-
internet1.reﬂine.ch/673277/0048/++publications++/-
1/index.html For further information consult
www.eawag.ch or contact PD Dr. Chris Robin-
son (robinson@eawag.ch).
“Rasanen, Katja” <Katja.Raesaenen@eawag.ch >
Frankfurt FungalMetagenomics
PhD: Frankfurt.Fungal metagenomic
TheSchmitt laboratory at the Biodiversity and Climate
Research Centre (BiK-F),Frankfurt, Germany, oﬀers
the position of a PhD student “Fungal communities on-
poplar” [Ref.#C44]. The successfulcandidate will have
a Master of Science (MSc) or equivalent in evolution-
arybiology, molecular biology, molecular ecology or re-
lated ﬁelds, and a stronginterest in plant-fungal inter-
actions, mycology. Experience in molecularlaboratoryJune 1, 2011 EvolDir 25
techniques and DNA sequence analysis, next generation
sequencing,bioinformatics and statistics are an advan-
tage. Furthermore, good written andoral communica-
tion skills in English, teamwork skills, the willingness
to writeresearch-funding proposals and to learn some
German are essential for arewarding research. Working
language will be English.
We are applyingmetagenomics techniques to questions
of evolution, climate change and fungalcommunity com-
position. The focus of this position will be on the en-
vironmentalinﬂuences and evolutionary processes act-
ing on the communities of leafassociated fungi in bal-
sam poplar. You will use standard molecular genetic-
stechniques as well as next-generation sequencing tech-
nology. Within theBiodiversity and Climate Research
Centre you will have ample opportunities tointeract and
collaborate with faculty, postdocs and PhD students
specializingin a variety of topics, such as biogeogra-
phy, phylogenetics, macroecology,genomics, modeling,
and bioinformatics. Frankfurt am Main is an attractive
cityin beautiful surroundings, with a multicultural pop-
ulation, and manyeducational and recreational oppor-
tunities. The Research Centre BiK-F advocates gender
equality.Women and other underrepresented groups are
strongly encouraged to apply.Equally qualiﬁed severely
handicapped applicants will be given preference. The
contract shall start on August 15 2011 and will be lim-
ited to threeyears. The start date is somewhat ﬂexible.
Salary and beneﬁts are accordingto a public service po-
sition in Germany (TV-H E 13, 50%). The employer is
theSenckenberg Gesellschaft fuer Naturforschung, the
place for work is Frankfurt am Main, Germany. Please
send yourapplication by e-mail attachment, mention-
ing the reference of this position(#C44) and including
(1) a letter outlining your interest in this kind ofre-
search, and your suitability for the post, (2) a detailed
CV, (3) contactdetails of 2 referees and (4) a copy of
your thesis and other relevant exams:Prof. Dr. Dr.
h.c. V. Mosbrugger, Scientiﬁc Coordinator Biodiversity
andClimate Research Centre, Senckenberganlage 25, D-
60325 Frankfurt am Main,Germany. E-mail to Service
and Finances: recruiting@senckenberg.de. Review of
applications will begin on July1, 2011, and continue
until a suitable candidate is identiﬁed.
Informal inquiries to Imke Schmitt
(imke[dot]schmitt[at]senckenberg[dot]de) before the
application are welcome.
imke[dot]schmitt[at]senckenberg[dot]deJena 8 EvolutionaryBiol
8 PhD fellowships in Jena, Germany, available The
International Max Planck Research School (IMPRS)
“The Exploration of Ecological Interactions with
Molecular and Chemical Techniques” in Jena, Ger-
many, is oﬀering 8 PhD fellowships beginning in Jan-
uary 2012. 15 diﬀerent projects are available including
4 projects with a strong evolutionary focus. Students
holding a Master’s degree (or equivalent) in molecular
biology, ecology, zoology, microbiology, chemistry, bio-
chemistry and neuroethology, with a proven record of
success in one of the disciplines and interest in exam-
ining ecological interactions, are eligible to conduct a
doctoral project within the IMPRS. Deadline for appli-
cations is June 26, 2011. For detailed information on
the IMPRS, projects oﬀered and the application proce-
dure please check our website http://imprs.ice.mpg.de
Karin
Karin Groten <kgroten@ice.mpg.de >
McGillU 2 ChipmunkEvolution
We are seeking two highly motivated PhD students to
join our multidisciplinary research team working on dif-
ferent aspects of eastern chipmunks (Tamias striatus)
evolutionary ecology in Southern Quebec, Canada.
The candidates will work with researchers from McGill
University (Murray Humphries), Univ. of Sherbrooke
(Dany Garant and Fanie Pelletier) and UQAM (De-
nis R´ eale) on a research project investigating the fac-
tors maintaining phenotypic and genetic variation in
the wild. More speciﬁcally, depending on the interests
of the candidates, diﬀerent projects are available in-
tegrating aspects of behaviour, ecophysiology, genetics
and population dynamics of chipmunks.
The ﬁeldwork will take place 3-4 months each summer
in southern Quebec. Ideally, the candidate will have
previous research and ﬁeldwork skills (MSc in biology or
equivalent), and experience in handling of small mam-
mals would also be an advantage.
The positions are open and funded for three years as26 EvolDir June 1, 2011
soon as September 2011. Please apply by sending
your CV, including the email addresses of two refer-
ees, and a letter of motivation by 15 August 2011 to
manuelle.landry-cuerrier@mcgill.ca. Candidates that
are eligible to apply for scholarships from NSERC
(Canada), FQRNT (Quebec) or international sources
will be given priority.
Dany Garant Associate Professor Department of Biol-
ogy University of Sherbrooke Sherbrooke QC J1K 2R1
Canada
Tel: (819) 821-8000 ext.63198 Fax: (819) 821-8049
Courriel: Dany.Garant@USherbrooke.ca
http://pages.usherbrooke.ca/dgarant/
dany.garant@usherbrooke.ca
Montpellier MusSpeciation
PhD Research project Genomics of speciation in the
house mouse
We invite applications for a PhD research project on the
*genomics of speciation in the house mouse*, Montpel-
lier, France.
The PhD project will be part of a French Research
Council ANR-funded project which involves scientists
from the UK, USA and France and which addresses the
mechanisms of sexual isolation between the two Euro-
pean subspecies of the house mouse. The student will
more speciﬁcally look at the genetic basis of adaptive
sexual isolation by developing population genomics ap-
proaches which will make use of next generation se-
quencing and associated high throughput methods (see
references below).
We seek for a highly-motivated student with a strong
interest in evolutionary biology and evolutionary ge-
netics, and curiosity for the ﬁeld of speciation research.
Experience in molecular lab techniques would be an
advantage, and skills in or interest for bioinformat-
ics/programming would be a plus. Through this topic
highly tuned towards key questions in evolutionary bi-
ology and cutting edge genomic techniques, the PhD
candidate will have a unique opportunity to acquire im-
portant skills and gain experience in this fast-evolving
ﬁeld of research.
Project key words: speciation, natural and sexual se-
lection, population genomics, assortative mating, ge-
nomics of adaptation, genomics of complex behaviours,Next Generation Sequencing, house mouse
The PhD candidate will be based at the Institute for
Evolutionary Biology - CNRS, Montpellier and will be
supervised by Dr. Carole Smadja and Dr. Pierre Bour-
sot. The Institute for Evolutionary Biology is a world-
leading centre for excellence in evolutionary biology and
is part of dynamic network of research departments
which participate to the outstanding scientiﬁc environ-
ment in biodiversity research in Montpellier.
Criteria of eligibility : candidates must be citizen of a
country member of the European Union or must have
been awarded a Master degree or equivalent in a EU
country or one of the following EU Partner countries
: Andorra, Bulgaria, Croatia, Russia, Iceland, Norway,
Roumania, Swissland, Turkey and Vatican. Applicants
must hold a Master degree or equivalent.
Application : To apply, please send a complete
CV, letter of motivation, names of 2 referees as
a single pdf ﬁle to carole.smadja@univ-montp2.fr or
Pierre.boursot@univ-montp2.fr Deadline for applica-
tion: **7 June 2011**. Candidates are strongly en-
couraged to make informal contact with Carole Smadja
by email before this deadline in order to get important
information about the application procedure. Short-
listed candidates will be invited for an interview in
Montpellier, France, 4 - 8 July 2011.
References from the research group related to the
project: Boursot, P. et al., 1993. The Evolution of
House Mice. Annual Review of Ecology and System-
atics, 24(1), pp.119-152. Boursot, P. et al., 1996. Ori-
gin and radiation of the house mouse: mitochondrial
DNA phylogeny. Journal of Evolutionary Biology, 9(4),
pp.391-415. Smadja, C. & Ganem, G. 2002 Subspecies
recognition in the house mouse: a study of two pop-
ulations from the border of a hybrid zone. Behavioral
Ecology 13, 312-320. Smadja, C., Catalan, J. & Ganem,
G. 2004 Strong premating divergence in a unimodal hy-
brid zone between two subspecies of the house mouse.
Journal of Evolutionary Biology 17, 165-176. Raufaste,
N., Orth, A., Belkhir, K., Senet, D., Smadja, C., Baird,
S. J. E., Bonhomme, F., Dod, B. & Boursot, P. 2005
Inference of selection and migration in the danish house
mouse hybrid zone. Biological Journal of the Linnean
Society 84, 593-616. Smadja, C. & Ganem, G. 2005
Asymmetrical reproductive character displacement in
the house mouse. Journal of Evolutionary Biology 18,
1485-1493. Smadja, C. & Ganem, G. 2008 Divergence
of odorant signals within and between the two Euro-
pean subspecies of the house mouse. Behavioral Ecol-
ogy 19, 223-230. Stapley, J., Reger, J., Feulner, P. G.,
Smadja, C., Galindo, J., Ekblom, R., Bennison, C.,
Ball, A. D., Beckerman, A. P. & Slate, J. 2010 Adapta-June 1, 2011 EvolDir 27
tion Genomics: the next generation. Trends in Ecology
& Evolution.
– Dr. Carole Smadja CNRS researcher
Charg´ ee de recherche CNRS http://www.carole-
smadja.staﬀ.shef.ac.uk/ – Institut des Sciences de
l1Evolution cc065, Universit´ e Montpellier 2 34095
Montpellier France Phone: +33 (0)4 67 14 92 70 –
carole.smadja@univ-montp2.fr
UAmsterdam
MycologyEvolutionCooperation
PhD position: Mutualisms in a changing world
Vacancy number: 1.2011.00124
A PhD position is available at the Department of Eco-
logical Science, Faculty of Earth and Life Sciences, Vrije
Universiteit Amsterdam.
Mutualisms - cooperative interactions between species
- are central to the survival and reproduction of most
organisms on earth. Despite their ubiquity, explaining
the evolutionary persistence of mutualisms remains one
of the greatest challenges for evolutionary biology. This
PhD position will utilize the arbuscular mycorrhizal
mutualism to ask how ecological context modiﬁes the
evolutionary trajectory of plant and fungal partners.
Tasks Daily tasks will involve work in greenhouses, lab-
oratories and with fungal culturing. Student must have
an excellent knowledge of spoken/written English. No
prior knowledge of Dutch is required. The project will
be completed with papers in scientiﬁc journals and
a PhD Thesis. Our group is a multidisciplinary, in-
ternational team of ecologists, evolutionary biologists
and plant physiologists. The student will be primarily
housed in the Institute of Ecological Science, Vrije Uni-
versiteit. Funding will be provided for the student to
travel to labs of other team members (France, Switzer-
land, USA, etc) to learn new techniques.
Requirements Candidates should have a Master’s in
biology, ecology & evolution, microbiology, or related
ﬁelds. Experience in molecular biology, evolution-
ary game theory, isotope labeling, rhizosphere studies
and/or plant physiology is a plus.
Further particulars The appointment will be initially
for 1 year. After satisfactory evaluation of the initial
appointment, it can be extended for a total duration of
4 years. You can ﬁnd information about our excellentfringe beneﬁts of employment at www.workingatvu.nl
Salary The salary will be in accordance with university
regulations for academic personnel, and amounts euro
2.042,- gross per month in the ﬁrst year up to euro
2.612,- in the fourth year (salary scale 8.5) based on a
full-time employment.
Information For additional information please contact:
prof. dr. Toby Kiers Phone number +31 (0)20 5987085
E-mail: toby.kiers@falw.vu.nl
Application Applicants are requested to write a letter
in which they describe their abilities and motivation,
accompanied by a curriculum vitae and one or two ref-
erences.
It is possible to apply by e-mail. Send applications to:
falw-vacatures@falw.vu.nl
Please cc: toby.kiers@vu.nl
Please mention the vacancy number in the e-mail
header
toby.kiers@vu.nl
UBern AdaptiveRadiations
PhD positions at the University of Bern - Population
Genomics of Adaptive Radiation
Two PhD positions are available in the Institute of
Ecology & Evolution, University of Bern, Switzerland.
The projects will investigate the population genomics
of adaptation and speciation in adaptive radiations.
We will investigate diﬀerent stages in the progression
of adaptive radiation, from invasion of a new adap-
tive zone to speciation and niche partitioning. We are
using two of the best vertebrate systems available to-
day for this purpose: East African cichlids and Three-
spined stickleback. High-throughput next-generation
sequencing, speciﬁcally RAD tag sequencing, on an Il-
lumina HiSeq platform, will be used to study the sig-
natures of selection, gene ﬂow, reproductive isolation
and hybridization, as well as the genomic architectures
of adaptation and speciation. Our approach combines
comparative population genomics with natural varia-
tion in the process of adaptation and speciation in repli-
cate adaptive radiations.
We are looking for strongly motivated candidates eager
to address cutting-edge questions in evolutionary biol-
ogy, to analyse NGS data and develop and apply bioin-28 EvolDir June 1, 2011
formatics in an evolutionary genetics context. Candi-
dates have a Masters degree in Biology or Bioinformat-
ics and should possess an aptitude to work with very
large data sets, strong desire to develop new analytical
methods, and ability to work in team. Ideal candidates
will have either a strong grounding in evolutionary bi-
ology with experience in programming and genetic data
processing, or a strong grounding in bioinformatics or
computer science with interest in evolution.
Both students will be supervised by Ole Seehausen, Ar-
jun Sivasundar (Aquatic Ecology Division) and Lau-
rent Excoﬃer (Population Genetics Division). Aquatic
Ecology has its labs in Bern and at the Center for
Ecology, Evolution & Biogeochemistry of Eawag in
Kastanienbaum. Population Genetics has its labs in
Bern. For details see our homepages at http://-
www.iee.unibe.ch/content/index eng.html andhttp://-
www.eawag.ch/forschung/cc/ceeb/index EN. The stu-
dents will also enroll in our new SNSF doctoral program
in Population Genomics ( http://www.unil.ch/pg ) and
beneﬁt from its activities.
Both positions are available to start immediately.
Salary will be according to SNSF guidelines. Ap-
plication deadline is May 13th, but applications will
be considered until the positions are ﬁlled. Please
send an application letter, CV and contact infor-
mation of two references to Susanne Maurer (Su-
sanne.maurer@iee.unibe.ch)
For inquiries please write to either Ole See-
hausen (ole.seehausen@eawag.ch) Laurent Excoﬃer
(laurent.excoﬃer@iee.unibe.ch)
Ole.Seehausen@eawag.ch
UCapeTown AvianSexualSelection
Could you please post the advert below. Many thanks
*MSc research at the Percy FitzPatrick Institute of
African Ornithology, Department of Zoology, Univer-
sity of Cape Town***
*Project: Dominance, sexual selection and conﬂict res-
olution in a cooperative species, the sociable weaver*
We invite applications for the above full-time study
opportunity at the FitzPatrick Institute, a world-
renowned, national Centre of Excellence (CoE) in or-
nithological research with a strong emphasis on post-
graduate studies.The MSc student will integrate an international group
of researchers investigating cooperation in sociable
weavers /Philetairus socius/ near Kimberley, South
Africa.
Sociable weaver individuals cooperate to build a mas-
sive communal nest structure and to raise young. How
is this cooperation achieved and how do individuals de-
cide whether to cooperate or to defect? One explana-
tion for cooperation is kin selection, but this unlikely
explains the maintenance of ’public goods’ that concern
a whole group rather than just kin.
This study will investigate the role of dominance and
sexual selection in cooperation and conﬂict resolution in
the sociable weaver. We will examine two behaviours:
cooperative nest building and cooperative breeding.
The study will involve extensive behavioural observa-
tions to establish dominance hierarchies and whether
there is social segregation or competition for access to
speciﬁc communal tasks (such as helping at the nest or
nest-building activities). In addition, we will investi-
gate the role of melanin-based plumage signals in both
males and females.
The successful applicant will have a BSc Honours or
equivalent, relevant ornithological ﬁeld experience and
a demonstrated ability to work independently.The stu-
dent should have a strong interest in pursuing theoreti-
cal questions in behavioural ecology and motivation for
conducting demanding ﬁeldwork. Experience in han-
dling birds and behavioural observations are important
advantages.
Funding is secured for an annual R75 000 CoE bursary
for two years and for project running costs.
To apply, please send a CV (including your academic
record & names and contact details of three refer-
ees) and a short motivation for why you wish to
undertake this research to Hilary Buchanan at hi-
lary.buchanan@uct.ac.za. For more information on the
FitzPatrick Institute visit www.ﬁtzpatrick.uct.ac.za
For more information on the project, please contact:
Dr Rita Covas (rita.covas@mail.icav.up.pt) or Dr Ren´ e
van Dijk (R.van.Dijk@sheﬃeld.ac.u)
*/Closing date: 1 July 2011/*
UCT is committed to the pursuit of excellence, diver-
sity and redress. Students granted an award to study
at UCT are required to comply with the UCT oﬃcial
and approved policies on postgraduate funding.
Rita Covas <rita.covas@gmail.com >June 1, 2011 EvolDir 29
UExeter SexualSelection
A PhD position to work on genotype by environment
interactions at the University of Exeter is being adver-
tised. Successful applicants will work with Professor
David Hosken and Associate Professor John Hunt us-
ing Drosophila simulans as a model. The position is
only open to UK residents. For more details see:
http://www.exeter.ac.uk/studying/funding/award/-
index.php?id=781 And feel free to contact us for more
information. Best David
Prof DJ Hosken Chair in Evolutionary Biology Direc-
tor, Centre for Ecology & Conservation Biosciences,
College of Life & Environmental Sciences University
of Exeter, Cornwall Campus Tremough, Penryn, TR10
9EZ UK
d.j.hosken@exeter.ac.uk 01326 371843 http://-
biosciences.exeter.ac.uk/staﬀ/index.php?web id=-
david hosken DJ Hosken <D.J.Hosken@exeter.ac.uk >
UExeter ViralEvolution
Fully funded PhD position: Modelling viruses in the
marine ecosystem. University of Exeter.
A PhD position is available with Dr Hywel Williams
in Biosciences, College of Life and Environmental Sci-
ences at the University of Exeter (Streatham Campus,
Exeter) to commence October 2011. The studentship
will cover UK/EU tuition fees for three years, plus an
annual stipend of £13,590pa for three years.
Viruses are the most abundant replicating entities on
the planet, with an estimated 10 ^31 viruses in the
oceans alone. Marine viruses have a number of inter-
esting roles in marine ecosystems, including as a signif-
icant agent of plankton mortality, as carriers of genes
between microbial hosts, and as drivers of evolution-
ary change. However, viruses are not currently well
represented (or often not represented at all) in marine
ecosystem models, so it is hard to quantify the impacts
of viruses on ecosystem function. This has signiﬁcant
implications for predictions of the marine carbon cycle
and its response to global change.This fully funded project will develop theoretical mod-
els of viruses in the marine ecosystem, in order to better
understand their role in ecology, evolution and ecosys-
tem function. The student will join a research team
that is seeking to understand marine microbial ecology
and evolution through the use of sophisticated com-
puter simulations. A key goal of this work is to un-
derstand the response of marine ecosystems to global
change.
This project oﬀers the opportunity to work in the im-
portant and fast-developing area of marine ecosystem
research. The student will develop generic skills in
computational modelling of complex systems, as well
as domain-speciﬁc knowledge of the marine microbial
ecosystem. The ideal candidate will have a strong back-
ground in mathematics, physics, computer science or
another quantitative discipline, as well as a keen inter-
est in biology and environmental science. Within the
broad remit described above there is some ﬂexibility for
the student to direct their own research and we welcome
relevant project proposals.
http://www.exeter.ac.uk/studying/funding/award/-
index.php?id=774 Contact: Hywel Williams
(h.williams@uea.ac.uk)
H.Williams@uea.ac.uk
UHull BiologicalInvasions
Fully funded NERC PhD studentship Predicting bio-
logical invasions: a phylogenetic approach
Department of Biological Sciences University of Hull
Supervisor: Dr. Isabella Capellini Co-Supervisors: Dr.
Chris Venditti, Dr Darren Evans
We are inviting applications for this NERC-funded PhD
studentship to commence in October 2011.
Aim of the project Non-native ’invasive’ species are one
of the major causes of the loss of native biodiversity,
can alter ecosystem dynamics, and lead to considerable
economic impacts. The strategies to cope with inva-
sive species are often planned after the invader is well
established and has colonized large areas; as a result
the costs of eradication are high and often impracti-
cal. Preventing invasion is therefore the best strategy
to avoid longterm environmental damage and economic
costs. However, predicting potential invaders before
they colonize habitats is at present a poorly resolved30 EvolDir June 1, 2011
task. This project will systematically test what biolog-
ical characteristics known invaders share across a range
of phylogenetic lineages, from plants to vertebrates and
invertebrates, using cuttingedge phylogenetic compar-
ative methods. The project will provide (i) compre-
hensive answers to the key question of what biological
traits successful invaders share and identify potential
diﬀerences across lineages and ecosystems; (ii) a much
needed screening tool for predicting the potential for
successful invasion of species introduced in the UK; and
(iii) fundamental information for assessing the invasive
potential of species under diﬀerent scenarios of climate
change.
Working at the cutting edge of ecology and evolution-
ary biology within the Department of Biological Sci-
ences, the student will acquire cutting edge statistical
methods, fundamental theoretical knowledge and criti-
cal thinking skills within a highly stimulating and lively
research environment. The project will also address a
key problem in conservation biology with potential ap-
plications for policy-makers and land managers.
How to apply Entry requirement. A ﬁrst degree (at
least an Upper Second Class Honours or equivalent) in
biology, ecology, conservation biology or related disci-
pline. A Masters degree in a relevant discipline will be
an advantage.
Eligibility. Please refer to the NERC eligibil-
ity criteria http://www.nerc.ac.uk/funding/available/-
postgrad/eligibility.asp Application procedure. To
apply a apply a CV, covering letter and names
of 2 referees should be sent to Sarah Richards
(S.Richards@hull.ac.uk) by 6th June 2011.
To apply a apply a CV, covering letter and names
of 2 referees should be sent to Sarah Richards
(S.Richards@hull.ac.uk) by 6th June 2011.
Informal enquiries to: Isabella Capellini
(I.Capellini@qub.ac.uk).
- – Isabella Capellini, PhD Lecturer in Ecology
*** NOTE CHANGE OF ADDRESS FROM 1st AU-
GUST 2011 ***
Department of Biological Sciences University of Hull
Cottingham Road, Kingston-upon-Hull HU6 7RX, UK
– Present address
School of Biological Sciences Queen’s University Belfast
97 Lisburn Road, Belfast BT9 7BL (U. K.)
Phone: +44 (0)28 9097 2181
Personal website: http://www.qub.ac.uk/bb/People/-
DrICapellini/ Evolutionary Architecture of Repro-
duction website & database: http://www.dur.ac.uk/-reproductionproject/ Phylogeny of Sleep Database
http://www.bu.edu/phylogeny/ Isabella Capellini
<i.capellini@qub.ac.uk >
ULaval BacterialAdaptation
PhD: Qu´ ebec. Lacustrine bacterial metagenomic and
metatranscriptomic. The Derome laboratory at the In-
stitut de Biologie Int´ egrative et des Systems (IBIS),
Laval University, Qu´ ebec, Canada, oﬀers the position
of a PhD student “Rapid adaptive strategies of La-
custrine bacterial communities”. The successful candi-
date will have a Master of Science (MSc) or equivalent
in evolutionary biology, molecular biology, molecular
ecology or related ﬁelds, and a strong interest in net-
work of functional interactions in bacterial communi-
ties. Experience in molecular laboratory techniques and
DNA sequence analysis, next generation sequencing,
bioinformatics and statistics are an advantage. Fur-
thermore, good written and oral communication skills
in English, team work skills, the willingness to write
research-funding proposals and to learn some French
are essential for a rewarding research. Working lan-
guage will be French or English.
We are applying metatranscriptomic and metagenomics
techniques to questions of evolution, climate change
and bacterial communities functional capabilities. The
focus of this position will be on the environmen-
tal inﬂuences and evolutionary processes acting on
the communities of lacustrine bacterial communities.
You will use standard molecular genetic techniques as
well as next-generation sequencing technology (Roche
454). Within the Institut de Biologie Int´ egrative et
des Systems (IBIS) you will have ample opportuni-
ties to interact and collaborate with faculty, postdocs
and PhD students specializing in a variety of top-
ics, such as molecular evolution, functional genomics,
host/pathogen interactions, phylogeography, phyloge-
netics, ecology, modeling, and bioinformatics. Qu´ ebec
is an attractive city in beautiful surroundings, with
many educational and recreational opportunities (Hik-
ing, cross-country and downhill skiing, mountain bik-
ing, rafting, kayaking, whale watchingS).
The Laval University advocates gender equality. The
contract shall start on September 2011 and will be lim-
ited to three years. The start date is somewhat ﬂexible.
Salary and beneﬁts are according to a public service
position in Canada (NSERC). The place for work isJune 1, 2011 EvolDir 31
Qu´ ebec-City, QC, Canada.
Please send your application by e-mail attachment,
mentioning the reference of this position and includ-
ing (1) a letter outlining your interest in this kind of
research, and your suitability for the post, (2) a de-
tailed CV, (3) contact details of 2 referees and (4) a
copy of your thesis and other relevant exams: nico-
las[dot]derome[at]bio[dot]ulaval[dot]ca. Review of ap-
plications will begin on June 15, 2011, and continue
until a suitable candidate is identiﬁed. Informal in-
quiries by e-mail before the application are welcome.
Nicolas Derome, Professeur adjoint D´ epartement de Bi-
ologie Chaire de recherche du Canada en G´ enomique et
Conservation des Ressources Aquatiques
Institut de Biologie Int´ egrative et des Syst` emes (IBIS)
Pavillon Charles-Eug` ene Marchand, bureau 1255 1030,
avenue de la M´ edecine Universit´ e Laval, Qu´ ebec QC
G1V 0A6 Canada
T´ el´ ephone : 1 (418) 656-7726 T´ el´ ecopie : 1 (418) 656-
2043
Courriel : nicolas.derome@bio.ulaval.ca
Internet : http://www.bio.ulaval.ca/no cache/-
departement/professeurs/ﬁche desprofesse
urs/professeur/11/240/ http://www2.bio.ulaval.ca/-
louisbernatchez/laboderome fr.htm
Nicolas.Derome@bio.ulaval.ca
Umea PlantPopGenomics
PhD position in population genomics of local adap-
tation in European aspen (Populus tremula) Ume˚ a
Plant Science Centre, Ume˚ a University, Sweden
(www.upsc.se )
We are looking for a PhD student for a project aimed
at investigating the genetic basis of naturally occurring
variation in phenology n in European aspen (Populus
tremula) and association with. The project is based on
data from whole-genome re-sequencing of a reference
population consisting of approximately 120 individu-
als. The work will primarily involve bioinformatic and
statistical analyses, but there are also possibilities for
doing ﬁeld work, greenhouse and lab experiments. The
project is run in collaboration with a number of research
groups at Ume˚ a Plant Science Centre. The position is
available from September 2011 although another start-
ing date can be negotiated.The PhD student will be supervised by professor
P¨ ar Ingvarsson (UPSC, Department of Ecology and
Environmental Science, http://www.emg.umu.se/-
english/about-the-department/staﬀ/view-person/-
?uid=pain0001&guise=anst2 ) and co-supervised
by Dr. Nathaniel Street (UPSC, Department
of Plant Physiology, www.plantphys.umu.se/-
english/about-the-department/staﬀ/view-person/-
?uid=rona0006&guise=anst2 ). The candidate should
have a solid background in in biology. Working
knowledge of computational biology (bioinformat-
ics/statistics) in highly desirable. Excellent proﬁciency
in English is required, as English is the working
language in the research group and at the depart-
ment. For inquiries about the position, please contact
Professor P¨ ar Ingvarsson, +46-(0)90-786 7414, email:
par.ingvarsson@emg.umu.se
The application should include a short description of
your research interests and why you are interested in
the position, CV, certiﬁcates from higher education,
copies of Bachelors/Masters thesis, and contact infor-
mation for 3 reference persons. Please note that appli-
cations should be sent electronically (in PDF format)
to jobb@umu.se. Mark you application with reference
number 313-426-11. The deadline for application is
May 31, 2011.
– P¨ ar K. Ingvarsson Professor, Evolutionary Genetics
Ume˚ a Plant Science Centre Department of Ecology and
Environmental Science Linneaus v¨ ag 6 Ume˚ a Univer-
sity, SE-901 87 Ume˚ a, Sweden tel. +46-(0)90-786-7414,
fax. +46-(0)90-786-6705
par.ingvarsson@emg.umu.se
UPortsmouth EvolutionPlantSignals
PhD Studentship at University of Portsmouth, UK.
(Sorry, only UK and European (EU/EEA) candidates)
The Ecology of Honesty: Evolution of Plant-Insect Sig-
nalling in Dalechampia vines.
Applications are invited for competition-funded PhD
Studentship in the School of Biological Sciences at the
University of Portsmouth. Portsmouth, UK, commenc-
ing on the 1st October 2011. (Stipend ca. 13,000
pounds per year, 3 years)
The evolution of signalling systems that determine the
ecology and evolution of plant-animal relationships is
poorly understood, yet these systems play important32 EvolDir June 1, 2011
roles in the origin and maintenance of biodiversity.
Plants signal the availability of rewards to mutualists,
while at the same time attempting to ±minimise at-
traction of enemies. Stabilising selection may often
result from the net eﬀect of these two conﬂicting se-
lective pressure, although this has only rarely been
documented. Floral signalling systems include bright
colours and fragrances to attract pollinators. Fully hon-
est advertisements signal accurately the presence of pol-
linator rewards (e.g. nectar, pollen, or ﬂoral resin for
nest construction), whereas dishonest advertisements
allow plants to attract and exploit pollinators with-
out providing rewards. There is a continuum between
these extremes, however, as measured by the correla-
tion between advertisement intensity ±and amount of
reward available. With few exceptions, the honesty of
signalling systems is poorly understood, even though it
not only aﬀects the nature of the trophic relationships,
but also potentially controls the evolutionary dynam-
ics of plant-animal relationships. The pollinator-signal
systems employed by plants fall into two main groups:
visual (colour, shape) and olfactory (fragrances), and
both vary dramatically across the study system we are
investigating.
The purpose of this study is to understand the evo-
lutionary dynamic of signal diversity in Dalechampia
vines (Euphorbiaceae), assessing evolutionary trends in
ﬂoral bract and resin pigmentation and fragrance pro-
duction, in the context of bee-vision physiology, insect
learning, and overall honesty/dishonesty of signalling
to both pollinators and herbivores, in relation to re-
wards and defences. This study is one of the ﬁrst to
elucidate the evolution of signalling systems by assess-
ing the eﬀects of signal type on both reproductive ﬁt-
ness in the ﬁeld and, using molecular-phylogenetic re-
lationships in the genus, on diversiﬁcation rates and
trait-transition rates. The PhD student collaborating
on this project will work with Prof Scott Armbruster
and be involved in ﬁeldwork in the tropics and green-
house and lab work at the University of Portsmouth and
the Norwegian University of Science and Technology
(Trondheim). Additional expertise and training will
come from project collaborators in insect-vision neuro-
physiology, bee behaviour, comparative methods and
evolutionary theory, based at other universities in the
UK, Norway, and the US.
Informal inquiries can be directed to
scott.armbruster@port.ac.uk or +44 (0)23 9284
2081.
Application deadline 30th June 2011.
You can apply online, by email or by post to: Faculty
of Science, Faculty Admissions Centre, St. Michael’sBuilding, White Swan Road, Portsmouth, Hampshire,
PO1 2DT. Tel: +44 (0)23 9284 5550 Email : sci-
pgrad@port.ac.uk
References: Armbruster, W. S. 2002. Can indirect se-
lection and genetic context contribute to trait diver-
siﬁcation? A transition-probability study of blossom-
color evolution in two genera. Journal of Evolutionary
Biology 15: 468-486. Armbruster, W. S., L. Anton-
sen, and C. Plabon. 2005. Phenotypic selection on
Dalechampia blossoms: honest signaling aﬀects polli-
nation success. Ecology 86: 3323-3333. Bolstad G.H.,
W.S. Armbruster, C. Pelabon, R. Perez-Barrales, T.F.
Hansen. 2010. Direct selection at the blossom level
on ﬂoral reward by pollinators in a natural population
of Dalechampia schottii: Full-disclosure honesty? New
Phytologist 188: 370-384.
– W Scott Armbruster University of Portsmouth, UK
& University of Alaska, USA
W Scott Armbruster <wsarmbruster@alaska.edu >
URennes EvolutionaryBiol
Call for application2011: PhD Studentship in Evolu-
tionary Biology at the University of Rennes 1
*Title: Modeling demo-genetic interaction in socially
structured populations*
Contact: Nelly M´ enard (Nelly.menard@univ-
rennes1.fr) or Pascaline Le Gouar
(pascaline.legouar@univ-rennes1.fr), UMR 6553
EcoBio, University of Rennes 1 , France
Application to VAS doctoral school before the 10 ^th
of June ( http://www.vas.univ-rennes1.fr/en/home/-
competitive-admission-process/ )
*Scientiﬁc context:*
On the one hand, several studies have shown the impact
of the social structure of animal populations on their
genetic structure and dispersal. On the other hand so-
cial interactions are known to aﬀect survival and re-
production of individuals. Only an explicit integration
of demographic and genetic mechanisms may help un-
derstand their interactions and to discriminate their re-
spective impact on the functioning of populations, but
it is rarely performed. Understanding these interactions
in species with complex social structure and their inﬂu-
ence on the response of populations to environmental
perturbations is crucial for understanding the evolutionJune 1, 2011 EvolDir 33
of sociality.
*Topic / mains steps/ methodological approaches:*
The thesis will focus on two main issues:
-How does social structure inﬂuence the interactions be-
tween genetic and demographic processes in small pop-
ulations?
-What is the role of social structure in population re-
sponses to anthropogenic disturbances such as fragmen-
tation of the landscape or population crashes?
The main hypothesis of this thesis is that the social
structure of a population inﬂuences the life history
traits and ﬁtness of individuals through demo-genetic
interactions, the intensity would vary with the size of
the population, temporal and spatial scales and inten-
sity of environmental selection pressures.
The project will be structured around the develop-
ment of demo-genetic models mimicking the dynam-
ics of populations with diﬀerent degrees of social struc-
tures. Based on this model, diﬀerent scenarios on possi-
ble interactions between genetic and demographic pro-
cesses will be ﬁrst considered according to published
case of studies or species studied in UMR Ecobio (pri-
mate populations, for example). Secondly, the eﬀects of
population size, environemental selection pressure will
be studied. The models will then be implemented into
spatially explicit version to examine if any conﬂicts
between demo-genetic processes occur among spatial
scales.
The approach will be the development of stochastic
models of population dynamics that explicitly link de-
mography, genetics and social structure. The models
can be validated using data from long-term monitoring
of two primate species with contrasting social struc-
tures (Western lowland gorilla and Barbary macaque),
both species experience anthropogenic threats.
*Scientiﬁc and technical skills require by the candi-
date:*
The candidate must have a solid background in evolu-
tionary ecology and have experiences in modeling bio-
logical processes.
–
Pascaline Le Gouar MC Universit´ e Rennes 1 UMR 6553
ECOBIO Station Biologique Salle 112 35380 Paimpont
France
tel: +33(0) 2 99 61 81 73 mail: pascaline.legouar@univ-
rennes1.fr
http://www.sbp.univ-rennes1.fr http://-
ecobio.univ-rennes1.fr/ Pascaline Le Gouar<pascaline.legouar@univ-rennes1.fr >
USherbrooke AvianEvolution
I am a seeking a motivated PhD student to join my re-
search group in the Department of Biology at the Uni-
versity of Sherbrooke ( http://pages.usherbrooke.ca/-
dgarant/ ). The Department has an outstanding group
of researchers in ecology and evolution and provides a
dynamic and stimulating environment for graduate stu-
dents.
The proposed project will investigate phenotypic and
genetic correlations between reproductive traits and ﬁt-
ness in a long term studied population of tree swallows
(Tachycineta bicolor) in southern Qu´ ebec, Canada.
The project will beneﬁts from a genetic pedigree gath-
ered over 8 years, which includes data collected over
10 000 individuals, to unravel the possible genetic con-
straints on population’ evolutionary potential, and to
assess links among traits and ﬁtness in contrasted en-
vironments.
The ﬁeldwork in southern Quebec will take place 2-3
months each summer. Ideally, the candidate will have
previous research and ﬁeldwork experiences and skills
in handling birds would also be an advantage. A good
background in evolutionary ecology and/or quantita-
tive genetics is also desirable.
The position is open and funded for three years, start-
ing as soon as September 2011. Please apply by sending
your CV, including the email addresses of two refer-
ees, and a letter of motivation by 5 August 2011 to
Dany.Garant@Usherbrooke.ca
—–
Je recherche un ´ etudiant au PhD pour se join-
dre ` a mon groupe de recherche au d´ epartement
de biologie de l’Universit´ e de Sherbrooke ( <
http://pages.usherbrooke.ca/dgarant/ > http://-
pages.usherbrooke.ca/dgarant/ ). Le d´ epartement
poss` ede un groupe de recherche de haut niveau en
´ ecologie et ´ evolution et procure un environnement
stimulant pour les ´ etudes gradu´ es.
Le projet propos´ e portera sur l’analyse des corr´ elations
ph´ enotypiques et g´ enotypiques entre traits reproduc-
teurs et ﬁtness dans un syst` eme d’´ etude ` a long terme
de l’Hirondelle bicolore (Tachycineta bicolor) dans le
Sud du Qu´ ebec, Canada. Le projet b´ en´ eﬁciera d’un
pedigree g´ en´ etique couvrant une p´ eriode de 8 ans et34 EvolDir June 1, 2011
de donn´ ees r´ ecolt´ ees sur plus de 10 000 individus, pour
´ etablir le potentiel ´ evolutif de la population, les con-
traintes g´ en´ etiques possibles et les liens entre traits et
ﬁtness sous des conditions environnementales variables.
Les travaux de terrain se d´ erouleront pendant 2-3
mois ` a chaque ´ et´ e. Id´ ealement, le candidat aura de
l’exp´ erience avec les travaux de terrain, avec la manip-
ulation d’oiseaux et de bonnes connaissances en ´ ecologie
´ evolutive et/ou g´ en´ etique quantitative.
Le poste est ﬁnanc´ e pour 3 ans ` a compter de septembre
2011 au plus tˆ ot. Veuillez envoyer un CV, une lettre de
motivation et les coordonn´ ees de deux r´ ef´ erences avant
le 5 aoˆ ut 2011 ` a Dany.Garant@Usherbrooke.ca
—–
Dany Garant Associate Professor Department of Biol-
ogy University of Sherbrooke Sherbrooke QC J1K 2R1
Canada
Tel: (819) 821-8000 ext.63198 Fax: (819) 821-8049
Courriel: Dany.Garant@USherbrooke.ca
http://pages.usherbrooke.ca/dgarant/
UUppsala SexualDimorphismAgeing
PhD position in the evolution of sex diﬀerences in age-
ing is available at the Department of Animal Ecology,
Uppsala University, Sweden in Alexei Maklakov’s lab.
The position is funded by an ERC Starting Grant 2010.
The project will focus on two main questions : i) how
sex-speciﬁc selection produces sexual dimorphism and
ii) how the shared genetic machinery constrains the
sexes from reaching their sex-speciﬁc optima. The
main study species is the dioecious nematode worm
Caenorhabditis remanei, although classic model organ-
isms such as seed beetles and fruiﬂies are readily avail-
able. The project will combine the experimental evolu-
tion and behavioural ecology approach with molecular
methods. There is a possibility to develop and apply an
RNAi knockdown technique in collaboration with Dr.
Andrea Hinas from Biomedical Centre and to study the
interactions between sex, learning, memory and ageing
in collaboration with Dr. Niclas Kolm from our depart-
ment. The main objective is to understand the evolu-
tion of sex diﬀerences in lifespan, and in reproductive
and cognitive ageing.
Applicants should have a MSc (or equivalent) in biol-
ogy/ecology and a strong interest in evolutionary bi-ology. Special interest in the evolution of life-histories
and/or sexual selection is a plus. The project is su-
pervised by Alexei Maklakov ( http://www.ebc.uu.se/-
Research/IEG/zooeko/People/Alexei Maklakov/ ) and
the candidate will receive her/his postgraduate train-
ing within the postgraduate school at the Evolution-
ary Biology Centre (EBC) (see http://www.ebc.uu.se/-
index eng.php ). The candidate will join an interpro-
gram Ageing Research Group ( http://www.ebc.uu.se/-
Research/groups/ageing/?languageId=3 ), which will
open many opportunities for collaborative projects with
other group members. The working atmosphere is in-
ternational with English as working language. EBC
constitutes an exciting arena for multidisciplinary re-
search in evolutionary biology in a broad sense, with
research programs including ecology, systematics, ge-
netics, genomics, and developmental biology. Uppsala
University is the oldest university in Scandinavia and
the city of Uppsala is a vibrant student town with beau-
tiful surroundings conveniently situated 40 minutes by
train from Stockholm. Students gave Uppsala Univer-
sity the highest rating of all universities in Europe in
biology in 2010.
This position is ﬁnanced for four full years, and the suc-
cessful candidate will receive a postgraduate fellowship
the ﬁrst year (15.500 SEK/month) and a postgraduate
position year 2-4 (22.400 - 25.100 SEK/month).
Important points: The position is open until ﬁlled. To
start in October, 2011, but this is ﬂexible.
Applications should include: 1) short letter of interest
/ background (2 pages max); 2) complete CV; 3) a de-
scription of undergraduate training; 4) a copy of under-
graduate degree and 5) the names and e-mail addresses
of 2-3 referees. Applications should be sent by e-mail to
Alexei.Maklakov@ebc.uu.se. Alternatively, send hard-
copies to the following address: Alexei Maklakov, Ani-
mal Ecology, EBC, Norbyv¨ agen 18D, Uppsala Univer-
sity, SE-752 36 Uppsala, Sweden. Please feel free to
contact me via e-mail for more information.
–
Dr Alexei A. Maklakov Department of Animal Ecology
Evolutionary Biology Centre Uppsala University Nor-
byv¨ agen 18D Uppsala, SE-752 36 Sweden
Tel: +46 18 471 2702 Fax: +46 18 471 6484
Home page: http://www.ebc.uu.se/Research/IEG/-
zooeko/People/Alexei Maklakov/ Ageing Research
Group page: http://www.ebc.uu.se/Research/groups/-
ageing/ Alexei.Maklakov@ebc.uu.seJune 1, 2011 EvolDir 35
UWyoming SageGrouseEvolution
Graduate Assistantship: Sage Grouse Connectivity and
Energy Development University of Wyoming
I have a newly funded project to determine how energy-
related management activities (oil/gas development
and subsequent reclamation) inﬂuence distribution and
functional connectivity of Sage Grouse in Wyoming.
Isolated populations of Sage Grouse are unlikely to
continue to persist over time. Evaluating reclamation
and conservation priorities in relation to distribution
and functional connectivity of Sage Grouse is a vital
need. To address this need, the project will integrate
models of Sage Grouse distribution and functional con-
nectivity, then use this information create tools that
help managers prioritize reclamation and conservation
activities. This project will rely on both innovative
niche models (distribution) and landscape genetic ap-
proaches (functional connectivity). The goals of this
project are to provide science-based management tools
and technology-transfer to support Sage Grouse mitiga-
tion actions (avoiding impacts and focusing reclamation
eﬀorts on high-value sites).
I am recruiting a PhD student for this project starting
in August 2011. The project includes a highly com-
petitive 12-month stipend, tuition, fees, health insur-
ance, and research funds. The selected student will
be in the interdepartmental Program in Ecology (PiE;
www.uwyo.edu/pie ). Prospective students with a back-
ground in ecology, natural resources, conservation bi-
ology, landscape ecology and/or population genetics
are encouraged to apply. Evidence of robust quan-
titative/analytical skills (including spatial modeling),
strong work ethic, passion for investigating scientiﬁc
questions, ability to work under harsh ﬁeld conditions
and collaborative skills will all be vital for the success
of potential candidates.
Applications should be submitted by June 10th (early
application is strongly encouraged as review of applica-
tions will begin immediately). Applicants should meet
the following minimum requirements: MS degree or
other evidence of independent research, total GRE of
1100, and undergraduate GPA of 3.3 (or MS degree).
Applications should include: cover letter with state-
ment of research interests, CV, transcripts, GRE scores,
and contact information for three references. Please be
sure to include any evidence GIS, statistical modelingand/or population genetic analysis skills. The packet
can be sent as a pdf attachment to Dr. Melanie Mur-
phy (melanie.murphy@uwyo.edu). Please contact me if
you have any questions.
University of Wyoming ( www.uwyo.edu ) is ideally lo-
cated in Laramie, Wyoming with easy access to excel-
lent outdoor recreation opportunities and beautiful ﬁeld
sites. In addition, the campus is only 1 hour from Fort
Collins and 2 hours from Denver, CO.
“Melanie A. Murphy” <mmurph23@uwyo.edu >
WWU Munster PlantCoevolution
*PhD position, WWU M¨ unster.*
*The co-evolution of immunity and development in
plants*
For eﬀective crop improvement, breeders must be able
to select on relevant phenotypic traits without compro-
mising yield. This project proposes to investigate the
evolutionary consequences of ﬂowering time modiﬁca-
tions on a second trait of major importance for plant
breeding: immunity. This will have implications both
for understanding cross-talks between ﬂowering time
and defense network and for developing eﬃcient breed-
ing strategies.
There is clear evidence that plant maturity inﬂuences
levels and eﬀectiveness of defense. Theoretical models
actually predict that changes in life-history can mod-
ulate the balance between costs and beneﬁts of immu-
nity. Simultaneously, actors of the immune system have
often been observed to alter ﬂowering time.
Two alternative and possibly complementary hypothe-
ses can explain this link: genetic constraints due to the
pleiotropic action of players in either systems, or co-
evolution, if ﬂowering-time changes modulate the cost-
beneﬁt balance of immunity. We will conduct ﬁeld as-
says in /Arabidopsis thaliana,/ to diﬀerentiate the ac-
tion of the two explanatory hypotheses. Using tran-
scriptome analyses, we will identify defense genes asso-
ciating with ﬂowering time modiﬁcation (f-t-a defense
genes). We will quantify their expression along the as-
say and test whether it varies with both ﬂowering time
and ﬁtness. We will further test whether ﬂowering time
and immunity interact to determine yield in tomato and
potato.
The IEB in M¨ unster is unique in Germany ( http://-36 EvolDir June 1, 2011
ieb.uni-muenster.de/ ). Its marked focus on Evolution
places it at the forefront of education and research in
diverse sectors of evolutionary biology, from evolution-
ary ecology to phylogenetics, population genetics and
evolutionary bioinformatics. This interdisciplinary en-
vironment, the diversity of model organisms as well as
close proximity to world class research at the nearby In-
stitute of Botany provides a unique setting that is about
to be even further reinforced by a Graduate School of
Evolution.
*M¨ unster is a multi-faceted city. It is a city of sci-
ence and learning. Westphalia’s longstanding regional
capital is a young city; one of 7 of its inhabitants is
either studying or employed by university and half of
its inhabitants are below 30 years of age. Compared
to other German cities, M¨ unster is a forerunner in the
ﬁeld of environment and climate protection. It is Ger-
many’s bicycle metropolis with more bikes than inhabi-
tants, more than 250 kilometres of bicycle paths and an
underground bicycle parking area in front of the main
train station. High-tech and traditional trade coexist
in this city, as well as baroque noble residences andmodern architecture, or a historic city centre and pro-
gressive urban development. This is how M¨ unster can
guarantee you the highest quality of life. *
**
*We are looking for a candidate with a strong back-
ground in either plant physiology, evolutionary biol-
ogy or statistical genetics, documented by a master
degree, and with a strong motivation for the assess-
ment of plant performance in the ﬁeld. A background
in agricultural sciences is also welcome. The project is
part of SPP1530 on Flowering time control. Funding is
guaranteed for three years.**Applicants should send a
detailed CV and the contact information of three refer-
ees to Prof. Juliette de Meaux (juliette.de.meaux@uni-
muenster.de). Review of applications will begin imme-
diately and until position is ﬁlled. The position is avail-
able from July 1 ^st , but a later starting date can be
negotiated. Fluency in German is NOT a pre-requisite
for joining the lab. *
–
Juliette de Meaux <jmeau 01@uni-muenster.de >
Jobs
Dijon EvolutionaryBiology 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
Helsinki ComputationalBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
LundU SystematicBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
MaxPlanckInst Leipzig ImagingHumanEvolution . . 39
Moorea CoralReefs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
NewMexicoStateU LabCoordinator GenomeSequenc-
ing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
NewZealand ComputEvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
NHM Paris BacterialGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
OceanGenomeLegacy BioCollectionsDataSpecialist 41
PennStateU MultiMedia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
QueenMaryU Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42StanfordU FieldLabAssist SticklebackEvolution . . . . 42
TrinityCollege Dublin Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UBristol UK Statistics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UCalifornia Riverside FungiDB programmer . . . . . . . 44
UChicago Programmer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UGlasgow 2 EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UIllinoisUC BiodiversityInformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
UMainz EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
UPennsylvania LabTech AntEvolutionaryGenetics . 47
UppsalaU GroupLeader MolEvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Dijon EvolutionaryBiology 2Evolution, Morphology, Evolutionary Biology, Paleon-
tology
The Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes (EPHE) opens a
/lessmuchMaˆ ıtre de conf´ erences /greatermuchposition (permanent posi-June 1, 2011 EvolDir 37
tion of Assistant Professor) at the /lessmuchPal´ eobiodiversit´ e
& Evolution /greatermuchlab, part of Biog´ eosciences unit (UMR
CNRS) in Dijon (Burgundy, France).
Candidates are expected to develop a research pro-
gram on the study of mechanisms leading to the emer-
gence of particular phenotypes by favoring multi-scale
approaches from the microevolutionary level (function,
adaptation) up to the macroevolutionary level (historic
contingency). The understanding of complex biological
systems can be now approached through the concept of
shape modularity and integration providing a relevant
link between developmental processes and evolution.
The position concerns either a paleontologist or an evo-
lutionary biologist (ecology, population biology) consid-
ering his(her) project at the interface between micro-
and macro-evolutionary researches. Solid knowledge in
morphometry and statistics are expected.
Teaching program will include Evolution, Morphom-
etry, Paleontology courses, in particular in the Mas-
ter BSE (Biologie Sant´ e Ecologie) of the Ecole Pra-
tique des Hautes Etudes and in the lectures given in
Pal´ ebiodiversit´ e & Evolution lab in Dijon.
The review process will be held in Late Spring 2011,
and the position will begin end of 2011 (pending
ﬁnal decision of French Academy of Sciences). The
oﬃcial announcement and the list of requested
items for formal application is now posted on at the
EPHE web site ( http://www.ephe.sorbonne.fr/ or
http://www.ephe.sorbonne.fr/actualites/recrutement-
enseignants-chercheurs-2011.html ). Please follow the
recommendations and send all the requested ﬁles to
the following address: svt@ephe.sorbonne.fr
For any scientiﬁc or teaching questions, please contact :
Dr. S. Montuire (head of the Pal´ eobiodiversit´ e & Evo-
lution/greatermuchlab or Dr. M. Veuille (head of the Life and
Earth Sciences Section of EPHE).
Sophie.Montuire@u-bourgogne.fr T´ el : +33
(0)3.80.39.63.47 http://www.u-bourgogne.fr/-
BIOGEOSCIENCE/ http://www.ephe.sorbonne.fr
veuille@ephe.sorbonne.fr/veuille @mnhn.fr T´ el : +33
(0)1.53.63.61.65/66
Dr. Sophie Montuire EPHE & UMR CNRS 5561
Biog´ eosciences Universit´ e de Bourgogne 6 Bld Gabriel
21000 Dijon T´ el.: 33. (0)3.80.39.63.47 Fax : 33.
(0)3.80.39.63.87 Sophie.Montuire@u-bourgogne.fr
http://www.u-bourgogne.fr/BIOGEOSCIENCE/
http://www.ephe.sorbonne.fr Paleontological database
http://transtyﬁpal.u-bourgogne.fr/ Sophie Montuire
<Sophie.Montuire@u-bourgogne.fr >Helsinki ComputationalBiology
Open positions in computational sequence analysis at
the Institute of Biotechnology, Helsinki, Finland
Dr. Ari L¨ oytynoja will start as a group leader at the
Institute of Biotechnology, University of Helsinki, from
1 September, 2011. He has open positions for Ph.D.
students and a postdoc researcher.
The group’s research interests are in evolutionary se-
quence analysis, both the development of advanced
analysis methods and their application to biological
questions of special importance. Current topics include
e.g. phylogenetic sequence alignment and homology in-
ference for evolutionary analyses, and the development
of methods for comparative analysis of next-generation,
high-throughput sequencing data.
An ideal candidate would be experienced with
Linux/Unix systems and working with the command-
line interface, and would master a scripting language
such as Perl or Python. Some projects require experi-
ence on a low-level programming language such as C,
C++ or Java (the current codebase is in C++). The
work does not require background in biology, nor a for-
mal training in programming or bioinformatics. The
starting date is 1 September, 2011 or later.
Potential research projects are: (i) develop-
ment/analysis of phylogenetic alignment methods
eﬃciently using current computer hardware and
strategies for their use on large datasets; (ii) develop-
ment/analysis of phylogenetic alignment methods to
account for uncertainties in the homology inference;
(iii) development of methods for comparative analyses
of next-generation sequencing data; (iv) evolutionary
analyses of non-model organisms using next-generation
sequencing data. A candidate’s own project matching
group’s other interests can also be considered.
Information of the past work and research interests can
be found from the following publications:
L¨ oytynoja& Goldman. Science (2009), 324:1528.
L¨ oytynoja& Goldman. Science (2008), 320:1632
L¨ oytynoja& Goldman. Phil Trans Royal Soc B (2008),
363:3913 L¨ oytynoja& Goldman. Proc Nat Acad Sci-
ences USA (2005), 102:10557
and from the group’s homepage at http://-
www.biocenter.helsinki.ﬁ/bi/loytynoja . To apply38 EvolDir June 1, 2011
for a position, please send your CV and contact details
of two referees to ari.loytynoja@helsinki.ﬁ or to the
address (valid until 31 July, 2011):
Ari L¨ oytynoja EMBL-European Bioinformatics Insti-
tute Wellcome Trust Genome Campus Hinxton, CB10
1SD United Kingdom
– Ari L¨ oytynoja tel:+44-(0)1223-494695 EMBL-
European Bioinformatics Institute fax:+44-(0)1223-
494468 Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton,
CB10 1SD, UK
ari@ebi.ac.uk
LundU SystematicBiology
Lund University (Sweden) announces an opening:
Professor in Systematic Biology
Lund University is Scandinaviaˆ as largest institution for
education and research in a broad range of disciplines,
such as engineering, natural sciences, law, social sci-
ence, economics, medicine, theology and the arts. The
University has over 40 000 students and approximately
6 000 employees located in Lund, Malm¨ o and Helsing-
borg. We have a comprehensive global network and
a growing co-operation within the ˜Aresund University
framework of Southern Sweden and Eastern Denmark.
The Department of Biology was founded on January
2010 by a fusion of the Departments of Ecology, Cell
and Organism Biology (COB), Undergraduate Studies
in Biology and the Biological Museums. At the same
time, the building of the new Biology Centre has been
completed within the North Campus, and all biology re-
search and teaching at Lund University is now gathered
together within a single site for the ﬁrst time ˆ a provid-
ing unique opportunities for high quality research and
innovative education within biology. The Department
of Biology has ca. 300 employees, out of which ca. 80
are PhD candidates. The Biological Museums together
represent one of the worldˆ as largest university collec-
tions (c. 12 million specimens) including, in particular,
large collections of insects and vascular plants from the
Nordic countries. Research at the Department is or-
ganized around research groups working within many
areas of biology. We oﬀer a range of bachelor and mas-
ter teaching programmes in ˆ aBiologyˆ a and ˆ aMolecular
Biologyˆ a to both Swedish and international students.
Further information about the Department of Biology
can be found at: http://www.lu.se/biology Basic factsregarding the position
Reference no: 2184 Closing date for applications:
September 15, 2011 Date of appointment: As
soon as possible Placement: Department of Biol-
ogy Trades unions at Lund University: OFR, SACO
and SEKO Information about the position: Christer
L¨ ofstedt, Head of Department: +46-46-222 9338, chris-
ter.lofstedt@biol.lu.se; Information about conditions of
employment and the application process: Faculty Per-
sonnel Manager Gunilla Thylander, +46 -46 222 40 32,
gunilla.thylander@kanslin.lu.se
Description of responsibilities The main emphasis of the
position is research within systematic biology with a fo-
cus on studies of evolutionary relationships at the level
of species, and/or higher taxa.
The successful candidate will be expected to play a key
role in establishing a competitive word-class research
programme in systematics at the Department of Biol-
ogy. The candidate should take responsibility for lead-
ing a research group, and be active in the development
of the collections at the Biological Museums. He/she
should actively seek external funding from national re-
search councils and other research funds in order to
cover part of the salaries and operational costs for the
research group. The candidate is also expected to de-
velop collaborations with other research groups within
the Department that are active in related research ar-
eas, such as evolutionary biology, molecular ecology and
biodiversity research.
In addition, the successful candidate is expected to
be actively engaged in teaching and development of
courses (at both basic and advanced levels) within sys-
tematics, evolution and biodiversity, and in the super-
vision of Bachelor and Master projects, as well as PhD
students.
Qualiﬁcations According to Chapter 4, Section 3 of the
Higher Education Ordinance (SFS 2010:1064) a person
who has demonstrated both research and teaching ex-
pertise shall be qualiﬁed for employment as a professor
except in disciplines in the ﬁne, applied or performing
arts.
The successful candidate is expected to have a distin-
guished record of achievements in the area of systematic
biology with a focus on studies of evolutionary relation-
ships at the level of species, and/or higher taxa. Scien-
tiﬁc qualiﬁcations will be evaluated mainly on the basis
of the quality and number of scientiﬁc publications at
the highest international level. Demonstrated academic
leadership skills, experience of supervising undergradu-
ate and graduate students, collaborative skills, and an
ability to compete successfully for external funding areJune 1, 2011 EvolDir 39
of central importance. Demonstrated ability to develop
and teach undergraduate and graduate courses in sys-
tematic biology are also important merits. A demon-
strated ability to establish intra- and interdisciplinary
research collaborations is important for the position,
and the ways in which the candidate ˆAs background and
expertise may strengthen the research proﬁle in evolu-
tionary biology and biodiversity research at the new
Department of Biology will be taken into considera-
tion. Experience of curating of museum collections is
regarded as a merit.
The assessment criteria for appointment as a professor,
according to
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
MaxPlanckInst Leipzig
ImagingHumanEvolution
Research Position in 3D Imaging and Human Evolution
The Department of Human Evolution of the Max
Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology,
Leipzig (Germany) invites applications for a junior re-
search position. This is a research-only post with no
teaching obligations. We expect the successful candi-
date to work closely with Professor Fred Spoor, explor-
ing the bony labyrinth of hominin fossils, using high-
resolution CT and advanced morphometric methods.
There will be time available for independent research
as well. The department will provide substantial sup-
port in a highly stimulating environment.
The selected candidate will have a PhD, a strong track
record of research, and appropriate experience in us-
ing 3D imaging software. Good knowledge of Avizo
(Amira) would be a distinct advantage. The initial
length of the appointment is two years but the contract
is extensible.
Please send queries and applications (cover letter
and cv in PDF format) to Professor Fred Spoor
(f.spoor@eva.mpg.de).
The appointment will commence in July or August, and
the application deadline is 4 June 2011.
– Alyson Reid Research Assistant to Prof. Jean-Jacques Hublin/Dept. of Human Evolution Max-
Planck-Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology
Deutscher Platz 6, D-04013 Leipzig, Germany
Phone: 49-341-3550-368 Fax: 49-341-3550-399 E-mail:
alyson reid@eva.mpg.de Oﬃce: U2.15
Alyson Reid <alyson reid@eva.mpg.de >
Moorea CoralReefs
Dear Listers,
This is the second announcement for a permanent
position of Assistant Professor at EPHE (Ecole Pra-
tique des Hautes Etudes), at the Centre for Island Re-
search and Observatory of the Environment (CRIOBE).
CRIOBE is an institution based in Moorea (French
Polynesia) and Perpignan (France), part of both EPHE
and the National Centre for Scientiﬁc Research (CNRS
- France), whose research unit (UMS 3278 CNRS-
EPHE) is know nationally and internationally for its
scientiﬁc work on coral reef ecosystems. The successful
candidate will develop his research project on the topic
of coral reefs, in an ecological and environmental con-
text. The scientiﬁc thematics of the project are wide:
’Macro-ecology in coral reefs, from genes to ecosystems
(biotic interactions, resilience - disturbances, climate
change - ecological evolution)’. The scientiﬁc excellence
of the candidate will be rewarded. The successful candi-
date will be asked to implement a team within his own
scientiﬁc ﬁeld of expertise and in the context of the re-
search unit. The application may be written in english
or french. The launching of the position is forecast for
May 5th. Please note the following agenda: - May 5th:
launching of the position - June 3rd: deadline for send-
ing application - June 10th: pre-selection of candidates
for an audition in Paris - July 13th: audition in Paris.
The description of the application to submitted can
be downloaded at the following address: http:/-
/www.ephe.sorbonne.fr/actualites/recrutement-
enseignants-chercheurs-2011.html If more infor-
mation is needed, please contact Dr Serge Planes
(planes@univ-perp.fr, veuille@mnhn.fr) or Pr Michel
Veuille (veuille@mnhn.fr).
Please feel free to forward this message to your col-
leagues, other lists, etc.
– Dr Serge PLANES (Dir) USR 3278 CNRS - EPHE
Centre de Recherche Insulaire et Observatoire de
l’Environnement (CRIOBE) BP 1013 - 98 729, Pa-40 EvolDir June 1, 2011
petoai, Moorea, Polyn´ esie fran¸ caise Tel : (689) 56 13
45, Fax : (689) 56 28 15 e-mail : serge.planes@criobe.pf
Centre de Biologie et d’Ecologie Tropicale et
M´ editerran´ eenne Universite de Perpignan, 52 Av. Paul
Alduy - 66860 Perpignan cedex, France Tel : (33) (0)4
68 66 17 11, Fax : (33) (0)4 68 50 36 86 e-mail :
planes@univ-perp.fr
sarah.lemer@univ-perp.fr
NewMexicoStateU LabCoordinator
GenomeSequencing
Job: Laboratory Coordinator, Genome Sequencing
Laboratory
New Mexico State University, Department of Biology
Qualiﬁcations: BS in Biology, Molecular Biology or re-
lated ﬁeld, plus one year of experience; MS in Biol-
ogy preferred. Strong background in molecular biol-
ogy techniques including Roche 454 shotgun, amplicon,
and transcriptome pyrosequencing, qPCR, construction
of normalized cDNA libraries, Sanger sequencing and
capillary electrophoresis are preferred. Ability to com-
municate clearly, both verbally and in writing, with
researchers, clientele, and students regarding molecu-
lar biology protocols and experimental design relating
to ecology and evolution; previous scholarly products
(e.g., papers, presentations) and teaching or academic
supervisory experience is preferred.
Examples of Duties: Preparation, management, and
expansion of NMSU’s core Genome Sequencing Lab-
oratory. Daily operation and routine maintenance of
a Roche 454 GS FLX emPCR pyrosequencer (train-
ing is not available). Successful operation of the in-
strument requires meticulous adherence to protocols.
Additional laboratory duties include the preparation
of a wide variety of samples for genomic sequenc-
ing, and training/supervising graduate student labo-
ratory assistants. Other duties include project man-
agement, record-keeping, accounting, and purchasing
reagents/expendables. Must keep abreast of technical
advances in genomics in order to advise research clien-
tele in experimental design and seek new applications
of genomics technology. Must work collaboratively with
team of faculty researchers, bioinformatics specialists,
graduate students, and facilities staﬀ.
Beneﬁts Oﬀered: Group medical and hospital insur-
ance, group life insurance, long-term disability insur-ance, state educational retirement, worker’s compensa-
tion, sick leave, annual leave and unemployment com-
pensation. Opportunity fort educational advancement.
Conditions: Oﬀer of employment is contingent on fund-
ing.
All oﬀers of employment, oral and written, are contin-
gent on the University’s veriﬁcation of credentials and
other information required by Federal Law, State Law,
and NMSU policies/procedures, and may include the
completion of a criminal history check.
Reply to/Deadline for Applications: Submit a formal
letter of interest, current resume, and three professional
references with names, titles, addresses, daytime phone
numbers, and email addresses preferably as email and
attachments to:
phoude@nmsu.edu
or hard copy by snail mail to:
Peter Houde New Mexico State University Box 30001
MSC 3AF Las Cruces NM 88003
Review of applications will begin April 19 2011 and ap-
plications received after this date may be considered.
Incomplete application packets will not be considered.
phoude@nmsu.edu
NewZealand
ComputEvolutionaryBiol
Computational Evolutionary Biology
The New Zealand Institute for Advanced Study seeks
to appoint a new faculty member at the Professorial
level.
The position is open to candidates who have a distin-
guished track record in computational evolutionary bi-
ology or computational biochemistry. Preference will
be given to applicants willing and able to cross disci-
plinary boundaries and whose research interests com-
pliment existing NZIAS activities.
The overriding requirement for appointment is truly
distinguished performance in research and a strong and
successful record in attracting grant support. The suc-
cessful candidate must contribute to an emerging and
vibrant research environment with a strong commit-
ment to post graduate training.
Further information can be found here: http://-June 1, 2011 EvolDir 41
jobs.massey.ac.nz/PositionDetail.aspx?p=6913
Paul B Rainey <paulbrainey@gmail.com >
NHM Paris BacterialGenomics
Assistant-Professor position in Bacterial genomics and
metagenomics, EPHE/Natural History Museum, Paris
A tenure-track position as an assistant professor in bac-
terial genomics, metagenomics and statistical genet-
ics is available at the EPHE /Integrative Population
Biology /research group (Veuille Lab) in the Natural
History Museum in Paris. The lab combines large
empirical datasets and computational approaches to
studying microbial population genetics (see http://-
www.thierrywirth-lab.com/ ). Current work in the lab
focuses on a range of topics including (i) bacterial biodi-
versity and connectivity in Paciﬁc Archipelagos, (ii) the
interplay of sex and virulence in bacteria (/Escherichia
coli/), (iii) the evolutionary history, demography and
spread of major diseases using next-generation sequenc-
ing data. Our lab beneﬁts from an excellent background
in theoretical and modern population genetics (bioin-
formatics, modelisation, ABC, demogenetics) as well
as an interdisciplinary research environment based on
national and international collaborations (Institut Pas-
teur, Max-Planck Institute).
The successful candidate should have a postdoctoral ex-
perience, a strong background in computer science and
statistics, and a deep interest in evolutionary genetics.
A strong experience in genomewide and massive parallel
sequencing datasets analyses is required. Programming
skills and proﬁciency in unix-based computational envi-
ronments are essential; ﬁnally a good publication record
is required. She/he will also be involved in teaching ac-
tivities in the /Biology, Health and Ecology/ Master
Remark: The position concerns evolutionary genomics,
therefore a background in bacteria genetics and ge-
nomics is not mandatory.
Position linkt: http://www.ephe.sorbonne.fr/-
actualites/recrutement-enseignants-chercheurs-
2011.html Application deadline is the 2nd of June
2011.
Informal inquiries as well as applications (including a
CV, copies of relevant publications and contact infor-
mation for at least two references) should be emailed
to both Thierry Wirth (wirth@mnhn.fr) and Michel
Veuille (veuille@mnhn.fr). The starting date can beas early as October 2011.
Prof. Thierry Wirth
Mus´ eum National d’Histoire Naturelle - EPHE De-
partment of Systematics and Evolution UMR-CNRS
7205 16, rue Buﬀon, 75231 Paris cedex 05 France tel.
+33 (0) 1 4079 8036; gsm. +33 (0) 648155320 email:
wirth@mnhn.fr url: http://www.thierrywirth-lab.com
OceanGenomeLegacy
BioCollectionsDataSpecialist
Biological Collections Data Specialist (Job Code: OGL-
ICBG-ED, posted 04/30/11)
The Ocean Genome Legacy Laboratory for Marine Ge-
nomic Research ( www.oglf.org ) seeks a Biological Col-
lections Data Specialist to participate in data manage-
ment associated with its Philippine Mollusk Symbiont-
International Cooperative Biodiversity Group (PMS-
ICBG) and to participate in operation of the Ocean
Genome Resource DNA and Tissue Repository (OGR).
The position will be part-time initially (20-30 hours per
week), but may lead to a full-time position in the fu-
ture.
We are seeking an employee with exceptional organiza-
tional and communication skills, a strong background
in molecular biology, and who pays strong attention to
detail and has the desire and ability to work well in a
collaborative group setting. The position is available
immediately and oﬀers exciting opportunities for or-
ganizational development, competitive compensation,
and the potential for advancement within an academi-
cally oriented non-proﬁt research institution.
Brief Description- The successful applicant will have
primary responsibility for managing, developing, main-
taining, curating, and updating metadata and bioin-
formatic data associated with our PMS-ICBG project
(http://www.pms-icbg.org/ ). There is a real oppor-
tunity for creativity with this position as key aspects
include an interest and ability to develop a bioinfor-
matics component for the project (e.g. analyzing and
tracking genome sequence data); and an opportunity
to work with a large, diverse group of project par-
ticipants to ensure a complete and up-to-date dataset
that is useful for project participants and for bi-annual
project reporting. Fieldwork in the Philippines (1-2
trips per year) and occasional domestic travel for meet-
ings are possible, as well as occasional travel to obtain42 EvolDir June 1, 2011
additional specimens for the Ocean Genome Resource
(OGR) public biorepository. Currently, OGL is plan-
ning trips to Australia (1-3 weeks) and Florida (1 week)
to subsample extensive museum collections. The time-
line for these trips is very ﬂexible.
Applicant Requirements- Applicants should meet the
following basic requirements: - BS, MS or PhD in Bi-
ology, Microbiology, Marine Biology or related ﬁeld -
Coursework in molecular biology and taxonomy - Lab-
oratory experience including genomic material handling
and storage - Demonstrated expertise in database de-
sign and management; FileMaker Pro a plus. - Field
collection experience and/or collections management
experience
Apply for the Position- Applicants should submit a
cover letter, CV/resume (including publications, if ap-
plicable), and contact information for at least three ref-
erences by email to info@oglf.org (referencing job code
OGL-ICBG-ED in the subject line) or by regular mail
to the address below.
Ocean Genome Legacy, Inc. is a publicly supported
non-proﬁt research organization dedicated to explo-
ration, description, documentation, and preservation of
the genomic diversity of the oceans. Located on the
campus of New England Biolabs in Ipswich, MA, OGL
is an equal opportunity employer that receives support
from the National Science Foundation, the Department
of Energy, and the National Institutes of Health. OGL
encourages its research staﬀ to pursue their own re-
search ideas, to publish their results, and to seek extra-
mural support for their research.
Please direct all inquiries to: Daniel L. Distel, Ph.D.
Executive Director, Ocean Genome Legacy 240County
Rd., Ipswich, MA 01938 info@oglf.org
deboer@oglf.org
PennStateU MultiMedia
Penn State evolutionary biologist Blair Hedges is seek-
ing a multimedia designer for a full-time position in his
lab on Penn State’s main campus. Job includes video
editing, photo editing, web design, and creating illus-
trations, graphs, maps, and other graphics for evolution
and conservation research and outreach. A Bachelor’s
degree in graphic design or a related ﬁeld (or equivalent)
is required. Proﬁciency in Adobe After Eﬀects, Photo-
shop, Illustrator, and InDesign is required. Individualmust have strong organizational skills. Familiarity with
Google Earth and HTML/PHP is a plus, but not re-
quired. An interest in biology is also a plus, but it is not
required. Application materials including a cover let-
ter, resume and contact information for three references
should be submitted via email (see www.hedgeslab.org
for contact info). Penn State is committed to aﬃrma-
tive action, equal opportunity and the diversity of its
workforce.
sbh1@psu.edu
QueenMaryU Bioinformatics
Queen Mary University of London
Bioinformactics/Phylogenetics (details: http://-
www.sbcs.qmul.ac.uk/ )
Lecturer/Senior Lecturer/Reader (= tenure track As-
sistant Professor / Associate Professor / Professor in
US terms)
The deadline for this post has been extended to 13th
May 2011 at 4.00pm BST (due to a problem with the
advert in Nature). Interviews will be held on the 1st
July 2011
richard.alan.nichols@googlemail.com
StanfordU FieldLabAssist
SticklebackEvolution
Field and Laboratory Life Science Research Assistant
in Stickleback Evolution
The Kingsley Lab at Stanford is seeking an enthusi-
astic ﬁeld and lab research assistant to participate in
a project on the evolutionary ecology and genomics
of stickleback adaptation. Threespine sticklebacks are
small marine and freshwater ﬁsh that have undergone
a recent adaptive radiation across the northern hemi-
sphere. They occupy a diverse range of habitats (lakes,
streams, rivers, bogs, estuaries, ocean), and display a
remarkable degree of morphological, physiological and
behavioural diversity. We have developed a combina-
tion of genetic and genomic tools for the organism,
making it possible to combine ecological, population,June 1, 2011 EvolDir 43
developmental, and genomic studies of the molecular
mechanisms that control evolutionary change in natu-
ral populations.
The successful candidate will sample sticklebacks from
diverse environments during the summer ﬁeld season,
and catalog ecological, population, and individual-level
data. Field-work will involve wading, water sampling,
and hiking through rough terrain to access sample sites.
International travel will be involved, and the applicant
must be willing to work in long hours in remote lo-
cations. Laboratory-based work at Stanford will in-
clude logistics, data collection, digitizing images, mak-
ing detailed morphological measurements, and prepar-
ing DNA for whole genome sequencing of multiple pop-
ulations. This position is perfect for a highly motivated
individual seeking both ﬁeld-and lab based experience
in evolutionary ecology and genetic/genomic analysis.
Requirements include:
1) bachelor’s level or higher degree in biology, ecology,
genetics or related ﬁeld 2) drivers license and pass-
port suitable for international travel 3) accurate, detail-
oriented record keeping
Previous ﬁeld and laboratory experience highly desir-
able. Salary and travel costs provided. The position
will begin in May 2011.
If you wish to apply, please send a CV with a cover
letter and contact details of two references (with e-mail
addresses), to:
Professor David Kingsley email: kingsley@stanford.edu
Dept. of Developmental Biology Stanford University
California 94305-5329 USA
jones.ﬂoss@gmail.com
TrinityCollege Dublin Evolution
Lectureship in Zoology, School of Natural Sciences, Fac-
ulty of Engineering, Mathematics and Science, Trinity
College Dublin.
The Discipline of Zoology seeks to appoint an outstand-
ing scientist to a ﬁve-year lectureship in Comparative
Physiology and Evolution. The successful candidate
will contribute to teaching on a variety of courses es-
pecially on the general undergraduate Freshman course
in Natural Sciences, the degree courses in Zoology and
Functional Biology and to Masters level teaching in Bio-
diversity and Conservation and Environmental Science.Depending on experience, teaching will cover topics
such as anatomical or physiological zoology, parasitol-
ogy, behavioural ecology or biodiversity.
The ideal candidate will be interdisciplinary and in-
teractive, and will develop a dynamic, internation-
ally renowned research programme in the broad area
of comparative physiology and/or evolution. The ap-
pointee’s research will provide opportunities for cross-
disciplinary research both within the School of Natu-
ral Sciences and between Schools (such as furthering
on-going collaborations with bioengineering). The ap-
pointee will support the College’s Strategic Plan 2009-
2014, by strengthening the physiological and evolution-
ary aspects of the central unifying theme of College’s
research strategy - the Sustainable Society.
The School of Natural Sciences comprises 38 academic
staﬀ working under the single overarching theme -
Biodiversity and the Environment’ underpinned by four
subthemes: Ecology and Evolution, Earth and Environ-
mental Science, Society, Space and Environment and
Molecular and Comparative Physiology. The appointee
will contribute to, and ideally promote synergy among
some of these sub-themes. They will be expected to
enhance research-led teaching in the School, increasing
opportunities for graduate research.
Further details can be found here https://jobs.tcd.ie/-
pls/corehrrecruit/docs/0000019788.pdf Applica-
tions will only be accepted via E-Recruitment
http://www.tcd.ie/vacancies/ Dr Andrew Jack-
son Lecturer School of Natural Sciences Zoology
Building, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin 2, Ireland
Tel. + 353 1 896 2728, Fax. + 353 1 677 8094,
Email. a.jackson@tcd.ie http://www.tcd.ie/Zoology/-
research/research/theoretical/AndrewJackson.php
jackson.andrew.lloyd@gmail.com
UBristol UK Statistics
Two short term fellowships are available in the De-
partment of Statistics, School of Mathematical Sci-
ences, University of Bristol. UK. Details can be
found at http://www.sustain.bris.ac.uk/jobs.html The
posts are for all areas of Statistics, including Statisti-
cal Genetics and Population Genetics. Interested ap-
plicants are required to formulate their own projects
as part of the application procedure. Speciﬁc en-
quiries not covered by the further particulars at the
above URL may be made to Professor Peter Green44 EvolDir June 1, 2011
(p.j.green@bristol.ac.uk).
m.beaumont@bristol.ac.uk
UCalifornia Riverside FungiDB
programmer
The FungiDB project ( http://fungidb.org ) in the Sta-
jich lab at University of California, Riverside, is search-
ing for a programmer to support data loading and
software development. FungiDB supports data min-
ing of comparative and functional genomics of fungi.
The duties include performing data loading into rela-
tional database system, development and improvement
of scripts for data importing & downloading, and web-
site development.
An ideal candidate will be a computer programmer
with bioinformatics experience or a biologist accom-
plished in computer programming, however a demon-
strated strong background with scripting languages
such as Perl and experience with SQL is most impor-
tant. The FungiDB project requires interfacing with
scientists working on fungal pathogens of plants, an-
imals, and model systems; perform research to ac-
quire genomics datasets; integrate data into a relational
database ( www.gusdb.org ) with existing scripts; and
develop and run workﬂows to load the data.
The project is collaborative with team at UC Riverside
and developers of EuPathDB ( http://eupathdb.org ) at
the University of Pennsylvania & University of Geor-
gia to load data, assess the quality of data loading &
presentation to the user community. Participation in
the preparation of scientiﬁc papers and technical doc-
umentation and attendance at scientiﬁc meetings are
encouraged.
Applications should be made at the UCR
HR site for job #11-04-010 ( http://-
bit.ly/dNDe3D ) http://hrapps.ucr.edu/jobs/-
JobsBrowse.aspx?@strJobNumber=3D11-04-010
Informal inquiries about the project is encouraged,
contact Jason Stajich <jason.stajich[AT]ucr.edu >
Jason – Jason E Stajich, PhD Assistant Pro-
fessor Dept of Plant Pathology & Microbiology
University of California, Riverside 951.827.2363
http://lab.stajich.org http://fungalgenomes.org
http://fungidb.org twitter @stajichlab @hy-
phaltip @fungalgenomes @fungidb http://-
planpathology.ucr.edu http://genomics.ucr.edu http:/-/plantpathology.ucr.edu http://genomics.ucr.edu
<jason.stajich[AT]ucr.edu >
UChicago Programmer
Programmer position, University of Chicago
A programmer position is available in Molly Prze-
worski’s lab in the Human Genetics department at the
University of Chicago. Current work in the group
focuses on a wide range of topics in primate evo-
lution and population genetics, combining modeling
and data analysis; for more information, see http://-
przeworski.uchicago.edu/ . The group shares space and
weekly lab meetings with those of Jonathan Pritchard
and Matthew Stephens and enjoys close ties with other
members of the Human Genetics and Ecology & Evolu-
tion departments. Moreover, it beneﬁts from the large
and outstanding community of researchers in popula-
tion genetics, statistics and genomics at the University
of Chicago.
Applicants for the position must have training in com-
puter science or bioinformatics, some background in
biology (ideally in genetics or population genetics) and
experience with scientiﬁc programming. More details
about the position can be found at jobopportuni-
ties.uchicago.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind!0839.
Applications must be submitted in response to the
posting (rather than directly) by May 31 2011. The
starting date is ﬂexible, but could be as early as
summer 2011.
Molly Przeworski Howard Hughes Medical Institute
Early Career Scientist Dept. of Ecology & Evolution
and Dept. of Human Genetics University of Chicago
molly.przew@gmail.com
UGlasgow 2 EvolutionaryBiol
TWO LECTURESHIPS IN ECOLOGY & EVOLU-
TION/ ORGANISMAL BIOLOGY AT THE UNIVER-
SITY OF GLASGOW
The Institute of Biodiversity, Animal Health and Com-
parative Medicine (BAHCM) is seeking to ﬁll two lec-June 1, 2011 EvolDir 45
tureships. The College of Medical, Veterinary and Life
Sciences was created in 2010 from the fusion of the Uni-
versity’s biologists, veterinary and medical scientists,
and hosts a number of other research Institutes and
Centres that oﬀer excellent interdisciplinary collabora-
tive opportunities. It has an annual research income of
over£52M, with research activity concentrated in its
research Institutes. BAHCM ( http://www.gla.ac.uk/-
researchinstitutes/bahcm/ ) is a newly-formed multidis-
ciplinary research institute that integrates expertise in
animal biology and ecology with that in comparative
and veterinary medicine. Unique in the UK, the range
of our studies spans multiple biological levels: from re-
search into molecules and cells, to research into indi-
viduals, populations and ecosystems. Given the threats
posed by rapid environmental change and our increas-
ing human population, there has never been a more
pressing need for our holistic approach. Investigating
key questions in environmental change, emerging dis-
eases, and animal and ecosystem health requires an
integration of empirical research at all biological lev-
els with empirical data collection, rigorous quantita-
tive analysis, appropriate theoretical frameworks and
predictive modelling. Always striving to understand
the interdependence of animal and human populations,
ecosystems and the environment, our research is driven
by the need to create multidisciplinary teams to address
national and global research challenges.
The Institute prioritizes 4 research themes: evolution-
ary analysis, response to environmental change, animal
health and food security, and infectious disease biology.
Applicants whose research reaches across two or more
of these research areas will be of particular interest.
The Institute currently has 17 academic staﬀ, 32 asso-
ciate academic staﬀ, 20 management and support staﬀ,
24 postdoctoral researchers (including Research Fel-
lows) and 70 postgraduate researchers. The postgradu-
ates are a mixture of PhD students and students under-
taking one of the taught postgraduate (M.Res. courses)
oﬀered by the Institute (see http://www.gla.ac.uk/-
researchinstitutes/bahcm/degrees/ ).
The members of BAHCM are based in the Graham Kerr
Building (on the University’s main campus in Glas-
gow), at the veterinary sciences base on the Garscube
estate and at the Scottish Centre for Ecology and
the Natural Environment (SCENE, the University’s
ﬁeld station on Loch Lomondside some 25 miles north
of Glasgow; http://www.gla.ac.uk/researchinstitutes/-
bahcm/researchcentres/scene/ ). These locations house
excellent facilities for research that would be available
to the successful applicant. The Graham Kerr Build-
ing has 8 temperature-controlled aquarium rooms (with
both seawater and freshwater supply) and 12 rooms forholding other vertebrates, all Home Oﬃce-designated
and maintained by dedicated animal husbandry staﬀ.
It also has a series of laboratories equipped for molec-
ular, biochemical and physiological analyses, backed
up by skilled technical staﬀ (including electronic and
mechanical workshops run by the College). SCENE
also has Home Oﬃce-designated aquarium and animal
rooms, including observation stream tanks, together
with analytical labs, again maintained by permanent
husbandry and lab technical staﬀ. It also provides easy
access to a diverse range of habitats including Loch
Lomond itself, nearby rivers, lakes and streams, both
coniferous and broadleaf woodland (which surrounds
the ﬁeld station and contains a study population of
hole-nesting birds in c.400 nestboxes), agricultural pas-
tures, moorland and mountain. SCENE also has en
suite single bedrooms and suites that can be booked
for short or long term research visits. The Institute also
has excellent links with the University Marine Biologi-
cal Station Millport (UMBSM, http://www.gla.ac.uk/-
centres/marinestation/ ), a marine station based on the
island of Cumbrae in the Firth of Clyde (c.1.5h from
Glasgow). It also has strong research links with many
other research organisations both within Scotland (e.g.
Marine Scotland, Scottish Natural Heritage, NERC
Centre for Ecology & Hydrology, Macaulay Land Use
Research Institute - now the James Hutton Institute)
and further aﬁeld. ( www.masts.ac.uk ).
Undergraduate teaching within the College is organ-
ised through the Schools of Medicine, Veterinary Sci-
ence and Life Science. The successful applicant
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UIllinoisUC BiodiversityInformatics
BIOLOGICAL INFORMATICIAN ILLINOIS NATU-
RAL HISTORY SURVEY, a division of the PRAIRIE
RESEARCH INSTITUTE at the UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS
POSITION: The Illinois Natural History Survey, a di-
vision of the Prairie Research Institute, University of
Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, is pleased to announce
the position of Biological Informatician.46 EvolDir June 1, 2011
PROJECT DESCRIPTION: Cyber-technology in the
Biological Sciences presents a nearly unbounded land-
scape for development and implementation of extensi-
ble and sustainable solutions in dissemination of scien-
tiﬁc research data. World-renowned scientiﬁc research
at the Illinois Natural History Survey, the nation’s sec-
ond oldest and largest biological survey, continues and
with the application of cyber- technologies for integra-
tion and dissemination, will continue to have a ma-
jor impact on society, science, and critical issues such
as biodiversity and global climate change. We seek a
highly motivated, innovative individual to contribute
to a rapidly developing and transformative biodiversity
informatics program at the Illinois Natural History Sur-
vey. The successful candidate will work with INHS sci-
entists and IT staﬀ to advise, develop, and implement
sustainable and extensible database-driven web appli-
cations aimed at electronic dissemination of biological
research results. Focal areas include biodiversity infor-
matics (ecological and biotic community datasets), a
developing extensible cybertaxonomy portal, and amal-
gamation and synthesis of the INHS natural history col-
lections databases, which currently include more than
11 million objects. Half time will be devoted to infor-
matics for collections-based research, while the other
half will be devoted to the Species File program ( http:/-
/software.speciesﬁle.org ).
JOB DESCRIPTION: The successful candidate will be
expected to coordinate INHS-wide eﬀorts to develop
and implement computer-based solutions for mobiliza-
tion, use, and sustainability of biodiversity data; col-
laborate with INHS scientiﬁc staﬀ to solicit and secure
external funding to support new and ongoing projects
related to biodiversity informatics; recruit, train and
supervise hourly programmers and undergraduate com-
puter science interns to support funded projects; train
INHS scientiﬁc staﬀ in the use of biodiversity informat-
ics tools and participate in bioinformatics standards de-
velopment; serve as liaison between INHS scientists and
the INHS webmaster, network administrator, and other
INHS/INRS IT support staﬀ.
QUALIFICATIONS: This position requires a B.S. in
Computer Science, Information Science, or Bio- (bio-
diversity) informatics. M.S. or Ph.D. degree de-
sired. Emphasis in biological diversity informatics pre-
ferred. Individuals with a degree in a biodiversity-
related ﬁeld and relevant coursework and experience
in scientiﬁc computing will also be considered. Ex-
perience with biological informatics support in a lab-
oratory or organization setting is preferred. Expe-
rience with database-driven web application develop-
ment with skills in database design and management,
SQL, HTML, Visual Basic, CSS, CMS (e.g. Drupal),and scripting languages (e.g. JavaScript, Python, Perl,
Ruby, PHP). Demonstrated ability with programming
languages and web application frameworks is required.
Familiarity with Web 2.0 programming technologies is
highly desirable.
SALARY RANGE: $68,000 to $75,000, commensu-
rate with experience. This is a regular, academic
professional, full-time, grant-supported, 9-month posi-
tion/paid over 12-months (academic 9/12). Additional
salary support for two summer months may be avail-
able through external funding obtained by the candi-
date through research grants or other funding opportu-
nities.The estimated starting date is July 1, 2011.
BENEFITS: Generous sick leave. State Universities
Retirement System. Group health, dental, vision and
life insurance.
APPLICATION PROCESS: Applications must be re-
ceived by May 27, 2011. To apply, all candi-
dates must submit an online proﬁle through https:/-
/jobs.illinois.edu by the close of the posting period.
Qualiﬁed candidates must upload a cover letter which
details qualiﬁcations noted above, curriculum vitae,
working e-mail address, and the names, addresses,
phone numbers, and e-mail addresses of three profes-
sional references. All requested information must be
submitted for your application to be considered. In-
complete information will not be reviewed.
For further information please contact Erica Hanson,
Human Resources, Illinois Natural History Survey,
217-333-6897, elhanson@inhs.illinois.edu. For technical
questions, please contact: Dr. Andrew Miller, Search
Committee Member, at amiller@inhs.illinois.edu.
The University of Illinois is an Aﬃrmative Ac-
tion/Equal Opportunity Employer. The administra-
tion, faculty, and staﬀ embrace diversity and are com-
mitted to attracting qualiﬁed candidates who also
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UMainz EvolutionaryBiology
University of Mainz *Assistant Professor (Akademis-
cher Rat / A 13)* *Evolutionary Biology / BehavioralJune 1, 2011 EvolDir 47
Ecology * *(non-tenure track, 6 years – with the pos-
sibility of further extension)* Closing date:*June 3 ^rd
2011*
We invite applications for an *Assistant Professor
(Akademischer Rat / A 13) *position in the newly es-
tablished evolutionary biology group in the Institute of
Zoology at Johannes-Gutenberg University of Mainz,
Germany.
We are seeking a highly motivated young evolution-
ary or behavioral biologist with a strong background
in genetics to establish a junior research group within
Prof. Susanne Foitzik’s research team. Candidates
must hold a Ph.D. and postdoctoral experience is re-
quired. The successful candidate should address evo-
lutionary or behavioral questions in social insects or
other arthropods, and preferably use the latest genetic
methods (e.g. next-gen sequencing, transcriptomics).
Our research focuses on behavioral and chemical ecol-
ogy as well as on population genetics of ants ( http://-
www.bio.uni-mainz.de/zoo/evobio/ ) and we are inter-
ested in collaborative projects. Excellent research con-
ditions are available at the newly renovated and well-
equipped genetic and chemical laboratories in Mainz.
Furthermore, climate chambers are available for animal
maintenance. For further information, please contact
foitzik@uni-mainz.de.
The successful candidate should have an excellent pub-
lication record. Experience with grant acquisition and
teaching is advantageous. The candidate should set-up
an independent research lab and is encouraged to apply
for grants in Germany or abroad (e.g., DFG, EU). The
position comes with a teaching requirement of 4h per
week during the semester. Some basic zoology classes
have to be taught in German. Consequently, a willing-
ness to learn German is required. The candidate has
the option to acquire a “Habilitation”. The working
language of the lab is English.
The Johannes Gutenberg University of Mainz is inter-
ested in increasing the number of women in science.
Applications from female scientists are strongly en-
couraged. Similarly qualiﬁed candidates with disabil-
ities will be preferred. The University of Mainz hosts
many excellent scientiﬁc institutions ( http://www.uni-
mainz.de/eng/ ) including the newly established In-
stitute for Molecular biology (IMB, http://www.imb-
mainz.de/ ). Mainz is a historic city located on the
Rhine River with many students and a rich social and
cultural life ( http://www.mainz.de/WGAPublisher/-
online/html/default/hpkr-5nkek8.en.html ).
Interested candidates should send an application (as a
single e-mail attachment) containing a CV, a list of pub-lications (including reprints of the three most impor-
tant publications),research and teaching statements,
and contact information for two potential referees to:
*Prof. Dr. Susanne Foitzik* Evolutionary Biology In-
stitute of Zoology Johannes-v.- M¨ uller-Weg 6 55099
Mainz
Germany foitzik@uni-mainz.de
*Closing date *for application is*June 3rd, 2011*
*Starting date*for the position *Oct. 1 ^st 2011*, later
starting dates are negotiable
Prof. Dr. Susanne Foitzik Evolutionsbiologie Institut
f¨ ur Zoologie Johannes Gutenberg Universit¨ at Mainz Jo-
hannes von M¨ uller Weg 6 D-55099 Mainz Germany
Tel. +49 (0)6131 39 27 840 Fax. +49 (0)6131 39 27
850 email: foitzik@uni-mainz.de
Susanne Foitzik <foitzik@uni-mainz.de >
UPennsylvania LabTech
AntEvolutionaryGenetics
A full-time Research Lab Technician position is avail-
able in the Linksvayer lab in the Department of Biology
at the University of Pennsylvania. The research focus
is on the evolution and genetic basis of complex social
systems, using social insects as a model. A variety of
approaches are used, including genomic, functional ge-
nomic, and evolutionary genetic approaches.
The position involves assisting with a range of ex-
periments, including basic molecular genetics, measur-
ing ant phenotypes, caring for ants in climate control
rooms, as well as basic lab organization, maintenance,
and administration.
The successful candidate will have a BA/BS in Biology
or a related ﬁeld, a strong work ethic, positive attitude,
excellent communication and organizational skills, ex-
perience with basic molecular biology techniques such
as DNA/RNA extraction, PCR, electrophoresis, se-
quencing, etc., and the desire to learn new skills. Ex-
perience working with insects is preferred but not re-
quired.
Applicants must apply directly through Penn’s
job posting website, http://www.hr.upenn.edu/jobs/ .
Search for the staﬀ position with the reference num-
ber 110430423 and apply to the posting through the
website.48 EvolDir June 1, 2011
Please contact me directly (tlinks@sas.upenn.edu) with
any questions.
Timothy Linksvayer Assistant Professor Department of
Biology University of Pennsylvania 225 Leidy Labora-
tories 433 South University Avenue Philadelphia PA
19104-6018 tlinks@sas.upenn.edu V +1 215 573 2657 F
+1 215 898 8780 http://www.bio.upenn.edu/faculty/-
linksvayer/ tlinksvayer@gmail.com
UppsalaU GroupLeader
MolEvolBiol
A permanent position as Group leader in Molecu-
lar Evolutionary Biology, broadly deﬁned, is avail-
able at the Dept of Ecology and Genetics ( http://-
www.ebc.uu.se/Research/IEG/ ), the Evolutionary Bi-
ology Centre of Uppsala University
The position is connected to the sub-department
Dept of Evolutionary Biology ( http://www.ebc.uu.se/-
Research/IEG/evbiol/ ). Here, the research focus is in
the interface of evolutionary biology and genomics. Ex-
amples of questions being addressed are the genetics
of speciation, the genetic background to ﬁtness-related
traits and local adaptation (e.g., QTL and association
mapping), bioinformatics, and general aspects of molec-
ular, transcriptome and genome evolution. Please see
our list of publications for further indications of on-
going research ( http://www.ebc.uu.se/Research/IEG/-
evbiol/publications/ ). There are no other speciﬁcationsof the position than that the candidate’s research is
expected to complement on-going research in the sub-
department, with a clear goal to contribute to an al-
ready strong research environment by establishing col-
laborative links with other research groups.
Department of Evolutionary Biology, headed by Prof
Hans Ellegren, currently includes 8 research groups
with a total of about 50 persons, the majority of
which are internationally recruited PhD students and
post-docs. The location with the Evolutionary Bi-
ology Centre oﬀers a most stimulating scientiﬁc and
social environment with numerous seminars, journal
clubs and possibilities for contacts and collabora-
tions. A graduate school in ’The Genomics of Phe-
notypic Diversity in Natural Populations’ ( http://-
www.ebc.uu.se/education/postgrad/gradschool/ ) pro-
vides a framework for courses and other activities for
PhD students. Local platforms for next-generation se-
quencing and high-performance computational analyses
ensures immediate access to state-of-the-art technology.
The position comes with a start-up package including
support for a PhD student. The successful candidate
is expected to be highly competitive on an interna-
tional level, including an ability to attract own fund-
ing. She or he most likely has a well documented record
of independent research combining genetic/genomic ap-
proaches /data for addressing key evolutionary ques-
tions.
For informal inquiries and information on how
to apply, please contact Hans Ellegren at
Hans.Ellegren@ebc.uu.se
Hans.Ellegren@ebc.uu.se
Other
Bayesian tree convergence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Biocluster . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Biogeography teaching exercises . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Cabbage looper eggs needed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Discount registration for Evolution2011 . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Discount registration for Evolution2011 2 . . . . . . . . . . 50
Diversiﬁcation statistics question . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50Easy-IPD Teaching evolution cooperation . . . . . . . . . 50
EvolDirNESCent EvolutionVideoContest 2 . . . . . . . . 51
IonTorrent outsourcing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Mismatches between markers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Movie dubbing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Multilocus coalescent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Mutadatabase . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52June 1, 2011 EvolDir 49
Oikos blog . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
PhenotypeRCN opportunities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Phyloseminar AdamSiepel May24 11amPST . . . . . . . 53
Portuguese EvoBioSociety . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
Rap Guide to Evolution video launch . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Software Announcing SequenceMatrix . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56Software EggLib PythonModule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Teaching EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Transposon copy number quantiﬁcation . . . . . . . . . . . 57
UMelbourne AvianBehaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Bayesian tree convergence
Dear colleagues,
I am trying to use MrBayes to estimate a Bayesian tree
of 10 mammal species. There are 3,873,035 sites in the
alignment. I cannot determine whether convergence is
reached. Below is the parameter setting.
set autoclose=yes nowarn=no; execute mammal.nex;
prset aamodelpr=ﬁxed(wag); lset rates=gamma
Ngammacat=4 covarion=yes; mcmc nruns=1 ngen000
printfreqP0 samplefreq nchains=4; sumt burnin%0;
I have several output ﬁles, including mammal.nex.p
mammal.nex.t mammal.nex.parts mammal.nex.con
mammal.nex.trprobs mammal.nex.mcmc
Is there anyone who can help me ﬁnd out the conver-
gence information? Thanks!
Haiwei Luo Postdoctoral Associate University of Geor-
gia
hluo2006@gmail.com
Biocluster
Hi all,
I want to run MCMC simulation in MIGRATE for
my dataset, earlier have used Cornell Biocluster, that’s
closed now, so can anyone suggest other Bioclusters for
faster computation; that would be of immense help!
Thanks in advance
AVIK RAY
– Visiting Fellow National Center for Biological Sci-
ences Tata Institute of Fundamental Research GKVK
Campus Bellary Road Bangalore-65 India 080-23666340
avik.ray.kol@gmail.comBiogeography teaching exercises
Dear Evoldir,
I am designing a new course in biogeography, aimed at
upper-division undergraduates. As part of the course
I would like to include some simple exercises in GIS,
phylogeny reconstruction, and/or phylogeography. If
anybody has already developed exercises in these area
and would be willing to share them with me, I would
greatly appreciate it.
I am happy to post a summary of any replies I receive.
- Sarah Gilman
Sarah Gilman, Ph.D.
Joint Science Department Keck Science Center The
Claremont Colleges 925 N. Mills Avenue Claremont,
CA 91711
http://faculty.jsd.claremont.edu/sgilman
sgilman@jsd.claremont.edu 909-607-0715
SGilman@jsd.claremont.edu
Cabbage looper eggs needed
I’m looking for eggs of Trichoplusia ni for a series of
experiments on resistance and tolerance to herbivory
using Arabidopsis. My usual supplier from Ag Canada
in London, Ontario is having some problems with his
colonies, so I am looking for an alternative source for
eggs. If you have a colony of this species and could
send me some eggs please let me know. (Sources within
Canada preferred due to customs restrictions) Thank
you.
Dr. Germ´ an Avila Sakar Assistant Professor Depart-50 EvolDir June 1, 2011
ment of Biology University of Winnipeg
(204)-786-9326
German Avila Sakar <gasakar@gmail.com >
Discount registration for
Evolution2011
$150 graduate student registration available for the
Evolution conference in Norman, Oklahoma, USA,
June 17-21. Normal grad student price is $235. If inter-
ested, please contact amango[AT]life.bio.sunysb.edu.
I registered for the Evolution conference but am now
unable to attend, two days after the deadline for refunds
passed. However, registration is transferable, hence my
discount oﬀer.
amango@gmail.com
Discount registration for
Evolution2011 2
$170 graduate student registration available for the
Evolution conference in Norman, Oklahoma, USA,
June 17-21. Normal graduate student registration is
$235. If interested, please contact mniemill[AT]utk.edu
I registered for the meeting but am now unable to at-
tend, as my father is having surgery. However, regis-
tration is transferable. mniemill@utk.edu
Matthew Niemiller <mniemill@utk.edu >
Diversiﬁcation statistics question
Dear colleagues,
I’m analysing the diversiﬁcation pattern of a group of
organisms and I have a question concerning what ap-
pears to me to be an incongruent result. I have a nega-
tive gamma-statistic value, although the mccr test indi-
cates that it is not signiﬁcant (empirical g-value of -2.35and mccrtest critical value -3.50, p = 0.50). Thus, I in-
terpret this result as there not been a clear signal for a
decrease in the rate of speciation. However, when I ﬁt
the rate-constant and rate-variable models to my data
I can reject the constancy signiﬁcantly, but the best
model is the RV exponential density-dependent (DDX),
which I would interpret as a signature of a decrease in
the rate with time. This result to me is in contradiction
to the gamma-statistic and I would like to know how
can it be explained. However, I have to add that the
second best model identiﬁed by the BDL approach is
the yule2rate model, and the dAIC is pretty small (in
one case is 0.05 and in other case 1.5).
I would appreciate your comments. Thanks.
Ramiro
–
Dr. Ramiro Morales-Hojas Molecular Evolution Lab
Instituto de Biologia Molecular e Celular (IBMC) Uni-
versity of Porto Rua do Campo Alegre 823 4150-180
Porto Portugal
e-mail: rmhojas@ibmc.up.pt tel.: +351226 074 900 ext
1612
rmhojas@ibmc.up.pt
Easy-IPD Teaching evolution
cooperation
Greetings to all of you, especially those who teach about
Robert Axelrod’s iterated prisoner’s dilemma (IPD)
tournaments of the 1980’s (the ones that led to the
publication of his seminal book The Evolution of Co-
operation).
I am proud to announce that I have produced (along
with Jean Ho Chu, a graduate digital arts student) a
new teaching and learning tool that will allow your stu-
dents to experiment directly with IPD tournaments.
The tool is a free, ﬂash-based interface called “Easy-
IPD”, and you can learn more about it here:
http://www.christopherxjjensen.com/research/-
projects/online-cooperative-reso urce/easy-iterated-
prisoners-dilemma/
If you have any questions or suggestions we would be
excited to hear them. If you decide to use this tool in
your classroom, please let me know!
-ChrisJune 1, 2011 EvolDir 51
Christopher X J. Jensen, PhD Pratt Institute De-
partment of Math and Science 200 Willoughby Av-
enue - ARC LL G49 Brooklyn, NY 11205 Oﬃce:
718-636-3572 Department: 718-636-3764 FAX: 718-
399-4482 http://www.christopherxjjensen.com/ Chris
Jensen <cjensen@pratt.edu >
EvolDirNESCent
EvolutionVideoContest 2
REMINDER:
Call for entries: NESCent announces Evolution Video
Contest Application deadline: Friday June 10, 2011
Submit your best evolution-themed video for screening
at this years Evolution meeting! The National Evolu-
tionary Synthesis Center (NESCent) invites scientists
of all stripes X graduate students, postdoctoral fellows
and faculty X to enter the ﬁrst-ever evolution video
competition.
To enter, submit a video that explains a fun fact, key
concept, compelling question, or exciting area of re-
search in evolution in less than three minutes. En-
tries may be related or unrelated to your own research,
and should be suitable for use in a classroom at any
level (K-12, undergraduate, graduate...your choice).
Videos should be both informative and entertaining.
(In other words, no taped lectures or narrated Power-
point presentations!) Animations, music videos, and
mini-documentaries are all fair game.
Selecting the winners A panel of reviewers from both
NESCent and the science video community will select
the semi-ﬁnalists, who will be notiﬁed by e-mail. The
top ﬁnalists will then be screened at a ﬁlm festival at
the 2011 Evolution meeting in Norman, OK, from 6:30
to 7:30 PM on Monday June 20th. After screening the
videos, the audience will vote for their favorites. Prizes
will be awarded for the top entries.
Eligibility
You dont need to attend the conference to submit
an entry. All videos submitted by Friday June 10th
(5:00 p.m. ET) are eligible to win. For more in-
formation and full contest rules, please see http://-
evolutionvideo.wordpress.com/ or contact Dr. Jory
Weintraub at jory@nescent.org, or Dr. Robin Smith
at rsmith@nescent.org.
Jory Weintraub <jory@nescent.org >IonTorrent outsourcing
Third-generation sequencing
Does anyone have any suggestions/recommendations
for low cost high-throughput sequencing? I was con-
sidering an Ion Torrent, but I can not seem to locate
any core facilities that oﬀer this as an outsourced ser-
vice.
Thank You! Mersee Madison-Villar
mersee@uta.edu
Mersee Madison-Villar PhD Candidate, UT Arlington
Lab/Oﬃce B01 Genomics, Speciation, and Evolution-
ary Biology
“If evolution is outlawed, only outlaws will evolve”-
Jello Biafra
“Madison-Villar, Mercedita J” <mersee@uta.edu >
Mismatches between markers
Dear evoldir members,
I would very thank you if somebody could help me in
the next topic.
What can we concluded when diferent molecular mark-
ers (microsatellite, ITS, rcbL) provide diferent result
about the taxonmic status of two putative species.?
That is, the genetic analysis of two putatives species
through 8 microsatellites loci in one hundred individu-
als, reveals that genetic diferentiation detected between
two populations of the same species are higher than
those recorded between populations of the two puta-
tive species. In addition, analysis of ITS1 and ITS2
sequence of both species only show one doubtful posi-
tion in the nucleotide sequence. However, the analysis
of rbcL sequence of two individuals of each species re-
veals diﬀerences in the nucleotide sequence. What can
we concluded with these results? Are both taxa shared
the same genetic pool (and they are probably the same
taxa), or both species are independent taxa?
Thank in advance,
Miguel Angel52 EvolDir June 1, 2011
Miguel Angel Gonz´ alez P´ erez Universidad de Las Pal-
mas de Gran Canaria Canary Islands, Spain mgonza-
lez@proyinves.ulpgc.es
canariensis750@hotmail.com
Movie dubbing
Dear evoldir community,
I am looking for help for recording German and French
voices for a short movie about the evolution of lactase
tolerance.
Since a few years we have been making short movies
& other media about evolution. All material is freely
available in English, French and German, from our web-
page: http://www.evolution-of-life.com/en/home.html
We just ﬁnished the last movie of the project. It is
a 6 min documentary about lactase tolerance in hu-
mans starring Joachim Burger and Sarah Tishkoﬀ. We
have (or soon will have) German and French transla-
tions for these movies, but we currently lack the nec-
essary equipment and funding to hire actors & studios
and technicians to make professional recordings of the
German and French voices. I am hoping that someone
in the evoldir community could help. Maybe you are
an actor and German or French speaker with access to
equipment?
Best wishes, Pleuni Pennings
http://scholar.harvard.edu/pennings/home Pleuni
Pennings <pennings@fas.harvard.edu >
Multilocus coalescent
Dear all,
I am looking for a multilocus coalescent simulation
which is able to take into account recombination and
balancing selection. As far as I am aware Mlcoalsim
only has the option for positive selection. Any recom-
mendations would be greatly appreciated.
Thanks,
Jackie Lighten Dalhousie University
Jackie Lighten <jc807177@dal.ca >Mutadatabase
Dear Colleague,
Many DNA variants implicated in genetic disease are
not made public in papers or public databases, and
therefore remain unclassiﬁed variants (VUS), which is
a challenge for genetic counseling.
We therefore developped MutaDATABASE and Mu-
taREPORTER.
MutaDATABASE ( www.mutadatabase.org ) is a human
gene variation database which is centralized, standard-
ized, open access and freely available to everybody. The
centralised MutaDATABASE hosts all gene databases
on a single standardised platform, and has a genome
browser to visualize all variants and genes
MutaREPORTER is software available through a li-
cence from MutaBASE ( www.mutabase.com ) to:
deﬁne, characterize and archive DNA variants re-
trieve molecular and clinical information from and
submit into a central MutaDATABASE circulate
info concerning a speciﬁc gene in community groups
(MutaCIRCLES) An example of a locus-speciﬁc
database (L1CAM gene) is shown by clicking on
the following link: http://www.mutareporter.org/-
mutareporter/mutareporter.html?showgene=L1CAM
If you want to contribute to the MutaDATABASE
project as a curator supervising a gene, as a lab submit-
ting molecular information or as a clinician submitting
clinical info, or if you want to obtain MutaREPORTER,
please let us know.
You can also ﬁnd us at boot 284 at the upcoming Eu-
ropean Society of Human Genetics meeting in Amster-
dam. Also GENDIA will be at the same stand.
Thanks for your help
With kind regrads,
Patrick Willems, MD, PhD MutaDATABASE
Emiel Vloorsstraat 9 2020 Antwerp, Bel-
gium Email: info@mutadatabase.org Web-
site: http://www.mutadatabase.org GENDIA
<mailing@gendia.net >June 1, 2011 EvolDir 53
Oikos blog
Dear Evodir subscribers,
The journal Oikos and the Nordic Society have a blog.
http://oikosjournal.wordpress.com/ We are working
hard to make the blog a useful spot to comment on
ecology and evolution papers, discuss relevant topics,
connect with the editorial board, and provide a general
forum to discuss synthesis in our discipline.
Oikos wants to promote novel synthetic ideas in ecol-
ogy and evolution both in the the journal and online
- in a timely manner. The mean turnaround time to
ﬁrst decision is now 50 days, and we are shooting for a
lot less. We hope the blog can also serve as a place for
discussion, and the editorial staﬀ are reading it with an
eye for hot topics for future Forum papers.
We hope you enjoy it.
cheers, chris lortie. Senior Editor
christopher lortie <lortie@yorku.ca >
PhenotypeRCN opportunities
We are pleased to announce two new opportuni-
ties for professional development through the Phe-
notype Research Coordination Network ( http://-
phenotypercn.org/ ):
1) Have a strong desire to engage your peers at scien-
tiﬁc meetings and to present on phenotype ontologies?
The Phenotype RCN has the means to support partic-
ipants’ (two per year) travel to a national or interna-
tional meeting to present ontology-based work. Fund-
ing priority will be to those researchers presenting to
the broadest audience and/or who are students or post-
docs. The goal is to broadly disseminate information
to the larger scientiﬁc community regarding phenotype
ontologies and their utility and involve new participants
in the RCN. See below to apply for these funds.
2) The Phenotype RCN has the means to facilitate col-
laborations among network participants (2 per year @
$1500 each). Students, postdocs, faculty, and/or small
working groups can apply for travel funds to supportcollaborations related to one or more of the RCN aims:
a) Develop anatomical reference ontologies. b) Align
and synchronize anatomy ontologies using homology
and other similarity. c) Deﬁne anatomy ontology de-
velopment best practices and standards. d) Reach out
to ancillary phenotype groups to share with them com-
mon concepts and practices. e) Educate the community
about the methods for developing ontologies and their
importance and utility in research. Have a great idea
for a research exchange? Consider submitting an appli-
cation.
The application forms are available through our web-
site: http://www.phenotypercn.org/?page idV If you
have questions about these opportunities please feel free
to email us!
Sincerely, Paula Mabee (Vertebrate working group;
Paula.Mabee@usd.edu) Eva Huala (Plants work-
ing group; huala@acoma.stanford.edu) Andy Deans
(Arthropod working group; andy deans@ncsu.edu)
Suzi Lewis (Informatics working group; se-
lewis@lbl.gov)
– Andrew R. Deans Department of Entomology North
Carolina State University Campus Box 7613 2301 Gard-
ner Hall Raleigh, NC USA 27695-7613
phone: +1 (919) 515-2833 fax: +1 (919) 515-
7746 skype: ardeans http://deanslab.org/
ardeans@ncsu.edu
Phyloseminar AdamSiepel May24
11amPST
Free online seminar next week:
Adam Siepel speaks Tuesday, May 24th at 11am PST
on “Bayesian inference of ancient human demography
from individual genome sequences”
Abstract: Besides their value for biomedicine, individ-
ual genome sequences represent a rich source of infor-
mation about human evolution. I will describe an ef-
fort to estimate key evolutionary parameters from the
genome sequences of six individuals from diverse hu-
man populations. We have used a Bayesian approach
based on coalescent theory to extract information about
ancestral population sizes, divergence times, and mi-
gration rates from inferred genealogies at many neu-
trally evolving loci from across the genome. We intro-
duce new methods for accounting for gene ﬂow between
populations and integrating over possible phasings of54 EvolDir June 1, 2011
diploid genotypes. I will also describe a custom pipeline
for genotype inference to mitigate possible biases from
heterogeneous sequencing technologies, coverage levels,
and read lengths. Our analysis indicates that the San
of Southern Africa diverged from other human popula-
tions 108–157 thousand years ago (kya), that Eurasian
populations diverged 38–64 kya, and that the eﬀective
population size of the ancestors of all modern humans
was~9,000.
Japan 03:00 (03:00 AM) on Wednesday, May 25 New
Zealand 06:00 (06:00 AM) on Wednesday, May 25 West
Coast USA 11:00 (11:00 AM) on Tuesday, May 24 East
Coast USA 14:00 (02:00 PM) on Tuesday, May 24 Eng-
land 19:00 (07:00 PM) on Tuesday, May 24 France 20:00
(08:00 PM) on Tuesday, May 24
For more details, please visit http://phyloseminar.org
ematsen@gmail.com
Portuguese EvoBioSociety
[Full message in Portuguese below] Apologies for cross-
postings!
Dear All,
During the last Portuguese Meeting of Evolutionary Bi-
ologists held in December, the group of people present
decided to take the necessary legal steps in order to
having a formal Evo Bio Society. The ﬁrst steps for
its constitution have been taken and we are now asking
for peopleˆ as input, in particular regarding the ˆ aMission
Statementsˆ a of the Society. To do that, we have cre-
ated a poll (link below) where people can vote whether
they agree/disagree with a society with these mission
statements. Speciﬁc comments can be sent by email
to any of us. The Society (and the poll) is directed to
evolutionary biologists of all nationalities, who would
be interested in joining. Please participate until May
31st.
Best regards, Hugo Gante hfgante@fc.ul.pt
>>>>>
Caros colegas,
No ﬁnal do ˜Ao¯ltimo Encontro Nacional de Biologia Evo-
lutiva foi discutida a ˆ anecessidade de nos organizarmos
no sentido de formar a Sociedade Portuguesa ˆ ade Biolo-
gia Evolutiva. O grupo de pessoas que estava presente
acolheu bem a ˆ aideia. Felizmente este ano houve um
grupo de 8 pessoas que se voluntariou para ˆ aque tal sejauma realidade muito em breve. Neste momento, este
grupo ˆ aencontra-se a trabalhar na elabora ˜A§˜A£o dos
estatutos, sendo que para tal ˜Ac/circlecopyrtˆ anecess ˜Ario deﬁnir
as suas principais miss ˜Aµes. A inten ˜A§˜A£o desta
ˆ acomiss ˜A£o ˆ ainstaladoraˆ a ˜Ac/circlecopyrtque nos estatutos ape-
nas sejam deﬁnidas miss ˜Aµes gerais (ver ˆ aem baixo),
dando assim espa ˜Apara que as direc ˜A§˜Aµes eleitas
possam delinear ˆ aobjectivos espec ˜A’ﬁcos para cada
mandato, sempre no ˜Ambito das miss ˜Aµes ˆ aprincipais
que constituir ˜A£o os estatutos. Para tal, deﬁnimos
as seguintes miss ˜Aµes: a) promover o conhecimento e
divulga ˜A§˜A£o de conhecimentos na ˜Area da Biologia
ˆ aEvolutiva; b) fomentar o interc ˜Ambio nacional e in-
ternacional no dom ˜A’nio da ˆ ainvestiga ˜A§˜A£o e ensino
na Biologia Evolutiva; c) colaborar com quaisquer en-
tidades, oﬁciais ou privadas, nacionais, ˆ aestrangeiras
ou internacionais, no campo das suas compet ˜Ancias
t˜Ac/circlecopyrtcnicas e ˆ acient ˜A’ﬁcas Nesta fase achamos impor-
tante divulgar as miss ˜Aµes deﬁnidas por este grupo ˆ ade
modo a coloc ˜A-las ˜A considera ˜A§˜A£o de todos os po-
tenciais futuros membros ˆ ada Sociedade. O objectivo
˜Ac/circlecopyrtauscultar a opini ˜A£o geral sobre as miss ˜Aµes, mas
ˆ atamb ˜Ac/circlecopyrtm de conﬁrmar o interesse geral na consti-
tui˜A§˜A£o da sociedade, antes de ˆ aavan ˜Acom os pro-
cedimentos ﬁnais para a sua oﬁcializa ˜A§˜A£o. De modo
a simpliﬁcar a consulta, resolvemos colocar uma per-
gunta simples: ˆ aˆ aConcorda com a forma ˜A§˜A£o de uma
Sociedade com estas miss ˜Aµes?ˆ a POR FAVOR: siga
este link [ http://doodle.com/us4dyhusrpbtwwr2] e re-
sponda ˆ aSIM ou N ˜AO, at ˜Ac/circlecopyrtao dia *31 de Maio de
2011*. Independentemente da resposta ˜Ac/circlecopyrtimpor-
tante que participem, pois s ˜A3assim ˆ asentiremos que
h˜A um interesse generalizado para a forma ˜A§˜A£o da
Sociedade. Lembramos que: o ESEB meeting - maior
encontro europeu de Biologia Evolutiva ˆ a- vai ser re-
alizado em Portugal em 2013; a ESEB est ˜A interes-
sada em apoiar ˆ asociedades de biologia evolutiva; e que
o ensino da Biologia e Medicina em ˆ aPortugal muito
provavelmente devia contemplar mais esta ˜Area. Por
favor divulguem esta mensagem pelos vossos colegas e
institui ˜A§˜Aµes.
A comiss ˜A£o instaladora,
Alexandra S ˜A Pinto Andr ˜Ac/circlecopyrtLevy Hugo Gante Isabel
Gordo Rita Campos Rui Castanhinha Rui Faria Sara
Branco
hfgante@fc.ul.ptJune 1, 2011 EvolDir 55
Rap Guide to Evolution video
launch
In partnership with The Wellcome Trust...
BABA BRINKMAN TO LAUNCH RAP VIDEO SE-
RIES ON 25 MAY AT THE PRINCE CHARLES CIN-
EMA, LONDON Award-winning performer produces
videos to aide teaching of evolution
Baba Brinkman - the award-winning Canadian-born
performer - is to launch a campaign, supported by the
UK’s largest charity the Wellcome Trust, to aide the
teaching of evolution in schools - using his acclaimed
show The Rap Guide to Evolution and a resource-
packed website to assist.
The ﬁrst step in the campaign is the launch of The
Rap Guide to Evolution website later this month
(www.rapguidetoevolution.co.uk ) which will host a se-
ries of 12 specially produced music videos based on the
show, as well as supporting materials that will assist
teachers in utilising the videos in their work.
The launch at The Prince Charles Cinema in London on
the 25th May 2011 will include previews of the videos,
as well as performances by Baba and an introduction
to the thinking behind the project.
Baba’s aim is simple in principle but bold in practice -
to combine the wit, poetry and charisma of an accom-
plished rapper with the accuracy, knowledge and ex-
pertise of an evolutionary scientist. Having performed
The Rap Guide to Evolution at the Edinburgh Fringe
in 2009, Baba was awarded a Scotsman Fringe First
Award for Best New Theatre Writing as he combined
original raps with remixes of well-known tracks - chron-
icling Natural Selection, Sexual Selection and Evolu-
tionary Psychology.
The show owes its origins to Dr. Mark Pallen, au-
thor of The Rough Guide to Evolution, who had seen
Brinkman’s internationally acclaimed Rap Canterbury
Tales and challenged Brinkman to “do for Darwin
what he had done for Chaucer.” In order to ensure
scientiﬁc and historical accuracy, Brinkman consulted
Pallen throughout the creative process, making The
Rap Guide to Evolution the ﬁrst peer-reviewed hip-hop
show. Pallen has described Brinkman as having “swal-
lowed the idea and turned it into a work of genius.”
Baba has shared the stage with a number of high proﬁlescience thinkers, from author Simon Singh to physi-
cist Brian Cox to The God Delusion author Richard
Dawkins, whilst he has also performed in Robin Ince’s
Nine Lessons and Carols for Godless People comedy
series. The Rap Guide was described as “astonishing
and brilliant” by the New York Times, with Science
magazine writing that he “he marries the fast, com-
plex, literate delivery of Eminem with the evolutionary
expertise and confrontational manner of Dawkins.”
Following on the show’s success in Edinburgh, a host
of science teachers contacted Baba to ask whether The
Rap Guide to Evolution was available in DVD form for
them to use in the classroom, and thus the seed was
sown in Baba’s mind to devise a way of taking the ma-
terial into schools.
Baba partnered with SPL Productions - the company
behind West End-hit Into The Hoods - and secured
funding from the Wellcome Trust to help him with his
campaign, as well as raising a further £12,000 directly
from his fans through Crowdfunder.co.uk. With SPL
Productions, Baba has split The Rap Guide to Evolu-
tion up into 12 parts, enlisting leading talent to produce
and direct the videos with each video addressing a dif-
ferent area of the science behind evolution.
On the launch of the videos, Baba said: “The response
to the show so far has been overwhelming, but these
videos really take it to the next level. I hope educators
all over the world ﬁnd them helpful in overcoming the
indiﬀerence and hostility that often impede the teach-
ing of evolution, and science in general. Hip-hop music
is all about rebellion, and no one’s ideas are more rev-
olutionary than Charles Darwin’s.”
The videos will be made available for free on
www.rapguidetoevolution.co.uk, along with supporting
educational resources and a host of bonus features and
ongoing updates to facilitate their use by teachers in
schools. Brinkman and SPL Productions are also cre-
ating a DVD with additional teaching materials that
will be available to schools in the autumn.
Subsequent music videos in the series will be released
over the coming months and made available for free
online, and Baba will continue to promote their use
throughout his live dates around the world, including
an oﬀ-Broadway run that begins on June 17th.
TESTIMONIALS
“To hear the learning in the music makes things 10
times easier! Just wanna say thank you Baba for help-
ing me realize how easy science could be! : )”- Kadei-
dra, 15, Binghamton Public High School
“Baba made our students really think. They realized56 EvolDir June 1, 2011
that science really can be fascinating, challenging and
genuinely stimulating - just as we’ve been trying to tell
them for years... Great stuﬀ!” - Simon Brookes, Profes-
sor of Human Physiology, Flinders University, Australia
LISTINGS
Video Premiere: The Rap Guide to Evolution
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Software Announcing
SequenceMatrix
Hi everybody,
My colleagues and I have released a Java-based se-
quence concatenation program called “SequenceMa-
trix”. Files containing aligned gene sequences can
be dropped straight into a spreadsheet-like window to
combine them; the combined dataset can then be ex-
ported as a single Nexus or TNT ﬁle, with character
sets and codon position data maintained intact. It has
several other useful features, such as resplitting a com-
bined dataset back into individual gene ﬁles, or export-
ing a table of the genes and species which make up a
single dataset ﬁle. SequenceMatrix can also help iden-
tify some common forms of lab contamination [1]. You
can get the program or its underlying source code from
http://code.google.com/p/sequencematrix/ We’ve re-
cently created a video which demonstrates Sequence-
Matrix combining multi-gene, multi-species datasets,
available on YouTube at: http://www.youtube.com/-
watch?v=Adwr-CZdNOM As ﬁrst time screencasters,
we’d really love your feedback on how well the video
works and what we can improve for our next video.
Please let me know if you have any problems with either
the program or the video!
cheers, Gaurav Vaidya http://www.ggvaidya.com/
[1] You can ﬁnd out more about SequenceMatrix’s
contamination identiﬁcation features in our paper:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1096-0031.2010.00329.x
ggvaidya@gmail.comSoftware EggLib PythonModule
Dear colleagues,
We are pleased to announce the EggLib package.
EggLib is a C++/Python library and program pack-
age for evolutionary genetics and genomics allowing
nucleotide sequence polymorphism analysis, coalescent
simulations, Approximate Bayesian Computation, and
more.
Most prominent feature is a Python module oﬀering an
intuitive and ﬂexible interface to carry out a wide range
of processing and analytical tasks. The Python module
is supported by a computationally eﬃcient (and inde-
pendent) C++ library.
Several applications have been pre-implemented and
are available as command line tools.
Full documentation, installation instruction and source
code are available at the project home page:
http://seqlib.sourceforge.net/ – St´ ephane De Mita
Postdoctoral fellow IRD Montpellier 911 av-
enue Agropolis BP 64501 34394 MONTPEL-
LIER cedex 5 France demita@gmail.com phone:
+33 467416477 http://sites.google.com/site/-
plantbiodiversityadaptation/ – Mathieu Sol
Postdoctoral fellow INRA Montpellier UMR
Am´ elioration G´ en´ etique et Adaptation des Plantes
Domaine de Melgueil 34130 Mauguio France phone:
+33 4 67 29 29 90 email: Mathieu.Siol@supagro.inra.fr
demita@gmail.com
Teaching EvoDevo
Several people ask about the material I received by the
list and I am sending again:
Dear friends,
Thanks to 30 people who wrote me indicating books
and videos to use with undergrad classes about Evo
Devo and these are the most cited material:
The most cited books:June 1, 2011 EvolDir 57
Endless Forms Most Beautiful for Evo Devo. By
Sean Carroll. http://www.amazon.co.uk/Endless-
Forms-Most-Beautiful-Science/dp/1849160481/ref=-
sr11?ie=UTF8&qid01065731&sr=8-1 .It would be a
good introduction to get students interested. Veryac-
cessible. From DNA To Diversity: Molecular Genetics
and the Evolution of Animal Design, 2nd ed. Carroll,
Grenier, Weatherbee. 2005. Blackwell Publishing.
Wallace Arthur “Evolution. A developmental ap-
proach”, which was just published by Wiley-Blackwell.
Hall BK, Olson WM: Keywords and Concepts in
Evolutionary Developmental Biology. 2003:476.
Other books: There is a very nice chapter on the
topic written by John True in Futuyma’s textbook,
Evolution (2nd edition). “The Origin of Animal
Body Plans” by Wallace Arthur The evolution of
developmental pathways. Wilkins. Wray, G. A.
2010. Embryos and Evolution: 150 years of reciprocal
illumination. In: Evolution Since Darwin: The Firt
150 Years, pp. 215-239, in M. A. Bell, D. J. Futuyma,
W. F. Eanes, and M. A. Bell. Sinauer Associates,
Sunderland. Developmental plasticity and evolution.
West-Eberhard. (lots of overview material) Ontogeny
and Phylogeny. Gould. (not exactly up to date, it’s
from 1977) Evolution - The Extended Synthesis IT
Press, 2010 http://mitpress.mit.edu/catalog/item/-
default.asp?ttype=2&tid173 Evolution, Development,
and the Predictable Genome. David L. Stern (Author)
http://www.amazon.com/Evolution-Development-
Predictable-Genome-David/dp/1936221012/ref=-
sr16?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid01078243&sr=1-6
Gilbert & Epel’s “Ecological Developmental Biology:
IntegratingEpigenetics, Medicine, and Evolution The
shape of life. Raﬀ
VIDEOS: ”Ghost in Your Genes“ ( http:/-
/www.amazon.com/Ghost-Your-Genes-Nova/-
dp/B000XBPDYY/ref=sr 11?ie=UTF8&s=-
dvd&qid01077278&sr=8-1 ) ”What Darwin Never
Knew“ both produced by the television show NOVA.
PBS video: http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/body/-
epigenetics.html http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/-
body/rnai-explained . html http://www.pbs.org/-
wgbh/nova/body/rnai.html http://www.hhmi.org/-
biointeractive/rna/rna interference/01.html http://-
www.nature.com/focus/rnai/animations/index.html
http://learn.genetics.utah.edu/content/epigenetics/-
rats/ Website: On ENSI site, there is a very nice
Threespine Stickleback lesson that introduces elements
of evo-devo: http://www.indiana.edu/ ˜ ensiweb/-
lessons/stickleback.html Thanks for all of you and.......
we need a website to organize references,links of videos
and also a library of slides. We are always discussing
aboutresearch but we need a place to centralize allmaterial for education!
VOLTOLINI <jcvoltol@uol.com.br >
Transposon copy number
quantiﬁcation
Dear Evoldir friends,
I would like to estimate the copy number of a trans-
poson isolated from a sturgeon species. Sturgeons are
known to have diﬀerent levels of ploidy: they may be
diploid,tetraploidor octoploid. What kind of method do
you suggest for this estimation? I ﬁrst would like to try
with a qRT-PCR. For an accurate quantiﬁcation with
qRT-PCR, it is important to have a calibrator gene. As
far as know, there are no reference genes for sturgeon
with a known copy number. Nevertheless, there are
genotyped microsatellite loci with deﬁned allelic num-
ber. Can I use sturgeon microsatellites, or, alterna-
tively, a gene standard isolated in an other species? In
particular in my opinion it is not important the species
origin of the internal calibrator, but the starting cali-
brator DNA concentration which should be the same
of the template DNA. Moreover, what is the best bp
length of the ampliﬁed product for a good qRT-PCR
eﬃciency? and should the two pcr products (calibra-
tor and transposon) have the same bp length? Do you
suggest alternative methods?
thank you very much for your help Federica Barbisan
federica.barbisan@unipd.it
UMelbourne AvianBehaviour
We are looking for volunteer ﬁeld assistants to help
monitor a colour-banded population of superb fairy-
wrens near Melbourne, Australia for a study on an-
imal personalities. Start date: August 2011. Time
period: approx 6 months. Duties include regular cen-
susing of colour-banded birds, searching for and mon-
itoring nests, mist-netting, behavioural observations,
and data entry. Working days are long, with early
starts six days a week. Enthusiasm and a strong work
ethic are a must! The study is based at Serendip
Sanctuary, a small reserve on the outskirts of Mel-58 EvolDir June 1, 2011
bourne. Qualiﬁcations: experience monitoring colour-
banded birds, nest-searching, and mist-netting. Must
also be early riser, physically ﬁt and able to work in
extreme weather conditions, and enjoy basic shared
living conditions. Onsite accommodation in a shared
dorm-style room is provided, but assistants cover travel
to the site and their own food costs. The project
will contribute AUD$500/mo towards receipted food
and travel expenses. For more information contact:Michelle Hall (hall.m@unimelb.edu.au) and Raoul Mul-
der (r.mulder@unimelb.edu.au). To apply, please email
a letter outlining previous ﬁeld research experience, and
a resume including names and contact information for
3 referees.
Dr Michelle L Hall Research Fellow Department of Zo-
ology, University of Melbourne Melbourne, VIC, 3010,
Australia
hall.m@unimelb.edu.au
PostDocs
ATHCairnsAustralia BarcodingOrchids . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Berlin FungalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
BrownU Phylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
CaliforniaAcademy AvianDiseaseDynamics . . . . . . . . 60
EmoryU GeneticsDrosophila ParasiteInteractions . . 61
FloridaStateU EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Frankfurt FungalAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
IndianaU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
IowaStateU TurtleChromosomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 63
KeeleU MosquitoSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Lyon ComparativeBacterialGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Marseille GenomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Montpellier ComputationalPhylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . 65
NewYorkU PlantEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . 66
PennsylvaniaStateU HumanCranioEvolution . . . . . . . 66
RutgersU ComputationalEvolutionaryGenomics . . . 67
SaudiArabia Dinoﬂagellate MolecularDiversity . . . . . 67
TexasAMU MolPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Trentino Italy Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Trentino Italy ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Trentino Italy PromoterEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70UAlabama EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
UBC SpatialEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
UCaliforniaSanFrancisco EvolutionCancer . . . . . . . . . 72
UCambridge FloralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
UCLondon EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
UCopenhagen Bioinformatics genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
UExeter HostVirusCoevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
UFlorida HumanEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
ULausanne SocialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
UManitoba MicrobialBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
UMontreal PlantBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
UOregon Phylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
UOslo ThermotogalesComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . 77
UPennsylvania SociogenomicsEvolutionaryGenetics 78
UppsalaU ComputationalGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
UPretoria ForestGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
USheﬃeld PlantGrowthDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
UToronto AirwayMicrobeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
UZurich SeahorseGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
WestVirginiaU MicrobialComparativeGenomics . . . . 81
ATHCairnsAustralia
BarcodingOrchids
Postdoc position at Australian Tropical HerbariumWe are currently inviting applications for a new post
doc position (DNA barcoding and molecular system-
atics of Australian orchids) at the Australian Tropical
Herbarium in Cairns. This is a 2.5 year position funded
by an ABRS grant. Job description and further de-
tails below and at http://www-public.jcu.edu.au/jobs/-
research/JCU 080011 Closing date: 17 June 2011
With kind regards, Katharina Schulte and DarrenJune 1, 2011 EvolDir 59
Crayn —–
POSTDOCTORAL FELLOW: Australian Tropical
Herbarium Job Level(s): Academic A Employment
Type: Appointment will be full-time for a ﬁxed-term
(speciﬁc project) to 30 November 2013 subject to a pro-
bationary period. Salary: $65,902 - $73,082 per annum.
Commencing salary will be in accordance with qualiﬁ-
cations and experience. Beneﬁts include generous em-
ployer superannuation contribution and attractive op-
tions for salary packaging. Location: Cairns Closing
Date: 17 June 2011 Reference No: 11123
Position Statement The Australian Tropical Herbarium
(ATH) seeks an outstanding and highly motivated post-
doctoral researcher with expertise in plant molecular
systematics to join our dynamic research team. You will
develop molecular identiﬁcation tools (DNA-barcodes)
for Australian Orchidaceae, generate and analyse multi-
locus DNA data employing a variety of established and
innovative approaches, and contribute to understand-
ing the phylogeny, evolution and biogeographic history
of Australian orchids. Your expertise in the collection
and analysis of molecular and morphological data will
lead to high impact research outcomes. The ATH oﬀers
an unrivalled specimen collection (herbarium, spirit and
DNA) of Australian tropical rainforest plants, full tax-
onomic research and ﬁeld facilities including a compre-
hensively equipped molecular biology laboratory, and is
situated adjacent to a range of tropical biomes includ-
ing the World Heritage listed Queensland Wet Trop-
ics rainforests. Visit us at www.ath.org.au Duties
and Accountabilities The appointee will be required to:
ˆ a Develop a molecular identiﬁcation system for Aus-
tralian Orchidaceae based on suitable plastid and nu-
clear DNA regions (i.e. DNA barcoding); ˆ a Generate
and analyse multi-locus DNA barcode data employing
a variety of established and where appropriate innova-
tive approaches and methods; ˆ a Contribute to a col-
laborative research project that aims to re- evaluate
current taxonomic concepts in Australian Orchidaceae
based on multi-locus molecular evidence and to unravel
the phylogeny, evolution and biogeographic history of
Australian orchid groups; ˆ a Take responsibility for the
curation of generated DNA barcode data and associ-
ated biological collections such as DNA, tissue, and
databases at the Australian Tropical Herbarium, and
for making the DNA barcode data publicly available
through online portals; ˆ a Communicate the results of
research and analyses orally and in written form to col-
leagues, industry, the scientiﬁc research community and
other stakeholders.
Key Selection Criteria 1. PhD (conferred or pend-
ing) and documented research and publication history
in plant molecular systematics; 2. Demonstrated ex-pertise in relevant molecular biology lab techniques,
such as primer design, sequencing of plastid and nu-
clear DNA markers, and cloning; 3. Evidence of high
level of computing skills including phylogenetic analysis
and multivariate analysis; 4. Demonstrated ﬂexible and
constructive approach to work design and work proce-
dures, especially in the molecular lab; 5. Demonstrated
knowledge of contemporary taxonomic concepts and
processes, including the use of phenotypic and geno-
typic data; 6. Demonstrated ability to eﬃciently orga-
nize and conduct a research project including timely
reporting on research milestones and outcomes, and
maintaining a research budget; 7. Demonstrated abil-
ity and commitment to publish the results of scientiﬁc
research in high quality scientiﬁc print and electronic
media within agreed timeframes; evidence of high level
written, oral and interpersonal communication skills to
diverse audience; 8. Ability to work eﬀectively as a
member of a team, to interact and communicate eﬀec-
tively with staﬀ, stakeholders and clients at all levels; 9.
Ability to undertake ﬁeld work in tropical ecosystems.
Desirable Selection Criteria 1. Expert knowledge in sys-
tematics and phylogeny of Orchidaceae; 2. Experience
in DNA barcoding; 3. Competence and experience in
the curation of biological research collections such as
DNA or tissue banks, including databasing; 4. High
level bioinformatics skills and experience.
Enquiries Name: Dr Katharina Schulte Phone: (07)
4059 5009 E-mail: katharina.schulte@jcu.edu.au
Method of Application Applicants must provide a full
statement of qualiﬁcations and career,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Berlin FungalEvolution
We are currently looking for a postdoctoral researcher
to work on the genetic basis of serpentine tolerance
in the ectomycorrhizal fungus Cenococcum geophilum.
The work will involve collecting samples in the ﬁeld,
maintaining cultures, phenotype testing and extensive
genotyping using a variety of methods (AFLP, genotyp-
ing arrays, second-generation sequencing). A PhD de-
gree in biology is required and experience in molecular60 EvolDir June 1, 2011
genetics and microbiology is highly desirable. Prefer-
ence will be given to candidates with a good knowledge
of population/quantitative genetics and statistics.
The position will be hosted at the Centre for Functional
Ecology ( http://cfe.uc.pt/ ) of the University of Coim-
bra ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coimbra ) and the
Institute for Bioloy ( http://www.biologie.fu-berlin.de/-
en/index.html ) of the Free University of Berlin ( http:/-
/en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Berlin ), under the supervision
of Ludo Muller (ludo.muller@fu-berlin.de) and Susana
Gon¸ calves (scgoncal@ci.uc.pt). The position is funded
for a period of 12 months and the candidate will be
assisted in obtaining further funding. Starting date is
ﬂexible but foreseen for the summer of 2011.
Please apply by sending a cover letter and CV, in-
cluding a list of three references, to: ludo.muller@fu-
berlin.de. Deadline for applying is May 31, 2011. In-
formal inquiries are welcome.
Dr. Ludo A.H. Muller Freie Universit¨ at Berlin Institut
f¨ ur Biologie - Botanik Altensteinstraße 6 14195 Berlin
Germany Tel. +49 (0)30 838 56539 Fax +49 (0)30 838
55434
ludo.muller@fu-berlin.de
BrownU Phylogenomics
Postdoctoral Research Position Large Scale Phyloge-
netic Inference with Next-Generation Sequence Data
A postdoctoral position is available in Casey Dunn’s
lab ( http://www.brown.edu/Faculty/Dunn Lab/-
,casey dunn@brown.edu) at Brown University in
Providence, Rhode Island. The successful candidate
will develop new methods and tools to address key
challenges in constructing phylogenies with many
genes and many taxa, and will use Illumina sequence
data from a broad diversity of organisms to build
species trees for several on-going projects. Research in
related topics beyond these core goals will be strongly
encouraged.
Applicants should hold a PhD in Evolutionary Biology
or Computer Science. Qualiﬁcations should include a
detailed understanding of phylogenetic inference meth-
ods and molecular evolution, experience building phy-
logenies, and programming experience (e.g., Python, R,
SQL, and Unix).
Depending on the interests of the candidate, the post-doc could also participate in ﬁeldwork and sample
preparation for sequencing.
Please apply be sending a cover letter, CV, and con-
tact information for three references to Casey Dunn
(casey dunn@brown.edu). General inquiries are wel-
come. The position is available immediately.
–http://www.brown.edu/Faculty/Dunn Lab http:/-
/creaturecast.org http://practicalcomputing.org
casey dunn@brown.edu
CaliforniaAcademy
AvianDiseaseDynamics
POSTDOC: Avian virus discovery and studies of dis-
ease dynamics
California Academy of Sciences San Francisco, Califor-
nia
We invite applications for a postdoctoral research fel-
lowship to collaborate on studies of avian viruses and
coevolution with hosts. Coevolutionary analyses will
include microarray and next generation sequencing
analyses of virus diversity, phylogeography and po-
tential virus roles in declines or extinction of diverse
avian host populations. The latter will involve com-
parison of avian and viral diversity and abundances in
island and mainland habitats as well as in natural and
environmentally-stressed habitats.
We are looking for an enthusiastic and motivated indi-
vidual to join our research team. The ideal candidate
will have experience in molecular techniques including
DNA and RNA extraction, sequencing, gene proﬁling
via microarrays, Illumina sequencing and analysis, as
well background in phylogenetics, molecular evolution-
ary analyses and avian or virus evolution. The position
will be based at the California Academy of Sciences
(CAS) in the lab of Jack Dumbacher and will collabo-
rate closely with David Mindell (CAS) and Joe DeRisi
(Univ. of California at San Francisco).
CAS and UCSF have vibrant communities of re-
searchers working on evolutionary and systematics top-
ics involving both theory and practice, population dy-
namics, and infectious disease coevolution with hosts.
Our groups have close ties with many other researchers
in the Bay Area. CAS is situated in Golden Gate Park
in San Francisco, within minutes of the ocean, biking
and hiking trails, and the rich cultural and culinary
oﬀerings of the city.June 1, 2011 EvolDir 61
The position is available as early as Summer 2011, and
may last up to two years, pending appropriate progress
and favorable annual reviews. Starting salary will be in
the range of $43,000 to $50,000 per year, plus beneﬁts,
depending on experience.
To apply please send a CV, letter of interest and con-
tact information for three references to Jack Dumbacher
at jdumbacher@calacademy.org. Review of applications
will begin on 20 May and will continue until the posi-
tion is ﬁlled. The California Academy of Sciences is
an Equal Opportunity Employer and welcomes appli-
cations from individuals who will contribute to its di-
versity.
John P. Dumbacher (Jack) Curator and Department
Chair Department of Ornithology and Mammalogy Di-
vision of Research and Collections California Academy
of Sciences p. 415.379.5377 f. 415.379.5738 jdum-
bacher@calacademy.org www.calacademy.org 55 Music
Concourse Drive Golden Gate Park San Francisco, CA
94118
“Dumbacher, Jack” <JDumbacher@calacademy.org >
EmoryU GeneticsDrosophila
ParasiteInteractions
Drosophila Genetics Postdoctoral Position Emory Uni-
versity, Atlanta, GA USA Laboratory of Dr. Todd
Schlenke
We are looking for a highly motivated postdoctoral re-
searcher to work on the genetics of Drosophila resis-
tance against parasitic wasps. Drosophila are a model
system for study of innate immunity, and wasps are
one of the most common pathogens of fruitﬂies in na-
ture. It is the interaction between the innate immune
response of the ﬂies and the venom of the wasps that
determines the outcome of any infection. We currently
have funding to use a combination of candidate gene
approaches, QTL mapping, and association mapping to
identify ﬂy loci that control resistance. The resistance
genes we identify will be functionally characterized us-
ing a variety of cell and molecular biology techniques,
and any history of adaptive evolution at such loci will
be determined with population genetic and molecular
evolution analyses. Applicants will preferably have a
background in some combination of Drosophila biology,
host-pathogen interactions, population genetics, genet-
ics, and molecular biology.The Schlenke lab ( http://www.biology.emory.edu/-
research/schlenke/ ) is part of Emory’s Biology Depart-
ment ( http://www.biology.emory.edu/ ) and is aﬃliated
with the Genetics and Molecular Biology (GMB) and
Population Biology, Ecology and Evolution (PBEE)
graduate programs. These groups have a strong empha-
sis on host-pathogen interactions, Drosophila molecular
genetics, and bioinformatics, and we regularly collabo-
rate with multiple labs across campus. Atlanta is also
a great place to live.
Interested candidates should send a CV, along with
a brief statement of interests and experiences in the
above-mentioned areas, to Todd Schlenke by June 25th,
2011. Candidates can start any time between now and
January 2012.
Dr. Todd Schlenke Emory University Department of
Biology tschlen@emory.edu
“Schlenke, Todd” <tschlen@emory.edu >
FloridaStateU EvolutionaryBiology
Postdoctoral Researcher in Evolutionary Biology and
Behavioral Ecology: Florida State University
Dr. Emily Moriarty Lemmon
Department of Biological Science, Florida State Uni-
versity
Position Description: A postdoctoral position (up to
three years) is available in the laboratory of Dr. Emily
Moriarty Lemmon to collaborate on an NSF-funded
project to study the eﬀect of community interactions
on evolution of male reproductive signals and female
preferences in chorus frogs (Pseudacris) and the genetic
consequences for speciation.
The postdoctoral scientist will lead a team of gradu-
ate students and ﬁeld technicians to conduct ﬁeldwork
across the southeastern United States and perform be-
havioral experiments in a portable lab during the spring
ﬁeld seasons (approximately three months per year).
Outside of the ﬁeld season, the postdoctoral scholar will
analyze behavioral data, genotype samples, and collect
next-generation sequencing data. The ideal candidate
will have ﬁeld experience with frogs, experience con-
ducting behavioral experiments, training in molecular
biology, and computational experience. However, appli-
cants with some combination of the above qualiﬁcations
will also be considered. The start-date for this position62 EvolDir June 1, 2011
will be fall 2011 (exact date ﬂexible), and salary will be
competitive.
Minimum Qualiﬁcations:
- A Ph.D. in biology, molecular biology, or a related
ﬁeld with a focus on evolution - Previous research ex-
perience and a strong publication record - Extensive
ﬁeld experience, preferably with amphibians - Ability
to communicate clearly, work eﬃciently and indepen-
dently, interact collaboratively, and lead a ﬁeld team
Additional Preferred Qualiﬁcations:
- Molecular biology and genetics training (e.g., phyloge-
netics, population genetics, phylogeography) - Compu-
tational experience - Experience with next-generation
sequencing - Experience conducting behavioral studies
Application Deadline: 1 June 2011 (or until ﬁlled).
Start date Fall 2011 (exact date ﬂexible).
To Apply: Application materials consisting of (1) a
CV, (2) a statement of research interests and experience
including how previous experience relates to the posi-
tion description (2 page max), and (3) contact infor-
mation for three references must be submitted to cho-
rusfrog@bio.fsu.edu . Review of applications will begin
June 1, 2011 and continue until the position is ﬁlled.
Informal inquiries are welcome. General information
about the lab can be found at http://www.bio.fsu.edu/-
chorusfrog/index.html .
About Florida State University: The successful ap-
plicant will be aﬃliated with the Department of Bi-
ological Science ( http://www.bio.fsu.edu/ ) and will
also interact with the Department of Scientiﬁc Com-
puting ( http://www.sc.fsu.edu/ ), and the College of
Medicine ( http://med.fsu.edu/ ). These groups collabo-
rate extensively on evolutionary, behavioral, statistical,
mathematical, genomic, and computational projects.
The postdoctoral researcher will join this community
of highly interactive research laboratories. Florida
State University is located in capital city Tallahassee
on the Florida Panhandle immediately adjacent to the
Apalachicola National Forest, which is the largest na-
tional forest in Florida (nearly 900 sq. mi.). The forest
borders the Apalachicola National Estuarine Research
Reserve, which is one of the most productive estuarine
systems in the Northern Hemisphere. The Apalachicola
River basin contains the highest herpetofaunal diversity
in the U.S. and Canada.
The researcher chosen will become part of the integra-
tive laboratory groups of Emily Moriarty Lemmon and
Alan Lemmon at Florida State University. More infor-
mation is available at these websites:
http://www.bio.fsu.edu/chorusfrog/index.html http:/-/www.bio.fsu.edu/faculty-moriarty-lemmon.php
http://www.evotutor.org/LemmonLab/ Dr. Emily
Moriarty Lemmon Assistant Professor Department
of Biological Science 319 Stadium Drive, P.O. Box
3064295 Tallahassee, FL 32306-4295 Phone: 850-645-
9170 chorusfrog@bio.fsu.edu
Emily Moriarty Lemmon Department of Biological
Science Florida State University 319 Stadium Drive,
P.O. Box 3064295 Tallahassee, FL 32306-4295 Phone:
850-645-9170 http://www.bio.fsu.edu/chorusfrog/-
index.html http://www.bio.fsu.edu/faculty-moriarty-
lemmon.php
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Frankfurt FungalAdaptation
PostDoc: Frankfurt.Fungal adaptation to climate
change
TheSchmitt laboratory at the Biodiversity and Climate
Research Centre (BiK-F),Frankfurt, Germany, oﬀers
the position of a postdoctoral researcher“Adaptation of
fungi to climate change” [Ref. #C43]. The successful
applicantwill investigate short term evolutionary pro-
cesses in fungal communities,species or populations as
a response to climatic factors. He or she has theoppor-
tunity to independently develop a project on the above
theme preferablyusing mutualistic fungi, e.g. lichens,
endophytes or mycorrhizae as studysystems. Exper-
iments involving the use of terrestrial model ecosys-
tems, genomicand metagenomic approaches including
next generation sequencing are possible.The institute
oﬀers ample opportunities to interact with researchers
focusingon modeling, statistics, genomics, or social sci-
ences approaches to studyingthe relationships between
biodiversity and climate.
The applicant should hold a Ph.D. inevolutionary biol-
ogy, ecology or a related ﬁeld, and have a strong back-
groundin some of the following areas: mycology, evolu-
tionary theory, molecularcommunity assessment, phy-
logenetics, population biology, and bioinformatics.Post-
doc experience is preferable, but not necessary. A solid
publicationrecord, good written and oral communica-
tion skills in English, the willingnessto write researchJune 1, 2011 EvolDir 63
papers and research proposals, work productively in a
team,and to learn at least basic German are required.
We oﬀer a competitive salary (TV-H E 13,a public ser-
vice position in Germany), full beneﬁts, and training
opportunitiesat Goethe University Frankfurt and in-
ternational/national laboratories. Theposition is avail-
able from August 15th 2011, but the start date is ﬂex-
ible.The initial contract will be for one year with the
possibility of multiple yearextensions for up to six years.
Habilitation is possible. The Biodiversity and Climate
ResearchCentre advocates gender equality. Women are
therefore strongly encouraged toapply. Equally quali-
ﬁed severely handicapped applicants will be givenpref-
erence.
Please send your application by e-mailattachment,
mentioning the reference of this position (#C43) and
including aletter outlining your suitability for the post,
a detailed CV, contact detailsof 2-3 referees and a copy
of your PhD thesis to: Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. V. Mosbrug-
ger,Scientiﬁc Coordinator Biodiversity and Climate Re-
search Centre,Senckenberganlage 25, D-60325 Frank-
furt am Main, Germany. E-mail to Service andFi-
nances: recruiting@senckenberg.de.
Review of applications will begin on July1st, 2011, and
continue until a suitable candidate is identiﬁed.
Informal inquiries to Imke Schmitt
(imke[dot]schmitt[at]senckenberg[dot]de) before the
application are welcome.
imke[dot]schmitt[at]senckenberg[dot]de
IndianaU EvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoctoral associates and graduate students in envi-
ronmental genomics
Indiana University has institutional goals to establish
leadership in the area of environmental genomics to
understand how gene function is inﬂuenced by envi-
ronmental conditions, while accounting for variation
that exists within and among natural populations. The
Shaw lab in the School of Public and Environmental
Aﬀairs and the Center for Genomics and Bioinformat-
ics at Indiana University is looking for talented, cre-
ative, and motivated post-doctoral associates and grad-
uate students who want to make a positive impact on
the world, while advancing their careers in this excit-
ing new area of study. We have current openings to
work on an NIEHS funded project that couples mu-tation accumulation studies, population genome scans,
and QTL experiments to explore the causes and phe-
notypic consequences of gene copy number variation as
they relate to adaptation, disease, and susceptibility in
the NIH model Daphnia (Science, 2011, 331: 555-561).
Individuals with strong quantitative backgrounds in ge-
nomics, population genetics, computational biology or
related ﬁelds are encouraged to apply. Knowledge of
statistics, in particular high-throughput data analysis
is also highly desired. Candidates must be eﬀective
working independently and conﬁdent leading projects,
while also collaborating and assisting the group in its
collective goals. Those applying for graduate studies
should have prior research experience a Master’s degree
or equivalent is preferable, and meet the academic re-
quirements of the School. Applicants for post-doctoral
positions must have a strong record of productivity as
evidenced by publications. All should possess excep-
tional written and oral communication skills. To apply,
please send a cover letter that explains how this position
ﬁts with your experience and goals, CV, and references
to joeshaw@indiana.edu or mail a hard copy to: Joseph
Shaw, Ph.D., School of Public and Environmental Af-
fairs, Indiana University, 1315 East 10th Street, Bloom-
ington, IN 47405. For more information visit ( https:/-
/daphnia.cgb.indiana.edu/Projects#Projects-19 ).
Indiana University is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer, Educator and
Contractor, and is strongly committed to achieving
excellence through cultural diversity. The university
actively encourages applications and nominations of
women, persons of color, applicants with disabilities
and members of other underrepresented groups.
jcolbour@cgb.indiana.edu
IowaStateU
TurtleChromosomeEvolution
Postdoctoral Position in Evolutionary Genomics V Tur-
tle Chromosome Evolution
A postdoctoral position is available immediately to
work in the laboratory of Dr. Nicole Valenzuela at Iowa
State University on an NSF-funded project in collabo-
ration with Dr. Scott Edwards from Harvard Univer-
sity.
The research focuses on evolutionary genomics to study
the evolution of sex chromosomes and sex-linked genes
in turtles, by the use of high resolution cytogenetic64 EvolDir June 1, 2011
techniques and existing genomic resources, and is ex-
pected to result in very high impact publications. We
are exploring the origin and divergence of various sex
chromosomes systems in turtles, the evolution of syn-
tenic groups of sex-related and sex-linked genes, and
the molecular divergence of such genes in turtles with
genotypic and temperature-dependent sex determina-
tion.
The ideal candidate will have a PhD degree and strong
background in molecular and classic cytogenetic tech-
niques including chromosomal preparation, ﬂuorescent
in situ hybridization/chromosome painting, karyotyp-
ing, and the use of Cytovision or other chromosomal
analysis platform. Other qualiﬁcations such as evolu-
tionary biology background and experience with cell
culture are a plus.
Interested candidates should email a cover letter de-
scribing their research interests and experience, CV,
two letters of recommendation, and copies of up to
two relevant publications to Dr. Nicole Valenzuela at
nvalenzu@iastate.edu.
The department of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal
Biology at Iowa State University is comprised of over
40 faculty, whose active research programs span many
areas of E&E from classic to modern -omic approaches,
and interactions with faculty in other departments and
programs are extensive.
Iowa State University does not discriminate on the ba-
sis of race, color, age, religion, national origin, sexual
orientation, gender identity, genetic information, sex,
marital status, disability, or status as a U.S. veteran.
Dr. Nicole Valenzuela Associate Professor Department
of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology 253
Bessey Hall Iowa State University Ames, IA 50011,
USA URL: http://www.public.iastate.edu/˜nvalenzu/
Nicole Valenzuela <nvalenzu@iastate.edu >
KeeleU MosquitoSpeciation
A Postdoctoral position in Bioinformatics is available
in Frederic Tripet’s research group based at the Cen-
ter for Applied Entomology and Parasitology at Keele
University, in the West Middlands, UK. The successful
applicant will work on UK and UK-African collabora-
tive projects focusing on the genomics of speciation in
the Anopheles gambiae mosquito complex and spon-
sored by the MRC and NERC. The Keele Universitycampus is one of the greenest in the country and is
set in beautiful pastoral landscapes next to the city of
Newcastle-under-Lyme.
The Research Associate will be responsible for man-
aging targeted re-sequencing projects and contributing
to the bioinformatics workﬂow of various collaborative
projects. This position will thus oﬀer ample opportu-
nities for the candidate to develop their own ideas but
it is paramount that she/he thrives to design simple
bioinformatics tools that are tractable and accessible
to all collaborative parties involved. We are looking for
a team player with excellent communication skills and
an international outlook.
The ideal candidate will have good quantitative skills
and a strong background in bioinformatics. Candidates
should be able to demonstrate their programming skills
in C-related languages (R, python) during the inter-
view. The Research Associate will be involved in ex-
periments leading to the generation of DNA samples
for genomic analyses, hence some background in molec-
ular biology is important and experience in insect ecol-
ogy/rearing would be a plus.
This full-time position is available for a 3-year dura-
tion and will start as soon as possible. Salary will be ~
£38k-42k/year.
For informal enquiries and information about the
application process contact Dr. Frederic Tripet,
f.tripet@biol.keele.ac.uk
Frederic Tripet, Ph.D Lecturer in Molecular Biology
of Insect Disease Vectors Msc in Molecular Parasitol-
ogy and Vector Biology, Program Director Center for
Applied Entomology and Parasitology School of Life
Sciences, Huxley Building Keele University Campus,
Keele, Staﬀordshire ST5 5BG UK
Email: f.tripet@biol.keele.ac.uk Tel: ++44 1782
733873 Fax: ++44 1782 733516 Website: http:/-
/www.keele.ac.uk/research/istm/tripet.html
f.tripet@biol.keele.ac.uk
Lyon
ComparativeBacterialGenomics
A 24 months post-doctoral position is available to work
on the comparative genomics of piezophilic microorgan-
isms, i.e. bacteria and archaea adapted to high pres-
sure such as those living next to deep-sea hydrother-
mal vents, at the LBBE (Biometry and EvolutionaryJune 1, 2011 EvolDir 65
Biology lab) of the university of Lyon, France ( http:/-
/lbbe.univ-lyon1.fr/?lang=en ).
The successful candidate will have a strong background
in Bioinformatics, Molecular Evolution and Statistics
and good programming skills. Some knowledge of struc-
tural biology would be a plus. He/she will have to in-
teract with microbiologists and biochemists in the con-
text of a larger project funded by the ANR (National
Research Agency) in collaboration with labs in Lyon,
Grenoble and Brest, France. The aim of this project is
to understand the genetic basis of life at high pressure.
The work will be conducted by Vincent Daubin from
the Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Genomics Group
and Laurent Gueguen, from the Baobab group.
The BBE lab oﬀers a highly stimulating scientiﬁc en-
vironment, and Lyon is a beautiful, history rich, lively
city. Net salary is around 2000 per month.
Please send a CV, motivation letter and the names of
two referees to Vincent Daubin (vincent.daubin@univ-
lyon1.fr) and Laurent Gueguen (laurent.gueguen@univ-
lyon1.fr).
Keywords: Phylogenetics, comparative genomics, mod-
els of sequence evolution, biochemistry
Vincent Daubin <vincent.daubin@univ-lyon1.fr >
Marseille GenomeEvolution
2 years post doc position, on the role of HGT (Horo-
zontal gene transfert), is available at the EBM lab at
marseille. A solid back ground in molecular evolution is
necessary, programming skills will be a plus. more info:
http://sites.univ-provence.fr/evol/index.php?option=-
com content&view=category&layout=blog&id=-
139&Itemid=225&lang=en Pierre Antoine Pontarotti
Equipe Evolution biologique et Mod´ elisation UMR
6632 Universit´ e de Aix Marseille/CNRS . http://-
sites.univ-provence.fr/evol/ Pierre PONTAROTTI
<Pierre.Pontarotti@univ-provence.fr >
Montpellier
ComputationalPhylogeneticsPostdoc position:
Fast algorithms for dating and phylogeography Mont-
pellier, France ( www.lirmm.fr/mab )
Our group is working on mathematical and computa-
tional phylogenetics. We are interested in theory (e.g.
properties of distance methods [1]), models (e.g. amino-
acid replacement processes [2]), algorithmics and soft-
ware development (e.g. PhyML [3]), and biological ap-
plications, mostly to pathogens (e.g. malaria [4, 5]).
We are ~25 people in the group, with nearly half per-
manent researchers and half PhDs and postdocs. Our
group belongs to a large computer science laboratory,
situated at Montpellier near the Mediterranean Sea. To
know more on us, our research, publications and lab:
www.lirmm.fr/mab We are looking for a postdoc to
work on fast (typically distance- and parsimony-based)
methods for dating and phylogeography, with applica-
tions to virus epidemiology and plant migrations. In-
terpretating phylogenies in terms of time and space be-
come highly topical with the ever increasing amount of
sequences, but standard ML and Bayesian methods are
much to slow to deal with the data sets available today
(typically several thousands taxa with HIV or FLU).
The aim of this postdoc is to propose alternative, eﬃ-
cient methods, which will be statistically well-founded
but faster by several orders of magnitude.
We have a one-year position available, starting in 2011
(ideally mid-September), with possibilities of extension.
The successful candidate will have strong skills in algo-
rithmics, statistical modelling and phylogenetics. To
apply please send CV, motivation letter and references
to me. All enquiries are welcome.
Olivier Gascuel www.lirmm.fr/gascuel gas-
cuel@lirmm.fr
[1] Gascuel O., Steel M., Neighbor-Joining Revealed ±,
Molecular Biology and Evolution, 23(11), 1997-2000,
2006.
[2] Le S.Q., Gascuel O. Accounting for Solvent Accessi-
bility and Secondary Structure in Protein Phylogenetics
is Clearly Beneﬁcial ±, Systematic Biology, 59:277-87,
2010.
[3] Guindon S., Gascuel O., “A simple, fast and accu-
rate algorithm to infer large phylogenies by maximum-
likelihood ±, Systematic Biology 52(5), 696-704, 2003.
[4] Blanquart S, Gascuel O., Mitochondrial genes sup-
port a common origin of rodent malaria parasites
and Plasmodium falciparum’s relatives infecting great
apes±, BMC Evol Biol. 2011 Mar 15;11:70.
[5] Brhlin L, Dufayard JF, Gascuel O., PlasmoDraft: a
database of Plasmodium falciparum gene function pre-66 EvolDir June 1, 2011
dictions based on postgenomic data ±, BMC Bioinfor-
matics. 2008 Oct 16;9:440.
Olivier gascuel <gascuel@lirmm.fr >
NewYorkU
PlantEvolutionaryGenomics
Post-doctoral Position in Plant Evolutionary Genomics
at the New York University Center for Genomics and
Systems Biology
A Post-doctoral position is available as part of the NSF
Plant Genome Grant DBI -0922738 entitled: “Com-
parative Genomics of Seed Evolution”. The successful
applicant will have skills and experience in Genomics,
Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Biology. The posi-
tion will include experimental/informatic analysis on
NextGen datasets (e.g. overseeing laboratory work,
planning, leading and conducting analyses on RNASeq
data). Skills in R, Perl, Python or other programming
language are strongly preferred. This position also in-
cludes Project Manager duties, which involve coordi-
nating scientiﬁc activities at four participating institu-
tions; organizing group meetings, writing grant reports,
and communicating our work in conferences and meet-
ings.
This project involves the collaboration of systematists,
molecular biologists, genome scientists and bioinfor-
maticians from four research/ educational institutions.
PI: Gloria Coruzzi (NYU Center for Genomics and
Systems Biology); Co-PI(s): Robert DeSalle (AMNH);
Dennis W Stevenson (NYBG); W. Richard McCom-
bie (CSHL); Senior Personnel(s): Rob Martienssen
(CSHL); Dennis Shasha (NYU). Project description:
This project involves the construction and analysis of
a phylogenomic view of the seed plants. In the pre-
vious cycle of funding, we generated BigPlant v1.0
a phylogenomic tree constructed from a matrix of
22,121 orthologs from 150 seed plant species ( http:/-
/nypg.bio.nyu.edu/bp/ ). The main goal of our cur-
rent funding cycle is to generate deep-transcriptomes
to ﬁll key gaps in taxa and genomic coverage in the
seed plant phylogenetic tree, and to develop bioin-
formatic and phylogenomic resources that will enable
a better understanding of the evolutionary history of
plants. Overview of Aims 1-4: Aim 1: Select 35
species for transcriptome analysis of leaf, ovule and
seed RNA (RNASeq) to ﬁll in gaps in depth/breath of
taxa/ortholog coverage in BigPlant phylogenomic treeand to provide expression data. Aim 2: Generate deep-
transcriptome data used for unigene assembly, ortholog
identiﬁcation and expression data. Aim 3: Automate
recurrent growth of our current phylogenomic matrix
and integrate trait and expression data as characters.
Develop phylogenomic and machine learning methods
to make functional predictions for genes associated with
clades and/or traits of economic interest. Aim 4: Per-
form functional validation of trait-to-gene predictions
for seed traits in model (Arabidopsis) and crop (maize)
species. Project website: http://nypg.bio.nyu.edu/-
main/ . Please send resume and 3 letters of reference
to:
Dr. Gloria Coruzzi (gc2@nyu.edu) New York Univer-
sity Biology
Center for Genomics and Systems Biology
12 Waverly Place, 8th Floor
New York, NY 10003
acibrian@amnh.org
PennsylvaniaStateU
HumanCranioEvolution
Post doctoral positions at The Pennsylvania State Uni-
versity
Department of Anthropology
Post-doctoral opportunities:
The complex genomic architecture of biological traits
and their evolution, with application to craniofacial de-
velopment and evolution
The Penn State Department of Anthropology involves
a widely recognized research program in developmen-
tal and evolutionary genetics. We collaborate with
local bioinformatics, computational biology, genomics,
and neuroscience centers. We are searching for post-
doctoral research scientists in three areas. The posi-
tions will integrate biological insight and analysis in-
volving existing software and programming of new ap-
plications (Linux & MacOS):
1. Evolutionary simulation and analysis of complex ge-
netic architecture. This project involves the use of a
forward evolutionary simulation package (ForSim) that
we have developed to simulate the genomic architecture
and evolution of complex traits such as neurologic dis-
ease and the morphogenesis of craniometric traits. HowJune 1, 2011 EvolDir 67
well can this architecture be inferred by current meth-
ods such as whole-genome sequence or marker-based
GWAS or family data? Are there better criteria than
statistical signiﬁcance for understanding complex ge-
nomic causation? Script writing is essential, C++ pro-
gramming desirable.
2. Simulation of quantitative developmental morpho-
genesis. We are developing morphometric simulations
of the intercellular signaling interaction interactions
among tissues in craniofacial development and its evo-
lution. The goal is to generate &#8216;movies’ of
simulated tissue interactions and their resulting over-
all shape, that can be compared to morphometric data
from high-resolution MRI and CT imaging of normal
and transgenic mouse models generated in our labo-
ratories. This position involves programming (current
modeling is in C++).
3. Bioinformatics/Genomic data analysis and mod-
eling. We are doing genomewide mapping on nor-
mal craniofacial variation in mouse and baboon mod-
els. This project involves the dissection of implicated
genome regions by integrating results from diﬀerent
species and other sources of externally derived infor-
mation such as regulatory networks and genomic se-
quence conservation. We relate these results to our
other work in neurologic and craniofacial dysgenesis
(Down syndrome, craniosynostosis). Ability to use
genome database and other bioinformatics resources is
required.
These integrated research projects have existing NSF
and NIH funding. We will be ﬁlling 1-year appoint-
ments, that can be extended to 2 or more years. Salary
will be NIH/NSF post-doctoral levels based on experi-
ence, and starting date can be any time. Penn State
is committed to aﬃrmative action, equal opportunity
and the diversity of its workforce and our group is al-
ready an appealing and successful mixture of diﬀerent
but collaborative people of various genders and cultural
backgrounds. Contact Ken Weiss (kenweiss@psu.edu)
or Joan Richtsmeier (jta10@psu.edu) for information,
or to apply submit CV and names of 3 potential per-
sons we could contact as references.
Penn State is committed to aﬃrmative action, equal
opportunity and the diversity of its workforce.
Faye L. Maring Administrative Support Coordinatori
Department of Anthropology College of the Liberal
Arts The Pennsylvania State University 414 Carpen-
ter Building University Park, PA16802814-867-0006
(phone)814-863-1474 (fax) www.anthro.psu.edu “Faye
L. Maring” <fmaring@la.psu.edu >RutgersU ComputationalEvolution-
aryGenomics
Postdoctoral positions in Computational Genomics at
Rutgers University
Seeking qualiﬁed applicants for two post-doctoral posi-
tions with Andrew Kern in the Department of Genetics
and the Human Genetics Institute of New Jersey at
Rutgers University. There is no particular project as-
sociated with either of these positions, however recent
work in the lab spans the intersection of machine learn-
ing, population genetics, comparative genomics, and
evolutionary biology. Our lab is part of a newly formed
Genome Variation and Evolution group within the de-
partment of Genetics that includes the labs of Jody Hey
and Kevin Chen. More information about the depart-
ment can be found here ( http://genetics.rutgers.edu/ ).
More information about the Kern lab can be found here
(http://northstar-www.dartmouth.edu/˜adk/ )
The ideal candidate would hold a Ph.D. and have a
record of research achievement in computational biol-
ogy, population biology, computer science, statistics,
or any quantitative ﬁeld. A background in compara-
tive/population/evolutionary genomics is highly desir-
able. In addition the candidate should have experience
programming in C, a scripting language (Ruby, Python,
or Perl is ﬁne), and be comfortable with cluster com-
puting environments.
Review of applications will begin immediately and con-
tinue until positions are ﬁlled. Interested candidates
should submit an electronic version of their CV along
with a cover letter describing their qualiﬁcations and
relevant experience to andrew.d.kern@dartmouth.edu
andrew.d.kern@dartmouth.edu
SaudiArabia Dinoﬂagellate
MolecularDiversity
Dear evoldir members,
a 2-year postdoc position is available in my lab. See
below regarding further infos.68 EvolDir June 1, 2011
Many thanks, Chris
– Christian R. Voolstra Assistant Professor of Marine
Science Coral Reef Ecological Genomics, Red Sea
Research Center King Abdullah University of Sci-
ence and Technology (KAUST) 23955-6900 Thuwal,
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Phone: +966 5 44 7000 87
E-mail: christian.voolstra@kaust.edu.sa Web: http:/-
/faculty.kaust.edu.sa/sites/christianvoolstra/Pages/-
home.aspx Description: A 2-year postdoc position in
Christian Voolstra’s lab ( http://faculty.kaust.edu.sa/-
sites/christianvoolstra/Pages/home.aspx ) is available
as part of an ongoing project to look at the molecular
diversity of Symbiodinium around the Arabian Penin-
sula. The project is an international collaboration and
will involve phylogenomics, ﬁeld trips, and stays in
research labs in the UK and US.
The ideal candidate is expected to be an independent
and motivated individual with excellent communica-
tion skills and a background in any of the following
disciplines: Coral Reef Ecology, Coral Reef Genomics,
Symbiodinium, Phylogenetics, Phylogenomics, Marine
Biology, Bioinformatics. Familiarity with scientiﬁc div-
ing operations and PADI certiﬁcation are an advantage.
The position is available from June 2011 on. King Ab-
dullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST)
is a dynamic new university campus and campus com-
munity in Saudi Arabia that opened in September 2009.
The campus is located directly at the Red Sea, near
Jeddah. Postdoc package includes competitive salary,
health insurance, free housing.
To apply: Please send cover letter summarizing your
qualiﬁcations and interests, a curriculum vitae, pub-
lished papers, and the names and contact information
for three references to christian.voolstra@kaust.edu.sa .
Applicants are encouraged to send a brief research pro-
posal outlining their particular interests in this ﬁeld.
chris.voolstra@googlemail.com
TexasAMU MolPopGenetics
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH SCIENTIST
- MOLECULAR POPULATION GENET-
ICS/ECOLOGY
Department of Wildlife and Fisheries Sciences Texas
A&M University College Station, Texas 77843-2258
Responsibilities: Position responsibilities involve devel-opment and assay of nuclear-encoded microsatellites
and of mitochondrial DNA sequences for projects in-
volving population genetics and molecular ecology of
marine ﬁshes. Primary responsibilities include data ac-
quisition and analysis, and preparation of reports and
publications.
Qualiﬁcations: Dissertation or postdoctoral work in
molecular population genetics and/or molecular ecol-
ogy is required, as is experience with microsatellite
and/or mtDNA data acquisition and analysis. Experi-
ence with major software programs (e.g., ARLEQUIN,
GENEPOP, MIGRATE, LDNE, etc.) also is required.
Salary: Salary range is from $32,000 - $38,000/year and
will depend on experience. Beneﬁts include health care
and retirement. Position is for 12-24 months.
Closing date: Position will remain open until ﬁlled.
Contact: Send curriculum vitae, description of re-
search experience, and names, addresses, phone num-
bers, and e-mail of three references to: Dr. John R.
Gold, Department of Wildlife and Fisheries Sciences,
Texas A&M University, College Station, Texas 77843-
2258. Electronic submissions are acceptable: gold-
ﬁsh@tamu.edu. International applicants will be con-
sidered if they hold the correct visa(s). Texas A&M
University is an Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Ac-
tion/Equal Access Employer.
John Gold <goldﬁsh@tamu.edu >
Trentino Italy Biodiversity
The Department of Biodiversity and Molecular Ecol-
ogy of the Research and Innovation Centre (CRI), Fon-
dazione Edmund Mach, Trentino, Italy, is currently
seeking to recruit an enthusiastic and highly motivated
Post-doctoral Researcher to join the new Biodiversity
and Environment Group.
This Group focuses or will focus on epidemiological and
evolutionary aspects of interactions between pathogen
and parasite communities and their animal vectors and
hosts, including their microbiomes; however, the re-
searcher’s own interests will also be considered. Experi-
ence and interest in one or more relevant ﬁelds (molec-
ular ecology, genetic epidemiology, virology, metage-
nomics and/or functional biodiversity) with relevant
knowledge of laboratory and bioinformatics training is
required.June 1, 2011 EvolDir 69
Because this is a fairly senior position, applicants
should have an internationally recognized track record.
We are interested in having an experienced post-doc
join this group who is particularly capable of draft-
ing scientiﬁc papers and grant proposals (hence, ﬂu-
ent written English is essential); however, the candi-
date will also be expected to perform laboratory ge-
netic, genomic and data analyses, learn new techniques
and optimize them in our laboratory, take oral presen-
tation of results to national and international confer-
ences/workshops, supervise of young researchers (MSc
and PhD students, technician), and spend some time in
the ﬁeld on sample collection. The Group is currently
involved in projects on arthropod vectors, rodent-borne
disease, speciation and conservation genetics.
Currently, CRI comprises over 250 staﬀ, coordinates
international PhD programmes and operates research
programs fully integrated with state-of-the-art genetics,
genomics, metabolomics and GIS platform technolo-
gies. Almost 20% of researchers are now non-Italian.
The Fondazione is a non-proﬁt organization, with pri-
vate legal status. Employment conditions are in line
with prevailing European standards, including beneﬁts
and a highly competitive salary scheme. All openings
are eﬀective immediately (although starting date is ﬂex-
ible) and will be for three years initially, with a possibil-
ity of extension and/or transformation into permanent
positions for exceptional candidates.
Set among the Dolomites, Trento is a particularly at-
tractive province of Italy, oﬀering a wide range of cul-
tural and outdoor activities for all ages (please see
www.apt.trento.it ).
All candidates, with at least 2 years of Postdoc-
toral experience, proven ability to publish and
attract funding, are invited to follow the application
instructions at the link: http://www.fmach.eu/-
sperimentazione context2.jsp?ID LINK=-
3D4051&area=3D6 .See also Nature Jobs 28 April
2011.
Please also feel free to contact Heidi Hauﬀe
(heidi.hauﬀe[at]iasma.it) for more information.
Closing date for applications: 31 May 2011.
– Heidi C. Hauﬀe Department of Biodiversity and
Molecular Ecology, Research and Innovation Centre,
Fondazione Edmund Mach, Via E. Mach 1, 38010 S.
Michele all’Adige (TN), Italy tel.: 0461-615558 cell.:
348-7263653 e-mail : heidi.hauﬀe@iasma.it
heidi.c.hauﬀe@gmail.comTrentino Italy ConservationGenetics
The Department of Biodiversity and Molecular Ecol-
ogy of the Research and Innovation Centre (CRI),
Fondazione Edmund Mach, Trentino, Italy, is currently
seeking to recruit an enthusiastic and highly motivated
Post-doctoral Researcher to join the Conservation
Genetics group. The group’s research lines aim at
giving insight into patterns of distribution of genetic
diversity and structure in mountain ecosystems. The
group has a fully equipped molecular biology lab with
dedicated facilities for aDNA and degraded DNA.
We’re actually working in conservation genetics, phy-
logeography and landscape genetics studies of several
species ranging from reptiles to amhibians, birds, ﬁshes
and mammals. The ideal candidate should be able
to analyse both neutral and adaptive markers, with a
particular emphasis on the correlation between genetic
and environmental data; however, the researcher’s own
interests will also be considered. The Conservation
Genetics group ( http://congen.fem-environment.eu/ )
is a partner of the European consortium ConGRESS
(http://www.congressgenetics.eu/default.aspx ) with
several international collaborations. Experience and
interest in one or more relevant ﬁelds (conservation
genetics, molecular ecology, population genetics,
evolutionary genetics, spatial ecology) with relevant
bioinformatics training knowledge and basic laboratory
knowledge is required.Because this is a fairly senior
position, applicants should have an internationally
recognized track record. We are interested in having
an experienced post-doc join this group who is partic-
ularly capable of drafting scientiﬁc papers and grant
proposals (hence, ﬂuent written English is essential);
however, the candidate will also be expected to perform
genetic, genomic and ecological data analyses, take oral
presentation of results to national and international
conferences/workshops, supervise of young researchers
(MSc and PhD students, technician). Currently, CRI
comprises over 250 staﬀ, coordinates international
PhD programmes and operates research programs fully
integrated with state-of-the-art genetics, genomics,
metabolomics and GIS platform technologies. Almost
20% of researchers are now non-Italian.The Fondazione
is a non-proﬁt organization, with private legal status.
Employment conditions are in line with prevailing
European standards, including beneﬁts and a highly
competitive salary scheme (e.g. 75 % tax reduc-70 EvolDir June 1, 2011
tion for people coming from abroad). All openings
are eﬀective immediately (although starting date is
ﬂexible) and will be for three years initially, with a
possibility of extension and/or transformation into
permanent positions for exceptional candidates.Set
among the Dolomites, Trento is a particularly at-
tractive province of Italy, oﬀering a wide range of
cultural and outdoor activities for all ages (please see
www.apt.trento.it ).All candidates, with at least 2 years
of Postdoctoral experience, proven ability to publish
and attract funding, are invited to follow the appli-
cation instructions at the link: http://www.fmach.eu/-
sperimentazione context2.jsp?ID LINK=4051&area=6
.Ref. Code CONGEN. Application deadline is May,
31st, 2011.See also Nature Jobs 28 April 2011.
For any further information, please contact Cristiano
Vernesi: vernesi[at]cealp.itCristiano Vernesi
Cristiano Vernesi Dept. of Biodiversity and Molecular
Ecology Research and Innovation Centre, Fondazione
Edmund Mach address: Centro di Ecologia Alpina -
Viote del Monte Bondone 38040 Trento - Italy tel + 39
0461 939523 fax + 39 0461 948190 skypename: cvernesi
Cristiano Vernesi <vernesi@cealp.it >
Trentino Italy PromoterEvolution
The Department of Biodiversity and Molecular Ecol-
ogy of the Research and Innovation Centre (CRI), Ed-
mund Mach Foundation, Trentino, Italy, is currently
seeking to recruit an enthusiastic, highly motivated, fo-
cused Post-doctoral Researcher to join the Ecogenomics
Group.
The project aims at dissecting the evolution of gene
regulation at diﬀerent taxonomic levels in plants. In
particular, computational approaches based on com-
parative genomics and Next-Gen-Seq will be used to
determine the relevance of regulatory vs coding regions
in adaptive trait evolution. In the Ecogenomics Group
there is solid hands-on expertise with Next Genera-
tion Sequencing data production and analysis (in-house
Roche-454 GS FLX sequencer, robotic liquid handlig
stations, pipelines for data analysis, etc.).
Preference will be given to candidates with >2
years of post-doctoral experience in promoter evolu-
tion/comparative genomics (animal or plant systems),
with strong computational/programming skills. Proﬁ-
ciency in programming (preferred scripting languages:Perl, Python) and both Unix/Windows operating sys-
tems are required. Candidates should be familiar
with the most common DNA sequencing and editing
software and evolution/population genetics programs;
hands-on experience with software for the analyses of
regulatory regions and next generation sequencing data
will be evaluated extremely favorably. Proven ability to
publish and attract funding to investigate regulatory
variation in plants, strong commitment to group activ-
ity, ability to supervise MSc/PhD students or techni-
cians, ﬂuent English are absolutely required. Lab ex-
pertise is appreciated, but not strictly required.
Employment conditions are in line with prevailing Eu-
ropean standards, including beneﬁts and a highly com-
petitive salary scheme. All openings are eﬀective imme-
diately (although starting date is ﬂexible). Appoint-
ment will be for three years initially, with a possibil-
ity of extension and/or transformation into permanent
positions based on appointee’s peformance during this
period.
Edmund Mach Foundation is a non-proﬁt organization,
with private legal status. Currently, the Reasearch and
Innovation Centre of the Foundation comprises over 250
staﬀ, coordinates international PhD programmes and
operates research programs fully integrated with state-
of-the-art genetics, genomics, metabolomics and GIS
platform technologies. Almost 20% of researchers are
non-Italian.
Set among the Dolomites, Trento is a particularly at-
tractive province of Italy, oﬀering a wide range of cul-
tural and outdoor activities for all ages (please see
www.apt.trento.it ).
All candidates, with at least 2 years of Postdoc-
toral experience, proven ability to publish and
attract funding, are invited to follow the applica-
tion instructions at Nature Jobs, 28 April 2011:
http://www.nature.com/naturejobs/science/jobs/-
194605-Postdoctoral-Research-Scientist-Evolutionary-
Biologist-Geneticist Please feel free to contact
Claudio Varotto (claudio.varotto[at]iasma.it) for more
information.
Closing date for applications: 31 May 2011.
Claudio Varotto, PhD EcoGenomics Group Depart-
ment of Biodiversity and Molecular Ecology, Research
and Innovation Centre, Edmund Mach Foundation Via
E. Mach, 1 38010 San Michele all’Adige (TN), Italy
Tel: (+39) 0461 615 108 Fax: (+39) 0461 650 956 clau-
dio.varotto[at]iasma.it
claudio.varotto[at]gmail.comJune 1, 2011 EvolDir 71
UAlabama EvolutionaryBiology
Postdoctoral Position in Evolutionary Biology
Dr. Leslie J. Rissler
Department of Biological Sciences, University of Al-
abama
A 1-year (possibly 2-year) postdoctoral position is avail-
able in the laboratory of Leslie Rissler at the Univer-
sity of Alabama. The successful candidate will work on
projects involving biogeography, conservation genetics,
and the landscape ecology of amphibians and reptiles.
The candidate will also help the P.I. mentor graduate
students, teach evolutionary biology or conservation bi-
ology classes, and manage an active lab working on
diverse grant-supported projects. The candidate will
have the opportunity to develop collaborative research
project(s) that are linked to an ongoing NSF-funded
project that examines the impact of the environment on
neuroendocrine responses and genetic diversity across a
latitudinal gradient in natural populations of the wood
frog.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
- A Ph.D. in biology or related ﬁeld with a focus on
evolution, population genetics, biogeography, ecology,
conservation, behavior, and/or systematics. - Previ-
ous research experience and a strong publication record.
- Field experience and familiarity with IACUC proce-
dures. - Strong interpersonal skills and the ability to
work as part of a team.
ADDITIONAL PREFERRED QUALIFICATION:
- Experience with GIS and modeling using Maxent or
similar algorithms. - Molecular biology experience (mi-
crosatellites, SNPs, sequencing, etc. with associated
skills in the analysis of these types of data). - Desire to
teach undergraduate classes in evolution and conserva-
tion biology.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: 1 June 2011 (or until
ﬁlled). Start date 1 August 2011.
To Apply: Apply online at the UA staﬀ job application
site: http://jobs.ua.edu/ The speciﬁc job is Requisi-
tion # 0804834. Applicants must have been awarded
a Ph.D. degree by August 2011. Interested individuals
should send a cover letter, a CV, a 2-page (maximum)
statement of interest including research and teaching
background and goals, and contact details for three in-dividuals who could provide a conﬁdential letter of rec-
ommendation.
Info on the University of Alabama can be found here:
http://www.ua.edu/ Rissler’s lab information can be
found here: http://web.mac.com/ljrissler/lab/ Dr.
Leslie J. Rissler Associate Professor Department of Bi-
ological Sciences Box 870345 MHB Hall University of
Alabama Tuscaloosa, AL 35487
205-348-4052 (oﬃce) 205-348-4039 (lab)
rissler@as.ua.edu http://web.mac.com/ljrissler/lab/
rissler@as.ua.edu
UBC SpatialEvolutionaryGenomics
Post-doctoral position in evolutionary genomics Uni-
versity of British Columbia Vancouver, BC, Canada
A post-doctoral fellowship is available to develop and
apply methods to measure local adaptation using ge-
nomic data. This position is part of AdapTree, a larger
project on adaptation to climate change in lodgepole
pine and white spruce, which will genotype and ana-
lyze thousands of SNPs from several thousand individ-
uals of each species, spread over their full geographic
ranges. We seek to further develop methods to corre-
late local adaptation at speciﬁc loci with environmental
measurements associated with climate change, account-
ing for spatial autocorrelation in both allele frequencies
and environmental values, and apply these approaches
to data from the AdapTree project.
The project needs an individual with interests in evolu-
tionary biology and strong skills in statistics and com-
puter programming. The position starts Jan. 1, 2012,
with funding for up to 2.5 years.
If you are interested in this position, please send
a CV and the names and e-mail addresses of po-
tential references, to Michael Whitlock, Department
of Zoology, University of British Columbia, at whit-
lock@zoology.ubc.ca. The job is open to all nationali-
ties. Please contact me if you have any questions about
the position.
– Michael Whitlock whitlock@zoology.ubc.ca
Department of Zoology - University of British Columbia
6270 University Blvd, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4
CANADA phone: (604) 822-2069 FAX: (604) 822-2416
whitlock@zoology.ubc.ca72 EvolDir June 1, 2011
UCaliforniaSanFrancisco
EvolutionCancer
The Maley Lab is looking for a postdoctoral fellow to
start in the fall of 2011 or later. The ideal candidate
would have training in evolutionary biology and statis-
tics/bioinformatics. Projects will include analysis of
high-throughput sequencing and SNP arrays to study
the evolution of therapeutic resistance in AML and neo-
plastic progression in Barrett’s esophagus. Send a cover
letter, CV, and contact information for 3 references to
carlo.maley [at] ucsf.edu.
Carlo C. Maley, Ph.D. Associate Professor Director,
Center for Evolution and Cancer Helen Diller Family
Comprehensive Cancer Center Department of Surgery
University of California, San Francisco 2340 Sutter St.
Box 1724 San Francisco, CA 94115
oﬃce:415-476-9239 cell: 415-294-1793
carlo.maley@ucsf.edu
Carlo.Maley@ucsfmedctr.org
UCambridge FloralEvolution
Postdoctoral Research Associate In Floral Morphology
And Development, University of Cambridge
Funding for this post is available for 19 months. Our
interests lie in understanding how structural colour is
generated by plants, with particular reference to ﬂoral
iridescence.
We are seeking a researcher with strong skills in com-
parative morphology and molecular genetics, to inves-
tigate the morphological and ultrastructural features
that underlie structural colour and the genetic mecha-
nisms controlling its development.
The successful applicant will undertake a molecular ge-
netic study of the development of cuticular striations
on the petal epidermis, and will therefore require stan-
dard DNA and RNA manipulation skills. They will also
identify other structures generating iridescence, requir-
ing the use of a range of light and electron microscopy
techniques.The research is funded by the Leverhulme Trust and
is a collaboration between Dr Beverley Glover (De-
partment of Plant Sciences, Cambridge University), Dr
Paula Rudall (Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew), Professor
Richard Bateman (Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew) and
Professor Ulli Steiner (Department of Physics, Cam-
bridge University).
http://www.plantsci.cam.ac.uk/jobs/pd08164.pdf
“B.J. Glover” <bjg26@cam.ac.uk >
UCLondon EvolutionaryBiology
Dear all,
The Department of Genetics, Evolution and Environ-
ment (GEE) at University College London invites ap-
plications for independent fellowships.
UCL’s Division of Biosciences has launched an
internally funded fellowship scheme (see https://-
www.ucl.ac.uk/biosciences/research-departments/-
independent fellows for details). This scheme provides
funding to support outstanding young scientists
while they prepare applications for externally funded
fellowships. Expressions of interest for this scheme,
including CV, cover letter and a short outline of
the proposed project, should be sent to Max Reuter
(m.reuter@ucl.ac.uk) before Monday May 23rd. The
Department will then select candidates who will be
invited to submit a full application to the Division of
Biosciences (ﬁnal deadline June 17th).
GEE also invites expression of interest for externally
funded fellowship applications to be held at the depart-
ment. A number of fellowship schemes for early career
scientists are available from UK and European funding
agencies (see list below for the most important schemes)
and GEE is keen to support applications from outstand-
ing young researchers. If you are interested in joining
GEE on a fellowship, please contact us (email CV, cover
letter and project outline to m.reuter@ucl.ac.uk) before
the end of June. The department will assist selected
candidates with developing their applications, with ﬁ-
nal submission deadlines for most schemes during the
autumn.
For more information or informal enquiries, do not hes-
itate to get in touch.
Best regards, Max
Natural Environment Research Council: PostdoctoralJune 1, 2011 EvolDir 73
and Advanced Fellowships http://www.nerc.ac.uk/-
funding/available/fellowships/ Biotechnology
and Biological Sciences Research Council: David
Phillips Fellowship http://www.bbsrc.ac.uk/funding/-
fellowships/david-phillips.aspx Medical Research
Council: Career Development Awards, CDA in
biostatistics, training fellowships in biomedical infor-
matics http://www.mrc.ac.uk/Fundingopportunities/-
Fellowships/index.htm Royal Society: University
Research, Dorothy Hodgkin and Newton Interna-
tional Fellowships http://royalsociety.org/grants/-
schemes/ European Science Foundation: Starting
Independent Researcher Grant http://erc.europa.eu/-
index.cfm?fuseaction=3Dpage.display&topicID=3D65
Max Reuter
Research Department of Genetics, Evolution and En-
vironment Faculty of Life Sciences University College
London
*NEW ADDRESS* Darwin Building Gower Street
London WC1E 6BT, UK
Phone: +44-20-76792201 (internal 32201)
Lab: http://www.homepages.ucl.ac.uk/ ˜ ucbtmre/-
Labsite/ Department: http://www.ucl.ac.uk/gee
m.reuter@ucl.ac.uk
UCopenhagen Bioinformatics
genomics
Postdoctoral Fellowships in Bioinformatics of high-
throughput DNA sequencing
Three two-year postdoctoral fellowships are available at
the Bioinformatics Centre, Department of Biology, Uni-
versity of Copenhagen. The positions will be available
to commence August 1st, 2011. The positions are in the
group of Professor Anders Krogh. The group is working
in computational analysis of post-transcriptional regu-
lation (focus on small RNAs), ancient genomics, and
metagenomics. Common to all projects is the analy-
sis of high-throughput sequencing data, mostly from
Illumina sequencers. We are doing both software de-
velopment and analysis of experimental data. We are
collaborating closely with local experimental groups for
instance in miRNA research, and is deeply involved in
ancient DNA research at the Centre for Geogenetics.
Qualiﬁcations: The postdocs will be expected to partic-
ipate both in the development of computational tools
and in the experimental collaborations and data anal-ysis. As a postdoc you are expected to be able to
work fairly independently and to be able to co-supervise
Ph.D. and Master’s students.
For consideration, applicants must: - Have a PhD
in bioinformatics, statistics or a similar ﬁeld - Have
demonstrated experience in the analysis of Next Gen-
eration DNA Sequencing data - Be experienced with
programming in perl, Python, or similar and be famil-
iar with linux/unix - Have published in high-quality
international peer-reviewed journals
Skills of additional interest include: - Experience
in statistics (including R) and probabilistic mod-
els/machine learning - Experience with small RNAs,
ancient DNA, gene expression analysis and/or metage-
nomics - Ability to program in C or C++
The working language is English, thus excellent English
speaking, reading and writing skills are required.
Deadline is May 30th
For full details, see http://people.binf.ku.dk/˜krogh/-
tmp/postdoctoralFellowshipsApr2011.pdf Best wishes,
- Anders
– Anders Krogh Professor krogh@binf.ku.dk - The
Bioinformatics Centre Dept of Biology, University of
Copenhagen Ole Maaloes Vej 5, 2200 Copenhagen,
Denmark Ph. +45 3532 1329 Dept +45 3532 3710
www.binf.ku.dk krogh@binf.ku.dk
UExeter HostVirusCoevolution
Postdoctoral position: Mathematical modelling of host-
virus coevolution, University of Exeter
We are recruiting a Research Fellow to participate in
an exciting interdisciplinary collaboration between a
mathematical modelling group of Dr Ivana Gudelj, Uni-
versity of Exeter, UK and an experimental evolution
group of Dr Samantha Forde, University of California
at Santa Cruz, US. The position is available from 1st
September 2011 for the period of 3 years and will em-
ploy a combination of mathematical modelling and ex-
perimental microbial evolution to answer the following
question: Why do some viruses evolve to be specialists
while others are generalists?
The successful applicant will be working on the de-
velopment and analysis of mathematical models in Dr
Gudeljs lab at the University of Exeter, in close collab-
oration with experimental colleagues at the University74 EvolDir June 1, 2011
of California at Santa Cruz. Applicants will posses a
PhD in a quantitative discipline (mathematics, physics,
engineering or computer science) and ideally be familiar
with ordinary diﬀerential equations, their use in mod-
elling, analysis (Dynamical Systems techniques) and
simulation. The successful candidate should be able to
communicate eﬀectively with individuals from a wide
range of disciplines.
More information about the project and how to ap-
ply can be found at: http://people.exeter.ac.uk/ig232/-
Positions.html Closing date is 27th May 2011
“Gudelj, Ivana” <I.Gudelj@exeter.ac.uk >
UFlorida
HumanEvolutionaryGenetics
Postdoctoral position in Human Molecular Genetics
A postdoctoral position (two years at least) is available
in Connie Mulligan’s lab at the University of Florida.
Two NSF/NIH/UF-funded projects are currently
ongoing and the successful candidate can work on one
or both: 1) Examination of DNA methylation pat-
terns in mothers and newborns from the Democratic
Republic of Congo (DRC) to test whether epigenetic
alterations mediate the eﬀects of maternal exposure
to stressors on fetal development and neonatal health.
Speciﬁcally, we are testing if epigenetic modiﬁcations
may mediate changes in gene expression in infants
that result from maternal trauma and material de-
privation associated with the war in the DRC. More
broadly, we are interested in the idea that behavior
and complex phenotypes may be shaped by early
life experiences that alter gene expression through
epigenetic alterations. 2) Investigation of the genetic
and cultural underpinnings of complex diseases that
exhibit racial inequalities, using hypertension in
African-Americans as a model phenotype. We are
combining the analysis of genome-wide SNPs, genetic
ancestry estimates, and epigenetic variation with so-
ciocultural data including experience of discrimination
and social network analysis. By combining genetic
and socio-cultural data, our goal is a more compre-
hensive investigation of complex disease and racial
disparities than is possible with only one type of data.
See related study - http://www.plosone.org/article/-
info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0006821
Qualiﬁcations: A PhD and a strong background ingeneration of genetic data (DNA sequencing, SNP
detection, microarray analysis, etc.) and data analysis
(gene association analysis, regression analysis, genetic
ancestry estimation, etc) are essential. Experience gen-
erating methylation data or additional computational
experience (e.g. computer programming, simulation
analysis, etc) is a plus. In addition to the projects
listed above, there are excellent opportunities for the
successful candidate to develop new lines of research
as well as productive collaborations outside the lab.
The University of Florida is a leading research in-
stitution with a university-wide commitment to ge-
netics research. The Department of Anthropology
(www.anthro.uﬂ.edu ) has 30 full-time faculty with di-
verse interests and a very strong biological subﬁeld,
with emphases on molecular, paleo, and forensic an-
thropology. The department is one of the top rated
programs in the country (6th among public institutions,
11th overall). The University of Florida Genetics Insti-
tute ( www.ufgi.uﬂ.edu ) is an inter-college entity with
a new research building to enhance opportunities for
collaboration. Gainesville is located in north central
Florida (away from the hurricanes!), with average tem-
peratures ranging from 45F to 90F. Beaches on the gulf
and Atlantic coast are ~2 hours away.
To apply: via email, send a CV, a statement of research
interests, and the names and contact information (in-
cluding email and phone) for three references. Appli-
cations and inquiries should be addressed to Connie
Mulligan at cmulligan@uﬂ.edu.
Review of materials will begin June 1 and will continue
until the position is ﬁlled. Start date is ﬂexible and can
start as early as Summer, 2011. Salary is commensurate
with experience. Position may be extended for a total
of three years. Informal inquiries prior to submitting a
formal application are welcome. AA/EOE.
Connie J. Mulligan, PhD Professor, Department
of Anthropology Associate Director, UF Genetics
Institute 2033 Mowry Rd, PO Box 103610 University
of Florida Gainesville, FL 32610-3610 Oﬃce: 409
Genetics Institute Telephone: 352-273-8092 Fax: 352-
273-8284 Email: cmulligan@uﬂ.edu Website: http://-
www.clas.uﬂ.edu/users/mulligan/Webpage/index.html
“Connie J. Mulligan” <cmulligan@uﬂ.edu >
ULausanne SocialEvolution
1 postdoctoral position: Evolutionary transi-June 1, 2011 EvolDir 75
tion/cultural transmission/social evolution
A postdoctoral position for 1 to 3 years is available, for
theoretical research at the Department of Ecology and
Evolution of the University of Lausanne. It is funded
by a project of the Swiss National Science Foundation
aiming at investigating the role of cultural transmission
(non-genetically transmitted actions and technologies)
in the evolutionary transition from small-scale egalitar-
ian groups to larger-scale stratiﬁed groups.
The project, which is at the interface of biology, an-
thropology, and economics, aims at studying the fol-
lowing type of questions. How did large-scale stratiﬁed
human societies emergence from small-scale egalitarian
societies? Did it happen through an increase in the
technologies of production and exchange (e.g. inven-
tion of agriculture and trading) or in the technology
of appropriation (intensiﬁcation of warfare)? What are
the selective pressures that could lead to within group
stratiﬁcation? Did trading co-evolve with the special-
ization of cultural trait accumulation within and be-
tween groups? Other topics of theoretical research on
the evolution of social behaviors are also possible if they
ﬁt the research interests of our group:
http://www.unil.ch/dee/page84917 fr.html Appli-
cants should have a Ph.D. in a relevant area (e.g.
evolutionary biology, economics, anthropology, or
mathematics), with strong mathematical and com-
puting skills, and a vivid interest in fundamental
research.
The Department of Ecology and Evolution is a well-
funded and vibrant research institution, with excellent
facilities:
http://www.unil.ch/dee/ Inquiries and applications
should be sent to: laurent.lehmann@unil.ch. Applica-
tions should be sent by June 10th, and should include
a CV, a one-page statement of research interests, and
names of 2-3 referees. Only applications with all these
information will be considered.
Laurent Lehmann <laurent.lehmann@unil.ch >
UManitoba MicrobialBioinformatics
PDF or Research Associate in Bioinformatics Microbial
Genomics for Biofuels and Co-products from Bioreﬁ-
naries Department of Plant Science, University of Man-
itoba Start date: 11 July, 2011 Closing date for appli-
cations: 20 June 2011, or until position is ﬁlledProject Description: One position is available to con-
duct cutting-edge research employing the tools of bioin-
formatics in a multidisciplinary team including microbi-
ologists, molecular biologists and biosystems engineers.
This is an outstanding opportunity to contribute to re-
search whose aim is to develop a sustainable energy
source from cellulosic wastes. This collaborative project
seeks to characterize both known and newly discovered
cellulose-degrading microbes and their genomes, lead-
ing to metabolic engineering, and to the development of
designer microbial consortia, to enhance synthesis of fu-
els and bioproducts. A range of organisms, approaches
and biofuels will be investigated. A project summary
can be viewed at http://www.microbialreﬁnery.com .
This project is co-funded by Genome Canada and the
Manitoba Ministry of Science, Technology Energy and
Mines (STEM).
The successful applicant will join a team of bioinfor-
maticists and information technologists who are min-
ing and managing data from this project. This team
carries out work in the following areas: de-novo anno-
tation of newly-sequenced microbial genomes; develop-
ment of high-throughput analytical pipelines; database
design; software design; comparative genomics of cellu-
lose degrading microorganisms; analysis and mining of
microarray data; data mining and in-silico metabolic
engineering. This project aﬀords many opportuni-
ties for original contributions in both basic and ap-
plied reasearch in bioinformatics, as they relate to the
project.
Qualiﬁcations: Qualiﬁed applicants must: possess a
Ph.D. in Microbiology or Bioinformatics from a recog-
nized University; have knowledge of microbiology and
biochemistry with strengths in data mining and pro-
gramming; have extensive experience in object-oriented
programming in Java or Python on a Unix platform;
have a demonstrated record of independent as well as
collaborative research and scholarly publications; and
excellent oral and written communication skills.
The University and Community: The University of
Manitoba is located in Winnipeg, the largest city in
the province of Manitoba. The city has a rich cul-
tural environment including symphony, opera, dance,
theatre, sports, and ethnic festivals. The region pro-
vides ample opportunities for outdoor recreation in
all seasons. Learn more about Winnipeg at http://-
www.winnipeg.ca .
Applications: Applications are invited at the level of
Post Doctoral researcher or Research Associate. Fund-
ing for the project is available through September
30, 2013. The University of Manitoba exercises a
Canadian-ﬁrst policy; however, all those qualiﬁed are76 EvolDir June 1, 2011
encouraged to apply. The review of applications will
continue until the position is ﬁlled. Application mate-
rials, including letters of reference, will be handled in
accordance with the protection of privacy provisions of
?The Freedom of Information and Protection of Pri-
vacy? (Manitoba). Please note that your curricu-
lum vitae will be provided to participating members
of the search process. Applications, including curricu-
lum vitae, short statement of research interests and the
names and addresses (including phone, fax and e-mail
addresses) of three referees should be sent to:
Dr. Brian Fristensky Associate Professor Depart-
ment of Plant Science University of Manitoba Win-
nipeg, MB CANADA R3T 2N2 Phone: 204-474-
6085 FAX: 204-474-7528 Email:frist@cc.umanitoba.ca
http://home.cc.umanitoba.ca/˜frist Brian Fristensky
<frist@cc.umanitoba.ca >
UMontreal PlantBioinformatics
Postdocs >UMontreal.PlantTranscriptomics
A postdoctoral position is available to study plant tran-
scriptomics via deep RNA sequencing in a phytoreme-
diation context. The objective of the project is to ﬁnd
candidate genes potentially involved in the degradation
or accumulation of organic and inorganic pollutants.
Our model plants are willows (Salix sp.) that have
high phytoremediation potential because of their rapid
growth, their high biomass production, and their abil-
ity to grow in highly contaminated soils. Experiments
will take place in the greenhouse as well as in the ﬁeld.
This position is part of a large genomic project
that aims at increasing our understanding of phy-
toremediation. It is a highly multidiciplinary project
that studies simultaneously soil chemistry, soil micro-
organisms, fungi, and plants. ˆA The work will be per-
formed at the University of Montreal Biodiversity Cen-
tre (www.biodiversite.umontreal.ca/ ), which is part of
the Plant Research Institute ( www.irbv.umontreal.ca ).
The successful candidate will be involved in the collec-
tion and processing of RNA samples. He will also be
responsible for managing important amounts of deep
RNA sequencing data, developing analytical tools and
pipelines, and analyzing and interpreting the results.
The successful candidate will also be involved in the
redaction of research reports and scientiﬁc papers.
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS ˆ a ˆAˆAˆA Ph.D. in tran-scriptomics, bioinformatics, or other relevant ﬁeld.
ˆ aˆAˆAˆA Proven research experience and a strong publi-
cation record. ˆ a ˆAˆAˆA Solid analytical, computing, and
statistical skills. ˆ a ˆAˆAˆA Candidates should be comfort-
able working in a UNIX environment, have a strong
programming background, and be proﬁcient in working
with large datasets.
PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS ˆ a ˆAˆAˆA Strong abil-
ities for team work ˆ a ˆAˆAˆA Experience with biologi-
cal experimental designs such as randomized block de-
signs ˆ a ˆAˆAˆA Candidates with a background in inter-
disciplinary research, spanning both biological sciences
and applied mathematics/computer science, are espe-
cially encouraged to apply. ˆ a ˆAˆAˆA Candidates will ide-
ally be conversant in a compiled programming language
(e.g., C or C++), a scripting language (e.g., Perl), and
a statistical environment (e.g., R).
APPLICATION DEADLINE: 1st August 2011
Funding is available for three years. The position will
remain open until ﬁlled. To apply formally, submit the
following documents in PDF format: 1. ˆAˆAˆA A brief
statement of research interests, qualiﬁcations and ex-
perience and why you feel you are a good candidate for
this position. 2. ˆAˆAˆA Curriculum vitae, including a list
of scientiﬁc publications. 3. ˆAˆAˆA The names and con-
tact details of at least two references willing to provide
a conﬁdential letter of recommendation upon request.
CONTACT Enquiries may be sent to: Simon Joly,
Ph.D. Email: simon.joly@umontreal.ca
Simon Joly <simon.joly@umontreal.ca >
UOregon Phylogenetics
Postdoctoral Research Associate Center for Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology Posting: 11121 Location:
Eugene Closes: Open Until Filled
Postdoctoral Position in Phylogenetic Ecology and
Computational Genomics
Jessica Green ( http://biology.uoregon.edu/-
people/green/ ) and Brendan Bohannan ( http://-
biology.uoregon.edu/ceeb/faculty pages/Bohannan/ )
are currently seeking a postdoctoral researcher to
collaborate on projects combining approaches from
phylogenetic ecology and computational genomics to
explore fundamental questions in microbial ecology
and evolution. Applicants should have a PhD withJune 1, 2011 EvolDir 77
extensive training in ecology and/or evolution, ex-
perience applying genome-based bioinformatics (e.g.
comparative genomics, analysis of protein families,
multiple sequence alignment, phylogenetic analyses) to
understand the ecology and/or evolution of complex
biological communities, and strong writing skills. The
successful candidate will play a key role in the Biology
and Built Environment (BioBE) Center ( http://-
biology.uoregon.edu/biobe/ ). The BioBE Center is
training a new generation of innovators and practition-
ers at the architecture-biology interface to understand
the built environment microbiome - the diversity of
indoor microbial life, their genetic elements and their
interactions. The vision of this national research
center, funded by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, is
to integrate recent advances in microbial genomics
and biological theory to develop hypothesis-driven,
evidence-based approaches to sustainable building
design.
The position is available for 1 year with the possibility
for renewal depending on performance. The start date
is ﬂexible. Applications will be considered starting on
May 31, 2011. Please email questions regarding the
position to Jessica Green (jlgreen@uoregon.edu).
To apply
A complete application will consist of the following ma-
terials:
(1) a brief cover letter explaining your background and
career interests
(2) CV (including publications),
(3) names and contact information for three references.
Submit materials to ceebjobs@uoregon.edu, Subject:
Posting 11121
To be assured full consideration, applications must be
received by May 31, 2011 but position will remain open
until ﬁlled.
Women and minorities encouraged to apply. We in-
vite applications from qualiﬁed candidates who share
our commitment to diversity. EO/AA/ADA institu-
tion committed to cultural diversity.
ceebjobs@uoregon.edu
UOslo ThermotogalesCompara-
tiveGenomicsPostdoctoral Research Fellow in Comparative and Evo-
lutionary genomics of Thermotogales bacteria
A three-year position as Postdoctoral Research Fellow
is available in Comparative and Evolutionary genomics
of Thermotogales bacteria in the laboratory of Camilla
Nesb ˜A at CEES at University of Oslo and Depart-
ment of Biology, University of Alberta. The CEES is
a centre of excellence for integrative biological research
and is well-funded. It provides a stimulating research
environment, situated at the Department of Biology,
with many young international and Norwegian scien-
tists working on a variety of theoretical and empirical
topics within ecology, evolution, population genetics,
genomics, phylogenetics, molecular biology, and statis-
tical methodology. The CEES is chaired by Professor
Nils Chr. Stenseth and currently employs 19 faculty
members, 45 postdocs/researchers, 32 PhD students
and 30 MSc students. Information about the centre can
be found at: http://www.cees.uio.no .The candidate
will be part of a project funded by The Norwegian Re-
search Council. The successful candidate will perform
research in the area of genomics and metagenomics, fo-
cusing on Thermotogales bacteria. The postdoctoral
research fellow will be employed by the University of
Oslo, but will spend time both at University of Oslo
and University of Alberta. The successful candidate
will work on a project - Biogeographic and population
analyses of Thermotogales from hydrocarbon environ-
ments - funded by the Norwegian Research Council,
and will also be involved in collaborative projects with
Julia Foght at University of Alberta and with Nils Chr.
Stenseth at University of Oslo.
Requirements: Ph.D. in bioinformatics, microbiol-
ogy, biology or a related ﬁeld; with strong back-
ground in molecular evolution or environmental mi-
crobiology; and evidence of successful teamwork
abilities are required. Experience working with
Thermotogales bacteria and/or their genomes, next-
generation sequence data, Unix operating system,
anaerobe microbiology, petroleum microbiology, are
desirable. A good command of English is re-
quired. http://www.matnat.uio.no/english/research/-
education/proﬁciency inEnglish.html The main pur-
pose of post-doctoral research fellowships is to qual-
ify researchers for work in top academic positions
within their disciplines. No one can be appointed for
more than one period at the same institution. Please
also refer to the regulations pertaining to the condi-
tions of employment for post-doctoral fellowship po-
sitions: http://www.uio.no/admhb/reglhb/personal/-
tilsettingvitenskapelig/regulationstermcondition.xml
Salary:
Postdoctoral Research Fellow (SKO, 1352), pay grade:78 EvolDir June 1, 2011
57 ˆ a 64 (NOK 455 900ˆ a 518 900 depending on qualiﬁ-
cations and seniority).
The application must include ˆ a Application letter in-
cluding a statement of interest, summarizing the appli-
cant’s scientiﬁc work and interests and describing how
she/he ﬁts the description of the person we seek ˆ a CV
(summarizing education, positions, pedagogical expe-
rience, administrative experience and other qualifying
activity), including a list of published and unpublished
works ˆ a Copies of educational certiﬁcates, transcript of
records, letters of recommendation ˆ a A complete list of
publications and up to 5 academic work that applicant
wishes to be considered by the evaluation committee ˆ a
Names and contact details of 2-3 referees (name, rela-
tion to candidate, e-mail and telephone number).
Foreign applicants are advised to attach an explanation
of their University’s grading system. Please remember
that all documents should be in English or a Scandina-
vian language.
Closing date for applications: 02.06.2011
To send application: http://uio.easycruit.com/-
vacancy/555458/64421?iso=no Review of applications
will begin June 1, 2011 and continue until the position
is ﬁlled The University of Oslo has an agreement
for all employees, aiming to secure rights to research
results a.o. The University of Oslo has a goal of
recruiting more women in academic positions. Women
are encouraged to apply. In accordance with the
University of Osloˆ as equal opportunities policy, we
invite applications from all interested individuals
regardless of gender or ethnicity.
Olaf Kristian Sund <o.k.sund@mn.uio.no >
UPennsylvania
SociogenomicsEvolutionaryGenetics
Postdoctoral position in evolutionary genetics and so-
ciogenomics
The Linksvayer lab in the Department of Biology at
the University of Pennsylvania seeks a postdoctoral re-
searcher. The lab studies the evolution and genetic ba-
sis of complex social systems using social insects as a
study system. The postdoc will use a variety of ap-
proaches, including RNA sequencing, genomics, and
quantitative genetics.
The ideal candidate will have a strong background inmolecular biology, genomics, transcriptomics, and/or
bioinformatics along with an interest in social evolu-
tion.
Applications will be accepted until the position is ﬁlled
and the start date is ﬂexible.
To apply, send the following to tlinks@sas.upenn.edu:
your CV, contact information for three references, up
to three representative publications, and a brief cover
letter explaining your research interests and experi-
ence. Please contact me (tlinks@sas.upenn.edu) with
any questions.
Timothy Linksvayer Assistant Professor Department of
Biology University of Pennsylvania 225 Leidy Labora-
tories 433 South University Avenue Philadelphia PA
19104-6018 tlinks@sas.upenn.edu V +1 215 573 2657 F
+1 215 898 8780 http://www.bio.upenn.edu/faculty/-
linksvayer/ tlinksvayer@gmail.com
UppsalaU ComputationalGenetics
Post-doc position available: Development of methods,
algorithms and tools for understanding complex trait
genetics
We are looking for a Post-doc to join our young and
growing group. We provide a supportive environment
and strongly believe in an interdisciplinary approach,
so we encourage applicants with a non-standard back-
ground to apply. We are based in Uppsala, Sweden
at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences and
also have links with Uppsala University.
Our group use a Computational Genetic approach to
understand the mechanisms by which heritable ge-
netic variation regulate phenotypic expression in in-
dividuals and populations. As input we use empiri-
cal data from experimental or natural populations that
have been characterized phenotypically and genetically
(e.g. genome resequencing and high-density genotyp-
ing). The focus of this post will be to develop meth-
ods, algorithms, tools and software for using modern
genetics data to understand complex trait genetic inher-
itance. For this work you will need a strong background
in informatics (one or several of the disciplines math-
ematics, statistics, computer science, programming or
bioinformatics) as well as a thorough theoretical back-
ground in genetics.
Aside from work, you will have the chance to get to
know Uppsala, which is a pretty university town, no-June 1, 2011 EvolDir 79
table for its castle and cathedral. It is 40 minutes by
train from Stockholm. We get some snow in winter and
beautiful long summer days.
Qualiﬁcations A successful applicant should have rel-
evant scientiﬁc education, have programming experi-
ence, be highly motivated for research and have an in-
terest in molecular, quantitative and computational ge-
netics. A strong mathematical/statistical background
is advantageous.
Forms for funding or employment Employment as Post-
doctoral researcher student for 1 year with possibility
of extension 1+2 years.
If you have questions about us or our work, please con-
tact ¨Orjan Carlborg (Orjan.Carlborg@slu.se) or Ron-
nie Nelson (Ronnie.Nelson@slu.se). You can also
ﬁnd more information about our group at http://-
www.computationalgenetics.se We are looking forward
to hearing from you!
Selected recent publications:
Carlborg, ¨O. and Haley, C. Epistasis: too often ne-
glected in complex traits studies? Nature Reviews Ge-
netics 2004 5:618-625.
Carlborg, ¨O., Jacobsson, L., ˚Ahgren, P., Siegel, P., An-
dersson, L. Epistasis and the release of genetic varia-
tion during long-term selection. Nature Genetics 2006
38:418-20.
Le Rouzic, A., Siegel, P. and Carlborg, . Phenotypic
Evolution from Genetic Polymorphisms in Radial Net-
work Architectures. BMC Biology 2007, 5:50.
Alvarez-Castro, J., le Rouzic, A. and Carlborg, ¨O.
How to perform meaningful estimates of genetic eﬀects.
PLOS Genetics 2008 May 2; 4(5):e1000062 Le Rouzic,
A., Alvarez-Castro, J. and Carlborg, ¨O. Dissection of
the genetic architecture of body weight in chicken re-
veals the impact of epistasis on domestication traits.
Genetics 2008 179:1591-1599.
Rubin CJ, Zody MC, Eriksson J, Meadows JR, Sher-
wood E, Webster MT, Jiang L, Ingman M, Sharpe T,
Ka S, Hallb¨ o¨ ok F, Besnier F, Carlborg ¨O, Bedhom B,
Tixier-Boichard M, Jensen P, Siegel P, Lindblad-Toh K,
Andersson L. Whole genome resequencing reverals loci
under selection during chicken domestication. Nature.
2010 Mar 25;464(7288):587-91. Epub 2010 Mar 10.
Johansson AM, Pettersson ME, Siegel PB, Carlborg
¨O (2010) Genome-Wide Eﬀects of Long-Term Di-
vergent Selection. PLoS Genet 6(11): e1001188.
doi:10.1371/journal.pgen.1001188
Orjan.Carlborg@slu.seUPretoria ForestGenomics
BACKGROUND The Forest Molecular Genetics
(FMG) Programme is an industry (Sappi and Mondi),
government (THRIP, NRF and DST) supported re-
search programme in the Department of Genetics
and Forestry and Agricultural Biotechnology Institute
(FABI) at the University of Pretoria. It focuses on
the genomics, molecular genetics and biotechnology of
wood and ﬁbre development in eucalypt tree species.
This year, 2011, marks the completion of the Euca-
lyptus grandis Genome Project ( www.eucagen.org ), in
which we are playing a leading role. The completed
genome sequence is providing exciting opportunities
for genomics, molecular genetics and biotechnology re-
search in the most widely planted and commercially
important hardwood ﬁbre crop in the world.
Project Description: Transcriptome-wide and genome-
wide resequencing of Eucalyptus tree species for SNP
marker discovery, association genetics and marker-
assisted breeding. The project will contribute to two
large association genetics studies in Eucalyptus grandis
and E. dunni populations, as well as provide support
for an international initiative to develop a SNP geno-
typing platform for commercially important Eucalyptus
species.
Requirements: Expertise in DNA sequence analysis,
familiarity with Unix and some scripting languages.
Recommended: Post-graduate training in Bioinformat-
ics, and/or undergraduate and postgraduate training in
molecular, population and quantitative genetics. Ex-
pertise in next-generation DNA sequence analysis is
also highly recommended.
The FMG Programme oﬀers competitive bursaries, as
well as industry-funded bursary additions. We also
strive to create opportunities for students to work for
several weeks to months at a time in the laboratories
of our international collaborators in the USA, Canada,
Belgium and Australia. Interested persons are en-
couraged to contact the Project Manager, Mr Eshchar
Mizrachi (eshchar.mizrachi@up.ac.za). Deadline for ap-
plications: 5 July 2011. Interviews will be scheduled on
an ad hoc basis.
Thank you.
Kind regards Marja O’Neill
Research Administrator Forest and Molecular Genetics80 EvolDir June 1, 2011
Research Group Department of Genetics University of
Pretoria Pretoria South Africa
Marja ONeill <Marja.ONeill@up.ac.za >
USheﬃeld PlantGrowthDiversity
For anyone who is in the market for a postdoc and
missed this one - the deadline for applications is com-
ing up in a couple of days’ time.
University of Sheﬃeld, Department of Animal and
Plant Sciences Postdoc
We seek a highly motivated and dynamic individ-
ual for a project investigating the diversity of growth
traits among plant species. Its particular focus will
be on the roles of C3 and C4 photosynthetic path-
ways, ecological adaptation, and evolutionary history
in the grasses. The post-holder will carry out large-
scale comparative experiments, sampling hundreds of
species under a range of controlled environment con-
ditions. Methodological development will be required
to streamline high-throughput approaches to measur-
ing growth, and to apply phylogenetic comparative ap-
proaches to growth analysis. The use of large species
samples will allow us, for the ﬁrst time, to unravel
the interacting roles of multiple factors within a uni-
ﬁed framework. This approach has been opened up
through signiﬁcant recent conceptual and methodolog-
ical advances in a number of areas, and represents a
major step in the fusion of the ﬁelds of ecological and
evolutionary informatics.
The project will capitalize upon state-of-the-art plant
growth and laboratory facilities, and newly available
ecological informatics resources developed at the Uni-
versity of Sheﬃeld. The successful candidate will work
in a team with Colin Osborne, Mark Rees, Rob Freck-
leton and Ken Thompson.
The Department of Animal and Plant Sciences is one
of the largest departments in the UK devoted to the
study of whole organism biology, with over 45 academic
staﬀ, 50 support staﬀ and 130 postgraduate and post-
doctoral researchers. We are ranked joint 3rd in the
UK for biology research and 70% of our research ac-
tivity has been judged to be ’world-leading’ or ’inter-
nationally excellent’ (RAE 2008). We have a strong
ethos of research-led teaching and a high standard of
student recruitment. We enrol over 150 undergraduate
students per year on to 8 degree programmes and areranked 4th in the UK for biological sciences teaching
(The Complete University Guide, 2010).
The post is funded by NERC, and is ﬁxed-term with a
start date of 1 June 2011. We have funding for up to
three years’ work.
For informal enquiries contact Colin Osborne
(c.p.osborne@sheﬃeld.ac.uk).
Formal applications should be made by Friday 6th May
viahttp://www.sheﬃeld.ac.uk/jobs , quoting the refer-
ence UOS002525.
Colin Osborne Dept. Animal and Plant Sciences Uni-
versity of Sheﬃeld
tel: +44-114-222-0146 lab pages: http://web.me.com/-
colin.osborne/lab/home.html ecological informatics:
www.grassportal.org c.p.osborne@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
UToronto AirwayMicrobeEvolution
A postdoctoral/research associate position is available
immediately to investigate the airway microbiome in
cystic ﬁbrosis. This research will be conducted as part
of a collaborative, multidisciplinary team funded by
the Canadian Institutes of Health Research and the
National Sanitarium Association, and involves both
culture-independent and culture-based approaches to
characterizing the microbiome and its impact in adult
and pediatric patients with cystic ﬁbrosis. The success-
ful applicant will be based at the Toronto General Hos-
pital Research Institute of the University Health Net-
work (UHN), a fully aﬃliated teaching hospital of the
University of Toronto, with opportunities to collabo-
rate with team members at other hospitals and at the
University of Toronto.
Qualiﬁcations/Requirements:
Ph.D. or equivalent degree in microbiology or a re-
lated ﬁeld, with strong proﬁciency in microbiological
and molecular biologic techniques.
Experience in microbiome/metagenomic research,
bioinformatics, or epidemiology is desirable.
Self-motivated, with strong organizational skills and
ability to work independently.
Excellent interpersonal, analytical and communication
skills (both written and verbal).
To apply, please send your curriculum vitae and 3 refer-
ences to Dr. David Hwang (David.Hwang@uhn.on.ca),June 1, 2011 EvolDir 81
Department of Pathology, Toronto General Hospital,
11th ﬂoor, 200 Elizabeth Street, Toronto, ON, Canada
M5G 2C4.
David Guttman <david.guttman@utoronto.ca >David
Guttman <david.guttman@utoronto.ca >
UZurich SeahorseGenomics
Postdoctoral position available in Comparative Func-
tional Genomics in the Institute of Evolutionary Bi-
ology and Environmental Studies at the University of
Zurich in Switzerland
The research group in Evolutionary Biology and Biodi-
versity led by Professor Tony Wilson in the Institute
of Evolutionary Biology and Environmental Studies
at the University of Zurich ( http://www.ieu.uzh.ch/-
agwilson/ ) is seeking a postdoctoral research associate
for a position in comparative functional genomics. This
position is funded for 1-2 years, beginning in July
2011, with a yearly salary of ca. 84,000 Swiss Francs
($95,000US).
The postdoctoral associate will work on a project which
is using next-generation sequencing and microarray
technologies to study the development and elaboration
of a novel reproductive trait, male pregnancy, in syn-
gnathid ﬁshes (BioEssays 29: 884-896). Seahorse and
pipeﬁsh males have reproductive structures for brood-
ing developing embryos, but the complexity of these
structures varies across the group, from the simple ven-
tral attachment of eggs in some species of pipeﬁsh to the
fully enclosed pouch of the seahorse, in which males aer-
ate, osmoregulate and provision embryos during their
development (Evolution 57: 1374-1386). The high de-
gree of reproductive variation in this group oﬀers ex-
ceptional opportunities to study the evolution of re-
productive complexity in a comparative evolutionary
framework.
The candidate will use a customized Agilent microarray
recently developed for the seahorse to screen patterns of
gene expression in a set of syngnathid species that dif-
fer in the complexity of their brooding structures. By
comparing patterns of gene expression across species,
we aim to clarify how spatial and temporal changes in
gene expression have contributed to the development
of the morphological, physiological and hormonal traits
that characterize the most complex forms of male preg-
nancy in this group. Microarray screening will be com-
plemented by RT-PCR and in situ gene expression anal-yses to elucidate the location and mode of action of key
transcripts.
The ideal candidate will have experience in functional
genomics methodologies and familiarity with gene ex-
pression analyses in non-model organisms. Bioin-
formatics experience would be an asset. Interested
candidates should submit a Curriculum vitae and
statement of research interests, along with a list of
three references, by email or post to Dr. Wilson
(tony.wilson@ieu.uzh.ch) before June 15.
Tony Wilson Assistant Professor, Evolution and Bio-
diversity Institute of Evolutionary Biology and Envi-
ronmental Studies Room Y44J55 Winterthurerstrasse
190 CH 8057 Zurich Switzerland Tel: 41 44 635 4790
Fax: 41 44 635 4780 http://www.ieu.uzh.ch/agwilson
tony.wilson@ieu.uzh.ch
WestVirginiaU
MicrobialComparativeGenomics
A postdoctoral position is available immediately in Dr.
Olga Zhaxybayeva’s lab in the Biology Department of
West Virginia University in Morgantown, WV. The suc-
cessful candidate will perform research in the area of
computational genomics, focusing on deciphering pro-
cesses governing microbial evolution through the anal-
ysis of patterns in genomic and metagenomic data sets.
More information about the laboratory is available at
http://ecg.bio.wvu.edu . Ph.D. in bioinformatics, bi-
ology, microbiology, computer science, statistics or a
related ﬁeld - with background and strong interest in
molecular evolution - is required. Programming and
scripting expertise, evidence of successful team-work
abilities, experience working with next-generation se-
quence data and knowledge of Unix operating system
are desirable.
The successful applicant will be expected to contribute
to a variety of ongoing collaborative research projects
with teams across the United States and Canada, as
well as establish his/her own independent projects, and
will be provided with training opportunities of grant
writing and student supervision.
Review of applications will continue until the position is
ﬁlled. The initial appointment is for one year with the
possibility of renewal for up to two additional years con-
tingent upon performance and funding. Salary will be
oﬀered commensurate with experience and skills. Com-82 EvolDir June 1, 2011
petitive beneﬁts package is included.
Interested applicants should send a single PDF ﬁle con-
taining CV, one-page statement of research interests
and contact information of three references to ECGLab-
Jobs@gmail.com.
West Virginia University is an Aﬃrmative Ac-
tion/Equal Opportunity Employer and the recipient of
an NSF ADVANCE award for gender equity.– Olga Zhaxybayeva, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Biology West Virginia University PO Box 6057
Morgantown, WV 26506 USA
Oﬃce: (304) 293-5201 ext. 31531 Lab: (304) 293-
5201 ext. 31331 Fax: (304) 293-6363 Email: ol-
gazh@mail.wvu.edu Web: http://ecg.bio.wvu.edu/ ol-
gazh@mail.wvu.edu
WorkshopsCourses
Barcelona StatisticalGenetics Aug22-26 . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
Berlin EvolutionaryGenomics Sep14-22 . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Bremerhaven ClimateAdaptation Sep18-21 . . . . . . . . 83
Budapest BeyondNextGenerationSequencing Jul20-23
84
Chioggia Italy MarineConservationGenetics Jul3-9 . 85
Copenhagen PlantMarkerAnalysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
Irapuato Mexico EvolutionaryGenomics Jul19-22 . . 86
KyotoU ComputationalPhyloinformatics Aug1-11 . . 87
KyotoU PhylogeneticWorkﬂows Aug1-11 Deadline-
May31 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
Lisbon GenomeBiolEvolution Aug1-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
Luebeck Germany SystemsBiology Sep5-9 . . . . . . . . . 89Messina MicrobialEvolution Jun7-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
MountDesertIsland EnvGenomics Aug20-27 . . . . . . . 90
Porto Portugal TeachingEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
Poznan Bioinformatics Jul11-15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
Poznan Poland Bioinformatics Jul11-15 . . . . . . . . . . . 92
SantaBarbara MacroevolutionaryMethods in R Jun15
92
Trento Italy ConsPopulationGenetics Sep20-22 . . . . 93
UHelsinki ClimateAdaptation Sep11-14 . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
Venice EvoDevo Sep19-22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
WestVirginia MalariaEvolution Aug1-4 . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
Barcelona StatisticalGenetics
Aug22-26
Would you please post the following short course an-
nouncement? - Janet Sinsheimer
STATISTICAL GENETICS SHORT COURSE 22-26
August 2011
Barcelona, Spain Hosted by Centre Nacional d’An` alisi
Gen` omica (CNAG)
http://www.genetics.ucla.edu/courses/statgene email:
statgene@mednet.ucla.edu
We are oﬀering a ﬁve full-day intensive workshop onstate-of-the-art statistical methods for detection of ge-
netic loci for complex traits.
Each day will include hands-on computer exercises us-
ing statistical genetics computer programs, especially
the Mendel software package, with its new graphical
front-end.
We will cover the general theory behind the methods as
well as emphasize the practical aspects needed to give
the best chances of success. The Course is designed to
assist people who will be performing statistical analy-
ses to discover the genetic basis of complex traits. The
methods covered are appropriate to both human and
non-human populations. Topics will include:
* Statistical Reviews * Genetic Study Design * Quality
Control and other data issues * Haplotyping * Analy-
sis of Qualitative and Quantitative Traits including: -June 1, 2011 EvolDir 83
Parametric and Non-Parametric Linkage (NPL) analy-
sis - Methods for Large Pedigrees - Genome-Wide Asso-
ciation Studies (GWAS), or smaller scale, including: +
Case/Control or Random Sample + Family-based De-
signs + Complex Pedigrees derived from Inbred Strains
* Ethnic Admixture Analysis * Gene Co-Expression
Network Analysis * Rare Variant Analysis Methods Ap-
plicable to SNP or Genome Sequence Data
Participants in the Course need no prior experience
with these methods or programs. Participants will be
required to bring a laptop computer to run the analysis
exercises.
The Course features instructors from the Statistical Ge-
netics Group of the UCLA Department of Human Ge-
netics and other leading genetic researchers:
- Kenneth Lange - Simon Heath - Steve Horvath -
Jeanette Papp - Janet Sinsheimer - Eric Sobel - Hua
Zhou
The cost of the course, which includes lunch and snacks
every day and a group dinner on Thursday, is:
900 EUR for students from non-proﬁt institutions 1200
EUR for postdocs, staﬀ, and faculty from non-proﬁt
institutions 1600 EUR for individuals from for-proﬁt
institutions
Transportation and lodging are not included.
The course will be held 22-26 August 2011 in Barcelona,
Spain.
For more information, including the sim-
ple application process, please visit http://-
www.genetics.ucla.edu/courses/statgene Please
email statgene@mednet.ucla.edu for more information
or to submit the simple application material.
JanetS@mednet.ucla.edu
Berlin EvolutionaryGenomics
Sep14-22
Dear colleagues,
this is the second call for applications to the Otto War-
burg International Summer School and Research Sym-
posium (OWS) on Evolutionary Genomics, to be held
in Berlin from September 14th to 22nd, 2011.
http://ows.molgen.mpg.de/ The following speakers
have conﬁrmed their attendance at the school: Hans
Ellegren (Uppsala) Nicolas Galtier (Montpellier) Lau-rence Hurst (Bath) Henrik Kaessmann (Lausanne) Fy-
odor Kondrashov (Barcelona) Michael Lynch (Bloom-
ington) Duncan Odom (Cambridge) H. Allen Orr
(Rochester) Dmitri Petrov (Stanford) Stephan Schus-
ter (Philadelphia) Kenneth Wolfe (Dublin)
The scientiﬁc coordinators of the OWS are Martin Vin-
gron, Peter Arndt and Brian Cusack at the Max Planck
Institute for Molecular Genetics. The aim of this pro-
gram is to bring together researchers and PhD students
from diﬀerent backgrounds (including molecular biol-
ogy, bioinformatics, biological physics, mathematics)
to discuss recent advances in evolutionary genomics in
an interactive environment. The program focuses on
high-level teaching and topical research seminars. Par-
ticipants are expected to give poster presentations or
contribute talks.
We invite applications from PhD students and a lim-
ited number of PostDocs. Please apply for atten-
dance before June 12, 2011 via our website http://-
ows.molgen.mpg.de/ .
The registration fee is 950 Euros. Costs for meals, ac-
commodation and social events will be covered. Some
travel subsidies are available. The programs (and video
streams) of previous Summer Schools can also be found
on the school’s website.
For questions please contact Kirsten Kelleher (kelle-
her@molgen.mpg.de)
–
Kirsten Kelleher Max Planck Institute for Molecular
Genetics Ihnestrasse 73 14195 Berlin
Tel: +49 30 8413-1154 Fax: +49 30 8413-1152 Email:
kelleher@molgen.mpg.de http://ows.molgen.mpg.de
kelleher@molgen.mpg.de
Bremerhaven ClimateAdaptation
Sep18-21
With the support of the network Thermal adaptation in
ectotherms: Linking life history, physiology, behaviour
and genetics (ThermAdapt) of the European Science
Foundation, the Alfred Wegener Institute for Polar and
Marine Research and with the Patronage of the De-
partment of Evolutionary Biology of the University of
Florence, we are pleased to announce the workshop:
The eﬀects of climate change on vulnerable life traits of84 EvolDir June 1, 2011
aquatic ectotherms: towards an integrated approach.
Schedule and Venue: The course will be held at the
Alfred Wegener Institute for Polar and Marine Re-
search, in Bremerhaven, Northern Germany, the 18th-
21st September, 2011.
Aims: - to provide PhD students and post-docs with
challenging points of view and ideas on the eﬀects of
climate change on aquatic ectotherms species and com-
munities; - to gather a multidisciplinary and hetero-
geneous cohort of scientists to merge the various ap-
proaches in an integrated discussion about future stud-
ies dealing with vulnerable life stages. - to build a new
and integrated approach to the study of ecosystem re-
sponses and species resilience to climate change, seen
from the point of view of the weakest traits of marine
and freshwater ectotherms life cycles.
Focus: The workshop will focus on the eﬀects of climate
change on the overall life cycle of aquatic ectotherms,
stressing the importance of their weakest links and
phases. We think, in fact, that a new ontogenetic ap-
proach is needed to forecast the eﬀects of climate change
on aquatic communities. As consequence, we will put
the emphasis on the speciﬁc pressure exerted on em-
bryos, larvae and sub-adults as well as on reproducing
and spawning individuals. Young researchers from a
wide range of theoretical and experimental ﬁelds, from
physiology to evolutionary ecology, from behavioral bi-
ology to ecological modeling, are called.
Speciﬁc Topics to be Covered: - Forecasting the eﬀects
of global change on reproduction of ectotherms; - Toler-
ance to change of embryos: implications for ectotherms
ecology; - Tolerance to change of larvae: implications
for ectotherms population connectivity; - Thermal tol-
erance of ectotherms; - Phenotypic responses to climate
change in susceptible populations; - Physiological and
ecological aspects of reproduction and development in
aquatic ectotherms; - Acute vs. chronic stress on vul-
nerable life stages.
Keynote speakers: - Frank Melzner - Leibniz-Institute
for Marine Science, Kiel University, DE - Hans-Otto
P¨ ortner - Alfred-Wegener-Institute, Bremerhaven, DE
- Enrique Queiroga - Centre for Environmental and Ma-
rine Studies, University of Aveiro, PT - Nia M. White-
ley - Bangor University, School of Biological Sciences,
Bangor, UK - Gray A. Williams - Swire Institute of
Marine Science, University of Hong Kong, CN
Registration: The workshop is open to up to 30 par-
ticipants and the registration is free of charge. We will
accept applications from PhD students as well as from
Post Doctoral researchers received before June 30, 2011.
With the support of ESF, we will cover accommoda-tions and meals for all applicants, while a limited num-
ber of travel reimbursements (10-15) will be assigned
on competitive basis.
Applicants are invited to download and ﬁll the
Application form (available at www.uniﬁ.it/-
climateandectotherms ) and to send it back as PDFs to
climateandectotherms@dbe.uniﬁ.it
Deadlines: 30th June, 2011 - Application form and ab-
stract submission 15th July, 2011 - Final approval of
the participants list by the organizing committee.
For more information visit the web site www.uniﬁ.it/-
climateandectotherms or contact the organizing com-
mittee (specifying workshop infos as subject):
Stefano Cannicci - Firenze, IT stefano.cannicci@uniﬁ.it
Folco Giomi - Bremerhaven, DE Folco.Giomi@awi.de
Felix Mark - Bremerhaven, DE Fe-
lix.Christopher.Mark@awi.de Organising Committee,
climateandectotherms@dbe.uniﬁ.it
Folco.Giomi@awi.de
Budapest
BeyondNextGenerationSequencing
Jul20-23
Beyond Next Generation Sequencing workshop
The main aim of this workshop is to discuss the cur-
rent scientiﬁc and technological challanges in the Next
Generation Sequencing era. We will bring together sci-
entists, SMEs and RTDs to share their opinion, intro-
duce their cutting-edge results and highlight the cur-
rent main barriers in research and technology. Above
that, we are going to introduce the work of the CO-
GANGS (Comparative Genomics and Next Generation
Sequencing) consortium sponsored by EU FP7.
We wish to bring together researchers and companies to
facilitate new collaborations. We encourage everybody
working on novel sequencing techniques and/or modern
genomics to participate in this workshop. There is no
registration fee for this workshop, however, registration
is necessary.
Conﬁrmed invited speakers, participating companies:
CLC Bio BIOBASE Omixon BayGen Mikl´ os Cs¨ ur¨ os,
University of Montreal Endre Sebesty´ en, Agricultural
Research Institute of the Hungarian Academy of Sci-
ences Endre Barta, University of Debrecen ´Ad´ amJune 1, 2011 EvolDir 85
Nov´ ak, University of Oxford
More information: http://www.renyi.hu/conferences/-
bngs2011/ miklosi@renyi.hu
Chioggia Italy
MarineConservationGenetics Jul3-9
Second Summer School on Conservation Genetics of
Marine Organisms
Organizers: Maria Berica Rasotto, Giorgio Bertorelle,
Leonardo Congiu, Lorenzo Zane
When and Where: July 3-9, 2011, Chioggia (Venice),
Italy
Application deadline: May 31, 2011
Fee: no registration fee is required; the ﬁnancial sup-
port of the Regione Veneto (CLODIA project) covers
also lunches, coﬀee breaks, and the social dinner for all
the selected participants
Faculty: G. Bertorelle (University of Ferrara, Italy),
M. Casiraghi (University of Milano-Bicocca, Italy),
L. Congiu (University of Padova, Italy), J.C. Garza
(NOAA Fisheries Service, Santa Cruz, USA), A. R.
Hoelzel (Durham University, Durham, UK), C. van
Oosterhout (University of Hull, UK), G. Procaccini
(Stazione Zoologica A. Dohrn, Napoli), M.B. Rasotto
(University of Padova, Italy), C. Sgro (Monash Uni-
versity, Melbourne, Australia), L. Zane (University of
Padova, Italy)
The aim of the second summer school on conservation
genetics is to increase the knowledge and disseminate
the basic concepts in conservation genetics as an eﬀec-
tive and modern tool for protecting and managing the
biodiversity of marine environments. The school is de-
signed for graduate and PhD students. A maximum of
25 students will be selected. Ten places will be reserved
for students from the University of Padova. Basic lec-
tures on general topics such as evolutionary and marine
biology will be followed by speciﬁc lectures on conser-
vation biology and conservation genetics. Six major
themes in conservation genetics will then be discussed
in more detail, covering both theoretical aspects and
real examples. Lectures will be integrated with practi-
cal activities including genetic typing and data analy-
sis. A few selected students will have the opportunity
to present their projects during a special session. The
summer school will be held at Palazzo Grassi, Chioggia.Chioggia is a coastal town of the province of Venice in
the Veneto region of northern Italy, situated on a small
island at the southern entrance to the Lagoon of Venice
about 25 km south of Venice ( http://en.wikipedia.org/-
wiki/Chioggia ).
The program and all the details for applying are avail-
able at: http://chioggia.scienze.unipd.it/ (click on the
News and go to the pages in English)
Giorgio Bertorelle Department of Biology and Evo-
lution University of Ferrara http://docente.unife.it/-
giorgio.bertorelle Phone +39 0532 455743 Fax: +39
0532 249761
Bertorelle Giorgio <ggb@unife.it >
Copenhagen PlantMarkerAnalysis
Course: Molecular marker analysis of plant population
structure and processes
Copenhagen 22-08-2011 - 26-08-2011
This PhD course provides participants with practical
and theoretical knowledge on analysis of genetic popu-
lation structure, mating patterns, and population pro-
cesses in plant populations, using molecular marker
data. The course includes theoretical lectures, exer-
cises and practicals with various computer programmes
as well as discussions of student projects. The course is
taught by staﬀ at University of Copenhagen and other
Danish Universities as well as Professor Peter Smouse,
Rutgers University, one of the developers of GenAlEx,
a widely used software for population genetic analy-
sis. Course content Estimation of genetic diversity, F-
statistics, inbreeding level, gene ﬂow, population and
paternity assignment, population admixture, hybridiza-
tion. Assumptions and limitations of methods, and
practical exercises with relevant computer programmes,
such as: GenAlEx, Structure, Cervus, Two-gener, Pop-
ulation Graph, Geneland, Split tree, New Hybrids,
AFLPOP, GeneClass2. Exact which programmes that
will be used is to be decided. Discussion of selected stu-
dent projects.Course credit 3 ECTS points. Require-
ment for obtaining credit: approval of a written syn-
opsis of the course content. Course material Articles
and lecture notes. All course material will be available
through a restricted web site. Practical information
Maximum number of participants is twenty. PhD stu-
dents have preference, remaining seats are open to non-
PhD students. The course will take place at University86 EvolDir June 1, 2011
of Copenhagen, Frederiksberg Campus (within Copen-
hagen). Computers with the relevant software will be
available for all. Travel, lodging, and accommodation
are to be organised and paid by the participants them-
selves; suggestions for hostels and hotels will be posted
on the web.Course fee: 150 Euro Organisers and teach-
ers Ole K. Hansen, Associate Professor in Forest Genet-
ics; Erik D. Kj c/circlecopyrtr, Professor in Forest Genetics, Thure
Hauser, Associate Professor in Plant Ecology; Gunter
Backes, Associate Professor in Plant Breeding; Peter
Smouse, Professor in Ecology, Evolution and Natural
resources.
okh@life.ku.dk
Irapuato Mexico
EvolutionaryGenomics Jul19-22
REMINDER—APPLICATIONS TO RECEIVE
FUNDING DUE MAY 13TH!!!
EVOLUTIONARY GENOMICS OF NON-MODEL
SPECIES: NEXT GENERATION SEQUENCING,
DATA MANAGEMENT, & HYPOTHESIS TESTING.
Announcing an NSF-Funded US-Mexico Workshop:
Evolutionary Genomics of Non-Model Species: Next
Generation Sequencing, Data Management, & Hypoth-
esis Testing. http://www.theaga.org/2011/?page id=-
3D207 To be held at the Laboratorio Nacional de
Gen´ omica para al Biodiversidad (Langebio) http:/-
/www.langebio.cinvestav.mx/?pag=3D50 Irapuato,
Mexico. July 19-22, 2011
Being held in conjunction with the 2011 AGA sym-
posium, July 23-26, Guanajuato, Mexico. July 23-26,
2011. http://www.theaga.org/2011/ OVERVIEW:
We have received NSF funding for a workshop to pre-
cede the AGA symposium 2011 “Genomics and Biodi-
versity.” The workshop is for graduate students and
postdoctoral researchers looking to learn more about
using next-generation sequencing technologies to ad-
dress evolutionary questions with non-model organ-
isms. There will be morning, afternoon, and evening
sessions including hands-on computer sessions. We will
cover a variety of topics and start with an introduction
to NGS technologies and their applicability for diﬀerent
questions. We will also discuss hypothesis testing, data
organization, data analysis pipelines with emphases on
phylogeography, phylogenomics, and transcriptomics.
In addition to the faculty listed below we will have guestspeakers from the AGA symposium present case stud-
ies. Please see our website to download a ﬂyer and
for more details on eligibility, funding, and application
procedures. Applications are due by May 13, 2011!
FACULTY INCLUDE:
-Bryan Carstens, Louisiana State University
-Ken Jones, University of Colorado School of Medicine
-Cei Abreu-Goodger, Langebio
-Scott Edwards, Harvard University
-Stacey Lance, UGA Savannah River Ecology Lab
AND NOW ALSO: Rasmus Nielsen, University of Cal-
ifornia, Berkeley
ELIGIBLE APPLICANTS:
-Any US citizen or permanent resident currently en-
rolled in a MS or PhD program or working as a post-
doctoral researcher in the US may apply to attend with
funding to cover travel and lodging
-Any Mexican citizen currently enrolled in a MS or
PhD program or working as a postdoctoral researcher
in Mexico may apply to attend. Lodging will be covered
via shared rooms with funded US participants.
-If space is available others may apply to attend but
funding will not be provided
US PARTICIPANTS WILL BE EXPECTED TO:
-Share a hotel room with a Mexican student attending
the workshop
-Partner with a Mexican student to write & present a
short research proposal using NGS technologies on a
non-model organism
Attend the AGA symposium 2011 “Genomics and Bio-
diversity” following the workshop
For more information and application procedures please
see our website or contact Stacey Lance.
Sincerely,
Bryan Carstens, Ken Jones, Cei Abreu-Goodger, Scott
Edwards, Rasmus Nielsen, and Stacey Lance
Stacey L. Lance, Ph.D. Assistant Research Scientist
University of Georgia Savannah River Ecology Labo-
ratory PO Drawer E Aiken, SC 29802
lance@srel.edu
803.725.0988
lancestacey@gmail.comJune 1, 2011 EvolDir 87
KyotoU
ComputationalPhyloinformatics
Aug1-11
COMPUTATIONAL PHYLOINFORMATICS
August 1 2011 - August 11 2011
Bioinformatics Center of Kyoto University Application
Deadline: May 31, 2011
http://academy.nescent.org/wiki/-
Computational phyloinformatics Computational
Phyloinformatics is a 11-day international course (Au-
gust 1-11, 2011) co-organized by the Computational
Biology Research Center (CBRC/AIST), the Bioinfor-
matics Center of Kyoto University, the Database Center
for Life Science (DBCLS/JST), and the National Evo-
lutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent). This course,
which will take place at Kyoto University directly
following the SMBE Meeting ( http://smbe2011.com/ ),
aims to give participants practical knowledge and
hands-on skills in phyloinformatics.
The venue in Kyoto is completely unaﬀected by the un-
fortunate events in Fukushima and the power shortages
in Tokyo. We encourage biologists from other coun-
tries to participate in the SMBE meeting and/or this
special international course, in solidarity with the sci-
entiﬁc community of Japan in their eﬀort to return to
normalcy and to help minimize any negative impacts
that the earthquake may have on scientiﬁc activities in
Japan.
SYNOPSIS Biologists are faced with ever-larger
datasets, more complex evolutionary models, and in-
creasingly elaborate analytical methods. Seldom is it
suﬃcient to run a dataset with an oﬀ-the-shelf pro-
gram on a desktop PC; increasingly, biologists need
to write scripts to interface with internet services and
databases, build analytical pipelines, customize analy-
ses, and distribute computation over multiple proces-
sors. This course is designed for graduate students,
postdocs, faculty, and researchers in phylogenetics in-
terested in receiving practical, hands-on training in the
use of Perl and SQL for workﬂows and applications in
phyloinformatics.
The course is divided into three parts:
- Part I: A tutorial review of of Perl, including ob-
ject oriented programming and building packages -Part II: Introduction and practical use of BioPerl
and Bio::Phylo, (e.g. scripting for large tree infer-
ence engines, automating model testing, genomic-scale
data mining and acquisition, supertree assembly, rate
smoothing and branch calibration, tree traversal, etc).
- Part III: Introduction and practical use of BioRuby
for molecular evolution and functional genomics (e.g.
scripting multiple sequence alignment, gene duplication
inference, tree inference, etc.) - Part IV: Introduction
to SQL and database design; computing and querying
nested sets and transitive closure; querying both large
trees (e.g. NCBI) and large collections of trees (e.g.
TreeBASE).
Participants will learn how to write basic phylogenetic
or comparative analysis scripts, parse NEXUS ﬁles, tra-
verse and compute over trees, and make practical use
of phylogenetic software libraries. These skills will be
learned in a biological context, touching on a diverse
array of topics such as analysis of large datasets, au-
tomation of supertree assembly, querying for topolog-
ical patterns in large collections of trees, etc. Partici-
pants will leave the course with a full set of installations
and libraries on their computer ready to build phyloin-
formatic workﬂows for their own research projects, as
well as continued access to a 50+ page wiki “textbook”
containing step-by-step instructions, problem sets, and
examples.
INSTRUCTORS AND COURSE ORGANIZERS
Christian Zmasek, Karen Cranston, Rutger A. Vos,
Susumu Goto, Toshiaki Katayama, William H. Piel
APPLICATION DEADLINE May 31, 2011
TUITION 40,000 ( ~$500)
Participants are responsible for their own travel costs,
including transportation and accommodation – see the
website for more information. International partici-
pants will beneﬁt by combining attendance with the
2011 SMBE meeting. A limited number of travel schol-
arships from NESCent are available for US-based stu-
dents. Preference will be given to students from under-
represented minorities.
PREREQUISITES
- Biology: A good understanding of phylogenetics - for
example, having already taken the Workshop on Molec-
ular Evolution ( http://www.molecularevolution.org/ )
or equivalent coursework or experience.
- Computing: Prior experience with Perl or careful
study of the suggested reading materials in advance of
the class (see web site). Participants should have some
experience with basic Unix shell commands.
- Equipment: Participants are expected to bring their88 EvolDir June 1, 2011
own Mac OSX computer or a LINUX computer, else
they will be provided with an iMac. Participants who
cannot bring their own computer and will be using
a supplied iMac, should consider bringing their own
portable ﬁrewire/usb drive so that they can also leave
the course with a full suite of phyloinformatic software
tools.
william.piel@yale.edu
KyotoU PhylogeneticWorkﬂows
Aug1-11 DeadlineMay31
COMPUTATIONAL PHYLOINFORMATICS August
1 2011 through August 11 2011 Bioinformatics Cen-
ter of Kyoto University Application Deadline: May 31,
2011
http://academy.nescent.org/wiki/-
Computational phyloinformatics Computational
Phyloinformatics is an 11-day international course
(August 1-11, 2011) co-organized by the Compu-
tational Biology Research Center (CBRC/AIST),
the Bioinformatics Center of Kyoto University, the
Database Center for Life Science (DBCLS/JST),
and the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent). This course, which will take place
at Kyoto University directly following the SMBE
Meeting ( http://smbe2011.com/ ), aims to give par-
ticipants practical knowledge and hands-on skills in
phyloinformatics.
The venue in Kyoto is completely unaﬀected by the un-
fortunate events in Fukushima and the power shortages
in Tokyo. We encourage biologists from other coun-
tries to participate in the SMBE meeting and/or this
special international course, in solidarity with the sci-
entiﬁc community of Japan in their eﬀort to return to
normalcy and to help minimize any negative impacts
that the earthquake may have on scientiﬁc activities in
Japan.
SYNOPSIS Biologists are faced with ever-larger
datasets, more complex evolutionary models, and in-
creasingly elaborate analytical methods. Seldom is it
suﬃcient to run a dataset with an oﬀ-the-shelf pro-
gram on a desktop PC; increasingly, biologists need
to write scripts to interface with internet services and
databases, build analytical pipelines, customize analy-
ses, and distribute computation over multiple proces-
sors. This course is designed for graduate students,postdocs, faculty, and researchers in phylogenetics in-
terested in receiving practical, hands-on training in the
use of Perl and SQL for workﬂows and applications in
phyloinformatics.
The course is divided into four parts:
PART I: A tutorial review of Perl, including object ori-
ented programming and building packages.
PART II: Introduction and practical use of BioPerl
and Bio::Phylo, (e.g. scripting for large tree infer-
ence engines, automating model testing, genomic-scale
data mining and acquisition, supertree assembly, rate
smoothing and branch calibration, tree traversal, etc).
PART III: Introduction and practical use of BioRuby
for molecular evolution and functional genomics (e.g.
scripting multiple sequence alignment, gene duplication
inference, tree inference, etc.).
PART IV: Introduction to SQL and database design;
computing and querying nested sets and transitive clo-
sure; querying both large trees (e.g. NCBI) and large
collections of trees (e.g. TreeBASE).
Participants will learn how to write basic phylogenetic
or comparative analysis scripts, parse NEXUS ﬁles, tra-
verse and compute over trees, and make practical use
of phylogenetic software libraries. These skills will be
learned in a biological context, touching on a diverse
array of topics such as analysis of large datasets, au-
tomation of supertree assembly, querying for topolog-
ical patterns in large collections of trees, etc. Partici-
pants will leave the course with a full set of installations
and libraries on their computer ready to build phyloin-
formatic workﬂows for their own research projects, as
well as continued access to a 50+ page wiki “textbook”
containing step-by-step instructions, problem sets, and
examples.
INSTRUCTORS AND COURSE ORGANIZERS
Christian Zmasek, Karen Cranston, Rutger A. Vos,
Susumu Goto, Toshiaki Katayama, William H. Piel
APPLICATION DEADLINE May 31, 2011
TUITION 40,000 ( ~$500)
Participants are responsible for their own travel costs,
including transportation and accommodation – see the
website for more information. International partici-
pants will beneﬁt by combining attendance with the
2011 SMBE meeting. A limited number of travel schol-
arships from NESCent are available for US-based stu-
dents. Preference will be given to students from under-
represented minorities.
SUBSIDIES AND SCHOLARSHIPS A limited number
of travel scholarships from NESCent are available forJune 1, 2011 EvolDir 89
US-based students. Preference will be given to students
from under-represented minorities.
The Asia-Paciﬁc Bioinformatics Network (APBioNet)
is happy to provide travel assistance for a limited
number of students/early career researchers from the
Asia-Paciﬁc region. Applicants are requested to con-
tact Dr Asif Khan, APBioNet Secretariat: asif -$-
bic.nus.edu.sg (replace -$- with @) for details.
PREREQUISITES
BIOLOGY: A good understanding of phylogenetics - for
example, having already taken the Workshop on Molec-
ular Evolution ( http://www.molecularevolution.org/ )
or equivalent coursework or experience.
COMPUTING: Prior experience with Perl or careful
study of the suggested reading materials in advance of
the class (see web site).
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Lisbon GenomeBiolEvolution
Aug1-19
Dear EvolDir
We would like to announce a summer school in Genome
Biology and Evolution, to be held this sumer (Aug 1-19)
in Lisbon, Portugal. ( www.igc.gulbenkian.pt/gbe2011 )
This summer school targets mid MSc. students to in-
terest them in this exciting research area - thanks to
generous funding from the Volkswagen and Gulbenkian
foundations, there will be excellent ﬁnancial support for
participants.
The summer school will include daily seminars by an
international faculty - we are lining up an exciting
list of speakers, including Sydney Brenner, Michael
Lynch, Eduardo Rocha, Francois Balloux, Andrew
Clark, among many others; open-ended experimental
and/or bioinformatics research projects conducted in
small groups with close support of faculty, leading to a
scientiﬁc workshop where participants can discuss the
results of their experiments; tutorials on basic concepts
and methodologies used in genome analysis early in the
summer school to enable full participation by studentsfrom diverse scientiﬁc backgrounds. A rich social pro-
gram is designed to maximize the exposure of students
to the faculty.
The Summer school will happen at the Instituto Gul-
benkian de Ciencia ( www.igc.gulbenkian.pt ) in Oeiras,
a science-intensive sea-side village, located a few miles
away from Lisbon (Portugal). It is being organized by
Jose Pereira-Leal and Thiago Carvalho from the IGC,
and Thomas Boehm from the Max Plank Institute.
Registrations open on May 15th and will remain open
until June 15th - candidate will be selected on scientiﬁc
merit and life experience.
We ask you to please forward this message to students
whom you think can be interested, or lecturers in MSc.
programs.
Thank you very much
Jose pereira-Leal
Jose Pereira Leal, PhD Computational Genomics Lab-
oratory & Bioinformatics and Computational Biology
Unit Instituto Gulbenkian de Ciˆ encia Apartado 14 P-
2781-901 Oeiras Portugal
phone: +351 21 446 4528 fax: +351 21 440 7973
http://www.evocell.org http://-
bioinformatics.igc.gulbenkian.pt
jleal@igc.gulbenkian.pt jleal@igc.gulbenkian.pt
Luebeck Germany SystemsBiology
Sep5-9
Dear colleagues, researchers, and friends,
registration is now open for the
Workshop on Systems Biology together with the 2nd
Baltic Autumn School
to take place in Luebeck during 5.-9.September 2011.
Invited speakers:
Tibor Antal (Edinburgh) Albert-Laszlo Barabasi
(Notre Dame) Ofer Biham (Jerusalem) Angelika
B¨ orsch-Haubold (Pl¨ on) Stefan Bornholdt (Bremen)
Theo Geisel (G¨ ottingen) Bernhard Haubold (Pl¨ on)
Marc-Thorsten H¨ utt (Bremen) Kunihiko Kaneko
(Tokyo) Edda Klipp (Berlin) J¨ urgen Kurths (Pots-
dam) John Postlethwait (Eugene) Mamen Ro-
mano (Aberdeen) Kim Sneppen (Copenhagen) Peter
Stadler (Leipzig) Marco Thiel (Aberdeen) Fred Turek90 EvolDir June 1, 2011
(Evanston) Olaf Wolkenhauer (Rostock)
Early registration and poster submission: 15. July
2011. A few number of contributions may be selected
for oral presentation.
See the workshop webpage for details and registration:
http://www.inb.uni-luebeck.de/˜as11/ We are looking
forward to meet you in Luebeck!
Yours sincerely,
Jens Christian Claussen Amir Madany Mamlouk Katja
Dau (GS-CMLS Events)
– PD Dr. Jens Christian Claussenclaussen@inb.uni-
luebeck.de Institut f. Neuro- und Bioinformatik
Univ. Luebeck +49-451-5005412 http://www.inb.uni-
luebeck.de/ ˜ claussen/ Jens Christian Claussen
<claussen@inb.uni-luebeck.de >
Messina MicrobialEvolution Jun7-10
“this year the course is speciﬁcally design to address the
issues of whom, using microbial systems, is addressing
evolutionary theories. One of the three special guests
is Alex Hall (Oxford University) is a world famous mi-
crobial evolutionary biologist, and he will follow the
students for the whole week. It s lecture will address
the use of experimental systems in evolutionary biol-
ogy, as well as the other methodologies (cytometry, 454,
cloning) are all suitable for evolutionary studies. I guess
the course can be interesting for the evoldirs.”
We are glad to announce that the 3 SItEMICRO prac-
tical andtheoretical course in Microbial Ecology will
be held in Messina (Italy),from June 07 to 10 2011,
at the University of Messina facility,Villa Pace. Such
location, facing the charming scenario of the Strait
ofMessina, is equipped with both laboratory spaces
and conference rooms. The course will provide in-
sights in the new techniques applied in microbial ecol-
ogy and evolution, focussing on their implications in
the study of community ecology and experimental evo-
lutionary microbiology. This year, 4 main scientiﬁc
topics will be theoretically andpractically described,
also following the suggestions of theparticipants to
the previous courses. 1-Cultivation Techniques in-
Microbial Ecology; 2-Quantitative analysis of Micro-
bial Populations;3-Clone Libraries: Opening the Di-
versity Book; 4-Estimating ProkaryoticDiversity: Fin-
gerprinting and New-Generation Sequence-Based Tech-
niques. More info on direct lectures by Stefan Bertils-son (454 data Analysis - Uppsala University),Alex Hall
(Microbial Systems in Evolutionary Biology - Oxford
University), and Michail Yakimov (NGS techniques -
IAMC-CNR Messina),as well as practical and theo-
retical lessons by Gian Marco Luna(Polytechnic Uni-
versity of Ancona), Gianluca Corno (CNR-ISE Verba-
nia),Stefano Amalﬁtano (CNR-IRSA Rome), Manuela
Coci (CNR-ISE Verbania), andLuigi Michaud (Univer-
sity of Messina) are available on our website. The
course (inscription fee 200 Euro, extended deadline
May 16) isdesigned for PhD students, but also “ex-
perienced” master students andyoung researchers are
welcome. Keep tuned for news about deadlines, pro-
gramme and lessons by clickingon www.sitemicro.it or
email to:sitemicro@gmail.com
Dr. Gianluca Corno Microbial Ecology Group CNR -
Institute of Ecosystem Study Largo Tonolli 50 - 28922
Verbania - Italy Tel. +39 0323 518 321 Fax +39 0323
556 513
SItE - Section of Microbial Ecology -
http://www.sitemicro.it/ Gianluca Corno
<g.corno@ise.cnr.it >
MountDesertIsland EnvGenomics
Aug20-27
Second Annual Summer Course in Environmental Ge-
nomics at the Mount Desert Island Biological Lab
A technical course to guide research into how environ-
mental conditions aﬀect gene responses and the ﬁtness
of organisms
Date: August 20 to August 27, 2011. Number of par-
ticipants: Restricted to 25.
http://www.mdibl.org/courses/-
Environmental Genomics/199/ The faculty at
MDIBL is pleased to again oﬀer a training course in
Environmental Genomics, aiming to better understand
technologies and approaches used to discover how gene
function is inﬂuenced by environmental conditions
while accounting for variation that exists within and
among natural populations. This course is built on the
paradigm that the research ﬁeld will most eﬀectively
grow by properly designing large-scale experiments
enabled by drastically increased sample-throughput
and lower costs. Most importantly, the challenges of
manipulating and analyzing population-level genomics
data must be addressed.June 1, 2011 EvolDir 91
This course is designed to train the next-generation of
environmental scientists, which last year included ﬁve
university professors, seven postdoctoral researchers,
eight doctoral students and a government scientist, rep-
resenting institutions from ﬁve countries and eight US
states. All but two responded in the departure survey
that the course curriculum, choice of technologies, and
eﬀectiveness provided suﬃcient training to either begin
or enlarge an environmental genomics project in their
own laboratories. All reported that they would recom-
mend this course to a colleague.
This course trains researchers to design studies, and
to collect and analyze state-of-the-art gene expression
data. Daphnia is used for training because of its grow-
ing use as a model system for environmental genomics
and for improving environmental health protection (see
URL below), yet the skills learned during the course
will be applicable to all study systems with mature ge-
nomics resources.
Nature News http://www.nature.com/news/2011/-
110203/full/news.2011.71.html Participants will
also obtain hands-on training on the latest automa-
tion protocols for higher-throughput processing of
next-generation sequencing samples, and will learn
computational methods to manage and analyze
genomics-scale data sets.
Ultimately, participants will be better positioned to
incorporate these technologies into their own research
laboratories, while better understanding how functional
genomics and automation can be applied to ecology,
evolution and toxicology.
Support for this training course is provided by The In-
diana University Center for Genomics and Bioinformat-
ics, Beckman Coulter Inc., Roche NimbleGen Inc., and
Life Technologies Inc.
Please download the poster announcement at:
https://wiki.cgb.indiana.edu/download/attachments/-
22446089/MDIBL Envgen ﬂyer y2.pdf John Kenneth
Colbourne The Center for Genomics and Bioinformat-
ics Indiana University
jcolbour@cgb.indiana.edu
Porto Portugal TeachingEvolution
Portugal.Teaching Workshops in Biology-
Porto.September.2011FIRST IV at CIBIO/UP - Teaching Workshops in Bi-
ology
Dates:27 - 30 September 2011
Senior PhD students, postdoctoral researchers and fac-
ulty in any ﬁeld of biology are invited to participate
in Faculty Institutes for Reforming Science Teaching
(FIRST IV) for Faculty and Postdoctoral Scholars.
FIRST IV focuses on reform of undergraduate biology
education through professional development of post-
docs and faculty. Participants will design an inquiry-
based, student-centered undergraduate biology course.
Key elements of FIRST IV include active learning, as-
sessment and diversity in teaching. Participants will
attend one workshop and a follow-up webinar during
consecutive summers: a four-day workshop in 2011 fol-
lowed by a webinar in 2012. During the academic year
between the two workshops, participants will teach all
or part of an introductory biology course (e.g., cell bi-
ology, genetics, ecology, organisms, populations, evolu-
tion) at their home institution using the course frame-
work they designed during the workshop.
Who should apply?? Senior PhD students, postdoc-
toral researchers and faculty who have an interest in
and commitment to teaching. We encourage individu-
als or teams of two participants from one institution to
apply.
Cost? 360 euros. The course fee includes lunch, morn-
ing and afternoon coﬀee-breaks, room and instructional
materials.
Application due: June 26, 2011 Notiﬁcation of accep-
tance: July 4, 2011
Questions? Contact Rita Campos or Rui Faria,
PopGen Research Group, CIBIO/UP, ritacam-
pos@mail.icav.up.pt or rui.faria@upf.edu
Application is on the FIRST IV-like at
CIBIO web site: http://popgencibio.org/-
web/ Please name your completed application
ﬁle:**LastnameFirstname FIRSTIVCIBIOapp.pdf
Send all application materials as one PDF document
to: ritacampos@mail.icav.up.pt
Rui Faria <rui.faria@upf.edu >
Poznan Bioinformatics Jul11-15
9th Poznan Summer School of Bioinformatics92 EvolDir June 1, 2011
Faculty of Biology, Adam Mickiewicz University, Poz-
nan, Poland
11th-15th July 2011
Advanced Techniques in Genome Analysis
Poznan Summer School of Bioinformatics is a compre-
hensive course of bioinformatics. The course is best pre-
pared for those who have little knowledge in bioinfor-
matics and ﬁnd it necessary/interesting to learn more
in this ﬁeld. It is therefore aimed to give the oppor-
tunity to ﬁnd out how to use some basic bioinformatic
tools and how to perform bioinformatic analyses in your
research.
The course consists of lectures (by scientists from
Poland and abroad) and hands-on - this combination
should ﬁt best your needs as you have a chance to try
the methods out yourself. We cover the following sub-
jects (which we ﬁnd most interesting and up-to-date):
* Population genetics in the genomic era * Next gen-
eration sequencing technologies * Sequence assembly *
Genome wide association studies * miRNAs and their
targets * Genome wide analysis of repetitive elements *
Tools for genome annotations and analysis * Gene com-
plexity and alternative splicing * Reactome - reactions,
pathways and biological processes
Details can be found at the workshop website: http:/-
/lemur.amu.edu.pl/bioinfo/ Please forward this an-
nouncement to anyone who might be interested.
Visit Poland! Enjoy bioinformatics!
Best regards,
PSSB Organizing Committee
Contact: genomics@amu.edu.pl
Bioinfo School <genomics@amu.edu.pl >
Poznan Poland Bioinformatics
Jul11-15
Dear All,
Do you have some plans for the summer? Maybe you
want to improve your skills and knowledge in bioinfor-
matics, especially in Advanced Techniques in Genome
Analysis?
We are happy to invite you for 9th Poznan Summer
School of Bioinformatics (11-15 July 2011, Poznan,
Poland, Adam Mickiewicz University)The course consists of lectures (by scientists from
Poland and abroad) and excercises - this combination
should ﬁt best your needs as you have a chance to try
the methods out yourself.
We have a great pleasure to present you a list of invited
speakers:
- Kenneth Weiss, Pennsylvania State University
(Keynote speaker) - Maria Anisimova, Swiss Federal
Institute of Technology, Zurich - Artemis Hatzigeor-
giou, Al. Fleming BSRC, Athens - Robin Haw, On-
tario Institute for Cancer Research, Toronto - Marcin
Jakalski, University of Muenster, Muenster - Michal
Kabza, Adam Mickiewicz University, Poznan - Antonio
Marco, University of Manchester, Manchester - Anton
Nekrutenko, Pennsylvania State University - Graziano
Pesole, University of Bari, Bari - Andrzej Polanski, Sile-
sian University of Technology, Gliwice - Monika Stoll,
University of Muenster, Muenster - Yutaka Suzuki, Uni-
versity of Tokyo, Tokyo - Hadi Quesneville, INRA, Ver-
sailles Cedex - January Weiner, Max Planck Institute
for Infection Biology, Berlin - Thomas Wiehe, Univer-
sity of Cologne, Cologne
This year we cover following subjects:
- Population genetics in the genomic era - Next gen-
eration sequencing technologies - Sequence assembly -
Genome wide association studies - miRNAs and their
targets - Genome wide analysis of repetitive elements -
Tools for genome annotations and analysis - Gene com-
plexity and alternative splicing - Reactome - reactions,
pathways and biological processes
To read more and register, please visit our website:
http://lemur.amu.edu.pl/bioinfo/ Hope to see you in
Poznan!
Best regads, PSSB Organizng Committee contact: ge-
nomics@amu.edu.pl
Bioinfo School <genomics@amu.edu.pl >
SantaBarbara
MacroevolutionaryMethods in R
Jun15
We are pleased to announce an intensive short course
on using R to perform comparative methods to be held
in Santa Barbara on July 31-Aug 5, 2011. This course
is funded by the National Science Foundation, and a
number of stipends to cover or defray travel, room,June 1, 2011 EvolDir 93
and board are available to qualiﬁed students and post-
docs. Topics covered will include an introduction to
the R programming language, tree manipulation, in-
dependent contrasts and phylogenetic generalized least
squares, ancestral state reconstruction, models of char-
acter evolution, diversiﬁcation analyses, and commu-
nity phylogenetic analysis. Course instructors will in-
clude Luke Harmon, Mike Alfaro, Todd Oakley, and
Dan Rabosky.
If you are interested please submit your CV along with a
short (maximum 1 page) description of your research in-
terests, background, and reasons for taking the course.
Admission is competitive, and the best applications
come from students with data sets to analyze. Inter-
national applicants are welcome. Applications should
be submitted online at http://bit.ly/liqVQ7 by 15 June
2011 (if you got a previous version of this message,
please note the corrected date).
Thanks- Luke Harmon and Mike Alfaro
Luke Harmon Assistant Professor Biological Sciences
University of Idaho 208-885-0346 lukeh@uidaho.edu
Luke Harmon <lukeh@uidaho.edu >
Trento Italy
ConsPopulationGenetics Sep20-22
It gives us great pleasure to announce that the INTER-
NATIONAL WORKSHOP -Population Genetics for
Animal Conservation III’ will be held at the Congress
Centre Panorama, Sardagna, Trento, Italy, Septem-
ber 20-22, 2011. This workshop will be organized by
the Department of Biodiversity and Molecular Ecol-
ogy, Fondazione Edmund Mach (S. Michele all’Adige,
Trento, Italy) in collaboration with the European con-
sortium ConGRESS.
ALL RELEVANT INFORMATION IS AVAILABLE
AThttp://pgac3.fem-environment.eu/ The Third edi-
tion of the workshop will be focussed on a well-
recognized, yet unsolved issue in conservation genetics:
how to bridge the gap between scientists and end-users,
i.e. non-scientists such as policymakers, administrators,
or park rangers that are directly involved in animal con-
servation and would like to design, implement and/or
apply management and conservation plans using the
most modern strategies and tools
Therefore, this workshop intends addressing this gap by
focussing on ﬁve main themes identiﬁed as top priori-ties during a a recent survey conducted by ConGRESS
of 100 end-users from across Europe:
1) Identifying units for conservation
2) Population connectivity and isolation
3) Reconstructing past population dynamics
4) Detecting and planning translocations and reintro-
ductions
5) Genetic diversity and adaptation
Each theme will be tackled in one 2-hour session
(with lectures from invited speakers and contributions
from attendees) with ﬁnal-day round tables discussions
where scientists and end-user will have the opportunity
to examine, vis-a-vis, unresolved issues and possible so-
lutions.
PGAC III hopes to bring together researchers from dif-
ferent ﬁelds (e.g. population genetics, ecology, conser-
vation biology and related) and end-users with basic
scientiﬁc knowledge and a strong desire to know more
about applying population genetics tools to their par-
ticular conservation problem. The major aim will be
to promote an eﬀective interaction, using a common
language, to fully exploit the potential of population
genetics as applied to animal conservation.
Invited speakers: Giorgio Bertorelle (University of
Ferrara, Italy) Josef Bryja (Academy of Sciences,
Czech Republic) Mike Bruford (University of Cardiﬀ,
UK) Oscar Gaggiotti (Universit´ e J Fourier, Grenoble,
France) Rus Hoelzel (University of Durham, UK) Jacob
Hoglund (University of Uppsala, Sweden) Craig Moritz
(University of California, Berkeley, USA) Richard
Nichols (Queen Mary’s College, UK) Craig Primmer
(Univeristy of Turku, Finland) Gernot Segelbacher
(University of Freiburg, Germany) Hans Siegismund
(University of Copenhagen, Denmark) Per Sjogren-
Gulve (Swedish Environmental Protection Agency)
Carles Vil` a (CSIC, Spain) Raj Whitlock (University of
Liverpool, UK)
The Scientiﬁc Committee: Giorgio Bertorelle, Uni-
versity of Ferrara, Italy Mike Bruford, University of
Cardiﬀ, UK Heidi C. Hauﬀe, Fondazione Edmund
Mach, S. Michele all’Adige, Trento, Italy Cristiano Ver-
nesi, Fondazione Edmund Mach, Viote del Monte Bon-
done, Trento, Italy
DEADLINE for abstracts and registrations for PGAC
III: 30 JUNE 2011.
Cristiano Vernesi Department of Biodiversity and
Molecular Ecology Research and Innovation Centre -
Fondazione Edmund Mach address: Centro di Ecologia
Alpina, Viote del Monte Bondone - 38040 Trento - Italy94 EvolDir June 1, 2011
tel +390461939523 - fax +390461948190 - skypename:
cvernesi
vernesi@cealp.it
UHelsinki ClimateAdaptation
Sep11-14
Workshop: ADAPTATION TO CLIMATE FROM A
SPATIAL PERSPECTIVE
11-14 September 2011 at Lammi Biological Station,
University of Helsinki, Finland
Short description:
Advancing our understanding how organisms adapt to
environmental variation lies at the core of ecology and
evolutionary biology, and has become especially rele-
vant in the light of current human-induced environ-
mental change as a major threat to global biodiversity.
When predicting species’ responses to climate change,
including range shifts and adaptation, it is crucial to
take into account spatial patterns of local adaptation
and population dynamics at the regional and geograph-
ical scale.
We organize a conference ( ~60 participants) with a pri-
mary focus on adaptation to environmental variation,
in particular climatic and thermal adaptation, from
a spatial perspective at the regional and geographic
level. We intend to bring together current high-quality
research at multiple levels of investigation, including
ecology, evolutionary genetics, physiology, theory and
conservation. We aim to combine studies including a
broad range of organisms, including plants, vertebrates
and aquatic organisms, but with a main focus on ec-
totherms.
The conference will be organised around three main
sessions:
Latitudinal and altitudinal clinal variation Land-
scape/metapopulation approaches to ecological and
evolutionary dynamics Ecological and evolutionary dy-
namics at the range margins
Keynote speakers:
Dr. Jon Bridle (University of Bristol, UK) Prof.
Steven Chown, Stellenbosch University, South Africa)
Prof. Klaus Fischer (Greifswald University, Germany)
Prof. Ilkka Hanski (University of Helsinki, Finland)
Prof. P¨ ar Ingvarsson (Ume˚ a University, Sweden) Prof.Volker Loeschcke (Aarhus University, Denmark) Prof.
Juha Meril¨ a (University of Helsinki, Finland) Prof. Pa-
tricia Schulte (University of British Columbia, Canada)
Prof. Chris Thomas (University of York, UK)
Organizers:
Maaike de Jong & Marjo Saastamoinen
Metapopulation Research Group, Department of Bio-
sciences, University of Helsinki
For more information and online registration (registra-
tion deadline is June 30th 2011):
< http://www.helsinki.ﬁ/science/metapop/-
workshop/ > http://www.helsinki.ﬁ/science/-
metapop/workshop/ Marjo Saastamoinen, PhD
Metapopulation Research Group Department of Bio-
logical Sciences PO Box 65 (Viikinkaari 1) FI-00014
University of Helsinki FINLAND
Phone +358 9 191 57741
“Saastamoinen, Marjo”
<marjo.saastamoinen@helsinki.ﬁ >
Venice EvoDevo Sep19-22
Summer School on Evolutionary Developmental Biol-
ogy Conceptual and Methodological Foundations
2nd Edition: From Gene Networks to Organismal Sys-
tems
Venice, 19 - 22 September 2011
Organizers: Alessandro Minelli, Gerd B. M¨ uller and
Giuseppe Fusco School director: Johannes Jaeger
School sponsors: Istituto Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed
Arti, Venice and Konrad Lorenz Institute for Evolution
and Cognition Research, Vienna. Location: Istituto
Veneto di Scienze, Lettere ed Arti, Palazzo Franchetti,
Venice
Taching panel: J. Jaeger (School Director, CRG
Barcelona), P. Beldade (Gulbenkian Institute, Lisbon),
C. Braendle (CNRS and Universit´ e de Nice - Sophia
Antipolis), G. E. Budd (University of Uppsala), G.
Fusco (University of Padova), A. Hejnol (Sars Interna-
tional Center for Marine Molecular Biology, Bergen), R.
Jenner (Natural History Museum, London), A. Minelli
(University of Padova), G. B. M¨ uller (Konrad Lorenz
Institute, Vienna), S. A. Newman (New York Medical
College)June 1, 2011 EvolDir 95
Deadline for applications: May 30th 2011.
For details, visit http://www.istitutoveneto.it/-
EDB2011/ Giuseppe Fusco Department of Biology
University of Padova Via U. Bassi 58/B I-35131 Padova
Italy tel. +39.049.827.6238 fax +39.049.827.6230
e-mail giuseppe.fusco@unipd.it webpage http://-
dept.bio.unipd.it/fusco
Giuseppe Fusco <giuseppe.fusco@unipd.it >
WestVirginia MalariaEvolution
Aug1-4
SECOND ANNOUNCEMENT
International Workshop on Malaria and Related
Haemosporidian Parasites of Wildlife
Monday August 1st V Thursday August 4th, 2011
National Conservation Training Center, Shepherd-
stown, West Virginia
Sponsored by the NSF Research Coordination Network
for Haemosporida of Terrestrial Vertebrates1
**The workshop is likely to be of interest to evolution-
ary biologists as it will center around the systematics
of a very successful and diverse group of parasites of
natural vertebrate populations and include laboratory
exercises involving phylogenetic analysis of parasite lin-
eages and readings and discussions on the evolutionary
history of the parasites including cospeciation of hosts
and parasites as well as the evolution of virulence.
Dear Colleagues,
The NSF-sponsored Research Coordination Network
for Haemosporida of Terrestrial Vertebrates (Malari-
aRCN) is pleased to announce our ﬁrst annual work-
shop on the malaria parasites and closely related
haemosporidians of natural populations of vertebrates.
The four day workshop will include both ﬁeld and lab-
oratory exercises as well as lectures and discussions led
by RCN members2.
Topics to be covered through the workshops exer-
cises include vertebrate and invertebrate ﬁeld capture
techniques, blood sampling and preparation of blood
smears, vector identiﬁcation and salivary gland prepa-
ration, sample vouchering and cryopreservation, light
microscopy for parasite species identiﬁcation and para-
site and cell counts, DNA extraction and PCR screen-
ing of parasites, sequence data analysis including phy-logenetics, and databasing. Discussion topics will in-
clude, but are not limited to, the basic biology, phylo-
genetics and systematics of Haemosporida, community
ecology of parasites, coevolution ofparasites and hosts,
the evolution of virulence, and conservation and dis-
ease.
The workshop will commence on Monday morning, Au-
gust 1st, and continue through until the afternoon of
Thursday, August 4th. The workshop will be followed
by a three day meeting on the malaria and related
haemosporidian parasites of wildlife, organized by the
same RCN group.
All food, lodging and workshop events will take place
at the US Fish & Wildlife Services National Conserva-
tion Training Center in Shepherdstown, West Virginia,
a site easily accessible through Washington, D.C., area
airports.
The workshop is geared towards graduate students,
postdoctoral researchers, and other investigators new
to the ﬁeld of wildlife haemosporidians. We are cur-
rently accepting applications and encourage individu-
als from outside the United States, particularly from
developing countries. Funding is available to cover the
workshop cost, accommodation at the Shepherdstown
facility, transportation from the Washington Dulles In-
ternational airport (IAD), and meals for all partici-
pants. Additional funds may be available to help with
travel costs. Application forms can be requested from
the workshop organizers (email: MalariaRCNWork-
shop@gmail.com). Additional information on the work-
shop including an overview of the four days of events
will soon be made available on the oﬃcial workshop
website ( http://malariarcn.org/ ). Decisions on partic-
ipation will begin on Monday May 30th and continue
until the workshop is ﬁlled. If interested, you are en-
couraged to apply for the workshop as soon as possible.
1 The Research Coordination Network for Haemo-
sporida of Terrestrial Vertebrates (RCN), sponsored
by the U. S. National Science Foundation and funded
through 2015 at the University of Missouri-St. Louis,
was established to promote communication among re-
searchers working on the ecology and evolution of
haemosporidian parasites of vertebrate wildlife popu-
lations.
2 Workshop organizers include Ellen Martinsen (Smith-
sonian Institution), Staﬀan Bensch (Lund University),
Ravinder Sehgal (San Francisco State University),
Carter Atkinson (USGS), and Gediminas Valkiunas
(Nature Research Center, Vilnius). Other members of
this RCN include Robert Ricklefs and Patricia Parker
(University of Missouri V St. Louis), Robert Fleischer
(Smithsonian Institution), Susan Perkins (American96 EvolDir June 1, 2011
Museum of Natural History), Tom Smith(University of
California, Los Angeles), and Robert Adlard (Queens-land Museum).
“Fleischer, Robert” <FleischerR@si.edu >
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here — Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from ‘blackballed’ addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned oﬀ and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf ﬁle.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
‘on vacation’, etc, style messages are automatically ﬁltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail’s your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word ﬁles, as HTML ﬁles, as L ATEX ﬁles, Excel ﬁles, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
“Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:” and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and ﬁlters. If the message is caught by one of the
ﬁlters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.