E v o l D i r
May 1, 2009
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same ﬁeld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be “bulletin board” in nature, if there is a “discussion” style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1092 EvolDir May 1, 2009
Conferences
Barcelona Sequencing2009 Oct1-3 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Belgium Darwinism Apr28-30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
BrownU GenomicsEnvChange Jun8-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Egypt DarwinLegacy Nov14-16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
IowaCity SMBE 2009 Jun3-7 NextGenerationSeqSym-
posium . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
IowaU SMBE2009 EpigeneticsEnvironmentEvolution
Jun3-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
KansasCity ArthropodGenomics June11-14 Reduce-
dregistration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Leiden FlowerSystematics Aug10-14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
London e-Biosphere09 June . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Marseilles 13thEBM acceptedabstracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
PortlandOregon SSB 2010 CallSymposia . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Rennes France EvolutionaryBiol Jun8-12 . . . . . . . . . . 10
Richmond SystemsBiol Jun16-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Rome Darwin2009 Emotions Apr27-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
SanDiego ASM EvolutionaryMicrobiol May2010 . . . 12SantFeliu Spain DarwinEvolution Sep15-20 . . . . . . . . 12
Sheﬃeld ComparativeGenomics Jul15-17 . . . . . . . . . . 13
UChicago DarwinAnniversary Oct29-31 . . . . . . . . . . . 13
UConnecticut SequencingNonModelOrganisms Jun11-
13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
UIdaho SEE2009 Jun12-17 DeadlineExtended . . . . . 13
UIdaho SSE2009 Deadline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
UIdaho SSE2009 Jun12-17 LateSubmissions . . . . . . . 14
UIdaho SSE2009 Jun12-17 Mentors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
UIdaho SSE UndergradDiversity 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
UIowa SexRecombination May31-Jun3 . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
UIowa SMBE 2009 AbstractDeadlineExtended . . . . 16
UIowa SMBE2009 Xchromosome Jun3-7 . . . . . . . . . . . 17
UOxford DescentOfMan Sep2-4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
UProvidence Genomics Jun8-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
USiena Evolution Dec10-13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Zurich NicheEvolution Jul3-4 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Barcelona Sequencing2009 Oct1-3 2
Dear all, just a quick reminder with updated info on the
meeting we are organizing on next generation sequenc-
ing in october Barcelona, Spain, to let you know that
only 150 places are available and 80 have been ﬁlled
already so if you are thinking of registering do so soon.
Best regards
NEXT GENERATION SEQUENCING: CHAL-
LENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES 1-3 october 2009,
Casa Convalescencia, Barcelona, Spain http://-
ngs2009.uab.es REGISTRATION IS LIMITED TO
150 PEOPLE
COMMUNICATIONS: Abstracts should be submitted
before July 2, some will be selected for oral presenta-
tion.
REGISTRATION: The cost is 300 and includes ad-
mission, abstract book, meals (noon), coﬀee breaks
and farewell cocktail on saturday. The meeting willbe held in Casa Convalescencia ( http://www.uab-
casaconvalescencia.org/ ).
INAUGURAL SPEAKER: Richard K. Wilson, Direc-
tor of the Genome Sequencing Center, Washington Uni-
versity MO, USA: Sequencing the Cancer Genome
PLENARY SPEAKERS, in alphabetical order, and
provisional title: - Michael Brudno, Canada Research
Chair in Computational Biology, ON, Canada. Discov-
ering INDEL and Copy Number genomic variation from
short reads - Carlos Bustamante, Cornell University,
NY, USA - Andrew Clark Cornell University, NY, USA.
Using short-read sequencing to dissect allele-speciﬁc ex-
pression - Frank Oliver Gloeckner, Max Planck Insti-
tute for Marine Microbiology, Germany. Binning and
phylogenetic classiﬁcation in microbial metagenomic
communities - Philip Green, University of Washington,
WA, USA. Increasing throughput and data yield for
the Illumina Genome Analyzer - Martin Groenen, Wa-
geningen Agricultural University, Holland. SNP dis-
covery and analysis of selective sweeps using massive
parallel short-read sequencing - Roderic Guig´ o, Cen-
ter for Genomic Regulation (CRG) Barcelona. Spain.
The transcriptional complexity of the human genome:May 1, 2009 EvolDir 3
Insights from Next Generation Technologies - Heinz
Himmelbauer, Center for Genomic Regulation (CRG)
Barcelona Spain. Plant genomics in the era of high-
throughput sequencing: the case of the sugar beet -
Michael Lynch, Indiana University IN, USA. Inferences
on population- genetic parameters derived from like-
lihood analysis of high-throughput sequencing data -
Gabor Marth, Boston College, MA, USA. Informat-
ics tools for next- generation sequencing analysis - Gil
McVean, Statistics Department, Oxford, UK. The 1000
Genomes Project - Douglas B. Rusch, Craig Venter In-
stitute, MD, USA. Advances in Sequencing Technol-
ogy and the Global Ocean Survey Expedition - Henk
Stunnenberg, Nijmegen Center for Molecular Life Sci-
ences, Holland. Aberrant DNA methylation in cancer:
next generation sequencers provide genome wide views
- Francisco M. De la Vega, Applied Biosystems, USA.
Understanding human genetic variation at the personal
and population level through massively-parallel whole-
genome sequencing - Wang Jun, Beijing Genomics In-
stitute at Shenzhen, China. Sequencing, sequencing
and sequencing -
INSTITUTIONAL SPONSORS Fundaci´ on Genoma
Espa˜ na: http://www.gen-es.org/ Ministerio de Cien-
cia e Innovaci´ on: http://www.micinn.org/ Uni-
versitat Aut` onoma de Barcelona: www.uab.cat
MAIN PRIVATE SPONSORS Applied Biosystems:
http://solid.appliedbiosystems.com Illumina: http://-
www.illumina.com/ Roche: http://www.roche-applied-
science.com/ REST OF SPONSORS Keygene:
http://www.keygene.com Sistemas genomicos: http:/-
/www.sistemasgenomicos.com/general eng/index.php
Miguel Perez-Enciso ICREA professor Dept. Cien-
cia Animal i dels Aliments Facultat de Veterinaria
Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona 08193 Bellaterra,
SPAIN Phone: +34 93 581 4225 Fax: +34 93
581 2106 miguel.perez@uab.es http://www.icrea.cat/-
Web/ScientiﬁcForm.aspx?key=3D255 Come to the
next generation meeting: http://ngs2009.uab.es Sebas-
tian E. Ramos-Onsins, PhD Ramon y Cajal Research
Position Consorci CSIC-IRTA-UAB (CRAG) Centre
for Research in Agricultural Genomics
Dept. Ciencia Animal i dels Aliments Oﬀ. 208 Facul-
tat de Veterinaria Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona
08193 Bellaterra, SPAIN
Phone: +34 93 581 4225 Fax: +34 93 581 2106
email: Sebastian.Ramos@uab.cat Skype: sebasramos
Join us to the Next Generation Meeting 2009 at
Barcelona http://ngs2009.uab.es sebas@ramos.netBelgium Darwinism Apr28-30
Darwinism and the Speciﬁcity of Human Nature
INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM 28-29-30 April 2009
Auditoire SOCRATE 10 Place du Cardinal Mercier 10-
12 Louvain-la-Neuve Belgium
Darwinian theory displays a continuous scientiﬁc fe-
cundity in ﬁelds such as neurobiology. The bicente-
nary of Charles Darwinˆ as birth is an occasion to as-
sess the present state of knowledge. Political and re-
ligious dimensions are involved with Darwinism. Reli-
gious groups regularly dispute the freedom of education
and research relating to the theory of evolution. The
progress of the anti-evolution lobby in Europe is a mat-
ter of concern. Is the theory of evolution incompatible
with faith in a divine dimension of creation? Why is
this theory the target of religious fundamentalists? The
aim of this colloquium is to put forward the issue of the
speciﬁcity of the human nature at the crossroad of hu-
man and religious representations. Indeed, Darwinian
theory inscribes mankind into the history of life and
addresses the questions of origins and identity from a
new point of view.
Participation is free, but registration is required. in-
formation: secretaire-teco@uclouvain.be or http://-
www.uclouvain.be/darwin.html Tuesday, April 28th
20:00 Opening conference - Chair Marc Crommelinck
Christian de Duve Emeritus professor UCL and Rock-
efeller University, New York Nobel Prize in Medicine -
1974
ˆA/lessmuch˜A lˆ a˜Ac/circlecopyrtcoute du vivant ˆA/greatermuch
Wednesday, April 29th
Morning : Darwinism : descent and avatars
Chair : Pierre-Joseph Laurent
09:00 Welcome speech Armand Spineux
09:05 Introduction Beno ˜At Bourgine
09:20 Darwinism and ideology Dominique Lecourt
10:00 Darwinism and religion : theological considera-
tions Fran ˜AEuv ˜Ac/circlecopyrt
10:40 Coﬀee
11:00 Nature, culture in building social relationships of
kinship Maurice Godelier4 EvolDir May 1, 2009
11:40 Roundtable 12:15 Lunchtime
Afternoon ˆ a“ Determinism vs. chance
Chair: Thierry Hance
14:30 Evolution, auto-organization and selection Stuart
Kauﬀman
15:10 Science and religion John Haught
15:50 Coﬀee
16:10 Roundtable with the participation of Christian
De Duve
17:30 Academic session chaired by professor Bernard
Coulie Rector of UCL Conferment of Honoris Causa
Ph.D.
By the Faculty of Medicine and the Faculty of Philo-
sophical Sciences To professor Gerald Edelman Nobel
prize in Medicine 1972
By the Faculty of Theology To professor John Haught
By the Faculty of Psychology and Sciences of Education
to professor Marc Jeannerod
by the Faculty of Sciences and Faculty of Bioengineer-
ing to professor Stuart Kauﬀman
19:00 Reception
Thursday, April 30th
Morning- Humanization
Chair : Dominique Lambert
09:00 How did the brain become human ? Philippe van
den Bosch Sanchez de Aguilar
09:40 Cognitive psychology and Darwinism
Xavier Seron and Marc Crommelinck
10:20 Coﬀee 10:40 The end of human exception
Jean-Marie Schaeﬀer
11:20 Roundtable
12:00 Lunchtime
Afternoon - Conscience
Chair : Xavier Seron
14:00 Neuronal darwinism Gerald Edelman 14:50
Sensorial and motor foundations of consciousness
Marc Jeannerod 15:30 Coﬀee 15:50 Neurosciences and
philosophical anthropology
Bernard Feltz 16:30 Roundtable
17:30 Concluding speech Andr ˜Ac/circlecopyrtW˜Ac/circlecopyrtnin
Prof. Thierry Hance Unit ˜Ac/circlecopyrtd’˜Ac/circlecopyrtcologie etde biog ˜Ac/circlecopyrtographie Centre de recherche sur la
Biodiversit ˜Ac/circlecopyrtPlace Croix du Sud, 5 1348,
Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgique T ˜Ac/circlecopyrtl.: 32 10 47 34
93 Fax: 32 10 47 34 90 Attention: changement
d’adresse mail! thierry.hance@uclouvain.be http:/-
/www.ecol.ucl.ac.be thierry.hance@uclouvain.be
thierry.hance@uclouvain.be
BrownU GenomicsEnvChange
Jun8-11
The American Genetic Association 2009 Symposium
on “The Genetics and Genomics of Environmental
Change” will be held at Brown University in Provi-
dence, Rhode Island 8-11 June 2009
Providence is widely recognized as the Venice of south-
ern New England and is very pleasant in June.
Abstract submission, registration and other details are
available at the following website:
http://www.brown.edu/Departments/EEB/aga/ The
program is open to everyone for poster presentations.
Invited Speakers include: Bill Bradshaw, University
of Oregon John Colbourne, Indiana University George
Gilchrist, College of William and Mary Elizabeth
Hadly, Stanford University Ary Hoﬀmann, University
of Melbourne/CEASAR Trudy Mackay, North Carolina
State University Margie Oleksiak, University of Miami
Outi Savolainen, University of Oulu Paul Schmidt, Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania Annie Schmitt, Brown Univer-
sity Jay Storz, University of Nevada Andrew White-
head, Louisiana State University
David M. Rand Professor of Biology Department of
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Box G-W, 80 Wa-
terman Street Brown University Providence, RI 02912
Voice: (401) 863-2890 (Oﬃce - Walter Hall 202)
(401) 863-1063 (Lab - BioMed Center 516-518) Fax:
(401) 863-2166 email: David Rand@brown.edu web
pages: http://www.brown.edu/Departments/EEB/-
rand/index.htm http://research.brown.edu/research/-
proﬁle.php?id=1100924991&r=1
Egypt DarwinLegacy Nov14-16May 1, 2009 EvolDir 5
Darwin Now
Darwin Now Conference: Darwin’s Living Legacy
Bibliotheca Alexandrina 14 - 16 November 2009
A conference organised by the British Council and the
Bibliotheca Alexandrina, Egypt
The Darwin Now Conference will take place at the Bib-
liotheca Alexandrina, Egypt from 14 - 16 November
2009. The Programme Committee invites papers from
a broad range of disciplines including: Science, History
of Science, Philosophy of Science, Social Sciences, Ed-
ucation, The Arts and Media.
The conference will be arranged around three strands:
1. Cutting Edge Evolutionary Science Current research
focusing on: Genetics; Genomics; Speciation; Origin
of Adaptation; Epigenetics; Evolutionary Microbiology;
Molecular Biology; Evolutionary Ecology; Biodiversity
2. Applications of Evolutionary Science Agriculture
and Plant Sciences; Biomedicine; Engineering; Anthro-
pology; Economic development.
3. Social and Cultural Impacts of Darwinism and
Evolution Historical debates; Reception of Darwinism
across cultures; Evolution and Education; Evolution
and Ethics; Science, Religion and Society.
We would like to encourage papers from the following
areas:
1. Evolution in the post-Genomic Era 2. Speciation
and adaptation 3. Microbiological implications for evo-
lutionary sciences 4. Issues in Biodiversity and evo-
lutionary ecology 5. Epigenetics 6. Evolution at the
molecular level 7. Evolutionary psychology 8. Agricul-
tural applications of evolution 9. Biomedical applica-
tions of evolution 10. Evolution across the disciplines
11. History and reception of Darwinism 12. Evolu-
tion and religion 13. Ethics in light of evolutionary ap-
proaches 14. Debates in Science Education 15. What
is science - evolutionary scientiﬁc method 16. Darwin-
ism in the Arts (including literature) 17. Darwin and
the Media - how should we communicate Darwinism
and evolution Proposals for individual papers should
include an abstract of no more than 250 words with
no footnotes and be comprehensible to a non-specialist
audience. Papers will be 15 - 20 minutes long. Pa-
per submissions should be accompanied by biographies
for all speakers. Poster Proposals should normally con-
sist of an abstract of no more than 250 words with no
footnotes and be comprehensible to a non-specialist au-
dience.
All prospective participants should submit:
* An abstract of no more than 250 words with no foot-notes and comprehensible to a non-specialist audience.
* Full contact details
* A short biography of no more than 250 words.
* Details of any speciﬁc audio visual requirements for
your talk
Your proposal should be sent as a single electronic doc-
ument.
In order that we can publicise the conference as ef-
fectively as possible, we will assume that in submit-
ting an abstract, each participant is granting us the
right to publish its content on the conference web-
site and elsewhere: if you do not wish your abstract
to be publicised, please advise us explicitly. Where
appropriate, we may contact you seeking further in-
formation for use in conference press releases. The
deadline for submitting a paper, session, or poster will
be 1 June 2009. The conference programme will in-
clude parallel themed sessions, plenary lectures, edu-
cation and outreach activities, and a conference din-
ner. Bursaries will be available to cover travel costs
and accommodation. There will be a separate applica-
tion procedure for bursaries once abstracts have been
accepted. However, please indicate when submitting
your abstract if you will be applying for a bursary.
We would like to encourage paper and poster proposals
from early career academics. Proposals should be sent
electronically to: BAconfDarwin@britishcouncil.org Or
by post to: Darwin’s Living Legacy Conference (Dar-
win Now) British Council Bridgewater House 58 Whit-
worth Street Manchester, M1 6BB UK Please note that
all conference participants must register for the con-
ference in order to be included in the conference pro-
gramme. Enquiries concerning this conference should
be directed to: BAconfDarwin@britishcouncil.org For
further information about the British Council Darwin
Now project, please go to: www.britishcouncil.org/-
darwin Hayley.Foulkes@britishcouncil.org
IowaCity SMBE 2009 Jun3-7
NextGenerationSeqSymposium
Dear all,
DEADLINE FOR ABSTRACT SUBMISSION TO
THE SMBE CONFERENCE IN IOWA CITY HAS
BEEN POSTPONED TO APRIL 5TH!
You are still in time to submit abstracts for posters and6 EvolDir May 1, 2009
oral presentations to the Symposium on:
“Impact of Next Generation Sequencing on the Study
of Evolution”
DESCRIPTION OF THE SYMPOSIUM: Over the
past years DNA sequencing technology has undergone
massive improvements. The introduction of the so-
called next- and next-next generation sequencing tech-
nologies has ﬁnally allowed to process millions of DNA
sequences in a massive, parallel and miniaturized fash-
ion (for reviews see Shendure J et Ji H, Nat Biotechnol,
26(10):1135-45, 2008 and Mardis ER, Annu Rev Ge-
nomics Hum Genet, 9:387-402, 2008). Not only these
methods represent technological innovations in terms
of increased throughput and reduced costs, but, more
importantly, they are dramatically changing the way of
planning experiments, opening new areas of investiga-
tion. The resulting impact on evolutionary genomics
is enormous: applications range from sequencing of an-
cient genomes to intra-population variability, from eco-
logical diversity to mutational dynamics of cancer cells.
For the innovation, the number and the variety of in-
volved areas, we propose a symposium dedicated to un-
ravel the impact of next-generation sequencing on evo-
lutionary biology. The aim of the symposium will be
twofold: from one side it will disclose the new perspec-
tives oﬀered by these approaches, while from the other
it will face the experimental and computational chal-
lenges of correctly treating the data (including potential
error sources, data handling and validation methods).
Such a symposium will be intersecting and complemen-
tary to other already accepted symposia (e.g. Mutation
accumulation in eukaryotic genomes and Population ge-
nomics, to name two), helping to expand the technolog-
ical and applicative aspects.
CONFIRMED SPEAKERS:
- Mike Snyder, Yale University - Florian Kuchenbauer,
Terry Fox Laboratory Canada
MEETING WEBSITE: http://smbe2009.org CON-
TACTS: - Francesca D. Ciccarelli, European Institute
of Oncology Milan, Italy francesca.ciccarelli@ifom-ieo-
campus.it - Anna De Grassi, European Institute of On-
cology Milan, Italy anna.degrassi@ifom-ieo-campus.it
Hope to see you in Iowa City!
–
Francesca D. Ciccarelli, PhD Biocomputing IFOM-
IEO-Campus Via Adamello, 16 20139 Milan,
Italy tel +39-02574303053 fax +39-0294375990
web: http://ciccarelli.group.ifom-ieo-campus.it/
francesca.ciccarelli@ifom-ieo-campus.itIowaU SMBE2009
EpigeneticsEnvironmentEvolution
Jun3-7
Hello all,
This is a renewed invitation for submission of abstracts
for oral and poster presentations for the symposium on
“Epigenetics, Environment, and Evolution (EEE)”
during the annual meeting of the Society for Molecu-
lar Biology and Evolution at Iowa City, IA, USA (June
3-7, 2009).
6 15-minute slots will be available for contributed talks.
Empirical studies on any system pertaining to the
theme of the symposium are particularly encouraged
for submission, so are some reviews with more theoret-
ical components.
The deadline for abstract submission for consideration
as a contributed talk has been changed to April 5th
(all abstracts received after April 5th will be posters),
but the deadline for early registration is still April 1st.
For more general information about the meeting please
go to http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/smbe/ . Again, I
would also like to invite all the other evolutionary biol-
ogists to come to this symposium during the SMBE2009
meeting, particularly if you have had enough fun in the
innumerable parties for Darwin this year and just want
some fresh air.
Looking forward to seeing you at Iowa City!
“Epigenetics, Environment, and Evolution (EEE)”
Symposium Description:
Traditionally, the molecular study of evolution has been
focused on DNA sequence variation. This is convenient,
and it is also based on the dogmatic belief that has de-
veloped since the discovery of the double-helix struc-
ture of DNA, which is, any evolutionary change must
be based on mutation at DNA sequence level. This
is a grossly simpliﬁed understanding of biology and a
rather outdated view about life. In the last decade, in-
creasingly more evidences have revealed that epigenetic
changes, i.e., modiﬁcations of nucleotides (e.g., methy-
lation of cytosine) and/or histones (acetylation, methy-
lation, etc.) without any change at DNA sequence
level, particularly under the inﬂuence of the environ-
ment, could dramatically alter important life traits and
such alteration is heritable at least to some degree. In-May 1, 2009 EvolDir 7
creasingly more evidences suggest epigenetic regulation
may have played fundamental, rather than just supple-
mental, roles in development (e.g., cell diﬀerentiation),
adaptation to environment, and diseases (like the oc-
currence of cancer). All these suggest possibly impor-
tant roles played by epigenetics and the environment
in biological evolution. A symposium about the rela-
tionship between epigenetics, environment, and evolu-
tion is due, particularly in this year of Darwin. In this
symposium, the roles played by the environment and
epigenetics in evolution will be addressed with respect
to both molecular mechanisms and theoretical implica-
tions. Speciﬁc topics would include: (1) Can epigenetic
changes alter important phenotypic traits? (2) How
can the environment aﬀect a genomes epigenetic state?
(3) Are epigenetic alterations by the environment and
subsequent phenotypic changes inheritable? (4) What
does this mean for evolutionary theory?
Organizer:
Xianfa Xie Department of Biology, Brooklyn College,
The City University of New York, Brooklyn, NY, USA
xianfaxie@brooklyn.cuny.edu
p.s. Please kindly forward this email to those who you
know might be interested in this symposium but not
on the evoldir email list (like some molecular biolo-
gists who have interests in mechanisms of evolution).
Thanks!
Xianfa Xie <xiexianfa@gmail.com >
KansasCity ArthropodGenomics
June11-14 Reducedregistration
Dear Colleagues, Print < http:/-
/www.k-state.edu/agc/symp2009/-
Update ArthropodGenomicsSymposium.pdf >this
e-mail from a PDF
In recognition of the current economic environment,
we are lowering registration to attend the 3rd Annual
Arthropod Genomics Symposium. Register by May 15,
and pay only $345 ($175 for graduate and undergradu-
ate students). Registration fees include a welcome re-
ception Thursday evening, breakfast and lunch on Fri-
day and Saturday, and breakfast on Sunday. After May
15, the registration fee is $395 ($225 for students).
Other important deadlines: *Poster Abstract Submis-
sions: Friday, May 15 *Hotel Reservations: Thursday,May 21, or until room block is ﬁlled
SYMPOSIUM WEBSITE: www.k-state.edu/agc/-
symp2009 Register at http://www.k-state.edu/-
agc/symp2009/register.html and attend Frontiers in
Arthropod Genomics June 11 - 14, 2009, Kansas City,
USA
WORKSHOPS and SEMINARS:
* Pre-symposium workshop on Chado Databases and
Integration with GMOD Tools, Scott Cain, Ontario In-
stitute for Cancer Research * Genomic Sequence Cap-
ture and Next-Gen Sequencing Seminar, sponsored by
Roche NimbleGen * BeeSpace demonstrations
POSTER SESSIONS: There will be two poster sessions.
A few platform presentations will be chosen from sub-
mitted poster abstracts. Abstract Submission Dead-
line: May 15, 2009.
SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM: The symposium sessions
will begin Thursday evening, June 11, and continue on
Friday and Saturday, with additional events on Satur-
day evening and Sunday morning. Speakers will present
new insights from genomic approaches in arthropods
and describe the development of tools for genomic anal-
ysis. Workshops will be held Thursday prior to the
Symposium and Friday evening. Activities will con-
clude by noon on Sunday, June 14.
ROUNDTABLE DISCUSSION: Sunday morning will
highlight a roundtable discussion led by members of the
ArthropodBase Consortium regarding the generation of
integrated arthropod genome databases and tools for
genome projects. Symposium attendees are invited to
join the fun as we share our progress by providing feed-
back on these projects and proposing new possibilities.
KANSAS CITY JAZZ AND BBQ: Participants are in-
vited to enjoy Kansas City’s best BBQ - Fiorella’s Jack
Stack Barbecue and the Kerry Strayer Jazz Trio on
Saturday night. The separate charge for this optional
activity is $50 ($25 for students). Transportation will
be provided.
KEYNOTE SPEAKER:
*William M. Gelbart, Harvard University,
“Opportunities & Challenges for Arthropod Genomics
and
Informatics in the NextGen World.”
FEATURED SPEAKERS:
* Volker Brendel, Iowa State University, “Opportuni-
ties and challenges for automated genome annotation
and modeling in a time of unlimited access to sequence
data”8 EvolDir May 1, 2009
* Susan J. Brown, Kansas State University, “Proﬁling
genome transcription during Tribolium development:
From egg to eternity”
* Jay D. Evans, USDA-ARS Bee Research Lab, Mary-
land, “Chasing your honey: Genomic studies of honey
bees and their pathogens”
* Marian R. Goldsmith, University of Rhode Island,
“The new silk road: From Bombyx to butterﬂies”
* David G. Heckel, Max Planck-Institute for Chemical
Ecology, Jena, Germany, “Insect defenses in chemical
co-evolution: Transcriptional responses of the gener-
alist herbivore Helicoverpa armigera to plant defense
compounds, phytohormones, and insecticides”
* Kristin Michel, Kansas State University, “Mosquito
salivary gland interactions with malaria parasites”
* Terence Murphy, National Center for Biotechnol-
ogy Information/NIH, “Arthropod genome support at
NCBI and the challenges of annotating genomes in the
21st century”
* Marcelo Ramalho-Ortigao, Kansas State University,
“Sand ﬂy functional genomics and beyond”
* Yoonseong Park, Kansas State University, “Evolu-
tionary processes of the partnership between neuropep-
tides and their receptors”
* Jos´ e Ribeiro, Laboratory of Malaria and Vector Re-
search, NIH/NIAID, “An insight into the spitome of
the blood sucking Nematocera”
* Denis Tagu, French Nat’l Inst. for Agricultural Re-
search, Rennes, France, “Using the pea aphid genome
to study phenotypic plasticity”
* Doreen Ware, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, “An-
notation and comparative analysis of plant genomes”
* Stephen K. Wikel, University of Texas Medical
Branch, Galveston, “Tick-host-pathogen research in
the post-genomic era”
VENUE: The symposium will take place at the historic
Muehlebach/Marriott Hotel in downtown Kansas City.
Participants are invited to stay Saturday night for an
optional evening of jazz and KC barbeque.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.htmlLeiden FlowerSystematics Aug10-14
Symposium: Flowers on the tree of life as part of Sys-
tematics, a conference organized by the Federation of
European Biological Systematic Societies.
Conveners: Livia Wanntorp, Louis Ronse De Craene
Location: Leiden, The Netherlands, August 10-14th,
2009.
Visit www.biosyst.eu for submission of abstracts for
posters and possibly talks.
Theme: Molecular studies during the latest decades,
today we have a much clearer idea about the phylo-
genetic relationships of the ﬂowering plants. This im-
proved phylogenetic framework oﬀers an increased op-
portunity to test phylogenetic hypotheses on the evolu-
tion of morphological characters of ﬂowers. A detailed
understanding of morphological characters provides the
basis for evo-devo studies, particularly in the recogni-
tion of homologies of structures and their transforma-
tion series. This symposium welcomes contributions on
ﬂoral ontogeny, morphology, and anatomy and their re-
lationship to phylogenetics. The importance of ﬂoral
character coding and the use of trees are highlighted.
The list of speakers is almost complete, but we encour-
age applications of preferably students for a talk or for
a poster.
Preliminary list of speakers: Dennis Stevenson, Floral
morphology and development in the age of phylogenet-
ics and genomics. Sophie Nadot. Using a supertree to
explore the evolution of androecium in palms. Dmitry
Sokoloﬀ, Patterns of diversity of polymerous gynoecia
in eudicots and monocots. Paula Rudall, A new spin
on ﬂowers? The signiﬁcance of centrifugal (basipetal)
organ formation. Richard Bateman, Flowers of an-
giosperms and non-angiosperms. Peter Endress, Flow-
ers: From alpha- to omega-morphology. Maria von
Balthazar, Early diversity of lauralean ﬂowers. Jim
Doyle, Tracing the evolutionary diversiﬁcation of the
ﬂower in basal angiosperms. Gerhard Prenner, Aca-
cia celastrifolia: an enigmatic mimosoid legume with
multiple carpels and more than 500 stamens per ﬂower.
Alexander Vrijdaghs, the homology concept and ﬂoral
ontogeny.
More info from L.ronsedecraene@rbge.ac.uk or
livia.wanntorp@nrm.se
– The Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh is a Charity
registered in Scotland (No SC007983)May 1, 2009 EvolDir 9
Louis Ronse de Craene
<L.RonsedeCraene@rbge.ac.uk >
London e-Biosphere09 June
A new Conference Update has been released for e-
Biosphere 09. It announces the extension of the dis-
counted early conference registration fee until 15 April
2009 and highlights several of the keynote speakers.
To view an online version of the Conference Update,
please click the link below.
http://ukimages.images11.com/rwcode/-
content.asp?SID=6&SiteID=9459&Sectio
n368&EmailID450112&HitID=0 <http:/-
/ukimages.images11.com/rwcode/-
content.asp?SID=6&SiteID=9459&Secti
on368&EmailID450112&HitID=0 >
David E. Schindel, Executive Secretary
Consortium for the Barcode of Life
202/633-0812; fax 202/633-2938; portable 202/557-
1149
Email: SchindelD@si.edu
<blocked::mailto:SchindelD@si.edu >
CBOL WEBSITE: http://www.barcoding.si.edu
<blocked:: http://www.barcoding.si.edu/ >
Oﬃce and overnight delivery address:
National Museum of Natural History Room CE-119
10th & Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, DC
20560 Postal mailing address National Museum of Nat-
ural History Smithsonian Institution P.O. Box 37012,
MRC-105 Washington, DC 20013-701
“Schindel, David” <schindeld@si.edu >
Marseilles 13thEBM
acceptedabstracts
Dear all,
We are pleased to inform you that the ﬁrst accepted
abstracts of the 13th Evolutionary Biology Meeting atMarseilles are now available on our website: http:/-
/sites.univ-provence.fr/evol-cgr/index.phpoption=-
com content&view=article&id=36&Itemid All the
best,
Axelle Pontarotti
Universite EGEE <Egee@univ-provence.fr >
PortlandOregon SSB 2010
CallSymposia
Society of Systematic Biologists Call for 2010 Symposia
Evolution Meeting Portland State University Port-
land,Oregon 25-29 June, 2010.
The Society of Systematic Biologists invites proposals
for symposia at the 2010 Evolution meeting to be held
in Portland, Oregon, from 25-29 June 2010. The meet-
ing will be held jointly with the American Society of
Naturalists and the Society for the Study of Evolution,
and our host is Portland State University.
Proposals should include (1) a descriptive title, (2) one
or two paragraphs explaining the purpose of the sym-
posium and its relevance to systematics, (3) a list of
presentations including proposed speakers, their insti-
tutions or aﬃliations, and their presentation titles, (4)
an indication of whether the speakers have been in-
vited and whether they have agreed to participate, and
(5) the proposed length of each talk. Symposia are re-
stricted to half-day sessions. The society is particularly
interested in symposia whose topics do not overlap with
those from previous meetings (see SSB website for past
symposia), that introduce new ideas or synthesize im-
portant concepts, or those that are particularly good
examples of the analysis of empirical data. Proposals
that unite systematics with other ﬁelds are also desir-
able. We encourage participation from young investi-
gators and others typically under-represented in sym-
posia.
Proposals will be evaluated at the SSB Council meet-
ing during the 2009 annual meeting in Moscow, Idaho.
Soon after, organizers will be notiﬁed of the status of
their proposals. Selected symposia will receive funds to
partially defer participant costs or honoraria.
Proposals should be submitted by email to the Pro-
gram Chairperson: Kelly R. Zamudio Department of
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Cornell University
Ithaca, NY 14853 Email: kelly.zamudio@cornell.edu10 EvolDir May 1, 2009
Phone: 607 254 4212
krz2@cornell.edu krz2@cornell.edu
Rennes France EvolutionaryBiol
Jun8-12
The Departments of Environmental biology and Evo-
lutionary Biology of the University of Rennes1 (UMR-
CNRS ECOBIO), are organizing an international con-
ference
“Evolutionary biology 2009: Phylogeny, speciation, co-
evolution, development, genomes, life histories, plastic-
ity& What is new?”
The conference will address major questions in evolu-
tionary biology and will be held in Rennes, Britanny,
France, from 8 June to 12 June 2009. The conference
will address a wide variety of problems, including spe-
ciation, co-evolution, evolution of sex, constraints and
Bauplan evolution, genome evolution, sexual selection,
evo-devo and reconstruction of phylogenies .
Attached are the program and the registration form
Scientiﬁc and organizing committee:
Prof Jacques van Alphen- Marie Curie Chair, UMR
ECOBIO, University of Rennes 1 and University of
Leiden Dr Joan van Baaren- University of Rennes
1 Dr Malika Ainouche- University of Rennes 1 Dr
Jean-Christophe Simon, INRA UMR BIO3P, Rennes
Dr. Manuel Plantegenest, Agrocampus Ouest, UMR
BIO3P Dr. Yannick Outreman, Agrocampus Ouest,
UMR BIO3P Dr. Marie-Agn??s Coutellec, INRA
Rennes, UMR ESE Dr. Christine Paillard, UMR CNRS
6539, Institut Europ??en de la Mer, Plouzan?? Dr
Fr??d??ric Jean, MC, UMR CNRS 6539, Institut Eu-
rop??en de la Mer, Plouzan?? Prof Yves-Marie Paulet,
UMR CNRS 6539, Institut Europ??en de la Mer,
Plouzan?? Prof Jean Laroche, UMR CNRS 6539, Insti-
tut Europ??en de la Mer, Plouzan?? Dr Val??rie Stiger,
LEBHAM, Institut Europ??en de la Mer, Plouzan??
M. L. AINOUCHE Evolution des Genomes et Speci-
ation, Equipe MOB (Mecanismes ?? l’Origine de la
Biodiversite) UMR CNRS 6553 Ecobio, Universite de
Rennes 1 - CAREN Campus Scientiﬁque de Beaulieu,
Bat. 14A 35 042 Rennes Cedex France Ph. 33 (0)2 23
23 51 11 Fax 33 (0)2 23 23 50 47
Malika Ainouche <Malika.Ainouche@univ-rennes1.fr >Richmond SystemsBiol Jun16-19
Abstract submission deadline: May 7, 2009
SUMMIT ON SYSTEMS BIOLOGY 2009: The Micro-
bial World and Beyond June 16-19, 2009
The Third Annual Summit on Systems Biology will be
held on June 16-19, 2009, in historic Richmond, Vir-
ginia located two hours south of Washington, DC. The
Summit is comprised of ﬁve scientiﬁc sessions and two
workshops to bring together computational and experi-
mental scientists in the area of microbial systems. The
third summit will discuss research directions and lat-
est ﬁndings in the “omics” domain, as well as promote
collaborations in microbial systems biology and related
disciplines. Dr. Leroy Hood, Director of the Institute
for Systems Biology, and Dr. Stuart Kauﬀman, of the
University of Calgary, and a recipient of the MacArthur
Foundation Award, and Albert-L´ aszl´ o Barab´ asi, Di-
rector, Center for Complex Network Research, North-
eastern University, all pioneers in Systems Biology, are
members of the Summit Steering Committee.
The ﬁve scientiﬁc sessions are:
- Microbial Engineering - Metagenomics and Microbial
Ecology - Host-Pathogen Interaction - Human Micro-
biome - Technological Advances in Systems Biology
The two workshops are:
- Tree of Life and Microbial Systems Biology - Gene
Networks and Diseases
Program Design The three day program is divided into
ﬁve (5) main sessions and two (2) workshops. The
workshops will be held on the day preceding the for-
mal opening of the conference. Web will also host two
poster sessions, one for students and one for more senior
researchers. There will be a New Technology Workshop
as a pre-conference event, in concert with the student
poster session on Tuesday evening, June 16. Instru-
ment manufacturers will provide presentations and vir-
tual demonstrations on the latest technology and ap-
plications.
Technical Symposia
Session I: Microbial Engineering The ﬁrst session pro-
vides a broad overview of synthetic biology, systems bi-
ology and biological engineering and their applications
to health, clean and renewable energy, and the envi-
ronment. Speciﬁc topics include synthetic gene net-May 1, 2009 EvolDir 11
works and the biosynthetic capacity of microbial sys-
tems. This session brings together a diverse group of
participants from a variety of disciplines.
Session II: Metagenomics and Microbial Ecology The
second session of the summit highlights the latest de-
velopments in our understanding of the emergence and
evolution of pathogenic and non-pathogenic microbes
with a particular emphasis on insights gained through
genomic analyses of microbial communities.
Session III: Host-Pathogen Interactions The third ses-
sion focuses on how innovative approaches and high-
throughput techniques are used to study the com-
plex interactions between bacterial pathogens and their
eukaryotic hosts. Participants studying a range of
pathogens using various host systems come together to
discuss integrated systems approaches.
Session IV: Human Microbiome The fourth session pro-
vides the opportunity to discuss the latest advances in
sequencing the human microbiome. The session under-
lines the importance of the metabolic function of micro-
biota and the role of symbiosis in health and disease.
Session V: Technological Advances in Systems Biology
The ﬁnal session focuses on how emerging technologies
are driving advances in metagenomics, transcriptomics,
proteomics and metabolomics at the microbial commu-
nity level. The session features cutting-edge research on
quantitative mass spectrometry and the latest advances
in DNA sequencing.
Interactive Workshops
New Technology Workshop This event will involve pre-
sentations on the latest technology and applications by
instrument manufacturers and active researchers on the
opening evening of the conference, and will be held con-
currently with the student poster session and reception.
Workshop I: Gene networks and disease The past
decade has witnessed an exponential growth of bio-
logical data including genomic sequences, gene annota-
tions, expression and regulation, and protein-protein in-
teractions. We will include discussions on the relation-
ship between oral pathogens and cardiovascular disease,
with special interest in the virulence of Streptococcus
sanguinis. This workshop focuses on the reconstruction
and analysis of gene networks and pathways of human
pathogens and their application to disease.
Workshop II: Assembling the Microbial Tree of Life
During the 21st century, the advances on microbial sys-
tems biology will be closely tied to phylogenomics ap-
proaches to unravel the evolutionary relationships of
the microbial world. By involving an interdisciplinary
group of scientists and students from outside the treeof life community, including mathematicians, statisti-
cians, clinicians, computer scientists, chemists, physi-
cists, and engineers, the workshop will
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Rome Darwin2009 Emotions
Apr27-29
In the occasion of the 200th anniversary of the birth
of Charles Darwin and the 150th anniversary of the
publication of his most important work, The origin of
species, the Istituto Italiano di Antropologia in collab-
oration with the Universit` a di Roma La Sapienza, or-
ganizes the Congress
Darwin 2009: emotions from an evolutionary perspec-
tive.
Our aim is to highlight the importance of the evolu-
tionary processes of emotions and expressions, both for
hominization (our yesterday) and communication (to-
day). This issue is perfectly in line with the consider-
able development of neurosciences and connected areas
in recent times (e.g. ethical and bio-ethical aspects) and
which will continue to be the centre of attention also
in the future. In order to reach this objective, various
approaches and scientiﬁc theories (anthropological, bi-
ological, psychological and philosophical among others)
will be presented, in order to encourage a synthetic and
interdisciplinary vision. The Congress aims to involve
not only researchers and university students, and the
general academic world, but also the general public in
the diﬀusion and sharing of knowledge.
The speakers list includes:
Bernardino Fantini (President of the Istituto Italiano
di Antropologia, Universit´ e de Gen` eve), Randolph M.
Nesse (University of Michigan), Telmo Pievani (Univer-
sit` a di Milano Bicocca), Alexander Rosenberg (Duke
University), Michael Ruse (Florida State University),
Klaus Scherrer (Universit´ e de Gen` eve), Elliot Sober
(University of Wisconsin).
The Congress Darwin 2009: emotions from an evolu-
tionary perspective will take place on:
27 April Aula Magna, University of Roma La Sapienza12 EvolDir May 1, 2009
28 and 29 April Aula Gini, Faculty of Statistics of the
University of Roma La Sapienza.
Attendance to the Congress is completely free. A
certiﬁcate of attendance may be required during the
Congress.
Please refer to our web site http://www.isita-org.com/-
Darwin2009/index.htm for further information and to
infodarwin2009@isita-org.com for any queries.
“darwin2009@isita-org.com” <darwin2009@isita-
org.com >
SanDiego ASM
EvolutionaryMicrobiol May2010
*CALL FOR **SYMPOSIA* *PROPOSALS Ameri-
can Society for Microbiology Division R, Evolutionary
& Genomic Microbiology 2010 General Meeting San
Diego, CA May 23-27, 2010*
*ASM **Division R, Evolutionary and Genomic Micro-
biology*, is now soliciting suggestions for symposia to
be presented at the 2010 ASM General Meeting to be
held in San Diego in May, 2010.
To propose a symposium that represents a theme of
broad interest within Division R, please provide the fol-
lowing:
1. A title for the session. 2. Convenor(s) 3. A descrip-
tion of the session in paragraph format. 4. Speakers
with aﬃliations, titles and topics for the session. List
ﬁve potential speakers and one or two alternative speak-
ers. 5. Similar sessions in prior years if appropriate.
You may submit your ideas though the follow-
ing link: http://gm.asm.org/index.php?option=-
com content&task=view&id=164&Itemid=162 <
http://mail.asmusa.org/t/585316/45181548/2933/0/
>.
There is a link on this page so you can check if can-
didate speakers have presented at a recent symposium.
Although past speakers are not barred, the policy of Di-
vision R is to encourage alternative speakers where pos-
sible. In the interest of promoting the next generation
of leaders in our ﬁeld, organizers are also encouraged to
include promising junior faculty in their program.
Note that this is a call for proposals only. Travel ar-
rangements should NOT be made with potential speak-
ers until you are notiﬁed that the proposal has beenaccepted by the ASM General Meeting Planning Com-
mittee. Proposals will be reviewed by divisional oﬃcers
at the 2009 ASM General Meeting in Philadelphia; their
recommendations will then be forwarded to the Plan-
ning Committee for ﬁnal approval.
Proposals must be submitted by *May 11, 2009.*
Thanks very much. Sincerely, David Guttman
David S. Guttman Chair, ASM Division R, Evolution-
ary & Genomic Microbiology Professor Canada Re-
search Chair in Comparative Genomics Director, Cen-
tre for the Analysis of Genome Evolution & Function
Department of Cell & Systems Biology Department of
Ecology & Evolutionary Biology University of Toronto
dsgutt@gmail.com
SantFeliu Spain DarwinEvolution
Sep15-20
The European Science Foundation (ESF <http://-
www.esf.org/ >), in partnership with COST Euro-
pean Cooperation in Science and Technology <http:/-
/www.cost.esf.org/ >:
COMPLEX SYSTEMS AND CHANGES: DARWIN
AND EVOLUTION - NATURE-CULTURE INTER-
FACE Hotel Eden Roc, Sant Feliu de Guixols, Spain
15-20 September 2009 Chaired by: Roland Pochet -
Universit ˜Ac/circlecopyrtLibre de Bruxelles, BE & Alain Peyraube
- CNRS/EHESS, FR
Our closing date for application is the 3rd of July, 2009.
This conference is part of the 2009 ESF Re-
search Conferences Programme and is accessible on-
line from www.esf.org/conferences/09309 <http://-
www.esf.org/conferences/09309 >.
Kind regards, Corinne Wininger Communications Oﬃ-
cer - ESF Conferences
Please note that I am not in the Oﬃce on Wednesdays
European Science Foundation - Communi-
cations Unit 1 quai Lezay-Marn ˜Ac/circlecopyrtsia, BP
90015 67080 Strasbourg Cedex, France Phone:
+33 (0)388 76 21 50 Fax: +33 (0)388 76 71
80 clemoal@esf.org <mailto:clemoal@esf.org >
www.esf.org/conferences < http://www.esf.org/-
conferences >
Corinne Wininger - Le Moal <clemoal@esf.org >May 1, 2009 EvolDir 13
Sheﬃeld ComparativeGenomics
Jul15-17
The Royal Entomological Society’s Annual Meeting,
Entomology09, includes a session on Comparative Ge-
nomics chaired by Casey Bergman (Manchester) with
Jack Werren (Rochester) as invited speaker.
Abstracts for oral presentations or posters can be sub-
mitted at http://www.royensoc.co.uk/meetings.shtml,
deadline 20 April.
Further details of the meeting are available via the web
link. Evolutionary biologists will be particularly inter-
ested in the evening talk by Naomi Pierce (Harvard)
and sessions on Chemical Ecology, Predation, Range
Expansion and Insect Immunity.
Support for student attendance is available.
r.k.butlin@sheﬃeld.ac.uk r.k.butlin@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
UChicago DarwinAnniversary
Oct29-31
The University of Chicago Celebrates the Darwin An-
niversaries, October 29-31, 2009
Distinguished biologists, historians, and philosophers
will gather in fall of next academic year to celebrate the
Darwin anniversaries at University of Chicago. For the
schedule of speakers and registration, please go to: <
http://darwin-chicago.uchicago.edu .>http://darwin-
chicago.uchicago.edu.
Jerry Coyne <j-coyne@uchicago.edu >
UConnecticut
SequencingNonModelOrganisms
Jun11-13
A conference and workshop at the University of Con-
necticut in Storrs to introduce participants to applica-tions and strategies in the next generation of genome
analysis in non-model organisms
Conference: June 11-13, 2009
Workshop*: June 14-15, 2009
*Limited space in the hands-on workshop is reserved for
graduate students and post-doctoral trainees, by appli-
cation and invitation only. Students and post-doctoral
trainees do not have to attend the workshop and may
register to attend the conference only.
Funds have been made available from the American
Genetic Association to support attendance by grad-
uate students and post-doctoral trainees. To learn
more and to apply for AGA support, please contact:
elaine.mirkin@uconn.edu
To learn more about the Conference program and
to register, please visit the conference website
at: http://www.regonline.com/Nextgeneration aga-
joh@oregonstate.edu
UIdaho SEE2009 Jun12-17
DeadlineExtended
The published deadline for talk/poster presentations at
the upcoming Evolution meetings in June at U of Idaho
(http:// evolutionmeetings09.org) is April 5. As sev-
eral people have indicated that they need more time,
we have decided to extend the deadline to April 17.
On behalf of the organizing committee, I thank you for
registering promptly, as it makes all the diﬀerence is
assembling the meeting schedule.
Olle Pellmyr Program chair, Evolution 2009
pellmyr@uidaho.edu pellmyr@uidaho.edu
UIdaho SSE2009 Deadline
Just a reminder that today is the deadline for submis-
sion of poster and talk titles for Evolution 2009, in
Moscow, Idaho
On-line registration for the meetings will remain open
to the day of the meetings, and walk-ins will be ac-
cepted.14 EvolDir May 1, 2009
For more info, see http://evolutionmeetings09.org Olle
Pellmyr Program chair, Evolution 2009
pellmyr@uidaho.edu pellmyr@uidaho.edu
UIdaho SSE2009 Jun12-17
LateSubmissions
Evolution 2009 at University of Idaho is only a few
weeks away, and regular submission of contributed talks
and posters is now closed. Quite a few people missed
the deadline, and for that reason we have arranged to
reopen the registration for late submissions.
There is one change, in that we cannot promise that
you will end up in the optimal session. All submissions
received by the original deadline will have been sorted
into sessions by topic. If there are still empty slots
within an appropriate session, we will insert them. If
not, we will compile talks into a session called “Late
Breaking Evolution”.
To register, go the meeting website at http://-
www.uiweb.uidaho.edu/ evolution09/ and choose Reg-
istration on the menu.
Dr. Olle Pellmyr Program chair
Dept of Biological Sciences University of Idaho P.O.
Box 443051 Moscow, ID 83844-3051 USA
phone 208.885.6807 (oﬀ) 885.8860 (lab) http://-
www.sci.uidaho.edu/biosci/faculty/pellmyr.html
pellmyr@uidaho.edu pellmyr@uidaho.edu
UIdaho SSE2009 Jun12-17 Mentors
UNDERGRADUATE DIVERSITY AT SSE/SSB,
CALL FOR MENTORS
Approximately 15 undergraduates will be participating
in the NSF- and NESCent-supported Undergraduate
Diversity at SSE/SSB program at Evolution 2009 in
Moscow, ID. This program, which brings students to
the annual Evolution meeting, has been running con-
tinuously since 2003.
An important component of the program is the mentor-
ing that students receive from graduate students, post-
docs and faculty. Duties will include meeting a pairof undergraduates in the program, attending and de-
mystifying a day of talks with them, joining them for
a meal, introducing them to colleagues, and in general
befriending them in ways that show that evolutionary
biology is a welcoming discipline. Based on surveys of
participants, it is clear that they prefer to meet their
mentors early in the meeting; therefore, mentors will
be expected to meet their mentees at the opening re-
ception. No costs for travel, housing or registration are
covered.
If you are interested in serving as a mentor, please send
an email to Rich Kliman (rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu),
Scott Edwards (sedwards@fas.harvard.edu), or Jory
Weintraub (jory@nescent.org). Please also indicate
your broad ﬁeld of interest, and we will do our best to
pair you with students with overlapping interests. And
please help spread the word about this very rewarding
activity.
Best regards, Rich Kliman
Rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu Rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu
UIdaho SSE UndergradDiversity 2
APPLICATION DEADLINE EXTENDED!
There are a few travel awards still available for the SSE
Undergraduate Diversity Program, so the application
deadline has been extended to 5 PM PST on Tues-
day, April 7th. Travel awards cover all expenses, in-
cluding airfare/transportation, lodging, food and con-
ference registration. This is a great opportunity for
undergraduates to attend and present their research at
a national conference, so please forward this to any col-
leagues or students who might be interested.
Undergraduate Diversity at SSE/SSB 2009
For the seventh consecutive year, the Undergraduate
Diversity at SSE/SSB program, funded by the Under-
graduate Research and Mentoring in the Biological Sci-
ences (URM) program at NSF, will take place at the
2009 meeting of the Society for the Study of Evolution
(SSE) and the Society of Systematic Biologists (SSB)
in Moscow, ID. This year we have teamed up with staﬀ
at the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NES-
Cent) to send up to 25 undergraduates to the meetings
to present posters and receive mentoring from graduate
students, postdocs and faculty in evolutionary biology.
For full information and links to the application portal
see:May 1, 2009 EvolDir 15
http://www.oeb.harvard.edu/faculty/edwards/-
community/application.html
The deadline for applications this year is April 1, 2009.
However, proposals will be reviewed and accepted on
a rolling basis, SO IT IS ADVANTAGEOUS TO AP-
PLY EARLY. Applications can be made online through
a special portal at the National Evolutionary Synthe-
sis Center (NESCent) http://www.nescent.org/eog/-
signup evolution09diversity.php . Applications consist
of a title, author line and abstract of the poster to be
presented by the undergraduate; a one-page statement
of academic interests and career goals; and a letter of
recommendation. The personal statement should ad-
dress how attending the Evolution meetings will help
meet these goals, and should indicate whether or not
the student plans to attend graduate school, if this is
known. The letter of recommendation, ideally from the
undergraduate’s research advisor, should indicate how
inclusion of the student will increase diversity of the
group participants. All materials required for applica-
tion can be found at the NESCent application portal.
Details on selection criteria are available at the program
headquarters at:
http://www.oeb.harvard.edu/faculty/edwards/-
community/application.html
We can only accept applications from students who are
US citizens or permanent residents. Applications will
be accepted only from students registered or very re-
cently graduated from U.S. institutions, including
Puerto Rico (i.e., no later than having ﬁnished classes
during the winter or spring semesters before the meet-
ing) and traveling to the meeting from within the US.
Students demonstrating a need for funds to attend
SSE/SSB will be given preference, and will be selected
so that as a group, they will maximize cultural diversity
among undergraduates at the meetings.
You can also contact one of the program organizers for
more information:
Scott V. Edwards (sedwards@fas.harvard.edu) Richard
Kliman (rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu)
at NESCent:
Jory Weintraub (jory@nescent.org)
UIowa SexRecombination
May31-Jun3UPDATE:
The deadline for abstract consideration for contributed
talks has been extended to Monday April 20th, with
decisions to be announced on the following week. All
attendees who are not selected for a contributed talk
will be automatically slated to present their work as a
poster. Please note that registration fees need to be
paid by April 24th to be considered for a contributed
talk and/or travel award.
The above information may not be immediately re-
ﬂected on the website.
“EVOLUTION OF SEX & RECOMBINATION: IN
THEORY & IN PRACTICE”
May 31 - June 3, 2009 at the University of Iowa, Iowa
City, USA
http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/sexrec The Roy J.
Carver Center for Comparative Genomics and the De-
partment of Biology at the University of Iowa announce
an international conference on the evolution of sex &
recombination taking place May 31 - June 3, 2009. The
meeting will start on the evening of Sunday, May 31st
with a reception and keynote talk (Graham Bell) and
will conclude at ~1:00 pm on Wednesday, June 3rd.
This conference will immediately precede the 2009 Soci-
ety for Molecular Biology and Evolution annual meet-
ing (SMBE 2009: http://smbe2009.org ), also located
in Iowa City, on June 3-7, 2009. In order to integrate
both meetings, an “overlap day” (June 3rd) will feature
topics of clear interest to both sets of attendees.
The Sex & Recombination meeting was previously
scheduled and fully organized for June 16-19, 2008, but
was suddenly cancelled due to severe ﬂooding in Iowa
City. The organizers are pleased to note that a majority
of the previously-scheduled attendees have committed
to attend this meeting on the rescheduled dates.
Talks will be given by invited speakers at both the ju-
nior and senior level. There will also be some opportu-
nities for contributed talks and posters to be given by
conference attendees at all levels of seniority. A number
of travel awards will be provided to deserving students
and postdocs.
Topics will include: Advantages of sexual reproduction
Experimental evolution of sex Estimating recombina-
tion rates Mating types & sex determination Linkage,
selection & population size Sex chromosomes Sex &
pathogenesis Sexual selection Sexual conﬂict
Sponsorship for this meeting includes generous support
from the American Genetic Association, but we encour-
age additional sponsorship inquiries. A symposium is-
sue to be published in Journal of Heredity is planned.16 EvolDir May 1, 2009
Check the website for up-to-date information on con-
ﬁrmed speakers, details regarding registration, accom-
modation, etc.
Registration is $200 for grad students and postdocs and
$300 for faculty. Registration includes the closing ban-
quet (and keynote: Michael Lynch) to be held on the
evening of June 2nd.
All enquiries are encouraged and should be directed to
the organizers: sexrec@uiowa.edu.
Facebook users: Join our oﬃcial meeting group.
On behalf of the organizing committee,
John Logsdon – Associate Professor Director, Roy J.
Carver Center for Comparative Genomics University
of Iowa Department of Biology 319 335 1082 oﬃce 310
Biology Building 319 335 1083 lab Iowa City, IA 52242-
1324 319 335 1069 FAX
email <john-logsdon@uiowa.edu > web <
http://www.biology.uiowa.edu/ccg/ ><http:/-
/www.biology.uiowa.edu/ccg/ > < http:/-
/euplotes.biology.uiowa.edu ><http://-
euplotes.biology.uiowa.edu >
john-logsdon@uiowa.edu john-logsdon@uiowa.edu
UIowa SMBE 2009
AbstractDeadlineExtended
Another SMBE 2009 Deadline Extended!
We are extending the abstract submission deadline
for contributed talks for four additional days (to
April 5, 2009). All abstracts received by April
5th can be considered for contributed talks in both
symposia-related and general-topic sessions. However,
the April 1st deadline for early registration fees re-
mains in place (see: http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/-
smbe/registration fees.php ).
The registration and abstract submission process for
SMBE 2009 is a two-step procedure (see: http://-
ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/smbe/subform.php ). Thus, you
are welcome to register and pay for the meeting prior
to submitting your abstract. All contributed abstracts
received after April 5th will be automatically assigned
to posters.
A few notes:
1. When submitting an abstract, please select the
most appropriate symposium or general session foryour work, as well as a second choice. See http:/-
/ccg.biology.uiowa.edu/smbe/symposia.php for up-to-
date summaries of the SMBE 2009 symposia, includ-
ing conﬁrmed speakers. 2. If your work does not ﬁt
neatly into one of the symposia or general sessions,
please apply for a contributed talk anyway. Selected
talks will represent a wide diversity of topics. 3. A least
three general (non-symposium-associated) contributed
sessions will be held. However, depending on demand
and available space, a few additional general sessions
may be added to the program. 4. Some symposium-
associated contributed sessions, if under- subscribed,
will include talks on general topics. 5. We will consider
adding a few additional topical sessions, as needed (e.g.,
transposable element evolution).
The above information may not be immediately re-
ﬂected on the website.
General information on the meeting follows:
**SMBE 2009, Iowa City** “Darwin to the Next Gen-
eration ”
The 17th annual meeting of the Society for Molecular
Biology and Evolution-SMBE 2009-will be held in Iowa
City June 3-7, 2009, on the campus of The University
of Iowa.
Visit our meeting website ( http://smbe2009.org ) for
the most current information.
The SMBE 2009 scientiﬁc program will include 4 ple-
nary talks and 23 symposia. The program will feature
~215 talks; more than half will be contributed talks se-
lected on a competitive basis from submitted abstracts.
We anticipate that 300-400 poster contributions will be
highlighted in two evening poster sessions.
SYMPOSIA (see website for detailed descriptions and
conﬁrmed speakers):
* Biological networks from genes to populations * Epi-
genetics, environment & evolution * Evolution of net-
works * Genome evolution after polyploidy * Genomics
of speciation & recent divergences * Historical roots of
molecular evolution * Impacts of next generation se-
quencing on evolution * Insect evolutionary genomics
* Molecular arms races * Molecular basis of specia-
tion * Molecular evolution of biological complexity *
Molecular evolution of functional noncoding sequences
* Molecular evolution of plant:biotic interactions * Mu-
tation accumulation in eukaryotic genomes * Origin &
evolution of animal genomes * Population genomics:
selection, demography & mutation * Population ge-
nomics: theory, computation & adaptation * Primate
functional & comparative genomics * Reproductive pro-
tein function & evolution * Sex-speciﬁc demography us-May 1, 2009 EvolDir 17
ing the X * Teaching molecular evolution * Types of
molecular evolution * Vanishing genomes
On behalf of the organizers, we’ll see you soon in Iowa
City! John
–
John M. Logsdon, Jr., Ph.D. Associate Professor Direc-
tor, Roy J. Carver Center for Comparative Genomics
University of Iowa Department of Biology 319 335 1082
oﬃce 310 Biology Building 319 335 1083 lab Iowa City,
IA 52242-1324 319 335 1069 FAX
email <john-logsdon@uiowa.edu >web<http://-
ccg.biology.uiowa.edu ><http://ccg.biology.uiowa.edu
> < http://euplotes.biology.uiowa.edu ><http://-
euplotes.biology.uiowa.edu >
john-logsdon@uiowa.edu john-logsdon@uiowa.edu
UIowa SMBE2009 Xchromosome
Jun3-7
This is an renewed invitation to participate in a sympo-
sium on the X chromosome at SMBE 2009 (Iowa City
June 3-7):
“The X factor: analyses of sex-speciﬁc demography us-
ing the X chromosome”
We welcome talks about any research on the X chro-
mosome, or research that compares how the X and the
autosomes are diﬀerentially aﬀected by natural selec-
tion, demographic history, or other population genetic
factors.
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: In species with het-
erogametic males, the relative patterns of genetic varia-
tion on the X chromosome and the autosomes can reveal
the signatures of sex-speciﬁc evolutionary processes re-
lated to demography and selection. With the contin-
ued development of DNA-sequencing technology, the
X chromosome has become an increasingly important
data source in population genetics. The X chromosome
is particularly interesting to study because it possesses
both independent markers (as compared to the nonre-
combining Y chromosome and mitochondrial genome)
and accessible haplotypes (as compared to the auto-
somes). Due to its method of inheritance and the preva-
lence of processes like polygyny, diﬀerent generation
time in females compared to males, bottlenecks, back-
ground selection, and hitchhiking in the histories of dif-
ferent species, making inferences from X-chromosomaldata requires detailed modeling and careful data anal-
ysis. In the last few years, the number of papers us-
ing X chromosomal sequence data to study sex-speciﬁc
demographic genomic signatures has vastly increased,
making this year a timely one to hold a symposium on
this topic. This symposium will provide a centralized
venue to discuss results and future directions of inquiry
to allow us to leverage X-chromosomal data and better
understand diﬀerences in the evolutionary histories of
male and female organisms.
Invited speakers include Nadia Singh, Molecular Biol-
ogy and Genetics, Cornell University; and Jeﬀ Wall,
Institute for Human Genetics, University of California,
San Francisco.
There will be six 15 min slots available for contributed
talks. The deadline for abstract submission for con-
tributed talks is April 5th. Poster presentations are
also welcome!
Visit the meeting website ( http://smbe2009.org ) for
further information about the conference.
Looking forward!
Sohini Ramachandran Organismic and Evolutionary
Biology Harvard University
Jeﬀ Wall Institute for Human Genetics University of
California, San Francisco
Sohini Ramachandran <sramach@fas.harvard.edu >
UOxford DescentOfMan Sep2-4
The Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour:
Summer Conference
The Descent of Man and Selection in Relation to Sex
2-4 September 2009
St. John’s College, University of Oxford, UK
http://www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/events/asab09/ Celebrating
Darwin’s theory of sexual selection on the bicentenary
of his birth
The scope of this summer conference is to celebrate the
bicentenary of Darwin’s birth, by promoting discussion
on sexual selection in humans and other organisms. The
conference will do this in two ways.
First, we will cover major recent developments in this
rapidly-growing ﬁeld by hosting a combination of ple-
naries from leaders in the ﬁeld and research talks pre-18 EvolDir May 1, 2009
senting novel work.
Second, we will celebrate the cultural revolution catal-
ysed by Darwinian theory with a special event at the
Oxford University Natural History Museum. This mu-
seum witnessed the very ﬁrst debate on Darwinian the-
ory in which Huxley and Wilberforce famously crossed
swords and represents an ideal venue to consider Dar-
win’s legacies 200 years from his birth.
Plenary speakers include: - Suzanne Alonzo (Yale Uni-
versity) Mating systems and reproductive strategies -
Clive Catchpole (Royal Holloway, University of Lon-
don) Sexual selection and bird song - Dave Hosken
(University of Exeter) Sexual selection and sexual con-
ﬂict - Geoﬀrey Miller (University of New Mexico) Sex-
ual selection in humans - Tristram Wyatt (University
of Oxford) Sexual selection and pheromones
Special Event at the Oxford University Natural History
Museum “A Modern Darwinian Debate” - Pat Mon-
aghan (University of Glasgow) - Tim Birkhead (Uni-
versity of Sheﬃeld)
Conference format: - 8 speaker sessions - 1 poster ses-
sion - Special event at the Oxford University Natural
History Museum - Conference banquet
Key dates - Deadline for abstract submission- 19 July
2009 - Deadline for full registration o Early birds: 15
March - 31 May 2009 o Late registrations: 1 June - 17
August 2009 - Conference dates - 2nd-4th September
2009.
Organisers: Tom Pizzari, Claire Harvey & Tobias Uller
– Dr Tobias Uller Edward Grey Institute, Department
of Zoology University of Oxford, OX1 3PS Tel: (+44)
01865 281194
tobias.uller@zoo.ox.ac.uk tobias.uller@zoo.ox.ac.uk
UProvidence Genomics Jun8-11
The American Genetic Association Symposium on the
Genetics and Genomics of Environmental Change is
fast approaching.
The dates are 8-11 June 2009, at Brown university in
Providence, Rhode Island.
Details can be found on the web site:
http://www.brown.edu/Departments/EEB/aga/ Ap-
plication deadline for Student travel grants has passed,
but registration for the meeting and poster Abstractsubmission will remain open for the next two weeks.
See you in Providence
David Rand
David Rand@brown.edu David Rand@brown.edu
USiena Evolution Dec10-13
Dear all, please check the following congress:
EVOLUTION: INTERSECTING NATURAL AND
SOCIAL SCIENCES
web: http://www.darwin.unisi.it e-mail: dar-
win@unisi.it
an International Congress organized by the Santa
Chiara Graduate School and Pro.M Chair in Bioeco-
nomics of the University of Siena.
The Congress will be held on 10-13 December 2009 in
Siena (Italy), and will focus on three major themes at
the intersection between organic evolution and social
sciences:
- Bioeconomics and evolutionary mechanisms in social
and natural sciences - Behavioural evolution and com-
parative studies of animal societies - Human nature and
human culture: crossroads of evolution
In the context of Darwin bicentenary celebrations, we
wish to approach his groundbreaking works trying to
investigate the relationships between natural evolution
and human social systems, and their possible implica-
tions for society. Both methodological and data driven
presentations are welcome. The congress will include
multiple sessions, invited lectures by leading researchers
in each ﬁeld and oral presentations by participants.
Invited speakers: Edoardo Boncinelli, University Vita-
Salute and Santa Chiara Graduate School; Samuel
Bowles, University of Siena and Santa Fe Institute;
Luigi Luca Cavalli-Sforza, Stanford University; Michael
T. Ghiselin, California Academy of Sciences and Santa
Chiara Chair in Bioeconomics.
Scientiﬁc Committee: Samuel Bowles, Santa Fe Insti-
tute and University of Siena; Francesco Frati, Univer-
sity of Siena; Michael Ghiselin, California Academy
of Science and Santa Chiara Chair in Bioeconomics;
Janet Landa, York University; Ugo Pagano, University
of Siena; Robert Rowthorn, University of Cambridge
and Santa Chiara Chair in Bioeconomics; Lucia Sarti,
University of Siena.May 1, 2009 EvolDir 19
Additional information, session schedule and a prelim-
inary program can be found on the Congress website,
or you can e-mail us for any inquiry or to be entered in
the Congress’ mailing list.
Please forward this announcement to whoever might be
interested or through your favourite mailing lists.
Francesco Nardi, Dr.
Dept. of Evolutionary Biology University of Siena
Master in Bioinformatics University of Siena
via Aldo Moro 2 - 53100 Siena Italy
Ph.: +39.0577.234420 (lab. 4398) Fax.:
+39.0577.234476 E-mail: nardifra@unisi.it
Zurich NicheEvolution Jul3-4 2
SECOND CONFERENCE ANNOUNCEMENT,
“NICHE EVOLUTION” Reply-To: “Peter B.
Pearman” <pearman@wsl.ch >Resent-Message-Id:
<200904140928.n3E9SC1I006231@Dura7.UTS.McMaster.CA >
Resent-Date: Tue, 14 Apr 2009 05:28:12 -0400 User-
Agent: Thunderbird 2.0.0.21 (Macintosh/20090302)
*SECOND CONFERENCE ANNOUNCEMENT*
NICHE EVOLUTION - A unifying concept for system-
atics, ecology, palaeontology and conservation biology
3-4 July, 2009. Excursion on 5 July. Zurich, Switzer-
land
www.systbot.uzh.ch/niche < http://-
www.systbot.uzh.ch/niche >
MOTIVATION Evolution of ecological niches, in their
various guises, has become a central theme in several re-
search ﬁelds of biology. We argue that niches, how they
evolve, and the consequences of their evolution, aﬀect
a wide range of disciplines in organismal and evolution-
ary biology, and as such could be seen as a unifying
thread.
In this meeting we will explore the interdisciplinary im-
pact of evolving niches, and so bring together system-
atists, invasion biologists, biodiversity specialists, ecol-
ogists, and palaeontologists. We want to explore the
commonality of evolving niches. The focus is more on
concepts than methods (although, of course, the meth-ods used will impact massively on the concepts). The
emphasis is more on how to understand the evolution of
a niche, rather than the deﬁnition of the niche. There
will be some talks on the basics of niches to set the
stage for the topics of niche evolution. The idea is to
bring people together working in this ﬁeld and to pro-
vide a forum to discuss developments, prospects and
needs with various users and specialists. Therefore, the
program is structured to provide ample time for discus-
sions between and after the sessions.
PLACE The meeting will take place at the Institute
of Systematic Botany of the University of Zurich, situ-
ated in the botanical garden of the University of Zurich,
within easy reach of public transport.
TALKS Only invited talks will be given, and contribu-
tions as posters are welcome. There will be an evening
poster session.
Invited speakers include William Bond, Jeannine
Cavender-Bares, Alastair Culham, Catherine Graham,
Antoine Guisan, Sabine Jakob, Jennifer Lau, Peter Lin-
der, Signe Normand, Peter Pearman, Townsend Peter-
son, Bob Ricklefs, Nicolas Salamin, Walter Salzburger,
Harald Schneider, Jonathan Silvertown, Wilfried Thuil-
lier and Niklaus Zimmermann.
POST-CONFERENCE ONE-DAY EXCURSION
There will be an excursion for Sunday, 5 July, into
the Alps. We will cross the Susten Pass (2’250 m).
On Susten Pass we will visit the Steingletscher glacier,
which has shown a dramatic reduction in the past
decades, thus exposing much new habitat. We will
be able to see the plant successions into these newly
exposed habitats. This shows very dramatically the
eﬀect of climate change, and the potential new habitats
exposed.
ORGANISERS Peter Linder, Alexandre Antonelli,
Rafael W¨ uest (Systematic Botany, University of
Zurich), Niklaus Zimmermann and Peter Pearman (In-
stitute of Forest, Snow and Landscape Research, WSL,
Zurich), Harald Schneider (Natural History Museum,
London), Frank Blattner (IPK Gatersleben) and Nico-
las Salamin (Computational Phylogenetics, University
of Lausanne)
REGISTRATION IS OPEN, at www.systbot.uzh.ch/-
niche <http://www.systbot.uzh.ch/niche >
Please distribute this information to all researchers and
students potentially interested!
“Peter B. Pearman” <pearman@wsl.ch >20 EvolDir May 1, 2009
GradStudentPositions
Austria ExperimentalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Berne PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
CNRS France ReproductiveInvestment . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
ConcordiaU ConservationBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
DalhousieU Conservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Dijon France InsectImmunoEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
GoetheU PlantDiversiﬁcation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Halle Germany VirulenceEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
ImperialCollege BacteriaRotifers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
INRA Toulouse PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
KentStateU 2 PlantEvolEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Leuven InsectEvolutionaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
LMU Munich EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
MichiganStateU EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Netherlands LanguageEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Paris Regensburg InsectParasiteDefence . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Poitiers France EvolutionaryBiolWolbachia . . . . . . . . 30
RutgersU Phylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
StockholmU AncientDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30SyracuseU SexualSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
TexasAMIntlU 2 CichlidEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UAdelaide EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UEdinburgh DiversityGeneMapping . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
UGeneva ComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
UGeneva EukaryotePhylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
UGoteborg EchinodermAdaptations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
UGroningen EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
UHawaii ConservationBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
ULiverpool SeaBirdPhysiologyEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 36
UNebraska HemoglobinEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
UNewBrunswick 2 PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
UPierreMarieCurie EvolutionaryTheory . . . . . . . . . . . 38
UppsalaU ComputationalGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
USouthDakota Host ParasitePopGen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
UZurich ComputationalEvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . 40
Vienna PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Austria ExperimentalEvolution
PhD position in Experimental Evolutionary Biology
Application deadline: 25.April 2009
Project description: Most organisms reproduce sexu-
ally, despite high costs associated with this reproduc-
tive mode. In the last decades several theories have
been proposed to resolve this “paradox of sex”. A par-
ticularly tough challenge to such theories are organisms
that give rise to obligate asexual lineages, because such
organisms should face the constant danger of being re-
placed by their asexual descendants. This project fo-
cuses on obligate asexual lineages within monogonont
rotifers.
The PhD project aims at analysing the population level
consequences of obligate asexuality in the rotifer Bra-
chionus calyciﬂorus. It is mainly concerned with the
speed of adaptation in sexual vs. obligate asexual pop-
ulations. The project relies on lab experiments at the
individual and population level. Further techniques
used/learned during this project include: microsatel-lite analysis, cryopreservation, as well as several tech-
nical skills involved in our automated culture systems,
including computer programming.
The PhD project is embedded into complementary
research themes of the working group, e.g. deter-
mining the genetic mechanism of obligate asexual-
ity, or establishing the prevalence of OA in ﬁeld
populations. Further information on the lab can
be found at http://www.oeaw.ac.at/limno/personnel/-
stelzer/stelzer.htm The project is supervised by Dr.
Claus-Peter Stelzer at the Institute for Limnology in
Mondsee (near Salzburg, Austria) and funded by the
FWF for 3 years (Project P20735-B17). Salary is ac-
cording to the FWF pay scale ( http://www.fwf.ac.at/-
de/projects/personalkostensaetze 2008.html ).
Applicants should be highly motivated and have a Mas-
ter’s or diploma degree in biology, or in a related ﬁeld.
A solid background in evolutionary biology is essen-
tial for this position, and this should be recognizable
by the Masters thesis and/or documented by several
courses during the studies. Experiences in experimen-
tal design, statistics and PCR-based molecular genetic
methods are also advantageous, but not absolutely re-
quired.
The Institute for Limnology is located in Mondsee, aMay 1, 2009 EvolDir 21
small town in the Salzkammergut lake area. Mondsee
is 30 km east of the City of Salzburg, which is also the
location of the nearest university. The Institute has a
staﬀ complement of approximately 25, including 10 re-
search scientists, who work on various areas in ecophys-
iology and evolutionary ecology of aquatic organisms.
Applicants should send a cover letter summarizing
their research background and interest in the posi-
tion, a CV, and contact information for two ref-
erees (everything as one PDF document) to claus-
peter.stelzer <at>oeaw.ac.at, by 25. April 2009. The
ideal starting date is 1. June 2009.
Dr. Claus-Peter Stelzer Institute for Limnology Mond-
seestrasse 9 A-5310 Mondsee Austria
claus-peter.stelzer@oeaw.ac.at claus-
peter.stelzer@oeaw.ac.at
Berne PopulationGenomics
PhD position
Population genomics of adaptation using next-
generation sequencing
The CMPG lab is looking for a PhD candidate to study
patterns of selection in the common vole (Microtus ar-
valis) using $B!H(Bnext-generation$B!I(B sequencing
technology. Based on detailed information resulting
from a ﬁrst generation AFLP genome scan, particular
genome regions and populations living in diﬀerent envi-
ronments will be subject to extensive DNA sequencing
to determine the patterns of selection acting at diﬀerent
evolutionary levels.
We are seeking a highly-motivated, independent candi-
date with excellent organizational skills. The ideal can-
didate has a background in population genetics and/or
bioinformatics, speciﬁc programming skills (C/C++,
R, Perl), and some experience with molecular lab work.
A degree equivalent to a diploma or M.Sc in Biology or
Bioinformatics is required. Good knowledge of written
and spoken English is essential. The working language
in our group is English. Some knowledge of German or
French would be beneﬁcial for living in Switzerland but
are not necessary.
The student will be supervised by Dr. Gerald Heckel
and Prof. Laurent Excoﬃer. The CMPG lab is also
part of the Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics (SIB,
http://www.isb-sib.ch/ ), and oﬀers a stimulating re-search environment with excellent facilities for compu-
tational and laboratory analyses. Information on our
research group, the University of Bern and its mag-
niﬁcent surroundings can be obtained from http://-
cmpg.unibe.ch/ and http://bern.ch/.
The position is funded for three years, and the salary
follows the Swiss NSF scale. The starting date is June
1st 2009 and cannot be really negociated due to the
nature of the funding. For informal inquiries, please
contact gerald.heckel@iee.unibe.ch.
Please send your application including a CV, a list of
publications, a letter outlining your past research and
particular motivation for this position (max. 2 pages),
as well as contact details of 2-3 referees in a single pdf
ﬁle to gerald.heckel@iee.unibe.ch.
Deadline for application is May 1st 2009
– Laurent Excoﬃer
Computational and Molecular Population Genetics
(CMPG) Institute of Ecology and Evolution, Univer-
sity of Bern 6, Baltzerstrasse, CH-3012 Bern, Switzer-
land Tel: +41 31 631 30 31 Fax: +41 31 631
48 88 Email (NEW): laurent.excoﬃer@iee.unibe.ch
http://cmpg.unibe.ch/people/excoﬃer.htm Compu-
tational Population Genetics Swiss Institute of
Bioinformatics (SIB) http://www.isb-sib.ch/groups/-
Computational Population Genetics.htm Laurent Ex-
coﬃer <laurent.excoﬃer@iee.unibe.ch >
CNRS France
ReproductiveInvestment
Reproductive investment and mate choice when facing
a pathogen
Duration: 01.09.2010 - 31.08.2013 (slight shifts of the
dates are possible)
Type: PhD
Supervisor: Dirk S. Schmeller, Adeline Loyau
General Framework: Individual decisions about how
much to invest in reproduction with whom to mate and
can have tremendous consequences on population dy-
namics and therefore on population persistence. Costs
of mounting an immune response against pathogens are
known to be very high. Life history trade-oﬀs teach
us that an individuals energy is limited. Therefore,
when an individual is facing, or has just been facing,22 EvolDir May 1, 2009
a pathogen, this individual will invest less energy in
reproduction. Low reproductive investment can be ex-
pressed both in males and females by lower display fre-
quency, coloured signals of bad quality, poor quality
sperm, poor quality eggs etc. Sexual selection theo-
ries about honest signalling predict that female mating
preferences evolved to provide females with both di-
rect and indirect beneﬁts. Indeed, by preferring males
of high phenotypic quality, females would mate with
males of high health status. Therefore, females would
avoid contracting a disease during mating, and they
would gather genes for attractiveness and genes for re-
sistance against pathogens for their oﬀspring. When
given the choice, individuals should avoid infected indi-
viduals as potential partners. In a population infected
by a disease, mate choice should thus help resisting the
infection at the population level. Female mate choice
and female condition are known to aﬀect maternal al-
location in reproduction. Female in good health and
females mated with attractive healthy males are indeed
expected to produce better quality eggs. Parental ef-
fects can be strong and can even last over several gen-
erations, especially in amphibians for which carry-over
eﬀects were described. A low parental investment can
therefore have major ﬁtness consequences on oﬀspring
and even on several of the following generations.
Amphibians are currently facing a decline worldwide
due to a pathogen, the chytrid fungus (Bd). The can-
didate will be part of the Biodiversa-project RACE
(Risk Assessment of Chytridiomycosis to European am-
phibians), an international project aiming to develop a
threat abatement plan for European amphibians. The
PhD student will be supported by at least one master
student every year and several internships (duration be-
tween 2 to 6 month).
The aims of the PhD project are: * to investigate the
costs imposed by the Bd pathogen on reproduction of
Lisotriton helveticus in terms of expression of secondary
sexual traits and display, and maternal investment, * to
examine whether mating decisions avoid spreading the
disease
Proﬁle: Knowledge of R, Matlab or SAS Knowledge
or willingness to learn at least two of the following
languages: French, Spanish, English Knowledge in be-
havioural ecology and population dynamics, interest
in conservation biology Knowledge of genetic methods
The successful candidate is required to hold a Master
diploma or equivalent experience in biology. The salary
will be in the range of around 1400EUR net/month.
Place of work: The Station dEcologie Experimentale
in Moulis (SEEM) is a recently founded research and
service unit of the Centre Nationale de la RechercheScientiﬁque (CNRS). SEEM, where the candidate will
be working, is an interdisciplinary research group that
combines the skills of population ecologists, behavioural
ecologists, evolutionary biologists, and geneticists to
study animal ecology. SEEM has a strong international
ﬂavour due its international staﬀ and cooperation with
institutes in the US and several European countries.
SEEM is located in the foothills of the Pyrenean region
Ariege (France). The station is currently undergoing
extensive renovation and will soon host well equipped
laboratories, comprising physiologic, genetic, and eco-
logic lab facilities as well as experimental sites. See our
webpage at http://www.ecoex-moulis.cnrs.fr for more
details.
Application: Applicants should submit a letter of ap-
plication describing their experience and interests in
the position, curriculum vitae, list of publications, and
copies of certiﬁcates. Applicants may be called for an
interview. We accept applications in pdf format sent
to the addresses below. The closing date for applica-
tions will be 15th of June 2009. Interviews are foreseen
during June 2009.
Contact details: Dirk S. Schmeller Adeline Loyau Sta-
tion d’Ecologie Exp´ erimentale du CNRS ` a Moulis 09200
Saint Girons, France phone: +33 5 61 04 03 73 / 64 fax:
+33 5 61 96 08 51 dirk.schmeller@ecoex-moulis.cnrs.fr
al@adeline-loyau.net www.ecoex-moulis.cnrs.fr “Dirk
S. Schmeller” <dirk.schmeller@EcoEx-Moulis.cnrs.fr >
“Dirk S. Schmeller” <dirk.schmeller@EcoEx-
Moulis.cnrs.fr >
ConcordiaU ConservationBiol
Two positions (one PhD, one MSc) are now available
to examine the evolutionary consequences of small pop-
ulation size for conservation biology (Location: Con-
cordia University, Montreal, QC, Canada). Students
will study interactions between population size, genetic
diversity, adaptation, and phenotypic plasticity, using
several populations of a salmonid ﬁsh in eastern Canada
as a model system. The research will involve a combi-
nation of ﬁeldwork, ﬁsh husbandry, common-garden ex-
perimentation and molecular genetic studies; previous
experience in any of these areas is an asset.
Expected start date is September 2009 or January of
2010. Each position is contingent upon acceptance to
the Department of Biology graduate program at Con-
cordia University. If interested, please send an applica-May 1, 2009 EvolDir 23
tion including: (i) a CV; (ii) a brief cover letter describ-
ing research interests and their relationship with this re-
search; (iii) names and addresses of two references, and
(iv) documentation of undergraduate grades. Please
send applications electronically to: Dr. Dylan Fraser,
Department of Biology, Dalhousie University, Halifax,
Nova Scotia, B3H 4J1. Fax: 902-494-3736. Email:
dylan.fraser@dal.ca. Webpage: www.dylanfraser.com
Dr. Dylan J. Fraser Postdoctoral Research Fellow
Department of Biology, Dalhousie University, Halifax,
Nova Scotia Canada B3H 4J1 Tel: (902) 494-6279;
Fax: (902) 494-3736 Email: dylan.fraser@dal.ca Web-
page: www.dylanfraser.com Dylan.Fraser@Dal.Ca Dy-
lan.Fraser@Dal.Ca
DalhousieU Conservation
PhD position in Conservation Genetics of northern
ﬁshes
Support for a PhD position is available in the labora-
tory of Daniel Ruzzante at Dalhousie University (Hali-
fax, Nova Scotia, Canada) for research in conservation
genetics of ﬁsh in the north. The successful candidate
should have experience with molecular techniques and
should have a strong interest in conservation and land-
scape genetics. The project will involve ﬁeldwork in
the Canadian north. The position is expected to start
in the 2009/2010 academic year and is contingent upon
acceptance to the Department of Biology graduate pro-
gram.
If interested please send an e-mail application including
CV, names and addresses of two to three referees and
a statement describing the reason(s) for your interest
in this research to: Daniel E Ruzzante, Associate Pro-
fessor and Canada Research Chair in Marine Conserva-
tion Genetics, Department of Biology, Dalhousie Uni-
versity, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada, B3H 4J1.(email:
daniel.ruzzante@dal.ca, http://myweb.dal.ca/ ˜ ruz-
zante )
Daniel Ruzzante, Associate Professor Canada Research
Chair in Marine Conservation Genetics Department of
Biology, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia,
Canada, B3H 4J1 phone: (902) 494-1688 fax: (902)
494-3736 e-mail: daniel.ruzzante@dal.ca
http://myweb.dal.ca/ruzzante http:/-
/patagonia.byu.edu Canada Research
Chairs http://www.chairs.gc.ca ruzzante
<Daniel.Ruzzante@DAL.CA >Dijon France
InsectImmunoEvolution
Graduate position: Dijon France Immuno-Evolution of
insects
A 3 year PhD position on ˆ aevolutionary immunology
of insectsˆ a supervised by Dr J ˜Ac/circlecopyrtr˜Ame Moreau and
Dr Yannick Moret is opened in the group of Evolution-
ary Ecology of the Biog ˜Ac/circlecopyrtoscience Laboratory (UMR
5561 CNRS) of the University of Bourgogne, Dijon,
France.
Candidates must be in the last year of their master
degree (or equivalent Diploma). Candidates should
have a joined interest in both Evolutionary Biology,
Behavioural Ecology. Good statistical skills will be ap-
preciated.
Applications should be sent before May 20th Yan-
nick Moret (yannick.moret@u-bourgogne.fr) and should
contain:
1) A detailed CV and a motivation letter explaining the
interests of the applicant to the project and the match
between the CV and the PhD project.
2) Two recommendation letters that should be sent di-
rectly by email to J ˜Ac/circlecopyrtr˜Ame Moreau or Yannick Moret,
if possible provided by the supervisors of the Master re-
search training period.
3) Grades obtained in Master.
Candidates short-listed on base of their application will
be interviewed in June and a decision will be taken soon
after.
Project:
Infected vertebrate females transfer speciﬁc antibod-
ies to their oﬀspring, providing them with a tempo-
rary protection against the parasite during the time
required for their immune system to mature. Inver-
tebrates lack antibodies and trans-generational trans-
fer of immunity was believed to be missing. Cumula-
tive data from the ﬁeld of ecological immunology pro-
vide evidence that an equivalent phenomenon does ex-
ist in arthropods. In the mealworm beetle, Tenebrio
molitor (Coleoptera), individuals subjected to a micro-
bial challenge produce oﬀspring with enhanced immu-
nity. These results raised numerous questions about the
mechanisms involved that are entirely unknown, and
about the evolutionary ecology of this phenomenon.24 EvolDir May 1, 2009
From an ecological and evolutionary point of view, the
occurrence of such a phenomenon in insects suggests
that there is a selective advantage to facultatively en-
hance oﬀspring immunity after being exposed to par-
asite infection. After experiencing a parasitic attack,
a host or its progeny might be subsequently exposed
to a higher probability of infection, since parasites that
are now present in the environment are likely to in-
crease in frequency because on their reliance on hosts
for transmission. Therefore, hosts exposed to a para-
site infection may increase their net reproductive suc-
cess by adjusting oﬀspring immunity to improve resis-
tance to prevailing parasites. The facultative aspect of
this phenomenon suggests it might also be costly and
may constrain for adjustment of oﬀspring immunity ac-
cording to the actual risk of subsequent infection. The
project aims to study trans-generational transfer of im-
munity in Tenebrio molitor through the investigation
of its underlying mechanism(s) and its adaptive signiﬁ-
cance through the estimation of its associated costs and
beneﬁts.
Yannick Moret Charg ˜Ac/circlecopyrtde Recherche CNRS ˜Aquipe
˜Acologie ˜Avolutive UMR 5561 Biog ˜Ac/circlecopyrtosciences
Universit ˜Ac/circlecopyrtde Burgogne 6 Boulevard Gabriel
21000 Dijon - France Tel. +33 (0)3 80 39
90 30 Fax. +33 (0)3 80 39 62 31 http://-
www.u-bourgogne.fr/BIOGEOSCIENCE/index.php?
option=com content&task=view&idT&Itemid=1
Yannick Moret <yannick.moret@u-bourgogne.fr >
GoetheU PlantDiversiﬁcation
Thanks for adding the following job advertisement:
The Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre (BiKF)
has recently been founded by the Senckenberg
Gesellschaft fuer Naturforschung, the Goethe Univer-
sity Frankfurt am Main, and additional partners. It is
funded by the Federal State of Hesse through its Ini-
tiative for the Development of Scientiﬁc and Economic
Excellence (LOEWE). The mission of the Centre is to
carry out internationally outstanding research on the
interactions of biodiversity and climate change at the
organism level. The Project Area Evolution and Cli-
mate invites applications for a Research Assistant (or
PhD) Position Plant diversiﬁcation in the Indomale-
sian, Australasian and Paciﬁc islands region PG A1
[Ref. #A22] BAT IIa/2 Essentials: We look for a highly
motivated candidate holding a Diploma or Masters de-gree in a relevant subject with a sound background in
molecular systematics techniques (incl. proven experi-
ence in successfully working on DNA of old/historical
herbarium specimens) and plant morphology. You will
demonstrate interest in plant systematics and plant bio-
geography studies. Good communication skills, the
ability to work independently and the willingness to
conduct ﬁeldwork in the Asian tropics are essential. A
good working knowledge of English is required. It is
desired that the successful applicant will earn a PhD
degree in this position.
Job duties: You will combine existing DNA sequence
data with new data collected and produced during the
project to reconstruct evolutionary relationships and
the biogeographic history of diﬀerent plant taxa occur-
ring in the Indomalesian, Australasian and Paciﬁc is-
lands region. The multi-gene phylogenetic trees will be
set in a temporal context by fossil constraints. You will
be expected to contribute to teaching at undergraduate
levels. The willingness to develop and submit research
funding proposals is required.
Salary and beneﬁts are according to a public service
position in Germany (BAT IIa/2, approx. 29.400 gross
per annum). The Research Centre BiK-F advocates
gender equality. Women are therefore strongly encour-
aged to apply. Equally qualiﬁed severely handicapped
applicants will be given preference.
The contract shall start as soon as possible and will
initially be restricted to 18 months, with possible
extension subject to the acquisition of additional
external funding. The duty station will be Frankfurt
am Main, Germany. Please send your application by
email, including 1) a cover letter outlining relevant
background and work experience, 2) a full curriculum
vitae, including a list of publications, 3) copies of
educational certiﬁcates/thesis, 4) names and addresses
of two referees, before April 28th 2009 to Prof. Dr.
Dr. h.c. V. Mosbrugger, Scientiﬁc Coordinator
Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre, Sencken-
berganlage 25, D60325 Frankfurt am Main, Germany,
recruiting@senckenberg.de(Service and Finances),
with Cc to alexandra.muellner@senckenberg.de (
mailto:Klussmann-Kolb@bio.uni-frankfurt.de ). For
enquiries about the position and the contract con-
ditions please write to Prof. Dr. B. Stribrny
(Email: bernhard.stribrny@senckenberg.de) and for
scientiﬁc enquiries to Dr. Alexandra Nora Muell-
ner (Email: alexandra.muellner@senckenberg.de (
mailto:Klussmann-Kolb@bio.uni-frankfurt.de )).
Ursula Maurer <Ursula.Maurer@senckenberg.de >May 1, 2009 EvolDir 25
Halle Germany VirulenceEvolution
*** PhD POSITION: EVOLUTION OF VIRU-
LENCE***
A PhD position is available in the Molecular Ecol-
ogy Research Group of the Insitute for Biology at the
Martin-Luther-University Halle-Wittenberg, in Halle
(Saale), Germany ( http://www.mol-ecol.uni-halle.de/-
).
The project focuses on the evolution of virulence in
a host-parasite system of bumblebees and their try-
panosome parasites Crithidia. Using a combination of
population genetics and an experimental evolution ap-
proach we will study how the hosts population structure
shapes the virulence of a parasite.
We are looking for a highly motivated student having
a Masters degree or equivalent in the relevant ﬁeld.
He/she should work well both as a member of the group
and independently. Prior laboratory experience is re-
quired, and skills in handling and maintaining social
insect colonies as well as knowledge of statistical anal-
yses are preferred. Applicants should have a broad bio-
logical background, with special emphasis in the ﬁelds
of evolution, ecology and genetics. Good English skills
are required because working and teaching language is
English.
To apply, please send letter of application including re-
search interests, a C.V., and contact details for two
or three references by e-mail (lattorﬀ@zoologie.uni-
halle.de). The position is open until ﬁlled, but for full
consideration, apply by April 30, 2009. The position
is ﬁx term for three years ( ~1,000 EUR/month (ap-
proximately US$ 1,300). The preferred starting date is
August, 1st 2009.
Halle hosts many excellent scientiﬁc institutions such as
Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research (UFZ),
3 Max-Planck Institutes and the Leibnitz Institute for
Plant Biochemistry (IPB). Halle is the largest city of
Sachsen-Anhalt with a good infrastructure, hosting 2
universities. Due to the high number of students Halle
has a rich choice of social, cultural and sporting facili-
ties (see www.halle.de ).
For further information regarding the group and/or the
project please contact Dr. Michael Lattorﬀ Institute of
Biology, Molecular Ecology Martin-Luther-University
Halle-Wittenberg Hoher Weg 4 06099 Halle (Saale)Germany phone. +49-345-5526389 fax. +49-345-
5527264 email. lattorﬀ@zoologie.uni-halle.de www.
http://www.biologie.uni-halle.de/zool/mol ecol/
lattorﬀ@zoologie.uni-halle.de lattorﬀ@zoologie.uni-
halle.de
ImperialCollege BacteriaRotifers
PhD studentship
Department of Life Sciences, Imperial College London
Supervisor: Dr T Barraclough
Project title: Community genomics of complex micro-
scopic communities
The project will explore genomic interactions among
species living in complex communities, speciﬁcally the
importance of lateral gene transfer in adaptive re-
sponses and species interactions. The focus of the sys-
tem will be bdelloid rotifers and bacteria. Bacteria have
long been known to exchange genes widely with one an-
other, genes that can provide important ecological func-
tions such as virulence or antibiotic resistance. Recent
work has shown that bdelloid rotifers have a unique
capacity among animals to take up genes from a wide
range of organisms and to domesticate those genes for
their own use. This project will use natural and labora-
tory communities of bdelloids and bacteria to quantify
ecological interactions within the system, and to test
for the frequency of gene exchange among members V
in part through phylogenetic approaches and in part
through laboratory experiments. The project lies at
the interface of evolutionary and ecological systems bi-
ology.
Were looking for a student with a good ﬁrst de-
gree and Masters degree. NERC funding is open
to UK residents and EU nationals who have spent
the last three years in the UK for education
or employment ( www.nerc.ac.uk/funding/available/-
postgrad/eligibility.asp ) .
To apply, please reply by 30th April, sending a
CV and a brief letter explaining why you are
interested in this PhD to Tim Barraclough at
t.barraclough@imperial.ac.uk .
Funding Notes NERC funded 3 year studentship. Ap-
plicants must ensure they meet NERC’s eligibility cri-
teria (European/UK students only).
Timothy Barraclough <t.barraclough@imperial.ac.uk >26 EvolDir May 1, 2009
INRA Toulouse PopulationGenetics
We are seeking applications for a “Young Researcher
Contract” in population / statistical genetics, which in-
cludes both a 3 year PhD funding and a 2 year postdoc
funding. The PhD subject concerns the detection of
loci under selection in livestock populations. The suc-
cessful applicant will develop new detection methods
that take into account the speciﬁcities of livestock pop-
ulations (large number of breeds, small eﬀective sizes,
short divergence time ..). He will also analyse dense
SNP genome-wide data arising from several projects on
pig and sheep.
The PhD will take place at the Laboratory of Cel-
lular Genetics in Toulouse (France), which is part of
the French National Institute for Agricultural Research
(INRA).
Interested applicants are invited to send a curriculum
vitae to Magali San Cristobal msc@toulouse.inra.fr or
Simon Boitard simon.boitard@toulouse.inra.fr before
the 31th of May, and to contact them for further in-
formation. Strong statistical and programming skills,
and a high interest in population genetics, will be re-
quired.
simon boitard <simon.boitard@toulouse.inra.fr >
KentStateU 2 PlantEvolEcol
Two Graduate Student Positions in Plant Evolutionary
Ecology
Funding is available for two graduate students to work
with Andrea Case (Kent State University, Ohio, USA)
and Christina Caruso (University of Guelph, Ontario,
Canada) on an NSF-funded research project. We are
investigating the causes of population sex ratio varia-
tion in a gynodioecious plant (Lobelia siphilitica) across
eastern North America. This project combines ﬁeld
experiments, controlled crosses in the greenhouse, and
genotyping using microsatellite markers to determine
how diﬀerent mechanisms of evolution, as well as any
diﬀerences in population history, contribute to varia-
tion in population sex ratio across L. siphilitica’s range.There is ample opportunity for students to develop in-
dependent research associated with the project.
One Ph.D position is available in the Department of
Biological Sciences at Kent State University. The stu-
dent would participate in lab work as well as ﬁeldwork
in Ohio and Indiana. Familiarity with basic molec-
ular techniques (DNA extraction, PCR, sequencing)
and using genetic markers will be helpful. Stipends
cover 12-mo salary, tuition and fees. Students have
the option, but are not required, to teach. De-
tails of how to apply to the program are available
athttp://bioweb.biology.kent.edu/GraduateProgram/-
How toapply.html Prior to submitting a formal
application for the Kent State position, candidates
should send a brief statement of interest and CV to
acase@kent.edu.
One Ph.D or M.Sc. position is available in the De-
partment of Integrative Biology at the University of
Guelph. The student will be responsible for oversee-
ing controlled crosses in the greenhouse and conducting
ﬁeldwork in Ontario and Iowa. Applicants should have
academic background and research experience in ecol-
ogy and/or evolutionary biology. Experience working
with plants in the greenhouse and ﬁeld would be help-
ful. Information on the graduate program in Integra-
tive Biology is available at http://www.uoguelph.ca/-
ib/grad/graduate.shtml Prior to submitting a formal
application for the Guelph position, interested candi-
dates should send an unoﬃcial transcript, CV (includ-
ing references), and a brief statement of interest to caru-
soc@uoguelph.ca.
We strongly encourage applicants from underrepre-
sented groups.
– Dr. Andrea Case Asst. Professor of Biolog-
ical Sciences Kent State University Box 5190
Kent OH 44242-0001 USA Oﬃce: 245 Cunning-
ham Hall Phone: 330-672-3699 acase@kent.edu
http://bioweb.biology.kent.edu/FacultyPages/Case/
– Christina M. (Chris) Caruso Assistant Profes-
sor Department of Integrative Biology University
of Guelph Guelph, Ontario N1G 2W1 Canada
519-824-4120 x52030 carusoc@uoguelph.ca http:/-
/www.uoguelph.ca/ib/people/faculty/caruso.shtml
“CASE, ANDREA” <acase@kent.edu >
Leuven InsectEvolutionaryEcol
PhD studentship in Insect Evolutionary EcologyMay 1, 2009 EvolDir 27
GENERAL THEME: Evolutionary ecology of pheno-
typic syndromes (integrated patterns of behavioural,
physiological and performance traits) in damselﬂies.
The PhD project will concentrate on two questions:
(1) Do larval phenotypic syndromes bridge metamor-
phosis and shape dispersal and mating success? (2) Do
population characteristics (natal habitat eﬀects) shape
phenotypic syndromes and the resulting population dif-
ferentiation in patterns of dispersal and sexual selection
(geographic selection mosaics)? Special attention will
be given to the comparison of new versus old popula-
tions which likely diﬀer in traits related to dispersal.
PRACTICAL WORK will be a combination of (1) mon-
itoring natural ﬁeld populations, and (2) common gar-
den experiments in semi-natural populations (meso-
cosms / insectaries) and in the laboratory. We have
excellent research facilities with an outdoor research
area, several temperature-controlled rooms, incubators,
and a well-equipped laboratory for quantiﬁcation of
behavioural, physiological and performance traits like
swimming speed and ﬂight ability.
PROFILE: EU citizen with a master degree in Biol-
ogy (also people ﬁnishing this degree are encouraged to
apply) and with a strong interest in both ﬁeld and lab-
oratory work. Preference will go to candidates with ex-
perience in scoring behavioural, physiological and per-
formance traits, or at least a strong motivation to learn
relevant techniques. The candidate should combine re-
search independence with a good team spirit. It is ex-
pected that the candidate applies for national funding
opportunities. A car driving license is required.
OFFER: A full time job initially for a period of one
year, but extendable to a total of four years pend-
ing good evaluation. Leuven ( http://www.leuven.be )
is a pretty historical university city with a very high
and pleasant standard of living. The historic uni-
versity, founded in 1425 ( http://www.kuleuven.be/-
english ), has a top research and teaching standard.
Within our research group we have ample expertise
working with damselﬂies ( http://bio.kuleuven.be/de/-
dea/people detail.php?pass id=u0034380 ).
INTERESTED? Please send your CV, a letter of mo-
tivation including relevant experience, and contact de-
tails of two referents to
Dr. Robby Stoks University of Leuven Lab-
oratory of Aquatic Ecology and Evolution-
ary Biology Deberiotstraat 32 B-3000 Leuven,
Belgium E-mail: robby.stoks@bio.kuleuven.be
<mailto:robby.stoks@bio.kuleuven.be >
Applications will be reviewed starting May 15 until the
position is ﬁlled. The start date is spring or summer2009, preferentially as soon as possible.
robby.stoks@bio.kuleuven.be
LMU Munich EvolutionaryBiol
Master Program in Evolution, Ecology and Systematics
The University of Munich (LMU) oﬀers a 2-year, inter-
national master program for highly motivated students
from Germany and abroad with a background in biol-
ogy or a related subject. All courses are oﬀered in En-
glish. Application deadlines in 2009: 30th of April (for
non-EU students) and 30th of June (for EU-students
and others who don’t need a visa to study in Germany).
The EES Master program contains many innovative el-
ements such as a mentoring program, integrated skills
courses and individual research training. We also apply
a feedback and revision system instead of simple grad-
ing. Classes are small and students have a lot of contact
to the teachers. Thanks to funding by the Volkswagen
Foundation, students can apply for their own research
and travel money and for money to invite international
speakers. Unfortunately, we cannot provide grants to
cover costs of living. Students pay appr. 500 Euro tu-
ition fees per semester.
For more information, please have a look at our website
(http://www.eeslmu.de ) or contact the program coor-
dinator Elisabeth Brunner (brunner@bio.lmu.de).
Elisabeth Brunner
* Program Coordinator of the Munich Graduate School
for Evolution, Ecology, and Systematics
Department Biologie II University of Munich (LMU)
Großhaderner Str. 2 D-82152 Planegg-Martinsried
Tel: 0049 89 2180 74 208 http://www.eeslmu.de/-
eeswiki brunner@bio.lmu.de
brunner@biologie.uni-muenchen.de
MichiganStateU EvoDevo
PhD Studentship in Evolutionary/Ecological Develop-
mental Biology, Michigan State University, USA.28 EvolDir May 1, 2009
A graduate student position in Evolutionary/Ecological
Developmental Biology is available in the laboratory of
Dr. Alex Shingleton, in the Department of Zoology at
Michigan State University. The position is funded as
part of a 5-year NSF grant exploring the developmen-
tal regulation of ’allometry’ - the scaling relationship
between organ size and body size. Variation in allom-
etry dominates morphological diversity and the goal of
the lab is to uncover the developmental mechanisms
upon which selection has acted to create this diversity.
The lab uses fruit ﬂy as a model organism and em-
ploys molecular, genetic, physiological and behavioral
methods to address our research questions. More de-
tails of the research being conducted in the laboratory
are available at www.msu.edu/˜shingle9 The speciﬁc
project concerns the role the insulin-signaling pathway
plays in regulating scaling relationships in fruit ﬂy. Pre-
vious research in the lab has identiﬁed this pathway as
being diﬀerently regulated in organs that diﬀer in their
scaling relationship with body size. The goal of the
project is to elucidate the molecular basis for this diﬀer-
ential regulation. The expectation is that this project
will serve as a springboard to a more independent line
of thesis research.
The project will suit students with an interest in
Evo/Eco-Devo and integrative developmental biology.
The ideal candidate should have good general labora-
tory skills, with a ﬁrm grasp of basic statistical meth-
ods. While the studentship need not involve formal
teaching, the successful candidate will be involved in
mentoring undergraduate students.
Michigan State University is a large land-grant institu-
tion with an outstanding faculty and inter-disciplinary
programs at the departmental and university levels. In-
terested applicants are encouraged to review additional
background on faculty and graduate programs in Zool-
ogy ( http://www.zoology.msu.edu ), and in the Ecology,
Evolutionary Biology and Behavior (EEBB) program
(https://www.msu.edu/ ~eebb).
Applicants should submit a statement of interest, a
CV, GRE scores and their cumulative GPA along with
names and contact information of three references (ev-
erything as one PDF document) to shingle9@msu.edu.
The ideal starting date is September 2, 2009, although
applicants who wish to start January 2010 are also wel-
come.
Alexander W. Shingleton Assistant Professor Ecology,
Evolutionary Biology & Behavior Program Genetics
Program
Department of Zoology Natural Sciences Building
Michigan State University East Lansing, MI 48824
Tel: 517-353-2253 www.msu.edu/ ˜ shingle9 shin-gle9@msu.edu shingle9@msu.edu
Netherlands LanguageEvolution
A PhD Position is available in the Max Planck Research
Group: “Evolutionary Processes in Language and Cul-
ture” at the Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguis-
tics in Nijmegen, The Netherlands. The research group
“Evolutionary Processes in Language and Culture” is
a small, independent group funded by the Max Planck
Society to investigate structural variation in language
and culture from an evolutionary perspective. We seek
a talented and motivated student to carry out a mutu-
ally agreed research project in an area complementary
to the interests of the group.
The PhD project will involve investigation of the deter-
minants of variation in one or more large language fam-
ilies, e.g. Austronesian, Bantu and/or Indo-European
(other families/regions can be considered on the basis of
data access). The precise nature of the project will be
agreed in collaboration with the successful candidate,
but we envisage that it will be interdisciplinary in ori-
entation, encompassing some of the following areas.
- Linguistic typology - Social anthropology - Evolution-
ary anthropology - Historical linguistics - Phylogenetics
The successful candidate will have access to the re-
search group databases, and will have the opportunity
to participate in group projects. Technical skills in com-
puting (esp. sql, python, R) and statistics would be
advantageous.
The Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics is a vi-
brant research environment in a charming university
town. Nijmegen is situated 1.5 hours from Amsterdam,
and has easy access to Belgium and Germany.
The PhD position is funded for 3 years (2 year ini-
tial contract with a 1 year extension). The research
group provides fully equipped research facilities, tech-
nical support and research assistance, as well as a gen-
erous conference and travel budget, and support for
possible ﬁeldwork.
Closing date for application: May 15th, 2009.
The Max Planck Society is an equal opportunity em-
ployer. The business of the institute is conducted in
English.
Applicants should send their CV, a short statement of
research interests, a sample of their writing, and theMay 1, 2009 EvolDir 29
names and e-mail addresses of at least two potential
referees to:
Dr Michael Dunn Research Group Evolutionary Pro-
cesses in Language and Culture Max Planck Institute
for Psycholinguistics Postbus 310, 6500AH Nijmegen
The Netherlands
and an electronic version (pdf preferred) to Michael
Dunn<michael.dunn@mpi.nl >. Further enquiries may
be sent by email.
– Michael Dunn, Max Planck Research Group Leader:
Evolutionary Processes in Language and Culture
Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics PB310,
6500AH Nijmegen, The Netherlands +31 (0)24 3521181
(wk) +31 (0)24 3521300 (fax) http://www.mpi.nl/-
Members/MichaelDunn (until 20-04-2009) http://-
www.mpi.nl/people/dunn-michael (thereafter)
Michael Dunn <michael.dunn@mpi.nl >
Paris Regensburg
InsectParasiteDefence
[Paris-Regensburg] 3 year Phd position with joint su-
pervision at the University Pierre et Marie Curie, Paris,
France and the University of Regensburg, Germany on
‘Division of labor and anti-parasite defences in social
insects‘. Application deadline: 11 May 2009
Long version:
We oﬀer a 3 year PhD grant on ‘Division of labor and
anti-parasite defences in social insects‘ provided by the
French doctoral school ‘Diversit´ e du vivant’ ( <http:/-
/eddv.snv.jussieu.fr >http://eddv.snv.jussieu.fr), with
joint supervision by:
Paris: Dr. Claudie Doums : Laboratoire d’Ecologie
et Evolution, UMR 7625, Universit´ e Pierre et Marie
Curie, 7 quai St Bernard, 75005 Paris. Tel : 01 44 27
38 09,
Email : cdoums@snv.jussieu.fr
Regensburg: Prof. Juergen Heinze and Dr. Sylvia Cre-
mer : Evolution, Behavior and Genetics, Biology I, Uni-
versity of Regensburg, 93040 Regensburg, Germany
Email: juergen.heinze@biologie.uni-regensburg.de;
sylvia.cremer@ biologie.uni-regensburg.de
Preconditions:
Candidates must be in the last year of their masterdegree (or equivalent diploma) and come from the Eu-
ropean Union or other European countries aﬃliated to
the European area for higher education. Candidates
should have an interest in Evolutionary Biology and be
highly motivated to pursue their studies in the two host
laboratories (work place will be the University Pierre et
Marie Curie in Paris with regular visits to the Univer-
sity of Regensburg). Fluency in English is required.
Application details: Applications should be sent to
Claudie Doums and Sylvia Cremer/Juergen Heinze con-
taining: 1) A detailed CV and a motivation letter ex-
plaining the interests of the applicant to the project
and the match between the CV and the PhD project.
2) Two recommendation letters that should be sent
directly by email to Claudie Doums or Sylvia Cre-
mer/Juergen Heinze, if possible provided by the super-
visors of the Master research stages. 3) Grades obtained
in the Masters Project. Application deadline: 11.5.2009
Detailed project information: Living in social groups
can increase the risk of pathogen infection owed to the
strong genetic and geographic proximity of social group
members. Parasites are therefore expected to exert a
strong selective pressure. A large panel of social and in-
dividual defenses, based on immunological and behav-
ioral responses, have evolved in social groups and pro-
vide a global resistance of the group to pathogens. Few
studies have investigated how individual and collective
defenses are integrated to acquire a group level immu-
nity. Our research PhD project aim at analysing how
the group members invest into these diﬀerent mecha-
nisms of defenses and how these investments vary with
intrinsic factors (group size, genetic diversity, demogra-
phy) and extrinsic (parasitism pressure). These ques-
tions will be addressed by considering the conceptual
framework of division of labor in social insects, which
is characterized by a non equitable distribution and a
specialization of the diﬀerent tasks between the colony
members. Two ant species, which are largely stud-
ied in the two laboratories (Platythyrea punctata and
Cataglyphis cursor), are interesting biological models
for the project as they oﬀer extreme variation in ge-
netic diversity among workers by being able to repro-
duce by thelytokous parthenogenesis but also to use
sexual reproduction. This project will require the use of
microsatellite for genetic analysis, of diﬀerent immuno-
logical techniques and involve behavioral observations.
’Sylvia Cremer’ <Sylvia.Cremer@biologie.uni-
regensburg.de >30 EvolDir May 1, 2009
Poitiers France
EvolutionaryBiolWolbachia
A 3 year PhD position on Adaptative success of Wol-
bachia in arthropods supervised by Pr Didier Bouchon
and Dr Mathieu Sicard is opened in the Ecology, Evo-
lution, Symbioses Lab (UMR 6556 CNRS) of the Uni-
versity of Poitiers, France
Candidates must be in the last year of their master de-
gree (or equivalent Diploma). Candidates should have a
joined interest in both Evolutionary Biology and Molec-
ular Biology. Fluency in English and could statistical
skills are required.
Details on project: To understand the importance of
switching events for the adaptative success of Wol-
bachia through arthropods lineages, we will investi-
gate the proximal (i.e. immediate) and distal (i.e.
long term) consequences of host-switching on the pa-
rameters of Wolbachia-arthropod symbioses. We will
transfect terrestrial isopods to compare two situations:
(i) symbioses between native partners and (ii) newly
formed associations resulting from experimental host-
switching.
Proximal consequences of host-switching will be as-
sessed upon transfection through: - The eﬀect of Wol-
bachia on recipient host life history traits - Colonization
dynamics: Assessment of Wolbachia load by q-PCR, in-
vasion visualized with FISH at adult stages and through
developmental stages of the progenies - Host immuno-
competence: Number and type of haemocytes, level of
phenoloxydase in haemolymph, susceptibility towards
various parasites.
Distal evolutionary consequences will be assessed
through generations: - Host ﬁtness: Survival and re-
production - Wolbachia vertical transmission rate - Ex-
tended phenotype of the association: Manipulation of
reproduction. Moreover, simulation will be performed
to analyze the evolution of genotype frequencies for
both host and Wolbachia over the time after horizontal
transfer, along with variable bacterial eﬀects and host
responses.
Application details: Applications should be sent to
Mathieu Sicard (mathieu.sicard@univ-poitiers.fr) con-
taining: 1) A detailed CV and a motivation letter ex-
plaining the interests of the applicant to the project
and the match between the CV and the PhD project.2) Two recommendation letters that should be sent di-
rectly by email to Mathieu Sicard, if possible provided
by the supervisors of the Master research stages. 3)
Grades obtained in Master.
*Application deadline: 30.5.2009*
– Pr. D. Bouchon
Universite de Poitiers Ecologie Evolution Symbiose,
UMR CNRS 6556 40 avenue du Recteur Pineau
F-86022 POITIERS Cedex tel : +33 (0)5 49 45 38 95
fax : +33 (0)5 49 45 40 15 http://ecoevol.labo.univ-
poitiers.fr/ http://pbil.univ-lyon1.fr/endosymbart/
mailto:didier.bouchon@univ-poitiers.fr
Didier Bouchon <didier.bouchon@univ-poitiers.fr >
RutgersU Phylogenetics
I am seeking a graduate student for an NSF funded
project on the phylogenetics of Trichoptera (Insecta).
A GA at Rutgers University, in Central New Jersey,
is available. Interested applicants should contact Karl
Kjer at <kjer@aesop.rutgers.edu >for details. I am
very ﬂexible in terms of the kind of experience I am
looking for. Morphological or molecular, insects, or
other organisms, it does not matter. But I am looking
for some prior demonstration of an interest in evolution-
ary biology and/or systematics/phylogenetics. Karl
Kjer
Work: Home: Rutgers University, Cook College 28 Lin-
coln Ave. Dept. Ecol., Evol, & Natural Res., High-
land Park, NJ 08904-1701 14 College Farm Rd. New
Brunswick, New Jersey 08901
Oﬃce phone: (732)932-9880 Lab phone: (732)932-4269
or (732)932-4238 Fax 732 932-7229
Karl Kjer <kjer@AESOP.Rutgers.edu >
StockholmU AncientDNA
STOCKHOLM UNIVERSITY announces a PhD posi-
tion in Systematics and Evolution (ancient DNA) at the
Department of Zoology, Stockholm University (placed
at the Molecular Systematics Laboratory, the Swedish
Museum of Natural History).May 1, 2009 EvolDir 31
Project title: Genetic consequences of environmen-
tal change on the evolution and demography of arctic
species.
Final date for applications: May 4, 2009
Project description: The overall objective of this PhD
project is to investigate the impact of environmen-
tal change on the evolution and demography in arctic
species. This will be done through genetic analyses on
both modern samples and on DNA retrieved from fos-
sils up to 50 000 years old. The resulting genetic data
will be integrated with information on past distribu-
tions and climates, as well as back-casted species distri-
bution models. Speciﬁc questions that will be examined
in the project include i) the timing of extinctions and
demographic change in relation to past climate ﬂuctu-
ations, ii) when and where populations diverged and
species evolved, and iii) to what extent local popula-
tions tracked changes in habitat availability when faced
with climate change. Potential model species include
lemmings, arctic foxes, reindeer and ptarmigan. The
long-term aim of the project is to provide increased
knowledge on how habitat change drives the speciation
and extinction processes and, on a more practical level,
to increase the accuracy of models used to forecast the
impact of future climate change on biodiversity. The
project will be done within the ancient DNA research
group at the Molecular Systematics Laboratory (MSL)
in the Swedish Museum of Natural History. A part
of the research carried out by the PhD student will
be done within the cross-disciplinary research network
CLIMIGRATE, funded by the European Union’s FP7
ERA-NET program BiodivERsA. The PhD degree will
be awarded in Systematics and Evolution at the De-
partment of Zoology. Dr. Love Dal´ en at the Swedish
Museum of Natural History (MSL) will be the main su-
pervisor. Prof. Anders Angerbj¨ orn at the Department
of Zoology will be co-supervisor.
Qualiﬁcations: To be qualiﬁed for research studies in
systematics and evolution the applicant must have com-
pleted a research degree (e.g. Master’s), or have passed
in at least 120 hp (2 years) of biological studies, in-
cluding an approved independent project in systemat-
ics and evolution of at least 30 hp at advanced level
(“examensarbete”). Applicants who have in principle
acquired the corresponding competence in Sweden or
abroad, are also qualiﬁed. That is, applicants who have
a Master’s degree (“examensarbete”) in an equivalent
subject that is considered appropriate for this project
are also encouraged to apply.
Criteria for selection: Among qualiﬁed applicants, se-
lection is made according to the ability to proﬁt from
the studies. The criteria to be used are the appli-cant’s documented knowledge in subjects of relevance
for the research area, ability to master language (in-
cluding both spoken and written English), analytical
ability, creativity, initiative, independence and ability
to cooperate. The basis for judgement of how well the
applicant fulﬁls these criteria is: the relevance of earlier
studies for the research area, grades on courses at the
university level, the quality of the independent project
(master thesis or “examensarbete”), references, inter-
views and the applicant’s letter of intent. Previous
experience in practical genetic analyses is highly de-
sirable, and knowledge in ecology, population genetics,
past climates and environments, and ecological mod-
elling are considered as additional qualiﬁcations.
To be included in the application: Maximum one A4-
page of personal presentation and your reasons for ap-
plying (letter of intent). Curriculum vitae. Copy of
independent project report (master thesis or “examen-
sarbete”). Copy of degree certiﬁcates and transcripts
of academic records (all attested). Also provide a list
of two persons who may act as references (with phone
numbers and e-mail addresses). Provide two copies of
all documents and the thesis. To be considered, the ap-
plication labelled “PhD ref.no. 03/09 LD” must have
arrived at the address below by May 4, 2009.
Address to which the application should be sent: Stock-
holms universitet Prefekten Zoologiska institutionen
106 91 Stockholm Sweden
Terms of employment: The research education com-
prises 48 months at full time. The position is ﬁnanced
by a fellowship (“utbildningsbidrag”) for the ﬁrst years,
and then continues with PhD-employment until the end
of the PhD-program.. Up to 20% of teaching may be
included in the position. (If teaching is included, the
position will be extended).
Union representatives: Bo Ekengren SACO, Lisbeth
H¨ aggberg ST, and Gunnar Stenberg SEKO. Phone: +
46 (0)8 16 20 00. PhD student representative e-mail:
do@sus.su.se
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
SyracuseU SexualSelection32 EvolDir May 1, 2009
The lab of Dr. Scott Pitnick at Syracuse University is
conducting an ongoing search for mature, motivated
candidates for PhD dissertation research in a broad
range of topics addressing sexual selection and its role
in population and species divergence and reproductive
isolation. Potential projects are many and varied, but
there are several research avenues currently ongoing.
These include documenting evolutionary patterns of
sperm conjugation and heteromorphism in water bee-
tles, elucidation of mechanisms of sperm competition
and conspeciﬁc sperm precedence in *Drosophila*, the
integrated evolution of sexually selected and life history
traits, and ﬁtness eﬀects of alternative male mating tac-
tics in the yellow dung ﬂy. If interested, please send CV,
summary of research interests and experience, and con-
tact information for 3 references to sspitnic@syr.edu.
Dr. Scott Pitnick Dept. of Biology Syracuse Uni-
versity Syracuse, NY 13244 USA +1 (315) 443-5128
sspitnic@syr.edu http://biology.syr.edu/pitnick/ Mol-
lie Manier <maniermk@gmail.com >
TexasAMIntlU 2 CichlidEvolution
There is an opening this fall for 2 Masters students in
the lab of Dr. Michael Kidd in the Department of Bi-
ology and Chemistry at Texas A&M International at
Laredo. There are number of potential projects con-
cerning the labs primary interest of understanding the
molecular basis of complex behaviors, which includes
work on an exciting NSF funded project studying the
molecular basis of mate choice in cichlid ﬁshes. Stu-
dents in my lab will have the opportunity to learn a
wide variety of techniques, including; how to quantify
behavior, perform hormone assays and manipulations,
in situ hybridization, quantitative PCR, and the statis-
tical analysis of microarray data. Research assistance-
ships (RA) are available.
Applicants should have a B.S. or B.A. in biology, genet-
ics, or a related ﬁeld. Although preference will be given
to students with some ﬁeld or lab experience, particu-
larly in molecular genetics, endocrinology or behavior,
the only requirement is an interest and enthusiasm for
animal behavior, evolution, and genetics. Please send
me a copy of your CV with coursework, description of
research experience, and the names and contact infor-
mation for the people you will ask for letters of refer-
ence.
Prospective students should contact me directly:Dr. Michael R. Kidd University of Texas at Austin
Section of Integrative Biology 1 University Station,
#C0930 Austin, Texas 78712
Phone: 512-475-7318 Fax 512-471-3878 Email:
mrkidd@mail.utexas.edu
mckidd@earthlink.net
UAdelaide EvolutionaryBiol
INTERNATIONAL PH.D SCHOLARSHIPS - EVO-
LUTIONARY BIOLOGY
UNIVERSITY OF ADELAIDE (AUSTRALIA)
The University of Adelaide is oﬀering numerous full
scholarships (covering all fees and a generous liv-
ing allowance) to international students, enrolled for
Ph.D degrees in areas of University Research strengths
(which includes Evolutionary Biology).
Full details of the scholarships are here: http://-
www.adelaide.edu.au/graduatecentre/scholarships/-
postgrad/international/ Possible supervisors
and labs for Ph.D studies are here: http://-
www.adelaide.edu.au/acebb/staﬀ/ In the past,
demand has been very high and to be competitive,
applicants generally need some papers in international
journals, or some postgraduate qualiﬁcations (e.g.
masters).
Please direct all scholarship enquiries directly to the
University Scholarships oﬃce and the leader of the re-
search group you would like to work with.
Regards,
Mike
Michael Lee Associate Professor School of Earth and
Environmental Sciences, University of Adelaide, North
Terrace Campus, Adelaide 5005 Australia
Ph. 61-8-8207-7568 or 0407 685 921
Email Michael.S.Lee@Adelaide.Edu.Au or
Lee.Mike@saugov.sa.gov.au www.adelaide.edu.au/-
directory/michael.s.lee Michael Lee
<michael.s.lee@adelaide.edu.au >
UEdinburgh DiversityGeneMappingMay 1, 2009 EvolDir 33
Ph.D. Studentship at The Roslin Institute (University
of Edinburgh)
We are currently recruiting a Ph.D. student (UK resi-
dent) to evaluate and apply novel statistical techniques
for diversity-based gene mapping in livestock species.
This four-year studentship is funded by a Genesis Fara-
day CASE BBSRC award with an enhanced stipend
and other beneﬁts provided by Genesis Faraday and
the CASE partner, Aviagen Ltd.
The rationale for this gene-mapping approach is that
variation will be reduced in regions of the genome sub-
ject to positive selection. Patterns of genome-wide di-
versity may reveal regions that have been under strong
selection and contain genes with large phenotypic ef-
fects. This project will focus on the development, eval-
uation and application of methods of testing for selec-
tion using both simulated and genomic poultry data.
This studentship will thus provide training in popula-
tion and quantitative genetics, statistical methods, sci-
entiﬁc computing and bioinformatics.
The student will be based at The Roslin Institute and
the Institute of Evolutionary Biology (IEB) at the Uni-
versity of Edinburgh. The Edinburgh genetics research
community is thriving, with strong expertise in pop-
ulation and quantitative genetics, making it an excit-
ing place to study. The student will also spend time
at Aviagen Ltd (Edinburgh), one of the major poul-
try breeders in the world with a strong commitment to
research.
We are seeking an enthusiastic individual with an in-
terest in population and evolutionary biology or animal
genetics and aptitude with computer-based numerical
analyses. The UK-based candidate should possess a
good quality ﬁrst degree in a relevant subject. En-
thusiasm, dedication and aptitude are the most impor-
tant characteristics; additional training in genetics and
genome analysis are available at IEB.
The project involves a collaboration between Pam
Wiener (Roslin), Chris Haley (MRC Human Genet-
ics Unit), Brian Charlesworth (IEB) and Kellie Wat-
son (Aviagen). For further information, please con-
tact pam.wiener@roslin.ed.ac.uk. Applications in-
cluding a full CV with names and addresses (in-
cluding email addresses) of two academic referees,
should be sent to: Human Resources, Roslin Institute
(Edinburgh), Roslin, Midlothian, EH25 9PS. Email:
roslin.hr@roslin.ed.ac.uk.
Pam Wiener The Roslin Institute University of Ed-
inburgh Roslin Midlothian EH25 9PS phone: 44 (0)
131 527 4464 fax: 44 (0) 131 440 0434 new email:
pam.wiener@roslin.ed.ac.uk“The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, reg-
istered in Scotland, with registration number SC005336
Pam.Wiener@bbsrc.ac.uk Pam.Wiener@bbsrc.ac.uk
UGeneva ComparativeGenomics
PhD position Exploring Conserved Non-Coding se-
quences using comparative genomics
We are looking for a highly motivated and innovative
PhD candidate to explore the evolution and patterns of
selection acting on Conserved Non-Coding sequences
(CNCs) in vertebrates using computational compara-
tive genomics. It is estimated that about 4-7% of the
human genome is under functional selection, yet only
2% encodes proteins. This implies that there is a reper-
toire of functionally important elements at least as large
as the repertoire of protein-coding genes, whose func-
tions remain largely unknown. The project will develop
our lead ﬁndings and will beneﬁt from established col-
laborations.
The ideal candidate should have a strong background
in bioinformatics, including programming skills, and a
good understanding of molecular biology and evolution.
A Diploma or MSc degree in Biology or Bioinformat-
ics, practical experience in the Unix environment, and
ﬂuency in English are required.
The project will be supervised by Prof. E. Zdobnov,
heading the Computational Evolutionary Genomics
group at the Department of Genetic Medicine and De-
velopment of the University of Geneva Medical School.
We are also part of the renowned Swiss Institute of
Bioinformatics, and oﬀer a stimulating research envi-
ronment with excellent facilities.
The international city of Geneva, described as ’the
smallest of the large capitals’, oﬀers a vibrant city life
within easy reach of the picturesque lake and stunning
Alps.
Closing date for applications: 31 May 2009.
To apply: send your CV, motivation letter, and the
names and contact details of at least two referees by
e-mail to Evgeny.Zdobnov@isb-sib.ch
Prof. Evgeny Zdobnov University of Geneva CMU
/ Dpt GEDEV Rue Michel-Servet 1 1211 Gen` eve 4
Switzerland
Stefan.Wyder@unige.ch Stefan.Wyder@unige.ch34 EvolDir May 1, 2009
UGeneva EukaryotePhylogenomics
PhD position in Phylogenomics of Eukaryotes
We are looking for a highly motivated PhD student to
work on phylogenomics of single-cell eukaryotes. Phy-
logenomics is a new ﬁeld of evolutionary studies using
large dataset of multigene sequences to infer phyloge-
netic relationships. Our group is specialized in evolu-
tion of amoeboid protists and recently successfully ap-
plied phylogenomic tools to investigate the very deep
history of eukaryotes (see references below).
The present project focuses on evolution of
Foraminifera, one of the most abundant and diverse
groups of marine protists with well documented fossil
record. The Foraminifera constitute the major group
of Rhizaria, one of the six supergroups of eukaryotes
recently established. However, despite their ecological
and evolutionary importance, the Foraminifera and
Rhizaria are among the few large groups of eukaryotes,
for which there is still very limited amount of genomic
data available. The project proposes to ﬁll this gap
by large-scale phylogenomic study of Foraminifera
and related Rhizaria. The EST-based phylogenomic
approach will be used to investigate the phylogenetic
position of Foraminifera among Rhizaria, and in
particular to test the hypothesis claiming their close
relation to Radiolaria. The higher level relationships
will be examined in order to identify the major steps in
evolution of foraminifera, in particular the evolutionary
importance of the passage from single to multichamber
test and the multiple origins of calciﬁcation. The
transcriptomic data will also be used to understand the
genomic bases of some fundamental cellular processes
present in Foraminifera. We will attempt to gain
more insight into the mechanisms of reticulopodial
motility and the unusual features of foraminiferal
motor proteins. We will search for genes involved in
the process of calciﬁcation. Finally, we will test the
bacterial origin of denitriﬁcation recently discovered in
some foraminiferal species.
The project is supported by the Swiss National Science
Foundation and some genomic data will be obtained in
collaboration with Genoscope (France). The position is
based in the Molecular Systematics Group, Department
of Zoology and Animal Biology, University of Geneva,
Switzerland.
Starting date is the 1st of September 2009.The candidate should have a diploma/MSc degree in
biology or bioinformatics. She/he should have a strong
interest in evolutionary biology of unicellular eukary-
otes and a basic knowledge of their systematics and
phylogeny. A solid experience in using various bioin-
formatic tools is required. The working language of the
group is English but the knowledge of French would be
helpful.
To apply, please send an e-mail with the cover
letter, CV, and contact details of two referees to
Jan.Pawlowski@unige.ch. Deadline for applications is
1st June, 2009.
References: Burki, F. & Pawlowski, J. (2006) Mono-
phyly of Rhizaria and multigene phylogeny of unicel-
lular bikonts Mol. Biol. Evol., 23:1922-1930. Burki,
F., Shalchian-Tabrizi, K., Minge, M., Skaeveland, A.,
Nikolaev, S.I., Jakobsen, K.S. & Pawlowski, J. (2007)
Phylogenomics reshuﬄes the eukaryotic supergroups.
PLoS ONE, 2:e790. Burki, F., Shalchian-Tabrizi, K.,
Pawlowski, J. (2008) Phylogenomics reveals a new
“megagroup” including most photosynthetic eukary-
otes. Biology Letters, 10,1098/rsbl.2008.0224 Nikolaev,
S.I., Berney, C., Fahrni, J., Bolivar, I., Polet, S., Myl-
nikov, A.P., Aleshin, V.V., Petrov, N.B., Pawlowski,
J. (2004) The twilight of Heliozoa and rise of Rhizaria:
an emerging supergroup of amoeboid eukaryotes. Proc.
Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 101:8066-8071. Pawlowski J.
and Burki F. (2008) Untangling the phylogeny of amoe-
boid protists. J. Eukaryot Microbiol. 56:16-25.
Dr. Jan Pawlowski Dept of zoology and animal biol-
ogy University of Geneva, Sciences III 30, Quai Ernest
Ansermet CH 1211 Gen` eve 4, Switzerland
Phone: 00 41 22 379 30 69 Fax: 00 41 22
379 33 40 E-mail: jan.pawlowski@zoo.unige.ch
http://www.unige.ch/sciences/biologie/biani/msg/
Jan.Pawlowski@unige.ch
UGoteborg EchinodermAdaptations
Hello,
In attach an announcement for a PhD position at
the Marine Ecology Department of the University of
G¨ oteborg in Sweden.
This is a 4 years project related to the impact of cli-
mate change (both global warming and ocean acidiﬁ-
cation) on marine species with special focus on echino-
derms. The successful applicant will have to investigateMay 1, 2009 EvolDir 35
how historical and temporal variability in environmen-
tal parameters can explain local adaptability. The sea
urchin Strongylocentrotus droebachiensis will be used
as model and diﬀerent populations compared using a
common garden approach combining ecology, physiol-
ogy and genomic.
Do not hesitate to contact Mike Thorndyke (see an-
noucement) or myself for further infomatio
Deadline for application: 24 April 2009
For more information on our work related to this posi-
tion, see:
Dupont S & Thorndyke M (2009) Impact of CO2-
driven ocean acidiﬁcation on invertebrates early life-
history - What we know, what we need to know
and what we can do. Biogeosciences Discus-
sion. 6, 3109-3131. PDF: http://tinyurl.com/cz4ku6
(http://tinyurl.com/cz4ku6)
Dupont S, Havenhand J, Thorndyke W, Peck L &
Thorndyke MC. (2008) CO2-driven ocean acidiﬁca-
tion radically aﬀect larval survival and development
in the brittlestar Ophiothrix fragilis. Marine Ecol-
ogy Progress Series 373: 285-294. PDF: http://-
tinyurl.com/8tbc2z (http://tinyurl.com/8tbc2z )
Dupont S, Obst M, Wilson K, Sk¨ old H, Nakano H &
Thorndyke MC (2007) Marine Ecological Genomics -
When Genomics meet Marine Ecology, Marine Ecol-
ogy Progress Series 332: 257-273. PDF: http://-
tinyurl.com/9jvwxl (http://tinyurl.com/9jvwxl )
Sam
sam.dupont@marecol.gu.se
UGroningen EvolutionaryBiol
PhD scholarships in Evolutionary Biology and Ecology
at the University of Groningen (Netherlands)
The Groningen Graduate School of Science is oﬀering
25 PhD scholarships. These scholarships provide an in-
ternationally competitive level of student support, in-
cluding four years of funding (ca. 20,000 euros annu-
ally) and an individual training budget. Candidates
will be selected on the basis of their motivation and
academic potential, and will have considerable freedom
to develop their own project. A list of suggested top-
ics can be found on our website. Many of these topics
are in the areas of evolutionary biology, ecology andbehavioural biology.
Located in a lively student city in the northern Nether-
lands, the University of Groningen ( www.rug.nl ) is
renowned for its longstanding tradition of academic ex-
cellence and international approach to graduate educa-
tion. The Centre of Ecological and Evolutionary Stud-
ies (www.rug.nl/cees ) encompasses eight groups, which
study ecology and evolution in a broad and integrative
way. The research extends from the individual level via
the population level to the ecosystem level; from terres-
trial systems to oceanography; from micro-organisms to
plants and animals. Research methods are also highly
diverse, ranging from molecular studies in the lab (eco-
logical and evolutionary genomics) to long-term ﬁeld
studies and theoretical modelling. The centre provides
a stimulating research environment, an excellent course
programme and modern up-to-date facilities.
Information about the programme and how to apply
can be found at: www.rug.nl/gradschoolscience . Ap-
plication deadline: May 1, 2009
Franz J. Weissing Professor of Theoretical Biology
Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Studies Uni-
versity of Groningen Nijenborgh 9 9747 AG Gronin-
gen The Netherlands tel: +31-50-363-8669 [or: 2131]
E-mail: f.j.weissing@rug.nl URL: www.rug.nl/biol/-
theobio f.j.weissing@rug.nl f.j.weissing@rug.nl
UHawaii ConservationBiol
Graduate Scholarship in the Tropical Conservation Bi-
ology and Environmental Science (TCBES)
M.S. Program at the University of Hawaii at Hilo
http://www2.hawaii.edu/˜tcbes/
Application deadline for graduate scholarship is 15 May
2009. A Bachelor’s degree in biology is preferred with
courses or experience in ecology, evolutionary biology,
behavior or genetics.
Join a team that examines the mechanisms of local
adaptation and speciation of Hawaiian Picture-winged
Drosophila. We are currently focusing on several
species on Hawaii Island and related species on other
Hawaiian Islands. The Hawaiian Drosophila are known
for their spectacular adaptive radiation, divergence of
behavioral and sexually selected traits, and speciation.
This project includes molecular, ﬁeld, and behavioral
studies to contrast patterns of neutral and expressed
genetic variation among locally adapted populations36 EvolDir May 1, 2009
and to quantify the ﬁtness and behavioral diﬀerences
of populations along elevation gradients. In addition,
the research will examine molecular diﬀerences among
closely related species and relate these diﬀerences to be-
havioral, ecological and morphological variation. The
graduate scholar will receive training in ﬁeld, molecu-
lar and behavioral methods and will contribute to the
overall project, while also conducting thesis research.
The successful applicant will receive $22,000 annual
salary, will enroll in the TCBES Program in August
2009, and will join a vibrant research community in
evolutionary genetics at UH Hilo, comprising faculty,
postdocs, and graduate and undergraduate students.
Students of Native Hawaiian, Paciﬁc Islander, or
other under-represented ancestries are especially en-
couraged to apply. For information on the TCBES
Program and application procedures, visit: http://-
www2.hawaii.edu/˜tcbes/ . Please direct questions to
Dr. Donald Price (donaldp@hawaii.edu)
Donald Price Associate Professor of Biology Chair of
TCBES Graduate Program University of Hawai‘i at
Hilo 200 West Kawili Street Hilo, HI 96720 Phone: 808-
974-7365 Fax: 808-974-7693
donaldp@hawaii.edu
Donald Price <donaldp@hawaii.edu >
ULiverpool
SeaBirdPhysiologyEvolution
UNIVERSITY OF LIVERPOOL School of Biological
Sciences
NERC funded Studentship Eligibility: UK citizens and
UK-resident (3 years+) EU citizens ONLY
Exploring the links between metabolism
and ﬁtness using seabirds as models Dr.
J.A. Green jonathan.green@liverpool.ac.uk
<mailto:jonathan.green@liverpool.ac.uk > and
Dr. M. Berenbrink michaelb@liverpool.ac.uk
<mailto:michaelb@liverpool.ac.uk >
Energy is the currency of life and understanding how
animals gain, use and store energy is essential in help-
ing us to understand how they function in their en-
vironment. Quantiﬁcation of energetics enables us to
understand the shape of the functional response curve
between resource availability and reproductive success.
This is particularly important as animals face changingenvironments and competition for their food resources.
Models predict that animals which maximise their en-
ergy gain while minimising their energy intake are likely
to have greater ﬁtness. The proposed project will in-
vestigate the links between rates of energy expenditure
and performance in natural populations of seabirds.
This should allow repeatability and heritability of these
traits to be investigated and the relative importance of
genotypic and phenotypic eﬀects assessed. Seabirds are
an ideal model for studies of this type as they are long-
lived, philopatric, and show considerable reproductive
skew. As a result, multiple generations of successful
individuals can be found breeding alongside less suc-
cessful individuals. The student will measure basal
metabolic rate (BMR) and possibly ﬁeld metabolic rate
and determine how these traits are related to breed-
ing success at diﬀerent scales, while accounting for con-
founding eﬀects such as age and seasonality. Measur-
ing these variables will allow a number of conﬂicting
hypotheses to be tested. Do successful animals have a
low BMR which allows them to consume less food and
pass more to their chick? Will successful animals have
a high BMR, indicative of a high capacity to work and
gain resources from their environment?
Opportunities exist for study in a number of diﬀerent
populations of seabirds, both at home and abroad, and
the student will be expected to undertake ﬁeldwork
on isolated islands. Within the broad framework of
the proposed project, there may be chances to develop
experimental/manipulative approaches to answer these
key questions.
Training :
Skills which will be learned during this project will in-
clude: Planning and executing expeditions and ﬁeld-
work. Ornithological/ﬁeldwork techniques such as an-
imal handling, biometric measurements and monitor-
ing of breeding. Ecophysiological techniques including
respirometry, the heart rate method and overall dy-
namic body acceleration (ODBA). Complex data han-
dling in a variety of disciplines. Parametric statistics.
Calculation of repeatability and heritability. Energy
budget modelling. Writing and submission of data for
publication. The student will need to train and apply
for a Home Oﬃce Licence and will become familiar with
the issues surrounding the ethics of experimentation on
wild animals. The project will involve liaison with the
governing and licensing authorities of the ﬁeld sites.
References: Blackmer, A.L., Mauck, R.A., Ackerman,
J.T., Huntington, C.E., Nevitt, G.A. & Williams, J.B.
(2005) Exploring individual quality: basal metabolic
rate and reproductive performance in storm-petrels.
Behavioral Ecology 16, 906-913.May 1, 2009 EvolDir 37
Nespolo, R.F. & Franco, M. (2007) Whole-animal
metabolic rate is a repeatable trait: a meta-analysis.
Journal of Experimental Biology 210, 2000-2005.
Wendeln, H. & Becker, P.H. (1999) Eﬀects of parental
quality and eﬀort on the reproduction of common terns.
Journal of Animal Ecology 68, 205-214.
Applications are invited from students who either hold
or expect to obtain, a First or Upper Second class Hon-
ours degree in a relevant subject. Application by email,
indicating the project(s) of interest (and supervisors)
in priority order, giving the reasons for this, together
with a c.v. including the names and contact details of
two academic referees, should be sent as soon as possi-
ble to: Mrs. Linda J. Marsh, Research Support Oﬃce,
School of Biological Sciences, The Life Sciences Build-
ing, Crown Street, Liverpool L69 7ZB (email: biol-
res@liverpool.ac.uk <mailto:biolres@liverpool.ac.uk >,
Fax: 0151 795 5122). Please indicate where you ﬁrst
saw the project(s) advertised.
Dr Jonathan A Green Lecturer in Marine Biology
School of Biological Sciences University of Liverpool
Crown Street Liverpool L69 7ZB UK
Tel: +44 (0) 151 795 4385 Fax: +44 (0) 151 795 4400
www.liv.ac.uk/marinebiology
Jonathan.Green@liverpool.ac.uk
Jonathan.Green@liverpool.ac.uk
UNebraska HemoglobinEvolution
Graduate Position: Hemoglobin Evolution - Univ.
Aarhus (Denmark) and Univ. Nebraska (USA)
A salaried 3-year PhD position is available in the De-
partment of Zoophysiology, University of Aarhus (Den-
mark). The project is part of a collaboration between
researchers at the University of Nebraska, USA (Dr.
Jay F. Storz) and the University of Aarhus (Drs. An-
gela Fago and Roy E. Weber).
The project is funded by the NIH and focuses on iden-
tifying adaptive functional changes in the hemoglobins
of high-altitude mammals, with a primary focus on
deer mice (Peromyscus). Studies will include structural
and functional characterizations of natural and recom-
binant hemoglobins to identify mechanisms underlying
changes in blood oxygen aﬃnity following high altitude
adaptation in mammals. The project involves an in-
tegration of molecular evolution, molecular populationgenetics, structural biology, biochemistry, and physiol-
ogy.
Please note that the deadline for applications is 15 April
2009!
Candidates should contact us before applying, by
sending their CV and recommendation letters to An-
gela Fago (angela.fago@biology.au.dk) and Roy Weber
(roy.weber@biology.au.dk).
Applications will be evaluated by the Ph.D.-board of
the Faculty of Science and scholarships will be awarded
based on qualiﬁcations. Detailed information on the
Ph.D. programme at Aarhus University and guidance
to application is available at:
http://science.au.dk/en/studies/phd-studies/
JayF.Storz SchoolofBiologicalSciences University-
ofNebraska Lincoln,NE68588 Phone:402/472-1114
E-mail:jstorz2@unl.edu
http://www.biosci.unl.edu/labs/storz/index.html Jay
F Storz <jstorz2@unlnotes.unl.edu >
UNewBrunswick 2
PopulationGenetics
2 Graduate Positions: population genetics, phylogeog-
raphy, speciation
I seek two highly motivated and enthusiastic candi-
dates to ﬁll full time graduate student positions (MSc or
PhD) in molecular ecology in the Department of Biol-
ogy at the University of New Brunswick (Fredericton).
My research focuses on the comparative population ge-
netics and phylogeography of north Atlantic marine in-
vertebrates and freshwater insects, and the biogeogra-
phy of speciation in strongylocentrotid sea urchins.
Successful candidates should have a strong background
in ecology and evolution, interests in population genet-
ics and statistics, and preferably some experience with
molecular techniques (but not required).
For more information about the Biology Department,
see: http://www.unb.ca/fredericton/science/biology/
For information about Graduate Studies at UNB, see:
http://www.unb.ca/gradschl/ The anticipated start
date of both positions is September 2009. For more
detail, or to apply, email a CV or resume, a letter of in-
terest, and contact information for 2 references to Jason
Addison (jaddison@unb.ca ).38 EvolDir May 1, 2009
http://www.unb.ca/fredericton/science/biology/-
Faculty/addison/addison.html – Jason A. Addison
Assistant Professor, Department of Biology, University
of New Brunswick, PO Box 4400 Fredericton, NB
CANADA E3B 5A3 (506) 452-6210
jaddison@unb.ca
UPierreMarieCurie
EvolutionaryTheory
PHD in evolutionary/theoretical ecology
We oﬀer a funded PhD project focused on the inﬂu-
ence of spatial structure on the ecological and evolu-
tionary components of nutrient recycling. Applications
are opened to master’s students with a background in
ecology that includes theoretical ecology and to mas-
ter’s students in mathematics or computing who have
an interest in applying their skills to ecological issues.
Candidates must be in the last year of their master
degree (or equivalent diploma) and come from the Eu-
ropean Union or other European countries aﬃliated to
the European area for higher education. Please ﬁnd
below an abstract of the project. If interested, feel free
to contact us for more details.
“Acquisition and recycling of nutrient: spatial, ecolog-
ical and evolutionary components”
This project tackles the links between diﬀerent pheno-
typic traits constraining the exploitation of resources
by plants. Models will include explicitly ecological and
evolutionary components of these traits, in a spatial
context. This approach aims at provinding a better
link between functional and evolutionary ecology, with
important implications for community and metacom-
munity ecology. Some of the expected results, related
to the storage capacity of nutrient by the community or
to the eﬀect of changes of traits on primary production
may provide important insights for the management of
ecosystems and agricultural systems.
The project will use metacommunity/metacosystem
models as well as adaptive dynamics technics (or other
types of evolutionary models), so that it is necessary
that the candidate has good skills in theoretical ecol-
ogy or applied mathematics.
For more information:
Nicolas Loeuille (nicolas.loeuille@gmail.com
<mailto:nicolas.loeuille@gmail.com >, 01 44 27 3610) Laboratoire Fonctionnement et ´ evolution des
syst` emes ´ ecologiques (UMR7625, CNRS), Universit´ e
Pierre et Marie Curie (Paris 6), 7 quai Saint Bernard,
Bˆ at. A, 7` eme ´ etage, case 237, 75252 Paris cedex 05
France
ou S´ ebastien Barot (Sebastien.Barot@bondy.ird.fr
<mailto:Sebastien.Barot@bondy.ird.fr >, 01 44 32 37
03) RD-Laboratoire Bioemco (UMR 7618) Ecole Nor-
male Sup´ erieure 46 rue d’Ulm 75230 Paris cedex 05
France
Please apply before the 10th of may, with: -a detailled
CV and motivation letter that details how you match
the desired proﬁle -grades of master degree -two rec-
ommendation letters or emails, to be sent directly to
us
–
S´ ebastien Barot IRD-Laboratoire Bioemco
(UMR 7618) Ecole Normale Sup´ erieure 46
rue d’Ulm 75230 Paris cedex 05 T´ el :
(33) 1 44 32 37 03 sebastien.barot@ird.fr
Site web : http://millsonia.free.fr/ Barot
<Sebastien.Barot@bondy.ird.fr >
UppsalaU ComputationalGenetics
PhD student position available: Development and use
of methods, algorithms and tools for functional evalua-
tion of DNA variation related to growth in chicken
We are looking for a PhD-student to join our young and
growing group. We provide a supportive environment
and strongly believe in an interdisciplinary approach,
so we encourage applicants with a non-standard back-
ground to apply. We are based in Uppsala, Sweden
at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences and
also have links with Uppsala University.
Empirical data from experimental chicken popula-
tions characterised phenotypically and genetically (e.g.
genome resequencing and high-density genotyping) will
be available for these PhD studies. Identiﬁcation of
mutations, pathways and genetic interactions under-
lying complex traits can improve our biochemical un-
derstanding and could be highly valuable for human
medicine, agriculture and other areas of biology. This
project aim to develop and use computational meth-
ods, algorithms and tools for functional evaluation of
genetic variation located within identiﬁed quantitative
trait loci. A good general understanding of molecu-May 1, 2009 EvolDir 39
lar biology, programming skills and eﬃcient utilisation
of available bioinformatic resources are crucial compo-
nents in this process.
Aside from work, you will have the chance to get to
know Uppsala, which is a pretty university town, no-
table for its castle and cathedral. It is 40 minutes by
train from Stockholm. We get some snow in winter and
beautiful long summer days.
Qualiﬁcations A successful applicant should have rel-
evant scientiﬁc education, be highly motivated for re-
search and have an interest in molecular, quantitative
and computational genetics. A strong mathematical /
statistical background and programming experience are
advantageous.
Forms for funding or employment Employment as PhD
student 4 years
Further information This opportunity is also an-
nounced at http://www.slu.se/?id=3D1123&Granska=
3D1&Utbildningsplatser id=3D373 including informa-
tion about SLU as an Equal Opportunity Employer as
well as links and contacts for general information about
PhD-studies at SLU.
If you have questions about us or our work, please
contact ¨Orjan Carlborg (Orjan.Carlborg@hgen.slu.se)
or Stefan Marklund (Stefan.Marklund@hgen.slu.se).
You can also ﬁnd more information about our
group at http://www.computationalgenetics.se and
http://www.lcb.uu.se.
We are looking forward to hearing from you!
Applications Applications marked with ref no 251-
861/09, must have arrived at the Registrar of SLU, P.O.
Box 7070, S- 750 07 Uppsala or registrator@slu.se no
later than 2009-05-29.
Selected recent publications: * Carlborg, ¨O. and Ha-
ley, C. Epistasis: too often neglected in complex traits
studies? Nature Reviews Genetics 2004 5: 618-625.
* Carlborg, ¨O., Jacobsson, L., ˚Ahgren, P., Siegel, P.,
Andersson, L. Epistatsis and the release of genetic
variation during long-term selection. Nature Genetics
2006 38:418-20. * Gjuvsland, A., Hayes, B., Plahte,
E., Omholt, S., Carlborg, ¨O. Statistical epistasis is a
generic feature of gene regulatory networks. Genet-
ics 2007 175:.411-420. * Le Rouzic, A., Siegel, P. and
Carlborg, ¨O. Phenotypic Evolution from Genetic Poly-
morphisms in Radial Network Architectures. BMC
Biology 2007, 5:50. * Alvarez-Castro, J., le Rouzic,
A. and Carlborg, ¨O. How to perform meaningful esti-
mates of genetic eﬀects. PLOS Genetics 2008 May 2;
4(5):e1000062 * Le Rouzic, A., Alvarez-Castro, J. and
Carlborg, ¨O. Dissection of the genetic architecture ofbody weight in chicken reveals the impact of epistasis
on domestication traits. Genetics 2008 179:1591-1599.
orjan.carlborg@lcb.uu.se orjan.carlborg@lcb.uu.se
USouthDakota Host
ParasitePopGen
Graduate Student Position: Ph.D. student sought for
host/parasite/conservation genetics study
Department of Biology, University of South Dakota,
Vermillion, SD
I am seeking a doctoral student interested in the syl-
vatic plague/black-tailed prairie dog system. I recently
received funding from the National Park Service for a
three year study investigating the genetic concordance
of black-tailed prairie dog (plague host) and ﬂea (plague
vector) populations in ﬁve western National Park units.
We will use microsatellite and VNTR markers to inves-
tigate how plague is spread among black-tailed prairie
dog colonies on the prairie landscape. The project will
also involve plague detection using PCR in previously
plagued and apparently naive colonies of prairie dogs.
The results of this study may have important impli-
cations for the management of the black-footed fer-
rets and black-tailed prairie dogs in the study areas.
A teaching assistantship is available to qualiﬁed appli-
cants.
Minimum Qualiﬁcations: 1) MS in Biology or closely re-
lated ﬁeld, 2) Desire and ability to carry out ﬁeld work
in remote areas with little supervision, 3) Experience
with PCR and other molecular genetics lab techniques.
Preferred Start Date: August 15, 2009
Please contact: Hugh Britten, Ph.D., at
hbritten@usd.edu for further details and visit
www.usd.edu/biol/ < http://www.usd.edu/biol/
>for information about our graduate programs.
Hugh.Britten@usd.edu
UZurich
ComputationalEvolutionaryBiol40 EvolDir May 1, 2009
WAGNER Andreas, Prof. aw@bioc.uzh.ch six digit
code: 020000
*PhD thesis in computational evolutionary biology*
A three-year Ph.D. studentship in evolutionary biology
is available in the laboratory of Andreas Wagner at the
University of Zurich. The Wagner lab at the University
of Zurich studies biological evolution on all levels of or-
ganization, from genes, genomes, and genetic networks
to whole organisms. Ongoing projects range from lab-
oratory evolution experiments in yeast to human popu-
lation genomics. A sample of our research can be found
athttp://www.bioc.uzh.ch/wagner/.** Lab members
are a group with very diverse backgrounds and research
projects, uniﬁed by their interests in evolution and /or
fundamental organizational principles of life.
The successful candidate will have a strong background
in bioinformatics and computational biology. Fluency
in a major scripting language such as perl, and experi-
ence in software development is a must. Also necessary
is a strong background in biology. Applications without
a demonstrated interest and research history in evolu-
tionary biology will not be considered further
We are looking for an individual with a Masters De-
gree or equivalent, who is highly self-motivated and can
work independently. The working language in the lab-
oratory is English. German skills, although helpful, are
not essential.
Zurich is a highly attractive city in beautiful surround-
ings, with a multinational population, and many edu-
cational and recreational opportunities.
To be considered, please send a single (!)
PDF ﬁle merged from the following parts to
jobs aw@bioc.uzh.ch <mailto:jobs aw@bioc.uzh.ch >:
CV including publication list (if available), a scanned
academic transcript (list of grades in university
courses), a statement of research interests not exceed-
ing two pages, and three references. Please include the
word $B!H(BEVO09$B!I(B in the subject line. The
application deadline is May 22, 2009.
Christiane Gujan Administrative Assistant of Prof. A.
Caﬂisch and Prof. A. Wagner Zurich University Insti-
tute of Biochemistry Winterthurerstrasse 190 CH-8057
Zurich Switzerland
Tel. 0041 (0)44 635 55 49 (secretariat Prof. Caﬂisch)
Fax 0041 (0)44 635 68 62 (secretariat Prof. Caﬂisch)
Tel. 0041 (0)44 635 61 42 (secretariat Prof. Wagner)
Fax 0041 (0)44 635 61 44 (secretariat Prof. Wagner)
Christiane Gujan <gujan@bioc.uzh.ch >Vienna PopulationGenetics
PhD Call 2009 at the University of Veterinary Medicine
Vienna
Several PhD positions are available in the Institute of
Population Genetics at the University of Veterinary
Medicine in Vienna from autumn 2009. Through the
analysis of natural variation the students will receive
training in evolutionary theory and population genetics
in an interdisciplinary research environment. Students
will join a lively institute working at the interface be-
tween experimental and theoretical population genet-
ics. Our institute represents a synthesis of theoreti-
cal and experimental expertise in population genetics
(Christian Schloetterer), molecular evolution and bioin-
formatics (Carolin Kosiol), functional genetics (Alis-
tair McGregor and Thomas Flatt) and conservation ge-
netics (Franz Suchentrunk). We welcome applications
from international students as the working language of
the institute is English. Available projects include:
-Functional characterization of copy number variation
in Drosophila (Schloetterer group)
-Probabilistic modeling of inter- and intraspecies se-
quence evolution (Kosiol group)
-Mechanisms and evolution of Drosophila life history
and aging (Flatt group)
-Genetic basis of morphological variation in Drosophila
(McGregor group)
-Measuring gene ﬂow between hare species by massive
parallel sequencing (Suchentrunk group)
See the following websites for more information on the
projects and the application procedure:
http://i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/pop/index.html Ap-
plication deadline is 15 May 2009
For questions and enquires, feel free to contact
carolin.kosiol@vu-wien.ac.at
Carolin Kosiol Group Leader in Bioinformatics Insti-
tut f¨ ur Populationsgenetik Veterin¨ armedizinische Uni-
versit¨ at Wien Veterin¨ arplatz 1 A-1210 WIEN, Austria
TEL +43(0)1-25077-4331 FAX +43(0)1-25077-4390 E-
mail: Carolin.Kosiol@vu-wien.ac.at
http://i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/pop/lab members/-
Carolin Kosiol.html ckosiol@gmail.comMay 1, 2009 EvolDir 41
Jobs
AMNH NewYork LabResAssoc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
AMNH NewYork LabSupervisor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Berlin Bioinformatics MolecularBiology Biodiversity 42
BiK-F Germany ResAssist MolecularSystematics . . 43
CostaRica FieldAssist FrogVariation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Groningen ResearchTechnician MolEvolGenetics . . . 44
Kunming 2 ConservationBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Kunming EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Munich EvolGradProgram Coordinator . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
OhioStateU Tech PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
PeabodyMuseum TempAssistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
PennStateU 6 InfectiousDisease . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
PennStateU ResAssist MolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
SouthAfrica FieldAssist Meerkats . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50Stuttgart CropPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
TexasAMU NineMnth ComparativeAnatomy . . . . . . 50
Trondheim FieldAssist BirdBreedingEvolution . . . . . 51
UAberdeen PopulationBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
UCDavis BioinformaticsForestGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . 51
UGeneva ScientiﬁcProgrammer ComparativeGenomics
52
UNorthCarolina ChapelHill ResAssist HybridFitness
52
UTexasAustin ResAssoc EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . 53
UWesternSydney Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
UZurich EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
AMNH NewYork LabResAssoc
Job: Laboratory Research Assistant Institution: Amer-
ican Museum of Natural History Location: New York
City Start Date: May and on
The American Museum of Natural History’s Sackler
Institute for Comparative Genomics is looking for a
skilled Laboratory Research Assistant to work with a
group of researchers on projects across the taxonomic
spectrum (viruses to mammals). Experience with DNA
sequence and microsatellite data collection, as well as
data management and analysis, are essential. Appli-
cants must have demonstrated proﬁciency with up-to-
date approaches, i.e. standard and alternative methods
of DNA extraction including degraded tissues such as
feces, bone and historical samples, standard skills for
PCR and cloning, DNA sequencing and microsatellite
optimization and analysis. Computer programs used in
the lab for such analyses include Geneious, Sequencher,
and GeneMapper, among others, so the applicants are
expected to know how to process and edit trace ﬁlesand score microsatellite genotypes. Knowledge of au-
tomated DNA sequencer (ABI 3730xl) usage and trou-
bleshooting is essential. Knowledge of microsatellite
library development is welcome. Applicants must hold
a Bachelors or Masters degree in Biology, Genetics,
Molecular Biology, Biochemistry, Evolutionary Biology
or related ﬁelds. Preference will be given to applicants
with work experience of over one year, data manage-
ment skills, and proﬁciency with analysis software pro-
grams.
Interested applicants should send a cover letter de-
tailing their experience and interests and a CV in
PDF, along with the names and contact information
of 3 references to Dr. Sergios-Orestis Kolokotronis at
koloko@amnh.org. Applicants must put (and ONLY
put) the following term (as-is) in the email subject line
for applications to be considered: LabResAssistant.
The position is open as of May.
Sergios-Orestis Kolokotronis, PhD Sackler Institute
for Comparative Genomics American Museum of
Natural History Central Park West at 79th Street
New York, NY 10024 -USA- tel +1 212 313 7654
koloko@amnh.org http://genomics.amnh.org http://-
koloko.net koloko@amnh.org42 EvolDir May 1, 2009
AMNH NewYork LabSupervisor
Job: Laboratory Supervisor Institution: American Mu-
seum of Natural History Location: New York City Start
Date: Immediately
Laboratory Supervisor American Museum of Natural
History New York City
The American Museum of Natural History is looking
for a Laboratory Supervisor to work with a group of
researchers on a broad variety of systematic problems.
Responsibilities and Duties: Extract and Sequence
DNA. Sequence editing (maintaining database) respon-
sible for ensuring lab supplies are on hand, maintain
lab equipment, training other laboratory users such as
graduate students and postdoctoral fellows.
Qualiﬁcations: BS required, familiar with lab proce-
dures for DNA extraction, PCR ampliﬁcation, cloning,
and sequencing. A plus if experienced in DNA ana-
lyzing equipment (3730 DNA analyzer and BIO Mech
robot), High-throughput, Basic computer skills, expe-
rience with Lab related software (sequence editing soft-
ware), and sequence databases.
Interested applicants should send a cover letter detail-
ing their experience and interests and a CV in PDF,
along with the names and contact information of 3 ref-
erences to Ward Wheeler at wheeler@amnh.org. Sub-
ject line MUST include reference to Lab Supervisor Po-
sition.
The position is open now.
crowley@amnh.org
Berlin Bioinformatics
MolecularBiology Biodiversity
Tenure-track Bioinformatics/Molecular Biology (3 po-
sitions) Next-Generation sequencing in Biodiversity Re-
search
The Berlin Center for Genomics in Biodiversity Re-
search (GenDiv) seeks to ﬁll three tenure-track posi-
tions in support of a next-generation sequencing facility.The Center is jointly operated by the Berlin Botanical
Garden - Botanical Museum (BGBM), the Freie Uni-
versitaet Berlin (FU), the Leibniz-Institute for Fresh-
water Ecology and Inland Fisheries (IGB), the Leibniz-
Institute for Zoo & Wildlife Research (IZW), the Mu-
seum fuer Naturkunde Berlin (MfN), and the University
of Potsdam. We are seeking highly motivated appli-
cants for the following positions:
1 Bioinformatics Scientist 1 Molecular Biology / Ge-
nomics Scientist 1 Laboratory Research Technician
All positions are tenure-track, initially limited to two
(technician) or three (scientists) years, and are avail-
able as of December 2009 (starting dates negotiable).
Successful candidates must be willing to work closely
with a diverse team of senior scientists, postdocs, and
students. S/he will conduct research at one of three
Leibniz-Institutes in Berlin (IZW, IGB, MfN), and at
the core facility at BGBM. The working language of
the laboratories is English and we value diversity in
backgrounds and nationalities.
Bioinformatics Scientist (at IZW). The successful can-
didate will play a central role in linking experimentalists
and evolutionary biologists studying gene expression.
S/he will be in charge of bioinformatics data processing
and analysis and will be heavily involved in interpreta-
tion of data. Requirements include a PhD in molecular
biology, bioinformatics or related ﬁeld, with a strong
publication record and excellent skills in genomics and
large-scale sequence analysis. The ideal candidate will
have bioinformatic programming/scripting experience
and a background in evolutionary biology.
Molecular Biology / Genomics Scientist (at IGB). The
successful candidate will be responsible for exploiting
next-generation sequencing for biodiversity research.
S/he will be heavily involved in collection, analysis, and
publication of data. Requirements include a PhD and
strong publication record in genetics, genomics, or a
related ﬁeld. The ideal candidate will have experience
with next-generation sequencing as applied to microbial
genetics or environmental metagenomics.
Laboratory Research Technician (at MfN). The suc-
cessful candidate will have completed an apprentice-
ship, preferably as a laboratory technician (BTA, MTA,
CTA), or will have a Bachelors degree. Knowledge of
molecular genetics in the ﬁeld of genome sequencing is
desirable. The ideal candidate will have experience with
computers, the ability to work in a team, and demon-
strated reliable performance.
Applications should be submitted by 30 May 2009, but
will be considered until the positions are ﬁlled. Please
submit your CV (including publications and funding),May 1, 2009 EvolDir 43
a cover letter indicating your research interests and ex-
perience, and the names and contact details of three
referees to genomics biodiv@fu-berlin.de. The Consor-
tium is determined to increase the proportion of women
in successful scientiﬁc careers and particularly encour-
ages female scientists to apply.
For additional information and informal inquiries,
please contact:
Bioinformatics Scientist: Dr. Simone Sommer
(sommer@izw-berlin.de, Tel +49 (0) 30 5168 315)
Molecular Biology / Genomics Scientist: Dr Michael
T. Monaghan (monaghan@igb-berlin.de, Tel +49 (0)
30 6418 1684)
Research Technician: Dr. Thomas von Rintelen
(thomas.rintelen@mfn-berlin.de, Tel +49 (0) 30 2093
8404).
www.igb-berlin.de www.izw-berlin.de
www.museum.hu-berlin.de www.wgl.de –
monaghan@igb-berlin.de
BiK-F Germany ResAssist
MolecularSystematics
The Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre (BiKF)
has recently been founded by the Senckenberg
Gesellschaft fuer Naturforschung, the Goethe Univer-
sity Frankfurt am Main, and additional partners. It is
funded by the Federal State of Hesse through its Ini-
tiative for the Development of Scientiﬁc and Economic
Excellence (LOEWE). The mission of the Centre is to
carry out internationally outstanding research on the
interactions of biodiversity and climate change at the
organism level. The Project Area C (Adaption and Cli-
mate) invites applications for the position of a
Research Assistant (or PhD) position Project C2.4 [Ref.
#C35] BAT IIa/2
The successful applicant will use molecular systematics
techniques to investigate recent changes in the south-
ern European ranges of lineages of the Hyles euphor-
biae complex (Lepidoptera: Sphingidae). Extant pop-
ulations will be sampled repeatedly to detect ongoing
changes in haplotype composition. For comparison,
methods of ancient DNA analyses will be used to se-
quence older museum specimens from areas of present
hybrid zones. It is desired that the successful applicant
earn a PhD degree in this position.The applicant should hold an earned Diploma or Mas-
ters degree in biology, and have a sound background in
population genetics and/or molecular phylogeography.
Experience with RNA and qPCR is an asset for project
prolongation. Fluent written and oral communication
skills in English and willingness to develop and submit
research funding proposals are required.
Salary and beneﬁts are according to a public service
position in Germany (BAT IIa/2). The Research Cen-
tre BiKF advocates gender equality. Women are there-
fore strongly encouraged to apply. Equally qualiﬁed
severely handicapped applicants will be given prefer-
ence.
The contract shall start as soon as possible and will
be initially restricted to 19 months, with possible ex-
tension subject to the acquisition of additional exter-
nal funding. The place of employment will be Dres-
den, Germany. The employer is the SENCKENBERG
GESELLSCHAFT FUER NATURFORSCHUNG.
Please send your application by email attachment,
mentioning the reference of this position (#C35) and
including a letter outlining your suitability for the
post, a detailed CV, contact details of 2 referees and
a copy of your diploma thesis and/or other exams
before April 20th to: Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. V.
Mosbrugger, Scientiﬁc Coordinator Biodiversity and
Climate Research Centre, Senckenberganlage 25, D-
60325 Frankfurt am Main, Germany. Email (to Ser-
vice and Finances): recruiting@senckenberg.de with
Cc. to anna.hundsdoerfer@senckenberg.de. For en-
quiries about the position and the contract con-
ditions please write to Prof. Dr. B. Stribrny
(email: bernhard.stribrny@senckenberg.de) and for
scientiﬁc enquiries to Dr. A. Hundsd¨ orfer (email:
anna.hundsdoerfer@senckenberg.de).
Ursula Maurer M.A. Wissenschaftliches Koordi-
nationsb¨ uro LOEWE - Biodiversit¨ at und Klima
Forschungszentrum BiK-F Besucheradresse: Georg-
Voigt-Straße 16 Postadresse: Senckenberganlage 25 D-
60325 Frankfurt am Main
Tel.: 069-7542-1819 Fax: 069-7542-7904 info-bik-
f@senckenberg.de www.senckenberg.de/bik-f
Tiefsee- entdecken, erforschen, erleben
Sonderausstellung in der Wolfgang-Steubing-
Halle des Senckenberg Naturmuseums: 19.12.08
ˆ a 30.6.09 www.tiefsee.senckenberg.de ( http://-
www.tiefsee.senckenberg.de/ )
Ursula Maurer <Ursula.Maurer@senckenberg.de >44 EvolDir May 1, 2009
CostaRica FieldAssist FrogVariation
Field assistant needed between 14th of May and 13th of
July for an international research project on the gran-
ular poison frog, Oophaga granulifera, in Costa Rica.
This is a PhD project based at the Department of Zo-
ology of the University of Veterinary Medicine (TiHo)
in Hannover, Germany (supervisor Heike Proehl) and
carried out in collaboration with Dr Nicholas Mundy,
University of Cambridge, UK.
Aim of the project is to investigate the geographical
variation in morphology, behaviour and genetic traits
analysing diﬀerent populations of Oophaga granulifera
inhabiting paciﬁc Costa Rica.
The ﬁeld assistant will collaborate in collecting biomet-
ric measurements, males advertisement calls and tissue
samples for genetic analysis.
There is a reimbursement of 100 Euros per week.
If you are interested please feel free to contact me for
details.
Best wishes,
Oscar Brusa
Oscar Brusa <oscar.brusa@tele2.it >
Groningen ResearchTechnician
MolEvolGenetics
Research Technician A research technician position is
available at the Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary
Studies (CEES) at the University of Groningen. The
candidate will join a recently started research group
that studies parasitoid-host interactions to unravel the
evolutionary genomics of adaptations. The overall aim
of the research group is to identify what genomic fea-
tures (e.g., SNPs, transposons, epigenetic regulation)
enable a rapid evolutionary response to adverse envi-
ronmental conditions. The research technician will par-
ticipate in various projects within the research group.
Requirements and duties The candidate will have a de-
gree (BSc/HBO or equivalent) in a relevant subject(such as molecular biology or genetics), aﬃnity with
evolutionary biology, extended experience with molecu-
lar biology techniques and ideally will have worked with
Drosophila previously. You will have excellent organi-
sational and research skills, and a positive attitude to
learn and troubleshoot new methods. The main duties
include experimentation in molecular biology, genetics
and insect biology, as well as meticulously carrying out
routine ﬂy work.
Additional conditions of employment Applications are
invited for an experienced research technician, who will
carry out research work and maintain ﬂy and parasitoid
stocks for Evolutionary Genomics research. The Uni-
versity of Groningen can oﬀer you a salary dependent
on qualiﬁcations and work experience from 1902,–(scale
7,number 0) up to a maximum of 2324,– (scale 7, num-
ber 4) gross per month for a full-time position. The
position will be available for a period of 3 years, start-
ing as soon as possible.
Additional information For more information you
may contact Dr. Bregje Wertheim, e-mail address:
b.wertheim@rug.nl. Or additional information can be
obtained through one of the following links. About
the organization: http://www.rug.nl About the Evolu-
tionary Genetics group: http://www.rug.nl/biologie/-
onderzoek/onderzoekGroepen/evolutionaryGenetics/-
index Application Cover letters in English language,
including a personal motivation (important!), a
curriculum vitae, and the names and addresses of
three referees (including telephone number and E-
mail address), to be sent before 23 March 2009 to:
vmp@rug.nl. Also send an electronic copy of your
application to b.wertheim@rug.nl. When applying for
this job always mentions the vacancy number 209077.
Bregje Wertheim Rosalind Franklin Research Fellow
Evolutionary Genetics Biological Centre University of
Groningen Postbus 14 9750 AA Haren The Netherlands
tel: +31 50 3639039 e-mail: b.wertheim@rug.nl
Kunming 2 ConservationBiol
Two PRINCIPAL INVESTIGATOR POSITIONS (
Yan2 Jiu1 Yuan2) in ecology, conservation biology, and
evolution, at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, based
at the Kunming Institute of Zoology (KIZ), Kunming,
China.
The Ecology, Conservation, and Environment CenterMay 1, 2009 EvolDir 45
(ECEC) at KIZ ( www.kiz.ac.cn ) invites applications
for two full-time PI positions in ecology and evolution,
broadly deﬁned. The rank is equivalent to an Assistant
or Associate Professor in the US.
Senior applicants (those with faculty positions) will also
be considered and are eligible for special recruitment
packages from the national government.
The ECEC was recently established as a joint center
between the Chinese Academy of Sciences and the Uni-
versity of East Anglia (UK). The ECEC’s mission is to
conduct international-quality research in ecology and
conservation biology, to train Chinese and foreign Ph.D.
and postdoctoral researchers, to lead the development
of ecology and conservation science in China and South-
east Asia, and to provide information necessary for en-
vironmental policy-making. The KIZ is one of China’s
leading scientiﬁc research institutes for evolutionary bi-
ology, its faculty are internationally recognized, and the
institute is building an ecology and conservation group
on this foundation.
This is a superb opportunity to pursue an independent
research program, backed by a large research team and
ample funding. Highly qualiﬁed candidates conducting
research on any taxa and in all areas of ecology, evo-
lution, and conservation biology are encouraged to ap-
ply. We especially encourage applicants with research
programs involving molecular ecology and bioinformat-
ics, theory and modeling, conservation planning and
economics, and/or climate change. Responsibilities in-
clude contributing to the ECEC’s mission, obtaining
external funding, and publication in top, international
journals.
Considerable startup funding is available, generally at
levels higher than those oﬀered by European or US uni-
versities, and faculty will be members of the KIZ’s State
Key Laboratory of Genetic Resources and Evolution.
Facilities at the KIZ include 454 next-gen sequencing,
SNP, and gene-chip facilities in a new, national bar-
coding center to be installed this year, extensive in-
ternet journal access, a zoological museum with over
600,000 specimens, and access to CAS ﬁeld stations,
datasets, and facilities around the country. In addition
to opportunities for collaboration within the ECEC and
KIZ, there are ample local opportunities for collabora-
tion with ecologists and evolutionary biologists at the
Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical Garden (xtbg.ac.cn
&www.ecologicalevolution.org ) and the Kunming Insti-
tute of Botany ( www.kib.ac.cn ), as well as local uni-
versities. In the near future, faculty from the three
institutes, including the ECEC, will be combined to es-
tablish a new National Laboratory in biodiversity.
The working languages at the KIZ are Chinese and En-glish. All nationalities are welcome to apply, and most
faculty have had international research experience. It is
possible to conduct research outside China with grant
monies from China. Starting data is ﬂexible.
Candidates with a strong record of accomplishment (a
Ph.D., postdoctoral experience, and published papers
in SCI journals) should submit a CV, a statement of
research interests and plans, and pdfs of three pub-
lications. Please also include the names, addresses,
and contact details of three individuals who can pro-
vide letters of recommendation. A single, combined
PDF or zipped ﬁle is preferred and can be emailed
to<ECEC.KIZ@gmail.com >. Informal enquiries can
be made with the center’s director, Dr. Douglas Yu
<dougwyu@gmail.com >.
Applications will be reviewed starting 31 July 2009 un-
til the positions are ﬁlled. This advert will be repeated
over the next months.
Background information:
The Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) was estab-
lished in 1949 and is China’s national research organiza-
tion, funding research and training in basic science and
technology across a countrywide network of research in-
stitutes. CAS goal is by 2010 to make 30 of its research
institutes internationally recognized and 3 to 5 of them
world class.
KIZ: Established in 1959. Primary research areas have
been evolutionary genetics and developmental biology,
animal systematics, and animal and human disease
models. There are about 200 staﬀ, including 1 CAS
member, and about 50 faculty, of which 7 PIs are sup-
ported by a CAS Excellent Young Scientists Program.
There are about 100 MSc and 100 PhD students en-
rolled.
From 2005-8, the institute published 812 papers (505
in SCI-indexed journals), including articles in Science,
Am. J. Human Genetics, PNAS
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Kunming EvolutionaryBiology
Two PRINCIPAL INVESTIGATOR POSITIONS (46 EvolDir May 1, 2009
Yan2 Jiu1 Yuan2) in ecology, conservation biology, and
evolution, at the Chinese Academy of Sciences, based
at the Kunming Institute of Zoology (KIZ), Kunming,
China.
The Ecology, Conservation, and Environment Center
(ECEC) at KIZ invites applications for two full-time
PI positions in ecology and evolution, broadly deﬁned.
The rank is equivalent to an Assistant or Associate
Professor in the US. The ECEC was recently estab-
lished as a joint center between the Chinese Academy
of Sciences and the University of East Anglia (UK). The
ECEC’s mission is to conduct international-quality re-
search in ecology and conservation biology, to train Chi-
nese and foreign Ph.D. and postdoctoral researchers, to
lead the development of ecology and conservation sci-
ence in China and Southeast Asia, and to provide in-
formation necessary for environmental policy-making.
The KIZ is one of China’s leading scientiﬁc research
institutes for evolutionary biology, its faculty are inter-
nationally recognized, and the institute is building an
ecology and conservation group on this foundation.
This is a superb opportunity to pursue an independent
research program, backed by a large research team and
ample funding. Highly qualiﬁed candidates conducting
research in all areas of ecology, evolution, and conser-
vation biology are encouraged to apply. We especially
encourage applicants with research programs involving
molecular ecology and bioinformatics, theory and mod-
eling, conservation planning and economics, and/or cli-
mate change. Responsibilities include contributing to
the ECEC’s mission, obtaining external funding, and
publication in top, international journals.
Considerable startup funding is available, generally at
levels higher than those oﬀered by European or US
universities, and faculty will be members of the KIZ’s
State Key Laboratory of Genetic Resources and Evo-
lution. Facilities at the KIZ include 454 next-gen se-
quencing and gene-chip facilities in a new, national bar-
coding center to be installed this year, extensive in-
ternet journal access, a zoological museum with over
600,000 specimens, and access to CAS ﬁeld stations,
datasets, and facilities around the country. In addition
to opportunities for collaboration within the ECEC and
KIZ, there are ample local opportunities for collabora-
tion with ecologists and evolutionary biologists at the
Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical Garden (xtbg.ac.cn
&www.ecologicalevolution.org ) and the Kunming In-
stitute of Botany ( www.kib.ac.cn ), as well as local uni-
versities. In the near future, faculty from the three
institutes, including the ECEC, will be combined to es-
tablish a new National Laboratory in biodiversity.
The working languages at the KIZ are Chinese and En-glish. All nationalities are welcome to apply, and most
faculty have had international research experience. It is
possible to conduct research outside China with grant
monies from China.
Candidates with a strong record of accomplishment
should submit a CV, a statement of research in-
terests and plans, and pdfs of three publications.
Please also include the names, addresses, and con-
tact details of three individuals who can provide let-
ters of recommendation. A single, combined PDF
or zipped ﬁle is preferred and can be emailed to
<ECEC.KIZ@gmail.com >. Informal enquiries can be
made with the center’s director, Dr. Douglas Yu
<dougwyu@gmail.com >.
Background information:
The Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS) was estab-
lished in 1949 and is Chinas national research organiza-
tion, funding research and training in basic science and
technology across a countrywide network of research in-
stitutes. CAS goal is by 2010 to make 30 of its research
institutes internationally recognized and 3 to 5 of them
world class.
KIZ ( www.kiz.ac.cn ): Established in 1959. Primary re-
search areas have been evolutionary genetics and devel-
opmental biology, animal systematics, and animal and
human disease models. There are about 200 staﬀ, in-
cluding 1 CAS member, and about 50 faculty, of which
7 PIs are supported by a CAS Excellent Young Scien-
tists Program. There are about 100 MSc and 100 PhD
students enrolled.
From 2005-8, the institute published 812 papers (505
in SCI-indexed journals), including articles in Science,
Am. J. Human Genetics, PNAS USA, The Plant Cell,
Genome Res., PLoS Medicine, and Human Molecular
Genetics. 230 of these papers were published in journals
ranked in the top 30% by the Thomson-Reuters Jour-
nal Citation Report. PIs have earned several patents
and numerous awards from the Chinese Academy of
Sciences and other national bodies, plus 3 awards from
international organizations. Two PIs head CAS-Max
Planck Junior Scientist groups.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.htmlMay 1, 2009 EvolDir 47
Munich EvolGradProgram
Coordinator
The EES-LMU Graduate Program in Evolution, Ecol-
ogy and Systematics at the University of Munich
(LMU), currently funded by the Evolution Initiative of
the Volkswagen Foundation, is looking for a *Coordina-
tor (part time or full time)* for our Master and Ph.D.
program, the summer school, and the seminar series.
The position is initially for 6 months, with a possible
extension for 33 months. The ideal candidate should
have a degree (preferably a Ph.D.) in biology or a re-
lated ﬁeld. He/she should be highly motivated and have
good communication skills. Proﬁciency in English and
German is required. Experience with teaching, admin-
istration or curriculum coordination is an advantage.
The novel, research-oriented Master program started
in fall 2007, mainly with international students. The
structured Ph.D. program started in February of this
year with a cohort of 15 PhD students.
The EES-LMU Graduate Program is run by the Biology
Department of the LMU. In addition, the LMU Depart-
ment of Earth- and Environmental Sciences, the Max
Planck Institute for Ornithology, the Bavarian Natural
History Collections, and groups at the Munich Tech-
nical University are involved. The coordinator func-
tions as an interface between university administration,
teachers, and students, and he/she could be involved in
teaching. The coordinator will also organize summer
schools, conferences and a seminar series, and he/she
will contribute to the website http://www.eeslmu.de/-
eeswiki . EES-LMU oﬀers a great working environment
for someone interested in science and teaching, and who
enjoys interacting with students and professors to im-
prove education in ecology, evolution and systematics.
The position is initially available at TV¨ oD 13 accord-
ing to the German salary scale. Application review will
start May 15th and will continue until the position is
ﬁlled. Interviews will be held in late May. Informal
inquiries and applications including a letter of motiva-
tion, CV, and names and telephone numbers of two ref-
erences, should be sent preferably by email (as a single
pdf ﬁle) to
The Speaker of the EES-LMU Program Prof.
Dr. Susanne Foitzik foitzik@biologie.uni-muenchen.de
<mailto:foitzik@biologie.uni-muenchen.de >+49 89
2180 74 209
– Prof. Dr. Susanne Foitzik Department Biolo-gie II Behavioral Ecology (Verhaltens¨ okologie) Ludwig-
Maximilians-Universit¨ at M¨ unchen Großhaderner Str. 2
D - 82152 Planegg / Martinsried Germany
Phone: + 49 89 / 2180 74 209 Fax: + 49
89 / 2180 74 221 e-mail: foitzik@biologie.uni-
muenchen.de http://ecology.bio.lmu.de/etho e/-
index.htm foitzik@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de
foitzik@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de
OhioStateU Tech PlantEvolution
Laboratory technician position (research associate I)
Mercer lab at Ohio State University Plant evolutionary
ecology in agricultural systems Applications accepted
April 4-12
I am seeking a highly motivated individual to ﬁll a full-
time lab technician (Research Associate I) position in
a newly established lab at The Ohio State University,
Columbus, Ohio. The successful candidate will work
on projects related to the evolutionary ecology of agri-
cultural plants – both weedy and cultivated.
In particular, my lab focuses on the evolutionary im-
pacts of crop-wild hybridization in sunﬂower as it re-
lates to risk assessment for transgenic crops and the
eﬀects of climate change on crop genetic resources in
the US and Mexico. Both projects involve a combina-
tion of molecular and quantitative genetic approaches
with lab, greenhouse, and ﬁeld components. The suc-
cessful candidate will assist in design of studies; coor-
dinate and conduct experiments; collect and maintain
data and records; execute data organization and rele-
vant statistical analyses (including regression and anal-
ysis of variance) to prepare research manuscripts for
publication; perform literature searches and assemble
reviews of relevant topics for preparation of grant pro-
posals or manuscripts; provide general supervision to
undergraduate students and hourly student employees;
and support research performed by graduate students
and postdoctoral researchers.
The required characteristics of a successful candidate
include an MS degree in Biology, Agronomy, or a re-
lated ﬁeld; the ability to translate, adapt and apply
academic and practical knowledge in the conduct of bio-
logical science research; experience working with plants
in the ﬁeld or greenhouse; ability to work independently
on all aspects of research; experience performing statis-
tical analysis; excellent written and oral communica-
tion skills; and considerable experience with Microsoft48 EvolDir May 1, 2009
Word and Excel. Desirable characteristics include prior
experience as a laboratory technician in a biological re-
search lab; experience running statistical analyses on
SAS; experience with molecular genetic analysis; and
willingness to travel in the US and Mexico. The posi-
tion would start as soon as possible.
To apply, submit an on-line application through
the Ohio State University jobs website ( <http://-
jobs.osu.edu/ >http://jobs.osu.edu/). The position
will be posted from April 4 - April 12. During that
period, you can search for the position on the website
using requisition number 344324. In addition to the
standard application form, please include a cover let-
ter indicating why you are interested in the position, as
well as a resume or CV.
Kristin Mercer Assistant Professor The Ohio State Uni-
versity Department of Horticulture and Crop Science
310D Kottman Hall 2021 Coﬀey Road Columbus, OH
43210
Oﬃce: (614) 247-6394 Lab: (614) 247-8626 (341
Kottman) Fax: (614) 292-7162
email: mercer.97@osu.edu
mercer.97@osu.edu
PeabodyMuseum TempAssistant
Museum Assistant I
FIXED DURATION. Three years from date of hire.
General Purpose This is a National Science Foundation
funded project. The museum assistant will participate
in the organization, physical care, and documentation
of ﬂuid-preserved vertebrate specimens, and be respon-
sible for the eﬀort to rehouse most of the specimen lots
in new containers, update cataloging in the Peabody’s
electronic database, and print new specimen labels.
Essential Duties of the Position 1. Be responsible for
the eﬀort to rehouse the ﬂuid-preserved vertebrate spec-
imens into updated containers, verify specimen infor-
mation using the museum’s EMU database, and print
updated labels for all specimen lots.
2. Organize a variety of identiﬁed vertebrates according
to a speciﬁc system of taxonomic classiﬁcation.
3. Sort and identify to species ﬂuid-preserved ﬁsh
specimens, and assist with the identiﬁcation of ﬂuid-
preserved amphibian, reptile, bird, and mammal spec-imens.
4. Recognize unique accessions, collection events, and
use taxonomic keys in cataloging specimens.
5. Under the direction of the Collection Manager and
Museum Assistant III, electronically catalogue speci-
mens using the museum’s EMU database, and manage
other aspects of data associated with specimens.
6. Perform general maintenance of ﬂuid-preserved spec-
imens.
Experience and Training 1. Required: Bachelor’s de-
gree in biology, or related ﬁled with speciﬁc courses in
organismal biology.
2. Work experience with natural history collections.
3. Knowledge of ﬁsh diversity demonstrated through
coursework, ﬁeldwork, or research.
4. Working knowledge of computer programs that in-
clude word processing, spreadsheets, and databases.
Skills and Abilities 1. Ability to work with various
ﬂuid preservative ﬁxing agents, such as ethanol and
formaldehyde.
2. Working knowledge of species diversity of North
American freshwater ﬁshes, deep-sea ﬁshes, and
Antarctic marine ﬁshes.
3. Physical dexterity to manipulate organisms under a
dissecting microscope.
4. Ability to lift heavy containers or specimens (50
lbs.).
5. Ability to work with a dermestid beetle colony for
the preparation of osteological specimens.
Application and Salary Information
Persons should send a letter outlining interest in the po-
sition, a CV, and names to three references to Thomas
J. Near (thomas.near@yale.edu).
The ﬁrst year salary is $38,863 with a 4.5% raise in each
of the two following years.
thomas.near@yale.edu thomas.near@yale.edu
PennStateU 6 InfectiousDisease
The following ad will shortly appear in Science. Infor-
mal enquiries to any of us. www.cidd.psu.edu <http:/-
/www.cidd.psu.edu/ >.May 1, 2009 EvolDir 49
Infectious Disease: Faculty Appointments in The Evo-
lution & Dynamics of Pathogens
The Eberly College of Science, The College of Agricul-
tural Sciences, The College of Earth and Mineral Sci-
ences, The Huck Institutes of Life Sciences and The
Penn State Institutes of Energy & the Environment
are seeking to appoint a number of faculty positions
in the ﬁelds of theoretical and empirical infectious dis-
ease biology. Speciﬁcally we are interested in exciting
interdisciplinary candidates who are Mathematicians,
Physicists, Climate Modelers or Biologists, to provide
novel insights into parasite-host interactions that range
from within-host interactions, between-host transmis-
sion events and population-level dynamics.
We seek interactive people who can work across disci-
plines and identify novel insights and solutions to man-
aging the disease burden. We encourage candidates in-
terested in dynamical issues relating to pathogen epi-
demiology and evolution, such as the evolutionary im-
pact of drugs, vaccines and insecticides, and the role of
ecological and evolutionary factors in the invasion and
emergence of diseases. We also seek candidates with
expertise in theoretical modeling and the interaction
of climate and disease - speciﬁcally dynamical down-
scaling of global and regional climate to elucidate the
biological processes of disease transmission. The candi-
dates will become integral to one of our centers of ex-
cellence in infectious disease such as The Center for In-
fectious Disease Dynamics http://www.cidd.psu.edu/ ,
The Center for Molecular Immunology and Infectious
Disease http://cmiid.psu.edu <http://cmiid.psu.edu/
>or The Earth Systems Science Center: http://-
www.essc.psu.edu/ . We are cluster hiring in this area
and will consider appointment at any scale for As-
sistant, Associate or Full Professor. Penn State of-
fers highly competitive salaries and startup package
with institutional support for students. Please sub-
mit one electronic application consisting of a covering
letter including future research plans, curriculum vi-
tae and the names of three references to Judie Burns
at jeb1@psu.edu <mailto:jeb1@psu.edu >. Review will
start June 15th and continue until a number of posi-
tions have been ﬁlled.
Andrew Read, Centre for Infectious Disease Dynamics,
Departments of Biology and Entomology, 208 Mueller
Laboratory, The Pennsylvania State University, Uni-
versity Park, PA 16802, USA
www.thereadgroup.net < http://-
www.thereadgroup.net >
www.cidd.psu.edu <http://www.cidd.psu.edu >
www.bio.psu.edu <http://www.bio.psu.edu >www.ento.psu.edu <http://www.ento.psu.edu >
+814 867-2396 (oﬃce, biology) +814 863-4444 (oﬃce,
entomology) +814 867-2397 (lab)
+814 865-9131 (fax)
a.read@psu.edu a.read@psu.edu
PennStateU ResAssist MolEvol
Job: Research Assistant in Molecular Evolution Insti-
tution: Pennsylvania State University Location: Uni-
versity Park, PA, USA Start date: immediately (or ne-
gotiable)
An academic Research Assistant position is available
immediately in a molecular evolution laboratory su-
pervised by Dr. Blair Hedges in the Department of
Biology at The Pennsylvania State University ( http:/-
/evo.bio.psu.edu/hedgeslab/ ). The successful candi-
date for this position will assist with ongoing research
projects, with primary responsibilities to include prepa-
ration of DNA to be sequenced, evolutionary analysis of
DNA sequence data, and some laboratory management
duties including occasional training and supervision of
laboratory personnel. Requires a bachelor of science
degree in the biological sciences (biology, biochemistry,
molecular biology or related area) and a master of sci-
ence degree (or equivalent experience) in the biologi-
cal or computer sciences (or related ﬁelds). Must have
laboratory skills in working with DNA and analytical
skills in working with DNA sequence data. Computer
programming skills are advantageous, but not required.
Salary commensurate with experience. Screening of ap-
plicants to begin immediately and continue until posi-
tion is ﬁlled. To apply, email a cover letter brieﬂy de-
scribing your experience, interest in the job, and career
goals, along with your resume, college transcripts (un-
oﬃcial acceptable), and contact information for three
references to Dr. Hedges at sbh1@psu.edu (place “Evo-
lution position” in subject line). This is a non-tenure
track, ﬁxed-term appointment funded for one year from
date of hire with an excellent possibility of re-funding.
Penn State is committed to aﬃrmative action, equal
opportunity and the diversity of its workforce.
sbh1@psu.edu sbh1@psu.edu50 EvolDir May 1, 2009
SouthAfrica FieldAssist Meerkats
Field assistant for study on prospecting behaviour in
meerkats, South Africa
A ﬁeld assistant is required for a PhD student from
the University of Cambridge conducting research on
the variation in extraterritorial prospecting behaviour
in meerkats, at the Kalahari Meerkat Project, North-
ern Cape, South Africa, from August 2009 to February
2010.
Daily work involves radio-tracking, behavioural and
movement data collection of prospecting male meerkats,
helping with ﬁeld experiments, and many hours under
the desert sun.
All living and transport expenses whilst in South Africa
will be covered.
Previous ﬁeld experience is preferred, but not essential.
Applicants are required to have a driving licence and
experience. Interested applicants should send a cover
letter and CV to:
Raﬀ Mares, crm53@cam.ac.uk
For position advert: http://www.zoo.cam.ac.uk/-
zoostaﬀ/larg/pages/Mares Assistant.PDF For more
information about the ﬁeld site (Kuruman River
Reserve): http://www.kalahari-meerkats.com
raﬀmares@gmail.com
Stuttgart CropPopulationGenomics
Group leader / Research associate in
Stuttgart/Germany
Quantitative genetics or population genomics of crop
plants (2 x 3 Years)
A position as non-tenure track “Assistant Professor”
(German government salary scale E13 or A13) is avail-
able immediately in the Institute of Plant Breeding,
Seed science and Population Genetics at the Univer-
sity of Hohenheim, Germany in the newly established
research group ’Crop plant biodiversity and breeding
informatics’ led by Karl Schmid.We are looking for a commited scientist who works in
one of the following areas: ˆ a Evolutionary genetics of
environmental adaptation in model or crop plants ˆ a
Population and evolutionary genomics of crop domes-
tication ˆ a Development and application of population
genetic methods for genetic mapping and plant breed-
ing
We are particularly interested in candidates with a
solid quantitative or evolutionary background and good
bioinformatics skills who plan to incorporate modern
genomic approaches into their research program. The
position is ideally suited for a Ph.D. with previous post-
doc experience who wants to start his or her own inde-
pendent research and to acquire external funding from
national and international sources.
The successful applicant will be initially appointed for
three years with the possibility of extension for another
three years. Some teaching is required, which will be
conducted in English, and there is the possibility to
obtain the Habilitation.
The University of Hohenheim is located on a beauti-
ful campus in the South German city of Stuttgart and
has recently been evaluated as one of the top agricul-
tural universities in Germany. Further information on
our group can be obtained from http://evoplant.uni-
hohenheim.de or from the contact information below.
Please send your application (cover letter, CV, Pub-
lications, Research interests, addresses of at least two
references) until 3 May 2009 as electronic documents
(PDF) to the following address:
Prof. Dr. Karl Schmid Institute of Plant Breeding,
Seed Science and Population Genetics Fruwirthstrasse
21 D-70599 Stuttgart Germany Phone: +49 711 459
23487 Email: karl.schmid@uni-hohenheim.de
Karl Schmid <karl@minzer-schmid.de >
TexasAMU NineMnth
ComparativeAnatomy
The Department of Life Sciences invites applications
for a non-tenure-track, instructor-level position in
Anatomy & Physiology to begin in academic year 2009-
10. This is a full-time, nine-month appointment. Min-
imal requirements for the positions are a Master’s de-
gree with eighteen graduate hours in the appropriate
discipline, and prior experience in an academic setting.May 1, 2009 EvolDir 51
More information is available at: http://-
sci.tamucc.edu/openpositions/ap.html .
Please do not email me about this position. I am not on
the search committee. There is a contact for questions
listed at the link above.
Deb Overath
R. Deborah Overath, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Biol-
ogy Local Program Director Hispanic Leaders in Agri-
culture and the Environment Department of Life Sci-
ences (ST 312) 6300 Ocean Drive, Unit 5800 Texas
A&M - Corpus Christi Corpus Christi, TX 78412
Phone: (361) 825-2467 Fax: (361) 825-2742
“Overath, Deborah” <Deborah.Overath@tamucc.edu >
Trondheim FieldAssist
BirdBreedingEvolution
Field Assistant / Potential PhD Student Position
The Evolution of Cooperative Breeding in Birds
Detailed behavioural observations and life history data
will be collected on an already tamed population of
colour-banded apostlebird groups at UNSW Arid Zone
Research Station at Fowlers Gap, Australia. This study
is part of wider empirical and theoretical work involv-
ing collaborators in various countries, but speciﬁcally
Prof. Jon Wright (NTNU, Norway), Dr Andrew Rus-
sell (Sheﬃeld Univ., UK) and Dr Simon Griﬃth (Mac-
quarie Univ., Australia). We are speciﬁcally interested
in the evolution of helping-at-the-nest and the eﬀects
of individual ’state’, and so observations will be accom-
panied by assessments of individual variation in body
mass by getting habituated birds to stand electronic
balances. This is an expenses paid ﬁeld assistant posi-
tion in the ﬁrst instance, with the opportunity to apply
for a funded PhD position. All nationalities eligible
(masters degree preferred). Preferred start date Aug
2009.
– Prof. Jonathan Wright Institute of Biology, NTNU,
Trondheim, N-7491 Norway.
E-mail: jonathan.wright@bio.ntnu.no Tel: +47 73
596070 Fax: +47 73 596100
Jonathan Wright <jonathan.wright@bio.ntnu.no >UAberdeen PopulationBiology
We are seeking an enthusiastic researcher to join
ECOCYCLES, a part of the FP7 ERA-NET pro-
gram BiodivERsA funded by NERC and DEFRA, and
based within a thriving group of ecologists at the
University of Aberdeen http://www.abdn.ac.uk/ibes/-
research/ecology/ . We seek a research fellow in Quan-
titative Population Ecology with an interest in life his-
tories, conservation and strong statistical skills. You
will explore, using modelling and analytical approaches,
the demographic response of avian and mammalian
predators to changes in cyclic prey dynamics in four
diﬀerent ecosystems across Europe. You will be highly
motivated, capable of independent work, have a rele-
vant degree and proven track record in publishing pa-
pers in international journals. You will have expertise
in ecological and population processes, experience of
working with trophic prey interactions, experience of
stochastic matrix projection models, and/or statistical
analysis of time-series and/or capture-recapture data.
You will have a sound knowledge of programming (with
R or C++) and experience of working in teams.
Informal enquiries may be made
to Professor Xavier Lambin
(x.lambin@abdn.ac.uk <mailto:x.lambin@abdn.ac.uk >).
Details on http://www.abdn.ac.uk/jobs/-
display.php?recordid=3DYZY191R The University
of Aberdeen is a charity registered in Scotland, No
SC013683.
x.lambin@abdn.ac.uk x.lambin@abdn.ac.uk
UCDavis
BioinformaticsForestGenomics
The following Bioinformatic Scientist position is avail-
able through the Department of Plant Sciences at the
University of California at Davis
Candidate is responsible for scientiﬁc and systems pro-
gramming, design and analysis, database administra-
tion, network administration, system administration,
research and collaboration in support of projects re-52 EvolDir May 1, 2009
lated to conifer genomics.
Applicant should have the following qualiﬁcations:
Academic background in computer science, statistics
and bioinformatics. Experience in applying and im-
plementing bioinformatics analysis tools, algorithms,
and databases. Programming experience with lan-
guages/tools, such as Perl, Java, C/C++, PostgreSQL,
Oracle, and MySQL. Experince with multiple operating
systems, modern programming languages, relational
database management systems, and web technologies.
Written, communication and presentation skills to par-
ticipate in scholarly articles published in peer-reviewed
journals. Supervisory skills to eﬀectively participate in
hiring, training and providing direction to undergradu-
ate students, graduate students, and staﬀ
To learn more about current research, please visit:
http://dendrome.ucdavis.edu To learn more about this
position and to apply, please follow the instructions
@http://www.employment.ucdavis.edu/applicants/-
Central?quickFind=52079 jillylee@gmail.com
UGeneva ScientiﬁcProgrammer
ComparativeGenomics
Scientiﬁc Programmer Bioinformatics infrastructure
development and data mining.
We are looking for a highly motivated, innovative and
independent person with a strong background in soft-
ware engineering and hands-on experience in build-
ing and managing large-scale data analysis pipelines in
Unix environment to support numerous bioinformatics
research projects led by the members of the lab, and
possibly being involved in practical data mining. We
are working at the exciting interface of bioinformatics
and genomics, and operate with Terabytes of data in a
HPC Unix cluster environment.
Candidates must demonstrate clear evidence of success-
ful work, and have at least 3 years experience in a multi-
disciplinary research environment. Practical program-
ming experience in Unix environment, SQL databases,
and ﬂuency in English are required. Knowledge of Web
technologies (Web 2.0, AJAX, CSS, PHP), statistical
data analysis, and MATLAB is a plus.
The Computational Evolutionary Genomics group,
headed by Prof. E. Zdobnov, is part of the Depart-
ment of Genetic Medicine and Development of the Uni-
versity of Geneva Medical School. We are also part ofthe renowned Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics (SIB,
http://www.isb-sib.ch/ ), and oﬀer a stimulating re-
search environment with excellent facilities.
The international city of Geneva, described as ’the
smallest of the large capitals’, oﬀers a vibrant city life
within easy reach of the picturesque lake and stunning
Alps.
Salaries: 68’000-94’000 CHF/y depending on experi-
ence.
Closing date for applications: 31 May 2009.
To apply: send your CV, motivation letter, and the
names and contact details of at least two referees by
e-mail to Evgeny.Zdobnov@isb-sib.ch
Prof. Evgeny Zdobnov University of Geneva CMU
/ Dpt GEDEV Rue Michel-Servet 1 1211 Gen` eve 4
Switzerland
Stefan.Wyder@unige.ch Stefan.Wyder@unige.ch
UNorthCarolina ChapelHill
ResAssist HybridFitness
Subject: Research Opportunity at University of North
Carolina
Karin Pfennigs lab in the Department of Biology at the
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill seeks a re-
search technician for a collaborative project studying
gene expression and hybrid ﬁtness in spadefoot toads.
This project is in collaboration with Corbin Jones Lab,
also at UNC. The position is a 1-year post and is there-
fore ideal for recent graduates seeking additional expe-
rience prior to graduate school.
The successful candidate will have a BA/BS degree and
experience in a molecular lab. In particular, the candi-
date must have good organizational skills, be detailed
oriented, and be comfortable with isolating DNA and
RNA, as well as performing PCR and Western Blots.
Although preference will be given to local (North Car-
olina) candidates, all applications will be considered.
Some background in evolutionary biology is a plus, as is
experience working with vertebrates. Salary will range
from $25-30K depending on experience.
Please submit a letter of interest, resume/CV to Drs.
Karin Pfennig (kpfennig@email.unc.edu) or Corbin
Jones (cdjones@email.unc.edu). Please also arrange
to have 3 letters of reference sent separately. Addi-May 1, 2009 EvolDir 53
tional information about the project can be found at:
http://www.bio.unc.edu/Faculty/kpfennig/ . Corbin
D. Jones, Ph.D. Department of Biology Carolina Cen-
ter for Genome Sciences Campus Box 3280, Coker Hall
UNC-Chapel Hill Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3280
“Corbin D. Jones” <cdjones@email.unc.edu >
UTexasAustin ResAssoc
EvolutionaryBiol
Position Title: Research Associate
Employer: Howard Hughes Medical Institute
Where: Section of Integrative Biology, University of
Texas at Austin, Austin, TX
Classiﬁcation: Full-time
Starting Salary: $28,000 to $35,000 annually depending
on qualiﬁcations, plus beneﬁts.
Start date: September 1, 2009
Duration: Renewable annually, with an expected du-
ration of three years. Depending on performance, the
Research Associate may have the option of extending
for up to an additional three years (six years total).
Job summary:
The Bolnick lab in the Section of Integrative Biology at
the University of Texas at Austin, is seeking a highly
motivated research associate to assist with a study of
how macroparasites drive immune system evolution in
a ﬁsh host. The research associate will be an employee
of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute.
Responsibilities will include:
Quantifying parasite incidence and identity in wild-
caught ﬁsh specimens. DNA extraction, ampliﬁcation,
and sequencing/genotyping of hosts and parasites. As-
sisting in daily management of the laboratory, including
purchasing, equipment maintenance, database manage-
ment, and animal care. The technician will assist with
periodic ﬁeld work on Vancouver Island, Canada, to
obtain specimens.
Minimum qualiﬁcations:
A Bachelor’s degree in biology or equivalent ﬁeld. A
strong work ethic, an ability to work independently,
and good organizational skills.
Preferred qualiﬁcations:A Masters degree in an appropriate subﬁeld of biol-
ogy, including but not limited to evolution, ecology, im-
munology, parasitology, ichthyology, molecular genet-
ics, or bioinformatics. Experience with parasite taxon-
omy, molecular genetics tools (DNA extraction, PCR,
sequencing, SNP arrays, expression arrays, or pyrose-
quencing), and/or database management and bioinfor-
matics would be useful.
To apply:
Mail a letter of application with a description of past
research experience and education (degree, institution,
GPA, courses taken), a curriculum vitae, and the names
of three references to:
Dr. Daniel Bolnick Section of Integrative Biology One
University Station C0930 University of Texas at Austin
Austin TX 78712, USA
Alternatively, the application may also be sent as a sin-
gle pdf ﬁle to: danbolnick@mail.utexas.edu
For more information on the Bolnick lab, visit:
https://webspace.utexas.edu/dib73/Bolnicklab/-
Bolnicklab.html The Howard Hughes Medical
Institute is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
Dr. Daniel I. Bolnick Assistant Professor Section of
Integrative Biology One University Station C0930 Uni-
versity of Texas at Austin Austin, TX 78712
512-471-2824 fax 512-471-3878 danbol-
nick@mail.utexas.edu
UWesternSydney Biodiversity
Academic positions in Plant Biochemistry,
Ecological Systems/Biodiversity, Nutrient Cy-
cling/Biogeochemistry
Exciting opportunities exist to join the Centre for Plant
and Food Science at the University of Western Sydney
(UWS), as Lecturer/Senior Lecturer (Academic Levels
B/C). We are seeking three energetic scientists with a
sound research track record and established or emerging
international reputation in any of the three disciplines:
- Plant Biochemistry (reference 245/09) - Ecological
Systems / Biodiversity (reference 246/09) - Nutrient
Cycling / Biogeochemistry (reference 247/09)
The Centre for Plant and Food Science at UWS con-
ducts fundamental and applied research in a range
of areas that include climate change biology, plant-54 EvolDir May 1, 2009
environment interactions, sustainable plant production,
applied entomology, soil microbiology and ecological
systems. The Centre boasts signiﬁcant research facil-
ities including state-of-the-art equipment and infras-
tructure. The successful applicants will be expected
to conduct research within the Centre for Plant and
Food Science and contribute to teaching in the School
of Natural Sciences, UWS.
Position Enquiries: Professor John Cairney,
+61 (02) 4570 1404, or j.cairney@uws.edu.au
<mailto:j.cairney@uws.edu.au >
Closing Date: 20 May 2009
More detailed information and an application guide can
be obtained from http://uws.nga.net.au/cp/ . Scroll to
the job reference numbers (above). Click on the refer-
ence number and follow the instructions at the bottom
of the page on ’How To Apply’.
Dr Markus Riegler Centre for Plant and Food Science
School of Natural Sciences University of Western Syd-
ney Locked Bag 1797 Penrith South DC NSW 1797
Australia
oﬃce: +61-(0)2-4570 1229 fax: +61-(0)2-4570 1314
“be part of symbiosis research”
M.Riegler@uws.edu.au M.Riegler@uws.edu.au
UZurich EvolutionaryBiol
The Faculty of Science at the University of Zurich in-
vites applications for a
Professorship in Ecology and Evolution
We seek outstanding, innovative applicants with arecord of excellence in research, who have proven their
ability to develop and apply novel or interdisciplinary
concepts in ecology and evolution. Areas of interest
include, but are not limited to, evolution of complex
traits, speciation, evolution of development, population
or quantitative genetics, ecophysiology, biodiversity, or
species interactions.
The successful candidate is expected to develop a
strong, indepen- dent research program, attract exter-
nal funding, and contribute to graduate and undergrad-
uate teaching. The position is open rank (tenure-track
assistant professor to full professor).
Zurich oﬀers a stimulating scientiﬁc and cultural envi-
ronment, including a rich spectrum of research activi-
ties in life sciences and medicine, and provides extensive
opportunities for collaborations with research groups at
the Faculties of Science and of Medicine of the Univer-
sity of Zurich, as well as teams at the nearby ETH
Zurich.
The University of Zurich provides generous research
support, including earmarked funds for personnel and
running expenses, and competitive start-up packages.
Applications should include a curriculum vitae, a pub-
lication list, a summary of present and future research
interests, and a vision statement that outlines major
unsolved problems in the ﬁeld and how they could be
tackled by the planned research. Documents should be
sent, together with names and addresses of three poten-
tial referees, to Prof. Michael Hengartner, Dean of the
Faculty of Science, University of Zurich, Winterthur-
erstrasse 190, CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland by June 15,
2009. The application material should be submitted as
a single PDF ﬁle to jobs@mnf.uzh.ch.
For further information, please contact Prof.Lukas
Keller at lukas.keller@zm.uzh.ch.
Lukas Keller <lukas.keller@zm.uzh.ch >
OtherMay 1, 2009 EvolDir 55
ABIPrism377 DNASequencer to give away . . . . . . . . 55
AFLP extraction answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Biological images . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Commercial SNP development . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
CostaRica Volunteer MonkeyEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Daphnia DNA extractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Darwin links . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
Data analysis for polyploids . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
DNA Bank Database . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
DNAMarkers SexDetermination GreenIguana . . . . . . 58
DPGP releases 50 Drosophila . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Drosophila lines . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Evolution Lab exercises . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Fungal DNA isolation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
FungalDNA isolation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
HIV XML annotations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Megabace sequencer 1000 info . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Microsats ampliﬁcation answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
NESCent Biodiversity DataCenter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
NESCent Coding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
NESCent SabaticalScholars . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63NESCent SummerProgramming Deadline . . . . . . . . . . 63
New Population Genetics text . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Nst Gst answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Polyploid analysis answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Program for haplotypes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
qBase Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Rocking Darwin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Software adegenet1 2-3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Software bms runner 1 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Software Circuitscape3 1 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Software Concatenator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Software NOBLAST JAMBLAST . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
SSCP gel solutions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
StatGenetics ScholarshipDeadline Apr13 . . . . . . . . . . 68
Sturgeon problems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Tree of Life Poster Answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Tree topologies BIC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
UCaliforniaLosAngeles Volunteer LomasBarbudal-
Monkeys . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
ABIPrism377 DNASequencer to
give away
Oﬀering: ABI Prism 377 DNA Sequencer as is. The
instrument is not working at the
moment and needs repair and we are unclear about the
problem. It comes with the Power Mac G3 (incl. key-
board and mouse) and a spare laser unit, which was
taken out of the instrument at another time of repair,
but is still useful. Further included are all the acces-
sories (glass plates, combs etc.).
Please not that recipient pays for crating and shipping.
If interested please contact:
Katrin Sommerfeld
for Dr. Andrew Roger
Dalhousie University Dept. of Biochemistry & Molecu-
lar Biology 5850 College Street Halifax, NS, B3H 1X5,
Canada email: ksommerf@dal.ca Phone: (902) 494-
3569
– Katrin Sommerfeld W. Ford Doolittle Lab / John
Archibald Lab Dalhousie University Dept. of Biochem-
istry & Molecular Biology 5850 College Street Halifax,
NS, B3H 1X5, Canada
Phone: (902) 494-3569 Fax: (902) 494-1355 website: http://doolittle.biochem.dal.ca/ http://-
myweb.dal.ca/jmarchib/ Katrin Sommerfeld
<ksommerf@dal.ca >
AFLP extraction answers
Dear all,
Many thanks to all the contributors, it really helps.
Many asked for the answers. They where quite var-
ied, so I copied below the original messages, with slight
editions.
Cheers,
Matthieu
——– 1. Rachel
I have been doing exactly this over the past year or
so.... and so I have a few pointers. Hopefully they’re
useful.
1. I went the silver staining route initially but had a
hard time extracting the band from the polyacrylamide
and found the whole process rather messy and time con-
suming...
2. After ditching the silver staining method I began us-
ing MetaPhor agarose (I assume this is like Nusieve...),56 EvolDir May 1, 2009
and that’s worked really well. I do isolate the band af-
ter whole ampliﬁcation, and re-amplify, and then run
them out again. I’ve been able to resolve bands of sizes
from 75 to 400 bp with no trouble.
3. For the ﬁnal extraction I ran a 100bp ladder next to
5uL of the PCR followed by an empty well and then the
rest of my sample ( ~20uL). After running it overnight
at about 34V I then cut out the ladder and 5uL PCR
areas of the gel and stained them in EtBr - this then
became my reference by which I could cut out the frag-
ment of interest from the unstained 20uL lane. I did
this so that I didn’t have any EtBr knicks in my frag-
ment of interest - maybe overly cautious, but I thought
it was worth it.
——– 2. Erick (my summary + translation)
You could use the same ﬂuorescent PCRs as the ones
used on the automatic sequencer, but loaded into a clas-
sical vertical electrophoresis (denaturing, 0.4 cm thick),
visualise the bands with a FMBIO II scanner, and cut
them at this very moment. Labour intensive and boring
but eﬃcient.
——– 3. Bob
I can conﬁdently tell you that separation on acry-
lamide followed by silver-staining is really not all that
painful. I’ve done it hundreds of times (many hundreds
of gels!) for microsatellites (though now I use ﬂuor-
labeled primers and run them on the 3730). Forget the
silver-staining kits, by the way. They’re complicated
and expensive. If you’re interested, I can send you the
silver-staining technique we used that is cheap and fast
and dependable. I still use a modiﬁed silver-staining
method for SSCP analysis on tiny Bio-Rad Protean-3
minigels.
I used Bio-Rad’s 38x30cm rig called the Sequin-Gen
GT. Great for microsatellites, but not sure you’ll get
the separation you’ll need for AFLPs, depending on
how many AFLP bands you have, and where in the
spread they occur. But Bio-Rad makes a variety of for-
mats, and I found their setup for pouring, etc., to be
really sweet. I did most of this work while at postdoc at
Duke, and I had several undergrads trained in the pro-
cedure, from loading gels all the way to silver-staining.
Lots more “fun” than agarose gels!
The nice thing about the 38x30 is that it’s just less
gel to handle, making the staining and handling much
easier. We actually did quite a few AFLP runs on the
38x30, and got good enough results that we were able
to score bands - and compare these to the results we
were getting from the fragment analysis on the ABI
instrument (this was a few years ago, pre-3730).I doubt Nusieve is going to work - but it might be worth
a try - and I know nothing about spreadex.
——– 4. Phillip
My student has the attached paper currently in press,
in which she describes using a Dark Reader(r) Tran-
silluminator (Clare Chemical Research, Dolores, CO,
USA) to extract AFLP bands from Spreadex gels.
[note: the paper is in Journal of Heredity: AFLP Frag-
ment Isolation Technique as a Method to Produce Ran-
dom Sequences for Single Nucleotide Polymorphism
Discovery in the Green Turtle, Chelonia mydas, by Ro-
den et al 2008/9]
——– 5. David
If you have some funds for equipment purchase, the
combination of a Li-Cor DNA analyzer (a slab polyacry-
lamide gel-based sequencing/genotyping system using
infrared dyes) and Li-Cor’s Odyssey ﬂuorescent imager
would probably be an option to consider. (I’m assuming
they still market the Odyssey system.) The Odyssey
provides the opportunity to visualize the bands and lo-
cate the spot where the bands you want to excise are.
——– 6. Adam
You can easily do it on just agarose. We do it regularly.
1) Run the ampliﬁcation again, adding one base to one
of the primer sets. There are 4 reactions, and your
band will show on one of them. You may need to do
this using the regular ABI separation gel. 2) Do this
again with one primer added to the other base. Unless
you have a high band density, you can probably do this
on agarose. 3) If necessary, add another base and do it
again. 4) Your band will show up suﬃciently separated
from the others that you can get it out with a cut-oﬀ 1-
ml micropipette tip, purify it and sequence it. 5) Then
if necessary, make primers to get it out of the rest of
your material using regular PCR.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Biological images
Hi all,
We are getting a new science building and one of theMay 1, 2009 EvolDir 57
features will be beautiful ﬂoor to 3-story ceiling glass
panels depicting various (somewhat abstract) images
from science. I am looking for high resolution pictures
of butterﬂy wing spots, close-ups of animal eyes, close-
ups of feathers, or close-ups of color patterns on your
favorite creature (we have plenty of plant images). If
you can send me an image or a website address and
PERMISSION to use these photos, I would be grate-
ful!
Sincerely,
Amy McMillan, Ph.D, Buﬀalo State College (mcmil-
lam@buﬀalostate.edu)
“McMillan, Amy” <MCMILLAM@buﬀalostate.edu >
Commercial SNP development
G’day,
I’m looking for companies that will develop SNPs for
nonmodel organisms (just like some other companies
develop microsats). I’m interested in using them for
population genetics. Any suggestions?
Sincerely,
Manoel
silvamanoel33@yahoo.com
Manoel Silva <silvamanoel33@yahoo.com >
CostaRica Volunteer
MonkeyEvolution
Field assistant position for study of capuchin life histo-
ries in Costa Rica.
The Lomas Barbudal Monkey Project has 6 volun-
teer ﬁeld assistant positions available annually, with a
rolling deadline for applications. The job includes col-
lecting behavioral data and fecal samples. These po-
sitions require a 1-year contract with a ﬂexible start
date (though most positions begin in early summer or
in January). Room and board are paid by the project,
and airfare up to a certain amount is covered contingent
upon the completion of the 1-year contract.Further information about the research goals, working
conditions, project publications, and application proce-
dure are available at the following website:
http://www.sscnet.ucla.edu/anthro/faculty/-
sperry/jobs.html Any questions not answered
by this website can be addressed to Susan Perry
(sperry@anthro.ucla.edu)
Susan Perry <Sperry@anthro.ucla.edu >
Daphnia DNA extractions
Dear all
I like to do DNA extractions from single Daphnia using
the chelex method for economical reasons. As I have
to proceed a high quantity of samples, I would like to
do the extractions directly in 96-well-plates. Does any-
one have any experiance if this works and do you have
found a good systems for grinding the animals directly
in the plate?
Many thanks for your help!
Barbara Walser University of Fribourg, Switzerland E-
mail: barbara.walser@unifr.ch
WALSER Barbara <barbara.walser@unifr.ch >
Darwin links
Hello all,
The 200th birthday of the founder of evolutionary biol-
ogy, Charles Darwin, is being celebrated in 2009. This
year also marks the 150th anniversary of the ﬁrst pub-
lication of his work “On the Origin of Species”. vifabio,
the Virtual Library of Biology, takes this opportunity
to compile the most important internet resources on the
subject, and other information. Please visit our com-
prehensive collection of “Internet resources on Charles
Darwin and on evolutionary biology” at: http://-
www.vifabio.de/darwinjahr2009/?lang=en In case you
ﬁnd that important resources are missing, please make
a proposal here: http://tinyurl.com/cwpzqo (follow the
link “suggestion form” at the bottom of the page).
The Virtual Library of Biology (vifabio) is a project58 EvolDir May 1, 2009
of the University Library “Johann Christian Sencken-
berg”, Frankfurt/Main (Germany) in cooperation with
other libraries and biological organisations. vifabio
aims to oﬀers rapid access to biological literature and
information.
—
Many thanks, best regards - Gerwin Kasperek
Dr. Gerwin Kasperek Virtuelle Fachbibliothek Biologie
http://www.vifabio.de Universitaetsbibliothek Johann
Christian Senckenberg Bockenheimer Landstr. 134-138
60325 Frankfurt am Main - Germany - Tel. +49 69 798
39365 g.kasperek@ub.uni-frankfurt.de
Gerwin Kasperek <g.kasperek@ub.uni-frankfurt.de >
Data analysis for polyploids
Hi
I am working on a tetraploid tree species and want to
compute some population genetic parameters.
Does any one have a compilation of programmes that
handles data sets for polyploids?
Contribution of single programmes will also be ok as
well as algorithms for more advanced calculations, and
then I’ll compile a list and distribute it upon request.
Cheers
Anders
Anders S. Larsen Mimersgade 118, 5.tv. 2200
Copenhagen N Phone no. +4535854345 Mobile no.
+4561334345
anderslarsen333@hotmail.com
DNA Bank Database
DNA Bank Network Database Goes Online Web por-
tal of biological DNA collections launches its search-
able database system at www.dnabank-network.org <
http://www.dnabank-network.org >
The DNA Bank Network links DNA banks of major
biological research collections in Germany: Botanic
Garden and Botanical Museum Berlin-Dahlem Ger-man Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures,
Braunschweig Zoologisches Forschungsmuseum Alexan-
der Koenig, Bonn Bavarian State Collection of Zoology,
Munich
The network’s web portal enables scientists to query
and order DNA samples of organisms collected from
natural habitats. It is thereby possible to obtain well
determined DNA and tissue material to conduct, ex-
tend or complement investigations in phylogenetics,
population and conservation genetics as well as in bio-
geography.
The DNA Bank Network ensures long-term DNA avail-
ability by storage under optimal conditions at -80C af-
ter project completion or data publication. Full docu-
mentation of each sample accessible online is provided,
including provenance of the material, place of voucher
deposit, DNA extraction techniques and links to exist-
ing molecular data. Additionally high resolution digital
images of specimens (voucher) are generated, available
online via the web portal.
The network aims at bridging the gap between natural
history repositories, DNA collections and molecular se-
quence databases. It so supports good scientiﬁc prac-
tice as the deposition of DNA samples facilitates the
veriﬁcation of published results.
The establishment of this network is ﬁnancially
supported by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft
(DFG).
“Gemeinholzer, Birgit”
<B.Gemeinholzer@BGBM.org >
DNAMarkers SexDetermination
GreenIguana
Dear EvolDir members,
I want to determine the sex of Green Iguana hatchlings
using DNA markers. The company Zoogen oﬀers DNA
sex determination in the Green Iguana but doesn’t sup-
ply details. I’d be interested to hear from anyone who
knows of or has used DNA markers to determine sex in
this species.
Thanks
Paul
Paul Bloor Coordinador/Investigador Principal Unidad
de Especies Silvestres Instituto de Gen´ etica Universi-May 1, 2009 EvolDir 59
dad Nacional de Colombia Bogot´ a D.C - COLOMBIA
Tel.: +57-1-3165-000 Ext. 11611 Fax.: +57-1-3165-526
email: pbloor@gmail.com
DPGP releases 50 Drosophila
The Drosophila Population Genome Project released
today a preview of the initial sample of Drosophila
melanogaster genomes sequenced by the DPGP using
ﬁrst generation (single-end and 36 bp) Solexa/Illumina
technology and assembled using maq 0.6.8. This data
preview is intended to clearly show the scope and qual-
ity of the data. Release 1.0 will be a reference dataset.
The sample consists of the sequences for the 5 major
chromosome arms (X, 2L, 2R, 3L and 3R) for 39 in-
bred genomes from Trudy Mackay’s set of inbred lines
sampled in Raleigh, NC and a set of sequenced chro-
mosomes (8 chrXs, 6 chr2s and 5 chr3s) from a sample
of Malawi isofemale lines that were inbred using bal-
ancers. Regions of residual heterozygosity and repeated
sequence are ﬁltered (set to “N”). The “raw data” are
available in the NCBI Short Read Trace Archive. This
Release 0.5 data are in the form of fasta ﬁles for each of
the major chromosome arms for each sampled genome.
The average coverage of the unique portions of all these
genomes is >10X. The called bases are those with a con-
sensus (Solexa) nominal quality score >= 30. Bases in
repetitive sequences or in regions of (inbred) residual
heterozygosity are not called, i.e. “N”.
Release 0.5 data can be accessed at <http://-
www.dpgp.org/ >. The reference release (1.0) is ex-
pected in several weeks.
chuck<chlangley@ucdavis.edu >
Drosophila lines
Hi all,
I am close to ﬁnishing up my PhD and have 25
temperature-adapted ﬂy lines from a large experiment
that we will no longer be able to maintain (Drosophila
melanogaster). If anyone is interested in using these ﬂy
lines for further experiments, please get in touch! Itwould be a shame to reward their eﬀorts with W = 0.
The lines:
5 lines: Cold temperature (16 degrees) 5 lines: Warm
temperature (25 degrees) 5 lines: Spatial heterogeneity
with panmictic migration (one cage in 16, one cage in
25 degrees, 50% migration every 4 weeks) 5 lines: Spa-
tial heterogeneity with limited migration (one cage in
16, one cage in 25 degrees, 2 gravid females migrate
reciprocally every 4 weeks) 5 lines: Temporal hetero-
geneity (cages move between 16 and 25 degrees every 4
weeks)
These lines were all originally derived from a single
wild collected sample of ﬂies from the Okanagan val-
ley in BC, Canada. They have been maintained under
the treatment conditions for over 3 years at popula-
tions sizes >2000. We used them to assay genetic
variance under the various treatments and the eﬀect
of the treatments on G-matrix evolution (manuscripts
in prep). We found signiﬁcant divergence between the
Cold and Warm lines for several wing shape traits and
evidence of local adaptation by diﬀerences in fecundity
from reciprocal transplant assays, but no diﬀerences in
genetic variance between any of the treatments.
Please contact Sam Yeaman at yeaman@zoology.ubc.ca
if you are interested.
Thanks!
Sam Yeaman Whitlock Lab Department of Zoology
University of British Columbia Vancouver, BC 778-834-
9395
yeaman@zoology.ubc.ca yeaman@zoology.ubc.ca
Evolution Lab exercises
Dear Evoldir Members:
I am trying to develop an evolution course for under-
graduates that would include a hands-on (wet) lab for
the students. Some of these labs can be performed
over the course of a semester rather than just contained
in a single lab period. I am trying to ﬁnd labs other
than computer-based labs but please feel free to send
computer-based exercises. I will compile the responses
and post the lab suggestions for all those interested on
Evoldir. Additionally, I also will be posting the labs
on the web for free access to reduce student textbook
costs.
Thank you.60 EvolDir May 1, 2009
Best regards, Valerie
Valerie Schawaroch, Ph.D. Deputy Chair and Associate
Professor of Biology Baruch College
valerie.schawaroch@baruch.cuny.edu
Fungal DNA isolation
Dear Evoldir members,
I got a very good response for AFLP protocol. Thanks
a lot for that. Now I am ready to start my project. I will
be thankful if someone guide me to isolate good quality
genomic DNA from variety of entomopathogenic fun-
gus. Primarily I am going to deal with Beauveria spp.
Please send your reply as soon as possible.
Thanks Johny – Johny Shajahan 4120, Department of
Biological Sciences Illinois State University Normal, IL-
61790-4120, USA Ph:(309) 438-7799
“Shajahan, Johny” <jshajah@ilstu.edu >
FungalDNA isolation
Dear EvolDir members,
I got lots of information about DNA isolation from fun-
gus. Now I am end up with a question: Should I go
with DNA extraction from single conidia (what I mean
is I should make a subculture from single conidia) or
should I use a pack? I want to know about the merits
& demerits of both. The goal is to make phylogenetic
analysis for a variety of strains/species. Please anwer
this.
Very best Johny
Johny Shajahan 4120, Department of Biological Sci-
ences Illinois State University Normal, IL-61790-4120,
USA Ph:(309) 438-7799
“Shajahan, Johny” <jshajah@ilstu.edu >HIV XML annotations
HIV Evolution colleagues,
I have updated the Los Alamos HIV Sequence DB query
tool at http://fortinbras.us/hivq to allow retrieval of se-
quence annotation data (disease progression, sampling
country, phenotype, and the like) in XML format, vali-
dated against a set of XML Schema deﬁnitions available
athttp://fortinbras.us/HIVDBSchema/1.0 . Sequence
data can also now be retrieved in NeXML format, an
enhanced XML version of the NEXUS format devel-
oped by Rutger Vos at UBC. Standard FASTA format
is still available.
My objective is to make the wealth of epidemiological
data associated with the LANL sequence data more ac-
cessible and computable. As usual, this is a service to
the HIV research community, and use of it does not put
you on any list of mine or anyone else’s, or at any excess
risk of being pestered in any way.
Please do pester me, however, if you encounter any bugs
or have ideas for enhancements. Many thanks to the
other participants at the NESCent Database Interop-
erability Hackathon (March 2009) for their expertise
and encouragement in this project.
Best, Mark Jensen
maj@fortinbras.us
Megabace sequencer 1000 info
Dear Evoldir members,
My institute is considering buying a Megabace 1000
DNA sequencer. I am not familiar with this make and
would be grateful to anyone who could tell me about
their experiences (good or bad) of this machine.
Thanks,
Paul
Paul Bloor Coordinador/Investigador Principal Unidad
de Especies Silvestres Instituto de Gen´ etica Universi-
dad Nacional de Colombia Bogot´ a D.C - COLOMBIA
Tel.: +57-1-3165-000 Ext. 11611 Fax.: +57-1-316-5526May 1, 2009 EvolDir 61
alt. email: pbloor@unal.edu.co
pbloor@gmail.com
Microsats ampliﬁcation answers
Dear all,
I posted a request on evoldir a while ago trying to ﬁnd
out if anyone had the following problem:
Below is the original email: We’ve encountered a
strange problem with ﬂuorescently labeled >>microsat
markers in a gastropod - all are amplifying well (and
>>produce distinct bands on agarose gels) but when
we genotype them on >>our sequencer, we get ex-
tremely weak (in most cases unscorable) >>peaks.
This problem is taxon-speciﬁc: in a ﬁsh that we run
along>>as a control, we get PCR products with ap-
proximately the same >>concentration, but the peaks
are easily scorable, so there doesn’t >>seem to be
anything wrong with our reagents. >> >> Chang-
ing the number of cycles (we’ve tried between 30 and
40) and/or >>salt concentration (2.5 - 6 mM) doesn’t
solve it.
Quite a few people have actually come across this phe-
nomenon, and many said they have been unable to solve
it. The most common solution was to use a diﬀerent
species (the problem has been encountered in certain
gastropods, ascidians, insects and bryophytes). Be-
low are a number of suggestions [my own comments
in square brackets].
Thanks to everyone who responded, Peter
1. Use 1/10 of pre-primer concentration as compared
to M13 primer concentration [we were already using
1 uM vs. 5 uM, and diluting it further did not help]
2. Use a diﬀerent extraction method [we were using
either Qiagen kit or a salting out protocol, and salt-
ing out was usually the better method. I’ve now tried
CTAB, but that didn’t improve genotyping results] 3.
Dilute samples 1 in 3 or 1 in 5 [this seems to improve
it - particularly diluting 1 in 10 or more te seems to
decrease the concentration of whatever inhibitors are
in the DNA extractions. The peaks still aren’t great,
perhaps because DNA concentration also becomes ex-
tremely low, but this is really the only modiﬁcation of
the protocol that’s improved things a bit] 4. Reduce the
concentration of MgCl2 [no improvement, neither was
increasing its concentration] 5. Dilute PCR products
1:2, 1:5 or 1:10 prior to adding HiDi [no improvement,in fact, peaks were weaker] 6. Use 2 ul of pooled DNA
+ 10 ul of HiDi [we were using 1 ul previously, and this
doesn’t improve it] 7. Boil DNA extractions in Chelex
[this seems like a good idea, but I haven’t tried it yet.
The idea is that boiling destroys the inhibitors and any
inhibiting ions stick to the beads] 8. During genotyp-
ing, use a lower injection voltage with longer injection
time [no improvement] 9. Use diﬀerent primers [OK,
some work better than others, but that’s common - re-
placing all 12 of our species-speciﬁc primers is not an
option]
Dr Peter R. Teske Postdoctoral Researcher Molec-
ular Ecology Lab Dept. of Biological Sciences,
E8C Macquarie University Sydney, NSW 2109
Australia Phone: +61 2 9850 8203 Fax: +61 2
9850 8245 E-mail: Peter.Teske@bio.mq.edu.au Web-
site: http://www.bio.mq.edu.au/molecularecology/-
people.htm Publications: http://www.ru.ac.za/-
academic/departments/botany research/peter/ Pe-
ter.Teske@bio.mq.edu.au Peter.Teske@bio.mq.edu.au
NESCent Biodiversity DataCenter
*** Please disseminate widely to students at your in-
stitution ***
CYBERINFRASTRUCTURE SUMMER TRAINEE-
SHIPS 2009
VIRTUAL DATA CENTER FOR BIODIVERSITY,
EARTH, ECOLOGICAL, AND EVOLUTIONARY
SCIENCE DATA
http://hackathon.nescent.org/-
Cyberinfrastructure Summer Traineeships 2009
Summer traineeships are available for up to four
students and postdocs interested in informatics as
applied to scientiﬁc data ranging from the ﬁelds of
biodiversity, ecology, and evolutionary biology. The
program provides a unique opportunity for under-
graduate, masters, and PhD students as well as
postdocs to obtain hands-on experience writing and
extending open-source software as part of a distributed
collaborative software development team building a
Virtual Data Center (VDC) that includes major data
and metadata repositories in those ﬁelds.
Trainees accepted into the program will receive a
stipend ($4,500), and with the exception of attending
one meeting near the beginning and one near the end62 EvolDir May 1, 2009
of the 3-month program period may work from their
home, or home institution. Travel costs incurred in
connection with the meetings will be reimbursed. Each
student will have at least one dedicated mentor to show
them the ropes and help them complete their project.
Initial project ideas are listed on the website. These
range from validation of metadata and identiﬁer reso-
lution, to supporting LSID and semantic-web compli-
ant PURLs for digital data objects, to implementing
modern web-service APIs, to cataloging the diversity of
metadata schemas. The project ideas are ﬂexible and
can be adjusted in scope to match the skills of the stu-
dent. We also welcome novel project ideas that dovetail
with student interests.
The traineeships are supported by a National Science
Foundation (NSF) grant to a consortium of major
repositories for biodiversity, earth and environmental,
ecological, and evolutionary science. The consortium
includes the LTER Network Oﬃce, the U.S. Geologi-
cal Survey, NASA and Oak Ridge National Laboratory,
the Global Biodiversity Information Facility (GBIF),
the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center(NESCent),
and the National Center for Ecological Analysis and
Synthesis (NCEAS). It aims to develop the cyberinfras-
tructure and technologies necessary to build a Virtual
Data Center (VDC) based on a network of existing and
new physical repositories (“nodes”) that interoperate
using open standards and protocols. The network will
enable discovery of as well as open, stable, and secure
access to data in any of its member nodes.
TO APPLY: Students apply online. Instructions for
applying are at the website (see “When you apply”),
along with program rules and eligibility requirements.
The 15-day application period for students opens on
Monday March 30th and runs through Monday, April
13th, 2009.
INQUIRIES: vdc-twg {at}ecoinformatics {dot}org.
We strongly encourage all interested students to get
in touch with us with their ideas as early as possible.
Cyberinfrastructure Traineeships Web-
site: http://hackathon.nescent.org/-
Cyberinfrastructure Summer Traineeships 2009
2009 NESCent Phyloinformatics Summer of
Code (NESCent’s participation in the Google
Summer of Code; managed separately; post-
docs not eligible; ***student application period
ends April 3rd***) http://hackathon.nescent.net/-
Phyloinformatics Summer ofCode 2009 To sign
up for quarterly NESCent newsletters: http://-
www.nescent.org/about/contact.php Todd Vision and
Hilmar Lapp National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
http://nescent.orgNESCent Coding
*** This is a reminder about the student application
deadline. *** *** Please disseminate widely to students
at your institution. ***
PHYLOINFORMATICS SUMMER OF CODE 2009 -
STUDENT APPLICATION DEADLINE IS APRIL 3
http://hackathon.nescent.org/-
Phyloinformatics Summer ofCode 2009 The Phyloin-
formatics Summer of Code program provides a unique
opportunity for undergraduate, masters, and PhD
students to obtain hands-on experience writing and
extending open-source software for evolutionary infor-
matics under the mentorship of experienced developers
from around the world. The program is the participa-
tion of the US National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) as a mentoring organization in the Google
Summer of Code(tm) ( http://code.google.com/soc/ ).
Students in the program will receive a stipend from
Google (and a T- shirt solely available to successful
participants), and may work from their home, or home
institution, for the duration of the 3 month program.
Each student will have at least one dedicated mentor
to show them the ropes and help them complete their
project.
NESCent is particularly targeting students interested
in both evolutionary biology and software develop-
ment. Project ideas are listed on the website and range
from hardware acceleration for phylogenetic inference,
to support for phyloinformatics standards within the
BioPerl and BioRuby toolkits, to alignment of next-gen
sequencing data, to ontology term markup for biocu-
ration, to semantic interoperability of web-services, to
3D-printing of phylogenies. All project ideas are ﬂex-
ible and many can be adjusted in scope to match the
skills of the student. We also welcome novel project
ideas that dovetail with student interests.
TO APPLY: Instructions are at the website (see “When
you apply”). You can ﬁnd GSoC program rules and el-
igibility requirements at http://socghop.appspot.com .
***The 12-day application period for students ends on
Friday, April 3rd, 2009, at 19:00 UTC (3pm EDT, 12pm
PDT).***
INQUIRIES: phylosoc {at}nescent {dot}org. We
strongly encourage all interested students to get in
touch with us with their ideas as early as possible.May 1, 2009 EvolDir 63
2009 NESCent Phyloinformatics Summer
of Code: http://hackathon.nescent.net/-
Phyloinformatics Summer ofCode 2009 Google
Summer of Code FAQ: http://socghop.appspot.com/-
document/show/program/google/gsoc2009/-
faqs Cyberinfrastructure Traineeships (man-
aged separately from GSoC; postdocs also
eligible): http://hackathon.nescent.org/-
Cyberinfrastructure Summer Traineeships 2009
To sign up for quarterly NESCent newsletters: http:/-
/www.nescent.org/about/contact.php Todd Vision
and Hilmar Lapp National Evolutionary Synthesis
Center http://nescent.org hlapp@nescent.org
NESCent SabaticalScholars
Call for Proposals V NESCent Sabbatical Scholars,
Working Groups and Catalysis Groups
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NES-
Cent) is now accepting proposals for sabbatical schol-
ars, working groups and catalysis meetings. Propos-
als for postdoctoral fellowships are accepted at the De-
cember 1 deadline only. Proposals for sabbatical schol-
ars, working groups and catalysis meetings are accepted
twice a year, with June 15 and December 1 deadlines.
Proposals for short-term visitors are considered four
times a year, with deadlines on January 1, April 1,
July 1 and September 1. For more information, please
see our website at https://www.nescent.org/science/-
proposals.php . Karen Henry <khenry@nescent.org >
NESCent SummerProgramming
Deadline
*** Please disseminate widely to students at your in-
stitution ***
CYBERINFRASTRUCTURE SUMMER INTERN-
SHIPS 2009 - REMINDER: Student Application Dead-
line is April 13, 2009
http://hackathon.nescent.org/ Cyberinfrastruc-
ture Summer Traineeships 2009
Summer training internships are available for up to four
students and postdocs interested in informatics as ap-plied to scientiﬁc data in such ﬁelds as biodiversity, ecol-
ogy, and evolutionary biology. The program provides
a unique opportunity for undergraduate, masters, and
PhD students as well as postdocs to obtain hands-on
experience writing and extending open-source software
as part of a distributed collaborative software develop-
ment team building a Virtual Data Center (VDC) that
includes major data and metadata repositories in those
ﬁelds.
The application deadline for students (April 13, 2009)
is approaching rapidly.
Trainees accepted into the program will receive a
stipend ($4,500), and with the exception of attending
one meeting near the beginning and one near the end
of the 3-month program period may work from their
home, or home institution. Travel costs incurred in
connection with the meetings will be reimbursed. Each
student will have at least one dedicated mentor to show
them the ropes and help them complete their project.
Initial project ideas are listed on the website. These
range from validation of metadata and identiﬁer reso-
lution, to supporting LSID and semantic-web compli-
ant PURLs for digital data objects, to implementing
modern web-service APIs, to cataloging the diversity of
metadata schemas. The project ideas are ﬂexible and
can be adjusted in scope to match the skills of the stu-
dent. We also welcome novel project ideas that dovetail
with student interests.
The program is supported by a National Science Foun-
dation (NSF) grant to a consortium of major repos-
itories for biodiversity, earth and environmental, eco-
logical, and evolutionary science. The consortium in-
cludes the LTER Network Oﬃce, the U.S. Geological
Survey, NASA and Oak Ridge National Laboratory,
the Global Biodiversity Information Facility (GBIF),
the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center(NESCent),
and the National Center for Ecological Analysis and
Synthesis (NCEAS). It aims to develop the cyberinfras-
tructure and technologies necessary to build a Virtual
Data Center (VDC) based on a network of existing and
new physical repositories (“nodes”) that interoperate
using open standards and protocols. The network will
enable discovery of as well as open, stable, and secure
access to data in any of its member nodes.
TO APPLY: Students apply online. Instructions for
applying are at the website (see “When you apply”),
along with program rules and eligibility requirements.
The 15-day application period for students end on Mon-
day, April 13th, 2009.
INQUIRIES: vdc-twg {at}ecoinformatics {dot}org.
We strongly encourage all interested students to get64 EvolDir May 1, 2009
in touch with us with their ideas as early as possible.
Cyberinfrastructure Traineeships Website:
http://hackathon.nescent.org/ Cyberinfrastruc-
ture Summer Traineeships 2009
To sign up for quarterly NESCent newsletters: http:/-
/www.nescent.org/ about/contact.php
———
Todd Vision and Hilmar Lapp National Evolutionary
Synthesis Center http://nescent.org hlapp@duke.edu
hlapp@duke.edu
New Population Genetics text
Dear Colleagues,
The new text Population Genetics is now available from
Wiley-Blackwell.
Visit www.wiley.com/go/hamiltongenetics to see the
companion web site for the book, which provides links
and instructions for the interactive simulations in each
chapter as well as ﬁgures that appear in the book.
The table of contents, index and a sample chap-
ter can be found by visiting http://www.wiley.com/-
WileyCDA/WileyTitle/productCd-1405132779.html I
hope that students and teachers ﬁnd the book useful.
Sincerely, Matt Hamilton
Matthew B. Hamilton, PhD Associate Professor
Georgetown University Department of Biology,
Reiss 406 37th and O Streets NW Washington,
DC 20057 202-687-5924 (oﬃce) 202-687-5662 (fax)
http://www9.georgetown.edu/faculty/hamiltm1/
hamiltm1@georgetown.edu
Nst Gst answers
Dear all
I’m very grateful for the suggestions received. Here are
the replies:
Request:
Hi all,I’m trying to use the approach suggested in SPAGeDi
1.2 (O. Hardy and X. Vekemans 2007) to test for the
existence of a signiﬁcant phylogeographic signal, using
mtDNA sequence data. However there is an issue that
is not entirely clear to me: in cases when a Nst >Gst>
0 but the slope of pairwise Nst vs geographic distance is
not signiﬁcant, what could be plausible explanations?
Can anyone give me any suggestions about this issue or
can suggest some paper, book, that could be of help if
further questions or doubts storm me?
many thanks Marco Carriso
—–
Answers:
Dear Marco,
there are two diﬀerent issues in the problem you are
describing. One is whether there is some phylogenetic
signal in your mtDNA data on top of the diﬀerences in
haplotype frequencies among populations (the Nst ver-
sus Gst comparison), and the other whether the genetic
diﬀerentiation that you observe has a spatial compo-
nent (does or not ﬁt an isolation by distance pattern).
When you are applying the test implemented in Spagedi
that gives Nst >Gst, you are implicitly assuming an Is-
land model of migration, with GST measuring aver-
age genetic diﬀerentiation among populations due to
diﬀerences in haplotype frequencies, and Nst measur-
ing average genetic diﬀerentiation taking into account
diﬀerences in haplotype frequencies plus phylogenetic
diﬀerences among haplotypes. Your observation that
Nst>Gst suggests that the set of distinct haplotypes
that are co-occuring whithin populations are on average
more similar to each other than random sets of haplo-
types at the total species level. Another way to put it,
is to say that genetic drift along cannot explain the data
and thus the mutational process is participating to ge-
netic diﬀerentiation among populations. When you are
computing the slope of the regression of pairwise Nst
vs geographic distance, you are implicitly assuming an
Isolation by distance model (i.e. restricted dispersal),
and if the slope is ot signiﬁcantly diﬀerent than zero
this means that this model should be rejected. Hence
in your case there is no clear spatial component in ge-
netic diﬀerentiation. It may be that the slope for Gst is
signiﬁcant but not the one on Nst. This could happen
simply because of the larger variance of the estimates
of pairwise Nst as compared to pairwise Gst.
best regards,
Xavier Vekemans
– Xavier VEKEMANS
Laboratoire de Genetique et Evolution des Popu-May 1, 2009 EvolDir 65
lations Vegetales GEPV - UMR CNRS 8016 Bati-
ment SN2 Universite des Sciences et Technologies
de Lille - Lille 1 59655 Villeneuve d’Ascq Cedex
FRANCE Tel: +33 3 2043 6753 - Fax: +33 3
2043 6979 http://www.univ-lille1.fr/gepv=0A=C2=-
A0=0A=C2=A0=0A ˆAHi Marco,
you might obtain such pattern if you have a complex
history of colonisation by long term diﬀerentiated
gene pools (Nst >Gst) that spread over large and/or
disjunct areas because you could have compara-
ble proportions of pairs of populations belonging
to distinct gene pools at short distance and at
large distance. For an example, have a look at
http://www.pierroton.inra.fr/genetics/ComEvol/-
Atelier-Phylogeo/OHardy phylogeography.pdfp.6 .
Best,
Olivier
Olivier Hardy Chercheur qualiﬁ ˜Ac/circlecopyrtFNRS Service Eco-
Ethologie Evolutive - CP 160/12 Universit ˜Ac/circlecopyrtLibre de
Bruxelles 50 Av. F. Roosevelt 1050 Bruxelles Belgique
Tel: +32 (0)2 650 6585 Fax: +32 (0)2 650 2445 email:
ohardy@ulb.ac.be
marcocarriso@yahoo.it
Polyploid analysis answers
Dear list members
Below, I’ve compiled a list of answers to my request for
software that handles polyploid data along with avail-
able comments. I have not yet tested the software, so
comments are taken from the answers I had.
AUTOTET (Thrall & Young, 2000) For genetic diver-
sity of autotetraploids
PopGene 3.2 (Yeh et al., 1997) For genetic diversity of
allotetraploids
Arlequin (Excoﬃer, Laval & Schneider, 2005) Fst
Spagedi (Hardy & Vekemans, 2002) Fst (Weir & Cock-
erham)
Structure (Pritchard, Stephens & Donally, 2000) Clus-
tering
MalHapFreq (Hastings & Smith, 2008) ML estimates
of allele frequencies
Adegenet (Jombart, 2008) (R package) Data manipu-
lation, multivariate analyses and per se F-statsTetra/Tetrasat (Markwith, Stewart & Dyer, 2006) Al-
lotetraploids
Lamarc For polyploids with unknown haplotype phase
Migrate-N
Popdist 1.2.0
GenoType (Meirmans & Tenderen, 2004)
GenoDive (Meirmans & Tenderen, 2004) AMOVA
MLTR (Ritland, 2002) Inbreeding/outcrossing
Anders S. Larsen Mimersgade 118, 5.tv. 2200
Copenhagen N Phone no. +4535854345 Mobile no.
+4561334345
anderslarsen333@hotmail.com
Program for haplotypes
Dear all,
I will greatly appreciate any pointers to ﬁnd a program
that would help estimate or determine individual haplo-
types (i.e., gametic phase) from a set of direct sequences
of heterozygote individuals. I plan to use it to identify
MHC alleles (ca. 170 bp). Basically I am trying to
cut down the number of individuals needed to clone all
alleles, times are tough!
Thanks in advance!
Best.
Axa
Axayacatl Rocha-Olivares, Ph.D. Biological Oceanog-
raphy Department CICESE P. O. Box 434844 San
Diego, CA, 92143-4844
DOMESTIC: Apartado Postal 360 Ensenada, Baja Cal-
ifornia, CP 22830 Mexico
COURIER: Km 107 Carretera Tijuana-Ensenada En-
senada, Baja California, CP 22860 Mexico
Oﬃce: +52(646)175-0500 (ext. 24240) Lab:
+52(646)175-0500 (ext. 24318) Fax: +52(646)175-0587
Email: arocha@cicese.mx http://dob.cicese.mx/labs/-
ecolmolecular/index.html
Axayacatl Rocha <arocha@cicese.mx >66 EvolDir May 1, 2009
qBase Program
Greetings, I am looking for the free qBase program for
qPCR analysis that was published in genome biology
(citation below). The authors stopped distributing the
program and released the (expensive) qBasePlus com-
mercial program shortly thereafter. If anyone has the
qBase program that served as a the basis for this pub-
lication, please email me. Again, this was published as
a free program - the original qBase remains a free pro-
gram and sharing hopefully does not violate copyright
as a result.
Thanks,
Brendan Hunt
Hellemans, J., G. Mortier, A. De Paepe, F. Speleman,
and J. Vandesompele. 2007. qBase relative quantiﬁca-
tion framework and software for management and au-
tomated analysis of real-time quantitative PCR data.
Genome biology 8:14.
– Brendan Hunt Goodisman Lab / Yi Lab
School of Biology Georgia Institute of Tech-
nology 310 Ferst Drive Atlanta, GA 30332
www.goodismanlab.biology.gatech.edu/hunt bren-
dan.hunt@gatech.edu
Rocking Darwin
Dear all,
A small team of evolutionary ecologists from Tuebin-
gen, Germany, just ﬁnished a rock music clip about
evolution which is called “Struggle for love”, together
with a computer program that allows the user to “select
and evolve” music tunes following biological principles.
This program was also used to generate the underlying
tunes for the song.
All this is the result of a one-year project that
was generously supported by the VolkswagenFounda-
tion ( www.volkswagenstiftung.de ) following a creativ-
ity contest called “Evolution Today”. We cooperated
with composers, musicians, ﬁlm-makers, informaticians
and a whole series of creative students, about one hun-dred in total!
Both the clip and the program are meant to attract
the attention from non-biologists and make them think
and talk about evolution. Hence, if you like it, please
feel free to share it with your friends, relatives and
students. If you have questions or suggestions, send
your comments to johannes.faber@uni-tuebingen.de or
nico.michiels@uni-tuebingen.de
Everything is online and freely downloadable at
www.darwinrocks.de/en If you just want the video,
check www.youtube.com/user/darwinrocks09 All ma-
terials are in German and English.
The Darwin Rocks! Team: Johannes Faber Suska Sahm
Gregor Schulte Nico Michiels
Nico Michiels, Prof. Dr. Animal Evolutionary Ecol-
ogy Group Institute of Evolution and Ecology Faculty
of Biology Auf der Morgenstelle 28 72076 Tuebingen
Germany
+49 7071 29-74649 (work) +49 170 4758003 (mobile)
nico.michiels@uni-tuebingen.de www.darwinrocks.de
www.evoeco.uni-tuebingen.de www.eve.uni-
tuebingen.de Nico Michiels <nico.michiels@uni-
tuebingen.de >
Software adegenet1 2-3
Dear List,
A new version (1.2-3) of the adegenet package for the
R software has been released. This package is devoted
to the multivariate analysis of genetic markers.
The package can read data from many usual formats,
and can handle both codominant and presence/absence
markers, for any level of ploidy. It can also extract
SNPs from aligned DNA sequences. Despite dedicated
to multivariate analysis, adegenet also proposes a wide
variety of other tools, including advanced data manip-
ulation, classical population genetics tools, spatial ge-
netics (the spatial Principal Component Analysis, Mon-
monier’s algorithm), and the simulation of hybridiza-
tion.
Literature, tutorials, dedicated forums, and other in-
formation can be found on adegenet’s website: http:/-
/adegenet.r-forge.r-project.org/ Like other R pack-
ages, adegenet is available for various platforms, in-
cluding Linux, MacOS X, and windows, from the Com-May 1, 2009 EvolDir 67
prehensive R Archive Network (CRAN): http://cran.r-
project.org/ or simply from the R software.
Best regards,
Thibaut Jombart.
–
Dr Thibaut JOMBART MRC Centre for Out-
break Analysis and Modelling Department of In-
fectious Disease Epidemiology Imperial College -
Faculty of Medicine St Mary’s Campus Norfolk
Place London W2 1PG United Kingdom Tel. :
0044 (0)20 7594 3658 t.jombart@imperial.ac.uk
http://www1.imperial.ac.uk/medicine/people/-
t.jombart/ http://adegenet.r-forge.r-project.org/
t.jombart@imperial.ac.uk t.jombart@imperial.ac.uk
Software bms runner 1 3
Dear Evoldir,
bms runner is free software to predict functional linkage
among gene products, on the basis of correlated gain
and loss of genes from genomes <http://dx.doi.org/-
10.1093/bioinformatics/btl558 >. It does this by help-
ing the user to conﬁgure and repeatedly launch the
separate BayesTraits program <http://dx.doi.org/-
10.1080/10635150490522232 >.
bms runner version 1.3 has just been released, with
improvements over the previous version. bms runner
works on Linux or Mac OS X. It may be downloaded
here:
http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/cegg/downloads.aspx
I will be happy to receive any questions and feedback
on bms runner.
In future, I will only email Evoldir about bms runner if
major new functionality is added. If you prefer to re-
ceive an email every time bms runner is updated, please
let me know, and I will add you to my list of users.
Best regards,
Daniel
– Daniel Barker http://bio.st-andrews.ac.uk/staﬀ/-
db60.htm The University of St Andrews is a charity
registered in Scotland : No SC013532
db60@st-andrews.ac.uk db60@st-andrews.ac.ukSoftware Circuitscape3 1 1
Dear all,
We’ve just released Circuitscape 3.1.1 connectivity
analysis software. Circuitscape uses circuit theory to
predict connectivity for gene ﬂow and animal move-
ment. It is particularly applicable to landscape genet-
ics.
We now have executable versions for Windows and Mac,
and Python source ﬁles for Linux, all freely available.
You can download these and read about applications of
circuit theory in ecology, evolution, and conservation at
www.circuitscape.org . Best, Brad McRae
Brad McRae <mcrae@circuitscape.org >
Software Concatenator
Dear evoldir members,
I wish to announce the release of the program CON-
CATENATOR available at:
http://cobig2.fc.ul.pt . CONCATENATOR is a sim-
ple and user-friendly software that implements two very
useful functions for phylogenetics data analysis. It con-
catenates NEXUS ﬁles of several fragments in a single
NEXUS ﬁle ready to be used in phylogenetics software,
such as PAUP and MRBAYES and it converts FASTA
sequence data ﬁles to NEXUS and vice-versa. Addi-
tionally, concatenated ﬁles can be prepared for par-
tition tests in PAUP. It is freely available in http:/-
/cobig2.fc.ul.pt . Pina-Martins F, Paulo OS (2008).
Concatenator: Sequence Data Matrices Handling Made
Easy. Molecular Ecology Resources 8, 1254-1255
Oct´ avio S. Paulo Ph.D. Assistant Professor Centro de
Biologia Ambiental Departamento de Biologia Animal
Faculdade de Ciˆ encias da Universidade de Lisboa P-
1749-016 Lisboa Portugal
Tel: 00 351 217500614 direct Tel: 00 351 217500000
ext22359 Fax: 00 351 217500028 email: oc-
tavio.paulo@fc.ul.pt url: http://webpages.fc.ul.pt/-
˜ ofpaulo/ url: http://cobig2.fc.ul.pt/ url: http://-
bbc.fc.ul.pt/ ofpaulo@fc.ul.pt68 EvolDir May 1, 2009
Software NOBLAST JAMBLAST
Dear Evoldir members,
I am happy to announce the release of the: NOBLAST
and JAMBLAST softwares freely available with source
code, docs, packages and standalone executables
available for a variety of systems (linux windows,
sources..) from SourceForge: http://sourceforge.net/-
projects/NOBLAST http://sourceforge.net/projects/-
JAMBLAST General presentation:
NOBLAST(New Options for BLAST) provides:
1) a new extended user-friendly tabular output for-
mat that can be directly analysed with any spreadsheet
(OpenOﬃce, Excel...) and/or any database engine (e.g.
MySQL) without any use of a parser. This new op-
tion extends (-m parameter) the blastall, blastcl3 and
blastpgp software and is available for various NCBI
BLAST programs: Blastn, Blastp, Blastx, Tblastn,
Tblastx, Mega BLAST and Psi BLAST.
2) distributed/parallel BLAST functionality with exact
E-value adjustment when split database are used.
NOBLAST is an open source patch for blastall,
blastcl3, blastpgp and formatdb from the NCBI toolkit.
JAMBLAST (Java Application Manager for BLAST
results) is an additional Java cross-platform applica-
tion which can be used optionally for the management
of the BLAST outputs produced by NOBLAST, using
MySQL. It also oﬀers visualization, sorting, ¨ ı, export-
ing... of the results according to user-de¨ ıcriteria.
citation: Lagnel J, Tsigenopoulos CS, Iliopoulos I
(2009) NOBLAST and JAMBLAST: New Options for
BLAST and a Java Application Manager for BLAST
results. Bioinformatics 25: 824-826.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19181685
Please, feel free to report any comments to me and
enjoy...
Jacques Lagnel
Jacques Lagnel Hellenic Centre for Marine Research
(HCMR) Institute of Marine Biology/Genetics Gournes
Pediados P.O.Box 2214 Heraklion 71003 Crete, Greece
email: lagnel@her.hcmr.gr
Tel. + 302810 337719 Fax: + 302810337820
– Hellenic Center For Marine Research, Crete NetworkOperation Center This message has been scanned for
viruses and dangerous content by MailScanner, and is
believed to be clean.
lagnel@her.hcmr.gr lagnel@her.hcmr.gr
SSCP gel solutions
Dear list members
I am about to perform a sequencing based analysis of
individuals for population genetics. For this I will sep-
arate alleles by SSCP gel electrophoresis as an alterna-
tive to cloning. I’ve done this succesfully using MDE
from Cambrex (assume the equivalent product in Eu-
rope is that from Lonza).
This product, however, is hugely expensive, so I want
to hear if anyone has experience with SerdoGel (Serva),
SequaGel (Apelex) or maybe some other product.
Any other experiences with separation of large (600-800
bp) fragments using SSCP is also welcome. By now I
run fragments at 4 deg using 0.7X gels and cut bands
stained with SYBRgold for further analysis.
Cheers
Anders
Anders S. Larsen Mimersgade 118, 5.tv. 2200
Copenhagen N Phone no. +4535854345 Mobile no.
+4561334345
anderslarsen333@hotmail.com
StatGenetics ScholarshipDeadline
Apr13
SISG Scholarship Deadline is April 13
Applications for scholarships to attend the 14 ^th
Summer Institute in Statistical Genetics at the Uni-
versity of Washington, June 15-July 2, 2009 are
due on Monday April 13. Details are available
athttp://sisg.biostat.washington.edu/ Bruce Weir
bsweir@u.washington.edu
Bruce Weir <bsweir@u.washington.edu >May 1, 2009 EvolDir 69
Sturgeon problems
Dear evoldir members
I am PhD student and I am going to study about gdf9
in sturgeons (Acipenser), but I have diﬃculties to sam-
pling ( peeling the ovum and isolating the follicle lay-
ers). I would appreciate receiving advices in this re-
gards.
Best regards Mahtab
mahtab yarmohammadi
<mahtab yarmohammadi@yahoo.com >
Tree of Life Poster Answers
Dear EvolDirists
Some days ago I asked for good resources to obtain a
“tree of life” poster. Some people asked me to compile
a list of all the answers I received. Voila:
There is one available from the BBC/Open University
(http://www.open2.net/darwin/poster.html ). This
seems to be the THE one and the bulk of all answers
pointed me to this one. And it is for free! However,
they send it only to the UK and the Republic of Ire-
land. So you might have to get in touch with someone
there that can order it for you. I contacted BBC about
it and they were happy to send a poster to Switzerland,
but I am not sure how often we can play that game...
Some nice posters can be bought in German online
shops:
www.wissenladen.de has some: http://-
www.wissenladen.de/catalog/product info.php/-
products id/43 http://www.wissenladen.de/catalog/-
product info.php/cPath/27 56/products id/56 http:/-
/www.wissenladen.de/catalog/product info.php/-
cPath/49 132/products id/33?osCsid=3ec31cf8fa09
...and www.amazon.de has also some: http:/-
/www.amazon.de/Systematik-Poster-Zoologie-
Anlehnung-Lehrbuch-Speziellen/dp/3827416639/ref=-
sr11?ie=UTF8&qid=1237795662&sr=8-1 http://-
www.amazon.de/Systematik-Poster-Botanik-Andreas-
Bresinsky/dp/3827417295/ref=pd bxgy bimgb Inthe US, you ﬁnd these:
1. From www. historyshots.com: http://-
www.historyshots.com/OtherArtists/4014.cfm
2. From The Natural History Museum
of New York: http://www.amnhshop.com/-
09-015941.html 3. Zazzle has two: http:/-
/www.zazzle.com/tree oflifeevolution poster-
228150266536416257 http://www.zazzle.com/-
treeoflifeposter-228591242647081166 One of which is
actually available as pdf: http://tellapallet.com/-
treeoflife.htm 4. From Amazon: http://-
www.amazon.com/Milestones-Evolution-Art-Poster-
36/dp/B001A2IPA4/ref=pd bbssr1?ie=UTF8&s=-
home-garden&qid=1237998364&sr=8-1 http://-
www.amazon.com/Evolution-Humor-Poster-Print-
24x36/dp/B001AXI666/ref=pd bbs2?ie=UTF8&s=-
home-garden&qid=1237998364&sr=8-2 5. And
ﬁnally this one: http://www.worldviewposters.com/-
treeoﬂife.htm “Alternative” suggestions:
There is a self made one by Ainsley S. Painted for
last year’s Darwin Day celebration at UC Berke-
ley. http://nature.berkeley.edu/ ˜ seago/art/dday-08-
painting medium.jpg . You might get a high resolution
ﬁle directly from the artist: seago at nature dot berke-
ley dot edu
A good class project would be to have kids make a nice
set of photographs of the local fauna/ﬂora and then
draw the tree that links them all. Most of the exercise
would be determining the KPCOFGS classiﬁcation, for
which there are lots of online resources.
Contact somebody like Louise Mead (mead at ncse dot
org) at the center for Science Education and ask for
help.
***
Hope this is useful
Dominik
dominik.refardt@gmail.com
Tree topologies BIC
Dear EvolDir:
Is there an established way to measure the number of
’free parameters’ distinguishing an unconstrained tree
topology from an a priori constrained tree topology?
Might it be the number of TBR rearrangements re-70 EvolDir May 1, 2009
quired to move from one to another?
We have been asked to test whether sequence data
(dated, and so analysed in BEAST, meaning we cannot
do a SH test) ’reject’ a priori groupings in favour of an
unconstrained topology.
Sincerely,
Arne Mooers
–
Dr. Arne Mooers Biological Sciences, Simon Fraser
University Burnaby, BC Canada V5A 1S6 tel. +1
778 782 3979 skype: arnemooers http://www.sfu.ca/-
˜ amooers (lab) http://www.sfu.ca/fabstar (evolu-
tion@sfu) http://www.scientists-4-species.org (endan-
gered species) http://www.vanevo.ca (Vancouver Evo-
lution Festival)
amooers@sfu.ca amooers@sfu.ca
UCaliforniaLosAngeles Volunteer
LomasBarbudalMonkeysField assistant position for study of capuchin life histo-
ries in Costa Rica.
The Lomas Barbudal Monkey Project has 6 volun-
teer ﬁeld assistant positions available annually, with a
rolling deadline for applications. The job includes col-
lecting behavioral data and fecal samples. These po-
sitions require a 1-year contract with a ﬂexible start
date (though most positions begin in early summer or
in January). Room and board are paid by the project,
and airfare up to a certain amount is covered contingent
upon the completion of the 1-year contract.
Further information about the research goals, working
conditions, project publications, and application proce-
dure are available at the following website:
http://www.sscnet.ucla.edu/anthro/faculty/-
sperry/jobs.html Any questions not answered
by this website can be addressed to Susan Perry
(sperry@anthro.ucla.edu)
Susan Perry <Sperry@anthro.ucla.edu >
PostDocs
BrighamYoungU Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
BrownU DrosophilaFitness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
CornellU PrimatePhylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
France PlantGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
IndianaU SpeciationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
INRA France NematodeEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . 74
INRA Versailles TE evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
INRA Versailles TE evolution 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Italy PlantConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
KansasStateU PlantEvolutionaryGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
LundU 3 AnimalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
LundU AnimalMovement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Lyon SexChromosomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Marseille GorgonianGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Marseille GorgoniansGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79Maryland PintailPopulationModeling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Munich PlantAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
NCStateUniversity MolecularPhylogenetics . . . . . . . . 80
Netherlands TheoryAnimalMovement . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
NewYorkBotanicalGarden PBI Miconieae . . . . . . . . . 82
UBourgogne NeuroEvoParasito . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
UBristol DrosophilaAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
UBritishColumbia InﬂuenzaEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
UCaliforniaIrvine StatisticalGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
UCollegeLondon MappingPreferenceGenes . . . . . . . . . 85
UEastAnglia WarblerFitness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
UGeneva Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
UGeorgia Infectious disease dynamics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
UGeorgia PathogenEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
UGuelph Parasite Vector DNABarcoding . . . . . . . . . . 88May 1, 2009 EvolDir 71
UIllinois HumanPathogenEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
ULeeds HostParasiteEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
UManchester MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
UmeaU ClimatechangeBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
UmeaU SticklebackGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
UMontreal Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
UPittsburgh PlantSexChromosomes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92USouthFlorida Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
UTartu LifeHistoryEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
UTartu PhylgeneticComparativeMethods . . . . . . . . . . 93
UTromso FungalTaxonomy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
UWashington SalmonSNPs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
BrighamYoungU Biodiversity
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION AVAILABLE U.S. Na-
tional Science Foundation Partnerships for Interna-
tional Research and Education (PIRE) Patagonia Bio-
diversity Project http://patagonia.byu.edu The NSF
PIRE project administered at Brigham Young Univer-
sity is seeking a postdoctoral scientist to join our re-
search and education team. The successful candidate
will be involved in the development and application
of methods in comparative phylogeography, targeted
speciﬁcally at understanding patterns of evolutionary
diversiﬁcation across multiple co-distributed taxa in
southern Argentina and Chile. The postdoctoral po-
sition will be housed at Brigham Young University in
Provo, Utah. However, opportunities exist for interac-
tion with our PIRE team scientists in the U.S., Canada,
Argentina, and Chile (see our web site for a list of
team members), as well as summer exchange visitors
and another post-doctoral researcher dedicated to this
project. Applicants should be familiar with molecu-
lar laboratory techniques required to generate DNA se-
quence data, and should be comfortable with a broad
range of phylogeographic analyses. Although there are
no requirements for experience with particular taxo-
nomic groups, our team is currently focused on fresh-
water ﬁshes, freshwater crabs, lizards, frogs, and ter-
restrial ﬂowering plants. Opportunities also exist to
participate in mentoring graduate students and under-
graduate students involved in our educational exchange
program. The position is open to U.S. and interna-
tional applicants. We will begin reviewing applications
on May 10, 2009 and the search will remain open until
the position is ﬁlled. We are targeting a start date of
September 1, 2009 or sooner, although there is some
ﬂexibility. Salary is $36,000 per year plus health in-
surance beneﬁts. The position will be for up to two
years, with the second year of funding conditional upon
performance. Interested candidates should direct their
inquiries to: Jerald B. Johnson, Director, Patagonia
PIRE Project, Department of Biology, Brigham YoungUniversity (jerry.johnson@byu.edu); a list of project co-
PIs and senior personnel, and a description of their re-
search interests, can be found on our web site. Appli-
cations should include a cover letter, a c.v., and a list
of three references. Individuals that make our ﬁrst cut
will be invited to solicit and send recommendation let-
ters. Formal applications should be submitted to: 401
WIDB, Department of Biology, BYU, Provo, UT 84602
by conventional mail; or electronically to PIREpost-
docs@byu.edu. A condition of employment at Brigham
Young University is a willingness to abide by the BYU
Honor Code of conduct ( http://honorcode.byu.edu ).
“Jerald B. Johnson” <jerry.johnson@byu.edu >
BrownU DrosophilaFitness
Postdoc: Drosophila mitochondrial ﬁtness interactions
at Brown University
A postdoc position is available to work on nuclear-
mitochondrial ﬁtness interactions in the laboratory of
David Rand and Brown University. The general theme
of this NIH funded project is to study the epistatic in-
teractions among nuclear and mitochondrial genotypes
that modulate ﬁtness, physiological and biochemical
traits in Drosophila. Mitochondrial genotypes from
diﬀerent strains and species of the melanogaster sub-
group are placed on various nuclear chromosomal ge-
netic backgrounds to dissect the genetic basis of life his-
tory traits. The project involves molecular and quanti-
tative genetic assays of Drosophila strains, genetic map-
ping experiments, microarray and biochemical assays of
speciﬁc genotypes, and inferences from molecular pop-
ulation genetics and evolution.
Applicants must have completed their PhD before
starting the position, and have a strong record of
accomplishment from their dissertation work. Ap-
plicants should have some combination of experience
with molecular genetic techniques, Drosophila genet-
ics, quantitative genetics, biochemical assays, molecu-72 EvolDir May 1, 2009
lar evolution, computational analysis, and an interest in
evolution or genetics. The appointment is open for up
to 3 years, and successful candidates will receive guid-
ance in the preparation of an NIH NRSA Fellowship to
pursue related projects.
The start date is spring or summer 2009. Applications
will be reviewed until the position is ﬁlled. To apply
please send 1) a CV, 2) a short statement of research
interests and experience, including a paragraph on how
your previous experience makes you well qualiﬁed for
this position, and 3) contact information for three ref-
erences to:
David Rand
email: David Rand@brown.edu
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
Box G-W, 80 Waterman Street
Brown University
Providence, RI 02912
Phone:
(401) 863-2890 (Oﬃce)
(401) 863-1063 (Lab)
Fax: (401) 863-2166
web pages:
http://research.brown.edu/research/proﬁle.php?id=-
1100924991&r=1 http://www.brown.edu/-
Departments/EEB/rand/index.htm The Department
of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at Brown is an
interactive group with strengths that span genomics,
evolutionary biology, functional morphology, ecology,
and environmental science. There are close ties to the
Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, and the
Center for Computational Molecular Biology, as well
as the Marine Biological Laboratory in Woods Hole
http://www.brown.edu/Departments/EEB/-
index.html http://www.brown.edu/Departments/-
Molecular Biology/ http://www.brown.edu/-
Research/CCMB/ http://www.mbl.edu http://-
jbpc.mbl.edu/ http://ecosystems.mbl.edu/ Informa-
tion on postdoctoral studies at Brown can be found
here:
http://biomed.brown.edu/grad-postdoc/ Providence
is widely recognized (by Rhode Islanders) as the Venice
of New England and is wonderful place to live.
http://www.providenceri.com/ David M. Rand
Professor of Biology Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology Box G-W, 80 Waterman Street
Brown University Providence, RI 02912 Voice: (401)863-2890 (Oﬃce - Walter Hall 202) (401) 863-1063
(Lab - BioMed Center 516-518) Fax: (401) 863-2166
email: David Rand@brown.edu web pages: http://-
www.brown.edu/Departments/EEB/rand/index.htm
http://research.brown.edu/research/proﬁle.php?id=-
1100924991&r=1 David Rand@brown.edu
David Rand@brown.edu
CornellU PrimatePhylogenomics
Postdoctoral position in primate phylogenomics at Cor-
nell University
A POSTDOCTORAL POSITION is available in the
laboratory of Dr. Adam Siepel in the Department of Bi-
ological Statistics and Computational Biology at Cor-
nell University (Ithaca, NY). The research focus will
be in the general area of comparative and evolution-
ary genomics, with a particular focus on computational
analyses of newly sequenced primate genomes. Speciﬁc
topics of interest include positive selection in coding
and noncoding elements, lineage-speciﬁc selection, reg-
ulatory element turnover, and methods for combined
phylogenetic and population genetic analysis. The can-
didate will be expected to participate in both meth-
ods development and data analysis. The ideal candi-
date will be highly motivated and independent, will
have a strong background in genetics/genomics, good
skills in mathematics and computer science, and a
strong record of accomplishment in research. For gen-
eral information about the research group, see http://-
compgen.bscb.cornell.edu/˜acs .
Qualiﬁcations
- Ph.D. in bioinformatics, computer science, statistics,
genetics, molecular biology, applied mathematics, or a
related ﬁeld. - Research experience (with strong ﬁrst-
author publications) in computational/comparative ge-
nomics and/or molecular evolution. - Fluency in prob-
abilistic modeling and computational statistics. - Pro-
ﬁciency in programming, ideally in C or C++ as well
as in scripting languages such as perl, matlab, or R.
Should be comfortable in a linux environment, with
large data sets, computer clusters, and databases.
Term
The term for this position is ﬂexible but most likely will
be 2-3 years (contingent on acceptable performance).
The proposed start date is Summer 2009.
About CornellMay 1, 2009 EvolDir 73
Cornell is home to a large, active community of re-
searchers interested in evolutionary genomics, popula-
tion genetics, and other areas of mathematical and com-
putational biology. General information on postdoc life
at Cornell is available from the Oﬃce of Postdoctoral
Studies ( http://www.postdocs.cornell.edu/index.php )
To Apply
Submit a CV, a short description of research interests
and experience, and contact information for three ref-
erences by e-mail to acs4 at cornell dot edu. Informal
inquiries are welcome.
Adam Siepel 101 Biotechnology Building Cornell Uni-
versity Ithaca, NY 14853
Cornell University is an aﬃrmative action/equal oppor-
tunity employer.
Adam Siepel <acs4@cornell.edu >Adam Siepel
<acs4@cornell.edu >
France PlantGenomics
Postdoctoral level Researcher
Genoscope belongs to the Genomics Institute of the
CEA (French government organization for technolog-
ical research in energy). It provides a high-tech facility
for sequencing and bioinformatics and is a major actor
in evolutionary genomics. In the last few years, we have
coordinated international eukaryotic genomic programs
(animals, fungi, protists, plants), with results published
in ﬁrst ranked scientiﬁc journals.
We oﬀer a 18-month position for a postdoctoral level
candidate in evolutionary and structural genomics of
plants.
He/she will participate in the analysis of newly-
sequenced large plant genomes of interest both for in-
dustry and for fundamental evolutionary analysis. Us-
ing comparative genomics approaches and large-scale
analysis, he/she will study genetic diversity with the
goal of addressing fundamental questions on the evolu-
tion of the angiosperm group, and look for traits subject
to recent selection. The candidate will have genomics
and/or bioinformatics expertise and skills in the do-
main to adapt or develop tools of genomic analysis and
statistical methods to support the project.
We are looking for a highly motivated and autonomous
candidate with an interest in comparative genomics and
the evolution of ﬂowering plants. The candidate musthave a good sense of initiative and of communication
within a collaborative project including scientists from
various ﬁelds.
He/she must have a background in the ﬁelds of ge-
nomics/bioinformatics.
The position is available immediately. Applicants must
send CV + letters + recommendation to JobEvol-
Gen@genoscope.cns.fr Location: Evry (near Paris),
France.
For further information about Genoscope and CEA,
please visit www.genoscope.cns.fr and www.cea.fr.
For further information, please contact : Olivier Jail-
lon, email : ojaillon[@]genoscope.cns.fr, tel : 00 33 1 60
87 25 30
Olivier Jaillon <ojaillon@genoscope.cns.fr >
IndianaU SpeciationGenetics
POSTDOC IN SPECIATION GENETICS
A full-time NSF-funded postdoctoral position is avail-
able in Leonie Moyle’s lab, Department of Biology, In-
diana University, Bloomington. The work will focus
on identifying the molecular players involved in hy-
brid incompatibility (’speciation genes’), using classi-
cal genetics, QTL mapping, ﬁne-mapping, and posi-
tional cloning. Our lab conducts research in evolu-
tionary genetics, focusing on the genetic basis of re-
productive isolating barriers and adaptive diﬀerentia-
tion, especially in the plant group Solanum ( http://-
www.bio.indiana.edu/ ˜ moylelab/ ). The postdoctoral
candidate will also have ample opportunity to develop
independent lines of research in these areas.
We seek a collegial, self-motivated, and intellectually
curious individual with a PhD in Evolutionary Biology,
Genetics, or related ﬁeld. Applicants must have ex-
perience with molecular genotyping and analysis, and
demonstrated written and oral communication skills.
Skills or experience with plants, informatics, and/or
embryology/development are highly desirable. The po-
sition is initially available for 12 months, with possible
extension for up to 3 years. Salary will be commensu-
rate with experience, and full beneﬁts are included.
Indiana University has a large and interactive group
in evolutionary genetics. Bloomington is situated in
scenic, hilly southern Indiana, near several parks and
wilderness areas. The cultural environment provided74 EvolDir May 1, 2009
by the University is exceptionally rich in art, music,
and theater.
To apply, please send a letter of interest, CV and
contact information for 3 references to Dee Verostko
(dverostk@indiana.edu), using ’Moyle Postdoctoral Fel-
low’ as the subject line. Review of applications will
start immediately and will continue until the posi-
tion is ﬁlled. Inquires about the position can be di-
rected to Leonie Moyle (lmoyle@indiana.edu). Some
past and ongoing lab research projects, and refer-
ences, can be found at: http://www.bio.indiana.edu/-
facultyresearch/faculty/Moyle.html Indiana University
is an Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer.
lmoyle@indiana.edu lmoyle@indiana.edu
INRA France
NematodeEvolutionaryGenomics
A 18 month PostDoc position in comparative and evo-
lutionary genomics in Nematodes is available. The
succesful candidate will be involved in a collaborative
project between the French national sequencing centre
(Genoscope) and a research team of the French national
institute for agricultural research (INRA).
This project will comprise analysis of data produced by
pyrosequencing of the transcriptomes of plant parasitic
nematodes as well as development of a bioinformatic
pipeline for the identiﬁcation of genes of interest in the
development of new control measures against these pest
of high agricultural impact.
Plant-Nematode Interactions team from INRA (French
National Institute for Agricultural Research) has co-
ordinated genome sequencing and analysis of the
ﬁrst plant-parasitic animal, the root knot nematode
/Meloidogyne incognita/. The laboratory is located in
the south-east of France, in the French Riviera, near
the city of Antibes. Genome sequencing and assembly
as well as the analysis of genome structure have been
performed by the Genoscope, the French National Se-
quencing Centre. The Genoscope is located in Evry, a
city in the close vicinity of Paris. The candidate will
work in close interaction and collaboration between the
two laboratories. Clustering, analysis and parsing of se-
quences coming from pyrosequencing of the transcrip-
tomes of new plant-parasitic species will be done at the
Genoscope (Evry). The part of the project concerning
identiﬁcation of candidate targets and the developmentof a database will take place in the Plant-Nematodes
Interactions team (Antibes). The major part of the
project will take place in this latest laboratory and thus
the candidate will spend most of his time in Antibes.
Contact @ INRA Antibes: Etienne DANCHIN
: etienne.danchin@sophia.inra.fr Pierre ABAD :
pierre.abad@sophia.inra.fr
Contact @ Genoscope Evry : Olivier JAILLON : ojail-
lon@genoscope.cns.fr Fran¸ cois ARTIGUENAVE : ar-
tigue@genoscope.cns.fr
Links: -Full description of the
project: http://www.sophia.inra.fr/-
physiologie vegetale enseignement/stages/-
niveau doctorat/post docgenoscope andinrasophia antipolis comparative genomics
-Meloidogyne incognita genome paper @ Nature
Biotech: http://www.nature.com/nbt/journal/v26/-
n8/full/nbt.1482.html -Meloidogyne incognita genome
portal: http://meloidogyne.toulouse.inra.fr/ – WARN-
ING !! NEW ADDRESS !!
Etienne G.J. Danchin
Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique
U.M.R. - I.B.S.V. INRA-UNSA-CNRS – Centre de
recherche de Sophia-Antipolis 400 route des Chappes,
BP 167 06903 Sophia-Antipolis Cedex – http://-
www.sophia.inra.fr/ Tel. +33 492 386 494 Fax. +33
492 386 587
http://edanchin.free.fr
mailto:Etienne.Danchin@sophia.inra.fr
INRA Versailles TE evolution
20 months Postdoc Position available at INRA-
Versailles
Characterization of Transposable Elements (TEs) in
the tobacco genome
A 20 months postdoctoral position is available in the
team “Host-Transposons Interactions and Plant Bio-
diversity” ( http://www-ijpb.versailles.inra.fr/en/bc/-
equipes/Transposons/index.html ), at the Institut Jean-
Pierre Bourgin, Laboratoire de Biologie Cellulaire,
INRA-Versailles, France.
The project will focus on the bioinformatic evaluation
of TEs present in the tobacco allotetraploid genome.
The analysis will be based on available tobacco genomicMay 1, 2009 EvolDir 75
shotgun and EST sequences, and will aim at recon-
structing consensus TE sequences to evaluate the di-
versity of TE lineages present in the tobacco genome.
It will provide a global overview of the various TE lin-
eages present in tobacco, with a speciﬁc emphasis on
LTR retrotransposons. It will also allow to evaluate
their expression conditions, and identify chimeric co-
transcripts indicative of a possible impact of TE inser-
tions on tobacco cellular genes.
Good experience in bioinformatic tools used for genome
annotation is required. Expertise in eucaryotic TE
classiﬁcation et evolution would be highly appreciated.
This work will be performed in collaboration with
the team of Hadi Quesneville, URGI, INRA-Versailles
(http://urgi.versailles.inra.fr/ ). The possibility of ex-
perimental molecular analysis of TE stress activation,
of which our team has good expertise, is also open for
candidates that may also be interested by these aspects.
But the core of the project will be bioinformatics.
Emergency!!!! The starting date is 1st of May, 2009 (or
as soon as possible)
Send a curriculum vitae, research interests, and two
recommandations contacts to:
Dr Marie-Ang` ele GRANDBASTIEN
(gbastien@versailles.inra.fr) Laboratoire de Biolo-
gie Cellulaire Institut Jean-Pierre Bourgin INRA-
Centre de Versailles 78026 Versailles cedex, France
gbastien@versailles.inra.fr tel: 33 1 30 83 30 24 fax: 33
1 30 83 30 99
–
Marie-Ang` ele GRANDBASTIEN Institut Jean-Pierre
Bourgin Laboratoire de Biologie Cellulaire INRA -
Centre de Versailles 78026 Versailles, France Tel: 33
(1) 30 83 30 24 Fax: 33 (1) 30 83 30 99 Email:
gbastien@versailles.inra.fr
“marie-angele.grandbastien” <marie-
angele.grandbastien@versailles.inra.fr >
INRA Versailles TE evolution 2
21 months Postdoc Position available at INRA-
Versailles
Annotation and identiﬁcation of Transposable Ele-
ments in tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum): evolution, di-
versiﬁcation and potential involvement in stress re-
sponsesA 21 months postdoctoral position is available in the
team “Host-Transposons Interactions and Plant Bio-
diversity” ( http://www-ijpb.versailles.inra.fr/en/bc/-
equipes/Transposons/index.html ), at the Institut Jean-
Pierre Bourgin, Laboratoire de Biologie Cellulaire,
INRA-Versailles, France.
The project will focus on the evaluation of TE fam-
ilies present in the tobacco allotetraploid genome, in
order to obtain a global picture of the TE content of
tobacco and of the potential impact of these TEs on
adjacent genes. The analysis will be based on avail-
able tobacco genomic shotgun and EST sequences, and
will aim at reconstructing consensus TE sequences to
evaluate the diversity of TE lineages present in the to-
bacco genome. It will provide a global overview of the
various TE lineages present in tobacco, with a speciﬁc
emphasis on LTR retrotransposons. The project will
also allow to evaluate their expression conditions, and
identify chimeric co-transcripts indicative of a possible
impact of TE insertions on tobacco cellular genes.
Good experience in bioinformatic tools used for genome
annotation and sequence assembly is required. Exper-
tise in TE classiﬁcation et evolution will be highly ap-
preciated. This work will be performed in collaboration
with the team of Marie-Anne Van Sluys (GaTE, Uni-
versity of Sao Paulo, Brazil, http://www.ib.usp.br/-
gate/ ), and with the team of Hadi Quesneville, URGI,
INRA-Versailles ( http://urgi.versailles.inra.fr/ ). De-
pending on the candidate proﬁle and interests, the pos-
sibility of experimental molecular analysis of TE stress
activation is also open. However the required proﬁle is
primarily a bioinformatics expertise proﬁle.
Expected starting date: 1st of september 2009.
Two major administrative requirements are: - to have
obtained a PhD for less that 5 years - no previous post-
doc at the INRA-Versailles Center
Send a curriculum vitae and two recommandations con-
tacts to:
Dr Marie-Ang` ele GRANDBASTIEN
(gbastien@versailles.inra.fr) Laboratoire de Biolo-
gie Cellulaire Institut Jean-Pierre Bourgin INRA-
Centre de Versailles 78026 Versailles cedex, France
gbastien@versailles.inra.fr tel: 33 1 30 83 30 24 fax: 33
1 30 83 30 99
Marie-Ang` ele GRANDBASTIEN Institut Jean-Pierre
Bourgin Laboratoire de Biologie Cellulaire INRA -
Centre de Versailles 78026 Versailles, France Tel: 33
(1) 30 83 30 24 Fax: 33 (1) 30 83 30 99 Email:
gbastien@versailles.inra.fr
“marie-angele.grandbastien” <marie-76 EvolDir May 1, 2009
angele.grandbastien@versailles.inra.fr >
Italy PlantConservationGenetics
Title: Post doc in Plant Conservation Genetics / Phy-
logeny
Research Centre: The research carried out at the En-
vironment Department of Edmund Mach Foundation
encompasses both ecological and molecular studies. It
focuses on the functional integrity and biodiversity of
aquatic (mainly plankton, diatoms and salmonid ﬁshes)
and land taxa (mainly vertebrate fauna and their para-
sites, higher plants including annual species and forest
trees) that are subject to anthropic pressure and global
climate changes. The ACE-SAP (Alpine Ecosystems
in a Changing Environment: Biodiversity Sensitivity
and Adaptive Potential) Major Proposal is a collabo-
rative project funded by the Autonomous Province of
Trento involving three regional institutions (Edmund
Mach Foundation, Natural History Museum of Trento,
Civic Museum of Rovereto) and one external partner
(University of Davis, California).
Description: We are seeking a highly motivated and
independent individual to carry out a research project
on the phylogeny/conservation genetics of selected, en-
demic taxa. The successful candidate will be responsi-
ble of sampling, selection of suitable molecular markers
and phylogenetic reconstruction for three angiosperm
taxa with uncertain taxonomy (within the Erysimum,
Brassica and Aquilegia genera). Upon taxonomic sta-
tus conﬁrmation, population genetics, demographic and
ecological studies will be carried out to provide conser-
vation guidelines for the most interesting species. The
position, initially granted for a time span of three years,
may be renewed and upgraded depending on the suc-
cessful completion of the project.
IT knowledge: Software for sequence processing, align-
ment and editing (e.g. Staden Package, Phred,
Bioedit, ClustalW). Programs for population genet-
ics/evolutionary analyses (e.g. Arlequin, Structure,
Phylip). The ability to write/use Perl, Linux Shell
scripts or VBA macros and the use of software for phy-
logenetic analyses (Paup, Phylip, Mega) are considered
as optional qualiﬁcations in the selection.
More information and application:
http://www.fondazioneedmundmach.it/-
sperimentazione context2.jsp?ID LINK=3140&area=6Deadline for application: 30th April 2009
Daniele Barbacovi Fondazione Edmund Mach Research
Centre - Human Resources Oﬃce Via Mach 1, 38010 S.
Michele all’Adige (TN) - Italy Phone +39 0461 615542
- Fax + 39 0461 650956 Skype daniele.barbacovi crfem
http://www.fondazioneedmundmach.eu
daniele.barbacovi@iasma.it daniele.barbacovi@iasma.it
KansasStateU
PlantEvolutionaryGenet
POST-DOCTORAL POSITION AVAILABLE TO
STUDY EVOLUTIONARY GENETICS IN PLANTS
A postdoctoral position is currently available in the lab-
oratory of Mark Ungerer at Kansas State University in
the Division of Biology. The successful candidate will
contribute to ongoing research investigating the possi-
ble causes and evolutionary consequences of massive
retrotransposon proliferations that have occurred in-
dependently in the genomes of three hybrid sunﬂower
species. Speciﬁc responsibilities of the postdoctoral re-
searcher will include oversight of one or more major
subprojects that examine the impacts of retrotranspo-
son proliferation on genome function and structure and
the environmental and genomic conditions under which
such proliferation events take place. The position will
require both laboratory and greenhouse work as well as
seasonal trips to the southwestern US to collect from
natural populations and natural hybrid zones. Candi-
dates must have strong molecular biology skills (includ-
ing experience working with RNA) and/or interest in
the ﬁelds of molecular and genome evolution.
To apply, send a cover letter describing your research
interests/past research achievements, a C.V., and the
names and contact information for three individuals
willing to provide letters of recommendation. Mate-
rials should be sent to the address below. Review of
applications will begin on May 25, 2009 and continue
until the position has been ﬁlled. Ph.D. degree must
be completed by start date. Email applications pre-
ferred. KSU is an equal opportunity employer and ac-
tively seeks diversity among its employees. Background
check required by university policy.
Mark Ungerer Division of Biology Kansas State Uni-
versity Manhattan KS 66506 mcungere@ksu.edu oﬃce:
785.532.5845 fax: 785.532.6653May 1, 2009 EvolDir 77
mcungere@ksu.edu mcungere@ksu.edu
LundU 3 AnimalEvolution
Dear All,
CAnMove (Centre for Animal Movement Research) at
Lund University is seeking three postdoctoral fellows in
the ﬁelds:
1) Insect ﬂight and morphological trade-oﬀs: adapta-
tions for dispersal or escape ﬂight performance (ref no.
1182)
2) Genetics of migration in willow warblers (ref no.
1183)
3) Partial migration in aquatic systems (ref no. 1184)
Please ﬁnd more information at
http://www.science.lu.se/the-faculty/vacant-positions
The application with reference number and including
CV, signed transcripts and other documents should
have arrived at Lund University at: Registrator, Lund
University, Box 117, 221 00 LUND, SWEDEN, not later
than 22 April 2009. (or at registrator@lu.se )
Anders Hedenstr¨ om and Susanne ˚Akesson
CAnMove is a new centre for research on Animal Move-
ment, funded primarily by a Linnaeus grant from the
Swedish Research Council. We aim at understanding
the underlying ecological and evolutionary causes for
animal movements, with an emphasis on the process
of migration across a large range of scales. To achieve
these goals we plan to implement a sophisticated tech-
nological innovation lab, a sophisticated database and
facilitate communication about new research results.
The CAnMove research program consists of 14 princi-
pal senior researchers and a number of graduate stu-
dents and research partners at Lund University and
elsewhere. Our facilities will be located at the Ecology
Building at Lund University. The program was granted
in 2008 and started during the autumn 2008. We have
already recruited experts to our new technical lab and
database facility, and to strengthen the program fur-
ther we are now seeking suitable postdoc candidates in
three research areas.
Anders Hedenstr¨ om <Anders.Hedenstrom@teorekol.lu.se >LundU AnimalMovement
CAnMove (Centre for Animal Movement Research) at
Lund University is seeking three postdoctoral fellows in
the ﬁelds:
1) Insect ﬂight and morphological trade-oﬀs: adapta-
tions for dispersal or escape ﬂight performance (ref no.
1182)
2) Genetics of migration in willow warblers (ref no.
1183)
3) Partial migration in aquatic systems (ref no. 1184)
Please ﬁnd more information at
http://www.science.lu.se/the-faculty/vacant-positions
The application with reference number and including
CV, signed transcripts and other documents should
have arrived at Lund University at: Registrator, Lund
University, Box 117, 221 00 LUND, SWEDEN, not later
than 22 April 2009. (or at registrator@lu.se )
Yours sincerely,
Anders Hedenstr¨ om
Professor of Theoretical Ecology
CAnMove is a new centre for research on Animal Move-
ment, funded primarily by a Linnaeus grant from the
Swedish Research Council. We aim at understanding
the underlying ecological and evolutionary causes for
animal movements, with an emphasis on the process
of migration across a large range of scales. To achieve
these goals we plan to implement a sophisticated tech-
nological innovation lab, a sophisticated database and
facilitate communication about new research results.
The CAnMove research program consists of 14 princi-
pal senior researchers and a number of graduate stu-
dents and research partners at Lund University and
elsewhere. Our facilities will be located at the Ecology
Building at Lund University. The program was granted
in 2008 and started during the autumn 2008. We have
already recruited experts to our new technical lab and
database facility, and to strengthen the program fur-
ther we are now seeking suitable postdoc candidates in
three research areas.
Anders.Hedenstrom@teorekol.lu.se An-
ders.Hedenstrom@teorekol.lu.se78 EvolDir May 1, 2009
Lyon SexChromosomeEvolution
Postdoctoral position on the origin and evolution of
young plant sex chromosomes
An ANR-funded postdoc position (2 years) is avail-
able in Gabriel Marais’ lab at the University of Lyon
(France).
The project will focus on Silene latifolia a dioecious
plant species with X and Y chromosomes. This species
is emerging as a model species for the understand-
ing of the evolution of sex chromosomes. The aim of
the project will be to use the genomic resources that
have recently become available in S. latifolia (BAC se-
quences, ESTs and microarrays) to investigate several
points in relation to the origin and evolution of XY in
this species: XY recombination suppression, Y degen-
eration, and sex determination. We collaborate on this
project with Prof. Alex Widmer’s lab (ETH Zurich).
We seek a highly motivated candidate with skills in
data analysis and a strong interest in genome evolution
and evolutionary biology in general. A PhD in one or
several of the following ﬁelds is expected: bioinformat-
ics, genomics, molecular evolution, population genet-
ics, biostatistics. The applicant does not need to be a
French speaker.
We are part of the Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Ge-
nomics group, which includes about 25 people (includ-
ing Laurent Duret and Manolo Gouy). The BGE group
has a long-standing experience in bioinformatics and of-
fers a very stimulating scientiﬁc environment (highest
rate by CNRS at last evaluation in 2006). We have a
vast range of locally available bioinformatics tools and
excellent computing facilities (UNIX servers, PC clus-
ters). Our weekly lab meeting and journal club are
held in English. Find more details at http://lbbe.univ-
lyon1.fr/ . Lyon is the 2nd largest French city. Its
city center has been classiﬁed “world heritage” by UN-
ESCO and Lyon is considered French capital of gastron-
omy. Excellent public transports exist within the city
(metro, bus, tramway, public bikes), and to the nearby
Alps, Paris (two hours by train) and the rest of Europe.
To apply, please send to Gabriel Marais (email:
marais@biomserv.univ-lyon1.fr): a letter describing
your research motivation and experience, a CV includ-
ing publication list, full contact details of two scientiﬁc
referees.The position should start on fall 2009. Annual gross
salary will be about 28,000 euros. Review of materials
will begin late April and will continue until the position
is ﬁlled. For further information, please contact:
Dr. Gabriel Marais Bioinformatics and Evolutionary
Genomics group Institute for Biometrics and Evo-
lutionary Biology University of Lyon Campus de la
Doua, Villeurbanne Email: marais@biomserv.univ-
lyon1.fr Website: http://lbbe.univ-lyon1.fr/-
-Marais-Gabriel-.html?lang=en Gabriel Marais
<marais@biomserv.univ-lyon1.fr >
Marseille GorgonianGenetics
Dear all,
A 12 months post-doc position, funded by the CNRS,
is opened in the DIMAR laboratory in Marseille (UMR
6540 / Centre d’Oceanologie de Marseille). The re-
search project will deal with the genetic study of some
mediterranean gorgonians which have been impacted
by massive mortalities potentially linked with climate
change (Garrabou et al., Global Change Biology, in
press, 2009). The candidate will develop and analyse
some nuclear markers for the analysis of the phylogeog-
raphy of the studied species. Some gene expression
analyses in response to thermal stress will also be done.
The candidate should have either a strong background
in polymorphism sequence analyses (coalescence, neu-
trality tests...) or a good experience with real-time
PCR. A good knowledge of marine ecosystems might
be an advantage but is not a prerequisite. The DIMAR
laboratory ( http://www.com.univ-mrs.fr/DIMAR/ ) is
fully equiped for populations genetics and gene expres-
sion analyses, including experimental facilities. The re-
searches of this laboratory mainly focus on the devel-
opment and the evolution of marine biodiversity, from
genes to ecosystems.
The starting date will be on 2009 september
1st or october 1st. The net salary will be
around 2044 &#8364; / month. Please send a
CV (including references) and motivations to di-
dier.aurelle@univmed.fr, jean-pierre.feral@univmed.fr
and anne.chenuil-maurel@univmed.fr
The deadline for application is june 5th.
With many thanks Didier Aurelle
– Didier AURELLEMay 1, 2009 EvolDir 79
Courriel: didier.aurelle@univmed.fr / au-
relle.didier@gmail.com
Ma&icirc;tre de Conferences UMR 6540 DIMAR Uni-
versite de la Mediterranee / Centre d’Oceanologie de
Marseille Station Marine d’Endoume Rue de la batterie
des Lions 13007 Marseille FRANCE Tel: + 33 4 91 04
16 18 Fax: + 33 4 91 04 16 35
didier.aurelle@univmed.fr didier.aurelle@univmed.fr
Marseille GorgoniansGenetics
Dear all,
A 12 months post-doc position, funded by the CNRS, is
opened in the DIMAR laboratory in Marseille* *(UMR
6540 / Centre d’Oc´ eanologie de Marseille). The re-
search project will deal with the genetic study of some
mediterranean gorgonians which have been impacted
by massive mortalities potentially linked with climate
change (Garrabou et al., Global Change Biology, in
press, 2009). The candidate will develop and analyse
some nuclear markers for the analysis of the phylogeog-
raphy of the studied species. Some gene expression
analyses in response to thermal stress will also be done.
The candidate should have either a strong background
in polymorphism sequence analyses (coalescence, neu-
trality tests...) or a* *good experience with real-time
PCR. A good knowledge of marine ecosystems might
be an advantage but is not a prerequisite. The DIMAR
laboratory ( http://www.com.univ-mrs.fr/DIMAR/ ) is
fully equiped for populations genetics and gene expres-
sion analyses, including experimental facilities. The re-
searches of this laboratory mainly focus on the devel-
opment and the evolution of marine biodiversity, from
genes to ecosystems.
The starting date will be on 2009 september 1st
or october 1st. The net salary will be around
2044 / month. Please send a CV (including refer-
ences) and motivations to didier.aurelle@univmed.fr,
jean-pierre.feral@univmed.fr and anne.chenuil-
maurel@univmed.fr The deadline for application
is june 5th.
With many thanks Didier Aurelle
– Didier AURELLE
Courriel: didier.aurelle@univmed.fr
Maˆ ıtre de Conf´ erences UMR 6540 DIMAR Universit´ e
de la M´ editerran´ ee / Centre d’Oc´ eanologie de MarseilleStation Marine d’Endoume Rue de la batterie des Lions
13007 Marseille FRANCE Tel: + 33 4 91 04 16 18 Fax:
+ 33 4 91 04 16 35
didier.aurelle@univmed.fr didier.aurelle@univmed.fr
Maryland
PintailPopulationModeling
Postdoctoral Position U.S. Geological Survey, Patuxent
Wildlife Research Center Northern Pintail Population
Modeling
The U.S. Geological Survey, Patuxent Wildlife Re-
search Center (Laurel, Maryland) is seeking candi-
dates for a postdoctoral position to develop a spatially-
implicit population model for Northern Pintails (Anas
acuta) that integrates the eﬀects of habitat and harvest
management. The model will serve as a key component
in addressing the challenges posed by recent reviews
to better integrate objectives of waterfowl habitat and
population management in a single modeling frame-
work. Model development will occur through a pro-
cess of iterative prototyping, with the initial focus on
capturing the right general structure of the model, and
detail and functionality added over time. The model
design will be driven by the decision contexts provided
by the North American Waterfowl Management Plan,
and the setting of annual harvest regulations. We hope
that this work will also build a solid platform for de-
veloping future population models for other species of
conservation concern.
The postdoctoral position will be part of an intera-
gency research team, including scientists from USGS,
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Ducks Unlimited, Envi-
ronment Canada, UC Davis, and Utah State University,
among others. The research team will provide substan-
tial support in the overall framework for the model,
access to appropriate data, and review of model de-
tails. Travel funds will be provided to support visits
with study team members and outside cooperators, to
attend regional workshops during model development,
and to attend professional conferences.
The ideal candidate will have a background in pop-
ulation modeling, structured decision making, adap-
tive management, waterfowl population dynamics, and
Bayesian hierarchical estimation. Proﬁcient program-
ming skills are required, with some preference given to
candidates with a background in MATLAB. The suc-
cessful candidate will also have excellent writing and80 EvolDir May 1, 2009
personal communication skills. Applicants are expected
to have earned a Ph.D. degree in a relevant discipline,
preferably within the last 5 years.
The position will be located in Laurel, Maryland. The
desired start date is summer 2009, and the position
is funded at least through September 2010, with addi-
tional funding likely. The salary level is very competi-
tive.
Applications are due no later than May 29, 2009. If you
are interested, send a curriculum vitae, a letter describ-
ing your background and interests, and the names of
three references to Michael Runge (mrunge@usgs.gov).
For further information, contact either: Michael Runge
(mrunge@usgs.gov), USGS Patuxent Wildlife Research
Center 12100 Beech Forest Road, Laurel, MD 20708-
4017 (301) 497-5748
Scott Boomer (scott boomer@fws.gov), USFWS Divi-
sion of Migratory Bird Management 11510 American
Holly Drive, Laurel, MD 20708 (301) 497-5970
mrunge@usgs.gov mrunge@usgs.gov
Munich PlantAdaptation
Post-Doc position in Plant Evolutionary Genetics at
LMU Munich (Germany)
A post-doctoral position is open for two years in the
Biology Department at the University of Munich LMU
for someone interested by molecular evolution and pop-
ulation genetics in plants (wild tomato species). The
applicant will be based in the Section of Evolutionary
Biology in the group of Prof. Wolfgang Stephan. The
applicant will pursue research on molecular adaptation
of wild tomato species (Solanum peruvianum and S.
chilense) to abiotic stress such as drought tolerance or
cold resistance. These species are found in a wide range
of habitats (high mountains, deserts) in South America,
and are a good model to study plant adaptation at the
genetic level. The objective of the post-doctoral period
is to use polymorphism (SNP data) to detect natural
selection at candidate genes involved in adaptation to
diﬀerent habitats. The applicant is also expected to
perform functional validation at those candidate genes.
Therefore, the project will involve molecular and quan-
titative genetic assays of wild tomato accessions, and
inferences from molecular population genetics and evo-
lution.Applicants must have completed their PhD before
starting the position. We seek highly motivated can-
didates with a strong record of accomplishment from
their Master’s/PhD thesis work. Ideally, applicants
should have some experience with molecular genetic
techniques, and a strong background in population ge-
netics, evolution and statistics. However, we wish to
encourage the application of plant geneticists, experi-
enced in molecular functional analysis, who are inter-
ested in evolution.
The Ludwig-Maximilians University of Munich is rated
the best in Germany by international standards. The
Department of Biology comprises research groups work-
ing on both plant and animal genetics. The Section of
Evolutionary Biology also includes the group of Prof.
J. Parsch working on evolution of gene regulation in
Drosophila melanogaster, and the group of Prof. D.
Metzler developing statistical and mathematical meth-
ods in population genetics. The group of Prof. Stephan
focuses on statistical methods for detecting genes under
selection in D. melanogaster. In wild tomato species
we focus on the evolution of genes involved in plant-
parasite interactions (Dr Rose), and theoretical aspects
of species history (Dr. Tellier).
The start date is spring or summer 2009. Applications
will be reviewed until the position is ﬁlled. To apply
please email 1) a CV, 2) a short statement of research
interests and experience describing your qualiﬁcations
for this position, and 3) contact information for three
references.
Contact: Prof Wolfgang Stephan (stephan@bio.lmu.de)
Dr Aurelien Tellier (tellier@bio.lmu.de)
Section of Evolutionary Biology LMU BioCenter
Grosshaderner Str. 2 82152 Planegg-Martinsried Ger-
many Tel: +49 89 2180 74 105 Fax: +49 89
2180 74 104 www.evol.bio.lmu.de Aurelien Tellier
<tellier@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de >
NCStateUniversity
MolecularPhylogenetics
Postdoc: Molecular Phylogenetics
A postdoctoral position is available at North Carolina
State University (NCSU) for someone with interests in
molecular evolution and phylogenetics. The selected
applicant will be associated with the NCSU Insect Mu-
seum, working closely with Dr. Andrew R. Deans on anMay 1, 2009 EvolDir 81
NSF- funded project that touches many other aspects of
evolutionary biology: divergence time estimation to ad-
dress biogeographic and host/ parasite questions, DNA
barcoding to test hypotheses of mimicry and beta di-
versity, new informatics to manage/incorporate mor-
phological and fossil data, and novel methods for re-
visionary systematics. This position is an opportunity
to join a growing lab of enthusiastic and approachable
biologists with a broad array of expertise.
As a vertex of North Carolina’s Research Triangle
NCSU beneﬁts from close proximity to a large com-
munity of evolutionary biologists at NCSU (e.g., in the
Entomology, Genetics, and Biology departments) and
our aﬃliation with the National Evolutionary Synthesis
Center (NESCent).
Required: PhD in Biology or related ﬁeld. Experience
in primer design, PCR, molecular data analysis. Excel-
lent written and oral communication skills.
Desirable: Experience with insects, informatics, and
ontologies, penchant for international travel and ﬁeld
work.
Details: The position is available from July 1, 2009 (ne-
gotiable) and is oﬀered for one year, with the possibility
of reappointment for another year. Salary is $38,000
per annum. Information of beneﬁts can be found
here: http://www7.acs.ncsu.edu/hr/job applicants/
Applicants must apply online - http://jobs.ncsu.edu/-
applicants/Central?quickFind=83352 (position # 01-
07-0902) for instructions. Proper documentation of
identity and employability will be required before the
hiring process can be ﬁnalized. Applicants should up-
load a two-page (maximum) statement of research in-
terests, a CV, and contact information for three refer-
ences. Review of applicants commences May 1, 2009
and continues until the position is ﬁlled.
PI contact information: Andrew R. Deans Department
of Entomology North Carolina State University Cam-
pus Box 7613 2301 Gardner Hall Raleigh, NC USA
27695-7613
ncsu.edu email: andy deans@ phone: +1 (919) 515-
2833 fax: +1 (919) 515-7746 skype: ardeans
More information: http://ncsu.edu/ http://-
deanslab.org/ http://gsl.cals.ncsu.edu/ http://-
insectmuseum.org/ http://entomology.ncsu.edu/
/AA/EOE. ADA Accommodations: Dr. Andrew
R. Deans andy deans@ncsu.edu 919-515-2833.// NC
State welcomes all persons without regard to sexual
orientation./
andy deans@ncsu.edu andy deans@ncsu.eduNetherlands
TheoryAnimalMovement
Theoretical/Animal Ecologist POSTDOC (M/F)
vacancy number CL-PGM-09441
to study the movement of animals linked to resource
distributions and personality traits.
The Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO) is a top
research institute of the Royal Netherlands Academy
of Arts and Sciences (KNAW). It comprises three cen-
ters: the Centre for Estuarine and Marine Ecology
(CEME) in Yerseke, the Centre for Limnology (CL)
in Nieuwersluis, and the Centre for Terrestrial Ecol-
ogy (CTE) in Heteren. Mission of the NIOO ( http://-
www.nioo.knaw.nl ) is to carry out excellent fundamen-
tal and strategic research in ecology.
The Project Group Movement Ecology of the NIOO de-
velops a universal framework to understand movement
of animals in terrestrial, freshwater and marine habi-
tats.
General Program Description:
Movement is a fundamental characteristic of life.
Power-laws, in the form of so-called L´ evy walks, have
been put forward as a generic description for the for-
aging trajectories of free-ranging animals, as an alter-
native for the traditional Brownian walks. L´ evy walks
give rise to scale-free, super-diﬀusive movement trajec-
tories that are hypothesized in the literature to improve
the eﬃciency of searching for food in complex land-
scapes. The aim of the project is to develop theoretical
models to describe animal movements, and to use large
databases of movements by great tits and swans to test
whether their movements can be best described by L´ evy
walks. In experimental setups speciﬁc hypothesis on in-
dividual movement patterns can be tested in great tits
with known individual history.
This project is supervised by Marc Naguib (CTE), Bart
Nolet (CL), and Johan van de Koppel (CEME). It is ini-
tiated to stimulate cooperative research among groups
from these diﬀerent centres of NIOO, and is ﬁnanced
by the Strategic Fund of the KNAW.
Function description: The candidate will be the prin-
ciple researcher of the project: ’Universal movement
laws in terrestrial, marine and freshwater animals: the
link with prey distribution and individual strategies’.82 EvolDir May 1, 2009
The project will entail (1) a theoretical study of animal
movement in explicit resource landscapes, (2) analyses
of existing data from terrestrial, marine and freshwa-
ter systems, and (3) a laboratory or ﬁeld experiment
with Great Tits that addresses the eﬀects of individ-
ual variation and resource heterogeneity on movement
trajectories.
Requirements: We are looking for a highly motivated
and skilled candidate with a PhD degree in ecology,
having aﬃnity for and experience with at least two of
the following: (a) modelling / programming, (b) statis-
tical analyses of complex data, (c) experimental stud-
ies with animals. The candidate is expected to pro-
mote new techniques to measure and analyse animal
movement. The candidate should be a team player, be
legally qualiﬁed to design animal experiments, and have
good communication skills, both orally and in writing,
Location: The candidate will initially be based in
Nieuwersluis, but needs to visit the other two centres
on a regular basis. In the course of 2010 the base will
change to Wageningen after the merger of CTE and CL.
Appointment: Temporary appointment for 3 years,
starting in the course of 2009.
Salary: Salary depends on training and work experi-
ence, the maximum gross monthly salary coming with
a full-time appointment will amount up to EUR3.755,00
(scale 10, Collective Agreement for Dutch Universities
(CAO-Nederlandse Universiteiten), excluding 8% holi-
day pay and a year-end bonus. We oﬀer an extensive
package of fringe beneﬁts.
Information: To request additional infor-
mation and a pdf of the project proposal
please contact the members of the project
group by e-mail: movement@nioo.knaw.nl
<mailto:movement@nioo.knaw.nl > . General
information on the NIOO can be found at
the Internet at: http://www.nioo.knaw.nl <
https://webmail.cte.nioo.knaw.nl/exchweb/bin/redir.asp?URL= http:/-
/www.nioo.knaw.nl/ >.
Applications: Applications with CV (including a list
of publications and a statement of research interests),
mentioning the vacancy number should be addressed
to prof. dr. Louise E.M. Vet, director of the NIOO,
P.O. Box 40, 6666 ZG Heteren, The Netherlands, or by
e-mail to g.giesen@nioo.knaw.nl. The closing date for
application is May 1th 2009
Prof. Dr. Marc Naguib Netherlands Institute
of Ecology (NIOO-KNAW) PO Box 40 6666 ZG
Heteren The Netherlands m.naguib@nioo.knaw.nl
<mailto:m.naguib@nioo.knaw.nl > Tel: +31
(0)26 4791 255 Fax: +31 (0)26 4723 227http://www.nioo.knaw.nl/PPAGES/mnaguib/ <
http://www.nioo.knaw.nl/CTE/PVD/index.htm >
“Naguib, Marc” <M.Naguib@nioo.knaw.nl >
NewYorkBotanicalGarden PBI
Miconieae
Postdoctoral Position at The New York Botanical Gar-
den
The New York Botanical Garden, a National Historic
Landmark and one of New York City’s premier cultural
institutions seeks a full-time Post-Doctoral Research
Associate to join our Institute of Systematic Botany
Science department. This is a grant funded position.
Salary commensurate with experience. Excellent bene-
ﬁts, including paid vacation.
The candidate will join the PBI: Miconieae (Melastom-
ataceae) project. This NSF-funded research will pro-
duce an online monograph of all 1,800 species in this
neotropical tribe, including complete descriptions, im-
ages, keys for their identiﬁcation, and distribution maps
for each species, while continuing to research phylo-
genetic relationships within the tribe. This project
presents a unique opportunity for a highly motivated
individual to carry out ﬁeld work in the Neotropics, and
to take a leading role in the analysis of large data sets
(800+ species; 1000+ terminals) using molecular and
morphological data. Funding is available for a min-
imum of 1 year, and may be extended upon mutual
agreement and grant renewal. Applicants should have
a Ph.D. at the start date, experience in phylogenetic
analyses and sequencing techniques, as well as desire to
be involved in all aspects of a multidisciplinary and in-
ternational project on angiosperm systematics. ( http:/-
/sweetgum.nybg.org/melastomataceae )
Applicants should send a cover letter with a brief de-
scription of research interests, curriculum vitae, up to
four reprints if available, and the names and contact in-
formation for at least three references to: HR@nybg.org
or mail to The New York Botanical Garden, 200th St.
& Kazimiroﬀ Blvd., Bronx, NY 10458, Attention Hu-
man Resources/Dr. Fabian Michelangeli - Position Ap-
plication Number SC-1632.
The review of applications will begin on May 4th, 2009.
The New York Botanical Garden is an Equal Opportu-
nity Employer.May 1, 2009 EvolDir 83
fabian@nybg.org
UBourgogne NeuroEvoParasito
Project title: Neurophysiological basis of parasite ma-
nipulation: how do acanthocephalan parasites interfere
with the serotonergic pathway of their crustacean host
?
A postdoctoral associate is sought to collaborate on a
highly original project at the interface between inver-
tebrate neurophysiology and behavioral ecology. The
main goal of the project is to understand the neuro-
physiological basis of parasite manipulation. Parasite
manipulation is deﬁned as the ability, shared by sev-
eral parasite groups, to modify their hosts behaviour in
ways that enhance their own transmission, for instance
through increasing the intermediate hosts vulnerabil-
ity to predation by the ﬁnal host. We are speciﬁcally
investigating how parasites interfere with the serotoner-
gic system of their host to alter behavioural perception
and/or response to environmental cues (such as pho-
totactism or chemotactism). The project will use the
amphipod Gammarus pulex and its acanthocephalan
parasites Pomphorhynchus sp. as a model system. It
will address how reaction to light and/or odor is con-
troled by serotonin (receptors involved) and whether
parasites are altering certain components of the sero-
tonergic pathway (serotonin brain/hemolymph concen-
trations, post-traductional changes in 5HT-receptors,
changes in SERT gene expression...).
The candidates should have a PhD in neurophysiology,
or in behavioural ecology with research experience in in-
vertebrate neurobiology. Experience with biochemical
techniques (western blot, ELISA, HPLC, immunocyto-
chemistry, analysis of post-traductional modiﬁcations)
are requested. Skills in proteomics or gene expression
analysis will also be considered.
The successful applicant will join the evolutionary
ecology lab at University of Dijon, France, and be
jointly supervised by Professor Frank Cezilly ( www.u-
bourgogne.fr/BIOGEOSCIENCE/cv/cezilly ) and Dr.
Marie-Jeanne Perrot-Minnot ( www.u-bourgogne.fr/-
BIOGEOSCIENCE/perrot ). The position will be ap-
pointed for two years with a net salary of 2500 eu-
ros/month Start date is negotiable from september to
december 2009. Applicants are requested to email
a letter of introduction and motivation, CV, and
references to fcezill@u-bourgogne.fr and mjperrot@u-bourgogne.fr. The deadline for application is may the
28th, 2009
*** Marie-Jeanne Perrot-Minnot Associate Professor
Ecology Evolution lab UMR CNRS 5561 Biogeosciences
Univ. Bourgogne 6 Bd Gabriel 21000 Dijon France
Marie-Jeanne Perrot-Minnot <mjperrot@u-
bourgogne.fr >
UBristol DrosophilaAdaptation
NERC-funded PDRA available in Biological Sciences,
University of Bristol, UK
Limits to evolution along ecological gradients in rain-
forest Drosophila
Applications are invited for a Postdoctoral Research
Assistant to work on a NERC-funded project with Dr
Jon Bridle. This research will combine ecological and
quantitative genetic studies of natural populations to
test population genetic models for limits to adaptation
at range margins. It will focus on estimating adaptive
divergence and ﬁtness along several ecological gradi-
ents in northern Queensland. Addressing these issues
is crucial for assessing dangerous levels of environmen-
tal change.
The research involves collaboration with Profs Mark
Blows (Queensland), Ary Hoﬀmann (Melbourne), and
Nick Barton (Vienna), and will require spending ex-
tended periods in the ﬁeld, and approximately six
months per year in Australia.
Successful applicants for will need to show evidence of
successful research and that they are capable of working
independently under diﬃcult ﬁeld conditions. Experi-
ence in the design and successful performance of de-
tailed quantitative genetic experiments and ﬁtness as-
says (particularly in Drosophila) would be a distinct
advantage, as well as an understanding of population
and quantitative genetic theory.
A full driving license is essential. The position will be
for 36 months, with a start time of January 2010 at
the latest. Further details and informal enquires are
welcome (jon.bridle@bristol.ac.uk).
A full-time technician position is also available for this
project, to be advertised at a later date.
The deadline for applications is 29th May 2009.
Please see https://www.bris.ac.uk/boris/jobs/ads?ID=84 EvolDir May 1, 2009
78747 for full details of the application procedure.
Dr Jon Bridle School of Biological Sciences University
of Bristol Bristol BS8 1UD
Tel. (+44) 117 928 7482 Fax. (+44) 117 331 7985
jon.bridle@bristol.ac.uk
Jon Bridle <jon.bridle@bristol.ac.uk >
UBritishColumbia
InﬂuenzaEvolution
Postdoctoral Researcher The CIHR Team in Functional
Infectomics of H5/H7 Inﬂuenza A virus
The CIHR Team in Functional Infectomics of H5/H7
Inﬂuenza A virus, coordinated by team leader Dr.
Fran¸ cois Jean in the Department of Microbiology and
Immunology at the University of British Columbia in-
vites applications for Postdoctoral researchers. Three-
year terms are available for comparative studies in func-
tional infectomics of Inﬂuenza A (infA) to reveal host-
dependent factors and associated biological networks
determining pandemic. www.microbiology.ubc.ca/-
fjean The following position is open for immediate hire:
Evolutionary Biology/Knowledge Transla-
tion/Bioinformatics/Public Health Postdoctoral
Fellow CIHR Team in Functional Infectomics Research
Laboratory, Vancouver, B.C., Canada
You will participate in public health research initiatives,
including collaborations between all CIHR Pandemic
Preparedness Team members. The successful candi-
date must synthesize and translate the functional infec-
tomics data into useful resources for the media, public
health educators and policy-makers. A strong work-
ing knowledge of bioinformatics, particularly in the ar-
eas of comparative genomics, proteomics and pandemic
modeling is highly preferred. Proﬁciency with comput-
ers, and eﬀective use of relevant database, spreadsheet,
statistical, graphical, presentation, communication and
web application is highly recommended. The successful
applicant will keep up-to-date regarding new initiatives,
developments and trends in virology, genomics, bioin-
formatics, proteomics, infectious diseases and popula-
tion health issues. Your excellent communication skills
will be the foundation for the synthesis and presen-
tation of related data and information in concise and
meaningful ways. The ideal candidate also has con-
siderable data management and problem-solving skills.
This is a unique position requiring a well-rounded in-dividual looking for a challenging postdoctoral experi-
ence.
The appointments will be for one year initially, and
may be renewable for up to 3 years at the postdoctoral
level. The CIHR Team in Functional Infectomics ex-
pects to hire multiple researchers who will work with
one another and with researchers in other disciplines
participating in the team project worldwide.
Due to repeated outbreaks of avian inﬂuenza around
the world, including the most recent one in the province
of British Columbia, the Government of Canada, and
the Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR)
have prioritized resources and co-operation to eradicate
avian inﬂuenza as soon as possible, and prevent any fu-
ture human infection with highly pathogenic strains of
the virus. This has guaranteed funding for multiple
Postdoctoral fellowships. We seek individuals to work
with a world-class team of faculty from the University
of British Columbia, British Columbia Centre for Dis-
ease Control, University of Calgary, Canadian Food In-
spection Agency, Centers for Disease Control Atlanta,
Ohio State Medical College and the University of Hong
Kong to develop and coordinate worldwide research ef-
forts pandemic preparedness. Travel between various
laboratories may be required.
Candidates should have: completed their Ph.D. within
the last three years in Bioinformatics, Public Health,
Virology, Microbiology or a related discipline, or hold
a CIHR-eligible Health Professional degree (i.e., Physi-
cian, or Veterinarian). An equivalent combination of
education, training and experience will be considered,
but must conform to CIHR eligibility guidelines. The
successful candidate will have excellent organization,
interpersonal, and communication skills, and have a
strong personal commitment to public health. The
team grant is composed of ﬁve research projects in ge-
nomics, proteomics, RNA proﬁling, cell biology, and
bioinformatics, with postdoctoral positions available to
each project. The work will involve driving an increase
in our molecular, cellular and functional understand-
ing on infA-induced pathogenesis. Subsequently, us-
ing this novel biological knowledge, researchers will de-
velop trans-disciplinary models for real-time risk man-
agement of inﬂuenza pandemic, and disease surveillance
in Canada and around the world.
Applicants should submit a resume, statement of re-
search interests and the names and complete contact
information (including phone, fax and e-mail) of four
references to Dr. Michelle Krakowski, Department
of Microbiology & Immunology, Life Sciences Centre,
3559-2350 Health Sciences Mall, Vancouver, B.C., V6T
1Z3. (mkrakow@interchange.ubc.ca). Review of appli-May 1, 2009 EvolDir 85
cations will begin immediately and will continue until
the positions are ﬁlled.
UBC hires on the basis of merit and is committed to
employment equity. We encourage all qualiﬁed persons
to apply; however, Canadians and Permanent Residents
of Canada will be given priority. The positions
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UCaliforniaIrvine
StatisticalGenetics
One or more Postdoctoral Scholar positions are avail-
able to carry out bioinformatics analyses of popula-
tion and quantitative genetics datasets. The project
will be jointly supervised by Anthony Long and Stuart
Macdonald (University of Kansas), with the position
located at U.C. Irvine. There will be opportunity to
interact with a diverse group of evolutionary geneti-
cists at the University of California, Irvine ( http://-
ecoevo.bio.uci.edu ). This position provides an opportu-
nity to develop an independent line of research and to
collaborate with our group on several quantitative prob-
lems. Potential projects include computational analy-
ses of ﬁfteen resequenced Drosophila genomes, compu-
tation analyses of ~2000 recombinant inbred lines geno-
typed at >1500 SNP loci, and developing quantitative
genetic and population genetic models relating pheno-
type to genotype.
This position requires a Ph.D. and a record of
published research in areas related to popula-
tion/quantitative/statistical genetics, computational or
mathematical biology. Project will involve working
with massive datasets so demonstrated competency
with Unix/Perl/MySQL will be required (and R an
added plus). Positions are initially for one year, with
possibility of renewal. The positions are currently open,
and the starting date is negotiable.
All qualiﬁed candidates, including minorities and
women, are strongly encouraged to apply. Applicants
should submit a cover letter, a curriculum vitae, and
the names, addresses and phone to:
Tony Long, Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology, 321 Steinhaus HallUniversity of California, Irvine, Irvine, CA 92697-2525
email: tdlong@uci.edu
The University of California, Irvine has an active ca-
reer partner program, is an equal opportunity employer
committed to excellence through diversity, and has a
National Science Foundation Advance Gender Equity
Program.
Anthony Long Professor, Ecology and Evolution
U.C. Irvine 92697-2525 Ph: 949-824-2562 http://-
cstern.bio.uci.edu tdlong@uci.edu tdlong@uci.edu
UCollegeLondon
MappingPreferenceGenes
Position available: POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH
ASSOCIATE
Department of Genetics, Evolution and Environment,
University College London
Project title: Genetic basis of female sexual preference
in a stalk- eyed ﬂy
Investigators: Dr Kevin Fowler & Prof Andrew Pomi-
ankowski
1) OUTLINE OF PROJECT
A NERC-funded postdoctoral position is available from
01 June 2009 (ﬂexible) for up to 36 months to inves-
tigate the genetic basis of female mate preference in
the stalk-eyed ﬂy, Diaesemopsis meigenii. The project
combines evolutionary genetic analysis and quantita-
tive trait locus (QTL) mapping approaches. Quantita-
tive genetic analysis will be carried out on condition-
dependent female mate preferences and examine a
range of correlated traits in males and females. In ad-
dition, a QTL mapping analysis of variation in prefer-
ence will be carried out on inbred lines, using genomic
markers (microsatellites and SNPs). The study is a col-
laboration with Dr Jon Slate and Prof Terry Burke at
the University of Sheﬃeld, and will use the resources
of the NERC Molecular Genetics Facilities at Sheﬃeld
and Liverpool. The post holder will be assisted by a re-
search technician (full-time) and join the thriving stalk-
eyed ﬂy research group.
2) FURTHER RESEARCH DETAILS OF PROJECT
This project aims to provide a integrated analysis of the
genetic basis of female mate preferences using a com-
bination of quantitative genetic and quantitative trait86 EvolDir May 1, 2009
locus (QTL) mapping approaches.
There have been few rigorous studies of variation in
female mate preferences. In part, this reﬂects the diﬃ-
culty of accurately estimating preferences, requiring the
repeated measurement of female response to a range of
male stimuli in controlled conditions. We have estab-
lished an excellent system for quantifying variation in
female mate preference in the African stalk-eyed ﬂy Di-
asemopsis meigenii. In this species, females actively
reject unwanted male mating attempts and this has
enabled us to accurately measure mate preference of
individual females. We have shown that the strength
of directional preference increases with female eyespan.
This suggests.that preference is condition-dependent
as females raised under good larval food conditions
have larger eyespan. More recently, we showed that
adult food conditions alter preference in a condition-
dependent manner, as females kept on good adult food
had stronger directional preferences for males with
larger sexual ornaments than females reared on poor
quality food.
In this project we will investigate the genetics of
condition- dependent preference. We will carry out a
half-sib quantitative genetic analysis in three environ-
ments which vary in food quality. We will estimate
genetic parameters and see how they vary with envi-
ronmental stress. Also, we will test for genetic covaria-
tion of female preference with other female traits known
to aﬀect preference (eyespan and fecundity) and exam-
ine condition-dependent association with the male or-
nament (eyespan).
We will also will carry out a QTL mapping study of
the genetics of preference. A genomic map will be gen-
erated for D. meigenii. A microsatellite library for D.
meigenii has been partially constructed at the NERC
MGF-Sheﬃeld. We aim to increase this to a map com-
posed of ~50 polymorphic microsatellites. We will also
identify and evaluate SNPs using 454 pyrosequencing
of a cDNA library at the NERC MGF- Liverpool. To
identify female preference QTL we will exploit inbred
lines of D. meigenii that we have already generated. In-
bred lines will be quantiﬁed for female preference and
then we will carry out an F2 cross between high and low
lines. We will then map the genetic architecture under-
lying variation in preference, to establish the number,
distribution of eﬀects and linkage patterns of the QTLs
underlying preference. We will also use the QTL ap-
proach to test whether QTL for preference are geneti-
cally correlated with female eyespan and fecundity QTL
and assess the co-localisation of female preference QTL
and male eyespan QTL.
3) GENERAL INFORMATIONApplicants must have a PhD in a relevant genetics,
behavioural or evolutionary discipline, be enthusias-
tic and well organised. Experience in handling large-
scale experiments with insects, population genetics,
behavioural assays and statistical analysis of genomic
marker data would be advantageous.
Starting salary will be in band 7 of the national pay
scale (between £28,839 and £31,513 plus £2,781 Lon-
don Allowance, according to experience).
To apply, please download the application form. Job
description and person speciﬁcation from: http:/-
/www.ucl.ac.uk/biosciences/vacancies . Applicants
should send a cover letter, CV, contact details of 3
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UEastAnglia WarblerFitness
The following postdoc position has become available
again due to the previously chosen candidate being un-
able to take up the position
Telomeres as biomarkers of costs and quality in the Sey-
chelles warbler
UEA SCHOOL OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
SENIOR RESEARCH ASSOCIATE Ref: RA519
29,704 to 35,469 per annum
This NERC funded postdoctoral position is available
from June 2009 for a period of two years and nine
months to undertake a comprehensive longitudinal
study of telomere shortening in a wild avian popula-
tion. The researcher will help to develop and then
utilise molecular protocols to screen for telomere length
in the Seychelles warbler. You must have, or shortly ob-
tain, a PhD (or equivalent) in a relevant discipline, have
a keen interest in understanding life history trade-oﬀs
and senescence and have practical experience in modern
molecular techniques.
Closing date: 12 noon on Thursday 2 April 2009. This
is a readvertisement but previous applicants are wel-
come to apply.
Further particulars and an application form are
available on our website: www.uea.ac.uk/hr/jobs/May 1, 2009 EvolDir 87
<ﬁle:///C: \Documents%20and%20Settings \k483 \
Local%20Settings \Temporary%20Internet%20Files \
OLK1A \www.uea.ac.uk/hr/jobs/ >or Tel. 01603
593493.
David S Richardson Centre for Ecology, Evolution and
Conservation School of Biological Sciences University of
East Anglia e-mail: david.richardson@uea.ac.uk Nor-
wich NR4 7TJ ph: (44) 01603 591496 ENGLAND fax:
(44) 01603 592250
http://biobis.bio.uea.ac.uk/biosql/fac show.aspx?ID=
325
“Richardson David Dr (BIO)”
<David.Richardson@uea.ac.uk >
UGeneva Bioinformatics
Postdoc / Research Associate position Systems genetics
and evolution of animal molecular systems
We are looking for a highly motivated, innovative and
independent project leader to work at the exciting inter-
face of the emerging ﬁelds of systems genetics, linking
genetic variations with phenotypes, and evolutionary
systems biology, studying trends in molecular systems
evolution. This computational project will bring to-
gether the group’s expertise in comparative genomics
and the forthcoming human genome variation data,
possibly, in conjunction with artiﬁcial evolution sim-
ulations.
Candidates must have a PhD and demonstrate clear ev-
idence of successful work in computational biology, in-
cluding a thorough understanding of evolutionary con-
cepts, genomics and genetics. Practical programming
experience in the Unix environment and ﬂuency in En-
glish are required. Experience in a multidisciplinary
research environment, familiarity with graph and data
analysis algorithms, Bayesian statistics, and MATLAB
is a plus.
The Computational Evolutionary Genomics group,
headed by Prof. E. Zdobnov, is part of the Department
of Genetic Medicine and Development of the Univer-
sity of Geneva Medical School. We are also part of the
renowned Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics, and oﬀer a
stimulating research environment with excellent facili-
ties.
The international city of Geneva, described as ’the
smallest of the large capitals’, oﬀers a vibrant city life
within easy reach of the picturesque lake and stunningAlps. Salaries: 68’000-94’000 CHF/y depending on ex-
perience.
Closing date for applications: 31 May 2009.
To apply: send your CV, motivation letter, and the
names and contact details of at least two referees by
e-mail to Evgeny.Zdobnov@isb-sib.ch
Prof. Evgeny Zdobnov University of Geneva CMU
/ Dpt GEDEV Rue Michel-Servet 1 1211 Gen` eve 4
Switzerland
Stefan.Wyder@unige.ch Stefan.Wyder@unige.ch
UGeorgia Infectious disease
dynamics
NONLINEAR DYNAMICS & NOISE AMPLIFICA-
TION IN INFECTIOUS DISEASE DYNAMICS
A postdoctoral associate is sought to collaborate on
a project to study the interaction between nonlinear-
ity, resonance and noise ampliﬁcation in the dynamics
of directly transmitted infectious diseases. The main
goal of the project is to understand the relative im-
portance of exogenous and endogenous nonlinearities
and stochastic processes in the outbreak dynamics of
endemic pathogens. The successful applicant should
have a background in population biology of infectious
diseases or epidemiology. Experience with stochas-
tic processes and analyzing nonlinear dynamical sys-
tems is required. The project is housed at the Uni-
versity of Georgia Odum School of Ecology and will
be jointly supervised by Professors Pej Rohani ( http:/-
/www.uga.edu/rohanilab/ ) and John Drake ( http:/-
/dragonﬂy.ecology.uga.edu/drakelab/ ). The position
will be initially appointed for one year with a starting
salary of $37,000. Start date is negotiable. Potential
applicants are requested to email ( jdrake@uga.edu) a
letter of introduction, CV, and expression of interest.
The position will remain open until ﬁlled.
andrea.silletti@gmail.com
UGeorgia PathogenEvolution
University of Georgia - Post-Doctoral Associate ˆ a Mod-88 EvolDir May 1, 2009
eling pathogen evolution
We are seeking candidates with skills and interests in
evolutionary biology and computer modeling to be-
come involved in one or more ongoing infectious disease
projects with Dr Andrew Park at the Odum School of
Ecology, including:
ˆ a short-term pathogen evolution ˆ a the emergence of im-
mune escape pathogen strains ˆ a the role of host hetero-
geneity in maintaining pathogen diversity ˆ a character-
izing disease evolution trajectories
Funding (plus health and retirement beneﬁts) is avail-
able for 18 months, with the possibility of extension
Applicants should email a statement of interest, CV,
and arrange to have 3 letters of recommendation sent
to Dr Park (awpark@uga.edu). Applications received
before 10 May 2009 will be reviewed and the position
can be taken up from July 2009, or later.
The University of Georgia is an equal opportunity, af-
ﬁrmative action employer.
Andrew Park <andrew.william.park@gmail.com >
UGuelph Parasite Vector
DNABarcoding
Postdoctoral position in molecular identiﬁcation
(“DNA barcoding”) of pathogens and disease vectors
Outstanding applicants are sought for a two-year post-
doctoral position at the University of Guelph, focus-
ing on the development of molecular identiﬁcation
methodology (“DNA barcoding”) for a wide range of
pathogens, parasites, and disease vectors. This will in-
clude both original research and participation in the
assembly and coordination of large-scale international
collaborations.
Experience is required in PCR, DNA sequencing, and
related analytical approaches, as well as expertise in
one or more of protists, nematodes, ﬂatworms, or insect
vectors. In addition, applicants must possess excellent
written and oral communication skills in English as well
as strong leadership qualities.
Salary and beneﬁts will total $45,000 (CDN) per year,
with a further $5,000 per year in individual research
support. The successful candidate will have access to
a high-throughput biodiversity genomics facility under
the co-supervision of Ryan Gregory (Department of In-
tegrative Biology) and Paul Hebert (Biodiversity Insti-tute of Ontario). The position will be co-funded by
the Ministry of Research and Innovation through the
Ontario Post-Doctoral Fellowship Program, Round 3.
Candidates must meet the following additional require-
ments: * Have completed their PhD no earlier than
June 15, 2007. * Be available to begin work no later
than Oct. 31, 2009. * Be eligible to work in Ontario,
Canada.
Applicants should send a CV including a brief
overview of experience and research interests to rgre-
gory@uoguelph.ca
Review of applications will commence June 15, 2009.
For more information, visit: * Canadian Centre
for DNA Barcoding: http://www.dnabarcoding.ca/-
* International Barcode of Life (iBOL) project:
http://www.dnabarcoding.org/ * University of Guelph:
http://www.uoguelph.ca/ * Gregory Lab: http://-
www.gregorylab.org/ rgregory@uoguelph.ca
UIllinois HumanPathogenEvolution
Postdoctoral Research Fellowship, Genetic Diversity
and Clinical Outcome Organization: University of Illi-
nois Medical Center Department of Medicine, Section
of Infectious Diseases
Our laboratory seeks to understand the role of human
and pathogen diversity in the outcome of human fungal
infections.
We are seeking an enthusiastic and highly motivated
evolutionary biologist/yeast geneticist to join a large
group of clinical and basic science investigators. The
overall goal of the funded projects is to identify and
characterize regions of high genetic plasticity in both
the human and pathogen genome that have strong as-
sociations with parameters of clinical outcome. Fo-
cus will be on infections of the AIDS-related pathogen,
Cryptococcus neoformans as well as Candida albicans,
the fourth most common blood stream infection in the
US. Novel pathways related to virulence identiﬁed by a
number of genomics methods will be further character-
ized using yeast and mammalian genetics and immunol-
ogy in mouse models. Research is supported through
multiple NIH and Veteran’s Administration grants and
has just received additional NIH-supported funding.
The successful applicant will be responsible for design-
ing and carrying out experiments, analyzing experi-May 1, 2009 EvolDir 89
mental results, preparing manuscripts and helping with
the supervision of students. A PhD is required with a
strong and published history in molecular genetics. Ex-
perience in bioinformatics is also preferred. No previ-
ous experience in pathogenic fungi is required although
experience in yeast genetics would be valuable. Our
laboratory provides strong support for the development
of independent projects leading to a productive career
for post-doctorate candidates. Applicants who are non-
residents must possess a valid visa for working in the
U.S. UIC is AA/EOE
Send a curriculum vita and a short discussion of career
plans to: Peter R. Williamson, MD/PhD Section of In-
fectious Diseases, M/C 735 Department of Medicine,
808 S. Wood St, Rm 888 Chicago, IL 60612 email:
prw@uic.edu
Peter R. Williamson, MD/PhD Associate Professor of
Medicine, Pathology, Microbiology and Immunology
University of Illinois at Chicago School of Medicine Sec-
tion of Infectious Diseases Rm 888, Bld 910, m/c 735
808 S. Wood St. Chicago, IL 60612 tel: (312) 996-6070
fax: (312) 413-1657
Peter Williamson <prw@uic.edu >
ULeeds HostParasiteEvolution
Job: Postdoctoral Research Assistant in host-parasite
evolutionary ecology.
Institute of Integrative and Comparative Biology, Fac-
ulty of Biological Sciences, University of Leeds
A 36 month ﬁxed-term Postdoctoral Research Assis-
tant position (University Grade 6: £23,002 - £27,466)
is available in the research group of Dr. William Hughes
(http://www.personal.leeds.ac.uk/ ˜ fbswohh/ ). The
project will use honeybees and their chalkbrood fun-
gal parasite as a model system to investigate the ef-
fects of host and parasite genetic diversity on parasite
transmission and evolution. You will work with hon-
eybee colonies with diﬀerent levels of genetic diversity
and will use microsatellite genotyping to determine the
eﬀect of host genotype on parasite virulence and ﬁt-
ness. You will conduct controlled infections with single
and multiple parasite strains and use real-time PCR to
quantify within-host parasite dynamics. You will carry
out serial passage experiments to establish experimen-
tally how host and parasite genetic diversity impact
the evolution of the parasite. The project’s results willhelp inform management strategies for our increasingly
vulnerable ho neybee populations and will signiﬁcantly
advance our understanding of the evolutionary biology
of host-parasite interactions in general.
You will be joining a young and dynamic research
group, which will be growing signiﬁcantly over the
course of 2009. The molecular laboratory is well-
equipped with a real-time and four conventional PCR
machines, while capillary sequencers are provided by a
Faculty facility. The project will utilise a large exper-
imental apiary at the nearby University Farm and will
be supported by a full-time Research Technician. Work
will be in collaboration with the National Bee Unit and
the University of Copenhagen; training visits to both
will take place over the course of the ﬁrst year.
You should have a ﬁrst degree and PhD in a relevant
subject, an excellent publication/results record for your
career stage, and research experience in evolutionary bi-
ology or molecular ecology. You should be hard work-
ing, self-motivated and able to work both independently
and as part of a team. You must have experience with
molecular techniques, preferably real-time PCR. Expe-
rience with social insects, beekeeping or mycology, and
a driving licence would also be useful.
The position is to start 1 June 2009 or as soon as pos-
sible thereafter. Applications will be reviewed on 24th
April 2009, but will continue to be considered until the
position is ﬁlled.
Informal enquiries (please include CV) to Dr William
Hughes, email w.o.h.hughes@leeds.ac.uk. To apply on
line please visit http://www.leeds.ac.uk and click on
jobs.
W.O.H.Hughes@leeds.ac.uk
W.O.H.Hughes@leeds.ac.uk
UManchester MicrobialEvolution
Postdoctoral Research Associate, Microbial Evolution
Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester, UK
We seek an enthusiastic and highly motivated evolu-
tionary biologist/microbial ecologist to study competi-
tive interactions between bacteria and burying beetles
for access to carrion. We have previously shown that
microbial decomposers of carrion cause signiﬁcant harm
to beetle larvae. Furthermore, we have shown that bee-
tles can reduce this harm by providing various forms
of parental care for the larvae. The speciﬁc aims of90 EvolDir May 1, 2009
this project are to: 1) Determine the ﬁtness eﬀects of
microbes on beetles when competing for access to car-
rion. 2) Identify the bacterial species that decompose
carrion, the nature of the anti-competitor compounds
they secrete, and against whom these toxic products are
targeted. 3) Determine the eﬀects of behavioural, phys-
iological and biochemical counterstrategies used by bee-
tles and beetle larvae to contend with microbial com-
petitors. The ideal candidate will have interest and
experience in microbiology and evolutionary biology.
The successful applicant will be responsible for design-
ing and carrying out experiments, analyzing experimen-
tal results, preparing manuscripts, and helping with the
supervision of students. You should hold a PhD in a
relevant biological discipline and have a strong back-
ground in evolutionary biology. Experience in microbial
ecology is desirable.
This work is a collaborative project between Dr. Rozen
and Dr. Andrew McBain at the University of Manch-
ester and Dr. Per Smiseth at the University of Edin-
burgh. Occasional travel to Edinburgh will be required.
Funded by the Leverhulme Trust, this position is ten-
able from 1st June 2009 for three years.
Informal enquiries can be addressed to: Dr Daniel
Rozen, Tel: +44 (0) 161 275 5094, Email:
Daniel.rozen@manchester.ac.uk
Application forms and further particulars can be
obtained at http://www.man.ac.uk/news/vacancies
Daniel Rozen University of Manchester Faculty of Life
Sciences Michael Smith Building Oxford Road Manch-
ester M13 9PT
Tel: +44161 275 5094 Fax: +44161 275 5082
Daniel.Rozen@manchester.ac.uk
UmeaU ClimatechangeBiodiversity
Two post-doc positions (2 years) on the role of climate
change for the evolution of biodiversity
The aim of the project is to understand how climate
change aﬀects evolution and the global distribution of
species. The earth is subject to recurrent and rapid cli-
mate shifts at various time-scales, but the consequences
of this has not been incorporated into models of evo-
lution. Climate shifts cause extinction, splitting, and
merging of gene pools, potentially aﬀecting rates of spe-
ciation and species extinction. There are two opposingviews on the eﬀect of climate change on species diversi-
ﬁcation. According to one view, climate shifts enhance
speciation by promoting lineage splitting. The alter-
native view is that climate shifts curb speciation by
causing extinction or merging of diverging gene pools,
as well as leading to species extinction. In the project,
models of past climate change are combined with phy-
logenetic data to address how diversiﬁcation of species
and spatial patterns in genetic divergence within species
are aﬀected by climate variability. A paper providing a
background to the project is found in Annu. Rev. Ecol.
Syst. 33:741-777.
Position 1 investigates the role of climate variability
for the diversiﬁcation of species. Data on past climate
change from climate models are used together with phy-
logenies from a range of taxa to test for an association
between climate variability and species diversiﬁcation.
Position 2 tests how climatic variability aﬀects the de-
gree of genetic divergence among populations. Data
on levels of genetic divergence among populations are
combined with data on past climate change from cli-
mate models to test for a correlation between genetic
divergence and climatic stability, both within species
(in cases where climatic stability varies across its geo-
graphic range) and between species inhabiting regions
diﬀering in climatic stability.
To qualify for the positions you should have a PhD
degree or equivalent. Experience with geographic in-
formation systems and bioclimatic modelling is merit-
ing for both positions. Position 1 requires good knowl-
edge on methods of statistical inference from phyloge-
netic data. Position 2 requires familiarity with theories
on causes for spatial patterns in genetic variation and
knowledge on statistical inference using genetic data.
The positions are for two years and available immedi-
ately, preferably starting no later than September 1,
2009.
For further information, please contact Associate Pro-
fessor Roland Jansson, Department of Ecology and
Environmental Science, phone: +46-(0)90-786 95 73,
roland.jansson@emg.umu.se, or look at <http://-
www.emg.umu.se/roland >www.emg.umu.se/roland.
Your application, in English, should include: (1) a short
summary of your previous research achievements and
other experience relevant for the positions, (2) a short
description of why you are a good candidate for the
position and how you could contribute to the research,
(3) a curriculum vitae with a list of publications, and
(4) names and contact details of three references.
Union information is available from SACO, +46-(0)90-
786 53 65, SECO civil, +46-(0)90-786 52 96, and ST,May 1, 2009 EvolDir 91
+46-(0)90-786 54 31.
If you are applying for both positions, you need to send
in one application for each position. Applications will
be discarded or, if the applicant so wishes, returned two
years after the position has been ﬁlled. Documents sent
electronically should be in MS Word or PDF format.
Your complete application, marked with reference num-
ber 315-301-09, should be sent to jobb@umu.se (state
the reference number as subject) or to the Registrar,
Ume˚ a University, SE-901 87 Ume˚ a, Sweden to arrive
May 31, 2009 at the latest.
Roland Jansson, Associate professor Dept. of Ecology
and Environmental Science Ume˚ a University SE-901 87
Ume˚ a, Sweden phone: +46-90-786 95 73 fax: +46-
90-786 78 60 web: <http://www.emg.umu.se/roland
>http://www.emg.umu.se/roland
roland.jansson@emg.umu.se
roland.jansson@emg.umu.se
UmeaU SticklebackGenetics
2-year postdoc position: stickleback ecological genetics
Ume˚ a University, Sweden. Dept. Ecology & Environ-
mental Sciences
We are looking for a post-doc to study local adapta-
tion and phenotypic plasticity in isolated populations
of sticklebacks in northern Sweden. After the most
recent ice age, some stickleback populations became
land-locked in ponds in which they are the only ﬁsh
species, while other populations coexist with predators.
This project aims to study the eﬀect of predator pres-
ence on local adaptation. The successful applicant will
genotype sticklebacks from natural populations, per-
form common garden breeding experiments, and anal-
yse genetic and phenotypic data. As a joint project of
the research groups of Professor G¨ oran Englund (spa-
tial ﬁsh ecology) Professor Frank Johansson (pheno-
typic plasticity) and Dr. Folmer Bokma (phylogenetics)
this oﬀers an interesting, cross-disciplinary scientiﬁc en-
vironment. Highly motivated candidates with relevant
expertise in ecology and molecular genetics are encour-
aged to get in contact. Previous experience with stick-
leback research is considered an advantage.
The position is available at the earliest possible
time point. For further information, please con-
tact Dr. Folmer Bokma, (+46 90 786 7121)
or folmer.bokma@emg.umu.se, or look at http://-www.emg.umu.se/projects/macroevolution/ . To qual-
ify for the position you should have a PhD degree or
equivalent, preferably not more than three years old.
Your application, in English, must include a short sum-
mary (max 1 page) of your previous experience, curricu-
lum vitae, list of publications, and names and contact
details of three references. Union information is avail-
able from SACO, +46-(0)90-786 53 65, SEKO civil,
+46-(0)90-786 52 96 and ST, +46-(0)90-786 54 31.
Documents sent electronically should be in MS Word
or PDF format. Your complete application, marked
with reference number, should be sent to jobb@umu.se
(state the reference number as subject) or to the Reg-
istrar, Ume˚ a University, SE-901 87 Ume˚ a, Sweden to
arrive April 24, 2009 at the latest.
Folmer Bokma Dept. Ecology & Environmental Science
Ume˚ a University, Sweden folmer.bokma@emg.umu.se
folmer.bokma@emg.umu.se
folmer.bokma@emg.umu.se
UMontreal Bioinformatics
Posting is also accessible via my website http://-
megasun.bch.umontreal.ca/People/burger/ ===Post-
doctoral position in bioinformatics (-omics analysis)
^^^^^
A post-doctoral position is available to analyze and
integrate data from genomics, transcriptomics, pro-
teomics, and RNA catalysis. The aim is to un-
derstand the evolution of cellular machineries in-
volved in RNA editing and trans-splicing. For
more details on the research projects ongoing in the
lab see <http://megasun.bch.umontreal.ca/People/-
burger/research.html >.
Training background —– PhD in molecular biology,
biochemistry, or bioinformatics. Training in computer
science.
Expertise —– The candidate should have expertise
in computer-based large-scale data analysis, includ-
ing genome and cDNA assembly and annotation, com-
parative genome and proteome analysis, and software
tool development under Unix/Linux. Experience in
database development is desirable.
Starting date —– Immediately.
=== Graduate student position (PhD) in bioinformat-
ics^^^^^92 EvolDir May 1, 2009
A position is available to identify (primary and sec-
ondary structure) motifs involved in a novel RNA trans-
splicing process that we discovered recently (Marande
& Burger 2007, Science 318:415). Predicted motifs and
postulated mechanisms will be the basis for in-vitro ex-
periments, which, in turn, will help to narrow the search
space of in-silico analyses.
Training background —– MSc in bioinformatics or bi-
disciplinary training in computer science & molecular
biology.
Expertise —– Methods and tools in pattern search-
ing, motif prediction, RNA secondary structure predic-
tion, gene prediction. Programming expertise in Perl,
C(++), Java on the Unix/Linux platform.
Starting date —– Immediately.
===Application ^^^^^
Interested candidates are encouraged to send by e-mail
their CV, addresses for potential reference letters, stu-
dent transcripts, and Master/PhD thesis to
Gertraud Burger, PhD Robert-Cedergren Centre
for Bioinformatics and Genomics Departement de
Biochimie Universite de Montreal, Pavillon Roger
Gaudry 2900 Blvd Eduard-Montpetit Montreal, Que-
bec, H3T 1J4, CANADA
e-mail: jobs@bch.umontreal.ca (Subject:“PhD-
bioinfo”)
=== ~~~~ Gertraud Burger, PhD Professeur tit-
ulaire Leader of bioinformatics training programs
Departement de biochimie Robert-Cedergren Cen-
ter for Bioinformatics and Genomics Pavillon Roger
Gaudry (P. principal) H-307-13 Universite de Mon-
treal 2900 Edouard-Montpetit Montreal QC, H3T
1J4, Canada Tel (514) 343-7936, Fax -2210 http://-
megasun.bch.umontreal.ca/People/burger ~~~~
OO OO OO OO OO OO ROBERT-CEDERGREN
CENTER for OO OO BIOINFORMATICS and GE-
NOMICS OO —————————– OO OO UNIVER-
SITE de MONTREAL OO OO
Gertraud Burger <Gertraud.Burger@Umontreal.ca >
UPittsburgh PlantSexChromosomes
POSTDOCTORAL FELLOW in PLANT EVOLU-
TIONARY GENETICS A postdoctoral fellow is sought
to participate in work furthering the understanding theevolution of sex chromosomes in strawberry (Fragaria
species) (see Spigler et al 2008 Heredity 101:507; Moore
2009 Heredity 102: 211). The project will include com-
parative genetic mapping and QTL analysis of sexual
traits.
The ideal candidate will be an independent thinker but
be able to work creatively on a team, have a PhD in
quantitative, population or molecular genetics, evolu-
tion, or related ﬁeld, and have proven experience with
AFLP, SSR and/or genome-wide DNA sequences, use
of relevant programs for statistical analysis and map-
ping of genetic data and evidence of ability to com-
plete manuscripts. Experience with polyploidy, outbred
crosses, GISH/FISH, BAC libraries and bioinformatics
tools is desirable.
The position is available from July 1, 2009
and is oﬀered for two years, with the oppor-
tunity of renewal. Applicants should email
(tia1@pitt.edu <mailto:tia1@pitt.edu >) a letter of
interest, CV and the names/contact information for
three references. Review of applications will begin
immediately and continue until the position is ﬁlled.
Tia-Lynn Ashman Professor Department of Biolog-
ical Sciences 4249 Fifth Ave. & Ruskin University
of Pittsburgh Pittsburgh, PA 15260-3929 phone:
412-624-0984 fax: 412-624-4759 web: http://-
www.pitt.edu/ ˜ biohome/Dept/Frame/Faculty/-
ashman.htm tia1@pitt.edu tia1@pitt.edu
USouthFlorida Bioinformatics
DESCRIPTION: Post-Doctoral Researcher position
in Mya Breitbart’s laboratory at the University of
South Florida, College of Marine Science ( http://-
www.marine.usf.edu/genomics ).
RESPONSIBILITIES: The post-doc will work on an
NSF-funded project to design and implement a plat-
form for the annotation of bacteriophage genes. This
new resource will be used to provide high qual-
ity annotations to over 1000 existing phage and
prophage genomes, and dozens of environmental phage
metagenomes. Research tasks include developing and
validating subsystems for phage, comparative genomics
and sequence alignments, creating and reﬁning phylo-
genies for speciﬁc phage groups, data-mining environ-
mental metagenomes, and identifying novel genes that
can be used for molecular detection assays for various
phage groups. This project will involve interactionsMay 1, 2009 EvolDir 93
with many phage researchers (both biologists and com-
puter scientists), creation of computational resources,
and application to biological datasets.
REQUIREMENTS: Prior experience in bioinformatics
and phylogenetics is required. Programming skills are
highly desirable. Prior experience with phage is con-
sidered a plus but not necessary.
LOCATION: Saint Petersburg, Florida, USA
SALARY AND BENEFITS: This Post-Doctoral Fel-
lowship is for three years. Salary is competitive. Con-
tact Mya Breitbart (mya@marine.usf.edu) for salary
and beneﬁt details.
HOW TO APPLY: Please email your CV and a let-
ter of intent (including qualiﬁcations) to Mya Breitbart
&#8211; mya@marine.usf.edu
–
Mya Breitbart Assistant Professor University of South
Florida College of Marine Science 140 7th Avenue
South Saint Petersburg, FL 33701 phone: 727-553-
3520 fax: 727-553-1189 mya@marine.usf.edu http://-
www.marine.usf.edu/genomics mya@marine.usf.edu
UTartu LifeHistoryEvolution
Position in evolutionary ecology available: optimality
modeling
We wish to recruit a post-doctoral researcher to under-
take OPTIMALITY MODELING in the ﬁeld of LIFE
HISTORY research. The position will be opened at
the recently established Centre of Scientiﬁc Excellence
’Frontiers in Biodiversity Research’ (FIBIR, http://-
ﬁbir.ut.ee ) at the University of Tartu, Estonia ( http:/-
/www.ut.ee ). The successful candidate will work in
Prof. Toomas Tammaru’s ( http://www.ut.ee/ ˜ tam-
marut ) research group, whose primary focus is the life
history evolution of insects (the evolution of body size
in particular). Having mainly relied on experimental
methods to date, the group is looking to strengthen the
modeling component of its research activity. We have
various ideas waiting to be formalized, and empirical
data are available to serve as the foundation of empiri-
cally based models. However, the work proﬁle is largely
ﬂexible, and the researcher will be able to develop his or
her own ideas. The successful candidate will be encour-
aged to collaborate with other research groups, both at
FIBIR and elsewhere. Funding is presently availablefor 24 months, though there is a strong possibility that
this can be extended, subject to the candidate’s perfor-
mance. FIBIR oﬀers an excellent research environment
within a modern infrastructure. The salary level corre-
sponds to that of European Union framework projects
and is open to negotiation. The position is available
from 1st June, 2009, though the start date is ﬂexible.
The successful candidate is expected to have a strong
publication record that demonstrates his or her abil-
ity to apply either analytical or numerical methods to
model biological systems. Competence in the ﬁeld of
mathematical statistics would be an advantage. Pre-
vious experience with insect life history research is not
essential. In the case of very strong candidates, it would
be possible to transform the post-doctoral position into
that of a senior researcher. If interested, provide your
CV, a list of publications and the contact details of at
least two academic referees by 11th May, 2009. For
this purpose, and for informal enquiries, please con-
tact Toomas Tammaru at toomas.tammaru@ut.ee (cc
to maarika.maesalu@ut.ee).
Toomas Tammaru professor of zoology http://-
www.ut.ee/ ˜ tammarut tammarut@ut.ee tam-
marut@ut.ee
UTartu
PhylgeneticComparativeMethods
Position in evolutionary ecology available: phylogenetic
comparative methods
We wish to recruit a post-doctoral researcher in evo-
lutionary ecology to undertake research using PHY-
LOGENETIC COMPARATIVE METHODS. The po-
sition will be opened at the recently established Cen-
tre of Scientiﬁc Excellence ’Frontiers in Biodiversity
Research’ (FIBIR, http://ﬁbir.ut.ee ) at the University
of Tartu, Estonia ( http://www.ut.ee ). The success-
ful candidate will work in Prof. Toomas Tammaru’s
(http://www.ut.ee/˜tammarut ) research group, whose
primary focus is the life history evolution of insects.
Having mainly relied on experimental methods to date,
the group is now looking to develop its expertise in
the ﬁeld of phylogenetically explicit comparative ap-
proaches. The strengths of the group include a rare
combination of in-depth knowledge about the taxonomy
and life-history of insects (mainly Lepidoptera), and
a productive interest in various questions in the ﬁeld
of evolutionary biology. While we have well-deﬁned94 EvolDir May 1, 2009
research questions in mind for the post-doctoral re-
searcher (evolution of body size, egg size, host spe-
cialization etc.), and respective data sets available, the
work proﬁle is largely ﬂexible. The successful candi-
date will be encouraged to collaborate with other re-
search groups, both at FIBIR and elsewhere. Funding
is presently available for 24 months, though there is a
strong possibility that this can be extended, subject to
the candidate’s performance. FIBIR oﬀers an excellent
research environment within a modern infrastructure.
The salary level corresponds to that of European Union
framework projects and is open to negotiation. The po-
sition is available from 1st June, 2009, though the start
date is ﬂexible. The successful candidate is expected to
have a strong publication record that features research
using a phylogenetic comparative approach. However,
we may also consider candidates with experience of
other phylogeny-based analyses or statistical analysis
of autocorrelated data). Previous experience with in-
sect life history research is not essential. In the case
of very strong candidates (excellent publication record
and very good skills in comparative analyses), it would
be possible to transform the post-doctoral position into
that of a senior researcher. If interested, provide your
CV, a list of publications and the contact details of at
least two academic referees by 11th May, 2009. For
this purpose, and for informal enquiries, please con-
tact Toomas Tammaru at toomas.tammaru@ut.ee (cc
to maarika.maesalu@ut.ee).
Toomas Tammaru professor of zoology http://-
www.ut.ee/ ˜ tammarut tammarut@ut.ee tam-
marut@ut.ee
UTromso FungalTaxonomy
The position’s no: Use DocuLive no,
Research fellow position in mycology at Tromsø Mu-
seum - Tromsø University Museum, Department of Nat-
ural Sciences.
Application deadline: The reference no. 09-418 must
be quoted in your application.
The University of Tromsø has a research fellow position
in mycology vacant from 01.01.2010.
The period of appointment is 4 years.
For further information, please contact: Direc-
tor Marit A. Hauan, phone +47 77645000, e-mail:
marit.hauan@uit.no Head of Department of NaturalSciences Karl Frafjord, phone. +47 77645000, e-mail:
karl.frafjord@uit.no
The position is attached to the Department of Natu-
ral Sciences, Tromsø Museum - Tromsø University Mu-
seum.
The research area will be mycology with focus on tax-
onomy and molecular methods.
The University of Tromsø wishes to recruit female re-
searchers. When two or more applicants are found to
be approximately equally qualiﬁed, female applicants
will be given priority.
Applicants must document knowledge in mycology at
Master level. They also must fulﬁl the requirements
for admission into the Faculty’s PhD-program, accord-
ing to Chapter II, section 5 in “Directions for the
degree philosophiae doctor (PhD) at the University
of Tromsø” ( http://uit.no/forsknavd/ph.d.-forskrift/-
1), and also according to the Faculty’s complementary
regulations.
The normal period of appointment is four years,
with 25% mandatory work duties annually, se guide-
lines for PhD students’ responsibilities: http://uit.no/-
getﬁle.php?PageId=6139&FileId=37 . This mandatory
work is aﬃliated to the activities of the Department of
Natural Sciences and may include curatory work, re-
search mediation to the public or teaching. Previous
appointments as a research fellow or in other positions
for recruitment are counted as part of the duration of
the research fellowship, so that the combined duration
of the researcher’s education is three years.
The remuneration for this position is in accordance with
the State wage scale code 1017 (depending on qualiﬁ-
cations). A compulsory contribution of 2 % is made to
the Norwegian State Pension Fund.
The period of the research fellowship shall be utilised
for researcher education and shall normally culminate
in the awarding of a PhD degree. For applications for
appointment, a description outlining the academic basis
of the doctoral degree project ought to be put forward.
A plan shall be drawn up, preferably within one month
after the appointment, as a separate application to a
PhD program. A ﬁnite and accepted plan for the PhD
program should be completed within maximum three
months after the appointment, outlining how the re-
search fellowship period shall be implemented with re-
spect to both the research project and other researcher
education. The plan shall state who is responsible
for providing academic supervision. Acceptance into
a PhD program is mandatory for the appointment as
PhD student. If this agreement is not in place within
the time limit, the University of Tromsø may cancel theMay 1, 2009 EvolDir 95
appointment, according to §1-3(8) in “Guidelines for
appointments to positions as PhD student, post doc-
tor and research assistant”: http://www.lovdato.no/-
for/sf/kd/kd-20060131-0102.html . The research in
mycology at the Department of Natural Sciences fo-
cuses on phylogenetic relationships between taxa at the
species and genus levels, and between families within
the pyrenomycetes s. lato (Ascomycota). The ongoing
research in mycology addresses taxa within the families
Lophiostomataceae and Xylariaceae.
The Department of Natural Sciences presently employs
2 professors, 7 associate professors, 6.5 technical staﬀ
members, 2 Post Doctors and 7 PhD students. The de-
partment has large collections, documenting more that
130 years of research in North Norway and other north-
ern regions. The research at the department covers
both taxonomy and ecology, and the DNA-laboratory
is dedicated to the study of molecular phylogeny and
taxonomy of various organisms including fungi, plants
and animals.
Applicants will be assessed by an expert committee.
The main emphasis of the assessment will be on the
applicant’s potential for research as is evident from: *
Master’s thesis or equivalent * Other scientiﬁc works *
Project description (if available)
Supervised professional training and other activities of
signiﬁcance for the implementation of a doctoral degree
programme and possible teaching qualiﬁcations will
also be taken into consideration. Administration and
organisational experience will be viewed favourably. In-
formation and material to be considered must be sub-
mitted within the closing date for applications.
Applicants must submit a list of all their scientiﬁc works
including
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UWashington SalmonSNPs
University of Washington Postdoctoral Openings
SNP Discovery and Applications in Paciﬁc Salmon
Position Overview:
Organization: School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences,College of Ocean and Fishery Sciences
Title: Research Associate
Position details:
The School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences (SAFS <
http://ﬁsh.washington.edu/ >) at the University of
Washington has openings for up to two postdoctoral
Research Associates (100% time) to conduct research
on SNP discovery using next generation sequencing or
possibly SNP applications in Paciﬁc salmon. These are
2-year positions with the possibility to extend depend-
ing upon funding. The positions are not eligible for
tenure.
The general scope of the appointments may include but
is not limited to:
* Development SNPs using next generation sequenc-
ing and resequencing. * Bioinformatics. * Original re-
search on salmon population genetics and conservation.
* Work with regional ﬁsheries managers to apply SNP
research to contemporary problems. * Formulation of
problems, analysis of data, production of scientiﬁc pa-
pers, and presentation at scientiﬁc meetings. * Mentor
and otherwise assist graduate students who are doing
projects in salmon genetics and supervise hourly help
involved in data analysis.
Requirements:
* Ph.D. in genetics, biology, or a related ﬁeld
The following experience is desired: * DNA sequencing
* Bioinformatics
Positions are located at the University of Washington,
Seattle, WA. The University of Washington is an aﬃr-
mative action, equal opportunity employer. The Uni-
versity is building a culturally diverse faculty and staﬀ
and strongly encourages applications from women, mi-
norities, individuals with disabilities and covered veter-
ans.
“University of Washington faculty engage in teaching,
research and service.”
Interested persons should send CV, short letter
of intent including names and contact informa-
tion for three references via email to Dr. Jim
Seeb, School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences,
University of Washington (jseeb@u.washington.edu
<mailto:rayh@u.washington.edu >). Review of appli-
cations will start April 24, 2009 and continue until the
positions are ﬁlled. For successful candidates, a back-
ground check for criminal history is required.
Jim Seeb Research Professor International Program for
study of Salmon Ecological Genetics School of Aquatic
and Fishery Sciences University of Washington 1122 NE96 EvolDir May 1, 2009
Boat Street, Box 355020 Seattle, WA 98105-5020, USA Phone: 206 685 2097
Jim Seeb <jseeb@u.washington.edu >
WorkshopsCourses
Bialowieza Poland EvolutionaryAdaptation Jun28-Jul2
96
Colombia Bioinformatics Aug23-30 DeadlineMay1 . 97
Denmark AdaptationInAquaticEctotherms Jun15-19
97
Eawag Switzerland SummerSchool Jul5-18 2 . . . . . . . 98
Iceland ArabidopsisEvolution Aug14-17 . . . . . . . . . . . 98
ImperialCollege PopulationBiol May26-28 . . . . . . . . . 99
Italy PopulationForestGenomics Jul22-24 Reminder 99
Kunming ConservationBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
Montana ConservationGeneticDataAnalysis Aug31-
Sep4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
Munich HostParasiteCoevolution Sep20-25 . . . . . . . 101
NESCent GMOD Jul16-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
Neuchatel SocialEvolution Jun4-5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102OhioStateU PhylogeneticMethods Jul13-17 . . . . . . . 103
Roscoﬀ France MarineEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . 103
Roscoﬀ France MarineEvolutionaryGenomics May25-
Jun5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
Shanghai ComputationalBiology Aug16-22 . . . . . . . 105
UCollege Cork Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
UGlasgow Bio++ Jun16-18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
UNAMexico MolecularEvolution Jun22-Jul3 . . . . . . 107
UNAM Mexico MolecularEvolutionPhylogenetics
Jun22-Jul3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
UStAndrews BioinformaticsComparativeGenomics
Aug15-18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
Valencia MolecularEvolution Jun15-19 . . . . . . . . . . . 108
Bialowieza Poland
EvolutionaryAdaptation Jun28-Jul2
ESF workshop on evolutionary and physiological adap-
tation to climate induced environmental changes -
deadline for applications extended to April 10. Dear
all,
We would like to invite young scientists to submit ab-
stracts for oral and poster presentations for a workshop
on evolutionary and physiological adaptation to climate
induced environmental changes.
The European Science Foundation ﬁnances the work-
shop through the networking programs ConGen and
ThermAdapt. In the workshop, we will merge knowl-
edge from population genetics and molecular and evo-
lutionary physiology in a multidisciplinary fashion and
discuss possible approaches to get a deeper under-standing of mechanisms behind adaptation to thermal
changes.
We have invited approximately twenty leading re-
searchers within the ﬁeld to give talks and have space
for additional 30-35 short presentations and/or poster
presentations. Priority will be given to young scien-
tists (PhD or post docs) from EU countries, particu-
larly from those countries that support one or both of
the ESF programmes (see www.esf.org/thermadapt and
www.esf.org/congen for a list of countries).
The workshop will be held in Bialowieza ( Poland) from
28 June (date of arrival) to 2 July 2009 in the EU Cen-
tre of Excellence (MRI PAS) Mammal Research Insti-
tute (Polish Academy of Science). Accommodation and
food are covered by the ESF. Furthermore, after appli-
cation some young researchers may get covered their
travel expenses or parts thereof.
Further information about the workshop including ap-
plication procedures, a list of invited speakers and infor-
mation about accommodation and transportation from
Warsaw to Bialowieza (and return) can be found at theMay 1, 2009 EvolDir 97
homepage: http://asg.agrsci.dk/workshop/bialowieza .
The deadline for applications is April 10.
If necessary, Torsten Nygaard Kristensen
(torsten.nygaard@agrsci.dk <mailto:torsten.nygaard@agrsci.dk >)
can also be contacted for further information.
Aarhus University, Denmark Department of Biological
Sciences/ Department of Genetics and Biotechnology
Telephone: +4589423135/+4589991076
Torsten Nygaard <Torsten.Nygaard@agrsci.dk >
Colombia Bioinformatics Aug23-30
DeadlineMay1
Hi,
Just to remind potential applicants that the closing
date for applying for the EMBO course on “Advanced
bioinformatic methods in the study of gene and genome
evolution” in Medellin, Colombia, is Friday May 1st.
The topics covered are:
- Databases, database searching, multiple sequence
alignment - Maximum Parsimony/Distance Matrices -
Maximum Likelihood/Bayesian MCMC - Codon-based
models of evolution - Integrating functional evolution
with genomics - Developing pipelines for evolutionary
genomics - Evolution of insect vectors of tropical dis-
eases
The practicals will cover:
- Databases and data base interrogation - Multiple se-
quence alignment - PAUP - MrBayes - PAML - Inte-
grating functional and evolutionary databases - Com-
putational pipeline assembly - Student data analysis
In addition, there are a number of research seminars:
- Dr. Davide Pisani - Origin of vision in vertebrates
- Dr. Chris Creevey - Metagenomic Analysis of En-
vironmental Samples - Dr. Mary O’Connell - Mam-
malian protein evolution:phylogenetic challenges and
functional inferences - Dr. James McInerney - The chi-
maeric origin of the Eukaryotic cell - Dr. David Fitz-
patrick - Comparative genomics of Candida genomes
EMBO will cover the cost of tuition, housing and food.
Students will have to cover the cost of travelling to the
course.
You can ﬁnd more information here:
http://cwp.embo.org/wpc09-04/index.html – Dr.James O. McInerney, Bioinformatics Laboratory, De-
partment of Biology, National University of Ireland,
Maynooth, Co. Kildare, Ireland. P: +353 1 708 3860
F: +353 1 708 3845 E: james.o.mcinerney@nuim.ie –
Work — http://bioinf.nuim.ie/
James McInerney <james.o.mcinerney@nuim.ie >
Denmark
AdaptationInAquaticEctotherms
Jun15-19
Workshop announcement:“Thermal adaptation in
aquatic ectotherms”, Denmark, June 15-19 2009.
Dear all
We would like to announce the workshop “Thermal
adaptation in aquatic ectotherms” to be held in Den-
mark from the 15th to the 19th of June 2009. The
workshop is funded by the ThermAdapt network under
the European Science Foundation and by the Nordic
Network MADFish, and is organized by the Section for
Population Genetics, National Institute of Aquatic Re-
sources, Technical University of Denmark. The work-
shop will be held at the Mols Laboratory, a ﬁeld station
located in a national park near Aarhus.
Background Aquatic organisms are expected to be af-
fected by future climate changes, but knowledge about
their response to these challenges is generally lack-
ing. Understanding thermal adaptation requires in-
sights from cellular through organism to population
levels of biological organization. In this workshop, we
intend to bring together researchers from population
genetics and molecular and evolutionary physiology in
a cross-disciplinary environment to foster exchange of
ideas and improve our understanding of responses to
thermal changes in aquatic organisms and populations.
The workshop will be organized as sessions with pre-
sentations by all workshop participants, leaving good
time for discussions both during and between sessions.
Invited speakers Craig Primmer, University of Turku,
Finland David Conover, Stony Brook University, USA
Hans Otto P¨ ortner, AWI, Bremerhaven, Germany
Luc De Meester, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Bel-
gium Patricia Schulte, University of British Columbia,
Canada
Attendance The workshop is intended for established
researchers, postdocs and PhD students working on
thermal adaptation in aquatic ectotherms. Attendance98 EvolDir May 1, 2009
is limited to 35 participants, and accommodation and
meals are funded by the networks. Please send an email
to Jakob Hemmer-Hansen (jhh@aqua.dtu.dk) with a
short description of your area of research if you are in-
terested in participating in the workshop. Priority will
be given to applicants from ESF member countries and
members of the MADFish network.
Relevant information Getting there: The Mols ﬁeld sta-
tion is located just 15 minutes from Aarhus Airport
(Tirstrup) and 45 minutes from the city of Aarhus.
Transport to/from trains and planes will be arranged.
ThermAdapt network: http://www.esf.org/-
activities/research-networking-programmes/life-
earth-and-environmental-sciences-lesc/current-
esf-research-networking-programmes-in-life-earth-
and-environmental-sciences/thermal-adaptation-in-
ectotherms-linking-life-history-physiology-behaviour-
and-genetics-thermadapt.html MADFish network
http://madﬁsh.lif.hi.is Section for Population Ge-
netics, Technical University of Denmark: http://-
www.aqua.dtu.dk/English/Recreational ﬁsheries/-
Population genetic group.aspx Mols ﬁeld station:
http://www.naturhistoriskmuseum.dk/molslab/ Or-
ganizers Jakob Hemmer-Hansen Dorte Bekkevold
Thomas Damm Als Einar Eg Nielsen Michael Møller
Hansen
Section for Population Genetics National Institute of
Aquatic Resources (DTU Aqua) Technical University
of Denmark Vejlsoevej 39 DK-8600 Silkeborg Denmark
jhh@aqua.dtu.dk jhh@aqua.dtu.dk
Eawag Switzerland SummerSchool
Jul5-18 2
This is an announcement of:
PhD Summer School 2009 at Eawag in Kastanienbaum,
Switzerland (July 5-18, 2009): “Interactions between
ecological and evolutionary processes in aquatic sys-
tems”
Deadline for the application is extended to April
14th, 2009 (CET). For further information and on-
line application, please visit our website: http://-
www.eawag.ch/programs/phd ss2009/index EN The
course will confront selected PhD students with the
challenge of integrating ecosystems ecology and evolu-
tionary biology, arguably the least well-integrated pair
of disciplines in ecology. Some have described this chal-lenge as the last missing synthesis in ecology. We will
take a multidisciplinary look at lake ecology, ask how
nutrient ﬂuxes shape microbial and algal activity and
diversity, how these in turn exert ecological and evolu-
tionary pressure on organisms at higher trophic levels,
and lastly, how adaptive evolution at higher trophic
levels exerts ecological pressures at lower levels that
possibly change ecosystem dynamics. The 2009 course
will be built around diﬀerent aspects of ecological sto-
ichiomentry. The course will consist of theoretical and
conceptual lectures and practical research modules in-
cluding laboratory and ﬁeldwork that seek to demon-
strate experimental approaches. Lectures will be given
by our invited lecturers James Elser, Nelson Hairston,
Eric Triplett, Andrew Hendry and Eawag scientists.
Concepts taught include e.g. feedback between bio-
geochemical conditions and microbial ecology, micro-
bial structure and activity, food webs, adaptive evolu-
tionary dynamics of predator-prey relations, ecosystem
eﬀects of evolution at ecological time scales.
The Summer School course will be held at Eawag Kas-
tanienbaum, near Lucerne, in Switzerland. Eawag is
the Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science and Tech-
nology, and the Kastanienbaum Centre for Ecology,
Evolution and Biogeochemistry (CEEB) is situated at
the shores of Lake Lucerne. It oﬀers seminar rooms,
laboratories, and on-site housing for students.
Sincerely yours, Hitoshi Araki
PhD Summer school 2009 steering committee
Eawag, Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Sci-
ence and Technology Center for Ecology, Evolu-
tion and Biogeochemistry Seestrasse 79, CH-6047
Kastanienbaum, Switzerland http://www.eawag.ch/-
programs/phd ss2009/index Hitoshi.Araki@eawag.ch
Hitoshi.Araki@eawag.ch
Iceland ArabidopsisEvolution
Aug14-17
Iceland ˆ a Arabidopsis Molecular Ecology Group
(AMEGO) 14-17 August 2009
The Arabidopsis Molecular Ecology Group (AMEGO)
is a network ﬁnancially supported by NordForsk, in-
cluding research groups from Denmark, Finland, Nor-
way and Sweden. AMEGO will be hosting international
workshops and Ph.D. courses on Arabidopsis molecular
ecology and evolution in the period 2007-2009. The lastMay 1, 2009 EvolDir 99
Arabidopsis molecular evolution workshop and Ph.D.
course will be held 14-17 August 2009 in Reykjavik,
Iceland.
Preliminary program: 14 August Arrival and registra-
tion 15 August Workshop with talks and posters 16
August Excursion to Arabidopsis lyrata sites. Partici-
pants will also get the opportunity to experience some
of the natural wonders of Iceland. 17 August Ph.D.
course: ˆ aNatural selection in the wild: exploring the
magnitude and mechanisms of selection in the ﬁeldˆ a.
Participants should bring their own laptop. Responsi-
ble: Professor Jon ˜Agren, Uppsala University.
Deadline for registration is 24 May 2009
For more information about AMEGO 2009 work-
shop and Ph.D. course, please see our home page at
http://www.molecol.net . The registration page can be
found at http://www.bio.ntnu.no/amego/pomelding/-
skjema.php . Best regards, Sverre Lundemo
Sverre Lundemo Department of Biology Norwegian
University of Science and Technology N-7491 Trond-
heim Norway
lundemo@bio.ntnu.no
Sverre Lundemo <lundemo@bio.ntnu.no >
ImperialCollege PopulationBiol
May26-28
Dear Young Researchers,
We would like to welcome you at the 3rd young re-
searcher symposium in applied population biology, held
by the NERC Centre for Population Biology & Imperial
College London, Division of Biology at Silwood Park,
UK:
Populations under Pressure 26th - 28th May, 2009
[http://www.iccs.org.uk/PuP.htm] Extended deadline
for applications: 30th April 2009
Background Applied population biology forms the ba-
sis for scientiﬁc conservation. Although population bi-
ology, ecology and conservation share many common
research questions and interests, scientists working in
one ﬁeld are often unfamiliar with the techniques and
approaches used in others, especially early in their ca-
reer.
Aims In this symposium, we aim to provide an oppor-
tunity for interdisciplinary discussions within the broadﬁeld of applied population biology, and with a focus on
conservation. We focus in particular on graduate stu-
dents and post-docs who already have, or would like to
develop, a more interdisciplinary perspective on their
work.
Symposium structure Participants will present their
own work, focussing on problematic or unsolved issues
they are ﬁnding, or introducing new ﬁndings or ap-
proaches of potentially broad interest, and will have
the opportunity to discuss those during the workshops
with researchers from diﬀerent backgrounds. The work-
shops will be complemented with plenary presentations
by leading researchers in applied population biology,
enhancing the scope of the discussions.
Workshops:
(1) Interactions between harvesting and ecological and
anthropogenic processes. Invited speaker: Per Lund-
berg (Lund University) and E.J. Milner-Gulland (Im-
perial College London)
(2) How to explain global, regional and local patterns
of biodiversity in a uniﬁed framework. Invited speaker:
Drew Purves (Microsoft Research Cambridge), David
Orme (Imperial College London)
(3) Linking ecological theory to on-the-ground action
for the ecological management of landscapes. Invited
speakers: Tom Nudds (University of Guelph, Canada),
Dan Reuman (Imperial College London), David Murrell
(Univeristy College London)
Transferable skills session: The Bayesian approach. In-
vited speaker: Richard Hillary (Imperial College Lon-
don) How to re-unite theoreticians and ﬁeld biologists.
Invited speaker: Robert D. Holt (University of Florida),
David Murrell (University College London)
Please check out the symposium website to ﬁnd out
how to apply and participate [ http://www.iccs.org.uk/-
PuP.htm] Cheers, Nils
Nils Bunnefeld Swedish University of Agricul-
tural Sciences, Umea Tel: +46 90 786 86 85
www.moose-research.se http://fp7hunt.net Come
to PuP: www.iccs.org.uk/PuP.htm Nils Bunnefeld
<Nils.Bunnefeld@vfm.slu.se >
Italy PopulationForestGenomics
Jul22-24 Reminder
Dear Colleagues,100 EvolDir May 1, 2009
The INTERNATIONAL WORKSHOP Population and
Ecological Genomics in Changing Forest Environments
will be held at the Centro di Ecologia Alpina (CEA;
http: www.cealp.it), Fondazione Edmund Mach, on
Monte Bondone, near Trento, Italy, July 22-24, 2009.
This workshop will be hosted by CEA, in collaboration
with the University of California, Davis, USA (Depart-
ment of Plant Sciences).
The aim of the workshop is to provide up-to-date knowl-
edge of theoretical and computational approaches to
studying adaptation in changing forest environments.
The workshop will emphasize the use bioinformatics
tools and software packages. Participants must have
their own laptop computer and have software applica-
tions installed before arriving at the CEA. Information
regarding obtaining software and computer hardware
requirements will be provided by the organizers in ad-
vance of the workshop.
The workshop is primarily intended for young re-
searchers at the doctoral and post-doctoral stages, but
is also open to people working outside academic insti-
tutions seeking to acquire basic knowledge useful for
implementing practical management and conservation
plans.
Organizers: David Neale (Dept. of Plant Sciences, UC
Davis) Cristiano Vernesi (Centro di Ecologia Alpina,
Research and Innovation Centre, Fondazione Edmund
Mach) Claudio Varotto (IASMA Research and Innova-
tion Centre, Fondazione Edmund Mach)
Course Instructors: David Neale (UC Davis, USA) , Jill
Wegrzyn (UC Davis, USA), Andrew Eckert (UC Davis,
USA) and Elena Mosca (UC Davis, USA). Invited
speakers: Sally Aitken (University of British Columbia,
Canada) and Brad St. Clair (USDA Forest Service,
Corvallis, Oregon, USA)
Local committee: Cristiano Vernesi and Floriana Marin
(secretary), Fondazione Edmund Mach.
Dates: July 22-24, 2009. Place: Centro di Ecologia
Alpina, Viote del Monte Bondone, 38040 Trento, Italy.
Registration: Enrollment is limited to 15 participants.
Potential participants are kindly requested to submit
an e-mail (events@iasma.it) along with a one-page cv
and 1-page statement describing why they would like to
attend the workshop. Deadline for registration is May
1, 2009. Applicants will be advised of acceptance by
May 15, 2009. Fee: 200 includes lunches and dinners
(from July 22-24) and the course manual. Contacts:
Floriana Marin, Research and Innovation Centre, Fon-
dazione Edmund Mach, (events@iasma.it), phone: +39
0461 615543 - Fax + 39 0461 615183
Cristiano Vernesi Centro di Ecologia Alpina CentroRicerca e Innovazione - Fondazione Edmund Mach
postal address: Viote del Monte Bondone - 38040
Trento - Italy tel +390461939523 - fax +390461948190
- skypename: cvernesi
Please consider your environmental responsibility be-
fore printing this email
Cristiano Vernesi <vernesi@cealp.it >
Kunming ConservationBiol
Advanced Tropical Field Ecology and Conservation
CourseThis program is an intensive 4 week course in
ﬁeld research methods, research design, sampling and
analysis designed for graduate students and advanced
undergraduates in Ecology and Conservation.
Format: The Advanced Field Ecology and
Conservation-Xishuangbanna (AFEC-X) Summer
Course activities will be split between lecture and ﬁeld
exercises. Students will participate in established long
term monitoring experiments and further gain expe-
rience in independent project design. With guidance,
students will design and present research proposals
and further conduct ﬁeld based data collection. The
course concludes with a symposium, where students
present results of course activities amongst their peers
and instructors.
Where: The course convenes in Kunming, capital city
of Yunnan Province. Orientation, Introduction to the
Course and a series of lectures will be given in Kun-
ming before moving to Xishuangbanna Tropical Botan-
ical Garden (XTBG) in Menglun, China. Both the long
term and independent research projects will take place
in and around Menglun.
Topics: Tropical Ecology, Eco-Physiology, Taxonomy,
Evolutionary Ecology, Plant and Animal Interactions,
Biodiversity, Conservation Biology, Invasive Species
and more. Further discussions will look at how these
topics are aﬀected in human dominated landscapes.
Instructors: The various topics will be taught by pro-
fessors from several institutes including The Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Texas Tech University, Peking
University and the Smithsonian Institute. More info at:
http://www.afec.ecologicalevolution.org/ Ferry Slik
Associate Professor ¨O1´ u¿Æ˜N§ˆOo¯ˆI¨E/lessmuchæ¨A´E`E`Eø¨O2ˆI¨ ıˆO
Xishuangbanna Tropical Botanical Garden Chinese
Academy of Sciences Yunnan, ChinaMay 1, 2009 EvolDir 101
Website
http://www.phylodiversity.net/fslik/ Plants of South-
east Asia http://www.asianplant.net Trees of Sungai
Wain
http://www.nationaalherbarium.nl/Sungaiwain/
Asian plant species synonym website http://-
www.phylodiversity.net/fslik/synonym lookup.htm
Macaranga and Mallotus of Borneo http:/-
/www.nationaalherbarium.nl/MacMalBorneo/-
index.htm Ferry Slik <ferryslik@hotmail.com >
Montana
ConservationGeneticDataAnalysis
Aug31-Sep4
4th ConGen- Population Genetics Data Analysis
Course Recent Approaches for Estimation of Popula-
tion Size, Structure, Gene ﬂow, Selection Detection fo-
cusing on conservation and beyond 31-Aug/4-Sep 2009,
Flathead Lake Biological Station, Montana, USA
Applications for 2009 will open soon!
Objective: To provide training in conceptual and prac-
tical aspects of data analysis for the conservation ge-
netics of natural and managed populations. Empha-
sis will be on interpretation of output from recent
novel statistical approaches and software programs.
The course also will allow daily discussions among
young researchers and top-researchers to help develop
the next generation of conservation geneticists, and to
identify developments needed to improve data analy-
sis approaches. This course will cover analysis meth-
ods including the coalescent, Bayesian, approximate
Bayesian, and likelihood-based approaches.
Who should apply: Ph.D. students, post-docs, and pop-
ulation biologists with a background of at least one
semester university-level course in population genetics
and a course in population ecology. Applicants must
have a basic background in population genetic data
analysis, including testing for Hardy-Weinberg propor-
tions and gametic disequilibrium. Participation will be
limited to 20 people allowing eﬃcient instruction with
hands-on computer exercises during the course. Pri-
ority will be given to persons with their own data to
analyze (for example graduate students at the end of
their degree program).
Deadline for application is 15 June, 2009Course/Workshop Format: For each subject, we pro-
vide 30-45 minutes of background, theory, discussion
and introduction to concepts. Immediately following,
we will conduct data analyses together for 30-60 min-
utes using relevant software programs and real data
sets. Evening hands-on computer sessions and hous-
ing together of instructors and students in the same
location will allow for extensive exchange and facilitate
learning.
For detailed information see http://popgen.eu/-
congen2009/ <http://popgen.eu/congen2008/ >.
congen@popgen.eu
conservation genetics course
<congen@mail.icav.up.pt >
Munich HostParasiteCoevolution
Sep20-25
**Second Call for applications for summer school on
Host-Parasite Coevolution**
The Munich Graduate Program for Evolution, Ecology
and Systematics (EES) invites applications for the in-
ternational EES summer school on Host-Parasite Co-
evolution held at Frauenchiemsee (80 km east of Mu-
nich) from September 20th to September 25th, 2009.
The 5-day summer school will consist of lectures, dis-
cussions and exercises organized by the local and in-
vited instructors, as well as oral and/or poster con-
tributions by the students. We will cover theoretical
aspects of host-parasite evolution and discuss empiri-
cal approaches for studying coevolution. Speciﬁc topics
will include the evolution of virulence and resistance, lo-
cal adaptation and spatial structuring in host-parasite
systems, and the molecular signature of coevolution.
Instructors (conﬁrmed): Mike Boots, University of
Sheﬃeld, UK (theoretical analysis of disease dy-
namics in humans and wildlife) Jukka Jokela, ETH
Zurich, Switzerland (maintenance of sex driven by
host-pathogen coevolution) David Nash, University of
Copenhagen, Denmark (coevolution on geographical
scales) Peter Tiﬃn, University of Minnesota, USA
(molecular coevolution between plants and parasites)
Local Instructors/Organizers at Ludwig-Maximilians-
University Munich: Susanne Foitzik, Pleuni Pennings,
Laura Rose, Aurelien Tellier, Volker Witte, and Justyna
Wolinska.102 EvolDir May 1, 2009
The summer school is open to all graduate students
(PhD, Masters, Diplom biologists). The summer school
will be taught in English. Participants should plan to
arrive Sunday, Sept. 20th. The summer school will
wrap up on Friday, Sept. 25th in the early afternoon.
Costs: Thanks to support from the Volkswagen Foun-
dation, the University of Munich’s EES program will
cover housing and meals during the Summer School.
Participants are required to cover their own travel ex-
penses and pay a 50 Euro registration fee. A small
amount of funding is available to subsidize travel costs
for students from the most distant locations.
The Application Procedure: Applicants should submit
a single pdf ﬁle containing the following: a) a one
page CV b) a one page motivation letter for attend-
ing the summer school c) a short abstract of your re-
search project (maximum 200 words) Email applica-
tions to Dr. Elisabeth Brunner (brunner@biologie.uni-
muenchen.de). Application Deadline: June 1st, 2009.
Further information is available at: http://-
www.eeslmu.de/eeswiki/Summer school 2009 Dr.
Laura Rose Department Biologie - Biozentrum Uni-
versity of Munich Grosshaderner Str. 2 82152 Planegg
Germany
Phone: 49 89 2180 74 150 Fax: 49 89 2180
74 104 Email: rose@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de
Web: www.zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de/evol/EvoBio
rose@zi.biologie.uni-muenchen.de rose@zi.biologie.uni-
muenchen.de
NESCent GMOD Jul16-19
***The application deadline for both GMOD summer
schools is April 6, less than a week from now.***
GMOD Summer School - Americas will be held
16-19 July at the National Evolutionary Synthe-
sis Center (NESCent), in Durham, NC, USA.
Student tuition is free. See http://gmod.org/wiki/-
2009 GMOD Summer School -Americas GMOD
Summer School - Europe will be held 3-6 August
at the University of Oxford, in Oxford, UK. This is
a part of GMOD Europe 2009, which includes the
next GMOD Meeting. Student tuition is £95. See
http://gmod.org/wiki/2009 GMOD Summer School -
Europe GMOD ( http://gmod.org/ ) is a collection
of interoperable open source software components
for managing, visualizing, annotating and integrating
biological, mostly genomic, data. GMOD is also acommunity of developers and users dealing with similar
problems. GMOD is used in diverse contexts, with
both emerging and established model organisms.
The courses includes training on several GMOD com-
ponents: * GBrowse - the widely used Generic Genome
Browser * Chado - a modular and extensible database
schema for biological data * Apollo - genome annota-
tion editor * BioMart - biological data warehouse sys-
tem * GBrowse syn - a GBrowse based synteny viewer
* JBrowse - a brand new Web 2.0 genome browser *
Artemis-Chado Integration (Europe only) * MAKER -
Genome annotation pipeline (Americas only) * Tripal -
Web front end for Chado (Americas only)
Please contact the GMOD Help Desk (help@gmod.org)
if you have questions.
We hope to see you in Durham or Oxford,
Dave Clements GMOD Help Desk
Dave Clements <clements@nescent.org >
Neuchatel SocialEvolution Jun4-5
Dear colleagues,
We are organising a small workshop in Neuchatel on
Social Evolution, for MSc and PhD students working
in evolutionary biology. Please could you pass this on.
Yours,
Daniel Rankin & Ralph Bergmueller
CUSO Workshop on Social Evolution Social evolution:
from theory to data (and back again)
Institute of Biology, University of Neuchatel 4th-5th
June 2009
Summary The target of the workshop will be to in-
vestigate conﬂict and cooperation on multiple levels of
organisation, i.e. cooperation among genes, cells, or-
ganisms in groups including humans and conﬂict and
cooperation on the level of cultural transmission. We
aim at disentangling similarities and diﬀerences in the
concepts and empirical study of social evolution in dif-
ferent ﬁelds (i.e. molecular, organismic and economic)
and provide a platform to students who aim at devel-
oping a research project.
Invited experts Professor Redouan Bshary (University
of Neuchatel CH) Dr Andy Gardner (University of Ed-
inburgh, UK) Dr Ashleigh Griﬃn (University of Ox-May 1, 2009 EvolDir 103
ford UK) Dr Gilbert Roberts (University of Notting-
ham UK) Professor Carel van Schaik (University of
Zurich CH) Professor Claus Wedekind (University of
Lausanne CH)
Registration fees None for CUSO students (Geneva,
Lausanne, Frbiourg, Neuchatel and Bern). CUSO stu-
dents will have their travel refunded and receive a con-
tribution meals. Please note that accommodation is
not provided. There is a small fee of 50CHF to cover
coﬀee and lunch over the two days for non-CUSO par-
ticipants.
Registration deadline: 18th May 2009
Maximum number of participants: 30
For further details please contact: Dr Ralph Bergm¨ uller
(University of Neuchatel) ralph.bergmueller@unine.ch
Dr Daniel Rankin (University of Zurich)
d.rankin@bioc.uzh.ch
Registration at: http://www.3eme-cycle.ch/biologie/-
pages/entry.php?code=3Dab23-09
d.rankin@bioc.uzh.ch
OhioStateU PhylogeneticMethods
Jul13-17
The Ohio State University and Willi Hennig Soci-
ety will host a Workshop in Phylogenetic Methods in
Columbus, Ohio, July 13-17, 2009. Students will partic-
ipate in lectures and discussions of phylogenetic meth-
ods and principles and will receive hands-on training in
various software packages.
The workshop includes a workbook (approximately 300
pages), relevant software (including TNT, POY, Nona,
Winclada, Muscle, RaxML, and MrBayes), and lessons
lead by Gonzalo Giribet (Harvard University), Kevin
Nixon (Cornell University), Ward Wheeler (Ameri-
can Museum of Natural History), Christopher P. Ran-
dle (Sam Houston State) and John Wenzel (Ohio
State University). A syllabus is available at http:/-
/systematics.osu.edu <http://systematics.osu.edu/ >
(click on “workshop information”).
This workshop can be attended either via Fellowship
student enrollment or Auditor enrollment. Fellow-
ship student enrollment includes lodging, lecture, and
hands-on computer lab; Auditor enrollment does not in-
clude lodging or hands-on training with the computer
programs.Fellowship enrollment (limited to 20 students) is $1200,
with one week of lodging included. These students will
receive a $600 Hennig Society fellowship paid directly to
the workshop, thus they will be responsible for a work-
shop cost of only $600, plus the cost of transportation
to and from the Ohio State campus, and meals. Au-
ditor enrollment fee is $600. No lodging is provided,
but we will assist with local arrangements. Auditors
also get the workbook and software packages, and are
included in the reception mixer and group dinner.
Applications for full enrollment may be
made through http://systematics.osu.edu <
http://systematics.osu.edu/ >Click on “work-
shop information” for details. An application consists
of a completed application form (available from the
web site), a current CV for the student, and a letter
from the student’s advisor regarding the relevance of
the course to the student’s career goals. Applications
are due April 30, 2009, and notiﬁcation of acceptance
will begin by May 15. Auditor enrollment is available
by correspondence with osuphylo@osu.edu, and will
close on June 15, 2009. Further information may be
obtained by emailing osuphylo@osu.edu.
daly.66@osu.edu daly.66@osu.edu
Roscoﬀ France
MarineEvolutionaryGenomics
Summer Course - Marine Genomics Europe Marine
Evolutionary & Ecological Genomics May 25th ˆ a June
5th, 2009 Station Biologique de Roscoﬀ, France
Aims to give an introduction on genetic and genomic
approaches to analyze biological diversity, evolution
and adaptation at the species and population level in
the ocean
Conﬁrmed teachers
Sandie Baldauf, Univ of York, UK
Erik Bonivard, Univ. Paris 6, FR
Galice Hoarau, Univ of Groningen, NL
Wiebe Kooistra, SZN, IT
Fr˜Ac/circlecopyrtd˜Ac/circlecopyrtric Partensky, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR?
Klaus Valentin, AWI-Bremerhaven, DE
Fr˜Ac/circlecopyrtd˜Ac/circlecopyrtrique Viard, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR
Cl˜Ac/circlecopyrtmentine Vitte, Univ. Paris 6, FR104 EvolDir May 1, 2009
Filip Volckaert, KULeuven, BE
Organizing committee
H˜Ac/circlecopyrtl˜Ane Huelvan, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR
Jeanine Olsen, Univ of Groningen, NL
Anne Saisi, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR
Arnaud Tanguy, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR
Fr˜Ac/circlecopyrtd˜Ac/circlecopyrtrique Viard, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR
Filip Volckaert, KULeuven, BE
Target group
PhD students (at least in their second year) and post
docs with a solid knowledge in phylo- and/or popula-
tion genetics. This course is open to MGE members as
well as non-members.
Topics
The course will consist of lectures, tutorials and com-
puter based exercises in the following subjects.
* Phylogeny - sequence analyses, phylogenetic tech-
niques (clustering, Bayesian statistics), molecular clock,
case studies * Population genetics ˆ a allele and genotype
analyses, population genetic structure and gene ﬂow,
assignment tests, eﬀective size and population dynam-
ics, case studies * Phylogeography - molecular evolu-
tion through networks, phylogeographical techniques,
coalescence, population dynamics, case studies * Envi-
ronmental, functional and comparative genomics - 1.
Genome structure and architecture. 2. Markers in
the genomics realm. 3. Methods for detecting struc-
ture. 4. Introduction to functional genomics. 5. Meth-
ods for detecting adaptive variation (including selective
sweeps) within and among populations; linking hydro-
graphical/environmental and demographic data to pop-
ulation structure and local adaptation. 6 Quantitative
genetics: evolution of traits. 7. EST libraries: why and
how. 8. Introduction to comparative genomics (whole
genome comparisons, concatenated phylogeny, genome
organization, annotating genomic information, trans-
posable elements in marine species) 9. Case studies
* Phylogenomics - 1. What is comparative genomics?
2. Genomics and genetics of speciation/ what makes a
species from a genome point of view? 3. Comparative
marine genomics. 4. Case studies
Costs; course, accommodation and meals
* The course fee is paid by the MGE Network for all
academics (pre and post doc). Welcome reception, ex-
cursion (incl lunch) and farewell dinner are included.
* All participants pay their own travel, accommoda-
tion and board (self catering is possible) * Participants
are oﬀered to be accommodated at the SBR guesthousewhich is situated directly at the institute. The cost for
this is 13 per night in double room incl. breakfast. The
guesthouse can also oﬀer lunch and supper for a cost of
5.50 per person and meal.
Application and contact
To apply please ﬁll in the application form and send
to Anne Saisi (saisi@sb-roscoﬀ.fr) together with a 2-
paged CV before April 10, 2009. This information +
application form can also be found on the MGE web-
site: www.marine-genomics-europe.org under Training
& Education.
16 participants will be selected by the following criteria:
1. Relevance of the course for their PhD or post-doc
project
2. Background and experience of applicant
3. We will aim at mixing people from diﬀerent research
areas and therefore probably no more then one person
per institute will be considered. We will also aim at an
equal distribution of women and men.
The selected persons will receive a notiﬁcation at the
end of April that has to be conﬁrmed within 7 days.
We will have a waiting list in case of non-conﬁrmations
and cancellations.
Contact
Anne Saisi
European Project Manager
Station Biologique de Roscoﬀ
BP 74, 29680 ROSCOFF CEDEX
France
Email: saisi@sb-roscoﬀ.fr
Phone: (33)2 98 29 23 45
Fax: (33)2 98 29 23 80
Disclaimer: http://www.kuleuven.be/-
cwis/email disclaimer.htm Filip Volckaert
<Filip.Volckaert@bio.kuleuven.be >
Roscoﬀ France
MarineEvolutionaryGenomics
May25-Jun5
MGE Summer CourseMay 1, 2009 EvolDir 105
Marine Evolutionary & Ecological Genomics May 25th
ˆ a June 5th, 2009 Station Biologique de Roscoﬀ, France
Conﬁrmed teachers Sandie Baldauf, Univ of York,
UK Erik Bonivard, Univ. Paris 6, FR Galice Hoa-
rau, Univ of Groningen, NL Wiebe Kooistra, SZN,
IT Fr ˜Ac/circlecopyrtd˜Ac/circlecopyrtric Partensky, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR Klaus
Valentin, AWI-Bremerhaven, DE Fr ˜Ac/circlecopyrtd˜Ac/circlecopyrtrique
Viard, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR Cl ˜Ac/circlecopyrtmentine Vitte, Univ.
Paris 6, FR Filip Volckaert, KULeuven, BE Simon
Creer, UBangon, UK Mathias Wegner, UZurich, CH
Organizing committee H ˜Ac/circlecopyrtl˜Ane Huelvan, SB-Roscoﬀ,
FR Jeanine Olsen, Univ of Groningen, NL Anne
Saisi, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR Arnaud Tanguy, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR
Fr˜Ac/circlecopyrtd˜Ac/circlecopyrtrique Viard, SB-Roscoﬀ, FR Filip Volck-
aert, KULeuven, BE
Aims to give an introduction on genetic and genomic
approaches to analyze biological diversity, evolution
and adaptation at the species and population level in
the ocean
Target group
PhD students (at least in their second year) and post
docs with a solid knowledge in phylo- and/or popula-
tion genetics. This course is open to MGE members as
well as non-members.
Topics
The course will consist of lectures, tutorials and com-
puter based exercises in the following subjects.
* Phylogeny - sequence analyses, phylogenetic tech-
niques (clustering, Bayesian statistics), molecular clock,
case studies * Population genetics ˆ a allele and genotype
analyses, population genetic structure and gene ﬂow,
assignment tests, eﬀective size and population dynam-
ics, case studies * Phylogeography - molecular evolu-
tion through networks, phylogeographical techniques,
coalescence, population dynamics, case studies * Envi-
ronmental, functional and comparative genomics - 1.
Genome structure and architecture. 2. Markers in
the genomics realm. 3. Methods for detecting struc-
ture. 4. Introduction to functional genomics. 5. Meth-
ods for detecting adaptive variation (including selective
sweeps) within and among populations; linking hydro-
graphical/environmental and demographic data to pop-
ulation structure and local adaptation. 6 Quantitative
genetics: evolution of traits. 7. EST libraries: why and
how. 8. Introduction to comparative genomics (whole
genome comparisons, concatenated phylogeny, genome
organization, annotating genomic information, trans-
posable elements in marine species) 9. Case studies
* Phylogenomics - 1. What is comparative genomics?
2. Genomics and genetics of speciation/ what makes aspecies from a genome point of view? 3. Comparative
marine genomics. 4. Case studies
Costs; course, accommodation and meals
* The course fee is paid by the MGE Network for all
academics (pre and post doc). Welcome reception, ex-
cursion (incl lunch) and farewell dinner are included.
* All participants pay their own travel, accommoda-
tion and board (self catering is possible) * Participants
are oﬀered to be accommodated at the SBR guesthouse
which is situated directly at the institute. The cost for
this is 13 per night in double room incl. breakfast. The
guesthouse can also oﬀer lunch and supper for a cost of
5.50 per person and meal.
Application and contact
To apply please ﬁll in the application form and send
to Anne Saisi ( saisi@sb-roscoﬀ.fr ) together with a 2-
paged CV before April 10, 2009. This information
+ application form can also be found on the MGE
website: <http://www.marine-genomics-europe.org/-
>www.marine-genomics-europe.org under Training &
Education.
16 participants will be selected by the following criteria:
1. Relevance of the course for their PhD or post-doc
project 2. Background and experience of applicant 3.
We will aim at mixing people from diﬀerent research
areas and therefore probably no more then one person
per institute will be considered. We will also aim at an
equal distribution of women and men.
The selected persons will receive a notiﬁcation at the
end of April that has to be conﬁrmed within 7 days.
We will have a waiting list in case of non-conﬁrmations
and cancellations.
Contact
Anne Saisi European Project Manager Station Bi-
ologique de Roscoﬀ BP 74, 29680 ROSCOFF CEDEX
France Email: saisi@sb-roscoﬀ.fr Phone: (33)2 98 29 23
45 Fax: (33)2 98 29 23 80
Filip Volckaert <Filip.Volckaert@bio.kuleuven.be >
Shanghai ComputationalBiology
Aug16-22
Dear Colleagues,
We are pleased to inform you about the upcoming work-106 EvolDir May 1, 2009
shop:
“EMBO Practical Course on Computational biology:
From (meta)genomes to phenotype and environment”
in Shanghai sponsored by the EMBO World Practical
Course program.
The 7-day workshop (August 16th-22nd 2009) is the
third in a successful series, and has the ambitious goal
to introduce advanced methods and applications of
computational biology in the ﬁeld of metagenomics.
Participation is restricted to 20 graduate students and
postdocs, who will work on biological problems that
could even lead to scientiﬁc discoveries made during the
course. For all participants, fellowships will be made
available covering housing, subsistence and registration.
No funding are available for travel costs.
Closing date for applications: May 15th, 2009 Further
information and registration at http://cwp.embo.org/-
wpc09-11/ Sincerely,
francesca ciccarelli, for the organizers*
* Organizing Committee of the EMBO practical course
’EMBO Practical Course on Computational biology:
From (meta)genomes to phenotype and environment’,
August 16th-22nd, Shanghai, China
Dr. Peer Bork, EMBL Heidelberg , Germany Dr. Lip-
ing Zhao, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, China Dr.
Yixue Li, Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences,
China Dr. Chaochun Wei, Shanghai Jiaotong Univer-
sity, China Dr. Francesca D. Ciccarelli, EIO Milan,
Italy Dr. Jan Korbel, EMBL Heidelberg , Germany
Dr. Roland Krause, Max-Planck-Institute Berlin, Ger-
many
–
Francesca D. Ciccarelli, PhD Biocomputing IFOM-
IEO-Campus Via Adamello, 16 20139 Milan,
Italy tel +39-02574303053 fax +39-0294375990
web: http://ciccarelli.group.ifom-ieo-campus.it/
francesca.ciccarelli@ifom-ieo-campus.it
UCollege Cork Bioinformatics
Topic: MSc in Bioinformatics with Systems Biology at
University College Cork
Dear all,
The MSc course in Bioinformatics with Systems Biol-ogy at University College Cork, Ireland, is now open
for applications for the academic year 2009/2010. The
closing date for EU applicants is 1st July 2009 and for
non-EU applicants is 31st May 2009.
This programme receives funding from the Irish Gov-
ernment under a major initiative to meet IT skills,
therefore EU students will pay a reduced annual tu-
ition fee of 2000 euros and non-EU students will pay a
reduced annual tuition fee of 9960 euros. There are also
scholarships available to help EU and non-EU students
to cover fees and maintenance costs.
Please visit the MSc course website http://-
www.ucc.ie/ucc/depts/microbio/MScBioinf for in-
formation on the MSc course content, scholarships,
and application procedures.
If you have any questions about the course or careers in
Bioinformatics, please feel welcome to contact me, as I
would be very happy to discuss with you in person or
by phone or email.
Best wishes, Avril
Dr Avril Coghlan Department of Microbiology Univer-
sity College Cork, Ireland
“Coghlan, Avril” <A.Coghlan@ucc.ie >
UGlasgow Bio++ Jun16-18
The Bio++ workshop is a three-day, hands-on course,
to be taught at the University of Glasgow from the 16th
- 18th of June 2009 (9am - 5.30pm). Bio++ ( http://-
kimura.univ-montp2.fr/BioPP/ ) is a highly eﬃcient set
of C++ libraries for applications in bio-sequence anal-
ysis, molecular evolution and population genetics.
The workshop is for researchers who already have some
experience of programming as well as knowledge of pop-
ulation genetics and/or phylogenetics. The workshop
will include one day with a short introduction to the
C++ language for users with a background in other
programming languages, followed by two days of inten-
sive instruction in using the Bio++ libraries working
on examples for population genetic and phylogenetic
analyses.
In addition to providing detailed instructions in the use
of these libraries, the workshop will be the founding
event for a new network of bioinformatic researchers
who are developing tools for data analysis in phyloge-
netics and population genetics (BioPhyloPop group).May 1, 2009 EvolDir 107
This workshop is free of registration fees thanks to
sponsorship from the Scottish Bioinformatics Forum
but attendees will be expected to make their own lunch,
travel and accommodation arrangements.
*To register for the course and for more details, please
email Dr Annabelle Haudry: a.haudry@bio.gla.ac.uk*
stating which programming language you have experi-
ence with, what you use it for.
– Dr. Annabelle Haudry Division of Ecology
& Evolutionary Biology Graham Kerr Build-
ing GK 408 University of Glasgow Glasgow
G12 8QQ, SCOTLAND Oﬃce: +44 (0)141
330 6637 http://www.gla.ac.uk/departments/-
ecologyevolutionarybiology/researchinterests/-
pdra/annabellehaudry/ Annabelle Haudry
<a.haudry@bio.gla.ac.uk >
UNAMexico MolecularEvolution
Jun22-Jul3
LATIN-AMERICAN WORKSHOP ON MOLECU-
LAR EVOLUTION
Intensive workshop on the theory and practice of phylo-
genetics, molecular evolution and population genetics.
It will take place at the Center for Genomic Science,
Universidad Nacional Aut´ onoma de M´ exico (UNAM),
in its Cuernavaca campus (Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mex-
ico), from June 22 to July 3, 2009. The workshop will
consist of 10 full days of lecture and computer practice.
It will fulﬁll the requirements of several UNAM gradu-
ate programs. The workshop is aimed at students and
professors from Latin-America. It will be delivered in
Spanish. Limited to 40 participants.
For more information and applications: http://-
www.ccg.unam.mx/˜vinuesa/tlem09/index.xhtml Or-
ganizers: Center for Genomic Science, Institute of Bi-
ology, Institute of Ecology, School of Science, UNAM.
TALLER LATINOAMERICANO DE EVOLUCI ´ON
MOLECULAR
Taller intensivo sobre teor´ ıa y pr´ actica de ﬁlogenetica,
evoluci´ on molecular y gen´ etica de poblaciones. Se lle-
var´ a a cabo en el Centro de Ciencias Gen´ omicas de la
Universidad Nacional Aut´ onoma de M´ exico (UNAM),
campus Cuernavaca, Morelos, M´ exico, del 22 de Junio,
al 3 de Julio, 2009. El taller constar´ a de 10 d´ ıas de clase,
8 horas diarias, cubriendo las estipulaciones de diver-
sos programas de posgrado de la UNAM. El taller est´ adirigido a estudiantes y profesores de Latinoam´ erica.
Ser´ a impartido en castellano. Cupo limitado a 40 par-
ticipantes.
Para mayor informaci´ on y solicitudes de inscripci´ on:
http://www.ccg.unam.mx/ ˜ vinuesa/tlem09/-
index.xhtml Organizadores: Centro de Ciencias
Gen´ omicas, Instituto de Biolog´ ıa, Instituto de
Ecolog´ ıa, Facultad de Ciencias, UNAM.
* * * * *
Susana A. Magall´ on Instituto de Biolog´ ıa Universidad
Nacional Aut´ onoma de M´ exico 3er Circuito de Ciudad
Universitaria Del. Coyoac´ an M´ exico D.F. 04510 M´ exico
Voice: (52-55) 5622-9087 FAX: (52-55) 5550-1760 E-
mail: s.magallon@ibiologia.unam.mx
http://www.ibiologia.unam.mx/-
directorio/m/magallon.htm
S.Magallon@ibunam2.ibiologia.unam.mx
S.Magallon@ibunam2.ibiologia.unam.mx
UNAM Mexico
MolecularEvolutionPhylogenetics
Jun22-Jul3
LATIN-AMERICAN WORKSHOP ON MOLECU-
LAR EVOLUTION
Intensive workshop on the theory and practice of phylo-
genetics, molecular evolution and population genetics.
It will take place at the Center for Genomic Science,
Universidad Nacional Aut´ onoma de M´ exico (UNAM),
in its Cuernavaca campus (Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mex-
ico), from June 22 to July 3, 2009. The workshop will
consist of 10 full days of lecture and computer practice.
It will fulﬁll the requirements of several UNAM gradu-
ate programs. The workshop is aimed at students and
professors from Latin-America. It will be delivered in
Spanish. Limited to 40 participants.
For more information and applications: http://-
www.ccg.unam.mx/ ˜ vinuesa/tlem09/ Organizers:
Center for Genomic Science, Institute of Biology, In-
stitute of Ecology, School of Science, UNAM.
TALLER LATINOAMERICANO DE EVOLUCI ´ON
MOLECULAR
Taller intensivo sobre teor´ ıa y pr´ actica de ﬁlogenetica,
evoluci´ on molecular y gen´ etica de poblaciones. Se lle-
var´ a a cabo en el Centro de Ciencias Gen´ omicas de la108 EvolDir May 1, 2009
Universidad Nacional Aut´ onoma de M´ exico (UNAM),
campus Cuernavaca, Morelos, M´ exico, del 22 de Junio,
al 3 de Julio, 2009. El taller constar´ a de 10 d´ ıas de clase,
8 horas diarias, cubriendo las estipulaciones de diver-
sos programas de posgrado de la UNAM. El taller est´ a
dirigido a estudiantes y profesores de Latinoam´ erica.
Ser´ a impartido en castellano. Cupo limitado a 40 par-
ticipantes.
Para mayor informaci´ on y solicitudes de inscripci´ on:
http://www.ccg.unam.mx/˜vinuesa/tlem09/ Organi-
zadores: Centro de Ciencias Gen´ omicas, Instituto de
Biolog´ ıa, Instituto de Ecolog´ ıa, Facultad de Ciencias,
UNAM.
* * * * *
Susana A. Magall´ on Instituto de Biolog´ ıa Universidad
Nacional Aut´ onoma de M´ exico 3er Circuito de Ciudad
Universitaria Del. Coyoac´ an M´ exico D.F. 04510 M´ exico
Voice: (52-55) 5622-9087 FAX: (52-55) 5550-1760 E-
mail: s.magallon@ibiologia.unam.mx
http://www.ibiologia.unam.mx/directorio/-
m/magallon.htm Susana Magallon
<S.Magallon@ibunam2.ibiologia.unam.mx >
UStAndrews BioinformaticsCom-
parativeGenomics
Aug15-18
Dear Evoldir,
The University of St Andrews and the Scottish Bioin-
formatics Forum will be hosting:
Summer School - Bioinformatics and Comparative Ge-
nomics Date: 15th August 2009, 09:00 am End Date:
18th August 2009 Location: The University of St An-
drews, Scotland
http://www.genome-bioinformatics.org Conﬁrmed
Speakers: Prof Ziheng Yang FRS, University College
London, UK Prof Neil Hall, University of Liverpool,
UK Dr Zemin Ning, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute,
UK Dr David Martin, University of Dundee, UK Prof
Geoﬀ Barton, University of Dundee, UK Dr Daniel
Barker, University of St Andrews, UK Prof Ian Korf,
UC Davis Genome Center, USA Prof Dannie Durand,
Carnegie Mellon University, USA Dr Chris Janssen,
SBF and University of Glasgow, UK Dr David Ferrier,
University of St Andrews, UKThe summer school on bioinformatics and compara-
tive genomics will address practical bioinformatics for
sequence analysis and comparative genomics for use
in biological and biomedical research. Internationally
renowned invited speakers will discuss current chal-
lenges, applications, and future outlook in the ﬁeld.
The school will consist of a series of lectures, seminars
and practical classes, allowing participants both insight
into theory and the opportunity to learn practical skills
in data analysis and interpretation.
Registration for the summer school includes attendance
at a one-day international conference on 18th August,
“Comparative Genomics”. Four nights of accommo-
dation (14th-17th August) are optionally available on
registration.
Full details and registration please see:
http://www.genome-bioinformatics.org We look for-
ward to seeing you in August.
Best regards,
Daniel
– Daniel Barker http://bio.st-andrews.ac.uk/staﬀ/-
db60.htm The University of St Andrews is a charity
registered in Scotland : No SC013532
University of St Andrews Webmail: https://-
webmail.st-andrews.ac.uk db60@st-andrews.ac.uk
db60@st-andrews.ac.uk
Valencia MolecularEvolution
Jun15-19
Fourth Course on Molecular Evolution, Phylogenetics,
Phylogenomics and Adaptation
15 - 19 June 2009, Valencia. Spain
Hern´ an Dopazo, Co-ordination
The course aims to provide the necessary background
to understand the basic concepts from comparative and
evolutionary biology that are frequently used in molec-
ular biology and bioinformatics analyses. The course
consists in ﬁve full-day sessions with an adequate bal-
ance between theory and computer practice, oriented
to solve frequent problems and hypothesis testing. The
course includes a session of phylogenomic analysis and
functional annotation including the most recent devel-
opments in this area. Among other tools, attendees will
become familiar with Phylip, Phyml, PAML, TreeP-May 1, 2009 EvolDir 109
uzzle, MrBayes, Modeltest, ProTest, JModelTest pro-
grams and tools developed in our department such as
Phylemon, FatiGO and FatiScan. The course is mainly
intended for professionals in the ﬁeld of biology and
chemistry who work on areas related to biological se-
quence analysis.
Course fee is 300 euros
Application Deadline: 18th May 2009
More information at: http://bioinfo.cipf.es/courses/-
molevolphylo 4ed/ Language: the oﬃcial language
of the course will be english unless all attendees speak
spanish.Phylemon web server: http://phylemon.bioinfo.cipf.es
Comparative Genomics Unit Bioinformatics and Ge-
nomics Department Centro de Investigaci´ on Pr´ ıncipe
Felipe (CIPF) Valencia, Spain.
H –
Hern´ an J. Dopazo, PhD Comparative Genomics
Unit, Bioinformatics & Genomics Department, Cen-
tro de Investigaci´ on Pr´ ıncipe Felipe c/ ep Avda.
Autopista del Saler 16 (Junto al Oceanogr´ aﬁco),
46012, Valencia, Espa˜ na. Tfn: (34) 96 328
96 80 ext: 1008 Fax: (34) 96 328 97 01
hdopazo@cipf.es http://hdopazo.bioinfo.cipf.es/ her-
nan dopazo <dopazoh@gmail.com >
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here — Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from ‘blackballed’ addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned oﬀ and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf ﬁle.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
‘on vacation’, etc, style messages are automatically ﬁltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail’s your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word ﬁles, as HTML ﬁles, as L ATEX ﬁles, Excel ﬁles, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
“Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:” and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and ﬁlters. If the message is caught by one of the
ﬁlters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although110 EvolDir May 1, 2009
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.