E v o l D i r
April 1, 2013
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .72
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .112
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 122
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1222 EvolDir April 1, 2013
Conferences
Aberystwyth MarineEvolution May8-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Beltsville MD FungalEvolution Apr26-28 . . . . . . . . . . . 3
BuenosAires PlantEvolution Nov20-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Cambridge UK GMOD Community Meeting Apr5-6 4
Chicago SMBE2013 Jul7-11 BalancingSelection . . . . .4
Chicago SMBE2013 Jul7-11 FunctionalEvolution . . . 5
Chicago SMBE2013 Jul7-11 JunkDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Chicago SMBE2013 Jul7-11 NoncodingRNAs . . . . . . . 6
Chicago SMBE2013 Jul7-11 SymposiaDescriptions . .6
Chicago SMBE2013 Jul7-11 UndergradAwards . . . . . 7
Cornwall UK EMPSEB 19 Sep3-7 DeadlineExtended 7
DalhousieU Endocytobiology Aug18-22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
FieldMuseum Chicago PlantEvolution Apr20 . . . . . . . 8
Galapagos Evolution Jun1-5 TravelAwardDeadline . .9
IST Austria EvolutionShape Apr26 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9
IST Austria MorphologicalEvolution Apr26 . . . . . . . .10
Ithaca AGA2013 Jul20-22 SpeciationContinuum . . . 10
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 ColourPolymorphisms 11
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 DeadlineExtended . . . . 11
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 EvolutionMulticellularity
12
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 ImmunePriming . . . . . . 12
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 RecentHumanEvol Last-
Call . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 SpeciesRecognitionSys-
tems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 TradeOs . . . . . . . . . . . . 14Manchester LandscapeGenetics Sept9-12 . . . . . . . . . . 15
Montpellier Speciation May27-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Montpellier France SPECIATION2013 May27-29 . . 15
Munich PopulationGenomics Mar13-15 . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
NHM London BSPB LinneanSoc Apr10-12 . . . . . . . . 16
NHM London ProtistEvolution Apr10-12 . . . . . . . . . . 16
NewYork MonocotEvolution Jul7-13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17
Oslo 2013Galaxy Jun30-Jul2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Portugal EcologicalSpeciation Apr29-30 . . . . . . . . . . . 18
QueenMaryU InsectEvolution May31 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Rosco France EvolCancer Nov2-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Suva Fiji Barcode Jul8-12 CallForAbstracts . . . . . . . 20
Trento Italy SIBE Evoluzione2013 Aug28-31 . . . . . . .21
UAB Spain RupicapraEvolution Oct24-25 . . . . . . . . . 22
UBath EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
UNSWSydney GeneticsSocietyofAustralAsia 14-17Jul
23
UNewSouthWales SocialEvolution Feb2-5 . . . . . . . . . 23
UNotreDame ArthropodGenomics Jun12-15 . . . . . . . 24
UNotreDame ArthropodGenomics Jun13-15 Travel-
Grant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
UStAndrews EvolutionMatingSystems Sep4-6 . . . . . 25
Utah Evol2013 Jun21-25 UndergradDiversity Trav-
elAward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .25
Zurich TreeAdaptation Sep1-5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .26
Aberystwyth MarineEvolution
May8-10
10th Marine Biological Association Postgraduate Con-
ference
ABSTRACT DEADLINE EXTENDED: FRIDAY
22ND MARCH 2013
Dear colleagues,
The abstract submission deadline for the 10th Ma-
rine Biological Association Postgraduate Conference isTHIS FRIDAY 22nd March 2013. This year, the con-
ference is to be held at Aberystwyth University, Wales,
from 8-10th May 2013.
The conference is aimed at PhD and Masters students
but Postdocs are also very welcome to attend. It is a
fantastic opportunity for students to present their work
in a friendly yet rigorous environment, and provides
a superb opportunity for forging professional relation-
ships that will last a career.
A fundamental theme of the conference will be the evo-
lution and conservation of marine biodiversity.
Registration is just $70 (including delegate fee, refresh-
ments during the conference, conference dinner, tour of
the National Library of Wales, and an optional eldApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 3
trip). There is plenty of aordable accommodation in
the town and reduced travel tickets to Aberystwyth are
available when booking in advance.
Registration and abstract submission is open now
via our conference website http://users.aber.ac.uk/-
mpcsta/index.html You can also keep up to date with
information on keynote speakers, important dates and
more by like-ing us on Facebook and following us on
Twitter:
http://www.facebook.com/AberMbaConference
https://twitter.com/MBAConference Key dates to
note are:
Extended abstract deadline - 22nd March 2013 Ex-
tended registration deadline - 5th April 2013
All enquiries should be directed to: ibers-mba-
conference@aber.ac.uk
We look forward to welcoming you to Aberystwyth in
May!
hayley@thewatsons.karoo.co.uk
Beltsville MD FungalEvolution
Apr26-28
34th Annual Mid-Atlantic States Mycology Conference
Friday, April 26 to Sunday, April 28, 2013.
Please visit us at: https://sites.google.com/site/-
masmc2013a/ MASMC 2013 is hosted by the Sys-
tematic Mycology & Microbiology Laboratory, USDA-
ARS, Beltsville, Maryland.
The Middle Atlantic States Mycology Conference has
taken place every spring since 1979. MASMC provides
new students, postdocs, and mycologists the opportu-
nity to present research ndings and obtain inputs from
learned colleagues, in a less formal venue than larger
national and international meetings.
Keynote Speaker: Dr. Marc Cubeta, North Carolina
State University \Min Fulbright sabbats ar med Rhizoc-
tonia svampar och orkid eer" (My Fulbright sabbatical
with Rhizoctonia fungi and orchids)
Events include oral presentations, poster session, morn-
ing and afternoon coee breaks, guided tour of the U.S.
National Fungus Collections, lunch, student awards
presentation, keynote talk by Marc Cubeta, Saturday
evening social (includes dinner and drinks) and Sundaymorning fungal foray.
Advanced registration & abstract submission deadline:
April 12, 2013.
Advanced registration is $60, or $40 for students
and post-docs. For more information and to register
for the conference, go to: https://sites.google.com/-
site/masmc2013a/ MASMC 2013 Organizing Com-
mittee Priscila Chaverri (pchaverr@umd.edu) Jo
Anne Crouch (joanne.crouch@ars.usda.gov) Steve
Rehner (stephen.rehner@ars.usda.gov) Amy Rossman
(amy.rossman@ars.usda.gov)
JoAnne.Crouch@ARS.USDA.GOV
BuenosAires PlantEvolution
Nov20-23
32nd New Phytologist Symposium Plant interactions
with other organisms: Molecules, ecology and evolu-
tion
Universidad Cat olica, Puerto Madero Campus, Buenos
Aires, Argentina 20 23 November 2013
The goal of this symposium is to bring together re-
searchers working in a wide range of disciplines in plant
biology, ecology and evolution to explore how plants in-
teract with other organisms.
The central objective is to discuss and integrate infor-
mation from dierent approaches and perspectives in
order to create a synthetic framework for understand-
ing these interactions. Our hope is to have a diverse
and dynamic group of scientists, who are willing to
step out of their disciplinary comfort zone and engage
in an eort to participate in discussions spanning the
range from molecular approaches to ecosystem implica-
tions. The symposium will take place over three days
at the Universidad Cat olica, Puerto Madero Campus,
Buenos Aires, Argentina. Twenty-two invited talks will
form the basis of discussion at what will be a relatively
small meeting (up to 120 participants). There will be
a poster session and conference dinner for all delegates
to attend.
Conrmed speakers Marcelo Aizen Universidad Na-
cional del Comahue, Argentina Amy Austin Univer-
sity of Buenos Aires and IFEVA, Argentina Ian Bald-
win MPI for Chemical Ecology, Jena, Germany Car-
los Ballar e University of Buenos Aires and IFEVA, Ar-
gentina Richard Bardgett Lancaster University, UK Joy4 EvolDir April 1, 2013
Bergelson University of Chicago, USA Elizabeth Borer
University of Minnesota, USA Ray Callaway Univer-
sity of Montana, USA Marcel Dicke Wageningen Uni-
versity, the Netherlands Edward Farmer University of
Lausanne, Switzerland Martin Heil CINVESTAV, Gua-
najuato, Mexico Richard Karban UC Davis, USA Toby
Kiers Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, the Netherlands
Anna-Liisa Laine University of Helsinki, Finland Steven
Lindow UC Berkeley, USA Richard Lindroth Cornell
University, NY, USA Ariel Novoplansky The Hebrew
University of Jerusalem, Israel Ralph Panstruga RWTH
Aarchen University, Germany Ronald Pierik University
of Utrecht, the Netherlands Corn e Pieterse University
of Utrecht, the Netherlands Natalia Requena Karlsruhe
Institute of Technology, Germany Gary Stacey Univer-
sity of Missouri Ted Turlings University of Neuch^ atel,
Switzerland
http://www.newphytologist.org/symposiums/view/2
Anna-Liisa Laine <anna-liisa.laine@helsinki. >
Cambridge UK GMOD Community
Meeting Apr5-6
Dear all,
Registration is now open for the Generic Model Or-
ganism Database (GMOD) Community Meeting, to be
held on April 5-6 in Cambridge, UK.
The GMOD project provides free, open-source, inter-
operable software for annotating, visualizing, and stor-
ing genetic and genomic data. Popular components in-
clude GBrowse, JBrowse, InterMine, BioMart, Path-
way Tools, MAKER, Chado, and many more.
Details of the meeting and links to the registration
form are on the GMOD wiki at http://gmod.org/wiki/-
April 2013 GMOD meeting. If you are interested in
presenting at the meeting, or would like to suggest a
topic for the agenda, please email the GMOD helpdesk
at help@gmod.org.
Additionally, the GMOD community survey is still
open, so if you use, develop, administer, provide, or
otherwise come into contact with GMOD and its com-
ponents, we would love to hear your thoughts. The
survey should take no more than ten minutes, is com-
pletely anonymous, and you have the chance to win a
genome prole from 23andMe (or an Amazon voucher)
on completion. The survey results will be reviewed at
the April meeting and will be used to help GMOD tobetter serve its community and direct future develop-
ment of the project. The survey can be found at http:/-
/gmod.org/survey.html . Thank you all for your at-
tention. If you have any questions, please feel free to
contact me at amelia.ireland@gmod.org.
{ Amelia Ireland GMOD Community Support jjhttp:/-
/gmod.org amelia.ireland@gmod.org
Chicago SMBE2013 Jul7-11
BalancingSelection
Dear evoldir members,
We would like to draw your attention to a symposium
on 'Balancing selection and the maintenance of genetic
polymorphism' as part of the 2013 conference of the
Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution (SMBE).
We welcome abstract submissions for both empirical
evidence of balancing selection and the lack thereof as
well as theoretical and methodological advances.
Invited speakers:
Deborah Charlesworth (University of Edinburgh)
Dmitri Petrov (Stanford University)
Rasmus Nielsen (University of California, Berkeley)
Symposium description: Balancing selection and the
maintenance of genetic polymorphism
Genetic polymorphism is one of the cornerstones of evo-
lution and decades of research have provided intrigu-
ing insights into the extent of polymorphism in natu-
ral populations, including humans. With the onset of
new sequencing technologies and computational tools,
this eld has again gained momentum. Balancing se-
lection was initially proposed as one of the key mecha-
nisms for maintaining genetic polymorphism over evo-
lutionary time scales. While some empirical examples
have been reported, the generality of balancing selec-
tion and its actual importance in natural populations
is still heavily debated. Here we want to pick up this
discussion in the light of the unprecedented availability
of population genetic data from model and non-model
species as well as evaluate methodological advances for
the detection of balancing selection.
The conference takes places in Chicago July 7-11. For
more information and registration please visit http://-
www.smbe2013.org Organizers: Tobias Lenz & Shamil
Sunyaev Brigham and Women's Hospital / HarvardApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 5
Medical School {
Tobias Lenz, Ph.D. Brigham and Women's Hospi-
tal/Harvard Medical School HMS New Research Build-
ing, Room 0464 77 Ave. Louis Pasteur Boston, MA
02115 USA
Tel: +1-617-525-4734 Fax: +1-617-525-
4705 email: tlenz@rics.bwh.harvard.edu
http://scholar.harvard.edu/tobiaslenz/
tlenz@rics.bwh.harvard.edu
Chicago SMBE2013 Jul7-11
FunctionalEvolution
Dear evoldir members,
We excited to announce the symposium, \Molecu-
lar Mechanisms of Functional Evolution," organized
as part of the 2013 Annual Meeting of the Soci-
ety for Molecular Biology and Evolution (SMBE). We
are currently accepting abstracts for contributed talks
(15min). Abstract submissions are open until March
18th, and travel awards are available to support grad-
uate and post-doc travel to the conference. Please
seewww.smbe2013.org <http://www.smbe2013.org/ >
for additional information and for registration.
Invited speakers include:
- Mark Rausher (Dept. of Biology, Duke University)
- Jesse Bloom (Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Cen-
ter)
- Virginie Orgogozo (Institut Jacques Monod, Univer-
sit e Paris Diderot)
- Jay Storz (School of Biological Sciences, University of
Nebraska)
- Dan Tawk (Department of Biological Chemistry, The
Weizmann institute of Science)
- G unter Wagner (Dept. of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology & Yale Systems Biology Institute, Yale Univer-
sity)
Summary:
A major challenge in biology is to determine the genetic
changes and underlying mechanisms that caused the
evolution of novel molecular phenotypes, developmen-
tal pathways, and morphological traits. An emerging
approach seeks to achieve this goal by integrating the
conceptual and analytical methods of evolutionary bi-ology with the experimental tools of molecular biology
and biochemistry to infer the mechanisms of evolution-
ary changes in function and phenotype. Although this
'functional synthesis' is transforming our understand-
ing of the mechanisms of evolution and is attracting a
growing number of devotees, it has not been the subject
of symposia at previous SMBE meetings. This sympo-
sium will highlight the power of the functional synthesis
to generate causal explanations of evolution by featur-
ing speakers using experimental methods (such as an-
cestral gene resurrection and detailed explorations of
the biochemical eects of key alleles in locally adapted
populations) to directly test evolutionary hypothesis
from the across the tree of life. The symposium will also
explore future directions for the eld, such as the kinds
of evidence needed to support mechanistic hypothesis
of evolution, the proper roles of sequence analysis and
experiment in evolutionary inference, and opportunities
to integration the synthesis with other areas of biology.
For more details, please do not hesitate to contact us.
Vinny Lynch, vjlynch@chicago.edu Joe Thornton,
joet1@uchicago.edu
vjlynch@uchicago.edu
Chicago SMBE2013 Jul7-11
JunkDNA
Dear All,
As a part of the is year SMBE meeting, I'm happy to
announce the symposium \Where did the junk go"?
We are currently accepting abstracts for contributed
talks (15min). Abstract submissions are open until
March 18th, and travel awards are available to support
graduate and post-doc travel to the conference. Please
check the meeting web site http://www.smbe2013.org/
for additional information and registration. For any
inquires related to the symposium please contact Wo-
jciech Makalowski at wojmak@uni-muenster.de. I ex-
pect very exciting discussion on this hot topic.
Sincerely,
Wojciech Maka ccowski, Ph.D. Professor and Direc-
tor Institute of Bioinformatics University of Muenster
Niels Stensen Strasse 14 48149 Muenster, Germany
On sabbatical at the Department of Medical Genome
Sciences University of Tokyo
Where did \junk" go?6 EvolDir April 1, 2013
Late Susumu Ohno once said \So much junk DNA in
our genome" and the phrase junk DNA was born. For
a long time mainstream scientists avoided these parts
of the genomes. However, over the years the picture
slowly started to appear suggesting that the junk DNA
hides a genomic treasure. With the completion of the
current ENCODE project junk DNA eectively disap-
peared because there's no useless DNA in the genomes
no more. This symposium will discuss the current un-
derstanding of these not so far ago obscure areas of the
genomes with the special attention to transposable el-
ements activities and their evolutionary consequences.
The integral part of the symposium will be general dis-
cussion of Ohnos idea and its place in todays biology.
Invited speakers include:
1. Josefa Gonzalez (Institut de Biologia Evolutiva,
Barcelona, Spain)
2. Valer Gotea (National Human Genome Institute,
Bethesda, USA)
3. Dan Graur (University of Houston, Houston, USA)
4. Dixie Mager (University of British Columbia,
Canada)
5. Masumi Nozawa (National Genetic Institute,
Mishima, Japan)
Wojciech Makalowski <wojmak@me.com >
Chicago SMBE2013 Jul7-11
NoncodingRNAs
Dear evoldir members,
As a part of the Annual Meeting of the Society for
Molecular Biology and Evolution (SMBE), that will be
held in Chicago on July 7-11 2013, we are pleased to
announce a symposium on \Noncoding RNAs in devel-
opment and evolution". Abstract submissions are open
until March 18th. Travel awards are available to allow
young scientists to attend the conference. Please go to
www.smbe2013.org for additional information and for
registration.
Invited speakers:
- Claudia Kutter (Cancer Research UK, University of
Cambridge)
- Philipp Khaitovich (Partner Institute for Computa-
tional Biology, Max Planck Society, Shanghai, http://-www.picb.ac.cn/Comparative/)
- Ana C. Marques (MRC Functional Genomics Unit,
University of Oxford)
Summary:
Eukaryotic genomes encode a variety of noncoding
RNAs that carry out essential functions, including gene
expression regulation, defense of the genome against
transposable elements, RNA editing, and mRNA splic-
ing and translation. Due to their versatile roles as
gene expression regulators, noncoding RNAs play criti-
cal parts in cellular dierentiation, morphogenesis and
growth. With the recent advances of molecular and
genomic technologies, we are acquiring a better un-
derstanding of the importance of noncoding transcrip-
tomes in model and non-model organisms. For this
symposium, we invite contributions highlighting the bi-
ological functions of noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs, miR-
NAs, piRNAs, etc.) in embryonic development and
morphological evolution. We hope that this symposium
will help bridge the gap between experimental studies
of noncoding RNAs in development and genome-wide
evolutionary studies of noncoding transcriptomes.
For more details, please do not hesitate to contact us.
Anamaria Necsulea and Maria Warnefors
anamaria.necsulea@ep.ch, Ecole Polytechnique
F ed erale de Lausanne (EPFL), Switzerland
maria.warnefors@unil.ch, University of Lausanne,
Switzerland
{ Anamaria Necsulea Post-doctoral fellow Center for
Integrative Genomics University of Lausanne CH-1015
Lausanne Switzerland
anamaria.necsulea@unil.ch
Chicago SMBE2013 Jul7-11
SymposiaDescriptions
SMBE Symposia Descriptions Now Online
[www.smbe2013.org] The preliminary 2013 SMBE
Science Program (including symposia descriptions) is
now online. Please take a moment to review which
topic is of interest to you and then submit an abstract
for an oral or poster presentation. Those not selected
to present an oral presentation may be asked to present
a poster.
Abstract Submission Deadline* is MARCH 19, 2013April 1, 2013 EvolDir 7
Additional Travel Awards Now Available!
SMBE has provided increased funding this year for
post-graduate travel awards to allow young scientists to
attend and participate in the conference. Travel award
recipients in all categories will receive US $1500 (for
recipients in North America) or $2000 (for overseas re-
cipients). Five awards will be reserved for recipients
from underrepresented countries. All applicants will be
asked to provide a current CV and cover letter when
they submit their abstract.
There are only a limited number of travel awards! Sub-
mit your abstract by MARCH 19, 2013 for considera-
tion.
Please visit smbe2013.org for more information.
*Abstract submission for talks closes March 19th;
poster abstracts will be accepted until April 15th.
If you have any questions please contact secre-
tariat@smbe2013.org.
Stefan R. Bradham, MSM, CAE Marketing &
Business Development Manager Federation of Amer-
ican Societies for Experimental Biology (FASEB)
Tel 301.634.7213 Email sbradham@FASEB.org
Web www.FASEB.org \Bradham, Stefan"
<sbradham@faseb.org >
Chicago SMBE2013 Jul7-11
UndergradAwards
Reminder: the deadline of SMBE 2013 Undergrad
Travel Awards is on April 2.
SMBE UNDERGRADUATE TRAVEL AWARDS
2013 ANNUAL MEETING OF THE SOCIETY FOR
MOLECULAR BIOLOGY AND EVOLUTION
July 7-11, Chicago, USA
The Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution
(SMBE) is pleased to make available 10 awards for un-
dergraduate students to participate in a Mentoring and
Diversity Program at the SMBE meeting (July 7-11,
Chicago, USA). Five of these positions will be reserved
for undergraduates from traditionally underrepresented
groups in our scientic discipline.
The goals of this program are: (1) to provide students
with the opportunity to experience the excitement of
attending and presenting at an international scienticconference, (2) to foster enthusiasm for molecular biol-
ogy and evolution as well as a possible career in this
eld, and (3) to promote diversity at the SMBE annual
meeting.
All details about this program and the application form
can be found on this web site :
http://lbbe-dmz.univ-lyon1.fr/spip smbe undergrad/
DEADLINE FOR RECEIPT OF APPLICATIONS:
April 2, 2013
Laurent Duret Laboratoire Biom etrie et Biologie Evo-
lutive UMR CNRS 5558, Universit e Lyon 1 43 Bld du
11 Novembre 1918 69622 Villeurbanne cedex France
Phone : +33 (0) 4 72 44 62 97 FAX : +33 (0)
4 72 43 13 88 e-mail : Laurent.Duret@univ-lyon1.fr
Web page: http://lbbe.univ-lyon1.fr/-Duret-Laurent-
.html?lang=3Den PBIL: http://pbil.univ-lyon1.fr/
Laurent.Duret@univ-lyon1.fr
Cornwall UK EMPSEB 19 Sep3-7
DeadlineExtended
EMPSEB 19- DEADLINE FOR ABSTRACT SUB-
MISSION EXTENDED TO 8th OF MARCH.
Dear Colleagues,
The registration deadline for the 19th European
Meeting of PhD Students in Evolutionary Biology
(EMPSEB) has been extended to the 8th of March,
giving European PhD students at all stages of their
research a further week to apply! The meeting is be-
ing held at the University of Exeter Cornwall Campus,
UK, from the 3rd-7th September, 2013, and plenary
speakers include Professor Geo Parker, Professor Ju-
dith Mank, and Professor Troy Day.
Details about how to register can be found on the
website: http://www.empseb19.com Registration cost:
euro 350 (Price includes transport to Cornwall from se-
lected UK airports, accommodation, and meals for the
duration of the conference) Any enquiries should be di-
rected to secretary@empseb19.com
EMPSEB in a nutshell: EMPSEB provides a plat-
form for PhD students studying Evolutionary Biology
to present their work and meet their peers from all over
Europe. It takes place in a dierent European city each
year, and is organised by the PhD students of the host
country. The meeting is now an annual tradition that
started 18 years ago with the rst meeting being held8 EvolDir April 1, 2013
in Zurich, Switzerland in 1995.
EMPSEB 19 will last for 5 days and will involve a va-
riety of activities, discussions and excursions. Joining
the participants will be a number of senior evolutionary
scientists who have been invited to give plenary talks,
run discussion groups, and provide expert guidance on
starting a scientic career. Plenary speakers will pro-
vide constructive feedback on talks by PhD students,
who are all required to give a short 10 minute presen-
tation.
We would be very grateful if you could forward this
message to anyone you think might be interested.
Follow us on Twitter & Facebook: https://-
twitter.com/empseb19 https://www.facebook.com/-
EMPSEB19 publicity@empseb19.com
DalhousieU Endocytobiology
Aug18-22
12th International Colloquium on Endocytobiology and
Symbiosis
August 18th - 22nd, 2013 Dalhousie University, Halifax,
Nova Scotia, CANADA
THIRD CIRCULAR (22 March 2013)
REGISTRATION AND ABSTRACT SUBMISSION
NOW OPEN
Dear Colleagues,
The 12th International Colloquium on Endocytobiology
and Symbiosis of the International Society of Endocyto-
biology (ISE) will be held August 18th to 22nd 2013 at
Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.
There will be registration and an opening reception the
evening of Sunday August 18. Talks will begin the
morning of August 19th.
CONFERENCE WEBSITE
http://ices2013.biochem.dal.ca IMPORTANT DATES
April 30 2013: Early registration closes. April 30 2013:
Deadline for receipt of presentation abstracts.
The colloquium will cover the latest research on
all aspects of endosymbiosis and the biology of
endosymbiotically-derived organelles. We look forward
to seeing you in Halifax!
Best regards, John ArchibaldJohn Archibald <jmarchib@dal.ca >
FieldMuseum Chicago
PlantEvolution Apr20
Chicago Plant Science Symposium 2013 The Field Mu-
seum
*Saturday April 20, 2013 *
*10:00 AM - 7:00 PM*
We are pleased to announce the third year of the an-
nual Chicago Plant Science Symposium. This series is
designed bring together the plant science community
of the greater Chicago area for a one day symposium
that highlights the cutting edge of research in plant
evolution, ecology, and conservation. The program will
include lunch and a post-conference mixer. Best of all,
registration will be free!
The theme of the symposium this year is *\Old Ques-
tions, New Tools." *Some questions in plant science
have been of interest for many years, but they con-
tinue to evolve as new technologies and new tools are
developed. The symposium this year will explore a va-
riety of these \old questions" and the new discoveries
that \new tools" are enabling. The program includes
a diverse set of speakers who are united by the com-
mon thread that their research is using new approaches
to investigate longstanding questions in plant science.
The talks span plant biology, evolution, ecology, and
paleontology, and include perspectives from molecular,
morphological, and functional data.
*Speakers:*
* *
*Boris Igic**, University of Illinois at Chicago*
*Tempo and mode of breeding system evolution*
*Rebecca Montgomery**, University of Minnesota*
*Phenology comes of age in an era of rapid climate
change*
*Deren Eaton**, University of Chicago/Field Museum
of Natural History*
*Isolation, introgression and oral divergence in *Pedic-
ularis* as revealed through genomic RAD sequences*
*Lena Hileman**, University of Kansas*
*Diversication of plant developmental programs: look-April 1, 2013 EvolDir 9
ing across clades and across generations*
*Jun Wen**, Smithsonian Institution*
*Evolution via the grape vine*
*Patrick Herendeen**, Chicago Botanic Garden*
*Synchrotron x-ray microtomography in studies of fos-
sil owers*
*Gary Watson**, The Morton Arboretum*
*Adapting NASA technology to tree biomechanics re-
search*
*Registration*: Registration is free, but we need to
know who is coming to plan for lunch and refreshments.
To register please respond to this email message with
your name and institution. You may also send ques-
tions to this address.
Organizers:
Patrick Herendeen, Richard Ree and Andrew Hipp
chicagoplantscience@gmail.com
http://www.chicagoplantscience.org/
rree@eldmuseum.org
Galapagos Evolution Jun1-5
TravelAwardDeadline
DEADLINE APPROACHING - Graduate Student
Travel Awards to attend \World Congress on Evolu-
tion III" in the Galapagos Islands, June 2013
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NES-
Cent - www.nescent.org) is sponsoring two travel
awards to enable Evolutionary Science graduate stu-
dents to attend the third \World Congress on Evo-
lution" (www.usfq.edu.ec/eventos/evosummit), which
will be held from June 1-5, 2013 on the Galapagos Is-
land of San Cristobal.
These awards are part of NESCent's continuing out-
reach eorts to serve members of groups that are
under-represented/under-served in evolutionary sci-
ence, as dened by the National Science Foundation
(www.nsf.gov/statistics/wmpd). As such, application
is restricted to US-based graduate students that are:
American Indian/Alaska Native, Asian, Black/African
American, Hispanic/Latino/Latina, and/or Native
Hawaiian/Other Pacic Islander.
Travel awards cover travel/food/lodging/conferenceregistration.
To apply, please visit www.nescent.org/galapagos-
travel-award. Applicants must provide a one-page
Statement of Academic Interests and Career Goals,
a one-page Biosketch and a letter of recommendation
from your graduate advisor.
Application Deadline: April 1st, 2013, 5:00 PM PST
Notication Date: April 5th, 2013
Please note that applicants must be graduate students
at US colleges/universities, and must be US citizens,
permanent residents, or otherwise free of any restric-
tions which would prevent them from traveling out of
the US, to Ecuador/Galapagos over the dates of the
conference.
For more information, please contact Dr. Jory Wein-
traub: jory@nescent.org
Jory P. Weintraub, PhD Assistant Director, Education
& Outreach National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) 2024 West Main St., Suite A200, Durham,
NC 27705 Phone: 919.668.4578 Fax: 919.668.9198
Email: jory@nescent.org Skype: jory.weintraub
\Weintraub, Jory P" <lviscrst@live.unc.edu >
IST Austria EvolutionShape Apr26
The postdocs and PhD students from IST Austria
proudly announce the Young Scientist Symposium
2013, an interdisciplinary one-day symposium entirely
organized by young scientists. This year's title of the
YSS is \Understanding Shape: in silico and in vivo".
The concept of shape touches many areas of research
and has been approached by a variety of dierent
methodologies in developmental and evolutionary biol-
ogy, mathematics, computer vision, and neuroscience,
which makes it an ideal topic for dynamic and interdis-
ciplinary exchange. We aim at a broad audience from
many elds of research that is interested in developing
a general understanding of formation, perception, and
description of shape across disciplines.
The IST Austria Young Scientist Symposium 2013 Un-
derstanding Shape: in silico and in vivo at IST Austria,
Am Campus 1, 3400 Klosterneuburg on April 26, 9am-
7pm.
For more information and registration, please visit
our webpage at http://ist.ac.at/young-scientist-10 EvolDir April 1, 2013
symposium-2013/ and see the attached poster.
Attendance to the event is free of charge.
With best regards,
The YSS Organizing Team
Sebastian
Sebastian Novak <sebastian.novak@ist.ac.at >
IST Austria MorphologicalEvolution
Apr26
Announcing the launch of the second IST Austria
Young Scientist Symposium on Friday April 26th 2013.
The topic for this year's symposium will be \Under-
standing Shape: in silica and in vivo".
The concept of shape touches on many areas of re-
search ranging from shape description in mathematics,
shape formation during development and evolution and
shape perception in computer vision and neuroscience.
This has led to a number of dierent approaches and
methodologies being developed independently in isola-
tion from each other, especially among biologists and
mathematicians.
This symposium aims to bring together people with dif-
ferent approaches to foster discussion. The event is
open to everyone, and talks will be broad enough to be
interesting to scientists in general.
We are pleased to announce the following distinguished
speakers, who will talk : - Robert Aern ~A1
2(Charles
University in Prague)^ a - Ed Connor (John Hopkins Uni-
versity)^ a - Vittorio Ferrari (University of Edinburgh) ^ a-
Massimo Ferri (Bologna University) - Chaim Goodman-
Strauss (University of Arkansas) - Isaac Salazar-Ciudad
(Universitat Aut ~A2noma de Barcelona)
This one-day event is organised by the students and
postdocs of IST Austria, and will take place on the IST
Austria campus outside Vienna. Registration is free
and includes lunch, and a shuttle bus will be provided
too and from Vienna free of charge. There will also be
an opportunity for a campus tour if you wish to take a
look at the rest of what goes on at IST Austria.
For more information and to register for this event,
please see the following website: http://www.ist.ac.at/-
young-scientist-symposium-2013 Unfortunately as this
is a free event, we are unable to provide funding for
travel for delegates or assist with VISAs or accommo-dation.
tom.ellis@ist.ac.at
Ithaca AGA2013 Jul20-22
SpeciationContinuum
This is the rst announcement for the 2013 Sympo-
sium of the American Genetic Association, to be held
from July 20-22 at Cornell University in Ithaca, NY {
Speciation Continuum: A Discussion on the Origin of
Species.
More details will be available soon at
http://www.certain.com/system/prole/web/-
index.cfm?PKwebID=3D0x44728099a8&varPage=-
home Speakers include:
Key Distinguished Lecturer: Sergey Gavrilets, Univer-
sity of Tennessee, Deparment of Ecology and Evolu-
tionary Biology
Alex Buerkle, University of Wyoming, Department of
Botany Bill Etges, University of Arkansas, Program
in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Rosemary Gille-
spie, University of California, Division of Organisms
and Environment Rick Harrison, Cornell University,
Deparment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Scott
Hodges, University of California, Santa Barbara, De-
partment of Ecology, Evoution, and Marine Biology
Jim Mallet, Harvard University, Department of Organ-
ismic and Evolutionary Biology and University College
London, Department of Genetics, Evolution and En-
vironment Tami Mendelson, University of Maryland,
Department of Biological Sciences Sean Mullen, Lehigh
University, Deparment of Biological Sciences Mohamed
Noor, Duke University, Biology Department Kevin
Oh, Cornell University, Department of Neurobiology
and Behavior Brett Payseur, University of Wisonsin-
Madison, Laboratory of Genetics Katie Peichel, Uni-
versity of Washington, Molecular & Cellular Biology
Trevor Price, The University of Chicago, Deparment of
Ecology and Evolution Howard Rundle, University of
Ottawa, Department of Biology Rebecca Safran, Uni-
versity of Colorado, Department of Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology Maria Servedio, University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Biology Department Laurie
Stevison, University of California, San Francisco, Insti-
tute for Human Genetics Sara Via, University of Mary-
land, Department of Biology John Willis, Duke Univer-
sity, Biology DepartmentApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 11
Mark your calendars!
Kerry Shaw, President American Genetic Association
agajoh@oregonstate.edu
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
ColourPolymorphisms
SYMPOSIUM: The evolution and maintenance of her-
itable colour polymorphisms: from ecology to genomes
Please note that we are accepting abstracts with sug-
gestions for talks and poster until the 8th of March
Invited speakers: Rosemary G. Gillespie and Jon Slate
Symposium description: Polymorphisms are found in a
wide range of taxa but the why and how genetic poly-
morphisms persist over time remains a classic problem
in biology. In humans for example, 5-15% of the ex-
amined genes are polymorphic, and in many cases al-
ternative alleles can profoundly alter tness. The rel-
atively simple genetic basis of many colour polymor-
phisms (one or a few loci) makes them well-suited to
study evolutionary processes, even in non-model or-
ganisms. This is part of the reason why colour poly-
morphic systems have become popular when studying
the early stages of speciation and mechanisms facilitat-
ing or constraining reproductive isolation. In the past,
work on heritable colour polymorphisms has concen-
trated on the ecology and morph-frequency dierences
between populations and generations using the frame-
work of classical population genetics. In this sense,
studies of heritable colour polymorphisms were used as
counterparts to classical Drosophila studies, in which
marker phenotypes have been used to study genetic dy-
namics in laboratory evolution assays. Temporal and
spatial dierences in morph frequencies were then at-
tributed to the action of well-recognized evolutionary
forces such as genetic drift, natural selection and sex-
ual selection.
The eld on polymorphism research is currently pro-
gressing rapidly because of advances in genomic tech-
nologies, especially high-throughput DNA sequencing.
We have now become capable of scanning large parts of
the genome at a cost that evolutionary biologists work-
ing on wild populations can aord. The application of
these genomic tools to ecological model species means
that we can start addressing some of the questions that
have puzzled ecological geneticists for decades such as:
How many genes are involved in adaptation? Whattypes of genetic variation are responsible for adapta-
tion? Does adaptation utilize standing genetic varia-
tion or does it require new mutations to arise following
an environmental change?
This symposium seeks to provide a platform for scien-
tists that are working towards the integration of ecol-
ogy and genomics in the study of colour polymorphic
systems.
To register and submit your abstract for this sympo-
sium, please follow the instructions on the congress
website (https://eseb2013.com/).
Organizers: Maren Wellenreuther and Bengt Hansson,
Lund University, Sweden
Maren.wellenreuther@biol.lu.se
*Maren Wellenreuther*
Marie Curie Postdoctoral Researcher Department of Bi-
ology, Lund University SE-223 62 Lund, SWEDEN
Phone: +46 46 222 9014 Mobile: +46 709 429930
http://marenwellenreuther.com/index.html
http://www.lu.se/meel/people/postdocs/maren-
wellenreuther maren.wellenreuther@gmail.com
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
DeadlineExtended
The 14th Congress of the European Society for Evolu-
tionary Biology Lisbon, Portugal, 19-24 August 2013
Deadline for abstract submission extended to 8th of
March.
There are already more than 900 registered delegates.
In order to avoid a last day peak of abstract submis-
sions, the congress organization extends the deadline
for the abstract submission to 8th of March.
Octavio Paulo Chairman
Octavio Paulo <octavio.paulo@fc.ul.pt >
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
EvolutionMulticellularity12 EvolDir April 1, 2013
ESEB Symposium on \Early germ-soma segregation"
Dear Colleagues:
We would like to invite you to attend and contribute
to the ESEB-sponsored symposium \Evolutionary con-
sequences of an early germ-soma segregation", to take
place at the 14th Congress of the European Society for
Evolutionary Biology (ESEB), in Lisbon, Portugal, 19
- 24 August 2013.
Invited Speakers:
Norman Arnheim (University of Southern California,
USA) \Germline selection and the paternal-age eect
in humans."
Andrew Bourke (University of East Anglia, UK) \Early
germline segregation and social group transformation"
Organisers
Duur K. Aanen (Wageningen University; email:
duur.aanen@wur.nl)
Rick Michod (University of Arizona)
Summary:
It has been 25 years since Leo Buss rst proposed that
an early segregation of a germ line from the rest of the
body is an adaptation to limit the scope for selsh cell
lineages. A number of recent discoveries make it timely
to reevaluate this hypothesis. This symposium explores
the evolutionary stability of multicellularity in organ-
isms with and without an early germ-line sequestration,
to discuss the relative importance of this characteris-
tic for conict resolution, in multicellular growth and,
more generally, in other major transitions such as the
transition to eusociality.
Description
Most animals segregate, early in development, a small
number of germ cells that are destined to give rise to
reproductive cells, from somatic cells. Only a few cell
divisions separate the germ cell from the gamete stage
and germ-cell division is strictly regulated. It has been
nearly
25 years since Leo Buss proposed that these individual-
level adaptations reduce the scope for within-individual
selection, at which level selection often will be deleteri-
ous for individual tness. The early germ-soma segrega-
tion thus prevents conict between selection at the level
of the individual and selection at the level of the cell.
There is much empirical support for this hypothesis.
However, it has been argued that the regular single-
cell bottleneck observed in most life cycles in combi-
nation with a low mutation rate is sucient to limit
intra-individual genetic variation required for among-cell selection. Furthermore, recently some cases have
been identied that show that the germ-soma segrega-
tion does not provide perfect protection against lower-
level selection. First, contagious cancers, transmitted
horizontally from one individual to another, circumvent
the germ line. Second, recently a mechanism has been
discovered by which inherited diseases, caused by de
novo mutations in the father's germ line, are positively
selected. Normally, male germ cells divide asymmet-
rically, with one daughter cell becoming the new germ
cell, and the other giving rise to multiple gametes. How-
ever, some mutations increase the frequency of sym-
metrical division of the germ cells, thus increasing the
number of germ cells with this mutation. This explains
an observation, already made in the early 1900's, that
the incidence of some inherited diseases increases with
the age of the father. On the occasion of these new dis-
coveries, this symposium will discuss the importance of
germ-soma dierentiation for resolution of the potential
conict between the levels of selection in a multicellu-
lar individual. This symposium will bring together stu-
dents working on the evolution of multicellularity and
conict resolution, both in organisms with and organ-
isms without an early germ-soma dierentiation, such
as fungi. It will discuss the importance of an early
germ-soma dierentiation for conict resolution relative
to other stabilising factors, especially high among-cell
genetic relatedness, seen in most multicellular organ-
isms.
Duur Aanen Assistant professor Laboratory of
Genetics Wageningen University and Research
Center The Netherlands Tel. +31(0)317 483144
Mobile: +31 (0)6 10327948 Fax: +31 (0)317 483146
http://www.gen.wur.nl/UK/Sta/Scientic%20Sta/-
Duur+Aanen \Aanen, Duur" <duur.aanen@wur.nl >
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
ImmunePriming
Dear colleagues, ESEB abstract submission deadline
has been extended to the 8th of March. We invite you to
participate in our symposium on \Non-genetic transfer
of immunity across generations " evolution and under-
lying mechanisms\, including free dinner sponsored by
the Volkswagen Foundation for all symposium partici-
pants.
Symposium description: To cope with parasites and
pathogens, immunological experience can be trans-April 1, 2013 EvolDir 13
ferred across generations also non-genetically, allowing
for higher adaptive plasticity. Recent studies suggest
that trans- generational immune priming (TGIP) can
also be provided by innate defence components and
that it is not limited to maternal eects. Both evo-
lutionary and mechanistic advances in TGIP should be
addressed in this symposium in systems ranging from
invertebrates to vertebrates.
Invited speakers:
Ben Sadd (ETH Z urich) and Mike Boots (University of
Exeter)
For registration and abstract submission, please go
here: www.eseb2013.com We are looking forward to
seeing you in Lisbon!
Olivia Roth & Gerrit Joop
Gerrit.Joop@agrar.uni-giessen.de
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
RecentHumanEvol LastCall
Dear colleagues, this is a reminder that abstract call
for the *symposium * *ADVANCES IN QUANTITA-
TIVE APPROACHES TO RECENT EVOLUTION-
ARY CHANGE IN HUMANS of the ESEB Congress
in Lisbon (19-24 August 2013)* closes *tomorrow*(8th
of March). So far we received \only" 17 submissions.
Please register and submit your abstracts through the
congress website: https://www.eseb2013.com/ * *
Symposium description: Applying a rigorous evolution-
ary framework to understand human biology and be-
haviour present numerous challenges. However, many
recent advances have brought this eld to a point where
resolution of past diculties may be achieved. The goal
of this symposium is to provide a diverse overview of the
state-of-the-art in quantitative approaches to investi-
gate human evolution at dierent levels of biological or-
ganisation (from genes or genomes to societies) . While
we expect most contributions to focus on selective evo-
lutionary processes, we also very much welcome works
assessing the importance of other processes in human
evolution (e.g. drift). We decided to limit the scope of
this symposium to recent evolutionary change (specif-
ically from from the end of Pleistocene - 10,000 years
ago - to present day). This restriction is aimed at coun-
terbalancing the view predominant in some elds that
recent changes are of little consequence for understand-ing human biology. Indeed, not only do we disagree, we
think that this focus may more reect methodological
limitation than genuine scientic import.
Invited speaker: Stephen Stearns (Yale), Mark
Thomas (UC London) and Jean-Baptiste Michel
(Harvard). Organisers: Alexandre Courtiol (Berlin)
https://sites.google.com/site/alexandrecourtiol/home
Ian Rickard (Durham) http://www.dur.ac.uk/-
anthropology/research/earg/earg members/-
earg proles/?mode=sta&id=10886 Hope to see
you in Lisbon!
alexandre.courtiol@gmail.com
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
SpeciesRecognitionSystems
Dear Colleagues,
We are glad to invite you to participate to the sympo-
sium
\Nature and mechanisms of evolution of species recog-
nition systems" which will be held at the14th Congress
of the European Society for Evolutionary Biology
(ESEB), in Lisbon, Portugal, 19 - 24 August 2013.
Registration is open and the deadline for abstract sub-
mission (for talks and posters) is February 28.
For more details please visit: https://-
www.eseb2013.com/talks Symposium presentation:
What makes a mate recognition system specic? Is
species recognition a good working concept? How does
specicity evolve? Do the mechanisms involved dier
in the presence or absence of gene ow? These ques-
tions are central to our understanding of evolution of
behavioral isolation, one of the most important means
of species diversication, and the symposium goal is to
address them.
This symposium is part of the European Science Foun-
dation's Research Networking Programme Frontiers
of Speciation Research (FroSpects,www.iiasa.ac.at/-
Research/EEP/FroSpects), which is funded by 18 of
ESF's national member organisations.
Invited speakers:
Tamra Mendelson (UMBC, Baltimore USA) http:/-
/umbc.edu/biosci/general/groups/tamram John
Endler (Deakin University,Geelong,Australia) http://-
www.deakin.edu.au/scitech/les/sta/endlerj/14 EvolDir April 1, 2013
We are looking forward to read your abstracts!!!
The organisers
Guila Ganem (Institute ofEvo-
lutionary Sciences,University of
Montpellier,France,guila.ganem@univ-montp2.fr)
John Endler (School ofEnvironmental and
life Sciences,Deakin University,Australia,
john.endler@deakin.edu.au)
GANEM Guila CNRS Researcher Institut of Evolution-
ary Sciences, University of Montpellier 2 - Montpellier
Phone: +33 (0)4 67 14 46 31 FAX: +33 (0)4 67 14 36 22
Address: ISEM { cc065, Universit e Montpellier 2 34095
Montpellier cedex 5, France Web: www.isem.univ-
montp2.fr/ganem guila guila.ganem@univ-montp2.fr
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
TradeOs
Abstract Deadline for ESEB Symposium on Mecha-
nisms of Trade-Os
Dear Colleagues:
The deadline for abstract submission for the 2013 ESEB
meeting in Lisbon (August 19-24 2013) is approaching
very rapidly.
We will be accepting abstracts for talks and posters in
our symposium on the MECHANISMS OF TRADE-
OFFS until 28 February 2013.
Abstracts must be submitted through the conference
website at: https://www.eseb2013.com/ Looking for-
ward to seeing you in Lisbon!
Best wishes,
Bas Zwaan and Thomas Flatt
|
SYMPOSIUM DETAILS We would like to invite you
to attend and contribute to the ESEB-sponsored sym-
posium \Mechanisms of Trade-os", to take place at
the 14th Congress of the European Society for Evolu-
tionary Biology (ESEB), in Lisbon, Portugal, 19 - 24
August 2013.
INVITED SPEAKERS *Stephen C. Stearns (Yale Uni-
versity) *Joost Keurentjes (Wageningen University)
ORGANIZERS *Bas Zwaan (Wageningen University)
*Thomas Flatt (University of Lausanne)SNYOPSIS Trade-os are of major importance in evo-
lutionary theory, in particular in life history theory,
since they are thought to impose constraints upon the
response to selection: trade-os occur when an evolu-
tionary change in a trait that increases tness is cou-
pled to an evolutionary change in another trait that de-
creases tness. Because organisms are often restricted
in terms of resource acquisition, one of the major phys-
iological explanations for the existence of trade-os is
dierential resource allocation between competing func-
tions/traits. Recently, however, molecular data have
challenged the validity of this view, even though both
views may be compatible with each other. Unfortu-
nately, up-to-date, trade-os have either mostly been
approached from a purely phenotypic perspective with-
out much attention to the underlying physiological and
genetic mechanisms, or conclusions about trade-os
have been drawn from molecular studies without suf-
cient consideration of the functional/organismal phe-
notype. In this symposium we aim to bridge these
views by linking our current knowledge of the molecular
and physiological pathways with what has been learned
about quantitative genetic and phenotypic correlations
among traits. Understanding the mechanisms underly-
ing trade-os and their evolutionary consequences will
require an integrative approach, and it is the major aim
of our symposium to help foster such an integration.
Website:
https://www.eseb2013.com/symposia
The site for registration for the ESEB meeting and for
abstract submission for this symposium is now open at:
www.eseb2013.com Deadline for abstract submission:
28 February 2013.
Abstracts will be evaluated by the symposium organiz-
ers and will be selected for either oral or poster pre-
sentation in late February. When submitting your ab-
stract please state your preference (talk, poster) during
the submission process. Talks in the symposium will
be 15 minutes long, with 2 minutes for discussion.
We are looking forward to seeing you in Lisbon!
Bas and Thomas
Bas Zwaan
Laboratory of Genetics Plant Research Group Wa-
geningen University and Research Centre Droeven-
daalsesteeg 1 6708 PB Wageningen The Netherlands
E-mail: bas.zwaan@wur.nl
Thomas Flatt
Department of Ecology and Evolution University of
Lausanne UNIL Sorge Le Biophore CH-1015 LausanneApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 15
Switzerland
E-mail: Thomas.Flatt@unil.ch
Book: Mechanisms of Life History Evolution
http://ukcatalogue.oup.com/product/-
9780199568772.do {
Thomas Flatt SNF Professor Department of Ecology
and Evolution University of Lausanne UNIL Sorge Le
Biophore CH-1015 Lausanne Switzerland
E-mail: Thomas.Flatt@unil.ch
Tel. Oce: +41(0)21-692-4203 Tel. Secretary:
+41(0)21-692-4160 Fax: +41(0)21-692-4165
Website: http://www.unil.ch/dee/page94630 en.html
Lab: http://www.unil.ch/dee/page95005.html
Book: Mechanisms of Life History Evolu-
tion http://www.unil.ch/dee/page95072.html
Thomas.Flatt@unil.ch
Manchester LandscapeGenetics
Sept9-12
We would like to draw your attention to our Land-
scape Genetics symposium at IALE in Manchester, UK,
September 9-12, 2013:
http://www.iale2013.eu/landscape-genetics Please
spread the word and submit your abstract until April
8, 2013:
http://www.iale2013.eu/call Best wishes
Janine Bolliger, Swiss Federal Research Institute WSL,
Switzerland.
Tonya Lander Natural History Museum, London, UK.
Niko Balkenhol, Department of Forest Zoology & Forest
Conservation, Georg-August University of G ottingen,
Germany.
niko.balkenhol@forst.uni-goettingen.de
Montpellier Speciation May27-29
DEADLINE EXTENDED to Friday 29 March 2013 for
REGISTRATION to SPECIATION 2013 (Montpellier,France 27-29 May 2013).
Dear colleagues,
On request from some people interested in this event,
we have extended the deadline for abstract submission
and registration to the conference SPECIATION 2013.
To register and get information about the confer-
ence, please go to: http://kimura.univ-montp2.fr/-
speciation2013/ .Please note that you rst need to
pre-register following the instructions on the website
-Registration procedure1tab.
Looking forward to seeing you in Montpellier,
Best wishes Carole Smadja and Isabelle Olivieri
Dr. Carole Smadja CNRS research scientist Insti-
tute of Evolutionary Biology, Montpellier http://-
www.carole-smadja.sta.shef.ac.uk/ Institut des Sci-
ences de l1Evolution cc065, Universit e Montpellier 2
34095 Montpellier France Phone: +33 (0)4 67 14 92 70
carole.smadja@univ-montp2.fr
Montpellier France
SPECIATION2013 May27-29
REMINDER
The deadline for registration to the conference SPECI-
ATION 2013, to be held in Montpellier 27-29 May 2013,
is approaching (22 March 2013).
To register and submit abstracts, please go to http:/-
/kimura.univ-montp2.fr/speciation2013/. Please note
that you rst need to pre-register following the instruc-
tions on the website -'Registration procedure' tab.
Suggestions for accommodation are provided on the
conference website.
Best wishes Carole Smadja and Isabelle Olivieri
Dr. Carole Smadja CNRS research scientist Insti-
tute of Evolutionary Biology, Montpellier http://-
www.carole-smadja.sta.shef.ac.uk/ Institut des Sci-
ences de l1Evolution cc065, Universit e Montpellier 2
34095 Montpellier France Phone: +33 (0)4 67 14 92 70
carole.smadja@univ-montp2.fr16 EvolDir April 1, 2013
Munich PopulationGenomics
Mar13-15
Dear Colleagues -
We are happy to announce that the FOR 1078 Meet-
ing 2013 / Symposium Population Genomics will take
place from March 13 - 15, 2013 at
LMU BioCenter lecture hall B 01.019 Grosshaderner
Str. 2, 82152 Planegg-Martinsried.
This meeting will be a combined
student progress report meeting and symposium Popu-
lation Genomics.
In the rst two days of the meeting we will review the
progress of our graduate students. On the third day
we will have talks. As external speakers we are glad to
announce:
- Bart Deplancke, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
(EPFL), Lausanne Dissecting gene regulatory princi-
ples using Drosophila and human population genomics
- Nicolas Galtier, University of Montpellier
Transcriptome-based population genomics in ani-
mals
- Gil McVean, University of Oxford Population struc-
ture and natural selection in humans and chimpanzees
- Christoph Haag, University of Fribourg Evolution of
partial genetic sex determination in Daphnia magna
Please have a look at http://for1078.bio.lmu.de/-
events/meeting schedule.html with the current Meeting
Schedule.
We encourage anyone interested to attend the sym-
posium. Please write a short mail to Ingrid Kroiss
kroiss@bio.lmu.de to register.
We are looking forward to seeing you here!
Best regards,
Wolfgang Stephan Faculty of Evolutionary Biology
LMU Munich Professor and Chair Speaker FOR 1078
Research Unit
LMU BioCenter Grohaderner Str. 2 82152
Planegg-Martinsried http://evol.bio.lmu.de/ http://-
for1078.bio.lmu.de/ stephan@bio.lmu.de
Ingrid Kroiss <kroiss@biologie.uni-muenchen.de >NHM London BSPB LinneanSoc
Apr10-12
Protists, other small organisms, and Next Generation
Sequencing: A forum for ideas, news, information, and
exchange
***EARLY BIRD REGISTRATION DEADLINE EX-
TENDED TO 23 MARCH 2013***
Joint meeting between the British Society for Protist
Biology and the Linnean Society
10-12 April 2013, Natural History Museum, London
This meeting will be an exciting forum for exchange
of knowledge, experiences, and learning about new
experimental and analytical methods associated with
NGS, from data generation to analysis. Guest speak-
ers include Si Creer (Bangor University), Micah Dun-
thorn (Kaiserslautern University), Dawn Field (Molec-
ular Evolution and Bioinformatics Group, CEH), Neil
Hall (Advanced Genomics Facility, Liverpool Uni-
versity), Christopher Quince (Computational Micro-
bial Genomics Group, Glasgow University), Konrad
Paszkiewicz & Karen Moore (Biomedical Informat-
ics Hub & Exeter Sequencing Service), and Kam-
ran Shalchian-Tabrizi (Microbial Evolution Research
Group, Oslo University)
To register & for more information visit http://-
www.protist.org.uk/meetings.html Both members of
the BSPB and Fellows of the Linnean Society of London
are oered a special members rate.
Martin Carr <martcarr74@gmail.com >
NHM London ProtistEvolution
Apr10-12
Protists, other small organisms, and Next Generation
Sequencing: A forum for ideas, news, information, and
exchange
Joint meeting between the British Society for Protist
Biology and the Linnean Society
10-12 April 2013, Natural History Museum, LondonApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 17
This meeting will be an exciting forum for exchange
of knowledge, experiences, and learning about new
experimental and analytical methods associated with
NGS, from data generation to analysis. Guest speak-
ers include Si Creer (Bangor University), Micah Dun-
thorn (Kaiserslautern University), Dawn Field (Molec-
ular Evolution and Bioinformatics Group, CEH), Neil
Hall (Advanced Genomics Facility, Liverpool Uni-
versity), Christopher Quince (Computational Micro-
bial Genomics Group, Glasgow University), Konrad
Paszkiewicz & Karen Moore (Biomedical Informat-
ics Hub & Exeter Sequencing Service), and Kam-
ran Shalchian-Tabrizi (Microbial Evolution Research
Group, Oslo University)
To register & for more information visit http://-
www.protist.org.uk/meetings.html Book by 10 March
for the early bird rate. Both members of the BSPB and
Fellows of the Linnean Society of London are oered a
special members rate.
To oer an oral or/and poster presentation, please
send the title(s) and abstract(s) to David Bass
(d.bass@nhm.ac.uk) with the subject line 'BSPB 2013
presentation' by 10 March 2013. In addition to the
main symposium there will also be an open session for
presentations on any topic in the eld of protistology.
Martin Carr <martcarr74@gmail.com >
NewYork MonocotEvolution Jul7-13
MONOCOTS V: 5th International Conference on Com-
parative Biology of Monocotyledons
Sunday, July 07, 2013 7:00 AM - Saturday, July 13,
2013 12:00 PM (Eastern Time)
The New York Botanical Garden & Fordham Univer-
sity 718-817-8168 2900 Southern Boulevard Bronx, New
York 10458 United States
Registration Is Now Open, With Early Bird
Rates! Click on the \Register Now" button
in the upper right corner of the Monocots V
website: http://www.regonline.com/builder/site/-
Default.aspx?EventID=1060172 . Conference to be
held at The New York Botanical Garden and Fordham
University in Bronx, New York City, Sunday, July 7,
2013 7:00 AM - Saturday, July 13, 2013 12:00 PM. The
scientic program will consist of symposia, contributed
papers and posters, and workshops. Optional activities
will include a ticketed banquet, tours of the BotanicalGarden Science campus, and post-conference eld
trips to the Hudson Highlands of New York and the
Pine Barrens of New Jersey. Accommodations will
be in the Fordham University residence halls. In
addition, several area hotels are oering discount rates
to Monocots V registrants.
Hope to see you in New York in July! The Organiz-
ing Committee (Conference Development and Scientic
Program) Lisa M. Campbell Jerrold I. Davis Alan W.
Meerow Robert F. C. Naczi Dennis Wm. Stevenson W.
Wayt Thomas
Alan W. Meerow, Ph.D., Research Geneticist and
Systematist USDA-ARS-SHRS, National Germplasm
Repository 13601 Old Cutler Road, Miami, FL 33158
USA voice: 786-573-7075; FAX: 786-573-7110 email:
alan.meerow@ars.usda.gov
\Meerow, Alan" <Alan.Meerow@ARS.USDA.GOV >
Oslo 2013Galaxy Jun30-Jul2
Hello all,
We are pleased to announce that early registration and
paper and poster abstract submission are now open for
the 2013 Galaxy Community Conference (GCC2013,
http://galaxyproject.org/GCC2013). GCC2013 will be
held 30 June through July 2 in Oslo Norway, at the Uni-
versity of Oslo.
GCC2013 is an opportunity to participate in two
full days of presentations, discussions, poster sessions,
keynotes, lightning talks and breakouts, all about high-
throughput biology and the tools that support it. The
conference also includes a Training Day for the second
year in a row, this year with more in-depth topic cov-
erage, more concurrent sessions, and more topics.
If you are a biologist or bioinformatician performing
or enabling high-throughput biological research, then
please consider attending. GCC2013 is aimed at:
* Bioinformatics tool developers and data providers *
Workow developers and power bioinformatics users
* Sequencing and Bioinformatics core sta * Data
archival and analysis reproducibility specialists
Early registration saves up to 75% o regular registra-
tion costs, and is very aordable, with combined reg-
istration (Training Day + main meeting) starting at ~
euro 95 for post-docs and students. Registering early
also assures you a spot in the Training Day workshops18 EvolDir April 1, 2013
you want to attend. Once a Training Day session be-
comes full, it will be closed to new registrations. Early
registration closes 24 May.
Abstract submission for oral presentations closes 12
April, and for posters on 3 May. Please consider pre-
senting your work. If you are working with big biologi-
cal data, then the people at this meeting want to hear
about your work.
Thanks, and hope to see you in Oslo!
The GCC2013 Organizing Committee
Links: http://galaxyproject.org/GCC2013 http:/-
/wiki.galaxyproject.org/Events/GCC2013/Register
http://wiki.galaxyproject.org/Events/GCC2013/-
Abstracts http://galaxyproject.org/ clements-
galaxy@gmail.com
Portugal EcologicalSpeciation
Apr29-30
Portugal.Ecological Speciation.Apr29-30
ADVANCES IN ECOLOGICAL SPECIATION (AES)
Conference, Portugal, 29-30 April 2013
NEW DEADLINE for Early Registration and Abstract
Submission. We extended the deadline to MARCH
29th!
Final programme will be announced on April 5th.
Please visit us on http://www.aes-cibio.org/
This conference will take place on the 29th and 30th
of April of 2013, at CIBIO facilities in Vairao (near
Porto), Portugal. It includes 5 invited plenary talks
(see below), 16 oral communications (to be selected)
and poster sessions covering the topics parallel adapta-
tion, genomics of ecological speciation, adaptive radia-
tions and hybridization, among others.
NEW EVENTS! We are organizing a Conference Din-
ner (April 30th) sponsored by the organization of the
conference and a visit to Porto (1st of May, bank holi-
day) for those participants that decide to stay after the
conference.
Invited Speakers:
Dolph Schluter (Biodiversity Research Centre and Zool-
ogy Department, University of British Columbia, Van-
couver, Canada) Felicity Jones (Friedich Miescher Lab-
oratory of the Max Planck Society, Tubingen, Ger-many) Walter Salzburger (Zoological Institute, Univer-
sity of Basel, Switzerland) S ebastien Renaut (Botany
Department, University of British Columbia, Vancou-
ver, Canada) Roger Butlin (Department of Animal and
Plant Sciences, University of Sheeld, UK)
For more information: http://www.aes-cibio.org/
The AES conference will be dedicated to the memory
of Professor Godfrey Hewitt, whose inspiring research
allowed major progresses in the understanding of the
origins of biodiversity.
ORGANIZATION: Catarina PINHO / PopGen group,
CIBIO Jose MELO-FERREIRA / PopGen group,
CIBIO Juan GALINDO / University of Vigo Martim
MELO / PopGen group, CIBIO Nuno FERRAND /
PopGen group, CIBIO Rui FARIA / PopGen group,
CIBIO
jmeloferreira@cibio.up.pt
QueenMaryU InsectEvolution
May31
Dear all
This message is to invite you to the Royal Entomology
Society Infection and Immunity special interest group
meeting 2013. The meeting will be held on the 31st
May 2013 in the Fogg Building at Queen Mary, Uni-
versity of London. The meeting is an informal one-day
conference with a series of twenty minute talks. We
particularly encourage PhD students and PostDocs to
speak, although more senior researchers are of course
also welcome.
The total cost for the meeting is not yet nalised but
is likely to be in the region of $10 or less, which will
include lunch and coee. Following the meeting there
will be an opportunity to enjoy the scenic ambience and
exciting avours available in the East End of London.
If you would like to attend or speak, or
have any other questions please contact me
(r.knell@qmul.ac.uk) or Petros Ligoxygakis (pet-
ros.ligoxygakis@bioch.ox.ac.uk). Please pass this on to
anyone who might be interested who isn't listed above,
such as other people in your lab or department who we
might have missed o accidentally.
regards
Rob KnellApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 19
Rob Knell r.knell@qmul.ac.uk School of Biological and
Chemical Sciences, QMUL.
+44 (0)20 7882 7720
Research http://webspace.qmul.ac.uk/rknell/
Book now out: Introductory R, A Beginner's
Guide to Data Visualisation and Analysis using
R www.introductoryr.co.uk r.knell@qmul.ac.uk
Rosco France EvolCancer Nov2-6
*Jacques Monod Conference: **\Ecological and evolu-
tionary perspectives in cancer" to be held in Rosco
(Brittany), France, November 2-6, 2013*
The conference is organized by Michael Hochberg
(Montpellier, France) and Paul Ewald (Louisville,
USA). Jacques Monod Conference website: http://-
www.cnrs.fr/insb/cjm/cjmprog e.html Cancer is a dis-
ease of opportunity, associated with clonal evolution,
expansion and competition within the body. Speci-
cally, somatic cellular selection and evolution are the
fundamental processes leading to malignancy, metas-
tasis and resistance to therapies. The Jacques Mon-
odConference \ *Ecological and Evolutionary Perspec-
tives in Cancer" *aims to promote this emerging disci-
pline by addressing some of the most important ques-
tions about cancerogenesis. The conference will cover
3 themes:
- Interspecic patterns and processes - Progression -
Therapies
The rst theme will address the observation that in-
fectious agents can cause cancers. Persistent infections
may promote cancer because long-term host defensive
responses induce inammation that subsequently in-
creases mutation rates. Why human defensive mech-
anisms have not evolved to more eciently control
or eliminate invasive cell lineages, and why do some
species with more somatic tissue show less than ex-
pected incidences of cancer? The second theme will
evaluate the role of the tumor environment and natu-
ral selection in explaining cancer progression. To what
extent are dierent cancers predictable and what are
the key contributing variables? The third theme will
tackle the daunting challenge of employing evolution-
ary theories to improve cancer therapies. It will seek
how preventative, curative and management therapies
can be improved and even optimized to slow or stop the
emergence of resistance to chemotherapies.*Please note that participation at this conference is not
limited to research on carcinogenesis: we will consider
applications from scientists with anities towards the
themes of the conference, and working on related top-
ics from ecology and the evolutionary sciences, includ-
ing social evolution, evolution of multicellularity, resis-
tance management, evolutionary medicine of diseases,
and species invasions.*
* *
*Invited speakers* and provisional titles
*AKTIPIS Athena *(San Francisco, USA): Challenges
and opportunities for evolutionary and ecological ap-
proaches to cancer
*BEERENWINKEL Nico* (Basel, Switzerland): Using
next-generation sequencing to estimate genetic tumor
diversity and to inform mathematical models of tumor
evolution
*CICCARELLI Francesca* (Milano, Italy): Genome
instability and the evolution of cancer
*CLAIRAMBAULT Jean* (Paris, France)*: *Mathe-
matical assessment of drug resistance in cancer cell pop-
ulations: Genetic or epigenetic phenomenon?
*CRESPI Bernard* (Burnaby, Canada): Genomic im-
printing in the evolution and development of cancer
*DELHOMMEAU Fran cois *(Paris, France): Clonal
architecture in myeloid malignancies
*EWALD Paul *(Louisville, USA): Toward a unied
theory of cancer
*FRIDMAN Herv e* (Paris, France): Impact of pa-
tient's immunity and inammation on progression,
metastasis and clinical outcome of cancers
*GATENBY Robert* (Tampa, USA)*: *Evolutionary
dynamics in cancer therapy
*HAREL-BELLAN Annick* (Gif-sur-Yvette, France):
Non-coding RNAs and cancer
*HENG Henry *(Detroit, USA): Genome chaos and
cancer evolution
*HIBNER Urszula *(Montpellier, France): Host-
pathogen interactions: hijacking of cellular functions by
the Hepatitis C virus sensitizes the host cell to onco-
genic transformation
*HOCHBERG Michael *(Montpellier, France): Opti-
mizing preventative therapies
*MAINI Philip *(Oxford, United Kingdom): Mathe-
matical and computational modeling of cancer growth
and dynamics
*MALEY Carlo *(San Francisco, USA): Why we get20 EvolDir April 1, 2013
cancer and why it has been so hard to cure?
*OLIVIERI Isabelle *(Montpellier, France): What can
we learn from evolutionary thinking-based pesticide
management for optimizing chemotherapy protocols?
*PACHECO Jorge *(Braga, Portugal): Somatic evolu-
tion of cancer in hematopoiesis
*PEPPER John *(Bethesda, USA): Evolutionary in-
sights into acquired resistance to cancer therapy, and
how to avoid it
*QUINTANA-MURCI Lluis *(Paris, France): From
evolutionary and population genetics to human disease
*RADMAN Miroslav *(Paris, France): Keynote ad-
dress: Biological clock in carcinogenesis
*SAVAGE Philip *(London, United Kingdom): Why
are only some cancers curable with chemotherapy?
*SOL ~A Ricard *(Barcelona, Spain): The evolution of
unstable cancer cell populations
*SPROUFFSKE Kathleen *(Zurich, Switzerland): Re-
constructing the order of somatic mutations in cancer
progression
*STRATTON Michael *(Cambridge, United King-
dom): Sequencing the cancer genome
*THOMAS Fr ed eric *(Montpellier, France): Evolution
of cancer vulnerability among species: Peto's paradox
revisited
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Suva Fiji Barcode Jul8-12
CallForAbstracts
Dear Colleagues,
The Consortium for the Barcode of Life (CBOL) at
the Smithsonian Institution and CSIRO in Canberra,
Australia, are the co-organizers of a full-day sympo-
sium/workshop at the 12th Pacic Science Association
Inter-Congress, Suva, Fiji 8-12 July 2013. The session
is endorsed by the Oceania GBIF Node and the Global
Taxonomy Initiative of the Convention on Biological
Diversity. The description of the session is presented
below. You will see that the day will be divided betweenpresentations on barcoding as a tool for digitizing col-
lections and a training workshop on other digitization
techniques.
The organizers invite you to submit abstracts for the
barcoding session to David Schindel (schindeld@si.edu)
and for the digitization session to Beth Mantle
(Beth.Mantle@csiro.au).
===CONNECTING BIODIVERSITY COLLEC-
TIONS IN THE PACIFIC: DIGITIZATION
THROUGH DNA BARCODING AND INFOR-
MATICS
David E. Schindel, Consortium for the Barcode of Life,
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, DC, USA Beth
Mantle, Australian National Insect Collection, CSIRO,
Canberra, ACT, Australia
Reference collections in museums, herbaria, botanical
gardens, zoos and other repositories are critical infras-
tructure for research, education, regulation and legisla-
tion related to biodiversity. These collections provide
documentation of research results as well as long-term
changes in nature. Patterns of ecological, evolutionary
and anthropogenic changes often go unseen and undoc-
umented until samples from these collections material
are analyzed and re-analyzed using the latest technol-
ogy. In order to be accessible and eective, reference
collections need to be digitized and their data and meta-
data made available to the research and education com-
munity, to policy-makers, and to the general public.
Digitization in the most general sense is the associa-
tion of an organism and its characteristics to a unique
identier that can be indexed for later searching and
retrieval. It can take several forms, ranging from digi-
tal capture of label data (date and place of collection,
taxonomic identication) to digital image capture and
even DNA sequencing.
This full day session will include a half-day sympo-
sium of contributed presentations on DNA barcoding
and a half-day instructional workshop on biodiversity
informatics. The DNA barcoding symposium will con-
tribute toward development of a regional strategy for
Oceania for construction and use of standardized bar-
code libraries. These libraries could serve basic research
in ecology and evolution and/or applications such as
the protection of endangered species and control of in-
vasive alien species such as agricultural pests. The
biodiversity informatics workshop will showcase initia-
tives such as the Global Biodiversity Information Fa-
cility (GBIF), the Atlas of Living Australia (ALA),
New Zealand Organisms register (NZOR), and digitiza-
tion initiatives such as iDigBio and Australia's Virtual
Herbarium (AVH). This session will explore applica-
tions and network tools appropriate for the small andApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 21
scattered countries and territories of Oceania. Partic-
ipants will learn the latest approaches to the digitiza-
tion of natural history collections and explore how these
could be applied to their collections. The session will
conclude with a round-table discussion on strategic de-
velopment of, and support for, biodiversity informatics
in the Oceania region.
The Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Di-
versity (CBD) has expressed its support for this pro-
posed workshop as a contribution to enhancing capac-
ity in taxonomy (a goal of CBD's Global Taxonomy
Initiative, GTI) and strengthening informatics infras-
tructure in the Pacic region. Academic collaborations
on biodiversity facilitate achievement by CBD Parties
in the region of Aichi Biodiversity Target 9 (invasive
alien species) and Target 19 (Biodiversity science).
\Schindel, David" <schindeld@si.edu >
Trento Italy SIBE Evoluzione2013
Aug28-31
Trento Italy.SIBE Evoluzione2013.Aug28-31
EVOLUZIONE 2013, The V Congress of the Italian
Society for Evolutionary Biology (SIBE-ISEB)
August 28-31, 2013. Trento, Italy
REGISTRATION AND ABSTRACT SUBMISSION
NOW OPEN
Dear friends and colleagues,
Registration is now open for EVOLUZIONE2103
(www.evoluzione2013.it), the biennial congress of the
Italian Society for Evolutionary Biology (SIBE). The
congress will be held at the end of August (28-31) in
the historical town of Trento, in the heart of the Italian
Alps, a region renowned for its excellent wine, castles,
and the beautiful dolomite mountains.
The congress covers various exiting topics and aims to
be extremely interdisciplinary and targeted not only to
evolutionists, but also to other scientists willing to get
in touch with evolution. There will be plenty of space
to present your research as a talk or as a poster. We es-
pecially welcome contributions from PhD students, for
which there is a specially-reduced 70 euros congress fee,
a dedicated \PhD symposium" for o topic abstracts,
and awards for the best talk. the ocial language of the
congress will be English, and we encourage the partici-
pation of researchers and students from outside Italy.Symposia include: - EVOLUTIONARY APPLICA-
TIONS FOR BIOSYSTEMS AND AGRICULTURE:
Chairs: G. Anfora and C. Varotto (FEM). Speak-
ers include: Andres Moya (Universitat de Val encia),
Carlo Soave (UMilan), Roberto Papa (University of
Foggia), Elisa Frasnelli (CIMEC, UTrento) and more.
- EVOLUTIONARY GENOMICS AND BIOINFOR-
MATICS: Chairs: M. Sironi (IRCCS MEDEA) and
D. Sargent (FEM). Conrmed speakers: Francois Bal-
loux (UCL). - EVOLUTIONARY MEDICINE AND
HEALTH: Chairs: C. de Filippo and H. Haue (FEM).
Conrmed speakers: Duccio Cavalieri and Kieran
Tuohy (FEM). - LIFE THROUGH TIME: PALEO-
BIOLOGY AND PALEOBIODIVERSITY: Chairs: S.
Renesto and G. Binelli (UInsubria). Speakers in-
clude: Mike Benton (UBristol), Davide Pisani (UBris-
tol), Evelyn Kustatscher (LMUM unchen), Giorgio
Carnevale (UTorino), Stefano Dominici (UFlorence)
and more. - BIODIVERSITY 3D: THE INTERRELA-
TIONS AMONG GENES, SPECIES, AND ECOSYS-
TEMS: Chairs: C. Vernesi (FEM) and I. Scotti (INRA).
Conrmed speakers: Mike Bruford (UCardi), Krys-
tal Tolley (SANBI). - WALLACE DAY: Chairs: M.
Bernardi and M. Mengon (MUSE). An afternoon ded-
icated to communicating evolution and science to the
public, held at MUSE, featuring \entomological" coee
break and aperitif.
The congress is the result of a collaboration between
SIBE, Fondazione Edmund Mach, MUSE Trento Sci-
ence Museum, and the University of Trento/CIBIO.
Trento is easy accessible by train from Verona (1 hour),
south Germany (4 hours), Austria (3 hours), Milan
(3 hours), and from the rest of Europe with Verona
and Milan airports. For more information on the loca-
tion, please visit http://www.visittrentino.it/en. The
congress dinner, included in the registration fees, will
be held on Friday 30th August at the new Science
Museum MUSE designed by Renzo Piano. Regis-
tration and abstract submission are open until 23rd
June, and shortly after we will communicate the de-
cision on which abstracts will be presented as talks.
For any query, please visit www.evoluzione2013.it or
follow us on http://www.facebook.com/home.php#!/-
events/140997482747661/ or contact one of the chairs:
omar.rota@fmach.it, lino.ometto@fmach.it
{ Omar Rota-Stabelli PhD Marie Curie - PAT
postdoctoral fellow Department of Sustainable Agro-
ecosystems and Bioresources, IASMA Research and
Innovation Centre, Fondazione Edmund Mach, San
Michele all'Adige, (TN), Italy tel: ++39 0461 615 393
fax : ++39 0461 615 500 Honorary Research Associate
of the School of Biological Sciences, University of Bris-
tol22 EvolDir April 1, 2013
Italian Society for Evolutionary Biology www.sibe-
iseb.it The Systematics Association http:/-
/www.systass.org/ Omar's scholar http://-
scholar.google.it/citations?user=3Dof14yMwAAAAJ
omar.rota@fmach.it
UAB Spain RupicapraEvolution
Oct24-25
Dear EvolDir members
On behalf of the organizing committee of the 2sd In-
ternational Symposium on genus Rupicapra, it will be
my great pleasure to welcome you to Bellver de Cer-
danya (Catalonia, Spain) on 24-25 October 2013. This
international meeting aims to bring together scientist,
managers, hunters, farmers and naturalists to identify
current knowledge gaps in the elds of Biology, Health,
Monitoring and Management of this fascinating capri-
nae genus. This eort will be particularly relevant given
the current nancial crisis and EU policies that encour-
age researchers to collaborate, but also due to clear
evidence of the eects of global changes of mountain
ecosystems worldwide. This emerging threat requires a
reconsideration of the future research agenda for Rup-
icapra research.
More information can be found on the conference web-
site at
http://www.rupicaprasymposium.wnature.org/-
index.php?lang=en I hope to see you in Bellver de
Cerdanya in October 2013!
The best
Emmanuel Serrano
Dr. Emmanuel Serrano Ferron Investigador asoci-
ado, programa Beatriu de Pin os Servei d' Ecopatolo-
gia de Fauna Salvatge (SEFaS) Departament de Medic-
ina i Cirurgia Animals Facultat de Veterin aria Uni-
versitat Aut onoma de Barcelona (UAB) E-08193, Bel-
laterra, Barcelona (Spain) Tl: +34.935868190 Fax:
+34.935812006 E-mail: emmanuel.serrano@uab.cat
http://www.uab.sefas.cat Current address: Es-
tad stica i Investigaci o Operativa, Departament de
Matem atica, Universitat de Lleida. LLeida, Spain.
Emmanuel Antonio Serrano Ferron
<Emmanuel.Serrano@uab.cat >UBath EvolutionaryBiology
Lecturer/Senior Lecturer/Reader
University of Bath, Department of Biology and Bio-
chemistry
We are seeking an evolutionary biologist with an es-
tablished research reputation, and the potential to sus-
tain this through securing external funding at Bath.
Evolutionary biology is here broadly dened, including,
but not limited to, subject areas as disparate as com-
parative genomics, evolutionary systems biology, be-
havioural ecology and palaeontology. Candidates with
interests in experimental or applied evolution, poten-
tially with medical or epidemiological relevance, are en-
couraged to apply. An interest in collaborating with
academics in the Department, its associated research
centres, and in the Faculty of Science and University
more widely is desirable, to gain maximum advantage
from interdisciplinary research. Candidates will be ex-
pected to present their strategy for obtaining external
funding to support their research. The appointment
level (Lecturer/Senior Lecturer/Reader) will be depen-
dent on the experience of the successful candidate.
The Department of Biology and Biochemistry is ranked
2nd in The Sunday Times University Guide 2013 Biol-
ogy subject league table, and consistently receives very
high student satisfaction in the NSS. With 46 academic
sta our research is diverse and in the Research Assess-
ment Exercise 2008, 90% of our research was judged
to be internationally recognised, excellent or world-
leading. We publish approximately 125 papers each
year in peer reviewed journals and our current research
grant portfolio stands at $12.5 million. We have over
80 full time postgraduate students.
Further details of the position can be found here:
http://www.bath.ac.uk/jobs/Vacancy.aspx?ref=-
VH1596 Further details of the department are
here:
http://www.bath.ac.uk/bio-sci/research/ Laurence D.
Hurst Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award
Holder Professor of Evolutionary Genetics Department
of Biology and Biochemistry University of Bath Bath
Somerset, UK BA2 7AY
tel: +44 (0)1225 386424 fax: +44 (0)1225
386779 email: l.d.hurst@bath.ac.uk website:April 1, 2013 EvolDir 23
http://people.bath.ac.uk/bssldh/LaurenceDHurst/-
Home.html Laurence Hurst <bssldh@bath.ac.uk >
UNSWSydney
GeneticsSocietyofAustralAsia
14-17Jul
Genetics Society of AustralAsia Conference
The GSA 2013 Conference will be held at the Univer-
sity of New South Wales (UNSW; Sydney, Australia)
from 14 to 17 July 2013. The conference will span the
entire eld of Genetics, and will include speakers from
Australasia and around the world. Each day of the con-
ference will include a plenary lecture by an eminent in-
vited speaker, followed by several concurrent symposia.
The conference will also include a poster session and
specialist workshops on the widely-used software pack-
ages BEAST and GenAlEx. Social events will provide
an opportunity to explore the many sights of Sydney.
More information can be found on the conference web-
site at http://conference2013.genetics.org.au/. Note
that abstract submission and early bird registration
close on 13 May 2013.
For general enquiries please contact Professor Bill Bal-
lard (w.ballard@unsw.edu.au), School of Biotechnology
and Biomolecular Sciences, UNSW.
s.delaney@unsw.edu.au
UNewSouthWales SocialEvolution
Feb2-5
Cooperation and Conict in the Family Con-
ference < http://www.evolvingeconomics.com/-
> First announcement - see http://-
www.evolvingeconomics.com/ The Cooperation
and Conict in the Family conference will be held at
UNSW in Sydney, Australia from February 2-5 2014.
The conference provides an opportunity for researchers
to discuss the economic and evolutionary biology ap-
proaches to these issues, explore common ground and
identify collaborative opportunities. Areas of interest
include:We will bring together leading economic andevolutionary researchers to explore the nature of con-
ict and cooperation between the sexes in the areas of
marriage, mating and fertility.
* Conict in mating: How does conict between the
reproductive interests of men and women aect mat-
ing markets and sexual strategies? * Fertility: How
is the fertility decision made in marriage? What are
the trade-os between quality and quantity of children?
What factors are behind the demographic transition
and low fertility of the modern era? * Investment: How
do the competing interests of men and women aect
parenting behaviour, work and household decisions?
DESCRIPTION
Economics and evolutionary biology have a rich his-
tory of analysis of cooperation and conict in the fam-
ily. Evolutionary biology sources the beginnings of this
analysis to the work of Darwin in the mid to late 19th-
century, while the economic study of the family has
origins that are more recent, dating to the late 1950s.
Since then, however, a strong tradition has emerged of
the application of the economic approach to fertility,
marriage, mating markets and investment in the qual-
ity and quantity of children.
While the ground being explored is common, the eco-
nomic and evolutionary approaches are rarely recon-
ciled. Particularly, the concepts of tness and utility,
which lie at the heart of evolutionary biology and eco-
nomics, have not been unied across the disciplines.
Fitness provides a basis for the emergence of traits
and preferences, while in an economic utility framework
they are assumed.
Cooperation and conict in the family provides a fertile
area to build a bridge between these concepts. In recent
decades, understanding of family dynamics has been
revolutionised by parallel insights in evolution (sexual
conict theory) and economics that the interests of men
and women can diverge, altering the balance between
cooperation and conict within the family.
In February 2014, Sydney will play host to an unprece-
dented gathering of economic and evolutionary thinkers
who will explore the potential for a closer synthesis be-
tween evolution and economics in order to address the
compelling mysteries that surround sex and reproduc-
tion.
CONFIRMED SPEAKERS
* David Barash <https://www.google.com.au/-
url?sa=3Dt&rct=3Dj&q=3D&esrc=s&source=-
web&cd=1&cad=rja&ved=0CDQQFjAA&url=-
http%3A%2F%2Ffaculty.washington.edu%2Fdpbarash%2F&ei=
20lAUeDaJqWkiAf6 4DwCQ&usg=-24 EvolDir April 1, 2013
AFQjCNEPPXCJ7UmbQAT-
Mv1KXSCuuen13A&sig2=-
xlBaWqv8y4uPUW4AmR5Maw&bvm=-
bv.43287494,d.aGc >, University of Washing-
ton * Monique Borgerho Mulder <http://-
anthropology.ucdavis.edu/people/fzborger >, Uni-
versity of California Davis * Lena Edlund <http://-
jagiellonia.econ.columbia.edu/~le93/ >, Columbia Uni-
versity * Joe Henrich <http://www2.psych.ubc.ca/-
~henrich/ >, University of British Columbia * Michael
Jennions <http://biology.anu.edu.au/hosted sites/-
jennions/ >, Australian National University *
Hillard Kaplan <http://www.unm.edu/ ~ hkaplan/
>, University of New Mexico * Hanna Kokko <
http://biology.anu.edu.au/hosted sites/kokko/ >,
Australian National University * Jason Potts <http:/-
/www.rmit.edu.au/browse/About%20RMIT%2F;ID=-
3Dc5w026edczcm1;STATUS=A?QRY=-
economics&STYP >, Royal Melbourne Institute
of Technology
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UNotreDame ArthropodGenomics
Jun12-15
7th Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium
ARTHROPOD GENOMICS 2013 ONWARD
Friday, March 29, 2013: Early Bird Registration Dead-
line Friday, March 29, 2013: Submit Poster Abstracts
Due
The 7th Annual Arthropod Genomics Symposium and
VectorBase Workshop will be held from June 12 - June
15, 2013, and is hosted by the Eck Institute for Global
Health at the University of Notre Dame.
The VectorBase Workshop will begin early afternoon on
Wednesday, June 12, 2013, and conclude late afternoon
on Thursday, June 13, 2013.
The Arthropod Genomics Symposium will begin Thurs-
day evening, June 13, 2013, and conclude late afternoon
on Saturday, June 15, 2013 (an optional dinner is sched-
uled for Saturday night).
To register for the Arthropod Genomics Symposium or
view more information visit:http://globalhealth.nd.edu/7th-annual-arthropod-
genomics-symposium/ eigh@nd.edu
UNotreDame ArthropodGenomics
Jun13-15 TravelGrant
The Early Registration Deadline has been extended
through Friday, April 19, 2013. Take advantage of the
early registration rates!!
*****
An Arthropod Genomics Symposium Travel Grant is
being oered to support registration, lodging, and
transportation to attend the 7th Annual Arthropod
Genomics Symposium held at the University of Notre
Dame from June 13 - June 15, 2013. Postdoctoral fel-
lows and graduate students will be eligible to apply for
funding; applications from individuals who do not have
other nancial support for the meeting will be favored.
The grant will cover: (1) registration to the sympo-
sium - $375 for postdocs, $175 for graduate students,
(2) three nights residence hall lodging - $52/night, and
(3) up to $1,000 for transportation costs.
The application must include: (1) CV - limited to two
pages, (2) estimated cost of transportation, (3) abstract
for poster presentation, (4) a paragraph on why you are
interested in attending the symposium, including how
your participation will increase diversity and add to the
discussion, and (5) justication of your nancial need.
Please send request for funding and required materials
to the Eck Institute for Global Health (eigh@nd.edu)
by April 5, 2013. All applications will be reviewed and
applicants will be notied by April 15, 2013 on the sta-
tus of the award.
The 2013 Symposium is sponsored by the University of
Notre Dame Eck Institute for Global Health, Kansas
Sate University Arthropod Genomics Consortium, and
the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign.
eigh@nd.edu
UStAndrews
EvolutionMatingSystems Sep4-6April 1, 2013 EvolDir 25
SECOND NOTICE AND CALL FOR ABSTRACTS
\Thirty years of Thornhill & Alcock: The Evolution of
Insect Mating Systems"
ENTO 13: Royal Entomological Society International
Symposium and National Science Meeting. 4th-6th
September 2013, University of St Andrews, Scotland.
Online registration is now open for ENTO 13. ENTO
13 will comprise an international symposium celebrat-
ing 30 years of Thornhill & Alcock's landmark publica-
tion on the evolution of insect mating systems, with ple-
nary talks from 15 leading researchers from the around
the world. There will also be the National Science
Meeting, for which we invite contributed talks and
posters on research associated with one of our seven
themed sessions or on any topic in entomology for one
of our open sessions.
Themed sessions for the National Meeting include: Sex-
ual Selection in Insects; Nuptial Feeding in Insects; Pol-
linator Behaviour, Ecology and Evolution; Benecial
Insects: Biological Control and Beyond; Entomology
for the Masses: Impact and Outreach; Insect Commu-
nity Ecology; Insect Genomics.
Online registration can be found here: http://-
www.royensoc.co.uk/register/ Full details of ENTO
13 and how to oer talks and posters can be found
here: http://www.royensoc.co.uk/content/ento-13-4-6-
september-2013 DEADLINE for early-bird registration
and abstract submission is 30th April 2013
For further information please email: ento13@st-
andrews.ac.uk International Symposium Convenors:
David Shuker (david.shuker@st-andrews.ac.uk) and
Leigh Simmons (leigh.simmons@uwa.edu.au) National
Science Meeting Convenor: Graham Stone (gra-
ham.stone@ed.ac.uk)
Dr David M Shuker School of Biology University of St
Andrews Harold Mitchell Building St Andrews KY16
9TH UK
Tel: +44 1334 463376 Fax: +44 1334 464466
Email: david.shuker@st-andrews.ac.uk
Website: http://insects.st-andrews.ac.uk dms14@st-
andrews.ac.uk
Utah Evol2013 Jun21-25
UndergradDiversity TravelAwardUndergraduate Diversity at Evolution 2013
We are pleased to announce an undergraduate travel
award to bring talented and diverse undergraduates to
the Evolution meetings this June 21-25 in Snowbird,
Utah. For the 11th year in a row we will y a cohort
of undergraduates from throughout the US and Puerto
Rico to present a poster at the meetings, receive men-
toring from graduate students, postdocs and faculty,
and participate in a career-oriented 'Undergraduate Fu-
tures in Evolutionary Biology' panel and discussion.
The program covers the costs of travel, registration,
food and accommodation at the meetings.
The application deadline is Friday, April 5th, and deci-
sions will be announced by Friday, April 12th. Appli-
cations are welcomed from all undergraduates, and the
admissions goal is to create a diverse pool of students.
An overview of the program and student eligibility, and
a link to the online application can be found at:
www.nescent.org/eog/undergraddiversity Applications
consist of a short statement of interest, a letter of rec-
ommendation and the title and abstract of the poster
to be presented.
In addition, we will be soliciting names of graduate
students, postdocs and faculty members who would
like to serve as mentors during the meetings. Mentors
meet with pairs of students and attend talks with
them, introduce them to colleagues, network and gen-
erally make the meetings a welcoming place for them.
Although costs are not covered for mentors it is an un-
usually rewarding experience. Contact Richard Kliman
(rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu <mailto:rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu >)
if you are interested in serving as a mentor.
For inquires contact one of the organizers:
Scott Edwards - sedwards@oeb.harvard.edu
Richard Kliman - rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu
Jory Weintraub - jory@nescent.org
Jory P. Weintraub, PhD Assistant Director, Education
& Outreach National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) 2024 West Main St., Suite A200, Durham,
NC 27705 Phone: 919.668.4578 Fax: 919.668.9198
Email: jory@nescent.org Skype: jory.weintraub
\Weintraub, Jory P" <lviscrst@live.unc.edu >
Zurich TreeAdaptation Sep1-526 EvolDir April 1, 2013
may I ask you to advertise in your network for the con-
ference ClimTree 2013 that partly concerns population
genetics (e.g.: session on 'Adaptability of tree species
to CC (phenotypic plasticity, genotypic variation)'.
Best Tom
ClimTree 2012: International Conference on Climate
Change and Tree Responses in Central European
Forests
Z urich, September 1 - 5, 2013
Zurich invites you to the ClimTree 2013 conference
in early September of this year. In total, 8 keynotes
and 12 introductory talks across 12 sessions will frame
this conference, which aims to present state-of-the-art
research regarding direct (physical environment) and
indirect eects (interspecic interactions) of Climate
Change (CC) on the performance of trees and forest
ecosystems in Central Europe.
2nd Circular and Call for Papers : http://-www.climtree2013.org/ Hope to see you in
Zurich in September! Organizing team: Thomas
Wohlgemuth, WSL Birmensdorf, Switzerland (head;
thomas.wohlgemuth@wsl.ch >Peter Bebi, WSL-SLF
Davos, Switzerland Harald Bugmann, ETH Z urich,
Switzerland Kathrin Priewasser, WSL Birmensdorf,
Switzerland Susanne Raschle, WSL Birmensdorf,
Switzerland Cyrille Rathgeber, LERFoB, Nancy,
France Andreas Rigling, WSL Birmensdorf, Switzer-
land Andreas Schuck, EFICENT-OEF, Freiburg i.Br.,
International Heinrich Spiecker, Univ. Freiburg i.Br.,
Germany
Dr. Thomas Wohlgemuth WSL Swiss Federal Re-
search Institute Z urcherstr. 111, CH-8903 Birmensdorf
Switzerland
thomas.wohlgemuth@wsl.ch +41-44-739-2317 (Phone);
+41-44-739-2215 (FAX)
Thomas Wohlgemuth <thomas.wohlgemuth@wsl.ch >
GradStudentPositions
Basel ConservationBiogeography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
DurhamU DogDomestication ChineseMegafauna . . .28
GoettingenU StatisticalGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
IGC Lisbon EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
MaxPlanck 8 EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30
Melbourne 2 ConservationBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
NatlUSingapore ButteryEvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
QueensU Belfast LampreyEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
StockholmU ButteryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UBristol AnimalBehaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
UCanterbury NZ SpermCompetition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
UCanterbury New Zealand RNA Bioinformatics . . . 34
UCollegeDublin EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
UExeter DiseaseTransmissionBumblebees . . . . . . . . . .35
UExeter EvolutionAgeing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
UExeter EvolutionIntelligence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
UGlasgow QuantMethodsBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
UGreifswald EvolBatDiseases . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38UGuelph EvolGenetFishes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .39
UHelsinki EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
UHelsinki OrganEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40
UIceland PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .41
UKent EvolutionMitochondria . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
ULincoln EvoPhysiologyOfHearing March19 . . . . . . . 42
ULouisianaMonroe SnailPopulations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .43
UMuseumBergen InvertSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
UNebraska Insect Adaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
UOldenburg EvolutionAnimalNavigation . . . . . . . . . . 44
UOslo Macroevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
UStAndrews NewCaledonianCrows . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
UTasmania TasmanianDevils . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
UWyoming EvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
UZurich ConservationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
UZurich FrogAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
VirginiaTech SystematicsBioluminescence . . . . . . . . . 48April 1, 2013 EvolDir 27
Basel ConservationBiogeography
PhD Position at the Centre for African Studies
Basel/Environmental Sciences Department in Conser-
vation Biogeography
The Centre for African Studies Basel calls for applica-
tions for two doctoral positions in the Environmental
Sciences Department funded by the Humer Foundation
(Humer-Stiftung zur F orderung des wissenschaftlichen
Nachwuchses).
The research falls into our research axis Environment
and Development and is to be carried out within the
framework of the interdisciplinary project Ecosystem
Services and Vulnerability, which seeks to contribute
to a better understanding of the eects of habitat mod-
ication on biodiversity, and their consequences on peo-
ple's livelihood. Applicants shall demonstrate their
suitability for successfully addressing one of the two
sub-projects listed in the attachment. The funding al-
lows promising researchers to commit themselves fully
to their projects over a period of three years. Ap-
plicants have to full the conditions for admission to
PhD studies in Geography, Geosciences, Environmen-
tal Sciences or Zoology at the Science Faculty of the
University of Basel. The researchers will carry out
their projects within the research groups Biogeography
and Physical Geography respectively but will also be
trained in the framework of the interdisciplinary PhD
programme in African Studies, which oers a frame-
work for PhD students in all disciplines at the Univer-
sity of Basel working on African issues.
Subproject 1: Biodiversity value of the coastal lowland
forests of mainland and island areas of Tanzania Fu-
ture conservation policies have to take account of the
genetic diversity within each species. We aim to con-
duct a large-scale study into amphibians found through-
out the Coastal Lowlands of Tanzania to test whether
environments where genetic diversity of species is the
highest are those with the greatest number of species.
Biodiversity loss is currently occurring at unrivalled
rate and this has been causally linked mainly to human
land use changes. This loss of biodiversity is of major
ecological, economical and societal concern. Implemen-
tation of measures that limit the extinction of species
and preserves the evolutionary processes that sustain
biodiversity is vital. However, where might these places
of high biodiversity exist in Africa and how accurately
can we measure them? Taking a case study area in thelowland Tanzanian coastal forests we intend to test this
question using up to date modern molecular systematic
and macro-ecological approaches.
Very little is known about African assemblages in rela-
tion genetic diversity and their conservation value. We
will establish a ne-grained inventory of the amphibian
fauna of the coastal lowlands. The coastal lowlands are
poorly understood and of high conservation threat. We
aim to evaluate biodiversity across this region, looking
at dierent measures and approaches to best optimize
conservation strategies. For this project we are looking
for a highly motivated individual who is interested in
biodiversity and conservation biogeography.
Submission: The application is to be submitted by
email to veit.arlt@unibas.ch, whereby the documents
marked with an asterix shall be assembled in one single
pdf document in the order as listed above.
Deadline: 15 April 2013
Requirements: - Applicants must hold an excellent
MSc degree or equivalent qualication in Geosciences
and/or Biosciences or related disciplines (depending on
the sub-projects listed in the attachment); - have very
good English language skills; - be ready to take up their
project by 1 September 2013.
Your application includes: - * a letter of motivation
(not exceeding two pages) with special reference to the
research topic and one of the two sub-projects; - * a
curriculum vitae (not exceeding two pages); - * two
letters of recommendation by university professors; -
* copies of undergraduate and postgraduate diplomas
complete with transcripts; - an electronic copy of your
MSc-thesis; - electronic copies of published articles or
other academic contributions (if applicable).
Further information:
- See the description of the research project Ecosystem
Services and Vulnerability attached. - Visit our webites:
www.zasb.unibas.ch, www.duw.unibas.ch.
Dr Simon Loader Department of Environmental Sci-
ences Biogeography University of Basel Klingelbergstr.
27 CH-4056 Basel Switzerland
Tel: ++41 61 267 07 23 e-mail: Si-
mon.Loader@unibas.ch google e-mail: si-
mon.p.loader@gmail.com Homepage: http://-
www.biogeography.unibas.ch/loader Associate
Editor, The Herpetological Journal: http://-
www.ingentaconnect.com/content/bhs/thj IUCN
SSC Amphibian Specialist Group Regional Chair for
East Africa
Simon Loader <simon.p.loader@gmail.com >28 EvolDir April 1, 2013
DurhamU DogDomestication
ChineseMegafauna
Two new NERC-funded Phd positions available.
Starting Oct 1, 2013 for three years.
Deadline for applications April 15, 2013.
The Department of Archaeology has two Natural Envi-
ronmental Research Council funded PhD studentships
(A and B) starting on 30 September 2013 to award to
suitable applicants.
These studentships last for three years, cover the full
cost of tuition fees for UK students, pays an annual
tax-free stipend, and have an annual Research Support
and Training Grant.
Eligibility for these posts is as follows:
-UK students are eligible for fees, stipend and research
costs
-EU students who have been resident in the UK for 3
years immediately prior to the start of the award (in-
cluding full-time education) are also entitled for a full
award
-EU students are eligible for fees but not for the stipend
or the research costs
-Non-EU students are unfortunately not eligible to ap-
ply
We encourage all applicants to apply for more than one
project. In order to apply, please send the following:
1) Your Curriculum Vitae
2) A covering letter explaining why you are well quali-
ed for the project for which you wish to be considered.
If you are applying for more than one project, please
provide a covering letter for each and specify the project
code in your letter.
3) Two letters of recommendation in support of your
application.
4) Apply on line through Durham University's website
at: www.dur.ac.uk or via this link
https://banss.dur.ac.uk/blive ssb/-
bwskalog.P DispLoginNon To Helen Wood, post-
graduate secretary (Helen.wood@durham.ac.uk) by:
Monday, April 15th, 2013Studentship A: Tied studentship for the following
project:
Testing Pleistocene Dog Domestication by Combining
Ancient DNA and Morphometrics
Primary Supervisors: Dr Greger Larson (Durham Uni-
versity), Prof Keith Dobney (University of Aberdeen),
Prof. Jean-Denis Vigne (Natural History Museum,
Paris), Dr. Mietje Germompre (Natural History Mu-
seum, Brussels), Dr. Susan Crockford (University of
Victoria, Canada)
The dog is unique amongst the domesticated animals
in being not only the rst species to be domesticated,
but also to be the only domestic animal to predate the
advent of farming. Though there is a pervasive uncer-
tainty regarding where and how many times dogs were
domesticated, most researchers are condent that true
dogs appear across the Old World at about 15kya.
There sudden appearance in disparate geographic lo-
cations, however, has led some researches to suggest
a more intimate and deeper antiquity to wolf-human
interaction. In fact, recent evidence has been inter-
preted to suggest that domestic (or incipient) dogs were
present before the Last Glacial Maximum in Belgium,
the Czech Republic, and southwestern Siberia. Oth-
ers, however, argue that these purported early dog re-
mains represent either wolves going through the initial
phases of an incomplete domestication process, short-
faced wolves adapting to new feeding opportunities af-
forded by the debris available at human hunting sites,
or simply individuals from morphologically distinct or
variable local populations of Late Pleistocene wolves.
As part of NERC-funded research grant, this tied stu-
dentship will systematically collect 2D and 3D data of
dental, cranial and specic skeletal morphologies from
both the early fossil canids from Belgium, the Czech
Republic and S.W. Siberia, as well as from some ad-
ditional (contemporary) sites across the project study
area. In addition, the student will extract DNA from
fossil material and generate both mitochondrial and nu-
clear datasets. The GM and DNA results will be com-
pared to data generated as part of the larger project in
order to ascertain the degree of similarity of these early
canids to the dogs and wolves from more recent con-
texts. These analyses will provide a signicant advance
on our current limited understanding of the status of
these remains, and certainly suggest whether dogs were
domesticated nearly 20,000 years early than the cur-
rently accepted appearance of the rst dogs.
Project details The PhD student will be jointly reg-
istered and supervised between the University of Ab-
erdeen and Durham University (Archaeology Depart-April 1, 2013 EvolDir 29
ments). An MoU already exists between the two Insti-
tutions in terms of ocial provision, supervision and
award of a PhD programme. Data for this student
project will be collected in tandem with the material re-
quired for the broader dog domestication baseline data
collection and analyses.
Although some experience with either genetics, bioin-
formatics, zooarchaeology, evolutionary biology and/or
morphometric techniques is ideal, the student will be
given advanced training in all of these techniques by
the project team, and will work closely with interna-
tional collaborators. GMM training will take place at
the Natural History
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
GoettingenU StatisticalGenetics
Dear colleagues,
please consider the following advertisement of a PhD
position.
Best regards
Henner Simianer
The Centre for Statistics at Goettingen University, Ger-
many, is inviting applications for
1 PhD Position in Statistical Genetics
(75 % E 13 TV-L, ~45k gross income p.a.)
within the Research Training Group (RTG) 1644 Scal-
ing Problems in Statistics, funded by the German Re-
search Foundation (DFG). The position is open from
October 1, 2013 and is funded for 3 years.
The highly interdisciplinary Research Training Group
aims at the solution of current questions in the areas
of agricultural economics, ecology, econometrics, genet-
ics, and remote sensing by means of statistical meth-
ods, and at the development of the latter. It distin-
guishes itself through joint supervision and a structured
study program consisting of methodologically oriented
lectures, interdisciplinary research seminars and skills
courses, and includes a career enhancement program
for female PhD students.The Research Training Group involves working groups
from Agroecology, Agricultural Economics and Rural
Development, Animal Breeding and Genetics, Ecosys-
tem Modelling, Forest Inventory and Remote Sens-
ing, Genetic Epidemiology, Mathematical Stochastics,
Statistics and Econometrics. For more information,
visit www.uni-goettingen.de/rtg1644 The advertised
position will be located at the Department of Ani-
mal Sciences in the Animal Breeding and Genetics
Group of Prof. Henner Simianer (http://www.uni-
goettingen.de/en/92842.html)
In the planned project Modeling allele and haplotype
dynamics in fragmented and structured populations
methods will be developed and tested to model the
dynamics of allele and haplotype frequencies in frag-
mented and structured populations. Starting from ex-
isting theory and methods new or improved approaches
will be developed and their performance will be as-
sessed with simulated data. A specic aim is to de-
velop tools to generate distributions of selection signa-
ture statistics under the null-hypothesis of no selection
in structured populations. Validated approaches will
be applied to high density genotype or sequence data
of real populations with with known population his-
tory. For more details, visit www.uni-goettingen.de/-
rtg1644/jobs The successful candidate holds a M.Sc.
degree or equivalent in agricultural sciences, statistics,
mathematics, physics, or in related elds, ideally with
a good knowledge both in quantitative/ population ge-
netics and statistics. Very good knowledge of English
is required.
Goettingen University is an equal opportunities em-
ployer and places particular emphasis on fostering ca-
reer opportunities for women. Qualied women are
therefore strongly encouraged to apply.
Disabled persons with equivalent aptitude will be fa-
vored.
To apply for this position, please upload your ap-
plication via the online application site https://-
s-lotus.gwdg.de/uni/uwfb/rtg1644 2013.nsf/enter Fur-
ther application details you nd on that site. The clos-
ing date for applications is May 15, 2013.
Contact: Coordinator Barbara Strauss (bstraus@uni-
goettingen.de) or Henner Simianer (hsimian@gwdg.de)
Dr. Henner Simianer Professor of Animal Breeding
and Genetics Department of Animal Sciences Georg-
August-University Goettingen Albrecht-Thaer-Weg 3,
37075 Goettingen
Tel.: +49-551-395604, Fax: +49-551-395587
Email: hsimian@gwdg.de30 EvolDir April 1, 2013
http://www.uni-goettingen.de/tierzucht \Simianer,
Henner" <hsimian@gwdg.de >
IGC Lisbon EvolutionaryBiology
INSTITUTO GULBENKIAN DE CI ^ENCIA
PHD PROGRAMME IN INTEGRATIVE BIOLOGY
& BIOMEDICINE International programme at the In-
stituto Gulbenkian de Ci^ encia Call for Applications
The Instituto Gulbenkian de Ci^ encia (IGC) is now ac-
cepting applications for the 2014 class of its PhD Pro-
gramme in Integrative Biology and Biomedicine (IBB).
We are looking for highly motivated and independent
thinkers who aspire to conduct innovative, risk-taking,
multidisciplinary research. The Programme demands a
strong interest in organism-centered biology on a solid
cell & molecular basis, within an evolutionary frame-
work. Candidates from all areas are welcome, including
those outside biology and medicine. There is no age
limit, and candidates at all stages, from recent grad-
uates to experienced professionals, are encouraged to
apply.
The IGC is a center for excellence in the Life Sciences,
an international community of over 300 researchers,
students and sta working in evolution, development,
cell biology, immunology, neuroscience and more, us-
ing models systems ranging from plants to worms, ies,
sh, mice and humans. Candidates with background
and interests in mathematical modeling, bioinformatics
and computational biology are also welcome at the IGC.
Our students are strongly encouraged to design projects
that integrate dierent areas, and take full advantage
of our co-operative research environment. For informa-
tion on specic laboratories and areas of research, go
to:
http://www.igc.gulbenkian.pt/pages/groups.php/A=-
3D143 collection=3Darticle group=1 The IGC
campus is located just outside of Lisbon, within
walking distance of the sea and of several other
research institutions, with complementary strengths in
structural biology and biochemistry. Selected students
will receive six months of classes and workshops taught
by leading experts from around the world, before
developing a thesis project to be performed over
three and a half years. Full tuition and stipend for
4 years of study for successful applicants is available.
The deadline for applications is March 30th, 2013.Complete application procedures and programme
information are available at:
http://www.igc.gulbenkian.pt/pages/facilities.php/-
A=3D169 collection=3Darticle saranlcar-
valho@gmail.com
MaxPlanck 8 EvolutionaryBiology
The *International**Max Planck Research School**for
Evolutionary Biology*
is oering *up to**8 PhD fellowships*.
The graduate school is dedicated to highest level of re-
search and training in all areas of contemporary Evo-
lutionary Biology. It is a joint initiative of the Max
Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology, the Univer-
sity of Kiel and the Helmholtz Center for Ocean Re-
search Kiel (GEOMAR). The school oers an interna-
tionally competitive research environment with state of
art facilities. The participating groups are working on
a broad variety of scientic topics including molecular,
behavioral, theoretical and organismal approaches.
The graduate program starts with a rotation period of
three months followed by a PhD project of three years
including seminars, courses and workshops. The lan-
guage of the graduate school is English. Financial sup-
port is provided throughout the program.
To obtain further information about our PhD pro-
gram and application details please visit our website
at http://imprs.evolbio.mpg.de . Well-motivated and
highly-qualied students from all countries are welcome
to apply. A Master of Science degree or a Diploma as
well as a strong interest in Evolutionary Biology and
exibility in the research project are prerequisites for
entering the program. We are looking forward to your
online application for a PhD fellowship in the beautiful
landscape of Northern Germany.
*The deadline for applications is April 14, 2013.*
Selection days will be held on June 18/19 and
the program itself starts on September 16, 2013.
Contact: Dr. Kerstin Mehnert,
August-Thienemann-Str. 2, 24306 Pl on, Germany
email: imprs@evolbio.mpg.de phone: +49(0)4522 763
233
The coordinatorApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 31
Kerstin Mehnert
The steering committee
Diethard Tautz, Hinrich Schulenburg, Manfred Milinski
and Thorsten Reusch
Dr. Kerstin Mehnert Scientic Coordinator IMPRS,
Press and Public Relations, International Oce
Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology Interna-
tional Max Planck Research School (IMPRS) August-
Thienemann-Str. 2 24306 Pl on, Germany
phone: ++49 - (0)4522 - 763 - 233 fax: ++49 - (0)4522
- 763 - 351 e-mail: mehnert@evolbio.mpg.de
www.evolbio.mpg.de, imprs.evolbio.mpg.de
Kerstin Mehnert <mehnert@evolbio.mpg.de >
Melbourne 2 ConservationBiology
Two PhD positions in ecology (Melbourne, Australia)
Two Ecology/Conservation Ecology PhD positions are
available on the spatial ecology of dynamic communi-
ties and the function of invaded landscapes Deadline
for applications: 2 April 2013 Two fully-funded PhD
stipends are available to students interested in working
on the ecology of dynamic communities (such as
alien species communities or those responding to
climate change) in Associate Professor Melodie Mc-
Geoch's collaborative research group. She has recently
joined Monash University in Melbourne, Australia
(http://monash.edu/science/about/schools/biological-
sciences/sta/mcgeoch/index.html). One of the
positions will be co-supervised by Dr Cang Hui
(http://academic.sun.ac.za/cib/team/academic/-
chui.asp) and will involve a eld-based research
trip to Cape Town, South Africa. The second
position will be co-supervised by Dr Heloise Gibb
(http://www.latrobe.edu.au/scitecheng/about/sta/-
prole?uname=3DHGibb), currently based at LaTrobe
University, Melbourne.
The research will involve working with native and alien
plant communities, using a combination of existing
data, eld-based data and modelling. The balance be-
tween eld work and modelling involved in the research
will dier between the two positions. The project de-
sign will be developed in collaboration between the stu-
dent and supervisors. The stipend includes all course
fees plus ~$25,000 AU per annum tax free (the equiv-alent of ~$33,000 before tax) with no teaching require-
ments for 3.5 years (the length of a PhD in Australia).
Funding of project costs are covered, including attend-
ing at least one conference per year. The project start
date can be any time in 2013, although an early start
is preferred.
Interested students should send their CV, a brief state-
ment of their research interests and the contact details
of two referees to melodie.mcgeoch@monash.edu. Ap-
plicants must preferably have completed at least one
year of post-graduate research (including Honours or
Masters) and evidence of published research will be an
advantage. Preference will be given to those with a
botany or entomology major, an ecology and/or soil sci-
ence background and strong quantitative skills, includ-
ing experience in multivariate analysis, spatial statis-
tics, GIS and programming in R (or alternative).
jmkalwij@hotmail.com
NatlUSingapore ButteryEvoDevo
A series of PhD positions and one postdoctoral posi-
tion will be opening in the lab of Antonia Monteiro
at the National University of Singapore (NUS) from
July 2013 onwards. Students/postdocs who are inter-
ested in investigating the molecular and developmen-
tal basis of wing pattern evolution and/or the molecu-
lar/physiological basis of wing pattern learning in but-
teries are encouraged to apply to the graduate pro-
gram at NUS (http://www.dbs.nus.edu.sg/) or enquire
directly with A. Monteiro. There are two deadlines a
year for PhD applicants, one in May 15, with entrance
in January, and one in Nov 15, with entrance in August.
The minimum GRE requirements for the graduate pro-
gram (Masters and PhD) are verbal, 500; quantitative,
700; written analytical, 3.5, or GATE (minimum 90
percentile). Applicants who did not have their earlier
education in the English language should also provide
TOEFL scores (minimum 85 for internet-based test). If
interested please contact antonia.monteiro@yale.edu.
Ant onia Monteiro <antonia.monteiro@yale.edu >
QueensU Belfast LampreyEvolution32 EvolDir April 1, 2013
Please see the link below for a 3 year PhD position
on the evolution and ecology of lampreys at Queen's
University, Belfast. http://www.ndaphd.com/-
search/ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=43822&LID=110
The project is co-supervised by myself and Paulo
Prod ohl and will include molecular genetics, stable
isotope ecology and population biology. It is open to
EU/UK students, and the deadline for applications is
March 29 2013.
Please forward to suitable students/friends/colleagues.
All the best Chris
Dr Chris Harrod* Lecturer in Fish & Aquatic Ecol-
ogy, Queen's University Belfast School of Biological
Sciences, 97 Lisburn Road, Belfast BT9 7BL, UK
c.harrod@qub.ac.uk UK Mobile: +44 (0) 7977419314
UK Oce: +44 (0) 2890972271
*Chile address Instituto de Investigaciones
Oceanol ogicas, Universidad de Antofagasta, Avenida
Angamos 601, Antofagasta, Chile *Chile Mobile: +56
9 7399 7792 *Chile Oce: +56 55 637400 http://-
www.qub.ac.uk/schools/SchoolofBiologicalSciences/-
Sta/DrCHarrod >
Chris Harrod <c.harrod@qub.ac.uk >
StockholmU ButteryGenomics
Buttery ecological and evolutionary functional ge-
nomics
1 PhD position at the Department of Zoology, Stock-
holm University in the group of Dr. Christopher W.
Wheat. The PhD position is funded for 4 years, with
the potential to extend the position to 5 years through
moderate teaching commitment.
Rapid advances in genomic sequencing and bioinfor-
matics now provide the opportunity to nd the vari-
ation aecting traits that have tness consequences in
the wild. Importantly, these advances allow for species
with well studied ecologies to now be the focus of func-
tional genomic study. We have just received extensive
nancial support from the Knut & Alice Wallenberg
Foundation and the Swedish Research Council, for our
project 'Insect life cycle genomics and adaptation in the
wild'.
The project is an Ecological and Evolutionary Func-
tional Genomics (EEFG) collaboration, bringing to-
gether researchers with expertise in population genet-ics, ecology, ethology, morphology, immunology and
molecular genetics with the aim to uncover how organ-
isms manifest a life cycle that is adapted to local envi-
ronmental conditions. The central idea of the project is
to address this dicult questions using an integrative
approach, leveraging insights gained from two insect
systems: the green-veined white buttery Pieris napi
and the fruit y Drosophila melanogaster. Our goal
is to use genomic tools to study P. napi populations
adapted to dierent ecological situations, and when we
nd genes that are candidates for being involved in such
adaptation we will study their eects in the Drosophila
system. We will initially target three phenotypes: dia-
pause, wing pattern and immunity.
The research will take place within the population ge-
netics and ecology groups, which are composed of inter-
nationally recognized leaders in buttery ecological re-
search with a long history of study on Pieris butteries.
We will make use of existing genomics and bioinformat-
ics platforms at e.g. SciLifeLab (www.scilifelab.se) for
next generation sequencing, RNA-Seq and other high-
throughput services, including high-performance com-
putational analyses (http://www.uppmax.uu.se). Cur-
rently we are in the process of generating a high quality
genome for Pieris napi, as we will be using this exten-
sively for our genomic analyses.
The Phd position will include all steps from eld- and
laboratory experiments to analysis of genomic data and
gene expression (RNA-Seq).
Qualication and competence To be qualied for re-
search studies in population genetics the applicant must
have completed a research degree (e.g. Master's), or
have passed at least 120 hp (2 years) of biological stud-
ies, including an approved independent project of at
least 30 hp at advanced level ('examensarbete') within
population genetics or a related subject. Applicants,
who have in principle acquired the corresponding com-
petence in Sweden, or abroad, are also qualied.
Undergraduate course work and research experience in
areas relevant to the project work are expected. Experi-
ence with butteries, programming, and bioinformatics,
or interest these things, is of merit.
The holder of the position will also contribute to other
related projects utilizing genomic tools in the depart-
ment, such as Ekoklim (www.zoologi.su.se/ekoklim).
Formal announcement: http://www.zoologi.su.se/-
en/about/lediga/CW Utlysning popgen 02-
13%20 Eng ny.pdf Link to Chris Wheat's web-
site http://www.christopherwheat.net http://-
www.zoologi.su.se/en/about/sta/person.php?suuid=
cwhea Chris Wheat <chris@christopherwheat.net >April 1, 2013 EvolDir 33
UBristol AnimalBehaviour
NEW TAUGHT MSc PROGRAMME IN ANIMAL
BEHAVIOUR AT THE UNIVERSITY OF BRISTOL,
UK
Please circulate to your students { a yer for post-
ing on notice-boards is here: http://tinyurl.com/-
MScAnimBehav This one-year, full-time Masters oers
a unique opportunity for students to strengthen their
knowledge and condence in the study of how animals
interact with both the physical and the social worlds
they inhabit. This programme provides rigorous scien-
tic training in animal behaviour for students aspiring
to careers in animal biology, ecological and behavioural
research, science communication, and wildlife manage-
ment and conservation.
You will be taught by world-leading researchers, giving
you the opportunity to learn about the latest, cutting-
edge developments in animal behaviour, including be-
havioural ecology and evolution, optimisation and life
history theory, sensory biology, decision-making, neu-
ral/physiological mechanisms of behaviour, social biol-
ogy, and sexual selection. You will develop key trans-
ferable skills in statistics, data handling and presen-
tation, scientic writing and communication, and re-
search methods, and complete a substantial indepen-
dent research project.
We welcome applications from talented UK and over-
seas graduates in Biological Sciences (or related dis-
ciplines) who are motivated to contribute to the next
major breakthroughs in science.
Full prospectus details are here: http://-
www.bristol.ac.uk/prospectus/postgraduate/2013/-
prog details/SCIF/1102 Details of our postgraduate
school, including information about our other new
taught MSc in Agricultural Ecology, and the $50m
facilities we will shortly be moving into are here: http:/-
/www.bris.ac.uk/biology/courses/postgraduate// {
this page also has information about research degree
opportunities (at MRes and PhD levels) within the
School.
Please direct general queries to biol-
postgrad@bristol.ac.uk, and specic queries about
the course to sean.rands@bristol.ac.uk
sean.rands@bristol.ac.ukUCanterbury NZ
SpermCompetition
UCanterbury.NZ.Sperm.Competition PhD Position in
postcopulatory sexual selection
We are looking for a highly motivated PhD student for a
project based in New Zealand, examining adjustments
made to ejaculate quality in response to an individual's
social position. This 3-year project is part of a new
Marsden grant led by Dr Patrice Rosengrave (Univer-
sity of Otago), in collaboration with Dr Tammy Steeves
(University of Canterbury), Prof Boris Baer (The Uni-
versity of Western Australia), and Prof Bob Mont-
gomerie (Queen's University, Canada). We will under-
take a series of innovative experiments, using the chi-
nook salmon (Oncorhynchus tshawytscha) as our model
species, to determine whether changes in sperm quality
observed in response to an individual's social position
are the result of alterations in the gametes themselves,
seminal uid, or a combination of the two. We will
also investigate how such changes in ejaculate quality
inuence a male's reproductive success during sperm
competition. Travel to Prof Baer's lab in Perth is likely.
The successful applicant will have an interest in evo-
lutionary biology, particularly in sexual selection and
sperm competition. Strong background knowledge in
statistical analyses and experimental design is essential.
Previous eld or laboratory experience is desirable but
not necessary.
The PhD position will be based at the School of Bio-
logical Sciences at Canterbury University (UC). Inter-
national students are encouraged to apply.
The successful candidate will secure a doctoral scholar-
ship. Options include:
International UC Doctoral Scholarships: http:/-
/www.canterbury.ac.nz/scholarshipsearch/-
ScholarshipDetails.aspx?ScholarshipID=6935.128,
Domestic UC Doctoral Scholarships: http:/-
/www.canterbury.ac.nz/ScholarshipSearch/-
ScholarshipDetails.aspx?ScholarshipID=6935.127 .
The Closing date for UC scholarships is 15 May 2013.
Potential international applicants are encouraged to
consider funding options in their own country (eg,
NSERC).
Informal pre-submission enquiries are welcome. Other-
wise please send a formal submission including a Cur-34 EvolDir April 1, 2013
riculum Vitae, academic transcript, a sample of your
written scientic work, the names of three referees and
a cover letter to:
Dr. Patrice Rosengrave:
patrice.rosengrave@otago.ac.nz before 15 April 2011
http://gemmell-lab.otago.ac.nz/index.php/-
our-team/research-and-postdoc-research-
fellows/14-patrice-rosengrave http://-
www.biol.canterbury.ac.nz/people/rosengrave.shtml
http://www.ciber.science.uwa.edu.au/-
studentprojects.html
Patrice Rosengrave PhD Postdoctoral Fellow Centre for
Reproduction and Genomics Department of Anatomy
University of Otago PO Box 913 Dunedin 9054 New
Zealand
Mobile 027 526 8681 email:
patrice.rosengrave@otago.ac.nz http://-
anatomy.otago.ac.nz/research/GemmellLab/-
Gemmell Lab/People.html http://www.crg.org.nz/
patrice.rosengrave@otago.ac.nz
UCanterbury New Zealand RNA
Bioinformatics
RNA Bioinformatics PhD Opportunity
*Applications close 30 April 2013*
There is an open PhD position to study bioinformatic
approaches to characterising non-coding RNAs at the
University of Canterbury in New Zealand.
http://www.biol.canterbury.ac.nz/phd-opportunity-
bioinformatics.shtml The successful candidate will
be involved in analysing a wealth of data generated
by new sequencing technologies. The research group
has a broad range of interests including but not
exclusive to the bioinformatic characterisation of novel
RNA families, genome annotation of ncRNAs, RNA
evolution, RNA pseudogenes and the analysis of gene
expression data.
Candidates will be encouraged to contribute to pub-
lic databases such as Rfam and Pfam and develop any
corresponding Wikipedia entries. In the early months
of the PhD project this work will help the candidate
gain invaluable experience while developing their own
research program. Once procient in these skills the
candidate will be encouraged to develop tools for classi-
fying RNAs based upon homology, motif complements,pseudogene status and/or experimental evidence.
The bioinformatics team at the Biomolecular Interac-
tion Centre and the School of Biological Sciences is a
new and dynamic group interested in the free and rapid
dissemination of research discoveries. They collaborate
widely, including with groups in the UK, Denmark, US,
Sweden, Germany and beyond.
*For further enquiries please contact: * Paul Gardner
(paul.gardner@canterbury.ac.nz) Required background
An honours or masters degree in a biological or mathe-
matical discipline such as biochemistry, genetics, molec-
ular biology, maths, statistics, physics, computer sci-
ence or equivalent and a demonstrated interest in de-
veloping bioinformatic skills.
*Closing date 30 April, 2013.*
*A PhD stipend of up to $25,000 NZD including fees.*
The funding is provided by a Rutherford Discovery Fel-
lowship from the NZ government and is administered
by the Royal Society of New Zealand.
*Regulations* regarding the PhD program at the
University of Canterbury can be found here: http:/-
/www.canterbury.ac.nz/courses/grad postgrad/-
phd.shtml *Application:* Please email a CV,
cover letter, the names of at least two refer-
ees and where you heard about this position to:
paul.gardner@canterbury.ac.nz
Paul P. Gardner, Senior Lecturer, SBS2
Rm520, School of Biological Sciences <http://-
www.biol.canterbury.ac.nz/ >University of Canter-
bury, New Zealand
Phone: +64 (0)3 364 2987 ext. 6742 Email:
paul.gardner@canterbury.ac.nz
Me on the Intertubes: Sta page. <http://-
tinyurl.com/ucppgardner >Blog. <http:/-
/rnainformation.blogspot.co.nz/ > Education
material. < https://sites.google.com/site/-
rnainformatics/ > Wikipedia. < http://-
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Ppgardne > Twit-
ter. < https://twitter.com/ppgardne >
GoogleScholar. <http://scholar.google.co.nz/-
citations?user=yag55pAAAAAJ&hl=en >Github.
<https://github.com/ppgardne >Rfam. <
http://rfam.sanger.ac.uk/ > RDF. < http:/-
/www.royalsociety.org.nz/programmes/funds/-
rutherford-discovery/awardees/2010-awardees/-
gardner/ >BIC.<http://www.bic.canterbury.ac.nz/
>BioMath. <http://www.math.canterbury.ac.nz/-
bio/>
Assistant Editor in Chief, RNA Biology. <http://-April 1, 2013 EvolDir 35
tinyurl.com/rnafamily >Software Editor, PLOS Com-
putational Biology. <http://www.ploscompbiol.org/-
static/edboard.action >
\Paul P. Gardner" <paul.gardner@canterbury.ac.nz >
UCollegeDublin
EvolutionaryBiology
Masters in Evolutionary Biology (University College
Dublin, Ireland)
The MSc in Evolutionary Biology at UCD is tailored
for science graduates wishing to advance their career
in evolutionary biology, either by bridging the gap
between undergraduate and doctoral level education,
or providing the breadth and depth of knowledge to
build up a career in science communication. The
course is highly integrative, with topics on palaeobi-
ology, phylogenetics, molecular genetics, cellular archi-
tecture, life-history, conservation genetics, evolutionary
theory, popular science and a summer research project.
We are now inviting applications for the course
starting in September 2013. Further information and
application details can be found at http://www.ucd.ie/-
graduatestudies/coursender/taughtprogrammes/msc-
evolutionary-biology/ Enquires should be sent to
evolution@ucd.ie
Course Coordinator: Dr Jon Yearsley School of Biology
and Environmental Science University College Dublin,
Beleld, Dublin 4 Ireland
jon.yearsley@ucd.ie
UExeter
DiseaseTransmissionBumblebees
BBSRC SWDTP studentship: Pass the bug: Disease
transmission networks in wild bumblebee populations
Ref:
Bumblebees are key pollinators of crops and wild ower-
ing plants, and many bumblebee species are in decline.
Horizontally transmitted parasites pose a large risk
to these pollinating insects, as many of these species
have overlapping niches with ample opportunities forpathogens to infect novel host species. At present we
have a very poor understanding as to how diseases ow
within and between bee species, and what impact they
have on their hosts. In this project, you will use ge-
nomic tools to investigate transmission networks in nat-
ural populations of bumblebees, asking which ecological
factors promote disease transmission. This project will
run in parallel to a large BBSRC project studying the
life histories of bumblebee communities at the colony
level. Local populations will be comprehensively sam-
pled, allowing you to study how pathogens are trans-
mitted between colonies and species and how this may
impact on population-wide tness. By studying se-
quence evolution in rapidly evolving viral diseases, you
will be able to apply powerful genomic modeling ap-
proaches developed for emerging diseases such as HIV
to infer transmission pathways. These can be used to
identify potential transmission hotspots, such as par-
ticular host species, food plants or landscape features.
These eld results can then be experimentally validated
using lab or eld experiments. The project will combine
eldwork, molecular and experimental infection assays
and phylogenetic analysis. The work will heavily rely
on molecular techniques, such as quantitative PCR and
sequencing, for quantifying infections and for studying
viral sequence evolution. Another important compo-
nent will be bioinformatics and phylogenetic modeling.
You will receive training in all of these methods from
experts in the eld. This PhD is part of the BBSRC
South West Doctoral Training Partnership and will pro-
vide you with an extensive taught component on bioin-
formatics and modeling. Together with two rotation
research projects in the rst year, this will provide an
excellent basis for this PhD project. This project also
includes a non-academic work placement that will allow
you to gain practical job experience. The project will
be co-supervised by Dr. Lena Wilfert and Dr. Juliet
Osborne, with eld work being carried out in collab-
oration with Dr. Alison Haughton (Rothamsted Re-
search) and Prof. Dave Goulson (University of Sus-
sex). You will also be closely involved with the dis-
ease group at University of Exeter in Cornwall, includ-
ing Prof. Mike Boots, Prof. Angus Buckling and Dr.
Britt Koskella and there are opportunities for work-
ing with collaborators at ETH Zurich in Switzerland.
Please contact Dr. Lena Wilfert (lena.wilfert@ex.ac.uk)
for informal enquiries. The deadline for application is
the 2nd of April 2013; please apply online via http://-
www.exeter.ac.uk/studying/funding/award/?id=1177
This project has been shortlisted for funding by the BB-
SRC South West Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP),
a collaboration between the Universities of Exeter, Bris-
tol, Bath and Rothamsted Research institute. This
project is one of a number that are in competition36 EvolDir April 1, 2013
for funding. Studentships will be awarded on the ba-
sis of merit. The four year programme is designed to
provide training in cutting edge world-class bioscience
and food security research, including a structured rst
year of tailored taught courses and the completion of
two laboratory rotations before progression onto the
three year PhD. In addition, following the postgraduate
training policy of the Biotechnology and Biological Sci-
ences Research Council (BBSRC), all students will com-
plete a three month professional internship, providing
an invaluable experience of work outside of academic
research. For further details about the programme
please seehttp://www.bristol.ac.uk/swdtp/ Applicants
for this studentship must have obtained, or be about to
obtain, a First or Upper Second Class UK Honours de-
gree, or the equivalent qualications gained outside the
UK, in an appropriate area of science or technology.
The studentship will cover a stipend at the standard
Research Council rate ( $13,726 per annum for 2013-
2014), research costs and tuition fees at the UK/EU
rate for students who meet the residency requirements
outlined by the BBSRC (see http://www.bbsrc.ac.uk/-
web/FILES/Guidelines/studentship eligibility.pdf).
Dr. Lena Bayer-Wilfert Royal Society Research Fellow
Centre for Ecology & Conservation Biosciences, College
of Life & Environmental Sciences University of Exeter,
Cornwall Campus Tremough, Penryn, TR10 9EZ UK
Phone: +44 (0) 1326370723 Email:
lena.wilfert@ex.ac.uk
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UExeter EvolutionAgeing
PhD position: Mathematical modelling of human age-
ing and disease, University of Exeter
We are looking to recruit a highly motivated and ded-
icated student with a real interest in applying mathe-
matics to fundamental problems in medicine. The suc-
cessful applicant will have a unique and exciting op-
portunity participate in a lively research environment
where mathematicians and medical scientists share a
common research vision. The position is available from
September 2013 and will employ mathematical modelsto study age-related diseases in humans such as cancer
and dementia.
The successful applicant will be working on the de-
velopment and analysis of mathematical models in Dr
Gudeljs lab at the University of Exeter, in close collab-
oration with colleagues at the Medical School, Profes-
sors Melzer and Mill and Dr Harries. We are looking for
PhD students with a mathematical, computational or
physics background and ideally be familiar with ordi-
nary dierential equations, their use in modelling, anal-
ysis (Dynamics Systems techniques) and simulations.
The application deadline is 8th April 2013 and more
information about the project and how to apply can be
found at:
http://people.exeter.ac.uk/ig232/Home.html \Gudelj,
Ivana" <I.Gudelj@exeter.ac.uk >
UExeter EvolutionIntelligence
BBSRC SWDTP Studentship: Vocal mediation of co-
operation, cognition and culture in wild jackdaws Ref:
1180
The evolution of intelligence remains one of the most
important, yet poorly understood, issues in biology.
Despite suggestions that sociality is a critical driver
of cognitive evolution, we know little about the cog-
nitive mechanisms underpinning key social behaviours
such as negotiation, cooperation and cultural learning.
Crucially, virtually nothing is known about how these
mechanisms relate to reproductive tness.
The aim of this project is to utilise cognitive exper-
iments, acoustic analyses and stochastic mechanism-
tting models (a novel analytical tool for determin-
ing cognitive/learning mechanisms) to investigate the
role of vocalisations in enabling exible responses to
dynamic social environments. Specically, it will use
a long-term study population of wild jackdaws, mem-
bers of the large-brained corvid family that form life-
long pair-bonds, to test vocal mediation of:
1. Negotiation within social relationships: the in-
formational content of calls given during decision-
making processes including coordination of pair move-
ments, ospring provisioning and anti-predator re-
sponses. 2. Performance in cooperative problem-
solving experiments: recognition of when cooperation
and behavioural coordination are necessary to achieve
rewards; use of calls to recruit suitable collaborators.April 1, 2013 EvolDir 37
3. Cultural learning: exploring the importance of vocal
signals in promoting skill acquisition during experimen-
tal social learning tasks.
Findings will be related to measures of pair-bond
strength (e.g. vocal matching, aliation) and seasonal
reproductive success. This project will therefore repre-
sent the rst attempt to determine how variation in
socio-cognitive abilities impacts on individual tness
and will thus provide valuable insights into the selection
pressures driving the evolution of intelligence.
Supervisors:
1) Dr Alex Thornton, Centre for Ecology and Con-
servation, University of Exeter, Cornwall Campus
(www.wildcognitionresearch.com)
2) Dr Andy Radford, School of Biological Sciences,
University of Bristol (http://www.bio.bris.ac.uk/-
research/behavior/Vocal Communication/home.html)
This project has been shortlisted for funding by the BB-
SRC South West Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP),
a collaboration between the Universities of Exeter, Bris-
tol, Bath and Rothamsted Research institute. The
four year programme is designed to provide training
in cutting edge world-class bioscience and food secu-
rity research, including a structured rst year of tai-
lored taught courses and the completion of two labo-
ratory rotations before progression onto the three year
PhD. In addition, following the postgraduate training
policy of the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Re-
search Council (BBSRC), all students will complete a
three month professional internship, providing an in-
valuable experience of work outside of academic re-
search. Taught components in terms 1 and 2 of the
rst year will be based at the University of Exeter's
Streatham Campus in Exeter. For the remainder of
the programme the successful applicant will primar-
ily be based at the lively research environment of the
Centre for Ecology and Conservation, at the Univer-
sity of Exeter's Cornwall Campus near Falmouth. For
further details about the programme please see http:/-
/www.bristol.ac.uk/swdtp/ Applicants for these stu-
dentships must have obtained, or be about to obtain,
a First or Upper Second Class UK Honours degree, or
the equivalent qualications gained outside the UK, in
an appropriate area of science or technology. This is a
highly interdisciplinary project at the boundary of evo-
lutionary biology and comparative cognition. The suc-
cessful applicant will show a strong level of background
knowledge in these areas and excellent analytical skills.
Previous experience of behavioural eld research would
be advantageous.
The studentship will cover a stipend at the standardResearch Council rate ( ^A$13,726 per annum for 2013-
2014), research costs and tuition fees at the UK/EU
rate for students who meet the residency requirements
outlined by the BBSRC (see http://www.bbsrc.ac.uk/-
web/FILES/Guidelines/studentship eligibility.pdf).
Please contact Dr Alex Thornton
(alex.thornton@exeter.ac.uk) for informal enquires
about the project. General enquiries can be made to
cles-studentships@exeter.ac.uk.
Application procedures:
Please upload the following documents to the stu-
dentship application form - http://www.exeter.ac.uk/-
postgraduate/money/studentships/application/
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UGlasgow
QuantMethodsBiodiversity
Institute of Biodiversity, Animal Health & Compara-
tive Medicine, University of Glasgow
http://www.gla.ac.uk/researchinstitutes/bahcm/
http://www.gla.ac.uk/researchinstitutes/bahcm/-
degrees/ MSc in Quantitative Methods in Biodi-
versity, Conservation & Epidemiology: Quantitative
approaches in biodiversity measurement and informat-
ics, ecology, epidemiology and conservation biology,
covering such topics such as conservation genetics;
public, veterinary and ecosystem health; wildlife dis-
ease ecology; emerging and zoonotic diseases; sampling
and survey methods for freshwater, terrestrial and
marine environments; invertebrate and vertebrate
identication; the impact of environmental change at
local and global scales; quantitative approaches for
measuring biodiversity; phyloinformatics; molecular
methods used in DNA barcoding; advanced statistics
and mathematical modelling. The course is designed to
integrate practical eld and computer-based skills with
molecular techniques and advanced analytical methods.
Emphasis will be both on fundamental and applied
research problems and 'hand'-on' skill training. The
programme consists of two terms of taught courses: the
rst term is comprised of a suite of modules designed to
improve generic skills necessary for modern biological38 EvolDir April 1, 2013
research (scientic communication, introduction to
R, experimental design & power analysis, advanced
linear models) and a course in measuring biodiversity
and abundance (which combines eld sampling with
quantitative analysis of biodiversity data); the second
term starts with Programming in R and then students
can choose from a wide range of options, all with an
emphasis on quantitative approaches to measuring
biodiversity, modelling ecological processes, applying
advanced statistics, or investigating epidemiology. In
addition, students have the option of choosing courses
from another MSc programme oered by the Insti-
tute of Biodiversity, Animal Health & Comparative
Medicine: \Animal Welfare Science, Ethics & Law".
The emphasis in the 2nd term is on exibility; students
can select their own portfolio of courses from the
list below. The taught component is followed by an
independent research project in the third term, geared
towards applying the skills learned in the taught
courses.
Quantitative Courses: Infectious disease ecology & the
dynamics of emerging disease Single-species population
models Multi-species models Introduction to Bayesian
statistics Spatial and network processes in ecology &
epidemiology Freshwater sampling techniques Inverte-
brate identication Vertebrate identication Phyloin-
formatics Molecular analyses for DNA barcoding and
biodiversity measurement Conservation genetics & phy-
lodynamics
Animal Welfare Courses: Animal welfare science As-
sessment of physiological state Biology of suering Care
of captive animals Enrichment of animals in captive en-
vironments Legislation related to animal welfare
Motivation: There is a growing interest in the inter-
related elds of biodiversity, animal ecology, conserva-
tion biology, epidemiology, applied behaviour and an-
imal welfare. Despite overlap between these subject
areas, there is very little opportunity in current under-
graduate programmes to acquire the range of sophisti-
cated practical skills required in the modern practice
of these disciplines. There are also few postgraduate
opportunities to combine skills across these subject ar-
eas. At a fundamental level many of the core skills are
shared between these areas and these MSc programmes
are designed to exploit this by providing the oppor-
tunity for motivated students to gain the relevant skill
sets over the course of a number of short courses, which
will allow the student exibility to design the most ap-
propriate combination of skills and experiences relevant
to their future career paths.
Uniqueness of the Programme: These MSc programmes
are hosted by the Institute of Biodiversity, AnimalHealth and Comparative Medicine (IBAHCM), which
includes top quality researchers who focus on combin-
ing ecology and evolution with more applied problems
in animal health and welfare. This direct linking of
veterinarians and life sciences is rare but oers unique
opportunities to provide training that spans both fun-
damental and applied research. These programmes en-
compass key skills in monitoring and assessing biodi-
versity critical for understanding the impacts of envi-
ronmental change; quantitative analyses of ecological
and epidemiological data critical for animal health and
conservation; and ethics and legislative policy critical
for promoting humane treatment of both captive and
wild animals. The uniqueness of this programme is the
opportunity to gain core skills and knowledge across a
wide range of subjects, which will enhance future career
opportunities,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UGreifswald EvolBatDiseases
PhD Position - Bat-Virus Interactions
Application deadline: 15.03.2013^ a
Within the framework of the German Research Foun-
dation (DFG) Priority Program ^ aSPP 1596 - Ecology
and Species Barriers in Emerging Viral Diseases', the
Department of Applied Zoology and Conservation, Zoo-
logical Institute and Museum, University of Greifswald,
Germany oers (beginning 1 May 2013)
1 PhD-Position on Bat-Virus Interactions (Reference
number 13-Ma03)
The project will investigate the inuence of the local di-
versity of host populations as determinants of reservoir-
born virus dynamics in neo- tropical bats. The candi-
date will engage in eldwork (about two months a year)
with bats and in state of the art laboratory work on bat
DNA (about 10 months a year).
Specic tasks - Catching and handling of bats during
eldwork - Sample collection (bat wing tissue, ecto-
parasites, faeces) - Laboratory work in a DNA lab
(Genotyping, Sequencing, SNPs) - Data analyses and
writing of scientic papersApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 39
Requirements - Diploma or Master in Biology (Zoology)
- Strong background in evolutionary biology and/or
molecular ecology - Expertise in eld and population
genetic techniques - Profound knowledge of statistics
and data analyses/handling - Organizational skills and
ability to work in a team - Profound knowledge of En-
glish (speaking and writing) basic knowledge in German
and Spanish are of great advantage
The position is limited for three years. The reim-
bursement occurs to TV oD 13 (65 %). The University
Greifswald is an equal opportunity employer. Appli-
cations from women are strongly encouraged. Prefer-
ence will be given to disabled applicants with the same
qualications. For further information visit the uni-
versity homepage or contact Professor Gerald Kerth
(gerald.kerth@uni-greifswald.de).
Applicants should submit a letter explaining their in-
terests in and particular skills for this position, a CV, a
summary of their Diploma or Master Thesis and pub-
lication list (if available), preferentially in a single pdf-
le, before March 15, 2013.
Professor Dr. Gerald Kerth
Angewandte Zoologie und Naturschutz Zoologisches In-
stitut Johann Sebastian Bach-Str. 11/12 D - 17489
Greifswald
Tel.: +49 (0)3834 864100 Fax: +49 (0)3834 864252
gerald.kerth@uni-greifswald.de
Gerald Kerth <gerald.kerth@uni-greifswald.de >
UGuelph EvolGenetFishes
Graduate Opportunities (MSc or PhD)
Evolutionary Genetics of Fishes { Department of Inte-
grative Biology, University of Guelph, Guelph, Ontario,
Canada**
Exciting opportunities are available for graduate stu-
dents (MSc/PhD) interested in the processes underly-
ing adaptive diversication in nature.We study the re-
peated evolution of ecologically-specialized morphs of
Icelandic Arctic charr (/Salvelinus alpinus/) where the
typical pattern of ecological and phenotypic divergence
is a broad continuum of benthic and limnetic pheno-
types.The gradient of extant ecological specialization
in the wild makes this a powerful system for disentan-
gling the ecological and genetic mechanisms that areresponsible for the earliest stages of adaptive dierenti-
ation, specialization, and speciation.There are excellent
opportunities to work with Icelandic collaborators at
Holar University College and the University of Iceland
as well as colleagues in Scotland at St. Andrews Uni-
versity and University of Glasgow.Projects will involve
some combination of eld work in Iceland and expo-
sure to state-of-the- art molecular techniques including
Next Generation Sequencing technologies. For more
information see, http://www.uoguelph.ca/ib/people/-
faculty/ferguson.shtm Students will receive a guaran-
teed minimum stipend for their program period with
PhD Awards available to strong domestic candidates
(see http://www.uoguelph.ca/ib/).Funding opportuni-
ties are available for international students.
Applicants should be highly motivated and have an ex-
cellent academic record.Interested students should send
a statement of research interests and relevant experi-
ence, curriculum vitae with a list of publications (if
any), unocial grade transcripts and the names and e-
mail addresses of at least two referees as a single PDF
le to Dr. Moira Ferguson at mmfergus@uoguelph.ca.
The positions are available May 1, 2013 and will remain
open until suitable candidates are identied.
Dr. Moira M. Ferguson Professor & Chair De-
partment of Integrative Biology University of Guelph
Guelph, Ontario Canada N1G 2W1 Tel: (519) 824-4120
x53598, x52726 Fax: (519) 767-1656 Email: mmfer-
gus@uoguelph.ca
mmfergus@uoguelph.ca
UHelsinki EvolutionaryBiol
PhD position: Evolutionary Biology and Sequence
Analysis
Institute of Biotechnology, University of Helsinki, Fin-
land
We are looking for a student to work on methods devel-
opment and/or evolutionary analysis of large sequence
data sets. Possible study topics include:
- Evolutionary analysis of genome-scale sequence data -
Methods development for / analysis of high-throughput
metagenomic / transcriptome sequencing data - Meth-
ods development for multiple sequence alignment and
evolutionary sequence analysis
The position is funded for four years.40 EvolDir April 1, 2013
The host group consists of biologists, bioinformaticians
and computer scientists and has a strong history in
methods development for sequence alignment and se-
quence analysis. The group has excellent local col-
laborations with evolutionary biologists and computer
scientists and has access to raw data (from Illumina,
SOLiD, Roche 454 and PacBio platforms) produced at
the local core facility and to a computer cluster at the
Finnish supercomputer centre.
We seek for a highly motivated candidate with a uni-
versity degree in evolutionary biology, bioinformatics,
computer science or a related eld. We expect familiar-
ity with Linux/Unix systems and (some) experience in
computer programming; prior experience in evolution-
ary analysis and analysis of high-throughput sequenc-
ing data is an advantage. The candidate should be
uent in English, which is the working language at the
host institute, and is expected to apply for a place and
participate in one of the local graduate schools.
To apply, please send your application (including a
cover letter, CV and two letters of recommenda-
tion) to ari.loytynoja@helsinki. (PDF format) before
31/03/2013. For an outline of the group's research see
http://www.biocenter.helsinki./bi/loytynoja . Repre-
sentative publications: L oytynoja, Vilella and Gold-
man. (2012) Accurate extension of multiple sequence
alignments using a phylogeny-aware graph algorithm.
Bioinformatics, 28, 1684 1691. L oytynoja and Gold-
man. (2008) Phylogeny-aware gap placement prevents
errors in sequence alignment and evolutionary analysis.
Science, 320, 1632 1635.
The University of Helsinki is a public University that
has regularly been ranked among Europe's 10 to 15 best
universities on worldwide ranking lists of research uni-
versities. Some 470 doctorates are completed annually
and nearly 10,000 scientic articles or monographs are
published yearly by the university's researchers.
ari.loytynoja@helsinki.
UHelsinki OrganEvolution
PhD position: University of Helsinki Institute of
Biotechnology
Organ Evolution and development.
The Developmental Biology Program of the University
of Helsinki is seeking to recruit a M.S. student to start
a PhD and participate in investigations on the evolu-tion of mammalian organ morphology. The success-
ful applicant will have the opportunity to develop an
independent project within the scope of the core re-
search interests of the lab. The project involves using
computational models of organ development that relate
genetic variation with complex organ 3D multivariate
morphological variation. The patterns of morphologi-
cal evolution between and whithin mammalian species
would be analyzed from these models to understand the
roles of natural selection and development in explaining
the direction of evolutionary change.
The Jukka Jernvall and Salazar-Ciudad groups include
a diverse group of researchers (paleontologists, develop-
mental biologists, genomics, functional morphologists
and computational biologists) working together to in-
tegrate development, natural selection and the patterns
of morphological variation in mammalian organ evolu-
tion.
Applicants should possess a strong understanding of
basic principles of evolutionary biology (developed
through coursework and/or research experience), an in-
terest or understanding of the bases of the developmen-
tal bases of morphological variation and the ability to
work productively both independently and as part of a
team. Additional desirable qualities include program-
ming skills or a willingness to acquire them and a good
academic record.
Interested persons should contact Dr. Isaac Salazar
Ciudad by email (isaac.salazar@helsinki.), including a
brief statement of research interests, and a CV. Review
of applications will begin immediately and continue un-
til the position is lled.
The project involves spending some time with collabo-
rators in Barcelona and close collaboration with Jukka
Jernvall's group (http://www.biocenter.helsinki./bi/-
evodevo/index.shtml).
For an outline of the groups research:
http://www.biocenter.helsinki./bi/evodevo/-
group isaac.shtml Article exemple: Salazar-Ciudad
I, Jernvall J.A computational model of teeth and
the developmental origins of morphological variation.
Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):583-6.
The University of Helsinki is a public University that
has regularly been ranked among Europes 10 to 15 best
universities on worldwide ranking lists of research uni-
versities. Some 470 doctorates are completed annually
and nearly 10,000 scientic articles or monographs are
published yearly by the universitys researchers.
isalazar@mappi.helsinki.April 1, 2013 EvolDir 41
UIceland PopulationGenomics
Ph.D. position in evolutionary biology - evolutionary
genomics of a groundwater amphipod.
A three year PhD position is available at the Depart-
ment of Life and Environmental Scicences at University
of Iceland, Reykjavik, supervised by Snaebj orn Palsson,
Associate professor, in collaboration with Christophe
J. Douady, Professor at Claude Bernard University in
Lyon, France.
The project is on population and evolutionary genomics
of Crangonyx islandicus, a recently discovered subter-
ranean amphipod endemic to Iceland. High throughput
sequencing methods will be applied. Firstly to evalu-
ate the genetic patterns, partition and diversity with
respect to habitats. Secondly to compare the transcrip-
tome of C. islandicus with Crangonyx pseudogracilis,
living in surface freshwater.
Recent work in Sn ~Abj orn P alssons lab suggests that C.
islandicus is composed of two or more cryptic species.
Based on geographical patterns of genetic variation we
showed that the species has diverged within Iceland for
the last ve million years, and has thus survived re-
peated glaciations of Ice age in groundwater. Analysis
of the diversity points to refugias in ssures along the
tectonic plate boundary in Iceland.
Applicants should have a masters degree, preferrably
with experience in bioinformatics, genomics and/or
population genetics. Good computer skills are help-
ful. The position is nanced by the Icelandic Research
Council. The candidate will be selected based on his or
her education, research interest, former work and two
letters of recommendation.
The application, with recommendation letters, should
be sent to Sn ~Abj orn P alsson (snaebj@hi.is), before
April 15th 2013. Further information is provided by
Sn~Abj orn, and can be obtained at http://www.hi.is/-
~snaebj . Sn ~Abj orn P alsson <snaebj@hi.is >
UKent EvolutionMitochondria
A PhD Fellowship in Evolutionary Cell Parasitology isavailable at the School of Biosciences at the University
of Kent (Canterbury/UK).
Project Description: Understanding the role and evo-
lution of mitochondria in eukaryotic parasites
Mitochondria have multiple functions in eukaryotic
cells. In canonical mitochondria, aerobic oxidative
phosphorylation is a key process, since it provides ATP
for the cell. Proteomic analyses of isolated mitochon-
dria estimated that only 15% of the mitochondrial
proteins are associated with energy metabolism (1).
Other important processes within typical mitochon-
dria include heme biosynthesis, ^I2-oxidation of fatty
acids, Fe/S cluster assembly, amino acid metabolism,
mitochondrial genome maintenance and gene expres-
sion, protein folding and translocation, mitochondrial
biogenesis (fusion and ssion), and apoptosis. Mi-
crobial parasites have retained functionally distinct
mitochondrion-related organelles (2), with overall func-
tions that have been diversied from the canonical pro-
cesses mentioned above. Moreover, there is still much
to discover about mitochondrial processes as proteomic
studies of dierent mitochondria showed that 20 \ 40%
of proteins are of unknown functions.
The aims of this project are to investigate the evolu-
tion, function and distribution of several distinct mi-
tochondrial processes in microbial parasites and their
role in the adaptation to parasitism. These aims will be
addressed experimentally to reveal the purpose, evolu-
tionary origins and trajectory as well as the function(s)
of mitochondria and related organelles. Investigations
of the mitochondria in parasites could lead to the iden-
tication of new drug targets for combating parasitic
diseases as well as an understanding of how the mech-
anisms of parasitism evolve over time. The project will
combine a variety of techniques including cell biology,
biochemistry, proteomics, genetics and bioinformatics
(for further reading see (3-7)).
The successful candidate will be part of the Tsaousis'
lab (Molecular and Evolutionary Parasitology), a newly
established laboratory at the University of Kent. In
addition, the candidate will collaborate with Dr. Mark
van der Giezen's lab at the University of Exeter and
Prof. Joel Dacks' lab at the University of Alberta.
We are looking for a highly motivated student
with great interest in evolutionary cell parasitol-
ogy. Experience in microbiology, biochemistry and/or
bioinformatics will be an asset. Informal en-
quiries can be address to Dr. Anastasios Tsaousis
(tsaousis.anastasios@gmail.com ).
Funding Notes: The studentship provides a stipend at
current RCUK standard Home / EU rates of $13,59042 EvolDir April 1, 2013
per annum and covers Home / EU tuition fees. In-
ternational applicants will have to meet the dierence
between Home /EU Fees and International Fees.
Applications can be made online (http:/-
/www.kent.ac.uk/bio/study/postgraduate/-
applications.html ) where the project title should
be entered as the proposed area of research and Dr
Anastasios Tsaousis as supervisor. Please include a
CV and a cover letter. Applications must be received
by 30 April 2013.
Information about the School can be found at http:/-
/www.kent.ac.uk/ bio/ and information about Canter-
bury can be found at http://www.canterbury.co.uk/ .
References: 1.Sickmann A, et al. (2003) The pro-
teome of Saccharomyces cerevisiae mitochondria. Proc
Natl Acad Sci U S A 100(23):13207-13212. 2.Hjort
K, Goldberg AV, Tsaousis AD, Hirt RP, & Embley
TM (2010) Diversity and reductive evolution of mito-
chondria among microbial eukaryotes. Philos Trans R
Soc Lond B Biol Sci 365(1541):713-727. 3.Goldberg
AV, et al. (2008) Localization and functionality of
microsporidian iron-sulphur cluster assembly proteins.
Nature 452(7187):624-628. 4.Long S, et al. (2011)
Stage-specic requirement for Isa1 and Isa2 proteins in
the mitochondrion of Trypanosoma brucei and heterol-
ogous rescue by human and Blastocystis orthologues.
Mol Microbiol 81(6): 1403-1418. 5.Tsaousis AD, et
al. (2011) A functional Tom70 in the human para-
site Blastocystis sp.: implications for the evolution of
the mitochondrial import apparatus. Mol Biol Evol
28(1):781-791. 6.Tsaousis AD, et al. (2008) A novel
route for ATP acquisition by the remnant mitochondria
of Encephalitozoon cuniculi. Nature 453(7194): 553-
556. 7.Tsaousis AD, et al. (2012) Evolution of Fe/S
cluster biogenesis in the anaerobic parasite Blastocys-
tis. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 109(26): 10426-10431
Dr. Anastasios D. Tsaousis (PhD) Sina Adl's Labora-
tory Department of Soil Science College of Agriculture
and Bioresources University of Saskatchewan 51 Cam-
pus Drive, Saskatoon, SK, S7N 5A8, Canada
From July 1st, 2013: Lecturer in Biosciences
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlULincoln EvoPhysiologyOfHearing
March19
EXTENDED DEADLINE - MARCH 19, 2013
The physiology and evolution of an insect ear capable
of detecting extreme ultrasounds
Director of studies: Dr. Fernando Montealegre-Z
(fmontealegrez@lincoln.ac.uk, +44 (0) 1522 835460).
Co-supervisor: Dr. Jose Gonzalez-Rodriguez (Univer-
sity of Lincoln)
Male katydid (Insecta) produce sound to call distant
females. They have a tympanal organ in the forelegs
that helps them to hear their conspecic calls, but also
to detect the echolocation cries of their predators, the
bats. Dr. Montealegre-Z recently discovered conver-
gent evolution in function between the katydid tympa-
nal organ and the mammalian ear. The katydid ear is
endowed with external, middle, and inner ear compo-
nents. The inner ear contains a newly identied organ,
the Auditory Vesicle, a uid-lled cavity that baths
the ear mechanoreceptors and facilitate the dispersion
of waves and frequency analysis like the mammalian
cochlea. This project will study the ears of neotropical
katydids that communicate using the highest calling fre-
quencies ever recorded in the animal kingdom. While
humans can only hear up to 20 kHz, males of these
insects serenade their ladies at 150 kHz. These ears
must be ultra-sensitive to mitigate sound attenuation
at such extreme frequencies. In mammals the cochlear
uids have unique ionic composition to regulate elec-
trochemical impulses of mechanoreceptors; changes in
composition can harm hearing sensitivity. The project
aims at elucidating the role of the AV uid in hear-
ing sensitivity and seeks to untangle the amplication
process, whereby the female's ears constitute sensors
with sophisticated detection capabilities. Results will
be contrasted with low frequency species in phyloge-
netic frameworks.
This project involves eldwork and lab experimenta-
tion. Fieldwork will be undertaken in the rainforest
of Colombia and Ecuador (funded by a National Ge-
ographic grant currently held by Dr. Montealegre-Z).
The student will receive training in signal and image
processing, although basic knowledge of these are an
asset for the selection process.
Applications will be by CV plus covering letter emailed
to the primary supervisor for the relevant project by
5pm on 19 March 2013. Shortlisted applicants will beApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 43
invited to interview in the week commencing 25 March
2013. Applicants do not need to complete a Univer-
sity of Lincoln online application form unless invited to
interview.
Interested students should contact Dr. Fernando
Montealegre-Z (contact details above) or submit appli-
cations before deadline. For more information visit the
lab website in thefollowing link:
http://bioacousticssensorybiology.weebly.com/-
opportunities.html Dr. Fernando Montealegre-Z.,
B-MSc, PhD Senior Lecturer in Zoology Biomechanics
and Sensory Biology School of Life Sciences Riseholme
Campus University of Lincoln Lincoln LN2 2LG, UK
Tel. ++44 (0) 1522 835460 (oce) http://-
bioacousticssensorybiology.weebly.com/ Fernando
Montealegre Zapata <fmontealegrez@lincoln.ac.uk >
ULouisianaMonroe SnailPopulations
I am looking to recruit one M.S. student for Sum-
mer/Fall 2013 examining the utility of inter-simple se-
quence repeats (ISSRs) as population markers in fresh-
water snails. The successful candidate will screen four
to six populations of the pleurocerid Elimia potosien-
sis with multiple primers as part of a larger project
examining the genetic and environmental factors af-
fecting shell shape. Pending available funds, the stu-
dent will compete for an $8,000 annual teaching as-
sistantship plus full tuition waiver for at least four
semesters. Preferably the student would start in June
2013 ; funds are in place for summer employment.
Applicants must have demonstrable experience with
standard DNA methods including extraction, PCR am-
plication, and agarose gel electrophoresis. At least one
reference/recommendation must speak to the student's
ability in the lab.
More information on my lab can be found at http://-
www.ulm.edu/~minton. Applicants must have a min-
imum 3.0 undergraduate GPA and 1000 M+V GRE
score. Since assistantships are awarded on a compet-
itive basis, the higher the GPA and GRE the better.
Note that these values are higher than ULM's mini-
mum graduate admissions standards.
Interested students can contact me directly at
minton@ulm.edu and browse to our departmental web-
site http://www.ulm.edu/biology . {Dr. Russ Minton Associate Professor of Biology Uni-
versity of Louisiana at Monroe 700 University Avenue
Monroe, LA 71209-0520 USA Phone: 318-342-1795
Fax: 318-342-3312 Email: minton@ulm.edu http://-
sites.google.com/site/mintonrl
Russell Minton <minton@ulm.edu >
UMuseumBergen InvertSystematics
A PhD fellowship in insect or mollusc systematics is
available at the University Museum of Bergen. Descrip-
tion of the fellowship and how to apply on the web is
found at: http://www.jobbnorge.no/job.aspx?jobid=-
92343 [from the announcement] At the Museum of
Natural History, University Museum of Bergen, a 4-year
temporary position as research fellow is open within the
eld of systematic zoology.
The position is associated with one of the re-
search groups in systematics at the museum (http:/-
/www.uib.no/rg/pse, http://www.uib.no/rg/biosyst).
The fellow will be working on the taxonomy and phy-
logeny of a selected group of insects or molluscs (snails).
The applicant must contact potential advisors to make
a research proposal that ts within existing research at
the museum. The proposed research must include clas-
sical morphology based techniques in taxonomy and the
application of molecular data and methods for species
validation and phylogenetics.
Applicants must have a MSc degree or equivalent edu-
cation in evolutionary biology with relevance to biosys-
tematics. Thesis work must be completed and graded
before the application deadline. Potential candidates
for the position should have some experience with
molecular methods in systematics or ecology, and be
familiar with studies on animal morphology. Further
evaluation criteria include the ability for independent
work, study progression, grades on the MSc thesis
and other relevant evolutionary biology subjects, and
proven skills in scientic authorship.
The PhD fellow must take part in the University's ap-
proved PhD program leading to the degree within a
time limit of 4 years (1 year work duty). Hence, ap-
plicants must meet the formal admission requirements
for the PhD program. Application for admission to
the PhD study, including progress plan for education
and research will be made together with the project
advisor. The PhD fellow will become a member of the
Norwegian-Swedish research school in Biosystematics44 EvolDir April 1, 2013
(http://www.forbio.uio.no). Museum duties include 25
% of the total employment and will include curation of
the scientic collections at the museum.
Starting salaries at salary level 50 (code 1017) on
the government salary scale (corresponding to NOK
416.600 per year, following ordinary meriting regula-
tions (wage levels 50-55).
Additional information on the position is ob-
tainable from associate professor Bjarte Jordal
(bjarte.jordal@um.uib.no), phone +47 55582233.
Bjarte Henry Jordal <Bjarte.Jordal@um.uib.no >
UNebraska Insect Adaptation
A Graduate Research Assistantship (GRA) is avail-
able at the Department of Entomology, University of
Nebraska-Lincoln under the joint supervision of Nick
Miller and Blair Siegfried. The GRA will join a project
investigating the molecular mechanisms underlying the
adaptation of western corn rootworm (Diabrotica vir-
gifera virgifera) to transgenic Bt corn. The rst cases
of western corn rootworms with eld-evolved resistance
to Bt corn were reported in 2010. Since then, addi-
tional reports of resistance have occurred every year.
This is a rare opportunity to study an emerging adap-
tation as it happens. We are seeking a PhD student
with a strong interest in applying molecular and ge-
nomic tools to address questions regarding resistance
evolution. Exceptional applicants interested in pursu-
ing a Masters degree will also be considered.
To apply, or for further information, please contact
Nick Miller (nick.miller@unl.edu) or Blair Siegfried
(bsiegfried1@unl.edu).
nick.miller@unl.edu
UOldenburg
EvolutionAnimalNavigation
UOldenburg Germany.EvolutionAnimalNavigation
Reply-To: Bianca Alert <bianca.alert@uni-
oldenburg.de >
*Ph.D. position at the University of Oldenburg*The research group \Animal Navigation" of the Depart-
ment of Biology and Environmental Sciences, Faculty
of Mathematics and Science at the Carl von Ossietzky
Universit at Oldenburg oers a doctoral student posi-
tion (TV-L E13/2) in the project \Celestial compass
learning and orientation in birds".
The successful applicant should perform behavioural
tests with inexperienced migratory birds under vari-
ous articial celestial conditions and use behavioural
molecular mapping techniques to achieve a better un-
derstanding of the behavioural and physiological mech-
anisms of celestial compass learning and orientation in
birds.
You should be (1) interested in bird navigation in gen-
eral; (2) able to carry out eld work on your own; (3)
speaking reasonably good English; and (4) be aware
that a good Ph.D. project requires hard work and per-
sonal dedication. The ideal candidate has a strong
background in behavioural biology, ornithology and
neurobiology.
Our group is located at the Carl-von-Ossietzky-
University Oldenburg, Germany and is part of sev-
eral collaborative centres of excellence both nation-
ally and internationally. These collaborations will
give you access to a very wide range of superb mod-
ern equipment, techniques and expertise. Our work-
ing group is also member of the DFG Forscher-
gruppe \Dynamic and stability of retinal processing"
and of the DFG graduate school \Molecular mecha-
nisms of sensory biology". Therefore, you will be-
come part of a larger team working closely together
on related questions. For more information about
our group, see http://www.member.uni-oldenburg.de/-
henrik.mouritsen/ The University of Oldenburg is an
equal-opportunity employer that seeks to increase the
percentage of female faculty members. Women quali-
ed for this position are therefore especially encouraged
to apply. Applicants with disabilities will be preferen-
tially considered in case of equal qualications.
If this sounds interesting to you and if you are (1)
in the top 20% of students in your cohort; (2) if you
are seriously interested in the position; and (3) will be
able to show up for a personal interview in Oldenburg,
please send an application including your CV, names
and addresses of at least two references knowing you
well, and university and high school certicates as soon
as possible to Margrit Kanje, IBU, Carl-von-Ossietzky-
Universit at Oldenburg, D-26111 Oldenburg or to email
address: margrit.kanje@uni-oldenburg.de
We will start evaluating the received applications on
15thof February 2013, but will consider all applications
received until the position is lled. Our ideal startingApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 45
date would be 1st April 2013.
{ Bianca Alert AG Neurosensorik (H. Mouritsen) IBU -
Fakult at 5 Universit at Oldenburg D-26111 Oldenburg,
Germany Tel.: +49 (0)441 798 3646 Fax: +49 (0)441
798 3284 Email: bianca.alert@uni-oldenburg.de
Bianca Alert <bianca.alert@uni-oldenburg.de >
UOslo Macroevolution
A 4-YEAR POSITION AS PhD FELLOW IN BIOL-
OGY (MACROEVOLUTION) is available at the Cen-
tre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis (CEES),
Department of Biosciences, University of Oslo.
Project description
The successful candidate will work with a team of re-
searchers at the CEES to understand how spreading
grasslands drove the evolution of teeth morphology in
ungulates by use of a combination of phylogenetic com-
parative and paleontological approaches. The project
will use paleontological data from databases of ungu-
lates and grasses, molecular phylogenies based on the
literature or data from GenBank, and information on
extant species. The successful candidate will receive
training in modeling and statistical analysis of compar-
ative and paleobiological data in a phylogenetic setting.
There is opportunity to participate in the mathematical
modeling and methods development of trait evolution,
adaptation and coevolution. The candidate will work
closely with several researchers at the CEES with com-
plementary skills, including Barbara Fischer (math-
ematical modeling, coevolution), Thomas F. Hansen
(phylogenetic comparative methods, statistical model-
ing), Lee Hsiang Liow (paleobiology), and Nils Chr.
Stenseth (evolutionary modeling, coevolution).
Qualications
We search for a candidate who has completed a MSc
degree (or equivalent) of high quality in biology or
paleobiology, and who has a strong interest in evolu-
tion. Candidates should have strong quantitative skills
and interests. Training in mathematics or statistics
is an advantage but not required. Prior experience or
interest in macroevolution is an advantage, and the
candidate may be required to do some programming.
A good command of English is required. More informa-
tion on this position and on how to apply is available
here: http://www.mn.uio.no/cees/english/about/-
join-cees/vacancies/grassland-ungulate-evolution.htmlSalary
NOK 416 600 - 468 400 per year
If you have any questions regarding the application pro-
cedure or would like to know more about the project,
please contact:
Nils C. Stenseth, n.c.stenseth@ibv.uio.no Thomas
F. Hansen, t.f.hansen@ibv.uio.no Lee Hsiang
Liow, l.h.liow@ibv.uio.no Barbara Fischer, bar-
bara.scher@ibv.uio.no
Application deadline: April 15, 2013 Latest starting
date: October 1, 2013
barbara.scher@bio.uio.no
UStAndrews NewCaledonianCrows
Tool use in new caledonian crows { University of St
Andrews
SUMMARY
New Caledonian crows Corvus moneduloides are
amongst the most proli non-human tool users. In the
wild, they use at least three distinct tool types to ex-
tract invertebrate prey from deadwood and vegetation,
with some of their tools requiring complex manufacture,
modi and/or deployment. Most research to date has
focused on the species' cognitive abilities and on map-
ping natural variation in tool morphology, but the evo-
lutionary, ecological and social contexts of these birds'
unusual tool-use behaviour remain poorly understood.
Recent work by Dr Christian Rutz's group has opened
up a range of exciting research avenues, some of which
could be explored productively as part of this 4-year
PhD project. There is considerable exibility with re-
gards to specic research objectives, but the successful
candidate is likely to conduct both eldwork and lab-
based experiments, with excellent scope for collabora-
tion with other group members (currently, 2 Postdocs
and 3 PhD students).
This fully-funded PhD project oers excellent oppor-
tunities for a highly motivated and capable student:
to join a dynamic and expanding research group; to
conduct topical research on animal tool use and so-
cial learning in a high-prole study system; to partici-
pate in an established, well-funded and prolic research
project; and to receive training in state-of-the-art eco-
logical research techniques. The group is based in the
School of Biology, University of St Andrews, UK { an46 EvolDir April 1, 2013
internationally recognised centre of excellence in the
project's core research elds.
KEYWORDS: animal, behaviour, behavioural ecology,
bird, cognition, culture, ecology, evolution, eld biol-
ogy, intelligence, ornithology, social learning, tool use.
DEADLINE: 30 April 2013 (later, if no appointment
has been made)
START DATE: exible
CONTACT (for informal enquiries): Dr Christian Rutz
(cr68@st-andrews.ac.uk)
FURTHER APPLICATION DETAILS:
www.ndaphd.com RESTRICTIONS: Home or
EU students only
SELECTION CRITERIA
- excellent academic track record - demonstrable skill
and enthusiasm for behavioural research and eldwork -
high degree of self-motivation and independence - abil-
ity and willingness to live and work overseas (for ex-
tended time periods and sometimes under challenging
eld conditions) - clean driving licence - prior research
experience is an advantage, but not essential
REFERENCES
Blu, L.A., Troscianko, J., Weir, A.A.S., Kacelnik, A.
and C. Rutz (2010). Tool use by wild New Caledonian
crows Corvus moneduloides at natural foraging sites.
Proc. R. Soc. B 277, 1377{1385.
Hunt, G.R. (1996). Manufacture and use of hook-tools
by New Caledonian crows. Nature 379, 249{251.
Hunt, G.R. and R.D. Gray (2003). Diversication
and cumulative evolution in New Caledonian crow tool
manufacture. Proc. R. Soc. B 270, 867{874.
Kenward, B., Weir, A.A.S., Rutz, C. and A. Kacelnik
(2005). Tool manufacture by naive juvenile crows. Na-
ture 433, 121.
Rutz, C., Blu, L.A., Weir, A.A.S. and A. Kacelnik
(2007). Video cameras on wild birds. Science 318, 765.
Rutz, C., Blu, L.A., Reed, N., Troscianko, J., Newton,
J., Inger, R., Kacelnik, A. and S. Bearhop (2010). The
ecological signicance of tool use in New Caledonian
crows. Science 329, 1523{1526.
Rutz, C., Burns, Z.T., James, R., Ismar, S.M.H., Burt,
J., Otis, B., Bowen, J. and J.J.H. St Clair (2012). Au-
tomated mapping of social networks in wild birds. Cur-
rent Biology 22, R669{R671.
Rutz, C. and J.J.H. St Clair (2012). The evolution-
ary origins and ecological context of tool use in New
Caledonian crows. Behav. Processes 89, 153{165.Christian Rutz <cr68@st-andrews.ac.uk >
UTasmania TasmanianDevils
PhD project opportunities on Tasmanian devils and
their contagious cancer
School of Zoology, University of Tasmania
The project: Are Tasmanian devils adapting to chang-
ing selection pressures with severe mortality from facial
tumour disease?
Tasmanian devils, the world's largest marsupial carni-
vore, are disappearing in the wild from a novel con-
tagious cancer. Almost all animals contract the dis-
ease and die once they reach sexual maturity. Strong
selection is expected on life history and behavioural
traits that may increase lifetime reproductive output
of individuals. We have demonstrated that devils show
phenotypic plasticity in their life history in response
to this strong selection, with increased food allowing
faster growth rates and an increase in precocial breed-
ing. This study will use genomic sequencing to con-
struct pedigrees of devils at sites where we have studied
populations from before disease arrival. We will investi-
gate changes in selection on life history and behavioural
traits and examine explore whether there are changes
occurring at a genetic level. It will be cosupervised by
Dr Chris Burridge.
What kind of person could do this project? This is
a laboratory and computer-based genetics study with
a strong bioinformatics/analytical component. There
will be some opportunity to visit eld sites and partic-
ipate in trapping wild devils.
Project funding: This project has part-funding under
of an ARC project \Can Tasmanian devils adapt and
survive" by Menna Jones.
Scholarships: Domestic students (Australia and New
Zealand) can apply for an Australian Postgraduate
Award (APA) through the University of Tasmania
worth $24,653, with merit-based schemes available for
top-ups.
International students: UTAS oers a number of
schemes by which international students can obtain
a scholarship; some oer assistance with tuition fees.
Prospective candidates are also encouraged to seek
scholarship schemes from their own country.
When to apply: Scholarship applications can be sub-April 1, 2013 EvolDir 47
mitted any time of year. The outcome of applications
is usually known within 6 weeks and commencement
can start immediately following acceptance.
UTAS provides a free laptop to all PhD students and
funding schemes for international conference atten-
dance during the PhD.
More information: http://www.utas.edu.au/-
zoology/ Contact: Dr Menna Jones Email:
Menna.Jones@utas.edu.au Phone: +61 407 815606
Dr Menna Jones jARC Future Fellow School of Zo-
ology University of Tasmania Private Bag 5, Hobart,
Tasmania 7001, Australia
Email: Menna.Jones@utas.edu.au Ph: +61
407 815606jFax: +61 3 62262745 Web:
http://fcms.its.utas.edu.au/scieng/zoo/-
pagedetails.asp?lpersonId=1321 Menna Jones
<Menna.Jones@utas.edu.au >
UWyoming EvolutionaryEcology
We are recruiting two students (Ph.D. and M.S.) to
pursue the Rangeland Ecology and Watershed Man-
agement degree at the University of Wyoming in the
Department of Ecosystem Science and Management.
Research will investigate the consequences of plant
genotype-by-habitat interactions for the restoration of
western shrublands in Wyoming and the Colorado
Front Range. Students will explore population genetic
and eld studies of native plant communities.
Applications are encouraged from prospective candi-
dates with a background and interest in restoration
ecology, plant biology and population genetics. Evi-
dence of excellent written and communication skills and
enthusiasm for eld and laboratory research are a plus.
Applicants to the Ph.D. program at the University of
Wyoming should have completed a Master's degree. In
rare cases, we will accept a Ph.D. student without an
M.S. Graduate support includes stipend, tuition and
research funding for three years and there will be op-
portunities to apply for additional funding.
We are interested to ll these positions as soon as pos-
sible.
Please send inquiries and questions to Kristina Huf-
ford at khuord@uwyo.edu to initiate an application
for study. Applications will consist of a cover letter and
copies of transcripts, GRE scores, resume and 3 lettersof reference. For more information about application
to the UW graduate program, please visit:
http://www.uwyo.edu/admissions/graduate/-
index.html The University of Wyoming is located in
Laramie, a city of 30,000 in the heart of the Rocky
Mountain West. Located on a high plain between the
Laramie and Snowy Range mountains, the city has
excellent access to public lands that provide oppor-
tunities for skiing, hiking, camping, bicycling, shing
and climbing. Laramie is near many of Colorado's
major cities and university communities (Fort Collins:
1 hour; Boulder:
1.5 hours; Denver: 2 hours).
Kristina Huord, Ph.D. Ecosystem Science and Man-
agement University of Wyoming Dept. 3354 1000 E.
University Avenue Laramie, WY 82071 USA (307) 766-
5587
Kristina Huord <khuord@uwyo.edu >
UZurich ConservationGenomics
PhD thesis in conservation genomics
One three-year Ph.D. studentship is available in the lab-
oratories of Lukas Keller and Andreas Wagner at the
University of Zurich to study conservation genomics of
Alpine ibex.
Evolutionary adaptation is essential for endangered
species to survive in the long term, yet the role of
functionally important genetic variation in the small,
isolated populations typical for endangered species is
only poorly known. These two PhD theses will ad-
dress this gap by studying the conservation genomics
of the Alpine ibex (Capra ibex), a species that has ex-
perienced recent and severe bottlenecks. Using modern
population genomics techniques in more than a dozen
ibex populations, the successful candidates will study
functionally relevant genetic variation and relate it to
the dynamics of these populations.
The successful candidates are independent, creative,
interactive and highly motivated researchers, with a
strong background and interest in evolutionary biology.
These projects require the students to immerse them-
selves into both conservation and genomics. Thus, a
background in one, and a willingness to learn the other
is essential. Experience with a major programming or
scripting language is a bonus, because computational48 EvolDir April 1, 2013
data analysis that requires programming will be a ma-
jor part of the research work.
These PhD projects are part of the University of
Zurich's Research Priority Pro-gram ^ aEvolution in Ac-
tion' and will be jointly supervised by Lukas Keller
(conservation genetics) and Andreas Wagner (bioinfor-
matics) of the Institute of Evolutionary Biology and
Environmental Studies. The Wagner lab at the Uni-
versity of Zurich uses next-generation sequencing and
functional genomics approaches, together with labora-
tory evolution experiments, to study the dynamics of
genetic change in evolving populations. More gener-
ally, the lab has extensive experience with bioinformat-
ics analyses of whole genome sequences ranging from
plants to humans. The Keller lab studies evolutionary
processes relevant for the long-term survival of endan-
gered species, and has extensively worked on Alpine
ibex. The working language in both laboratories is En-
glish.
Zurich consistently ranks amongst the world's cities
with the highest quality of life. While it oers all the
pleasures of living in a bigger city, thanks to its cen-
tral location and excellent public transport system, it
is extremely easy to get out of the city and head for the
mountains.
Applicants should have an MSc (or equivalent) in a
relevant eld. To be considered, please send a single
(!) PDF le merged from the following parts to an-
nette.schmid@ieu.uzh.ch: 1) a statement of research
interests not exceeding two pages, 2) a 1-page sum-
mary of your MSc work, 3) a detailed CV including
publication list (if available), 4) a scanned academic
transcript (list of grades in university courses), and 5)
the contact details of three references. Please include
the word \IBEX" in the subject line. Review of ap-
plications starts on March 25 2013, but candidates are
considered until the position is lled. The ideal starting
date is in the fall of 2013.
If you have any questions please contact Lukas Keller
at lukas.keller@ieu.uzh.ch or Andreas Wagner an-
dreas.wagner@ieu.uzh.ch
Many thanks and best regards, Annette
annette.schmid@ieu.uzh.ch
UZurich FrogAdaptation
Open position for a PhD student University of Zurich,Switzerland Working with Josh Van Buskirk
The project focuses on adaptation in frog populations
(Rana temporaria) across an elevational gradient in
the Alps. Fieldwork involves characterizing life history
variation in nature and surveying environmental con-
ditions that dene the gradient. Experimental work is
aimed at understanding genetic, demographic, and se-
lective factors aecting adaptation to climate extremes.
The position is especially suitable for you if you are
interested in evolutionary responses to environmental
change and what controls the distributions of species.
The project is funded by the Swiss National Sci-
ence Foundation for a period of three years. You
will participate in the graduate program in Evolu-
tionary Biology at the University of Zurich (http://-
www.evobio.uzh.ch/research.html) and will be a mem-
ber of a large and interactive group of evolutionary
ecologists working on conservation, population genet-
ics, and demography in a variety of organisms.
Qualications: Equivalent of a masters degree in biol-
ogy, driver's license, and strong professional interests in
evolutionary biology, molecular ecology, conservation,
or landscape ecology. Experience with molecular meth-
ods may be useful but is not necessary.
Application: Please send to the address listed below
(i) a letter describing your interest in this position
and your previous research experience (diploma, mas-
ters, RA positions, etc.), (ii) your CV, and (iii) names
and contact information of two references. If possible,
please email your application as a single PDF docu-
ment. I will begin screening candidates on 10 March
2013. The start date is exible, but the position could
begin already in April or May.
Josh Van Buskirk Evolutionary Biology &
Environmental Studies University of Zurich,
Switzerland josh.vanbuskirk@ieu.uzh.ch http:/-
/www.ieu.uzh.ch/sta/leaders/vanbuskirk.html
josh.vanbuskirk@ieu.uzh.ch
VirginiaTech
SystematicsBioluminescence
Graduate positions in systematic entomology at Vir-
ginia Tech
Join Dr. Paul Marek's laboratory in the Department of
Entomology at Virginia Tech studying bioluminescence,
mimicry, and the discovery & description of planetaryApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 49
biodiversity.
Background - In the Sierra Nevada Mountains of Cali-
fornia, bioluminescent millipedes scatter upon the for-
est oor and on a moonless night 'resemble a starry
sky'. The most remarkable feature of these millipedes
is their ability to glow at a wavelength of 495 nm. This
is only one of two known instances of bioluminescence
in the entire millipede class Diplopoda. Biolumines-
cence in millipedes is restricted to only eight species of
the genus Motyxia, which are endemic to a very small
area in the Sierra Nevada Mountains, and Paraspirobo-
lus lucifugus (a distantly related species in the order
Spirobolida) from islands in the Pacic Ocean.
Our current research program aims to discover the evo-
lutionary circumstances under which this unique adap-
tive innovation arose. The rst part of the project con-
sists of molecular phylogenetics as a foundation to ad-
dress monophyly of the genus, and as a basis for new
species descriptions. Did luminescence evolve multiple
times, and under what circumstances? The second part
of the project is a eld test of luminescence and whether
it functions as a nocturnal warning signal. Currently,
we are using next generation transcriptome sequencing
to understand the DNA-level dierences between lumi-
nescent and closely related non-luminescent taxa.
www.cell.com/current-biology/fulltext/S0960-
9822(11)00887-6blogs.discovermagazine.com/notrocketscience/2011/09/26/if-
you-see-a-glowing-millipede-best-not-to-bite-it/
For the spring semester 2014, we seek graduate stu-
dents (PhD and masters) to collaborate in National Sci-
ence Foundation supported research investigating the
evolution of bioluminescence in millipedes. Opportuni-
ties are also available in taxonomy/systematics of mil-
lipedes and insects including, but not limited to, local
Appalachian species. International applicants are wel-
comed. Laboratory facilities are available for molecular
systematics, spectral measurements of bioluminescence,
and morphology-based taxonomy. A vast insect collec-
tion is also available.
Please send a curriculum vitae and letter of inter-
est to Dr. Paul Marek, paulemarek@gmail.com,
by May 7, 2013. Visit our website for more de-
tails, www.apheloria.org and www.ento.vt.edu.
Guidelines for applying to Virginia Tech's
Graduate School can be found at: gradu-
ateschool.vt.edu/admissions/applying/.
Blacksburg, VA was named by Outside magazine
as one of the top 10 places to live in the coun-
try, and oers an abundance of outdoor activities in-
cluding mountain biking, caving, rafting, and hik-
ing - www.vt.edu/where weare/blacksburg . http://-
apheloria.org/Paul Marek/Students.html Paul Marek
<paulemarek@gmail.com >
Jobs
CEA France Metagenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50
DukeU LabManager EvolAnimalCommunication . . 50
DukeU TeachingEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .51
ENS Paris EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
EasternWashingtonU Biostatistics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Geelong Australia ViralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
GeorgeWashingtonU ComputationalBiol . . . . . . . . . . .53
HowardU PlantEvol InvertEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
HumboldtU EvolutionParasiteHost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
JohnsHopkinsU Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Lyon France Paleogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
MinnesotaIllinois 12mnthInternship PlantEvolution 56
Montpellier 5 ComputationalBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57NorthCarolinaStateU BioinformaticsGenetics . . . . . . 58
NorthCarolinaStateU Ethnobotany . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
NorthCarolina MuseumNaturalSci DatabaseGIS Man-
ager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .59
Okinawa 2 MarineEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Rennes France Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .61
StockholmU PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .61
TrinityCollegeDublin Genetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .62
TrinityCollege Dublin ChairEvolBiology . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UConnecticut Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UFribourg Switzerland GroupLeader . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
UGroningen MarineEvolutionConservation . . . . . . . . 64
UHawaii Manoa PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6550 EvolDir April 1, 2013
UHull EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .65
UKansas Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
UMelbourne EvolGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .66
UMelbourne EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
UNebraska Lincoln QuantitativeEvolution . . . . . . . . . 67
USaoPaulo EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
USouth Tennessee 1yr EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . 68UTasmania MathPhylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
UWyoming EducationOutreachCoordinator 2 . . . . . .69
UppsalaU Bioinformatician . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .70
VirginiaTech Evolution LabTech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
WillametteU BioStatisticsBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . 71
CEA France Metagenomics
Biocomputational engineer position in metagenomics at
the Laboratory of Bioinformatics Analyses in Genomics
and Metabolism (LABGeM)
Background:
Genoscope (http://www.genoscope.cns.fr - Genomics
Institute of the French Alternative Energies and Atomic
Energy Commission (Commissariat  a l'Energie Atom-
ique et aux Energies Alternatives) is one of the top level
platforms in the eld of genomics.
Following the sequencing and primary analysis steps of
raw DNA sequences, deep analysis of these biological
big data requires intensive computing and bioinformat-
ics methods still in evolution. As part of the Infrastruc-
ture France Genomics (Investments Avenir, https:/-
/www.france-genomique.org/ ), the aims of which is
to integrate, at the national scale, the capabilities of
genome analysis and bioinformatics processing of the
generated data, a position of Engineer Bio-computer
(CDD 18 months to 36 months), with a specialization in
metagenomics, is opened in the LABGeM team (CEA
/ CNRS UMR8030 & IG).
Missions:
- Technological and implementation of programs
dedicated to assembly of metagenomes and
m etatranscriptomes
- Development of workows dedicated to qualitative
and quantitative analysis of metagenomes
(gene prediction, metagenome comparisons, taxonomic
assignatios) under the MicroScope platform (http://-
www.genoscope.cns.fr/agc/microscope ) and the CCRT
(CEA computing center)
- Participation in the development of an extension of
the MicroScope platform dedicated to the analysis of
metagenomes / m etatranscriptomes relying on inter-
nal expertises coming from the SynBioWatch project
(http://www.genoscope.cns.fr/synbiowatch/ ).Skills / knowledge:
- Languages: Java, R, PHP
- Knowledge of DBMS (MySQL, PostgreSQL) as well
as SQL and NoSQL systems (MongoDB)
- Practical knowledge of Unix / Linux systems and
scripting languages
- Knowledge of bioinformatics tools used for the analy-
sis of metagenomic data
- Experience in the eld of data analysis (metagenomics
and metatranscriptomics).
- Knowledge of bioinformatics workow managers (eg,
Galaxy, JBPM / Drools)
Contract Period: 18 to 36 months
Application: To apply please send us a cover let-
ter, a CV, and copies of your main scientic pro-
ductions and three referees to St ephane Cruveiller,
scruveil AT genoscope.cns.fr, Fran cois Le Fevre, e-
fevre AT genoscope.cns.fr and Claudine M edigue,
cmedigue AT genoscope.cns.fr .
Deadline for applications: 08/04/2013
efevre@genoscope.cns.fr
DukeU LabManager
EvolAnimalCommunication
Laboratory Manager position available *
*in the Patek Laboratory at Duke University*
The Patek Lab is conducting a search for a labora-
tory manager to assist in all aspects of laboratory ex-
periments and day-to-day operations.Research in the
Patek Lab probes the interface between physics and bi-
ology by studying the evolution of fast movements and
animal communication. We examine systems such as
jaw-jumping ants, sound-producing spiny lobsters and
hammering mantis shrimp. We use techniques rang-April 1, 2013 EvolDir 51
ing from bioacoustics and phylogenetics to high speed
videography and materials testing.The Patek Lab will
be joining the Biology Department at Duke Univer-
sity in the summer of 2013.For more information, visit:
http://bio.umass.edu/biology/pateklab/home Patek
<patek@bio.umass.edu >
DukeU TeachingEvolution
Full-time teaching/prep positions in the Biology 202L
\Genetics and Evolution" course, Duke University
Position description: Work full time (40 hours/week)
as a teaching assistant and laboratory prep assistant
in the introductory biology program for the 2013-2014
academic year. The position has two main components,
teaching and behind-the-scenes laboratory preparation.
Teaching component: The primary teaching responsi-
bility of the position is to lead laboratory sections of
up to 16 students in the Biology Department's genet-
ics and evolution Gateway course, Biology202L. Each
Biology 202L section meets weekly for 2.5 hours for a
combined hands-on laboratory/problem-based learning
session. Additional teaching responsibilities include (a)
attending and taking notes at all course lectures in-
cluding the weekly large discussion section, (b) grading
weekly student written assignments, (c) helping with
the preparation and grading of mid-semester hourly and
nal exams, and (d) assisting students during oce
hours and otherwise mentoring students as beginning
biologists.
Teaching assistants should plan to be in Durham early
the week of August 19, 2013, and are expected to par-
ticipate in a teacher-training workshop before the fall
semester begins. TAs also attend weekly prep sessions
during the semester on Mondays.
Prep component: The second set of duties associated
with the position is to assist in the preparatory work
for the teaching labs in Biology 201L (Molecular Bi-
ology), 202L, and the laboratory diversity course, Bi-
ology 206L, as determined by the Lab Administra-
tor. Responsibilities include setting up and putting
away equipment and specimens for laboratory exercises,
maintaining supplies in lab rooms between sections,
cleaning glassware, assisting with eld collection of live
specimens, and helping to care for a diverse collection
of invertebrate animals in salt-water aquaria. The lab
prep workload is likely to require evening (until 10 PM)and/or early morning (8 AM) work.
Salary: The projected salary for the position is $17,500
or commensurate with experience. Employment begins
on August 19, 2013 and ends May 9, 2014, with most of
the winter and spring breaks o, with payment made in
9 equal amounts on the 25th of each month starting in
September and ending in May. Full-time teaching/prep
employees are eligible for health plans made available
by the University.
Qualications: Applicants should have a bachelor's de-
gree with a strong, varied background in biology, es-
pecially genetics and evolution, with a superior science
GPA. A very important attribute is a high level of en-
ergy and an enthusiasm for teaching genetics and evolu-
tion. Prior enrollment in advanced courses in genetics
and evolution, and experience teaching are highly desir-
able; experience tending Drosophila is a plus. Teaching
assistants in Biology 202L are expected to be actively
engaged with their students in all aspects of the course
and to serve as role models and mentors. Because they
are a vital part of the introductory biology teaching
team both in the classroom and behind the scenes, full-
time assistants must be willing to commit themselves
fully to the responsibilities of the position described
above and as determined by the faculty members in
charge of the Gateway course.
Interviews and Application Process: Formal interviews
are planned to begin after April 10, 2013. Hiring deci-
sions will be made on a rolling basis thereafter, contin-
uing as necessary.
Interested applicants should provide (a) a cover letter,
(b) a transcript, and (c) a resume with the names of
two references (preferably at Duke for Duke students
or alumni) to Julie Noor. These may be emailed to
jkfnoor@duke.edu, delivered to Julie Noor's oce (070
BioSci.) or to her mailbox in the Department of Bi-
ology, or mailed to her at the Department of Biology,
Box 90338, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708-0338
USA. US citizens only. To be assured of consideration,
applications should be submitted by April 10, 2013,
although later applications will be considered if all po-
sitions haven't been lled.
For more information contact Julie Noor
by phone at 919-613-8224 or e-mail at
jkfnoor@duke.edu <mailto:jkfnoor@duke.edu >.
Mohamed A. F. Noor noor@duke.edu Earl D. McLean
Professor Tel: 919-613-8156 & Associate Chair Bi-
ology Department Lab: 919-613-8193 Box 90338
FAX: 919-660-7293 Duke University Durham, NC
27708 USA http://sites.google.com/site/noorlabduke/
noor@duke.edu52 EvolDir April 1, 2013
ENS Paris EvolutionaryGenomics
Dear all,
A lecturer / \ma^ tre de conf erences" position in evo-
lutionary genetics/genomics is available at the Ecole
Normale Sup erieure in Paris, France.
The Lecturer will teach senior undergraduates and mas-
ter students (L3, M1 and/or M2 years) at the Ecole
Normale Sup erieure. His/her contribution will mainly
concern evolutionary genetics, in the wider framework
of courses in genetics, genomics, statistics and data
analysis, evolutionary biology and/or ecology. Teaching
aims: Theoretical bases of formal genetics, including
laboratory genetics and quantitative genetic analysis of
natural variation. Integration of genomic data in ge-
netic analysis. Applications to the integrative biology
of evolutionary and ecological processes. The research
project will address mechanisms of phenotypic evolu-
tion, combining genetic and genomic approaches. The
Lecturer will conduct his/her research within a team of
the Department of Biology of the Ecole Normale Su-
perieure (http://www.ibens.ens.fr/teams). Knowledge
of French is not required.
Application https://galaxie.enseignementsup-
recherche.gouv.fr/antares/can/index.jsp Position
#4030. If you need help with the application, con-
tact mc-genevol@biologie.ens.fr We have written
instructions in English to help you apply.
The application deadline is 28th March 2013, 4 pm
Paris time.
With best wishes, Marie-Anne Felix Professor, ENS
Marie-Anne Felix Institute of Biology of the Ecole
Normale Sup erieure (IBENS) 46 rue d'Ulm, 75230
Paris cedex 05, France 8th oor. Oce: Room
801. Lab: Room 817. mail: felix@biologie.ens.fr
Tel: +33-1-44-32-39-44 http://www.ibens.ens.fr/-
spip.php?article256&lang=en STRAINS: http://-
www.justbio.com/worms/index.php Marie-Anne Felix
<felix@biologie.ens.fr >
EasternWashingtonU BiostatisticsAssistant Professor Biostatistics Department of Biology
Eastern Washington University
The Department of Biology in the College of Sci-
ence, Health & Engineering at Eastern Washington
University invites applications for a full-time, tenure-
track Assistant Professor in Biostatistics to begin mid-
September 2013. The Department of Biology seeks a
candidate who complements the strengths of our fac-
ulty in scholarship and teaching, and who reinforces
our commitment to enhancing diversity.
Teaching duties include graduate classes and upper
level undergraduate classes for Biology majors. Addi-
tional responsibilities include developing and sustaining
a productive research program, supervising and men-
toring of Master's theses. Position is open until fur-
ther notice; screening will begin after 4/5/2013. Appli-
cations must be submitted through our online faculty
jobs portal: https://jobs.hr.ewu.edu Questions? Call
Dr. Rebecca Brown, 509-359-6867. Eastern Washing-
ton University is an AA/EEO Employer.
Minimum Qualications Ph.D. in biostatistics or
closely related eld; ABD candidates may be consid-
ered, but the doctorate must be completed before ap-
pointment Demonstrated expertise in linking theory
with data Evidence of high quality teaching of quan-
titative subjects Evidence of doing collaborative bio-
statistics Demonstrated potential for scholarship based
on previous publication record Experience and/or in-
terest in promoting cultural diversity
Preferred Qualications Demonstrated expertise which
supplements that in the Department of Biology (e.g.,
bioinformatics or population genetics) Prociency in R
and/or SAS Expertise and interest in developing a grad-
uate course in multivariate statistics
Lori Livingstone HR Associate for Academic Aairs
Eastern Washington University 509-359-6931
\Livingstone, Lori" <llivingstone@ewu.edu >
Geelong Australia ViralEvolution
Viral Evolutionary Biologist
Location: Australian Animal Health Laboratory, Gee-
long, VIC Salary: $89K to $96K plus up to 15.4%
Superannuation Tenure: Indenite/Ongoing Reference:
VIC13/00947
The Position: The role will be to contribute to the de-April 1, 2013 EvolDir 53
velopment of a research capability in viral population
genomics and evolutionary biology within the Virology
Team at AAHL. This will involve the application of
advanced bioinformatic and Bayesian-based phylody-
namic and phylogeographic methods to investigate the
structure and evolution of virus populations and how
virus-host-vector interactions from molecule to land-
scape levels result in the emergence and spread of infec-
tious disease. In the short-medium term, the research
will focus primarily on arboviruses with subsequent ap-
plication and dissemination of the methodologies to ad-
dress other emerging viral diseases.
Specically you will: Apply phylodynamic and phylo-
geographic methods to investigate and the structure
and evolutionary dynamics of virus populations and
host-virus-vector interactions at the landscape level and
during the course of infection in individual animals.
Contribute to the integration of virus and host/vector
genomic data and environmental variables to allow a
systems-based analysis of the ecology of infection and
interpret data of virus evolution with respect to future
risks of disease emergence and spread. Prepare and
present oral and written reports and publications, and
research proposals for external funding. Provide lead-
ership and direction to technical sta and undertake
supervision and training of PhD students and post-
doctoral fellows. Abide by and promote AAHL's micro-
biological security regulations and conduct work con-
sistent with CSIRO's Equal Employment Opportunity
and Health, Safety & Environment principles.
To be successful in this position you will need: A PhD
or equivalent qualication in molecular virology, evolu-
tionary biology or a relevant eld. Experience in the
use of advanced bioinformatics and phylogenetic meth-
ods to study evolutionary biology, with demonstrated
high level of scientic knowledge and achievement. A
good understanding of virology and the role of virus
evolution in the processes of infection and immunity.
Demonstrated ability to dene, investigate and solve
complex problems using diverse established and exper-
imental procedures. Demonstrated ability to work co-
operatively as a member of a project team and to net-
work with scientic colleagues. Evidence of good com-
munication skills and ability to achieve a high rate of
publication of the results of scientic research in scien-
tic journals.
Who we are: The Commonwealth Scientic and In-
dustrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) is one of the
largest and most diverse scientic organisations in the
world. By igniting the creative spirit of our people,
we deliver great science and innovative solutions that
benet industry, society and the environment.Applications close: 21st April 2013
Position Details VIC13/00947
For more details and the application procedure
see: http://csiro.nga.net.au/?jati=3Dcc96a72f-7791-
8951-7204-7686fe0f8bad PROFESSOR EDWARD C.
HOLMES NHMRC Australia Fellow
THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY Sydney Emerging
Infections & Biosecurity Institute, School of Biological
Sciences and Sydney Medical School, Macleay Building
A12jThe University of Sydney jSydneyjNSWj2006
jAustralia T +61 2 9351 5591 F +61 2 9351 3890 E
edward.holmes@sydney.edu.au
edward.holmes@sydney.edu.au
GeorgeWashingtonU
ComputationalBiol
The George Washington University
Faculty Positions in Computational Biology and Bioin-
formatics
The newly established Computational Biology Institute
at the George Washington University seeks founding
faculty members to establish vibrant, interdisciplinary
and externally funded research programs in bioinfor-
matics and/or computational biology. We have ve
open faculty positions at all academic levels and seek
applicants especially in the areas of biodiversity infor-
matics, translational medicine, and systems biology de-
veloping methods to address 'big data' issues from a
computational perspective. Candidates are expected
to establish an extramurally funded and internationally
recognized research program.
Basic Qualications: Applicants must have an MD
and/or PhD in Bioinformatics, Computational Biology,
Computer Science, Mathematics, Genomics, or related
discipline with postdoctoral research experience, grant-
ing experience, and a solid publication track record.
Successful candidates will enjoy joint appointments at
the CBI and an academic department of their choosing
(e.g., Biological Sciences, Computer Science, Mathe-
matics, Biochemistry, Integrated Systems Biology, etc.)
upon approval, and have opportunities to establish
partnerships with regional research centers of excel-
lence, including Children's National Medical Center,
NIST, Janelia Farm, INOVA hospital system, Naval
Research Laboratory, the Smithsonian, and the NIH54 EvolDir April 1, 2013
intramural research program. Rank and contractual
status, will be based on experience.
Application Procedure: Applicants should submit an
electronic application, and upload a cover letter em-
phasizing specic qualications, a curriculum vitae, a
description of research interests, and names and contact
information of 3 references at: http://www.gwu.jobs/-
postings/14121 Review of applications will begin on
April 15, 2013 and will continue until positions are
lled. Only complete applications will be considered.
For further information about the Computational Biol-
ogy Institute at George Washington University, please
see http://cbi.gwu.edu. For questions relating to this
opportunity, please contact Keith Crandall, Director,
Computational Biology Institute, The George Wash-
ington University, kcrandall@gwu.edu.
The George Washington University is an Equal Op-
portunity/Armative Action Employer and seeks to
attract an active, culturally and academically diverse
faculty of the highest caliber.
Keith A. Crandall, PhD Director, Computational Biol-
ogy Institute Professor of Biology George Washington
University Innovation Hall, Suite 202 45085 University
Drive Ashburn, VA 20147 kcrandall@gwu.edu Oce:
(571) 553-0107 Cell: (202) 769-8411
kcrandall@email.gwu.edu
HowardU PlantEvol InvertEvolution
Dear List members,
We are searching for two new tenure-track faculty in
the Department of Biology at Howard University. Al-
though these advertisements are deliberately broad, we
are very interested in applications from evolutionary
biologists and ecologists, and expect the teaching re-
sponsibilities for the new positions to fall within this
concentration in our department. More information on
the Biology Department at Howard can be found at
(biology.howard.edu), and I would encourage those in-
terested in applying to contact faculty members and/or
our chair, Dr. Franklin Ampy, with any specic ques-
tions. The ocial ad is given below. All the best,
-Nate Smith nathan.smith@howard.edu
|{
TWO TENURE-TRACK BIOLOGY PROFESSOR
POSITIONS HOWARD UNIVERSITY, WASHING-TON, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
Howard University invites applications for two tenure
track positions at the rank of ASSISTANT PROFES-
SOR starting in August 2013:
1. Invertebrate Biologist with some aspect of aquatic
biology preferred
2. Plant Biologist with some aspect of global climate
change preferred
Qualications:
Candidates for these positions should have completed
a Ph.D. in the relevant eld and have an established
record of research productivity. Teaching and post-
doctoral experience are required. Successful candidates
are expected to develop an externally funded research
program, direct M.S. and Ph.D. students, and partic-
ipate in teaching in the introductory general biology
courses, as well as develop courses in their own spe-
cialty. Interested applicants should submit curriculum
vitae along with a brief description of research inter-
ests, teaching experience and teaching philosophy, and
arrange to have three letters of reference sent directly
to:
Dr. Franklin Ampy, Chairman, Department of Biology
415 College Street NW, Room 126 Washington, D.C.
20059
Requested materials should be emailed to
fampy@howard.edu by April 2, 2013. Candidates
making the nal list will be required to submit ad-
ditional material. Screening of applications will be
ongoing until the positions are lled. All qualied
candidates are encouraged to apply.
Howard University does not discriminate on the basis
of race, color, national and ethnic origin, sex, marital
status, religion or disability.
|{
Nathan D. Smith, Ph.D. Assistant Professor De-
partment of Biology Howard University 415
College Street NW Washington, DC 20059 202-
806-6941 nathan.smith@howard.edu Webpage:
http://dl.dropbox.com/u/86743464/web/smithnd/-
Home.html nathan.smith@howard.edu
HumboldtU EvolutionParasiteHost
The Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences I,April 1, 2013 EvolDir 55
Department of Biology of Humboldt-Universit at zu
Berlin (HU) and the Leibniz Institute for Zoo and
Wildlife Research Berlin (IZW) invite applications
for an Assistant Professorship in 'Ecology and evo-
lution of molecular parasite-host interactions' (W1-S-
Juniorprofessur)
starting October 1st 2013.
The successful candidate will be required to establish
a research group that (1) applies molecular biological
methods to parasitological questions and host-parasite
interactions in the context of the ecology and evolu-
tion of free-ranging mammals, (2) teach in the eld
of the molecular ecology or evolution of parasites, (3)
contribute to the development of coordinated activities
in infection biology and medicine amongst the Berlin
universities and research institutes and (4) strengthen
the links between HU's Department of Biology and the
IZW.
Applicants will have demonstrated excellence in molec-
ular parasitology research. Preference will be given to
candidates with some background in ecology or evo-
lutionary biology that complements their strength in
molecular parasitology but prior experience in working
with wildlife parasites is not required. Excellence will
be demonstrated by outstanding publications, acquisi-
tion of external funding and an international prole.
Candidates should have a strong interest in interacting
with the research networks present in Berlin.
Applicants have to full the requirements for a call as
a junior professor according to x102a of the Berliner
Hochschulgesetz. HU seeks to increase the proportion
of women in research and teaching, and specically en-
courages qualied female researchers to apply. Prefer-
ence will be given to disabled persons with equal qual-
ications. Applicants with migration background are
highly welcome.
For inquiries regarding the position please contact the
chairman of the committee, Prof Dr Heribert Hofer,
Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research, Tel.
+49 (0)30-5168101; E-Mail: director@izw-berlin.de.
Please submit your application with CV, lists of pub-
lications and external funds, certicates, a statement
on teaching experience and current and future research
interests (no more than 3 pages), reprints of up to
ve recent publications and names and contact details
of three referees, quoting Vacancy 03/2013 until April
12th, 2013 to Prof Dr Heribert Hofer, Leibniz Institute
for Zoo and Wildlife Research, Alfred-Kowalke-Str. 17,
D-10315 Berlin, Germany. To accelerate the process,
applicants are asked to submit their applications also
in electronic form (personal@izw-berlin.de). Since ap-
plication materials will not be returned, we ask you tosend only copies of all documents.
The Leibniz Institute for Zoo & Wildlife Research
Berlin is Germany's premier wildlife research institute,
a member of the Leibniz Association of research insti-
tutes and jointly funded by the federal government and
the state government of Berlin. The IZW focuses on
the life histories and evolutionary adaptations of mam-
mals and birds and their conservation in natural and
anthropogenically inuenced environments. The insti-
tute operates within the elds of wildlife health and
diseases, reproductive biology and medicine, and evo-
lutionary ecology and genetics.
Further details at www.hu-berlin.de; www.izw-
berlin.de; www.leibniz-gemeinschaft.de . Dr. Miriam
Brandt Scientic Coordinator Leibniz-Institut f ur Zoo-
und Wildtierforschung (IZW) Alfred-Kowalke-Strae
17 10315 Berlin Germany Tel.: +49 30 5168-109
Fax: +49 30 5168-110 E-Mail: brandt@izw-berlin.de
www.izw-berlin.de brandt@izw-berlin.de
JohnsHopkinsU Bioinformatics
Title: JohnsHopkinsU.Bioinformatics
I am seeking for a full time Research Data Analyst to
assist in a pioneering research program in population
genetics for The GenoGraphic Project in the depart-
ment of Mental Health of Johns Hopkins, Bloomberg
School of Public Health. The candidate will analyze
genotype data of human populations, develop models
in population genetics and investigate questions related
to human evolution. The candidate will develop novel
mathematical models and gene ow on the populations
of interest. Current research focuses on understanding
population structure, the distribution of rare variants
in human populations, and developing methods to pre-
dict population associations for individuals.
Qualications: Bachelor's degree in related discipline
required. Three years related experience. Applicants
must master C/C++ and Matlab and be experienced
with Admixture/Structure analyses. Must be detail
oriented, have eective organizational skills, and be
able to prioritize workload appropriately. Must be able
to perform multiple tasks eciently and correctly, often
operating more than one instrument at a time. Must
be organized and able to appropriately prioritize re-
sponsibilities in a fast-paced environment. Additional
education (Master's level) may substitute for required
experience, to the extent permitted by the JHU equiv-56 EvolDir April 1, 2013
alency formula.
Compensation: $40,128 - $55,248 for 2 years.
Please see additional requirements and ap-
ply from here: https://hrnt.jhu.edu/jhujobs/-
jobview.cfm?view reqid=56280&view=sch
Principal Investigator: Eran Elhaik, http://-
eelhaik.aravindachakravartilab.org/ Please email
me for questions: eelhaik at gmail com
eran elhaik <eranelhaik@gmail.com >
Lyon France Paleogenomics
Dear all,
We are seeking to recrute a research engineer in Pale-
ogenomics. The succesful candidate will integrate the
/Paleogenomics and Molecular Evolution/ team at the
ENS de Lyon (France). Initially a short-term contract
is proposed (starting as early as March 2013 and until
November 2013) noting that a permanent CNRS posi-
tion will be opened and subject to a competitive recruit-
ment process within the year. This permanent position
will have an eective start the 1st of December 2013.
We are looking for a person with sound skills in Paleoge-
nomics, excellent working knowledge of the concepts of
molecular evolution and both methods and techniques
of molecular biology which pertain to Paleogenomic ap-
proaches.
A job description is attached below. To apply, please
send a detailed CV, letter of interest and references.
Contacts : Catherine H anni : catherine.hanni@ens-
lyon.fr, Morgane Ollivier : morgane.ollivier@ens-lyon.fr
Thank you for forwarding this advertisement within
your networks and to potential candidates.
Best regards Catherine H anni
*Position: Research engineer in Paleogenomics * Job
description : Within the team \Paleogenomics and
molecular evolution", the engineer drives and under-
takes new methodologies and technologies of molecular
biology as applied to paleogenomic analysis.
Essential skills : - have solid skills in paleogenomics and
a perfect command of the concepts of molecular evolu-
tion -master the methods and techniques of molecular
biology pertaining to paleogenomics
-having solid skills in NGS techniques, the establish-ment of genomic libraries and PEC methodology would
be desirable
-knowledge of bioinformatics and knowhow of relevant
data analysis tools (statistics and modelisation)
Activities : - ensure the conception, development
and execution of paleogenomics projects - develop
and ne tune new methods and techniques applied to
paleogenomics - ensure the development of sequenc-
ing projects within the team (loci capture, ancient
genomes, metagenomics) - monitor scientic and tech-
nological advances within the eld and integrate as ap-
propriate the new technologies
- validate and interpret results from genomics projects,
including the bioinformatics aspects - be actively in-
volved in the training of interns and students within
the team
Catherine H anni (Group leader, CNRS) Morgane Ol-
livier (assistant professor, ENS de Lyon) Paleogenomics
and Molecular Evolution Ecole Normale Sup erieure de
Lyon 46, allee d'Italie 69364 Lyon Cedex 07 France Tel:
(33) (0)4 72 72 84 63/ 84 65
morgane.ollivier@ens-lyon.fr
MinnesotaIllinois 12mnthInternship
PlantEvolution
This is an ideal position for a graduate or soon-to-be-
graduate interested in plant genetics or conservation
ecology.
A 12-month paid internship starting in June 2013 is
available for an individual with a bachelor's degree in
biology, botany, entomology, or a related major and a
commitment to conservation. If you have a background
in biology and want to gain experience in botany, ecol-
ogy, evolutionary biology, or conservation biology, we
encourage you to apply.
As an intern, you will contribute to ongoing research
on the conservation genetics, reproductive biology, and
demography of the prairie plant Echinacea angustifo-
lia. The intern has the opportunity to conduct an inde-
pendent research project. Summer eldwork occurs in
western Minnesota with a team of students, teachers,
and researchers. After the summer, you will relocate to
the Chicago Botanic Garden to conduct research in the
lab and greenhouse. You will also attend seminars and
interact closely with conservation scientists, graduateApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 57
students, interns, researchers, and volunteers associated
with the Department of Plant Conservation Science at
the Chicago Botanic Garden and the graduate Program
in Plant Biology and Conservation at Northwestern.
Desired skills and experience include: performing out-
door physical work in adverse conditions, collecting and
managing datasets, completing tasks independently
and on time, conducting experiments, using maps, com-
municating clearly in writing, paying attention to de-
tail, conducting statistical analysis, and working eec-
tively with diverse people, including scientists, volun-
teers, students, and interns.
Applications will be reviewed starting 20 March 2013.
The salary starts at $11/h. Housing in Minnesota dur-
ing the summer is included.
For more information and to apply, visit http://-
echinaceaproject.org/opportunities/research-interns-
2013/ or contact Stuart Wagenius (echinaceaPro-
ject@gmail.com).
katherine.muller2010@gmail.com
Montpellier 5 ComputationalBiol
TITLE
Young investigator positions at the Institute for Com-
putational Biology of Montpellier (France)
BODY
Young investigator positions at the Institute for Com-
putational Biology of Montpellier (France)
The Institute for Computational Biology (IBC) will
hire ve young investigators for each of the ve work-
packages, typically with a PhD plus 3-year post-doc
and solid experience in international research, a high
level of publishing, strong communication abilities, and
a taste for multidisciplinary research. Working full-
time at IBC, these young researchers will play a key
role in Institute life. They will actively participate in
receiving foreign researchers and organizing seminars
and events (schools, conferences...). They will help co-
ordinate work within the work-packages and will be at
the forefront of producing deliverables. In exchange,
these young researchers will benet from an exceptional
environment thanks to the presence of numerous lead-
ing international researchers, not to mention signicant
autonomy for their work. These positions are open
for up to 4 years, with a net monthly salary of 2,350Euros/month, which is approximately 300 Euros more
than a standard post-doc salary in France, and clearly
enough to live in the Montpellier area.
For more information and to apply: http://www.ibc-
montpellier.fr/ Deadline: June 15, 2013
Details for each work-package:
WP1: HTS
This project aims rst at conceiving and developing
new algorithms for analyzing millions of sequences and
involving complex techniques in text indexation, com-
pression and algorithmics on classical or high perfor-
mance computing architectures. These novel algo-
rithms form the core of bioinformatics programs that
will help investigating the transcriptome complexity. In
the framework of a large cancer genomics project, we
will exploit these programs to analyze over 100 tumoral
genomes and transcriptomes as well as their normal
counterparts. The candidate will participate in either
of two aspects: (1) practical algorithms and indexing
data structures for NGS processing; (2) bioanalysis of
cancer genomes and transcriptomes.
WP2: Evolution
Our research involves evolutionary analyses of large-
scale genomic data, at the interface between phylogeny
and population genetics. The candidate will develop
research on some of the following topics: inference of
very large phylogenies, reconciliation of gene/species
trees at a genomic scale, detection of selection, inference
of population divergence, dating and migration stud-
ies, simulation-based inference. Application domains
will be quite open, with emphasis on virus evolution
and plant genomes. We are seeking a candidate with a
strong background in mathematical and computational
evolutionary biology, with interest in applications and
software development.
WP3: Annotation
We are seeking for a high level computer scientist with
strong experience in bioinformatics; knowledge in 3D
protein structures and/or statistical learning is a plus.
The candidate will contribute to the development and
integration of bioinformatics tools for an interdisci-
plinary project dealing with structural and/or func-
tional annotations of pathogen proteomes. The success-
ful candidate will have good knowledge in one or sev-
eral of the following topics: statistical learning, hidden
Markov models, pattern matching, 3D and geometry al-
gorithmics, protein domains, unstructured regions, tan-
dem repeats, gene ontology
WP4: Imaging
Our research involves Integration of 4D imaging data58 EvolDir April 1, 2013
with functional genomics in plant and animal develop-
mental biology. The candidate will contribute to the
development of a software platform for image analysis.
Two main directions are proposed: storage, annotation
and handling of volumetric images obtained by confo-
cal or light-sheet laser microscopy and development of
a concept of 4D atlases, whereby cellular (e. g. geom-
etry, mechanics) and molecular (e. g. gene expression)
parameters can be projected onto \average" organ ge-
ometries. The nal aim is to provide novel solutions to
explore the genotype to phenotype relationships. Can-
didates will have a strong background in computer sci-
ence and analysis of volumetric and segmented images.
WP5: Databases
We are seeking for a candidate with strong experience
in distributed data management, in particular data in-
tegration, a good grasp on implementation aspects and
interest for biology applications. The candidate will
participate in the design and implementation of a data
framework for plant genomics.
Olivier Gascuel <gascuel@lirmm.fr >
NorthCarolinaStateU
BioinformaticsGenetics
Faculty Position in Genetics Department of Genetics
North Carolina State University
The Department of Genetics at North Carolina State
University invites applications at the TEACHING AS-
SISTANT PROFESSOR level for a non-tenure-track
faculty position in genetics. The successful candidate
will be responsible for the development and teaching of
a new undergraduate Bioinformatics course, GN 427:
Introductory Bioinformatics. Responsibilities can in-
clude: teaching of two courses per semester; advising
of undergraduate students; supervision and mentoring
of teaching assistants, and/or other roles shaped by the
strengths and interests of the individual.
Applicants should have a PhD in Biology, Genetics
or Computer Science with genetics training, or related
eld, experience teaching university courses in bioinfor-
matics or computation-related area. Experience with
the development of new courses is desirable. A com-
petitive salary will be provided.
The Department of Genetics (http://-
www.cals.ncsu.edu/genetics/) consists of a highly
interactive group of scientists with focus in quantita-tive, developmental and computational genetics. The
department also administers outstanding undergrad-
uate and graduate training programs in genetics, and
many of the genetics faculty are aliated with the
Bioinformatics Research Center and the associated
Bioinformatics graduate training program. NCSU has
excellent facilities and programs for plant and animal
research, genomics (http://gsl.cals.ncsu.edu/) and
bioinformatics (http://bioinformatics.ncsu.edu/).
To apply go to http://jobs.ncsu.edu, search by position
number 00103122 and provide a cover letter, curricu-
lum vitae, statement of teaching philosophy, and ar-
range to have at least three letters of recommendation
sent to Dr. David Threadgill, Department of Genetics,
Box 7614, North Carolina State University, Raleigh,
NC 27695-7614 (genetics@ncsu.edu). Review of appli-
cations will begin March 15, 2013 and continue until
the position is lled.
NCSU is an AA/EO employer. All qualied applicants
will receive consideration for employment without re-
gard to race, color, national origin, religion, sex, age,
veteran status or disability. In its commitment to diver-
sity and equity, NC State University seeks applications
from women, minorities, and persons with disabilities.
NC State welcomes all persons without regard to sexual
orientation. ADA Accommodations: please call 919-
515-5727.
hes@ncsu.edu
NorthCarolinaStateU Ethnobotany
North Carolina State University, Teaching Assistant
Professor, Ethnobotany
The Department of Plant Biology at North Carolina
State University seeks candidates for a Teaching Assis-
tant Professor position in Ethnobotany. This is a 9-
month, non-tenure-track position with responsibilities
for teaching on-campus and distance education courses.
Position responsibilities include teaching two current
on-campus undergraduate ethnobotany courses, de-
veloping distance education sections of these courses,
and developing an additional two distance/on-campus
courses including a course in economic botany. Oppor-
tunities exist for additional responsibilities and com-
pensation for teaching during summer sessions. Oppor-
tunities exist to mentor undergraduate and non-thesis
Masters students in independent research projects, to
conduct research in collaboration with other faculty,April 1, 2013 EvolDir 59
and to serve as a member of graduate advisory com-
mittees. Initial appointment is for one academic year,
with reappointment for multi-year terms. Information
on the Department of Plant Biology may be found
at http://www.cals.ncsu.edu/plantbiology/ . Teach-
ing Assistant Professors are non-tenure track positions,
which are eligible for promotion to Teaching Asso-
ciate Professor and Teaching Professor ranks. Salary
is competitive with tenure-track positions. Information
on Teaching Faculty at NC State University may be
found at http://www.ncsu.edu/policies/employment/-
faculty/REG05.20.34.php Candidates must have a
PhD degree in plant biology or other appropriate dis-
cipline with expertise and teaching experience in Eth-
nobotany. Candidates must have a proven record of
teaching excellence at the college level, strong organi-
zational and communication skills, and a commitment
to undergraduate education.
To apply, please go to *jobs.ncsu.edu* and search for
position number 00103240 or go directly to the post-
ing at http://jobs.ncsu.edu/postings/21201. Appli-
cants should *attach to the online application*: a CV
and a statement of teaching philosophy and interests.
In addition, applicants *should arrange for three let-
ters of recommendation to be sent to: *Margaret E.
Daub, Department of Plant Biology, North Carolina
State University, Raleigh, NC, 27695-7612 (email: mar-
garet daub@ncsu.edu). Review of applications will be-
gin April 15, 2013 and will continue until the position
is lled.
* **North Carolina State University is an Equal Op-
portunity and Armative Action Employer. In ad-
dition, NC State welcomes applications from all per-
sons without regard to sexual orientation or genetic
information. Individuals with disabilities desiring ac-
commodations in the application process should con-
tact Carol Apperson, Department of Plant Biology,
carol apperson@ncsu.edu, (919) 513-3809.*
* *
Qiuyun(Jenny) Xiang, Ph.D. Professor of Plant Bi-
ology North Carolina State University Gardner 4111
Raleigh, NC 27695-7612 Phone: 919-515-2728 http:/-
/www4.ncsu.edu/ ~ qyxiang QiuyunJenny Xiang
<qyxiang@ncsu.edu >
NorthCarolina MuseumNaturalSci
DatabaseGIS ManagerNorth Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences: Database
and GIS Manager
This position is primarily responsible for developing,
modifying, and maintaining customized database ap-
plications in support of the individualized needs of the
Research and Collections units and sta. This person
must be uent with the program Microsoft Access and
the programming language Visual Basic, and with the
mapping program ARCGIS. In addition, this employee
will serve as the source person for the development, im-
plementation, maintenance, and management of global
positioning (GPS) and geographic information (GIS)
systems technology within the Research and Collections
Section of the Museum.
(1) Must have training and experience using Global
Positioning Systems (GPS) units and be comfortable
training others in their use
(2) Demonstrated ability to keep current on computer
technology as it relates to natural science collections
and/or curatorial needs
(3) Working knowledge of the specic needs of natural
science museums and/or collections
(4) Prociency with Microsoft Oce Suite (with par-
ticular strength in Access)
(5) Experience using Visual Basics for Application
(VBA)
(6) Prociency with ARC GIS mapping program
Graduation from a four-year college or university with
nine semester hours in programming and one year of
experience in business application consulting or devel-
opment. Experience in the eld of work related to the
position's role may be substituted on a year-for-year ba-
sis. Preferred: Experience with Microsoft SQL Server;
PHP; ASP; Zend Framework; Drupal; Ruby; Python;
and/or other similar languages or frameworks
For additional information, please see:
http://tinyurl.com/baoyzu9 Or contact: Laura Oakley
919-707-9809 Laura.oakley@naturalsciences.org
Jason R. Cryan, Ph.D. Deputy Museum Director for
Research & Collections North Carolina Museum of Nat-
ural Sciences 11 W. Jones Street Raleigh, NC 27601
Phone: (919) 707-9933 Fax: (919) 715-2614
email: jason.cryan@naturalsciences.org Museum
Website: www.naturalsciences.org Research Web-
site: www.planthopper.com \Cryan, Jason R"
<Jason.Cryan@naturalsciences.org >60 EvolDir April 1, 2013
Okinawa 2 MarineEvolution
Evolutionary Biologists working on marine organ-
isms/ecosystems are very much within the scope of the
search advertised below.
Job: Assistant Professor of Marine Science Oki-
nawa Institute of Science and Technology https:/-
/groups.oist.jp/facultypositions/assistant-professor-
marine-sciences The Okinawa Institute of Science and
Technology Graduate University (http://www.oist.jp)
invites applications for a Tenure-track Assistant Pro-
fessor position in the elds of Oceanography or Marine
Biology.
This is an excellent opportunity for a junior scientist to
establish an independent research group and play a cen-
tral role building the marine science program at OIST.
OIST emphasizes integrative research based on strong
core research areas, and thus applicants with interdis-
ciplinary interests are strongly encouraged to apply.
The university is located in Okinawa, a subtropical is-
land famous for its distinctive culture and stunning ma-
rine environment. Nearby ecosystems oer excellent
opportunities for marine research, including adjacent
coral reefs, coastal and intertidal habitats, active hy-
drothermal vents in the Okinawa trough, and the deep-
sea environment of the Ryukyus trench.
OIST has 46 faculty members and over 200 researchers,
with opportunities for collaboration in a wide range of
elds including life sciences, physical sciences and com-
putational sciences. The campus has an extensive ar-
ray of state-of-the-art instrumentation, which is man-
aged so as to encourage easy access and collaborative
research.
Applicants should have a PhD or equivalent degree, and
have demonstrated excellence and imagination in re-
search. Successful candidates will be expected to de-
velop an internationally-recognized research program,
to contribute to the teaching and supervision of gradu-
ate students, and to participate in the academic life and
governance of OIST. Generous institutional support
will be provided, including startup costs, researcher
salaries, operating costs and space in striking new lab-
oratory buildings.
OIST is an English-language graduate university, of-
fering a world-class research environment in an area
of distinctive culture, unique ecology, and outstandingnatural beauty. The research community is highly in-
ternational, with faculty, sta and students drawn from
over 30 dierent countries. Attractive housing, after-
school programs, and child care in a specially designed
Child Development Center, are all available on campus.
OIST Graduate University is an equal opportunity, af-
rmative action educator and employer and is commit-
ted to increasing the diversity of its faculty. We strongly
encourage women and minority candidates to apply.
For more information about this position, please con-
tact the search committee at marine-search@oist.jp.
Applications will be reviewed starting April 15, 2013,
with the position remaining open until lled.
{
Evan P. Economo Assistant Professor Biodiversity and
Biocomplexity Unit Okinawa Institute of Science and
Technology 1919-1 Tancha Onna-son, Kunigamigun
Okinawa, Japan 904-0495
|{
Evolutionary Biologists working on marine organ-
isms/ecosystems are very much within the scope of the
search advertised below.
Jobs: Professor of Marine Science Okinawa Insti-
tute of Science and Technology https://groups.oist.jp/-
facultypositions/professor-marine-sciences The Oki-
nawa Institute of Science and Technology Graduate
University (http://www.oist.jp) invites applications for
a tenured Associate or Full Professor in the elds of
Oceanography or Marine Biology.
We seek an exceptional scientist with an outstanding
record of scholarly achievement to establish an interna-
tionally recognized research group, and to play a lead-
ership role in developing Marine Science research pro-
grams at OIST. OIST emphasizes integrative research
based on strong core research areas, and thus applicants
with interdisciplinary interests are strongly encouraged
to apply.
The university is located in Okinawa, a subtropical is-
land famous for its distinctive culture and stunning ma-
rine environment. Nearby ecosystems oer excellent
opportunities for marine research, including adjacent
coral reefs, coastal and intertidal habitats, active hy-
drothermal vents in the Okinawa trough, and the deep-
sea environment of the Ryukyus trench.
OIST has 46 faculty members and over 200 researchers,
with opportunities for collaboration in a wide range of
elds including life sciences, physical sciences and com-
putational sciences. The campus has an extensive ar-
ray of state-of-the-art instrumentation, which is man-
aged so as to encourage easy access and collaborativeApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 61
research.
Applicants should have a PhD or equivalent degree.
Successful
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Rennes France Biodiversity
University Rennes 1, Research Unit \Ecosystems, Bio-
diversity, Evolution" (http://ecobio.univ-rennes1.fr/-
news.php), is recruiting an Assistant professor
(Ma^ tre de conferences, permanent position) in 
Community Ecology and Biotic Interactions . A
more detailed description is given here: https:/-
/www.galaxie.enseignementsup-recherche.gouv.fr/-
ensup/ListesPostesPublies/ANTEE/2013 1/-
0350936C/FOPC 0350936C 4154.pdf .Note that
the research prole is very large, but specic teaching
duties need to be ensured. You should informally
contact one or several of the persons listed in this
document.
More information on the procedure is given
here https://www.galaxie.enseignementsup-
recherche.gouv.fr/ensup/cand postes GALAXIE.htm,
where you also have submit your application until
March 28, 16.00, Paris time.
**PLEASE note**:
- To be eligible for this position you MUST al-
ready possess the formal \qualication" assigned
by the French Ministry of Higher Education and
Science (https://www.galaxie.enseignementsup-
recherche.gouv.fr/ensup/cand qualication.htm ). If
you do not have it already, it is too late now for this
year's recruitment campaign
- Teaching is exclusively in French and prociency of
French is required from the beginning
- Unfortunately travel expenses cannot be reimbursed
Bets regards
Andreas Prinzing
(for contacts, please refer to the people listed in the
above pdf document)Andreas Prinzing, Prof. Ecology of Diversication Re-
search Unit \Ecobio" : Ecosystems - Biodiversity -
Evolution Universit e Rennes 1 / Centre National de la
Recherche Scientique Campus de Beaulieu, B^ atiment
14 A 35042 Rennes, France
Tel : +33 2 23 23 67 12; fax: +33 2 23 23 50 26
andreas.prinzing@univ-rennes1.fr
http://ecobio.univ-rennes1.fr/Fiches perso/-
Fiche.asp?pseudo=APrinzing http://ecobio.univ-
rennes1.fr/Fiches perso/Banque/publi1 APrinzing.doc
Prinzing Andreas <andreas.prinzing@dbmail.com >
StockholmU PopulationGenetics
The new Department of Ecology, Environment and
Plant Sciences at Stockholm university has opened two
new tenure-track positions as associate senior lecturer
(bitr adande lektor) in the following areas:
*Associate Senior Lecturer in Biology with focus on
Marine Macrophyte Ecosystems *
Description : The subject covers the biology of plants
and animals in marine macrophyte ecosystems, includ-
ing interactions with the environment, from an ecologi-
cal, ecophysiological or population genetic perspective.
Additional information : http://www.su.se/english/-
about/vacancies/lecturers-researchers/associate-
senior-lecturer-in-biology-with-focus-on-marine-
macrophyte-ecosystems-1.129409 *Associate Senior
Lecturer in Plant biology with focus on Species
Interactions*
Description : The subject covers the biology of inter-
actions between plants and other organisms, primarily
in terrestrial systems, from an ecological, physiological
or evolutionary perspective
Additional information : http://www.su.se/english/-
about/vacancies/lecturers-researchers/associate-
senior-lecturer-in-plant-biology-with-focus-on-species-
interactions-1.129410 *Information about the depart-
ment* (home page: www.su.se/emb):
The department of ecology, environment and plant sci-
ences originates from merging former botany and sys-
tems ecology departments. The department's research
activities involve terrestrial as well as marine environ-
ments, and are conducted primarily in biodiversity,
ecology, ecotoxicology, evolution, plant physiology and62 EvolDir April 1, 2013
plant systematics. In these areas studies are performed
on processes and patterns from molecular to ecosys-
tem level, and interactions within and among species
and with the environment and society. Several of our
research areas are among those identied as strong
within Stockholm University (climate, ocean, and en-
vironment) and the Faculty of Science (species interac-
tions). Some of the research has direct environmental
and societal relevance and the approach is often broad
and interdisciplinary
Peter.Hamback@su.se
TrinityCollegeDublin Genetics
Post Title: Assistant Professor in Genetics
Post Status: 5-year contract
Department/Faculty: Genetics and Microbiology, Fac-
ulty of Engineering, Mathematics and Science
Location: Smurt Institute of Genetics, Trinity College
Dublin, Dublin 2 http://www.tcd.ie/genetics Closing
Date: 12 Noon on Friday 12th April, 2013
Start Date: This post is tenable from 1st September,
2013 or as soon as possible thereafter
Post Summary The School of Genetics and Microbiol-
ogy invites applications for an Assistant Professor in-
Genetics on a 5-year contract.
The ideal candidate will have a PhD and an accom-
plished track record of research in the eld of Genetics.
Applications are particularly welcome from scholars
with research expertise in POPULATION GENOMICS
and other elds in MOLECULAR EVOLUTION and
COMPUTATIONAL GENETICS.
The post-holder will be expected to obtain competitive
grant funding for research, and to contribute to under-
graduate courses in science. S/he will contribute to
postgraduate training in genetics through the supervi-
sion of research students.
Apply via: http://jobs.tcd.ie (search under \School of
Genetics and Microbiology")
mclysaga@tcd.ieTrinityCollege Dublin
ChairEvolBiology
Chair in Zoology: ecological and evolutionary systems.
The School of Natural Sciences <http://-
www.naturalscience.tcd.ie/ >, Trinity College Dublin,
Ireland seeks to appoint an outstanding candidate to
the prestigious Professor of Zoology (1871) in the area
of Ecological and Evolutionary Systems. The successful
applicant will commence in post in September 2013 or
as soon as possible thereafter. Trinity College Dublin
is recognised internationally as Ireland's premier
university and is ranked in 67th position in the top
100 world universities by the QS World University
Rankings 2012. For further details, please visit
http://www.tcd.ie/Zoology/chair.php Dr Andrew
Jackson Assistant Professor School of Natural Sciences
Zoology Building, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin 2,
Ireland Tel. + 353 1 896 2728, Fax. + 353 1 677
8094, Email. a.jackson@tcd.ie, Twitter: @andrewll-
jackson < https://twitter.com/AndrewLLJackson
> http://www.tcd.ie/Zoology/research/research/-
theoretical/AndrewJackson.php Andrew Jackson
<a.jackson@tcd.ie >
UConnecticut Bioinformatics
Job Posting Title: Bioinformatics Scientist (Academic
Assistant II/III)
Job Summary: The University of Connecticut seeks a
Bioinformatics Scientist primarily to serve the biologi-
cal science community through consultation in a Bioin-
formatics Facility in the Biotechnology/Bioservices
Center. The Facility consists of two small clusters,
(1) a 15-node, 30 CPU, Apple Workgroup cluster that
uses Sun Grid Engine for its distributed resource man-
agement and runs Bioteam's iNquiry as a web por-
tal to over 170 applications, and (2) an 18-node, 144
CPU, Dell linux cluster running Rocks 6.1 (Centos 6.3)
with Grid Engine for resource management. A Systems
Manager maintains the cluster and applications. The
successful candidate will provide consultation to faculty
and graduate students on the use of specic computingApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 63
tools for solving a broad range of problems in biology,
interface with biologists and computer scientists, keep
facility FAQ web pages up-to-date, and have an ex-
cellent command of verbal and written communication
skills (and use them eectively). Extensive experience
is required in the application of software and databases
used in computational biology, genomics, and in sup-
porting desktop computing environments. Long range
eorts will be to continue development and mainte-
nance of an integrated bioinformatics network to serve
a diverse research community.
Qualications: Minimum Qualications: M.S. or Ph.D.
in bioinformatics or a related area; experience or the
equivalent skills to handle problems in phylogenetics,
genomics, gene and protein expression analysis; and
database mining, molecular modeling, and structure-
function analysis. Preferred Qualications: Two or
more years post M.S. work experience. Also desirable
is an ability to consult with faculty and graduate stu-
dents as well as possess excellent verbal and written
communication skills.
Appointment Terms: The appointment will be as an
Academic Assistant II or III and is a non-tenure track
annual 11-month appointment. Individuals with a Mas-
ter's degree and some experience will be appointed at
the Academic II level. Individuals with a Master's de-
gree and extensive experience or a Ph.D. will be ap-
pointed at the Academic Assistant III level. Salary will
be commensurate with qualications. After an initial
year, candidates with a Ph.D. and a strong publication
record may be considered for an Assistant Research
Professor position in one of several academic depart-
ments. This would provide opportunities for research
activities supported by external grant funding.
To Apply: Interested applicants must apply elec-
tronically using Husky Hire. Please submit a
cover letter, curriculum vitae, and three letters
from professional references. For questions regard-
ing this position, prospective applicants should email
david.whall@uconn.edu; University of Connecticut,
Biotechnology/Bioservices, Unit 3149, 91 N. Eagleville
Road, Storrs, CT 06269-3149. Screening of candidates
will begin. The University of Connecticut encourages
applications from under-represented groups, including
minorities, women, and people with disabilities. The
University of Connecticut is an EEO/AA employer.
J. Peter Gogarten Board of Trustees Distinguished Pro-
fessor Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, and
Co-Head of the Bioinformatics Facility at the Univer-
sity of Connecticut Bioservices Center University of
Connecticut Unit 3125, BPB 404 91 North Eagleville
Road Storrs CT 06269-3125 USAPhone: 860 486 4061 (oce) 860 486 1887 (lab) 860
465 6267 (cell) FAX: 860 486 4331 Email: goga-
rten@uconn.edu www: http://gogarten.uconn.edu/ jp-
gogarten@gmail.com
UFribourg Switzerland GroupLeader
Junior Group Leader in Ecology & Evolution, Switzer-
land
The Unit of Ecology & Evolution of the Department
of Biology at Fribourg University, Switzerland, invites
applications for a junior group leader position (\Maitre-
assistant") in the eld of Ecology & Evolution.
We are seeking a highly motivated scientist with post-
doctoral experience, a strong publication record, and
the will to develop an independent research group
within the Unit. Applications are invited from re-
searchers in any area of Ecology & Evolution. Appli-
cants will be expected to develop an externally funded
and internationally recognized research program that
complements the existing research groups. A PhD stu-
dentship funded by the university is attached to the po-
sition. Teaching duties include participation in under-
graduate courses, and an advanced Master-level course
in the applicant's research area. Fribourg University is
bilingual, and undergraduate teaching is either in Ger-
man or French; Master-level teaching is in English.
The University of Fribourg provides excellent facili-
ties and a stimulating intellectual and social environ-
ment. The Department of Biology comprises 24 re-
search groups organized in four Units. The Unit of
Ecology & Evolution consists of ve groups study-
ing plant population ecology, applied ecology, invasive
plant species, community ecology, conservation biology
and evolutionary genetics of populations.
Fribourg is a very pleasant and lively medium-sized
town in the centre of Switzerland (less than one hour
from Lausanne, Bern, and Neuchatel), located close to
the Alps. The old town is charming and holds one of
the nest remnants of medieval architecture in Europe.
Students account for more than one fourth of the pop-
ulation.
The position is open starting 1st of September 2013,
and is limited to ve years. Annual salary starts at
about CHF 90'000 (ca. EUR 70'000). Note that the po-
sition is 80% the rst ve months and 100% afterwards.
To apply, please send a CV with a list of publications,64 EvolDir April 1, 2013
a one-page statement of general research interests and
planned research, as well as the names and e-mail ad-
dresses of two referees in a single pdf-le to Catherine
Cuennet: catherine.cuennet@unifr.ch. The deadline for
application is 15 April 2013.
For further information contact Louis-Felix Bersier,
Unit of Ecology and Evolution, Ch. du Musee 10, CH-
1700 Fribourg, Switzerland tel +41 26 300 8869; fax
+41 26 300 9698; louis-felix.bersier@unifr.ch; http://-
www.unifr.ch/ecology/ christian.lexer@unifr.ch
UGroningen
MarineEvolutionConservation
Please post { we are also interested in applicants with
an evolutionary approach/interest.
Thanks,
Per
Tenure Track Assistant Professor Marine Ecological Ge-
netics (1,0 fte) (213049)
Organisation
The University of Groningen oers excellent career
prospects The Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sci-
ences is oering young, talented researchers positions
which are at the level of Assistant Professor via the
tenure-track system. Researchers are given the oppor-
tunity to develop their own line of research. The fac-
ulty's career policy is characterized by exible person-
nel management with a focus on the individual. Aca-
demic achievements are seen as being central to the aca-
demic career, and ample opportunities for professional
development and supplementary training and education
are oered. Arrangements for training in the area of
teaching will be made with all new employees. The
policy is directed at increasing the number of women
in academic sta positions. Career advancement poli-
cies for women will also be improved, and women will
be actively encouraged to develop their careers. The
appointment will be on a temporary basis for a maxi-
mum of 6 years. On completion of 5 years of employ-
ment there will be an assessment of performance based
on established criteria including research and teaching
qualications. If the outcome of the assessment is pos-
itive, the assistant professor will be promoted to the
rank of associate professor with tenure. At the end of
a further 4 -7 year period there will be another assess-
ment aimed at a promotion to full professor.University of Groningen was founded in 1614 and ranks
amongst the best universities in Europe and worldwide
in a range of research disciplines. The University of
Groningen is rooted in the North of The Netherlands
and is internationally oriented with a socially active en-
vironment. Our researchers and lecturers are inspired
academics and our students ambitious. We respect the
dierences in talent, ambitions and performance of the
25,000 students and members of sta.
The university provides a career advisory service for
partners of new sta who move to Groningen.
Job description
The Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Studies
(CEES) at the University of Groningen has a vacancy
for a tenure track assistant professor in Marine Ecolog-
ical Genetics. CEES oers excellent opportunities and
infrastructure for experimental research in the elds
of ecology and evolution. Research programmes range
from marine to terrestrial ecosystems and from polar
to tropical regions. Research is pursued in collabora-
tion with, among others, the Royal Netherlands Insti-
tute for Sea Research and European and non-European
research institutions. CEES invites applications for a
tenure track position at the Assistant Professor level
in Marine Ecological Genetics as part of the research
group Marine Evolution and Conservation (MarECon).
We seek a new faculty member with a background in
population genetics and genomics of pelagic marine an-
imals. Specic (but not exclusive) focus-areas include
palaeogenetics and adaptation to climate change. Ex-
perience in \next generation sequencing technologies"
and bioinformatics is highly desirable. The applicant's
research is expected to contribute to the existing pro-
gramme and expertise, while simultaneously bringing
something new and complementary.
Qualications
Applicants must have a PhD degree and a strong record
of research accomplishments appropriate to their career
stage. The successful candidate will actively participate
in the teaching and research programmes of the faculty
and the Center for Ecological and Evolutionary Studies
(CEES).
Candidates will need to have the following qualica-
tions:
a doctorate in the eld of marine biology with special
interest in population, evolutionary genetics/genomics,
community genetics/genomics or related eld
two or more of years of experience outside The Nether-
lands in a post-doctoral capacity or experience at an-
other educational institutionApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 65
research, teaching and organizational experience ap-
propriate to career stage
research accomplishments, as expressed in a list of pub-
lications appropriate to career stage
evidence of successful acquisition of external funding
appropriate to career stage.
Junior post-doctoral researchers are especially encour-
aged to apply.
Conditions of employment
The University of Groningen oers a salary dependent
on qualications and work experience in accordance
with the Dutch university system from EUR 3,227
(scale 11, CAO-NU) gross per month up to a maximum
of EUR 5,020 (scale 12, CAO-NU) gross per month for
a full-time position.
Application Interested candidates should submit a com-
plete application composed of: (i) a letter of motiva-
tion, (ii) a complete curriculum vitae, (iii) a list of pub-
lications, (iv) a list of ve self-selected \best papers",
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UHawaii Manoa PlantEvolution
Gerrit Parmile Wilder Endowed Chair in Botany
The Department of Botany at the University of Hawai'i
at Manoa invites outstanding scientists with research
interests in the biology and/or ecology of marine,
aquatic or terrestrial plants to apply for a tenure-
eligible position as the Gerrit Parmile Wilder Endowed
Chair in Botany. The successful candidate will join
a faculty with diverse research interests, including a
strong focus on evolutionary biology, ecology, ethnob-
otany and conservation. Teaching responsibilities will
include an upper level undergraduate course and a grad-
uate course in the individual's specialty. As holder of
the Chair, the incumbent would manage a substantial
discretionary fund for research and training. Applicants
must have a Ph.D. in botany / ecology / evolution or a
related eld, evidence of excellence in teaching, prior or
current college or university appointment at the rank
of associate professor or professor or equivalent, and
a strong publication record. Desirable qualicationsinclude outstanding communication skills, extramural
funding, international recognition, a track record of
collaboration, and plans for a research program that
takes advantage of Hawai'i's unique biota. Individu-
als interested in developing innovative initiatives within
the Department of Botany and the College of Natu-
ral Sciences are especially encouraged to apply. Addi-
tional details can be found under position no. 84876
at: http://workatuh.hawaii.edu. To apply, please send
a single PDF document to botany@hawaii.edu that in-
cludes: 1) a cover letter indicating your teaching and
research interests and how you satisfy the minimum and
desirable qualications; 2) a detailed curriculum vitae;
and, 3) names and contact information for three pro-
fessional references. Review of applications will begin
on August 15 2013 and continue until the position is
lled. The University of Hawai'i is an Equal Oppor-
tunity/Armative Action Institution and encourages
applications from women and minority candidates.
Anthony Amend Assistant Professor of Botany
www2.hawaii.edu/ ~amend
University of Hawaii Department of Botany, 101 St.
John 3190 Maile Way Honolulu, HI 96822
amend@hawaii.edu
Anthony Amend <anthonyamend@gmail.com >
UHull EvolBiol
Job: Professor of Biological Sciences closing
date 8 April 2013 https://ig5.i-grasp.com/-
fe/tpl universityofhull01.asp?newms=3Djj&id=-
3D79969&aid14169 Job Details As an established
researcher with an international reputation in pure,
applied and/or interdisciplinary research, you will
play an integral role in the University1s long term
and ambitious plans for expansion. Supported by our
signicant recent investment in refurbished laborato-
ries, new equipment and academic positions within
School, you will also help to enhance our own interna-
tional reputation in pure, applied or interdisciplinary
research.
Working in state-of-the-art research facilities, this is
your opportunity to continue your proven track record
in obtaining external research funding and high impact
publications, as you lead excellent research and teach
biological science at basic and advanced levels.
Although no specic research theme is dened, we66 EvolDir April 1, 2013
particularly welcome applications from outstanding re-
search professionals with strengths in areas of whole
organism biology, environmental biology and/or envi-
ronmental microbiology. Above all, we are looking for
someone who will complement and strengthen our exist-
ing provision and whose research aligns with the over-
arching University strategic themes of Energy & Envi-
ronment and Health.
Playing a leading role in enhancing our research pro-
le, you will also provide broader academic leadership
and contribute to the future development of the depart-
ment.
For information about our Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences, please visit
www2.hull.ac.uk/science/biological sciences new.aspx
Interviews are anticipated to be held on Thursday 30
May 2013 and Friday 31 May 2013.
Requirements Applications for this post can be made
by completing a short online personal details form, and
uploading your CV, covering letter, publications and
any other relevant information.
A.Gomez@hull.ac.uk
UKansas Bioinformatics
Bioinformatics Specialist in Genome Analysis
The K-INBRE Bioinformatics Core at the University
of Kansas is now hiring a Bioinformatics Specialist to
support genome biology research on campus. We are
seeking applications from dynamic, motivated individ-
uals interested in helping KU researchers develop and
analyze genomics projects, providing computational bi-
ology and statistical expertise. The Bioinformatics
Specialist would also be free to develop their own re-
search program, mentored by, and collaborating with
KU research faculty. The University has an Illumina
HiSEQ2500 sequencer, so individuals with expertise in
the analysis of next-generation sequencing data are par-
ticularly encouraged to apply.
Required qualications: Masters in biology or com-
puter science; Solid understanding of Linux or Unix,
and demonstrated programming experience; A record
of published, peer-reviewed research. Preferred quali-
cations include a PhD in biology or computer science,
and experience with the analysis of next-generation se-
quencing data.Queries about the position can be directed to the
Director of the facility, Dr. Stuart Macdonald (sj-
mac@ku.edu). Further details, and instructions on
how to apply for the position can be found at http:/-
/employment.ku.edu/jobs/2323 . The position is open
and review of applications will begin on April 15 and
continue until the position is lled.
Dr. Stuart J. Macdonald Director, K-INBRE Bioin-
formatics Core Facility Department of Molecular Bio-
sciences 4043 Haworth Hall 1200 Sunnyside Avenue
University of Kansas Lawrence KS 66045
oce: 785-864-5362 lab: 785-864-5777 fax: 785-864-
5321 email: sjmac@ku.edu
sjmac@ku.edu
UMelbourne EvolGenetics
1. LECTURER Department of Genetics Faculty of Sci-
ence
Salary: $85,203 - $101,175 p.a. plus 17% superannua-
tion
The Department of Genetics is seeking to appoint a
Lecturer in the area of Genomics. You will be expected
to undertake high-level experimental research and will
also have a commitment to teaching within the Depart-
ment's undergraduate and MSc programs. This posi-
tion is also required to supervise research students at
undergraduate, MSc and MPhil/PhD levels.
The University of Melbourne provides a wide range of
opportunities for exciting research collaborations, and
you will be encouraged to develop collaborative links
within the Department as well as externally, in line with
the strategic direction of the Department of Genetics.
The role also requires you to undertake administrative
tasks for the Department.
Employment type: Full-time Continuing Campus:
Parkville
Close date: 5 May 2013
For position information and to apply online go to
www.hr.unimelb.edu.au/careers, click on 'Search for
Jobs' and search under the job title or Position no.:
0031074.
2. SENIOR LECTURER / ASSOCIATE PROFES-
SOR - MAMMALIAN GENETICS
Department of Genetics Faculty of ScienceApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 67
Salary: $104,370 - $120,344 per annum (Level C) or
$125,670 - $138,449 per annum (Level D), plus 17% su-
perannuation. Level of appointment is subject to qual-
ications and experience.
The Department of Genetics is seeking to expand its
research and teaching in the area of mammalian genet-
ics. The Department currently oers a comprehensive
program of undergraduate genetics education and post-
graduate research opportunities. This position will en-
hance the research and teaching prole of the Depart-
ment through the establishment of an active research
program addressing biological questions relevant to the
understanding of human health and disease.
This position will be located in the Genetics De-
partment at the University of Melbourne within the
Parkville Precinct, one of the premier sites for biomed-
ical research. The development of research collabo-
rations within the Department and externally will be
encouraged. This position will require a strong com-
mitment to the Department's undergraduate and MSc
teaching programs and will be expected to undertake
appropriate administrative roles.
Close date: 7 April 2013
Employment type: Full-time Continuing Campus:
Parkville
For position information and to apply online go to
www.hr.unimelb.edu.au/careers, click on 'Search for
Jobs' and search under the job title or Position
no.:0030996.
crobin@unimelb.edu.au
UMelbourne EvolutionaryBiol
SENIOR LECTURER / ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR
IN ECOLOGY Department of Zoology Faculty of Sci-
ence The University of Melbourne, Australia
Salary: AUD$104,370 - AUD$120,344 p.a. (Level C)
OR AUD$125,670 - AUD$138,449 p.a. (Level D)plus
17% superannuation.
The Lecturer in Ecology will be expected to lead a vig-
orous research program that attracts postgraduate stu-
dents, engages international collaborators and secures
external research funding from national and compet-
itive research schemes, as well as potential industry
partners.
You will have a PhD or equivalent qualications and ex-perience, a strong track-record of funding success and a
reputation for outstanding research in a branch of ter-
restrial ecology. Ideally, the research interests of the
appointee will include questions of applied importance
and will both complement and extend those of one
or more of the Department's existing research groups
(Conservation and Climate Change, Animal Behaviour
and Evolution, Marine Biology, Reproduction and Re-
generation). You will have excellent teaching skills,
and a commitment to undergraduate and postgraduate
teaching, course development and student supervision.
Employment Type: Full-Time (continuing) position
Enquiries only to: Professor David Gardner, Tel +61 3
8344 6259, Email david.gardner@unimelb.edu.au
Close date: 24 March 2013
For position information and to apply online go to
www.hr.unimelb.edu.au/careers, click on 'Search for
Jobs' and search under the job title or job number
0030862.
advertising-hr <advertising-hr@unimelb.edu.au >
UNebraska Lincoln
QuantitativeEvolution
Quantitative Ecologist - Assistant Professor University
of Nebraska-Lincoln
Seeking applicants for a tenure-leading Quantitative
Ecologist or Evolutionary Biologist at the rank of As-
sistant Professor with a focus on pesticide and other
environmental stress resistance evolution and in teach-
ing. The tenure-home for this position will be deter-
mined based on the expertise of the successful candi-
date, but may include the School of Natural Resources
<http://snr.unl.edu/ >, Department of Entomology
<http://entomology.unl.edu/ >, Department of Plant
Pathology <http://plantpathology.unl.edu/ >, or the
Department of Agronomy and Horticulture <http:/-
/agronomy.unl.edu/ >. A joint appointment is also a
possibility.
A Ph.D. in a biological discipline, earned by date of
appointment, with experience in mathematical, sta-
tistical, numerical modeling or theoretical approaches
to ecology and/or evolutionary biology relevant to
stress resistance is required. Preferred qualications
include demonstrated strong oral and written commu-
nication skills and success in securing extramural fund-68 EvolDir April 1, 2013
ing, evidence of working in a team environment to
strengthen collaborative links, and experience in suc-
cessfully teaching and mentoring students at the grad-
uate and undergraduate level.
To view the complete position details and apply for
this position, go to the UNL Employment website:
http://employment.unl.edu .Search for position num-
ber F 130076. Click on \Apply to this job." Complete
application. Attach a letter of interest, curriculum vi-
tae, and a personal statement describing your research
and teaching interests and experience (Other docu-
ment). Applicants must arrange for three letters of ref-
erence to be submitted by email to kjensen4@unl.edu.
Review of applications will begin on April 8, 2013,
and continue until the position is lled or the search
is closed.
The University of Nebraska has an active National Sci-
ence Foundation ADVANCE gender equity program,
and is committed to a pluralistic campus community
through Armative Action, Equal Opportunity, work-
life balance, and dual careers.
Karen E. Jensen, Oce Associate - Lead School of
Natural Resources University of Nebraska-Lincoln 913
Hardin Hall 3310 Holdrege Street Lincoln, NE 68583-
0989
Phone: 402-472-7569 Fax: 402-472-2946 E-mail:
kjensen4@unl.edu SNR Website: http://snr.unl.edu
Karen Jensen <kjensen4@unl.edu >
USaoPaulo EvolutionaryBiology
*University of Sao Paulo - Brazil: Faculty Position -
Zoology* The Department of Zoology of the Institute
of Biosciences of the University of Sao Paulo (Brazil)
is seeking applications for one tenure-track Assistant
Professor faculty position in Zoology (including system-
atics, phylogeny, morphology, embryology, natural his-
tory, behavior, evolution, and related areas) of the fol-
lowing animal groups: poriferans, non-parasitic platy-
helminths, lophophorates, molluscs, nematodes, echino-
derms or non-craniate chordates. Applicants must hold
a Ph.D. degree in a eld related to the position and
a demonstrated record of research productivity. The
successful candidate will be expected to maintain a rig-
orous research program and contribute to undergradu-
ate and graduate teaching. Applications must be sub-
mitted by May 3, 2013. Further information (includ-ing information for foreign applicants and/or holders
of a foreign Ph.D.) can be obtained from: Dr. Pe-
dro Gnaspini, Chair of the Department of Zoology,
zoochefe@ib.usp.br.
Prof. Pedro Gnaspini Chair of Departament of Zool-
ogy - Instituto de Bioci^ encias USP Rua do Mat ~A$o,
trav 14, 321. 05508-090 S ~A$o Paulo - SP - Brazil
Phone (+55 11) 3091-7513 or 3091-7802 (Secretary)
email zoochefe@ib.usp.br
Pedro Gnaspini <zoochefe@ib.usp.br >
USouth Tennessee 1yr
EvolutionaryBiol
The Biology Department at the University of the South
seeks a Visiting Assistant Professor of Biology for a
one year appointment in the areas of ecology, evolution
or biodiversity. Teaching responsibilities (9 classroom
hours/week) will include one or more upper division
classes in the candidate's area of expertise and par-
ticipation in Field Investigations, a class that empha-
sizes active learning in introductory ecology/evolution.
Candidates should be enthusiastic about teaching in
the context of the liberal arts tradition in education.
The University of the South comprises a highly re-
garded College of Liberal Arts and Sciences and a
distinguished School of Theology. It is an institu-
tion of the Episcopal Church that welcomes individ-
uals of all backgrounds. It is located on a strik-
ing, 13,000 acre campus on Tennessee's Cumberland
Plateau. Eligibility for employment is contingent upon
successful completion of a background screening. Re-
view of applications will begin immediately and con-
tinue until the position is lled. Send a letter of
application, curriculum vitae, statements of teaching
and research interests, transcripts, and three letters of
reference to: http://www2.sewanee.edu/printservices/-
faculty hiring Other correspondence may be directed to
fachire@sewanee.edu. The University of the South is an
Equal-Opportunity Employer. Women and minorities
are encouraged to apply.
Dr. Kirk Zigler Associate Professor Department of Bi-
ology Sewanee: The University of the South
kzigler@sewanee.eduApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 69
UTasmania MathPhylogenetics
Applications are invited for a lecturing position within
the School of Maths & Physics, University of Tasma-
nia, Hobart. This position will be oered on a full-time
xed-term basis for a period of 18 months.
The School seeks a highly motivated researcher, to work
with the theoretical phylogenetics team. The successful
applicant will be expected to have an independent re-
search programme and an excellent publication record
in the area of mathematical evolution. It is expected
that the applicant will have excellent written and ver-
bal communication skills, and he/she will be expected
to assist with the supervision of honours and postgrad-
uate students.
The successful applicant will undertake teaching within
an academic sta team in the School of Mathematics
and Physics. The applicant is expected to teach in and
coordinate units in mathematics and statistics. Addi-
tionally the appointee will participate in School leader-
ship and administration by contributing to committees
and by providing student and sta support. The ap-
pointee will demonstrate eective interpersonal skills
and ability to work cooperatively in a team environ-
ment.
The appointment will be at Academic Level A or B
depending on individual skills and experience. An ap-
pointment at level A will have a total remuneration
package of up to $83,879 per annum, (comprising salary
within the range $57,601 - $76,953 plus 9 percent super-
annuation. An appointment at level B will have a total
remuneration package of up to $103,875 per annum,
(comprising salary within the range $80,824 - $95,298
plus 9 percent superannuation.
For further information about the position please
contact Dr Barbara Holland, on telephone (03)
6226 1990, fax (03) 6226 2410 or email Bar-
bara.Holland@utas.edu.au.
The closing date for us to receive your application is
25th March 2013.
Barbara.Holland@utas.edu.auUWyoming
EducationOutreachCoordinator 2
Apologies for my rst attempt to send this.
POSITION ANNOUNCEMENT: EDUCA-
TION/OUTREACH COORDINATOR The Edu-
cation/Outreach Coordinator is an academic sta
position of the University of Wyoming's Biodiversity
Institute (BI). The position will work with other BI
sta in pursuit to its mission. The Education/Outreach
Coordinator will coordinate the Institute's education
resources, manage the education components of
the BI's website and provide education outreach to
Wyoming's teachers and schools.
Institute/University Description: In 2012, the Univer-
sity of Wyoming created the BI to encourage wise
and informed decisions concerning the conservation of
biological diversity. To meet this challenge a cen-
tral component of the BI's mission is to promote, de-
velop and evaluate biodiversity education in the K-
12 schools of Wyoming. More information is avail-
able at: www.uwyo.edu/biodiversity The University
of Wyoming provides high quality undergraduate and
graduate programs to 13,000 students from all 50 states
and more than 90 countries. Established in 1886, UW
is a nationally recognized research institution with ac-
complished faculty and world-class facilities. The Uni-
versity of Wyoming is nestled between two mountain
ranges in southeastern Wyoming. It oers varied aca-
demic and lifestyle opportunities including outstanding
outdoor recreation and year-round cultural activities.
The University of Wyoming is located in Laramie, a
town of about 30,000 with a unique blend of sophisti-
cation and western hospitality.
QUALIFICATIONS REQUIRED - Master's degree in
one of the following: Biological Sciences, Environmen-
tal Education, Science Education, Education, Curricu-
lum & Instruction or a closely related eld. - Experi-
ence in at least one of the following: development and
manipulation of curriculum resources (including digital
resources and eld and laboratory experiences), devel-
opment and administration of education websites, and
development of print education materials. - Excellent
oral, written and interpersonal communication skills. -
Experience working in an education setting - schools,
information education, etc. - Experience working both
in front of or with people and behind a computer. -70 EvolDir April 1, 2013
Ability to work alone and as part of a team
HIGHLY DESIRED - Background/experience in com-
munication, biodiversity, sustainability or science ed-
ucation, and technology integration. - Willingness
to learn additional computer programs and skills as
needed. - Leadership ability and experience - lead-
ing project teams, creating programs, committee lead-
ership. - Experience providing support to classroom
teachers. - Creative and resourceful. - Passion for and
dedication to biodiversity education.
Terms of Employment: Full-time, academic profes-
sional, year-round (12 month) with reappointment
based on satisfactory evaluation. Salary is commen-
surate with experience but starts at $50,000. Benets
include University of Wyoming insurance, retirement,
vacation, holidays and sick leave. Appointment date: 1
May 2013 (or as soon as possible thereafter).
Application Procedure: Send pdfs of letter of inter-
est, resume or curriculum vitae, as at least three let-
ters of reference to Brenna Marsicek, Biodiversity In-
stitute, brenna.marsicek@uwyo.edu by 11:59pm MST
on 22 March 2013.
Matt Carling Asst. Professor Department of Zoology
& Physiology Berry Biodiversity Conservation Center
University of Wyoming
www.carlinglab.com 307.766.6169
mcarling@uwyo.edu
UppsalaU Bioinformatician
Bioinformatician
Permanent position at the Evolutionary Biology Centre
in Uppsala, Sweden
The Department of Ecology and Genetics of Up-
psala University (http://www.ebc.uu.se/Research/-
IEG/?languageId=3D1) seeks a bioinformatician to
take part in and support evolutionary oriented research
using next-generation sequencing data.
The Evolutionary Biology Centre is an internationally
leading arena for research in evolutionary biology. Ge-
nomics is used as an integral part of many research
projects at the centre, in applications such as genome
sequencing, genome-wide association studies (GWAS),
population genomics, RNA-seq and others. We are
therefore now expanding our sta of bioinformaticiansto participate in and support this research.
Nature of duties: To act as bioinformatic application
specialist and to provide support in the use of high-
performance computer resources at the Uppsala Mul-
tidisciplinary Center for Advanced Computational Sci-
ence (UPPMAX; http://www.uppmax.uu.se) for anal-
yses of DNA and RNA data based on next-generation
sequencing technology. This includes technical support
in data processing as well as support in the interpreta-
tion of data and results. It is expected that the applica-
tion specialist remain up to date with developments in
hardware and software related to sequencing analysis.
The position can also include active participation in a
research project on speciation and population genomics
of ycatchers (see Ellegren et al. 2012. Nature 491:756-
760), the extent of which will be decided upon together
with the successful applicant.
Required qualications: A doctoral degree in bioinfor-
matics, computer science, genomics or population ge-
netics, or a masters degree in relevant areas with work-
ing experience from bioinformatics analyses. Thorough
knowledge in programming is a prerequisite. Since the
position involves close interaction with several research
groups, personal skills will be given importance, such
as:
-Very good collaborative, pedagogic and analytical
skills, -Ability to work independently and take own ini-
tiatives -A well-developed sense for responsibility and
servicemindness -A well-developed ability for oral and
written communication
Experience from bioinformatic service is of merit, as is
previous experience from large-scale analyses of next-
generation sequencing data. Salary will be set accord-
ing to competence.
Further information can be obtained from professor
Hans Ellegren (Hans.Ellegren@ebc.uu.se), phone +46-
18-471 6460. Trade union representatives are Anders
Grundstr om, SACO (the Swedish Confederation of Pro-
fessional Associations), phone +46-18-471 5380, Carin
S oderh all, TCO/ST (the Swedish Confederation of Pro-
fessional Employees), phone +46-18-471 1996 and Ste-
fan Djurstr om, SEKO (the Union of Service and Com-
munication Employees), phone +46-18-471 3315.
Applications must be submitted online no later than
April 19 through the Uppsala University system for job
advertisements. Use the link below to access the appli-
cation form.
http://www.uu.se/jobb/others/-
annonsvisning?tarContentId=3D237033 Reference
number: UFV-PA 2013/652April 1, 2013 EvolDir 71
hans.ellegren@ebc.uu.se
VirginiaTech Evolution LabTech
A laboratory technician position is available in the Mc-
Glothlin Lab at Virginia Tech. Our lab focuses on
evolutionary genetics in various reptile species. The
technician would participate in various aspects of these
projects, including supervision of animal care and
molecular work.
See http://listings.jobs.vt.edu:80/postings/38720 or in-
quire directly for details. For full consideration, appli-
cations must be received by April 8, 2013.
Joel W. McGlothlin Virginia Tech, Dept. of Biological
Sciences 2125 Derring Hall, Blacksburg, VA 24061
http://www.faculty.biol.vt.edu/mcglothlin Email:
joelmcg@vt.edu Oce Phone: (540) 231-0046
joelmcg@vt.edu
WillametteU
BioStatisticsBioinformatics
Dear Colleagues,
Willamette University is seeking to hire an applied
statistician as a three-year visiting assistant professor.
Applications are welcome from candidates working in
any area of applied statistics; the home department of
the successful candidate will be determined based on
her area of expertise. Applicants working in bioinfor-
matics, biostatistic, computational and systems biol-
ogy, ecological statistics, physiology, and statistical ge-
netics are particularly encouraged to apply.
The candidate will be expected to teach introductory
statistics and courses in the candidate's area of exper-
tise, as well as serving as a statistical consultant in the
QUAD (Quantitative Analysis and Design) Center.
The full ocial job announcement is below, following
my signature line. Note that review of applications will
begin soon (March 15th).
Christopher Irwin Smith Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Biology Willamette University Salem, OR97301 ph: 503-370-6181 fax: 503-375-5425
Lab Website: http://www.willamette.edu/ ~ csmith/-
ChrisSmith.htm Ocial Announcement:
https://jobs.willamette.edu/postings/685 Position
Summary Willamette University seeks to hire for a
position at the Visiting Assistant Professor level that
jointly emphasizes applied statistics and a disciplinary
specialty within its undergraduate College of Liberal
Arts. The home department will be determined by
the specialty of the successful candidate; likely depart-
ments include Biology, Economics, Exercise Science,
Mathematics, Politics, Psychology, and Sociology.
Position to start Fall 2013.
The position, renewable for up to 3 years, carries an
annual 6-course teaching assignment in the form of a)
at least two sections per year of a general, introductory
statistics oering, b) other courses to be determined
based on the needs of the College and the expertise
of the person hired, and c) a one-course-equivalent as-
signment to the Quantitative Analysis & Design Center
(QUAD) to serve as a sta training mentor and consul-
tant for thesis projects, student/faculty collaborative
research, and other specialty needs of the center.
Academic specialty is open; preferred qualications in-
clude a breadth of statistical training that allows the
candidate to serve as a consultant to advanced under-
graduates and faculty across a range of disciplines, re-
search projects, study designs, and data types.
This position is eligible for medical and dental benets,
and elective salary deferral into the university retire-
ment plan.
Additional Information/About the Department
Willamette University, founded in 1842, is the oldest
institution of higher education in the Far West.
Willamette University is a selective residential liberal
arts college in the heart of the Willamette Valley.
Situated in Oregon's capital city, Willamette includes
the College of Liberal Arts (approximately 2000
students), and graduate programs in Education, Law,
and Management. The academic year is divided
into two semesters, beginning in late August and
ending in May. The academic undergraduate prole
is competitive, with a GPA of 3.84 and average com-
posite SAT scores of 1260. Willamette students are
recipients of prestigious national awards annually, such
as NSF, Watson, Truman, Fulbright and Goldwater
fellowships. The university is committed to living out
its motto \Not unto ourselves alone are we born" by
incorporating the principles of sustainability, social
justice, and action. Salem is located in the center
of the picturesque Willamette Valley, approximately72 EvolDir April 1, 2013
an hour's drive from the Pacic Coast, the Cascade
Mountains, and the cities of Portland and Eugene. For
more information about Willamette, visit our website
at www.willamette.edu . Believing that diversity
contributes to academic excellence and to rich and
rewarding communities, Willamette is committed to
recruiting and retaining a diverse faculty, sta and
student body. We seek candidates, particularly those
from historically under represented groups, whose work
furthers diversity and who bring to campus varied
experiences, perspectives and backgrounds.
Required Qualications Academic specialty is open.
Ph.D. preferred, ABD considered.
Preferred Qualications Preferred qualications include
a breadth of statistical training that allows the candi-
date to serve as a consultant to advanced undergradu-ates and faculty across a range of disciplines, research
projects, study designs, and data types.
Special Instructions Thank you for considering an aca-
demic position within Willamette University (WU).
Please note that you will need to create an account in
order to apply, if this is your rst time applying online
with WU.
The following materials will need to be uploaded as part
of your online application:
- Cover letter of interest
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Other
Annelid Sequencing project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Bioinformatics on RaspberryPi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Divorce rates in birds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
EvoDevo Workshop survey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
FieldEquipment Vandalism . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .74
Fluorescent Dyes Question . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
ISTAustria SummerInternship Apr1Deadline . . . . . . 75
KentStateU SummerUndergradREU AdaptationHu-
manImpacts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .76
Kimberley Australia VolFieldAssist MammalConserva-
tion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Lepidoptera Evolution Issue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Logo for NSF CenterStudyEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Long-Short Term Eective Population size . . . . . . . . 77
New SMBE website . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78OxfordU WDHamiltonLife PanelDiscussion Mar22 78
Phyloseminar NormPace Apr16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Phyloseminar ThomasCurrie Mar11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Pyrenees VolFieldAssist EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .79
Reprint request . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
SSB GradStd Award . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
SSB MiniARTS grant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Software DAMBE update . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Training in phylogeny answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .81
USalford Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
USaoPaulo Brazil MarineEvolution InternshipAppl 83
Web-based comparative phylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
r8s problem . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Annelid Sequencing project
Dear Colleagues,Approximately two years ago we announced a
community-based sequencing service for annelids
within the framework of the NSF AToL Grant \Worm-
Net II - Assembling the Annelid Tree of Life". We have
had a number of responses which led to interesting col-
laborations. We would like to inform the community
that the project is still ongoing and that we are stillApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 73
accepting proposals which will be evaluated on a case-
by-case basis.
The project is intended to resolve phylogenetic rela-
tionships among closely related annelid species and to
investigate genetic diversity within selected species and
complexes of cryptic species. The service is available at
no charge to researchers who can supply appropriately
preserved material.
What we oer:
* Sequencing of the two mitochondrial markers cy-
tochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI) and 16S ribosomal
RNA for approximately 3000 annelid samples, supplied
by the community over a ve-year period. Samples may
consist of whole specimens, tissue samples or cleaned
PCR products. Species not represented in GenBank
will have priority.
* Databasing of collection information and sequence
data in a centralized databank at Auburn University
* Collaboration on data analysis and publication
* Deposition of voucher material in museum collections,
if applicable Interested parties are requested to supply
a short description of the intended project, including
the approximate number and type of samples, preserva-
tion method, permit requirements and status, shipping
needs and logistics, plans for deposition of voucher ma-
terial in museum collections (if not done by processing
lab) and expected time frame for processing, data anal-
ysis and publication. A sample proposal is pasted be-
low. Details of authorship of any resulting publications
will be negotiated on a case-by-case basis. A Memoran-
dum of Understanding between the party supplying the
samples and the processing lab will outline the respon-
sibilities of each party. Interested researchers should
contact:
Anja Schulze, Texas A&M University at Galveston;
Email: schulzea@tamug.edu Or: Frank Anderson,
Southern Illinois University; Email: feander@siu.edu
Sample Proposal: My Ph.D. student is currently work-
ing on a morphological data set for the eunicid poly-
chaete genus Palola. As the species in this genus are
morphologically very similar we need to add molecular
data to analyze the phylogeny of the genus. We have a
total 40 specimens xed and preserved in 95% ethanol
which we think represent ve dierent species. The
specimens were collected in Belize, Panama, Palau and
the Federated States of Micronesia in 2008. Copies of
the respective collection and export permits will be pro-
vided. We will send whole specimens by regular mail in
small amounts of ethanol. We have not made arrange-
ments for deposition of voucher material in museumcollections and would appreciate if you could assist us
in this matter. We request the COI and 16S sequence
data by Sept. 2011 because the student has to submit
a manuscript draft by Dec. 2011. We may also require
assistance with data analysis.
Anja Schulze, Ph.D. Associate Professor, Marine Bi-
ology Texas A&M University at Galveston 200 Sea-
wolf Parkway OCSB Bldg 3029, Rm 258 Galveston, TX
77553 Phone: 409-740-4540 Fax: 409-740-5001
schulzea@tamug.edu
Bioinformatics on RaspberryPi
Dear Evoldir,
We are happy to announce the release of 4273pi:
http://eggg.st-andrews.ac.uk/4273pi 4273pi is for
those wishing to teach, learn or use bioinformatics on
the low-cost Raspberry Pi computer. 4273pi is a cus-
tomised distribution of Raspbian GNU/Linux and in-
cludes an Open Access bioinformatics course, 4273pi
Bioinformatics for Biologists. 4273pi Bioinformatics for
Biologists is a general course, with signicant coverage
of evolutionary bioinformatics.
Best wishes,
Daniel
{ Daniel Barker http://bio.st-andrews.ac.uk/sta/-
db60.htm The University of St Andrews is a charity
registered in Scotland : No SC013532
db60@st-andrews.ac.uk
Divorce rates in birds
Request for data on divorce rates in birds
For a comparative project, Profs Andras Liker, Robert
Freckleton and I are looking for data on divorce (or
mate retention) from well-studied bird populations. We
need percentage of adults that survived from one year
to another, but divorced from their previous mate.
We need between year divorce rates, and it is important
that the previous mate of divorced individuals is also74 EvolDir April 1, 2013
alive; so that mate change is not due to death of the
former mate.
We appreciate the data in the following structure: (i)
scientic name of the species (ii) number of breeding
males that kept the mate from one year to another, (iii)
number of breeding males that remained alive but di-
vorced from their previous mate and the previous mate
is also alive, (iv) number of breeding females that kept
the mate from one year to another, (v) number of breed-
ing females that remained alive but divorced from their
previous mate and the previous mate is also alive.
Please also say how we should cite the data.
Best regards,
Andras Liker, Rob Freckleton and Tamas Szekely
T.Szekely@bath.ac.uk
EvoDevo Workshop survey
Dear Colleague,
We are planning to have a small NSF-supported work-
shop in December 2013 to dene the key goals, biolog-
ical questions, needs and future directions of the eld
of Evolutionary Developmental Biology (\Evo-Devo").
We would like your input!
Because the meeting will need to be small and well bal-
anced to facilitate meaningful discussion (25 partici-
pants), we hope that you will be willing to assist us by
lling out this brief survey to help us identify poten-
tial participants and dene the key questions you think
the meeting should address, and the key outcomes that
should result from the meeting. The survey should not
take more than 10 minutes of your time, and will help
us to identify potential participants and focus on the
key issues that are of greatest interest and concern to
our community.
As we need to get the meeting dates and participants
solidied as soon as possible, it would be very helpful
if you could ll out and return the survey by April 5,
2013, even if you ll out only part of it.
If you have already received an email inviting you to
complete this survey, please do NOT ll it out a second
time. If you would like to think more about some of the
answers or provide additional input, simply send one of
the organisers (listed below) an email containing your
further thoughts.A brief description of the stated Aims of the original
NSF proposal for this meeting is provided below.
Here is the link to the survey: https://-
www.surveymonkey.com/s/C3JXMB8 Thank you
very much for your time and input! Meeting Or-
ganisers Cassandra Extavour, Harvard University
(extavour@oeb.harvard.edu) Allen Rodrigo, NESCent
(a.rodrigo@nescent.org)
Workshop Objective: The eld of research currently
known as \Evo-Devo" is a broad, interdisciplinary com-
bination of multiple \parent" elds of investigation,
each of which have long and distinct histories. How-
ever, the integration of these elds remains challenging
at many levels. The objectives of this workshop are to
bring together a small number of interactive Evo-Devo
researchers from a range of backgrounds to consider
several fundamental issues:
1: To dene the principal intellectual goals and biolog-
ical questions of Evo-Devo, as it looks to the future.
2: To identify the next generation of resources and in-
frastructure necessary to ensure the ongoing success of
Evo-Devo research, and propose mechanisms to develop
and obtain these resources.
3: To identify the major gaps in Evo-Devo training and
education nationally and internationally, and propose
solutions to address these gaps.
Dr. Cassandra Extavour extavour@oeb.harvard.edu
Associate Professor Department of Organismic and
Evolutionary Biology Harvard University 16 Divinity
Avenue, BioLabs 4103 Cambridge, MA 02138, USA
http://www.extavourlab.com Oce Tel. 1 617 496
1935 Lab Tel. 1 617 496 1949/1200 Fax. 1 617 496
9507
Extavour Lab Administration: Mimi Velazquez Tel. 1
617 496 2132 nvelazquez@oeb.harvard.edu
EDEN: Evo-Devo-Eco Network http://-
www.edenrcn.com edenrcn@fas.harvard.edu
EDEN Administration: Barbara Perlo
perlo@fas.harvard.edu
FieldEquipment Vandalism
Dear colleagues,
Field biologists regularly leave scientic equipmentApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 75
unattended in the eld for data collection. We conduct
a study on vandalism and theft of such equipment, and
particularly how it can be reduced. We are therefore
interested in learning if and how often such incidences
do happen.
We would be pleased to hear from researchers working
in any area of biology and using any kind of unattended
equipment in the eld, e.g., animal traps and nets, cam-
era traps, autonomous recording devices, nest boxes,
sap sampling systems, mesocosms, etc. (Being an an-
imal ecologist, I do not know many systems used for
plant/bacteria/fungi/. research and would very much
like to learn about these, too.)
More specically, we would like to learn about the fol-
lowing questions:
1) Incidences: Had any of your equipment been dam-
aged or stolen? How many occurrences did you expe-
rience, of how many deployed equipment units, over
which period? (We also would like to hear from you
if this never happened to your equipment, despite the
possibility for vandalism and theft.)
2) Equipment and Protection: What kind of equipment
did you use, where was it placed in the eld, how was
it secured, hidden or otherwise protected?
3) Harm: What kind of damage, nancially, scienti-
cally and otherwise, did this cause to you?
4) Reasons: Do you have any thoughts about why these
incidences happened?
We would appreciate your time and help a lot. Thank
you very much and best regards,
Holger Goerlitz
hgoerlitz@orn.mpg.de +49 8157 932-372
Sensory Ecology Group Max Planck Institute for Or-
nithology Seewiesen, Germany
{ Dr. Holger R. Goerlitz
Max Planck Institute for Ornithology Sensory Ecol-
ogy Group Eberhard-Gwinner-Strasse 82319 Seewiesen
Germany
phone: +49 (0)8157 932-372 fax: +49 (0)8157 932-
344 hgoerlitz@orn.mpg.de http://www.orn.mpg.de/-
129793/ERC interBat hgoerlitz@orn.mpg.de
Fluorescent Dyes QuestionI am trying the design a microsatellite loci mul-
tiplex PCR using primers labeled with ATTO0550,
ATTO0565 or Cal Fluor 560 and Yakima Yellow u-
orescent dyes, but they are detected by more than one
channel using lter sets G5 or E5 in a 3500 Genetic
Analyzer. Are there specic Matrix standards for these
dyes, or protocols to construct them?
Thanks. eugenia
Dr Maria Eugenia D'Amato Associate Professor Uni-
versity of the Western Cape, Department of Biotech-
nology, Forensic DNA Lab. Private Bag X17, 7535
Bellville. Cape Town. South Africa.
medamato@uwc.ac.za Fax : + 27 21 959 3505 Te: +27
21 959 3372/2065
www.forensicdnalab.org.za Maria Eugenia D'amato
<medamato@uwc.ac.za >
ISTAustria SummerInternship
Apr1Deadline
IST Austria has just launched a summer internship pro-
gram for outstanding undergraduate and masters stu-
dents interested in basic research in a wide range of ar-
eas, including evolutionary biology. Interns will choose
a group to work in, will be assigned a specic project
and will conduct research under the close supervision of
one of the members of the faculty and, for experimental
labs, a lab mentor.
Duration: 8 -12 weeks between May 15 and Septem-
ber 15 Benets: Salary, full social security coverage,
reimbursement of travel costs, subsidized housing
To apply for the program and to see a list of IST Aus-
tria faculty members participating in the program, visit
http://ist.ac.at/research/isternship . The deadline for
applications is APRIL 1, 2013 To learn more about IST
Austria please visit www.ist.ac.at. For inquiries, please
contact istintern@ist.ac.at.
Nick.Barton@ist.ac.at
KentStateU SummerUndergradREU
AdaptationHumanImpacts76 EvolDir April 1, 2013
ANNOUNCING: Summer 2013 REU opportunity fo-
cused on Terrestrial-aquatic linkages in urban impacted
ecosystems at Kent State University and The Holden
Arboretum Kent State University and The Holden Ar-
boretum invite applicants for a 10-week summer re-
search training program. Students enrolled in this pro-
gram will conduct mentored research into the impor-
tance of terrestrial-aquatic linkages in the ecology of
urban-impacted ecosystems. This research will be de-
signed to examine how human activities such as urban-
ization, industry, farming, mining, and recreational ac-
tivities aect the way terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems
interact. Projects might compare sites with and with-
out urban impact to examine: nutrient cycling in soils
and streams, microbial community composition in for-
est soils and stream sediments, plant-soil interactions,
how shredders modify terrestrial leaf litter input to
stream ecosystems, the eects of terrestrial pollutants
on aquatic microbial community structure and func-
tion, how terrestrial and aquatic biogeochemical cycles
are aected by human activities such as acid precipita-
tion and land-use change. Along with learning about
hypothesis generation, project design, and ethics in re-
search, students will receive additional training archiv-
ing data in a geospatial database and will participate
in weekly seminars. Participants will be provided hous-
ing, a meal allowance, and a $500/week stipend. Stu-
dents must have good standing at a community col-
lege, college or university and be a United States cit-
izen or permanent resident. Members of underrepre-
sented groups are strongly encouraged to apply. Dead-
line for applications March 25, 2013. For more infor-
mation and application procedures please see the pro-
gram website at http://ecologyREU.kent.edu or con-
tact the REU Coordinator at ecologyREU@kent.edu
or the PIs Patrick Lorch (plorch@kent.edu) or Kurt
Smemo (kurt.smemo@gmail.com).
-Pat
Patrick Lorch
Ecology REU: ecologyREU@kent.edu http://-
ecologyreu.kent.edu Biological Sciences Dept. Kent
State University
O: 330-672-7888 Lab web page: http://-
lorchlab.wordpress.com \LORCH, PATRICK"
<plorch@kent.edu >Kimberley Australia VolFieldAssist
MammalConservation
\Volunteer Field Assistant Required
Ecology of Threatened Northern Australian Mammals
A volunteer eld assistant is needed to help Ian and
Richard with a project investigating re and mammal
ecology in the Kimberley, northern Australia. This
project relates to recent declines among native mam-
mals across much of northern Australia. Field work
will be conducted in the Kimberley region of Western
Australia and based out of Kununurra from May to
Sep 2013 (specic dates may vary). Volunteers will be
involved with trapping, identifying, handling and mea-
suring a range of mammal species from small rodents
up to larger marsupials including possums, bandicoots
and quolls (5 g - 5 kg). There will be signicant in-
volvement in measuring/identifying vegetation, habitat
assessment and data entry. You will need to be pre-
pared for early mornings, long hours in tropical con-
ditions (e.g. long walks carrying traps over rocky ter-
rain, high humidity and temperatures >35oC), shar-
ing cooking duties and living and working in a small
team. You will need to have a good work ethic and
you must be easy to get along with as eld work un-
der arduous conditions can bring out both the best
and worst in people! Desirable qualications include
experience with animal handling and ecological meth-
ods for undertaking vegetation survey. Accommoda-
tion, food and travel associated with eld work within
Australia will be covered (about half of the time), how-
ever the volunteer will provide their own food while
based in Kununurra and all their international travel
costs. Some accommodation costs may be covered
while in Kununurra.If you would like to apply please
email Ian Radford (ian.radford@dec.wa.gov.au) outlin-
ing your suitability for the role, relevant experience and
two references.
Deadline: April 20th 2013
Ian Radford Department of Environment and Conser-
vation, Western Australia"
\Radford, Ian" <Ian.Radford@dec.wa.gov.au >April 1, 2013 EvolDir 77
Lepidoptera Evolution Issue
Psyche: A Journal of Entomology Call for Papers
Special Issue: Genetics, Genomics, and Evolution of
the Lepidoptera
The insect order Lepidoptera, which contains butter-
ies and moths, is one of the most diverse groups of
animals in the world. Decades of research on moths
and butteries have yielded a wealth of information
regarding their natural history, ecology, and behavior.
Today, butteries and moths are emerging as impor-
tant systems in the study of ecological genetics, evolu-
tionary genomics, and speciation. Furthermore, multi-
ple moth and buttery genome sequences have recently
been published. We invite investigators to contribute
original research papers, as well as review papers, that
address novel aspects at the interface of genetics, ge-
nomics, and evolutionary biology.
Potential topics include, but are not limited to:
Molecular phylogenetics Phylogeography Empirical
population genetics Genetics of adaptation Speciation
genetics and genomics Evo-devo Wing patterning and
mimicry Molecular evolution Comparative genomics
Before submission, authors should carefully read
the journal's Author Guidelines, which are lo-
cated at http://www.hindawi.com/journals/psyche/-
guidelines/ .Prospective authors should submit
an electronic copy of their complete manuscript
through the Manuscript Tracking System at http:/-
/mts.hindawi.com/submit/journals/psyche/gge/
according to the following timetable:
Manuscript Due Friday, 2 August 2013 First Round of
Reviews Friday, 25 October 2013 Publication Date Fri-
day, 20 December 2013
Lead Guest Editor: Marcus Kronforst, Department of
Ecology & Evolution, University of Chicago, 1101 E.
57th Street, Chicago, IL 60637, USA
Guest Editors: Sean Mullen, Department of Biology,
Boston University, 5 Cummington Street, Boston, MA
02215, USA
Erik Dopman, Department of Biology, Tufts University,
200 Boston Avenue, Suite 4739, Medford, MA 02155,
USA
Marcus Kronforst <mkronforst@uchicago.edu >Mar-cus Kronforst <mkronforst@uchicago.edu >
Logo for NSF CenterStudyEvolution
Want to experience evolution rst-hand?
We are happy to announce that the NSF BEACON
Center for the Study of Evolution in Action is host-
ing an evolved art competition running from March 1st
through May 31st, 2013. The goal of this competition
is to evolve an alternative lighthouse to the BEACON
lighthouse on the collaborative art evolution web site
Picbreeder <http://picbreeder.org/ >. The top three
lighthouses submitted will receive monetary awards of
$200 (1st place), $100 (2nd place), and $50 (3rd place).
With control over the creative power of evolution, can
you evolve BEACONs new logo?
For more information, please visit: http://beacon-
center.org/blog/2013/03/01/evolved-art-competition-
evolve-the-new-beacon-logo/ { Randal S. Olson
Computer Science PhD Student Michigan
State University E-mail: rso@randalolson.com
http://www.randalolson.com Randy Olson
<rso@randalolson.com >
Long-Short Term Eective
Population size
Hi
I am looking for a review-article/book-chapter/web-site
or any other source that contains a clear, \teachable"
explanation of the dierence between short-term eec-
tive population size and long-term eective population
size. My searches yielded a small paragraph in Michael
Lynch's book \The Origins of Genome Architecture,"
and that was not nearly sucient.
Thank you Dan Graur
Department of Biology & Biochemistry University of
Houston dgraur@uh.edu
dgraur@gmail.com78 EvolDir April 1, 2013
New SMBE website
Hi folks,
We have launched a new SMBE website ( http://-
www.smbe.org/ ). Please go and have a look at it. It is
designed to be more engaged with social network sites
such as Facebook and Twitter and we hope to update it
regularly with information on upcoming meetings, etc.
Also, you can easily see what the \Most Read" papers
from MBE and GBE have been over the last month.
We also have a new Twitter Stream ( http://-
www.twitter.com/OcialSMBE ) and a new Facebook
page ( http://www.facebook.com/OcialSMBE ), so
please follow and like those outlets, if you have the rel-
evant accounts.
If you have any comments to make about the site, please
let me know and I will do my best to accomodate them.
In the near future, we hope to have guest blog posts
from the authors of recent papers in MBE and GBE, in
order to facilitate bringing these papers to the attention
of a wider audience.
Best,
James McInerney Secretary, SMBE 2013-2016.
Prof. James McInerney, jCurrently: Molecular Evolu-
tion & Bioinformatics Unit, jVisiting Scientist, Depart-
ment of Biology, jCenter for Communicable Disease
Dynamics, National University of Ireland Maynooth,
jHarvard School of Public Health, Co. Kildare, Ire-
land.j677 Huntington Avenue Boston, jMassachusetts
02115jUSA website | http://bioinf.nuim.ie/ mciner-
ney.james@gmail.com
OxfordU WDHamiltonLife
PanelDiscussion Mar22
Celebrating the Life of W.D. Hamilton, Nature's Ora-
cle. Panel event to discuss and celebrate his extraordi-
nary life and science, with Peter Holland (Chair), Ullica
Segastrale (author of the new book, Nature's Oracle),
Alan Grafen, and Stuart West. 4 - 5.30pm, 22 March
2013, Dept. of Zoology, Oxford.Rosie
\DAWKINS, Rosanne" <rosanne.dawkins@oup.com >
Phyloseminar NormPace Apr16
Next on http://phyloseminar.org/ \Following Carl
Woese into the Natural Microbial World V The Begin-
nings of Metagenomics" Norman R. Pace (University of
Colorado V Boulder)
Carl Woese, one of the great scientists of all time, died
in December, 2012. Among other important contri-
butions, he used primitive sequencing technology to
compare small subunit (16S) ribosomal RNA sequences
from dierent organisms and thereby establish the out-
lines of a universal tree of life. His results also put
in place a sequence-based reference framework within
which to understand and articulate biological diversity.
Since this perspective is based on molecular sequences
and not properties of organisms, it opened the door
to begin to understand the kinds of organisms that
make up the natural microbial world. Prior to Woeses
sequence-based reference framework, microbial ecolo-
gists had to culture organisms to study them, but not
many environmental organisms, <<1%, are cultured
using standard methods. Sequence surveys of environ-
mental microbial genes and genomes V - have now
revolutionized understanding of microbial ecology, in-
cluding its inuence on human health. The seminar
will discuss how metagenomics developed and the im-
pact it has had on our understanding of environmental
microbial diversity and the structure of the molecular
tree of life.
West Coast USA: 11:00 (11:00 AM) on Tuesday, April
16 East Coast USA: 14:00 (02:00 PM) on Tuesday,
April 16 UK: 19:00 (07:00 PM) on Tuesday, April 16
France: 20:00 (08:00 PM) on Tuesday, April 16 Japan:
03:00 (03:00 AM) on Wednesday, April 17 New Zealand:
06:00 (06:00 AM) on Wednesday, April 17
Note that our community authorization key is \garde-
nia2013" if you haven't come to the last couple of talks.
{ Frederick \Erick" Matsen, Assistant Member
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center http://-
matsen.fhcrc.org/ Erick Matsen <matsen@fhcrc.org >April 1, 2013 EvolDir 79
Phyloseminar ThomasCurrie Mar11
Next on http://phyloseminar.org/ \Bobbins, Borrow-
ing, and Bayesian Inference: Horizontal Transfer and
the application of Phylogenetic Methods in Cultural
Evolution studies" Thomas Currie (University College
London)
Researchers have applied quantitative phylogenetic
methods to study human cultural and linguistic evo-
lution. However, a common critique of this approach
is that cultural evolution and biological evolution dif-
fer in important ways that make phylogenetic analy-
ses unsuitable for cultural data. Principally, horizontal
transmission (or borrowing) of cultural and linguistic
traits is argued to be so pervasive as to invalidate the
approach. In this talk I will address this issue by asking
how much does horizontal transfer occur?, and does it
matter if it does? Contra the skeptics, I will discuss
studies that demonstrate that 1) many biological sys-
tems also show non-tree-like patterns of evolution, 2)
cultural systems vary in the degree to which horizontal
transfer occurs, and 3) borrowing does not necessar-
ily cause big problems. Rather than being a reason to
give up on the whole project, borrowing can be pro-
ductively investigated using phylogenetic techniques to
yield deeper insights cultural and linguistic evolution.
West Coast USA: 10:00 (10:00 AM) on Monday, March
11 East Coast USA: 13:00 (01:00 PM) on Monday,
March 11 UK: 17:00 (05:00 PM) on Monday, March 11
France: 18:00 (06:00 PM) on Monday, March 11 Japan:
02:00 (02:00 AM) on Tuesday, March 12 New Zealand:
06:00 (06:00 AM) on Tuesday, March 12
Note that our community authorization key is \garde-
nia2013" if you haven't come to the last couple of talks.
{ Frederick \Erick" Matsen, Assistant Member
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center http://-
matsen.fhcrc.org/ ematsen@gmail.com
Pyrenees VolFieldAssist EvolBiol
Field assistants summer 2013: Volunteer positions in
evolutionary biologyThe Barton group (Evolutionary genetics) at IST Aus-
tria requires volunteers to assist with eld work on plant
speciation in the Pyrenees (Spain) this coming summer
(May-July).
The project: We are studying the evolutionary dynam-
ics underlying species diversication in the genus An-
tirrhinum (snapdragons). We are using a range of eco-
logical, molecular and population genetic studies to in-
vestigate the dynamics of speciation in a hybrid zone
between species with dierent ower colours. This is
a great opportunity for anybody looking to obtain ex-
perience in eld work relating to evolutionary biology,
plant ecology and plant-animal interactions. You will
also be part of a large multidisciplinary team includ-
ing researchers from IST Austria (Vienna), John Innes
Centre (Norwich, UK) and the University of Toulouse.
For these positions we are looking for hard working and
enthusiastic biology students with a strong interest in
working in the eld with plants. You must also be com-
fortable working as part of a team. Experience with
eld-based projects and plants is preferred but not es-
sential.
We require assistance between mid May and early July.
Length of stay is exible but a minimum stay of 3 weeks
is required.
The eld site is located near Ripoll in the Eastern Pyre-
nees of Northern Spain. It is easy to get to by train
from Barcelona ( ~2 hours). The hybrid zone is located
at~1200m altitude in open forest and all daily trans-
port will be covered. Food, accommodation and travel
(within Europe) are covered. However, we cannot oer
any further stipend.
How to apply? Please send by the closing date of 12th
April, a statement of your background, CV, why you
are interested and the length of time you would be avail-
able via email to:
david.eld@ist.ac.at
Dr. David Field
Postdoctoral Fellow - Barton Group
IST Austria, Am Campus 1, Klosterneuburg 3400
Phone: +432243 9000 3008
Web: http://ist.ac.at/research-groups-pages/barton-
group/team/david-eld/ david.eld@ist.ac.at80 EvolDir April 1, 2013
Reprint request
Hello evoldir members, Does anyone have a (elec-
tronic?) copy of this publication:
Wen, Jun, Ickert-Bond, S., Nie, Z. -L and Li, R. 2010.
Timing and modes of evolution of eastern Asian - North
American biogeographic disjunctions in seed plants. In:
Long, M., Gu, H. and Zhou, Z., Darwin's Heritage To-
day : Proceedings of the Darwin 2010 Beijing Inter-
national Conference. Beijing: Higher Education Press,
pp.252-269.
I would much appreciate a copy. Many thanks already.
Heidi Schwaninger Heidi.Schwaninger@ars.usda.gov
\Schwaninger, Heidi" <Heidi.Schwaninger@ARS.USDA.GOV >
SSB GradStd Award
SSB Graduate Student Research Award
FINAL ANNOUNCEMENT The Society of Systematic
Biologists (SSB) announces the 2013 annual Graduate
Student Research Award competition. The purpose
of these awards is to assist students in the initiation
(FIRST TWO YEARS) of their systematics projects
and in the collection of preliminary data to pursue ad-
ditional sources of support (e.g., Doctoral Dissertation
Improvement Grants from the National Science Foun-
dation) or to enhance dissertation research (e.g., by vis-
iting additional eld collection sites or museums). Ap-
plicants may be from any country, but MUST be mem-
bers of SSB, and are advised to join the Society as soon
as possible to facilitate their applications (to join go
to: http://systbio.org/?q=node/6). Previous awardees
may not re-apply, but previous applicants who were not
selected for funding are encouraged to re-apply. Awards
range between $1,200 - $2000 and approximately 10-15
awards will be made.
How to Apply: applicants must submit
1. a curriculum vitae (one page); 2. brief research pro-
posal including objectives, methods, signicance, and
schedule (max. three single-spaced pages including lit-
erature cited and any gures and tables); 3. budget andbudget justication (one page); 4. and arrange for two
reference letters; one letter must be from the student's
current graduate advisor.
All application materials must be in electronic format.
Applicants and those writing reference letters are re-
quired to use pdf format to minimize diculties in le
transfer. Applicants should send all materials (except
reference letters) in a SINGLE pdf le. Letters of ref-
erence should be sent separately by the referees in pdf
format or in the text of an e-mail; please include the
FULL NAME OF APPLICANT in reference letters.
Please email all application materials and queries to
Sean Brady, Chair of the SSB Awards Committee at
bradys@si.edu. IN THE SUBJECT LINE OF THE E-
MAIL, PLEASE INDICATE \Student Research" FOL-
LOWED BY FIRST INITIAL AND LAST NAME.
To be considered for this year's award, application ma-
terials, INCLUDING letters of recommendation, must
be received electronically no later than March 31, 2013.
Please see the SSB website (http://systbio.org/?q=-
node/22) for additional details of this award. Ques-
tions via email may be addressed to Sean Brady
(bradys@si.edu).
PROPOSAL SUBMISSION DEADLINE IS MARCH
31, 2013
Sean Brady SSB Awards Chair bradys@si.edu
Se an Brady Research Entomologist Curator
of Hymenoptera National Museum of Nat-
ural History Smithsonian Institution email:
bradys@si.edu phone: 202-633-0997 website: http:/-
/entomology.si.edu/StaPages/BradyS.htm \Brady,
Sean" <BRADYS@si.edu >
SSB MiniARTS grant
SSB Mini-ARTS grant
FINAL ANNOUNCEMENT The Society of Systematic
Biologists (SSB) is pleased to announce the availabil-
ity of awards for revisionary taxonomy and systematics,
modeled after the NSF Dear Colleague Letter: Advanc-
ing Revisionary Taxonomy and Systematics (ARTS) re-
cently developed within the Systematics and Biodiver-
sity Science Cluster. We are calling these 'mini-ARTS'
grants. These awards are designed to allow SSB mem-
bers (students, post-docs, and faculty) to spend a sum-
mer or semester apprenticed to an expert in a partic-April 1, 2013 EvolDir 81
ular taxonomic group or to enhance revisionary taxo-
nomic and systematics research in novel ways. Goals of
this award program are to address constraints on our
knowledge of undescribed biodiversity, assist in passing
on taxonomic expertise before it is lost, increase the
number of students with broad training in organismal
biology and systematics, and support projects in bio-
diversity and taxonomy informatics as well as mono-
graphic and revisionary taxonomy. Activities can in-
clude a trip to the taxonomist's laboratory, pay for
the taxonomist to visit the applicant's laboratory for
a period of time, or pay for costs of computer time
or development of interactive keys for electronic dis-
semination of systematics results. Requests for sup-
port may be in any amount up to $3,000. We will
fund two or three of these awards this year. Please
visit NSF's website http://www.nsf.gov/pubs/2011/-
nsf11037/nsf11037.jsp for more information about their
ARTS program.
How to apply - a complete application includes: 1) a
brief description of the project, including a separate
section justifying the importance of the taxon and the
revisionary work; 2) an itemized budget; 3) the appli-
cant's CV; and 4) a letter of support from the taxo-
nomic expert or collaborator. If the applicant is a stu-
dent or post-doc, please also include a reference letter
from the advisor. Applicants may be from any country,
but MUST be members of SSB, and are advised to join
the Society as soon as possible to facilitate their appli-
cations (to join go to: http://systbio.org/?q=node/6).
The narrative part of the application should be no more
than two pages, including the budget, but not including
the curriculum vitae and letter(s).
Grant applications should be sent to Sean
Brady, Chair of the SSB Awards Committee
(bradys@si.edu <mailto:bradys@si.edu >). E-mail
submissions are required, and applicants should use
pdf format for all documents. In the subject line of
the email, please indicate the SSB award category
as 'mini-ARTS'. All documents, INCLUDING ALL
SUPPORTING LETTERS, must be received by March
31, 2013 for consideration.
Please see the SSB website (http://systbio.org/?q=-
node/26) for any updates or additional information
about this award.
PROPOSAL SUBMISSION DEADLINE IS MARCH
31, 2013
Sean Brady SSB Awards Chair bradys@si.edu
Se an Brady Research Entomologist Curator
of Hymenoptera National Museum of Nat-
ural History Smithsonian Institution email:bradys@si.edu phone: 202-633-0997 website: http:/-
/entomology.si.edu/StaPages/BradyS.htm \Brady,
Sean" <BRADYS@si.edu >
Software DAMBE update
Dear All,
I have added to DAMBE a new and unique phylogenetic
function for extremely diverged nucleotide sequences
(e.g., rRNA sequences from early lineages prokaryotes)
from which a multiple alignment cannot be obtained
reliably. The approach is to start with unaligned se-
quences, perform only pairwise alignment, and estimate
the maximum composite likelihood distances based on
the TN93 model from all the pairwise alignment, and
then use the FastME or NJ to build the tree. It pro-
duces surprisingly satisfactory results.
Please download the new version of DAMBE
(dambe.bio.uottawa.ca/dambe.asp) to try it. You ac-
cess this function by clicking 'Phylogenetics jTree with
pairwise nuc alignment'.
The only drawback is that it is quite slow (I used the
ane function gap penalty and a large nuc substation
matrix accommodating all ambiguous codes for pair-
wise alignment, and the simultaneous estimation of dis-
tances is also slow as it takes information from all pairs
of sequences). So start with a small data set with se-
quences that are not too long.
Best Xuhua
Xuhua Xia Professor Biology Department Univer-
sity of Ottawa Rm 278 Gendron 30 Marie Curie,
Ottawa, Ontario Canada K1N 6N5 Tel: (613)
562-5800 ext 6886 http://dambe.bio.uottawa.ca
http://www.biology.uottawa.ca/details.php?lang=-
3Deng&id=3D31 Xuhua.Xia@uottawa.ca
Training in phylogeny answers
Dear evoldir members,
We tried to gather information about courses or train-
ings on (i) phylogenetic reconstructions and (ii) high-
throughput sequencing techniques. Since it could be of82 EvolDir April 1, 2013
great interest for the community, here is the roughly
compiled information :
- Summer Schools in the future :
Probably soon :
http://www.nescent.org/courses/ http://-
www.wellcome.ac.uk/Education-resources/Courses-
and-conferences/Advanced-Courses-and-Scientic-
Conferences/Advanced-Courses/WTX060194.htm
http://www.zoologie.uni-rostock.de/whs-xxxii/
http://www.molecularevolution.org/ I also remem-
ber very well the 1999 course on cladistics by the
Willi-Henning Society (http://www.cladistics.org/-
workshops.html), which was still performed in 2011
with a few of the original teachers.
Czeck Republic :
The courses in Cesky Krumlov would be ideal for you.
There is a week on Genomics and a week on molecular
Evolution. Unfortunately the course is running right
now and nearly nished so the next one won't be likely
until January 2014. The course page is here: http://-
evomics.org/ and all the course notes are still there so
in theory you could work through these yourself if you
wanted.
highly recommended!!!
USA : For phylogenetic reconstruction I suggest the
course in Woods Hole Marine Biological Labora-
tory (see: http://hermes.mbl.edu/education/courses/-
special topics/mole.html)
In France :
(Bioconductor) : http://sfc.univ-rennes1.fr/-
informatique/SC introduction-R-bioconductor.htm
If you speak french there is an awesome course
on phylogeny in the university of Montpellier 2, by
Emmanuel Douzery.
http://abacus.gene.ucl.ac.uk/CoME/ In Belgium :
http://www.vib.be/en/training/research-training/-
courses/Pages/default.aspx?VIBCourseCategory=-
Bioinformatics%20and%20Statistics Every two years,
normally, a great workshop is organized both in the
USA and in Europe (for example in Li ege, Belgium) :
Summer Institute in Statistical Genetics. Information
can be found for the USA ; we do not know about
Europe. It can be worthy to have a deeper look :
http://www.biostat.washington.edu/node/967 - Past
or current online courses/seminars
http://iphylo.org/ ~ rpage/phyloinformatics/course/
< http://iphylo.org/%7Erpage/phyloinformatics/-
course/ >http://www.bioinformatics.org/wiki/-
Educational services- >font des cours en ligne
http://phyloseminar.org/recorded.html I had an ex-
cellent experience as participant of the rst S Star
online course in 2001, which went up to a 6th Edi-
tion in 2005, but probably no further : http://s-
star.asti.dost.gov.ph/course.html In response to your
question on EvolDir, Simon Ho (University of Sydney)
and Rob Lanfear run a short introductory workshop to
phylogenetic inference. Simon put most of it together.
It covers basic theory, and has practical components for
alignment, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian methods
using a variety of software (Geneious, RAxML, Par-
titionFinder, and BEAST). It's suitable for biologists
with little or no experience of phylogenetics, and can
also be useful for people who are comfortable with the
methods to brush up on their skills, and the latest soft-
ware. Info from one of the courses is here:
http://www.robertlanfear.com/phyloworkshop/ Info
for other iterations of the course can be found on Si-
mon's faculty website:
http://sydney.edu.au/science/biology/meep/events/-
workshop.shtml Best,
Gwenna el
Le 25/01/2013 14:46, Gwenna el Bataille a  ecrit :
Dear all,
We are highly interested in gathering information about
courses or
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
USalford Biodiversity
The Biodiversity, Conservation, Management & Evo-
lution (BiCoME) group at the University of Salford
aims to expand its involvement with international re-
search mobility through the support of prospective
Marie Curie Fellowship applicants. The BiCoME is
a dynamic and eclectic group of researchers interested
in a broad range of systems and methods to investi-
gate the mechanisms generating biodiversity, and iden-
tify strategies to conserve endangered biota and man-
age exploited resources. Individual sta proles can beApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 83
browsed at: http://hub.salford.ac.uk/bicome/people/-
current-members-2/ The University's Research & In-
novation oce has a good track-record in attracting
FP7 funds and members of the team provide excel-
lent assistance during the preparation of applications.
The current call can be found at: http://ec.europa.eu/-
research/mariecurieactions/ and applicants can either
be Europeans applying for Intra-European (IEF) or
International Outgoing (IOF) Fellowships, or non-
Europeans applying for International Incoming Fellow-
ships (IIF). Interested prospective applicants of ap-
propriate career stage, and with adequate publication
record, are welcome to identify potential mentors and
discuss research ideas. Deadline for the Marie Curie
fellowship scheme is August 14th, but given the admin-
istrative workload, it is desirable to have a complete
draft by the end of July. Thus, we encourage prospec-
tive applicants to start liaising with their chosen men-
tors around April/May.
Dr. Stefano Mariani Reader in Wildlife Biology j
School of Environment & Life Sciences Room 316,
Peel Building, University of Salford, Salford M5 4WT,
UK t: +44 (0)161-295-6913 jm: +44 (0)7712-689-
871 s.mariani@salford.ac.uk jwww.salford.ac.uk/-
environment-life-sciences http://hub.salford.ac.uk/-
bicome/2013/01/22/stefano-mariani/ Researcher.ID:
A-2964-2012
S.Mariani@salford.ac.uk
USaoPaulo Brazil MarineEvolution
InternshipAppl
Call of proposals: Research internship for the use of
scientic resources at the Centre for Marine Biology
(CEBIMar / USP).
CEBIMar carries out evolutionary research under eco-
logical and taxonomical approaches. The Centre has
conditions to support sampling, DNA analysis, and dif-
ferent methods of microscopy that may be useful for
evolutionary studies (phylogenies, phylogeographic and
biogeographic analyses, etc.).
Objectives: Stimulate collaborative work with CEBI-
Mar faculty and associated post-docs through short-
term internships, during which visiting graduate stu-
dents and post-docs will access scientic resources
based at the CEBIMar. Examples are (i) biological and
environmental databases, including time-series, (ii) ob-
servations and in-situ experiments within the S ~A$o Se-basti ~A$o marine protected area, which comprise nearly
pristine rocky coastlines and sandy beaches, (iii) biolog-
ical collections, and (iv) printed and digital materials
of more local or regional interest, including scientic
literature and image banks.
Interested students and post-docs are encouraged to
contact resident faculty for more information on this
internship program (www.usp.br/cbm). Applications
that do not foresee any direct collaboration with local
academics are also accepted.
Elegibility: Graduate students and post-docs from
Brazilian and foreign research centers, with demon-
strated interests in Marine Biology. Five proposals will
be selected.
Funding: This is an initiative of the Research Provost
Oce of the University of S ~A$o Paulo. Individual
grants should be used for travelling and maintenance
expenses for either short (3 months) or long (5 months)
internships, summing up to R$ 10.000,00 (ca. US$
5,000) and R$ 16.000,00 (ca. US$ 8.000), respectively.
Deadlines: - April 22nd, 2013: Proposal submission
using the Atena platform: https://uspdigital.usp.br/-
atena/atnPrpAcesso.jsp?codmnu=3467 - May 10th,
2013: Evaluation of submitted proposals - May 15th,
2013.: Publication of results - June 1st to November
30th: Execution of the project - December 16th: Sub-
mission of report*.
*The CEBIMar should be considered as second alia-
tion in all publications resulting from this program.
Submission: Use a font size compatible to Times New
Roman 12 and double-spaced paragraphs to include the
following: (a) Title page, with applicant's name and ad-
dress (1 page); (b) Plan of activities (2 pages); (c) Why
you considered this USP program and why is your pro-
posal feasible (1 page); (d) Timeline of activities; (e)
Expected results; (f ) References.
More information: guca@usp.br
Antonio C. Marques, Assoc. Prof. Depto Zoolo-
gia, Inst. Biociencias Universidade de Sao Paulo
Rua Matao, Trav. 14, 101, 05508-900, Sao Paulo,
Brazil Phone: (55 11) 30917530 Fax: (55 11)
30917802 Curriculum Vitae <http://lattes.cnpq.br/-
7691467467042656 >
Antonio Carlos Marques <marques@ib.usp.br >84 EvolDir April 1, 2013
Web-based comparative
phylogenetics
EvolDir members,
Does anyone have experience with web-based compara-
tive phylogenetics programs? If so, which one(s) would
you recommend?
Alternatively, I am curious which software programs
for comparative phylogenetics you may have found to
be the most user-friendly?
I ask because we are hoping to develop an educational
module, targeted at undergraduates, that will include
both tree-building and analysis of trait evolution.
Please respond to me directly (mclean@unm.edu).
Thanks- -Bryan
Bryan McLean Department of Biology and Museum of
Southwestern Biology MSC03-2020 University of New
Mexico Albuquerque, NM 87131Bryan Stephen McLean <mclean@unm.edu >
r8s problem
Dear Members,
Has anybody had diculty executing Sanderson's r8s
v.1.8 through Terminal on Mac OS 10.8?
For Example:
MacBook-Pro:ra8s home$ ./r8s -v dyld: Library
not loaded: /usr/local/gfortran/lib/libgfortran.3.dylib
Referenced from: /Users/home/ra8s/./r8s Reason: im-
age not found Trace/BPT trap: 5 MacBook-Pro:
Any advice welcome.
Kindly,
Michael McLeish Plant Geography Lab Xishuangbanna
Tropical Botanical Gardens Chinese Academy of Sci-
ences Menglun, Mengla, Yunnan Province 666303 P. R.
China. Telephone: TBA Email: michaelm@xtbg.org.cn
michaelm <michaelm@xtbg.org.cn >
PostDocs
CambridgeU EvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
CityUNewYork EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
ColumbiaU 2 PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .86
CornellU HumanPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
DurhamU PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .87
Grenoble France ComputationalStatPopGen . . . . . . .87
INIA Madrid TreeEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . 87
INRA Paris GWAS Drougth Maize . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
IVIC Venezuela MycorrhizalTaxonomy . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
Leiden Manchester MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
Munich TheoreticalPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
NHM London AnnelidComparativeVenomes . . . . . . . 91
OccidentalCollege NextGenPhylogenomics . . . . . . . . .91
OhioStateU Coevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92Oslo EvolutoinaryEcol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
QueenMaryU London EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . .93
RiceU EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .94
RutgersU EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
Smithsonian IndonesianBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
SouthAfrica USA joint EvolutionCellDeath . . . . . . . . 95
StockholmU 3 BioinformaticsButteries . . . . . . . . . . . 96
Tufts LifeCycleEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
UAlabama AlgalSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
UArizona EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
UBasel SexuallySelectedTraits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .98
UBern FloralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
UCaliforniaDavis MarineEvolutionaryGenetics . . . 100
UCalifornia SanFrancisco StatisticalPopGenetics . 100April 1, 2013 EvolDir 85
UCollegeLondon StatisticalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
UCollege London EvolutionSexes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .101
UCollege London SexEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .102
UCopenhagen 4 Phylogeography MacroEvolution .103
UEdinburgh EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
UHawaii Hilo TropicalConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
UIllinois PlantConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
UMississippi MalagasyAntSpeciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
UNebraska Populations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
UNottingham MarieCurieFellowships EvolBiol . . . .106
UNottingham MarieCurieFellowships SnailsColour-Polymorphism . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
UOslo FungalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
UQueensland LateralTransfer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
UTexas Austin EvolutionaryImmunology . . . . . . . . . 108
UToronto EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109
UUtah PlantAnimalInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
UWashington SalmonidGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .110
UWesternSydney InsectPlantInteractions . . . . . . . . . 111
Vienna PopulationGenomics OldWorldCamelids . . 111
CambridgeU EvolutionaryEcology
POST-DOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSOCIATE IN
EVOLUTIONARY ECOLOGY
A post-doctoral research associate position, funded by
the ERC, is available to work with Dr Rebecca Kil-
ner in the Department of Zoology at the University of
Cambridge.
The post-doc will work on a project investigating
whether parental care can drive evolutionary change.
Variation in the extent of parental care received during
development induces considerable phenotypic variation
in subsequent adult life. The aim of this project is to de-
termine whether selection can act on such developmen-
tally induced plasticity and thereby cause evolutionary
change. We shall focus on burying beetles Nicropho-
rus spp as our model experimental system because we
know from previous work that parent beetles establish
developmental conditions for their ospring that have a
profound eect on morphological, behavioural and so-
cial traits subsequently shown in adulthood. The suc-
cessful candidate will divide their time between running
large-scale experiments in the lab (including selection
experiments) at the Department of Zoology and carry-
ing out eldwork at sites around Cambridgeshire.
We are seeking a highly motivated, enthusiastic re-
searcher with a PhD in evolutionary ecology, be-
havioural ecology, entomology or closely related sub-
jects.
Previous post-doctoral experience would be an advan-
tage, as would work with insects or selection experi-
ments. A driving licence is essential.
The post is available for four years in the rst instance,
with a probable start date of 1 June 2013. The start-
ing salary is $27,854 - $36,298 per annum. The postis currently advertised on the website of the Zoology,
Cambridge website (www.zoo.cam.ac.uk under 'job op-
portunities') where further information about the po-
sition can be found, as well as details about how to
apply.
Informal enquiries are welcomed and should be sent to
Rebecca Kilner at
rmk1002@cam.ac.uk
CityUNewYork EvolutionaryBiol
Job Title: Research Associate (Post-Doctoral Fellow)
- Biology Job ID: 7746 Location: Brooklyn College,
CUNY
Under the mentorship and guidance of the Associate
Professor of Evolutionary Biology (Principal Investiga-
tor), the Research Associate will carry out independent
and collaborative research, and train and supervise stu-
dent researchers.
The Research Associate will:
- Develop plans, collect and analyze data based on
projects prepared together with the Principal Investi-
gator. - Prepare reports of completed projects for pub-
lication in scientic journals, academic presentations or
for further applied or theoretical research activities. -
Ensure the ecient functioning of the laboratory ar-
eas using various experimental techniques. - Provide
administrative and laboratory support to the Principal
Investigator including, but not limited to: managing
laboratory budgets and ordering supplies. - Train and
supervise undergraduate and graduate researchers.
Qualications: - Ph. D in Evolutionary Biology, with
a minimum of 3 years of laboratory experience - Expe-
rience with genomic/bioinformatics research methods,86 EvolDir April 1, 2013
including both wet lab and computer work - Field ex-
perience in marine evolutionary ecology and/or expe-
rience with the husbandry of marine animals - Out-
standing communication and writing skills - Labora-
tory management experience a plus - Preference will be
given to candidates with record of innovative project
contributions including peer-reviewed publications and
grant funding.
Closing Date: April 24, 2013
For complete job description and application instruc-
tions please see our employment page at:
http://www.brooklyn.cuny.edu/adminjobs and click on
Job ID 7746.
Brooklyn College is an AA/EO/IRCA/ADA Employer.
Jennifer Tsui <JTsui@brooklyn.cuny.edu >
ColumbiaU 2 PopulationGenetics
POSTDOCS IN POPULATION GENETICS,
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
Two postdoctoral positions in population genetics are
available in Molly Przeworski's group at Columbia Uni-
versity, as of fall 2013.
Research in the group focuses on understanding recom-
bination in humans and other species, and on mod-
eling and detecting the footprints of natural selection
in genetic variation data. The specic postdoctoral
project is exible. For more information about the
group, see http://przeworski.uchicago.edu/wordpress/
The lab will be located in the Biology department on
the main (Morningside Heights) campus of Columbia
University, contiguous to groups run by Harmen Buss-
maker, Dana Pe'er and Guy Sella. Thus, it will benet
from ties with other researchers in population and sta-
tistical genetics, as well as with the large biomedical
communities at Columbia and neighboring NY institu-
tions.
Postdoctoral fellows at Columbia have access to nice,
subsidized housing within walking distance of campus.
Applicants for the position must have a quantitative
background or have extensive experience with genomic
data analysis, as well a sincere interest in genetics and
evolution. Programming skills are essential. Infor-
mal inquiries as well as applications (including a CV,
copies of relevant publications and two letters of rec-ommendation) should be emailed to Molly Przeworski
at<mfp@uchicago.edu >.
Molly Przeworski Dept. of Human Genetics Dept. of
Ecology and Evolution University of Chicago
As of fall 2013 Dept. of Biology Columbia University
molly.przew@gmail.com
CornellU
HumanPopulationGenomics
Postdoctoral position in human population genomics at
Cornell University
A postdoctoral position is available with Alon Keinan
in the Department of Biological Statistics and Compu-
tational Biology and the Center for Comparative and
Population Genomics at Cornell University. Research
areas of the lab include human population genomics and
evolutionary history, method development for analysis
of next-generation sequencing data, natural selection
detection and characterization, and method develop-
ment for and analysis of genome-wide association stud-
ies. Research projects will be aligned with the interests
of the successful candidate.
The ideal candidate will have a strong track record
in population genomics, quantitative genetics, or hu-
man genetics, as well as strong programming and sta-
tistical skills, with a Ph.D. in statistics, computer sci-
ence, mathematics, genetics, or a related eld. The
starting date is exible and can be as early as July
2013. Applications will be accepted until the position
is lled. Competitive salaries commensurate with expe-
rience and skills, as well as a generous benets package
will be oered.
More information about the position can be
found at http://keinanlab.cb.bscb.cornell.edu/-
Postdoc position Keinan.pdf Interested applicants
should send a PDF with CV, a brief description
of research interests and experience, and contact
information for three references to Ms. Sue Bishop,
administrative assistant (skp5@cornell.edu), indicating
\position 205" in the subject line. Informal inquiries
are welcome.
==Alon Keinan, PhD Robert N. Noyce Assis-
tant Professor in Life Science and Technology De-
partment of Biological Statistics & Computational
Biology 102C Weill Hall jCornell University jApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 87
Ithaca, NY 14853 ak735@cornell.edu jhttp://-
keinanlab.cb.bscb.cornell.edu/ alon.keinan@gmail.com
DurhamU PopulationGenomics
Post-Doctoral Research Associate position in Popula-
tion Genomics
Our NERC-funded project involves the population ge-
nomic analysis of two congeneric deep sea sh species in
the genus Coryphaenoides, and the phylogenetic assess-
ment of 50-60 species within the genus. An expected
~5000 SNPs will be developed by RADtag sequencing
of approximately 400 samples for analysis at the popu-
lation level for the two focal species, one found in deep
demersal habitat, and the other in the abyss. Putative
functional loci will be identied to investigate the role of
adaptation to depth and associated habitat character-
istics both within and among species within the genus.
Whole genome sequence data will be generated for ref-
erence and further bioinformatics investigation, and the
available data used to identify population structure for
both neutral and putative functional loci. The PDRA
will undertake these bioinformatics and statistical anal-
yses using appropriate software, and identify candidate
loci (both neutral and evidently under natural selec-
tion) for analysis by phylogenetic methods. The dura-
tion of the appointment will be for 3 years.
The PDRA will have experience with next genera-
tion sequencing methodologies associated with sam-
ple preparation for RADtag sequencing, and with ap-
propriate software including the Geneious DNA se-
quence analysis package, genomic assembly software
(e.g. BWA, Velvet, etc), genome analysis software
(e.g. Samtools), script writing (preferably in Perl), and
a general understanding of bio-informatics associated
with the analysis of second generation DNA sequence
data. The PDRA will also need skills associated with
the use of population genetics and phylogenetic soft-
ware packages when applied to large datasets, and with
labwork associated with DNA amplication and Sanger
sequencing.
A PhD in a related eld is required, and relevant post-
doctoral experience and publications highly desirable.
The project is a collaboration between the Molecular
Ecology Group in Durham and the Centre for Genomic
Research in Liverpool, and work will begin on 29 July
2013. The Post-doc will be based in Durham (UK).To apply please send your c.v., a cover letter, and
have three letters of reference sent to Rus Hoelzel
(a.r.hoelzel@dur.ac.uk) by 13 May 2013.
\HOELZEL A.R." <a.r.hoelzel@durham.ac.uk >
Grenoble France
ComputationalStatPopGen
A postdoctoral position in statistical population genet-
ics is available in Grenoble (France). The postdoc will
work in the French national institute for research in
computer science (INRIA) under the supervision of Flo-
rence Forbes and Michael Blum. The collaboration be-
tween the two supervisors is devoted to the development
of statistical and machine-learning algorithms that are
needed to analyze large-scale biological data. As part of
this research eort, the objective of the project will be
to develop statistical methods that can scale with the
massive dimension of population genomic data. The
project pertains to the detection of genomic regions in-
volved in biological adaptation.
More information can be found on the INRIA website at
http://goo.gl/KLRNW Candidates should apply on-
line before March 27
Michael Blum CNRS Research Associate
michael.blum@imag.fr
INIA Madrid
TreeEvolutionaryGenomics
The Population Genetics and Evolution (PGE) Group
at the INIA Forest Research Centre in Madrid, Spain,
would like to advertise a postdoc position (17 months)
on evolutionary genomics and bioinformatics of tropical
trees. Foreseen start date is the 1st of June 2013.
The position is linked to the project CGL2012-40129-
C02-02/ AFFLORA: Demographic history and adapta-
tion in tropical trees (2013-2015) funded by the Spanish
National R+D+i plan.
The successful candidate should have experience in ex-
perimental design and use of Next Generation Sequenc-
ing data for population genomics. Additional assets are88 EvolDir April 1, 2013
expertise in population or adaptation genetics of trees
and in tropical ecology. Prociency in English is es-
sential, the knowledge of French and Spanish are desir-
able. The successful candidate will design and carry out
RADSeq or genotyping-by-sequencing in several species
of the genus Symphonia (Clusiaceae) and elucidate the
evolutionary history of the genus combining ecological
and genomic data. There will be opportunity to carry
out eldwork in tropical Africa and/or Madagascar.
The PGE group at INIA-CIFOR is composed of four
researchers (Santiago C. Gonz alez-Mart nez, Juan Jos e
Robledo Arnuncio, Ricardo Al a and Jos e Climent), two
\Ram on y Cajal" fellows (Delphine Grivet and Myr-
iam Heuertz), two postdocs, ve PhD students and two
technicians. Our expertise is in population and quan-
titative genetics, evolutionary ecology and population
dynamics of plants, mostly forest trees. Our main study
organisms are Mediterranean conifers and some tropical
trees. We examine the demographic, reproductive and
genetic processes that inuence adaptation to chang-
ing environments of forest species, including biogeo-
graphic approaches and applications for management
and conservation of forest genetic resources. We de-
velop studies on gene ow, local adaptation, plasticity
and phenotypic integration and on the molecular basis
of adaptation, as well as new statistical methods.
INIA Forest Research Centre: http://www.inia.es/-
IniaPortal/goUrlDinamica.action?url=http://-
wwwsp.inia.es/en-us/Investigacion/centros/CIFOR
CGL2012-40129-C02-02/ AFFLORA: http://-
wwwsp.inia.es/Investigacion/centros/CIFOR/-
departamentos/ecofor/PyC/Documents/CGL2012-
40129-C02-02%20AFFLORA.pdf For further
information, please contact Myriam Heuertz:
heuertz.myriam@inia.es; heuertzm@gmail.com,
https://sites.google.com/site/myriamheuertz/ {
Myriam Heuertz Ram on y Cajal Research Fellow INIA.
Forest Research Centre Dept. Forest Ecology and Ge-
netics carretera de la Coru na km 7.5 E-28040 Madrid
Tel: ++34 91 347 87 62
Scientic collaborator of Universit e Libre de Brux-
elles Evolutionary Biology and Ecology, cp160/12 av.
F.D. Roosevelt 50 B-1050 Bruxelles, Belgium email:
mheuertz@ulb.ac.be
http://sites.google.com/site/myriamheuertz/ Plant
Ecology and Evolution: http://www.plecevo.eu/ Myr-
iam Heuertz <heuertzm@gmail.com >INRA Paris GWAS Drougth Maize
Genome Wide Association Study of drought tolerance
in Maize using high throughout phenotyping and geno-
typing technologies Postdoctoral position is to ll as
soon as possible (ideally in may 2013) for a mini-
mum of two years at the Plant Genetics Moulon Lab
(http://moulon.inra.fr) in the \Quantitative Genetics
and Breeding Methods" groups in the framework of
the european research project \Drops". Plant Genetics
Moulon Lab conducts research on the determinism of
complex traits and valorization of genetic diversity in
plants. It is located in Paris suburb's (South of Paris
30 km) in an exceptional scientic environment.
>Background: The maize genetic resources, as for
most crops, remain largely underexploited in modern
breeding programs because it is very hard and time-
consuming to identify in the genetic resources collec-
tions the favorable alleles for agronomic traits of inter-
est. Moreover, genetic determinism of traits relevant to
address global change climate issues, as drought toler-
ance, is generally hard to decipher because these traits
arise from complex interaction between genotype and
environment across the plant life cycle. Combining high
throughput genotyping and phenotyping technologies
in the framework of association mapping could over-
come these problems and make it possible to identify
favorable alleles for drought tolerance within genetic
resources.
>Aims of the project: The aim of the project is to
perform association mapping on a diversity panel of
maize inbred lines to decipher drought traits genetic
determinisms combining high throughput genotyping
data with phenotyping data originated from both eld
network and high throughput phenotyping platform
(bioweb.supagro.inra.fr/phenoarch )
>Scientic program: The Postdoc will be in charge of
managing, checking quality, comparing and assembling
high throughout genotyping data ( >100 000 SNPs) of
inbred lines from association panels originating from
dierent technologies (Innium, Aymetrix, Genotyp-
ing By Sequencing). Using these dierent sets of mark-
ers, the selected candidate will analyze the diversity
of this panel, notably similarity between inbred lines,
cryptic population structure, linkage disequilibrium,
and possibly conduct neutrality tests. He will perform
association test on \cases study traits" using dier-April 1, 2013 EvolDir 89
ent models and softwares (evolution of scripts devel-
oped by the laboratory, software developed by WUR-
Biometris partner, external softwares). He will compare
results to determine, in close interaction with WUR-
Biometris and LEPSE partner, the statistical models
and methods best suited to perform association map-
ping in this panel. The selected candidate is expected
to be the leader of publication projects on these issues.
He will also be in charge of furnishing to other part-
ners checked set of markers, elaborated data (Struc-
ture, Kinship), and procedures needed to perform asso-
ciation mapping on complex drought traits (ecophys-
iological parameters, GxE interactions) measured on
a high throughout phenotyping platform at LEPSE
(bioweb.supagro.inra.fr/phenoarch) or on a eld Euro-
pean network dedicated to drought study. He will be
associated to the interpretation and publication of the
results. The phenotyping and part of the genotyping
data (50k genotyping data) have already been acquired
on inbred lines and will be available at the beginning
of the Postdoc.
>Skills PhD in genetics and/or in plant breeding.
Strong skills in quantitative and population genetics,
statistical modeling and R programming. Other pro-
gramming languages useful to analyze massive genotyp-
ing will be greatly appreciated (Perl, Python, C++...).
Knowledge in plant breeding and / or genetic resources
as well as modeling would be appreciated, along with
aptitudes for cooperative work and scientic writing.
Salary: ~2200-2600euro / months depending on expe-
rience including charges for health, unemployment and
retirement insurances ( ~300-400euro / month).
>To apply Send to St ephane Nicolas (snico-
las@moulon.inra.fr) and Alain Charcosset (char-
cos@moulon.inra.fr) a letter summarizing experience
and research interests, and a complete curriculum vi-
tae including contact information for three references,
if possible
snicolas@moulon.inra.fr
IVIC Venezuela
MycorrhizalTaxonomy
*** Spanish version follows***
*** all replies to lfajardo@ivic.gob.ve ***
Please forward to relevant email lists:
The Ecology Center of the Instituto Venezolanode Investigaciones Cient cas in Caracas, Venezuela
(IVIC; http://www.ivic.gob.ve/ecologia/) announces
the search for a researcher or post-doc to join our Labo-
ratory of Soil Ecology. The ideal candidate will be avail-
able as of May, 2013, to work in the lab's arbuscular
mycorrhizae group. Candidates must have a doctorate
and research experience in arbuscular mycorrhizal sym-
biosis and taxonomy (Phylum Glomeromycota), and
be willing to teach postgraduate-level classes, assume
administrative responsibilities, and supervise graduate
and undergraduate thesis projects. Experience with
the production of inoculants and the ecophysiology of
plants inoculated with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi is
particularly welcome, as this post includes coordinat-
ing the lab's ongoing production of this biofertilizer for
agroecological, teaching, and research applications.
Interested applicants should send a CV and brief letter
of intent to Dr. Laurie Fajardo (lfajardo@ivic.gob.ve),
prior to April 15, 2013.
*****
*** favor enviar respuestas  unicamente a lfa-
jardo@ivic.gob.ve ***
Favor difundir por las listas relevantes:
El Centro de Ecolog a del Instituto Venezolano de In-
vestigaciones Cient cas en Caracas, Venezuela (IVIC;
http://www.ivic.gob.ve/ecologia/) inicia el proceso de
selecci on para el ingreso de un investigador o posdoctor-
ante al Laboratorio de Ecolog a de Suelos. El candidato
ideal debe estar disponible a partir de mayo de 2013
para trabajar en el grupo de micorrizas arbusculares de
dicho laboratorio. Los candidatos deben poseer un doc-
torado y contar con experiencia de investigaci on en el
estudio de la asociaci on micorr zica arbuscular y la tax-
onom a de los hongos que la conforman (Phylum Glom-
eromycota). Adem as la persona seleccionada debe estar
dispuesta a participar como docente en el postgrado de
Ecolog a y en actividades administrativas, y dirigir tesis
de pre y postgrado. Esta particularmente bienvenida
experiencia en el estudio de la ecosiolog a de plantas
micorrizadas y en la producci on de inoculantes micor-
rizicos, ya que el candidato seleccionado coordinar a la
producci on de este biofertilizante que actualmente ll-
eva a cabo el Lab. para aplicaciones agroecol ogicas,
acad emicas y de investigaci on.
Los interesados deber an remitir su curriculum vitae y
una breve exposici on de motivos a la Dra. Laurie Fa-
jardo (lfajardo@ivic.gob.ve), antes del 15 de abril de
2013.
Kathryn M. Rodriguez-Clark, Ph.D. Investi-
gadora/Researcher Laboratorio de Ecologia y Genetica
de Poblaciones, Centro de Ecologia Instituto Vene-90 EvolDir April 1, 2013
zolano de Investigaciones Cienticas (IVIC) Apartado
20632 Caracas 1020-A, Venezuela
Tel: +58-212-504-1889 Fax: +58-212-504-1617
alt. email: kmrc@ivic.gob.ve
Los acentos gracos han sido voluntariamente omitidos
para evitar problemas con algunos clientes de correo
electronico. Perdonen los inconvenientes que por ello
puedan haberse generado.
kmrodriguezclark@gmail.com
Leiden Manchester
MicrobialEvolution
Postdoctoral Research Associate, Microbial Evolution
University of Leiden, The Netherlands and University
of Manchester, UK
This BBSRC funded project, run jointly by Leiden
University (Dr. Daniel Rozen) and the University of
Manchester (Prof Ian Roberts), will study the evolu-
tion and ecology of bacteriocins and interference com-
petition in Streptococcus pneumoniae. Using multidis-
ciplinary approaches, the project aims to understand
the role of bacteriocins in generating and maintaining
bacterial diversity and inuencing pneumococcal pop-
ulation dynamics.
The appointed postdoc will be responsible for designing
and carrying out experiments using bacteria, carrying
out next-generation sequencing of bacterial genomes,
analyzing experimental and bioinformatic data, prepar-
ing manuscripts, and helping with the supervision of
students. You should hold a PhD in a relevant bio-
logical discipline and have a strong background in evo-
lutionary biology. Experience in microbial genetics is
desirable.
Informal enquiries Dr Daniel Rozen: Email:
d.e.rozen@biology.leidenuniv.nl
Telephone:+31 (0)71 527 7990
d.e.rozen@biology.leidenuniv.nlMunich
TheoreticalPopulationGenetics
PARMENIDES FELLOWSHIP IN THEORETICAL
BIOLOGY - CALL FOR APPLICATIONS
One position as a thematic Parmenides fellowship is
open in the Parmenides Center for the Conceptual
Foundations of Science (Munich, Germany) under the
supervision of Prof. E ors Szathm ary. Successful can-
didates will carry out their own research agenda in the
eld described below. The position is for a minimum of
1 year to a maximum of 3 years. Successful applicants
will receive a stipend of 2500 EUR per month (net).The
proposed project may start as soon as a suitable can-
didate is identied, but not later than the 15th April,
2013.
Theoretical and experimental approaches to Insight
problems: Insight problems constitute an important
area of psychological research. Progress is expected
from the theoretical and experimental application of
the concepts and methods of Darwinian neurodynam-
ics.
We seek applicants with experience in theoretical bi-
ology and experimentation with animals and humans.
Knowledge of population genetics, connectionist mod-
els and biolinguistics is welcome. Furthermore, candi-
dates should have a Ph.D. and a record in publishing in
international scholarly journals and uency in English.
Candidates interested in this position should submit
an application consisting of a CV with full list of pub-
lications, a motivation letter (1 page) and a proposed
workplan (max 5 pages).
The deadline for applications is 5th April, 2013. Appli-
cations should be sent by email to E ors Szathm ary, sza-
thmary.eors@gmail.com. Applications not tting the
call will be ignored.
Carsten Freit ager Projektmanagement Par-
menides Stiftung Kirchplatz 1 82049 Pullach Tel
+49.89.4520935.0 Fax +49.89.4520935.31 Mobil
+49.173.5403274 carsten.freitaeger@parmenides-
foundation.org
Carsten Freit ager <carsten.freitaeger@parmenides-
foundation.org >April 1, 2013 EvolDir 91
NHM London
AnnelidComparativeVenomes
Postdoctoral Research AssistantXComparative Ven-
omics of Polychaete Annelids
We are excited to announce that a three year xed-term
position has opened for a Post-Doctoral Research As-
sistant in the Natural History Museum (London) to do
research in the eld of venomics. The candidate will
be expected to spearhead the day-to-day activities in a
research project that aims to characterize the composi-
tion, bioactitivies, and evolution of polychaete venoms.
Putative venom peptides and proteins will be proled
for several polychaete species with both transcriptomic
and proteomic techniques, and the bioactivities of se-
lected venom toxins will be assayed. Together these
analyses will provide insights into the biology and evo-
lution of polychaete venoms, and may lead to the iden-
tication of venom toxins that could be promising for
applied uses. The successful candidate will be involved
in all aspects of the research, including procurement of
specimens in the eld, data production and analysis,
and communication of the results in both written in
spoken formats.
Application deadline is 17 March 2013. For more de-
tails and information on how to apply for this po-
sition please visit http://www.nhm.ac.uk/about-us/-
jobs-volunteering-internships/index.html For infor-
mal enquiries please contact Dr Ronald Jenner, De-
partment of Life Sciences, Natural History Museum,
Cromwell Road, London SW7 5BD, UK. Email:
r.jenner@nhm.ac.uk
Dr Ronald A. Jenner Department of Life Sciences The
Natural History Museum Cromwell Road London SW7
5BD United Kingdom
Tel. +44 207 942 6885 (oce) / 5774 (lab) Fax.
+44 207 942 5054 www.nhm.ac.uk/research-curation/-
sta-directory/zoology/r-jenner/ Ronald Jenner
<r.jenner@nhm.ac.uk >
OccidentalCollege
NextGenPhylogenomicsThe McCormack Lab at the Moore Laboratory of Zo-
ology, a research unit aliated with the Biology De-
partment at Occidental College, is seeking a POST-
DOCTORAL RESEARCHER for a 3-year NSF-funded
project to conduct a large-scale comparative phylogeog-
raphy of birds and reptiles in one of the world's biodi-
versity hotspots, the Mexican pine-oak forests. Popula-
tion level data will be collected using target enrichment
(sequence capture) and high-throughput sequencing of
hundreds to thousands of molecular markers to explore
biogeographic hypotheses for divergence among the ma-
jor mountain ranges of Mexico.
The applicant should have a Ph.D., several years' expe-
rience working with DNA in a molecular lab, familiarity
with next-generation sequencing, computational skills
for data processing and management, a keen knowl-
edge of phylogenetic and population-genetic analyses,
and the ability to write lead-author manuscripts. Most
samples are already collected, but there is a possibil-
ity to participate in further eld work in Mexico. Du-
ties shared with a laboratory technician include train-
ing and coordinating the activities of undergraduates.
The applicant should have good leadership, organiza-
tional, and interpersonal skills. The position is funded
for up to three years and will involve collaboration
with a team of researchers at UCLA, the Burke Mu-
seum at the University of Washington, and Universidad
Autonoma de Nuevo Leon, Mexico. Salary begins at
$40,000/year (or more depending on experience) plus
benets, with yearly cost-of-living raises. The ideal
start date is spring/summer 2013.
The Moore Laboratory of Zoology is a world-renowned
natural history collection featuring the largest Mexican
bird collection in the world and over 62,000 bird and
mammal specimens. The MLZ has close ties to nearby
institutions such as the Jet Propulsion Lab, Cal Tech,
the Claremont Colleges, USC, UCLA, Huntington Gar-
dens, and the L.A. Natural History Museum. Occiden-
tal College is a small liberal arts college located in the
culturally-rich Los Angeles neighborhood of Eagle Rock
near Pasadena. Occidental is well-situated close to
many outdoor recreational activities: the ocean, moun-
tains, and desert can all be reached in 45 minutes or
less. The neighborhood surrounding Occidental College
is family friendly, very walkable, and home to a wealth
of urban amenities including restaurants, coee shops,
and art galleries, with nearby major cultural attrac-
tions such the La Brea Tar Pits, L.A. County Museum
of Art, Walt Disney Concert Hall, etc.
Please send an e-mail with subject heading \MLZ Post-
doc Position" expressing (i) your interest, (ii) your
qualications, and (iii) contact information for two ref-
erences, and attach a CV. Send to JOHN MCCOR-92 EvolDir April 1, 2013
MACK, Director of the MLZ, at mccormack@oxy.edu.
Applications will be accepted from now until the posi-
tion is lled.
mccormack@oxy.edu
OhioStateU Coevolution
Post-doctoral position: Co-evolution among Soybean
and its Pathogens and Pests
We seek a postdoctoral researcher to join an interdis-
ciplinary project studying various co-evolutionary as-
pects of soybean and its pests and pathogens, including
genetic, metabolomic, biochemical and function inter-
actions. Our research eorts are focused on identifying
the causal genes that contribute to expression of re-
sistance to many of the pests (pathogens and insects),
and retain or improve yield and soybean quality. In the
long-term, understanding these foundational and basic
interactions in an evolutionary framework will lead to
enhanced crop production.
We seek applicants with an interest and experience in
plant-pest/pathogen co-evolutionary interactions using
a range of techniques from quantitative and molecu-
lar genetics, genomics, metabolomics, transcriptomics,
network analysis, and/or bioinformatics. Skills related
to genome assembly and annotation, RNA-Sequencing,
functional analysis of candidate genes, metabolomic
pathway development or other molecular biology tech-
niques are a plus. The position is purely interdisci-
plinary, collaborating with faculty in Horticulture and
Crop Science, Plant Pathology and Entomology. This
position is a full-time, term appointment for an ini-
tial period of one year, and can be extended based on
funding and performance. Travel between the Wooster
(Ohio Agricultural Research and Development Center)
and Columbus campuses of Ohio State will be needed.
This postdoctoral position will be a member of the
Center for Applied Plant Sciences (CAPS; https://-
caps.osu.edu/. For specic information about the re-
search and opportunity, contact Anne Dorrance (dor-
rance.1@osu.edu), Chris Taylor (taylor.1886@osu.edu),
Andrew Michel (michel.70@osu.edu), or Leah McHale
(mchale.21@osu.edu). Interested applicants should
send 1) a letter of interest, 2) a single PDF document
containing the applicant's CV and contact information
for three professional references, 3) reprint(s) of rele-
vant authored publications to dorrance.1@osu.edu. Re-
view of applications will begin on March 31, 2013 andcontinue until a satisfactory candidate is found.
michel.70@osu.edu
Oslo EvolutoinaryEcol
CEES - Department of Biosciences
Postdoctoral research fellow in evolutionary ecology
A 2-year position as postdoctoral research fellow in evo-
lutionary ecology is available at the Centre for Ecologi-
cal and Evolutionary Synthesis (CEES), Department of
Biosciences, Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sci-
ences.
The Post Doctoral fellow will be part of the
project \Hydropower and connectivity in inland rivers
(RIVERCONN)" funded by the Norwegian Research
Council as part of the Milj ~A2015 Program. The project
is a collaboration eort, lead by the Norwegian Insti-
tute for Nature Research at Lillehammer. Within the
framework of the position duties may be assigned. No
one can be appointed for more than one specied period
at the same institution.
Project description
The primary objective of RIVERCONN is to increase
our knowledge on the ecological and evolutionary con-
sequences of loss of connectivity in inland river sys-
tems, and to assess when and under which conditions
loss of connectivity in river systems are a) critical, b)
signicant but not critical, or c) of minor importance
for ecosystem functionality and preserving life history
variation of migratory sh species. Study species are
brown trout and grayling. Both species are of great
economic and societal interest in Norway. We will use a
combination of ecological (analysis of population com-
position using length and age data; movement using
telemetry and mark - recapture data) and population
genetic methods (microsatellites and SNPs) to answer
our research questions. The project is a large collab-
orative eort, involving students and researchers from
many institutions. A large amount of genetic and eco-
logical data has already been collected.
Qualications
The Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences has
a strategic ambition of being a leading research faculty.
Candidates for these fellowships will be selected in ac-
cordance with this, and expected to be in the upper
segment of their class with respect to academic creden-April 1, 2013 EvolDir 93
tials.
The applicant must have a PhD or other corresponding
education equivalent to a Norwegian doctoral degree
in sheries biology or a similar eld, with a focus on
population genetics. The announced position involves
organizing the genotyping and the subsequent analy-
sis of the data for a large number of carefully chosen
individuals of trout and grayling from two large river
systems (Glomma and Gudbrandsdalsl ~Agen). Further,
participation in eldwork (e.g. habitat mapping, sh
sampling) and regular visits to the Norwegian Institute
for Nature Research at Lillehammer are expected.
A solid background in population genetics and sh ecol-
ogy, and excellent knowledge of relevant software, is re-
quired. Applicants must possess sound knowledge of
dierent modeling approaches in sheries biology and
should have a successful track record of applying these
skills to sh populations. The candidate is expected to
take the lead in the publication process. An interest in
both fundamental and applied research and ability to
communicate and work in a multidisciplinary team are
essential.
The main purpose of post-doctoral research fellowships
is to qualify researchers for work in top academic posi-
tions within their disciplines.
Please also refer to the regulations pertaining to
the conditions of employment for post-doctoral
fellowship positions: https://www.uio.no/english/-
about/regulations/personnel/academic/guidelines-
appointment-postdoc-researcher.html Language:
A very good command of English is required -
www.mn.uio.no/english/research/doctoral-degree-
and-career/regulations/prociency-requirements.html
Salary (applicable for the University of Oslo): Position
code 1352, pay grade: 57-65 (NOK 468 400 - 542 900
per year, depending on qualications)
The application must include:
Application letter including a statement of interest,
briey summarizing your scientic work and interests
and describing how you t the description of the person
we seek
CV (summarizing education, positions, pedagogical ex-
perience, administrative experience and other qualify-
ing activity)
Copies of educational certicates, transcript of records,
letters of recommendation
A complete list of publications and unpublished works,
and up to 5 academic work that applicant wishes to be
considered by the evaluation committee
Names and contact details of 2-3 references (name, re-lation to candidate, e-mail and telephone number)
The position is available from May 1, 2013 (given fund-
ing from the RCN).
Foreign applicants are advised to attach an explanation
of their University's grading system. Please remember
that all documents should be in English or a Scandina-
vian
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
QueenMaryU London
EvolutionaryBiol
Marie Curie Fellowship Opportunities (and support in
preparing cases)
School of Biological and Chemical Sciences at Queen
Mary, University of London invites postdocs wishing to
be sponsored for MC fellowship applications to contact
us. We have helped several postdocs to draft successful
applications in previous rounds.
Information about Queen Mary can be found here:
http://www.qmul.ac.uk/about/index.html
Candidates can undertake research in any of the active
areas of research within SBCS, and we are also happy
to consider other topics proposed by applicants.
If you are interested
1) Please contact the relevant member of sta listed
on these research pages http://www.sbcs.qmul.ac.uk/-
research/16201.html and
2) Copy your message to sbcs-research@qmul.ac.uk
A digest of possible topics in evolutionary biology (re-
member you can suggest your own)
Evolutionary and organismal biology The statistical
analysis of spatial genetic data Hybridisation and hy-
brid zones The neurobiological basis of drug depen-
dence Plant cytogenetics and genome evolution Com-
parative physiology and evolution of neuropeptide
signalling systems Neurobiology, neuropathology and
evolution of endocannabinoid signalling Evolutionary
changes in arthropod neurogenesis Bioinformatics for
genomics of emerging model organisms Evolutionary94 EvolDir April 1, 2013
genetics and genomics of mammals Evolutionary ge-
nomics of insect societies
Ecology and behavioural biology: Understanding social
behaviour - a genomic approach How fast should colour
vision be? An electrophysiological study of the early
visual system Communication, cognition and welfare
in mammals Social learning across species boundaries
Methane-subsidised production in fast owing rivers:
a novel mechanism of carbon and energy ux Marine
and estuarine ecology Automated analyses of full be-
havioural repertoires by motion capture and cluster-
ing algorithms Articial neuronal networks for multi-
tasking in bee cognition and behaviour Multi-electrode
recordings from the bee brains to explore the neuronal
ensemble code for visual cognitive tasks
r.a.nichols@qmul.ac.uk
RiceU EvolutionaryBiology
HUXLEY FELLOW in ECOLOGY & EVOLUTION:
The Ecology and Evolutionary Biology department
of Rice University (http://eeb.rice.edu/) seeks to ll
a Huxley Fellow position in ECOLOGY or EVOLU-
TION. The position is a two-year appointment with
a third year extension possible, with a start date of
July 1, 2013. Our prestigious Huxley Fellow Program
aims to recruit outstanding researchers with a PhD and
postdoctoral experience, who merge excellence in teach-
ing (25%) and research (75%). The Huxley Fellows
receive faculty status, employee benets, competitive
salary, and research funds for independent or collabo-
rative research. Collaborative interests with the exist-
ing faculty are a plus and applicants are encouraged
to identify a potential faculty host within the EEB
department. An application (curriculum vitae, state-
ment of research interests and statement of teaching)
and three letters of recommendation should be submit-
ted via e-mail to Diane Hatton, rdh@rice.edu. Please
write \Huxley Fellow Application" in the subject line.
Application review will begin April 12, 2013. For fur-
ther questions and informal inquiries please contact
Dr. Tom Miller (Tom.Miller@rice.edu), Huxley Fellow
Search Committee Chair. Rice University is an Equal
Opportunity/Armative Action Employer and values a
diverse faculty. Women and minorities are encouraged
to apply.
Diane Hatton <rdh@rice.edu >RutgersU EvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoctoral position in Evolutionary Genomics at
Rutgers University
Seeking qualied applicants for a post-doctoral position
with Andrew Kern in the Department of Genetics and
the Human Genetics Institute of New Jersey at Rutgers
University. There is no particular project associated
with either of these positions, however recent work in
the lab spans the intersection of machine learning, pop-
ulation genetics, comparative genomics, and evolution-
ary biology. More information about the Kern lab can
be found here (http://kernlab.rutgers.edu/index.html).
More information about the department can be found
here (http://genetics.rutgers.edu/). The Kern lab is
located on the Busch campus of Rutgers University, in
central New Jersey, and is within easy commuting range
to New York City.
The ideal candidate would hold a Ph.D. and have a
record of research achievement in computational bi-
ology, computer science, statistics, or a related eld.
A background in comparative/population/evolutionary
genomics is highly desirable. In addition the candidate
should have experience programming in C, a scripting
language (Ruby, Python, or Perl is ne), and would
ideally be comfortable with cluster computing environ-
ments.
Review of applications will begin immediately and
continue until the position are lled. The position
could begin as early as June, 2013. Interested can-
didates should submit an electronic version of their
CV along with a cover letter describing their quali-
cations and relevant experience to Andrew Kern (
kern@biology.rutgers.edu)
Andrew Kern Assistant Professor of Genetics Rutgers
University kern@biology.rutgers.edu
Kern@dls.rutgers.edu
Smithsonian IndonesianBiodiversity
Postdoctoral position available - Marine Biodiversity
Gradients in IndonesiaApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 95
A postdoctoral position is available to work on the
project \Assembly of Marine Biodiversity Along Geo-
graphic and Anthropogenic Stress Gradients", recently
funded through NSF's PIRE program. For the next ve
years, this project will be examining marine biodiver-
sitygradients { across longitude, and human impact -
in Indonesia, the heart of the coral triangle. The work
involves standardized sampling using Autonomous Reef
Monitoring Structures (ARMS) to measure marine bio-
diversity of viruses, archaea, bacteria and eukaryotes.
The postdoctoral position will take aleadership role in
developing and carrying out meta-barcoding analyses,
involving PCR, library construction for next generation
sequencing, and assessments of PCR bias and sampling
procedures. The successful candidate will play an ac-
tive role in data collection, analysis and interpretation
and will be the lead author on papers describing nd-
ings of the project. This person will also spend 15% of
his or her time assisting in project coordination. Travel
to partner labs at San Diego State University (Rohwer),
UC Los Angeles (Barber), Moss Landing Marine Lab-
oratory (Geller), NOAA's Pacic Island Fisheries Sci-
ence Center (Brainard), and the Indonesian Biodiver-
sity Research Center.
Requirements for this position: experience with molec-
ular laboratory techniques including PCR design and
trouble-shooting, library construction for next gener-
ation sequencing runs;excellent organizational skills; a
strong track record in scientic writing.
This is a two-year position, with a possibility for exten-
sion, and is located at the Smithsonian National Mu-
seum of Natural History. Salary: $45,000, plus $8,550
for insurance. Please send brief cover letter, CV and a
list of 3-4 references to Allen Collins (CollinsA@si.edu)
if interested in this position. Review of candidates will
begin March 31, 2013 and the position will be open
until lled.
Dr. Allen G. Collins - http://invertebrates.si.edu/-
sta/collins.cfm COLLINSA@si.edu
SouthAfrica USA joint
EvolutionCellDeath
Postdoctoral fellowship in programmed cell death evo-
lution, 2013
A 2 year postdoctoral fellowship is available for a self-
motivated researcher as part of an international col-laborative eort between Drs PM Durand and Prof S
Sym (University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg,
SA), Dr GC Pitcher (Fisheries Research and Develop-
ment, Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fish-
eries, Cape Town, SA), Prof RE Michod (University of
Arizona, Tucson, USA) and Dr M. Orellana and Prof
N. Baliga (Institute for Systems Biology, Seattle, USA).
Since the discovery that programmed cell death (PCD)
occurs in the unicellular world, research in this eld
has focused on the evolutionary origins and mecha-
nisms of the phenomenon. Proposed reasons for PCD
in unicells have been controversial and deciencies in
our understanding of the complexities of PCD origins
and the associated bio-medical implications have been
highlighted. PCD in the unicellular world has several
possible explanations, eg as an adaptation at a level
other than the unicellular organism or as non-adaptive
pleiotropy.
The aim of this project is to examine the evolutionary
reasons and mechanisms of PCD in a natural ecosys-
tem. Programmed death and interactions between uni-
cellular organisms in microalgal blooms o the South
African coast will be the model system. Our prelimi-
nary studies indicate that PCD (i) can play a role in
group level benets, and (ii) can be a form of cooper-
ation through reciprocal benets in the microbial loop
where PCD facilitates nutrient exchange and recycling
between unrelated organisms.
In this project, the initiation, execution and eects of
PCD in the natural setting of microalgal blooms will be
studied. In particular, we are interested in the evolu-
tionary role of PCD in aquatic eco-systems. Why has
PCD evolved and been maintained when it is so obvi-
ously detrimental to the individual cell? Are there any
tness advantages and what are the triggers and eects
of PCD?
References Durand PM et al. How an organism dies
aects its neighbors. American Naturalist, 2011.
Nedelcu AM et al. On the paradigm of altruistic death
in the unicellular world. Evolution, 2010.
Youngsteadt, E. Dying Generously. American Scientist,
2011.
Application details The successful applicant will be
based in the laboratory of Dr PM Durand (University
of the Witwatersrand, SA) with opportunities to visit
and work in collaborators laboratories. The salary and
benets are commensurate with postdoctoral fellow re-
muneration in South Africa. Starting date is exible;
however we aim to have the position lled by mid 2013.
The ideal candidate would have expertise in cell96 EvolDir April 1, 2013
and molecular biology with an interest in evolu-
tion, phycology, ecology or systems biology. In-
terested applicants should contact Dr PM Durand
(pierre.durand@wits.ac.za) with a cover letter indicat-
ing why he / she is suited to this project as well as a
CV and details of 3 referees.
Pierre Durand <Pierre.Durand@wits.ac.za >
StockholmU 3
BioinformaticsButteries
Researcher in Bioinformatics
1 research position at the Department of Zoology,
Stockholm University in the group of Dr. Christo-
pher W. Wheat. The position is funded initially for
6 months, and can be extended for several years.
Subject We are seeking a post doc in ecological ge-
nomics and proteomics to be active in the research
project \Insect life cycle genomics and adaptation in
the wild", with nancial support from the Knut & Al-
ice Wallenberg Foundation and the Swedish Research
Council. The project is an Ecological and Evolutionary
Functional Genomics (EEFG) collaboration, bringing
together researchers with expertise in population ge-
netics, ecology, ethology, morphology, immunology and
molecular genetics with the aim to attack fundamen-
tal biological questions regarding how genes interact
to produce a whole organism with a life cycle that is
adapted to local environmental conditions. The central
idea of the project is to take on these dicult questions
by means of an integrative, crossdisciplinary approach,
with a close interaction between research on two in-
sect systems: the green-veined white buttery Pieris
napi and the fruit y Drosophila. The research group
is an internationally recognized leader in buttery eco-
logical research, with long history of study on P. napi,
The research collaboration also includes expertise on
Drosophila as a model system. Our goal is to use ge-
nomic tools to study P. napi populations adapted to
dierent ecological situations, and when we nd genes
that are candidates for being involved in such adapta-
tion we will study their eects in the Drosophila sys-
tem. We will initially target three phenotypes: dia-
pause, wing pattern and immunity. We will make use
of existing genomics and bioinformatics platforms at
e.g. SciLifeLab (www.scilifelab.se) for next generation
sequencing, RNA-Seq and other high-throughput ser-
vices. The advertised position will be focused uponthe analysis of such data, involving direction interac-
tion with the SciLifeLab and other genomic core facili-
ties and bioinformatics centers. The holder of the posi-
tion will also contribute to other related projects utiliz-
ing genomic tools in the department, such as Ekoklim
(www.zoologi.su.se/ekoklim).
Specic bioinformatics projects include the sequencing
and assembly of the P. napi genome, followed by ex-
tensive re-sequencing studies, and RNA-Seq (transcrit-
pome assembly, annotation, and quantitiative gene ex-
pression) analyses. Given the abundance of data to be
generated, there will be many opportunities for inde-
pendent projects. Such work is strongly encouraged as
a means of generating independent projects where the
postdoc would be able to have a clear primary author-
ship role.
Qualication requirements A suitable background at
least at the masters level in bioinformatics, popula-
tion genetics, ecological genetics, evolutionary biology
or similar subjects, which includes substantial expe-
rience in bioinformatics in connection with ecological
or evolutionary genomics. Opportunities may arise for
this to be extended into a PhD level project, so this
should also be considered.
To apply: Candidates should submit a short cover let-
ter, a curriculum vitae including a list of publications
and a short (1-2 pages) description of their experience,
past research accomplishments and future research am-
bitions. Applicants should also include names and e-
mail addresses of two referees and should specify the
date they will be available to start the position. All of
this should be provided as a single PDF le, and sent
to Chris Wheat (chris.wheat@zoologi.su.se). Review of
applications will begin on 8th of April.
Link to Chris Wheat's website http://-
www.christopherwheat.net http://www.zoologi.su.se/-
en/about/sta/person.php?suuid=cwhea
||-
Buttery ecological and evolutionary functional ge-
nomics
1 postdoc position at the Department of Zoology, Stock-
holm University in the group of Dr. Christopher W.
Wheat. The position is funded for 2 years, with the
potential to extend another 2 years
Rapid advances in genomic sequencing and bioinfor-
matics now provide the opportunity to nd the vari-
ation aecting traits that have tness consequences in
the wild. Importantly, these advances allow for species
with well studied ecologies to now be the focus of func-
tional genomic study. We have just received extensiveApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 97
nancial support from the Knut & Alice Wallenberg
Foundation and the Swedish Research Council, for our
project \Insect life cycle genomics and adaptation in
the wild".
The project is an Ecological and Evolutionary Func-
tional Genomics (EEFG) collaboration, bringing to-
gether researchers with expertise in population genet-
ics, ecology, ethology, morphology, immunology and
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Tufts LifeCycleEvolution
An NSF funded Postdoctoral Researcher position in life
cycle evolution and speciation is available in the labo-
ratory of Erik Dopman in the Department of Biology at
Tufts University. The research is a collaborative project
with Rick Harrison at Cornell University, and the suc-
cessful applicant will be part of a larger team at both
Cornell and Tufts.
Our work focuses on the evolution of barriers to gene
exchange during speciation. Current eorts are to iden-
tify the molecular genetic basis for manifold traits con-
tributing to reproductive isolation, to characterize the
evolutionary history of these traits, and to evaluate the
consequences of barrier loci on gene ow. We are ap-
plying a combination of comparative and experimental
approaches using the European corn borer moth as a
model system.
The European corn borer (ECB) moth is a textbook ex-
ample of incipient speciation, in which one species splits
into two through the evolution of multiple forms of re-
productive isolation. Asynchrony in seasonal ight tim-
ing of adults, and thus their mating period, contributes
disproportionately to speciation between incipient lin-
eages of ECB that are commonly referred to as \Z"
and \E" strains. Allochronic isolation stems from dif-
ferences in the number of generations per season (vol-
tinism), in which bivoltine E-strain populations have
one generation at the beginning of the season (June)
and a second generation at the end of the season (Au-
gust), whereas univoltine Z-strain insects have single
generation in the middle of the summer (July). Life
cycles are determined primarily by genetic changes inthe timing of emergence from dormancy (diapause) in
the spring. Because evolutionary change in the tim-
ing of dormancy enables animals and plants to adapt
to changing seasonal envir onments, insights into ECB
life cycles are relevant to both speciation and response
to global climate change.
Relevant papers include:
Dopman, E. B., P. S. Robbins and A. Seaman. 2010.
Components of Reproductive Isolation Between North
American Pheromone Strains of the European Corn
Borer. Evolution 64:881-902.
Dopman, E. B., L. Perez, S. Bogdanowicz and R. G.
Harrison. 2005. Consequences of reproductive barri-
ers for genealogical discordance in the European corn
borer. PNAS 102:14706-14711.
Dopman, E. B., S. M. Bogdanowicz and R. G. Harrison.
2004. Genetic mapping of sexual isolation between E
and Z pheromone strains of the european corn Borer.
Genetics 167:301-309.
We seek a creative postdoctoral researcher who will
join our group to study the causes and consequences
of life cycle evolution. Responsibilities of the successful
applicant include providing leadership in one or more
areas: high-throughput genomics of diapause, whole-
genome population genetics, and manipulative eld ex-
periments. The candidate will be expected to work in-
dependently, participate in group eorts with collabo-
rators at Cornell, and contribute to the supervision of
PhD and undergraduate students. Opportunities for
grant-writing will be available, and there is the po-
tential to develop independent projects. See http://-
www.tufts.edu/central/research/postdoc/ for more in-
formation on postdoctoral scholars at Tufts. A PhD
in evolutionary biology, genetics & genomics, or in a
related eld, is required by the position start date.
The successful candidate should have prior experience
in processing and analyzing large data sets, molecular
evolution, genomics, and pr ogramming (e.g., R, Perl,
Python).
This is a two-year appointment with possibility of re-
newal (up to four years). Applications are due by
April 15 with review continuing until the position
is lled. Start date is exible but ideally in sum-
mer 2013. Interested individuals should contact Erik
Dopman (erik.dopman@tufts.edu) and provide a single
PDF containing the following: a CV (including date of
availability), a 1-2 page statement of prior research, and
the names and contact information of three references.
Informal inquiries are welcome.
Erik.Dopman@tufts.edu98 EvolDir April 1, 2013
UAlabama AlgalSystematics
Postdoctoral researcher in algal systematics at The Uni-
versity of Alabama
A 2-year postdoctoral position is available in the lab-
oratory of Juan Lopez-Bautista at The University of
Alabama. The successful candidate will participate in
a macroalgal molecular systematics project funded by
The National Science Foundation. This is a non-tenure
track position on a 12-month appointment and renew-
able based on availability, funding, and performance.
The candidate will be involved in the generation, se-
quencing and analyses of a multigene database. The
candidate will also help the PI mentoring graduate and
undergraduate students, and managing an active lab
working on algal biodiversity, systematics, and genome
evolution. The candidate will have the opportunity to
develop collaborative research project(s) in the area of
algal systematics. Minimum qualications: 1) A Ph.D.
in biology or related eld; 2) previous research expe-
rience and publication record; and 3) strong interper-
sonal and writing skills and the ability to work as part
of a team.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: 1 May 2013 (or until
lled). Position starts August 1st., 2013.
TO APPLY: Apply online at the UA sta job applica-
tion site: http://facultyjobs.ua.edu/ The specic job is
Requisition # 0806972 (a general postdoc application
pool, create a logon ID, and submit documentation).
Interested individuals should provide with a cover let-
ter, a CV, a 2-page (maximum) statement of interest
including research background and goals, and contact
details for three individuals who could provide a con-
dential letter of recommendation.
Upload all required materials to the site and addition-
ally send the same materials to Juan Lopez-Bautista at
jlopez@ua.edu
Info on the University of Alabama can be found
here: http://www.ua.edu/ Lopez-Bautista's lab infor-
mation can be found here: http://www.as.ua.edu/-
phycolab/ The University of Alabama is an equal op-
portunity/armative action employer.
Juan M. Lopez-Bautista, Associate Professor, The
University of Alabama, Department of Biologi-
cal Sciences 500 Hackberry Lane, Mary Harmon
Bryant Hall #309 Tuscaloosa, AL 35487-0345 http:/-/www.phycolab.ua.edu Ph Oce (205) 348-1791 Lab
(205) 348-7383 Postdocs & students (205)-348-5828
jlopez@ua.edu
UArizona EvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoctoral position in evolutionary genomics
The University of Arizona Biosphere 2 is seeking a post-
doctoral scientist to work on a project investigating
evolution and functional genomics of bacteria that are
symbionts of heteropterans insects. We are looking for
a motivated, enthusiastic, and independent individual
with extensive experience in functional genomics and
gene expression. The position is for 1 year, renewable
depending on funding. Duties and responsibilities in-
clude carrying out experiments, contribute to analysis
of data and writing of manuscripts and grant proposals,
and to the organization and maintenance of laboratory.
To apply go to https://www.uacareertrack.com/-
applicants/jsp/shared/frameset/Frameset.jsp?time=-
1363895886968 Judith Becerra Department of
Biosphere 2 University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85721
Phone (520) 626-5888
\Becerra, Judith X - (jxb)" <jxb@email.arizona.edu >
UBasel SexuallySelectedTraits
Postdoc on 'Genetics of Sexually Selected Traits' at
University of Basel, Switzerland
A 2-year postdoc funded by the Swiss National Science
Foundation is available in the Scharer Group (http:/-
/evolution.unibas.ch/scharer/) at the Zoological Insti-
tute, University of Basel, Switzerland. The ideal start-
ing date is October 2013 (but both earlier and later are
possible).
The research in our group focuses on the evo-
lutionary ecology of reproduction in simultaneous
hermaphrodites, using a highly suitable model, the free-
living atworm Macrostomum lignano. We integrate a
broad array of approaches, including experimental lab
work, molecular developmental biology, quantitative
genetics, genomics and transcriptomics, eld sampling,April 1, 2013 EvolDir 99
molecular phylogenetics and comparative approaches.
The current project aims at quantifying sexual selection
on male and female reproductive traits along the pre- to
post-copulatory axis, using a state-of-the-art approach
that we recently extended to hermaphrodites (see An-
thes et al. 2010, Am Nat). Using transgenic worms we
can track green sperm of GFP-positive donors in their
GFP-negative partners in vivo (think 'watching sperm
at work') and also perform highly ecient paternity
analysis. To experimentally validate the importance of
identied traits we can use next-generation-sequencing
approaches to identify candidate genes and then ma-
nipulate the traits using dose-dependent RNA interfer-
ence (think 'phenotypic engineering of sexually selected
traits')(see Sekii et al. 2013, Proc Roy Soc B).
The postdoc will likely focus on quantitative genetics,
genetic architecture, and indirect genetic eects of sex-
ually selected traits in this worm, complementing the
work of a recently hired PhD student. However, the
candidate's interests and backgrounds can have a con-
siderable inuence on the scope of the project, with
ample room for developing own ideas and approaches.
The successful candidate will be independent, dedi-
cated, creative, and collaborative, and have a strong
background in evolutionary biology. Experience with
quantitative genetics is a denite plus, and experience
in molecular biology is a clear advantage, but not a
prerequisite.
The Scharer Group belongs to the Zoological Institute
of the University of Basel, a stimulating and interna-
tional research environment with English as the pre-
dominant language (a recent count yielded ~20 nation-
alities). Our Institute has a strong background in ex-
perimental design, statistics, population and quantita-
tive genetics, genomics and molecular biology. So it is
a great environment for a young evolutionary biologist
and the position comes with a handsome salary.
Basel is the third largest city of Switzerland and attrac-
tively situated at the foot of the Jura mountain range.
It has the beautiful river Rhine, and directly borders
both Germany and France, thus oering rich culinary,
cultural, and outdoor possibilities.
To apply, please send a letter of motivation, a CV, a
publication list, contact details of 3 referees, and a PDF
of your coolest paper to lukas.scharer@unibas.ch (please
send an electronic application in a single le in this or-
der). Reviewing of applications will start on April 7,
but applications will be considered until the position is
lled.
For more details about our research please visit http:/-
/evolution.unibas.ch/scharer/ . Cheers,Lukas
I am looking at these kinds of worms http://-
macrostomorpha.info and studying these questions
http://evolution.unibas.ch/scharer PD Dr. Lukas
Scharer University of Basel Zoological Institute Evo-
lutionary Biology Vesalgasse 1 4051 Basel Switzerland
Tel: ++41 61 267 03 66 Fax: ++41 61
267 03 62 Email: lukas.scharer@unibas.ch Home-
page: http://evolution.unibas.ch/scharer/index.htm
lukas.scharer@unibas.ch
UBern FloralEvolution
Postdoctoral Position at the Institute of Plant Sciences,
University of Bern, Switzerland on the Molecular Ge-
netics of Floral Organ Morphology in Petunia
Project description: The genus Petunia comprises
closely related species with dierent pollination syn-
dromes. Our group is interested in the molecular-
genetic basis of the evolutionary shift between pollina-
tion syndromes. P. axillaris has white, elongated ow-
ers and is pollinated by long-tongued nocturnal hawk-
moths; hummingbird-pollinated P. exserta owers are
bright red with reexed petals and exserted reproduc-
tive organs. The successful applicant will undertake
the molecular identication of the gene(s) underlying
the major QTL for oral morphology. Techniques in-
clude classical and molecular genetics, high-throughput
transcriptomics and bioinformatics. In addition, there
is the opportunity to perform pollinator choice assays
and population genetic studies.
PhD in molecular genetics, quantitative genetics or
molecular evolution required. Strong background in
bioinformatics is an asset.
Please send a single pdf le including curriculum
vitae, copies of diplomas and transcripts, motiva-
tion letter and contact details of three references to
anna.brandenburg(at)ips.unibe.ch
Further inquiries about the position are welcome.
Applications will be accepted until the position is lled.
This is an opportunity to join a small and active re-
search group where individually- and collaboratively-
generated research questions will be developed and ad-
dressed.
for more information: http://www.botany.unibe.ch/-
deve/research/projects/pollinator.php100 EvolDir April 1, 2013
http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=-
player embedded&v=o1BcisZPBqg Anna Bran-
denburg Institute of Plant Sciences Altenbergrain 21
CH-3013 Berne Switzerland
phone ++ 41 31 631 3766 fax ++ 41 31 631 4942
anna.brandenburg@ips.unibe.ch
UCaliforniaDavis
MarineEvolutionaryGenetics
Postdoctoral researcher in marine community ecology
and ecological genetics
We are seeking a postdoctoral researcher with demon-
strated expertise in marine ecology or population ge-
netics, and with an interest in questions at the in-
terface of these disciplines. The postdoc will work
on collaborative project with Jay Stachowicz, Rick
Grosberg and Susan Williams that links genetic diver-
sity and trait variation within species to the ecolog-
ical functioning of seagrass communities. The post-
doc would be based on the UC Davis campus but
the position would also involve eld and/or labora-
tory work at the Bodega Marine Lab. The post-
doc will be encouraged to develop his/her own re-
search project that furthers our understanding of the
ecological consequences of genetic diversity in marine
systems. More information about the project can
be found at: http://www.eve.ucdavis.edu/stachowicz/-
gendiversity.shtml Starting salary is approximately
$39,000 per year and the position is available for up
to 2 years. Interested candidates should send a CV,
the names and contact information for three potential
references, and a cover letter explaining the candidates
interest in the position and overall research aims and
accomplishments to <jjstachowicz@ucdavis.edu >. Ap-
plications received by April 1 will receive full considera-
tion, but the position is open until lled. The position is
available immediately, with a preferred start date some-
time during the summer of 2013. Questions about the
position should be directed to Jay Stachowicz at the
above email address.
Jay Stachowicz <jjstachowicz@ucdavis.edu >UCalifornia SanFrancisco
StatisticalPopGenetics
Postdoctoral Fellowship in Statistical Population Ge-
netics at U.C. San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA
A postdoctoral position is available starting between
July and December, 2013 in the laboratory of Bryan
Greenhouse in the Division of Infectious Diseases at
U.C. San Francisco. The current position will focus
on development and application of statistical models
incorporating parasite genetics and epidemiologic data
to characterize transmission and evolution of malaria
parasites. The successful candidate will have the oppor-
tunity to work closely with a diverse team of scientists
at UCSF and international collaborators on projects
spanning work in malaria elimination to regions with
the highest burden of malaria in the world. The fellow
will be encouraged to develop an independent line of
work under the co-mentorship of Bryan Greenhouse and
Rasmus Nielsen (U.C. Berkeley), including presentation
and publication of ndings. Our work is directly con-
nected to on-the-ground malaria control and elimina-
tion eorts, and the scientic output from this position
is expected to directly aect interventions in the eld
in addition to leading to academic publications. Com-
petitive salary including full benets will be provided
commensurate with experience and qualications.
Required Skills
* PhD in a relevant eld (e.g. population genetics,
statistics, computational biology)
* Excellent background in population genetics
* Strong statistical and computational skills, includ-
ing proven ability to develop and implement statistical
methods beyond utilizing existing software packages
* Demonstrated ability to produce independent, cre-
ative work
* Ability to work well as member of a team
* Strong written and oral communication skills
Ideal Skills
* Experience with analysis of pathogen transmission
trees / phylogenetic data
* Experience developing and implementing MCMC
methods
* Experience with geospatial data / visualizationApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 101
To Apply: Please send a detailed CV including publica-
tions, brief statement of research/career interests, and
contact information for 3 references to Bryan Green-
house, MD, MA at bryan.greenhouse@ucsf.edu
\Greenhouse, Bryan" <bgreenhouse@medsfgh.ucsf.edu >
UCollegeLondon
StatisticalGenomics
Research Associate in Statistical Genomics and Phylo-
geography in University College London -
UCL Department / Division: Genetics, Evolution &
Environment Grade: 7 Hours: Full Time Salary: Grade
7, UK32,055 - 38,744 per annum including London al-
lowance
Duties and Responsibilities
A postdoctoral researcher position is available in the
group of Professor Ziheng Yang FRS in University Col-
lege London to work on statistical genomics and phy-
logeography. The project aims to develop statistical
methods and computer software for analysing genomic
sequence data from closely related species. This is at
the interface of phylogenetics and population genetics,
as one has to deal with the species/population phy-
logeny as well as coalescent and lineage sorting (See
Burgess & Yang 2008 Mol. Biol. Evol. 25:1979-1994;
Yang 2010 Genom. Biol. Evol. 2:200-211; Yang &
Rannala 2010 PNAS 107:9264-9269; Zhang, et al. 2011
Syst. Biol. 60:747-761; Zhu & Yang 2012 Mol. Bio.l
Evol. 29:3131-3142).
The post is funded by the BBSRC for up to 33 months
in the rst instance. It is available immediately.
Key Requirements
We seek a highly-motivated research scientist with ex-
pertise in computational statistics (MCMC, rjMCMC
and other advanced Monte Carlo algorithms) and in
computer programming (C/C++, R, and PERL). Ex-
perience of UNIX/Linux is essential.
A PhD (or working towards a PhD) in one of the fol-
lowing areas is essential: computational statistics, com-
puter science, theoretical population genetics, and sta-
tistical phylogenetics. Individuals with PhDs in other
areas of biology are invited to apply if they can demon-
strate a strong statistical/computational background.
Knowledge and expertise in statistical inference and in
Bayesian computation and the ability to work in a col-laborative environment is also essential. A proven track
record of eective research in the eld is highly desir-
able.
Further Details
If you have any formal enquiries please contact Pro-
fessor Ziheng Yang FRS at z.yang@ucl.ac.uk. For en-
quiries about the application process please contact
Christine Davis <christine.davis@ucl.ac.uk >.
Your application should include a brief personal
statement, explaining how your qualications and
experience make you a good candidate for this
job, a CV and the names and email addresses for
two references. Apply at the website: <https:/-
/atsv7.wcn.co.uk/search engine/jobs.cgi?owner=-
5041178&ownertype=fair&jcode=1321666
>https://atsv7.wcn.co.uk/search engine/jobs.cgi?owner=5041178&ownertype=fair&jcode=1321666
UCL Taking Action for Equality
Closing Date: 4pm, 17 April 2013
Ziheng Yang <z.yang@ucl.ac.uk >
UCollege London EvolutionSexes
Postdoctoral Research Fellowship, Evolutionary Origin
of Sexes
University College London
A 2-year postdoctoral research fellowship funded by the
EPSRC is available in the Department of Genetics, Evo-
lution and Environment, UCL. We seek an enthusias-
tic and highly motivated postdoc, with experience in
population genetics, mathematical modelling and com-
puter simulation. The post holder will join the research
groups of Professor Andrew Pomiankowski and Dr Nick
Lane. They will also be a member of CoMPLEX and
the 2020 Science Programme, a collaboration between
UCL, Oxford University and Microsoft Research Cam-
bridge
www.ucl.ac.uk/gee/sta www.ucl.ac.uk/complex
www.2020science.net The origin of two sexes is
thought to be linked to the advantages of uniparental
inheritance of cytoplasmic genes (mitochondria, chloro-
plasts). This project will extend existing theoretical
work (1,2) to consider the evolution of true sexes
in multicellular organisms from two mating types in
ancestral protists, coincident with the development of
germ/soma dierentiation. Constraints on mitochon-102 EvolDir April 1, 2013
drial and nuclear mutation rates will be considered in
relation to mitonuclear coadaptation and multicellular
development. Parallels between somatic mitochondrial
mutations and evolutionary constraints on asexual
reproduction will be explored. The project will also
consider the importance of male-female sexual conict
over gene expression that might have favoured the
transfer of mitochondrial genes to the nucleus, also in
relation to the 'Mother's curse'.
(1) Hadjivasiliou, Z., Pomiankowski, A., Seymour, R.
M. and Lane, N. 2012 Selection for mitonuclear coad-
aptation could favour the evolution of two sexes. Pro-
ceedings of the Royal Society B 279, 1865-1872. (2)
Hadjivasiliou, Z., Seymour, R. M., Lane, N. and Pomi-
ankowski, A. 2013 Dynamics of mitochondrial inheri-
tance in the evolution of binary mating types and two
sexes. MS
Suitable candidates will be highly motivated re-
searchers with a PhD in a relevant area of science, such
as: mathematical or computational biology, computer
science or biology. Research experience of mathemati-
cal or computational modelling is essential. The post-
holder is expected to be exceptional early-stage scien-
tists who will apply for further research fellowship fund-
ing during the period of the award.
Closing Date: 1 April 2013 A job descrip-
tion and person specication can be accessed at
http://www.2020science.net/about/opportunities or at
www.jobs.ac.uk (search term \sexes") Please send ex-
pressions of interest & CV to ucbhpom@ucl.ac.uk and
nick.lane@ucl.ac.uk
Andrew Pomiankowski Professor of Genetics UCL
ucbhpom@ucl.ac.uk
a.pomiankowski@ucl.ac.uk
UCollege London SexEvolution
Postdoctoral Research Fellowship, Evolutionary Origin
of Sexes ***New application deadline April 15th***
University College London
A 2-year postdoctoral research fellowship funded by the
EPSRC is available in the Department of Genetics, Evo-
lution and Environment, UCL. We seek an enthusias-
tic and highly motivated postdoc, with experience in
population genetics, mathematical modelling and com-
puter simulation. The post holder will join the researchgroups of Professor Andrew Pomiankowski and Dr Nick
Lane. They will also be a member of CoMPLEX and
the 2020 Science Programme, a collaboration between
UCL, Oxford University and Microsoft Research Cam-
bridge
www.ucl.ac.uk/gee/sta < http://www.ucl.ac.uk/-
gee/sta > www.ucl.ac.uk/complex < http://-
www.ucl.ac.uk/complex > www.2020science.net <
http://www.2020science.net/ >
The origin of two sexes is thought to be linked to the
advantages of uniparental inheritance of cytoplasmic
genes (mitochondria, chloroplasts). This project will
extend existing theoretical work (1,2) to consider the
evolution of true sexes in multicellular organisms from
two mating types in ancestral protists, coincident with
the development of germ/soma dierentiation. Con-
straints on mitochondrial and nuclear mutation rates
will be considered in relation to mitonuclear coadapta-
tion and multicellular development. Parallels between
somatic mitochondrial mutations and evolutionary con-
straints on asexual reproduction will be explored. The
project will also consider the importance of male-female
sexual conict over gene expression that might have
favoured the transfer of mitochondrial genes to the nu-
cleus, also in relation to the 'Mother's curse'. (1) Had-
jivasiliou, Z., Pomiankowski, A., Seymour, R. M. and
Lane, N. 2012 Selection for mitonuclear coadaptation
could favour the evolution of two sexes. Proceedings
of the Royal Society B 279, 1865-1872. (2) Hadjivasil-
iou, Z., Seymour, R. M., Lane, N. and Pomiankowski,
A. 2013 Dynamics of mitochondrial inheritance in the
evolution of binary mating types and two sexes. MS
Suitable candidates will be highly motivated re-
searchers with a PhD in a relevant area of science, such
as: mathematical or computational biology, computer
science or biology. Research experience of mathemati-
cal or computational modelling is essential. The post-
holder is expected to be exceptional early-stage scien-
tists who will apply for further research fellowship fund-
ing during the period of the award.
Closing Date: 15 April 2013 A job descrip-
tion and person specication can be accessed at
http://www.2020science.net/about/opportunities or at
www.jobs.ac.uk <http://www.jobs.ac.uk/ >(search
term \sexes") Please send expressions of interest & CV
to ucbhpom@ucl.ac.uk and nick.lane@ucl.ac.uk
Andrew Pomiankowski Professor of Genetics UCL
ucbhpom@ucl.ac.uk
a.pomiankowski@ucl.ac.ukApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 103
UCopenhagen 4 Phylogeography
MacroEvolution
Dear Colleagues,
The Center for Macroecology, Evolution and Climate,
University of Copenhagen (Natural History Museum
of Denmark and Department of Biology), is accept-
ing applications for postdoc/assistant professor posi-
tions in four Biodiversity-related themes, one of which
is Phylogeography. The goal of this position is to inte-
grate phylogeographic approaches with macroecology,
macroevolution and/or community ecology. More de-
tails can be found here: http://macroecology.ku.dk/-
opportunities new/ We seek internationally competi-
tive candidates with a strong publication record. We
expect strong analytical and data handling skills and
the ability to communicate within a cross-disciplinary
research center. Research will be conducted with
Carsten Rahbek and other researchers in the Center
for Macroecology, Evolution and Climate.
Inquiries can be made to Professor Carsten Rahbek,
e-mail: crahbek@bio.ku.dk The closing date for appli-
cations is 15 March.
The center (http://macroecology.ku.dk/) is a long-term
funded center of excellence with a cross-disciplinary re-
search program addressing fundamental questions on
the origin, maintenance, conservation and future of
life and biological diversity on Earth. Researchers at
the center currently represent 14 nationalities and the
working language is English.
Katharine A. Marske, Ph.D. Postdoctoral Researcher
Center for Macroecology, Evolution and Climate De-
partment of Biology University of Copenhagen DK-
2100 Copenhagen  Denmark
+45 35 32 13 34
http://macroecology.ku.dk/ |{
Dear Colleagues,
The Center for Macroecology, Evolution and Climate,
University of Copenhagen (Natural History Museum
of Denmark and Department of Biology), is accept-
ing applications for postdoc/assistant professor posi-
tions in four Biodiversity-related themes, one of which
is Macroecology. Research will be conducted with Pro-
fessor Carsten Rahbek and other researchers in the Cen-
ter for Macroecology, Evolution and Climate.The goal of this position to work on research ques-
tions related to what determines large-scale patterns
of species distribution, species assemblages, species
richness and life-history traits using vast quantitative
databases on species distribution with phylogenetic in-
formation in association with climatologic, geophysical,
geological, and ecological information. We are seek-
ing a scientist with a strong background of natural his-
tory who has excellent analytical, spatial statistical and
modeling skills (e.g. null modeling, predictive mod-
eling, simulation modeling, species distribution, and
niche-modeling, etc). We are particularly interested in
considering the inuence of history and evolutionary
processes on contemporary patterns of diversity along
environmental gradients across large spatial and tem-
poral scales and/or in mountain regions.. More de-
tails can be found here: http://macroecology.ku.dk/-
opportunities new/ Inquiries can be made to Professor
Carsten Rahbek, e-mail: crahbek@bio.ku.dk The clos-
ing date for applications is 15 March.
The center (http://macroecology.ku.dk/) is a long-term
funded center of excellence with a cross-disciplinary re-
search program addressing fundamental questions on
the origin, maintenance, conservation and future of
life and biological diversity on Earth. Researchers at
the center currently represent 14 nationalities and the
working language is English.
Katharine A. Marske, Ph.D. Postdoctoral Researcher
Center for Macroecology, Evolution and Climate De-
partment of Biology University of Copenhagen DK-
2100 Copenhagen  Denmark
+45 35 32 13 34
http://macroecology.ku.dk/ |{
Dear Colleagues,
The Center for Macroecology, Evolution and Climate,
University of Copenhagen (Natural History Museum
of Denmark and Department of Biology), is accept-
ing applications for postdoc/assistant professor posi-
tions in four Biodiversity-related themes, one of which
is Macroevolution. Research will be conducted with
Professor Carsten Rahbek and other researchers in the
Center for Macroecology, Evolution and Climate.
The goal of this position is to study diversication of
bird, mammals, or amphibian groups at a regional, con-
tinental to global scale in time and space. We are
seeking an evolutionary zoologist with strong phylo-
genetic conceptual background, analytical capabilities,
experience in morphological and/or molecular data,
and an interest in analyzing diversication processes
in time and geographical space combining phylogenies
with data on vertebrate species distributions, species104 EvolDir April 1, 2013
assemblages and earth history information. More de-
tails
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UEdinburgh EvolutionaryBiol
Jobs: University of Edinburgh: Chancellor's Fellow-
ships in Biology
As part of a University-wide recruitment programme,
the School of Biological Sciences seeks to appoint a new
cohort of Chancellor's Fellows as an investment in the
future of teaching and research. These prestigious Fel-
lowship awards are aimed at early-career individuals
of the highest potential who have begun to establish a
reputation for the highest quality research at the fore-
front of their discipline and who have a commitment to
learning and teaching at university level.
Substantial mentoring and development support will be
available through and beyond the Fellowship period.
One of the UK's largest and most highly-rated life sci-
ences departments, the School of Biological Sciences
provides an excellent environment for research and
teaching with a strong emphasis on interdisciplinary
research. We welcome fellowship applicants in the fol-
lowing biological and biomedical research areas; excep-
tional candidates with research interests in other areas
of biological sciences may also be considered. We ex-
pect to appoint at least six Fellows.
Priority areas: Epigenetics and genome function Syn-
thetic biology and biotechnology Infection biology, evo-
lutionary medicine and global health Stem cell biology
Full details at http://www.ed.ac.uk/schools-
departments/biology/research/ch-fellows2 Infor-
mal enquiries are welcomed and should be directed
to the Head of School, Professor David Leach,
hossbs@ed.ac.uk
Further information on our research themes, in-
stitutes and centres can be found on our web-
site: http://www.biology.ed.ac.uk/research The clos-
ing date for the applications is 17:00 GMT on 18th
April 2013. For further information and to ap-
ply, please visit the University's recruitment pages atthe link below. https://www.vacancies.ed.ac.uk/pls/-
corehrrecruit/erq jobspec version 4.displ ay form
Prof. J.M. Pemberton Institute of Evolutionary Biol-
ogy University of Edinburgh West Mains Road EH9
3JT
Tel: 0131 650 5505 Fax: 0131 650 6564 Web: http://-
wildevolution.biology.ed.ac.uk/
{ The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body,
registered in Scotland, with registration number
SC005336.
Josephine Pemberton <j.pemberton@ed.ac.uk >
UHawaii Hilo TropicalConservation
Please see the post-doctoral position below and send to
others who may be interested.
*Postdoctoral Fellowship (Evolutionary ECOL-
OGY/FIELD BIOLOGY)** - ID# 13147. * Tropical
Conservation Biology and Environmental Science.
Regular, Full-Time, RCUH Non-Civil Service position
with the Tropical Conservation Biology and Environ-
mental Science (TCBES) Program, located in Hilo,
Hawaii. Continuation of employment is dependent
upon program/operational needs, satisfactory work
performance, availability of funds, and compliance with
applicable Federal/State laws. *Minimum Monthly
Salary:* $3,222/Mon. *Duties: *Participates in
the National Science Foundation (NSF)-supported
research that focuses on the change in diversity of
arthropods across the age-structure chronology of
the islands of Hawaii and Maui. For each group
of arthropods, examines how species have changed
over time in diversity, abundance, and interactions
with others in the community. Collects specimens of
arthropods across the islands at dened sites. Assesses
the best strategy for collecting dierent groups. De-
velops protocol for consistent quantitative sampling.
Identies specimens to species using available keys.
Prepares reports and results suitable for publication.
Mentors graduate and undergraduate students in eld
techniques and specimen identication. *primary
Qualications: Education: *PhD from an accredited
college or university in a relevant eld. * Experi-
ence**:* Experience with arthropod collection and
identication. Experience collecting and identifying
multiple dierent kinds of arthropods. Experience with
ecological sampling methods and tools for quantitativeApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 105
assessment and standardization. *Abil/Know/Skills:*
Good general knowledge of arthropods - ability to
identify a wide variety of groups to family, preferably
genus/species. Strong eld skills are absolutely nec-
essary. Quantitative and statistical skills. Self-starter
and creative problem solver. Strong communication
and interpersonal skills. *Physical/Medical Require-
ments: *Ability to hike long distances and work in
day or night eld situations. *SECONDARY Qual-
ications: *Knowledge of collecting and identifying
Hawaiian arthropods would be helpful. Experience or
familiarity with Structured Query Language (SQL)
and big data. *Inquiries: Donald Price 974-7365,
donaldp@hawaii.edu (Hawaii).* *Application Re-
quirements:*Please go to www.rcuh.com, click on
\Employment"; select \Apply" and navigate to \See
Job Announcements and/or Apply for a Job." You
must submit the following documents online to be
considered for the position: 1) Cover Letter, 2)
Resume, 3) Salary History, 4) Supervisory References,
5) Copy of Degree(s)/Transcript(s)/Certicate(s). All
online applications must be submitted/received by the
closing date (11:59 P.M. Hawaii Standard Time/RCUH
receipt time) as stated on the job posting. If you do
not have access to our system and the closing date
is imminent, you may send additional documents
to rcuhhr@rcuh.com. If you have questions on the
application process and/or need assistance, please
call (808)956-8344. *Closing Date: March 29, 2013.*
EEO/AA Employer.
*Press releases related to this project:*
http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/-
showAward?AWD ID=3D1241228&HistoricalAwards=
false http://newscenter.berkeley.edu/2012/11/21/-
scientists-look-to-hawaiis-bugs-for-clues-to-origins-of-
biodiversity/ http://bigislandnow.com/2012/11/22/-
study-to-focus-on-hawaiis-unique-insects-and-spiders/
Dr. Donald Price Director TCBES Graduate Program
Professor of Biology University of Hawaii at Hilo Hilo,
HI 96720
donaldp@hawaii.edu http://tcbes.uhh.hawaii.edu/
http://www.hawaii.edu/uhhbiology/ http://-
www2.hawaii.edu/~donaldp/ donaldp@hawaii.edu
UIllinois PlantConservation
Post Doctoral Research Associate in Plant Conserva-
tion Biology Illinois Natural History Survey (INHS)Prairie Research Institute (PRI) University of Illinois
at Urbana-Champaign
INHS is seeking a Post Doctoral Research Associate
in Plant Conservation Biology to develop population
viability analyses and climate change vulnerability as-
sessments for rare plants.
Project description: This one year projects main goal
is to evaluate the extinction likelihood ofseveral rare
plants and their responses to climate change. This po-
sition will be located in Champaign, Illinois.
Job description: Primary position functions are to de-
velop population viability analyses and climate change
vulnerability assessments for rare plants in Texas. Pre-
pare technical reports and manuscripts describing re-
sults. Present results to granting agency.
Qualications: Must possess a Ph.D. degree in biol-
ogy or related eld, received within the last ve years.
Should have at least 3 years of eld experience with sur-
veying and monitoring of plant populations. Preferred
knowledge of threatened and endangered plant species
including their identication and habitat requirements.
Must be procient with population viability analysis.
Must have some knowledge of climate change vulnera-
bility assessment. Must have experience with statistical
analysis software, especially R. Competency with GIS
software. Excellent writing skills. Strong interpersonal
skills and ability to work in a team environment. Must
be able to hold a valid driver's license. Preferred ex-
perience supervising subordinates. Must be willing to
occasionally travel out of state.
Salary: $35,000 - $38,000 per year commensurate with
experience and education. This is a post doctoral grant
supported 12-month position. The estimated starting
date is June 1,2013.
Benets: Generous vacation and sick leave. State Uni-
versities Retirement System. Group health,dental, vi-
sion and life insurance.
Applications must be received by March 15, 2013. To
apply, all candidates must submit an online prole
through https://jobs.illinois.edu by the close of the
posting period. Qualied candidates must upload a let-
ter which details qualications noted above, curriculum
vitae,e-mail address, and the names, addresses, phone
numbers, and e-mail addresses of three professionalref-
erences. All requested information must be submitted
for the application to be considered. Incomplete infor-
mation will not be reviewed.
For further information please contact Erica Hanson,
Human Resources, Illinois Natural History Survey, 217-
333-6897, elhanson@illinois.edu.106 EvolDir April 1, 2013
For technical questions, please contact: Dr.
Brenda Molano-Flores, Search Committee,
molano1@illinois.edu.
The University of Illinois is an Armative Ac-
tion/Equal Opportunity Employer. The adminis-
tration, faculty, and sta embrace diversity and
are committed to attracting qualiedcandidates who
also embrace and value diversity and inclusivity.
www.inclusiveillinois.illinois.edu \Feist, Mary Ann
Elizabeth" <mfeist@illinois.edu >
UMississippi
MalagasyAntSpeciation
The laboratory of Dr. Brice Noonan in the department
of Biology at the University of Mississippi has a post-
doctoral position available (preferred starting date: by
August 1). The two-year (NSF) position will broadly
explore phylogeography and speciation of ants in Mada-
gascar in collaboration with Brian Fisher (California
Academy of Sciences). Expertise with laboratory meth-
ods and relevant analyses is required and experience
with emerging methodologies (DDRAD, GBS etc.) is
desirable. More information on the laboratory can be
found at http://bnoonan.org. Contact Dr. Brice Noo-
nan at bnoonan@olemiss.edu for more information. If
you are interested in the position please send your CV
with the names and contact information of three refer-
ences. Thank you.
Brice Noonan U. Mississippi, Biology Box 1848 Uni-
versity, MS 38677 Ph: 662-915-6705 Fx: 662-915-5144
email: bnoonan@olemiss.edu web: www.bnoonan.org
Brice Noonan <bnoonan@olemiss.edu >
UNebraska Populations
POPULATION BIOLOGY POSTDOCTORAL RE-
SEARCH FELLOWSHIP
THE UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA-LINCOLN is
seeking applications for a 2-year postdoctoral position
in the in Population Biology Program of Excellence.
A Ph.D. in Biology, Ecology, Evolution, Genetics, or
Mathematics, and expertise in any aspect of populationbiology is required. Qualied candidates are required
to contact a potential faculty advisor in the School of
Biological Sciences, School of Natural Resources, or De-
partment of Mathematics to develop a 2-year research
project. In addition to research with the faculty advisor
the Postdoctoral Fellow will be required to teach one
graduate seminar/year. Applications must include a
CV, a 1-page description of previous research, a 1-page
description of proposed research, and a 1-page descrip-
tion of two potential graduate seminars. Applications
should be emailed as a single pdf to: dpilson1@unl.edu.
The subject line should read \Population Biology Post-
doc application". In addition, the applicant must ar-
range for three letters of reference (one of which must
be from the proposed faculty sponsor) to be emailed to
the same address.
Applications should be received by 1 May 2013 in
order to ensure full consideration. Questions about
the program should be directed to Diana Pilson (dpil-
son1@unl.edu). The salary is competitive. We strongly
encourage applications from women and members of
minority groups. The University of Nebraska has an
active National Science Foundation ADVANCE gender
equity program, and is committed to a pluralistic cam-
pus community through armative action, equal op-
portunity, work-life balance, and dual careers. We as-
sure responsible accommodation under the Americans
with Disabilities Act.
Diana Pilson School of Biological Sciences 348 Manter
Hall University of Nebraska Lincoln, NE 68588-0118
402-472-2347 (oce) 402-472-2083 (fax)
dpilson@unl.edu
UNottingham
MarieCurieFellowships EvolBiol
Marie Curie Fellowships for International and European
Union applicants School of Biology, University of Not-
tingham, UK
The University of Nottingham is keen to attract appli-
cants for the recently published Marie Curie Fellowships
call (http://ec.europa.eu/research/mariecurieactions/-
). Applicants can be Europeans (but not British
(strictly speaking, they must not have spent more than
12 months of the last three years in the UK, as at the
call deadline)) applying for Intra-European or Interna-
tional Outgoing Fellowships (IEF or IOF), or other na-April 1, 2013 EvolDir 107
tionalities applying for International Incoming Fellow-
ships (IIF). All fellowships are very well funded. The
University of Nottingham will support applicants with
signicant proposal writing assistance and this has re-
sulted in a high Nottingham success rate (30% versus
the average which is under 20%).
Projects are proposed by applicants, but Nottingham
has strengths in several areas of evolutionary biol-
ogy (see http://ecology.nottingham.ac.uk/people.html
and http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/biology/research/-
index.aspx) including the genetic basis, and eco-
logical signicance of variation in parasite resis-
tance, and the ecology of adaptive radiation (http:/-
/www.nottingham.ac.uk/~plzadcm/index.php).
Informal enquiries may be addressed to Andrew
MacColl, tel: 0115 951 3410 or email: an-
drew.maccoll@nottingham.ac.uk
Lecturer in Evolutionary Ecology School of Biology
University of Nottingham University Park Nottingham
NG7 2RD Tel: +44 115 951 3410 Fax: +44 115
951 3251 Email: andrew.maccoll@nottingham.ac.uk
http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/biology/research/-
animal-behaviour-and-ecology/andrew.maccoll
http://ecology.nottingham.ac.uk/maccoll.html An-
drew.Maccoll@nottingham.ac.uk
UNottingham
MarieCurieFellowships
SnailsColourPolymorphism
Marie Curie Fellowships for International and European
Union applicants School of Biology, University of Not-
tingham, UK
The University of Nottingham is keen to attract appli-
cants for the recently published Marie Curie Fellowships
call (http://ec.europa.eu/research/mariecurieactions/-
). Applicants can be Europeans applying for Intra-
European or International Outgoing Fellowships (IEF
or IOF), or other nationalities applying for Interna-
tional Incoming Fellowships (IIF). The University of
Nottingham will support applicants with signicant
proposal writing assistance and this has resulted in a
high Nottingham success rate (30% versus the average
which is under 20%).
Projects are proposed by applicants, but Nottingham
has strengths in several areas of evolutionary biol-
ogy (http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/biology/research/-index.aspx).
Specically, the Davison lab is seeking to expand
upon progress that we recently made in mapping
the \supergene" that determines colour and band-
ing in the land snail, Cepaea nemoralis. See http:/-
/onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/mec.12262/full
Informal enquiries may be addressed to Dr. Angus
Davison, Reader in Evolutionary Genetics, School of
Biology, University Park, University of Nottingham.
NG7 2RD.
angus.davison@nottingham.ac.uk
www.angusdavison.org An-
gus.Davison@nottingham.ac.uk
UOslo FungalGenomics
A three year Post Doc position in Fungal Genomics is
available at University of Oslo.
The successful candidate will work with dry rot (Ser-
pula) and the genetic, expressional, and physiologi-
cal basis for its success as an invader of human-made
wooden constructions. The candidate will be part of
an international team working on genomics, transcrip-
tomics, and population genetics of the fungus Serpula
lacrymans and related species. The position is available
from July 1st 2013.
For this position we seek a motivated and inde-
pendent candidate that has completed a PhD de-
gree in biology or bioinformatics, preferably in ge-
nomics/transcriptomics. The candidate should have ex-
perience in analyzing high throughput sequence data
and short read sequences, and using bioinformatics
tools such as UNIX, scripting (PERL/Python/R) and
others. Knowledge and experience from compara-
tive/population genomics, fungal genomics, regulation
of gene expression, fungal decay mechanisms, cultiva-
tion of fungi, DNA/RNA extraction, and molecular lab
will be considered strengths. The ability to work in
team is essential, and a strong publication record is de-
sired.
The project will be housed in the MERG research group
at the Department of Biosciences, University of Oslo.
MERG is an interdisciplinary research group focusing
on the ecology and evolution of microorganisms, includ-
ing protists and fungi.
See the webpage for more information and how to apply
(the Application dead-line is March 18th): http:/-108 EvolDir April 1, 2013
/uio.easycruit.com/vacancy/921569/96323?iso=no
Candidates are welcome to contact me for questions or
more information.
Best Wishes, Inger Skrede
Inger Skrede Microbial Evolution Research Group
(MERG) Department of Biosciences University of Oslo
P.O.Box 1066 Blindern N-0316 Oslo, Norway email: in-
ger.skrede@ibv.uio.no Phone: +47 92434694
Inger Skrede <inger.skrede@ibv.uio.no >
UQueensland LateralTransfer
Dear colleague,
A postdoctoral position is available in my research
group at the Institute for Molecular Bioscience, the
University of Queensland (Brisbane, Australia). The
incumbent has been recruited by a well-known multina-
tional company halfway through the three-year project,
which is funded by the J.S. McDonnell Foundation. At
this point, I can oer an 18-month position beginning
in the second half of 2013 (ideally in July-August 2013,
and in no case later than December 2013).
The advertisement is linked at
http://www.seek.com.au/Job/research-ocer/in/-
brisbane-cbd-inner-suburbs/24205424 and at
http://uqjobs.uq.edu.au/jobDetails.asp?sJobIDs=-
494496&lWorkTypeID=&lLocationID=-
&lCategoryID=&lBrandID=1722&stp=-
AW&sLanguage=en More information is below.
I'd be most grateful if you could call this to the at-
tention of anyone with the relevant qualications, skills
and interests in your group, department or institution.
Sincerely, mark ragan
*** ***** ***
*Primary Purpose of Position*
The person appointed to this position will carry out and
supervise computational and bioinformatic research on
lateral (horizontal) genetic transfer (LGT), focusing on
networks of LGT in the microbial biosphere. Com-
plete genome sequences are available for more than 2000
prokaryotes, and large-scale sequence datasets are be-
coming available for entire microbial communities and
environments. Computational and bioinformatic anal-
yses oer powerful insights into the nature and mecha-nisms of LGT, and its biological implications. However,
the data are now so large that many established algo-
rithmic approaches are no longer computationally fea-
sible. Innovative new approaches based on substrings
(also known as words, /k/-mers or /n/-grams) oer
scalability, but their suitability for large-scale inference
and analysis of LGT remains to be systematically ex-
plored. Highly competitive external funding has been
obtained to investigate the sensitivity and robustness of
the topology of inferred LGT networks to how /k/-mer
approaches are parameterized (/e.g. k/-mer length,
merging criteria), using whole-genome and community
sequence data from the microbial biosphere. The pri-
mary purpose of this position is to drive this research
project to a successful outcome.
*Closing date 8 April 2013*
(We will, however, continue to accept applications until
an appointment is conrmed).
{ Mark A. Ragan, Professor and Head Genomics and
Computational Biology Institute for Molecular Bio-
science Professor, School of Information Technology &
Electrical Engineering The University of Queensland
Brisbane, Qld 4072 Australia
Director, ARC Centre of Excellence in Bioinformatics
tel +61-7-3346-2616 / 2617 fax +61-7-3346-2101
m.ragan@uq.edu.au http://www.imb.uq.edu.au http:/-
/bioinformatics.org.au http://www.qfab.org.au Mark
Ragan <m.ragan@uq.edu.au >
UTexas Austin
EvolutionaryImmunology
Postdoc: Immunology in natural populations; Univer-
sity of Texas at Austin & HHMI
Interested candidates are invited to apply for a post-
doctoral position in immunology, with an emphasis on
microevolution of immune function in natural popula-
tions. With funding from the Howard Hughes Medical
Institute (HHMI), Dr. Dan Bolnick's research group
(at the University of Texas at Austin) is investigating
the immunological and genetic basis of adaptation to
diverse communities of helminth parasites of the three-
spine stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus). The stick-
leback has long been a major model organism in evolu-
tionary genetics, ecology and behavior, and the recent
publication of many stickleback genome sequences andApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 109
development of transgenic methods oers new opportu-
nities. The Bolnick lab is searching for an immunolo-
gist for a two year postdoctoral position to develop new
methods for studying immune function in this model
organism. The postdoc can help determine the na-
ture of these methods. The postdoc will help apply
these tools to understand vertebrate resistance or toler-
ance of parasites, and to study within-population vari-
ation and between-population divergence in immune
function. The postdoctoral researcher will be respon-
sible for conducting laboratory research, data analysis,
and manuscript preparation. Involvement with eld re-
search is an option.
Candidates should have a PhD in immunology or a
related eld, and a proven record of research in im-
munology, evidenced by successful publishing in scien-
tic journals. Good communication skills are essential.
The postdoctoral position comes with a competitive
salary, as well as health insurance and retirement in-
vestment benets. The position's start date is nego-
tiable. The position's duration is approximately 2 years
(through August 2015), and might be extended if addi-
tional funding is acquired. The postdoc will be an em-
ployee of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, with
an additional appointment at the University of Texas
at Austin.
To apply for the postdoctoral position, please send a
CV, pdfs of at least 2 relevant papers, and a cover let-
ter summarizing your qualications. In the cover let-
ter, you are encouraged to include a brief proposal of
the kinds of immunological or genetic tools you could
develop for stickleback, and their relevance for under-
standing host-parasite interactions and/or coevolution.
Please provide contact information for at least two ref-
erences.
Applications will be reviewed starting April 15, but the
position will remain open until lled by a suitable can-
didate. Please contact Dr. Daniel Bolnick (danbol-
nick@austin.utexas.edu) for inquiries.
The Bolnick lab's research focuses on evolutionary
ecology of trait variation within populations, includ-
ing variation in diet, courtship traits, and immune
function. More information on research in the lab
can be found at https://webspace.utexas.edu/dib73/-
Bolnicklab/Bolnicklab.htm?uniq=5ptsas .
More information on the Section of Integrative Biology
can be found at http://www.biosci.utexas.edu/ib/ .
HHMI and the University of Texas are Armative Ac-
tion/Equal Opportunity Employers
Dr. Daniel Bolnick Section of Integrative Biology Uni-versity of Texas at Austin Austin, TX 78712 USA dan-
bolnick@austin.utexas.edu 512-471-2824 (work) 512-
471-3878 (fax)
danbolnick@austin.utexas.edu
UToronto EvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoctoral researcher in evolutionary genomics
We are seeking a postdoctoral researcher to work with
Aneil Agrawal and Stephen Wright on the evolutionary
genomics of duckweed. The focal species is facultatively
sexual and the long-term goal of the research program is
to understand how sex, recombination, and selection in-
teract to aect tness and shape genome diversity. The
initial projects will involve whole genome re-sequencing
of natural populations to quantify patterns of diversity
and disequilibria within and among populations. These
patterns, and how they change within and across sea-
sons, will be examined to infer eective rates of sex
and recombination as well as selection on coding and
non-coding regions. Experiments directly testing how
sex alters the distribution of genotypic tnesses are also
planned. There is scope for the successful candidate to
generate new experimental or genomic projects related
to the overall goals of the research program.
The ideal candidate would have experience with next-
generation sequence data and population genomics
analyses, have good quantitative and computing skills,
and have experience with plants. However, we will con-
sider any motivated applicant interested in evolution-
ary genomics. Salary is approximately $40,000 per year
and the position is available for one year, with the pos-
sibility to renew for a second year.
Interested candidates should send a CV, the names
and contact info of three references, and a cover let-
ter explaining the candidate's interest in the position
and overall research aims and accomplishments to Aneil
Agrawal <a.agrawal@utoronto.ca >. Applications re-
ceived by April 15, 2013 will receive full consideration.
The proposed start date is Aug. 1, 2013.
The Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology at
the University of Toronto is a fantastic community for
people interested in ecological and evolutionary genet-
ics. Toronto is a safe, tolerant, cosmopolitan city with
tremendous cultural resources and attractions.
Links of interest:110 EvolDir April 1, 2013
Aneil Agrawal: http://labs.eeb.utoronto.ca/agrawal/
Stephen Wright: http://labs.eeb.utoronto.ca/wright/-
Stephen I.Wright/Welcome.html EEB @ UofT:
http://www.eeb.utoronto.ca/home.htm
a.agrawal@utoronto.ca
UUtah PlantAnimalInteractions
Postdoctoral Fellowship Plant-Animal Interactions:
The Dearing lab at the University of Utah invites ap-
plications for a postdoctoral fellow to participate in a
study to understand the co-evolution of mammalian
herbivores with plant defensive compounds. Few mam-
malian herbivores are capable of dietary specialization.
This collaborative project will investigate the role of
a subfamily of detoxication enzymes with respect to
dietary strategy. Our preliminary data implicate the
cytochrome P450 2B subfamily as being critical in the
biotransformation of plant secondary compounds, par-
ticularly terpenes. The structure and copy number of
CYP2B enzymes may be key in an herbivore's abil-
ity specialize on a terpene-rich diet. Future work on
this project will consist of identifying CYP2B genes
(cloning and sequencing) from a variety of wild mam-
malian species, comparing predicted protein sequence
with respect to degree of dietary specialization, char-
acterizing the function of the proteins puried from
heterologous expression systems, and determining the
structural basis of functional dierences. For more in-
formation on previous research, see
http://biologylabs.utah.edu/dearing/2011/-
Publications/journal pone 0041510.pdf http://-
biologylabs.utah.edu/dearing/2011/Publications/-
Woodrats/mec 4171.pdf The ideal candidate will
have a strong interest and experience in theories and
techniques of molecular evolution, molecular ecology
or plant-animal interactions. Basic molecular skills are
required; more extensive experience is preferred. Field
work for animal collection is possible. The candidate
should have at least one rst authored publication
in press. The Dearing lab provides a strong training
and career development environment for candidates
interested in academic positions. Teaching experience
(Mammalogy) is possibility for interested candidates.
Applications will be reviewed as they are received
through April 15th, 2013. The anticipated start date
is August 1, 2013, with an earlier start date prefer-
able. Please send a C.V., statement of research intereststhat includes career goals (1-2 pgs), pdfs of papers, and
contact information (emails and phone numbers) for at
least 3 professional references to Dr. Denise Dearing,
denise.dearing@utah.edu; please put \Postdoctoral Ap-
plicant" in the Subject Line.
Denise Dearing Professor, Department of Biology As-
sociate Dean, College of Science 315 South 1400 East
University of Utah Salt Lake City, UT 84112
Denise Dearing <dearing@science.utah.edu >
UWashington SalmonidGenomics
U.Washington.SalmonidGenomics
School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences, College of the
Environment
The School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences (SAFS
<http://sh.washington.edu/ >) at the University
of Washington has an opening for one postdoctoral
Research Associate (100% time) to conduct research
using genotyping-by-sequencing applications in Pacic
salmon. Funding is for 2 years, but the University of
Washington policy is to oer a one year appointments
with subsequent renewals. Funding originates from
projects to discriminate among closely related popu-
lations and to evaluate relative reproductive success of
individuals from hatchery origin. The position is not
tenure-track.
The general scope of the appointment includes but is
not limited to:
Develop genomic data sets using genotyping by se-
quencing.
Bioinformatics.
Use existing and newly acquired data sets to expand
upon project objectives to publish original research on
salmon population genetics, adaptation, and conserva-
tion.
Mentor and otherwise assist and co-author with gradu-
ate students who are doing projects in salmon genomics.
* *
Requirements: Ph.D. in genetics, biology, or a related
eld.
The following experience is desired: expertise in next-
generation DNA sequencing, expertise in bioinformat-
ics, publication(s) from Ph.D.* *April 1, 2013 EvolDir 111
Position is located at the University of Washington,
Seattle, Washington. The University of Washington is
an armative action, equal opportunity employer. The
University is building a culturally diverse faculty and
sta and strongly encourages applications from women,
minorities, individuals with disabilities and covered vet-
erans.
Interested persons should send a two-page CV and a
letter of intent including names and contact informa-
tion for three references via email to *Dr. Jim Seeb,
School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences*, University of
Washington (*jseeb@uw.edu*). Application deadline is
April 19, 2013.* *A background check for criminal his-
tory is required for successful candidates.
Jim Seeb <jimseeb@gmail.com >
UWesternSydney
InsectPlantInteractions
Postdoctoral researcher in insect/plant interactions at
the Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment, Univer-
sity of Western Sydney.
Position description: We seek to appoint an energetic
researcher to conduct research on insect/plant interac-
tions in relation to environmental change. The three-
year position is within the Institute1s Plants, Animals
and Interactions research theme. Applicants should
be keen to integrate ecological, genetic and evolution-
ary approaches, as well as eld and laboratory stud-
ies. Field facilities include a Free Air CO2 Enrichment
(FACE) experiment in native woodland and our new,
well-equipped laboratories include an in-house Next-
Generation Sequencing and bioinformatics facility. The
successful candidate will work with Prof. James Cook
to develop and conduct research projects in one or more
of his main areas of interest, which centre on the evolu-
tion and ecology of insect interactions with plants and
microbial endosymbionts.
Applications: Please note that the application must be
made online at the UWS website and NB the CLOSING
DATE IS 21 March 2013. https://uws.nga.net.au/cp/
Further details: Further details can be obtained from
james.cook@uws.edu.au http://www.uws.edu.au/-
hie/research/plants, animals andinteractions
James.Cook@uws.edu.auVienna PopulationGenomics
OldWorldCamelids
Post-doctoral Researcher Vetmeduni Vienna (1.5 - 2
years)
Institute of Population Genetics
|Position description|
A postdoc position in Population Genomics is available
in the newly established group of Dr. Pamela Burger
in the Institute of Population Genetics, Vetmeduni
Vienna. We are interested in the (domestication)
history of Old World camelids (Bactrian camels and
dromedaries) using whole genome approaches on mod-
ern and ancient samples. Research topics will focus on
(i) detecting selection in the domestic species and (ii)
the demographic history of *Camelini.* Aspects of con-
servation genomics will be included with the analysis of
wild Bactrian camel genomes. The project is embed-
ded in an international collaboration/ network between
the Vetmeduni Vienna, the Ludwig Maximillians Uni-
versity Munich, the University of Helsinki, the Mongo-
lian Academy of Sciences and the King Faisal Univer-
sity, KSA. Details of the current research projects can
be found here <http://i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/pop/-
Burger website/burger home.html >.
The position is available for 1.5 (full time) to 2 (part
time) years and may be continued depending on suc-
cessful progress and available funding. A competitive
salary and travel opportunities will be oered. The
position is expected to start in spring/summer 2013,
though a specic start date is negotiable. In the
last several years, Vienna established an internation-
ally leading platform in evolutionary biology (http:/-
/www.evolvienna.at) and the Vienna School of Popu-
lation Genetics (http://www.popgen-vienna.at), which
both attract scientists and graduate students from all
over the world. Apart from a stimulating scientic en-
vironment, Vienna also oers an extraordinarily high
quality of life and ranks among the most attractive
cities in Europe.
|Qualications|
- The successful candidate will be highly motivated and
should have a PhD in biology, genetics, computer sci-
ence, statistics, bioinformatics, computational biology,
or a related eld - Knowledge of population genetics and
next-gen sequencing as well as programming skills are112 EvolDir April 1, 2013
essential, with knowledge of Python (Perl), R, and the
Unix shell highly desirable. Other programming exper-
tise (such as Java, C/C++) and complex trait mapping
is a plus - Preference will be given to candidates with a
strong publication record, the ability to work well in an
interdisciplinary, collaborative environment, and with
an interest in camels :)
|Application|
Interested candidates should send CV, a short de-
scription of their research interests and contact in-formation for 2 references to Dr. Pamela Burger:
pamela.burger@vetmeduni.ac.at Application deadline
is 24 March 2013.
Dr. med. vet. Pamela Burger Institut f ur Populations-
genetik Vetmeduni Vienna Veterin arplatz 1 1210 Wien,
Austria Tel.: +43(0)1-25077-4333 (oce)/-4390 (fax)
NEU: | *Camels in Asia and North Africa <http://-
hw.oeaw.ac.at/7244-4?frames=3Dyes >- {*
pamela.burger75@gmail.com
WorkshopsCourses
Arolla Switzerland EvolLifeHistory Aug11-14 . . . . .112
Barcelona MorphometricsPhylogeny Sep3-6 . . . . . . 113
LaFouly Switzerland TheoExpEvolution Jun12-15 113
LakeComoItaly PhysicsGenomeEvolution Jun27-Jul5
114
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24 DrosophilaPopulationGe-
nomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115
Lisbon Evolution Jul15-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115
NESCent PhylogeneticNGS Jun3-9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .116
Rosco MarineEvolGenomics Jun3-14 2 . . . . . . . . . . 116Rosco France MarineGenomics Jun3-14 2 . . . . . . . 117
SW Arizona Lepidoptera Aug8-17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
Seattle StatGenetics Summer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118
Smithsonian WildlifeConservation Jun1-7 . . . . . . . . 118
Snowbird Utah SSBPhylogenetics Jun21 . . . . . . . . . 119
Stanford Biodemography May6-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .119
WageningenU SocialEvolution May13 . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
WoodsHole MolecularEvolution Jul21-31 . . . . . . . . . 121
Arolla Switzerland EvolLifeHistory
Aug11-14
\The Evolution of Proximate Mechanisms for Be-
havioural and Life History Decisions"
Workshop, 11-14 August 2013, Arolla, Switzerland
Organizers: Barbara Taborsky and Sander van Doorn
A workshop of the CUSO 'Doctoral Program in Ecology
and Evolution' (DPEE)
The distinction between proximate and ultimate re-
search approaches in biology seems to be carved in
stone. However, today molecular techniques open up
the black box of information processing and decisionmaking. Molecular life scientists increasingly apply evo-
lutionary principles to explain patterns in their data.
Recent integrative approaches seem highly fruitful and
gave rise to novel disciplines such as evo-devo and eco-
devo.
This workshop will be headed by leading researchers
transcending the boundary between mechanistic and
functional approaches. The program focus is the evo-
lution of proximate mechanisms underlying behaviour
and life-history decisions. In particular we will ask (i)
why proximate mechanisms have evolved the way they
are built, and (ii) how mechanisms shape adaptive evo-
lution beyond their role as developmental or evolution-
ary constraints.
The workshop will include lectures by invited speak-
ers and, as a top priority, intensive discussions in small
groups consisting of invited speakers, researchers and
advanced students.April 1, 2013 EvolDir 113
Invited speakers - Thomas Flatt, University of
Lausanne, Switzerland - James Goodson, Indiana
University, USA - Ton Groothuis, University of
Groningen, Netherlands - Alex Kacelnik <http://-
www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/people/view/kacelnik a.htm >, Uni-
versity of Oxford, UK - Kevin Laland, University of
St.-Andrews, UK - John McNamara, University of Bris-
tol, UK - Rui Oliveira, Instituto Superior de Psicologia
Aplicada, Portugal - G. Sander van Doorn, University
of Groningen, Netherlands
The workshop takes place at the Grand-H^ otel
'Kurhaus' in a breathtaking scenery amidst some of the
nest mountain peaks of Switzerland. The venue is sit-
uated above the picturesque mountain village of Arolla,
at 2100 m sea level in the very heart of the Swiss high
alps.
For attendance see http://behav.zoology.unibe.ch/-
index.php?pp=56&p=139 for further information
please contact barbara.taborsky@iee.unibe.ch or
g.s.van.doorn@rug.nl
PD Dr. Barbara Taborsky Institute for Ecol-
ogy and Evolution Behavioural Ecology University
of Bern Wohlenstrasse 50A, CH-3032 Hinterkappe-
len,Switzerland
Tel: +41 31 6319 157, Fax: +41 31 6319 141 http:/-
/behav.zoology.unibe.ch/index.php?pp=57&p=124
barbara.taborsky@iee.unibe.ch
Barcelona MorphometricsPhylogeny
Sep3-6
Registration is open for the course \GEOMETRIC
MORPHOMETRICS AND PHYLOGENY- Fourth
edition".
INSTRUCTOR: Dr. Chris Klingenberg (University of
Manchester, UK) .
DATES: September 3-6, 2013; 30 teaching hours.
PLACE: Els hostalets de Pierola, Barcelona (Spain).
Organized by: Transmitting Science, the Institut
Catal a de Paleontologia Miquel Crusafont and the
Council of Hostalets de Pierola.
More information: http://-
www.transmittingscience.org/gm andphylogeny.htm
or writing to courses@transmittingscience.org
This workshop provides an overview of the interface be-tween geometric morphometrics and phylogenetics. It
aims to give an overview of the dierent approaches and
methods that link the two elds and to enable partic-
ipants to apply them to their own research problems.
Lectures that introduce concepts and methods are inte-
grated with demonstrations of software that put them
into practice right away. The main emphasis is on map-
ping shape data on existing phylogenies to reconstruct
the evolutionary history of shape diversication, as well
as comparative methods that take phylogeny into ac-
count. To enhance the practical approach of the work-
shop, participants are encouraged to bring their own
data to conduct analyses and discuss results.
With best regards
Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno-
Soledad De Esteban Trivigno
<soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org >
LaFouly Switzerland
TheoExpEvolution Jun12-15
A workshop on \Bridging theoretical and experimental
evolution" will be held in La Fouly (Valais, Switzer-
land) next June 12-15 2013.
The aim of the proposed workshop is to unite exper-
imental and theoretical evolutionary biologists, both
working to resolve fundamental questions at the cen-
ter of a century-old debate. For example - what is the
distribution of tness eects of new, segregating, and
xed mutations? What is the relative importance of
adaptation vs. genetic drift in the evolution of natural
populations? By combining expertise across wet and
dry lab biology, and due to the progress of new genomic
technologies, it is becoming increasing possible to gain
traction on these questions which are fundamental to
any basic understanding of the very mode and tempo
of the evolutionary process
The workshop will bring together top researchers in the
eld and students in la Fouly, a remote and beautiful lo-
cation in the Swiss Alps (see www.lafouly.net), allowing
for close interactions and vivid exchanges. The scien-
tic program will consist in 2 1/2 days of a mixture
of talks by invited speakers and students, and posters
sessions. The workshop will end by a hike to some
nearby magnicent view points over the Mont Dolent
and Mont-Blanc region.
Invited speakers:114 EvolDir April 1, 2013
Martin Ackermann (ETH Zurich, Switzerland) Dan
Bolon (University of Massachussetts, USA) Michael
Desai (Harvard University, USA) Isabel Gordo (Insti-
tuto Gulbenkian Ci^ encia, Lisbon, Portugal) Oskar Hal-
latschek (Max Planck Institute for Dynamics and Self-
Organization, G ottingen, Germany) Peter Keightley
(University of Edinburgh, UK) Alex Wong (Carleton
University, Ottawa, Canada)
Cost: 400 CHF for non-CUSO students, including con-
ference fees, meals and accommodation (with sleeping
bags).
Web site and registration (max 35 students): http:/-
/biologie.cuso.ch/ecologie-evolution/dpee-activities/-
detail-activity/item/courses/bridging-theoretical-
and-experimental-evolution/ Note that deadline for
registration is April 20th, and that a maximum of 35
students can participate. Whereas the primary target
are PhD students, other people can attend, knowing
that priority will be given to CUSO members and
students presenting talk or poster.
The organizers:
Je Jensen Laurent Excoer Claudia Bank Stephan
Peischl
{ Laurent Excoer
Computational and Molecular Population Genetics
(CMPG) Institute of Ecology and Evolution, Uni-
versity of Bern 6, Baltzerstrasse, CH-3012 Bern,
Switzerland Tel: +41 31 631 30 31 Fax: +41 31
631 48 88 Email: laurent.excoer@iee.unibe.ch
http://cmpg.iee.unibe.ch Computational Pop-
ulation Genetics Swiss Institute of Bioinfor-
matics (SIB) http://www.isb-sib.ch/groups/-
Computational Population Genetics.htm Laurent
Excoer <laurent.excoer@iee.unibe.ch >
LakeComoItaly
PhysicsGenomeEvolution
Jun27-Jul5
Registration now open for
Workshop on Statistical Physics / Biology \Quan-
titative Laws of Genome Evolution" 27 June -
5 July 2013 Lake Como School of Advanced
Studies in Complex Systems Villa del Grumello
Como, Italy Scholarships will be available on
a selection basis Deadline to apply: March 27,2013 Website: http://www.complexcomolake.it/-
quantitativelaws/index.html For more information,
contact: ev.genome.workshop@gmail.com
Summary: Quantitative approaches to evolutionary ge-
nomics, systems biology, and ecology unravel several
universal regularities connecting genome-scale observ-
ables, phenotypes and physiological traits. A current
challenge for theoreticians is understanding how dif-
ferent universal features emerging empirically can be
accounted for by simple mathematical models explor-
ing quantitative laws at dierent levels, from physiol-
ogy to evolutionary genomics. The scope of this work-
shop is to give an overview of the current state of this
emerging eld. The workshop will primarily target PhD
students and postdocs with a physics or mathematics
background, but the school is open to anyone with back-
ground in (evolutionary) genomics, (evolutionary) biol-
ogy, bioinformatics, ecology, interested in quantitative
work.
Sponsors: Centro Volta Lake Como School of Advanced
Studies in Complex Systems iPoLS Network F1000
Prime UniverLecco
Conrmed Speakers: Eugene Koonin (NCBS / NIH
Bethesda) Luca Peliti (University of Naples) Olivier
Tenaillon (Inserm, Paris) Rosalind Allen (University
of Edinburgh) Michele Caselle (University of Turin)
Francesca Ciccarelli (European Institute of Oncology,
Milan) Herve Isambert (Institut Curie, Paris) Joachim
Krug (University of Cologne) Michael Laessig (Univer-
sity of Cologne) Amos Maritan (Univ Padua) Sergei
Maslov (Brookhaven National Laboratory) Namiko Mi-
tarai (NBI Copenaghen) Erik van Nimwegen (Biozen-
trum Basel) Peter Pfaelhuber (University of Freiburg)
Uberto Pozzoli (IRCCS Medea) Dominique Schneider
(University of Grenoble) Agnese Seminara (Univer-
sity of Nice) Kim Sneppen (University of Copenhagen)
Joshua Weitz (GA Tech)
Committee: Marco Cosentino Lagomarsino (Chair, U
-Pierre et Marie Curie, Paris) Uberto Pozzoli (IR-
CCS Eugenio Medea) Luigi Grassi (Univ Roma \La
Sapienza") Federico Bassetti (Univ Pavia)
Steering Committee: Joshua Weitz (GA Tech) Sergei
Maslov (BNL Brookhaven) Dominique Schneider (Uni-
versity of Grenoble) Rosalind Allen (University of Ed-
inburgh) Namiko Mitarai (NBI Copenaghen)
University of Insubria Commitee: Vincenzo Gino
Benza, Giulio Casati
jsweitz@gatech.eduApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 115
Lisbon ESEB2013 Aug19-24
DrosophilaPopulationGenomics
ESEB 2013 Satellite Workshop: \Creating a European
Drosophila Population Genomics Network."
We would like to invite you to participate in an informal
satellite workshop on Drosophila population genomics
that will be held during the ESEB 2013 meeting in Lis-
bon, Portugal (14th Congress of the European Society
for Evolutionary Biology, 19-24 August 2013; https:/-
/www.eseb2013.com/). You can sign up for the work-
shop on the ESEB congress website; further details on
the date and time of the workshop will be posted there
as well.
The main goal of the workshop is to explore whether
there exist mutual interests among people studying the
population genomics of European Drosophila (mainly
melanogaster and simulans, but other species might be
of interest as well) in initiating a joint, collaborative
European network.
This is an extremely exciting time for population ge-
nomic studies. The recent advent of powerful next-
generation sequencing (NGS) techniques allows us to
examine genetic variation at unprecedent scales, at the
whole-genome level and with single nucleotide resolu-
tion. The continuing technological improvements and
the dropping costs of these methods means that even
single labs can now generate terabytes of sequence data
very rapidly a relatively low cost. However, the re-
sulting data are typically used to address only a very
limited number of specic questions, so that the overall
value of these datasets for the community as a whole
is somewhat limited. To foster the integration and ex-
change of population genomic information, we therefore
propose that individual European labs build up a joint
eort in collecting and generating population genomic
data for Drosophila species across Europe.
During the workshop we would like to discuss (1) how to
develop a collaborative strategy for sampling dierent
European Drosophila populations through space and
time in order to generate a unique European collection
of samples for future sequence (and possibly phenotype)
analysis; (2) how to best generate high-quality sequence
data from such samples; and (3) how to optimally in-
tegrate the resulting data and information so that it
can be used to answer a wide range of questions. Wewould also like to explore potential funding opportuni-
ties that could be used to support regular meetings of
the network and that would foster scientic exchange
and collaboration among the labs involved.
We are looking forward to seeing you in Lisbon!
Best wishes,
Josefa Gonz alez and Thomas Flatt
|
Josefa Gonz alez
Ramon y Cajal Researcher
Institute of Evolutionary Biology
CSIC-Universitat Pompeu Fabra
Passeig Maritim de la Barceloneta, 37-49.
08003, Barcelona
Spain
josefa.gonzalez@ibe.upf-csic.es
www.biologiaevolutiva.org/gonzalez lab
Thomas Flatt SNF Professor Department of Ecology
and Evolution University of Lausanne UNIL Sorge Le
Biophore CH-1015 Lausanne Switzerland
E-mail: Thomas.Flatt@unil.ch
Tel. Oce: +41(0)21-692-4203 Tel. Secretary:
+41(0)21-692-4160 Fax: +41(0)21-692-4165
Website: http://www.unil.ch/dee/page94630 en.html
Lab: http://www.unil.ch/dee/page95005.html
Book: Mechanisms of Life History Evolu-
tion http://www.unil.ch/dee/page95072.html
Thomas.Flatt@unil.ch
Lisbon Evolution Jul15-19
2ND CALL FOR STUDENTS: 1st International SUM-
MER School on Evolution
COURSE PROGRAM ONLINE
July 15th - 19th, 2013 jCi^ encia Viva Knowledge Pavil-
ion, Lisbon, Portugal
Website: http://evolutionschool.fc.ul.pt/summer
About the courses
Module 1: EVOLutionary theory
Courses are taught by: Lu s Villarreal, Ilya T emkin,116 EvolDir April 1, 2013
Frietson Galis.
Module 2: sociocultural Evolution
Courses are taught by Fiona Jordan, Marion Blute,
Nathalie Gontier & Emanuele Serrelli.
Module 3: philosophy of biology
Courses are taught by Derek Turner, Fr ed eric
Bouchard, Michael Ruse.
All courses are taught at a level accessible to Master,
PhD and post-doctoral students in the exact, life, hu-
man and sociocultural evolutionary sciences. Students
of evolutionary biology, evolutionary developmental bi-
ology, virology, paleontology, evolutionary linguistics,
evolutionary anthropology, and philosophy of biology
will especially benet from these courses.
Students will be provided a mandatory reading list
which will form the basis of lectures and discussions.
There are neither examinations nor paper assignments.
REGISTRATION FEE
350 euro for the whole week, regardless the number of
courses you chose.
HOW TO ENROLL
You can enroll for a specic module (therefore follow-
ing a 30-hour course on the subject) or you may choose
three courses of your specic interest.
About the SUMMER School
The School is organized by the Applied Evolutionary
Epistemology Lab of the Centre for Philosophy of Sci-
ence of the University of Lisbon, in collaboration with
Ci^ encia Viva and with the support of the John Temple-
ton Foundation.
SUBSCRIBE TO THE SUMMER SCHOOL MAIL-
INGLIST
http://eepurl.com/n2EGb Websites
http://evolutionschool.fc.ul.pt, http://appeel.fc.ul.pt
Find us on Facebook
https://www.facebook.com/events/374500115949579
appeelannouncements@fc.ul.pt
NESCent PhylogeneticNGS Jun3-9
Title: Next-gen sequencing for phylogenetics and
phylogeography Dates: June 3-9, 2013 Website:academy.nescent.org Where: National Evolutionary
Synthesis Center (NESCent), Durham, NC Application
review begins: April 15, 2013
Instructors: * Alan R. Lemmon, Florida State Uni-
versity * Emily Moriarty Lemmon, Florida State Uni-
versity * Cecil e An e, University of Wisconsin-Madison
* Jeremy Brown, Louisiana State University * Frank
Burbrink, College of Staten Island/ CUNY * Seth By-
bee, Brigham Young University * Laura Kubatko, Ohio
State University * David Weisrock, University of Ken-
tucky
As part of the NESCent Academy, we are pleased to
open applications for 'Next-generation sequencing for
phylogenetics and phylogeography'. The elds of phy-
logenetics and phylogeography are on the cusp of a rev-
olution, enabled by the rapid expansion of genomic re-
sources and explosion of new genome sequencing tech-
nologies. Researchers are now able to obtain large phy-
logenomic data sets for any system rapidly and econom-
ically. In this course, students will receive an overview
of recent technological advances, learn about data col-
lection using emerging phylogenomic approaches, and
analyze data sets using the most recent methods. This
couse will provide tools for many critical eorts in the
eld including assembling the Tree of Life, delimiting
species, and understanding the processes driving spe-
ciation. The intended audience is graduate students,
postdoctoral researchers, and faculty who wish to gain
training in this area.
Areas to be covered include: * emerging sequenc-
ing technologies * targeted high-throughput sequenc-
ing approaches, such as anchored phylogenomics, tran-
scriptome sequencing, reduced-representation library
sequencing/RAD sequencing, and high-throughput am-
plicon sequencing * data analysis, including phyloge-
netic and phylogeographic analysis, and species delim-
itation.
Questions? Email academy@nescent.org
{
karen.cranston@gmail.com @kcranstn
Karen Cranston <karen.cranston@gmail.com >
Rosco MarineEvolGenomics
Jun3-14 2
The 9th Summer Course on Marine Evolutionary &April 1, 2013 EvolDir 117
Ecological Genomics will take place at the Station Bi-
ologique de Rosco, Rosco, France. >From June 3rd
- 14th, 2013
Second announcement
Aims: The two week course, which consists of lectures,
tutorials and computer based exercises, aims to high-
light the crucial role of marine genomics for the under-
standing of the marine environment and for an ecient
use of its resources. The Biological Station is a vibrant
research community of 273 scientists and support per-
sonnel, and is located in the old town and shing port
of Rosco, Brittany, France. Advanced PhD students
and junior post-docs are encouraged to apply.
The course consists of the following topics. - Phy-
logeny & tree of life- sequence analyses, phylogenetic
techniques (clustering, Bayesian statistics), molecular
clock, case studies - Population genetics - structure,
connectivity and gene ow, assignment, eective size
and population dynamics, case studies - Genomics -
next generation sequencing, database searching, basic
skills in data handling and bioinformatics - Functional
genomics - genome structure, molecular evolution at the
functional level - Comparative genomics - whole genome
comparisons, concatenated phylogeny, genome organi-
zation, annotating genomic information, co-evolution -
Environmental genomics - methods for detecting diver-
sity; detecting adaptive variation; NGS: why and how;
case studies.
Applications in aquaculture, blue biotech, conservation,
sheries, nutrigenomics and the like will be discussed.
Target group PhD students (at least in their second
year) and junior postdocs with a solid knowledge in
phylogenetics and/or population genetics. Students
with an applied background (e.g. aquaculture, blue
biotech, sheries, nutrigenomics) are encouraged to ap-
ply. 18 participants will be selected on the following cri-
teria: 1. Relevance of the course for their PhD or post-
doc project 2. Background and experience 3. We aim
at training people with dierent research backgrounds;
not more than one person per institute will be consid-
ered. We implement a gender policy.
The selected persons will be notied by mid April and
will have to conrm attendance within 7 days. There
is a waiting list in case of non- conrmations and can-
cellations.
Teachers Catherine Boyen, SB-Rosco, FR Melody
Clark, BAS, UK Jonas Coll en, SB-Rosco, FR Si-
mon Creer, U Bangor, UK Yves Desdevises, UPMC,
Banuyls, FR Jakob Hemmer-Hansen, DTU-Aqua, DK
Frederik Leliaert, U Ghent, BE Fr ed eric Partensky, SB-
Rosco, FR Daniel Vaulot, SB-Rosco, FR Filip Volck-aert, KULeuven, BE Mathias Wegner, GEOMAR, Kiel
and AWI-Sylt, GE
Organizing committee Jonas Coll en, SB-Rosco, FR
Damien Guiant, SB-Rosco, FR Matthias Obst, Univ.
Gothenburg, SW Jeanine Olsen, Univ Groningen, NL
Filip Volckaert, KU Leuven, BE
For information and application please consult http://-
meeg2013.sciencesconf.org .The application deadline is
this week Thursday March 28 2013.
Filip Volckaert <Filip.Volckaert@bio.kuleuven.be >
Rosco France MarineGenomics
Jun3-14 2
Dear colleagues,
Dear students,
Once again, the summer course on Marine Ecological
& Environmental Genomics (9th edition) is organized
at the Station Biologique de Rosco (France) on 3th-
14th June 2013. As the past year, the Euromarine and
MG4U consortia (all FP7 projects) are into partnership
with the Station Biologique de Rosco to support the
event.
The course, which will consist of lectures, tutorials and
computer based exercises, aims to highlight the crucial
role of marine genomics for the understanding of the
marine environment and for an ecient use of its re-
sources. Advanced PhD students and junior post-docs
are encouraged to apply.
More information and an application form are available
at http://meeg2013.sciencesconf.org . The deadline for
application is March, 28th 2013.
The MEEG2012 organizing committee,
Damien Guiant (SB-Rosco, FR)
Jonas Coll en (SB-Rosco, FR)
Filip Volckaert (KU Leuven, BE)
Jeanine Olsen (Univ. Groningen, NL)
Matthias Obst (Univ. Gothenburg, SW)
Matthias Obst, PhD G oteborg University Department
of Biological and Environmental Sciences Box 463 SE-
405 30 G oteborg Sweden Tel: +46 (0) 317863827 Fax:
+46 (0) 31416729 Email: matthias.obst@bioenv.gu.se
homepage http://www.bioenv.gu.se/english/-118 EvolDir April 1, 2013
sta/obst matthias/ Matthias Obst
<matthias.obst@bioenv.gu.se >
SW Arizona Lepidoptera Aug8-17
2013 Lep Course, SW Arizona
The 2013 Lep course will be held 8 - 17 August,
at the SouthWest Research Station (SWRS) in the
Chirichahua Mountains in SE Arizona (a 2 1/2 hour
drive from Tucson). With its extensive series of Sky-
Island mountain ranges, SE Arizona has the highest
lepidoptera diversity in the US. With low desert scrub,
oak and mixed oak-pine woodland, lush riparian, ju-
niper, Douglas r, and mountain meadow habitats all
within a 40 minute drive from the station, the SWRS
is an ideal location from which to sample this diversity
(of both habitats and species).
The focus of the lep course is to train graduate students,
post-docs, faculty, and serious citizen-scientists in the
classication and identication of adult lepidoptera and
their larvae. Topics to be covered include an extensive
introduction into adult and larval morphology with a
focus on taxonomically-important traits, extensive eld
work on both adults and larvae, collecting and curatoral
techniques, genitalic dissection and preparation, larval
classication, and general issues in lepidoptera system-
atics, ecology, and evolution.
At present, the projected sta include Deane Bowers
(Colorado), Richard Brown (Mississippi State Univ),
Jennifer Bundy (Arizona Western), Chris Grinter (Den-
ver Museum), Eric Metzler (Michigan State), Ray Na-
gle(Arizona), Sangmi Lee (Arizona State), Bruce Walsh
(Arizona), Dave Wagner (Connecticut)
For additional information, see www.lepcourse.org
or http://research.amnh.org/swrs/education/-
lepidoptera-course
jbwalsh@email.arizona.edu
Seattle StatGenetics Summer
18th Summer Institute in Statistical Genetics 8-26 July
2013, http://sisg.biostat.washington.edu 5th SummerInstitute in Statistics and Modeling in Infectious Dis-
eases 8-24 July 2013, http://depts.washington.edu/-
sismid/ 2nd Summer Institute in Biostatistics 12-16
August 2013, http://sib.biostat.washington.edu Con-
ference: 'Impact of Large-Scale Genomic Data on
Statistical and Quantitative Genetics' 24-26 Novem-
ber 2013, www.biostat.washington.edu/sqg conference
Bruce Weir <bsweir@uw.edu >
Smithsonian WildlifeConservation
Jun1-7
Graduate and Professional Course Non-Invasive Ge-
netic Techniques in Wildlife Conservation June 1-7,
2013 Smithsonian-Mason School of Conservation At
the Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute, Front
Royal, VA, USA Visit http://SMconservation.gmu.edu
or contact SCBItraining@si.edu for more information.
This course is an introduction for graduate students and
professionals to the applications, benets, and draw-
backs of non-invasive genetic techniques to wildlife con-
servation. The course will concentrate on the use of
non-invasive techniques to answer questions in animal
behavior, population biology, and population manage-
ment, with a particular focus on the conservation of
mammalian populations. Participants gain hands-on
experience with all stages of a research project utilizing
modern non-invasive methods by working with expert
researchers through a combination of eld, laboratory
and computer-based modules.
Throughout the course participants work through a di-
rected research project, progressing from study design
through eld data collection, sampling protocols, and
DNA extraction and amplication, to analysis of mi-
crosatellite and sequence data using the most eective
and accessible software packages. The course focuses
on relatedness, population size estimation and popu-
lation dynamics; additional lectures address genotype
reliability, research applications for ancient DNA, and
applications of next-generation pyrosequencing.
Many of these groundbreaking non-invasive genetic
techniques were initially developed at the Smithsonian's
National Zoo and its Center for Conservation and Evo-
lutionary Genetics (CCEG). Course instructors include
scientists from CCEG (Drs. Jesus Maldonado and Rob
Fleischer) and George Mason University (Dr. Christine
Bozarth) and several expert visiting instructors includ-
ing Drs. Mike Schwartz, Elizabeth Archie, and Lori Eg-April 1, 2013 EvolDir 119
gert. While most instruction takes place in Front Royal
at the newly opened facilities of the Smithsonian-Mason
School of Conservation, the course also includes labo-
ratory work at the National Zoo's new state-of-the-art
genetics lab in Washington, DC.
The total course fee, which includes instruction and
course materials, food, shared lodging, and trans-
port to/from Washington-Dulles International Airport
(IAD) is $2,142. All other travel costs and inciden-
tal expenses are the participant's responsibility. Par-
ticipants earn Continuing Education Units; graduate
course credit (2) is available for qualied applicants
through George Mason University at an additional
fee. Participants should have previously completed
a college-level genetics and basic ecology/evolution
course. For rst consideration, apply before February
23, 2013. This course has been full during all previous
oerings, so you are encouraged to apply early.
Additional Upcoming Courses:
For more information on each of these, see: http:/-
/SMconservation.gmu.edu * Species Monitoring &
Conservation: Terrestrial Mammals (April 29-May 10,
2013) - spaces still available, must apply now!
* Species Monitoring & Conservation: Reptiles (May
13-24, 2013) - spaces still available, must apply now!
* Adaptive Management for Conservation Success
(June 10-21, 2013) * Conservation for Development
Professionals: Strategies for implementing Biodiversity
Action Plans for the private sector (June 17-21, 2013) *
Ecology and Conservation of Migratory Birds (Septem-
ber 9-20, 2013) * Spatial Ecology: Geospatial Analysis
and Remote Sensing for Conservation (September 30-
October 11, 2013) * Conservation Breeding Centers for
Wildlife Sustainability (October 7-14, 2013) * Applied
Climate Change: Gaining Practical Skills for Climate
Adaptation (October 21-November 1, 2013)
\Kolowski, Joseph" <kolowskij@si.edu >
Snowbird Utah SSBPhylogenetics
Jun21
Society of Systematic Biologists Workshop:
SSB Members - here is your chance to learn from some
of the best and brightest in the Society of Systematic
Biologists. All SSB members are invited to attend the
inaugural Society of Systematic Biologists Workshop,which will be held on Friday June 21, 2013 between
1:00 and 5:00 at the site of the 2013 Evolution Annual
Meeting. This workshop is open only to members of
SSB, so be sure to renew your membership today!
Speakers will include:
Joe Felsenstein (Phylip & model-based molecular phy-
logenetics) John Huelsenbeck (Mr Bayes & Bayesian
phylogenetics) Brant Faircloth (Next Generation Se-
quencing for Phylogenetics) Jeet Sukumaran (Bioinfor-
matics and phylogenetics) Peter Beerli (Migrate-n and
phylogeography)
There will be a short reception following the workshop
- this will be the place to meet society members and
discuss phylogenetic and phylogeographic methods.
Please contact Bryan Carstens <carstens dot 12 at osu
dot edu >with questions.
Bryan C. Carstens Department of Evolution, Ecology,
& Organismal Biology The Ohio State University 318
W. 12th Avenue Columbus, OH 43210-1293
web: http://carstenslab.org.ohio-state.edu/ web:
https://sites.google.com/site/bryanccarstens/ skype:
bryan carstens oce: 614.292.6587 cell: 734.474.8527
Bryan Carstens <bryan.c.carstens@gmail.com >
Stanford Biodemography May6-8
What: Workshop Announcement: Call for Applications
When: Stanford Workshop on Biodemography - May 6-
8, 2013 Where: Stanford Institute for Research in the
Social Sciences
The Stanford Centers for Population Research and the
Demography and Economics of Health & Aging an-
nounce a workshop on Biodemography. This year's
topics include: mortality disparity (patterns, causes,
change); genes and aging (expression data, GWAS and
SNPS, EWAS); quantitative traits, environments and
variation; and evolutionary data and theory. Faculty
in attendance will include Shripad Tujlapurkar (Stan-
ford), Hal Caswell (WHOI) and Carol Horvitz (Miami),
among others.
Applications for this 3-day workshop are invited from
advanced students, postdocs and junior faculty. We
provide materials and meals at the workshop. Students
are expected to arrange for their own travel. A lim-
ited number of scholarships are available to help pay120 EvolDir April 1, 2013
for lodging and/or travel.
To apply for the workshop, please email your CV
and a short statement of research interest by Fri-
day, March 22, 2013, to Neesha Joseph (nee-
sha.joseph@stanford.edu). To apply for a scholarship,
specify whether you are requesting support for travel,
lodging or both and include a recommendation letter
from your faculty advisor.
Sponsors: National Institute on Aging, Stanford's In-
stitute for Research in the Social Sciences, Stanford's
Center for Population Research, Stanford's Center on
the Demography and Economics of Health and Aging,
and the Center on the Economics and Demography of
Aging at the University of California, Berkeley.
Neesha Joseph <neesha.joseph@stanford.edu >
WageningenU SocialEvolution
May13
Registration for the course and symposium on social
genetic eects is now open!
This is a symposium and course announcement. Please
forward this email to colleagues that might be inter-
ested. Apologies for the double postings.
Symposium: Genetics of social life: Agriculture meets
evolutionary biology
On the 13th of May 2013, the Animal Breeding and
Genomics Centre of Wageningen University organizes
a symposium on social genetic eects.
Keynote speakers:
- Alastair Wilson V Centre for Ecology and Conserva-
tion, University of Exeter, United Kingdom
- Hannah Dugdale - Department of Animal and Plant
Sciences, University of Sheeld, United Kingdom
- Jason Wolf V Department of Biology & Biochemistry,
University of Bath, United Kingdom
- Laurent Keller V Department of Ecology and Evolu-
tion, University of Lausanne, Switzerland
- Piter Bijma V Animal Breeding and Genomics Centre,
Wageningen University, the Netherlands
Location: Hotel de Nieuwe Wereld, Marijkeweg 5, 6709
PE Wageningen, The Netherlands
Date: May 13 2013Fee: Free
Registration: Send an email to eur.bartels@wur.nl. At
registration, provide your name, department, company,
and if you have diet restrictions. Deadline for registra-
tion is May 3 2013.
Information about the symposium can be found here
(http://www.wias.nl/courses/view course.php?ID=-
227).
Course: Social genetic eects: Theory and genetic anal-
ysis
>From May 14 until May 16 2013, the Animal Breeding
and Genomics Centre of Wageningen University orga-
nizes a course on social genetic eects.
Aim: The course focusses on the theory and genetic
analysis of social eects (Indirect Genetic Eects).
Throughout the course the aim will be to learn use-
ful approaches and strategies for analysing your own
data. Data analysis exercises will be carried out by
participants using ASReml. You can bring your own
data.
Teacher:
- Piter Bijma, Animal Breeding and Genomics Centre,
Wageningen University, the Netherlands.
Target audience: The course is designed for PhD stu-
dents, postdoctoral fellows, academic and company re-
searchers interested in social eects in plant, natural or
livestock populations. Basic knowledge in quantitative
or statistical genetics is desired, but not compulsory.
Outline:
Day 1
- Trait-models with Indirect Genetic Eects (IGE; also
known as associative eects, social eects or competi-
tion eects)
Day 2
- Consequences of IGEs for heritable variation and re-
sponse to selection. Specic attention will be given to
kin and group selection, and an overview of empirical
results obtained with dierent selection methods will be
given. Models with IGEs on tness will also be covered
briey
- Dinner
Day 3
- The estimation of genetic parameters and breeding
values for direct and indirect genetic eects will be cov-
ered, using mixed model methods. Approximately half
of the time will be spent on lectures and half of the
time on computer practical using exercises and/or yourApril 1, 2013 EvolDir 121
own data. Please bring your own laptop with ASReml.
Please let us know if you have no ASReml licence.
Course Fee1 : A. WIAS PhD's2 $ a 300.00 B. Other
PhD's, post-docs, academia and WU sta $ a 400.00 C.
Industry $ a 500.00
1Fee include course materials, daily coee, tea and
lunch, and a course dinner. Hotel accommodation and
traveling is not included. 2For Wias PhD students with
an approved TSP WIAS pays the fee.
Location: Hof van Wageningen, Lawickse Allee 9, 6701
AN Wageningen, the Netherlands.
Registration: Use the register button on the website
(http://www.wias.nl/courses/view course.php?ID=-
226). The number of participants is limited to 50
persons, admitted on a rst-come basis. Registration
is nal after payment of the registration fee. You will
receive an invoice containing all payment details.
Dates: May 14 V 16, 2013 The course will start on
Tuesday May 14 at 9:00 am. The course will end at
5.00 pm on Thursday 16th of May.
Deadline: Final registration: April 19 2013
Final cancellation: April 19 2013
Cancellation: Cancellations must be notied by e-mail
to Dr. E.D. Ellen. If received before 19th of April,
no fees have to be paid. Full fees have to be paid (no
refunds will be made) after April 19.
Information about the course and hotel accommoda-
tion can be found here (http://www.wias.nl/courses/-
view course.php?ID=226).
Symposium and Course Organisation: Esther
Ellen (Esther.Ellen@wur.nl) and Fleur Bartels
(Fleur.Bartels@wur.nl)
Dr. Esther D. Ellen Postdoc
Animal Breeding and Genomics Centre, Wageningen
UR (University & Research Centre)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
WoodsHole MolecularEvolution
Jul21-31Workshop on Molecular Evolution at the Marine Bio-
logical Laboratory at Woods Hole
Directors: David Hillis < http://-
www.biosci.utexas.edu/IB/faculty/hillis.htm >,
University of Texas, Austin; and Mitchell L. Sogin <
http://jbpc.mbl.edu/labs-msogin.html >, MBL
Course Date: July 21 V July 31, 2013
Online Application Form <http://ws2.mbl.edu/-
studentapp/studentapp.asp?courseID=MOLE >Dead-
line: April 9, 2013 at http://ws2.mbl.edu/studentapp/-
studentapp.asp?courseID=MOLE The Workshop on
Molecular Evolution at Woods Hole presents a series
of lectures, discussions, and bioinformatic exercises that
span contemporary topics in molecular evolution. Since
its inception in 1988, the workshop has encouraged
the exchange of ideas between leading theoreticians,
software developers and workshop participants. The
workshop serves graduate students, postdoctoral stu-
dents and established faculty from around the world.
The 2012 Workshop will use computer packages in-
cluding AWTY, BEAST, BEST, Clustal W/X, FASTA,
FigTree, GARLI, MIGRATE, LAMARC, MAFFT,
MP-EST, MrBayes, PAML, PAUP*, PHYLIP, STEM,
STEM-hy, and SeaView to address the topics:
* Phylogenetic analysis: theoretical, mathematical and
statistical bases; sampling properties of sequence data;
Maximum likelihood theory and practice; Bayesian
analysis; hypothesis testing * Population genetics anal-
ysis using coalescence theory; maximum likelihood and
Bayesian estimation of population genetic parameters *
Databases and sequence matching: database searching:
protein sequence versus protein structure; homology;
mathematical, statistical, and theoretical aspects of se-
quence database searches; multiple alignment * Molec-
ular evolution integrated at organism and higher levels:
population biology; biogeography; ecology; systematics
and conservation * Molecular evolution and develop-
ment: gene duplication and divergence; gene family or-
ganization; coordinated expression in evolution * Com-
parative genomics: genome content; genome structure;
genome evolution * Molecular evolution integrated at
lower levels: biochemistry; cell biology; physiology; re-
lationship of genotype to phenotype
Students, postdocs, faculty, and others working on
molecular evolution are all welcome to apply.
\Hillis, David" <dhillis@austin.utexas.edu >122 EvolDir April 1, 2013
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.