E v o l D i r
February 1, 2011
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same ﬁeld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be “bulletin board” in nature, if there is a “discussion” style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1032 EvolDir February 1, 2011
Conferences
Almada Portugal PrimateDiversity Sep14-17 . . . . . . . . 2
Auburn SoutheasternEcologyEvolution Mar25-27 . . . 3
Chicago PlantEvolution Apr16 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Edinburgh EvolTransposableElements Apr1 . . . . . . . . 4
Fiskebackskil Sweden SyngnathidPhylogenetics Apr25-
29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
GhentU ComparativePlantGenomics Apr11-12 . . . . . . 5
KansasCity ArthropodGenomics Jun9-12 . . . . . . . . . . . 5
London EcolGenetics Apr19-21 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
London GroupSelection Jan25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
London MacroevolutionaryResearch Mar9 . . . . . . . . . . 7
Marseilles 15th EBM FirstDeadLine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Montpellier HumanEvolution Jun29-Jul3 . . . . . . . . . . . 8
OhioU Athens Bioinformatics May2-4 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
PennsylvaniaStateU MolEvol Mar19-20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Switzerland BehaviouralEvolution Apr17-20 . . . . . . . . 9
Tuebingen ESEB2011 Aug20-25 RegistrationOpen . 10
Tuebingen ESEB Adaptation Aug20-25 CallAbstracts
11
Tuebingen ESEB CausesEpistasis Aug20-25 CallAb-
stracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Tuebingen ESEB CytoplasmicEvol Aug20-25 CallAb-
stracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12Tuebingen ESEB EvolutionOfLabor Aug20-25 CallAb-
stracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Tuebingen ESEB EvolutionTechniques Aug20-25
CallAbstracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Tuebingen ESEB FamilyEvolution Aug20-25 CallAb-
stracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Tuebingen ESEB Genomics Aug20-25 CallAbstracts 13
Tuebingen ESEB Mutualism Aug20-25 CallAbstracts
14
Tuebingen ESEB PolyploidGenomics Aug20-25
CallAbstracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Tuebingen ESEB PopulationGenomics Aug20-25
CallAbstracts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Tuebingen ESEB Speciation Aug20-25 CallAbstracts
15
Tuebingen ESEB SystemsBiol Aug20-25 CallAbstracts
16
Tuebingen ESEB Viviparity Aug20-25 CallAbstracts
16
UCalifornia SantaBarbara EvolutionDisease Jun19-25
17
UHawaii EvolutionaryBiol Feb17-18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Almada Portugal PrimateDiversity
Sep14-17
ˆ aDiversity within Primatologyˆ a
IV CONGRESS OF THE EUROPEAN FEDERA-
TION FOR PRIMATOLOGY
Invitation
You are cordially invited to attend the fourth congress
of the European Federation for Primatology (EFP).
This congress will be hosted by the Portuguese Prima-
tological Association (APP), at Almada, from 14th ˆ a
17th September 2011.
This meeting will coincide with the 3rd Iberian Prima-tological Conference, which gathers together the 5th
Portuguese ans the 9th Spanish Primatological Confer-
ences.
Diversity will be the main theme of the congress.
By diversity we mean diversity of research topics, diver-
sity of approaches in primatology, diversity of species
or diversity between individuals.
This conference aims to build strong scientiﬁc bridges
between European primatologists facilitating the estab-
lishment of network contacts and hopefully engaging
European scientists in co-operative research activities.
We are looking forward to see you in Almada!
Date
14th - 17th September 2011 (from Wednesday to Sat-
urday).
The proposed format will allow congress participants toFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 3
stay over the weekend for sight-seeing and social events.
Venue
The conference will take place in the library building
that belongs to the C ˜Amara Municipal de Almada (Al-
mada, Portugal).
Almada is a small city located 15 minutes away from the
South of Lisbon (across the bridge over Tagus River).
For more speciﬁc information regarding the access to
Almada and Almada surroundings please see
http://www.almadadigital.pt/portal/page/portal/-
ACDV2 Conference oﬃcial language
English is the conference language.
Abstracts for both oral and poster communications
must be submitted in English and all presentations
must be given in English.
More information will be provided soon!
For more informations, please go to:
http://apprimatologia.com/Actividades/-
CEP2011.aspx Maria Joana Ferreira da Silva
<silvamaria ju@hotmail.com >
Auburn
SoutheasternEcologyEvolution
Mar25-27
**Please Distribute Widely**
CALL FOR ABSTRACTS
SEEC 2011 SOUTHEASTERN ECOLOGY &
EVOLUTION CONFERENCE Auburn University
AUBURN, ALABAMA, USA 25-27 MARCH 2011
ABSTRACT SUBMITTAL DEADLINE: 11 MARCH
2011
We invite all undergraduate, graduate, and post-
doctoral researchers in ecology, evolution, environmen-
tal sciences, limnology, forestry, ﬁsheries, marine sci-
ences, and other related ﬁelds to submit abstracts
for either oral or poster presentations at the 8th An-
nual Southeastern Ecology and Evolution Conference
(SEEC) to be held March 25-27, 2011, at the Auburn
University in Auburn, Alabama. Each year SEEC is
hosted by a diﬀerent southeastern university and is or-
ganized by and geared toward students. SEEC is a pro-
fessional meeting intended for early-career researchers
in ecology, evolution, and related ﬁelds to present theirresearch to their colleagues in a comfortable, fun, and
relaxed atmosphere. Typically 200-300 students give
or attend formal presentations and ﬁnd SEEC to be a
valuable forum for sharing research and connecting with
other young researchers in the region. This event is de-
signed to encourage new friendships within our ﬁeld
and to share newly developed research ideas for feed-
back. While we expect most SEEC participants to be
from the Southeast, we encourage and welcome all in-
terested individuals to submit abstracts and/or attend.
SEEC 2011 homepage: http://gump.auburn.edu/-
seec2011/ Early registration for this year’s conference
will be $25.00 before February 11th and covers meeting
attendance, two continental breakfasts, dinner/social
Saturday evening, snacks, coﬀee, and a t-shirt! After
February 11th the registration fee will be $35.00 up to
the day of the conference. Awards for both the best oral
and poster presentations will be given. There will also
be tables from sponsors, including publishers, supply
companies, and other organizations (see our web site
for a complete list of sponsors). The abstract submis-
sion deadline is March 11, 2011, and may be completed
at the following web site:
http://fs22.formsite.com/SEEC2011/form1/-
index.html We are pleased to announce that
Sunday’s keynote speaker is Dr. Alan Wilson, who
organized the ﬁrst Southeastern Ecology & Evolu-
tion Conference in 2004. Dr. Alan Wilson received
his Ph.D. in Applied Biology from the Georgia In-
stitute of Technology in 2006. After spending a
year as a research investigator at the Cooperative
Institute for Limnology and Ecosystems Research
(CILER) jointly housed at the University of Michigan
and NOAA’s Great Lakes Environmental Research
Laboratory (GLERL), Alan joined the faculty at
Auburn University (AU) as a tenure-track Assistant
Professor in 2007. He is jointly appointed in the
Departments of Fisheries and Allied Aquacultures &
Biological Sciences. Alan is a community ecologist
whose research interests revolve around the ecologi-
cal mechanisms mediating harmful freshwater algal
blooms. He is particularly interested in understanding
how within-species genetic and phenotypic varia-
tion inﬂuences community structure and ecosystem
function. Alan is also initiating projects aimed at
understanding how toxic algal blooms inﬂuence human
and livestock health. You can learn more about
Alan’s research at http://wilsonlab.com/ Auburn
University is located in downtown Auburn, Alabama
and is convenient to numerous hotels, restaurants, and
bars (to see what’s happening in Auburn, check out
these sites www.oanews.com, www.thecornernews.com
andwww.auburnalabama.org ). Registration, abstract4 EvolDir February 1, 2011
submission, travel/lodging information, and contact
information may all be found at the SEEC web site:
http://gump.auburn.edu/seec2011 Please help us
spread the word about SEEC by forwarding this mes-
sage to any students, colleagues, departments, colleges,
or schools that you think might be interested in attend-
ing SEEC this year! SEEC ﬂyers are also available on
the SEEC homepage and we strongly encourage posting
these in conspicuous locations.
We look forward to seeing you at Auburn University
for the 8th Annual Southeastern Ecology and Evolu-
tion Conference this March!
SEEC Organizing Committee
2011seec@gmail.com
Chicago PlantEvolution Apr16
*Chicago* Plant Science Symposium 2011 *The Field
Museum*
In the 1990s, Field Museum hosted an annual Plant
Science Symposium, highlighting the cutting edge of
research in plant evolution, ecology, and conservation,
and bringing together the plant science community of
the greater Chicago area. This spring we will revive the
tradition, with a one-day event on *Saturday, April 16,
2011* consisting of seven invited speakers. The pro-
gram will include lunch and a post-conference mixer.
Best of all, registration will be free!
The theme of the symposium is *Species: From Con-
cepts to Conservation. *The species is a fundamen-
tal unit of research in biology, and continues to pro-
mote inquiry (and controversy) across a range of dis-
ciplines. We will invite a diverse set of speakers who
are united by the common thread that their research
grapples with the nature of plant species. The talks
will span evolution, ecology, and conservation, and in-
clude perspectives from molecular, morphological, and
functional data.
A more detailed announcement will follow when the
program of speakers is complete.
Questions: Contact the co-organizers, Patrick Heren-
deen (pherendeen@chicagobotanic.org) or Rick Ree
(rree@ﬁeldmuseum.org)
We look forward to seeing you in April!
Rick and PatRichard Ree <rree@ﬁeldmuseum.org >
Edinburgh
EvolTransposableElements Apr1
Meeting on Transposable Elements, Edinburgh, April
2011
A one-day meeting on “Transposable elements: their
functional and evolutionary biology” will be held at
Surgeons’ Hall, Edinburgh, UK on April, 1, 2011. This
is the annual Spring Meeting of the Genetics Society of
the UK, and details of meeting arrangements and reg-
istration can be found on the Genetics Society website
(http://www.genetics.org.uk/ ). Laurence Hurst will
give the Genetics Society Medal Lecture for 2010 at
this meeting. Other speakers are Mark Batzer, Casey
Bergman, Tom Bureau, Hugo Dooner, Tom Eickbush,
Adam Eyre-Walker, and Zsuzsanna Izsvak.
Brian Charlesworth <brian.charlesworth@ed.ac.uk >
Fiskebackskil Sweden
SyngnathidPhylogenetics Apr25-29
Dear Evoldir members,
The deadline for registration and abstract submission
for SYNG BIO is rapidly approaching.
Syngnathid Biology International Symposium.
Fiskeb¨ ackskil, Sweden April 25-29 ^th , 2011
The goal of this symposium is to bring together stu-
dents and scientiﬁc researchers working on various as-
pects of pipeﬁsh, seahorse and seadragon biology. Top-
ics include physiology, phylogenetics, phylogeography,
sexual selection, behavior, conservation and manage-
ment.
Invited speakers: Ingrid Ahnesj¨ o, Uppsala University,
Sweden Adam Jones, Texas A&M University, USA
Charlotta Kvarnemo, Gothenburg University, Sweden
Nuno Monteiro, Centre for Biodiversity and Genetic
Resources, Portugal Tony Wilson, Zoologisches Mu-
seum Universit¨ at Z¨ urich-Irchel, Switzerland
Deadline for abstract submission and registra-February 1, 2011 EvolDir 5
tion:January 15th, 2011 To register, please
send a 250 word abstract with aﬃliations to
kenyon.mobley@emg.umu.se and put “your-
name SYNG BIO registration” in the subject line.
Please indicate whether you prefer an oral or poster
presentation.
Travel Grants for Nordic Marine Academy Mem-
ber Institutions: Are you student/postdoctoral fel-
low from a Nordic Marine Academy member insti-
tution? (see http://nma.uib.no/nma/default.asp?k=-
13&idw for more information) If so, you may be eligi-
ble for reimbursement of travel costs of up to 3500 SEK
(380 Euros) and a reduced conference fee of 3620 SEK.
More information: For more details of the conference,
please see http://syngbio.mezoka.com/
–
Kenyon Mobley, Ph.D Department of Ecology and En-
vironmental Science Ume˚ a University Linnaeus V¨ ag 6
Ume˚ a, Sweden 90 187
+46 (0) 907869535 My research: http://tiny.cc/z9xw0
Announcing: SYNG BIO Syngnathid Biology Interna-
tional Symposium Fiskeb¨ ackskil, Sweden April 25-29th
2011
http://syngbio(dot )mezoka(dot)com/
Registration and abstract deadline: Jan 15, 2011
kenyon mobley <kenyon.mobley@emg.umu.se >
GhentU ComparativePlantGenomics
Apr11-12
Dear,
the ﬁrst international Conference on *Comparative and
Regulatory Genomics in Plants* will be held at VIB -
Ghent University, Belgium April 11-12, 2011.
This conference will give an overview of the most re-
cent developments in plant genomics and will discuss
the integration of experimental high-throughput data
with computational approaches to study gene func-
tions, genome organization and transcriptional regu-
lation. A panel of international invited speakers in-
cludes experts in the ﬁeld of plant next-gen genome
sequencing, genome evolution, comparative transcrip-
tomics, ChIP proﬁling and plant regulatory networks.
More information including invited speakers is availablehere: http://bioinformatics.psb.ugent.be/crg event/-
conference/about Best regards,
the scientiﬁc committee, Klaas Vandepoele
/apologies for double postings/
–
Klaas Vandepoele, PhD Tel. 32 (0)9 33 13822
VIB Department of Plant Systems Biology, Ghent
University Technologiepark 927, 9052 Gent, Bel-
gium E-mail: Klaas.Vandepoele@psb.vib-ugent.be
Website: http://bioinformatics.psb.ugent.be/
PLAZA, a resource for Plant Comparative Ge-
nomics http://bioinformatics.psb.ugent.be/plaza/
klaas.vandepoele@psb.ugent.be
KansasCity ArthropodGenomics
Jun9-12
Arthropod Genomics 2011: Exploring Diversity,
Relating Similarity 5th ANNUAL ARTHROPOD
GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM June 9 12, 2011, in
Kansas City, USA http://www.k-state.edu/agc/-
symposium.shtml
Please save the dates and plan to attend the 5th Annual
Arthropod Genomics Symposium, Exploring Diversity,
Relating Similarity, June 9 to 12, 2011, in Kansas City
at the Marriott hotel on the beautiful Country Club
Plaza. Registration will open in January.
KEYNOTE SPEAKER: Marc A.T. Muskavitch
DeLuca Professor of Biology Boston College Ad-
vancing vector genetics through the power of vector
genomics
FEATURED SPEAKERS: Gregor Bucher Department
of Developmental Biology Georg-August University,
G?ttingen, Germany Beetle: Genome wide RNAi
screen for embryonic and metamorphic development in
Tribolium
Owain Edwards Invertebrate Genomics and Evolu-
tion CSIRO Ecosystem Sciences Perth, Australia DNA
methylation and phenotypic plasticity in the pea aphid,
Acyrthosiphon pisum
Cassandra Extavour Dept of Organismic and Evolu-
tionary Biology Harvard University Overcoming the
gene discovery bottleneck for arthropod evo-devo: Cre-
ating de novo developmental transcriptomes
Toni Gabald ˜A3n Center for Genomic Regulation6 EvolDir February 1, 2011
(CRG) Barcelona, Spain Arthropod genomes as seen
through the lens of evolution
Cheryl Y. Hayashi Department of Biology University of
California, Riverside Spider silks: Functional and evo-
lutionary insights into high-performance materials
Mary Ann McDowell Biological Sciences University of
Notre Dame A tale of two sand ﬂy genomes: Phleboto-
mus papatasi and Lutzomyia longipalpis
Pedro L. Oliveira Instituto de Bioqu ˜A’mica M ˜Ac/circlecopyrtdica
Programa de Biologia Molecular e Biotecnologia Uni-
versidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro and Instituto Na-
cional de Ci ˜Ancia e Tecnologia em Entomologia Molec-
ular Rio de Janeiro, Brazil An insight into the tran-
scriptome of the digestive tract of the blood sucking
bug, Rhodnius prolixus
Michael Pfrender Biological Sciences University of
Notre Dame Genome structure, functional diversiﬁca-
tion, and Genome X environment interactions in Daph-
nia
Dorith Rotenberg Plant Pathology Kansas State Uni-
versity A genomics-based approach to identify insect
molecular components associated with vector compe-
tency in Frankliniella occidentalis, the primary thrips
vector of Tomato spotted wilt virus
Herv ˜Ac/circlecopyrtSeitz Laboratoire de Biologie Mol ˜Ac/circlecopyrtculaire
Eucaryote CNRS/Universit ˜Ac/circlecopyrt Paul-Sabatier
Toulouse, France Genomics of small RNAs in in-
sects
Alexandra C. Wilson Department of Biology University
of Miami Genomic insights into nitrogen upgrading and
recycling in the aphid [Buchnera] symbiosis
Guojie Zhang Beijing Genome Institute Shenzhen,
China BGI’s recent activity on insect genomic research
WORKSHOPS A pre-symposium workshop, Genome
Project 101, by Scott Cain, OICR, and Dave Clements,
Emory University; Thursday afternoon, June 9, 4:00-
6:00 p.m.
Comparative genomics with the generic synteny
browser (GBrowse syn): Conﬁguration and display of
various co-linearity data types, by Sheldon McKay,
iPlant, will be presented Saturday morning, June 11.
ORGANISM MEETINGS Friday afternoon/evening,
June 10 Meet with scientists who are also working
with your organism of interest during small group gath-
erings. If you are interested in coordinating topics
and leading discussions as a group leader, please e-
mail dmerrill@ksu.edu . Additional information will be
posted to the conference website as details are ﬁnalized.
POSTER SESSIONS: There will be two poster sessions.A few platform presentations will be chosen from sub-
mitted poster ubstracts. The deadline for submission
of poster abstracts is May 18.
TENTATIVE SYMPOSIUM PROGRAM Thursday af-
ternoon, June 9 Pre-Symposium Workshop Thursday
evening, June 9 Keynote presentation and welcome re-
ception Friday & Saturday, June 10 and 11 - Platform
and Poster sessions Friday afternoon/evening, June
10 Organism meetings Saturday morning Gbrowse syn
Workshop Sunday morning, June 12 Roundtable dis-
cussion focusing on I5k with Kevin J. Hackett, USDA,
and the ArthropodBase Consortium. All are invited to
attend!
Noon, Sunday, June 12 - Activities will conclude.
ROUNDTABLE DISCUSSION: Participate in a
roundtable discussion with the ArthropodBase Con-
sortium regarding the generation of integrated arthro-
pod genome databases and tools for genome projects.
Discussion will focus on I5k, led by Kevin J. Hackett,
USDA. Symposium attendees are encouraged to attend.
PRE-CONFERENCE MEETINGS: -International Tri-
bolium Meeting, 6/8 and 6/9. -International Aphid
Genomics Consortium, 6/9.
REGISTRATION: Registration will be open in Jan-
uary. Monitor our website, www.k-state.edu/agc/-
symposium.shtml and watch for the next announce-
ment.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
London EcolGenetics Apr19-21
The abstract deadline for Ecological Genetics Group
(EGG) 2011 is fast approaching.
http://www.ecologicalgeneticsgroup.org.uk/eco/ Con-
ference Dates: 19th-21st April 2011
Abstract deadline: 31st January 2011
This year’s plenary speakers are evolutionary biologists
Loren Rieseberg (University of British Columbia) and
Roger Butlin (University of Sheﬃeld).
Venues: Natural History Museum (South Kensington,February 1, 2011 EvolDir 7
London) and Royal Foundation of St Katherine Con-
ference Centre (Limehouse, London)
Talk or poster titles can be submitted with reg-
istration, and abstracts must be submitted at the
conference website by 31 Jan 2011. http://-
www.ecologicalgeneticsgroup.org.uk/eco/ Event Pack-
age Option(s) 1. Day registration only £170.00 2. Reg-
istration plus two nights single en suite room B&B
£270.00 [Only 28 places available at £50 per night] 3.
Registration plus two nights shared (double) en suite
room B&B £250.00 [Only 16 places available at £40
per night]
Organisers: Steve Ansell (Natural History Museum)
and Richard Buggs (Queen Mary, University of Lon-
don)
s.ansell@nhm.ac.uk r.buggs@qmul.ac.uk
http://www.ecologicalgeneticsgroup.org.uk/eco/ –
Richard Buggs MA, DPhil NERC Post-doctoral
Research Fellow School of Biological and Chemical
Sciences Queen Mary, University of London London
E1 4NS United Kingdom
email: r.buggs@qmul.ac.uk website: http://-
www.sbcs.qmul.ac.uk/staﬀ/richardbuggs.html oﬃce:
+44(0)207 882 3058 mobile: +44(0)772 992 0401
r.buggs@qmul.ac.uk
London GroupSelection Jan25
I would like to draw to your atten-
tion to the following conference, http://-
londonevolutionarynetwork.wordpress.com/, held
in London on the 25th of January by Pete Richerson
on cultural group selection. Thank you very much, for
your help,
Best regards,
Alexandra Alvergne, PhD. Human Evolutionary Ecol-
ogy Group Department of Anthropology University
College London 14 Taviton Street London WC1H OBW
United Kingdom +44(0)2076798781
http://www.ucl.ac.uk/anthropology/staﬀ/a alvergne/-
index London Evolutionary Research Net-
work/Treasurer http://www.londonevolution.net/
Alex Alvergne <a.alvergne@ucl.ac.uk >London MacroevolutionaryResearch
Mar9
We warmly invite you to a CEE Symposium on “Inte-
grating Ecology into Macroevolutionary Research” to
be held at the Zoological Society of London meeting
rooms on 9th March (9am - 6pm).
Talks will include:
Luke Harmon (University of Idaho) New frontiers for
the comparative analysis of adaptive radiations
Gavin Thomas (Bristol University) Can models of trait
evolution tell us anything about the evolutionary pro-
cess?
Sam Turvey (ZSL) What can the recent fossil record
actually tell us about past and present human-caused
extinction?
James Rosindell (Leeds University) The macroevolu-
tionary predictions of ecological neutral theory
Lynsey McInnes (Imperial College) Evolution and ecol-
ogy of the species:area relationship in mammals
Anjali Goswami (University College London) TBA
Andy Purvis (Imperial College) Species ecology and
macroevolutionary dynamics of Cenozoic planktonic
foraminifera
H´ el` ene Morlon (CNRS, Paris) Modelling diversity dy-
namics using time backwards
Kanchon Dasmahapatra (University College London)
Phylogenetic and mimetic relationships in Neotropical
butterﬂies
Tim Barraclough (Imperial College) Are there evolu-
tionarily signiﬁcant units of diversity above the level of
species?
We will have eight poster slots available on a ﬁrst come
ﬁrst serve basis. Please email us to reserve a slot.
To register for the symposium and to receive fur-
ther updates on the schedule for the day please email
lynsey.mcinnes01@imperial.ac.uk.
Attendance will cost £5.00, payable on the day, to cover
refreshments.
Best wishes,
Lynsey McInnes & Ally Phillimore8 EvolDir February 1, 2011
“McInnes, Lynsey” <lynsey.mcinnes01@imperial.ac.uk >
Marseilles 15th EBM FirstDeadLine
Dear all
The ﬁrst dead line for the 15th Evolutionary Biology
Meeting at Marseilles is the 01/31/2011 more informa-
tion: http://sites.univ-provence.fr/evol-cgr/ best re-
gards Pierre Pontarotti
Pierre PONTAROTTI <Pierre.Pontarotti@univ-
provence.fr >
Montpellier HumanEvolution
Jun29-Jul3
Human Behaviour & Evolution Society (HBES), 2011.
June, 29th V July, 3rd 2011. Montpellier, France.
The HBES Annual Meeting regularly attracts a diverse
group of researchers, including anthropologists, evolu-
tionary biologists, economists, legal scholars, psychol-
ogists, primatologists, political scientists, behavioral
ecologists, physicians, and humanities scholars. This
years lineup of speakers reﬂects this diversity. The con-
ference Keynote Address will be presented by Randy
Nesse, the co-founder of darwinian medicine. Our Ple-
nary Speakers include economist Samuel Bowles, an-
thropologist and primatologist Sarah Hrdy; linguist
Jean-Marie Hombert, biologist Tim Clutton-Brock, an-
thropologist Frank Marlowe, developmental psycholo-
gist Andrew Whiten. HBES membership is worldwide.
In addition to the North American universities that
have traditionally hosted HBES, recent meetings have
been held in London, Berlin, and Kyoto. Abstract sub-
mission will open in the near future as well as Regis-
tration. Please visit:
http://www.hbes2011.univ-montp2.fr The web site
will be updated periodically with additional informa-
tion. We are honored to be hosting the 23nd Annual
HBES Meetings in Montpellier, and invite scholars from
across the disciplines to attend. We look forward to see-
ing you in Montpellier this summer.
Best,Charlotte Faurie & Michel Raymond
HBES 2011 local organizers
– Institute of Evolutionary Sciences, Montpellier,
France
Michel Raymond <michel.raymond@univ-montp2.fr >
OhioU Athens Bioinformatics
May2-4
GLBIO 2011 - Call for Abstracts
The 6th Annual Great Lakes Bioinformatics Conference
(GLBIO), the newest oﬃcial conference of the Inter-
national Society for Computational Biology (ISCB), is
pleased to announce the call for abstracts for 2011
GLBIO 2011, formerly known as OCCBIO, will be
hosted by Ohio University in Athens, Ohio on May 2-4,
2011
Oral presentations will be selected from the sub-
mitted abstracts. To submit your abstract, please
go to http://www.ohiobioinformaticsconsortium.org/-
glbio/2011/call forabstracts.shtml Oral presentations
will be selected from the submitted abstracts. To sub-
mit your abstract, please click here.
As in past years, this conference will provide an inter-
disciplinary forum for discussing approaches, research
ﬁndings, and educational experiences regarding compu-
tational investigations of biological problems.
An important goal of the conference continues to be
fostering long-term collaborative relationships among
informatics and life sciences researchers and educa-
tors from academia, government and industry, spanning
Ohio and adjacent states.
This meeting is not only for experts in bioinformat-
ics, but also for faculty, students and staﬀ who make
substantial use of bioinformatics tools in their work, or
would like to expand such use.
Please note the following conference deadlines: Feb. 21,
2011: Deadline for Submission of Abstracts for Oral
Presentations March 21, 2011: Authors Notiﬁed of Ab-
stract Acceptance March 28, 2011: Deadline for Sub-
mission of Abstracts for Poster Presentations April 4,
2011: Early Bird Registration Ends May 2-4, 2011:
Conference Begins.
Online registration is now available. Visit glbio.org orFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 9
click here to register.
Conference Chairs: Lonnie Welch, Ohio University
Terry Lewis, OARnet
Program Chairs:Program Chairs: Jundong Liu, Ohio
University Robert Colvin, Ohio University Jim Caval-
coli, University of Michigan
Sponsors: ISCB The Ohio University OARnet Ohio Su-
percomputer Center
Quick Links
GLBIO Website http://-
www.ohiobioinformaticsconsortium.org/occbio/-
GL2011/ Call for Abstracts http://-
www.ohiobioinformaticsconsortium.org/glbio/2011/-
callforabstracts.shtml Sponsor Information http:/-
/www.ohiobioinformaticsconsortium.org/occbio/-
GL2011/sponsorship.shtml Registration http://-
www.iscb.org/cms addon/conferences/glbio2011/-
register/index.php Keynote Speakers
Michael Becich, Director of the Center for Pathology
Informatics, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center
Elodie Ghedin, Asst. Professor of Computational Biol-
ogy, University of Pittsburgh
Al Hero, R. Jamison and Betty Williams Professor of
Engineering, University of Michigan
Richard Lenski, John Hannah Professor of Microbial
Ecology, Michigan State University
GLBIO is also seeking proposals for Invited Sessions,
Panel Discussions, and Tutorials - please go to http:/-
/glbio.org for more information.
Ohio Supercomputer Center |1224 Kinnear Road |
Columbus |OH|43212
Kathryn Kelley <terry@osc.edu >
PennsylvaniaStateU MolEvol
Mar19-20
Penn State SMBE Symposium on Molecular and Ge-
nomic Evolution
March 19-20, 2011, University Park, Pennsylvania
Masatoshi Nei just turned 80 this month. To celebrate
his contributions to evolutionary biology and to pro-
mote the development of molecular and genomic evolu-
tion, Penn State University (PSU) and the Society forMolecular Biology and Evolution (SMBE) jointly spon-
sor this symposium, to be held in PSU on March 19-20,
2011. The symposium will begin with a welcome recep-
tion on the evening of March 18. The scientiﬁc program
starts on the morning of March 19 and ends at the noon
of March 20. It is composed of 6 major addresses, 15
slightly shorter talks presented by Masatoshi’s former
associates and current PSU colleagues, and a poster
session. There will also be a banquet on the evening of
March 19. The symposium is open to all and there is
no registration fee. However, you must register to par-
ticipate in all events and there is a cap of the number
of registrants.
To view other information about the symposium and
to register, please visit
https://sites.google.com/site/smbe2011psu/Home
Organizers:
Jianzhi George Zhang
Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
University of Michigan
Email: jianzhi@umich.edu
Blair Hedges Professor of Biology Pennsylvania State
University Email: sbh1@psu.edu
jianzhi@umich.edu
Switzerland BehaviouralEvolution
Apr17-20
You are warmly invited to attend this forthcoming con-
ference. Please circulate this invitation to anyone you
know who may be interested.
Conference on Social Decision Making: Bridg-
ing Economics and Evolutionary Biology http:/-
www.evolvingeconomics.com/ Date 17 April-20 April
2011
Location Monte Verita, Ascona, Switzerland.
Purpose The ﬁelds of evolutionary biology and eco-
nomics have similar foundations, both attempting to
explain individual decisions based on the costs and ben-
eﬁts of particular actions. However, the two ﬁelds also
rely upon very diﬀerent working assumptions about
how and why individuals take the actions that they do.
Our conference sets out to create an environment that
is conducive to dialogue, mutual learning, and the de-10 EvolDir February 1, 2011
velopment of new collaborations between the two ﬁelds
by focusing on an area of mutual interest: decision-
making in social interactions. Sessions will pair leading
economists and evolutionary biologists to discuss spe-
ciﬁc topic so as to explore the common interests be-
tween the ﬁelds.
Conﬁrmed Speakers Professor Ken Binmore, University
College London Professor Colin Camerer, California In-
stitute of Technology Professor Alan Grafen, Oxford
University Professor Arnon Lotem, Tel Aviv Univer-
sity. Professor John McNamara, University of Bristol
Professor Paul Seabright, Universit ˜Ac/circlecopyrtdes Sciences So-
ciales de Toulouse Professor David W. Stephens, Uni-
versity of Minnesota Professor Stuart A. West, Oxford
University Professor Peyton Young, Oxford University
Abstracts We are inviting abstracts for posters or
contributed talks. When registering, please indicate
whether you wish to present, and include a title and
abstract.
Conference fees Conference fees include registration,
welcome drink, accommodation for three nights in
Monte Verit ˜A and full board (breakfast, lunch and din-
ner).
Students: 400CHF for sharing a twin room, 440CHF
for a single room. Post-docs/researchers: 450CHF for
sharing a twin room, 490CHF for a single room. Pro-
fessors: 500CHF for sharing a twin room, 550CHF for
a single room.
Funding At present we have small funds to help junior
scientists attend. We are trying to solicit extra funding.
Please see the registration page for more details.
Registration Registration and payment deadline:
10th February 2011. Please visit the registra-
tion page on the conference website: http://-
www.evolvingeconomics.com/ There are only 60 places
for delegates to attend this conference, so please regis-
ter promptly to secure your place.
Further information Web: http://-
www.evolvingeconomics.com/ E-mail:
info@evolvingeconomics.com
Organising Committee Claire El Mouden, Oxford Uni-
versity Lorenz Goette, University of Lausanne Laurent
Lehmann, University of Neuch ˜Atel Daniel J. Rankin,
University of Z¨ urich Stuart A. West, Oxford University
Claire El Mouden, Department of Zoology, South Parks
Road, Oxford University, OX1 3PS
mail to: Christ Church, Oxford, OX1 1DP
Claire El Mouden <claire.elmouden@chch.ox.ac.uk >Tuebingen ESEB2011 Aug20-25
RegistrationOpen
ESEB 2011 - REGISTRATION AND ABSTRACT
SUBMISSION
www.eseb2011.de Registration and abstract submis-
sion for the 13th Congress of the European Society for
Evolutionary Biology Tuebingen, Germany, 20-25 Au-
gust 2011 opens on 10th January 2011. You are invited
to submit your contribution to one of 29 topical sym-
posia or to the “general” sessions.
All relevant information can be found online.
We recommend that you register and book your accom-
modation now and submit your abstract later (but in
time before the 28 February 2011 deadline). This is be-
cause the number of attendants is limited to 1300 and
Tuebingen is a small town when it comes to accommo-
dation ...
Online registration, online abstract submission and ac-
commodation booking are three independent processes
(handled by diﬀerent people). This gives you a bit more
to do, but saves costs on our side resulting in a lower
registration. We assume the latter is in your interest.
You are not an ESEB member? Save money by join-
ing ESEB online at http://www.eseb.org/ A one-year
ESEB membership (incl. online Journal of Evolution-
ary Biology) + conference member fee is cheaper than
the registration fee for non-members!
Looking forward to seeing you in Tuebingen!
Nico Michiels
Local Chairman (for the university of Tuebingen and
for the local organizing and scientiﬁc committee)
ESEB 2011 enquiries:
Registration and abstract submission - >
eseb2011@interplan.de (Ms Katrin Lehmann) Ac-
commodation - >mail@tuebingen-info.de, but ﬁrst
check http://www.eseb2011.de/accommodation.htm
Programme and local logistics - >nico.michiels@uni-
tuebingen.de
Nico Michiels, Prof. Dr. Animal Evolutionary Ecology
Department of Biology Auf der Morgenstelle 28 72076
Tuebingen Germany
Tel. +49 7071 2974649 Fax +49 7071 295634 MobileFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 11
+49 170 4758003
nico.michiels@uni-tuebingen.de
www.eseb2011.de www.evoeco.uni-tuebingen.de
www.eve.uni-tuebingen.de Nico Michiels
<nico.michiels@uni-tuebingen.de >
Tuebingen ESEB Adaptation
Aug20-25 CallAbstracts
:: ESEB 2011 “Environment, G-matrices and adapta-
tion” - Call for abstracts* ::
We invite abstract submissions for oral and poster
presentations in the symposium on “Environment, G-
matrices and Adaptation” at the ESEB 2011 Meeting
(European Society for Evolutionary Biology meeting,
Tuebingen, Germany 20-25 August 2011).ˆ a ˆ a
ABSTRACTS submission is now open at:
http://www.eseb2011.de/call forabstracts.htm
ˆ aˆ aDEADLINE for abstract submission is the 28TH OF
FEBRUARY 2011.ˆ aˆ a
:: The symposium ::
The G-matrix is one of the most fundamental tools for
retrospective and prospective analyses of selection and
thus adapation. While it is well established that the
environment inﬂuences the genetic basis of phenotype,
the consequences of this for adaptation are little un-
derstood. Rapid advances in genomic methods are also
changing the deﬁnition of genetic architecture and oﬀer
exciting possibilities for understanding the dynamics of
adaptation. This symposium aims to examine emerg-
ing conceptual, statistical and empirical approaches to
elucidating the consequences of environmental inﬂu-
ence on genetic architecture for evolutionary dynamics
and adapation. Topics will connect genetic architec-
ture and patterns of gene expression to ﬁtness, and the
processes of adaptation. This will necessarily include
classic studies of the phenotype - genotype map (P, G
and E-matrices), and novel methods to link adaptation,
phenotypic and genetic architecture to genomic data.
:: Invited speakers :: We are honoured to have
Dr. Steve Chenoweth (School of Biological Science,
University of Queensland, Australia) and Professor Jo-
hanna Schmitt (Department of Ecology and Evolution-
ary Biology, Brown University, USA)
as invited speakers. Their expertise and experience indriving conceptual, statistical and empirical advances
in understand G x E frames this symposium.
:: Organizers :: ˆ aˆ aDr. Matt Robinson, Depart-
ment of Animal and Plant Sciences, University of
Sheﬃeld, UK ˆ a(matthew.r.robinson@sheﬃeld.ac.uk)
ˆ aˆ aDr. Andrew Beckerman, Department of Ani-
mal and Plant Sciences, University of Sheﬃeld, UK
ˆ a(a.beckerman@sheﬃeld.ac.uk)ˆ aˆ a
Contact us for further information. Conference de-
tails are available here ( http://www.eseb2011.de/-
index.htm ). Do not forget to register before submitting
your abstract.
a.beckerman@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
Tuebingen ESEB CausesEpistasis
Aug20-25 CallAbstracts
We would like to invite submissions of abstracts for oral
and poster presentations for the symposium “CAUSES
OF EPISTASIS”, to be held at the upcoming Congress
of the European Society of Evolutionary Biology (20-25
August 2011, Tuebingen, Germany).
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: Epistasis fundamen-
tally aﬀects all evolutionary processes, including spe-
ciation, the rate and direction of adaptation and the
origin and maintenance of sex. Studies of epistasis have
long had an exclusive focus on its consequences. This is
changing now, since recent studies both from theoreti-
cians and experimentalists have begun to address also
the causes of epistasis.
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION: http://-
www.eseb2011.de/call forabstracts.htm )
DEADLINE: 28 February, 2011
MEETING WEBSITE: http://www.eseb2011.de/ IN-
VITED SPEAKERS:
Roy Kishony, Harvard Medical School
(http:// kishony.med.harvard.edu/)
Daniel Weinreich, Brown University
(http://www.brown.edu/Departments/EEB/-
weinreich/weinreichindex.htm )
SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS:
Arjan de Visser, Laboratory of Genetics, Wageningen
University, The Netherlands. Arjan.deVisser@wur.nl;
http://www.gen.wur.nl/UK/Staﬀ/Scientiﬁc+Staﬀ/-12 EvolDir February 1, 2011
Arjan+de+Visser Santiago Elena, Instituto de
Biolog´ ıa Molecular y Celular de Plantas (CSIC-UPV),
Valencia, Spain. sfelena@ibmcp.upv.es; http:/-
/bioxeon.ibmcp.upv.es/EvolSysVir/contact.html
“Visser, Arjan de” <Arjan.deVisser@wur.nl >
Tuebingen ESEB CytoplasmicEvol
Aug20-25 CallAbstracts
Dear all, We would like to invite submissions of ab-
stracts for oral and poster presentations for the sym-
posium, “Evolution Outside the Nucleus” to be held
at the upcoming Congress of the European Society of
Evolutionary Biology (20-25 August 2011, Tuebingen,
Germany).
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: The primary deﬁning
feature of eukaryotes is the existence of intracellular
organelles containing genomes that have very diﬀerent
modes of inheritance. Our goal is to use this symposium
to explore what these various cytoplasmic genomes have
in common, how they diﬀer, and how they interact with
the nuclear genome. It is our hope that the peculiarities
of organelle biology can be used to gather fundamen-
tal insights into key questions in evolutionary biology,
from the maintenance of sex and recombination to sex-
ual conﬂict and speciation to the evolution of genome
architecture.
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION: http://-
www.eseb2011.de/call forabstracts.htm )
DEADLINE: 28 February, 2011 MEETING WEBSITE:
http://www.eseb2011.de/ INVITED SPEAKERS:
Ronald Burton, Scripps Institution of Oceanography,
UC-San Diego ( http://web.mac.com/ronburton1/-
iWeb/Site/Home.html ) David McCauley, Vanderbilt
University ( http://www.vanderbilt.edu/biosci/-
mccauleylab )
SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS: Maurine Neiman, De-
partment of Biology, University of Iowa, Iowa
City, IA, USA. maurine-neiman@uiowa.edu; http://-
www.biology.uiowa.edu/neiman/ Dan Sloan, Depart-
ment of Biology, University of Virginia, Char-
lottesville, VA, USA. dbs4a@virginia.edu; http://-
people.virginia.edu/˜drt3b/sloanDan.php .Douglas R.
Taylor, Department of Biology, University of Virginia,
Charlottesville, VA, USA. dougtaylor@virginia.edu;
http://people.virginia.edu/˜drt3b/index.php maurine-
neiman@uiowa.eduTuebingen ESEB EvolutionOfLabor
Aug20-25 CallAbstracts
Dear All,
we invite abstract submissions for oral and poster pre-
sentations in the symposium on the Evolution of Di-
vision of Labor at the ESEB meeting 2011 (European
Society for Evolutionary Biology meeting, Tuebingen
20-25, August 2011, Germany).
ABSTRACT submission is now open at: http://-
www.eseb2011.de/call forabstracts.htm DEADLINE
for abstract submission is the 28TH OF FEBRUARY.
THE SYMPOSIUM:
Division of labour exists between colony members as
well as between iterated units of already highly in-
tegrated organisms. By bringing together researchers
working on a wide variety of systems we wish to iden-
tify underlying commonalities and systems speciﬁc dif-
ferences in order to understand its role in major tran-
sitions of evolution and in the evolution of organismal
complexity.
INVITED SPEAKERS:
Francis Ratnieks (University of Sussex) website: http:/-
/www.sussex.ac.uk/lasi/ Richard Michod (Univer-
sity of Arizona) websiste: http://eebweb.arizona.edu/-
michod/ ORGANIZERS:
Claus Rueﬄer, University of Vienna Email:
claus.rueﬄer@univie.ac.at website: http:/-
/www.mabs.at/rueﬄer/index.html Sergey
Gavrilets, University of Tennessee, Knoxville
Email: gavrila@tiem.utk.edu websiste: http://-
www.tiem.utk.edu/ ˜ gavrila/ For further information
on the symposium feel free to contact the organizers.
For logistic details on the conference refer to the ESEB
webpage ( http://www.eseb2011.de/index.htm ).
Claus Rueﬄer, Ph.D. University of Vienna Institute of
Mathematics Nordbergstrasse 15 1090 Vienna, Austria
room C 304 A tel.: +43 (0)1 4277 50773
claus.rueﬄer@univie.ac.atFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 13
Tuebingen ESEB
EvolutionTechniques Aug20-25
CallAbstracts
ESEB.2011 Novel techniques.Symposium Call Ab-
stracts
European Society for Evolutionary Biology meeting,
T¨ ubingen, Germany 20th-25th August, 2011
Call for abstracts for symposium 17 “Novel techniques
in behavioral ecology”
Novel techniques create exciting new ways to investi-
gate the interface between behavioral ecology and evo-
lution. This symposium will be dedicated to presenting
novel techniques and their application. Talks will focus
on the novelty and usefulness of their procedures, and
speakers will be encouraged to discuss the practicalities
and pitfalls of the techniques, as well as the results of
their experiments.
Invited speakers Tracey Chapman (University of East
Anglia, UK) Michal Polak (University of Cincinnati,
USA)
Organisers Amanda Bretman (University of East An-
glia, UK, a.bretman@uea.ac.uk) Tom Price (University
of Exeter, UK, tom.price@exeter.ac.uk)
Dr Amanda Bretman School of Biological Sciences Uni-
versity of East Anglia Norwich NR4 7TJ UK Tel: +44
(0)1603 591869 Fax: +44 (0)1603 592250
“Bretman Amanda Dr (BIO)”
<A.Bretman@uea.ac.uk >
Tuebingen ESEB FamilyEvolution
Aug20-25 CallAbstracts
ESESB Symposium on ’Evolution of family interac-
tions’ T¨ ubingen 2010, 20-25 August
CALL FOR ABSTRACTS
We invite abstract submissions for oral and poster pre-
sentations in this symposium at ESEB 2011 (Euro-
pean Society for Evolutionary Biology meeting, Tue-
bingen 20-25 August 2011, Germany). Abstractshould be submitted online http://www.eseb2011.de/-
callforabstracts.htm ) by 28 February 2011.
We are seeking exciting contributions that focus on the
evolution of family interactions from a behavioural ecol-
ogy or quantitative genetic perspective. Family inter-
actions are ubiquitous in mammals, birds and other
species where one or both parents provide food or other
forms of care for oﬀspring after hatching or birth. Such
interactions include sibling competition over resource
share, parent-oﬀspring conﬂict and interactions among
caring parents. Both empirical and theoretical stud-
ies are welcomed. Invited speakers are Allen Moore,
Exeter and Mathias Koelliker, Basel.
The symposium is organizsed by Reinmar Hager at
Manchester and Per Smiset at Edinburgh.
Informal enquiries can made to
reinmar.hager@manchester.ac.uk or
per.t.smiseth@ed.ac.uk
Reinmar.Hager@manchester.ac.uk
Tuebingen ESEB Genomics
Aug20-25 CallAbstracts
*ESEB 2011 Evolutionary ecological genomics sympo-
sium - Call for abstracts*
We invite abstract submissions for oral and poster pre-
sentations in the symposium on Evolutionary ecological
genomics at the ESEB meeting 2011 (European Soci-
ety for Evolutionary Biology meeting, Tuebingen 20-25
August 2011, Germany).
ABSTRACTS submission is now open at: http://-
www.eseb2011.de/call forabstracts.htm DEADLINE
for abstract submission is the 28TH OF FEBRUARY.
*The symposium:*
Progress in ecological genomics is hindered by lim-
ited genome information in non-model species and the
lack of an ecological context in genetic model species.
This symposium will focus on integrating cutting edge
molecular biology in model and non model organisms
within an evolutionary and ecological context. Our
aim is to understand adaptive responses in multidimen-
sional selection pressures in the wild.
Our symposium aims to attract contributions from
aquatic and terrestrial systems as well as vertebrates
and invertebrates to present advances in the ﬁeld of14 EvolDir February 1, 2011
ecological genomics and promote constructive discus-
sion.
*Invited speakers:*
We are honored to have FOUR invited speakers with ex-
pertise in complementary ﬁelds of ecological genomics,
functional genomics, and evolution. Their research fo-
cuses on diﬀerent model systems including both genetic
model and non-model species.
Ilkka Hanski, Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology, PO Box 65 (Viikinkaari 1) 00014 University of
Helsinki
Michael Pfrender (Department of Biological Sciences,
University of Notre Dame, 109B Galvin Life Sciences,
Notre Dame, IN 46556, PH)**
Hopi Hoekstra (Harvard University, Department of Or-
ganismic and Evolutionary Biology, Museum of Com-
parative Zoology, 26 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA
02138 USA)
Katie Peichel (Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Cen-
ter, 1100 Fairview Ave. N. PO Box 19024 Seattle, USA)
*Organizers:*
Luisa Orsini, Catholic University Leuven, Belgium
(luisa.orsini@bio.kuleuven.be)
Christophe Eizaguirre, Leibniz Institute for Marine Sci-
ences (IFM-Geomar), Kiel, Germany (ceizaguirre@ifm-
geomar.de)
For further information on the symposium feel free
to contact the organizers. For logistic details on
the conference refer to the ESEB webpage ( http://-
www.eseb2011.de/index.htm ). Do not forget to register
before submitting your abstract.
Dr Luisa Orsini Laboratory of Aquatic Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven,
Ch. Deberiotstraat 32, 3000 Leuven, Belgium
Phone: +32 016323851 Fax: +32 016320771
e-mail luisa.orsini[at]bio.kuleuven.be website: http:/-
/bio.kuleuven.be/de/dea/people.php Luisa Orsini
<luisa.orsini@bio.kuleuven.be >
Tuebingen ESEB Mutualism
Aug20-25 CallAbstracts
MUTUALISTIC INTERACTIONS: CAUSES AND
CONSEQUENCESWe would like to invite submissions of abstracts for oral
and poster presentations for the symposium “MUTU-
ALISTIC INTERACTIONS: CAUSES AND CONSE-
QUENCES” that will be held at the upcoming Congress
of the European Society of Evolutionary Biology (20-25
August 2011, Tuebingen, Germany).
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION:
In recent years, our understanding of mutualistic in-
teractions has signiﬁcantly advanced. Rigorous experi-
mental studies have fostered new insights and enhanced
mutualism theory. This symposium aims at highlight-
ing the latest developments in the ﬁeld by drawing
together both theoretical and empirical contributions,
thereby analysing the evolutionary ecology of mutu-
alisms on all levels of biological organisation. Topics
that will be covered include, but are not limited to:
i) cooperation and conﬂict in mutualistic interactions
ii) factors that promote the evolution and maintenance
of mutualisms iii) coevolutionary consequences and evo-
lutionary genetics of mutualistic interactions iv) costs
and beneﬁts that result from mutualistic interactions
Thissymposium aims not only at providing a platform
to discuss the latest developments in the ﬁeld of mu-
tualism research, but shall also help to identify future
avenues.
INVITED SPEAKER:
Nancy Moran, Yale University, USA
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION: http://-
www.eseb2011.de/call forabstracts.html DEADLINE:
28 February 2011
MEETING WEBSITE: http://www.eseb2011.de/
SYMPOSIUM WEBSITE: http://www.ice.mpg.de/-
ext/conf.html#header logo SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZ-
ERS:
Christian Kost Max Planck Institute for Chemical Ecol-
ogy, Jena, Germany (ckost@ice.mpg.de)
Martin Kaltenpoth Max Planck Institute for Chemical
Ecology, Jena, Germany (mkaltenpoth@ice.mpg.de)
Christian Kost <christiankost@gmail.com >
Tuebingen ESEB
PolyploidGenomics Aug20-25
CallAbstractsFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 15
POLYPLOID ECOLOGICAL GENOMICS
We would like to invite submissions of abstracts for oral
and poster presentations for the symposium “POLY-
PLOID ECOLOGICAL GENOMICS” that will be held
at the upcoming Congress of the European Society of
Evolutionary Biology (20-25 August 2011, Tuebingen,
Germany).
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION:
Much progress was accomplished toward understanding
the mechanisms driving evolution of polyploid genomes
and the biological consequences of polyploidy in the
wild. However, the genomics and ecology of polyploid
lineages remain to be integrated. This symposium of-
fers an opportunity for molecular and ecology people to
explore concepts and tools that could unify research in
ecological genomics.
INVITED SPEAKERS:
Brian Husband, University of Guelph, Canada
Jonathan Wendel, Iowa State University, USA
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION: http://-
www.eseb2011.de/call forabstracts.html DEADLINE:
28 February 2011
MEETING WEBSITE: http://www.eseb2011.de/
SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS:
Christian Parisod,
University of Neuchˆ atel, Switzerland
(christian.parisod@unine.ch)
Malika L. Ainouche
University of Rennes, France
(Malika.Ainouche@univ-rennes1.fr)
Christian Parisod Evolutionary Botany - University
of Neuchatel Rue Emile-Argand 11 - 2000 Neucha-
tel - Switzerland Phone: +41 (0)32 718 2344, Fax:
+41 (0)32 718 3001 e-mail: christian.parisod@unine.ch
http://www2.unine.ch/evobot/page29932.html Chris-
tian Parisod <christian.parisod@unine.ch >
Tuebingen ESEB
PopulationGenomics Aug20-25
CallAbstracts
FUNCTIONAL POPULATION GENOMICSWe would like to invite submissions of abstracts for oral
and poster presentations for the symposium “FUNC-
TIONAL POPULATION GENOMICS”, to be held at
the upcoming Congress of the European Society of Evo-
lutionary Biology (20-25 August 2011, Tuebingen, Ger-
many).
SYMPOSIUM DESCRIPTION: This symposium show-
cases research in &#8216;functional population ge-
nomics&#8217;, an emerging subdiscipline of evolu-
tionary systems biology. The symposium emphasizes
integrative studies of pathway function that investi-
gate the ﬁtness consequences of transcriptomic and pro-
teomic variation. A chief goal is to relate changes in
pathway or network function to evolutionary changes
in whole-organism phenotypes.
ABSTRACT SUBMISSION: http://-
www.eseb2011.de/call forabstracts.html DEADLINE:
28 February, 2011
MEETING WEBSITE: http://www.eseb2011.de/ IN-
VITED SPEAKERS: Axel Meyer, University of Kon-
stanz, Germany Chris Jiggins, University of Cam-
bridge, UK
SYMPOSIUM ORGANIZERS:
Jay F. Storz University of Nebraska, USA (js-
torz2@unl.edu)
Jeﬀrey M. Good University of Montana, USA (jef-
frey.good@mso.umt.edu)
Jay F Storz <jstorz2@unlnotes.unl.edu >
Tuebingen ESEB Speciation
Aug20-25 CallAbstracts
ESEB 2011 Speciation Symposium - Call for abstracts
Symposium: ’Speciation by natural versus sexual selec-
tion’
The symposium is sponsored by the ESF Frontiers in
Speciation research -FroSpects’ network. It is being
organised on behalf of FroSpects by the Marie Curie
Initial Training Network (ITN) -SPECIATION’.
The aim of FroSpects ( http://www.iiasa.ac.at/-
Research/EEP/FroSpects ) is to facilitate bridge-
building between disparate approaches to speciation
research, by bringing together young and senior
European speciation scientists around a number of
conferences, workshops, and schools.16 EvolDir February 1, 2011
The ITN Speciation network is composed of 19 re-
searchers (9 PhD students and 10 PIs). The goal of
this network is to address diverse aspects of speciation
using several diﬀerent approaches and study systems (
https://sites.google.com/site/itnspeciation ).
CALL FOR ABSTRACTS:
We invite abstract submissions for oral and poster pre-
sentations in this ESEB symposium (European Soci-
ety for Evolutionary Biology meeting, Tuebingen 20-
25 August 2011, Germany). ABSTRACTS should
be submitted online ( http://www.eseb2011.de/-
callforabstracts.htm ) by the 28TH OF FEBRUARY.
Unfortunately, we cannot oﬀer any ﬁnancial support.
Submitted abstracts should examine the relative contri-
bution of natural and sexual selection to the speciation
process. We are particularly interested in addressing
the question of whether the action of natural selection
is pervasive in speciation involving sexual selection, or
whether these two sources of selection can act indepen-
dently to drive speciation.
Invited speakers:
Andrew Hendry (McGill University) Maria Servedio
(University of North Carolina)
Two other invited speakers will be determined soon
and posted on the ESEB and ITN Speciation web-
sites. Funding for the invited speakers is provided by
FroSpects.
Organisers:
Allan Debelle (a.debelle@sheﬃeld.ac.uk) and Claudius
Kerth ( c.kerth@sheﬃeld.ac.uk) (Animal and Plant Sci-
ences, University of Sheﬃeld, UK) on behalf of the
Marie Curie ITN “SPECIATION” (steering committee:
Roger Butlin, Mike Ritchie, Leo Beukeboom, Anneli
Hoikkala).
MORE INFORMATION AVAILABLE HERE:
https://sites.google.com/site/itnspeciation/eseb
allandebelle@gmail.com
Tuebingen ESEB SystemsBiol
Aug20-25 CallAbstracts
Conference: Evolutionary systems biology Symposium
ESEB 2011 Aug 20-25, T¨ ubingen
*** Deadline Monday, 28 Feb 2011 ***We are inviting abstract submissions for oral and poster
presentations for the symposium “Evolutionary sys-
tems biology”, to be held on a day at the European
Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB) meeting in
T¨ ubingen, Germany (20-25 August 2011).
Abstracts must be submitted online at http://-
www.eseb2011.de/ by 28 February 2009 latest.
The emerging ﬁeld of evolutionary systems biology
draws on systems biology, laboratory evolution, pop-
ulation genetics and comparative genomics to answer
system level biological questions within an evolution-
ary framework. Such an evolutionary approach might
allow characterising and understanding the signiﬁcance
of observed diversity in molecular systems, uncover-
ing evolutionary principles and extending predictions
made in model organisms to other species. In addi-
tion, by extending molecular systems biology models
to predict ﬁtness correlates, evolutionary systems bi-
ology can enable new insights into the adaptive land-
scape and genotype-phenotype maps and may thus be
used to address problems in population genetics. Such
work can inspire mechanistic simulations of evolution,
testing increasingly detailed evolutionary hypotheses.
Conﬁrmed invited speakers: - Jennifer Reed (University
of Wisconsin-Madison) Using computational models to
explore and leverage biochemical networks - Andreas
Wagner (University of Z¨ urich) The origins of evolution-
ary innovations
For more details and updates see:
http://evolutionarysystemsbiology.org/meeting/2011-
ESEB/index.html We are looking forward to seeing
you in T¨ ubingen.
The organizers Laurence Loewe, Laboratory
of Genetics and Wisconsin Institute for Dis-
covery, University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA
(Laurence.Loewe@evolutionary-research.net)
Orkun Soyer, University of Exeter, UK
(O.S.Soyer@exeter.ac.uk)
Laurence.Loewe@evolutionary-research.net
Tuebingen ESEB Viviparity
Aug20-25 CallAbstracts
ESEB 2011 V Call for abstracts VIVIPARITY, PLA-
CENTATION AND CONFLICT
We invite submission for oral and poster presentationsFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 17
to this ESEB 2011 symposium V European Society for
Evolutionary Biology meeting, 20-25 August 2011, Tue-
bingern (Germany).
*** Deadline for abstract submission: 28th of February
***
Abstracts V 1700 characters max (about 200-
250 words) - should only submitted at: http:/-
/www.eseb2011.de/call forabstracts.htm Viviparity
evolved multiple times in the animal kingdom. Despite
its fundamental role in viviparity, the placenta exhibits
striking and still unexplained morphological variation.
We welcome contributions on how and why viviparity
and placental diversity evolved and we are particularly
interested in contributions that examine the evolution
of molecular, morphological and physiological aspects
of placental diversity and viviparity, the role of sexual
conﬂict and environmental pressures in driving the evo-
lution of these traits, and the implications of viviparity
and placentation for macroevolutionary patterns.
Invited speakers: Prof. Derek Wildman (Wayne State
University) Website: http://homopan.wayne.edu/-
index.html Prof. David Reznick (University of Califor-
nia, Riverside) Website: http://www.faculty.ucr.edu/-
˜ gupy/Reznick/ Organizers: Dr. Isabella Capellini
(Queens University of Belfast, UK, and Durham Uni-
versity, UK) Email: Isabella.Capellini@dur.ac.uk
Prof. Robert Barton (Durham University, UK). Email:
R.A.Barton@dur.ac.uk
Isabella Capellini <isab972@yahoo.co.uk >
UCalifornia SantaBarbara
EvolutionDisease Jun19-25
SAVE THE DATE!
EEID 2011: The 9th Annual Ecology and Evolution of
Infectious Disease (EEID) Conference and Workshop
will be held on the beautiful University of California,
Santa Barbara campus. Conference: June 19-20, 2011
Hike/Field Trip: June 21, 2011 Workshop: June 22-25,
2011 This year’s theme will be: Networks and Com-
plexity (with more information coming soon!).
Housing will be available on campus in the Manzanita
Village Residence Halls, located immediately adjacent
to the Paciﬁc Ocean (nightly rate: $107.23/person sin-
gle occupancy, or $85.31/person double occupancy; this
rate includes most meals). Conference registration feewill be approximately $120/person. Conference regis-
tration will be by May 15, 2011
Disease modeling workshops (June 22-25) cover
both ecology and evolutionary biology. Topics
and schedules will will be similar to those in
previous years (see http://www.eeidconference.org/-
Workshops/workshops.html ) . For graduate students
and post-docs who are US citizens or resident aliens,
scholarships funded by the National Science Founda-
tion are available that cover the $500 workshop fee and
up to $500 in travel support. Applications for the work-
shops will be due by March 15, 2011, with notiﬁcation
of acceptance by April 15.
The Santa Barbara International Airport (SBA) is ap-
proximately 1 mile from the UCSB campus. Los An-
geles International Airport (LAX) is 108 miles from
UCSB, and shuttle service is available by Santa Bar-
bara Airbus ( http://www.sbairbus.com/ ).
Local hosts are Cherie Briggs and Kevin Laﬀerty
– Michael F. Antolin
Professor, Department of Biology Director, Shortgrass
Steppe Research and Interpretation Center ( http:/-
/sgsric.colostate.edu ) Colorado State University Fort
Collins, CO 80523-1878 U.S.A.
e-mail: Michael.Antolin@ColoState.edu Voice: (1)-970-
491-7011 FAX: (1)-970-491-0649
Colorado State University Laramie Foothills CWD
Project http://www.nrel.colostate.edu/projects/-
modelingCWD/ Flexible and Extendible Sci-
entiﬁc Undergraduate Experience (FEScUE)
NSF Undergraduate Biology and Mathemat-
ics Program http://www.fescue.colostate.edu
michael.antolin@colostate.edu
UHawaii EvolutionaryBiol Feb17-18
The University of Hawaii at Hilo TCBES Research
Symposium is now open for registration!
Join us for this collaborative event on February 17th
and 18th and share your latest research before a body
of like-minded students, researchers and professionals.
Research concerning ecology, evolution, environmental
science & conservation biology related to Hawaiˆ ai & the
Paciﬁc region are welcome. Studies examining relation-
ships between communities, cultures & environmental
issues are encouraged.18 EvolDir February 1, 2011
Symposium highlights include:
Keynote from Dr. Liba Pejchar, Colorado State Uni-
versity. Dr. Pejchar’s research focuses on conservation
on private lands, the ˆ aakiap ˚Al¨Aˆ aau & young koa stands
ˆ a An engaging, informal venue for ˆ aworks-in-progressˆ a
& polished research ˆ a Poster session & social mixer ˆ a
Silent auction for fabulous prizes
The symposium oﬀers four options for presenters:
ˆ a 5-minute presentations ˆ a ideal for those who want to
present a research ideaˆ aˆ ano data required ˆ a 10-minute
presentations ˆ a researchers who have advanced ideas orpreliminary data to share ˆ a 15-minute presentations ˆ a
suitable for students, faculty or agency personnel shar-
ing some background information and ﬁnal results
Poster presentation ˆ a great for obtaining extended feed-
back from researchers and other students
Awards for best undergraduate and graduate student
poster and presentation!
Register online at tcbes.uhh.hawaii.edu by January
15th. Contact colincp@hawaii.edu with any questions.
Colin Phifer <colincp@hawaii.edu >
GradStudentPositions
Barcelona ClimateAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
ChicagoBotanicGarden PlantConservation . . . . . . . . . 19
HelmholtzCentre Germany 2 PlantEvolution . . . . . . 19
IPK Germany PlantEvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
JouyenJosas France EﬀectivePopSize . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Kiel Germany ImmuneEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
London EvolutionSociality . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
MaxPlanckInst HumanPalaenotology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
MaxPlanckInst ModellingAging . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
MonashUMalaysia PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
OklahomaStateUniv milkweed phylogenomics . . . . . 24
OssietzkyU Germany RotiferaSystematics . . . . . . . . . 24
PotsdamU EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
QueensU Belfast HoneyBee hostparasite . . . . . . . . . . . 25
RyersonU PlantConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26SheﬃeldU BehavEcolEvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
UCambridge EvolutionPolarLife . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
UCollegeLondon GeneticsEvolutionEnvironment . . . 28
UExeter EvolutionarySystemsBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
UGuelph MarineInvertBarcoding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
ULeipzig MolecularPrimateEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
UMuenster HostPathogens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
UNottingham EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
UPotsdam PlanktonAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UTurku TelomereEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UWarwick ResistanceEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UWyoming SpeciesMicroEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UZurich FlowerEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
VrijeU Netherlands EvolutionOfLearning . . . . . . . . . . 33
Barcelona ClimateAdaptation
PHD OPPORTUNITY IN BARCELONA
A four year PhD studentship is available to study the
adaptation of porcine creole breeds to extreme climates
using new sequencing technologies. During the thesis,
whole genome sequence data from pigs adapted to heat(tropical and subtropical animals) and altitude (An-
dean altiplano) will be analyzed. This data will be
combined with extant and forthcoming data on Illu-
mina SNP data. The project is in cooperation with
diverse international groups. The student will work
in a multidisciplinary group with expertises in quanti-
tative, population and molecular genetics. The work
will be developed in a new center in Agrigenomics
(www.cragenomica.es ) within the campus of Universi-
tat Autonoma of Barcelona ( www.uab.es ). Ample op-
portunity exist for interaction with other groups and
to train in Bionformatics and in animal breeding andFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 19
genetics, including the newly founded National Center
for Genomic Analysis, which hosts several Illumina se-
quencers.
The fellowship does not require a MSc title and no re-
striction on nationality exists, although more paper-
work is required for non European students. The fel-
lowship is accompanied by travel allowances to visit for-
eign labs and medical insurance.
We are looking for highly motivated students with an
interest in population and quantitative genetics and
bioinformatics as applied to livestock. Interested stu-
dents please email CV including the transcript of Uni-
versity record with full qualiﬁcations, and name and
email of two professionals who can provide references
at miguel.perez@uab.es .
Miguel Perez-Enciso ICREA professor Dept. Cien-
cia Animal i dels Aliments Facultat de Veterinaria
Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona 08193 Bellaterra,
SPAIN Phone: +34 93 581 4225 Fax: +34 93
581 2106 miguel.perez@uab.es http://www.icrea.cat/-
Web/ScientiﬁcForm.aspx?key=255 “Sebastian E.
Ramos-Onsins” <sebas@ramos.net >
ChicagoBotanicGarden
PlantConservation
MS Research Assistant Position available at North-
western University and the Chicago Botanic Garden in
Plant Biology and Conservation
The Graduate Program in Plant Biology and Conserva-
tion is a collaborative program between Northwestern
University and the Chicago Botanic Garden. It aims
to foster an academic and research environment that
allows students to gain experience, skills, and knowl-
edge to become scholars, leaders, and practitioners in
plant biology and conservation. A MS research assis-
tant position is now available in the lab of Nyree Zerega.
The successful applicant would work in the plant ge-
netics lab at the Plant Science Center at the Chicago
Botanic Garden, working on the NSF REVSYS grant
3Phylogeny and Revision of Artocarpus (Moraceae)
with a Focus on Understanding the Origins and Diver-
sity of Cultivated Members of the Genus.2The student
would have the ﬂexibility to conduct independent re-
search on related topics. Opportunities for ﬁeldwork in
Southeast Asia also exist.
Application deadline is February 15, 2011. ContactNyree Zerega directly if you have any speciﬁc questions:
nzerega@chicagobotanic.org
To learn more about the research in the Zerega lab,
visit: http://www.plantbiology.northwestern.edu/-
faculty/zerega.html Visit these pages for more
information about the graduate program and facil-
ities: http://www.plantbiology.northwestern.edu/
http://www.chicagobotanic.org/research/-
labs.php?expanddiv=3Dplant conservation For
information about applying, visit: http://-
www.plantbiology.northwestern.edu/admissions/-
MSadmissions.html
nzerega@chicagobotanic.org
HelmholtzCentre Germany 2
PlantEvolution
Dear all,
The Department of Community Ecology of the
Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research-UFZ
and the Institute of Plant Science of the University of
Bern are each inviting applications for a
*3 year PhD position (m/f) *
*code digit 15/2011*
The positions are granted within Subproject 4 “ Plant
genetics” of the DFG Research Unit 891, BEF China,
“The role of tree and shrub diversity for produc-
tion, erosion control, element cycling, and species con-
servation in Chinese subtropical forest ecosystems”
(www.bef-china.de ), subject to ﬁnal approval by the
DFG Senate.
The successful candidates will have the unique opportu-
nity to be part of one of the largest biodiversity exper-
iments worldwide. Their work will include both, ﬁeld
and experimental work in an extremely species rich for-
est ecosystem in subtropical China, as well as work in
an up-to-date and well equipped laboratory. Aim of the
project is to understand how species diversity and ge-
netic diversity within species can aﬀect ecosystem func-
tioning. Both successful candidates will closely cooper-
ate in investigating molecular and quantitative genetic
variation in plants. The work will include (1) detailed
ﬁeld observations of ﬂowering phenology of several tree
species, (2) analyses of genetic diversity, genetic struc-
ture and gene ﬂow using neutral genetic markers (mi-
crosatellites), (3) the assessment of quantitative traits20 EvolDir February 1, 2011
in ﬁeld and experimental sites.
The ideal candidates have a background in molecular
and quantitative genetics. They have a strong knowl-
edge in plant ecology, an understanding of plant repro-
duction and combine organisational skills with strong
personal responsibility. The ideal candidates have a
proven experience in statistics and are ﬂuent in spoken
and written English. The desire to engage in collabo-
rative research is essential.
The Department of Community Ecology (BZF) of
Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research UFZ is
an active group with research focus on patterns and
processes of biodiversity; biotic responses to environ-
mental change, invasive species and macroecology. The
Department of Plant Ecology at the Institute of Plant
Sciences of the University of Bern is a lively group
mainly concerned with causes and consequences of bio-
diversity change, with the ecology and evolution of rare
and invasive species, and with conservation biology.
Both departments provide extensive scientiﬁc networks
both nationally and internationally and a young and
highly collaborative research environment.
One position will be located at the Helmholtz Centre
for Environmental Research, Halle (Saale), Germany,
with salary according to TV ¨OD 13 (65%) and partic-
ipation in the Graduate School HIGRADE ( http://-
www.ufz.de/index.php?en429 ).
One position will be located at the department of Plant
Ecology, Bern University, Switzerland.
Women are explicitly encouraged to apply for increase
their share in science and research. Physically handi-
capped persons will be favoured if they are equally qual-
iﬁed. Applicants must hold a Diploma or Master degree
in biology, biochemistry or chemistry.
More information can be provided by Dr. Walter
Durka , phone: 0049-0345-5585314, E-mail: Wal-
ter.Durka@ufz.de http://www.ufz.de/index.php?en6
Prof. Dr. Markus Fischer, phone: 0041-31 631
4943, E-mail: Markus.Fischer@ips.unibe.ch http://-
www.botany.unibe.ch/planteco Please send your appli-
cation until 15.2.2011 under code 15/2011 to the Per-
sonnel department of the Helmholtz Centre for Envi-
ronmental Research, PO Box 500136, 04318 Leipzig,
Germany, or by email to application@ufz.de or to Uni-
versity of Bern, Plant Sciences, Altenbergrain 21, CH-
3013 Bern.
Dr. Walter Durka Department Bioz¨ onoseforschung De-
partment of community ecology
Helmholtz-Zentrum f¨ ur Umweltforschung GmbH - UFZ
Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research - UFZTheodor-Lieser-Str. 4 / 06120 Halle / Germany
walter.durka@ufz.de / http://www.ufz.de/-
index.php?eny8 phone +49 345 558 5314 / Fax
+49 345 558 5329
walter.durka@ufz.de
IPK Germany
PlantEvolutionaryBiol
The IPK is one of the big, internationally signiﬁcant
centres of plant research with a focus on cultivated
plants and their wild relatives. The IPK co-operates
with working groups of German and international uni-
versities, independent research institutions and enter-
prises.
The working group of Experimental Taxonomy invites
applications for 2 positions as
n PhD Student - Evolutionary Biology (f/m)
1. Topic: Phylogenetic analysis of the grass tribe Trit-
iceae using a next generation sequencing approach 2.
Topic: Analysis of the impact of diﬀerences in ﬂower-
ing time genes on the evolution of reproductive isolation
in three closely related Hordeum species
The IPK provides PhD-Students an excellent techni-
cal infrastructure with state-of-the-art technologies for
high throughput sequencing, genotyping and phenotyp-
ing. The Genebank Department, where the positions
will be located, hosts a molecular-systematics lab, a
herbarium, ample greenhouse facilities, several refer-
ence collections, and the federal ex situ genebank, main-
taining c. 150 000 accessions of crops and their wild
relatives. PhD students of the institute participate in
the IPK graduate program.
You ﬁt to us: You must hold a diploma or master de-
gree in biology or related ﬁelds. You should be highly
motivated and interested in general questions of evolu-
tionary biology. You are enthusiastic in solving bioin-
formatic and lab challenges.
If you need further information regarding the projects
feel free to contact Mr. Blattner. You reach him under
blattner@ipk-gatersleben.de.
Equal opportunities exist for female and male appli-
cants. Hence, certiﬁed women are particularly asked to
apply. A family-friendly environment is given. Severely
disabled people are taken in preference when the sameFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 21
level of qualiﬁcation is given.
Employment starts as soon as possible. The projects
are funded by DFG for 3 years, thus the contracts are
limited for 36 month. Payment according to part time
job E 13 TV-L.
Please send your complete and informative application
up to 27.02.2011 under mentioning the identity ﬁgure
05/01/11 to Ms. Gl¨ aser (glaeser@ipk-gatersleben.de).
If you have questions regarding the application proce-
dure and selection procedure you reach Ms. Gl¨ aser un-
der phone +49 (0) 39482 5101.
Leibniz Institute of Plant Genetics and Crop Plant Re-
search (IPK) Frau Gl¨ aser Corrensstraße 3 06466 Gater-
sleben Germany www.ipk-gatersleben.de
Wilma Klaasen-van Husen <klaasen-van-husen@ipk-
gatersleben.de >
JouyenJosas France
EﬀectivePopSize
Dear all,
Thomas Bataillon and myself (Frederic Hospital)
are proposing a 4-years PhD project “Compara-
tive analysis of estimators of the eﬀective pop-
ulation size.” <http://www.egsabg.eu/IMG/-
pdf/EGS-ABG 2011-1 APT-AU NeEstimation.pdf >“
funded within the newly established European Grad
School for Animal Breeding and Genetics ( http://-
www.egsabg.eu/ )
The deadline for application is very soon *** January
16th *** so I would be very grateful if you could circu-
late our project.
Interested candidates should contact us: Thomas
Bataillon <tbata@birc.au.dk >or Frederic Hospital
<Frederic.Hospital@jouy.inra.fr >for further details as
soon as possible.
With my very best regards, Fred.
—details about the project and application .—- The
PhD project will be based partly in Jouy en Josas
(just south of Paris ~3 years) and in Aarhus ( ~1 year).
It will be devoted to comparing methods for Ne esti-
mation and evaluating the robustness of these meth-
ods to the eﬀect of selection at neighboring loci in the
genome. It will involve a combination of theory (simu-
lation or more analytical work depending on the candi-dates skills/taste) and data analysis of several datasets.
The potential candidates can get more details regard-
ing salary at http://www.egsabg.eu/spip.php?article3
.... and the application procedure at http://-
www.egsabg.eu/spip.php?article8 The only restriction
is that candidates should neither be French nor Dan-
ish and should not have been previously aﬃliated with
either Aarhus University or Agro-Paris Tech.
Frederic.Hospital@jouy.inra.fr
Kiel Germany ImmuneEvolution
PhD position in evolutionary ecology, Kiel, Germany
Topic: External immune defense in the Red Flour Bee-
tle Tribolium castaneum
The aim of this PhD project is to use a manipulative ap-
proach to understand the relative importance of inter-
nal and external immune defences in the model organ-
ism Tribolium castaneum. This beetle expresses exter-
nal defences in the form of secreted antimicrobial sub-
stances as well as internal, “classical” immune mech-
anisms. The relative advantages and disadvantages of
these two types of defences are as yet unclear. They
shall be evaluated with the help of selection lines, con-
trolled lab experiments and molecular approaches such
as transcriptome analyses. The project is part of the
Volkswagen initiative on evolutionary biology with a
grant to Dr. Gerrit Joop.
This speciﬁc PhD position (payment according to 13
TV-L/2) under supervision of Dr. Gerrit Joop will
be based in the Department of Evolutionary Ecology
and Genetics at the University of Kiel (Northern Ger-
many), headed by Prof. Dr. Hinrich Schulenburg. The
department itself provides an international and interac-
tive atmosphere, while Kiel University and connected
institutes (e.g., Max Planck Institute in Ploen) oﬀer a
stimulating research environment with a particular fo-
cus on evolutionary biology and genetics. The city of
Kiel is a medium-sized pleasant town located at the
coast of the Baltic Sea. It is the capital of the most
Northern state of Germany, Schleswig- Holstein. It of-
fers many opportunities for leisure activities, including
theatres, an opera, the Schleswig-Holstein classical mu-
sic festival, the heavy metal festival in Wacken, sailing,
surﬁng, cycling, and the famous festivities of the “Kieler
Woche” ˆ a one of the largest sailing events in Europe.
Requirements for the position: Master or Diploma22 EvolDir February 1, 2011
in Biology, high motivation, excellent background in
ecology and/or evolutionary biology, good knowledge
of statistics, handling of complex experimental set-up,
teamwork, ideally some experience with T. castaneum,
molecular work experience, and ﬂuency in English.
Please send applications with CV, one-page statement
of research interests, and the names and addresses of
two referees as a single pdf- ﬁle by email to Gerrit Joop
(gjoop <at>zoologie.uni-kiel.de). Deadline for applica-
tions: 4th March 2011. Start of position: May 2011
or soon afterwards. Women are especially encouraged
to apply. Severely handicapped people will be prefer-
entially considered in case of equivalent qualiﬁcations.
For further details & questions, send an email to Gerrit
Joop (gjoop <at>zoologie.uni-kiel.de). Otherwise see:
http://www.uni-kiel.de/zoologie/evoecogen .
Gerrit Joop
Zoological Institute Christian-Albrechts-Universit¨ at zu
Kiel Am Botanischen Garten 1-9 D-24118 Kiel Ger-
many
phone: +49-(0)431-880-4146 fax: +49-(0)431-880-2403
gjoop@zoologie.uni-kiel.de www.uni-kiel.de/zoologie/-
evoecogen/ Gerrit Joop <gjoop@zoologie.uni-kiel.de >
London EvolutionSociality
4-Year PhD Studentship What makes a winning team?
Tests of collective performance in animal groups
One way that animal groups cope with uncertainty in
their environment (i.e. where resources and threats do
not change predictably in time or space) is to draw upon
one another’s particular expertise or information. For
instance, we know that summing information possessed
by individual group-members can increase the “collec-
tive cognition” of groups; a concept which has attracted
much attention in the media and been termed “the wis-
dom of crowds”. Larger and/or more diverse groups
may also contain individuals with diﬀerent skills and ex-
periences, which increase the chances of a group solving
a given task. We now have a number of mathematical
models that make clear predictions about how group
size, and individual diversity of information impacts on
collective performance of animal groups. This PhD stu-
dentship, supervised by Drs Andrew King and Andrew
Spence (Royal Veterinary College, University of Lon-
don), and Dr Andrea Manica (University of Cambridge)
will test models of collective performance, and delin-eate the exact conditions under which groups follow an
informed leader or aggregate information across group
members when faced with simple foraging choices. Ex-
periments will be primarily conducted in the labora-
tory, using stickleback ﬁsh (Gasterosteus spp.), and
their performance tracked in real-time using sophisti-
cated video-tracking software. There will also be oppor-
tunity for conducting similar experiments with sheep
ﬂocks and human crowds. Suitable candidates should
hold a ﬁrst degree in biological or veterinary sciences,
and show an enthusiasm for attacking a variety of fun-
damental behavioural and evolutionary research ques-
tions.
* Harcourt, J.L., Sweetman, G., Manica, A., & John-
stone, R.A. (2010) Pairs of ﬁsh resolve conﬂicts over
coordinated movement by taking turns. Current Biol-
ogy 20: 156-160 * King, A. J., Johnson, D. D. P. &
Van Vugt, M. (2009) The origins and evolution of lead-
ership. Current Biology 19: 911-916. * Katsikopoulos,
K. & King, A. J. (2010) Swarm intelligence in animal
groups: When can a collective out-perform an expert?
PLoS one. 5(11): e15505.
Supervisors: Dr Andrew King ( http://www.rvc.ac.uk/-
Staﬀ/ajking.cfm )
Dr Andrew Spence ( http://www.rvc.ac.uk/Staﬀ/-
aspence.cfm )
Dr Andrea Manica ( http://www.zoo.cam.ac.uk/-
zoostaﬀ/manica/manica.htm )
The application deadline is 11 February 2011.
Please contact Dr Andrew King (ajking@rvc.ac.uk)
with any questions or queries. To apply, please
follow the instructions on the RVC website: http://-
www.rvc.ac.uk/Postgraduate/PhD/HowDoIApply.cfm
(FindAPhd.com advert: http://www.ﬁndaphd.com/-
search/showproject.asp?projectid=3D31546&inst=-
3DLOND-RVTC&searchtype=i&theorder=2&page=1
) )
MaxPlanckInst
HumanPalaenotology
Ph.D studentship in Human Palaeontology at the Max
Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology
The Department of Human Evolution of the Max
Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology,
Leipzig (Germany) invites applications for one or moreFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 23
PhD positions. Research projects will focus on the
cranio-dental fossil record of African Plio-Pleistocene
hominins.
Applicants should hold a Masters degree or equivalent
in biology, anthropology, palaeontology, or a related
ﬁeld. A good basic knowledge of the hominin fossil
record, and of common analytical methods is impor-
tant. The PhD stipend will be given for three years,
and the successful candidate(s) will enroll in the Leipzig
School of Human Origins. The formal deadline of appli-
cation is 31 January 2011 ( http://imprs.eva.mpg.de/-
start.html ), but late applications may be considered.
For further information please contact Fred Spoor
(f.spoor@eva.mpg.de)
Alyson Reid <alyson reid@eva.mpg.de >
MaxPlanckInst ModellingAging
The Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research
seeks several doctoral students, post-doc fellows and
junior scientists interested in statistical analysis and
mathematical modeling to collaborate with biologists,
demographers and statisticians on path-breaking re-
search on the RATE OF AGING in humans and across
the tree of life. Applications will be reviewed as re-
ceived, with research starting Feb.-Oct. 2011. For
details see www.demogr.mpg.de/go/appl-rate-of-aging
. Thank you very much.
Antje
“Gosselck, Antje” <Gosselck@demogr.mpg.de >
MonashUMalaysia
PopulationGenetics
Graduate Student Positions available in Evolution-
ary and Population Genetics at Monash University
Malaysia
Graduate student (Ph.D. and M.Sc.) positions are
available in the laboratory of Molecular Genetics and
Genomics in the School of Science, Monash University
Sunway Campus, Malaysia.We are looking for highly motivated students interested
in Evolutionary and Population Genetics for 2 speciﬁc
projects:
1) Molecular phylogeny of Bulbophyllum spp - pollina-
tor & ﬂoral traits coevolution (M.Sc. student)
Interactions between pollinators and ﬂowers can drive
developmental and evolutionary changes in both polli-
nator and plant species (coevolution). However, knowl-
edge on the actual mechanisms of interaction and espe-
cially pollinator identities remains very limited. This
project will investigate the role(s) of ﬂy pollinators in
the development and evolution of ﬂoral traits in Bulbo-
phyllum orchids, or vice versa. Fieldwork and observa-
tions of Bulbophyllum spp. and their pollinators will
be carried out in Malaysia.
This project is in collaboration with the Forest Re-
search Institute Malaysia (FRIM), so the candidate will
have the opportunity to work closely with tropical bi-
ologists and plant systematists/taxonomists based at
FRIM.
2) Population genetics and the origin of weedy rice in
Malaysia (M.Sc. student or Ph.D student)
This project aims to obtain fundamental knowledge on
the genetic variation and population structure of weedy
rice, in order to better understand the origin of weedy
rice. In addition, the candidate will work on the de-
velopment of a set of molecular markers that will per-
mit diﬀerentiation between weedy and cultivated rice
in Peninsular Malaysia.
FUNDING (Full scholarships)for graduate students are
currently available for qualiﬁed candidates.
For more information, please contact:
Sheh May Tam, Ph.D. Email:
tam.sheh.may@sci.monash.edu.my Tel: +603 5514
6113 http://www.sci.monash.edu.my/staﬀ/Dr-
Tam-Sheh-May.html or Song Beng Kah, Ph.D.
Email: song.beng.kah@sci.monash.edu.my Tel:
+603 5514 6119 song.beng.kah@sci.monash.edu.my
http://www.sci.monash.edu.my/staﬀ/Dr-Song-Beng-
Kah.html Information regarding research activities and
admission requirements and applications are available
from: http://www.sci.monash.edu.my/research/-
Research.html http://www.sci.monash.edu.my/-
research/Doctor-of-Philosophy-PhD.html http://-
www.sci.monash.edu.my/research/Master-of-Science-
MSc.html tam.sheh.may@sci.monash.edu.my24 EvolDir February 1, 2011
OklahomaStateUniv milkweed
phylogenomics
Graduate Position in Phylogenetics/Genomics at Okla-
homa State University
Mark Fishbein (Oklahoma State University, Depart-
ment of Botany) seeks a graduate student (PhD or MS)
to apply genomic approaches to the phylogeny of Amer-
ican milkweeds (Asclepias, Apocynaceae). The student
will participate in an NSF-funded collaborative project
with Dr. Aaron Liston and Dr. Richard Cronn at Ore-
gon State University.
Milkweeds have served as a important model system
for studies of the evolution of pollination systems and
plant defenses against herbivory. Continued phyloge-
netic study is required to fully resolve species level re-
lationships, to further test and expand upon theories of
coevolution of plants, pollinators, and herbivores, and
to develop milkweeds as a model system for the com-
parative study of genomes.
Graduate research in the Fishbein lab may include
working with the complete genome of Asclepias syri-
aca (common milkweed) and chloroplast genomes from
ca. 150 species of Asclepias and relatives. Research ac-
tivities can involve ﬁeld work in the US, Mexico, and/or
South America, next-generation DNA sequencing, and
phylogenetic and phylogenomic anlalysis. Opportu-
nities exist for PhD students to develop independent
projects making use of the considerable data generated
for this research.
Students will be supported by a combination of
research and teaching assistantships. Information
about the Botany department can be found at
http://botany.okstate.edu and the Fishbein lab at
http://ﬁshbein.okstate.edu .
To be eligible for stipend enhancements for Fall 2011
admission, applications must be submitted by Feb. 1,
2011; however, early inquiries are encouraged. Inquiries
should be directed to mark.ﬁshbein@okstate.edu .
Mark Fishbein Oklahoma State University Department
of Botany 104 Life Sciences East Stillwater, OK 74078
USA
ph: +1-405-744-4757 fax: +1-405-744-7074
mark.ﬁshbein@okstate.eduOssietzkyU Germany
RotiferaSystematics
A PhD position is available starting in the summer of
2011 in the Molecular Systematics and Evolutionary
Biology research group at the Carl von Ossietzky Uni-
versity in Oldenburg, Germany. The position is funded
by the German Science Foundation (DFG) for a period
of three years, with a salary according to the German
salary scale TV-L E13 (66%).
The goal of the project is to establish a taxonomically
comprehensive, multigene phylogeny of Rotifera in the
ﬁrst instance and then to use the phylogeny to inves-
tigate the evolutionary biology of numerous interest-
ing traits within the group (e.g., reverse sexual dimor-
phism or diﬀerential species richness). The preferred
candidate should have a Master’s degree in biology or
a related ﬁeld and strong laboratory skills and experi-
ence, particularly with respect to DNA extraction and
sequencing, as well as a good foundation in both tax-
onomy and phylogenetic analysis. An interest in or re-
search experience with Rotifera or other meiofauna is
also desirable. Knowledge of German is a deﬁnite asset,
but is not required.
Applications should contain a full CV, a brief state-
ment of research interests and experience, and contact
information for up to two referees; electronic applica-
tions consisting of a single PDF ﬁle are preferred. All
applications received by March 15, 2011 will receive full
consideration.
Further information about the research
group and the position can be found at
www.molekularesystematik.uni-oldenburg.de or by
contacting either myself at the address below or also
Wilko Ahlrichs at wilko.ahlrichs@uni-oldenburg.de.
Olaf Bininda-Emonds
Prof. Dr. Olaf R.P. Bininda-Emonds AG System-
atik und Evolutionsbiologie IBU - Fakult¨ at V Carl von
Ossietzky Universit¨ at Oldenburg 26111 Oldenburg Ger-
many
Phone: +49 441 798 3965 Fax: +49 441 798
193965 e-mail: olaf.bininda@uni-oldenburg.de WWW:
http://www.molekularesystematik.uni-oldenburg.de/
olaf.bininda@uni-oldenburg.deFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 25
PotsdamU EvolutionaryBiology
PhD position in Evolutionary Biology at Potsdam Uni-
versity
Within the “Graduate School of Earth Sciences at Pots-
dam University”, there is a 3 years fellowship available
in a joint project between the Unit of Evolutionary
Biology/Systematic Zoology and the Institute of Geo-
sciences. The successful candidate will analyze inter-
and intraspeciﬁc diversity in lacustrine plankton in lake
sediments of the East African Rift valley and relate this
to environmental change. The project includes ﬁeld
work in Kenya.
The Unit of Evolutionary Biology/Systematic Biology
has a strong focus on population genetic and speciation
research, involving various taxonomic groups and a
suite of molecular, morphological, and behavioural
approaches (see http://www.bio.uni-potsdam.de/-
professuren/evolutionsbiologie/publikationen/-
publikationen for recent work).
Applicants must hold a university degree (Diplom oder
Master of Science in biology or a related discipline).
Familiarity with modern molecular genetic techniques
(PCR etc.) is preferable.
The University of Potsdam is an equal opportunity em-
ployer. If equally qualiﬁed, disabled applicants will be
preferably considered. The University of Potsdam aims
at increasing the number of female researchers and en-
courages qualiﬁed females to apply.
Potsdam is a beautiful city in close vicinity to the Ger-
man capital of Berlin. Potsdam University takes an
eﬀort to assist its members in family-related issues and
has repeatedly been awarded the total e-quality award.
Deadline for application is 1st February 2011. Details
of the application procedure can be found at:
http://www.geo.uni-potsdam.de/tl ﬁles/-
arbeitsgruppen/grk1364/grk1364 advertisement.pdf
For project-speciﬁc enquiries, you can contact Ralph
Tiedemann (tiedeman@uni-potsdam.de).
Ralph Tiedemann <tiedeman@uni-potsdam.de >QueensU Belfast HoneyBee
hostparasite
Phd Studentship in host-parasite interactions available
at Queen’s University Belfast
Characterisation of the autophagic response in
pathogen-infected honeybees. Supervisors: Dr James
Murray (CCRCB, School of Medicine, Dentistry &
BMS), Prof. Robert Paxton & Dr Sheena Cotter (EE-
BEE, Biological Sciences) Autophagy is a primordial
cell survival pathway, essential for all eukaryotic organ-
isms. In disease, autophagy is dysregulated during neu-
rodegeneration, cancer and pathogenic infections. Our
laboratory studies the fundamental signalling mecha-
nisms that control autophagy initiation in multicellu-
lar eukaryotes. Honeybee pathogens, e.g. deformed
wing virus and Nosema ceranae, pose severe threats to
colony survival and contribute to the declining numbers
of honeybees. Pathogenic infection may subvert the au-
tophagic pathway within bee cells for survival. There-
fore, we propose that autophagy modulation in infected
honeybees may allow elimination of these pathogenic
infections. The studentship will focus on a molecular
analysis of autophagy in established honeybee cell lines
and generation of honeybee cell lines genetically altered
in their autophagic response. The response of these
cell lines to isolated pathogens will then be assessed
and known chemical modulators of autophagy will be
tested for their ability to mitigate cellular infections.
This studentship will be the ﬁrst study of autophagy in
an insect pollinator species and may lead to the identi-
ﬁcation of a novel means of eliminating pathogenic in-
fections in honeybees. This is a DEL-funded strategic
priority studentship that will be jointly supervised by
researchers in the Centre for Cancer Research and Cell
Biology (School of Medicine, Dentistry and Biomedical
Sciences) and the Evolution, Ecology, Behaviour and
Environmental Economics research cluster (School of
Biological Sciences) at Queen’s University Belfast.
Applications
Full funding is available for UK students only, EU stu-
densts would qualify for fees-only funding, candidates
from outside the EU are ineligible for this funding. This
studentship is suitable for any student with, or expected
to obtain, a 2:1 or above in a biomedical or biological
sciences-related discipline.26 EvolDir February 1, 2011
Informal enquiries to Dr James Murray, Tel: 028 9097
2180, Email: j.t.murray@qub.ac.uk
Application is via the QUB portal: https://-
qolps.qub.ac.uk/home/ Closing Date: February 18th
Sheena Cotter NERC Postdoctoral Fellow Proleptic
Lecturer in Ecology and Evolutionary Genetics
School of Biological Sciences Queen’s University Belfast
MBC, 97 Lisburn Rd Belfast
Tel: +44 (0)28 9097 2691 Email: s.cotter@qub.ac.uk
Sheena Cotter <s.cotter@qub.ac.uk >
RyersonU PlantConservation
Graduate Assistantship available in Plant Evolutionary
Ecology and Conservation Biology
Description:
My lab is broadly interested in the evolution and
conservation of plants, often focusing on plant hy-
bridization and mating patterns. My research program
broadly aims to understand the evolutionary conse-
quences of global climate change, species invasions, and
species rarity. More speciﬁcally, I study (1) the mech-
anisms regulating genetic diversity, phenotypic evolu-
tion, and population demography in rare and inva-
sive plants and (2) how evolutionary processes (hy-
bridization, adaptation) and properties (mating sys-
tems, genetic diversity) aﬀect the ecological function
of plant populations (e.g., reproduction, extinction).
As such, my research touches on a variety of sub-
disciplines, including conservation biology, agricultural
ecology, and population dynamics using a combination
of ﬁeld, greenhouse, and eco-informatic approaches.
Students are expected to develop their own indepen-
dent projects but will also have opportunities to col-
laborate on funded investigations of hybridiza tion in
North American agricultural and natural plant ecosys-
tems.
Ryerson’s Chemistry and Biology department program
boasts an exceptionally active and growing faculty. Ar-
eas of emphasis include environmental and molecular
biology. Financial support is available for graduate stu-
dents.
Applications: I am accepting applications from
prospective MSc or PhD students to start a gradu-
ate program in September 2011. If you are interested,please email me (lesley.g.campbell@ryerson.ca) a state-
ment of your research interests with your CV and the
names and email addresses of at least 2 references. **
Although all strong candidates will be thoroughly con-
sidered, Canadian applicants are strongly encouraged
to apply **
lesley.g.campbell@ryerson.ca
SheﬃeldU BehavEcolEvolBiol
Genetic correlation between social behaviour and orna-
mentation
There is remarkable variation in sexually-selected traits
within single species. Although such traits are expected
to be heritable, they may be genetically constrained
through pleiotropic linkage (where single genes aﬀect
multiple traits). In the case of melanin-based ornamen-
tation, pleiotropic linkage predicts correlations between
(among others) the degree of melanism and social be-
haviour, which have indeed been observed in several
vertebrates. In addition, melanin plumage traits may
also be aﬀected by the social behaviour of conspeciﬁcs,
which may result in a feedback mechanism. In partic-
ular, if some of the correlated behavioural traits are
closely linked to ﬁtness, such a system may enable the
coexistence of alternative strategies of how males sig-
nal their ﬁtness to both mates and conspeciﬁcs. This
could in part explain how variance in sex-dependent
traits and linked social behaviour is maintained within
populations.
This study will investigate phenotypic and genetic cor-
relations between social behaviour, behavioural traits,
melanin ornamentation and ﬁtness in a model organ-
ism for the study of melanin-based ornaments, the
house sparrow (Passer domesticus). We will use a long-
term dataset (including a genetic pedigree of 10 years)
from an isolated wild island population of house spar-
rows to unravel potential genetic constraints, and to
disentangle the causality and feedback potential be-
tween melanin ornaments and behavioural traits (e.g.
parental care, exploration score, boldness, aggressive-
ness, dominance rank - previous work has revealed sig-
niﬁcant individual variation in most of these). Ulti-
mately, we hypothesise that it will be possible to iden-
tify diﬀerent male strategies and understand their co-
existence.
We are a seeking an independent and motivated team
player to join our research group as a PhD stu-February 1, 2011 EvolDir 27
dent in the Department of Animal and Plant Sciences
at the University of Sheﬃeld ( www.shef.ac.uk/aps/-
index.html ). The Department has an outstanding rep-
utation for research in ecology and evolution and pro-
vides an excellent intellectual environment for its re-
search students. The ﬁeldwork on scenic Lundy Island
(UK) will take place 4 months each summer, and two
week-long trips in winter, requiring a committed indi-
vidual. Ideally, you will have previous research and
ﬁeldwork experience, and are interested in birds and
evolutionary behavioural ecology. Experience in han-
dling birds and/or a ringing licence would be an ad-
vantage. The graduate position is for 3 years, with a
starting date as soon as possible after 1 March 2011.
The studentship is fully funded (living costs plus fees)
for EU citizens. Partial scholarships are available to
applicants from outside the EU.
The supervisors are Professor Terry Burke, Dr Julia
Schroeder (Sheﬃeld University) and Dr Shinichi Naka-
gawa (Otago University, NZ). Please apply by sending
your CV, including the email addresses of two academic
referees, a letter of motivation and a one-page research
proposal by 4 February 2011. For more information,
please email julia.schroeder@sheﬃeld.ac.uk.
julia.schroeder@gmail.com
UCambridge EvolutionPolarLife
NERC PhD studentship funded by NERC grant
NE/1005803/1: Impact of global disturbances on the
evolution of life in the polar regions during the early
Cenozoic (PALEOPOLAR).
Supervisors: Dr Elizabeth Harper (Earth Sciences, Uni-
versity of Cambridge), Dr Jennifer Jackson (British
Antarctic Survey) & Dr Alistair Crame (British Antarc-
tic Survey)
Full studentship funding is limited to UK and some EU
citizens. For more details see http://www.nerc.ac.uk/-
funding/available/postgrad/eligibility.asp This PhD
project forms part of a large, interdisciplinary research
project to assess the impact of major global distur-
bances on marine and terrestrial ecosystems during
the latest Cretaceous - early Cenozoic period of global
warming. It is in turn part of the NERC Thematic
Programme to investigate the Long-term Coevolution
of Life and the Planet. The project aims to sequence
DNA from a series of living Southern Ocean gastropod
taxa and establish their time of origin and evolutionaryradiation; can ages obtained from a molecular analysis
be matched with those indicated by the fossil record?
Might a number of modern groups have originated in
the Paleocene, or even earlier?
This PhD studentship will investigate the phyloge-
netic inter-relationships and patterns and timing of
species divergence within selected gastropod taxa (ini-
tially neogastropods within the Buccinidae, Volutidae
and Muricidae, but potentially extending to additional
groups). Many Antarctic genera within these families
have been collected during recent Antarctic cruises and
are now available for analysis at BAS. Where taxonomic
coverage at BAS is limited, the student will seek collab-
orative sample sharing with other institutions, includ-
ing the New Zealand National Institute for Water and
Atmospheric Research and the Australian Antarctic Di-
vision. The project will entail the extraction, PCR
ampliﬁcation and sequencing of Antarctic gastropods,
in order to obtain multiple mitochondrial and nuclear
loci for phylogenetic analysis. These will be aligned
with data from existing studies of non-Antarctic taxa
and analyzed using a variety of molecular phylogenetic
approaches, including maximum likelihood, maximum
parsimony and Bayesian methods, in order to estab-
lish the phylogenetic inter-relationships among these
families. Maximum likelihood approaches will be used
to evaluate genetic support for various hypotheses of
evolutionary relationships; e.g.,monophyly of Antarctic
genera. A survey of the morphological characteristics of
selected groups such as the buccinids will enable max-
imum parsimony reconstruction of relationships based
on morphology and evaluation of the relative support
for morphological and phylogenetic hypotheses of evo-
lution within the various Antarctic groups. Taxa will
then be chosen from the fossil record to provide multi-
ple fossil constraints on the timeframe of the molec-
ular phylogeny. Relaxed clock Bayesian divergence
time estimation approaches will then be used to esti-
mate species divergence times and diversiﬁcation rates
through time. Particular emphasis will be placed on
correlating episodes of taxonomic diversiﬁcation with
the palaeoclimate record.
Candidates should have a background in the main-
stream biological/palaeobiological sciences and be able
to demonstrate a strong research interest in molecular
evolutionary genetics. Experience at Honours or Mas-
ters level would be advantageous. Applicants should
submit: a short expression of interest (max 2 pages),
CV and the e-mail addresses of two referees.
Enquiries to: Dr Jennifer Jackson, British Antarctic
Survey: jennifer.jackson@bas.ac.uk
Closing date for applications: 1st March 2011.28 EvolDir February 1, 2011
jacksonjennifera@googlemail.com
UCollegeLondon
GeneticsEvolutionEnvironment
PhD opportunities are available in the Research De-
partment of Genetics, Evolution and Environment at
University College London.
Please visit http://www.ucl.ac.uk/gee/jobs for full in-
formation.
NERC-FUNDED PHD STUDENTSHIPS
3-year studentships funded by the Natural Environment
Research Council are available within GEE to work on
the following projects:
- Origins, maintenance and conservation of terrestrial
vertebrate diversity of the Seychelles (Supervisors: Dr
Julia Day, UCL, and Dr David Gower, Natural His-
tory Museum) - Evolutionary genetics of reproductive
performance and consequences for sexual selection and
sperm competition in female stalk-eyed ﬂies (Super-
visor: Prof Kevin Fowler) - Applying ecological the-
ory to human bacterial communities (Supervisor: Dr
David Murrell) - The evolution of phenotypic plasticity
and diﬀerential gene expression (Supervisor: Dr Max
Reuter) - Growth and development of sexual ornaments
in stalk-eyed ﬂies (Supervisor: Dr Hazel Smith) - Xe-
nacoelomorpha and the evolution of simplicity (Super-
visor: Prof Max Telford)
These projects will be subject to open departmental
competition. Please also not NERC’s ELIGIBILITY
REQUIREMENTS: full studentships (stipend and tu-
ition fees) are available only to UK citizens or EU na-
tionals who have been resident in the UK for the three
years prior to the start date (including time spent in
education). UCL academic entry requirement applies
(minimum BSc Hons Upper 2nd Class in a relevant sub-
ject).
To apply please send an email to the relevant super-
visor(s) outlining your interest and experience, and in-
cluding your CV and the contact details of two aca-
demic referees.
Application deadline - 23rd February 2011
UCL GRADUATE SCHOOL SCHOLARSHIPS
We invite applications from outstanding students for
these highly competitive schemes. Candidates shouldcontact a potential supervisor to discuss projects (see
the Research pages for details on on our lines of re-
search). Candidates can be of ANY NATIONALITY
and country of residence, but must have an excellent
background in a relevant biological science (ﬁrst or high
upper second class BSc degree, minimum). GEE will
nominate two applicants to be considered for UCL’s
Research Scholarships schemes.
Please see this page ( http://www.ucl.ac.uk/-
prospective-students/scholarships/graduate ) for
details on the scheme.
Applications to be sent to Prof Kevin Fowler
(k.fowler@ucl.ac.uk) or Dr Julia Day (j.day@ucl.ac.uk).
Closing date is 14th February 2011.
MRes/PhD PROGRAMMES AT UCL
The Department of Genetics, Evolution and Envi-
ronment contributes to several MRes and PhD pro-
grammes, in particular the MRes in Biosciences and
an MRes/PhD programme in Systems Biology.
Fully or partly funded studentships are available for
these programmes, but both are also open to self-funded
applicants.
Please ﬁnd more details here: http://www.ucl.ac.uk/-
gee/teaching/postgraduate
Max Reuter
Research Department of Genetics, Evolution and En-
vironment Faculty of Life Sciences University College
London 4 Stephenson Way London NW1 2HE, UK
Phone: +44-20-76795095 (internal 25095)
Lab: http://www.homepages.ucl.ac.uk/ ˜ ucbtmre/-
Labsite/ Department: http://www.ucl.ac.uk/gee
UExeter
EvolutionarySystemsBiology
Evolutionary Systems Biology Phd projects available
at the OSS Lab, University of Exeter. Note that
these projects are in competition for funding with other
projects based at the Universify of Exeter and the stu-
dentship will be awarded on the basis of merit..
The network level consequences of host-parasite armsFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 29
race http://www.exeter.ac.uk/studying/funding/-
award/index.php?idd5 Information processing in the
cell: evolution of cross-talk and pleitropy in signalling
http://www.exeter.ac.uk/studying/funding/award/-
index.php?idf4 Evolution and design of metabolism
http://www.exeter.ac.uk/studying/funding/award/-
index.php?idc7 For informal enquiries contact Dr
Orkun Soyer at O.S.Soyer@exeter.ac.uk
Orkun S. Soyer, PhD Lecturer in Systems Biology
Engineering, Mathematics and Physical Sciences Uni-
versity of Exeter Tel: +44 (0)1392 723615 URL:
http://people.exeter.ac.uk/oss203/ “Soyer, Orkun”
<O.S.Soyer@exeter.ac.uk >
UGuelph MarineInvertBarcoding
University of Guelph (with West Coast DFO Place-
ment)
We are seeking a Ph.D. student with an interest in ap-
plied evolutionary genetics and taxonomy to conduct a
DNA barcoding study on marine invertebrates as part
of a larger set of multi-disciplinary studies on aquatic
invasive species. The current project is a collaborative
one involving researchers at University of Guelph, Fish-
eries and Oceans Canada, and University of Windsor.
Many global invaders are marine invertebrates such as
crustaceans, molluscs and acscidians that often present
numerous taxonomic challenges, especially in early life
history stages. DNA barcoding has been identiﬁed as a
robust, generic method that could serve as an interna-
tional standard for the identiﬁcation of aquatic invasive
species on a global scale as it has practical advantages
over classical taxonomic methods. However, its utility
for this purpose needs to be validated - especially when
invaders and co-occurring native species are very simi-
lar - and its usefulness is a function of the availability
of validated DNA barcoding datasets, hence appropri-
ate investment in initial identiﬁcation of material to be
sequenced is vital.
The successful candidate will apply DNA barcoding
methods using the mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase
I (COI) gene to generate essential baseline data to then
evaluate the utility of this approach for invasive species
identiﬁcation and detection. They will also generate
molecular phylogenies based on multiple genetic nuclear
markers where needed to resolve taxonomic uncertain-
ties of important marine invaders.Work will be conducted in close collaboration with the
Government of Canada - Department of Fisheries and
Oceans Canada (DFO), to the extent that the successful
candidate will be based at the Paciﬁc Biological Sta-
tion in Nanaimo, B.C. for a substantial part of their
studentship.
Stipend funding is available at NSERC rates. Canadian
citizens and Permanent Residents are preferred as there
are no project funds for international student fees. The
project start date is to be between May 2011 and Jan
2012. To be considered for this position please send
your CV, a summary of your research interests and ex-
perience, contact details, and at least two references to
cathryn.abbott@dfo-mpo.gc.ca.
Cathryn Abbott, Ph.D. Research Scientist Aquatic An-
imal Health Fisheries and Oceans Canada Paciﬁc Bi-
ological Station 3190 Hammond Bay Road Nanaimo,
BC, V9T 6N7 Canada Telephone: +1 250 756 3364
FAX: +1 250 756 7053 cathryn.abbott@dfo-mpo.gc.ca
“Abbott, Cathryn” <Cathryn.Abbott@dfo-
mpo.gc.ca >
ULeipzig
MolecularPrimateEvolution
2 PhD positions in Molecular Primate Evolution:
In the group of Katja Nowick, “TFome and Transcrip-
tome Evolution”, located at the Interdisciplinary Cen-
ter for Bioinformatics and the Paul-Flechsig-Insitute for
Brain Research in Leipzig, Germany, are two PhD po-
sitions available.
The positions are initially for three years and are open
to students holding a Master’s or comparable degree in
Biology, Bioinformatics or related research ﬁeld.
Our group studies the molecular evolution of primates.
We are especially interested in the impact of transcrip-
tion factors on diﬀerences in transcriptomes, gene reg-
ulatory networks, and the phenotype. We are using
experimental as well as computational approaches to
investigate the evolution of primate transcription fac-
tors. Both PhD projects will take advantage of latest
cell and molecular biological methods, next generation
sequencing, comparative genomics, and phylogenetics.
More information about our group can be found here:
www.nowick-lab.info . We are looking for highly moti-
vated students with commitment and team spirit, who
enjoy innovative research. Practical experience in cell,30 EvolDir February 1, 2011
molecular, evolutionary biology, and/or bioinformatics
is a plus. Good English language skills are essential.
We oﬀer an interdisciplinary, scientiﬁcally inspiring re-
search atmosphere, a well equipped laboratory, an ex-
citing and diverse research topic, and the opportunity
for international collaborations.
The city of Leipzig hosts an extensive and dynamic sci-
entiﬁc landscape, including, among others, three Max-
Planck-Institutes and two Fraunhofer Institutes, which
collaborate with the local university. It is very mod-
ern with many students, international ﬂair, established
cultural scene, many parks, exciting night life, and only
one hour away from Berlin.
Please send your application including the names and
addresses of two referees to:
Katja Nowick Universit¨ at Leipzig Bioinformatik
H¨ artelstr. 16-18, Raum 313 04107 Leipzig
Or per Email to: nowick@bioinf.uni-leipzig.de
– Dr. Katja Nowick
Group Leader “TFome and Trancriptome Evolution”
www.nowick-lab.info Universit¨ at Leipzig H¨ artelstrasse
16-18 04107 Leipzig Germany Phone: +49 341 97-16684
Fax: +49 341 97-16679
UMuenster HostPathogens
Graduate position: WWU-Muenster (Germany) V Sto-
ichiogenomics of host-pathogen interactions
We invite applications for a joint PhD position in the
groups of Evolutionary Functional Genomics, and An-
imal Evolutionary Ecology at the Institute for Evolu-
tion and Biodiversity, University of Muenster, Germany
(http://ieb.uni-muenster.de/ ).
We are seeking highly motivated students with a back-
ground in evolution, molecular biology, microbiology, or
bioinformatics. Successful candidates will work in the
ﬁelds of molecular evolution, host-parasite co-evolution,
and genomics, combining experimental evolution and
computational approaches. The project will focus on
the relationship between environmental nutrient avail-
ability and evolutionary change, using pathogenic bac-
teria and Tribolium castaneum as model organisms.
Experience with programming and/or molecular tech-
niques is advantageous. Working language of the lab is
English.Muenster hosts many excellent scientiﬁc institutions
and is a dynamic city with a high number of students
and a rich choice of social, cultural and sporting fa-
cilities (see http://www.muenster.de/ en/ for further
details).
Application review will begin on 28th February 2011.
Applicants should send a single pdf ﬁle, containing
statement of research interests, CV, list of publications,
and the contact information of two referees, to Claudia
Acquisti.
Claudia Acquisti Evolutionary Functional Genomics In-
stitute for Evolution and Biodiversity University of
Muenster Hueﬀerstr. 1, DE-48149 Muenster, Germany
E-mail: Claudia.Acquisti@uni-muenster.de Tel. +49
251 83 21 089
claudia.acquisti@uni-muenster.de
UNottingham EvolutionaryBiol
Generous funding is available on a competitive basis
(UK or EU students only) for a PhD position to start
in 2011.
’Evolution and development of asymmetry’/’Evolution
of colour polymorphism’
We are applying next generation sequencing methods to
investigate two fascinating and long-standing problems
in evolutionary and developmental biology. In one BB-
SRC funded project, we are using the pond snail Lym-
naea stagnalis as a model to understand the evolution
and development of left-right asymmetry. In another
study, we are interested in how the conspicuous colour
polymorphisms of land snails evolved, a question that
relates to the much wider issue of how the genome re-
sponds to disruptive or balancing selection. To achieve
these aims, we have generated data sets made up of Il-
lumina (GAII) RAD genotyping runs (see Baird NA et
al. 2008) and 454 transcriptome studies.
I am seeking a student who will use bioinformatic
and/or wet lab experimental work to further under-
stand the left-right asymmetry and/or colour polymor-
phism. The exact project is to be determined and will
depend upon the interests of the student and the state-
of-play when the student begins their research. Appli-
cants should have a good degree in a relevant subject,
and an interest and enthusiasm for evolution. Although
enquiries from overseas are welcome, please note that
the competitive studentship is available to EU studentsFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 31
only (UK = fees and living allowance; EU fees only)
In the ﬁrst instance, prospective students should send
a CV and an indication of general area of interest to
Dr. Angus Davison, School of Biology, University of
Nottingham (angus.davison@nottingham.ac.uk).
– Dr. Angus Davison School of Biology University Park
University of Nottingham NG7 2RD
0115 8230322 angus.davison@nottingham.ac.uk
www.molluscs.org Angus.Davison@nottingham.ac.uk
UPotsdam PlanktonAdaptation
PhD position at the University of Potsdam
The Department of Ecology and Ecosystem Modeling
performs ecological research on aquatic communities
that respond to the sudden and gradual impacts of
global change.
We presently oﬀer a PhD position in the project:
Warm and fragile: Temperature and vulnerability to
extinction in pelagic food webs
for experimental work on the eﬀects of elevated temper-
atures on recovering plankton communities. This work
is part of a larger DFG-funded project that combines
both theoretical and empirical research.
Project description Our overarching goal is to explain
which mechanisms support the recovery of disturbed
communities, and which mechanisms may prevent it, in
a context of global warming. You will perform exper-
iments at diﬀerent temperatures that involve grazing,
predation, competition and re-introductions of species
that were lost from the system. You will work with
both temperate and (sub-)tropical plankton species in
communities of varying complexity.
Requirements You are a highly motivated ecologist,
holding a Diplom or Masters degree in plankton ecol-
ogy or community ecology. You have a keen interest in
major ecological concepts and in working together with
theoreticians that approach the project’s questions with
mathematical models. The ideal candidate has above-
average study marks, good quantitative and analytical
capabilities, excellent interpersonal and communication
skills, a strong sense of determination to succeed, and
is easily able to express his or her ideas in English writ-
ing. Some control of the German language is welcome
but not essential.Appointment This is a temporary appointment for 3
years, on a 50-75% EG 13 Tv¨ oD-O position. The posi-
tion will be ﬁlled as soon as possible.
Location The University of Potsdam and the Depart-
ment oﬀer excellent facilities for research in ecology.
The department is beautifully situated in Sanssouci
Park, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Potsdam of-
fers a high-quality living environment and is close and
well-connected to Berlin.
For more information: please contact Dr Matthijs Vos,
Phone: +49 (0)331-1977-1953, e-mail: mattvos@uni-
potsdam.de
Application Please send your application letter out-
lining your suitability and motivation, plus complete
curriculum vitae including degree certiﬁcates with
marks by e-mail to Dr. Matthijs Vos ( mattvos@uni-
potsdam.de ). Selection starts immediately and closes
as soon as we ﬁnd a well-qualiﬁed candidate.
Matt Vos <mattvos@uni-potsdam.de >
UTurku TelomereEvolution
Two PhD-student positions for four years in wild house
mouse telomere/biological aging research group
The Wild House Mouse Telomere Research Group is
searching for two excellent PhD-students to participate
in investigating the genetic and life-stress impacts on
telomere length and telomere dynamics in wild-derived
house mice, and the consequent eﬀects on individuals’
health, ﬁtness and life-span. The project is highly in-
terdisciplinary, combining molecular genetics with ex-
perimental evolutionary ecology approach.
The project is based at the Division of Genetics and
Physiology, University of Turku, but includes also col-
laborative research with Prof. Dustin J. Penn’s group
at the Konrad Lorenz Institute for Ethology in Vienna,
Austria. The successful candidates are expected to be
highly motivated and to have keen interest on evolu-
tionary ecology and genetics research and learning to
understand the mechanistic bases of organismal senes-
cence and life-history trade-oﬀs. Experience on basic
genetic lab protocols is an asset. In particular, previ-
ous experience on real-time q-PCR and gene expression
studies is an advantage, but not an absolute necessity.
Applications are considered until the positions are
ﬁlled. The ﬁrst PhD-student position will be ﬁlled32 EvolDir February 1, 2011
starting from February 2011 and the second one from
July 2011. The salary is University of Turku level 2 (ca.
2200 euro/month, depending on experience and perfor-
mance) and the initial contracts are for 4 years with
4-month trial periods. Please send your application by
email (peilmo@utu.ﬁ) including (1) a brief summary of
undergraduate project(s), (2) a list of publications (if
available) with links to each paper, (3) contact details
for at least two references, and (4) a short description
of your speciﬁc motivation to join the group.
For further details of the project please contact:
Dr. Petteri Ilmonen Division of Genetics and Physiol-
ogy Department of Biology 20014 University of Turku
Finland E-mail: peilmo@utu.ﬁ Tel: + 358 445959148
UWarwick ResistanceEvolution
Two fully-funded BBSRC CASE PhD studentships are
available within the School of Life Sciences, University
of Warwick, UK to work in the area of evolution of man-
agement of plant resistance to herbicides. You would
join an expanding group of PhD and postdoctoral re-
searchers with interests spanning evolutionary ecology,
experimental evolution and modelling. Our research
seeks to understand plant adaptation in agricultural
ecosystems.
1. Exploring risks of evolution of resistance to the her-
bicide glyphosate in UK weedy plants.
http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/lifesciencephd/-
phdprojects/neve2/ 2. Integrating modelling and
molecular approaches to inform the evolution and
management of resistance to herbicides in Alopecurus
myosuroides
http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/lifesciencephd/-
phdprojects/neve1/
Both PhDs are open to all UK residents according to
BBSRC eligibility requirements. For informal enquiries
or to discuss the projects further please contact Dr Paul
Neve (p.neve@warwick.ac.uk)
Dr Paul Neve School of Life Sciences University of War-
wick Wellesbourne Warwickshire CV35 9EF
Tel: +44 2476 575843 Fax: +44 2476 574500
“Neve, Paul” <P.Neve@warwick.ac.uk >UWyoming SpeciesMicroEvolution
Graduate Assistantship available in Landscape Genet-
ics at University of Wyoming My lab is interested in
understanding ﬁne-scale distribution, functional con-
nectivity, and micro-evolution of species in a spatial
context. I will be taking at least one graduate stu-
dent to study distribution, functional connectivity and
landscape change in semi-arid ecosystems. Prospec-
tive students with a background in ecology, natural
resources, and/or population genetics are encouraged
to apply. Evidence of robust quantitative/analytical
skills (including spatial modeling), strong work ethic,
passion for investigating scientiﬁc questions, ability to
work under harsh ﬁeld conditions and collaborative
skills will all be vital for the success of potential can-
didates. PhD students will have the opportunity to
participate in the interdisciplinary Program in Ecol-
ogy (PiE; www.uwyo.edu/pie ). I am accepting ap-
plications from prospective MS and PhD students to
start a graduate program in August 2011. Preference
will be given to students interested in a PhD pro-
gram with a MS and/or other evidence of previous re-
search experience. Applications should be submitted
by Jan. 25, 2011 (early application is strongly encour-
aged as review of applications will begin immediately).
Applications should include: cover letter with state-
ment of research interests, CV, transcripts, and GRE
scores. The packet can be sent as a pdf attachment
to Dr. Melanie Murphy (melanie.murphy@uwyo.edu).
In addition, please have three references send let-
ters to the same e-mail address. Also follow the di-
rection for applications to the PhD interdisciplinary
Program in Ecology ( www.uwyo.edu/pie ) and Depart-
ment of Renewable Resources ( http://www.uwyo.edu/-
renewable/info.asp?p=22152 ). University of Wyoming
is ideally located in Laramie, Wyoming with easy access
to varied ﬁeld sites and outdoor recreation opportuni-
ties. In addition, the campus is only 1 hour from Fort
Collins and 2 hours from Denver, CO.
Melanie Murphy, PhD Assistant Professor Renewable
Resources, Ag. 2010 University of Wyoming Dept.
3354 1000 E University Ave. Laramie, WY 82071 (307)
766-5295 melanie.murphy@uwyo.edu
“Melanie A. Murphy” <mmurph23@uwyo.edu >February 1, 2011 EvolDir 33
UZurich FlowerEvolution
PhD position in plant ecology and evolution
A 3 year PhD positions funded by the European Science
Foundation (ESF) is available from April 2011 at the
Institute of Systematic Botany, University of Z¨ urich, to
study the evolution of ﬂoral signalling in plants under
selection by herbivores and pollinators. The project
deals with the signalling dilemma of plants, i.e. the
need to defend reproductive structures against herbi-
vores on the one hand, but at the same time attracting
pollinators to the ﬂowers. You should have a master de-
gree (or equivalent) in any ﬁeld of biology/ecology and
a thorough interest in evolutionary ecology/chemical
ecology/molecular biology. Further, enthusiasm for ex-
perimental work with plants, insects, as well as analyses
of plant volatiles by GC-MS is required. The project is
embedded in a corporative research project with collab-
orators in a range of European countries (Switzerland,
Netherlands, Sweden, Italy, Czech Republik), and close
collaboration with these other labs is expected within
this project. The Institute of Systematic Botany at
the University of Z¨ urich, were the work will be based,
consists of 3 professors and 6 academic staﬀ, as well
as several PostDocs, PhDs, and Master students. The
main overall research topic of our institute is mecha-
nisms and patterns of evolution in plants. The institute
is located in the pretty botanical gardens and houses
modern molecular and chemical ecology labs, including
greenhouses and climate chambers for plant cultivation.
Z¨ urich has a large and very active research community
at the University of Z¨ urich ( www.unizh.ch ) and ETH
(www.ethz.ch), dealing with various aspects of organis-
mal and molecular biology ( www.lifescience-zurich.ch ).
The city also oﬀers excellent quality of life through ac-
tive cultural programs and infrastructure, as well as an
attractive surrounding.
If you are interested, please send (preferentially by e-
mail) a letter describing your motivation, C.V., copy of
degrees, publications (manuscripts) if any, and e-mail
addresses of two academic referees, by 15th of Febru-
ary 2011. If you have further question, don‘t hesitate
to contact me.
Prof. Florian Schiestl Institute of Systematic Botany
Zollikerstrasse 107 CH-8008 Z¨ urich
ﬂorian.schiestl@systbot.uzh.chFlorian Schiestl <ﬂorian.schiestl@systbot.uzh.ch >
VrijeU Netherlands
EvolutionOfLearning
PhD student in Evolutionary Ecology (f/m)
The department of Animal Ecology, Vrije Universiteit
Amsterdam, The Netherlands has a PhD position avail-
able for the project:
“Evolution of learning rate in parasitoid insects”
Insects are excellent learners, but it is unclear if learn-
ing behaviour evolves independently for each diﬀer-
ent learning context. This project studies learning
rate of parasitic wasps which use olfactory and visual
cues to ﬁnd hosts and food. The two most important
questions are if the rate of learning is correlated be-
tween learning with diﬀerent cues and rewards, and are
there common genetic mechanisms underlying learn-
ing in diﬀerent contexts. Experimental work will in-
clude sequence and expression analysis of candidate
genes involved in learning processes, selection experi-
ments and behavioural assays. The research will be
carried out at the VU University in Amsterdam, in col-
laboration with the Netherlands Institute of Ecology
(NIOO-KNAW) in Wageningen. This project is funded
by the Netherlands Organization for Scientiﬁc Research
(NWO-ALW) awarded to prof. dr. Jacintha Ellers.
Tasks - Executing scientiﬁc research as detailed in the
project description. - Publication of results of the re-
search in scientiﬁc journals as well as in a thesis. -
Assisting in undergraduate courses given within the In-
stitute of Ecological Science. - Following the PhD edu-
cational programme as prescribed by the institute.
Required skills and education - MSc degree in Biol-
ogy, preferably with advanced courses in animal ecol-
ogy, evolutionary biology, molecular biology, and an-
imal behaviour, or equivalent. - Proﬁciency in both
written and spoken English. - Excellent social skills,
ability to work independently and high motivation will
be assets.
Details The initial appointment will be for a period of
1 year. After satisfactory evaluation of the initial ap-
pointment, it can be extended for a total duration of 4
years. This period has to result in a written thesis. You
can ﬁnd information about our excellent fringe bene-
ﬁts of employment at www.workingatvu.nl Salary The34 EvolDir February 1, 2011
salary will be in accordance with university regulations
for academic personnel, and amounts 2.042,- gross per
month in the ﬁrst year up to 2.612,- in the fourth year
(salary scale 8.5) based on a full-time employment.
Information and applications Upon request, appli-
cants can obtain the complete project description from
D˜Ac/circlecopyrtsir˜Ac/circlecopyrte Hoonhout (tel. +31 20 5987004; de-
siree.hoonhout@falw.vu.nl). Further information can
be obtained from Prof. Dr. J. Ellers (tel. +31 20
5987076; jacintha.ellers@falw.vu.nl). Please, send your
application, including your expression of interest (witha brief statement of your personal research aims and
interests), a detailed resume, and two reference names
before January 30th, 2011 addressed to Prof. Dr. B.
Oudega, Dean Faculty of Earth & Life Sciences, Vrije
Universiteit. You may also send your application by
e-mail at: falw-vacatures@falw.vu.nl.
Please mention the vacancy number 1.2010.00338 in the
e-mail header or at the top of your letter and on the
envelope.
Jacintha Ellers <jacintha.ellers@falw.vu.nl >Jacintha
Ellers <jacintha.ellers@falw.vu.nl >
Jobs
AmericanMuseumNatHist MicrobialSystematics . . . 35
AmericanMusNatHist MicrobialSystematics 2 . . . . . 35
Bergen FishEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
ChicagoBotanicGardens SummerREU PlantConserva-
tion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
ChicagoBotanicGarden SummerRes PlantEvolution 37
Dexter FishWildlifeService EvolutionaryGenetics . . 37
Dijon France EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Donana Spain Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
DukeNUS Singapore ResAssoc VirusEvolution . . . . . 38
DukeU FieldAssist PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
DukeU ResTech PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
ETHZurich Bioinformatics Scientist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Evry France ComputationalBiologist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
FieldMuseumChicago SummerREU . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
INRA France 6 PopulationGeneticists . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Manchester 2 ConservationBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
MarseilleU EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
MaxPlanck FieldAssist BehaviouralEvolution . . . . . . 43
Miami FL LabTech 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Miami LabTech CycadEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Montpellier VertebrateConservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Nancy INRA PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
NCStateU BiologicalComplexity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46PurdueU Undergrad summer EvolutionaryGenetics 47
QueensU FieldAssist AvianEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Raleigh FieldAssist PlantInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
RyersonU EvolutionaryEntomology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
SmithsonianInst NMNH SummerWork . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Switzerland FieldAssist TitEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
Switzerland Short Term Lab Tech . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
TexasAM EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Trinidad FieldTech StreamFishEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 51
Trondheim EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
UArizona ResTech MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
UBern FieldAssist BirdEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
UBern FieldAssist BirdEvolution 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
UBritishColumbia ResearchManager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
UFlorida Bioinformatics Programmer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
UMontreal 2 Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
UPennsylvania SummerAssist LymeDiseaseEvolution
55
UTennessee Chattanooga EvolutionaryBiologist . . . 55
UWyoming VertebrateCollections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
WageningenU EvolutionOfBehaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Yunnan China PlantMolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 57
AmericanMuseumNatHist
MicrobialSystematicsFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 35
The American Museum of Natural History seeks an out-
standing scientist at the Assistant Curator & Profes-
sor level who will conduct research on the comparative
biology of microorganisms, broadly deﬁned to include
bacteria, archaea and microbial eukaryotes. Applicants
should demonstrate an established record of publication
and extramural funding in areas of microbial taxonomy,
phylogenetics, and evolution. The successful candidate
will be expected to participate in the teaching of gradu-
ate courses in the Comparative Biology Ph.D. program
at the Richard Gilder Graduate School at the AMNH.
Candidates should have completed their Ph.D. degrees
and postdoctoral experience is desired.
Interested candidates should electronically submit their
application via a single email message sent to micro-
bialsearch@amnh.org by February 4, 2011. Attached
to this email, please include: (1) a curriculum vitae;
(2) a statement describing your research program and
goals and how you envision contributing to the curricu-
lum of the graduate school; (3) PDF ﬁles of up to ﬁve
recent publications; and (4) the names and contact in-
formation for three referees.
The American Museum of Natural History is one of the
world’s preeminent scientiﬁc and cultural institutions.
Since its founding in 1869, the Museum has advanced
its global mission to discover, interpret and disseminate
information about human cultures, the natural world
and the universe through a wide-ranging program of
scientiﬁc research, education and exhibition.
The American Museum of Natural History is an Equal
Opportunity/ Aﬃrmative Action Employer. The Mu-
seum encourages women, minorities, persons with dis-
abilities, Vietnam-era and disabled veterans to apply.
The Museum does not discriminate due to age, sex,
religion, race, color, national origin, disability, marital
status, veteran status, sexual orientation, or any other
factor prohibited by law.
If special accommodations are needed in applying for
this position, please contact the Oﬃce of Human Re-
sources at hrdesk@amnh.org or 212-768-5108.
– Susan L. Perkins, Ph.D. Associate Curator, Microbial
Genomics & Systematics Sackler Institute for Compar-
ative Genomics Division of Invertebrate Zoology Amer-
ican Museum of Natural History Central Park West at
79th St. New York, NY 10024 Phone: 212-313-7646
Fax: 212-769-5277 Web: http://malaria.amnh.org Su-
san Perkins <perkins@amnh.org >AmericanMusNatHist
MicrobialSystematics 2
**Reminder - Applications are due February 4th, 2011.
See details below.**
The American Museum of Natural History seeks an out-
standing scientist at the Assistant Curator & Profes-
sor level who will conduct research on the comparative
biology of microorganisms, broadly deﬁned to include
bacteria, archaea and microbial eukaryotes. Applicants
should demonstrate an established record of publication
and extramural funding in areas of microbial taxonomy,
phylogenetics, and evolution. The successful candidate
will be expected to participate in the teaching of gradu-
ate courses in the Comparative Biology Ph.D. program
at the Richard Gilder Graduate School at the AMNH.
Candidates should have completed their Ph.D. degrees
and postdoctoral experience is desired.
Interested candidates should electronically submit their
application via a single email message sent to micro-
bialsearch@amnh.org by February 4, 2011. Attached
to this email, please include: (1) a curriculum vitae;
(2) a statement describing your research program and
goals and how you envision contributing to the curricu-
lum of the graduate school; (3) PDF ﬁles of up to ﬁve
recent publications; and (4) the names and contact in-
formation for three referees.
The American Museum of Natural History is one of the
world’s preeminent scientiﬁc and cultural institutions.
Since its founding in 1869, the Museum has advanced
its global mission to discover, interpret and disseminate
information about human cultures, the natural world
and the universe through a wide-ranging program of
scientiﬁc research, education and exhibition.
The American Museum of Natural History is an Equal
Opportunity/ Aﬃrmative Action Employer. The Mu-
seum encourages women, minorities, persons with dis-
abilities, Vietnam-era and disabled veterans to apply.
The Museum does not discriminate due to age, sex,
religion, race, color, national origin, disability, marital
status, veteran status, sexual orientation, or any other
factor prohibited by law.
If special accommodations are needed in applying for
this position, please contact the Oﬃce of Human Re-
sources at hrdesk@amnh.org or 212-768-5108.
Susan Perkins <perkins@amnh.org >36 EvolDir February 1, 2011
Bergen FishEvolution
Postdoctoral Researcher: Comparative Studies of Cell
Lineage and Gene Expression in Marine Animal Sys-
tems
The Sars International Centre is a partner of the Eu-
ropean Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL) and a
department of Uni Research AS, aﬃliated with the Uni-
versity of Bergen. The Centre is focused on basic re-
search in marine molecular biology, developmental bi-
ology and evolution, through genetic and comparative
studies of invertebrates and vertebrates.
The Comparative Developmental Biology of Animals
research group (Group Leader Andreas Hejnol) is now
oﬀering one postdoctoral position for two years. The
group is interested in the evolution of cell types and
organ systems and studies the development of diﬀerent
invertebrate taxa at the cellular and molecular level.
Research in the group combines the use of advanced
microscopical techniques with molecular approaches in
diverse marine organisms.
The position involves the investigation of the devel-
opment and cell lineage of a broad range of marine
and freshwater animals such as e.g. polyclad ﬂat-
worms, bryozoans, rotifers, brachiopods, gastrotrichs,
priapulids, nemerteans, acoelomorphs, polychaete an-
nelids and molluscs by combining advanced microscopic
(4D microscopy, CSLM) and molecular tools. These
studies will include the analysis of gene expression pat-
terns of important developmental candidate genes for
cell type and organ system development including func-
tional approaches. The research project will be ad-
justed to the candidates interest and prior experience.
Applicants should have a strong interest in evolutionary
developmental biology and a solid background in zool-
ogy and embryology/developmental biology. Prior ex-
perience with molecular methods is necessary and pre-
vious experience with advanced microscopical methods
is desired.
The position is available immediately; the start date is
negotiable.
The salary for Postdoctoral Researchers (code 8151)
starts at NOK 447.178.
Uni Research has employee insurance and pension
agreements and is an equal opportunity employer. Forfurther information regarding the position and scien-
tiﬁc content of the project please contact Dr. Andreas
Hejnol, Group Leader:andreas.hejnol@sars.uib.no.
Written application, in English, should include a C.V.,
a summary of educational and work experience, a brief
statement of research interest and contact information
for two references. Please mark application 11 Sars
01 and mail to: Head of Administration, Sars Centre,
Bergen High Technology Centre, Thormøhlensgt. 55,
N-5008 Bergen, Norway. Deadline for applications is
18 February 2011.
Please note that applications sent by e-mail will not be
considered.
Andreas Hejnol, Group Leader Sars International Cen-
tre for Marine Molecular Biology Thormøhlensgate 55
NO-5008 Bergen NORWAY
Phone: +47 55 58 43 28 Fax: +47 55 58 43 05 email:
andreas.hejnol@sars.uib.no
http://www.sars.no/research/HejnolGrp.php Open
Access Journal “EvoDevo” http://evodevojournal.com
andreas.hejnol@sars.uib.no
ChicagoBotanicGardens
SummerREU PlantConservation
REU positions at the Chicago Botanic Garden
Plant Biology & Conservation Research Experiences for
Undergraduates - >From Genes to Ecosystems
The Chicago Botanic Garden is now accepting appli-
cations for summer 2011 REU positions. Descriptions
of projects and application instructions are available at
http://labs.corpus-callosum.com/cbg/Index.html . The
deadline for applications is January 31. Please note
that positions are contingent on renewal of funding.
Questions can be sent to cone-
ﬂower@chicagobotanic.org
nzerega@chicagobotanic.org
ChicagoBotanicGarden SummerRes
PlantEvolutionFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 37
Summer ﬁeld research internships
Are you interested in gaining ﬁeld research experience
and learning about the ecology and evolution of plants
and plant-animal interactions in fragmented prairie?
We are looking for 3-5 summer ﬁeld researchers for
an NSF-funded project on habitat fragmentation of the
tallgrass prairie. We are investigating how small plant
population size inﬂuences inbreeding, demography, pol-
lination, and herbivory in the purple coneﬂower, Echi-
nacea angustifolia. This is a great summer internship,
REU, or co-op for those interested in ﬁeld biology or
conservation research.
No experience is necessary, but you must be enthusi-
astic and hard-working. You will survey natural plant
populations, measure plant traits in experimental plots,
hand-pollinate plants, observe & collect insects, and as-
sist in all aspects of research. Housing is provided and
there is a stipend. Undergraduate students have the
opportunity to do an independent project as an REU
participant.
If you want more information or wish to apply, please
visit this website http://echinacea.umn.edu/ or contact
Stuart Wagenius. Applications will be reviewed start-
ing 28 February 2011.
Stuart Wagenius, Ph.D. Conservation Scientist Divi-
sion of Plant Science and Conservation Chicago Botanic
Garden 1000 Lake Cook Road Glencoe, IL 60022 phone:
847 835 6978 fax: 847 835 6975
email: echinaceaProject@gmail.com web: http://-
echinacea.umn.edu/ SWagenius@chicagobotanic.org
Dexter FishWildlifeService
EvolutionaryGenetics
The Dexter National Fish Hatchery and Technology
Center is seeking applicants for the Molecular Ecology
Program with experience in conservation genetics, evo-
lutionary genetics or population genetics. New hiring
practices minimize the time a vacancy is open, so we are
actively soliciting applicants! The deadline is January
12, so apply quickly!!
The following position is now open through the US-
AJobs website, please click on the link below to
view/print the full vacancy announcement:
Interdisciplinary GS-0401/0482-9/11 Dexter National
Fish Hatchery & Technology Center Dexter, NMTERM nte 13 months (but renewable for 4 years) Open:
12/30/10 Close: 01/12/11
THERE ARE A TOTAL OF 4 LINKS TO THE SAME
ANNOUNCEMENT, APPLICANTS WILL CHOOSE
THE SERIES ONCE THEY APPLY
R2-11-422406-CI-MP (Status Appli-
cants): http://jobview.usajobs.gov/-
GetJob.aspx?JobID=95162524&JobTitle=-
Interdisciplinary+(Genetics )&lid=536&sort=rv%2c-
dtex&rad units=miles&brd=3876&pp=25&qt=default&jbf574=IN15&vw=b&re=134&FedEmp=Y&FedPub=Y&caller=advanced.aspx&AVSDM=2010-
12-30+11%3a18%3a00
R2-11-422398-CI-DEU (General Public Ap-
plicants): http://jobview.usajobs.gov/-
GetJob.aspx?JobID=95162512&JobTitle=-
Interdisciplinary+(Genetics )&lid=536&sort=rv%2c-
dtex&rad units=miles&brd=3876&pp=25&qt=default&jbf574=IN15&vw=b&re=134&FedEmp=Y&FedPub=Y&caller=advanced.aspx&AVSDM=2010-
12-30+11%3a18%3a00
Connie KeelerFoster@fws.gov
Dijon France EvolutionaryBiology
Evolution, Morphology, Evolutionary Biology, Paleon-
tology
The Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes (EPHE) opens a
/lessmuchMaˆ ıtre de conf´ erences /greatermuchposition (permanent posi-
tion of Assistant Professor) at the /lessmuchPal´ eobiodiversit´ e
& Evolution /greatermuchlab, part of Biog´ eosciences unit (UMR
CNRS) in Dijon (Burgundy, France).
Candidates are expected to develop a research pro-
gram on the study of mechanisms leading to the emer-
gence of particular phenotypes by favoring multi-scale
approaches from the microevolutionary level (function,
adaptation) up to the macroevolutionary level (historic
contingency). The understanding of complex biological
systems can be now approached through the concept of
shape modularity and integration providing a relevant
link between developmental processes and evolution.
The position concerns either a paleontologist or an evo-
lutionary biologist (ecology, population biology) consid-
ering his(her) project at the interface between micro-
and macro-evolutionary researches. Solid knowledge in
morphometry and statistics are expected.
Teaching program will include Evolution, Morphom-
etry, Paleontology courses, in particular in the Mas-
ter BSE (Biologie Sant´ e Ecologie) of the Ecole Pra-
tique des Hautes Etudes and in the lectures given in38 EvolDir February 1, 2011
Pal´ ebiodiversit´ e & Evolution lab in Dijon.
The review process will be held in Spring 2011, and
the position will begin end of 2011 (pending ﬁnal deci-
sion of French Academy of Sciences). The oﬃcial an-
nouncement and the list of requested items for formal
application will be posted later on at the EPHE web
site ( http://www.ephe.sorbonne.fr/ ). At the moment,
provide only a CV (including teaching experience and
publications) and a letter of interest to Sophie Mon-
tuire.
Contact : Dr. S. Montuire (head of the
Pal´ eobiodiversit´ e & Evolution /greatermuchlab or Dr. M. Veuille
(head of the Life and Earth Sciences Section of EPHE).
Sophie.Montuire@u-bourgogne.fr T´ el : +33
(0)3.80.39.63.47 http://www.u-bourgogne.fr/-
BIOGEOSCIENCE/ http://www.ephe.sorbonne.fr
veuille@ephe.sorbonne.fr/veuille @mnhn.fr T´ el : +33
(0)1.53.63.61.65/66
Dr. Sophie Montuire EPHE & UMR CNRS 5561
Biog´ eosciences Universit´ e de Bourgogne 6 Bld Gabriel
21000 Dijon T´ el.: 33. (0)3.80.39.63.47 Fax : 33.
(0)3.80.39.63.87 Sophie.Montuire@u-bourgogne.fr
http://www.u-bourgogne.fr/BIOGEOSCIENCE/
http://www.ephe.sorbonne.fr Paleontological database
http://transtyﬁpal.u-bourgogne.fr/ Sophie Montuire
<Sophie.Montuire@u-bourgogne.fr >
Donana Spain Bioinformatics
Donana Biological Station, Spain (EBD-CSIC). Bioin-
formatics position available.
We are seeking to hire an experienced bioinformati-
cian with a PhD in Science or Technology, under the
7th Framework Programme- European Project ECO-
GENES “Adapting to Global Change in the Mediter-
ranean hotspot: from genes to ecosystems”.
The characteristics of the oﬀered position, the scientist
responsible, and the candidate’s proﬁles can be con-
sulted in: http://www.ebd.csic.es/ecogenes/news.html
Duration of the position is 30 months, starting ten-
tatively in April or May 2011. Successful candidate
will be fully participating members of the relevant De-
partment at Donana Biological Station; he/she will be
expected to participate in running projects, fundraising
as well as dissemination and support in his/her area of
expertise.Interested candidates can contact the project coordi-
nator, Juan Jose Negro: coordinacion@ebd.csic.es, and
send him before January 24th 2011, in advance of the
oﬃcial application process: a cover letter, a curricu-
lum vitae, and a short (1-3 pages) description of past
research accomplishments and future research plans.
Bego??a Arrizabalaga <bego@ebd.csic.es >
DukeNUS Singapore ResAssoc
VirusEvolution
06 January 2010
Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School Singapore
Research Associate in Statistical Genetics (Code: Re-
search / EID)
The Laboratory of Virus Evolution (LoVE), led by
Associate Professor Gavin Smith (gavin.smith@duke-
nus.edu.sg), focuses on the ecology, genetic and anti-
genic evolution, population dynamics, and molecular
epidemiology of emerging infectious diseases.
Applications are invited for a Research Associate in
Statistical Genetics to work on projects making use
of the latest in sequencing and microarray technol-
ogy. Applicants should have an MSc or PhD (or equiv-
alent) in statistical genetics, statistics, mathematics,
computer sciences or another science with a signiﬁcant
quantitative component.
Duties include providing support for LoVE staﬀ in data
management and analysis of studies involving bioin-
formatics and statistical genetics of viral genome se-
quences generated from global disease surveillance.
Applicants should have an understanding of modern
statistical and computational approaches, preferably
with the ability to apply these within a biological con-
text. Excellent programming and computational skills
are essential, ideally using a statistical programming
environment such as R. Ability to program using JAVA
and C/C++ is also advantageous and experience in
handling large datasets is desirable. A good knowledge
of molecular biology or genetics is desirable.
The successful candidate will be exposed to a broad
range of evolutionary, epidemiological and virological
methodologies and data types in collaboration with re-
search scientists, clinicians and veterinarians.
An updated CV with all accepted and/or submittedFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 39
publications are requested. Only shortlisted candidates
will be notiﬁed.
Information on how to apply and application forms
are available from http://www.duke-nus.edu.sg/web/-
jobs howtoapply.htm gavin.smith@duke-nus.edu.sg
DukeU FieldAssist PlantEvolution
Field research opportunity in the northern Rockies
The Mitchell-Olds lab at Duke University seeks a highly
motivated, detail-oriented assistant for ﬁeld research
in the northern Rocky Mountains. We are studying
Boechera, a perennial herb that oﬀers genetic tractabil-
ity and ecological context. Current ﬁeld experiments
focus on questions related to local adaptation, specia-
tion, plant defense, and breeding systems.
Our research sites are located in east-central Idaho and
southwest Montana. Base camp is located near the
beautiful town of Salmon, but travel distances between
sites often necessitate overnight camping. Weather con-
ditions in the Rockies can be severe, and assistants
should expect to work in snow and rain as well as 90 de-
gree temperatures. Regular trips are made to Missoula,
Montana for groceries, supplies, and taco consumption.
Applicants must be available throughout the ﬁeld sea-
son from mid-May or early June through mid-August,
but exact start and end dates are ﬂexible. Successful
applicants are expected to assist in data collection and
data entry, plant care, transplanting, seed collection,
and driving research vehicles. The work can be phys-
ically demanding, and the research team usually col-
lects data 5-6 days per week. Qualiﬁcations: 1) some
undergraduate education in biology, ecology, or related
ﬁeld, or equivalent experience; 2) experience camping
and working outdoors and/or previous ﬁeld research ex-
perience; 3) ability to perform repetitive tasks with a
cheerful attitude and with attention to detail; 4) will-
ingness to live and work in close proximity with six
other researchers under rustic and sometimes crowded
conditions; 5) a current driver’s license. Previous ex-
perience working with plants is preferable but not re-
quired. Transportation, room with internet access, and
salary will be provided.
Interested applicants should submit: 1) a short cover
letter describing their qualiﬁcations as well as future
academic and professional goals; 2) a r´ esum´ e outlining
previous work experience, relevant courses (completedor in progress), extracurricular activities; and 3) con-
tact information of two character references. Email to:
Tom Mitchell-Olds tmo1@duke.edu Department of Bi-
ology, Duke University http://www.biology.duke.edu/-
mitchell-olds/ catherine.rushworth@gmail.com
DukeU ResTech PlantEvolution
Research Technician, Biology Department, Duke Uni-
versity:
Duke University, Biology Department, Research Tech-
nician (Associate in Research)
A research technician is wanted to participate in re-
search in evolutionary ecology and genetics of plants.
Recent university graduates looking for additional re-
search experience before entering graduate school are
especially encouraged to apply. Research in this lab
combines work in the ﬁeld, laboratory, and greenhouse
to study genotype-environment interactions. This po-
sition requires a bachelors degree in Biology or related
ﬁeld, experience in plant care, impeccable organiza-
tional skills, and familiarity with basic molecular bi-
ology procedures. Duties include plant care, molecular
and biochemical work; maintenance of ﬁeld/greenhouse
experiments, data management, general lab and cleri-
cal tasks. Available immediately. Currently for one
year. Competitive salary and full Duke beneﬁts. Duke
University is an Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Action
employer.
Please send CV and names of references to Kathleen
Donohue: k.donohue@duke.edu
DEADLINE FOR CONSIDERATION: JANUARY 31,
2011
Kathleen Donohue Associate Professor Department of
Biology Duke University Box 90338 Durham, NC 27708
USA
Oﬃce: 919 613-7467 Lab: 919 613-7468 Fax: 919-660-
7293 k.donohue@duke.edu
Kathleen Donohue <k.donohue@duke.edu >
ETHZurich Bioinformatics Scientist40 EvolDir February 1, 2011
The Genetic Diversity Center at ETH Zurich (Switzer-
land) has an opening for a
Bioinformatics Scientist
The Genetic Diversity Center < http://-
www.gdc.ethz.ch >is a newly established knowledge
and technology platform that provides scientiﬁc and
technical support for all research related to genetic
diversity in natural and managed populations of a wide
range of organisms. One of the key aims of the GDC
is to give research groups at ETH Zurich and their
collaborations access to up-to-date methods for geno-
typing populations and processing large sample sizes,
e.g. with next-generation sequencing technologies,
SNP genotyping, or gene expression analysis.
The new methodologiesprovide many scientiﬁc chal-
lenges and place a high demand on processing, storing
and interpreting genetic data. We therefore seek an
innovative person who will be responsible for providing
bioinformatics support for GDC, e.g. to handle the pro-
cessing and analysis of sequence and other genetic data
for the study of natural populations. The GDC pro-
vides an excellent opportunity for collaboration across
a wide cross-section of interests and organisms. In this
role, he/she will also be involved in data interpretation
and joint publication of the results.
The ideal candidate will have a PhD in bioinformat-
ics or related ﬁeld, or be a biologist with a strong
background in informatics, bioinformatic program-
ming/scripting skills, experience with next generation
sequence analysis (454, SOLID, Solexa) and a strong
interest in the biological questions asked by the users.
He/she is motivated to work in a team and enjoys sup-
porting the users of the Genetic Diversity Center in
their research projects.
The position is initially limited to 2 years and is avail-
able starting March 2011. The working language of
GDC and the user laboratories is English. Screening
of applications will start 7 February 2011 and continue
until the post is ﬁlled. Please send your application
to ETH Z¨ urich, Genetic Diversity Centre, Dr. Ste-
fan Zoller, Universit¨ atstrasse 16, 8092 Z¨ urich, Switzer-
land. Electronic applications are preferred (send your
email to stefan.zoller@env.ethz.ch). For further infor-
mation also contact Dr. Stefan Zoller or see the web-
page www.gdc.ethz.ch .
Evry France ComputationalBiologistBACKGROUND:
Genoscope, a dynamic non-proﬁt scientiﬁc research or-
ganization dedicated to the advancement of environ-
mental genomics, is seeking a talented computational
biologist to contribute to exciting environment-related
research within the metagenomics and metabolism in-
formatics team.
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Develop data analysis strategies, write algorithms, and
deploy computational tools for the exploration of high-
dimensionality datasets centered on high-throughput
metagenomic sequence data.
Explore novel data representation modes with an em-
phasis on integrating diverse data types.
Develop and deploy algorithms for the reconstruction
of microbial metabolic pathways and the identiﬁcation
of enzymatic activities relevant to biotransformation
and/or bioremediation.
Conceive, implement and test statistical models; work
with wet-lab researchers to translate these models into
testable experiments; analyze data from experiments.
REQUIREMENTS:
Relevant backgrounds include formal training or no-
table experience in a quantitative discipline, such as
bioinformatics, chemoinformatics, computer science,
physics, or in biology with a strong quantitative back-
ground.
Characteristic requirements are:
-Demonstrated proﬁciency in UNIX/Linux command-
line use
-Demonstrated competency in UNIX shell scripting and
Perl programming (or a comparable programming lan-
guage)
-Previous experience in managing large-scale data sets,
e.g., delivered by current high-throughput sequencing
technologies
-Knowledge, background, or experience in biochemistry
concepts and current methods
-Ability to work eﬀectively and diplomatically with a
wide range of people in a fast-paced team environment
-Demonstrated ability to communicate eﬀectively, both
orally and in writing
-Ability to quickly learn and interpret biological and
technical information
-Ability to work independently and follow through on
assignments with minimal directionFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 41
-Ability to be resourceful when faced with obstacles and
to show initiative in identifying resources and methods
for resolving issues
TERMS:
An initial contract of 2 years will be oﬀered to the suc-
cessful candidate.
LOCALE:
Evry, France
HOW TO APPLY:
To apply, please submit a statement of interest and a
CV to mgx application “at” genoscope.cns.fr
DEADLINE:
Until ﬁlled
Thomas Br¨ uls Centre National de S´ equen¸ cage - GENO-
SCOPE - CEA
“If you don’t know how to do something, you don’t
know how to do it with a computer.” – Anonymous
Thomas Bruls <bruls@genoscope.cns.fr >
FieldMuseumChicago SummerREU
Field Museum summer 2011 undergraduate research in-
ternship opportunities:
The Field Museum in Chicago, Illinois is please
to announce its 2011 summer REU internship
program. Please visit the web site: http:/-
/www.ﬁeldmuseum.org/research collections/-
scholarships/reu.html for program details and REU
project descriptions.
Applications must be made electronically via the Field
Museum’s web site on or after February 1st. The REU
application deadline is March 1st, 2011. All letters of
reference must be received by March 1st.
The Field Museum houses one of the world’s foremost
scientiﬁc collections of biological diversity ( >25 mil-
lion specimens), and supports active biodiversity re-
search around the globe. Despite the urgency of the
current biodiversity crisis, few educational opportuni-
ties exist for students in the biological sciences to in-
teract with scientists and institutions dedicated to the
study of organic diversity. The Field Museum REU
program will train a cohort of at least eight students in
biodiversity-related research in a 10-week summer pro-gram. Each participant will undertake an independent
research project supervised by a museum scientist in
a discipline such as taxonomy and systematics, phylo/
biogeography, paleontology, molecular phylogenetics, or
conservation. Students will experience biological diver-
sity through the use of the museum’s collections in their
research, and will be trained in project-relevant tech-
niques and equipment such as the scanning electron mi-
croscope, various light microscopy set-ups, and equip-
ment in the Pritzker DNA lab. A six-week course in
phylogenetic systematics run concurrently with intern
projects will provide a common theoretical framework
for their research. REU students will receive an in-
troduction to the Encyclopedia of Life (EOL) in Field
Museum’s Biodiversity Synthesis Center. At the con-
clusion of the summer students will present their re-
search results to their peers and museum scientists at
the Undergraduate Research Symposium. Providing
equal opportunity in biodiversity-related research is an
important goal of the program.
Potential 2011 REU Projects include: * Resolving
species limitations in lichens * Strategies of acacia-ants:
to grow or to reproduce? * Calibrating phylogenies: are
we using the right fossils? * The Bivalve Tree of Life
- understanding the evolution of clams, mussels, oys-
ters and their relatives * Bivalves in Time and Space
(BiTS) - Clams as tools to understand macroevolution
* Tracing the Evolution of Venom in Scorpionﬁshes and
Waspﬁshes * Do skeletal dimensions predict daily activ-
ity patterns in rodents? * Do some nocturnal Malaysian
mammals see in color?
2011 Program Dates Start of 2011 REU Program:
Monday, June 6, 2011 * Phylogenetic workshop series
(weekly), and introductory lectures: June 8- July 27,
2010 (evening class, participation mandatory) * End of
2011 REU Program: Friday, August 12, 2010 * 2011
REU research symposium: Saturday, August 13 (par-
ticipation mandatory)
REU student participants receive a salary of $4,500 for
the 10-week program, and additionally $2,500 subsis-
tence and $500 travel allowance.
This REU program is funded through an REU-Site
grant of the National Science Foundation to Drs. Pe-
tra Sierwald and Peter Makovicky (Field Museum of
Natural History).
Corrie Saux Moreau, Ph.D. Assistant Curator, Division
of Insects Department of Zoology Field Museum of Nat-
ural History 1400 South Lake Shore Drive Chicago, IL
60605 USA Oﬃce: (312) 665-7743 Fax: (312) 665-7754
cmoreau@ﬁeldmuseum.org
*** NOTE NEW WEBSITE: www.moreaulab.org ***42 EvolDir February 1, 2011
cmoreau@ﬁeldmuseum.org
INRA France 6
PopulationGeneticists
I thank you for diﬀusing this oﬀer on Evoldir Web site:
- there are 6 tenured positions in genetics of population
and quantitative genetics:
Ranked the number one agricultural institute in Europe
and number two in the world, INRA (National Institute
for Agricultural Research) carries out mission-oriented
research for high-quality and healthy foods, competi-
tive and sustainable agriculture and a preserved and
valorised environment.
Every year, INRA seeks researchers from all disci-
plines to reinforce laboratory and ﬁeldwork teams. Re-
searchers will be heavily involved in scientiﬁc networks
and tackle environmental, economic and social issues.
They are expected to strive for excellence and come up
with useful, concrete applications for the real world.
Individual research projects will go hand in hand with
group eﬀorts in a bid to further knowledge and inno-
vation, in order to produce sustainably, preserve the
environment, and improve human nutrition.
INRA is recruiting 53 scientists through open competi-
tion and oﬀering permanent positions.
Positions are opened to PhD (or equivalent) in a wide
range of scientiﬁc disciplines such as biochemistry, bi-
ology, genetics, ecology, genomics, mathematics, phys-
iology, microbiology, economics, forest sciences, envi-
ronmental sciences, sociology, animal production sci-
ences, computer science, chemistry, neurosciences, en-
tomology, statistics, virology and many more.
There are 16 permanent positions in genomics and ge-
netics:
- Characterization of honey bee losses. Interactions be-
tween pathogens and other stressors. - Genomics of
beef cattle breeds - Isolation and functional analysis of
genes involved in early fruit development - Nutritional
and metabolic epigenetic programming - System Biol-
ogy: signalling pathways involved in responses to abi-
otic constraints in plants (Nitrogen/carbon/oxidative
stress) - Molecular basis of phenotypic plasticity -
Molecular mechanisms involved in the regulation of my-
cotoxins biosynthesis in Fusarium spp. - Population
genomics of tree fungal pathogens - Relations between
diversity and functioning of soil microbial communi-ties in agroecosystems using metagenomic approaches -
Understanding the mechanisms involved in the adap-
tation and metabolic diversity of S. cerevisiae using
a system biology approach - Biostatistics and devel-
opment of methods to analyze genomic data - Devel-
opment and adaptation of methods to exploit genetic
variability, based on genome-wide molecular markers
- Genetic resources and association genetics: from a
candidate gene to a genome-wide approach - Evolution
of selection methods (genetic evaluation, breeding sys-
tems) - Population genomics of tree fungal pathogens -
Using molecular markers to study selection pressure on
the behaviour of large herbivores
Evolution of selection methods (genetic evaluation,
breeding systems)
All information (job proﬁles, guides, application forms)
are available on Inra’s web site: http://www.inra.fr/-
drh/cr2011/index.php?langue=EN Submission dead-
line: February 24, 2011
Sincerely.
Fabienne Giroux Service Recrutement et Mobilit?? fa-
bienne.giroux@paris.inra.fr
[inra] Direction des Ressources Humaines 147, rue de
l’Universit?? 75338 Paris Cedex 07 - France Tel 01 42
75 90 77 Fax 01 42 75 90 39
[CR2011] En savoir plus <http://www.inra.fr/drh/-
cr2011 >!
Fabienne GIROUX <Fabienne.Giroux@paris.inra.fr >
Manchester 2 ConservationBiology
Dear Evoldir readers
I’d like to announce the following permanent lecture-
ship opportunities at Manchester Metropolitan Univer-
sity to any who may be interested. The posts are both
replacements for recent retirements. Our division con-
tains a healthy number of people interested in whole or-
ganismal research, with popular BSc and MSc courses
in behavioural ecology and conservation biology. I ex-
pect many readers of Evoldir might ﬁt within the remit
for one or even both posts.More information about the
posts and the application process may be found at the
links provided. Please feel free to contact me informally
if I can provide any additional information.
Ed HarrisFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 43
Manchester Metropolitan University Science and the
Environment Division of Biology and Conservation
Ecology e.harris@mmu.ac.uk phone +44 (0)161 247
1228
****Job.01***** Job ID: SN/251 - Lecturer
in Molecular Conservation Biology URL:
https://www.jobs.mmu.ac.uk/mmujobsite/-
VacancyDetail.aspx?VacancyUID=000000006456
Application Deadline: 17 December 2010
Description: The University wishes to appoint a can-
didate who would normally have a ﬁrst degree in a bi-
ological discipline, a proven research record in molecu-
lar conservation studies and preferably teaching expe-
rience at degree level. The person appointed will be
a conservation biologist who uses molecular tools and
should preferably show evidence of ﬁeld-based skills and
be able to contribute to undergraduate and postgrad-
uate ﬁeldwork in the UK and abroad. The preferred
candidate should have interests in population genetics,
evolution, landscape genetics or other applications of
molecular techniques to conservation. Tropical experi-
ence would be an additional advantage.
****Job.02***** Job ID: SN/252 - Lecturer in Wildlife
Ecology/Biology URL: https://www.jobs.mmu.ac.uk/-
mmujobsite/VacancyDetail.aspx?VacancyUID=-
000000006457 Application Deadline: 17 December
2010
Description: The University wishes to appoint a candi-
date who would normally have a ﬁrst degree in a biolog-
ical or related discipline and a proven research record
at doctoral or postdoctoral level and preferably teach-
ing experience at degree level. The person appointed
should show evidence of ﬁeld-based skills and experi-
ence of one or more of the following: wildlife manage-
ment, spatial ecology/modelling, tropical wildlife stud-
ies, international capacity building, zoo/small popu-
lation studies, animal breeding/welfare, animal/plant
physiology related to wildlife biology.
**************** Ed Harris Manchester Metropolitan
University Science and the Environment Division of
Biology and Conservation Ecology John Dalton Bldg.
room E432 Chester Street Manchester, M1 5GD, UK
phone +44 (0)161 247 1228 Fax +44 (0)161 247 6325
e.harris@mmu.ac.uk ****************
Disclaimer: Before acting on this email or open-
ing any attachments you should read the Manchester
Metropolitan University’s email disclaimer available on
its website http://www.mmu.ac.uk/emaildisclaimerMarseilleU EvolutionaryBiology
A professor postion in Evolutionary biology is open
more information (administrative and scientiﬁc) :
http://sites.univ-provence.fr/evol/index.php?option=-
com content&view=category&layout=blog&id=-
169&Itemid=236&lang=en best regards
Pierre Antoine Pontarotti l’Equipe Evolution bi-
ologique et Mod´ elisation UMR 6632 Universit´ e de Aix
Marseille/CNRS . http://sites.univ-provence.fr/evol/
Pierre.Pontarotti@univ-provence.fr
MaxPlanck FieldAssist
BehaviouralEvolution
Assistant for Behavioural Ecology project
Project description:
Human impact in the global biosphere now controls
many major facets of ecosystem function. One of the
most striking man-made environmental changes is the
existence and rapidly ongoing spread of urban areas.
Human ecological impact has enormous evolutionary
consequences as well and can greatly accelerate evolu-
tionary change in the species around us. Anecdotal ob-
servations and recent studies suggest that urbanization
does not only aﬀect the overall species composition and
certain aspects of the phenology but may also change
the behaviour of individuals thriving in urban areas.
The aim of this project is to investigate eﬀects of urban-
ization on the behaviour of European blackbirds (Tur-
dus merula) in their natural habitat. Fieldwork (in-
cluding behavioural experiments and radio-telemetry)
will be carried out in the areas of Munich and Raisting,
in Bavaria.
Requirements:
We are looking for an enthusiastic person, who is in-
terested in behavioural ecology, physiology and evo-
lution, with good organizational skills, able to work
independently as well as in a team (ﬁeld experience
with birds is advantageous), who would like to take
this unique opportunity to do ﬁeld work at the well-44 EvolDir February 1, 2011
equipped Max-Planck-Institute for Ornithology, Vogel-
warte Radolfzell. During ﬁeld work the applicant must
be willing to spend most of the day in the ﬁeld, some-
times with cold weather, and sometimes in weekends.
Therefore, a strong attitude towards ﬁeld work is es-
sential.
Appointment:
Starting date is March 2011 or later. The ﬁeld work
should end in July 2011.
Information and Applications:
Additional information about this study is available
upon request to Catarina Miranda (see below). More
general information about the Max-Planck-Institute for
Ornithology can be found on our website ( http://-
orn.mpg.de/ ). Please send us your application until
February 15 2011. Interviews will take place in the last
week of February.
Contact:
Catarina Miranda (miranda@orn.mpg.de) Depart-
ment of Migration and Immuno-ecology Max-Planck-
Institute for Ornithology, Vogelwarte Radolfzell,
Schlossallee 2, 78315 Radolfzell, Germany
Catarina Miranda <catarina.miranda@gmail.com >
Miami FL LabTech 2
I inadvertently provided an incorrect email address for
my colleague at Florida International University in a
previous post. Below is the correct position descrip-
tion.
Two-year grant-supported lab technician position avail-
able, beginning in January, 2011 (exact date pend-
ing grant award). Incumbent will work primarily at
a USDA laboratory in Miami, with some time spent
at nearby Fairchild Tropical Botanical Garden and
Montgomery Botanical Center. Duties will be focused
on the sequencing of single copy genes from popula-
tion samples of Caribbean and Florida cycads, but
may also include microsatellite DNA genotyping of the
same target organisms. The successful candidate will
have experience with DNA extraction, ampliﬁcation
(PCR), and direct sequencing, preferably with the Ap-
plied Biosystems platform. Hands-on experience with
DNA cloning using competent bacteria, DNA frag-
ment analysis, Genemapper and Sequencher software
are pluses. Starting salary $35,000. Applications, con-sisting of a vitae and cover letter, should be sent to Dr.
Javier Francisco-Ortega, Florida International Univer-
sity, Dept. Biological Sciences, 11200 SW 8th Street,
Miami, FL 33199 (ortegaj@ﬁu.edu), (305) 348-2080, or
to Dr. Alan W. Meerow (alan.meerow@ars.usda.gov),
USDA-ARS, 13601 Old Cutler Rd., Miami, FL 33158,
(786) 573-7075.
Alan W. Meerow, Ph.D., Research Geneticist and
Systematist USDA-ARS-SHRS, National Germplasm
Repository 13601 Old Cutler Road, Miami, FL 33158
USA voice: 786-573-7075; FAX: 786-573-7110 email:
alan.meerow@ars.usda.gov
Alan.Meerow@ARS.USDA.GOV
Miami LabTech CycadEvolution
Two-year grant-supported lab technician position avail-
able, beginning in January, 2011 (exact date pend-
ing grant award). Incumbent will work primarily at
a USDA laboratory in Miami, with some time spent
at nearby Fairchild Tropical Botanical Garden and
Montgomery Botanical Center. Duties will be focused
on the sequencing of single copy genes from popula-
tion samples of Caribbean and Florida cycads, but
may also include microsatellite DNA genotyping of the
same target organisms. The successful candidate will
have experience with DNA extraction, ampliﬁcation
(PCR), and direct sequencing, preferably with the Ap-
plied Biosystems platform. Hands-on experience with
DNA cloning using competent bacteria, DNA frag-
ment analysis, Genemapper and Sequencher software
are pluses. Starting salary $35,000. Applications, con-
sisting of a vitae and cover letter, should be sent to Dr.
Javier Francisco-Ortega, Florida International Univer-
sity, Dept. Biological Sciences, 11200 SW 8th Street,
Miami, FL 33199 (ortega@ﬁu.org), (305) 348-2080 or
Dr. Alan W. Meerow, USDA-ARS-SHRS, National
Germplasm Repository, 13601 Old Cutler Road, Mi-
ami, FL 33158, voice: 786-573-7075; FAX: 786-573-
7102; email: alan.meerow@ars.usda.gov
Alan W. Meerow, Ph.D., Research Geneticist and
Systematist USDA-ARS-SHRS, National Germplasm
Repository 13601 Old Cutler Road, Miami, FL 33158
USA voice: 786-573-7075; FAX: 786-573-7110 email:
alan.meerow@ars.usda.gov
Alan.Meerow@ARS.USDA.GOVFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 45
Montpellier VertebrateConservation
ECOLOGY, CONSERVATION AND BIOGEOGRA-
PHY OF VERTEBRATES
The Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes (EPHE) antici-
pates ﬁlling a ’Directeur d’Etudes’ position (equivalent
to full professorship in the French academic system)
at the Centre for Functional and Evolutionary Ecology
(CEFE) in Montpellier, France.
Candidates are expected to develop a research program
on the population and/or community dynamics of ter-
restrial vertebrates including the impact of environmen-
tal changes in their various aspects under the general
framework of conservation biology. Research should ar-
ticulate conceptual approach with ﬁeld work, and may
include evolutionary aspects. Applied perspectives are
strongly expected in relation to the management of bio-
diversity. Candidates are also expected to take the lead-
ership of a group of 10 permanent staﬀ in a term of
about two years, and to be able to collaborate within
international networks.
Teaching responsibilities will include ecology, biogeog-
raphy and conservation of wildlife, especially terrestrial
vertebrates. EPHE holds a speciﬁc national mission
targeting students outside the classical university cur-
ricula based on practical teaching, but Master teaching
is also expected. Teaching will be in French.
The review process will be held in Spring 2011, and
the position will begin end of 2011 (pending ﬁnal deci-
sion of French Academy of Sciences). The candidates
should have an HDR diploma (if already working in
France) or equivalent. The oﬃcial announcement and
the list of requested items for formal application will be
posted later on at the EPHE web site. At the moment,
provide only a CV (including teaching experience and
publications) and a letter of interest.
Montpellier is located on the Mediterranean coast of
France, and harbours the largest concentration of evo-
lutionary biologists and ecologists in France, and one
of the largest in Europe.
Contact: Dr. R. Prodon (head of the Ecol-
ogy and biogeography vertebrates team) or P.
Jarne (head of CEFE), CEFE, campus CNRS, 1919
route de Mende, 34293 Montpellier cedex, France.
Roger.prodon@cefe.cnrs.fr ; philippe.jarne@cefe.cnrs.frPhilippe JARNE <philippe.jarne@cefe.cnrs.fr >
Nancy INRA PopulationGenomics
Dear Evoldir Members,
French National Institute for Agricultural Research
(INRA) is opening a TENURED POSITION in POP-
ULATION GENOMICS OF FUNGI.
We are looking for a highly motivated young scien-
tist to develop a population genomics project on plant
pathogenic fungal species.
Candidates should have a strong background in evo-
lutionary ecology and above all population genetics.
Skills in next-generation sequencing analysis are re-
quired. Knowledge on host-parasite interactions would
be a plus.
Details on how to apply and the guide for applicants
can be found at
http://www.inra.fr/drh/cr2011/-
informations.php?langue=3DEN Direct access to
the proﬁle
http://www.inra.fr/drh/cr2011/proﬁl-
cr2.php?NumProﬁl=3DCR2-2011-7-EFPA-4&langue=
ENDead line for application is February 24th.
Please contact me for any further query and before ap-
plying (halkett@nancy.inra.fr).
Below is an abstract of proposal context:
The ﬁeld of population genomics has recently emerged
at the cross between traditional population genetics and
the development of high-throughput techniques, with
the aim to decipher the strength of selection events
on genome evolution. Although not yet widely applied
to plant pathology studies, these approaches seem par-
ticularly well suited to reveal the genetic bases of the
adaptive potential of fungal plant pathogens. While the
rapid pace of pathogen evolution (which result from in-
tensive selection pressure through the massive deploy-
ment of resistance genes) presents a major impediment
to sustainable agriculture, it also provides interesting
opportunities to better understand the evolutionary bi-
ology of host-parasite interactions.
The project stands at the core of the joint unit
Tree-Microorganism interactions (located near Nancy,
Northeastern France) and lies at the interface of its
two major teams “ecology and population biology of46 EvolDir February 1, 2011
tree fungal pathogens” (directed by B. Mar¸ cais) and
“eco-genomics of interactions” (directed by F. Mar-
tin). The hired junior scientist will thus beneﬁt
from the complementary skills and resources of these
two teams, including advanced population genetics
knowledge, large and historical population samplings,
great genomic tools and molecular resources, includ-
ing genome sequence and transcriptomic analyses per-
formed on model pathogen species, including the poplar
rust fungus.
Best regards,
Fabien Halkett
F. HALKETT halkett@nancy.inra.fr
UMR 1136 IAM (Trees-Microorganisms joint unit)
INRA Nancy F-54280 Champenoux France Tel : +33
3 83 39 40 55 Fax : +33 3 83 39 40 69
halkett@nancy.inra.fr
NCStateU BiologicalComplexity
North Carolina State University Major New Initiative
in Biological Complexity
North Carolina State University is embarking on a
new university-wide interdisciplinary initiative in bio-
logical complexity encompassing systems genetics, be-
havioral neurogenetics and neurogenomics, genome-
environment interactions, ecological genetics, systems
ecology, climate change, computational biology and
bioinformatics. Applicants should have a PhD or equiv-
alent, a strong research record with evidence of ex-
ceptional scholarship, and embrace interdisciplinary re-
search.
Faculty Positions in Biological Complexity
Multiple faculty positions associated with the initia-
tive in biological complexity are available. Applicants
should be broadly trained in areas covered by the initia-
tive, have at least two years of productive post-doctoral
research experience and have a commitment to train-
ing. New faculty members are expected to develop and
maintain vibrant, extramurally-supported research pro-
grams and contribute to the teaching missions in the life
sciences. Competitive salaries and startup packages will
be provided to ensure a successful research program.
We are primarily seeking faculty at the Assistant or
Associate Professor level, but outstanding senior appli-
cants will be considered.To apply for faculty positions, go to
jobs.ncsu.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind209 and
provide a cover letter, curriculum vitae, a three-
sentence statement of the most signiﬁcant scientiﬁc
problem(s) to be addressed in the near future, state-
ments of research and teaching interests, and three
letters of recommendation. Review of applications will
begin immediately, and continue until the positions
are ﬁlled. We welcome applications from groups of
individuals and dual-career couples and will work
with candidates to identify suitable employment
opportunities for spouses or partners.
Distinguished Postdoctoral Scholar Program in Bi-
ological Complexity Associated with the new ini-
tiative in biological complexity is a distinguished
postdoctoral scholar program. Applicants are ex-
pected to be near completion of a terminal doctor-
ate degree. Postdoctoral scholars will receive com-
petitive stipends and independent research funds to
initiate an innovative research program with guid-
ance from a multidisciplinary mentoring commit-
tee in areas covered by the initiative in biological
complexity. To apply for a scholar position, go
to jobs.ncsu.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind221 and
provide a cover letter, curriculum vitae, a three-
sentence statement of the most signiﬁcant scientiﬁc
problem(s) to be addressed in the near future, state-
ments of research and career plans, and three letters
of recommendation. Review of applications will begin
immediately, and continue until the positions are ﬁlled.
NCSU is an AA/EO employer. All qualiﬁed applicants
will receive consideration for employment without re-
gard to race, color, national origin, religion, sex, age,
veteran status or disability. In its commitment to diver-
sity and equity, NC State University seeks applications
from women, minorities, and persons with disabilities.
NC State welcomes all persons without regard to sexual
orientation. ADA Accommodations: please call 919-
515-5727.
Trudy F. C. Mackay, PhD, FRS William Neal Reynolds
and Distinguished University Professor of Genet-
ics Department of Genetics North Carolina State
University Campus Box 7614 Raleigh, NC 27695-
7614 Tel: 919-515-5810 Fax: 919-515-3355 Email:
trudy mackay@ncsu.edu
trudy mackay@ncsu.eduFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 47
PurdueU Undergrad summer
EvolutionaryGenetics
Undergraduate research fellowship in evolutionary ge-
netics and genomics
At least one undergraduate fellowship will be of-
fered in the laboratory of Dr. Krista Nichols, Bio-
logical Sciences and Forestry and Natural Resources,
Purdue University for summer 2011. The fellow
will be involved in genetic and genomics research of
complex traits in salmonids, including, but not lim-
ited to migration/residency in steelhead and rain-
bow trout, or disease in Paciﬁc salmon. The re-
search fellowship is oﬀered through the Purdue Uni-
versity Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship
(SURF) program ( https://engineering.purdue.edu/-
Engr/Research/SURF ). Undergraduates will partici-
pate in research, but also professional development
activities with other SURF participants during this
11 week program. The fellowship comes with a gen-
erous stipend and possible housing allowance. For
more information on the research, please contact
Dr. Krista Nichols (kmnichol@purdue.edu). Ap-
plications will be reviewed beginning 16 February
2011, and no applications will be accepted after 11
March 2011. Application requirements, details and
submission are available on the Purdue SURF web-
site ( https://engineering.purdue.edu/Engr/Research/-
SURF/Programs ).
Krista M. Nichols Associate Professor Purdue Uni-
versity Departments of Biological Sciences & Forestry
and Natural Resources 915 W State Street West
Lafayette, IN 47907 765.496.6848 (voice) 765.494.0876
(fax) http://bilbo.bio.purdue.edu/www-ecology/-
faculty/nichols/index.html “Nichols, Krista M”
<kmnichol@purdue.edu >
QueensU FieldAssist
AvianEvolution
AVIAN FIELD RESEARCH ASSISTANT. 1-2 experi-
enced assistants needed for continuation of a long-term
study of breeding American redstarts in southeasternOntario. Project runs from May 1 to mid-July. Pri-
mary responsibilities include netting, banding, bleed-
ing, nest searching, and supervising a small team of
ﬁeld assistants. Prior ﬁeld experience in these tech-
niques is essential. The ability to re-sight small, active,
color-banded birds and to recognize American redstart
song are assets. Prior experience with nest-ﬁnding of
small songbirds is an asset. Work schedule involves long
hours in the ﬁeld, typically six days per week. We oﬀer
a competitive salary and include room and board at a
premier biological ﬁeld station. The position will be
ﬁlled as soon as suitable candidates are found. Send
cover letter, CV, and contact information for 3 ref-
erences to Ann McKellar at ann.mckellar@queensu.ca.
Please include “Avian Field Assistant 2011” as the sub-
ject line.
ann.mckellar@queensu.ca
Raleigh FieldAssist
PlantInteractions
Spring Seasonal Field Assistant Positions ’
Raleigh/Durham, NC
We are seeking full-time and part-time Field Assistants
for a spring ﬁeld season in Raleigh/Durham, North
Carolina. The project examines the eﬀects of urban-
ization on multispecies plant-animal interactions with
Lynn Adler (UMass-Amherst), Paige Warren (UMass-
Amherst), Rebecca Irwin (Dartmouth), and Adrian
Carper (Dartmouth). Field sites will be located in
Raleigh/Durham and surrounding areas.
Field research assistants will be involved in observ-
ing plant-insect interactions, measuring ﬂoral traits,
estimating bee abundance and diversity, manipulating
pollen, and documenting site-based characteristics of
urbanization. Previous experience in ﬁeld biology or
plant-insect interactions is preferred but not required
for the position. Advanced undergraduates or individ-
uals with a BA or BS in a relevant ﬁeld are encouraged
to apply.
The positions are available from mid-March (starting
on or after March 14) through late April, 2011. Salary
will be in the range of $8-11 per hour, depending on
experience. The positions do not come with health or
retirement beneﬁts.
To apply, please send a resume and brief cover let-
ter as a single email (pdf) attachment. In your re-48 EvolDir February 1, 2011
sume, please include the names and contact informa-
tion for three references (email and phone numbers,
and a brief description of how you know the recom-
mender). The cover letter should explain why you are
interested in the position. Information about how this
position would relate to your previous research expe-
rience and/or career goals is encouraged. In the sub-
ject of the email, please put: Spring Research Assis-
tant. Applications should be sent to: Adrian Carper
<Adrian.Carper@Dartmouth.edu >. Applications will
be accepted until the positions are ﬁlled. To receive
full consideration, please apply by February 7, 2011.
Adrian.L.Carper@Dartmouth.edu
RyersonU EvolutionaryEntomology
Dear Evoldir,
I’m a faculty member at Ryerson University, in
Toronto, Ontario, Canada. My department (Chem-
istry & Biology) is conducting a faculty search for
a zoologist that uses model insect systems in their
research. I really enjoy my position and would love
to have colleagues who focus on ecological or evo-
lutionary questions. The job advertisement can be
found below and at: http://www.ﬁreﬂy.ryerson.ca/hr/-
careers/index.cfm?fuseaction=post.view&location=-
Faculty&post id=28962 If you know of anyone who
would be qualiﬁed and interested in the job, please feel
free to circulate this widely.
BEST, Lesley Campbell
Deadline to Apply: Tuesday February 15, 2011
Located in the heart of Toronto, the largest and most
culturally diverse city in the country, Ryerson Univer-
sity is committed to diversity, equity and inclusion. The
university is known for innovative programs built on
the integration of theoretical and practically oriented
learning. Our undergraduate and graduate programs
are distinguished by a professionally focused curricu-
lum and strong emphasis on excellence in teaching, re-
search and creative activities. Ryerson is also a leader
in adult learning, with the largest university-based con-
tinuing education school in Canada.
The Department of Chemistry and Biology invites ap-
plications for a tenure-track position in non-vertebrate
animal systems and/or eukaryotic cell physiology. The
appointment will be at the Assistant Professor level.
The successful applicant will have a Ph.D., post-doctoral experience, and an outstanding research record
of work with non-vertebrate animal models and/or tis-
sue culture systems. The new faculty member must
have the ability to establish and maintain a strong, in-
dependent, externally-funded research program. The
new faculty member is expected to demonstrate excel-
lence in teaching at the undergraduate and graduate
levels, to contribute to the teaching of key courses such
as Zoology, Cell Biology, Physiology, and Developmen-
tal Biology (as appropriate) and to the development
of new courses and the evolution of program curricula.
This position commences August 1, 2011, subject to
ﬁnal budgetary approval.
The Department of Chemistry and Biology is in a phase
of dynamic growth, both at the undergraduate and
graduate levels. In addition to a B.Sc. in Chemistry,
Ryerson oﬀers a M.Sc. and a new Ph.D. program in
Molecular Science as well as a M.A.Sc. and Ph.D. pro-
gram in Environmental Applied Science and Manage-
ment. New faculty members will have the opportunity
to supervise students in these graduate programs. The
successful applicant will complement a department with
current strengths in Cell and Molecular Biology and in
Environmental Biology and Microbiology.
Interested candidates should prepare their appli-
cation packages, including cover letter, curricu-
lum vitae, statement of teaching interests and phi-
losophy, research proposal, and up to three re-
cent publications. Research proposals should con-
form to the guidelines for the “free-form” por-
tion of form 101 for the NSERC Discovery Pro-
gramsee http://www.nserc-crsng.gc.ca/OnlineServices-
ServicesEnLigne/Forms-Formulaires eng.asp for de-
tails. Candidates should not include form 100 or Part I
of form 101 with their submissions. Applications should
be sent to Dr. Stephen Wylie, Interim Chair, Depart-
ment of Chemistry and Biology by e-mail (pdf attach-
ments preferred) to cabchair@ryerson.ca. Applicants
should arrange to have three letters of reference sub-
mitted directly to the Department Chair at the email
address above or by post (Department of Chemistry
and Biology, Ryerson University, 350 Victoria Street,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5B 2K3). For e-mail sub-
missions, signed, scanned pdf letters sent from the ref-
eree’s oﬃcial university or business email address are
acceptable. Deadline for submission is February 15,
2011. Although applications will be accepted until the
positions are ﬁlled, only those received by the deadline
will be guaranteed full consideration.
These positions fall under the jurisdiction of the Ry-
erson Faculty Association (RFA). The RFA collective
agreement can be viewed at: http://www.ryerson.ca/-
teaching/employment resources/rfa.html .The RFA’sFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 49
website can be found at: http://www.ryerson.ca/-
˜ rfa/ .A summary of RFA beneﬁts can be
found at: http:www.ryerson.ca/hr/working/etoolkit/-
beneﬁts/rfa/ . Ryerson University is strongly commit-
ted to fostering diversity within our community. We
welcome those who would contribute to the
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
SmithsonianInst NMNH
SummerWork
The Smithsonian Institution, National Museum of Nat-
ural History, is pleased to announce the 2011 competi-
tion for paid undergraduate summer research intern-
ships at the museum (Washington, DC). The applica-
tion deadline is February 7, 2011. Details and applica-
tions can be found at http://www.mnh.si.edu/NHRE/
. Please forward this email to all interested parties.
Smithsonian is an equal opportunity employer and we
encourage individuals from groups under-represented in
the sciences to apply.
Best Wishes,
The NHRE Team at the National Museum of Natural
History, Smithsonian Institution Questions may be ad-
dressed to our program administrator, Virginia Power,
powerv@si.edu
“Cottrell, Elizabeth” <cottrelle@si.edu >
Switzerland FieldAssist
TitEvolution
Field assistant position in an evolutionary ecology
study in Great tits
For the next ﬁeld season, April to June 2011, we are
looking for two highly motivated ﬁeld assistants to par-
ticipate in our project on the relationship between heat
shock proteins, heterozygosity and stress resistance inGreat tits. Fieldwork will be done in a forest near Bern,
Switzerland.
Your work will include surveys of breeding advances,
taking body measures from nestling great tits, catch
adults, recording feeding rates... Most of the time, we
will be out in the forest handling the birds, followed by
some smaller amount of lab work.
Travel expenses and accommodation are paid. Addi-
tionally, the ﬁeld assistants will receive approximately
900 Swiss Francs per month. Applicants should speak
either German or English and have a driving license.
The ﬁeldwork can be rather tiring, please be prepared
to work also in rain and cold weather.
Applications should be in English and include a CV and
a short letter of motivation. Please send your applica-
tion to:
Beatrice V¨ ogeli and Mich` ele Wegmann, Evolu-
tionary Ecology, University of Bern. E-mail:
bvoegeli@iee.unibe.ch, mwegmann@iee.unibe.ch
“\”V¨ ogeli, Beatrice (IEE) \“”
<beatrice.voegeli@iee.unibe.ch >
Switzerland Short Term Lab Tech
Laboratory technician (5-8 months)
University of Bern, Switzerland, Institute of Ecology
and Evolution, Aquatic Ecology Lab
Working location: Eawag Centre of Ecology, Evolution
and Biogeochemistry, Kastanienbaum, Switzerland.
We are looking for a short-term laboratory technician
to assist with molecular analyses and ﬁsh care. The
technician will contribute to a research project on vi-
sual adaptation in Lake Victoria cichlid ﬁsh.
Main duties: - molecular analyses of cichlid ﬁsh visual
pigments; - aquarium maintenance and ﬁsh care.
Requirements: - Laboratory school or BSc degree
(or equivalent) - practical experience with methods in
molecular genetics (DNA extraction, PCR, gel elec-
trophoresis, DNA sequencing, realtime qPCR) and
biochemistry (HPLC, LCMS); - ability to work inde-
pendently; - strong organisational and communicative
skills; - English proﬁciency.
In addition to these requirements, the ideal applicant
has an interest in evolutionary biology and experience
with ﬁsh care.50 EvolDir February 1, 2011
Duration and level of employment are somewhat ﬂexi-
ble, ranging from 5 months fulltime to 8 months part-
time. Salary will be commensurate with experience and
follow the salary scheme of the Swiss National Science
Foundation. Start date is as soon as possible but no
later than March 1st.
Applications will be reviewed until the position is
ﬁlled; please apply before 27 January 2011. Inter-
ested candidates should submit a letter of motivation,
cv and contact information of two potential referees
(preferably as a single ﬁle) to Martine Maan at mar-
tine.maan[@]eawag.ch. Informal inquiries are welcome
at the same address. For more information about the
department and our research, see www.ﬁshecology.ch .
Dr. Martine E. Maan
University of Bern, Institute of Ecology & Evolution
and Eawag Centre of Ecology,Evolution & Biogeochem-
istry
Department of Fish Ecology & Evolution Seestrasse 79
CH-6047 Kastanienbaum +41-(0)41-3492169
www.ﬁshecology.ch www.martinemaan.nl
Martine.Maan@eawag.ch
TexasAM EvolutionaryBiol
Due to delay in job announcement appearing
in Science http://scjobs.sciencemag.org/JobSeekerX/-
ViewJob.asp?cjid=62663&accountno 6407&st=TX
review of applications will not begin until the end of
January . I will be happy to answer any questions about
the job, department or university.
Alice Hempel, Assoc. Prof. & Herbarium Curator, De-
partment of Biological & Health Sciences, Texas A&M-
Kingsville. alice.hempel@tamuk.edu
The Department of Biological and Health Sciences at
Texas A&M University-Kingsville invites applicants for
the position of Professor and Chair of the BHS Depart-
ment beginning August 2011. The review of applica-
tions will begin January 15, 2011 and continue until
the position is ﬁlled. The Chair will have an energetic
and creative vision for building and sustaining ambi-
tious departmental research programs while maintain-
ing a focus on excellence in teaching. Skills necessary
for the day to day management of the department ac-
tivities, faculty and administrative staﬀ are essential.Signiﬁcant experience with managing a research center
is a plus.
The Chair will be responsible for overseeing the devel-
opment of interdisciplinary research teams for the pur-
pose of securing external funding through innovative
and traditional sources. The successful candidate may
be required to teach courses on line or via interactive
TV. Our vision for the new Chair includes enhancing
the department’s role in the natural sciences at all levels
and providing strategic positioning for new faculty ap-
pointments as we grow. The department oﬀers degrees
in Biology (BA, BS, MS), Biomedical Science (BS), and
Communication Sciences and Disorders (BS, MS), and
houses the National Natural Toxins Research Center
(http://ntrc.tamuk.edu/ ).
The Chair will have an earned Ph.D. in biological sci-
ence or a closely related ﬁeld and be able to document
professional accomplishments warranting appointment
at the rank of Professor, an international reputation in
research, and a solid record of publishing and funding.
She or he must demonstrate outstanding leadership and
mentoring abilities through eﬀective interpersonal com-
munication as a colleague as well as a commitment to
high quality teaching at both the undergraduate and
graduate levels. Candidates must have 18 graduate
hours for every ﬁeld in which they teach Salary will be
competitive and commensurate with applicant’s quali-
ﬁcations and experience
Texas A&M University-Kingsville is part of the Texas
A&M University system. Located 40 miles from Corpus
Christi and 120 miles north of Brownsville, Texas A&M
University-Kingsville is a rapidly growing Carnegie Re-
search Level 2 institution of ~6,200 students oﬀering
doctoral, master’s and bachelor’s degrees. The student
body reﬂects the ethnic diversity of South Texas with
approximately 65% of the student body being of His-
panic origin
Please submit a letter of application that addresses in-
terest in the position, relevant qualiﬁcations and ex-
perience, along with a curriculum vitae, statements of
leadership ability and philosophy, teaching philosophy,
and research interests, and the contact information for
at least three references who may be asked for letters of
recommendation to: Dr. Jon A. Baskin Search Com-
mittee Chair Texas A&M University-Kingsville Depart-
ment of Biological and Health Sciences 700 University
Blvd. MSC 158; Kingsville, Texas 78363.
Applicants must also formally apply online by vis-
iting https://javjobs.tamuk.edu/ and selecting the
Kingsville campus.
Prior to issuing a letter of appointment, oﬃcial tran-February 1, 2011 EvolDir 51
scripts must be received directly from each degree-
granting institution by the Oﬃce of the Provost, Texas
A&M University?Kingsville, MSC 102, Kingsville,
Texas 78363-8202. During the review process, appli-
cants may be asked to submit unoﬃcial transcripts
from each institution of higher education attended di-
rectly to the Search Committee Chair. If transcripts are
from an international institution, it is the responsibil-
ity of the prospective faculty member to have the tran-
scripts translated and evaluated by an approved cre-
dential evaluator (AACRAO) http://www.aacrao.org/-
internationalforeignEdCred.cfm
Selected candidate must pass a pre-employment back-
ground investigation to be hired for this position.
The above duties may not be performed in every po-
sition with this title and the above functions may not
include all related duties that might be performed. Re-
quires physical activities supportive of the above job
duties. Reasonable accommodations will be made as
necessary.
If you are a male age 18 through 25, you must be prop-
erly registered with the Selective Service System to be
eligible for hire.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Trinidad FieldTech
StreamFishEvolution
Field technician position in tropical stream evolution-
ary ecology
Research interns are needed to assist in a multi-
disciplinary, multi- investigator, experimental study
ecology and evolution in Trinidad. The research is led
by professor David Reznick at the University of Cali-
fornia and funded by the Frontiers for Integrative Bio-
logical Research program of the National Science Foun-
dation. We seek to integrate multiple biological ﬁelds
for the study of the interactions between ecological and
evolutionary processes in Trinidadian streams. Duties
of the position include assisting in monthly censuses
of ﬁsh populations (guppies) in montane streams. The
monthly censuses include long hours of laboratory time.
Qualiﬁcations: Research will take place in semi-remoteareas of Trinidad sometimes under bad weather condi-
tions. Applicants must be able to live and work well
with others. Research will also involve carrying heavy
packs over slippery and steep terrain. Applicants must
be in good physical condition and be able to meet the
demands of ﬁeld research under these conditions. Abil-
ity to drive a standard transmission vehicle is desir-
able but not required. Applicants with ﬁrst-aid/ﬁrst
responder training, skills in automobile maintenance,
and construction skills are highly desirable. Please ad-
dress these skills when applying.
Research technicians will be required to spend a min-
imum of 3-months in Trinidad, with possibility of ex-
tension for an entire year. Starting dates are ﬂexible,
starting as early as March 2011. Successful applicants
will earn a stipend of $500/month and have their travel
expenses, accommodation, per diem and insurance cov-
ered.
Applicants should send cover letter, CV and the names,
phone numbers and e-mail addresses of three or more
professional references to Andr´ es L´ opez-Sepulcre (an-
dresls@ucr.edu), David Reznick (gupy@ucr.edu) and
Connor Fitzpatrick (crﬁtzpat@gmail.com). At least
two of the references should be academics.
Andres Lopez-Sepulcre <lopezsepulcre@gmail.com >
Trondheim EvolutionaryGenetics
Researcher(s) in Genetics / Molecular Ecology
Norwegian Institute for Nature Research (NINA) an-
nounces vacant position(s) as researcher in genet-
ics/molecular ecology. The candidate will be located
at the main oﬃce in Trondheim. NINA is Norway’s
leading institution in applied ecology and has approxi-
mately 210 employees, of which approximately 120 are
located in Trondheim.
We invite applications by geneticist(s) with a broad ex-
perience in DNA analyses (sequencing, microsatellites,
SNPs) and population genetics, and basic competence
in applied ecology. We are seeking a researcher who is
a team player and who can also work independently. A
doctoral thesis is usually required.
NINA has lately had an increasing activity in genetic
identiﬁcation of wolverines, wolves, Arctic fox and other
terrestrial predators, and we primarily seek a researcher
with experience in genetics of terrestrial animals. The
position involves extensive collaboration with ecologists52 EvolDir February 1, 2011
in NINA’s department of terrestrial ecology.
Because of increasing activities involving genetics in
a number of research areas within NINA, we also en-
courage applications from geneticists having experience
with aquatic organisms.
NINA oﬀers:
* salary as researcher between NOK 397 200 to 615 400
* ﬂexible working hours * pension scheme * an inspiring
working environment
Candidates should submit their application attaching
CV, scanned documents on education, exams and rele-
vant experience to siri.svendsen@nina.no, or by post to
NINA, Personnel oﬃce, PB 5685 Sluppen, 7485 Trond-
heim. Relevant candidates will be interviewed.
NINA works actively for gender balance in our research
staﬀ, and females are encouraged to apply.
For more information, please contact Research Di-
rector Inga E. Bruteig (phone +47 73 80 15
53, e-mail: inga.bruteig@nina.no) or Researcher
Øystein Flagstad (phone +47 917 18 309, e-
mail: oystein.ﬂagstad@nina.no). For information
about genetics in aquatic sciences, contact Re-
search director Kjetil Hindar (phone +47 73 80
15 46, e-mail: kjetil.hindar@nina.no) or Researcher
Sten Karlsson (phone +47 73 80 14 59, e-mail:
sten.karlsson@nina.no).
Application deadline is 1st February 2011, and we aim
for rapid employment.
Sten.Karlsson@nina.no
UArizona ResTech
MicrobialEvolution
Research Technician / Lab Manager : Microbial Evo-
lution and Pathogenicity
A research technician position in the ﬁeld of mi-
crobial evolution is available in the Baltrus lab
(http://www.cals.arizona.edu/research/baltruslab/-
Baltrus lab/Home.html ) in the Plant Sciences de-
partment at the University of Arizona. The overall
goal of the lab is to understand microbial adaptation
to multiple environments using the plant pathogen
Pseudomonas syringae within and outside of hosts.
The research assistant will directly contribute to lab
management as well as the lab research program.Responsibilities include:
* Preparing and executing experiments to further mul-
tiple research projects. Experiments might include:
assaying multiple bacterial phenotypes including mea-
surement of growth in vitro and in planta; PCR and
RT-PCR; genetic manipulation of bacterial genomes;
DNA sequencing and analysis; maintaining bacterial
lines both through continued passage as well as frozen
stocks. * Maintain accurate and up-to-date records of
experiments. * Perform routine laboratory tasks in-
cluding ordering supplies and reagents; media and so-
lution preparation; cleaning and autoclaving; care of
plants; and equipment maintenance. * Supervise and
train undergraduate and graduate students.
Qualiﬁcations:
Bachelor’s degree in a ﬁeld appropriate to the area of
assignment AND two years related research experience;
OR, Six years research experience appropriate to the
area of assignment; OR, Any equivalent combination of
experience, training and/or education.
Additional Qualiﬁcations:
* Previous laboratory experience required. * Proven
experience and skill in microbiological techniques. *
Eﬀective oral and written communication skills and ex-
cellent organization. * Ability to work both indepen-
dently and collaboratively. * Background in molecular
biology is highly desirable. * Experience with bioinfor-
matics or programming is preferred but not required. *
Experience maintaining Arabidopsis or other plants is
preferred but not required.
The University of Arizona conducts pre-employment
screening for all positions, which includes a criminal
background check, veriﬁcation of academic credentials,
licenses, certiﬁcations, and work history. In addition,
a check of names and identiﬁcation documents is con-
ducted on all new employees to ensure they are legally
authorized to work in the United States.
This position is non-security sensitive and requires a
name-based criminal background check
To apply, visit www.UACareerTrack.com/hr, job
#46818.
Contact baltrus@email.arizona.edu for inquiries
baltrus@email.arizona.edu
UBern FieldAssist BirdEvolutionFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 53
Paid ﬁeld assistant position to study the evolution of
family living and cooperative breeding in birds.
We are seeking one highly motivated ﬁeld research as-
sistant for the upcoming breeding season, April-June
2011, near Guadix, Spain (Granada, Southern Spain)
to assist with our project investigating the evolution of
family living and cooperative breeding in birds.
This project focuses on the shift in parental invest-
ment patterns and oﬀspring dispersal decisions in sev-
eral species of kin-group living and cooperative breed-
ing birds. The project is based at the University of Bern
(PI Michael Griesser, PhD students Emeline Mourocq
& Gretchen Wagner) and is in collaboration with Prof.
Manuel Soler (University of Granada).
The work of the ﬁeld assistant will be to help the PhD
students with locating nests, carrying out ﬁeld experi-
ments, catching and banding birds, and managing data,
as well as assisting with overseeing a small team of vol-
unteers. The work is carried out in scenic semi-arid
habitats close to the Sierra Nevada mountains. We will
work 5-6 days per week depending on the work load,
and some days can be quite long in the ﬁeld. Tempera-
tures in this area can be below zero C at the beginning
of the season, and later can easily be above 35C.
A successful candidate should have the following qual-
iﬁcations:
(1) A BSc or higher in Biology, Behavioral Ecology or
similar.
(2) Previous ﬁeld experience with birds, including ob-
serving, mist- netting and banding.
(3) Ability to work and live with a small team and a
sociable personality.
(4) Leadership experience, particularly in ﬁeld research
situations, is a plus.
(5) Driving license
(6) Fluent in English
(7) Knowledge of Spanish is helpful.
Salary will be set based on qualiﬁcations and experi-
ence. Accommodation and travel to and from the study
site, up to 300 , will be provided.
Applications should include a CV, a letter of motivation
(1 page) and contact information for two references,
sent to both:
Emeline Mourocq: emeline.mourocq@iee.unibe.ch and
Gretchen Wagner: gretchen.wagner@iee.unibe.ch
Applications received until 15th February 2011 will be
given full consideration.gretchen.wagner@iee.unibe.ch
UBern FieldAssist BirdEvolution 3
*University of Bern.Field assistant position. Bird evo-
lution
*University of Bern: Field assistant position to study
hormone mediated maternal eﬀects and consequences
of hatching asynchrony in birds*
I am looking for 2 enthusiastic ﬁeld assistants interested
to join my ﬁeld project in Bern, Switzerland. Appli-
cants will be part of the evolutionary ecology team (In-
stitute of Ecology and Evolution, University of Bern).
The biological model used in my study is the Great Tit,
a small passerine bird nesting in nest-boxes in forests
near Bern.
The aim of my study is to investigate the consequences
of hatching asynchrony on nestling and adult ﬁtness,
as well as the eﬀects of maternal testosterone, hormone
supposed to be one of the major determinants of the
developmental plasticity.
I will require 2 ﬁeld assistants that will help with
all the aspects of the work, including checking nest-
boxes, ringing, measuring and catching birds, perform-
ing treatments, etc. Applicants with a BSc or MSc in
Biology/Ecology, as well as with bird handling experi-
ence would have an advantage. There is also possibility
for potential supervising BSc or MSc students for their
training periods.
I am looking for highly motivated assistants because of
the hardness of the work. Field requires long hours of
work no matter the conditions are. The study will start
at the end of March 2011 until the beginning of June
2011. Fluent English/French or Polish speaking and a
valid European driving license are required.
This is an expense paid ﬁeld assistant position.
Applications - including a CV, and the name of
one or two referees - should be send to: pod-
las.kasia@gmail.com
Applications received until 15 February 2011 will be
given full consideration.
Katarzyna Podlas Institute of Ecology and Evolution
University of Bern Baltzerstr. 6 3012 Bern Switzerland
Email: podlas.kasia@gmail.com Phone: +41 31 631 30
2054 EvolDir February 1, 2011
Katarzyna Podlas <podlas.kasia@gmail.com >
UBritishColumbia ResearchManager
Species at Risk and Habitat Studies (SARAHS) Re-
search Manager. The Institute for Species at Risk
and Habitat Studies (SARAHS), opened as a Centre
in March 2006 at the University of British Columbia
Okanagan. The institute1s goal is to enable interdisci-
plinary research on the structure and function of habi-
tats and populations of species at risk at local, national
and international levels. The SARAHS Institute man-
ages a fee-for-service facility called Fragment Analysis
and DNA Sequencing Service (FADSS). We are looking
for a manager that will be responsible for the planning,
management, coordination, and communication within
the SARAHS Institute. The manager will be involved
with the facilitation of research review processes and
the development of collaborative agreements involving
researchers, granting agencies and departments within
the institute. The manager will work with the director
to set priorities and goals, prepare budgets, and develop
strategic research activities within the SARAHS insti-
tute mandate. They will participate in writing grants
for SARAHS and working with the Development Oﬃce
to secure external funding for SARAHS. In addition,
they will be responsible for managing the fee for service
facility, including the supervision of up to three FADSS
employees. A University Degree with a minimum of 4
years of related experience is required. A M.Sc. de-
gree would be an asset. Experience supervising and
training staﬀ is required. Experience with managing
a research facility would also be an asset. To view job
posting 9468 and to apply for the position go to: http:/-
/www.hr.ubc.ca/careers-postings/staﬀ.php (Please se-
lect the active link and then select Apply Now).
Daniel M. Durall UBC Okanagan Associate Professor
3333 University Way Kelowna BC V1V 1V7 Tel. 250-
807-8759 Fax. 250-807-8005
Daniel Durall <daniel.durall@ubc.ca >
UFlorida Bioinformatics
ProgrammerWe have an immediate opening for a Bioinformatics
Researcher / Programmer. Projects in the lab include
examining the molecular evolution of RNA interfer-
ence genes and unraveling the molecular basis for host
switching in Plasmodium parasites.
For more information on our research, see http://-
microcell.uﬂ.edu/egcb lab Duties will include devel-
oping analysis software and bioinformatics pipelines
to infer molecular adaptation from cross-species and
population-genetic data, protein structural homology
modeling and functional inference, interaction network
analysis, and whole-genome alignment and analysis.
The bulk of this work will be data curation and analy-
sis, rather than algorithm-building.
Preferred qualiﬁcations include proﬁciency in C/C++
or a scripting language such as Perl or Python, and
a strong interest in molecular evolution and genomics.
A demonstrated familiarity with common bioinformatic
sequence-analysis tools and ability to contribute to sci-
entiﬁc research is ideal. We will consider applicants
with either a bachelors or masters in computer science,
bioinformatics or a related discipline.
Applications are due by the end of January, 2011.
Please include a 1- page description of your experi-
ence and interests, your CV, and contact information
for three references. Applications can be emailed to
bryank@uﬂ.edu. This position is for 2 years, with the
possibility of extension; salary is negotiable and will be
commensurate with experience.
Bryan Kolaczkowski
Department of Microbiology and Cell Science Univer-
sity of Florida
UMontreal 2 Genomics
The Sainte-Justine University Hospital Center Re-
search Center seeks applications for 2 tenure-track fac-
ulty positions at the rank of assistant professor.
Applicants should have strong interest in genomic anal-
yses, systems biology, computational functional ge-
nomics, and in applying these results to human dis-
eases and/or human population genetics. Speciﬁc ar-
eas of interest include (but are not limited to): (i) Sys-
tems Biology application of -omic’ approaches to in-
terrogate genomes and pathways with an emphasis on
understanding the control points of quantitative traits
or disease; (ii) Computational Biology integration ofFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 55
diverse -omic’ and other data to advance predictive
models of human disease, host-pathogen interactions,
gene/protein network analyses, and/or human evolu-
tion; and (iii) Evolutionary Biology development of
experimental, mathematical and/or computational ap-
proaches to better understand evolutionary processes.
Our Research Center oﬀers a congenial medical and
basic research environment complemented by the rich
academic milieu of Montreal. These positions also fea-
ture competitive start-up packages and state-of-the-art
shared instrumentation for next-generation sequencing
and computational analysis.
The successful applicant is expected to develop his/her
own competitive research program; attract external
funding for his/her research program; supervise grad-
uate and post-graduate research; and actively engage
with the national and international scientiﬁc commu-
nity.
Applications will be considered beginning Feb 15, 2011
until the position is ﬁlled. Applicants should send a
current CV plus a statement of research interests by
email and arrange to have three letters of recommen-
dation sent to:
Ms. Annabel Seyller Selection Committee Sainte-
Justine Hospital Research Center 3175 Cote Sainte-
Catherine Montreal, QC H3T 1C5 Canada
Email: annabel.seyller@recherche-ste-justine.qc.ca
“Barreiro, Luis [BSD] - HGD”
<lbarreir@bsd.uchicago.edu >
UPennsylvania SummerAssist
LymeDiseaseEvolution
Job announcement
Disease Ecology and Evolution Project Assistant
(April-September)
University of Pennsylvania
Full-time Project Assistants (paid) are needed for re-
search on the ecology and evolution of the Lyme disease
bacterium in Southeastern Pennsylvania. Research in
the Brisson laboratory focuses on the evolving inter-
actions among bacteria, ticks, and animal hosts, that
inﬂuence Lyme disease prevalence. Duties include live-
trapping small mammals and birds and sampling tick
abundance to assess infection status. Early morning,moderately strenuous activity is required. Field re-
search is conducted in small teams in Crow’s Nest Pre-
serve, PA - about 45 minutes west of Philadelphia.
Prior experience handling wild small mammals or birds
is highly desirable; strong work ethic, meticulousness,
and ability to work both independently and in small
teams is required. The project oﬀers research and learn-
ing experiences for Project Assistants, particularly with
regard to the ecology and evolution of infectious dis-
eases.
Desired dates of employment (35 hours/week): April
11 to September 11, 2011, although applicants avail-
able during summer break from college are also wel-
come. Wage is commensurate with education experi-
ence. Near-site housing is available.
Consideration of applications will begin on Feb 10th.
Please submit via email a brief letter of application, a
resume, and 2-3 letters of recommendation from three
professional supervisors or academic instructors to:
Dustin Brisson dbrisson@sas.upenn.edu
Department of Biology University of Pennsylva-
nia Leidy Laboratories, 209 433 South University
Avenue Philadelphia PA 19104-6018 V:215.746.1731
F:215.898.8780
dbrisson@sas.upenn.edu
UTennessee Chattanooga
EvolutionaryBiologist
BIOLOGICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES:
EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGIST Assistant Professor,
full time, tenure-track, beginning August 1, 2011.
Teaching responsibilities include evolution, genetics,
introductory biology, and development of advanced
courses in ﬁeld of expertise. Research and teaching
experience in the areas of microbial evolution and ge-
nomics or population genetics preferred. Candidates
for this position need to be willing to teach at all levels
of the curriculum, from the introductory undergrad-
uate to graduate (Masters) level. Ph.D. required and
postdoctoral research experience desired. Commitment
to teaching excellence, responsiveness to student needs,
and eﬀective communication skills are essential. Schol-
arly activities and a research program that involves un-
dergraduate and graduate students are expected. Pref-
erence will be given to candidates with demonstrated
excellence in college or university teaching. Screening56 EvolDir February 1, 2011
of credentials will begin January 31, 2011, and will con-
tinue until the position is ﬁlled. Send curriculum vitae,
transcripts, and three reference letters to: Facultyvi-
tae@utc.edu
Applicants should reference search number F10-2-015.
The University of Tennessee is an Equal Oppor-
tunity/Aﬃrmative Action/Title VI and IX/Section
504/ADA/ADEA Institution.
chatzimanolis@yahoo.com
UWyoming VertebrateCollections
Vertebrate Collections Manager - University of
Wyoming
Essential Duties The University of Wyoming seeks a
Collections Manager to oversee the Vertebrate Collec-
tions housed in the Robert and Carol Berry Biodiver-
sity Conservation Center. Duties include, but are not
limited to: coordinating activities for the center fol-
lowing all federal, state and center policies; collecting
and preparing specimens; obtaining and maintaining
necessary collecting permits and ﬁling permit reports;
training and supervising students and temporary em-
ployees in specimen preparation and curation methods;
overseeing data cataloging; processing specimen loans
and exchanges; assisting in collection- related grant pro-
posal preparation; contributing to Berry Center educa-
tion and outreach programs. Opportunities are possible
for research in collaboration with Berry Center staﬀ.
Minimum Qualiﬁcations A master’s degree in biology or
a related natural science ﬁeld from an accredited uni-
versity plus work- related experience OR an equivalent
combination of education and experience is required.
Knowledge Skills and Abilities Applicants should be
knowledgeable and experienced in vertebrate curatorial
techniques and have strong organizational and interper-
sonal skills.
Required Materials Applicants will need to submit a
letter of application outlining vertebrate curatorial ex-
perience, a current CV, and contact information for 3
references.
Please Note Salary is commensurate with education and
experience.
To apply: Paste the following link into your browser:
https://jobs.uwyo.edu/psc/EREC/EMPLOYEE/-HRMS/c/HRS HRAM.HRS CE.GBL Click on
-Collections Manager - Robert and Carol Berry
Biodiversity Conservation Center’
Please contact Matt Carling (mcarling@uwyo.edu or
307-766-6169) for more information. Review of appli-
cations will begin on 8 February 2011.
Matt Carling Asst. Professor Department of Zoology
& Physiology Berry Biodiversity Conservation Center
University of Wyoming
www.uwyo.edu/carlinglab (p) 307.766.6169
mcarling@uwyo.edu
WageningenU
EvolutionOfBehaviour
Full professor of Behavioural Ecology at Wageningen
University (The Netherlands) Job Reference WU-2011-
HL001
The chairholder in Behavioural Ecology will head a re-
search group which studies the evolutionary causes of
variation in behaviour among individuals, populations,
and species. The research will focus on behaviour of an-
imals in their natural environment, with a focus on the
behavioural ecology of social interaction. The research
group will also carry out research on animals kept in
husbandry environments following research lines paral-
lel to those in the natural environment.
The research will be characterized by an experimental
approach, aimed to test hypotheses derived from the-
oretical models, and by a phenotypic approach of be-
havioural ecology. The research focuses on vertebrates.
We expect an internationally recognized research pro-
gram that involves theoretical modelling, experiments,
and phenotypic characterization.
The professor will be responsible for the teaching of
behavioural ecology and will contribute to the BSc and
MSc programs of Animal Sciences, Biology, and For-
est and Nature Conservation, and education of PhD-
students.
The person will initiate, lead, and supervise research in
the ﬁeld of behavioural ecology; acquire research fund-
ing; supervise BSc, MSc, and PhD students; and lead
the chair group. The person will also be involved in
the societal discussion on issues like animal welfare and
nature conservation.February 1, 2011 EvolDir 57
For further information take a look at
www.jobsat.wur.nl Additional information about
the vacancy can be obtained from Prof. dr. E.W.
Brascamp, chairman of the selection committee
Telephone number +31 6 51074760 E-mail address:
pim.brascamp@wur.nl
If you are interested please apply online (including your
detailed curriculum vitae and a list of publications) be-
fore 1 March 2011, or send your application to Dr. H.
van den Brand Adaptation Physiology Group P.O Box
338 6700 AH Wageningen The Netherlands
“Visser, Marcel” <M.Visser@nioo.knaw.nl >
Yunnan China
PlantMolecularEvolution
This position also focuses, among others, on phyto-
geography, i.e., genetic diﬀerentiation between popu-
lations across landscapes. This is a basic evolutionary
approach to understand how populations, and eventu-
ally species diverge...
FACULTY POSITION in Plant Molecular Ecology at
the Associate Professor level in the Chinese Academy of
Sciences, based in the Xishuangbanna Tropical Botan-
ical Gardens, Yunnan, China.
The Plant Geography Lab at the Xishuangbanna Tropi-
cal Botanical Garden (XTBG), Yunnan invites applica-
tions for a full-time faculty position in Plant Molecular
Ecology. The Plant Geography Lab is a new group lead
by Professor Ferry Slik ( www.phylodiversity.net/fslik/ )
and is currently recruiting new staﬀ. The aim is to build
up an international team of researchers and postgrad-
uate students with numerous collaborations with Chi-
nese and international organizations. This position is
one of three faculty positions in the research group and
has a four year term. We will soon move into a new re-
search facility in the gardens and we plan to expand our
molecular capabilities with this position. XTBG is part
of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), through
which these appointments will be made. Please visitthe garden’s website at http://en.xtbg.ac.cn/ for more
information about XTBG.
Highly qualiﬁed candidates with experience in plant
molecular techniques applied to ecological questions
and interested in research in any of the following or re-
lated areas are encouraged to apply: plant phylogenetic
community ecology; plant population genetics; and ge-
netic consequences of global change on plant communi-
ties.
The candidate’s responsibilities, along with their inde-
pendent research, would include: the development of
postgraduate training and research; the development of
international collaboration with universities and insti-
tutions in Southeast Asia; obtaining external funding;
and publication in leading international journals. The
successful candidate will beneﬁt from CAS’s established
research programs and ﬁeld stations. XTBG has strong
cooperative relationship with the local and provincial
governments and surrounding countries in developing
important and compelling collaborations.
Candidates with a strong record of accomplishment
should submit a CV, statement of research inter-
ests/plans, and pdfs of two publications. Please include
three potential references who could provide letters of
recommendation. Send these material to Prof. Ferry
Slik<ferryslik@hotmail.com >and Ms. Liu Zhiqiu
<lzhq@xtbg.org.cn >.
Ferry Slik Professor Plant Geography Lab
¨O1´ u¿Æ˜N§ˆOo¯ˆI¨E/lessmuchæ¨A´E`E`Eø¨O2ˆI¨ ıˆO Xishuangbanna
Tropical Botanical Garden Chinese Academy of Sci-
ences Menglun, Mengla, Yunnan 666303, China Tel.
+86-15924688380
Website
http://www.phylodiversity.net/fslik/ Plants of South-
east Asia http://www.asianplant.net Trees of Sungai
Wain
http://www.nationaalherbarium.nl/Sungaiwain/
Asian plant species synonym website http://-
www.phylodiversity.net/fslik/synonym lookup.htm
Macaranga and Mallotus of Borneo http:/-
/www.nationaalherbarium.nl/MacMalBorneo/-
index.htm
Ferry Slik <ferryslik@hotmail.com >58 EvolDir February 1, 2011
Other
Australia VolFieldAssist BirdEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
CoalescentSimulation of DNASequences . . . . . . . . . . . 59
EMBL Postdocs CallProposals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
EOWilson Award Nominations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Evolution 2011 MSI FacultyTravelAward . . . . . . . . . . 59
Evolution 2011 UndergraduateDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . 60
FieldCollections Cuba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
From BigBang to Biology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
HunterFly samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
InStruct problems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Jim Crow 95th Birthday . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
MammalEvolution Grad-Undergrad awards . . . . . . . . 61
NESCent WorkingGroup CallProposals . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
NSF EvoDevoNetwork . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Origin term purging . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Passing of Roger Milkman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Plant EvoDevo TrainingGrant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Software Lamarc2 1 6 release . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65Software MolabIS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
SouthAfrica VolunteerFieldAssist MiceEvolution 2 . 67
SpeciesRange papers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
SSB ErnstMayrAward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
SSB GradStudResearchAward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
SSE TravelAwards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
SynTax SystematicsResearchFund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
TravelAwards Vienna MASAMB . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Tuebingen ESEB TravelAwards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
UAkron SummerUndergraduateResearch . . . . . . . . . . 71
UBasel VolFieldAssist TurtleEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
UBern VolunteerFieldAssist BirdEvolution . . . . . . . . 72
UNottingham VolFieldAssist ButterﬂyEvolution . . . 72
UTexas Austin PlantAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
UVirginia UndergraduateSummerResearch . . . . . . . . 73
Video Analysis Software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Yeast asparagine transport mutant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Australia VolFieldAssist
BirdEvolution
Volunteer Field Position in Bird Biology in Australia
Field research volunteers are needed from mid March-
June/July 2011 as part of a project investigating the
behaviour, ecology and evolution of breeding ﬁnches in
northern tropical Australia.
This work will involve behavioural observations, nest
inspections, assisting with catching and processing
birds, and building and installing nest boxes. This
ﬁeldwork requires getting up before dawn, and often
spending 7-8 hrs per day (6 days/week) working in hot
and humid conditions (35-45C).
Essential requirements: (1) Willingness to spend long
days working in hot, humid conditions (2) Ability to
work in small teams, as well as independently (3) Be
hard-working, motivated and be able to carry out repet-
itive work with quality and consistency (4) Fluency in
English
Preferable requirements: (1) Previous ﬁeldwork expe-
rience (2) Knowledge in observing and handling birds
(3) Full driving licence (4) 4 wheel-driving experience
This is a volunteer position, however, accommodation,food and travel expenses will be covered within Aus-
tralia. Additional subsidies for travel costs to Australia
may be available.
The study area is located near Wyndham, a very small
and remote town on the northern-most tip of Western
Australia. Wyndham is situated in the scenic Kim-
berley region (where much of the movie Australia was
ﬁlmed) and is renowned as Australias hottest town
(highest year round average temperature) and home
to a large diversity of birdlife (as well as saltwater
crocodiles). Our ﬁeld station is located on the estu-
ary/port, and has all basic facilities, including accom-
modation, kitchen, showers, and internet/phone recep-
tion.
Interested applicants should email a cover letter, CV,
dates of availability, and the contact information of two
references to Dr Sarah Pryke: sarah.pryke@mq.edu.au
Applications should be submitted as soon as possible,
and will be reviewed until the positions are ﬁlled.
Sarah Pryke <sarah.pryke@mq.edu.au >
CoalescentSimulation of
DNASequencesFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 59
Hello,
I was hoping someone on EvolDir may have some ex-
perience with coalescent simulation of DNA sequences.
I am trying to determine, from a set of alleles (from a
single locus within the same species), which is the most
ancestral sequence. I understand that coalescent sim-
ulation can provide the TMRCA, but I am wondering
if it can also identify, from a set of alleles, which par-
ticular allele is the most ancestral. If so, does anyone
know of any programs or software suitable for such an
analysis? Any advice is greatly appreciated. Thanks
very much.
Ryan Lamers rlamers@mail.ucf.edu
EMBL Postdocs CallProposals
The European Molecular Biology Laboratories has a
fellowship programme which funds interdisciplinary
postdoctoral fellowships between at least two labs at
our 5 sites. Candidates are invited to propose projects
or can chose from a list of projects put forth by EMBL
group leaders. We have a call for applications which is
currently open. Some of the projects are centered on
Evolutionary Biology.
Kind regards,
Brenda Stride Postdoctoral Programme Administrator
EMBL
Brenda Stride <stride@embl.de >
EOWilson Award Nominations
NOMINATIONS OPEN FOR THE E. O. WILSON
NATURALIST AWARD In recognition of the lifetime
of outstanding contributions of Professor E. O. Wilson
in the areas of ecology and evolutionary biology, includ-
ing the study of social insects, biodiversity, and bio-
philia, this award was established in the year of Profes-
sor Wilson’s retirement from Harvard University. The
E. O. Wilson Naturalist Award will be given to an ac-
tive investigator in mid-career who has made signiﬁcant
contributions to the knowledge of a particular ecosys-
tem or group of organisms. Individuals whose researchand writing illuminate principles of evolutionary biol-
ogy and an enhanced aesthetic appreciation of natural
history will merit special consideration. Nominations
for the award will be solicited on an annual basis, and
a committee appointed by the president of the Amer-
ican Society of Naturalists will select recipients of the
award. The award will consist of an especially appro-
priate work of art and an honorarium of $2,000, pre-
sented at the annual meeting of the American Society
of Naturalists. For the 2010 E. O. Wilson Naturalist
Award, a nomination packet, including a letter of nom-
ination, a curriculum vitae including a publication list,
and three key publications, should be sent by Febru-
ary 10, to David Reznick <david.reznick@ucr.edu >.
Please indicate E. O. Wilson Award in the subject
line. http://www.amnat.org/ASN/awa.html#wilson
Andres Lopez-Sepulcre <lopezsepulcre@gmail.com >
Evolution 2011 MSI
FacultyTravelAward
Evolution 2011 MSI Faculty Travel Award Are you a
biologist at a minority-serving institution? Apply now
for a travel award to attend Evolution 2011 in Norman,
OK.
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NES-
Cent), with support from the Society for the Study of
Evolution (SSE), is pleased to announce a travel award
for faculty from Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs)
to attend Evolution 2011 V the annual meeting of SSE,
SSB (Society of Systematic Biologists) and ASN (Amer-
ican Society of Naturalists) V to be held in Norman,
OK from June 17-21, 2011.
If you are a faculty member at an MSI, HBCU or
other institution with signiﬁcant enrollment of under-
represented minority students, you are encouraged to
apply. Funds are available to cover conference registra-
tion, travel, food and lodging for up to three individu-
als.
This award is intended to provide MSI faculty with an
opportunity to present original research in evolution,
systematic biology, evolutionary genomics/informatics,
evolution education/outreach or other disciplines typi-
cally represented at the SSE/SSB/ASN meetings. As
such, your application must include a talk/poster title.
(Abstracts are not required to apply.) In addition, you
will be asked to provide a brief (1 page) statement de-
scribing how this award will contribute to your profes-60 EvolDir February 1, 2011
sional/scientiﬁc development, as well as provide beneﬁt
to your students and institution.
To apply, please visit www.nescent.org/eog/-
2011facultytravelawardapplication Application
Deadline: March 31st, 2011 (Awards will be an-
nounced by April 8th, 2011)
For more information, please contact Dr. Jory Wein-
traub (jory@nescent.org)
Jory P. Weintraub, PhD Assistant Director, Education
and Outreach National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) 2024 West Main St., Suite A200 Durham,
NC 27705 Phone: 919.668.4578 Fax: 919.668.9198
Email: jory@nescent.org Skype: jory.weintraub Web:
www.nescent.org
Jory Weintraub <jory@nescent.org >
Evolution 2011
UndergraduateDiversity
Undergraduate Diversity at the Evolution meetings
2011
We are pleased to announce a NSF-funded program
for bringing talented and diverse undergraduates to the
Evolution meetings this June 17-21 in Norman, Okla-
homa. For the ninth year in a row we will ﬂy a co-
hort of 25 undergraduates from throughout the US and
Puerto Rico to present a poster at the meetings, re-
ceive mentoring from graduate students, postdocs and
faculty, and participate in the Diversity Social as well
as a career-oriented ’Undergraduate Futures in Evolu-
tionary Biology’ panel and discussion. The program
covers the costs of travel, registration, food and accom-
modation at the meetings. The application deadline is
1 March, but admissions will be reviewed as they are
received, and so the earlier you apply, the better. Appli-
cations are welcomed from all undergraduates, and the
admissions goal is to create a diverse pool of students.
An overview of the program and student eligibility can
be found at:
http://www.oeb.harvard.edu/faculty/edwards/-
community/application.html Apply online at:
www.nescent.org/Evolution2011 application Applica-
tions consist of a short statement of interest, a letter
of recommendation and the title and abstract of the
poster to be presented.
In addition, we will be soliciting names of graduatestudents, postdocs and faculty members who would
like to serve as mentors during the meetings. Men-
tors take pairs of students and attend talks with them,
introduce them to colleagues, network and generally
make the meetings a welcoming place for them. Al-
though costs are not covered for mentors it is an un-
usually rewarding experience. Contact Richard Kliman
<rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu >if you are interested in
serving as a mentor.
For inquires contact one of the organizers:
Scott Edwards - sedwards@oeb.harvard.edu Richard
Kliman - rmkliman@cedarcrest.edu Jory Weintraub -
jory@nescent.org
Jory P. Weintraub, PhD Assistant Director, Education
and Outreach National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent) 2024 West Main St., Suite A200 Durham,
NC 27705 Phone: 919.668.4578 Fax: 919.668.9198
Skype: jory.weintraub Web: www.nescent.org
Jory Weintraub <jory@nescent.org >
FieldCollections Cuba
A research community to which I belong is excited
about the possibility of doing some collaborative re-
search and collecting in Cuba. I would greatly appre-
ciate contact with anyone who already has such a pro-
gram in place or is currently attempting to set one up,
and with Cuban biologists who might be interested in
collaborating with us.
The research community contains ecologists, develop-
mental biologists, physiologists and geneticists and is
focused on various aspects of the biology of the self-
fertilizing hermaphroditic killiﬁsh, Kryptolebias (for-
merly Rivulus) marmoratus.
“Bruce J. Turner” <ﬁshgen@vt.edu >
From BigBang to Biology
We are considering the creation of a new undergradu-
ate course, working title “Origins: From the Big Bang
to Biology”
Two questions, 1) can anyone recommend a possibleFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 61
text with this breadth of coverage (cosmic origins to hu-
man society) ? 2) If you teach a similar course at your
institution would you be willing to share your thoughts
about it with me?
Thanks,
Mark Farmer Univ. Georgia
Mark A. Farmer Dept. Cellular Biology 724 Biolog-
ical Sciences Bldg. University of Georgia, Athens,
GA 30602 (706)542-3383 Voice (706)542-4271 FAX
farmer@cb.uga.edu
(This message is made of 100% recycled electrons)
– This message has been scanned for viruses and dan-
gerous content by MailScanner, and is believed to be
clean.
farmer@cb.uga.edu
HunterFly samples
Dear all,
I am a master student currently interested in the study
of the genetic structure and phylogeography of the
hunter-ﬂy *Coenosia attenuata* and related species in
the University of Lisbon, Portugal in the Computa-
tional biology and Population Genomics research group
(CoBig2, http://cobig2.fc.ul.pt ). I am having some dif-
ﬁculties getting samples from some geographic regions.
I would greatly appreciate the contacts of some people
who would be able to help me with this.
Thank you,
Renata Martins
Renata Martins <renata.fr.martins@gmail.com >
InStruct problems
Hi,
I would like to use InStruct (Gao et al. 2007, Genet-
ics, 176: 1635), that implements a Bayesian approach
to analyse population structure not depending on as-
sumptions of Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (in contrast
do STRUCTURE or BAPS). However, I am not surethat my AFLP data are correctly interpreted as the al-
lele frequencies that are reported in the output diﬀer
strongly from what is reasonable.
Does anybody has experience with InStruct and domi-
nant data sets like AFLP? How do I have to code the
data in the diploid case ?
regards Walter
–
***** Dr. Walter Durka Department
Bioz¨ onoseforschung Department of community ecology
Helmholtz-Zentrum f¨ ur Umweltforschung GmbH - UFZ
Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research - UFZ
Theodor-Lieser-Str. 4 / 06120 Halle / Germany
walter.durka@ufz.de / http://www.ufz.de/-
index.php?en=798 phone +49 345 558 5314 / Fax +49
345 558 5329
walter.durka@ufz.de
Jim Crow 95th Birthday
On the 18th of January, 1916 James F. Crow (Jim to
those who know him) was born, so the 18th of this
month is Jim’s 95th birthday.
Jim is in surprisingly-active retirement in Madison,
Wisconsin.
I’ve already wished him happy birthday, but those
who wish to send him their own greetings on
his 95th can email him at jfcrow (at) WEDONT-
LIKESPAM.wisc.edu where of course you remove the
capitalized part and replace the (at) with an @
Joe —- Joe Felsenstein, joe@gs.washington.edu Dept.
of Genome Sciences, Univ. of Washington Box 355065,
Seattle, WA 98195-5065 USA
Joe Felsenstein <joe@gs.washington.edu >
MammalEvolution Grad-Undergrad
awards
The American Society of Mammalogists (ASM) Hon-
oraria Committee is currently accepting applications62 EvolDir February 1, 2011
for Graduate Student (the Jackson, Howell, and Bir-
ney Awards) and Undergraduate Research Awards.
Graduate Honoraria
The ASM oﬀers three competitive awards to help pro-
mote the careers of outstanding graduate students in
Mammalogy.Each award comes with a stipend ($1000)
to attend the annual meeting, where award winners
present their research in a plenary session devoted to
graduate-student research.There is no diﬀerence among
the three awards, which are named for three distin-
guished prior members of the ASM: Anna M. Jackson,
A. Brazier Howell, and Elmer C. Birney.This year’s an-
nual meeting will be held at Portland State University,
Portland, Oregon, from 24-29 June 2011.
The competition is open to all graduate-student mem-
bers of the ASM, regardless of nationality or cur-
rent institutional aﬃliation. [To become a member of
the Society visit the ASM membership page* http:/-
/www.mammalsociety.org/membership/index.html*]
Applicants must be current Masters or Doctoral stu-
dents (or have completed their degrees during the pre-
vious Fall term) when they apply. Applicants must
not have received a previous Graduate Research Award
from ASM, or a Shadle or ASM Fellowship. How-
ever, recipients of ASM Grant-in-Aid of Research and
Latin American Student Field Research are eligible
and encouraged to apply. Additional Eligibility rules
can be found *here: http://www.mammalsociety.org/-
applications/grant instructions.htm* . Students un-
sure of their eligibility are encouraged to contact
the chair of the Honoraria Committee well in ad-
vance of the application deadline (Dr. G. Hayssen;
vhayssen@science.smith.edu
The application deadline is *15 February*.Applications
are submitted electronically.A complete application
consists of a short (1000 word) research state-
ment and a letter of recommendation, preferably
from the applicant’s advisor.Complete application
instructions and evaluation criteria can be found
*here: http://www.mammalsociety.org/applications/-
grant instructions.htm* Undergraduate Honoraria
The American Society of Mammalogists (ASM) Hono-
raria Committee is currently accepting applications for
Undergraduate Research Awards.
The ASM supports undergraduate research in Mam-
malogy by awarding two Undergraduate Research
Awards each year.Recipients are awarded a stipend
($500) to attend the annual meeting, where they will
give either an oral or poster presentation during reg-
ular sessions.This year’s annual meeting will be held
at Portland State University, Portland, Oregon, from24-29 June 2011.
The competition is open to all undergraduate student
members of the American Society of Mammalogists,
regardless of nationality or current institutional aﬃlia-
tion. [To become a member of the Society visit the ASM
membership page * http://www.mammalsociety.org/-
membership/index.html*]Applicants must be enrolled
in an undergraduate program when they apply, and
must not have not received a previous Undergraduate
Award from ASM. Students unsure of their eligibility
are encouraged to contact the chair of the Honoraria
Committee well in advance of the application deadline
(vhayssen@science.smith.edu).
The application deadline is *15 February*.Applications
are submitted electronically.A complete application
consists of a 200-250 word abstract for an oral or
poster presentation, a 300-350 word summary of your
research project, your curriculum vitae, and a let-
ter from your research advisor.Complete application
instructions and evaluation criteria can be found
*here: http://www.mammalsociety.org/applications/-
grant instructions.htm.* Questions should be directed
to Dr. Hayssen (vhayssen@science.smith.edu or via
snail mail to Virginia Hayssen, Biology Department,
Smith College, Northampton, MA 01063 [413 585
3856]).
– Jessica E. Light Assistant Professor and Curator
of Mammals Department of Wildlife and Fisheries
Sciences Texas Cooperative Wildlife Collection Texas
A&M University 210 Nagle Hall, 2258 TAMUS (mail-
ing) 320A Heep Laboratory Building (oﬃce) College
Station, TX 77843 Phone: 979-458-4357 Fax: 979-845-
4096 email:jlight2@tamu.edu http://wfsc.tamu.edu/-
lightlab jlight2@tamu.edu
NESCent WorkingGroup
CallProposals
NESCent (The National Evolutionary Synthesis Cen-
ter) is sponsoring a range of targeted activities in the
general area of Evolutionary Medicine. As part of this
program, NESCent is seeking to support a Working
Group focusing on the development and implementa-
tion of model curricula and curriculum materials in
Evolutionary Medicine to support teaching of under-
graduates, and students in medicine, nursing, public
health and medical research. The resources developed
should show how evolutionary principles play an im-February 1, 2011 EvolDir 63
portant role in understanding health and disease, and
ideally, should span a wide breadth of medical disci-
plines.
NESCent Working Groups involve small groups of sci-
entists (10-12 participants) collaborating intensively on
the analysis or synthesis of data, models or both, to
address a major question in evolutionary science. The
working groups will typically meet 3-4 times over two
years, with each meeting lasting 3-5 days. Meetings
will be held at NESCent in Durham, North Carolina.
Support includes travel, lodging and per diem.
Proposals are due by April 1st, 2011.
For more information, including details on the pro-
posal process and requirements, please see http://-
www.nescent.org/evomedcurriculum . Jory P. Wein-
traub, PhD Assistant Director, Education and Out-
reach National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NES-
Cent) 2024 West Main St., Suite A200 Durham, NC
27705 Phone: 919.668.4578 Fax: 919.668.9198 Skype:
jory.weintraub Web: www.nescent.org
Jory Weintraub <jory@nescent.org >
NSF EvoDevoNetwork
We would like to announce a new funding and network-
ing opportunity for researchers in evolutionary and eco-
logical developmental biology: a National Science Foun-
dation Research Coordination Evo-Devo-Eco Network
called EDEN ( http://edenrcn.com/ ).
The major aims of EDEN are the following: To fund
research exchange grants allowing active interchange of
tools and techniques among labs working on emerging
model systems. To fund undergraduate internships in
the ﬁeld of Evo-Devo-Eco with an emphasis on emerg-
ing model systems. To document the tools and tech-
niques being used and developed in these organisms
and make them publicly available for future users. To
promote interactions across the Evo-Devo-Eco commu-
nity through conference funding and the sponsorship
of workshops. EDEN’s ﬁrst deadline for funding ap-
plications is October 31, 2010. You can read about
the funding available at http://edenrcn.com/funding/
. If you are working at the interface of the ﬁelds of
development, evolution, and ecology, and/or with non-
traditional model organisms, you have probably found
yourself developing new techniques and tools. Perhaps
you have used well-established protocols from tradi-tional model organisms as a starting point, but have
had to modify these protocols by painstaking trial and
error, without the beneﬁt of a large research community
to support work on your organism.
If you are working with well-established model organ-
isms, perhaps you would like to add an evolutionary
or comparative dimension to your work, but have not
worked with other organisms before.
With the support of the National Science Foundation,
we have developed a new research coordination network
called EDEN (Evo-Devo-Eco Network) to help address
these challenges. You can read about EDEN’s activi-
ties and opportunities at http://edenrcn.com/ . Please
consider “joining” EDEN by ﬁlling out a brief survey
about your lab’s areas of expertise. You can complete
the survey on our website at
http://edenrcn.com/join/ or by clicking here
http://www.surveymonkey.com/s/JoinEDEN This
survey will allow your lab to be added to a searchable
database of scientists, organisms and techniques that
will soon be available on the EDEN website. With this
database, other researchers in development, evolution
and ecology will be able to to learn about your work,
hopefully facilitating new and useful networks and col-
laborations.
We encourage you to go to EDEN’s website to read
more about it, and to check back frequently for future
calls for applications, protocols, and workshop and sym-
posia announcements.
Please feel free to email us at edenrcn@fas.harvard.edu
with questions about the program, and forward this
email to colleagues who you think would be interested
in EDEN.
Barbara Perlo <perlo@fas.harvard.edu >
Origin term purging
Dear All,
I have been looking for the origin of the term ’purging’
in evolutionary genetics. With the help of several col-
leagues I’ve been able to trace it back to the early 1980s
in both the evolutionary literature (e.g. Caugant et al.
Genetics 1981) and in the conservation literature (e.g.
Frankel and Soule in their 1981 book ’Conservation and
Evolution’). This relatively widespread use of the term
in the 1980s suggests an earlier origin, perhaps in plant64 EvolDir February 1, 2011
or animal breeding or in the Drosophila literature, but
I have not been able to track the term further back.
Does anyone know where the term ’purging’ originated?
Many thanks for your help.
Best wishes,
Lukas
Lukas Keller Institute of Evolutionary Biology and En-
vironmental Studies University of Zurich Winterthur-
erstr. 190 CH-8057 Zurich Switzerland
Tel: ++41 44 635 47 50 Fax: ++41 44 635 68 18 Email:
lukas.keller@ieu.uzh.ch
Web: http://www.ieu.uzh.ch/staﬀ/professors/-
lkeller.html Lukas Keller <lukas.keller@ieu.uzh.ch >
Passing of Roger Milkman
Dear colleagues–
Population geneticist Roger Milkman passed away ear-
lier this month of complications from Alzheimer’s. An
obituary written by friends and colleagues is below. A
memorial service is planned next summer at Woods
Hole, where he spent most of his summers.
Arlin
Arlin Stoltzfus (arlin@umd.edu) Fellow, IBBR; Adj.
Assoc. Prof., UMCP; Research Biologist, NIST IBBR,
9600 Gudelsky Drive, Rockville, MD tel: 240 314 6208;
web: www.molevol.org ——-
Roger Dawson Milkman, Genetics and Evolution
Roger Dawson Milkman, professor, population geneti-
cist, and polyglot, died from a stroke and complications
of Alzheimer’s disease on January 5, 2011, in Washing-
ton, D.C. He was 80.
Milkman’s research interests were catholic and inter-
disciplinary, embracing important issues in population
genetics, evolution, embryology, and physiology. His
laboratory studies of a polygenic trait in the fruit ﬂy
Drosophila (the crossveinless phenotype), and on the
molecular genetic evolution of the bacterium, E. coli are
classic, as is his published theoretical work on the forces
acting on genetic variation in natural populations.
In his novel pursuit of the genetic basis of natural vari-
ation, Dr. Milkman was found in many grocery stores
collecting fruit ﬂies and in many zoos collecting sam-ples of scat with E. coli. Well before the era of full
genome sequences, he demonstrated that natural living
populations of fruit ﬂies and bacteria have an abun-
dant reservoir of gene variants for polygenic traits that
serve as the raw material for evolution by natural selec-
tion. Remarkably when sequencing DNA of E. coli, he
discovered the ﬁrst bacterial gene for a potassium ion
channel, which turned out to have a sequence obviously
homologous to the human ion channels that participate
in the electrical excitability of our nerves. Also he dis-
covered and modeled an early example of heat shock
in ﬂy larvae that changed the later development of the
vein pattern of the adult Drosophila wing.
As a scientist, Milkman will be most remembered for his
contributions to the selectionist vs. neutralist debate,
for his 1978 paper “Selection diﬀerentials and selection
coeﬃcients” that uniﬁed two conceptualizations of se-
lection, and for his development and application of a
“clonal frames” theory accounting for the structure of
genomic diversity in E. coli.
Roger Milkman was an extraordinary teacher and men-
tor, but did not bear fools lightly. He had a passion for
teaching, frequently using metaphor, song, and limer-
ick to explain and clarify complex topics in genetics
in a lucid and often humorous way. His students had
to re- enact the dance of chromosomes as they learned
about cell division. He enjoyed working with students,
teaching them the methods and joys of research, while
demanding very high standards. The advanced stu-
dents he mentored or trained have gone on to highly
successful careers in the life sciences, in large part be-
cause of his insistence on rigor in designing experiments
and interpreting results.
J. Woodland Hastings (Harvard) said, “ My most en-
during memories of talking with Roger about science is
the way his face lit up, literally ﬂashed with enthusiasm,
as we engaged in a discussion. He was a very special
person with whom to talk science.... He was adamant
about ethics and the validity of experiments.”
Donald Kennedy (former president of Stanford Univer-
sity) said, “He had wide-ranging interests and could see
relationships between events and experimental results
that most people missed. His sense of humor was won-
derful. He would construct poetry from billboards or
guidebooks, or political events whenever the meter of
what he saw seemed appropriate. He did this regularly
and unpredictably. It was one of the reasons we all
wanted to be around him.”
Dr. Milkman received his Ph.D. at Harvard under
R.P. Levine, did postdoctoral work in Paris with Boris
Ephrussi and held Professorships at the University of
Michigan, Syracuse University, and the University ofFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 65
Iowa. He was the editor or editorial board member of
many journals of evolution or bacteriology, a responsi-
ble oﬃcer of scientiﬁc societies, a translator of books
and articles, and frequent lecturer for the Thomas Alva
Edison Foundation’s conferences for high school teach-
ers and students. For almost ﬁfty summers he studied,
taught, did population research, and sailed at the Ma-
rine Biological Laboratory in Woods Hole, MA. Bird
watching trips with him were a delight for the ecstasy
with which he greeted each ﬁnd. In later years he loved
strenuous hiking with his family in the Canadian Rock-
ies.
Professor Milkman will be remembered for his vigor-
ous engagement of people and ideas. He observed with
sharp eyes, ready tongue, and keen
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Plant EvoDevo TrainingGrant
Plant micro-Evo-Devo training grant proposal submis-
sion deadline: March 01, 2011
Dear Colleagues,
microMORPH is pleased to announce a funding oppor-
tunity for undergraduates ($5,000), graduates students,
postdoctorals, and assistant professors ($3,500) in plant
development or plant evolution. These grants are avail-
able to support cross-disciplinary visits between labs or
institutions for a period of a few weeks to an entire
semester. We are particularly interested in proposals
that will add a developmental perspective to a study of
evolution of populations or closely related species. We
are also interested in developmental studies that will in-
corporate the evolution of populations or closely related
species. The deadline for proposals is March 1st, 2011.
More information about the training grants and the ap-
plication process may be found on the microMORPH
website:
http://www.colorado.edu/eeb/microMORPH/-
grantsandfunding.html To be eligible for micro-
MORPH training grants, applicants must ﬁll one or
more of the following criteria: 1) be a U.S. citizen,
or 2) be aﬃliated with (enrolled in a degree granting
program or employed by) a U.S. college, university, orinstitution, or 3) propose to train in and be hosted by
a lab at a U.S. college, university, or institution.
These internships are supported by a ﬁve-year grant
from the National Science Foundation entitled micro-
MORPH: Molecular and Organismic Research in Plant
History. This grant is funded through the Research
Coordination Network Program at NSF. The overarch-
ing goal of the microMORPH RCN is to study speci-
ation and the diversiﬁcation of plants by linking genes
through development to morphology, and ultimately to
adaptation and ﬁtness, within the dynamic context of
natural populations and closely related species.
Sincerely,
Pamela Diggle (pamela.diggle@colorado.edu) and Ned
Friedman (ned@oeb.harvard.edu)
Rob Baker
PhD Candidate http://rintintin.colorado.edu/ ˜ bak-
errl microMORPH RA http://www.colorado.edu/-
eeb/microMORPH Dept. of Ecology and Evolution-
ary Bio Ramaley N122 Campus Box 334 University of
Colorado Boulder, CO 80309
robert.baker@Colorado.EDU
Software Lamarc2 1 6 release
We have just released Lamarc 2.1.6. This program in-
fers population parameters such as 4Nmu (Theta), im-
migration rates, population growth rates, and recombi-
nation rates from samples of genetic data based on a
coalescent MCMC approach.
Release 2.1.6 ﬁxes a severe bug aﬀecting runs which
modeled recombination (either inferring it or ﬁxing it at
a non-zero value while inferring other parameters). The
bug was present in versions 2.1.2 through 2.1.5, and all
recombination-modeling analyses with those versions
should be rerun. Their estimates of recombination rate
were systematically low, and their estimates of Theta
were compensatorily high.
This release also ﬁxes an error in handling of SNP data
with a per-base error rate in version 2.1.5. Any analy-
ses with this (rare) combination of features should be
rerun with the new version.
Finally, rare failures due to random-number problems
have been ﬁxed; this should not require any analyses to
be rerun as aﬀected runs always crashed.66 EvolDir February 1, 2011
Lamarc 2.1.6 can be downloaded from the Lamarc web
site:
http://evolution.gs.washington.edu/lamarc/-
index.html We provide executables for Windows,
MacIntosh and Linux, as well as portable source
code which can be compiled on many platforms. The
program is free. If you produce a publication using
Lamarc we would appreciate hearing about it.
For further information please contact us:
Lamarc Development Team lamarc@uw.edu Mary Kuh-
ner Elizabeth Walkup Jim McGill Bob Giansiracusa
Jon Yamato
Mary Kuhner <mkkuhner@u.washington.edu >
Software MolabIS
MolabIS - An Open Source Information System for
Storing and Managing Molecular Genetics Data
RELEASE NOTES
Being able to keep track of samples, manage experimen-
tal results and quickly retrieve any dataset from diﬀer-
ent projects is an essential demand for a wide range
of small molecular genetics labs. To address this issue,
our project aims to develop an integrated information
system for such labs to store and manage sequences and
microsatellites of biodiversity projects. As a result, we
is pleased to announce the release of MolabIS 1.0.
MolabIS is a web-based information system accessible
through the network. With this software, lab users can
enter data via the workﬂow, carry out a batch loading
of samples and molecular data, manage information on
individuals from any species and genetic group, import
raw data from diﬀerent sequencers, search and update
the database, generate PDF reports in diﬀerent levels,
and export data to various formats.
Released under GPL, the software and is freely available
at the project homepage ( http://www.molabis.org ).
AVAILABILITY Our project homepage ( http://-
www.molabis.org ) provides: - MolabIS Appliance
(ready-to-use software without installation) - Installa-
tion Guide - User Guide (PDF ﬁle) - Source Code of
MolabIS for Developer - Screenshots - Live Demo with
Sample Data (username: demo, password: demo)
CURRENT FEATURES The current version of Mo-
labIS provides the following features: - Web interfacein English (Web 2.0 technology) - Supporting diﬀerent
Web Browsers (Firefox 3+, Internet Explorer 7+, Sa-
fari 9+) - User authentication (via 4 groups of users)
and data security - Data entry via the workﬂow (DNA
sequencing and microsatellite genotyping) - Individual
management from any species and genetic group (e.g.
breed) - Management of projects, contacts and exper-
imental protocols - Management of primers and mark-
ers - Sample import from data ﬁles (CSV, XLS, ODS)
- Tracking samples (any material type), labworks and
experimental results - Reusing samples (e.g. Blood,
DNA) in existing projects - Preparing data for experi-
ments (e.g. sample sheet, DNA sheet) - Management of
sample storage (up to 5 storage levels) - Data storage
without hardware dependence (e.g. sequencers) - Ver-
satile administration of data (insert, view, update, and
delete) - Search engine with various criteria - Retriev-
ing raw ﬁles (any sample from any project) - Retrieving
ﬁnal data (sequences, microsatellites) - Generating dif-
ferent kinds of reports in PDF format - Merging mul-
tiple sequences from diﬀerent projects - Exporting se-
quences to various formats (FASTA, NEXUS, MEGA,
PHYLIP, etc.) - Converting microsatellites to various
formats (diploid, haploid) in CSV or EXCEL - Batch
loading of individuals, samples and molecular data
SOFTWARE LICENSE MolabIS is released under the
GNU General Public License. Read this http://-
www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html CONTACT US Feel
free to contact us at: Institute of Farm Animal Genet-
ics (FLI), Mariensee, Germany Truong Van Chi Cong
and Eildert Groeneveld (Email: cong.chi@ﬂi.bund.de
and eildert.groeneveld@ﬂi.bund.de)
– Cong Truong
Institute of Farm Animal Genetics (FLI) Mariensee
31535 Neustadt, Germany Tel : (+49)(0)5034 871 232
e-mail: cong.chi@ﬂi.bund.de
– Eildert Groeneveld
Institute of Farm Animal Genetics (FLI)
Mariensee 31535 Neustadt Germany Tel :
(+49)(0)5034 871155 Fax : (+49)(0)5034
871143 e-mail: eildert.groeneveld@ﬂi.bund.de
web: http://vce.tzv.fal.de Eildert Groeneveld
<eildert.groeneveld@ﬂi.bund.de >
SouthAfrica VolunteerFieldAssist
MiceEvolution 2February 1, 2011 EvolDir 67
Volunteers needed as ﬁeld assistants for the project:
Evolution and Socio-Ecology of small Mammals in the
Succulent Karoo of South Africa
Open positions from July 2011 onwards
Opportunity: This is a great opportunity for anybody
who wants to get more experience in ﬁeld work relating
to evolution, ecology and behavior before starting an
MsC or PhD project.
Project: We study the evolutionary and ecological rea-
sons as well as physiological mechanisms of group living,
paternal care, communal nesting and social ﬂexibility
in the striped mouse. As this species is diurnal and the
habitat is open, direct behavioral observations in the
ﬁeld are possible.
What kind of people are needed? Biol-
ogy/zoology/veterinary students are preferred as
candidates. Applicants must have an interest in
working in the ﬁeld and with animals. Hard working
conditions will await applicants, as the study species
gets up with sunrise (between 5 and 6 o‘ clock), and
stops its activity with dusk (19 o‘ clock). Work during
nights might also be necessary. Work in the ﬁeld will
be done for 5 days a week. Applicants must be able
to manage extreme temperatures (below 0 at night
in winter, sometimes over 40C during summer days).
Applicants must both be prepared to live for long
periods in the loneliness of the ﬁeld and to be part of
a small social group.
Work of ﬁeld assistants: Trapping, marking and radio-
tracking of striped mice; direct behavioral observations
in the ﬁeld. Volunteers are also expected to help with
maintenance of the research station (water pump, solar
power, etc.)
Conﬁrmation letter: Students get a letter of conﬁrma-
tion about their work and can prepare a report of their
own small project to get credit points from their uni-
versity for their bachelor or masters studies.
Costs: Students have to arrange their transport to the
ﬁeld site themselves. Per month, an amount of Rand
1000 (around 150 US$, 110 Euro) must be paid for ac-
commodation at the research station. For students with
their own undergraduate project, a fee of Rand 1250
(approx. 190 US$, 140 Euro) per month applies. Stu-
dents must buy their own food etc in Springbok (costs
of about R 2250, approx. 340 US$ or 250 Euro/month).
Including extras (going out for dinner; shopping), you
should expect costs of about 550 US$, 450 Euros per
month. Students get an invitation letter which they
can use to apply for funding in their home country (eg.
DAAD in Germany, SANW in Switzerland).Place: The ﬁeld site is in the Goegap Nature Reserve
near Springbok in the North-West of South Africa. The
vegetation consists of Succulent Karoo, which has been
recognized as one of 25 hotspots of biodiversity. It is a
desert to semi-desert with rain mainly in winter (June
to September).
When and how long: At the moment we are looking for
volunteers for the period July / August to November /
December. Volunteers are expected to stay at least 2
months, but longer periods of up to 6months are pre-
ferred.
How to apply? Send a short motivation letter stating
why and for which period you are interested and your
CV via email to carsten.schradin@ieu.uzh.ch.
More information under www.stripedmouse.com Con-
tact via e-mail: carsten.schradin@ieu.uzh.ch
Dr. Carsten Schradin Research Assistant, Department
of Animal Behavior, University of Zurich, Winterthur-
erstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland. Tel: +41 -
(0)44 635 5486
Honorary Researcher at the School of Animal, Plant
and Environmental Sciences, University of the Witwa-
tersrand, South Africa.
Working as a ﬁeld assistant in Goegap Nature Reserve
A report by Romy H¨ oppli, student at the University of
Zurich, who staid in Goegap June to August 2008
Blue skies without a single cloud for six weeks rocky
mountains with little vegetation yellow, orange and
pink ﬁelds of ﬂowers in whatever direction you look
small mammals, lizards and birds in our front yard
and Mountain Zebras, Springbok and Ostrich right next
door...
This was my time at the Succulent Karoo Research Sta-
tion in Goegap Nature Reserve in South Africa! During
six weeks from the beginning of July until the middle of
August I’ve been living here, studying mice, experienc-
ing nature like never before and being part of a small
community where there was always something to laugh
and joke about!
After arriving in Goegap, right the next morning my
scientiﬁc adventure in South Africa began: Setting and
checking traps, nest observations and radio-tracking
were our daily routine. While I got bitten by the mice
quite often in the beginning and my right middle ﬁn-
ger was scarred all over, I improved quickly shaking the
mice out of the traps, weighing them and checking the
number of the ear tag. Other duties like cleaning the
cages of the mice in the captive colony, washing the dirt
from probably several months out of the traps, painting
the new Wendy House and putting in a ﬂoor68 EvolDir February 1, 2011
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
SpeciesRange papers
Hi all,
I am trying to track down recent literature regarding
the movement of species ranges and distributions, par-
ticularly those associated with climate change. I am
interested in gathering data concerning a wide variety
of species encompassing plants, reptiles, ﬁsh, birds and
mammals so don’t hold back. If anyone could recom-
mend literature citing speciﬁc examples I would be most
appreciative.
Many thanks,
Brian
Dr. Brian Hayden
Quercus School of Biological Sciences, Queen’s Univer-
sity Belfast, MBC, 97 Lisburn Road, Belfast BT9 7BL.
Northern Ireland ( UK ). Tel (UK): 078 75193162 Tel
(ROI): 086 0582845 Website <http://www.qub.ac.uk/-
schools/SchoolofBiologicalSciences/Staﬀ/DrCHarrod/-
Supervision/BrianHayden/ >
b.hayden@qub.ac.uk
SSB ErnstMayrAward
Society of Systematic Biologists Ernst Mayr Award
(Graduate Student Award)
The Ernst Mayr Award is given to the presenter of the
outstanding student talk in the ﬁeld of systematics at
the annual meetings of the Society of Systematic Biolo-
gists. The award consists of $1000, a special certiﬁcate,
and a two-year subscription to the journal Systematic
Biology.
Who is Eligible. Members of the Society who are stu-
dents or have completed their Ph.D. within the last 15months are eligible. Applicants may be from any coun-
try, but must be members of SSB, and are advised to
join the Society as soon as possible to be considered
(to join go to: http://systbio.org/?q=node/6 ). Previ-
ous Mayr award winners are not eligible.
Application Procedure. Applications should be sent
to the current SSB Awards Committee Chair (Sydney
Cameron), at ssb-apps@life.illinois.edu. E-mail submis-
sions are required. IN THE SUBJECT LINE OF THE
E-MAIL, please indicate the SSB award category as
“Mayr Award” followed by ﬁrst name initial and last
name.
Applicant Procedure:
1. To be eligible for this award, you will need to email a
400-word abstract of your talk to the SSB Mayr Awards
Committee (ssb-apps@life.illinois.edu) by April 1, 2011.
All candidates will be notiﬁed of their status no later
than April 10, 2011. Please note that the cut-oﬀ date
for talk submission is April 17, 2011, which coincides
with the ﬁnal day for “early bird” registration of the
annual Evolution meeting, this year “Evolution 2011”,
hosted by the University of Oklahoma in Norman, OK.
This gives you at least a week between notiﬁcation of
acceptance by the committee and talk submission dead-
line date. 2. If selected as a Mayr Award candidate, cre-
ate a login on the Evolution 2011 registration site and
register for the meeting. 3. After receiving veriﬁcation
of registration payment, you will receive a special code
via email that will allow you to login to the Evolution
2011 Presentation Submission site. When you submit
your title and keywords you will be given an option to
declare your candidacy for the SSB Ernst Mayr Award.
4. Your presentation will be placed in the Ernst Mayr
Student Presentation Award session for Evolution 2011.
Again, you must ﬁrst register and pay for the meeting
before we can place your talk into the session.
Judging. Based on the submitted abstracts, the Mayr
Awards Committee (appointed by the Awards Chair)
will select a maximum of 16 applicants for inclusion in
the Ernst Mayr Award session, which will be held at a
single venue as a continuous session.
Talks will be judged on creativity, quality, excellence of
research, and quality of presentation. Abstracts should
clearly indicate methods used, conclusions, and the rel-
evance to systematics. Presentations focusing on other
areas of biology (ecology, behavior, genetics, popula-
tions or molecular biology, etc.) that lack a strong sys-
tematics emphasis are not eligible.
Co-Authors. The paper may be co-authored. It is un-
derstood that the ideas, data and conclusions presented
are primarily and substantially the work of the studentFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 69
presenter, and the intention is that the student presen-
ter will be senior author on the published version of the
paper.
Notiﬁcation of Winner. The winner of the award will be
announced at the SSB business meeting in Normal and
again during the banquet awards ceremony (compli-
mentary ticket provided) at the conclusion of the Evo-
lution Meetings, whereupon the winner will be given an
award certiﬁcate. An announcement of the winner will
also be published in Systematic Biology.
– Sydney A. Cameron Assoc. Prof. Department of
Entomology and Program in Ecology, Evolution and
Conservation Biology University of Illinois 320 Morrill
Hall 505 S. Goodwin Ave. Urbana, IL 61801
ofc ph. 217-333-2340 lab ph 217-333-2170 cell ph 217
766-5631 scameron@life.illinois.edu
www.life.illinois.edu/scameron Sydney Cameron
<scameron@life.illinois.edu >
SSB GradStudResearchAward
Society of Systematic Biologists Graduate Student Re-
search Award
The Society of Systematic Biologists (SSB) announces
the 2011 annual Graduate Student Research Award
competition. The purpose of these awards is to assist
students in the initiation (ﬁrst two years) of their sys-
tematics projects and in the collection of preliminary
data to pursue additional sources of support (e.g., Doc-
toral Dissertation Improvement Grants from the Na-
tional Science Foundation) or to enhance dissertation
research (e.g., by visiting additional ﬁeld collection sites
or museums). Applicants may be from any country,
but must be members of SSB, and are advised to join
the Society as soon as possible to facilitate their appli-
cations (to join go to: http://systbio.org/?q=node/6 ).
Previous awardees may not re-apply, but previous ap-
plicants who were not selected for funding are encour-
aged to re-apply. Awards will range between $1,200 -
$2000 and approximately seven to ten awards will be
made. The list of awardees below includes examples of
successful proposals for you to download.
How to apply All application materials must be in elec-
tronic format. Applicants and those writing letters of
recommendation are required to use pdf format, rather
than Word or some other application, to minimize diﬃ-
culties in ﬁle transfer. Applicants should send all mate-rials (except letters of recommendation) in a SINGLE
pdf ﬁle. Letters of recommendation should be sent sep-
arately by the referees in pdf format or in the text of
an e-mail; please include the FULL NAME OF APPLI-
CANT in recommendation letters.
Applicants must submit
1. a curriculum vitae (one page) 2. brief research pro-
posal including objectives, methods, signiﬁcance, and
schedule (max. three single-spaced pages including lit-
erature cited and any ﬁgures and tables) 3. budget and
budget justiﬁcation (1 page) 4. and arrange for two
letters of recommendation; one letter must be from the
student’s current graduate advisor.
The research proposal must clearly state the current
stage of the proposed research and the current year
and status of the student. PLEASE INCLUDE AP-
PLICANT’S CONTACT E-MAIL ADDRESS AT THE
TOP OF THE APPLICATION ITSELF. Both Masters
and Ph.D. students in their FIRST TWO YEARS are
eligible. Systematics is interpreted broadly to include
questions below and above the species level, molecular
and morphological approaches, and issues of pattern
and process. Funding is not limited to any particular
aspect of research, but rather is available for ﬁeld, mu-
seum/herbarium, and/or laboratory work.
Please email all application materials and queries to
SSB Awards Committee ssb-apps@life.uiuc.edu . IN
THE SUBJECT LINE OF THE E-MAIL, PLEASE IN-
DICATE “Student Research” FOLLOWED BY FIRST
INITIAL AND LAST NAME.
To be considered for this year’s award, application ma-
terials, including letters of recommendation, must be
received electronically no later than March 31, 2011.
– Sydney A. Cameron Assoc. Prof. Department of
Entomology and Program in Ecology, Evolution and
Conservation Biology University of Illinois 320 Morrill
Hall 505 S. Goodwin Ave. Urbana, IL 61801
ofc ph. 217-333-2340 lab ph 217-333-2170 cell ph 217
766-5631 scameron@life.illinois.edu
www.life.illinois.edu/scameron Sydney Cameron
<scameron@life.illinois.edu >
SSE TravelAwards
The Society for the Study of Evolution announces
awards for international travel, including International70 EvolDir February 1, 2011
Events awards and funding for SSE students/postocs
to attend the 2011 ESEB meeting.
http://www.evolutionsociety.org/-
awards International.asp Judy Stone
<jstone@colby.edu >
SynTax SystematicsResearchFund
SynTax and the Systematics Research Fund, oﬀered
jointly by the Linnean Society and the Systemat-
ics Association, are open for application. Please
follow one of the links below for more informa-
tion: http://www.systass.org/awards/srf.shtml,
http://www.systass.org/awards/syntax.shtml, or
http://linnean.org/
james.cotton@sanger.ac.uk
TravelAwards Vienna MASAMB
Dear ALL,
we would like to remind you that the deadline for Math-
ematical and Statistical Aspects of Molecular Biology
(MASAMB) workshop is coming up soon on the 15th
February.
Also note that we will award 20 grants of up to
250 Euros to PhD students and postdocs traveling to
MASAMB from non-Austrian institutions sponsored by
the WWTF (Wiener Wissenschafts-, Forschungs- und
Technologiefonds).
More details on the workshop, the abstract submission
and registration, can be found below and at
http://www.cibiv.at/workshops/masamb11/ Happy
New Year 2011 and looking forward to seeing you in
Vienna.
Carolin Kosiol and Arndt von Haeseler
—–
Mathematical and Statistical Aspects of Molecular Bi-
ology 21st annual MASAMB workshop
Vienna Biocenter 11/12 April 2011
Call for AbstractsAbstracts for Talks and Posters are invited for the 21st
annual MASAMB workshop which will come the ﬁrst
time to the continent and will be held at the Biocen-
ter in Vienna, Austria from the 11th to the 12th April
2011.
Bioinformatics and statistical genetics, twin themes of
the long-running series of annual MASAMB meetings,
have gained huge impetus from large-scale genome se-
quencing projects and development of high-throughput
biological assay systems, including gene-expression mi-
croarrays, next generation sequencing, proteomic and
metabolomic technologies. These immense data re-
sources, and the underlying complexities of molecular
and cell biology, provide exciting research opportunities
for numerate scientists.
With a strictly limited number of participants from
mathematics, statistics, computer science, bioinformat-
ics, biology and related ﬁelds, the MASAMB meet-
ings provide an intimate setting for exchange of ideas
in methodological and applied research. Research stu-
dents and scientists newly entering the ﬁeld of genomic
research are particularly welcome.
For more information, submission of abstracts and reg-
istration please go to:
http://www.cibiv.at/workshops/masamb11/ Likely
topics for sessions this year: Next Generation Sequenc-
ing Population Genetics RNA Bioinformatics Phy-
logeny and Comparative Genomics Systems Biology
Important dates: Registration opens: 15th December
2010 Abstract submission: 15th February 2011 Regis-
tration closes: 28th February 2011 Conference: 11th-
12th April 2011
—-
Arndt von Haeseler, Center for Integrative Bioinfor-
matics Vienna (CIBIV), Max F. Perutz Laborato-
ries, admin.cibiv@univie.ac.at Carolin Kosiol, Insti-
tute of Population Genetics, Vetmeduni Vienna, car-
olin.kosiol@vetmeduni.ac.at
Carolin Kosiol <carolin.kosiol@vetmeduni.ac.at >
Tuebingen ESEB TravelAwards
*ESEB Travel Award
*These awards are for young scientists (including stu-
dents) to attend the ESEB meeting in Tubingen in Au-
gust 2011 ( http://www.eseb2011.de/ ).February 1, 2011 EvolDir 71
The award will cover: 1. Support toward travel and
living expenses. 2. ESEB Registration fees (based on
early member registration fees).
Eligibility: Applications can be submitted by young sci-
entists at various stages of their professional career that
do not yet have a permanent position (e.g., Master and
PhD students, postdocs). Applicants must be ESEB
members (for becoming a member of ESEB, see http:/-
/www.eseb.org/ ). Proposals can be submitted several
times, but winners are not eligible for a second award
for a period of 5 years. They must submit an oral com-
munication or a poster to be eligible for the award.
How to apply: send you application by email to the
ESEB Travel Award Committee, c/o Dr. Martijn Egas
<C.J.M.Egas@uva.nl >. The application should be no
more than 2 pages long and include: name of the appli-
cant; budget, including sources of additional support;
an explanation of how attendance to the meeting will
further their professional goals; and a CV (preferably as
a single PDF-ﬁle). A support letter from the applicant
advisor/mentor is also required. Support letters should
be sent to the same email address (C.J.M.Egas@uva.nl)
by the applicant’s mentor or senior colleague.
Deadline: 11 February 2011 24:00 GMT.
Sincerely, Tad Kawecki Secretary, the European Society
for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB)
tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch
UAkron
SummerUndergraduateResearch
We invite undergraduate students to participate in a
summer 2011 Research Experiences for Undergradu-
ates (REU) Program at the University of Akron, spon-
sored by the National Science Foundation. This REU
site program supports collaborative research on “Ecol-
ogy and Evolution at the Urban-Rural Interface,” with
opportunities to investigate species, interactions, and
ecosystems within human dominated landscapes. Stu-
dents will be immersed in their own research projects
that are part of a larger, interactive team of students
and faculty. We oﬀer a stipend, housing, and support
for research supplies.
Review of applications will begin February 18, 2011.
Women and minorities are strongly encouraged to ap-
ply.For more information, and an application: visit
us on the web at http://www3.uakron.edu/biology/-
ﬁeldstation/reu.htm, contact the Program Director, Dr.
Randy Mitchell (330-972-5122 or rjm2@uakron.edu), or
write to Biology REU Program, Department of Biology,
The University of Akron, Akron, OH 44325-3908.
Dr. Randy Mitchell, Dr. Greg Smith
“Mitchell,Randall J” <rjm2@uakron.edu >
UBasel VolFieldAssist
TurtleEvolution
Field assistant in evolutionary ecology of European
pond turtles
We are looking for a voluntary ﬁeld assistant to par-
ticipate in a conservation project on European pond
turtles (Emys orbicularis) from mid April to mid July
2011 at the Research Station Petite Camargue Alsaci-
enne in France ( www.camargue.unibas.ch ).
The work will include caring for the about 80 pond tur-
tles living in the station’s outdoor enclosures, captur-
ing the turtles, observing breeding behaviour, locating
nests and collecting eggs for artiﬁcial incubation in the
lab. The applicant is expected to stay for the entire
ﬁeld season from mid April until mid July. Applicants
should preferably have some knowledge of French or
German. The work is planned as a student internship,
thus applicants must be students.
The ﬁeld site is situated in the nature reserve Petite
Camargue Alsacienne in France, about 10 km north of
Basel (Switzerland). We cannot cover travel expenses,
but we oﬀer free accommodation and use of the infras-
tructure at the research station.
The position will be ﬁlled as soon as possible. Appli-
cations should be in English, French or German, and
should include, in one single pdf or word ﬁle, a cur-
riculum vitae and a letter of motivation. Please pro-
vide names and email addresses of two persons who are
willing to write a letter of recommendation, and send
applications by email to the following address:
PD Dr. Valentin Amrhein Zoological Institute Univer-
sity of Basel pca.recherche@orange.fr
valentin amrhein <pca.recherche@orange.fr >72 EvolDir February 1, 2011
UBern VolunteerFieldAssist
BirdEvolution
Expenses paid ﬁeld assistant positions to study evolu-
tion of family living and cooperative breeding in birds
We are seeking additional applicants for ﬁeld research
volunteers for the upcoming breeding season (end of
March-July 2011) to join our ﬁeld project investigat-
ing evolution of family living and cooperative breeding
in birds. The study population is located near Guadix
(Granada, Southern Spain).
Our project researches the shift in parental investment
patterns in kin-group living and cooperative breeding
birds. The project is based at the University of Bern
(Switzerland) (PI Michael Griesser, PhD students Eme-
line Mourocq & Gretchen Wagner) and is in collabora-
tion with Prof. Manuel Soler (University of Granada).
The work of the volunteers will be to help in carrying
out ﬁeld experiments, locating nests, assisting the PhD
students in catching and banding of birds, and data
management. This work will give insight into exciting
experimental ﬁeldwork and will be carried out in scenic
semi-arid habitats close to the Sierra Nevada. We will
work 5-6 days per week in the ﬁeld depending on the
work load. Observe that temperatures at the beginning
of the ﬁeld season can be below zero degree, and later
on in the breeding season be easily above 35C.
Qualiﬁcations: (1) BSc or MSc in Biology, Behavioural
Ecology or similar qualiﬁcation (2) Previous ﬁeld ex-
perience (3) Ability to work in small teams and socia-
ble personality (4) Knowledge in observing & handling
birds is a plus (5) Driving licence would be helpful (6)
ﬂuent in English (7) Basic knowledge of Spanish would
be helpful.
This is an expenses paid ﬁeld assistant position, cover-
ing accommodation, food and travel expenses of up to
300 Euro to and from the study site.
Applications - including a CV, a letter of motivation (1
page) and the name of two referees - should be send to:
Emeline Mourocq: emeline.mourocq@iee.unibe.ch and
Gretchen Wagner: gretchen.wagner@iee.unibe.ch
Applications received until 1st February 2011 will be
given full consideration.
http://www.iee.unibe.ch/content/staﬀ/griesser/-
index eng.html http://www.iee.unibe.ch/content/-staﬀ/mourocq gretchen.wagner@iee.unibe.ch
UNottingham VolFieldAssist
ButterﬂyEvolution
Field assistant in the evolutionary ecology of the Sinai
Baton Blue butterﬂy
The Sinai Baton Blue (Pseudophilotes sinaicus) is a
Critically Endangered butterﬂy endemic to just 10 km?
of the St Katherine Protectorate, one of the great his-
toric places of the world. Its only host plant, the Sinai
Thyme (Thymus decussatus), is itself a near-endemic,
occurring only on mountaintops above 1800 m. The
butterﬂy is on the wing in May and June, when the
plant is ﬂowering. Eggs are laid on ﬂower buds, upon
which the larvae feed.
We are looking for a volunteer ﬁeld assistant to par-
ticipate in this conservation project from the begin-
ning of April to mid July 2011, to be based at
Fox Camp in the town of St Catherine ( http://-
www.desertfoxcamp.com/ ).
The work will involve 4 days per week camping in the
high mountains with a Bedouin guide (who will cook
meals), followed by 3 days back in camp to recuper-
ate. You will measure butterﬂy and thyme phenology
in various patches of the host plant, and carry out ex-
periments to determine the role of grazing and nutrients
on plant and butterﬂy growth and development.
We cannot cover travel expenses, but there are cheap
ﬂights to Sharm el Sheikh, especially by Thomson
Flights. We probably will be able to oﬀer free accom-
modation and food.
The position will be ﬁlled as soon as possible. Ap-
plications should be in English, and should include,
in one single pdf or word ﬁle, a curriculum vitae
and a letter explaining why you would like to take
part in this project. Please provide names and email
addresses of two people willing to write a letter of
recommendation, and send applications by email to
Dr Francis Gilbert at the following address: fran-
cis.gilbert@nottingham.ac.uk
Dr Francis Gilbert www.nottingham.ac.uk/ ˜ plzfg
(+44)(0)115 951 3215
Francis Gilbert <Francis.Gilbert@nottingham.ac.uk >February 1, 2011 EvolDir 73
UTexas Austin PlantAdaptation
Summer Research Opportunities in Plant Biology The
University of Texas at Austin Switchgrass Summer Re-
search Program is an opportunity for students to partic-
ipate in mentored independent research on the biology
of switchgrass. The program is funded through the NSF
Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) pro-
gram and is associated with ongoing interdisciplinary
work on the ecology, physiology, and genomic responses
of switchgrass (Panicum virgatum), a potential biofuel
crop, to future climate change. Summer students will
be immersed in research and learn basic and applied
biology through active participation. As part of our
research team, you will contribute to group research
projects, design your own short research project, and
present your work in an end-of-summer student sym-
posium.
Students in the program will work as part of a research
group headed by one of the following UT Faculty:
Dr. Tom Juenger ( http://w3.biosci.utexas.edu/-
juenger lab/), Dr. Christine Hawkes ( http:/-
/www.biosci.utexas.edu/ib/faculty/hawkes/lab/ ), Dr.
Tim Keitt ( http://www.keittlab.org/ ).
SCHEDULE AND SUPPORT Each REU position is
supported for ten weeks. The program runs from the
ﬁrst week in June until the ﬁrst week of August 2011.
Students will be housed in a UT dormitory, and the
costs of the dormitory and meal plan are included in
the program. Each student will be awarded a stipend
of $4,500 for the summer, and some funds will be avail-
able to help defray the cost of traveling to Austin.
WHO SHOULD APPLY? Students in their sophomore
or junior years of college, with strong credentials and
majoring in ecology, biology, genetics, or related dis-
cipline are encouraged to apply. Participants must be
U.S. citizens or permanent residents. Students must
also be prepared for ﬁeldwork in hot and humid condi-
tions.
APPLICATIONS The application deadline is March 15.
Applications should consist of a single pdf ﬁle contain-
ing a cover letter describing your experience, interests,
future career plans, and a copy of your transcripts.
The applicant should also see that two letters of rec-
ommendation are submitted on their behalf. All ma-
terials should be sent via email to: Dr. Tom Juenger(tjuenger@austin.utexas.edu)
Tom Juenger University of Texas at Austin Section of
Integrative Biology 2401 Speedway Blvd. Austin, Texas
78712 512-232-5751 tjuenger@austin.utexas.edu
“Juenger, Thomas E” <tjuenger@austin.utexas.edu >
UVirginia
UndergraduateSummerResearch
ANNOUNCING: MLBS Summer 2011 Field Course
and REU Opportunities Mountain Lake Biological Sta-
tion MLBS.org Dear Colleagues and Friends, Moun-
tain Lake Biological Station (University of Virginia) is
pleased to announce its summer program of ﬁeld-based
undergraduate and graduate-level credit courses oﬀered
by nationally recruited instructors, and its NSF REU
undergraduate research internship program, now in its
19th year. Work at MLBS focuses on ﬁeld-based ecol-
ogy, evolution, physiology, and behavior. Learn more
about the programs or complete an on-line application.
Courses web page:
http://mlbs.org/courses.html REU web page: http:/-
/mlbs.org/REU.html Please forward this information
to colleagues or students you think might be interested.
Thanks for your help! Best wishes, and Happy New
Year from all of us at Mountain Lake. **** Learn all
about Mountain Lake opportunities at MLBS.org ****
And don’t forget to join us on Facebook **** Apologies
for duplicate mailings.
Eric S. Nagy, Ph.D. Associate Director Mountain Lake
Biological Station & Department of Biology University
of Virginia tel: +1-434-243-4989 / cel: +1-434-906-
3122 eml: enagy@virginia.edu / skype: ﬂightofthesan-
dor web:
virginia.edu/biology/faculty/nagy.htm / mlbs.org
enagy@virginia.edu
Video Analysis Software
Dear All,
Our lab is looking for video analysis software that is rel-
atively low-cost ( ˆA 1000 æ) or even free, that is able to74 EvolDir February 1, 2011
detect events, (like a bird arriving at a nest), in video we
have recorded in the ﬁeld. The software would need to
ignore camera motion and background movement (our
cameras are usually attached to a tree branch, and the
camera, as well as leaves, etc. are moving), and simply
recognize when signiﬁcantly diﬀerent events occur.
Does anyone know of a program that would be useful for
this, or know someone who would be able to program
something capable of doing this? It seems that this
would be a task that could be programmed in Python
or Fiji, or that Matlab would be able to do it, but we
dont have expertise in these areas.
Any advice would be greatly appreciated.
Many thanks.
Gretchen Wagner
PhD Student
University of Bern Institute of Ecology and Evolution
Baltzerstrasse 6 3012 Bern Switzerland
gretchen.wagner@iee.unibe.chYeast asparagine transport mutant
Hi,
Does anyone know of an available Saccharomyces cere-
visiae asparagine transport mutant?
Many thanks, Alex Wilson
Alex C. C. Wilson, PhD Assistant Professor, Depart-
ment of Biology, University of Miami Board of the
International Aphid Genomics Consortium ~Regional
Representative for The Americas ~www.aphidbase.com
acwilson@bio.miami.edu http://www.bio.miami.edu/-
acwilson/home.htm 1301 Memorial Drive, Coral
Gables, FL 33146, USA. Cox Science Building, Room
253 Lab: 305 284 2003 - Fax: 305 284 3039
acwilson@bio.miami.edu
PostDocs
AarhusU TumorEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Almeria Spain EvolutionPollination . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
ChicagoBotanicGarden PlantSpeciesDistributions . 76
ClemsonU MarineLarvalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
CornellU ComputationalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Donana Spain 4 ClimateAdapatation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
EmoryU VertebrateVisionEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
Finland ForestPopulations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
GifsurYvette MaizeGenomeVariability . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Hannover Germany TrichoplaxEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 79
Harvard HIV transmission modeling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
KansasStateU EvolutionThermotolerance . . . . . . . . . . 80
MaxPlanck GuppyGenome . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
Montpellier PlantGenomics extended . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
NatlInstGenetics MishimaJapan GenomeEvolution 82
Norway ComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Portugal Celegans ExperimentalEvolution . . . . . . . . . 83
RutgersU PlantMolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
ScrippsInst MarineEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . 84
Spain EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85SunYatsenU EvolutionReproduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
UArizona EvolutionMulticellularity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
UArizona PlantMolEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
UCalifornia Berkeley ComputationalBiol . . . . . . . . . . 87
UCalifornia Berkeley EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . 87
UCalifornia Riverside RiceBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . 88
UCDavis 2 Modelling MosquitoBorne Diseases . . . . . 88
UFlorida EvolutionaryGenomics Bioinformatics . . . 89
ULiverpool InfectionEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
UManchester TheoEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
UMassAmherst DarwinFellow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
UNorthCarolina ChapelHill MaleMateChoice . . . . . . 91
USheﬃeld FitnessEvolutionSperm . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
UToronto EvolutionaryBiol 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
UValencia ViralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
UWiscMadison Conservation GlobalFreshwaterBiodi-
versity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
UWisconsin Madison PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . 93February 1, 2011 EvolDir 75
AarhusU TumorEvolution
Postdoc at the Bioinformatics Research Centre, Aarhus
University
A postdoc position is available immediately or from as
soon as possible.
The ideal candidate has a background in mathemati-
cal biology with knowledge of probability theory and
some statistics. Knowledge about population genet-
ics and biology is good, but not essential. The work
to be done relates to probabilistic modeling of tumor
cell evolution using birth-death processes and some
techniques/concepts from population genetics. The
basic idea is to describe how a population of tumor
cells grows/evolves and accumulates genomic changes
over time. For this birth-death processes and Markov
Chains are used. The work involves mathematical
derivation of equations and properties, development
of statistical tools for analysis of real data (such as
MCMC, ABC, or Importance Sampling methods), and
implementation of simulation and analysis tools. The
data to be analyzed consists of DNA sequences and
other genomic data from real tumors.
The position is for one year, but it might be possible
to extend the position for another year depending on
funding.
For further information contact Carsten Wiuf,
carsten.wiuf@gmail.com or visit my home page http:/-
/www.birc.au.dk/˜wiuf . The theory and modeling de-
veloped in Refs 30 and 34 on my home page have direct
relationship to the work to be done. To apply, send me
your CV and publication list and a few words about
your previous experiences and expectations.
Carsten Wiuf <carsten.wiuf@gmail.com >
Almeria Spain EvolutionPollination
It is possible to apply for three diﬀerent Postdoctoral
positions to work on the evolutionary ecology of polli-
nation at the Estaci´ on Experimental de Zonas ´Aridas
(EEZA, CSIC) in Almeria, Spain. The centre is rel-
atively small and a bit out of the way, but the re-
search group is actively collaborating with researchersin France, Sweden and Australia and living standards
in Almeria are high, with plenty of tapas bars in town,
a beautiful coastline and Sierra Nevada just two hours
away.
Application deadlines for the diﬀerent positions vary,
but because I will be travelling to Antarctica on Jan-
uary 12th with very little email contact during the (ap-
prox) ten days that I will need to reach our base camp
(where I will have once again access to email), it would
be best if candidates interested in applying for these
positions contact me as soon as possible.
The main features of the diﬀerent positions are de-
scribed below
Juan de la Cierva (JC) fellowship This 3-year fellowship
is intended for promising young researchers, who have
completed their PhD after September 1, 2007. (Those
who have done their military service, given birth etc
after their PhD may have ﬁnished a bit earlier) The
fellowship provides only a salary for the selected can-
didate, and research must be funded by the group that
the candidate joins. In practice, this means that (unless
the candidate can obtain independent research funds),
s/he would have to work (broadly) on how pollinators
perceive colours, and the implications of colour vision
for the evolution of plant-pollinator relationships.
JAE fellowship This 3-year fellowship is very similar
to the JC program, except that it is intended for re-
searchers with a proven record. Candidates must have
completed their PhD within the last 10 years.
Ram´ on y Cajal (RyC) fellowship This is a ﬁve-year
fellowship intended for candidates with a proven re-
search record. It is very competitive, and candi-
dates must have completed their PhD in the last 10
years. Other than the salary, successful candidates are
awarded 15.000 Euros to fund their research during the
ﬁrst year, and they are supposed to obtain independent
funds to complete their research project. In practice,
this means that proposals for RyC fellowships are more
ﬂexible, and candidates interested in any area of polli-
nation ecology should feel free to contact me.
Candidates interested in applying to any of these grants
should contact me, sending a copy of their CV and a
couple of lines about their research interests.
Miguel A. Rodr´ ıguez-Giron´ es Estaci´ on Experimen-
tal de Zonas ´Aridas, CSIC Carretera de Sacramento
s/n La Ca˜ nada de San Urbano, 04120 Almeria,
Spain rgirones@eeza.csic.es http://www.eeza.csic.es/-
eeza/personales/rgirones.aspx rgirones@eeza.csic.es76 EvolDir February 1, 2011
ChicagoBotanicGarden
PlantSpeciesDistributions
Postdoctoral Research Associate in Species Distribu-
tion Modeling
The Plant Science and Conservation department at the
Chicago Botanic Garden is seeking a Post-Doctoral Re-
search Associate to develop geospatial models to ad-
dress key questions about the relationships between
species ranges of rare plants and cactus and climate
change. The successful applicant will develop species
distribution models that generate predictions of species
range shifts at both the local and continental scale, uti-
lizing NatureServe data. Ground-truthing a substantial
percentage of the models generated, particularly in the
inter-mountain region of the Western United States,
will also be required. As the project proceeds, and
as data availability permits, integrating population dy-
namic models of key species may also be undertaken.
The applicant will be expected to participate in active
conservation program, and teach one GIS related course
per year.
A background in GIS/RS and geospatial model-
ing/spatial statistics is required. Experience with Max-
Ent or other species distribution modeling is ideal,
and familiarity with or a strong interest in popula-
tion modeling is highly desirable. Proﬁciency in spo-
ken and written English is an absolute necessity. Given
the multidisciplinary nature of the research, a highly
self-directed, creative and self-motivated individual is
sought. The applicant will be expected to publish peer-
reviewed journal articles and eﬀectively communicate
with a wide range of scientists, conservation profession-
als, agency personnel and policymakers. This position
is funded for three years.
Please send curriculum vitae, a statement of profes-
sional interests including relevant coursework and expe-
rience, and arrange for three (3) letters of recommenda-
tion to: Pati Vitt, Chicago Botanic Garden, 1000 Lake
Cook Road, Glencoe, IL 60022. Closing date: January
21, 2011.
nzerega@chicagobotanic.orgClemsonU MarineLarvalEvolution
Postdoctoral Research Position - Marine larval physiol-
ogy and evolution
A postdoctoral position is available immediately to
study developmental, biochemical, physiological, and
ecological responses of marine invertebrate larvae to
temperature in the laboratory of Amy Moran, De-
partment of Biological Sciences, Clemson University
(http://www.clemson.edu/˜moran ). Research will fo-
cus on the role of larval thermal environment in deter-
mining larval success, connectivity among populations,
and species range limits. A Ph.D. is required for this
position, and outstanding experience in ecological or
comparative physiology, marine biology, molecular bi-
ology, or a related ﬁeld is also required. Preference will
also be given to applicants with expertise in rearing lar-
val stages of marine organisms. Experience in molecu-
lar, physiological, and biochemical techniques, includ-
ing biochemical and enzyme assays and/or analysis of
gene expression, would also be valuable. Applications
from individuals with a background in integrative bi-
ology are especially welcomed. Review of applications
will begin immediately and continue until a candidate
is selected. The start date is ﬂexible but should be
within 6 months. Primary consideration will be given
to applications received before March 1, 2011.
To apply for this position, please send a cover let-
ter, statement of research interests and goals, CV, and
names of three persons willing to provide letters of
recommendation to: moran@clemson.edu (email pre-
ferred) or to
Dr. Amy Moran Department of Biological Sciences 32
Long Hall, Clemson University Clemson, SC 29631
Clemson University is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Aﬃrmative Action employer committed to
increasing the diversity of the faculty, staﬀ and
students.
Amy Moran <MORAN@clemson.edu >
CornellU ComputationalGenomicsFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 77
Postdoctoral position: Functional/Computational Ge-
nomics / Drosophila gut microbiome Cornell University
Angela Douglas, Brian Lazzaro, and Andrew Clark
A postdoctoral position is available immediately to
work with the research groups of Drs. Angela Douglas,
Brian Lazzaro and Andy Clark at Cornell University,
joining a group of investigators using integrated com-
putational and empirical approaches to tackle current
problems in Drosophila nutritional genomics.
The research project investigates the impacts of resi-
dent gut microbiota on host nutrition. The speciﬁc role
of this position is to infer the impact of perturbating the
gut microbiota on Drosophila gene regulatory networks,
by analysis of next-generation transcriptome data, ex-
pression microarrays and qRT-PCR experiments.
The ideal candidate will have a strong quantitative
background, including substantial programming expe-
rience of expression microarrays and/or next-gen se-
quences. Candidates who combine this expertise with
relevant experimental skills are preferred, but bioin-
formaticians with a track-record and commitment to
team-working with experimental colleagues are also
strongly encouraged to apply
Our three laboratories are part of the broader popula-
tion genomics community at Cornell, organized cohe-
sively through the Cornell Center for Comparative and
Population Genomics ( http://www.3cpg.cornell.edu ).
Competitive salaries commensurate with experience
and skills will be oﬀered, as well as generous beneﬁts.
Interested applicants should send a PDF with CV
and contact information for three references to
aes326@cornell.edu. Informal inquiries are welcome.
Angela E. Douglas Daljit S. and Elaine Sarkaria Pro-
fessor of Insect Physiology and Toxicology Department
of Entomology 5134 Comstock Hall, Cornell Univer-
sity Ithaca, NY 14853 Tel. +1-607-255-8539 Email
aes326@cornell.edu http://www.angeladouglaslab.com
http://www.sarkaria-institute.org Brian P. Lazzaro
Department of Entomology 3125 Comstock Hall Cor-
nell University Ithaca, NY 14853 Tel: 607-255-
3254 Email: bl89@cornell.edu http://entomology-
lamp.cit.cornell.edu/lazzaro/ index.html
Andrew Clark Department of Molecular Biology and
Genetics 227 Biotech, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY
14853 Tel: 607-255-0527 Email: ac347@cornell.edu
http://mbg.cornell.edu/cals/mbg/ research/clark-lab
ac347@cornell.eduDonana Spain 4 ClimateAdapatation
Do˜A±ana Biological Station, Spain (EBD-CSIC). Two
Genomics positions available.
We are seeking to hire two researchers (PhD de-
gree is required) in Genomics, under the 7th Frame-
work Programme- European Project ECOGENES
ˆ aAdapting to Global Change in the Mediterranean
hotspot: from genes to ecosystemsˆ a.
The characteristics of the oﬀered positions, the
scientists responsible, and the candidateˆ as pro-
ﬁles can be consulted in: http://www.ebd.csic.es/-
ecogenes/news.html Duration of the positions is 30
months/person, starting tentatively in April or May
2011. Successful candidates will be fully participating
members of the relevant Department at Do ˜A±ana Bi-
ological Station; they will be expected to participate in
running projects, fundraising as well as dissemination
and support in their respective areas of expertise.
Interested candidates can contact the project coordina-
tor, Juan Jos ˜Ac/circlecopyrtNegro: coordinacion@ebd.csic.es and
send him before mid February 2011, in advance of the
oﬃcial application process: a cover letter, a curricu-
lum vitae, and a short (1-3 pages) description of past
research accomplishments and future research plans.
—-
Do˜A±ana Biological Station, Spain (EBD-CSIC). Two
Ecological Modelling positions available.
We are seeking to hire two researchers (PhD de-
gree is required) in Ecological Modelling, under the
7th Framework Programme- European Project ECO-
GENES ˆ aAdapting to Global Change in the Mediter-
ranean hotspot: from genes to ecosystemsˆ a.
The characteristics of the oﬀered positions, the
scientists responsible, and the candidateˆ as pro-
ﬁles can be consulted in: http://www.ebd.csic.es/-
ecogenes/news.html Duration of the positions is 30
months/person, starting tentatively in April or May
2011. Successful candidates will be fully participating
members of the relevant Department at Do ˜A±ana Bi-
ological Station; they will be expected to participate in
running projects, fundraising as well as dissemination
and support in their respective areas of expertise.
Interested candidates can contact the project coordina-
tor, Juan Jos ˜Ac/circlecopyrtNegro: coordinacion@ebd.csic.es and78 EvolDir February 1, 2011
send him before mid February 2011, in advance of the
oﬃcial application process: a cover letter, a curricu-
lum vitae, and a short (1-3 pages) description of past
research accomplishments and future research plans.
Bego ˜A±a Arrizabalaga <bego@ebd.csic.es >
EmoryU VertebrateVisionEvolution
Postdoctoral positions are available to work on molecu-
lar genetics and evolution of dim-light and color vision.
For the last two decades, we have been studying the
molecular genetics and evolution of dim-light and color
vision in a diverse range of species, from ﬁsh to human.
We are currently cloning the opsin genes of various
deep-sea ﬁshes, including lampﬁsh, loosejaw, scabbard-
ﬁsh, thornyhead, and viperﬁsh, which live at the depths
of 200-4,000m. Among these, the lampﬁsh and viper-
ﬁsh emit bioluminescence at ~480 nm and the loosejaw
at~480 and ~700 nm. We plan to explore three features
of visual pigments: 1) the molecular and chemical bases
of the spectral tuning in visual pigments; 2) exploration
of adaptive evolution by engineering ancestral pigments
and performing mutagenesis analyses; and 3) coevolu-
tion of paralogous pigments in each of the deep-sea ﬁsh
species. In experiments, molecular/cellular methods,
such as construction and screening of DNA and cDNA
libraries, DNA sequencing, mutagenesis, and transfec-
tion of cultured cells are heavily used. We also conduct
QM/MM analyses in theoretical chemistry to study the
chemical mechanisms of adaptive evolution.
Selected references:
Yokoyama, S., Tada, T., Zhang, H. and Britt, L. (2008)
Elucidation of phenotypic adaptations: molecular anal-
yses of dim-light vision proteins in vertebrates. PNAS
105: 13480-13485.
Yokoyama, S. (2008) Evolution of dim-light and color
vision pigments. Annu. Rev. Genomics Hum. Genet.
9: 259-282.
Tada, T., Altun, A. and Yokoyama, S. (2009) Evolu-
tionary replacement of UV vision by violet vision in
ﬁsh. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 106: 17457-17462.
Altun, A., Yokoyama, S. and Morokuma, K. (2009)
Color tuning in short wavelength-sensitive human and
mouse visual pigments: Ab initio quantum mechan-
ics/molecular mechanics studies. J. Phys. Chem. A
113: 11685-11692.Currently, we are looking for recent graduates who are
well versed in experimental molecular biology/genetics.
If you are interested, please send your CV to Shozo
Yokoyama (syokoya@emory.edu).
Shozo Yokoyama, Ph. D. Asa G. Candler Professor
of Biology Department of Biology Emory University
1510 Clifton Road Rollins Research Center Atlanta, GA
30322 Tel:404-727-5379 FAX:404-727-2880
syokoya@emory.edu
Finland ForestPopulations
Postdoctoral position at the Finnish Forest Research
Institute
The Finnish Forest Research Institute (Metla) an-
nounces an open postdoctoral researcher position for
the period 01.03.2011-28.02.2013 (starting time nego-
tiable) at Metla’s Suonenjoki Research Unit ( http://-
www.metla.ﬁ/su/index-en.htm ).
The successful candidate will work in the ongoing re-
search project “Individual health and dynamics of nat-
ural populations” funded jointly by the Academy of
Finland and Metla. The international project is led
by Doc. Otso Huitu (Metla, Finland), including as
members Prof. Heikki Henttonen (Metla, Finland),
Prof. Nigel Yoccoz (Univ. Tromssa, Norway), and
Prof. Tapio Mappes (Univ. Jyv¨ askyl¨ a, Finland), to-
gether with a number of expert collaborators.
The project addresses the roles of food quantity and
quality as determinants of the physiological and im-
munological health state of individuals and how vari-
ation in these factors predisposes individuals to par-
asite and pathogen infection and ultimately reﬂects
onto population dynamics. As model species we use
the ﬁeld vole, Microtus agrestis, which in northern
Europe exhibits pronounced multiannual population
cycles. Tasks inherent to the position include plan-
ning and partaking in large-scale, year-round moni-
toring and experimentation in ﬁeld conditions, labo-
ratory work, data analyses and writing of scientiﬁc
manuscripts. The candidate is expected to participate
in the supervision of one or more Ph. D. and M. Sc.
students during the funding period.
The applicant is required to have a Ph. D. or equivalent
degree in ecology with prior experience in immunolog-
ical, physiological or nutritional ecology and/or plant-
herbivore interactions. Active contribution to theFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 79
project in the applicant’s own ﬁeld of expertise is es-
sential. The applicant must be willing and able to
travel and to work with ﬂexible hours, occasionally un-
der harsh ﬁeld conditions. A valid driver’s licence is
essential.
Salary is based on the incentive system terms set by
Metla, with a grade of 7-8 (2405.63-2587.31 ˆAeuro
/month) depending on the competence of the person.
In addition, an incentive part of the salary is paid,
which may at maximum be 50 % of the salary level.
To apply, please send 1) a letter stating your research
interests, 2) your CV and 3) the contact information
of two references. Applications are to be submitted by
e-mail to otso.huitu@metla.ﬁ.
The deadline for applications is the 31st of January
2011 at 16:00.
For further information, contact researcher Otso Huitu,
e-mail: otso.huitu@metla.ﬁ, tel. +358 50 391 4917
Otso.Huitu@metla.ﬁ
GifsurYvette
MaizeGenomeVariability
Background The “Institut national de la Recherche
Agronomique” (INRA) is starting a new ANR-funded
project to study genome structural variation in maize.
This project will be based on the assembly of whole
genome shotgun datasets from a European maize line.
This work will be complementary to other sequencing
international eﬀorts on other maize lines. The main
goal will be to characterize line-speciﬁc genomic re-
gions in order to build a maize pangenome containing
European-speciﬁc sequences. This resource will be cru-
cial to describe the extent of maize structural variation
and its contribution to agronomical traits.
Job description A post-doctoral position is immediately
available at the UMR de G´ en´ etique V´ eg´ etale ( http:/-
/moulon.inra.fr, Gif-sur-Yvette, 10km from Paris) to
work on whole-genome assembly of maize genome.
Datasets will include sequence data from Roche/454
and Solexa platforms. The main goal will be to discover
and characterize regions of the maize genome that are
speciﬁc to a European line. These genomic regions will
be included in a maize pangenomic sequence and will
serve as a resource to build a maize Comparative Ge-
nomic Hybridization array in close collaboration with
the Nimblegen company and the P. Schnable lab inAmes (Iowa, USA). The successful candidate will work
with two bioinformatics groups at INRA and Biogemma
and will beneﬁt expertise from the French National
Sequencing facility (“Centre National de S´ equen¸ cage”
(CNS), Evry).
Proﬁle: - A PhD in bioinformatics or related area -
Knowledge of next generation sequencing technologies
and the data produced by these platforms - Strong
background in sequence analysis and genome assem-
bly - Advanced skill in the use of Perl or a comparable
scripting language to program, modify, analyze, and
organize data - Experience with cluster computing
The duration of the position will be at least 2 years and
is funded by ANR
To apply: send by email a CV, statement of research
interests, and the names and contact information for
three references.
Applications and inquiries should be addressed to:
Johann Joets, PhD Head of the lab Bioinformatics
Group joets@moulon.inra.fr
AND St´ ephane Nicolas, PhD CNV maize project PI
snicolas@moulon.inra.fr
Hannover Germany
TrichoplaxEvolution
Postdoctoral and PhD position available immediately
in the Schierwater lab at TiHo Hannover (Germany) for
a motivated young investigator to undertake molecular
genetic studies on Trichoplax and other placozoans. In-
terest in fundamental questions of evolutionary adapta-
tion, development, comparative genomics and system-
atics is essential. Experience with molecular systemat-
ics and genetics and interest also in ﬁeld work is desir-
able. The successful candidate will have ample oppor-
tunity to pursue additional projects within the broad
molecular ecology/evolutionary genetics scope of the in-
stitute. Our setting and facilities for marine biological
research on placozoans are outstanding.
Please email CV, brief statement of research interests
and experience.
and list of 3 references to Bernd Schier-
water (bernd.schierwater@trichoplax.com ;
bernd.schierwater@ecolevol.de).
Bernd Schierwater80 EvolDir February 1, 2011
ITZ Ecology & Evolution
TiHo Hannover
Buenteweg 17d
30559 Hannover
Germany
www.ecolevol.de . bernd schierwater
<bernd.schierwater@ecolevol.de >
Harvard HIV transmission modeling
Postdoctoral Position in HIV Transmission Dynamics-
Modeling Harvard School of Public Health (HSPH)
One postdoctoral fellow is sought to join the CEPAC
(Cost Eﬀectiveness of Preventing AIDSComplications)
Dynamic modeling team centered at Harvard School
of Public Health and Massachusetts General Hospital.
The CEPAC Dynamic model is a stochastic, agent-
based model of HIV transmission that uses the CEPAC
model of HIV natural history as a basis for the trans-
mission from infected individuals over time. A pro-
totype version of the model already exists; the post-
doctoral fellow will test, expand, and apply the model
to answer important questions about the transmission-
dynamic consequences of interventions to prevent and
treat HIV infection. The best-qualiﬁed individual for
this position will have experience in several of the fol-
lowing domains: excellent C++ programming ability,
knowledge of cost-eﬀectiveness modeling, knowledge
of transmission-dynamic modeling, knowledge of HIV
treatment and prevention policy questions.
The individual will work at the Department of Epi-
demiology at HSPH, located within an HIV epidemiol-
ogy research group (PI: George Seage) and will have
the opportunity to interact with colleagues in the
Center for Communicable Disease Dynamics ( http:/-
/ccdd.hsph.harvard.edu ) as well as other parts of the
school. The project will be in close collaboration with
the CEPACr esearch group at the Program in HIV Clin-
ical Epidemiology and Outcomes Research at the Har-
vard Center for AIDS Research and Massachusetts Gen-
eral Hospital (PI: Kenneth Freedberg). This position
is funded for two years. Interested individuals should
email a statement of purpose, a CV, and contact infor-
mation for two references to Project Director, Alethea
McCormick at AMCCORMI@hsph.harvard.edu.
Marc Lipsitch, DPhil Professor of EpidemiologyDirector, Center for Communicable Disease Dy-
namics Harvard School of Public Health http://-
www.hsph.harvard.edu/faculty/marc-lipsitch/ http://-
ccdd.hsph.harvard.edu (617) 432-4559
<mlipsitc@hsph.harvard.edu >
mlipsitch@gmail.com
KansasStateU
EvolutionThermotolerance
2 Postdoctoral Positions in Genomics and Physiology
of Thermotolerance Adaptation at Kansas State Uni-
versity and The University of Florida
Local adaptation to climate is common among plants
and ectotherms as evidenced by consistent latitudinal
and ﬁne- scale geographic clines in thermotolerance. As
climates change in both yearly averages and in the fre-
quency of extreme events it is increasingly important to
understand the potential for thermotolerance evolution.
This project will address the following questions: What
are the naturally segregating genomic regions that af-
fect standing variation in cold tolerance? What are the
biochemical and physiological mechanisms that under-
lie the evolution of cold tolerance? How does standing
genetic variation modify these mechanisms to produce
variation in whole- organism phenotypes? Two post-
doctoral positions are available to join a collaborative
research project that integrates the genetic and physi-
ological mechanisms underlying cold adaptation in the
model fruit ﬂy, Drosophila melanogaster.
These positions are part of a multi-investigator
project lead by Ted Morgan at Kansas State
University ( www.ksu.edu/morganlab ) and Dan
Hahn at The University of Florida (ent-
nemdept.uﬂ.edu/hahn/lab/danhahn.htm), and will
be performed in collaboration with Art Edison at
The University of Florida ( http://edison.mbi.uﬂ.edu/ )
and David Allison at the University of Alabama -
Birmingham ( http://www.soph.uab.edu/ssg/people/-
davidallison ). Both of the positions will be highly
collaborative and integrative in nature, but one posi-
tion will be housed in the Division of Biology at Kansas
State University and one position will be housed in the
Department of Entomology and Nematology at The
University of Florida.
Preference will be given to candidates with a strong
background in evolutionary biology and/or physiology,February 1, 2011 EvolDir 81
and training in one or more of the following areas:
quantitative genetics, molecular biology, molecular ge-
netics, genomics, proteomics, and metabolic biochem-
istry/physiology. Activities in the Morgan lab will in-
clude high- throughput quantitative genetic and ge-
nomic studies of natural variation in cold tolerance,
while activities in the Hahn lab will investigate the
downstream consequences of this genetic variation on
whole-organism physiology and performance. Both po-
sitions will also require the analysis of data, the prepa-
ration of manuscripts, the mentoring of undergraduate
research assistants, public outreach, and the participa-
tion in workshops on career development. The speciﬁc
details of each position will vary slightly depending on
the lab. Finally, there will also be considerable oppor-
tunity for individuals to develop new research directions
including GxE and comparative studies of thermotoler-
ance outside Drosophila melanogaster.
Applicants who are focused on evolution and quan-
titative genomics should contact Ted Morgan (tjmor-
gan@ksu.edu), while applicants focused on physiology
and organismal performance, functional “omics”, and
metabolic network reconstruction should contact Dan
Hahn (dahahn@uﬂ.edu). To apply, applicants should
send a CV, a letter stating speciﬁc research interests,
a summary of research accomplishments and future re-
search objectives, and the names and contact informa-
tion for three professional references as a single pdf ﬁle
to Morgan or Hahn at the email addresses above. Re-
view of applications will begin January 31 and continue
until the position is ﬁlled. The start date is negotiable.
Background check is required.
KSU & UF are equal opportunity employers that ac-
tively seek diversity among their employees.
Theodore Morgan Division of Biology Kansas State
University 116 Ackert Hall Manhattan, KS 66506 of-
ﬁce: 785.532.6126 lab: 785.532.6074 fax: 785.532.6653
Email: tjmorgan@ksu.edu www.ksu.edu/morganlab
iChat A/V: theodore morgan@MAC
tjmorgan@ksu.edu
MaxPlanck GuppyGenome
Postdoctoral research opportunity in bioinformatics
analysis of guppy whole genome sequencing
The Trinidadian guppy, Poecilia reticulata, represents
one of the best vertebrate models for the study ofhow phenotypic variation within a population is linked
to adaptation to speciﬁc environmental conditions.
Guppy male ornamental patterns provide an instructive
example of male advantageous traits that are inherited
in a sex-linked manner. We have previously established
a dense genetic map of the guppy, and are currently as-
sembling and annotating the guppy transcriptome. Re-
cently we embarked on guppy whole-genome analysis
by next-generation DNA sequencing (Illumina). This
project will be fundamental to our understanding of
natural variation, adaptation to contrasting habitats,
as well as comparative genomics and sex chromosome
evolution. For de novo and homology-guided assembly
and analysis of genomic sequences we seek an applicant
with signiﬁcant experience in handling of next genera-
tion deep sequencing data, SQL databases, and exper-
tise in a script-oriented (Perl/Python) and an object-
oriented (Java/C++) computer language. Successful
applicants are expected to have signiﬁcant computer
science skills and the ability and motivation to collab-
orate with biochemists and biologists in a team.
This project is jointly supervised by Detlef Weigel and
Christine Dreyer, who are leading a highly interactive
international team working at the cutting edge of nat-
ural variation and evolution in animals and plants.
Applications should be directed by e-mail to
Prof. Dr. Christine Dreyer Max-Planck-Institut
f¨ ur Entwicklungsbiologie Abt. Molekularbiologie Spe-
mannstr. 37-39
christine.dreyer at tuebingen.mpg.de http:/-
/www.weigelworld.org/research/projects/-
guppyvariation/ The Max Planck Society is an
equal opportunity employer and is committed to
improving opportunities for women in science.
christine.dreyer@tuebingen.mpg.de
Montpellier PlantGenomics
extended
A post-doctoral position, funded by the National Insti-
tute for Agronomical Research (INRA France) is avail-
able to analyze population genomics data in the model
legume species /Medicago truncatula/. The position
will be in the team DAVEM (Diversity and Adaptation
of Mediterranean species) in Montpellier.
The postdoctoral fellow will contribute to the AR-
CAD sub project ’Crop adaptation to climate changes’82 EvolDir February 1, 2011
(funded by Agropolis Fundation, Montpellier), aiming
at identifying the genetic and evolutionary processes
involved in the adaptation of plant populations to het-
erogeneous environments.
The main role of the postdoctoral fellow will be to
explore genome-wide data on sequence polymorphism
in a large set of individuals collected along climatic
gradients, in order to identify the genetic bases of lo-
cal adaptation to varying climate conditions. Analy-
ses will be focussed on ﬂowering time candidate genes.
The research will be part of a collaborative project,
involving our group and the University of Minnesota
(team leader: N. Young), where the high throughput
re sequencing project in /Medicago truncatula /was
conducted on a large collection of plant material (ca.
192 individuals) from the French National Collection
of /Medicago truncatula/ managed in our laboratory.
The successful candidate will work in collaboration with
both biologists (population and quantitative geneti-
cists) and the BioInformatic group of the AGAP unit
(Manuel Ruiz’s Team).
Conditions for eligibility:
- The candidate should either be a non-French citizen
or have a double nationality.
- Applicants must have completed their PhD before
starting the position.
- An experience in population genomics using high
throughput sequence data is required, as well as good
programming skills.
- Familiarity with bio informatics will be appreciated
Working conditions:
- The position is available as soon as possible and will
be funded until December 2012.
- The net salary will be between 1800 and 2000 euros
per month.
- The work will be based at the INRA unit of Melgueil
near Montpellier ( ~15km) for the 6 ﬁrst months and
then on the SupAgro campus (Agronomic High school)
in Montpellier. The main contact at both locations will
be Jo¨ elle Ronfort.
How to apply: Send before February 12th
the following information through e-mail to-
joelle.ronfort@supagro.inra.fr
- one detailed CV
- pdfs of publications
- a short statement of research interests and experience
describing your qualiﬁcations for this position,
- two letters of support sent separatelyPlease contact Joelle Ronfort
(Joelle.Ronfort@supagro.inra.fr) for more details
about the project, the lab, and/or Montpellier.
gayl@supagro.inra.fr
NatlInstGenetics MishimaJapan
GenomeEvolution
Invitation to apply for NIG Postdoctoral Fellow
Saitou Laboratory, National Institute of Genetics
(NIG), Mishima, Japan Lab Home Page: http://-
sayer.lab.nig.ac.jp/ We are studying various aspects of
genome evolution in wide spectrum of organisms, from
human to bacteria in our laboratory at NIG.
Kenta Sumiyama ( http://sayer.lab.nig.ac.jp/-
˜ sumiyama/index-e.html ), assistant professor in
Saitou laboratory, is studying evolutionary mecha-
nisms at genomic level regarding innovation in the
body plan evolution of vertebrates. He aims to identify
genomic regions that enabled phenotypic evolution,
through bioinformatics and genetically engineered
animal systems. Hiscurrent theme is analyzing cis-
regulatory elements of the mammalian homeobox genes
that confer the body plan innovations. We are seeking
for a motivated postdoc candidate for this project.
Experiences in molecular biology and/or genetic
engineering in developmental biology are desirable.
Having skills in bioinformatics is preferable, but not
prerequisite for application. One can learn computer
analysis techniques after joining our lab. Please ask
Kenta Sumiyama (ksumiyam@lab.nig.ac.jp) for project
details.
Please download pdf ﬁle at “NIG Postdoctoral Fellows
2011” at NIG Home Page ( http://www.nig.ac.jp/index-
e.html ) to obtain detailed information on this fellow-
ship.
Expected date of job starting: April 1, 2011 Deadline
of application: February 14, 2011 We will ask candi-
date person to give presentation via internet if one is
currently out of Japan.
Saitou Naruya Professor, Division of Population Ge-
netics, National Institute of Genetics Professor (con-
current), Department of Genetics, School of Life Sci-
ence, Graduate University for Advanced Studies Pro-
fessor (concurrent), Department of Biological Sciences,
Graduate School of Science, University of Tokyo Coun-
cil Member (concurrent), Japan Science CouncilFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 83
Home Page: sayer.lab.nig.ac.jp/ ~saitou/ Postal ad-
dress: Mishima, 411-8540, Japan TEL/FAX +81-55-
981-6790/6789 Email: saitounr@lab.nig.ac.jp
nsaitou@genes.nig.ac.jp
Norway ComparativeGenomics
Postdoctoral Researcher: Comparative Genomics and
Transcriptomics in Marine Animal Systems
The Sars International Centre is a partner of the Eu-
ropean Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL) and a
department of Uni Research AS, aﬃliated with the Uni-
versity of Bergen. The Centre is focused on basic re-
search in marine molecular biology, developmental bi-
ology and evolution, through genetic and comparative
studies of invertebrates and vertebrates.
The Comparative Developmental Biology of Animals
research group (Group Leader Andreas Hejnol) is now
oﬀering one postdoctoral position for two years. The
group is interested in the evolution of cell types and
organ systems and studies the development of diﬀerent
invertebrate taxa at the cellular and molecular level.
Research in the group combines the use of advanced
microscopical techniques with molecular approaches in
diverse marine organisms.
The position involves the analyses and de novo assem-
bly of genomes and transcriptomes of a broad range
of marine and freshwater animals. Focus of the analy-
ses will be on evolutionary and developmental biological
aspects, such as gene content, gene clustering, and anal-
yses of cis- and trans- regulatory elements and a com-
parison with other geneomes. Furthermore, quantita-
tive gene expression proﬁling using next-generation se-
quencing methods (e.g. RNA-Seq) will strongly connect
the bioinformatics approach to ongoing lab projects.
The candidate will be given the opportunity to con-
tribute to wet-lab projects.
Applicants should have previous experience with de
novo genome assembly and transcriptome analyses us-
ing new sequencing platforms. Experience in compar-
ative genomics and transcriptomics is wanted. Appli-
cants should have an interest in evolutionary and de-
velopmental biology of animals and prior practical ex-
perience with molecular methods is of beneﬁt.
The position is available immediately; the start date is
negotiable.The salary for Postdoctoral Researchers (code 8151)
starts at NOK 447.178.
Uni Research has employee insurance and pension
agreements and is an equal opportunity employer. For
further information regarding the position and scien-
tiﬁc content of the project please contact Dr. Andreas
Hejnol, Group Leader: andreas.hejnol@sars.uib.no.
Written application, in English, should include a C.V.,
a summary of educational and work experience, a brief
statement of research interest and contact information
for two references. Please mark application 11 Sars
02 and mail to: Head of Administration, Sars Centre,
Bergen High Technology Centre, Thormøhlensgt. 55,
N-5008 Bergen, Norway. Deadline for applications is
18 February 2011.
Please note that applications sent by e-mail will not be
considered.
Andreas Hejnol, Group Leader Sars International Cen-
tre for Marine Molecular Biology Thormøhlensgate 55
NO-5008 Bergen NORWAY
Phone: +47 55 58 43 28 Fax: +47 55 58 43 05 email:
andreas.hejnol@sars.uib.no
http://www.sars.no/research/HejnolGrp.php Open
Access Journal “EvoDevo” http://evodevojournal.com
Andreas.Hejnol@sars.uib.no
Portugal Celegans
ExperimentalEvolution
ERC POSTDOCTORAL POSITION - C. ELEGANS
EXPERIMENTAL EVOLUTION SECOND CALL 20
JANUARY 2011
A postdoctoral position is open in the laboratory of H.
Teot´ onio at the Instituto Gulbenkian de Ciˆ encia (IGC),
Oeiras Portugal ( www.igc.gulbenkian.pt ).
PROJECT: Research will be on the genetic basis of
adaptation to novel environments, in particular on the
evolution of phenotype distributions in heterogeneous
environments using populations of C. elegans manip-
ulated in their mating system and standing levels of
genetic variation. We aim to describe adaptation in
life-history and gene expression phenotypes, and corre-
late them with genome-wide patterns of DNA sequence
variation during long-term experimental evolution. The
speciﬁcs of the project will be deﬁned according to the
applicant interests and experience.84 EvolDir February 1, 2011
REQUIREMENTS: PhD in evolutionary genetics and
interest in the topics of adaptation from standing ge-
netic variation, evolution of phenotypic plasticity, and
mating system evolution. The ideal candidate will have
a strong background in quantitative genetics (analy-
sis of selection gradients, estimation of breeding values,
QTL mapping) and/or population genetics of DNA se-
quence data (comparative analysis of single and multi-
locus diversity measures). Although not essential, ex-
perience with culturing model organisms in the lab is
preferred, as well as experience with basic molecular bi-
ology techniques. The candidates are expected to have
the computational skills to conduct multivariate statis-
tical analysis and data management. Candidates with
a PhD in theoretical evolutionary genetics will also be
considered.
FUNDING and STARTING DATE: The postdoctoral
position is funded by the European Research Coun-
cil (ERC), for a starting monthly salary of about euro
2200, plus social beneﬁts. The successful applicant can
start as soon as March 2011. Yearly evaluations of per-
formance will determine the renewal of the contract for
up to a maximum of four years.
APPLICATIONS: A CV, a letter of motivation and the
contact information of two referees should be sent by
email to teotonio@igc.gulbenkian.pt. The call will re-
main open until a suitable candidate is found.
teotonio@igc.gulbenkian.pt
RutgersU PlantMolecularEvolution
Post-doc: Plant molecular ecology/ landscape genetics,
Rutgers Univ
A post-doc position is now available to work on sta-
tistical aspects of landscape patterns of contemporary
gene ﬂow through seeds and/or pollen. The position
is funded by an NSF award to Peter Smouse (Rutgers)
and Victoria Sork (UCLA) to study gene ﬂow in Cali-
fornia savanna oaks (Q. lobata and Q. agrifolia). The
individual will work most closely with Smouse at Rut-
gers on programming, data analyses, and manuscript
preparation, using existing data sets on local and range-
wide scales, with the opportunity to develop and in-
tegrate new approaches to landscape genetics, build-
ing on and extending our existing framework (e.g.,
Grivet, Robledo-Arnuncio, Smouse, Sork, 2009 Mol
Ecol. 18, 3967-3979; Scoﬁeld, Sork, Smouse, 2010, JEcol, 98, 561-572). As part of a collaborative project
with V Sork, the position will include travel to ﬁeld
sites and/or short stays at UCLA.
Qualiﬁcations include: strong background in popula-
tion genetics, plant molecular ecology, or landscape ge-
netics; expertise in R and Python, Perl, or C+; knowl-
edge of GIS; successful early publication record.
Candidates should email letter of interest, re-
search statement, CV, and names of three refer-
ences with contact information to Peter Smouse
(smouse@AESOP.Rutgers.edu). Please assemble doc-
uments in a single PDF ﬁle with your last name in
document name. Review of applications will begin im-
mediately.
The position may begin as early as 1 April
2011, and funding is available for 9-12 months.
Questions may be directed to Peter Smouse
(smouse@AESOP.Rutgers.edu).
Victoria Sork <vlsork@ucla.edu >
ScrippsInst
MarineEvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoctoral position available immediately (one year,
renewable) in the Burton lab at Scripps Institution of
Oceanography (SIO) for a motivated young investigator
to undertake physiological and molecular genetic anal-
yses of hybrid breakdown and local adaptation in the
intertidal copepod Tigriopus californicus. Interest in
fundamental questions of evolutionary adaptation and
speciation is essential. Experience with RNAi, func-
tional genomics and transcriptome analysis is highly
desirable. The successful candidate will have ample
opportunity to pursue additional projects within the
broad molecular ecology/evolutionary genetics scope of
the lab. See http://web.mac.com/ronburton1/iWeb/-
Site/Home.html SIO is a unit of the University of Cal-
ifornia, San Diego, which ranks as one of the elite re-
search universities in the world. The setting and facili-
ties for marine biological research are outstanding.
Please email CV, brief statement of research interests
and experience. and list of 3 references to Ron Burton
(rburton@ucsd.edu). Review of applicants will begin
Jan 14.
– Ron Burton Marine Biology Research Division
Scripps Institution of Oceanography University of
California, San Diego La Jolla, CA 92093-0202 http:/-February 1, 2011 EvolDir 85
/web.mac.com/ronburton1/iWeb/Site/Home.html
rburton@ucsd.edu
Spain EvolutionaryBiol
ANNOUNCEMENT
Opportunities for research positions at Do ˜A±ana Bio-
logical Station, Spain (EBD-CSIC).
A recent Grant Agreement between Do ˜A±ana Bio-
logical Station (EBD-CSIC, Sevilla, Spain) ( http://-
www.ebd.csic.es/WebSite1/Principal.aspx ) and the EU
(Capacities Programme) includes the contracting of 8
researchers in three diﬀerent areas.
EBD-CSIC invites applications for eight research posi-
tions which will become available under the 7th Frame-
work Programme- European Project ECOGENES
ˆ aAdapting to Global Change in the Mediterranean
hotspot: from genes to ecosystemsˆ a. The jobs are
in the framework of Genomics (2 positions), Eco-
logical Modelling (3 positions, 1 with a more gen-
eral proﬁle for bioinformatics) and Ecophysiology (3
positions, two of them for avian physiology and
one for stable isotope analysis). The characteris-
tics of the oﬀered positions, the scientists responsi-
ble of each area, and the candidateˆ as proﬁles can
be consulted in http://www.ebd.csic.es/WebSite1/-
Investigacion/Doc/InformationEcoGenesvacancies.pdf
Duration of the positions is 30 months/person, starting
tentatively in April or May 2011. Successful candidates
will be fully participating members of the relevant De-
partment at Do ˜A±ana Biological Station; they will be
expected to participate in running projects, fundraising
as well as dissemination and support in their respective
areas of expertise.
Interested candidates can contact the project coordina-
tor (Juan Jos ˜Ac/circlecopyrtNegro, negro@ebd.csic.es ) and send
him before January 24th 2011, in advance of the oﬃcial
application process: a cover letter, a curriculum vitae,
and a short (1-3 pages) description of past research ac-
complishments and future research plans.
“\”Jos˜Ac/circlecopyrtA. Godoy \“”<godoy@cica.es >
SunYatsenU EvolutionReproductionAnnouncing a Two-Year Post-doctoral Fellowship in
Evolutionary Ecology
A collaborative study between faculty members of
Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China and Univer-
sity of California, Los Angeles, U.S.A.
Drs. Fangliang He, Patricia Adair Gowaty, and Stephen
P. Hubbell are searching for a Postdoctoral Fellow to
pursue collaborative, theoretically motivated, experi-
mental studies in the evolution of reproductive decisions
of individuals collected from wild-living populations of
native species of Chinese Drosophila. The formal post-
doctoral appointment will be from SYSU.
This is an extraordinary opportunity for adventurous,
bold, and creative individuals seeking postdoctoral em-
ployment. The settings in SYSU and UCLA are re-
markable with funding adequate to pursue cutting-edge
experimental work informed by novel theory. This
is part of an ambitious collaboration between the
Gowaty/Hubbell Lab and He Lab, aiming to under-
stand the evolutionary basis of biodiversity mainte-
nance through intercontinental comparisons.
The successful candidate will have demonstrated knowl-
edge and skills in the culture, handling, and mainte-
nance of captive Drosophila, possess quantitative and
statistical skills, and willingness to do experimental
work on wild-living or captive Drosophila. The suc-
cessful candidate will also have demonstrated English
language skills and be able to speak, read and write
in English. Candidates should express a willingness to
learn rudimentary Mandarin and Chinese culture. Ac-
quaintance with molecular genetic techniques will be
helpful, but not essential.
The Postdoctoral Fellow will be in residence 8-9 months
of a year at SYSU in Guangzhou, China, which is 1.5
hr north of Hong Kong and for 3-4 months of the year
in the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology, UCLA. The yearly salary will be $32,500 per
year. While this salary is low by US standards, it is
generous by Chinese standards. It will allow the suc-
cessful candidate to live well in Guangzhou and save
money. Roundtrip airfare to and from Los Angeles from
Guangzhou will be provided by SYSU.
The start date is somewhat ﬂexible being on or around
April 1, 2011 or on or around January 1, 2012 .
To apply, please send a letter of interest, a cur-
rent CV, and the names and email addresses of three
people who would provide letters of recommendation
on request. Send application materials via email to
Dr Gowaty (gowaty@eeb.ucla.edu) and to Dr. He
(fhe@mail.sysu.edu.cn or fhe@ualberta.ca).86 EvolDir February 1, 2011
Patricia Adair Gowaty, PhD Distinguished Profes-
sor Ecology and Evolutionary Biology 621 Charles E.
Young Drive S UCLA Los Angeles, California 90095
oﬃce phone: 310 455-6832 other phone: 706 202-3428
(messages)
Patricia Adair Gowaty <gowaty@eeb.ucla.edu >
UArizona EvolutionMulticellularity
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION
Origin of multicellularity
A POSTDOCTORAL POSITION is available im-
mediately in the laboratory of Dr. Richard E.
Michod ( http://www.eebweb.arizona.edu/Michod/ ) in
the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
at the University of Arizona (Tucson, AZ; http://-
eebweb.arizona.edu/ ). We are looking for a motivated,
enthusiastic and independent individual with a strong
background in evolutionary biology and/or genomics
and molecular biology to address questions concerned
with the evolution of multicellularity, using the green
algal group Volvocales (Chlamydomonas and its multi-
cellular relatives) as a model-system. Current projects
in the lab include studying the genetic basis for the
evolution of germ-soma diﬀerentiation, measuring life
history trade-oﬀs as colony size changes and artiﬁcial
selection experiments on body size in volvocalean green
algae.
To apply, please e-mail (michod@u.arizona.edu) with
the following information: a statement detailing your
research interests and qualiﬁcations, a CV, and the
names and contact information of three references.
Please describe what interests you about this post-
doctoral position and whether you have any particular
ideas that you wish to pursue.
The initial appointment is for one year, with an addi-
tional two years’ funding possible conditional on satis-
factory performance. The position is funded by an NSF
grant, at 35K per year (plus beneﬁts).
The University of Arizona is an EO/AA Employer.
Rick Michod <michod@u.arizona.edu >UArizona PlantMolEvol
A postdoctoral associate position is available in the
School of Plant Sciences at the University of Arizona
to participate in a research project that focuses on un-
derstanding the molecular evolution of genes and as-
sociated networks that control plant adaptation to soil
salinity. The build-up of salt in agricultural soils is a
widespread problem that limits the growth and yield
of important crop species worldwide. Genetic varia-
tion for plant growth in salinity (salt tolerance) exists;
however, little is known about the genes and pathways
underlying this variation. Our studies are assessing the
evolutionary forces acting on plant salt tolerance using
phylogenetic surveys within the Brassicaceae and map-
ping and isolating genes that underlie natural variation
for this trait with screens of Arabidopsis accessions.
Preference will be given to a highly motivated, enthu-
siastic, and independent candidate with a Ph.D. and a
strong background in evolutionary biology and/or ge-
nomics and training in molecular genetics and molecu-
lar biology. Demonstrated written and oral communi-
cation skills and an ability to interact and work collab-
oratively with others are essential qualiﬁcations. The
position is available April 1, 2011.
To apply, send a CV, a letter stating speciﬁc re-
search interests, a summary of research accomplish-
ments and future research objectives, and the names
and contact information (address, phone, and e-
mail) for three references to Karen Schumaker, Ph.D.
(schumake@ag.arizona.edu), School of Plant Sciences,
University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona 85721-0036.
The University of Arizona is an EEO/AA Employer-
M/W/D.V.
Karen Schumaker School of Plant Sciences, Department
of Molecular and Cellular Biology, and the BIO5 Insti-
tute University of Arizona
Contact information: School of Plant Sciences 303
Forbes Hall 1140 E. South Campus Drive University
of Arizona Tucson, AZ 85721-0036
Phone: (520) 621-9635 Fax: (520) 621-7186 http:/-
/ag.arizona.edu/research/schumaker/ Karen Schu-
maker <schumake@ag.arizona.edu >February 1, 2011 EvolDir 87
UCalifornia Berkeley
ComputationalBiol
Computational biologist/Bioinformatician at UC
Berkeley
The Bachtrog and Eisen labs at UC Berkeley are look-
ing for a computational biologist/bioinformatician to
manage the collection, assembly, annotation and anal-
ysis of genome sequences from Drosophila and other ﬂy
species. The candidate should have an advanced de-
gree (MA or PhD) in biology, computational biology
or a related ﬁeld, and experience working with genome
sequence data and assembly software.
Job requirements:
Manage data from multiple genome-sequencing projects
Evaluate available genome assembly software and de-
velop strategies for genome assembly optimized for
Drosophila genomes Give feedback on the best experi-
mental strategies for genome sequencing to lead to op-
timize genome assembly Run and evaluate de novo and
comparative genome annotation software on newly and
previously sequenced Drosophila genomes, integrating
experimental data (e.g. mRNA-seq) when available
Use available software to produce whole-genome align-
ments of newly and previously sequenced Drosophila
genomes Make data available to Bachtrog and Eisen
lab, and wider community, with genome browsers for
each species
Skills: Experience working with genome sequence data
Install/run/modify unix programs Ideally experience
working with data bases and genome browsers
To apply, please send an email with a CV, Research
Interests and the name of three references to Doris
Bachtrog (dbachtrog@berkeley.edu) and Mike Eisen
(mbeisen@gmail.com ).
Doris Bachtrog Department of Integrative Biology Cen-
ter for Theoretical Evolutionary Genomics University of
California, Berkeley
Doris Bachtrog <dbachtrog@berkeley.edu >UCalifornia Berkeley
EvolutionaryGenomics
UC Berkeley, Postdoc in Evolutionary or Functional
genomics
A Postdoctoral position is available in the group of
Doris Bachtrog at the University of California, Berke-
ley. The speciﬁc project is ﬂexible, but will involve
high-throuput sequencing technology to study genome-
wide analysis of gene expression or genome polymor-
phism data in Drosophila. Current research in the
lab combines comparative, computational and func-
tional genomics approaches with evolutionary theory
and modeling to study evolutionary and functional as-
pects of sex chromosome diﬀerentiation in Drosophila
to address questions including: (1) How and why do
Y chromosomes degenerate? (2) How does genetically
inactive heterochromatin form on an evolving Y? (3)
How is dosage compensation acquired on an evolving
X? (4) What evolutionary forces drive the demasculin-
ization of X chromosomes in Drosophila? (5) How does
intragenomic conﬂict between the sexes shape the func-
tional divergence of sex chromosomes?
Our group shares space and weekly lab meetings with
those of Rasmus Nielsen, Monty Slatkin and John
Huelsenbeck and enjoys close ties with other members
at the UC Berkeley campus, notably Mike Eisen, Yun
Song and Lior Pachter. Applicants for the position
must have either a background in high-throughput ge-
nomics techniques, or computational population and
evolutionary genomics analysis. Programming and
bioinformatics skills are highly beneﬁcial.
Funds are available to support this position for up to
three years. The position is immediately available and
the search continues until the position is ﬁlled.
To apply, please submit by email a CV, a brief descrip-
tion of research interests (no more than one page), and
the names and contact information for two references
to Doris Bachtrog (dbachtrog@berkeley.edu)
For further information about our research program,
please visit our website and the departmental website:
http://ib.berkeley.edu/labs/bachtrog/ http:/-
/ﬁsher.berkeley.edu/cteg/index.html http://-
ib.berkeley.edu/ Doris Bachtrog University of
California, Berkeley Department of Integrative Biol-
ogy Center for Theoretical Evolutionary Genomics88 EvolDir February 1, 2011
Berkeley, CA 94720-3140 phone: (510)-325-9547
Doris Bachtrog <dbachtrog@berkeley.edu >
UCalifornia Riverside
RiceBioinformatics
Postdoctoral Research in Bioinformatics and Transpo-
son Biology in Rice University of California, Riverside
Position Description An NSF funded postdoctoral posi-
tion is available in the laboratories of Dr Susan Wessler
and Dr Jason Stajich to study the evolutionary dy-
namics of transposable elements in the rice genome
and their contribution to phenotypic variation. This
postdoctoral scientist will be involved in research using
bioinformatics, next generation sequencing of multiple
rice strains, and RNA-Seq based transcriptional proﬁl-
ing. This position requires excellent bioinformatics and
programming skills to analyze and synthesize genome
assemblies from next generation sequencing data pro-
duced by Illumina/Solexa technology. Background in-
formation on the biology underlying the project can be
found in: K. Naito et al, Nature 2009 461: 131; K.
Naito et al, PNAS 2006 103: 17620; N. Jiang et al,
Nature 2003 421: 163.
The successful candidate will be expected to contribute
and lead data analysis for the project. There will be
opportunities for molecular biology, if desired, as part
of validation of analyses. In addition, data and soft-
ware from this project will be used to develop teach-
ing materials as part of the HHMI funded Dynamic
Genomes course at UC Riverside providing an oppor-
tunity to participate in teaching in an innovative topic-
focused course for undergraduates. Applications will
be accepted until the position is ﬁlled and review will
begin on February 15, 2011. Salary and beneﬁts are
commensurate with NIH guidelines and the University
of California Postdoctoral Union agreement. Special
consideration will be given to candidates with excep-
tional bioinformatics and genome evolution experience.
Qualiﬁcations Minimum qualiﬁcations include a Ph.D.
in Biological Sciences, Computer Science, Statistics, or
a related ﬁeld. Demonstrated experience in bioinfor-
matics and high proﬁciency in programming is neces-
sary along with an understanding of the mechanisms
underlying genome evolution. Experience with next
generation sequence data is highly desirable. Ability
to communicate clearly, work independently, and inter-
act collaboratively is essential.The researcher will also work closely with co-PIs and
collaborators at the Boyce-Thompson Institute and
Cornell University.
To Apply Contact Jason Stajich (ja-
son.stajich@ucr.edu) or Susan Wessler (su-
san.wessler@ucr.edu) with a current CV and names of
three references. More information can be found online
about the Stajich lab http://lab.stajich.org Wessler
lab http://wesslerlab.ucr.edu and UC Riverside http:/-
/www.ucr.edu . Information about UCR In the Heart
of Inland Southern California, UC Riverside is located
on nearly 1,200 acres near Box Springs Mountain in
Southern California, the park-like campus provides
convenient access to the vibrant and growing Inland
region. The campus is a living laboratory for the
exploration of issues critical to growing communities
air, water, energy, transportation, politics, the arts,
history and culture. UCR gives every student the
resources to explore, engage, imagine and excel. UCR
is ranked 43rd among top public universities (US News
and World Report 2010).
At UC Riverside we celebrate diversity and are proud
of our #5 ranking among the nation’s for most diverse
universities (US News and World Report 2010). Be-
come part of a place that fosters success for all its
constituents, students, faculty, and staﬀ, and where
work/life balance and campus culture are integral to
our way of life. UCR is an aﬃrmative action and equal
opportunity employer with a commitment to workforce
diversity. AA/EOE
Jason E Stajich, PhD Assistant Professor Dept of
Plant Pathology & Microbiology University of Cal-
ifornia, Riverside 951.827.2363 http://lab.stajich.org
http://fungalgenomes.org twitter:stajichlab http://-
plantpathology.ucr.edu http://genomics.ucr.edu
jason.stajich@ucr.edu
UCDavis 2 Modelling
MosquitoBorne Diseases
Modeling Mosquito-Borne Disease
Position Description: Two post-doctoral positions are
available to model the ecology, evolution, epidemiol-
ogy, and/or prevention of mosquito transmitted dis-
ease. Successful candidates will be part of the Mosquito
Modeling Work Group in the Research and Policy for
Infectious Disease Dynamics (RAPIDD) program ofFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 89
the Science and Technology Directorate, Department
of Homeland Security, and the Fogarty International
Center, National Institutes of Health. The main theme
of the group is modeling movement and the spatial dy-
namics of mosquito transmitted disease. In addition
to developing general and disease speciﬁc models, the
group models transmission of dengue virus in Iquitos,
Peru (a case study for urban transmission) and elim-
ination of malaria from Zanzibar (modeling vector in-
terventions).
Qualiﬁcations: Candidates must hold a PhD or equiva-
lent degree and have experience developing mathemat-
ical or computer simulation models. Research experi-
ence with mosquito-borne disease is desirable, but not
essential.
To apply: email a cover letter and CV to tws-
cott@ucdavis.edu and smitdave@gmail.com
Thomas W. Scott David L. Smith Department of En-
tomology Department of Zoology One Shields Ave As-
sociate Director for Disease Ecology, University of Cal-
ifornia Emerging Pathogens Institute Davis, CA 95616
University of Florida, FL Oﬃce: 530-754-4196 Of-
ﬁce: (202) 328-5126 email: twscott@ucdavis.edu email:
smitdave@gmail.com
“Sandberg, Leslie” <lasandberg@ucdavis.edu >
UFlorida EvolutionaryGenomics
Bioinformatics
We are looking for a talented, enthusiastic postdoc in-
terested in using computational and evolutionary ap-
proaches to understand host- pathogen co-evolution.
We are a new lab in the Department of Microbiology
and Cell Science at University of Florida, currently pur-
suing two major research projects:
1) Evolution of RNA interference (RNAi)
2) Evolution of host speciﬁcity in Plasmodium parasites
For more information about our research projects, see
http://microcell.uﬂ.edu/egcb labThe ideal candidate
will have either strong interest or experience in molec-
ular evolutionary biology and computational genomics,
as well as familiarity with some form of computer pro-
gramming. We are looking for a highly motivated in-
dividual with a deep interest in tackling questions in
molecular evolution.
To apply, email Bryan Kolaczkowski (bryank@uﬂ.edu).Include 1) a 1- page letter outlining your research in-
terests, 2) your CV and 3) contact information for 3
references.
Applications will be accepted through January, 2011.
Bryan Kolaczkowski
Department of Microbiology and Cell Science Univer-
sity of Florida
ULiverpool InfectionEvolution
http://www.liv.ac.uk/working/job vacancies/-
research/R-574196.htm An enthusiastic, dedicated
individual is sought for a 3-year Wellcome Trust-funded
project that will use next-generation sequencing to
examine the processes shaping genetic diversity within
Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections in cystic ﬁbrosis
patients. We will use a unique dataset of patients
infected with a single epidemic strain of Pseudomonas
for which we have demonstrated high levels of diversity
within chronic infections. This project represents an
exciting opportunity to link evolutionary biology and
microbiology, to promote patient health, and to gain
experience in next-generation sequencing analysis. You
should have a PhD in biology or computational biology
and relevant experience.
Closing date 18th Feb
Dr Steve Paterson Institute of Integrative Biology Uni-
versity of Liverpool Liverpool L69 7ZB, UK Tel (+44)
151 795 4521 Mob (+44) 151 794 7668 Fax (+44) 151
795 4408 Email s.paterson@liv.ac.uk
“Paterson, Steve” <S.Paterson@liverpool.ac.uk >
UManchester TheoEvolution
Research Associate: The University of Manchester -
Faculty of Life Sciences
Closing date: 21/01/2011 Reference: LS/11487
We seek an enthusiastic and motivated biologist to
join an interdisciplinary team working on “Evolution
as an Information-Dynamic System”. The position is
in Chris Knight’s lab, in the Computational and Evo-90 EvolDir February 1, 2011
lutionary Biology grouping of the University of Manch-
ester (tinyurl.com/knightlab). The project aims to
make solid connections between state of the art math-
ematics (information dynamics and geometry) and real
biological evolution. It therefore involves close collab-
oration with theoretical and computer science work al-
ready underway in the groups of Roman Belavkin, Alas-
tair Channon and John Aston at the universities of
Middlesex, Keele and Warwick respectively.
The successful candidate will use both in vitro evolu-
tion on aptamer arrays [1] and microbial experimental
evolution to test theory being developed about evolu-
tionary ’operators’, (mutation, recombination and se-
lection) and particularly the control of mutation rate.
The position is available immediately and will be full
time for up to 2 years.
For further information about the project, see http:/-
/is.gd/j4F2M andhttp://is.gd/j4IHc [1] Knight, C.G.
et al. (2009) Array-based evolution of DNA aptamers
allows modelling of an explicit sequence-ﬁtness land-
scape. Nucleic Acids Research 37, e6
Salary £28,983 - £35,646
Informal enquiries to: Chris Knight Tel: + 44 (0) 161
275 5378 Email: chris.knight@manchester.ac.uk
Documents - Further particulars - ref LS/11487 (PDF
- 19 KB): http://is.gd/kuRMd How to apply To ap-
ply for this vacancy please download a copy of the ap-
plication form either in Microsoft Word format (RTF)
http://is.gd/kuRZ6 or as a PDF http://is.gd/kuSaF.
You will need a PDF reader such as Adobe Acrobat
(downloadable from Adobe) to view PDF ﬁle(s). PDF
ﬁles open in a new window. Apple Mac users: please
follow instructions below. - Application form RTF -
Application form PDF - If you are using an Apple Mac
to complete your application form, please convert the
RTF into a Microsoft Word Document as the function-
ality of an RTF form on a Mac can diﬀer from other
computers. Please refer to the guidance notes for more
information on how to apply for our vacancies:
- Guidance notes PDF: http://is.gd/kuSn9 If you re-
quire copies of documentation in alternative formats;
large print, Braille etc, please contact Human Re-
sources:
- hr@manchester.ac.uk You will need a PDF reader such
as Adobe Acrobat (downloadable from Adobe) to view
PDF ﬁle(s).
To request a hard copy
Karen Reeson Email: karen.m.reeson@manchester.ac.uk
Please quote referenceLS/11487
Closing date
21/01/2011
For a html version of this ad, see: http://-
www.jobs.ac.uk/job/ACC525/research-associate/ Dr
Christopher Knight Michael Smith Building Wellcome
Trust RCD Fellow Faculty of Life Sciences Tel: +44
(0)161 2755378 The University of Manchester room
B.2012 Oxford Road tinyurl.com/knightLab/ Manch-
ester M13 9PT . ,, ><(((>UK
Chris.Knight@manchester.ac.uk
UMassAmherst DarwinFellow
Postdoc: University of Massachusetts Amherst
DARWIN FELLOW
The Graduate Program in Organismic and Evo-
lutionary Biology at University of Massachusetts
Amherst announces a two-year postdoctoral FELLOW-
SHIP/lectureship. OEB draws together more than
80 faculty from the Five Colleges (University of Mas-
sachusetts Amherst and Smith, Hampshire, Mount
Holyoke and Amherst Colleges), oﬀering unique train-
ing and research opportunities in the ﬁelds of ecol-
ogy, organismic and evolutionary biology. Our re-
search/lecture position provides recent PhD’s with an
opportunity for independent research with an OEB
faculty sponsor as well as experience developing and
teaching a one-semester undergraduate biology course.
Proven teaching skills are required. Position subject to
availability of funds. 1st year salary: $35,000. 2nd year
salary: $37,000.
To apply, send CV, three letters of reference, statements
of research and teaching interests, and arrange for a let-
ter of support from your proposed OEB faculty sponsor.
A list of faculty and additional information is available
atwww.bio.umass.edu/oeb . Electronic applications are
encouraged (include last name in all documents); send
to darwin@bio.umass.edu
Application review begins: 3/4/11 Interviews: early
April Start date: 8/14/11
Darwin Fellowship Graduate Program in Organismic
and Evolutionary Biology 319 Morrill Science Center
South 611 North Pleasant Street University of Mas-
sachusetts Amherst Amherst, MA 01003-581February 1, 2011 EvolDir 91
The University of Massachusetts Amherst is an Aﬃr-
mative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer. Women
and members of minority groups are encouraged to ap-
ply.
caicedo@bio.umass.edu
UNorthCarolina ChapelHill
MaleMateChoice
Postdoctoral Position at the University of North Car-
olina, Chapel Hill
A position is available for a Postdoctoral Research As-
sociate in the lab of Maria Servedio at the University
of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, to work on theoretical
models of male and mutual mate choice. The applicant
will be expected to develop an independent research
project(s) in addition to collaborating with the PI on
theoretical projects. Prior experience with theoreti-
cal modeling techniques, a strong mathematical back-
ground, and programming skills is preferred. A Ph.D.
and a strong background in evolution is required.
Research in the Servedio lab concentrates developing
mathematical models of speciation and mate choice.
Please see http://www.bio.unc.edu/Faculty/Servedio/-
Lab/Home.html or contact Maria Servedio (serve-
dio@email.unc.edu) for more information on projects
ongoing in the lab.
The appointment is for 1-2 years starting preferably in
the summer of 2011 (start date ﬂexible). Send applica-
tions including a CV, description of research experience
and interests, brief description of background in theory
and related skills, and names and addresses of three ref-
erences to Maria Servedio at servedio@email.unc.edu
Informal inquiries are welcome as well. Review of ap-
plications will begin on Feb 15 and continue until the
position is ﬁlled.
servedio@email.unc.edu
USheﬃeld FitnessEvolutionSperm
This is directed at evolutionary biologists, but ones that
have an interest in form and function. I trust thats ok.Tim
*Post-doctoral Research Associate at the University of
Sheﬃeld starting 1 April 2011 *
A Post-doctoral Research Associate position is available
to work in Professor Tim Birkhead’s research group in
the Department Animal & Plant Sciences. The position
is funded by the European Research Council (ERC) to
study the energetic costs of making sperm.
This is an exciting project whose overall aim is to un-
derstand how sperm phenotype inﬂuences ﬁtness. The
post is tenable from 1 April 2011.
Candidates should have:
A PhD or equivalent experience in avian reproductive
biology.
A track record of publishing in leading specialist or mul-
tidisciplinary journals.
A strong interest in inter-disciplinary research and in-
teractions.
Experience with birds and a strong interest and/or
background in evolutionary biology would be an ad-
vantage.
The position will involve establishing the spermato-
genic cycle length in birds, measuring the costs of
sperm production in diﬀerent bird species with diﬀerent
sperm phenotypes, writing manuscripts for publication
in leading discipline-speciﬁc and multidisciplinary jour-
nals and presenting research ﬁndings at international
conferences.
The post is ﬁxed-term with a start date of 1 April 2011
(or as soon as possible thereafter) and an end date of
31 March 2014 in the ﬁrst instance but with the possi-
bility of a further extension subject to the availability
of funds.
This is an ideal opportunity for an ambitious postdoc-
toral research fellow to work at the interface between
evolution and reproductive biology. The work will be
performed in a large, high proﬁle 5* research depart-
ment with a strong commitment to research-led teach-
ing.
For informal enquiries about this position and about
the department, please contact Professor Tim Birk-
head: T.R.Birkhead@sheﬃeld.ac.uk or phone: 0114
222 4622
For all on-line application system queries and support,
contact:
e-Recruitment@sheﬃeld.ac.uk
Professor T. R. Birkhead FRS Department of Animal&
Plant Sciences, The University of Sheﬃeld, Sheﬃeld92 EvolDir February 1, 2011
S10 2TN Phone (0114) 222 4622 Fax: (0114) 222 0002
Departmental oﬃce: (0014) 222 4376
Web: http://shef.ac.uk/aps/staﬀ/acadstaﬀ/-
birkhead.html For books by TRB see: http:/-
/shef.ac.uk/aps/staﬀ/acadstaﬀ/tbirkhead2.html
See: http://wisdomofbirds.co.uk/ Tim Birkhead
<t.r.birkhead@sheﬃeld.ac.uk >
UToronto EvolutionaryBiol 2
***Reminder: Review of applications for the Postdoc-
toral Fellowship in the Department of Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology at the University of Toronto will be-
gin on Feb. 1, 2011***
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
<www.eeb.utoronto.ca >at the University of Toronto
invites applications for Departmental Postdoctoral Fel-
lowships in the areas of Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy, broadly deﬁned. One position is available this year,
and we expect that another will become available next
year through an ongoing EEB Postdoctoral Fellowship
Program. Positions may continue for two years, subject
to review after one year, and can begin as early as July
1, 2011. The salary starts at $40,000 per year, with
research expenses covered by the Postdoctoral Advisor.
The Fellow will be a fully participating member in the
Department. Candidates must identify and communi-
cate with a potential advisor (or advisors) in advance
of the application process. All full-time faculty mem-
bers at the St. George (downtown) campus of the Uni-
versity of Toronto are eligible to serve as advisors (see
www.eeb.utoronto.ca/postdoc/ for a list of potential
supervisors). Opportunities for teaching in an upper
level course may be available, if the candidate wishes
to teach.
To apply, applicants should ﬁrst contact and obtain the
agreement of a faculty advisor (or co-advisors). After-
wards, applicants should submit a cover letter clearly
indicating the proposed faculty advisor(s), a curricu-
lum vitae, copies of 2 publications, and a short (1-
3 pages) description of past research accomplishments
and future research plans. Applicants should include
names and e-mail addresses of two potential referees.
Applicants should also indicate the date they will be
available to begin the position. All application ma-
terials must be submitted as PDF’s in a single email
to: Elizabeth Rentzelos <chairsec.eeb@utoronto.ca >
<mailto:chairsec.eeb@utoronto.ca >. Review of appli-cations will begin on Feb. 1, 2011.
The University of Toronto is a leading academic insti-
tution in Canada with over 60 faculty members spe-
cializing in ecology and evolution. Strong links exist
between the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology and the Royal Ontario Museum, the Centre
for Global Change, the Centre for Environment, and
the Faculty of Forestry. The University owns a nearby
ﬁeld station dedicated to ecological research (the Kof-
ﬂer Scientiﬁc Reserve, ksr.utoronto.ca). The depart-
ment also has a partnership with the Ontario Ministry
of Natural Resources that helps provide access to infras-
tructure, including lab facilities in Algonquin Provin-
cial Park ( www.harkness.ca ), funding, and long-term
data sets. Genomic analyses are supported by theCen-
tre for the Analysis of Genome Evolution and Function
(www.cagef.utoronto.ca ).
– Megan Frederickson Assistant Professor Department
of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology University of
Toronto 25 Harbord Street Toronto, Ontario, M5S
3G5, Canada Email: m.frederickson@utoronto.ca Web:
labs.eeb.utoronto.ca/frederickson
Megan Frederickson <m.frederickson@utoronto.ca >
UValencia ViralEvolution
Call: Juan de la Cierva contracts for junior post-
doc (Spain) Duration: 3 years, starting Fall
2011. Conditions: the candidate must have
obtained a PhD certiﬁcate between Sept 2007
and Sept 2011. Salary: 24.000 euros / year
URL: http://www.micinn.es/portal/site/MICINN/-
menuitem.dbc68b34d11ccbd5d52ﬀeb801432ea0/-
?vgnextoid=1fc510f328c2d210VgnVCM1000001d04140aRCRD&vgnextchannel=
76c9282978ea0210VgnVCM1000001034e20aRCRD
Advisor: Rafael Sanju´ an Email: rafael.sanjuan@uv.es
URL: www.uv.es/rsanjuan Institution: Institute Ca-
vanilles for Biodiversity and Evolutionary Biology,
University of Valencia Valencia Spain
Areas of expertise: experimental evolution, molecular
evolution, virology, molecular biology, population ge-
netics Project name: Virus mutation rates The speciﬁc
topic of the project has to be deﬁned by the candidate
and the advisor. The project, the candidate, and the
advisor will be evaluated by a panel of experts, who
will select the most competitive proposals.
rafael.sanjuan@uv.esFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 93
UWiscMadison Conservation
GlobalFreshwaterBiodiversity
We seek a post-doc to assist in quantifying conservation
hotspots for global freshwater biodiversity.The project
is a joint eﬀort of the labs of Peter McIntyre (Univer-
sity of Wisconsin), David Dudgeon (Hong Kong Uni-
versity), and Mark Gessner (Leibniz Institute for Fresh-
water Ecology and Inland Fisheries, Berlin), in collab-
oration with numerous academic and NGO collabora-
tors.The project will be a follow-up to our recent anal-
ysis of global threats to rivers (Vorosmarty et al. 2010
Nature).
The post-doc will conduct spatial analyses to identify
freshwater conservation hotspots around the world us-
ing the latest GIS summaries of threats and species dis-
tributions.A variety of ancillary analyses will be used
to assess the underlying causes, current status, future
prospects, and conservation prioritization of hotspot ar-
eas.We anticipate that the results of the project will
help to deﬁne near-term and long-term agendas for
global freshwater conservation eﬀorts.
Expertise in both freshwater biodiversity and large-
scale spatial analysis using GIS, a successful publica-
tion record, and a collaborative approach to science
are essential qualiﬁcations.Candidates with speciﬁc ex-
perience in global geospatial analysis and prioritiza-
tion algorithms are particular encouraged to apply.The
successful applicant will be expected to work indepen-
dently on the development of the spatial analyses while
communicating regularly with the rest of the project
team.
The position may begin as early as 1 March 2011, and
funding is available for at least 18 months.A compet-
itive post-doc salary will be oﬀered, including health
beneﬁts.The ﬁrst year of work will be based in McIn-
tyre’s lab at the University of Wisconsin in Madison,
and then up to another year will be based in Gess-
ner’s lab near Berlin.Both the Center for Limnology and
IGB-Berlin are home to well-known research groups in
aquatic science, and feature a vibrant atmosphere in
which collegial interactions among faculty, staﬀ, post-
docs, and graduate students are the norm.Madison and
Berlin are widely recognized for high quality of life,
including lively culture and arts scenes. Costs of liv-
ing are moderate, and public transportation or cycling
routes are readily available.To apply, please submit electronic versions of a letter
of interest, curriculum vitae, three relevant reprints,
and the phone numbers and email addresses of three
references to Valerie Seidel (vseidel@wisc.edu). Please
assemble documents in a single PDF ﬁle. The let-
ter of interest should explicitly address relevant ex-
perience/expertise in both freshwater biodiversity and
spatial analysis.Review of applications will begin on 7
Febuary 2011 and will continue until the position is
ﬁlled.Any questions about the position may be directed
to Peter McIntyre (pmcintyre@wisc.edu).
NOTE: Unless conﬁdentiality is requested in writing,
information regarding the names of applicants must
be released upon request. Finalists cannot be guar-
anteed conﬁdentiality. UW-Madison is an equal oppor-
tunity/aﬃrmative action employer. We promote ex-
cellence through diversity and encourage all qualiﬁed
individuals to apply.
Valerie Seidel <vseidel@wisc.edu >
UWisconsin Madison
PopulationGenetics
2 year postdoc at UW-Madison in background selection
& selective sweeps
Have you ever wondered how much background selec-
tion contributes to the observed correlation between
DNA sequence diversity and recombination rates?
Would you like to test how many additional selective
sweeps are needed to explain the patterns of DNA se-
quence diversity in fruit ﬂies?
Do you like programming to explore population genet-
ics questions?
If you are looking for a postdoc to work on these
questions, consider joining the Evolutionary Sys-
tems Biology Group ( http://evolution.ws/people/-
loewe/ ) at the interface between the Laboratory
of Genetics ( http://genetics.wisc.edu/ ) and the newly
opened Wisconsin Institute of Discovery ( http://-
discovery.wisc.edu/wisconsin/ ) at the University of
Wisconsin-Madison.
We invite applications for a 2 year NIH funded postdoc
position to work on analysing how well background se-
lection and selective sweeps predict the observed diver-
sity in next generation Drosophila genome sequences.
This is a collaboration between Prof M. Noor (Duke,94 EvolDir February 1, 2011
NC), Prof R. Kliman (Cedar Crest, PA) and Prof L.
Loewe (Madison, WI).
You should have: - a background in population genetics
- an interest in linkage theories like background selec-
tion and selective sweeps - programming experience in
R or C++
If interested, please send a note of interest to Laurence
Loewe, preferably before 7 Feb 2011, explaining why
you want to work on this project and what skills youbring to such work.
The start date is negotiable, but should be some time
in 2011.
Related information and updates about this job can be
found at: http://evolution.ws/people/loewe/jobs For
more information and for applying, please contact Lau-
rence Loewe directly ( Loewe at wisc dot edu).
loewe@wisc.edu
WorkshopsCourses
Arolla Switzerland EvolBiol Jun26-Jul2 . . . . . . . . . . . 94
BroadInst VisualizingBioData Mar16-18 . . . . . . . . . . . 95
Columbus Ohio Coevolution Apr4-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
Hinxton HumanGenomeAnalysis Jul23-29 . . . . . . . . . 96
KelloggBiolStation EvolEcol Jun6-24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
KualaLumpur PaciﬁcBiologicalCollections Jun14-18 97
LakeheadU AncientDNA May9-27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
LasCruces CostaRica ConservationGenetics May21-
Jun5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98LundU EvolutionMigration Oct18-28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
Masters EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
MichiganStateU MicrobialGenomics Summer . . . . . 100
Mississippi HerpetologyDiversity May16-27 . . . . . . . 100
Reykjavik EMBO ComputationalBiology Aug6-13 101
TeachingEvolutionForPostdocs 2011 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
Yunnan China GenomicsTropicalBiodiversity Jun27-
Jul1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
Arolla Switzerland EvolBiol
Jun26-Jul2
Evolutionary Biology Workshop in the Alps
26 June- 2 July 2011 Arolla, Switzerland
3 ETSC credit points
Faculty: John Pannell (University of Oxford, UK)
Mike Ritchie (University of St. Andrews, UK) Jerome
Goudet (University of Lausanne, Switzerland) Tad
Kawecki (University of Lausanne, Switzerland)
Target participants: PhD students, advanced master
students
This workshop, based on a concept developed by Steve
Stearns and John Maynard Smith, takes place in a
small Alpine village (Arolla), which will allow you tofocus while being able to enjoy the landscape and the
Alpine ﬂora. The main goals of this course are to de-
velop the following skills: - developing your scientiﬁc
ideas through discussions in groups - thinking critically
and expressing oneself clearly - turning a general idea
into a research project - writing a research proposal
and defending it It is you, the students, who will be in
charge in this course. You will be divided in groups of
4-5 students. In those groups, you will work on your
ideas. You, as a group, will decide what the important
questions in broadly deﬁned evolutionary biology are,
you will choose one, and attempt to develop a proposal
for a research project that will address it. The faculty
will visit the groups during the discussions to answer
your questions, provide coaching and give you feedback
on your projects, but they will generally take the back
seat. Additionally, the faculty will give informal talks
about their research and be available for informal dis-
cussion with individual students. At the end you will
present your projects to other participants, and we willFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 95
party.
Costs: CHF 430.- for room and board.
More information under http://biologie.cuso.ch/-
ecologie-evolution/activities/detail-activity/item/-
courses/evolutionary-biology-workshop-in-the-alps-1/
To apply, send a single ﬁle (pdf or rtf) containing a
short motivation letter, a cv and the name of your
scientiﬁc advisor to tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch.
Deadline for application: 28 February 2011.
Greetings, Tad Kawecki
– Tadeusz J. Kawecki Associate Professor Department
of Ecology and Evolution University of Lausanne Bio-
phore CH 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland
tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch
BroadInst VisualizingBioData
Mar16-18
The VIZBI workshop includes sessions on visualizing
genomic data and population data (including multiple
sequence alignment and phylogenies) that may be of
interest to evolutionary biologists.
We are delighted to invite you and your colleagues to
register for VIZBI 2011, the 2nd workshop on ’Visualiz-
ing Biological Data’, to be held at the Broad Institute,
Cambridge-MA (USA), March 16-18, 2011.
VIZBI 2011 brings together scientists actively using or
developing computational visualization to study a di-
verse range of biological data. We have assembled a
list of high-proﬁle speakers (see end of email) who will
review the state-of-the-art and challenges of visualiza-
tion within their ﬁeld. VIZBI 2011 also features an ’art
& science’ evening (Thursday) during which we will be
joined by medical illustrators, graphic designers, and
artists interested in biological visualization. On Satur-
day, March 19, immediately after the workshop, partic-
ipants can choose to attend one of a range of tutorials
and take part in a hands-on ’bring-your-own-data’ ses-
sion.
All workshop participants are encouraged to submit a
poster on their work, plus an image for the art & science
evening. A limited number of participants will also be
oﬀered the opportunity to be part of an authoritative
book co-authored with the VIZBI speakers, essentially
an expanded version of the Nature Methods focus issue
(http://www.nature.com/nmeth/journal/v7/n3s ); thebook will be the ﬁrst to comprehensively review this
topic and will be distributed by a major scientiﬁc pub-
lisher.
Please see http://vizbi.org for more information. ˆ a We
hope you can join us for this exciting event! We would
also be grateful if you consider forwarding this call to
colleagues who may be interested.
The VIZBI 2011 chairs: Se ˜An O’Donoghue, EMBLˆ a
Bang Wong, Broad Institute ˆ aJames Procter, U.
Dundee ˆ aLarry Hunter, U. Colorado
VIZBI 2011 Speakers (in order of appearance):ˆ a Manuel
Lima Microsoft, UK. (Keynote: Visual Complexity).
ˆ a Robert Kuhn, UCSC, USA.. ˆ a Bradley Bern-
stein, Harvard, USA.ˆ a Erez Lieberman-Aiden, Har-
vard, USA. ˆ a Eric Westhof, U. Strasbourg, France. ˆ a
John Quackenbush, Harvard, USA. ˆ a Yoseph Barash,
U. Toronto, Canada. ˆ aTamara Munzner U. British
Columbia, Canada. (Keynote: Human-Computer In-
terfaces). ˆ aJohn Westbrook, Rutgers, USA. ˆ a Arthur
Olson, Scripps, USA.ˆ a Ga ˜A/lessmuchl McGill, Harvard Med-
ical School & Digizyme, USA.ˆ a Trey Ideker, UCSD,
USA.ˆ a Anne-Claude Gavin, EMBL, Germany. ˆ aMinoru
Kanehisa, U. Kyoto, Japan.ˆ a Yannis Kalaidzidis,MPI-
CBG Dresden, Germany.ˆ a Drew Berry, Walter & Eliza
Hall, Australia. (Keynote: Communicating science,
Visually). ˆ aWilly Supatto, U. Paris Diderot, France.
ˆ a David Shattuck, UCLA, USA. ˆ a Rob MacLeod,U.
Utah, USA.ˆ a Des Higgins, U. College Dublin, Ireland.
ˆ aRod Page, U. Glasgow, UK. ˆ a Herv ˜Ac/circlecopyrtTettelin, U.
Maryland, USA.ˆ a Martin Wattenberg & Fernada Vie-
gas, Google, USA. (Keynote: Visual Design)
VIZBI training day topics: ˆ a Blender, Cytoscape, Cir-
cos, Jalview, Processing, VTK & ParaView.ˆ a
Karen Cranston <karen.cranston@gmail.com >
Columbus Ohio Coevolution Apr4-8
When Ehrlich and Raven published their now classic
study of coevolution between butterﬂies and plants in
1964, the link between the development of coevolution-
ary theory and plant-insect interactions was cemented.
Since this time, numerous studies of plant-insect inter-
actions have revealed an important role for coevolution,
even as the perceived importance of coevolution for the
overall structure of plant-insect communities has waxed
and waned. Currently, much of the research on the
ecology and evolution of plant-insect interactions, both96 EvolDir February 1, 2011
mutualistic and antagonistic, is expanding from simpler
two-species frameworks to consider coevolution in the
context of multispecies communities and networks.
During the week of April 4-8 a workshop on coevolu-
tion and the ecological structure of plant-insect com-
munities will be held at the Mathematical Biosciences
Institute (MBI) in Columbus, Ohio. The central goal of
this workshop will be to identify and develop promising
new mathematical, computational, and statistical ap-
proaches for studying coevolution by fostering interac-
tions and cross-talk between individuals using empirical
and mathematical/computational approaches. Logisti-
cally, the workshop will be structured around a core
of 16 talks, a poster session, and a panel discussion.
To see more information about the workshop and a list
of conﬁrmed speakers, visit the workshop web page at
http://mbi.osu.edu/2010/ws5description.html .
The workshop is open to any interested participants
and participation by graduate students and post-docs
studying coevolution from a theoretical or empirical
perspective is particularly encouraged. Limited funds
are available from the MBI to defray the cost of
workshop participation for graduate students. In or-
der to register for this workshop and to request ﬁ-
nancial support, click on the “apply for event” tab
on the workshop web page http://mbi.osu.edu/2010/-
ws5description.html . The application deadline for ﬁ-
nancial support is January 31.
snuismer@gmail.com
Hinxton HumanGenomeAnalysis
Jul23-29
As one of the instructors, I would like to bring this
course to your attention, Janet Sinsheimer
Human Genome Analysis: Genetic Analysis of Multi-
factorial Diseases 23-29 July 2011
Deadline for applications: 15 April 2011 Wellcome
Trust Genome Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge
Course summary
An intensive, residential, computer-based course aimed
at scientists actively involved in genetic analysis of mul-
tifactorial traits.
Programme
This advanced course covers statistical methods cur-rently used to map disease susceptibility genes, with an
emphasis on (but not limited to) methods that can anal-
yse family data or a combination of families and indi-
viduals. Discussions of the latest statistical methodol-
ogy are complemented by practical hands-on computer
exercises using state-of-the-art software. The statistical
basics behind each method will be carefully explained so
that participants with a non-statistical background can
understand.. Our interactive and intensive educational
program will enable one to better carry out sophisti-
cated statistical analyses of genetic data, and will also
improve one’s interpretation and understanding of the
results. All the software used is freely available, so that
skills learned can be easily applied after the course.
Teaching will take the form of lectures by invited speak-
ers, informal tutorials, hands-on computer sessions, and
analysis of disease family data sets. There will also be
an opportunity to discuss participants’ own data sets.
Course organisers
* Daniel Weeks (University of Pittsburgh, USA) *
Mark Lathrop (Centre National de Genotypage, Evry,
France)
Course instructors
* Heather Cordell (Institute of Human Genetics, Uni-
versity of Newcastle upon Tyne, UK) * Janet Sin-
sheimer (University of California, Los Angeles, USA)
* Eric Sobel (University of California, Los Angeles,
USA) * Joe Terwilliger (Columbia University, New
York, USA) * Chad Garner (University of Califor-
nia, Irvine, USA) * Simon Heath (Centre Nacional
d’An ˜Alisi Gen ˜A2mica (CNAG), Barcelona, Spain)
2010 Guest speakers (2011 speakers TBC shortly)
* Dr. Simon E. Fisher (Wellcome Trust Centre for Hu-
man Genetics, Oxford, UK) * Dr Jonathan Marchini
(Department of Statistics, University of Oxford, UK) *
Professor Chris Holmes (Department of Statistics, Uni-
versity of Oxford, UK) * Professor David J Balding
(Institute of Genetics, University College London, UK)
* Professor Matthew Stephens (University of Chicago,
USA)
To apply please see the wellcome trust advanced courses
website http://www.wellcome.ac.uk/Education-
resources/courses-and-conferences/advanced-
courses/courses/index.htm Janet@mednet.ucla.edu
Janet@mednet.ucla.eduFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 97
KelloggBiolStation EvolEcol
Jun6-24
ELME is a summer educational program at Michigan
State Unviersity’s Kellogg Biological Station devoted
to Enhancing Linkages between Mathematics and Ecol-
ogy.
ELME 2011 will focus on evolutionary ecology, partic-
ularly game theory and Adaptive Dynamics (Geritz et
al. 1998). In this hands-on three-week course, students
will learn the basics of Adaptive Dynamics and apply
their knowledge to independent modeling projects us-
ing the computer program Mathematica.
Dates: June 6-24, 2011
Hours: Mon-Fri 9-5
Instructors: Stefan Geritz (University of Helsinki) &
Christopher Klausmeier (Michigan State University)
Target audience: 12-18 graduate students and post-
docs; exceptional undergraduates will be considered
Prerequisites: At least one semester experience in the-
oretical ecology/evolution. Previous exposure to AD
and Mathematica useful but not required.
Format: A mixture of lecture, guided computer labs,
and independent/team projects
To apply, email elme2011@kbs.msu.edu the following:
- your CV - a statement of research interests and why
you’d beneﬁt from the course - a statement of rele-
vant educational/research experience, including related
coursework - the name of a reference who you’ve asked
to email a letter of support
Deadline for applications: March 15, 2011
Financial support to cover room and board and help
defray transportation costs is available. Let us know
if this is not necessary. Academic credit, if desired, is
available at appropriate MSU rates. Let us know if this
is desired.
For more info see <http://www.kbs.msu.edu/-
education/elme >or email elme2011@kbs.msu.edu.
Christopher Klausmeier Kellogg Biological Station De-
partment of Plant Biology Michigan State University
Hickory Corners MI 49060
Web: http://preston.kbs.msu.edu/ Email:
klausme1@msu.eduChristopher Klausmeier <klausme1@msu.edu >
KualaLumpur
PaciﬁcBiologicalCollections
Jun14-18
Dear Colleagues,
The Paciﬁc Science Congress in Kuala
Lumpur, Malaysia (14-18 June 2011; see
www.paciﬁcscience.org/congress2011.html ) will in-
clude a one-day symposium/workshop devoted to
“Biological Collections in the Paciﬁc: Developing
critical infrastructure for research and applications”.
The Call for Abstracts and an online submission
form are now available at www.dnabarcodes2011.org/-
collectionsAbstract.php . Repositories of biological
specimens and samples are critical for research in
a variety of ﬁelds, including but not limited to bio-
diversity, evolution, ecology, biomedicine, biological
oceanography, and environmental studies. In the
Paciﬁc region, these ﬁelds are faced with these and
other challenges:
* Despite the enormous size and biological complex-
ity of the Paciﬁc region, there are relatively few major
repositories of reference biological material.
* Large portions of the specimens in Paciﬁc collec-
tions are not represented by web-accessible information.
They are non-existent except for researchers with the
resources to visit those repositories.
* Most universities and research institutions lack easy
access to the collections their staﬀ members and stu-
dents need for their research.
* The valuable specimens that result from their work
may never be accessioned into collections for future ref-
erence.
The conference session will be include three compo-
nents:
* Presentations on major initiatives to improve collec-
tions and increase their use and impact (15-20 minutes
each)
* Short ’lightning presentations’ on initiatives to im-
prove collections and collection-related research insti-
tutions in the Paciﬁc region (5 minutes each)
* Break-out and whole-group discussions of strategies
and priorities for improving collections and collection-98 EvolDir February 1, 2011
related networks to improve access to and use of col-
lections in the Paciﬁc region and collections- based re-
search.
Please don’t hesitate to contact me if you have ques-
tions about this meeting.
David E. Schindel, Executive Secretary Consortium for
the Barcode of Life National Museum of Natural His-
tory Smithsonian Institution Email: SchindelD@si.edu
CBOL WEBSITE: http://www.barcoding.si.edu
schindeld@si.edu
LakeheadU AncientDNA May9-27
ANCIENT DNA TRAINING PROGRAM MAY 9 -
27, 2011 An intensive training program in molecu-
lar techniques applied to degraded, archived, paleon-
tological, archaeological and forensic material. The
program will cover topics including extraction chem-
istry, PCR, mtDNA, STR’s, sequencing and analy-
sis software. The course is comprised of laboratory
training sessions and lectures by eminent researchers
from the ﬁelds of paleontology, archaeology, genetics
and forensics. For more information and/or applica-
tion forms contact URL: www.ancientdna.com Email:
kmaa@lakeheadu.ca Phone: 1-807-343-8616 Fax: 1-
807-343-8619
Registration Deadline is March 4, 2011
Carney Matheson <cmatheso@lakeheadu.ca >
LasCruces CostaRica
ConservationGenetics May21-Jun5
Conservation and Restoration Genetics
The Organization for Tropical Studies (OTS) will
present a graduate level specialty course May 21-June
5, 2011 entitled Conservation and Restoration Genet-
ics. This is an intensive, 16-day course aimed at pro-
viding ecologists, biologists, geneticists, and students
from similar disciplines with an overview of conserva-
tion genetics and related issues. Course topics include:
measurement of genetic diversity, phylogeography, gene
ﬂow, mating systems and eﬀective population size esti-mates, and habitat fragmentation and restoration. We
will also discuss the cost-eﬀectiveness of diﬀerent ap-
proaches and the integration of theory with experimen-
tal and ﬁeld based data.
Course faculty will include Drs. Jim Hamrick, Univer-
sity of Georgia; Paul Leberg, University of Louisiana,
Lafayette; and Eric Fuchs, University of Costa Rica.
Local experts will present invited lectures on conserva-
tion issues in Costa Rica.
The course will be located on the campus of the OTS
ﬁeld station at Las Cruces, near the town of San Vito in
southern Costa Rica. The Las Cruces station is located
within the Wilson Botanical Garden at approximately
1300m (4000ft), and is surrounded by a highly frag-
mented premontane wet forest.
Tuition is $1500 for applicants from OTS consortium
institutions, and $2000 for non-consortium applicants.
A grant from the American Genetics Association will
provide partial scholarships which will be based on aca-
demic merit and proven ﬁnancial needs. The dead-
line for priority consideration is February 10, 2011.
For further information, contact Barbara Lewis (bar-
bara.lewis@ots.ac.cr [registration]), or Jim Hamrick
(hamrick@plantbio.uga.edu [course content]), or see the
OTS website at http://www.ots.ac.cr/ .
J. L. Hamrick Department of Plant Biology University
of Georgia Athens, GA 30602 (706) 542-1826
hamrick@plantbio.uga.edu
Jim Hamrick <hamrick@plantbio.uga.edu >
LundU EvolutionMigration
Oct18-28
Evolution of Animal Migration
International PhD-student course Centre for Animal
Movement Research, Lund University
18 - 28 October 2011
Animals move across diﬀerent spatial and temporal
scales either as part of their daily life or as part of
seasonal migrations to exploit resources in the environ-
ment. Well known examples are the global scale sea-
sonal migrations in birds, sea turtles, ﬁsh and mam-
mals, such as whales and wildebeests. Also move-
ments at smaller scales occur, such as the vertical move-
ments in plankton, the dispersal in soil collembolansFebruary 1, 2011 EvolDir 99
and movements of pollinating insects. But what are
the ecological causes and evolutionary consequences of
animal movements?
During this two-week course you will get insight in a
number of diﬀerent methods and approaches to study
the migration of birds, insects, ﬁsh, amphibians and
mammals, ranging from experimental studies in the lab-
oratory to tracking long-distance migration in wild ani-
mals. Lectures will be given by international authorities
in the ﬁeld as well as by researchers in the CAnMove
Group at Lund University covering the following areas:
* Locomotion * Bird Ringing * Migration & Dispersal
* Orientation & Navigation * Ecophysiology * Genet-
ics of Migration * Migration & Population Ecology *
Evolution & Patterns of Migration * Migration & Con-
servation * Ecophysiology * Modelling Migration
In addition to lectures, there will be time for own
projects, an excursion to the bird migration station at
Falsterbo, demonstrations of bird ringing and orienta-
tion experiments as well as tracking and radar tech-
niques and a tour to the wind tunnel. During the time
of the course we will also have literature seminars, and
you will have ample opportunities for discussion and
further gain experience in presenting your research to
fellow students.
The course fee is: 3000 SEK
Application deadline 31 August 2011. Maximum en-
rollment 40 persons.
PLease use the following link to enlist: http://-
www.canmove.ekol.lu.se/courses/ecology-of-animal-
migration Rachel Muheim, PhD Department of
Biology Biology Building B S¨ olvegatan 35 SE-223 62
Lund Sweden
Phone: +46 46 222 31 93 Fax: +46 46 222 44 25
e-mail: Rachel.Muheim@zooekol.lu.se Homepage:
http://orn-lab.ekol.lu.se/˜rachel/
Rachel Muheim <Rachel.Muheim@zooekol.lu.se >
Masters EvolBiol
Course: Erasmus Mundus Joint Master in Evolutionary
Biology (MEME) - Extended deadline EU students
MEME is a two-year research oriented master pro-
gramme for talented and motivated students who are
interested in understanding evolution in all its facets.The MEME programme will address the driving forces
of evolution at all levels of organismal organisation
(from cells and individuals to populations and ecosys-
tems), and it will allow students to study all kinds of or-
ganisms (microorganisms, plants, animals) in all kinds
of habitats (marine as well as terrestrial) with a diver-
sity of approaches (ﬁeld, lab, theory). The focus of the
programme is not only on how evolution shaped life on
our planet in the past, but also on how understanding
the principles underlying evolution can provide new in-
sights and help to cope with present-day challenges in a
variety of ﬁelds, including ecology, epidemiology, phys-
iology, immunology, genetics/genomics, bioinformatics,
economics and the social sciences.
Only few universities in the world would be able to oﬀer
a programme of such broad scope without compromis-
ing scientiﬁc quality. For this reason, four European
universities: - University of Groningen (Netherlands) -
University of Montpellier II (France) - Ludwig Maxim-
ilians University of Munich (Germany) - Uppsala Uni-
versity (Sweden) have joined forces with Harvard Uni-
versity (USA).
Together, this consortium is able to put together an at-
tractive multidisciplinary programme that meets high-
est standards. All students have to study at a minimum
of two partner universities, and they will receive either
a joint MSc degree from the whole consortium or double
degree from two partner universities.
Being ﬁnanced by the European Community, MEME
has to satisfy the high quality standards imposed the
prestigious Erasmus Mundus Programme. Full schol-
arships are available for MEME students and will be
awarded in a selective procedure.
Starting date: September 2011
Application deadline European/EEA students: Jan-
uary 15, 2011 Application deadline non-European stu-
dents: January 25, 2011
We extended the European deadline till January 25th
2011. This was decided because the deadline for the
category B students was moved in November 2010 from
April to January due to the new deadline set by Eras-
mus Mundus in Brussels.
We strongly invite European students to APPLY!
More information and how to apply: www.evobio.eu
Questions about the contents of the programme: Franjo
Weissing (f.j.weissing@rug.nl)
Questions about the application procedure: Irma Kn-
evel (i.c.knevel@rug.nl)
Dr Irma C. Knevel Administrative coordinator Erasmus
Mundus Master Programme MEME Theoretical Biol-100 EvolDir February 1, 2011
ogy Group Centre for Life Sciences P.O. BOX 11103
9700 CC Groningen The Netherlands
I.C.Knevel@rug.nl
MichiganStateU MicrobialGenomics
Summer
Microbial Metagenomics June 12th - June 25th, 2011
Michigan State University
Learn state-of-the-art genomic methods to identify re-
lationships between the structure and function of mi-
crobial communities
A major goal of this course is to provide hands-on ex-
perience with some of the molecular and computational
tools that can be used to study relationships between
microbial communities and ecosystem functions. How-
ever, our vision for the course is to go beyond simply
learning these techniques. You will apply them in an
ongoing study of the eﬀects of land use on the produc-
tion of greenhouse gases, and hopefully develop ideas
for their use in your own research. Morning lectures
will discuss microbial and ecological principles underly-
ing experiments that you will conduct during the after-
noons. The laboratory sessions will include puriﬁcation
of DNA from soil for 454 pyrosequencing, quantitative
PCR and assays for enzymatic activities. You will an-
alyze sequence data with a suite of contemporary pro-
grams to measure community diversity, and use multi-
variate analyses to relate these structures to ecosystem
function. Drs. Thomas Schmidt, Clegg Waldron and
Jay Lennon of Michigan State University will teach this
course. It is an intensive 2-week experience modeled
after the internationally acclaimed MBL Microbial Di-
versity Course that Dr. Schmidt previously directed.
Experiments will focus on links between denitriﬁcation
genes and the production of N2O at the nearby Kellogg
Biological Station Long Term Ecological Research Site
(http://lter.kbs.msu.edu ).
Who can attend? This course is for advanced under-
graduates, graduate students, and faculty. It can be
taken as a three-credit course (MMG 490 or MMG 890,
Section 432).
What do I need to know in advance? We encourage
diversity of backgrounds. The primary pre-requisite is
a keen interest in adding molecular methods to your re-
search. Familiarity with basic laboratory methods such
as use of a pipetman and agarose gel electrophoresis ishelpful.
Where will it be held? Lectures and laboratory sessions
will be held on the main campus of Michigan State Uni-
versity in East Lansing, Michigan, USA. Single-room
accommodation is available on campus.
When do I apply? Application is open until February
14th, 2011 at the site below.
Additional information and application forms are
available at: http://www.mmg.msu.edu/ Jay T.
Lennon Assistant Professor W.K. Kellogg Biologi-
cal Station Department of Microbiology & Molec-
ular Genetics. Michigan State University 3700
East Gull Lake Drive Hickory Corners, Michi-
gan 49060 269-671-2340 lennonja@msu.edu Lab web-
site: http://microbes.kbs.msu.edu/ Lab wiki: http://-
lennonlab.kbs.msu.edu/ lennonja@MSU.EDU
Mississippi HerpetologyDiversity
May16-27
Field Course in Herpetology
May 16-27, 2011
The Gulf Coast Research Laboratory in Ocean Springs,
Mississippi is pleased to oﬀer a new course - Coastal
Herpetology - from May 16-27, 2011. The coastal plain
of the Southeast boasts an outstanding diversity of am-
phibians and reptiles, making the region an excellent
place to study these often reclusive and elusive crea-
tures. This course will provide students with an in-
troduction to herpetology through lectures and associ-
ated readings, discussions of original research papers,
and a class project. Topics covered will include the
ecology, evolution, life history, diversity, behavior, and
conservation of amphibians and reptiles. There will also
be many ﬁeld excursions highlighting the methods and
techniques for capturing and studying amphibians and
reptiles. Be prepared to get wet and muddy since we
will be exploring the marshes, pine woods, bayous, and
other habitats as we search for and learn about the am-
phibians and reptiles of the northern coast of the Gulf
of Mexico. Three semester hours of credit is available
through the University of Southern Mississippi or one
of many aﬃliated universities. Applications will be ac-
cepted through May 2, 2011. For more information,
visit us at www.usm.edu/gcrl or contact the instructor,
Dr. Matthew Chatﬁeld, at mattchat@tulane.edu.February 1, 2011 EvolDir 101
– Matthew W. H. Chatﬁeld, Ph.D. Tulane University
Dept of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology 400 Lindy
Boggs Building New Orleans, LA 70118 (504) 862-8289
mattchat@tulane.edu
“And the end of all our exploring will be to arrive where
we started, and know the place for the ﬁrst time.” - T.
S. Eliot
mwhchatﬁeld@gmail.com
Reykjavik EMBO
ComputationalBiology Aug6-13
Dear Colleagues,
We are pleased to inform you about the upcoming
“EMBO Practical Course - Computational biology:
Genomes, Cells & Systems”
to be held in Reykjav´ ık, Iceland from 6th to 13th of
August 2011.
The 7-day course is the fourth in a successful series, and
has the ambitious goal to introduce advanced methods
and applications of computational biology.
Participation is restricted to 20 graduate students and
postdocs. For all participants, fellowships will be made
available covering housing, subsistence and registration.
No funding are available for travel costs.
Closing date for applications: March 31st, 2011 Further
information and registration at http://cwp.embo.org/-
pc11-07/ Sincerely,
Francesca Ciccarelli, for the organizers*
* Organizing Committee:
Dr. Peer Bork, EMBL Heidelberg , Germany Dr.
Francesca D. Ciccarelli, IEO Milan, Italy Dr. Jan Kor-
bel, EMBL Heidelberg , Germany Dr. Roland Krause,
Max-Planck-Institute Berlin, Germany Dr. Eirikur Ste-
ingrimsson University of Iceland Reykjavik, Iceland
–
Francesca D. Ciccarelli, PhD Evolutionary Ge-
nomics of Cancer IFOM-IEO-Campus Via Adamello,
16 20139 Milan, Italy tel +39-02574303053 fax
+39-0294375990 web: http://ciccarelli.group.ifom-ieo-
campus.it/ francesca.ciccarelli@ifom-ieo-campus.itTeachingEvolutionForPostdocs 2011
*Second Invitation to Apply: FIRST IV -Teaching
Workshops for Postdocs in Biology*
Postdoctoral researchers in any ﬁeld of biology are
invited to participate in Faculty Institutes for Re-
forming Science Teaching (FIRST IV) for Postdoctoral
Scholars, funded by the National Science Foundation
and associated with ﬁve regional ﬁeld station networks
throughout the United States (locations and dates de-
scribed on www.ﬁrstiv.org ). FIRST IV focuses on re-
form of undergraduate biology education through pro-
fessional development of postdocs. Participating post-
docs will design an inquiry-based, student-centered un-
dergraduate biology course.
Key elements of FIRST IV include active learning, as-
sessment and diversity in teaching. Postdocs will at-
tend two workshops during consecutive summers, a
four-day workshop in 2011 followed by a three-day
workshop in 2012. During the academic year between
the two workshops, postdocs will teach all or part of an
introductory biology course (e.g., cell biology, genet-
ics, ecology, organisms, populations, evolution) at their
home institution using the course framework they de-
signed during the workshop. A team of scientists who
are expert innovators, teachers, and professional devel-
opers will conduct the workshops at the ﬁeld stations
and mentor the postdocs during the academic year.
*Who should apply?* Postdoctoral researchers who
have an interest in and commitment to teaching. We
encourage individuals or teams of two postdocs from
one institution to apply.
*Cost?* The NSF is sponsoring all expenses for work-
shop participants at ﬁeld stations, including room,
board, and instructional materials and will provide up
to $400 in travel expenses for each postdoctoral fellow
for each workshop attended.
Second call application due: January 30, 2011 Notiﬁca-
tion of acceptance: February 21, 2011
*Questions? Contact Diane Ebert-May, Department
of Plant Biology, Michigan State University, ebert-
may@msu.edu
Application is on the FIRST IV web site:**
www.ﬁrstiv.org **Please name your completed ap-
plication ﬁle:**LastnameFirstname FIRSTIVapp.pdf *102 EvolDir February 1, 2011
*Send all application materials as one PDF document
to:** apply@ﬁrstiv.org*
– Diane Ebert-May, PhD Professor, Plant Biology 270
Plant Biology Michigan State University East Lansing,
MI 48824 (oﬃce) 517.432.7171 (cell) 517.256.3536 (fax)
517.353.1926
http://www.plantbiology.msu.edu
https://www.msu.edu/ ˜ ﬁrst4/ <
https://www.msu.edu/%7Eﬁrst4/ > https://-
www.msu.edu/course/bs/110/ebertmay/ Sarah
Jardeleza <sarahejw@msu.edu >
Yunnan China
GenomicsTropicalBiodiversity
Jun27-Jul1
Genomics of Tropical Biodiversity (Working Session I)
Time and Place : 2011 June 27 to July 1 Xishuang-
banna Tropical Botanical Garden, Menglun, Yunnan,
China.
1´ u1
4ˆE`E`Eø/greatermuch` u`O` o×´ e/greatermuch´ a`O´ e,
2011 ¨Aˆ e6ˆOˆA27`E˜O-7ˆOˆA1`E˜O µØµ˜ a £o¯ ¨O1´ u¿Æ˜N§ˆOo¯ˆI¨E/lessmuchæ¨A´E`E`Eø¨O2ˆI¨ ıˆO£¬ˆOÆ¨A¨IˆEˆI¨E/lessmuchæ¨A´E¨O´YˆUˆAˆAØ˜O` o
===Registration Registration is currently open for sci-
entists and students who want to participate in the
workshop but the number of participants will be lim-
ited, so that we can have a productive and focused ses-sion. Please contact us to reserve your place. Before
February 28, 2011 800 RMB for domestic scientists and
450 USD for foreign scientists 400 RMB for domestic
students and 200 USD for foreign students After Febru-
ary 28, 2011 950 RMB for domestic scientists and 550
USD for foreign scientists 500 RMB for domestic stu-
dents and 250 USD for foreign students Accommoda-
tion: 600 RMB for 4 nights at the garden hotel.
===Agenda Registered participants will have access
to whole genome sequence data, obtained on the Illu-
mina platform, from numerous species of tropical tree,
primarily in the genus Ficus (ﬁgs) and the family Fa-
gaceae (tropical oaks). Genome coverage ranges from
3x to 20x, with most averaging 10x. Conﬁrmed par-
ticipants include Jeﬀrey Boore, David Galbraith, Ruan
Jue, Mike Arnold, among others from a variety of ﬁelds.
Prior to the workshop, a set of draft questions and
protocols will be shared through Google Docs, allow-
ing participants to become familiar with the overall
objectives of the workshop, to improve the questions,
and suggest new ones. Registered participants can also
choose to lead speciﬁc topics from the agenda below or
suggest their own topics. We will be providing a more
detailed agenda by the end of January, 2011. We will
also develop criteria for inclusion of participants as co-
authors on manuscripts that are developed during the
workshop.
If you are interested in attending, please contact
cskua1@gmail.com or chuck@xtbg.ac.cn. Check
for updates after Feb 1, 2011 of the agenda
at http://www.ecologicalevolution.org/training/
chuck.cannon@gmail.com
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here — Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from ‘blackballed’ addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned oﬀ and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf ﬁle.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
‘on vacation’, etc, style messages are automatically ﬁltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),February 1, 2011 EvolDir 103
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail’s your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word ﬁles, as HTML ﬁles, as L ATEX ﬁles, Excel ﬁles, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
“Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:” and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and ﬁlters. If the message is caught by one of the
ﬁlters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.