E v o l D i r
November 1, 2011
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same ﬁeld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be “bulletin board” in nature, if there is a “discussion” style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 111
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1122 EvolDir November 1, 2011
Conferences
Arizona Volvox Dec1-4 DeadlineExt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Arizona VolvoxEvolution Dec1-4 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Basel Macrostomum Nov25-27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Coimbra Portugal EvolutionaryBiol Dec21 . . . . . . . . . . 4
Coimbra Portugal EvolutionaryBiol Dec21 2 . . . . . . . . 4
Denver ProteinEvolution Dec5-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Dublin SMBE2012 Jun23-26 CallSymposia 2 . . . . . . . 5
Edinburgh ParasiteEvolutionAcrossScales Nov29 . . . . 5
Edinburgh ParasiteFitness Nov29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Edinburgh PhylogenyDiscussionGroup Oct26 . . . . . . . 6
KansasCity Genomics Nov4-6 Deadlines . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
KansasCity Genomics Nov4-6 RegistrationExt . . . . . . 8
LaJolla DrosophilaSpecies Oct27-30 FinalCall . . . . . . 9
Lisbon Ethology Apr12-13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Lisbon FishPhylogeography Nov26-27 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9Marseilles 16th EBM Sep18-21 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
MichiganStateU ArtiﬁcialLife Jul19-22 . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Neuchatel AdaptiveLandscapeGenetics Feb7-8 . . . . . 12
NorthCarolina SEPEEG 2011 Oct21-23 StudentReg 12
Ottawa iEvoBio OrganizingCommittee . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
SaintMalo France TE Apr21-24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Salzburg EvolutionPhysiologicalTraits Jun29 . . . . . . 14
UJyvaskyla Finland Biodiversity Feb27-28 Registration
15
UNottingham PopGenetics Jan4-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
UOregon EvoDevo Feb10-12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
UOxford EcolEvolStudent Jan4-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
UPorto Portugal Biodiversity Dec5-6 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Vienna Evolution Nov15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Arizona Volvox Dec1-4 DeadlineExt
The deadline for registration for the First International
Volvox Conference ( http://www.unbf.ca/vip/IVC/-
index.htm ) has been extended to November 1. Please
join us for the 1st International Volvox Conference
(focused on the green alga Volvox and its close rela-
tives) to be held December 1-4, 2011 at the Biosphere
2, in Arizona, USA ( http://www.b2science.org/-
). This is the ﬁrst of what we hope to be a long
series of Volvox meetings to be held every other
year, alternating with the Chlamydomonas meetings.
For additional information and updates (includ-
ing preliminary program, registration and abstract
submission deadlines) please visit the Conference
page at http://www.unbf.ca/vip/IVC/index.htm . –
Matthew D. Herron, PhD Department of Zoology
University of British Columbia X.princeps@gmail.com
http://www.eebweb.arizona.edu/grads/mherron/
xprinceps@gmail.comArizona VolvoxEvolution Dec1-4 2
This is a reminder that the registration deadline is ap-
proaching for the First International Volvox Confer-
ence (details below). To register, go to www.unbf.ca/-
vip/IVC/registration.html and submit your abstract
atwww.unbf.ca/vip/IVC/abstracts.html by October
15th. We welcome researchers from other ﬁelds with an
interest in the evolution of multicellularity, cellular dif-
ferentiation and development, comparative genomics,
and multilevel selection. Conference information:
Please join us for the 1st International Volvox Confer-
ence (focused on the green alga Volvox and its close
relatives) to be held December 1-4, 2011 at the Bio-
sphere 2, in Arizona, USA ( www.b2science.org/ ). This
is the ﬁrst of what we hope to be a long series of Volvox
meetings to be held every other year, alternating with
the Chlamydomonas meetings. For additional infor-
mation and updates (including preliminary program,
registration and abstract submission deadlines) please
visit the Conference page at www.unbf.ca/vip/IVC/-November 1, 2011 EvolDir 3
index.htm.In addition to sessions (contributed papers
and posters) on various aspects of the biology, taxon-
omy, ecology, development and evolution of Volvox and
its relatives, we are organizing a workshop on Volvox ge-
netics and genomics that will provide a forum to discuss
emerging tools and methods (or ways of adapting those
that have been developed in other systems) to enhance
our understanding of genetically-controlled processes in
this group of algae.
Thank you and hope to see you all at the Biosphere 2
in December! Best wishes,
Aurora M. Nedelcu University of New Brunswick De-
partment of Biology PO Box 4400 Fredericton, New
Brunswick Canada E3B 5A3
Matthew D. Herron, PhD Department of Zoology
University of British Columbia X.princeps@gmail.com
http://www.eebweb.arizona.edu/grads/mherron/
Matthew Herron <xprinceps@gmail.com >
Basel Macrostomum Nov25-27
5th International Macrostomum Meeting
We are happy to announce that we will hold the “Fifth
International Macrostomum Meeting” (5th IMM) here
in Basel, from Friday, 25.11.2011 at 18:00 to Sunday,
27.11.2011 at around 16:00.
With the “First International Macrostomum Meeting”
in 2007, also in Basel, we started a tradition of an-
nually bringing together the growing community of re-
searchers that are either working on Macrostomum or
who are otherwise interested in research on this novel
model organism.
The topics of contributed talks and posters will likely
span aging, development, genomics, transcriptomics,
transgenesis, regeneration, neurobiology, ecotoxicology,
systematics, phylogenetics, and sexual selection. It is a
great opportunity to get an update on what is happen-
ing in the Macrostomum Community, and to establish
personal contacts if you consider to start working on
these lovely worms.
As before, we would like to keep things very simple and
we expect everyone to be prepared to cover their own
costs. In addition, we will collect a small fee to cover
sandwich lunches, refreshments and a joint dinner on
Saturday evening (about 60 Euros). We oﬀer limited
ﬂoor space accommodation in the apartments of peo-ple in our group, which we’ll be preferentially given to
students (just bring along a mat and a sleeping bag).
Please let us know if you would like to be accommo-
dated in this way (see the form below) and note that
ﬂoor space is limited, so book soon.
People who would like to make a hotel reservation
should do it soon, because there are many fairs in Basel,
and hotels can ﬁll up quickly. We suggest that you
book your room in the Hotel Rochat, where we rou-
tinely host guests that visit our department ( http://-
www.hotelrochat.ch ), and where we therefore have spe-
cial rates. The rates are 125.- CHF for single rooms
and 180.- CHF for double rooms. They also have 3-,
4-, and 5-bed rooms for 230.-, 260.- and 300.- CHF,
respectively, if you want to share costs. The Hotel
Rochat is just ﬁve minutes by foot from the Institute.
Please contact them directly to make your arrange-
ments/payments, and mention the Zoological Institute
when you book to get the special rates.
For people coming by plane, please note
that Easyjet ( http://www.easyjet.com ), Swiss
(http://www.swiss.com), and AirBerlin ( http://-
www.airberlin.com/ ) ﬂy to Basel from many European
destinations (e.g. Hamburg, London, Amsterdam,
Brussels, Berlin, Madrid, Barcelona etc.).
If you would like to attend the meeting please ﬁll out
and return the form below to dita.vizoso@unibas.ch be-
fore the 21st of October.
—–
First Name: xx Last Name: xx Institution (incl. ad-
dress and Country): xx
Tel: xx Email: xx
Presentation (delete as appropriate):
Oral/Poster/None Title: xx Authors: xx Institu-
tions: xx Abstract (max. 300 words): xx
I am a student (delete as appropriate): Yes/No I want
ﬂoor accommodation (delete as appropriate): Yes/No
—–
Hopefully see you soon in Basel,
Lukas Sch¨ arer Dita Vizoso Steve Ramm Lucas Marie-
Orl´ each Kiyono Sekii Roberto Arbore Nadja Burri
Micha Eichmann
—–
Dita B. Vizoso
Zoologisches Institut der Universit¨ at Basel Evolutions-
biologie Vesalgasse 1 CH-4051 Basel Switzerland
tel:++41 61 267 0376 fax:++41 61 267 03624 EvolDir November 1, 2011
dita.vizoso@unibas.ch http://evolution.unibas.ch/-
people/dita/ http://evolution.unibas.ch/people/dita/-
ﬁsh/ﬁsh.html dita.vizoso@unibas.ch
Coimbra Portugal EvolutionaryBiol
Dec21
Date: 21 December 2011 Location: Coimbra,Portugal.
Hosted by: Science Museum and CIBIO
The VII National Meeting in Evolutionary Biology will
take place in Coimbra, on the 21st December, 2011.
Submissions of communications can be done
until November 21, to this address: biolo-
gia.evolutiva@gmail.com
Election of the board of the Portuguese Society for Evo-
lutionary Biology may take place during the meeting -
the terms still to de deﬁned.
A workshop on science communication will take place
on the 20th. Registration for the workshop is inde-
pendent from the Meeting. However, the workshop is
intended to the scientists attending the meeting that
wish to participate.
More details will be given soon.
Paulo Gama Mota
Ol´ a a todos,
A data deﬁnitiva para a realiza¸ c˜ ao do VII Encontro Na-
cional da Biologia Evolutiva ´ e de 21 de Dezembro, no
Museu da Ciˆ encia, Universidade de Coimbra. As comu-
nica¸ c˜ oes podem ser submetidas at´ e dia 21 de Novembro
atrav´ es do site: http://www.biologia-evolutiva.net/ -
que vamos refazer para este encontro dentro de dias -,
ou para o endere¸ co biologia.evolutiva@gmail.com que
foi criado para esse efeito. A data de 21 de Novembro ´ e
necess´ aria para se avaliarem as propostas e decidir so-
bre as mesmas. Dentro de dias darei mais informa¸ c˜ oes
sobre o Encontro. Registem nas vossas agendas p.f.
Se a Sociedade Portuguesa de Biologia Evolutiva j´ a
estiver formalmente constitu´ ıda na data do Encontro,
aproveitaremos para eleger uma Direc¸ c˜ ao, como me
conﬁrmou a Isabel Gordo que dirige a Comiss˜ ao insta-
ladora.
Por sugest˜ ao de alguns membros do grupo ach´ amos in-
teressante promover um workshop pr´ e-encontro, no dia
20, sobre ’Science Communication’. Informa¸ c˜ oes sobre
os convidados e inscri¸ c˜ oes ser˜ ao dadas dentro de dias.Sauda¸ c˜ oes evolutivas
Paulo Gama Mota
– Paulo Gama Mota Museu da Ciˆ encia da Universidade
de Coimbra
Departamento de Ciˆ encias da Vida Faculdade de
Ciˆ encias e Tecnologia Universidade de Coimbra
Paulo Gama Mota <pgmota@antrop.uc.pt >
Coimbra Portugal EvolutionaryBiol
Dec21 2
The VII annual Portuguese Evolutionary Biology Meet-
ings will be held on the 21st of December 2011, in
Coimbra, in the Science Museum. A pre-meeting
workshop on “Science Communication” will be held
on the 20th of December. For online registration
(with or without communication), please visit: http:/-
/www.biologia-evolutiva.net/inscr.htm Please submit
abstracts (for oral communications or posters) to biolo-
gia.evolutiva@gmail.com until the 20th of November,
in conformity with the abstract format (see http://-
www.biologia-evolutiva.net/ )
andrelevy@gmail.com
Denver ProteinEvolution Dec5-7
Meeting on Mechanisms of Protein Evolution
December 5-7, 2011
Denver, CO, USA
http://www.evolutionarygenomics.com/-
MMPE Denver/ The meeting will focus on explicit
consideration of biophysical and systems biology
principles to generate a mechanistic understanding of
selective pressures and the impacts of neutral evolu-
tionary processes. Topics will include interaction with
phylogenetics, adaptation, coevolution, convergence,
neutral processes, and other topics of concern to the
study of molecular biology and evolution.
This will be a small meeting, with plenty of opportu-
nity for interaction. Talks by students as well as more
senior investigators are encouraged.November 1, 2011 EvolDir 5
Organized by David Pollock (University of Colorado
School of Medicine), David Liberles (University of
Wyoming), and Rachel Mueller (Colorado State Uni-
versity)
The meeting is timed to also enable attendance at
Rocky 2011, the Rocky Mountain Bioinformatics Con-
ference, in Snowmass/Aspen starting on December 8,
for those interested.
“David A. Liberles” <Liberles@uwyo.edu >
Dublin SMBE2012 Jun23-26
CallSymposia 2
SMBE 2012: Call for Symposia Six Days to Go!
The deadline to submit your proposal for symposium
topics at the Society for Molecular Biology & Evolution
Annual Meeting is next Monday, 31st October.
To submit your proposal, please ﬁll out the
word document at ( http://imgpublic.mci-group.com/-
ie/PCO/SMBE 2012 CFS template.doc ) and return it
to SMBE2012@mci-group.com.
Successful Symposium applications will be conﬁrmed
on Monday, November 7th, 2011, at which time a call
for abstracts will be sent.
There will be a ﬁnancial contribution made towards
speaker expenses. More details will follow on the con-
ference website, www.SMBE2012.org . Regards,
James.
– James McInerney, Department of Biology, NUI
Maynooth, Co. Kildare, Ireland. P: +353 1
7083860 F: +353 1 7083845 W: http://bioinf.nuim.ie/
james.o.mcinerney@nuim.ie
Edinburgh
ParasiteEvolutionAcrossScales
Nov29
Life in cells, hosts, and vectors: how do parasites max-
imise ﬁtness across scales?
A one-day symposium Tuesday November 29, 2011 Uni-
versity of Edinburgh Ashworth Laboratories, LectureTheatre 3
Organisers: Nicole Mideo & Sam Brown Hosted by
the Centre for Immunity, Infection, and Evolution
(CIIE; http://ciie.bio.ed.ac.uk/ ), a Wellcome Trust-
funded initiative with the remit to connect evolution-
ary biology to infection research and gain an interdis-
ciplinary perspective on challenges to global health.
The aim of the symposium is to bring together re-
searchers from diverse disciplines to address a central
question in infectious disease biology: How do parasites
maximise ﬁtness across a range of biological scales? Al-
though parasite ﬁtness is often equated with between-
host transmission, such a simple assumption overlooks
the fact that transmission is a consequence of processes
acting on a number of diﬀerent scales and, in some
cases, across a number of vastly diﬀerent environments.
Understanding disease evolution therefore requires an
understanding of the cellular and behavioural interac-
tions between parasites and hosts; of host demography
and epidemiology; of vector ecology and immunity; and
of the links between these scales.
This symposium brings together researchers whose
work looks across scales and environments to under-
stand why and how parasites ’do what they do’, tying
together mechanism, evolutionary explanations, and
public health implications. Our programme of speak-
ers is broad, covering a range of diﬀerent systems -
from micro- (bacteria, protozoans) to macro-parasites
(helminths) - as well as integrating theoretical and em-
pirical approaches.
Speakers: * Olivier Restif (University of Cambridge) *
Sarah Reece (University Edinburgh) * Toni Aebischer
(Robert Koch Institute) * Andy Fenton (University of
Liverpool) * Sam Brown (University of Edinburgh) *
Ville Friman (Unviersity of Exeter) * Alvaro Acosta-
Serrano (University of Liverpool) * Joanne Webster
(Imperial College) * Mark Brown (Royal Holloway, Uni-
versity of London)
The symposium is free, including lunch and refresh-
ments, but please register at: http://ciie.bio.ed.ac.uk/-
node/329 Nicole Mideo, Junior Fellow Centre for
Immunity, Infection, and Evolution School of Bi-
ological Sciences Ashworth Laboratories University
of Edinburgh Edinburgh EH9 3JT Scotland, UK
n.mideo@ed.ac.uk Tel +44 131 650 8682
N.Mideo@ed.ac.uk6 EvolDir November 1, 2011
Edinburgh ParasiteFitness Nov29
One day symposium in Edinburgh, UK: “Life in cells,
hosts, and vectors: how do parasites maximise ﬁtness
across scales?”
Dear Colleagues,
We are pleased to announce that the 5th CIIE Sympo-
sium, “Life in cells, hosts, and vectors: how do parasites
maximise ﬁtness across scales?”, will be held on Tues-
day November 29, 2011 in Lecture Theatre 3, Ashworth
Laboratories, University of Edinburgh.
This will be an all-day event. You can now register
via our website: http://ciie.bio.ed.ac.uk/node/329 The
aim of the symposium is to bring together researchers
from diverse disciplines to address a central question
in infectious disease biology: How do parasites max-
imise ﬁtness across a range of biological scales? Al-
though parasite ﬁtness is often equated with between-
host transmission, such a simple assumption overlooks
the fact that transmission is a consequence of processes
acting on a number of diﬀerent scales and, in some
cases, across a number of vastly diﬀerent environments.
Understanding disease evolution therefore requires an
understanding of the cellular and behavioural interac-
tions between parasites and hosts; of host demography
and epidemiology; of vector ecology and immunity; and
of the links between these scales.
This symposium brings together researchers whose
work looks across scales and environments to under-
stand why and how parasites ’do what they do’, tying
together mechanism, evolutionary explanations, and
public health implications. Our programme of speak-
ers is broad, covering a range of diﬀerent systems -
from micro- (bacteria, viruses, protozoans) to macro-
parasites (helminths) - as well as integrating theoretical
and empirical approaches.
Speakers: . Olivier Restif (Cambridge) - Is Salmonella
trapped in the closet? The coming-out of an intracel-
lular pathogen . Sarah Reece (Edinburgh) - Putting
within-host ecology into parasite biology: strategic
decision-making? . Toni Aebischer (Robert Koch In-
stitute) - Life in cells: From a proteomic parts list
to an interpretation of the habitat of Leishmania in
macrophages . Andy Fenton (Liverpool) - Dances with
worms: the evolution of pathogen virulence under coin-
fection . Sam Brown (Edinburgh) - Virulence dynamicsacross multiple environments . Ville Friman (Exeter)
- Protist and phage enemies and the evolution of vir-
ulence in opportunistic bacterial pathogens . Alvaro
Acosta-Serrano (Liverpool) - TBA . Joanne Webster
(Imperial) -How do schistosomes optimize ﬁtness across
scales and changing environments? . Mark Brown
(Royal Holloway) - Dynamic transmission, host qual-
ity and populations structure in a multi-host parasite
of bumblebees
If you’d like to attend, you need to register using
the online registration form on our website http://-
ciie.bio.ed.ac.uk/node/329 . Lunch will be provided for
all registered attendees.
You can contact the organisers by e-mailing
ciie@ed.ac.uk
We look forward to welcoming you on 29th November.
On behalf of the organisers,
Ms Kasia Kokowska Manager, Centre for Immunity, In-
fection and Evolution Ashworth Labs, King’s Buildings,
West Mains Road, Edinburgh, EH9 3JT
0131 6513683
kasia.kokowska@ed.ac.uk
Tom Little Wellcome Trust Senior Research Fellow in
Basic Biomedical Sciences Institute of Evolutionary Bi-
ology Kings Buildings University of Edinburgh EH9
3JT UK
+44 131 650 7781
tom.little@ed.ac.uk
http://www.biology.ed.ac.uk/research/groups/tlittle/
Tom Little <Tom.Little@ed.ac.uk >
Edinburgh
PhylogenyDiscussionGroup Oct26
Dear all,
The second meeting of the Scottish Phylogeny Discus-
sion Group will take place in Edinburgh on 26th Octo-
ber 2011, 1.30pm to 5.30pm. The Scottish Phylogeny
Discussion Group is a series of meetings for researchers
interested in phylogeny reconstruction and associated
areas of research, including comparative genomics, phy-
logenomics, population genetics and taxonomy.
Dr. Omar Rota Stabelli will talk on “Signal explo-November 1, 2011 EvolDir 7
ration and the aﬃnities of the ecdysozoans”. We also
have local speakers from the Royal Botanic Garden, the
University of Glasgow, University of St. Andrews and
University of Strathclyde.
The meeting is free to attend, but to give us an idea of
numbers for catering we still need you to register. See
this page for details and registration:
http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/cegg/spdg Please cir-
culate this email to any of your colleagues who might
be interested.
Regards,
Martin Jones Institute of Evolutionary Biology Univer-
sity of Edinburgh
martin846@googlemail.com
KansasCity Genomics Nov4-6
Deadlines
This is the ﬁnal week to: 1)REGISTER at early dis-
counted rates, 2)SUBMIT YOUR ABSTRACT for oral
presentation consideration, and 3)RESERVE YOUR
HOTEL ROOM for the Ecological Genomics Sympo-
sium, November 4-6, 2011, in Kansas City. ˆA Deadline: ˆA
Friday, October 7, 2011. ˆA (If you do NOT wish to have
your abstract considered for oral presentation, you may
submit your poster abstract by October 26.) ˆA
We have a great lineup of speakers you wonˆ at want
to miss! ˆA Register now ˆ a ˆAˆAˆAˆAˆAˆAˆAˆAˆA ...to attend
the 9th Annual ˆ aGenes in Ecology, Ecology in Genesˆ a
Symposium on November 4, 5, & 6, 2011, in Kansas
City. ˆA
We will convene in the Muehlebach/Marriott Hotel in
downtown Kansas City at 6:00 p.m. on Friday and
conclude on Sunday at noon. ˆA Please visit the Sympo-
sium website, www.ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2011 , to reg-
ister for the Symposium, submit abstracts, and reserve
your hotel room. ˆA You may also register to join your
colleagues for dinner on Saturday night at the Bris-
tol Seafood Grill in the nearby Kansas City Power and
Light District for an additional fee of $50.
SYMPOSIUM WEBSITE: ˆAwww.ecogen.ksu.edu/-
symp2011
ECOLOGICAL GENOMICS is a ﬁeld at the interface
of ecology, evolution and genomics that seeks to place
the functional signiﬁcance of genes and genomics intoan ecological and evolutionary context.
We have an outstanding lineup of speakers for the 2011
Symposium and we encourage you to attend!
PLENARY SPEAKER: +Louis Bernatchez, Univer-
sit˜Ac/circlecopyrtLaval, ˆ aTesting for parallel evolution at
multiple-levels during the time course of an adaptive
radiation (and lessons for conservation)ˆ a
FEATURED SPEAKERS: + Byron Adams, Brigham
Young University, ˆ aEvolutionary and ecological sto-
ichiometry of Antarctic nematodesˆ a + Justin Bore-
vitz, University of Chicago, ˆ aThe genetic basis of
growing season adaptation in Arabidopsis thalianaˆ a +
Daniel H. Buckley, Cornell University, ˆ aGene exchange
and the evolutionary dynamics of microbial popula-
tionsˆ a + John Kenneth Colbourne, Indiana Univer-
sity, ˆ aDuplicating genes allow Daphnia populations to
thrive in toxic environmentsˆ a + John Jaenike, Univer-
sity of Rochester, ˆ aEndosymbiont-mediated protection
against parasitic nematodesˆ a + Brian Lazzaro, Cornell
University, ˆ aPleiotropy and environment in resistance
to bacterial infection in Drosophilaˆ a + Jeremy L. Mar-
shall, Kansas State University, ˆ aSpeciation genetics in
the age of -omics and systems biologyˆ a + Emilie Snell-
Rood, University of Minnesota, ˆ aConstraints on the
evolution of plasticity: Genomic approaches in horned
beetles across nutritional environmentsˆ a + Victoria L.
Sork, University of California-Los Angeles, ˆ aPopulation
and landscape genomics of valley oak (Quercus lobata),
a California endemicˆ a
POSTER SESSIONS: ˆA Poster sessions will be held
Friday night and Saturday afternoon. ˆA Poster topics
should be related to the ﬁeld of Ecological Genomics. ˆA
A limited number of submitted poster abstracts will be
selected for oral presentations.
SATURDAY NIGHT BANQUET: ˆA Join your col-
leagues for dinner on Saturday night at the Bristol
Seafood Grill in the nearby Kansas City Power and
Light District. An icon in the city since 1980, Bristol
Seafood Grill is an upscale seafood restaurant oﬀering
the area’s freshest premium seafood and steaks. The
atmosphere oﬀers a unique blend of the upscale and
casual chic. The cost for the optional Saturday night
banquet is $50 per person.
DEADLINES: ˆA Friday, 10/7/11, REGISTRATION
deadline at early bird rates. ˆA Friday, 10/7/11,
POSTER ABSTRACTS are due for oral presentation
consideration. ˆA Friday, 10/7/11, HOTEL rooms must
be reserved to receive reduced group rate.
INFORMATION will be posted on our website,
www.ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2011 , as details are ﬁnal-
ized. ˆA8 EvolDir November 1, 2011
Please share this announcement with colleagues and
students who are interested in learning more about the
ﬁeld of Ecological Genomics. ˆA If you have questions,
please contact Michael Herman or Loretta Johnson.
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas
State University.
Ecological Genomics Institute Directors:
ˆAˆA Dr. Loretta Johnson, johnson@ksu.edu ˆAˆA Dr.
Michael Herman, mherman@ksu.edu ˆAˆA Kansas State
University, Division of Biology ˆAˆA 116 Ackert Hall,
Manhattan, KS ˆA 66506-4901 ˆAˆA ecogen.ksu.edu
Doris Merrill, Program Coordinator dmerrill@k-
state.edu
Ecological Genomics Institute <dmerrill@k-state.edu >
KansasCity Genomics Nov4-6
RegistrationExt
Early Registration Rates Extended to Friday, 10/21,
for the
ˆAˆAˆAˆA ECOLOGICAL GENOMICS SYMPOSIUM
ˆAˆAˆAˆA November 4 to 6, 2011 ˆAˆAˆAˆA Kansas City Mar-
riott Downtown
You still have time to plan to attend! ˆA To help as
many people as possible have the opportunity to at-
tend the Symposium this year, WE ARE OFFERING
THE EARLY, DISCOUNTED RATES FOR REGIS-
TRATION THROUGH FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21. ˆA
The HOTEL is continuing to accept reservations at the
low rate of $125/night until the room block is sold out
so make your reservations today! ˆAˆAˆA
Poster abstracts will be accepted until October 26. ˆA
The deadline to be considered for an oral presentation
has passed but we welcome your poster at the Sympo-
sium.
REVISED DEADLINES: ˆA Friday, 10/21/11, REG-
ISTRATION deadline extended at early bird rates. ˆA
ˆA Wednesday, 10/26/11, POSTER ABSTRACTS are
due. ˆA Until the room block is depleted, reserve your
HOTEL ROOM to receive reduced group rate.
SYMPOSIUM WEBSITE: ˆAwww.ecogen.ksu.edu/-
symp2011
We have a great lineup of speakers you wonˆ at want to
miss! ˆA Register now ˆ a ˆAˆAˆAˆAˆAˆAˆAˆAˆA ...to attend the9th Annual ˆ aGenes in Ecology, Ecology in Genesˆ a Sym-
posium on November 4, 5, & 6, 2011, in Kansas City. ˆA
We will convene in the Muehlebach/Marriott Hotel in
downtown Kansas City at 6:00 p.m. on Friday and
conclude on Sunday at noon. ˆA Please visit the Sympo-
sium website, www.ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2011 , to reg-
ister for the Symposium, submit abstracts, and reserve
your hotel room. ˆA You may also register to join your
colleagues for dinner on Saturday night at the Bris-
tol Seafood Grill in the nearby Kansas City Power and
Light District for an additional fee of $50.
ECOLOGICAL GENOMICS is a ﬁeld at the interface
of ecology, evolution and genomics that seeks to place
the functional signiﬁcance of genes and genomics into
an ecological and evolutionary context.
PLENARY SPEAKER: +Louis Bernatchez, Univer-
sit˜Ac/circlecopyrtLaval, ˆ aTesting for parallel evolution at
multiple-levels during the time course of an adaptive
radiation (and lessons for conservation)ˆ a
FEATURED SPEAKERS: +Byron Adams, Brigham
Young University, ˆ aEvolutionary and ecological sto-
ichiometry of Antarctic nematodesˆ a +Justin Bore-
vitz, University of Chicago, ˆ aThe genetic basis of
growing season adaptation in Arabidopsis thalianaˆ a
+Daniel H. Buckley, Cornell University, ˆ aGene ex-
change and the evolutionary dynamics of microbial pop-
ulationsˆ a +John Kenneth Colbourne, Indiana Univer-
sity, ˆ aDuplicating genes allow Daphnia populations to
thrive in toxic environmentsˆ a +John Jaenike, Univer-
sity of Rochester, ˆ aEndosymbiont-mediated protection
against parasitic nematodesˆ a +Brian Lazzaro, Cornell
University, ˆ aPleiotropy and environment in resistance
to bacterial infection in Drosophilaˆ a +Jeremy L. Mar-
shall, Kansas State University, ˆ aSpeciation genetics in
the age of -omics and systems biologyˆ a +Emilie Snell-
Rood, University of Minnesota, ˆ aConstraints on the
evolution of plasticity: Genomic approaches in horned
beetles across nutritional environmentsˆ a +Victoria L.
Sork, University of California-Los Angeles, ˆ aPopulation
and landscape genomics of valley oak (Quercuslobata),
a California endemicˆ a
POSTER SESSIONS: ˆA Poster sessions will be held
Friday night and Saturday afternoon. ˆA Poster topics
should be related to the ﬁeld of Ecological Genomics. ˆA
A limited number of submitted poster abstracts sub-
mitted by October 7 will be selected for oral presenta-
tions. ˆA If you wish to present a poster, please submit
your abstract by Wednesday, October 26.
SATURDAY NIGHT BANQUET: ˆA Join your col-
leagues for dinner on Saturday night at the Bristol
Seafood Grill in the nearby Kansas City Power and
Light District. An icon in the city since 1980, BristolNovember 1, 2011 EvolDir 9
Seafood Grill is an upscale seafood restaurant oﬀering
the area’s freshest premium seafood and steaks. The
atmosphere oﬀers a unique blend of the upscale and
casual chic. The cost for the optional Saturday night
banquet is $50 per person.
INFORMATION will be posted on our website,
www.ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2011 , as details are ﬁnal-
ized. ˆA
Please share this announcement with colleagues and
students who are interested in learning more about the
ﬁeld of Ecological Genomics. ˆA If you have questions,
please contact Michael Herman or Loretta Johnson.
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas
State University.
Ecological Genomics Institute Directors:
ˆA Dr. Loretta Johnson, johnson@ksu.edu ˆAˆADr.
Michael Herman, mherman@ksu.edu ˆA Kansas State
University, Division of Biology ˆA116 Ackert Hall, Man-
hattan, KS ˆA 66506-4901 ˆA ecogen.ksu.edu
Doris Merrill, Program Coordinator ˆA
dmerrill@k-state.edu dmerrill@k-state.edu
LaJolla DrosophilaSpecies Oct27-30
FinalCall
Final call..........
The Tenth Drosophila Species Workshop will take place
from Thursday October 27 through Sunday October
30, 2011 at the UCSD campus in La Jolla, Califor-
nia. The workshop employs hands-on approaches and
will focus on the chracteristics of the melanogaster, re-
pleta, virilis, and obscura species groups, including how
to identify species, aspects of their biology and repro-
duction, and husbandry. Workshop instructors include
Patrick OGrady, Stephen Schaeﬀer, Sergio Castrezana,
Masa Watada, Therese Markow, and Maxi Richmond.
Registration is $400 and includes all instruction and
materials, reception dinner, Saturday evening dinner
with keynote talk by Dr. Cassandra Extavour (Har-
vard University), morning and afternoon refreshments
and one lunch. Space is limited. To apply, please
send a one page statement of your research interests
and why the workshop will be valuable to you to Dr.
Therese Markow, UCSD Drosophila Species Stock Cen-
ter: tmarkow@ucsd.edu
Therese Ann Markow, Professor Amylin Chair in LifeSciences Section of Cell and Developmental Biology
Division of Biological Sciences Muir Biology Building
2215 9500 Gilman Drive University of California at San
Diego La Jolla, CA 92093-0116
Email: tmarkow at ucsd.edu Phone: (858) 246 0095
Laboratory: (858) 246 0402 FAX:(858) 534-7108
http://biology.ucsd.edu/labs/markow/ http:/-
/stockcenter.ucsd.edu Therese Markow
<tmarkow@ucsd.edu >
Lisbon Ethology Apr12-13
We are pleased to announce that the next conference of
the Portuguese Ethology Society will take place on 12-
13 April 2012 in Lisbon, at the Faculty of Sciences and
is organized by the Centre for Environmental Biology.
This meeting will bring together contributions from
several related ﬁelds - Ecology, Evolution, Develop-
ment, Physiology and Neuroscience - and several animal
groups - unicellular, invertebrates, vertebrates, mam-
mals, humans. The meeting aims to provide an integra-
tive vision of the study of animal behaviour, to provide
an updated overview of the research being conducted
in Portugal in this ﬁeld and to promote the interaction
between researchers and students.
For more information (including invited speakers) see:
http://spe2012.fc.ul.pt/EN/index.html Hope to see
you there!
The organizing committee
Joana Jord˜ ao, CBA, FCUL
Rita Covas, CiBio, UP
Rita Ponce, CBA, FCUL
Sara Hag´ a, FP-UL
Susana Varela, CBA, FCUL
anaritaponce@gmail.com
Lisbon FishPhylogeography
Nov26-27
*Call for Participants* * * *Workshop on the Biogeog-10 EvolDir November 1, 2011
raphy and Phylogeography of Atlantic Fishes* Date:
26-27 November 2011 Location: Lisbon, Portugal
The organizing committee of the Workshop Biogeogra-
phy and Phylogeography of Atlantic Fish, is pleased to
announce that the International Biogeography Society
and the society’s scientiﬁc journal Frontiers of Biogeog-
raphy will jointly award euro 100 money grants to 7
students, to help defray the cost of attending the work-
shop meeting. Awards will be handed to seven best
poster presentations chosen by the workshop organiz-
ing committee. Posters will be judged on creativity,
quality, excellence of research, and quality of presenta-
tion.
Deadline for Registration and Poster submission: Oc-
tober 31st 2011
Please see details and register on http://-
biocongroup.eu/Workshop Atlantic/Home.html
Keynote talks
Diversity of phylogeographic patterns in the Northeast-
ern Atlantic: the last glaciation and the Lusitanian
Province Almada, V.C.
Evolutionary history of Mediterranean Fishes Bernardi,
G.
Is there a pattern in the Mediterranean-Atlantic marine
divide? Castilho, R.
Contrasts and similarities in the historical biogeogra-
phy of North Paciﬁc and North Atlantic species Grant,
W.S.
Post glacial recolonization in Scandinavian waters -
present and historical patterns Knutsen, H.
Lessons to be learn from Atlantic phylogeography of
invertebrates Cunningham, C.
Atlantic reef ﬁsh biogeography and macroecology: what
is known and what’s next? Floeter, S.R.
The eﬀect of sea level ﬂuctuations in Atlantic biogeog-
raphy Rocha, L.A.
Parallels and diﬀerences between two temperate marine
systems von der Heyden, S.
Larval behavioural and life history features that aﬀect
dispersal-retension patterns in the temperate Atlantic
Gon¸ calves, E.
andrelevy@gmail.comMarseilles 16th EBM Sep18-21
The 16th EBM will take place from September 18th to
September 21st 2012
http://sites.univ-provence.fr/evol-cgr/ best regards
Pierre
Pierre PONTAROTTI <Pierre.Pontarotti@univ-
provence.fr >
MichiganStateU ArtiﬁcialLife
Jul19-22
FIRST CALL FOR PAPERS:
Artiﬁcial Life 13
The Thirteenth International Conference on the Syn-
thesis and Simulation of Living Systems
“Evolution in Action”
July 19-22, 2012, Michigan State University
East Lansing, Michigan, USA
www.alife13.org/ You are invited to submit papers to
the upcoming Thirteenth International Artiﬁcial Life
Conference. Please forward this call responsibly.
I. OVERVIEW
It is a great pleasure for the BEACON Center for the
Study of Evolution in Action at Michigan State Univer-
sity to host the 13th International Artiﬁcial Life Confer-
ence. Artiﬁcial life (ALife) refers to the synthesis and
simulation of living systems as these occur in nature
and also to possible alternative life forms and concepts
that may not have occurred in natural evolutionthat
is, not only in “life-as-we-know-it”, but also “life-as-it-
might-be”. ALife research may use not only biochem-
ical models, but also computer models and robotics.
The Artiﬁcial Life conference is held every other year
under the auspices of the International Society for Arti-
ﬁcial Life (ISAL), alternating with the European Con-
ference on Artiﬁcial Life.
This year’s major conference theme is “Evolution in
Action.” Life is shaped by evolutionary processes, andNovember 1, 2011 EvolDir 11
ALife models are a powerful way to investigate and uti-
lize this key characteristic of living systems. We encour-
age submissions by biologists as well as by computer
scientists and engineers, especially interdisciplinary pa-
pers that explore the many ways that evolution and
artiﬁcial life research intersect. Other tracks this year
include Behavior & Intelligence, Collective Dynamics,
Synthetic Biology, and The Humanities and ALife. See
the list of tracks below for examples of topics that may
fall under these headings.
II. KEYNOTE SPEAKERS
Steven Benner, Foundation for Applied Molecular Evo-
lution, Synthetic Biology
Oron Catts, University of Western Australia, Biotech-
nology & Art
Benjamin Kerr, University of Washington, Experimen-
tal Evolution
Radhika Nagpal, Harvard University, Self-Organizing
Systems
Jack Szostak, 2009 Nobel Laureate in Physiology or
Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Evolution
in Action
III. IMPORTANT DATES
- Full paper/abstract submission deadline: 26 February
2012
- Notice of acceptance for full papers: 22 April 2012
- Early Registration deadline (required for presenting
authors): 14 May 2012
- Camera ready deadline: 14 May 2012
- Conference: 19-22 July 2012
IV. SUBMISSIONS
A submission can either be in the form of a full paper or
an extended abstract. Full papers have an 8 page max-
imum length, while abstracts are limited to two pages.
Graphics and ﬁgures are encouraged. All submissions
must be made using a pre-formatted MS Word or La-
TeX template, which is available from the conference
site.
All submissions will be subject to peer review. Submis-
sions may be accepted as either a talk or as a poster,
with no distinction being made between the two sub-
mission formats.
Every accepted full paper will be published by the MIT
Press in an online open-access proceedings volume. The
top 10 accepted papers will have the opportunity to
publish a revised and expanded version in the Artiﬁcial
Life journal.NOTE: In addition to the main conference, ALIFE 13
will host related workshops and tutorials. Details on
proposing such events can be found on the conference
web site.
V. TRACKS
- Evolution in Action - Including evolutionary dynam-
ics, simulations of evolution, developmental systems,
experimental evolution, viral and bacterial evolution,
evolution of drug resistance.
- Behavior & Intelligence - Including animal behav-
ior; evolution of cognition and intelligence; evolutionary
robotics; embedded systems.
- Collective Dynamics - Including group selection; evo-
lution and stability of ecosystems; network dynamics;
social dynamics; evolution of cooperation and conﬂict;
collective motion and swarming in animals and animats.
- Synthetic Biology - Including synthetic cells, synthetic
organisms, biological engineering, artiﬁcial genetic sys-
tems, artiﬁcial chemistry, origin of life, paleogenetics
- The Humanities and ALife - Including art, music, his-
tory and philosophy of artiﬁcial life.
See the conference web site www.alife13.com for more
detailed descriptions of each of the tracks.
VI. LOCATION & LOGISTICS
The conference will be held in East Lansing, Michigan,
home of Michigan State University (MSU). Sessions will
take place at MSU’s Kellogg Hotel and Conference Cen-
ter, located on the Red Cedar River on the edge of
campus and within walking distance of downtown East
Lansing.
Flights are available directly into Lansing, Michigan’s
Capital City Airport. Alternatively, one may ﬂy to
Detroit and then take a bus (the Michigan Flyer -
www.michiganﬂyer.com ) from Detroit Metro Airport to
East Lansing.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Neuchatel
AdaptiveLandscapeGenetics Feb7-812 EvolDir November 1, 2011
*Conference: Adaptive landscape genetics, Neuchatel,
Switzerland*
We are happy to announce the symposium
“Adaptive landscape genetics: current insights and fu-
ture directions”
on February 7 ^th and 8 ^th 2012 at the University of
Neuchatel (Switzerland).
see: www.unine.ch/ALG2012 Landscape genetics is
an integrative ﬁeld of research, aiming at understand-
ing microevolutionary processes across natural popula-
tions. It is developing in a rapid way due to advances in
genomics technologies, environmental data acquisition
and statistical methods to associate them.
During this symposium, we intend to foster exchange
between researchers having complementary expertise in
order to further explore the contributions of landscape
genetics to the assessment of the interactions between
environment and adaptive genetic variation in natu-
ral populations. Invited speakers and contributed talks
will oﬀer an overview of current trends in the ﬁeld and
perspectives on how it will grow and develop in the
future.
Invited speakers:
Malika Ainouche (Univ. Rennes, F)
Aur´ eline Bonin (Univ. Grenoble, F)
Laurent Excoﬃer (Univ. Bern, CH)
Felix Gugerli (WSL Birmensdorf, CH)
St´ ephane Joost (EPFL, CH)
Christian Lexer (Univ. Fribourg, CH)
Christophe Randin (Univ. Basel, CH)
Pierre Taberlet (CNRS, F)
Fees: 150 CHF, including coﬀee breaks, meals and con-
ference dinner (free for CUSO PhD students).
Deadline for submitted abstracts (talks and/or
posters): December 13 ^rd 2011.
Deadline for registration without contribution: January
14^th 2012.
Details and registration forms can be found at
www.unine.ch/ALG2012 The organizers: Christian
Parisod and Rolf Holderegger
Christian Parisod Evolutionary Botany - University
of Neuchatel Rue Emile-Argand 11 - 2000 Neuchatel
- Switzerland Phone: +41 (0)32 718 2344, Fax: +41
(0)32 718 3001 e-mail: christian.parisod@unine.ch
http://www2.unine.ch/evobot/page-11460.html
Christian Parisod <christian.parisod@unine.ch >NorthCarolina SEPEEG 2011
Oct21-23 StudentReg
Student members of the American Society of Natural-
ists get $20 oﬀ Registration at the SouthEastern Pop-
ulation Ecology and Evolutionary Genetics (SEPEEG
2011) - October 21-23, 2011
Thanks to generous support from American Society
of Naturalists ( http://www.asnamnat.org/ ), SEEPEG
registration for student members of ASN is only
$109! SEPEEG registration closes 10/7. To be-
come a student member of ASN, please go to http:/-
/www.asnamnat.org/ . For more information on
SEPEEG, see http://sepeeg.bio.unc.edu The confer-
ence registration fee will cover on-site housing, meals,
and entertainment. Keeping with the tradition of
SEPEEG, the 2011 meeting will be informal and ac-
commodations will be on the rustic side. Participants
may register to give an oral presentation and/or poster.
A poster session will be held during the social event af-
ter dinner Saturday. A keynote address will be given
on Saturday morning. Keynote Speaker: Dr. Haven
Wiley , University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
This meeting is a great opportunity for early career sci-
entists to present their work in a congenial setting.
Questions can be emailed to SEPEEG@bio.unc.edu
On Behalf of SEPEEG,
Dr. Corbin D. Jones
Organizer
p.s. Those student members of ASN that have already
registered for , you will be refunded $20 upon proof of
ASN membership.
Corbin D. Jones, Ph.D. Department of Biology Car-
olina Center for Genome Sciences Campus Box 3280,
Coker Hall UNC-Chapel Hill Chapel Hill, NC 27599-
3280
cdjones@email.unc.edu
Ottawa iEvoBio
OrganizingCommitteeNovember 1, 2011 EvolDir 13
iEvoBio, the conference on Informatics for Phylogenet-
ics, Evolution, and Biodiversity, is a recently founded
satellite conference held in conjunction with the Evolu-
tion meetings. iEvoBio aims to be a forum bringing to-
gether biologists working in evolution, systematics, and
biodiversity, with software developers, and mathemati-
cians, both to catalyse the development of new tools,
and to increase awareness of the possibilities oﬀered by
existing technologies (ranging from mega- scale data
analysis to rich visualization). The inaugural meeting
was held in 2010 (see http://ievobio.org/2010 ) and re-
ceived wide acclaim; the second one, held in 2011 (see
http://ievobio.org/2011 ), was similarly successful and
productive. The conference is poised to establish it-
self as a self-sustaining annual event and a must-attend
for researchers, developers, and users of informatics re-
sources in our ﬁelds.
For the 2012 iEvoBio conference, to be held in junction
with the 2012 Evolution Meetings in Ottawa, Canada,
we are seeking new members to join us on the orga-
nizing committee. Aside from being enthusiastic about
the conference itself, we are particularly interested in
people with research pursuits that involve integrative,
interdisciplinary, and synthetic questions, and a com-
mitment to promoting the reuse of data, information,
and software.
Serving on the iEvoBio organizing committee entails
attending weekly conference calls, and sharing respon-
sibility for making the conference happen at all stages,
including crafting communications such as calls for ab-
stracts, managing content contributions from partici-
pants, and budgeting.
The iEvoBio organizing committee shapes and manages
the entire event, from start to ﬁnish. As such, partici-
pating in the committee provides ample opportunities
for people with ideas, wild or not, to conceive innovative
program elements towards iEvoBios social objectives of
fostering participation, interaction, and collaboration,
and to make those happen. The committee has been
marked by an open- minded, highly constructive, but
also deeply professional climate. Serving on the com-
mittee is actual work, but also provides a unique op-
portunity to collaborate with like-minded people who
one may not otherwise get to work with, on a product
for the beneﬁt of our community and the advancement
of our science.
To apply, ﬁll out a short online application form at
http://bit.ly/okxqS1 by October 15th, 2011. We ex-
pect the organizing committee to have at least 6-7 mem-
bers, and thus currently at least 4-5 seats are available
to be ﬁlled through this call. This call is open to peo-
ple at all professional grades and our hope is that atleast one, and hopefully more, seats will be ﬁlled with
graduate or postdoctoral students. We (see the under-
signed below) will sort through the applications and
reach a decision within one week after close of applica-
tions. If you have any questions about the conference
or the committee, we encourage you to resolve these
before applying by contacting us (see email addresses
below).
Please feel free to re-send, tweet ( http://bit.ly/-
qyYT0s ), or share this message as needed. Thanks!
On behalf of the future 2012 iEvoBio
Organizing Committee, Rob Guralnick
(robert.guralnick@colorado.edu), University of Col-
orado at Boulder Hilmar Lapp (hlapp@nescent.org),
National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent)
Hilmar Lapp <hlapp@nescent.org >
SaintMalo France TE Apr21-24
Second International Congress on Transposable Ele-
ments - ICTE2012
The French Society of Genetics and the French Trans-
position Community (CNRS) are happy to announce
the opening of registration for the “2nd International
Congress on Transposable Elements”, which will be
held in Saint Malo (France) from April 21st to April
24th, 2012.
Since their discovery in the 1940’s, transposable ele-
ments have been shown to contribute signiﬁcantly to
genome structure, evolution and function. Their study
aims at understanding their biological success and to
characterize their contribution to fundamental biologi-
cal functions. The increasing interest in these elements
is strongly linked to our recent knowledge of genome
organization and function. They are major players of
phenotypic diversity but they are also involved in di-
verse human pathologies.
Transposable element studies cover a broad spectrum of
organisms and a large variety of biological processes and
methodologies. The aim of this international congress
unique in Europe is to integrate recent knowledge to
design new concepts and to identify future orientations
of research. Several topics will be covered such as, the
evolution and activity of transposable elements, their
dynamics within genomes and populations, their mech-
anisms of transposition and control and their impact
on genomes.14 EvolDir November 1, 2011
You can now in a few clicks register for the meeting and
make a reservation for you hotel on our oﬃcial web site:
http://www.icte2012.com/ . A limited amount of two
and three stars hotel rooms have been pre-reserved for
meeting participants, so we encourage you to register
early to get the best places in beautiful historical Saint
Malo city center. Once registered, you will receive a
password needed to submit an abstract. Thirty-three
abstracts will be selected for an oral presentation and
up to 160 abstracts for a posters presentation.
We hope to see you soon in Saint Malo for what
promises to be an exiting meeting!
On behalf of the Organizing Committee,
Richard Cordaux
–
Richard Cordaux, Ph.D.
Universit´ e de Poitiers UMR CNRS 6556 Ecologie,
Evolution, Symbiose 40 Avenue du Recteur Pineau
86022 Poitiers Cedex France Tel: +33 (0)5 49
45 36 51 Fax: +33 (0)5 49 45 40 15 E-mail:
richard.cordaux@univ-poitiers.fr Lab website: http://-
ecoevol.labo.univ-poitiers.fr/ Personal website: http:/-
/rcordaux.voila.net/ richard.cordaux@univ-poitiers.fr
Salzburg
EvolutionPhysiologicalTraits Jun29
Dear Colleagues
We are pleased to announce that a two-day session on
the Evolution of Physiological Traits will be held as
part of the Society for Experimental Biology (SEB) An-
nual Meeting in Salzburg (29th June-2nd July 2012).
We have a number of slots that are held open for con-
tributed talks, and invite you to submit an abstract and
/ or register to attend the meeting.
Full details on the conference, its venue, and in-
structions on how to submit your abstract can
be found at: http://www.sebiology.org/meetings/-
Salzburg2012/Salzburg.html Overview Recent ad-
vances in phylogenetics, genomics, physiology and pa-
leobiology have brought major advances in our under-
standing of how physiological processes have evolved
in autotrophic organisms (microbes and plants). This
session will bring together leading ﬁgures in each of
these ﬁelds, aiming to provide a stimulating, multi-
disciplinary view of physiological trait evolution and,tackling a number of key questions. What were the im-
portant evolutionary innovations in the history of au-
totrophic organisms? What do we know about the ori-
gins of these physiological processes? What are the key
drivers of trait diversiﬁcation? Does selection favour
distinct combinations of physiological traits? What are
the biophysical constraints on the adaptive landscape?
How have the same physiological syndromes evolved in-
dependently in multiple lineages? How have past evolu-
tionary events changed the Earth System, and how will
ongoing global change drive physiological adaptations
in wild and agricultural plant species? We welcome
contributions in any of these areas.
Speakers * Bill Martin (Heinrich Heine University) -
Cyanobacterial phylogenomics and the origins of plas-
tids. * David Beerling (University of Sheﬃeld) - The
deep evolutionary origins of stomatal physiology. *
Paul Falkowski (Rutgers University) - The microbial
engines that drive Earth’s biogeochemical cycles. *
John Raven (University of Dundee) - Carbon dioxide
ﬁxation by autotrophs: alternatives to the Benson-
Calvin cycle. * Howard Griﬃths (University of Cam-
bridge) - Photosynthesis in early land plant life forms
and the origins of carbon concentrating mechanisms. *
Lawren Sack (UCLA) - Adaptation of leaf venation in
terrestrial plant radiations. * Erika Edwards (Brown
University) - A phylogenetic perspective on the evo-
lution of succulence. * Lisa Donovan (University of
Georgia) - Evolution of the leaf economic spectrum
and related traits. * Pascal-Antoine Christin (Brown
University) - Drivers of the repeated origins of carbon
concentrating mechanisms. * Jonathan Leake (Univer-
sity of Sheﬃeld) - Co-evolution of trees and mycorrhizal
fungi drives mineral weathering, carbon and phospho-
rus cycles. * Taylor Feild (University of Tennessee) -
The power of pipelines - innovation in vascular trans-
port design and angiosperm re-engineering of Creta-
ceous ecosystems.
Sponsorship This Plant Session is jointly sponsored by
the Society for Experimental Biology (SEB) and the
British Ecological Society (BES), through the Plant En-
vironmental Physiology Group.
We look forward to seeing you in Salzburg!
Colin Osborne (c.p.osborne@sheﬃeld.ac.uk)
Dept. Animal and Plant Sciences University of Sheﬃeld
tel: +44-114-222-0146 lab pages: http://-
web.me.com/colin.osborne/lab/home.html eco-
logical informatics: www.grassportal.org
c.p.osborne@SHEFFIELD.AC.UKNovember 1, 2011 EvolDir 15
UJyvaskyla Finland Biodiversity
Feb27-28 Registration
Event: Progress in understanding the origins of biodi-
versity Date: 27-28 February 2012 Location: University
of Jyvaskyla, Finland
We are pleased to announce open registration for the
conference Progress in understanding the origins of bio-
diversity organized by the EU Marie Curie Initial Train-
ing Network SPECIATION. This event will be held
27-28 February 2012, Jyvaskyla, Finland. The con-
ference will consist of plenary sessions, four symposia
and posters covering recent advances in speciation and
adaptation research. There is limited space available
for talks by participants.
Invited speakers:
Mark Kirkpatrick, University of Texas, USA John
Willis, Duke University, USA Anne Magurran (Uni-
versity of St Andrews, UK) Daven Presgraves, Univer-
sity of Rochester, USA Kerry Shaw, Cornell University,
USA Patrik Nosil, University of Colorado, USA
Organizers: Anneli Hoikkala, Emily Knott, Maaria
Kankare, Venera Tyukmaeva and Jackson Jennings on
behalf of the Marie Curie ITN
Information about the meeting and access to
registration is available on our website http://-
sites.google.com/site/itnspeciation/conferences/-
jyvaskylaconference2012 . If you have any
questions please contact Venera Tyukmaeva ven-
era.v.tyukmaeva@jyu.ﬁ
– Venera Tyukmaeva Evolutionary Genetics Group
Centre of Excellence in Evolutionary Research Depart-
ment of Environmental and Biological Science P.O. Box
35, 40014, University of Jyv¨ askyl¨ a, Finland
Tel. +358-14-260 4253 Room: YAC421.1
Venera Tyukmaeva <venera.v.tyukmaeva@jyu.ﬁ >
UNottingham PopGenetics Jan4-7
Registration is now open for the 45th Population Ge-netics Group (PGG or PopGroup), to be held at
the University of Nottingham, UK, January 4th-7th
2011. See http://www.populationgeneticsgroup.org .
This year, invited speakers include Professors Hopi
Hoekstra, Michael Lynch and Steve Jones.
PopGroup is an informal international meeting which
annually brings together up to ~200 scientists work-
ing in all areas of population genetics and evolutionary
biology. Talks and posters from early career scientists
are particularly encouraged. The conference is oﬃcially
registered with the Genetics Society as a special interest
group.
Registration fees include everything, except for accom-
modation which must be booked separately. There
is an early-bird incentive - if you book by Thursday
24th November then registration fees are £160 (full),
£150 (full + Genetics Society member), £140 (stu-
dent), £130 (student + Genetics Society member). If
you book after this date, then fees will be raised by £10.
Registration and booking of accommodation CLOSES
on FRIDAY 9th DECEMBER.
The website of the Population Genetics Group can
be found at http://www.populationgeneticsgroup.org
Conﬁrmed sponsors include The Genetics Society, The
Royal Society and Oxford University Press.
The organisers: Angus Davison, John Brookﬁeld, Sara
Goodacre, and Tamsin Majerus.
– Dr. Angus Davison School of Biology University Park
University of Nottingham NG7 2RD
0115 8230322 www.angusdavison.org An-
gus.Davison@nottingham.ac.uk
UOregon EvoDevo Feb10-12
Dear Colleagues,
Students and faculty aﬃliated with the University of
Oregon’s NSF IGERT program on evolution, develop-
ment and genomics would like to announce that regis-
tration is now open for our symposium, titled: “The
Future of Evo-Devo - Genomes in context: systems,
populations and environment.”
The symposium will be held February 10 - 12, 2012
in Portland, OR at the Nines Hotel. Previous IGERT
symposia have featured talks from many leaders in the
ﬁeld and received good publicity in Science. We have
every expectation that this symposium will be equally16 EvolDir November 1, 2011
engaging and positively inﬂuence the future of the ﬁeld.
Conﬁrmed speakers include:
Peter Andolfatto (Princeton) Bill Bradshaw & Chris
Holzapfel (University of Oregon) Anna Di Rienzo (Uni-
versity of Chicago) Paul Hohenloe (University of Idaho)
Alexander Johnson (UCSF) Michael Levine (Berkeley)
Antonia Monteiro (Yale) Dave Parichy (University of
Washington) Matt Rockman (New York University)
Karen Sears (University of Illinois) Gunter Wagner
(Yale) Shozo Yokoyama (Emory)
For more information, please visit the symposium web-
site ( www.evodevo2012.org ) and see the attached ﬂyer.
We have deliberately capped registration for this sym-
posium in order to facilitate a more intimate environ-
ment and to encourage free discussion between atten-
dees and speakers. As such, if you are interested in
attending, please register early to ensure that you will
join us as we discuss the future of evolution, develop-
ment and genomics.
We hope that you can join us in shaping the future of
this interdisciplinary ﬁeld.
Sincerely, The Evo Devo 2012 programming committee
danderso@uoregon.edu
UOxford EcolEvolStudent Jan4-6
Dear Colleagues,
We are pleased to announce that registration is open
for the 2012 Edward Grey Institute of Field Ornithol-
ogy ’Ecology and Evolution’ Student Conference, to be
held on 4th to 6th January 2012.
The conference will take place in the University of Ox-
ford at the Department of Zoology, and it is the aim
of the conference to provide a setting for students of
various research areas within ecology and evolution to
present and discuss their work in a constructive atmo-
sphere composed mainly of their peers. In addition to
student talks and posters, the conference will consist of
a number of plenary talks given by distinguished inves-
tigators. This year will see the conference broaden its
scope to embrace ideas derived from non-ornithological
systems, oﬀering the ideal opportunity for interaction
and exchange of ideas with peers and experienced re-
searchers from a wide variety of disciplines. There will
also be opportunities for students to attend workshop
sessions during the conference.Conﬁrmed Plenary Speakers:
Virpi Lummaa (University of Sheﬃeld) Stuart West
(University of Oxford) Tim Birkhead (University of
Sheﬃeld) Gavin Thomas (University of Bristol) (Ad-
ditional Speakers TBC)
For more information, and to register for the con-
ference, please visit the conference website: http:/-
/www.zoo.ox.ac.uk/egi/newsevents/conference.htm
The registration fee includes workshop attendance,
refreshments, a wine reception and also lunch and an
end-of-conference banquet in one of Oxford?s most
beautiful colleges, Trinity College.
If you would like to present at the conference, please
submit an abstract of 100 words or less to egiconfer-
ence@zoo.ox.ac.uk stating either talk or poster (indi-
cating landscape or portrait).
The closing date for the submission of abstracts is 5th
December 2011.
Please forward this information on to all those who may
be interested in the conference, and we look forward to
welcoming you to Oxford in the New Year!
Best wishes,
EGI Student Conference Organising Committee
christopher.cooney@keble.ox.ac.uk
UPorto Portugal Biodiversity
Dec5-6 2
RECALL - TiBE2011, Trends in Biodiversity and Evo-
lution: New Challenges in Conservation Genetics
We are pleased to announce that registrations are
NOW open to the third edition of TiBE2011, Trends
in Biodiversity and Evolution, conferences organised
by CIBIO (Research Centre in Biodiversity and Ge-
netic Resources, University of Porto, Portugal; http:/-
/cibio.up.pt ) and InBio Associate laboratory.
Contacts: Web-page: http://cibio-tibe.org/tibe2011
e-mail: tibe2011@mail.icav.up.pt Phone: +351
252660411 Fax: +351 252661780
Address: Campus Agr´ ario de Vair˜ ao, 4485-661 Vair˜ ao,
Portugal
TiBE, Trends in Biodiversity and Evolution, is an an-
nual meeting organised by CIBIO, Research Centre in
Biodiversity and Genetic Resources/InBio, AssociateNovember 1, 2011 EvolDir 17
laboratory. These meetings aim to bring together se-
nior researchers, post-graduate and graduate students
in Biological Sciences, and promote a relaxing but in-
sightful discussion about cutting edge topics on Biodi-
versity and Evolution. Each year a speciﬁc subject will
be chosen, and recognized senior scientists will be in-
vited to report their views, opinions and novel results.
Young researchers and post-graduate students will also
be invited to participate and present their recent and
innovative work.
TiBE2011 will be devoted to “New Challenges in Con-
servation Genetics”, a discipline which has received con-
siderable attention in recent years by evolutionary bi-
ologists, and has voraciously incorporated many tech-
nologies to speed up and increase the accuracy of con-
servation decision-making. It will take place at Decem-
ber 5 - 6th in Campus Agr´ ario de Vair˜ ao, University
of Porto, and will be hosted by ConGen- Conservation
Genetics and Wildlife Management research group, at
CIBIO.
The scientiﬁc program will include four invited plenary
lectures from prominent researchers, 16 oral communi-
cations (to be selected from participants) and 2 poster
sessions covering the most up-to-date ﬁndings in this
ﬁeld of evolutionary biology. We hope that the Uni-
versity Porto-Campus of Vair˜ ao, located in a beautiful
rural area in Vila do Conde (20 km north of Porto),
will provide an excellent atmosphere for such scientiﬁc
forum in one of the most interesting and stimulating
areas of Biology.
The programme of TiBE2011 edition can be found athttp://cibio-tibe.org/tibe2011 Registrations and ab-
stract submission are NOW open!
raquel.vasconcelos@mail.icav.up.pt
Vienna Evolution Nov15
The evolVienna autumn symposium will take place on
Tuesday November 15th at IST Austria ( www.ist.ac.at )
Speakers will cover the wide variety of evolutionary re-
search in the Vienna area, ranging from the evolution of
RNA to the evolution of language. We will also discuss
graduate teaching in evolutionary biology. Afterwards,
there will be a buﬀet & drinks.
Please register for participation and shuttle bus with
Marie.Trappl@ist.ac.at, by a week in advance
More information int he webpage of the symposium:
http://ist.ac.at/news-media/events/event-detail/-
article/evolvienna-autumn-symposium/1/ Hope to see
you all! The organizers EvolVienna Autumn Sympo-
sium 2011. http://www.univie.ac.at/evolvienna/ PS:
In the webpage you can ﬁnd the announcement in a
PDF. Also a high resolution A3 poster (compressed
TIFF) can be downloaded; we would appreciate if it is
printed and posted.
“Harold P. de Vladar” <hpvladar@ist.ac.at >
GradStudentPositions
ArizonaStateU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Bonn Germany ComparativePhylogeography . . . . . . 18
BrownU PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
CentralMichiganU 2 AquaticPopulationGenetics . . . 19
CityUNewYork 2 PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
CityUNewYork ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
ETH Zurich HostParasite . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
ETH Zurich Speciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
GeorgeWashingtonU Ecology Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . 23LavalU EvolutionarySystemsBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Leipzig HumanOrigins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
LMU Munich Hybridization 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
ManchesterMetroU 2 Conservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
MississippiStateU EvolutionaryGenetics Sunﬂowers 26
Montpellier MarineMammalDist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
NetherlandInstEcol ArtiﬁcialLight Fitness . . . . . . . . . 28
NorthCarolinaStateU EvolBehaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
Sempach Switzerland 2 AvianEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 2918 EvolDir November 1, 2011
UBern SlugPopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
UCBerkeley EvolutionGlobalChangeGenomics . . . . . 94
UCincinnati SexualSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UDelaware PlantEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UDenver ComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UFlorida HawkmothSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UFlorida SexualSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
ULausanne ComputationalPhylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . 33
UMelbourne AvianBehaviour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
UNotreDame EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34UNotreDame Speciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
UOtago MolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
UOtago Sex reversal in ﬁsh . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
URhodeIsland GlobalChangeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
UTennessee Knoxville Phylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
UWisconsin Madison PlantInsectInteractions . . . . . . 38
UWisconsin Madison PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . 38
UZurich ComputationalEpidemiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
ArizonaStateU EvolutionaryBiol
GRADUATE PROGRAM IN EVOLUTIONARY BI-
OLOGY
The Evolutionary Biology PhD program at Arizona
State University is recruiting students for entry in the
Fall 2012 semester. This new program is interdisci-
plinary by design and enables faculty and students us-
ing diverse models and technologies to engage in novel
and innovative research to answer questions related to a
number of disciplines including ecology, behavior, phys-
iology, population genetics, bioinformatics, and anthro-
pology.
General information about the program as well as the
application process and materials can be found at:
http://sols.asu.edu/grad/evo bio.php Interested can-
didates are strongly encouraged to contact listed fac-
ulty to inquire about potential openings, fellowships,
and general questions about research projects.
Program questions can be directed towards either of the
Evolutionary Biology program chairs:
Michael Rosenberg (msr@asu.edu) Brian Verrelli
(brian.verrelli@asu.edu)
Brian C. Verrelli, Ph.D. Associate Professor
School of Life Sciences Arizona State University
Tempe, AZ 85287-4501 Tel: 480-965-0398 E-mail:
brian.verrelli@asu.edu
bverrell@asu.edu
Bonn Germany
ComparativePhylogeographyPhD opportunity: Comparative phylogeography of
South African beetles, Museum Alexander Koenig,
Bonn, Germany
A three-year PhD position (earliest beginning:
01.12.2011) in evolutionary biology is available at
the Zoological Research Museum Alexander Koenig
(ZFMK, section Coleoptera) in Bonn, Germany. We
are seeking a postgraduate student keen on exploring
patterns of speciation and diversity in South African
Scarab beetles incorporating molecular systematics
routines, niche modelling and morphological work in-
cluding morphometrics. The candidate will take part
in the DFG-funded project Comparative phylogeog-
raphy of South African chafers, that aims to under-
stand the evolutionary processes underlying the excep-
tional diversity of herbivore chafer beetles (Coleoptera:
Scarabaeidae) in southern Africa using a combination of
phylogenetic, morphological, macroecological and bio-
geographical data. The successful candidate is expected
to work in a team composed of MSc/BSc students, tax-
onomic experts, and ecological niche modellers.
The positive, team-oriented candidate will be ex-
pected to join ﬁeld work, conduct high-throughput
DNA lab routines, process and manage sequence data,
analyse sequence data, conduct comparative analyses,
model species distribution and niches, help to supervise
MSc/BSc students working in the project, and take part
in conferences. Desired would be experiences in digital
imaging and preparation of insects as well as in molec-
ular systematics and DNA labwork. Candidates with
speciﬁc experience in morphometrics and/or bioinfor-
matics are encouraged to apply as well.
The applicant should hold a Master in biology or re-
lated disciplines and a driving license. S/he must be
able to work independently, but also be willing to co-
operate in the project team. The position is available
from 1 December 2011, and funding is available through
October 2014. Aside from ﬁeld work, the position will
be based at the ZFMK in Bonn. The ZFMK is one of
the largest natural history research museums in Ger-
many, including the new Center for Molecular Biodi-November 1, 2011 EvolDir 19
versity with sections of bioinformatics, barcoding and
genomics. The combination of classical museum work
and various cutting-edge approaches at ZFMK attracts
researchers and students of all levels, resulting in a vi-
brant atmosphere.
Bonn is an attractive university town, widely recog-
nized for its high quality of life, lively culture and arts
scene, easy access to natural areas paired with close
proximity to large cities like Cologne and Duesseldorf.
Costs of living are moderate, and public transport or
bicycle paths are easy transportation options. Salary
is according to grade TV-L 13 in the German Public
Service scheme.
The ZFMK advocates gender equality. Women are
therefore strongly encouraged to apply. Disabled peo-
ple with equal qualiﬁcations will be favoured.
To apply, please submit a letter of interest, CV, rel-
evant reprints (up to ﬁve) and phone & email ad-
dresses of two references to Forschungsmuseum Alexan-
der Koenig, Heike Lenz, Adenauerallee 160, 53113 Bonn
or h.lenz@zfmk.de. The letter of interest should ex-
plicitly address relevant experience/expertise as listed
above. Review of applications will start October 31,
2011 and continue until the position is ﬁlled. Any
questions about the position should be directed to Dirk
Ahrens (d.ahrens.zfmk@uni-bonn.de).
Dr. Dirk Ahrens Zoologisches Forschungsmuseum A.
Koenig Adenauerallee 160 53113 Bonn Germany Tel.
0228-9122 286 Email: d.ahrens.zfmk@uni-bonn.de
Dirk Ahrens <ahrens.dirk col@gmx.de >
BrownU PopulationGenetics
SEEKING PH.D. STUDENTS INTERESTED IN
THE POPULATION GENETICS OF ADAPTATION.
Graduate research opportunities are available at Brown
University under the supervision of Professor Daniel
Weinreich to commence September 2012.
The Weinreich lab is broadly interested in how ge-
netic novelty fuels evolution by natural selection. Us-
ing tools from computer science and mathematics we
model the evolutionary consequences of epistasis (func-
tional interactions) within the genome. This moti-
vates complementary experimental work using tech-
niques of molecular biology, microbiology and pro-
tein biology to measure patterns and causes of epis-
tasis within genes and genomes of bacteria and bac-teriophage. This experimental work in turn drives
novel theory. Please see http://research.brown.edu/-
myresearch/Daniel Weinreich for further details on cur-
rent work in the lab.
The ideal candidate will be intellectually curious, ma-
ture, creative and highly motivated. Comfort with
quantitative reasoning is perhaps more important than
any particular training or coursework.
Professor Weinreich accepts students through the
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy ( http://www.brown.edu/Departments/EEB/-
graduate/index.htm; deadline: Dec 9), the Center
for Computational and Molecular Biology ( http://-
www.brown.edu/Research/CCMB/PhD.htm; deadline:
Jan 3) and the Brown/MBL program ( http://-
www.mbl.edu/brown/ ). He is also a trainer in the
Brown graduate program in Molecular Biology, Cell
Biology, and Biochemistry ( http://www.brown.edu/-
Departments/Molecular Biology/Grad Program/;
deadline: Jan 6).
Brown University is located in Providence, Rhode Is-
land, one of the oldest cities in the United States and
now an exciting and eclectic mix of communities with
beautiful architecture, a diverse nightlife and ready ac-
cess to Newport, Boston and New York City as well
as to Block Island, Cape Cod and the mountains of
northern New England.
Interested students are encouraged to contact Dr.
Weinreich directly by email weinreich [at] brown.edu.
Daniel M. Weinreich, Assistant Professor Department
of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, and Center for
Computational Molecular Biology Oﬃce: 300 Wal-
ter Hall, 80 Waterman Street Lab: Sydney Frank
Hall/LSB 157, 60 Olive Street Brown University, Provi-
dence, RI 02912 Oﬃce phone: 401/863-3937 lab 3-2749
fax 3-2166 http://research.brown.edu/myresearch/-
Daniel Weinreich daniel weinreich@brown.edu
CentralMichiganU 2
AquaticPopulationGenetics
Two (2) Graduate Student Positions Available, begin-
ning summer 2012 Closing Date: March 1st, 2012
Description: Two graduate positions are available for
full-time students wishing to pursue a Master of Sci-
ence degree in Biology with an emphasis in aquatic
molecular ecology at Central Michigan University. Ac-20 EvolDir November 1, 2011
cepted applicants will work with Dr. Andrew Mahon
on projects involving molecular detection in aquatic
systems, population genetics, biodiversity monitoring,
and/or phylogeography. These projects aim to use
modern molecular methods in combination with signiﬁ-
cant ﬁeld research to address important scientiﬁc ques-
tions on local, regional, and global scales. Depending
on projects chosen, there is potential for international
travel or partial residency at the Central Michigan Uni-
versity ﬁeld station on Beaver Island (Lake Michigan).
Student funding of up to $21,000/year is available in
the form of research and/or teaching assistantships. In
addition, tuition waivers are available (subject to an-
nual renewal).
Interested parties should ﬁrst contact Dr. Mahon di-
rectly at (contact information below) with a statement
of interest and current CV. Additional information on
potential research projects can be found at the Mahon
Laboratory website (see below). Information and appli-
cation materials for the Master of Science in Biology at
CMU are available at the Biology Department website
(http://www.cst.cmich.edu/units/bio/grad.htm ).
The successful applicant will have a Bachelors of
Science in a biological ﬁeld as well as general ex-
perience with molecular techniques and undergrad-
uate research experience. To be eligible for con-
sideration students must be admitted to the Grad-
uate School at CMU ( http://www.grad.cmich.edu/-
forms.htm ) and have a completed graduate as-
sistantship application ( http://www.cst.cmich.edu/-
units/bio/GAAPPLICATION.doc ) to the Department
of Biology. Desired start date for incoming stu-
dents to the Mahon laboratory is early summer 2012
(May/June; start date negotiable).
Contact: Dr. Andrew Mahon Institute for Great
Lakes Research Department of Biology 183 Brooks
Hall Central Michigan University Mt. Pleasant, MI
USA Web Address: http://www.cst.cmich.edu/users/-
mahon2a E-mail: mahon2a@cmich.edu Phone: 989-
774-1177
mahon2a@cmich.edu
CityUNewYork 2
PopulationGenomics
Ahoy, the Hicker-lab is now recruiting for 2 open and
funded PhD positions at the CUNY (City University
of New York) Graduate Center to start in the Fall of2012. We are looking for interesting students who want
to explore the interface between population genomics
and community ecology, and those with strong compu-
tational and/or quantitative backgrounds are especially
encouraged to apply.
The Hicker-lab is now dually equipped for both ’wet’
and “dry’ research activities thanks to a newly re-
furbished and expanded Molecular Ecology and Com-
putational Biology lab ( http://qcpages.qc.cuny.edu/-
Biology/Hickerlab/index.html ). Students working
in simulation-based evolutionary modeling of any
sort can also take advantage of CUNY’s NSF-
funded High Performance Computing Center ( http:/-
/www.csi.cuny.edu/cunyhpc/ )
New PhD students will be free to explore a wide range
of topics yet may be interested in exploring some of
our new directions: 1. collecting and analyzing nexGen
data from multiple co-distributed non- model species in
order to explore how ecology, climate change and natu-
ral selection drive evolutionary change in multi-species
assemblages; and/or 2. developing and deploying com-
plex multi-taxa population genomic models that can in-
corporate cyclical climate shifts and realistic patterns of
recurring isolation and admixture across co-distributed
taxa.
A sampling of our current activities includes 1.
Metacommunity Assembly and Comparative Phylo-
geography of Eurasian Gallwasp/Parisitoids (in col-
laboration with Graham Stone’s lab - http://-
homepages.ed.ac.uk/amegilla/home ) 2. Comparative
Phylogeography of Small Mammals in Montane Africa
3. Demographic and evolutionary histories of At-
lantic Syngnathids 4. Quantifying ﬁsh prey via
nexgen DNA barcoding (in collaboration with Chris
Meyer - http://invertebrates.si.edu/staﬀ/meyer.cfm )
5. Avian speciation times 6. Species distribution
modeling of Intertidal taxa (in collaboration with
Eric Waltari - http://www.sci.ccny.cuny.edu/biology/-
Carnaval/Ca- rnaval Lab/Eric.html) 7. Population
Genomics of LINE retrotransposons in vertebrates
(in collaboration with Stephane Boissinot - http:/-
/qcpages.qc.edu/Biology/Boissinot/Boissinot.html ) 8.
Population genetics of Hucho taimen in Mongo-
lia (in collaboration with John Waldman - http:/-
/qcpages.qc.edu/Biology/Waldman/Waldman.html ) 9.
How The Mississippi River Functions As An En-
gine Of Species Diversiﬁcation (in collaboration with
Frank Burbrink - http://163.238.8.180/ ˜ fburbrink/-
) 10. Developing the new experiential course An-
thropological Genomics - https://docs.google.com/-
Doc?id=3Ddcrss6d8 75g6z74bfr (in collaboration with
Kate Pechenkina - http://qcpages.qc.edu/anthro/-
pechenkina/pechenkina.html ) 11. MTML-msBayesNovember 1, 2011 EvolDir 21
(in collaboration with Naoki Takebayashi - http://-
raven.iab.alaska.edu/˜ntakebay/ )
Funding for the two PhD positions partially comes
from a collaborative NIH grant to Mike Hickerson and
Stephane Boissinot which will oﬀset two years of teach-
ing for the two PhD students. The CUNY PhD pro-
gram guarantees the students annual stipends, full tu-
ition waver and beneﬁts for the full 5 years.
The Setting: The CUNY PhD sub-program in
Ecology, Evolution and Behavior brings together
a strong phylogenetics/phylogeography group spread
across several CUNY campuses and the AMNH ( http:/-
/biology.gc.cuny.edu/eeb/faculty ), and last year 4
CUNY PhD students obtained NSF DDIG or pre-
doctoral fellowships. There are a fair number of Evo-
lution and Ecology groups in the larger NYC area
(i.e. Rutgers, Columbia, NYU, AMNH, New York
Botanical Garden, Yale and Stony Brook) and these
along with the CUNY Graduate Center’s new Initiative
for the Theoretical Sciences ( https://sites.google.com/-
site/itsgccuny/evolution ) all make one’s calendar full
of interesting seminars and workshops. While gradu-
ate coursework is done at the CUNY Graduate Center
in midtown Manhattan, the lab is in Flushing Queens,
(a great place for adventurous eaters). The NYC sub-
ways run all day and night and students can live in any
number
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
CityUNewYork
ConservationGenetics
A position for a PhD student at the Graduate Center,
City University of New York is available through the
Conservation Biology laboratory of Dr. Eugenia Naro-
Maciel, College of Staten Island, starting Fall 2012.
Compatible candidates should be interested in one of
two areas: 1) investigating genetic relationships among
and within species in order to understand patterns and
processes of molecular evolution, and to inform con-
servation strategies; 2) restoration ecology. There are
several current research projects ranging from ecolog-
ical and genetic research at Freshkills Park in StatenIsland, formerly one of the world’s largest landﬁlls, to
conservation genetics or genomics (please see below).
Students are also welcome to develop their own original
projects related to the Freshkills Park ecosystem, or to
develop new ideas in conservation genetics, genomics,
or bioinformatics.
To ﬁll this position the student must be accepted to the
CUNY Graduate Center (please click to see information
for prospective students: http://www.gc.cuny.edu/-
prospective students/index.htm ).
Interested students are requested to email a cv and
cover letter, including research interests, GRE scores,
and grades to Eugenia.NaroMaciel@csi.cuny.edu
TURTLES OF FRESHKILLS PARK, A RECLAIMED
ECOSYSTEM Freshkills Park on Staten Island was
until recently the largest landﬁll in the world and is
now undergoing the remarkable process of being trans-
formed into a park. Habitat alteration constitutes the
top threat to biological diversity globally, yet the ex-
tent to which reclamation eﬀorts like this can reverse
biodiversity loss is poorly known. Turtles are long-lived
reptiles occupying high positions in the food web with
species-characteristic responses to disturbance. Their
longevity allows for long term individual monitoring,
and their sedentary nature and place in the food web
makes them excellent indicators of ecosystem health.
Surveys of Freshkills have found several turtle species,
however their population biology remains unknown.
Starting in 2012 we will carry out the ﬁrst research
on turtle abundance, distribution, health, and genetics
in this unique reclaimed ecosystem. The study will in-
volve students in research and provide data needed for
management.
POPULATION GENETIC STRUCTURE Protected
areas form the cornerstone for conservation planning
worldwide; however, protecting an area does not au-
tomatically achieve conservation outcomes. Sea tur-
tles and other highly migratory organisms protected in
one area may face threats when moving to other locali-
ties. Understanding the linkages between groups in pro-
tected areas and outside them is key to eﬀective conser-
vation. We are therefore investigating the population
distribution of highly migratory sea turtles through-
out the world’s oceans (Naro-Maciel and Fomia 2006;
Naro-Maciel et al. 2007; Caraccio et al. 2008; Monzon-
Arguello et al. 2010). Identifying migratory connec-
tions is particularly challenging in the case of highly
migratory organisms such as sea turtles, which spend
much of their lives hidden from view moving through-
out the oceans. We are using genetic analysis to under-
stand the connections between sea turtle populations.
By determining the unknown linkages between feeding22 EvolDir November 1, 2011
grounds and other regional breeding or feeding sites,
we will better understand the range of these turtles,
identify regional management partners, and determine
conservation priorities.
DNA BARCODING DNA barcoding is a global
initiative that provides a standardized and eﬃ-
cient tool to catalogue and inventory biodiversity,
with signiﬁcant conservation applications ( http://-
www.barcoding.si.edu/whatis.html ). To obtain DNA
barcodes of marine turtles, we sequenced a segment of
the cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI) gene from
eighty turtles of all seven species in the Atlantic and Pa-
ciﬁc Ocean basins. To further investigate genetic varia-
tion, we sequenced green turtles (Chelonia mydas) from
nine additional Atlantic/Mediterranean nesting areas
and from the Eastern Paciﬁc. We established character-
based DNA barcodes for each species using unique com-
binations of character states. DNA barcoding of marine
turtles is a powerful tool for species identiﬁcation and
wildlife forensics, which also provides complementary
data for conservation genetic research (Naro-Maciel et
al. 2010). The project has been expanded to include
DNA barcodes for other threatened turtles listed on
the IUCN Red List of threatened species (Reid et al.
2011), and spiny lobsters (Naro-Maciel et al. 2011).
Future eﬀorts will focus on urban barcoding including
at Freshkills Park.
EVOLUTIONARY RELATIONSHIPS Marine cheloni-
ans have inhabited the earth for over 100 million years
(Hirayama, 1998). To address the lingering controver-
sies and to recover a deﬁnitive marine turtle phylogeny,
we sequenced ﬁve nuclear DNA
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
ETH Zurich HostParasite
The Institute of Integrative Biology at ETH Zurich -
Experimental Ecology Group - is oﬀering a PhD posi-
tion
“Alternative resistance systems in host-parasite inter-
actions”
The project is ﬂexible but a ﬁrst aim is to use current
methods (such as RAD sequencing) to identify appro-priate markers for the study of host-parasite interac-
tions in the ﬁeld. Our study system involves Bombus
spp. on the host side and trypanosome infections. As
a background resource, the genomic toolbox for B. ter-
restris is currently reﬁned and will result in an anno-
tated genome. The project work will be based on sam-
pling and experiments in the ﬁeld and lab. We seek
to understand some principles that govern the dynam-
ics and adaptive processes in this model host-parasite
system. The anticipated project is part of an ERC
Advanced Grant on alternative host resistance systems
and the population structure of parasites (RESIST).
We look for candidates that are interested in challeng-
ing ecological and evolutionary questions and who are
willing to explore new methodical tools for this purpose.
A successful candidate may have some experience, for
example, in molecular or population genetics, the use
of gene data banks, or be familiar with the analysis of
adaptation. Whatever the background, a demonstrated
interest in evolutionary biology, population genetics, or
ecology is an asset. The project will be embedded in
an active research group with long-term experience of
the system.
Starting date is negotiable, but no later than spring
2012. Please send applications (CV, Publication list,
Names and emails of referees) by email to Prof.
P.Schmid-Hempel (psh@env.ethz.ch), ETH Zurich, In-
stitute of Integrative Biology, ETH-Zentrum CHN, CH-
8092 Zurich (review of application starts 30 Oct un-
til ﬁlled). Further information on ETH, the group,
or life in Zurich can, for example, be obtained from
www.eco.ethz.ch . paul.schmid-hempel@env.ethz.ch
ETH Zurich Speciation
Doctoral position available
Institute of Integrative Biology, ETH Z¨ urich
In the group Plant Ecological Genetics of the Institute
Integrative Biology, ETH Z¨ urich, is a doctoral position
available starting January 1, 2012.
Project title: Mechanisms of pre- and postzygotic iso-
lation in cryptic Epichlo¨ e species
Project description: Speciation is one of the most fun-
damental processes in biology that leads to biological
diversity. However, the mechanisms of speciation are
variable in diﬀerent organisms and incompletely known,
particularly in members of Fungi. Epichlo¨ e endophytesNovember 1, 2011 EvolDir 23
(Ascomycota, Clavicipitaceae) with its sexual species
oﬀer an ideal model system on which mechanisms of re-
productive isolation, a prerequisite of speciation, can be
studied. The planned research will investigate several
potential pre- and post zygotic isolation mechanisms
that may operate among members of genus Epichlo¨ e in-
cluding a species complex with several host-associated
cryptic species. The project is positioned at the inter-
face of ecology, genetics and evolutionary biology and
will involve ﬁeld work as well as greenhouse and lab
experiments.
We oﬀer a supportive and stimulating environment
within the plant ecological genetics group on the main
campus of ETH Z¨ urich.
We are seeking a highly motivated PhD candidate (3
year funding) with strong interests in ecological genetics
and/or evolutionary biology. Candidates should have a
Diploma or Master’s degree in Biology or Plant Sci-
ences.
Applications should be sent to the address given below
(preferably by e-mail) and should include (1) a letter
describing research motivation and experience, (2) a
CV together with copies of degree certiﬁcates (gradu-
ate and undergraduate), and (3) contact details of at
least two scientiﬁc referees.
Contact: Prof. Dr. A. Leuchtmann Institute of Inte-
grative Biology Universitaetstrasse 16 CH-8092 Zurich,
Switzerland e-mail: adrian.leuchtmann@env.ethz.ch
phone: +41 44 632 3854
Adrian Leuchtmann <adrian.leuchtmann@env.ethz.ch >
GeorgeWashingtonU Ecology
Evolution
*PhD position in saprotrophic fungal community struc-
ture/function:*
We are looking for graduate students to join our plant
evolutionary ecology research group, beginning fall
semester 2012, with the opportunity to begin ﬁeldwork
in May 2012. Support is available for student(s) to
participate in an NSF-funded project, which examines
the inﬂuences of plant traits on wood decomposition
rates. (*We will also likely be looking for a postdoc-
toral scholar and/or technician for this project. Please
contact me if you are interested in one of these other
positions*).In the project, we are exploring how plant traits inﬂu-
ence community structure and function of decomposing
fungi, and the consequences of these interactions for
the forest carbon cycle in the Ozark Highlands Ecore-
gion as climate changes. The research assistant would
focus on fungal identiﬁcation, using both traditional
techniques (ﬁeld collection and culturing) and molecu-
lar methods (targeted sequencing and next-generation
based metagenomics). The student would have oppor-
tunities to spend time in collaborating labs that spe-
cialize on fungal identiﬁcation, enzyme analysis and
genomics. Motivated students with interests or skills
in mycology, molecular biology, and bioinformatics are
especially encouraged to apply.
The student would join an interactive lab group (
http://www.phylodiversity.net/azanne/ ) that broadly
focuses on plant structure and function (anatomy and
physiological ecology), community ecology, and evolu-
tionary ecology, both in the temperate and tropical ar-
eas. The ﬁeld project will be based near St. Louis, MO
and Washington, DC and the graduate work will be
completed at George Washington University. St. Louis
and Washington, DC are dynamic cities with a wealth
of ecologists and evolutionary biologists. In both cities,
there are strong links among institutions, including ties
to the Missouri Botanical Garden and the Smithsonian.
George Washington University is located in the heart
of DC, with easy access to numerous science, conserva-
tion, and policy based institutions.
If you are interested in working with us on the
NSF project (or on other projects broadly related
to the lab interests), please send an email to me
(Amy Zanne: aezanne@gmail.com) with brief de-
tails about your GPA, GRE, research interests, ex-
perience, and why you want to go to graduate
school. For information about applying to the pro-
gram, go to the George Washington University, De-
partment of Biological Sciences website ( http://-
departments.columbian.gwu.edu/biology/ ). The appli-
cation deadline is 2 January 2012. I am also happy to
answer any further questions you might have.
–
Dr. Amy Zanne Department of Biology R223 Research
Building One University Boulevard University of Mis-
souri, St. Louis St. Louis, MO 63121-4400 USA
Oﬃce: S448 Stadler Phone: 314-516-6672 Fax:
314-516-6233 http://www.phylodiversity.net/azanne/
Amy Zanne <aezanne@gmail.com >24 EvolDir November 1, 2011
LavalU EvolutionarySystemsBiol
Opportunities for short internships for graduate stu-
dents to work in evolutionary systems biology at Laval
University, Quebec, Canada.
As part of the Quebec Network for Research
on Protein Function, Structure, and Engineering
(PROTEO: http://www.proteo.ca/en/index.html ), the
Landry Laboratory has access to a fellowship to host
a foreign graduate student (MSc or PhD) for a short
internship (from 2 to 12 months). The scholarship will
cover the students travel and living expenses (trans-
portation, housing, etc). We therefore invite applica-
tions from foreign students who would be interested to
join our laboratory for a short period of time to work on
the evolution of protein interactomes, the evolution of
protein phosphorylation, the diversity of protein func-
tions in natural populations of yeasts or on other as-
pects of protein evolution (see our website for recent
publications). Both bioinformatics and experimental
projects are available. The internship must start no
later than March 31, 2012.
Interested candidates should send a statement of inter-
est and a CV to:
Christian Landry <christian.landry@bio.ulaval.ca >
Assistant Professor CIHR New Investigator Depart-
ment of Biology Institute for Integrative and Sys-
tems Biology Room 3106, Pavillon Charles-Eugene-
Marchand 1030, Avenue de la Medecine Laval Univer-
sity Quebec (Quebec) G1V 0A6 Canada
http://www.bio.ulaval.ca/landrylab
Christian Landry <christian.landry@bio.ulaval.ca >
Leipzig HumanOrigins
We invite applications for the Leipzig School of Human
Origins, a joint graduate program of the University of
Leipzig (Germany) and the Max Planck Institute for
Evolutionary Anthropology.
This program provides interdisciplinary training and re-
search opportunities for university graduates who wishto work towards a Ph.D. in anthropology, biology, evo-
lutionary genetics, primatology, paleoanthropology and
related ﬁelds. Candidates apply for one of the following
disciplines of the program:
1) Comparative Primatology - focusing on the evolu-
tion of social and cultural systems in the great apes, as
well as other relevant mammals.
2) Evolutionary and Functional Genomics, Ancient
DNA, Molecular Anthropology and Genome Bioinfor-
matice
a. Evolutionary Genomics, Ancient DNA - focusing on
the evolutionary and functional genomics of humans
and the great apes, as well as the retrieval of DNA
from palaeontological remains.
b. Molecular Anthropology - focusing on the origin, re-
lationships, history, and migration patterns of human
populations.
c. Genome Bioinformatics - focusing on computational
approaches to the management and analysis of gene ex-
pression data.
3) Human Paleontology, Prehistoric Archaeology and
Archaeological Science - focusing on the study of ho-
minid fossils and archaeological sites. This includes
comparative morphological as well as chemical (iso-
topic) analyses.
Graduate students will be accepted to only one of these
areas but will have the opportunity to take part in
courses and seminars in all of them. Our Ph.D. pro-
gram is open for international students and is designed
as a 3-year-program.
We invite applications from all countries. Applicants
hold a Bachelor degree with honors, a Masters degree,
a Diploma or equivalent in biology, biochemistry, an-
thropology, or related ﬁelds.
It is not necessary to hold the degree at the point of ap-
plication. However, you must have been awarded your
degree prior to the start of the program in September.
Candidates have to be ﬂuent in written and spoken En-
glish. German is not required but international stu-
dents will be oﬀered opportunities to take German
courses.
Ph.D. students are supported by fellowships which are
provided either by the Max Planck Institute for Evolu-
tionary Anthropology or the University of Leipzig; or
have been obtained by the student.
Term of Appointment: Fall 2012 Application Deadline:
January 31, 2012
Visit www.leipzig.de for information on living inNovember 1, 2011 EvolDir 25
Leipzig, Germany, in the center of Europe.
Contact Information:
Sandra Jacob Deutscher Platz 6 Leipzig, 04103,
Germany Telephone Number: ++493413550122 Fax
Number: ++493413550119 Website: www.leipzig-
school.eva.mpg.de E-mail Address: leipzig-
school@eva.mpg.de
–
Sandra Jacob Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary
Anthropology / The Leipzig School of Human Ori-
gins (Ph.D. Programme) Deutscher Platz 6, 04103
Leipzig, GERMANY phone: ++49 (0) 341 3550-122;
fax: ++49 (0) 341 3550-119 http://www.eva.mpg.de/
http://www.leipzig-school.eva.mpg.de/
Sandra Jacob <jacob@eva.mpg.de >
LMU Munich Hybridization 2
Reminder (deadline: Oct 13th):
The Ludwig-Maximilians-University (LMU) in Munich
is among the top one hundred universities in the world,
and part of the German Excellence Initiative. The De-
partment of Biology (Evolutionary Ecology) seeks
A PhD students in Evolutionary Ecology
Project title: The role of hybridization in the coloniza-
tion of newly opened habitats
The PhD students will participate in a collaborative
research project of Justyna Wolinska to investigate hy-
bridization between species as a creative evolutionary
force that allows rapid adaptation to new environments.
This project is a part of a large research initiative
funded by the German Science Foundation: “Natural
Selection in Structured Populations”. The overarching
goal of this Research Unit is the study of natural selec-
tion in realistic population settings. Because of its role
as a driving force of adaptation, understanding natu-
ral selection is undoubtedly one of the most important
objectives of evolutionary biology.
Speciﬁcally, the student will study how hybrid-speciﬁc
traits may facilitate the colonization of novel habitats
(small quarry lakes), using the *Daphnia* hybrid com-
plex as a model system. *Daphnia* communities will be
screened at the microsatellite loci and three contrasting
scenarios of hybrid maintenance will be tested: survival
of hybrids as clonal lineages, recurrent hybridizationevents or establishment of hybrids through migrants. In
addition, using laboratory experiments it will be tested
if hybrids have more diverse phenotypes compared to
parental taxa (due to increased genetic variation in hy-
brid individuals). Finally, the ﬁeld and laboratory data
will be used for parameterization of a mathematical
model, which will be developed to study the contri-
bution of diﬀerent ecological parameters to the success
of hybrids. The proposed combination of empirical and
theoretical approaches will advance our understanding
of the role of hybridization in the colonization of new
habitats and, more generally, of genetic exchange in
adaptive evolution.
The main methods are: microsatellites, experiments,
some mathematical modelling (in collaboration with
Joachim Hermisson, University of Vienna) and a little
bit of ﬁeld work.
We are looking for highly motivated candidates with
interests in the evolutionary ecology and population
genetics. The position will be for a period of three
years, and should start as soon as possible (December
2011 or soon thereafter). The students will take part in
the organized PhDprogram (including attending vari-
ous skills courses) of the university. The ideal candidate
should have a strong background in evolutionary biol-
ogy and/or population genetics. Good molecular skills,
excellent communication and writing skills in English,
good work ethics, and creative thinking are desired.
Skills in mathematical modelling will be advantageous.
A Diploma or Masters degree (or equivalent) in biology
is necessary for admission. The working language in
the group is English.
Applications should include 1) a letter of interest with
a description of pertinent experience, 2) curriculum vi-
tae, 3) abstract of the master/diploma thesis, 4) a list
of publications (if any), 5) the names (with e-mail ad-
dresses) of three potential referees. Applications should
be submitted as a SINGLE (!) PDF document to the
following e-mail address:
wolinska@bio.lmu.de
Please submit your application by 13 October 2011.
For further information, consult Justyna Wolinska:
wolinska@bio.lmu.de
http://sci.bio.lmu.de/ecology/evol e/-
people wolinska e.html http://www.mabs.at/-
hermisson/index.html – Justyna Wolinska Ludwig-
Maximilians-Universit¨ at M¨ unchen Department Biolo-
gie II Evolutions¨ okologie Grosshaderner Str. 2 82152
Planegg-Martinsried, Germany
Phone: +49 (0)89 2180 74201 Fax: +49 (0)8926 EvolDir November 1, 2011
2180 74204 email: wolinska@bio.lmu.de http://-
www.biologie.uni-muenchen.de/ou/ecology/evol e/-
people wolinska e.html justyna.wolinska@gmail.com
ManchesterMetroU 2 Conservation
Two conservation oriented PhD projects are being ad-
vertised at Manchester Metropolitan University. Please
see descriptions and details below.
**** Position 01 PhD: Population viability and conser-
vation of African Grey Parrots on the island of Pr´ ıncipe,
Gulf of Guinea (post number SE/008)
The PhD studentship, to be supervised by Stuart Mars-
den, Ed Harris (MMU) and Nigel Collar (BirdLife Inter-
national) will be awarded on a competitive basis and is
only available to Home and EU candidates. The project
will involve long periods spent in the ﬁeld in Principe,
collecting a wide range of ecological and interview data
on nest distribution, success, capture histories, bird
abundance etc. The studentship will include full-time
tuition fees and a subsistence bursary ( £12,000 p.a.)
for 36 months. Candidates should submit their ap-
plication using the Manchester Metropolitan Univer-
sity’s application form to study for a postgraduate re-
search degree, found at http://www.red.mmu.ac.uk/-
?pageparent=4&page id=147 . Closing date for appli-
cations: 28 October 2011. Please contact Stuart Mars-
den (s.marsden@mmu.ac.uk) for further details.
Position 02 PhD: Biodiversity, livelihoods and carbon
in reforested and other human-dominated lands of West
Africa
This full-time PhD project, supervised by Stuart Mars-
den and Martin Jones (MMU) aims to examine, over an
extensive area of Sierra Leone, the nature of human-
dominated non-forested lands, and evaluate the impor-
tance of diﬀerent land use types for selected plant and
animal groups, human livelihoods, and carbon stor-
age/sequestration. The goal is to understand how these
habitats contribute to important ecosystem services,
and how, against a realistic economic backdrop, this
value might be managed for better eﬀect. Full-time
fees for a UK/EU student will be paid along with food,
accommodation, equipment, transport costs and inter-
national ﬂights associated with the PhD plus a stipend
of at least £2000 per year. The student will be based for
long periods at the Atlantic Whale Foundation’s centre
near Freetown, Sierra Leone. Applications are invited
on an informal basis before 1st November 2011. Con-tact Stuart Marsden (s.marsden@mmu.ac.uk) for more
details.
W. Edwin Harris Division of Biology and Conservation
Ecology School of Science and the Environment Manch-
ester Metropolitan University Manchester, M1 5GD
E.Harris@mmu.ac.uk
MississippiStateU
EvolutionaryGenetics Sunﬂowers
The Welch Lab at Mississippi State University is
looking for graduatestudents to work on two distinct
projects. I am interested in recruiting bothMS and PhD
students that would like to pursue a degree in Biological
Sciences.(1) We are currently studying adaptive evolu-
tion at the level of geneexpression in sunﬂowers. Specif-
ically, we are trying to understand the rolethat tran-
scribed microsatellites may play in generating adap-
tive variation. Ourapproach combines population ge-
netics, quantitative genetics, and functionalgenomics.
We have also recently initiated collaborative work that
is allowingus to study gene expression variation at mi-
crosatellite encoding loci at theinterspeciﬁc level (2) We
also study the population genetics of Caribbeanigua-
nas. Students will be able to choose between applied
conservation geneticsresearch projects as well as more
basic research projects focused on theevolutionary dy-
namics of natural populations. Island populations of
iguanas areparticularly useful for these types of studies
because gene ﬂow betweenislands is typically low, and
population sizes vary providing naturalreplicates for
study. This research is facilitated by extensive collab-
orationwith leading conservation biologists in the ﬁeld.
Participants in the Welchlab will primarily be asked to
conduct molecular genetic analyses. However,ﬁeldwork
is highly encouraged. Four students working on iguanas
have alreadyconducted extensive work in the Turks and
Caicos and the Bahamas. Funding forstudents will ini-
tially be provided by means of teaching assistantships
withthe potential for research assistantships dependent
on the availability ofexternal funding. We are look-
ing for students to start at any point in 2012.Please
contact Mark Welch at welchATbiologyDOTmsstate-
DOTedu if you areinterested. Also, a CV that includes
information regarding prior educationincluding course-
work and grades would be appreciated. For more in-
formationabout the Welch Lab, please visit http://-
web.me.com/mark.e.welch/Site/Welcome.html . MarkNovember 1, 2011 EvolDir 27
Welch <welch@biology.msstate.edu >
Montpellier MarineMammalDist
Human impact on the global patterns of marine mam-
mal distribution and abundance
Overview: This 3-year, fully funded, PhD project, will
quantify the impact of historical human activities on
the global patterns of diversity and abundance of ma-
rine mammal species. It will be based at the Cen-
tre dˆ aEcologie Fonctionelle et Evolutive, Montpellier,
France, supervised by Ana Rodrigues. Application
deadline: 31 October.
Key words: marine ecosystems, marine mammals,
macroecology, species distribution models, sustainable
management, shifting baselines
Background
We live in a human dominated planet, and the oceans
are no exception. Through a combination of a growing
population, mounting consumption and waste, and in-
creasingly sophisticated technologies, human activities
now impact all marine ecosystems, from the deep-sea
to coral reefs, to remote islands, to the open ocean.
Whereas these changes are accelerating, signiﬁcant hu-
man impacts on marine systems started millennia ago.
Yet because such changes took place gradually and with
little recorded evidence, the full scale of the cumu-
lative human impact on marine systems has only re-
cently begun to be understood through anecdotal his-
torical records showing evidence of past seas of spec-
tacular abundance. This case of collective amnesia
by the progressive adjustment to increasingly impov-
erished ecosystems has been termed the ˆ ashifting base-
lineˆ a. It aﬀects not only scientiﬁc and popular percep-
tion of what natural ecosystems look like in terms of
species composition and abundance, but also narrows
our perception of the options available for the future.
This project will investigate the extent to which the
introduction of an historical perspective aﬀects per-
ceptions of past human impact, projections of future
change, the goals, targets and options considered, and
ultimately the recommendations for conservation and
management of marine natural resources. This will
be done through the lens of marine mammals, a par-
ticularly interesting group given their strong and long
relationship with humans, from millennia-old cave-art,
to the near- obliteration of some species through com-mercial exploitation, to the emotional attachment felt
even by many who have never been in direct contact
with these species. Furthermore, some of these species
have important roles in shaping ecosystems, and despite
their charisma many remain very poorly known.
Objectives and methods
This project will quantify the impact of historical hu-
man activities on the patterns of diversity and abun-
dance in marine mammal species, as a basis for conser-
vation and management strategies at the global scale.
Speciﬁcally, the project will:
- Review and synthesise information on the historical
and current distribution of all marine mammal species,
both from existing datasets and by compiling scattered
data from the ecological, archaeological, zooarchaeolog-
ical, and historical literatures.
- Participate in the development of statistical models
for predicting the current and historical global distri-
bution of marine mammal species.
- Quantify and map the impact of historical global
change on patterns of diversity of marine mammal
species, using Geographic Information Systems.
- Participate in the development of a multidisciplinary
reﬂection of the goals, targets and options for the con-
servation and management of marine mammals within
a human-dominated planet.
- Contribute to the dissemination of the results of this
project to a wide and diverse audience comprising sci-
entists, stakeholders and the wide public.
Candidate proﬁle
The successful candidate will possess:
- A solid academic background in ecology.
- A rigorous and detail-oriented approach to work
with an aptitude for exploring and analysing histori-
cal datasets.
- Strong analytical skills, including knowledge or capac-
ity to learn GIS and programming skills (for example
in R) for the manipulation and analyses of large spatial
datasets.
- Good interpersonal skills needed for working as part
of a large team, and for coordinating multi-disciplinary,
multi-institutional meetings involving scientists and
stakeholders.
- Good command of the English language.
Institutional context
This PhD is a part of the ANR-funded MORSE
project: ˆ aManagement of Ocean Resources un-28 EvolDir November 1, 2011
der Shifting Expectations - bringing the histori-
cal perspective into marine mammal conservationˆ a.
The MORSE project is a partnership between the
Centre dˆ aEcologie Fonctionelle et Evolutive (CEFE
CNRS UMR5175; www.cefe.cnrs.fr ), the Institut de
Recherche pour le D ˜Ac/circlecopyrtveloppement (David Kaplan,
IRD UMR212, www.umr-eme.org/ ), and the laboratory
Ecologie des syst ˜Ames marins c ˜Atiers (Fabien Leprieur,
ECOSYM CNRS UMR5119, http://www.ecosym.univ-
montp2.fr ), with the collaboration of a network of in-
ternational partners.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
NetherlandInstEcol ArtiﬁcialLight
Fitness
To assess the impact of artiﬁcial light on ﬂora and
fauna a large-scale project will be carried out jointly by
the Department of Animal Ecology of the Netherlands
Institute of Ecology (NIOO-KNAW) and the Nature
Conservation and Plant Ecology Group at Wageningen
University (NCP-WU), in close collaboration with the
Netherlands Society for Research on Flora and Fauna
(VOFF), Philips Lighting and the NAM.
For this project we are looking for a PhD student (Va-
cancy number AnE-011620)
Job description: In the project there have already been
two post-docs appointed who are responsible for the day
to day running of the project, especially the collection
and analysis of the data from a large scale experiment
on 32 sites. The PhD student will carry out in-depth
projects on the impact of artiﬁcial light on ﬁtness (re-
production and survival) in birds, both as part of the
large scale experiment and in separate smaller scale ex-
periments
Requirements: We are looking for an enthusiastic can-
didate with an MSc in Evolutionary Ecology, Animal
Ecology, Behavioural Ecology or equivalent and expe-
rience with experimental work in the ﬁeld. A driver
licence and a licence to carry out experiments with ver-
tebrates (i.e. article 12 of the WoD) is a plus.
Appointment: The appointment will be on a temporary
basis for a maximum of 4 years and with a probation-ary period of 1 year. The gross salary starts at EUR
2.042,- per month in the 1st year, and will gradually
increase to a maximum of EUR 2. 612,- per month in
the 4th year, scale P, Collective Agreement for Dutch
Universities (CAO-Nederlandse Universiteiten). Start-
ing date is 1 January 2012, or shortly thereafter. The
PhD student will be based at the Department of Animal
Ecology of the Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO-
KNAW) in Wageningen (see www.nioo.knaw.nl ).
Information: Additional information about the position
is available upon request from Prof. Marcel E. Visser
(m.visser@nioo.knaw.nl or +31-317-473439).
Applications: Please send your application including
complete curriculum vitae and names of three referees
to vacature@nioo.knaw.nl. The closing date for appli-
cation is 11 November 2011, and the interviews will
take place late November.
Prof. Dr Marcel E. Visser Head of Department Ani-
mal Ecology Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO-
KNAW)
P.O. Box 50, 6700 AB Wageningen, The
Netherlands Phone: +31-317-473439 E-
mail: m.visser@nioo.knaw.nl Personal page:
www.nioo.knaw.nl/users/mvisser
“Visser, Marcel” <M.Visser@nioo.knaw.nl >
NorthCarolinaStateU
EvolBehaviour
The research group of Dr. Lisa A. McGraw at North
Carolina State University is seeking outstanding appli-
cants for Ph.D. positions (or highly motivated Master’s
students) to investigate the neurogenomic basis of so-
cial and reproductive behaviors.
Research in the McGraw laboratory combines ap-
proaches derived from molecular biology, genetics, ge-
nomics, and neuroscience rooted in an evolutionary bi-
ology framework to uncover functional links between
genes, the brain and complex behaviors. Our research
utilizes a unique model organism, the prairie vole.
These hamster-sized rodents diﬀer from more tradi-
tional laboratory animals in that they are highly so-
cial and socially monogamous. We employ compara-
tive studies between prairie voles and other closely re-
lated, but asocial, promiscuous vole species to explore
the neurogenomic architecture of both social and re-
productive behaviors. More information about our re-November 1, 2011 EvolDir 29
search program can be found on our website: http:/-
/db.tt/FLRtvynp Prospective students with interests
and experience in behavior, genetics, genomics, neuro-
science, molecular biology, physiology, behavioral ecol-
ogy, and/or sexual selection are encouraged to con-
tact Dr. McGraw by email ( lamcgraw@ncsu.edu).
Please include a cover letter including a brief statement
of your research interests, a CV, GRE scores, names
and email addresses of three references, and unoﬃcial
transcripts. Promising candidates will then be asked
to submit full applications to the graduate program.
Prospective students may then apply to either the
Department of Biology ( http://harvest.cals.ncsu.edu/-
biology/index.cfm?pageID=3D1516 ) or the Depart-
ment of Genetics ( http://cals.ncsu.edu/genetics/-
index.php/graduate/c/graduate-program-home/ ).
NCSU has outstanding expertise in genetics, behav-
ior, genomics, biostatistics, and evolutionary biology.
In addition, there are extensive opportunities to in-
teract with faculty and students across departmental
boundaries. In particular, our group is part of the
W.M. Keck Center for Behavioral Biology ( http://-
www.cals.ncsu.edu/beh bio/) which provides a multi-
disciplinary environment for interdepartmental training
and collaborative research in the fundamental princi-
ples that govern animal behavior.
Please send application materials or direct inquiries
(preferably by email) to:
Dr. Lisa A. McGraw Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Biology North Carolina State University 146
David Clark Labs Box 7617 Raleigh, NC 27695 lam-
cgraw@ncsu.edu 919-513-4326 website: http://db.tt/-
FLRtvynp *North Carolina State University is an
Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Action employer. NC
State welcomes all persons without regard to sexual
orientation. Persons with disabilities who need ac-
commodations in the application process should con-
tact Susan Marschalk, Department of Biology, via
telephone at (919) 515-2741, or via e-mail at su-
sanmarschalk@ncsu.edu *
lamcgraw@ncsu.edu
Sempach Switzerland 2
AvianEvolution
Two PhD projects in theoretical migration ecology of
hoopoes at the Swiss Ornithological InstituteWe are seeking two highly motivated PhD students to
join our research team at the Swiss Ornithological In-
stitute in Sempach, Switzerland. The PhD projects
are embedded in the Swiss National Science Founda-
tion funded project: “Towards a comprehensive under-
standing of the annual cycle in long-distance migrants:
individual migration strategies and their population-
level consequences”.
1. PhD project: Variability in migration routes and
timing within the annual cycle. This project aims at
identifying migration routes and timing, their environ-
mental determinants and at revealing individual dif-
ferences in migration behaviour. We will combine in-
formation obtained from geolocators with predictions
from dynamic migration models such that we yield a
mechanistic understanding of migration.
2. PhD project: Consequences of individual migration
strategies on population dynamics. In this project, we
will investigate how an individual’s migration strategy
aﬀects ﬁtness components. In particular, we will con-
sider several aspects of breeding behaviour and repro-
ductive success and relate them to the migration be-
haviour. We will integrate these ﬁndings on the indi-
vidual level to population dynamics using integrated
population models.
As the major part of both projects is theoretical, the
ideal candidates have a strong background and previous
experience in theoretical ecology, migration and popu-
lation ecology and can work both independently and as
part of a team. Proﬁciency of a programming language
such as R, WinBUGS or C++ would be an advantage.
Both projects also include some ﬁeld work, e.g. mon-
itoring nest boxes, ringing, equipping individuals with
and retrieving geolocators. A driving license is compul-
sory.
Further information on project 1 can be obtained
from Silke Bauer (Silke.Bauer@vogelwarte.ch)
and on project 2 from Michael Schaub
(Michael.Schaub@vogelwarte.ch).
The positions are for three years with an intended start-
ing date in January 2012. Salary is according to rules
of the Swiss Science Foundation and approx. 3400 CHF
per month (pre-tax) in the ﬁrst year.
Applications should be submitted to Silke Bauer
(Silke.Bauer@vogelwarte.ch), Swiss Ornithological In-
stitute, 6204 Sempach, Switzerland, before 15 Novem-
ber 2011 and include a letter of motivation detailing
research interests and experiences, stating the position
applied for, a current CV and contact information of
three academic referees. Interviews will tentatively take
place early December 2011.30 EvolDir November 1, 2011
Silke Bauer PhD s.bauer@nioo.knaw.nl |
www.nioo.knaw.nl/users/sbauer Dept. Animal Ecol-
ogy|Netherlands Institute of Ecology (NIOO-KNAW)
P.O. Box 50 |NL-6700 AB Wageningen |The Nether-
lands T ++31 317 473400 |F ++31 317 473 657 &
silke.bauer@vogelwarte.ch |www.vogelwarte.ch/silke-
bauer.html Swiss Ornithological Institute |Seerose 1 |
CH-6204 Sempach |Switzerland Tel. ++41 41 462 97
85
silke.bauer@vogelwarte.ch
UBern SlugPopGenetics
PhD position - University of Bern
Invasion genetics and ecological interactions in Arion
slugs
We are looking for a PhD candidate to work on a
project combining genetic and ecological approaches for
investigating the history and mechanisms of an ongoing
Arion slug invasion. The project aims at the identiﬁca-
tion of invasion and colonization routes of the Span-
ish slug Arion lusitanicus that belongs to an Arion
species complex, and to assess the eﬀect of the invasive
form on native relatives. The project will be mostly
laboratory-based and involve marker development us-
ing high-throughput sequencing, Sanger sequencing,
microsatellite genotyping, and also some ﬁeldwork. At
a later stage of the project, laboratory and ﬁeld-based
breeding and competition experiments will be used to
investigate the mechanisms of the invasion.
We are seeking a highly-motivated, independent candi-
date with excellent organizational skills. The ideal can-
didate has a strong background in evolutionary biology,
especially population genetics and phylogeography, ex-
perience with molecular laboratory work and data anal-
ysis, and interest in ecological interactions. Experience
with bioinformatics is a plus but not essential. A degree
equivalent to a biology diploma or M.Sc. and a valid
driver’s license is required. Good knowledge of writ-
ten and spoken English is expected. Some knowledge
of German or French would be beneﬁcial for living in
Switzerland but it is not necessary. The working lan-
guage in our institute is English.
You will be supervised by Gerald Heckel (population
genetics) and Eva Knop (community ecology). We of-
fer a stimulating research environment with excellent
facilities for laboratory work, computational analysesand ecological experiments. Information on the in-
stitute, the University of Bern, or life in general can
be obtained from http://www.iee.unibe.ch andhttp:/-
/bern.ch/ . For informal inquiries, please contact ger-
ald.heckel@iee.unibe.ch
The position is funded for three years (pending ﬁnal
approval), and the anticipated starting date is Decem-
ber 1st 2011 or soon thereafter. Please send your
application including a letter outlining your past re-
search, motivation for this position and speciﬁc experi-
ence (max. 2 pages), CV, list of publications (if avail-
able), abstract of Master or Diploma thesis and con-
tact details of 2-3 referees in a single (!) pdf ﬁle to
gerald.heckel@iee.unibe.ch
Computational and Molecular Population Genetics
(CMPG) Institute of Ecology and Evolution University
of Bern http://www.cmpg.iee.unibe.ch “Heckel, Ger-
ald (IEE)” <gerald.heckel@iee.unibe.ch >
UCBerkeley
EvolutionGlobalChangeGenomics
UCBerkeley EvolutionGlobalChangeGenomics
The Rosenblum Lab will be moving to UC Berkeley in
January 2012 and will have openings for PhD students.
Research in the lab focuses on the processes that gen-
erate and impact biological diversity with an emphasis
on the mechanisms of rapid organismal change. We are
particularly interested in both sides of the evolution-
ary speciation/extinction “coin” and speciﬁcally how
changing environments impact these processes. Con-
ceptually, our research addresses integrative questions
with evolutionary, ecological, and conservation rele-
vance. Methodologically, we favor an integrative genes-
to-communities approach and use techniques from func-
tional genomics to ﬁeld ecology. The Rosenblum Lab
will be housed in UC Berkeley’s Environmental Science
Policy and Management Department (ESPM), and will
be aﬃliated with the Museum of Vertebrate Zoology
(MVZ) and the Berkeley Initiative in Global Change
Biology (BiGCB).
Graduate students in the lab contribute substantially to
projects addressing mechanistic questions about speci-
ation and extinction in reptile and amphibian assem-
blages of the western US. Speciﬁcally, we are studying
adaptation and ecological speciation in White Sands
lizards and disease-related declines and extinctions inNovember 1, 2011 EvolDir 31
amphibians. Details on these projects can be found
athttp://nature.berkeley.edu/rosenblum/ . There will
also be several new projects, which will be shaped in
collaboration with new lab members. Background in
evolutionary ecology, bioinformatics, population genet-
ics and/or molecular genetics a plus.
Please email CV and brief description of research
interests to rosenblum@uidaho.edu and apply
directly to the ESPM PhD program http://-
ourenvironment.berkeley.edu/graduate-programs/-
admissions/ . rosenblum@uidaho.edu
UCincinnati SexualSelection
PhD Student Opportunity in Evolutionary Biology &
Sexual Selection
A PhD student position is available in the laboratory
of Dr. Michal Polak at the University of Cincinnati.
The goal of the research is to test key predictions of
the hypothesis that costly male secondary sexual traits
in non-model Drosophila evolve via post-mating sex-
ual selection: sperm competition and cryptic female
choice. The doctoral candidate will work in a team
setting on developing experimental lines via artiﬁcial
selection, and on a comprehensive examination of cor-
related evolutionary responses to this selection. The re-
search will involve using innovative laser microsurgery
on the male sex comb to discriminate among competing
models of sexual selection.
Funding is available through a combination of a NSF-
funded research assistantship and departmental teach-
ing assistantships. The position oﬀers excellent bene-
ﬁts, a full tuition waiver, and a stipend of US$22K per
annum which may be supplemented with funds (3-4K)
from the University on a competitive basis. Research
funds are available through the NSF grant and on a
competitive basis through the department.
The successful candidate will be expected to work in-
dependently and creatively on the project and will de-
velop her/his own research questions. The student will
interact with faculty, postdocs and other graduate stu-
dents in the Sensory Biology, Behavior and Evolution
(SBBE) group, a vibrant community that promotes in-
terdisciplinary research.
Qualiﬁcations include a BS or MS in Biology, minimum
undergraduate GPA of 3.0 and competitive GRE scores.The position is available as early as January 2012,
with the possibility also of beginning in summer
or fall 2012. Application information is available
at: http://www.artsci.uc.edu/collegedepts/biology/-
grad/application info.aspx Informal inquiries about
any aspect of the position are welcome and can be made
to Michal Polak at polakm@uc.edu
Michal Polak Associate Professor and Director
of Graduate Studies, Department of Biologi-
cal Sciences University of Cincinnati Cincinnati,
OH 45221-0006 USA Tel: +1 (513) 556-9736
http://www.artsci.uc.edu/collegedepts/biology/-
facstaﬀ/proﬁle details.aspx?ePID=Mjc5ODg%3D
polakm@ucmail.uc.edu
UDelaware
PlantEvolutionaryGenetics
Ph.D. – PLANT GENETICS & BIOINFORMAT-
ICS**at UD *
R. J. Wisser Laboratory of Plant Breeding & Ge-
netics, Department of Plant and Soil Sciences, Uni-
versity of Delaware, Newark, DE, USA; http://-
www2.udel.edu/wisserlab/ /*Seeking a student to be-
gin spring semester, February 2012*/
*Overview:* An opening is now available for a Ph.D.
seeking student interested in studying genome sequence
variation and quantitative and population genetics in
maize.
The Ph.D. candidate will be involved in an NSF-
funded multi-institutional investigation addressing key
hypotheses regarding the mechanistic basis of ge-
netic variation in plant quantitative disease resistance;
project title: *GENETIC AND HISTOLOGICAL DIS-
SECTION OF PHENOTYPIC VARIATION IN RE-
SISTANCE TO MAIZE DISEASES*. The student
will develop their thesis topic based on the following
project activities: resequencing of 300 diverse maize in-
bred lines, characterization of sequence variation across
disease-associated loci and genes, and collaborative ap-
plication of high-resolution association mapping. As a
member of a large inter-disciplinary project team, the
student will be exposed to multiple ﬁelds of study in-
cluding breeding, pathology, genetics, statistics, histol-
ogy, and molecular biology. The student will have ed-
ucational opportunities to attend outside workshops in
quantitative and population genetics or bioinformatics32 EvolDir November 1, 2011
as a supplement to UD coursework and present at pro-
fessional conferences and travel to co-investigating lab-
oratories to build a network with other students and
co-investigators. Opportunities are available at UD
to attain professional certiﬁcation in bioinformatics or
statistics while pursuing a Ph.D.
*Qualiﬁcations:* Prior research experience in genetics,
statistics, bioinformatics, and/or related ﬁelds of study
is required. Candidates with an M.S. degree in a related
ﬁeld are highly encouraged to apply.
For further details contact Dr. Randall Wisser at
rjw@udel.edu. To apply for the position provide a
statement of interest, CV, and contact information for
three references.
Randall J Wisser, PhD Assistant Professor Department
of Plant& Soil Sciences University of Delaware 531 S
College Ave, 152 Townsend Hall Newark, DE 19716
oﬃce: 302.831.1356 http://ag.udel.edu/plsc/faculty/-
wisser.html Randall J Wisser <rjw@udel.edu >
UDenver ComparativeGenomics
I am starting a new lab in the Department of Biologi-
cal Sciences at the University of Denver in fall of 2012,
but am accepting graduate student applications during
the 2011-2012 admissions period (Jan 15th, 2012 is the
application deadline). Below is a description of my re-
search, and you can learn more about the Institution,
my lab, and how to apply at:
http://nicholslab.wikidot.com Background: The focus
of my research is on the comparative genomics, cell and
developmental biology of sponges. The broader objec-
tive of this research is to address fundamental ques-
tions about the origin and early evolution of animals.
Sponges have particular relevance for our understand-
ing of animal origins because they are likely to be the
earliest branching animal lineage, their feeding cells
are homologous to choanoﬂagellates (the closest ani-
mal outgroup), and they have an ancient fossil record.
Therefore, the sponge body plan X which lacks mus-
cles, nerves and a gut X is thought to have persisted
since before the Cambrian and oﬀers a unique window
into the biology of the ﬁrst animals.
Evolution of Epithelia: A principle aim of the lab is
to reconstruct the evolution of epithelial tissues. Ep-
ithelia have essential barrier, absorptive, secretory and
structural functions that serve to regulate homeostasisbetween adjacent body compartments; thus, epithelia
are hypothesized to have been a prerequisite for animal
body plan diversiﬁcation (Tyler, 2003). Whereas the
epithelia of bilaterians are regulated by a conserved set
of cell adhesion and polarity mechanisms, the mecha-
nisms that regulate sponge tissues are poorly known.
Using a comparative-genomic approach we have identi-
ﬁed sponge homologs of many bilaterian adhesion and
polarity proteins (Nichols et al., 2006) and have be-
gun to study how these proteins function to regulate
sponge tissues. Of particular interest is the sponge feed-
ing epithelium (i.e., the choanoderm), which is unlike
the gut of other animals in that it functions to capture
and phagocytize bacterial prey. This is thought to be
the most ancient animal tissue (Nichols et al. 2009),
so the mechanisms that regulate adhesion and polarity
in the choanoderm may reﬂect innovations associated
with the transition to multicellularity and may be di-
rectly ancestral to the mechanisms operating in other
animal tissues. In addition to using a “candidate-gene”
approach, we conduct expression proﬁling experiments
and utilize proteomic approaches to gain a more com-
prehensive perspective on the molecular mechanisms
that regulate the sponge choanoderm.
Techniques: Techniques used in the lab include second-
generation DNA- and RNA-sequencing technologies,
advanced epiﬂuorescence and confocal microscopy com-
bined with standard techniques in biochemistry and
molecular biology. Our two primary model organisms
include the sponge Oscarella carmela (Eastern Paciﬁc)
and Ephydatia muelleri (lakes and streams in North
America, including Colorado). Techniques:
Thanks for distributing this ad.
Best,
Scott Nichols
Scott Nichols <sa.nichols321@gmail.com >
UFlorida HawkmothSystematics
A Ph.D. position is open at the Florida Museum of Nat-
ural History, University of Florida, starting in Fall 2012
under the supervision of Dr. Akito Kawahara.
The successful applicant will work on the systematics
and evolution of hawkmoths, with special focus on the
evolution of anti-bat ultrasound production and hearing
in Sphingidae. The project will be part of a collabora-
tive study on the evolution and behavioral strategies ofNovember 1, 2011 EvolDir 33
hawkmoths and insectivorous bats. Labwork with DNA
sequence data, active interaction with international col-
laborators, and extensive ﬁeldwork in the tropics are
expected. Experience in molecular, phylogenetic meth-
ods and/or bioinformatics is highly desirable.
For further information, please contact Akito Kawahara
kawahara(at)ﬂmnh.uﬂ.edu
A lab website can be found at: http://-
www.ﬂmnh.uﬂ.edu/mcguire/kawahara/
Akito Y. Kawahara Assistant Professor / Assistant
Curator of Lepidoptera Florida Museum of Natu-
ral History University of Florida 3215 Hull Road
Gainesville, FL 32611-2710 USA Tel: 352.273.2018 Fax:
352.392.0479 Email: kawahara@ﬂmnh.uﬂ.edu http://-
www.ﬂmnh.uﬂ.edu/mcguire/kawahara/
UFlorida SexualSelection
The research group of Christine W. Miller at the Uni-
versity of Florida, Gainesville is seeking outstanding
applicants for a Ph.D. position to investigate sexual se-
lection and evolution in variable environments.
Sexual selection has long captured the imagination of
scientists and the general public. Some of the most
noticeable features of insects are related to sexual se-
lection, including the brilliant colors and dance behav-
iors damselﬂies, the bizarre eye stalks of stalk-eyed ﬂies,
and the male ﬁghts in horned beetles. Sexually selected
ornaments, weapons, and behaviors evolve and are ex-
pressed in dynamic natural environments, yet there is
currently only a limited understanding about how such
environmental variability inﬂuences the processes and
outcomes of sexual selection. The ﬁeld of sexual selec-
tion is poised to make a leap forward when improved
linkages are built with the ﬁeld of ecology.
We use a combination of ﬁeld, greenhouse, and labo-
ratory studies to pursue greater linkages between the
ﬁelds of sexual selection and ecology. Insects provide
great power for uncovering biological patterns due to
their short generation times, ease of rearing and ob-
serving, and the potential for excellent sample sizes.
We use tools from behavioral ecology, morphometrics,
chemical ecology, and quantitative genetics to investi-
gate mate choice and male-male competition from a
variety of angles. Students may conduct their research
locally, at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
in Panama, or at another location that is well-suitedfor their research interests.
The University of Florida has great expertise in evo-
lutionary biology, genetics, behavior, and entomology
and has a highly collaborative atmosphere across de-
partments.
Gainesville is a pleasant mid-sized city ( http://-
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gainesville, Florida ) in north-
central Florida, with a wide variety of outdoor recre-
ational opportunities and a vibrant cultural life. The
Atlantic and Gulf coasts are each within a 90-minute
drive.
Applicants should send a cover letter, CV, GRE scores,
names and email addresses of three references, and un-
oﬃcial transcripts to Dr. Miller by November 15, 2011.
Promising candidates will then be asked to submit full
applications to the graduate program at UF for entry
in Fall 2012.
Please send materials or direct inquiries to:
Dr. Christine W. Miller, cwmiller@uﬂ.edu
University of Florida Entomology & Nematology
Dept. Gainesville, FL 32611-0620 www.millerlab.net
cwmiller@uﬂ.edu
ULausanne
ComputationalPhylogenetics
Two PhD position available
The projects, funded by the Swiss National Science
Foundation, will focus on the modeling and detection
of evolutionary constraints on protein- coding genes.
Two positions are available that include either - a the-
oretical project (project A) aiming at developing mod-
els of codon evolution. The goal is to extend current
Markov models used to infer nucleotide substitution
within codons along the branches of a phylogenetic tree
and investigate our ability to detect positive selection
events on protein-coding genes. - an applied project
(project B) aiming at assessing the evolutionary con-
straints during the evolution of the rbcL and rbcS genes
in C3 and C4 grasses. The goal is to assess how the
changes in photosynthetic pathway aﬀected the coevo-
lution between the two subunits forming the Rubisco
protein.
I am looking for autonomous and ambitious students
with enthusiasm for inter-disciplinary work. The stu-
dents will need to interact productively with evolution-34 EvolDir November 1, 2011
ary biologists, ecologist, genome biologists and com-
puter scientists, and read the corresponding range of
scientiﬁc literature. Candidates must have completed
their Master’s degree or equivalent in a relevant ﬁeld.
The speciﬁc requirements for each project are the fol-
lowing - Project A: strong mathematical background
and deep interest in theoretical aspects of phylogenetic
reconstructions and bioinformatics (including program-
ing skills). Previous experience with evolutionary biol-
ogy is a plus but not a requirement. - Project B: evo-
lutionary biology background with previous experience
in molecular techniques. Competence in bioinformatics
would be useful.
The successful candidates will be part of the depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolution of the University of Lau-
sanne as well as the Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics.
Our research group oﬀers a supportive and stimulating
environment, with access to excellent computer facili-
ties and molecular labs.
The positions can start as early as January 2012, but
later starting dates can be negotiated. To apply, please
send by email 1. a letter describing your research mo-
tivation and experience 2. a detailed CV 3. contact
details of two referees
Applications are open until the position is ﬁlled. Do
not hesitate to contact me for more details about the
project and the application process.
Nicolas Salamin email: nicolas.salamin@unil.ch
web: http://www.unil.ch/phylo and http://www.isb-
sib.ch/groups/lausanne/cpg-salamin.html nico-
las.salamin@unil.ch
UMelbourne AvianBehaviour
A PhD project is available to investigate the role of
personalities in explaining individual diﬀerences in be-
haviour in a cooperatively breeding bird, the superb
fairy-wren (Malurus cyaneus). The position will be
based at the University of Melbourne in the Depart-
ment of Zoology’s Evolution and Behaviour Group, un-
der the supervision of Assoc Prof Raoul Mulder, and
co-supervised by Dr Michelle Hall.
In many animals, individuals diﬀer consistently in
suites of correlated and heritable behaviours, compa-
rable to human personalities. Recent research suggests
that personalities should inﬂuence key socio-ecological
processes (e.g. dispersal, cooperation, parental invest-ment, mate choice, and territorial defence), but they
have rarely been studied in this context. The student
would work with a research team using an experimen-
tal approach to determine how personality aﬀects crit-
ical social and life-history decisions in a cooperatively
breeding bird, and how early social environment con-
tributes to the development of personality.
Interested students should email their CV, details
of two academic referees, academic transcript, and
a letter describing their research interests to Raoul
Mulder (r.mulder@unimelb.edu.au) and Michelle Hall
(hall.m@unimelb.edu.au).
The applicant will need to obtain an Australian
Postgraduate Award or Melbourne International
Research and Fee Remission Scholarships (for details
and scholarship application forms see http://-
cms.services.unimelb.edu.au/scholarships/pgrad/-
home ).
***NOTE: Applications for these Scholarships close 31
October 2011.***
Dr Michelle L Hall Research Fellow Department of Zo-
ology, University of Melbourne Melbourne, VIC, 3010,
Australia email: hall.m@unimelb.edu.au phone: + 61
3 83446232
hall.m@unimelb.edu.au
UNotreDame EvolutionaryGenomics
GRADUATE OPPORTUNITIES IN EVOLUTION-
ARY GENOMICS
The Graduate Program in the Department of Biologi-
cal Sciences at the University of Notre Dame is recruit-
ing doctoral students for Fall 2012 in research areas
ranging from evolutionary dynamics in natural popu-
lations, climate change, speciation, and infectious dis-
eases systems biology. Our Ph.D. program tailors train-
ing to the student’s biology-centered research program
and emphasizes ties to our expanding strengths in com-
putational biology, network science and applied math.
Numerous opportunities for interdisciplinary interac-
tions among research areas are available, including our
GLOBES training program http://globes.nd.edu/ . The
following faculty are seeking graduate students in Evo-
lutionary Genomics:
Jeﬀ Feder: http://biology.nd.edu/people/faculty/-
feder/ Mike Ferdig: http://biology.nd.edu/-November 1, 2011 EvolDir 35
people/faculty/ferdig/ Hope Hollocher: http://-
biology.nd.edu/people/faculty/hollocher/ Stuart
Jones: http://biology.nd.edu/people/faculty/jones/
Mike Pfrender: http://biology.nd.edu/people/-
faculty/pfrender/ Jeanne Romero-Severson: http:/-
/biology.nd.edu/people/faculty/romero-severson/
Research and teaching assistantships and a variety
of fellowship opportunities are open to students. For
more information regarding the Biology Graduate
Program and other graduate opportunities see http:/-
/biology.nd.edu/ . The deadline for receipt of all
application materials for the Ph.D. program is January
5, 2012, although earlier submission is encouraged to
ensure full consideration for available fellowships. For
additional assistance, e-mail our Graduate Recruiting
Coordinator, Mike Ferdig, ferdig.1@nd.edu. Biology
Department oﬃce phone: 574-631-6552
mferdig@nd.edu
UNotreDame Speciation
Ph.D. Position in Population Genomics and Ecological
Speciation:
The research group of Jeﬀ Feder at the University of
Notre Dame is seeking to add an interested Ph.D. stu-
dent to the laboratory to start in the Fall 2012 academic
year to investigate issues related to the genomic archi-
tecture of speciation and ecological speciation.
A summary of the lab’s research can be found at:
http://federlab.nd.edu Our research is directed at
discovering the ecological basis for population diver-
gence, in particular, with regard to the apple maggot
ﬂy, Rhagoletis pomonella, a model for speciation-with-
gene-ﬂow. We combine ﬁeld work with next generation
mass sequencing to investigate how ﬂies shift and adapt
to new host plants to initiate the speciation process.
Current work in this area is focused on critical adap-
tations involved in the physiology of overwintering dia-
pause and ﬂy chemoreception of host plant fruit odors
that generating ecologically based reproductive isola-
tion. We are also actively studying the how genome ar-
chitecture may facilitate the speciation process and how
the consequences of ﬂy host plant shifts may cascade
across trophic levels and aﬀect the community struc-
ture of parasitoid wasps that attack R. pomonella.
The Feder lab is part of a vibrant research community
in Evolutionary Ecology and Bioinformatics at Notre
Dame and the student will have ample opportunity tointeract with other researchers and laboratories includ-
ing those of Nora Besansky, Hope Hollocher, Michael
Pfrender, Jason McLachlan, Jessica Hellman, David
Lodge, Beth Archie, Stuart Jones, Scott Emrich and
Jeanne Romero-Severson. Funding is possible from a
combination of support from research and teaching as-
sistantships.
Interested students should contact the lab and discuss
their interests with Dr. Feder(feder.2@nd.edu; 574-631-
4159) and apply to the Dept. of Biological Sciences at
Notre Dame (deadline Jan 1 2012) to the Ph.D. pro-
gram. Information can be found at the Department web
site at: http://biology.nd.edu Scott.P.Egan.28@nd.edu
UOtago MolecularEvolution
PhD Project Opportunity Available To work with Dr.
Sheri Johnson and Professor Neil Gemmell Centre for
Reproduction and Genomics Department of Anatomy
University of Otago
Are old males still good males and can females tell the
diﬀerence?
We are currently seeking a PhD student with interests
in genetics, molecular ecology and behavioural ecology
to conduct research into age-related decline in male
fertility and age-biased female mate preference in ze-
braﬁsh.
Project Description Females of many species choose to
mate with old males rather than young males, presum-
ably because they have proven survival ability that ben-
eﬁts oﬀspring and female ﬁtness. Paradoxically, sperm
quality declines with male age; thus females choosing
old mates may suﬀer reduced pregnancy rates, and in-
creased birth defects in oﬀspring, lowering ﬁtness. This
paradox has generated much interest, but empirical
studies have invariably been observational, and have
failed to control for male mating history and female
age. Using a series of innovative, well-controlled, ex-
periments in zebraﬁsh we will determine how aging
and mating history aﬀect sperm function, the molec-
ular processes associated with sperm function, male re-
productive success and female mate preference, thus
whether old males are still good males and if females
can tell the diﬀerence. Improved knowledge of how fer-
tility alters with age and other life-history factors, and
the mechanisms responsible may have important conse-
quences for conservation eﬀorts, breeding programs for36 EvolDir November 1, 2011
agriculture and aquaculture, and treatment of infertil-
ity in humans.
The Ideal Candidate The ideal candidate will possess
experience in molecular genetics and behavioural ecol-
ogy. They will be motivated and organized, with a
demonstrated capacity to master the broad skill set
necessary for the successful completion of this research
programme. They will be comfortable conducting live
animal work that requires patience and delicate ma-
nipulations, with prior experience with ﬁsh useful, but
not essential. They will be a competent laboratory
work, with experience in routine molecular genetic tech-
niques, particularly microsatellite genotyping and se-
quencing, and should be computer literate with famil-
iarity with database management and statistical anal-
yses. Minimum qualiﬁcations: B.Sc. (Hons) and/or
M.Sc. in Genetics, Molecular Biology, Molecular Ecol-
ogy, Behavioural Ecology or equivalent with and A- av-
erage or better.
Scholarship Funding Financial support should be avail-
able for a high achieving student with an A- av-
erage or better via a University of Otago or De-
partmental scholarship see http://www.otago.ac.nz/-
study/scholarships/ ).
Eligibility The University of Otago and Departmental
scholarships are open to all nationalities. However,
overseas candidates for whom English is not a ﬁrst
language must satisfy the English Language Require-
ments of the University to be eligible for study (see
http://www.otago.ac.nz/international/postgraduate/-
index.html#englishlanguage ). Other eligibility
criteria are detailed here http://www.otago.ac.nz/-
international/postgraduate/otago002221.html . How
to Apply Interested applicants are encouraged to
make informal enquiries to Dr. Sheri Johnson. Please
send your Curriculum Vitae, a copy of your academic
transcript, a sample of your written scientiﬁc work and
the names of three referees with a covering letter to:
Dr. Sheri Johnson Centre for Reproduction
and Genomics ( http://www.otago.ac.nz/crg ) e-mail:
sheri.johnson@otago.ac.nz
Applications for this position close on 1 December 2011.
UOtago Sex reversal in ﬁsh
PhD project opportunity available at the Centre for
Reproduction and Genomics, University of OtagoInvestigate the molecular basis of sex reversal in se-
quentially hermaphroditic ﬁsh
We are currently seeking at least one, but potentially
two PhD students with interests in genetics, evolu-
tion, physiology and behavioural ecology to conduct
researchinto the genetic basis of sex reversal in sequen-
tially hermaphroditic ﬁsh.
Project Description Most plants and animals irre-
versibly diﬀerentiate early in life becoming either males
or females. However, in some groups, notably ﬁshes,
individuals begin life as one sex and reverse sex some-
time later (sequential hermaphrodism). Sex reversal
in sequential hermaphrodites is complete. Individu-
als become fully functioningmembers of the opposite
sex following radical restructuring of the gonad, alter-
ations in morphology, and modiﬁcations to behaviour.
The molecular basis of this stunning transformation is
unknown, but has been the subject of intense inter-
est, not only as a means to enhance our understand-
ing of sex determination and diﬀerentiation, but also
as a spectacular example of phenotypic plasticity in re-
sponse to environment. Here, we propose to experi-
mentally induce sex reversal in a number of divergent
sequentially hermaphroditic ﬁsh, including the tropical
bluehead wrasse, and use new state-of-the-art gene ex-
pression analyses and comparative genomic approaches
derived from the genome projects, to examine how the
pattern of gene expression alters in the brain and gonad
of these ﬁsh during the process of sex reversal. Using
these data we expect to rapidly identify the genetic trig-
ger and the subsequent genetic cascade that it initiates
to cause sex reversal.
The Ideal Candidate The ideal candidate will possess
experience in molecular genetics, genomics, evolution-
ary genetics and behavioural ecology, with knowledge
of NGS approaches and analyses a distinct advantage.
They will be motivated and organised, with a demon-
strated capacity to master the broad skill set necessary
for the successful completion of a research programme.
They will be a competent laboratory worker, with ex-
perience of all routine molecular genetic techniques,
particularly microsatellite genotyping and sequencing,
and should be computer literate with familiarity with
database management and statistical analyses. Mini-
mum qualiﬁcations: B.Sc. (Hons) and/or M.Sc. in Ge-
netics, Genomics, Molecular Biology, Molecular Ecol-
ogy or equivalent with and A- average or better.
Scholarship Funding Financial support should be avail-
able for a high achieving student with an A- av-
erage or better via a University of Otago or De-
partmental scholarship see http://www.otago.ac.nz/-
study/scholarships/ ).November 1, 2011 EvolDir 37
Eligibility The University of Otago and Departmental
scholarships are open to all nationalities. However,
overseas candidates for whom English is not a ﬁrst
language must satisfy the English Language Require-
ments of the University to be eligible for study (see
http://www.otago.ac.nz/international/postgraduate/-
index.html#englishlanguage ). Other eligibility
criteria are detailed here http://www.otago.ac.nz/-
international/postgraduate/otago002221.html . How
to Apply Interested applicants are encouraged to make
informal enquiries to Professor Neil Gemmell. Please
send your Curriculum Vitae, a copy of your academic
transcript, a sample of your written scientiﬁc work and
the names of three referees with a covering letter to:
Professor Neil J. Gemmell Centre for Reproduction
and Genomics ( http://www.otago.ac.nz/crg ) e-mail:
neil.gemmell@otago.ac.nz
The position will remain open until ﬁlled, University of
Otago Scholarships now available year round. It would
be desirable however for the successful applicant to be
able to start in early 2012.
[cid:B20079DE-E767-4405-A2ED-DD5904FFE6F4]
Neil J. Gemmell Professor and Director Centre for
Reproduction and Genomics Department of Anatomy
University of Otago, PO Box 913 Dunedin 9054 New
Zealand
Phone: +64 3 479 6824 Fax: +64 3 479 7254 e-mail:
neil.gemmell@otago.ac.nz website: www.crg.org.nz
neil.gemmell@otago.ac.nz
URhodeIsland
GlobalChangeEvolution
GRADUATE POSITION IN GLOBAL CHANGE &
EVOLUTION AT U RHODE ISLAND
I invite applications from motivated students for gradu-
ate degree work in the area of evolutionary ecology and
evolutionary genetics of invasive species at the Univer-
sity of Rhode Island. Funding will be provided either as
research or teaching assistantships, depending on stu-
dent background and availability. Applicants should
be independent, highly motivated, and possess some
research and/or ﬁeld experience. Students with experi-
ence using molecular techniques (i.e., DNA extraction,
PCR, DNA sequencing, microsatellite genotyping) or
conducting GIS-based spatial analyses are encouraged
to apply.Research in our lab generally addresses the evolution-
ary dynamics of biological invasions using Anolis lizards
as a model system. We use molecular markers to recon-
struct invasion histories and test factors that facilitate
or constrain phenotypic evolution during invasions. De-
tailed information about my research is available at <
http://web.me.com/jjkolbe >.
Prospective students should contact me (Jason Kolbe
via email at jjkolbe@mail.uri.edu) and provide a short
description of research interests and accomplishments,
a CV (including GPA and GRE scores), and contact
information for three references. I will contact suitable
candidates to discuss potential graduate projects and
to set up an interview.
Jason J. Kolbe Department of Biological Sci-
ences University of Rhode Island CBLS 189, 120
Flagg Rd. Kingston, RI 02881 USA Email:
jjkolbe@mail.uri.edu Website: http://web.me.com/-
jjkolbe jjkolbe@gmail.com
UTennessee Knoxville Phylogenetics
The O’Meara lab at the U. of Tennessee, Knoxville, is
seeking doctoral students for Fall 2012 with an interest
in comparative methods, tree inference, species delimi-
tation, and other areas of phylogenetics. Our lab group
mostly focuses on method development and application
of methods to existing datasets rather than on in-house
dataset acquisition. However, we have active collabo-
rations with empirical researchers on ﬁsh, herps, fungi,
bats, and plants and expect that graduate students who
want an empirical component to their research will have
that opportunity.
Students would enroll in the graduate program in the
department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the
U. of Tennessee, Knoxville. Our department has a great
depth of phylogenetic expertise but also remarkable
strengths in ecology, evolution, and mathematical bi-
ology. UT Knoxville is also home to the National Insti-
tute for Mathematical and Biological Synthesis (NIM-
BioS), a synthesis center similar in structure to NCEAS
and NESCent. Knoxville itself has a reasonable cost of
living and is home to signiﬁcant natural beauty. Great
Smoky Mountains National Park, home to 17,000 doc-
umented species, is about an hour away. Overall, most
graduate students here appear productive and happy.
Please see my website, http://www.brianomeara.info/-
lab, for more information. There are various funding38 EvolDir November 1, 2011
opportunities for well-qualiﬁed applicants. Much of our
work involves programming, but that can (usually) be
taught to motivated, intelligent students. Thus, while
programming skills are a beneﬁt, they are not required
for successful applicants. Applications are due on Dec.
15, 2011, but we should be in contact well before then.
Brian O’Meara Assistant Professor Dept. of Ecology
& Evolutionary Biology U. of Tennessee, Knoxville
bomeara@utk.edu http://www.brianomeara.info
omeara.brian@gmail.com
UWisconsin Madison
PlantInsectInteractions
Graduate Research Assistantship
Plant-insect interactions and aspen genomics Univer-
sity of Wisconsin, Madison
A Graduate Research Assistantship (M.S.-Ph.D. or
Ph.D.) is anticipated for work with Rick Lindroth and
Liza Holeski at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.
The Research Assistant will pursue research at the in-
tersection of plant-insect interactions, genomics, and
chemical ecology, using aspen (Populus tremuloides) as
an experimental system. Primary objectives of this re-
search include: 1) identiﬁcation of the genetic basis of
aspen traits, including those related to the sustainable
production of aspen as a biofuel crop, 2) evaluation
of genetic correlations between aspen productivity and
susceptibility to herbivores, and 3) characterization of
environmental eﬀects on the expression of traits inﬂu-
encing productivity and susceptibility. Genomics work
will be conducted in collaboration with scientists in
Ume˚ a, Sweden. The Research Assistant will also be
encouraged to develop and pursue her/his own novel
research interests. Applicants must be interested in in-
vestigating both genetic and chemical aspects of plant-
herbivore interactions, and may pursue admission to
UW graduate programs in either Entomology (Jan. 31,
2012 deadline) or Zoology (Dec. 31, 2011 deadline).
For more information about the Lindroth Group,
and Rick or Liza’s research interests, visit:
http://entomology.wisc.edu/ ˜ lindroth/ http://-
entomology.wisc.edu/ ˜ holeski/ The University of
Wisconsin-Madison is a premier institution for re-
search in ecology and evolution, and has ranked among
the top ﬁve research universities in the United States
for each of the past 20 years. Graduate students have
the opportunity to participate in the thriving Ecology(http://ecology.wisc.edu/ ) and Evolutionary Biology
(http://www.evolution.wisc.edu/ ) communities at
UW-Madison.
Qualiﬁcations:
Highly motivated individuals with superior academic
credentials and strong communication skills are encour-
aged to apply. Well-developed interpersonal skills are
essential. Candidates must be able to work indepen-
dently as well as part of a collaborative research team.
Stipend/beneﬁts:
50% Research Assistantships currently provide a
stipend of $20,400 (12 mo.), tuition waiver, and ex-
cellent medical/dental health plans at minimal cost.
Position available beginning in summer or fall of 2012.
Inquiries: Send preliminary e-mail letter of inquiry, de-
scribing research interests and academic qualiﬁcations,
to:
Dr. Rick Lindroth (lindroth@ wisc.edu)
and/or
Dr. Liza Holeski (holeski@wisc.edu)
Dept. of Entomology 237 Russell Labs 1630 Lin-
den Drive University of Wisconsin Madison, WI 53706
U.S.A.
– Liza M. Holeski Assistant Scientist Department of
Entomology University of WI, Madison
http://entomology.wisc.edu/ ˜ holeski Liza Holeski
<holeski@wisc.edu >
UWisconsin Madison
PopulationGenomics
Ph.D. Studentships in Population Genomics: The re-
search group of John Pool at the University of Wiscon-
sin - Madison is seeking one or two Ph.D. students to
start in the Fall 2012 academic year.
A brief summary of the lab’s research can be found here:
http://www.genetics.wisc.edu/user/338 Our work of-
fers the opportunity to study genetic variation at the
scale of whole genomes. We also use population ge-
nomic data to identify the genetic basis of adaptive
phenotypic evolution within the genetics model species,
Drosophila melanogaster. The Pool lab is newly
formed, but by early 2012 it will include a recently-hired
postdoc, a technician, and undergraduate researchers.November 1, 2011 EvolDir 39
As a new faculty member, I can devote ample time to
helping each student’s scientiﬁc development.
Interested students should apply (by December 1)
to the UW Genetics Ph.D. program: http://-
www.genetics.wisc.edu/node/15 The Genetics program
has a strong contingent of evolution-oriented students
and faculty. Students rotate in three or four labs
during their ﬁrst semester, and then choose a profes-
sor to work with. A large number of faculty who
participate in the Genetics Ph.D. program have ac-
tive research in population genetics and evolution-
ary genomics: http://www.genetics.wisc.edu/node/-
59?q=ﬁelds8 A more complete list of evolution fac-
ulty at UW Madison is available through the J. F.
Crow Institute for the Study of Evolution: http://-
www.evolution.wisc.edu/ Financial support is available
from training grants, research assistantships, and teach-
ing assistantships (one semester of teaching is required).
Madison oﬀers an exceptional quality of life in a beau-
tiful natural setting. Downtown and campus are bor-
dered by lakes, and the area includes a number of long
distance bike trails. Madison features diverse art, mu-
sic, and cultural oﬀerings. A great farmers market and
a focus on local food are complemented by a wide range
of international restaurants.
Prospective students are welcome to contact me at
jpool@wisc.edu
John Pool Assistant Professor Laboratory of Genetics
University of Wisconsin-Madison
jpool@wisc.edu
UZurich
ComputationalEpidemiology
PhD studentship in Computational Epidemiology, Uni-
versity of Zurich
A three year SNF funded PhD studentship in com-
putational epidemiology is now available. This posi-
tion will be located within the Section of Epidemiol-
ogy, Vetsuisse Faculty, University of Zurich. Salaryat standard SNF rates (starting at 40,800 CHF in
the ﬁrst year). This studentship is to work on the
research project “Developing Bayesian Networks as a
tool for Zoonotic Systems Epidemiology’ and will in-
volve close collaboration with epidemiologists from the
Canadian Integrated Program for Antimicrobial Re-
sistance Surveillance (CIPARS) www.phac-aspc.gc.ca/-
cipars-picra . The main goal of the project is to develop
and apply Bayesian network models to data arising
from zoonotic disease systems. Planned applications
include the identiﬁcation of risk factors for the presence
and extent of antimicrobial resistance in food animals.
Further details about the project are available from the
Section of Epidemiology website www.vetepi.uzh.ch/-
aboutus/opportunities.html This project is at the in-
terface of medicine (e.g one-health), applied statistics
and computational biology, and as such we are looking
for someone with an interest and appreciation of both
biology and application driven mathematics. While it
is planned that some time will be spent in Canada
with collaborators from CIPARS, this project is desk
based and will require a high degree of computer liter-
acy, in particular programming in R. The University of
Zurich has a range of diﬀerent graduate schools and de-
pending on the candidate it may be possible to register
with either the MD/PhD programme in the Faculty of
Medicine, or else the graduate school of Life Sciences
or the graduate school of Mathematical Sciences where
both the latter are joint schools with the Swiss Federal
Institute of Technology Zurich (ETH). For entry to the
graduate schools a Master’s degree (or equivalent) is
essential, or an MD for the MD/PhD track.
The Section of Epidemiology is a relatively new group
whose research interests include zoonotic diseases, par-
ticularly the modelling of parasitic systems such as
Echinococcus, along with the application of latent class
methods in veterinary epidemiology, and have a wide
range of ongoing collaborative projects with institutes
both within Switzerland and internationally.
To apply, please send a current CV along with a cover-
ing letter and the names and addresses of two referees to
Dr. Fraser Lewis, email: fraseriain.lewis@uzh.ch.This
position is available immediately and will remain open
until ﬁlled.
fraser.iain.lewis@gmail.com40 EvolDir November 1, 2011
Jobs
AdelphiU 2 EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
ArizonaStateU Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
CentreCollege Kentucky EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . 41
ColumbiaU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
CornellU 2 ComputationalBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
CornellU EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
EarlhamCollege TeachingEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Ecuador FieldAssist AvianConservation . . . . . . . . . . . 44
EmoryU SoftwareProg GalaxyProject . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
FloridaIntlU 3 Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
FordhamU MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
HongKong MycorrhizaSystematists . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
IdahoStateU Pocatello Chair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Ifremer Brest Phytoplankton Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . 47
KansasU Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
KentStateU PlantConservationBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
Leiden Netherlands MuseumBioinformatician . . . . . . 49
London NHM Bioinformatician . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
LouisianaStateU MammalogistCurator . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
MiddleTennesseeStateU Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
NewMexicoStateU Outreach Educator . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
StonyBrookU 2 HumanEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52TromsuUMuseum Biosystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
UAlberta HostParasiteInteractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
UBern ScientiﬁcCoordinator CausesOfCooperation 54
UBritishColumbia MarineEukaryoticEcology . . . . . . 55
UCalifornia LosAngeles EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . 55
UCalifornia LosAngeles PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
UCincinnati LabTech HumanVariation . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
UColoradoBoulder CuratorBotany . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
UEdinburgh ResTech SexualSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
UGeorgia EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
UHawaii ConservationBotany . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
UKentucky Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
UMaryland EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
UMinnesota Duluth EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . 60
UMontreal AquaticMicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
UMontreal EvolutionaryAdaptivePhysiology . . . . . . . 61
UNeuchatel Evolution Parasites . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UOregon 4 BioMath . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
URhodeIsland ResTech EvolEcolGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
UTexas 2 EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
WestVirginiaU ComputationalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . 65
AdelphiU 2 EvolutionaryBiology
I’d like evolutionary biologists to be aware of two
tenure-track positions that are open to them (but to
others also - we always advertise broadly).
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY 2 ASSISTANT PRO-
FESSORS Tenure-Track - Fall 2012 Adelphi University
invites applications for two tenure-track positions in Bi-
ology to begin Fall 2012. One position is for any area
of genetics; teaching responsibilities will include genet-
ics, genetics project lab, and introductory biology. The
other position is for any area of physiology; teaching re-
sponsibilities will include physiology, human anatomy
and physiology, and possibly histology. Ph.D. required;
postdoctoral experience preferred. The successful can-
didates will have excellent potential as a teacher, a
signiﬁcant record of research accomplishment, and the
ability to develop a fundable independent research pro-
gram involving undergraduates and master’s students.
For more information about the Biology department,
visit http://academics.adelphi.edu/artsci/bio/ . Dead-line for applications: November 15, 2011. Adelphi Uni-
versity oﬀers a competitive salary and beneﬁts pack-
age (including tuition remission). For detailed de-
scriptions of any of the above positions, and to apply,
please visit: http://www.adelphi.edu/positions/faculty
Matthias Foellmer Assistant Professor Department of
Biology, Adelphi University 1 South Ave., Garden City,
New York, 11530, USA http://panther.adelphi.edu/-
˜fo17044/MWFoellmer%20main.html (516) 877-4206
Matthias Foellmer <Foellmer@adelphi.edu >
ArizonaStateU Genomics
Faculty Position in Genomics at Arizona State Univer-
sity
The School of Life Sciences and The Biodesign Insti-
tute at Arizona State University invite applications for
a tenure-track faculty position at the level of Assistant
Professor whose research is at the interface between
Genomics and Life Sciences. Research methods mayNovember 1, 2011 EvolDir 41
include theoretical, computational, and empirical ap-
proaches in population genetics, functional and com-
parative genomics, and bioinformatics. The successful
candidate will be expected to develop an innovative,
extramurally-funded, research program, teach at the
undergraduate and graduate levels, and have a commit-
ment to outreach and service. The successful candidate
will be expected to mentor undergraduate and gradu-
ate students as well as postdoctoral fellows. A com-
petitive start-up package and teaching load compatible
with high research productivity will be provided.
Arizona State University has made a commitment to
accelerating the translation of basic discoveries into
practical beneﬁts for society through the construction
of state-of-the-art research facilities and the recruit-
ment of world-class faculty members. The success-
ful candidate will participate in university-wide health
and/or sustainability initiatives supported by core fa-
cilities for functional genomics and next generation se-
quencing, functional proteomics, high throughput cel-
lular screen, bioinformatics, high performance comput-
ing, and imaging. More information on genomic re-
search opportunities at the Biodesign Institute and the
School of Life Sciences at ASU can be found at http:/-
/genomics.asu.edu . Candidates must have a Ph.D. (or
equivalent) in an appropriate ﬁeld, and a minimum of
2 years of postdoctoral training is preferred. Demon-
strated teaching and research excellence is preferred.
To apply, send cover letter, your curriculum vitae, three
representative publications, separate statements of fu-
ture research plans and teaching philosophy and in-
terests, and contact information for three references
to be sent to Alan Rawls, Chair, Genomics Faculty
Search Committee, School of Life Sciences, PO Box
874501, Tempe, AZ 85287-4501. Electronic applica-
tions sent as PDF ﬁles to solsfacultysearch@asu.edu are
preferred. The initial closing date for receipt of appli-
cations is November 11, 2001; applications will be re-
viewed weekly thereafter until the search is closed. A
background check is required for employment. Arizona
State University is an equal opportunity/aﬃrmative
action employer committed to excellence through di-
versity. Women and minorities are encouraged to
apply. For additional information on this position
and the School of Life Sciences, please visit http://-
sols.asu.edu/jobs . Brian C. Verrelli, Ph.D. Associate
Professor School of Life Sciences Arizona State Univer-
sity Tempe, AZ 85287-4501 Tel: 480-965-0398 E-mail:
brian.verrelli@asu.edu
bverrell@asu.eduCentreCollege Kentucky
EvolutionaryBiol
Tenure-track Assistant Professor of Biology/Genetics
Centre College invites applications for a tenure-track
Assistant Professor of Biology/Genetics to start in Au-
gust 2012. The successful applicant will have a Ph.D.
in the biological sciences with expertise in genetics and-
must demonstrate a commitment to excellence in teach-
ing and scholarship at a nationally-ranked liberal arts
college. In a three-year cycle, teaching duties will in-
clude courses in introductory biology, ﬁrst year stud-
ies seminar or non-majors natural science course, ge-
netics, evolution, invertebrate biology or entomology,
senior seminar, and other biology courses as appropri-
ate. Preference will be given to applicants with demon-
strated expertise in phylogenetic or phylogeographical
studies of invertebrates. Collaborative research with
undergraduates is expected and supported.
Centre College is a highly selective liberal arts college
of 1,300 students, listed by U.S. News in the top ﬁfty
liberal arts colleges in the nation. Classes are small an-
dacademic standards are high. The College is located
in Danville, Kentucky, a town of 18,000 recognized for
its high quality of life. It is within easy driving dis-
tance of Lexington, Louisville, and Cincinnati. Cen-
tre College is committed to hiring a diverse faculty of
teachers/scholars. For informationconcerning the col-
lege, visit our web site at www.centre.edu To apply,
please submit by post (no email applications): letter
of application, statement of teaching philosophy, state-
ment of research interest, CV, transcripts, and three
letters of recommendation to: Dean Stephanie Fabri-
tius, Centre College, 600 W. Walnut St., Danville, KY
40422. Review of applicants will begin November 1,
2011 and continue until position is ﬁlled. Centre Col-
lege is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
– Benjamin P. Keck Postdoctoral Research Associate
Dept. Ecology and Evolutionary Biology University of
Tennessee Knoxville TN 37996
“Keck, Ben” <bkeck@utk.edu >42 EvolDir November 1, 2011
ColumbiaU EvolutionaryBiol
Columbia University invites applications for a Lecturer
in Discipline position in the Department of Ecology,
Evolution and Environmental Biology (E3B). This is a
full-time appointment with multiyear renewal contin-
gent on successful review. The department represents
broad interests in ecology, evolution, behavior, conser-
vation biology, and environmental science and main-
tains strong links to Columbia’s Earth Institute, the
American Museum of Natural History, Wildlife Con-
servation Society, New York Botanical Garden, and
EcoHealth Alliance. (For additional information about
E3B see www.columbia.edu/cu/e3b/job2 ). We seek a
scholar with a serious commitment and proven record
in research, teaching and advising (ideally at a grad-
uate level). The chosen candidate will serve as M.A.
Program Advisor and will teach a student research de-
velopment seminar and other graduate and advanced
undergraduate courses. The successful candidate must
be research active and include students in research. Ap-
pointment will begin July, 2012.
For more information and to apply please visit
our online site: https://academicjobs.columbia.edu/-
applicants/Central?quickFind=55362 Review of appli-
cations will begin November 1, 2011. Deadline for ap-
plications is December 7, 2011.
Columbia University is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Aﬃrmative Action employer.
Dustin R. Rubenstein, Ph.D. Assistant Professor
Columbia University Dept. Ecology, Evolution and En-
vironmental Biology 10th Floor Schermerhorn Exten-
sion, MC 5557 1200 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY
10027
Tel: 212-854-4881 Fax: 212-854-8188 Email:
dr2497@columbia.edu Website: http://-
www.columbia.edu/ ˜ dr2497 Dustin Rubenstein
<dr2497@columbia.edu >
CornellU 2 ComputationalBiology
Two Faculty Positions in Computational Biology atCornell University
Cornell is seeking to build on its strengths in computa-
tional biology with two new tenure-track faculty posi-
tions. One position is at the Assistant, Associate or Full
Professor level with a primary appointment in the De-
partment of Computer Science. Applicants must pos-
sess a Ph.D. in computer science, or a Ph.D. in a related
ﬁeld and suﬃcient expertise in computer science to ﬁt
within a CS department. The other position is at the
Assistant or Associate Professor level with a primary
appointment in the Department of Biological Statistics
and Computational Biology. Applicants for this posi-
tion must possess a Ph.D. in biology, computer science,
statistics, or a related ﬁeld, and a primary interest in
understanding biological phenomena through the use of
computational and statistical methods.
Cornell is committed to creative advancement of the in-
terdisciplinary ﬁeld of computational biology, and these
positions come with considerable ﬂexibility, including
the possibility of joint appointments, novel space ar-
rangements, and multiple graduate ﬁeld memberships.
Successful applicants in both positions will also have
the opportunity to interact closely with campus-wide
eﬀorts in genome sciences, including the Cornell Cen-
ter for Comparative and Population Genomics and the
Center for Vertebrate Genomics.
For both positions, outstanding applicants in all areas
of computational biology will be considered, but re-
search areas of special interest include comparative and
population genomics; functional genomics; gene regula-
tion; dynamical behavior at the sub-cellular and cellular
levels; networks in biological systems; and applications
of machine learning to biological problems.
To ensure full consideration, applications should be re-
ceived by December 1, 2011, but they will be accepted
until the positions are ﬁlled. Applicants to both posi-
tions should submit a curriculum vitae and a research
statement and should arrange to have three reference
letters submitted, at http://www.cs.cornell.edu/apply
. Cornell University is an aﬃrmative action/ equal op-
portunity employer and educator.
Adam Siepel <acs4@cornell.edu >
CornellU EvoDevo
Assistant Professor Evolutionary Developmental Biol-
ogy of Animals Cornell University Cornell University,November 1, 2011 EvolDir 43
located in Ithaca, New York, is an inclusive, dynamic,
and innovative Ivy League university and New York’s
land-grant institution. Its staﬀ, faculty, and students
impart an uncommon sense of larger purpose and con-
tribute creative ideas and best practices to further the
university’s mission of teaching, research, and outreach.
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
invites applications for tenure-track appointment as As-
sistant Professor in evolutionary developmental biology
of animals. We are particularly interested in candidates
whose research investigates the developmental genetic
basis of evolutionary novelty, convergence, or diﬀer-
ences in body plans, although candidates with related
interests are also encouraged to apply. We will consider
applicants who study patterns and mechanisms of evo-
lutionary change within groups of closely related organ-
isms or across broad phylogenetic expanses of taxa. The
position bridges evolutionary biology, developmental
biology and genetics and the successful candidate must
demonstrate research accomplishments at the highest
level in these intersecting ﬁelds. The successful can-
didate will be expected to develop a well-funded, in-
novative research program with a national and inter-
national reputation, to participate in undergraduate
and graduate teaching in evolutionary biology and evo-
lutionary developmental biology, and to contribute to
evolutionary and developmental life sciences across the
Cornell campus. Cornell’s faculty in the life sciences is
highly collaborative and outstanding research facilities
are available.
Application Procedure: Candidates should submit a
curriculum vitae, statement of research interests, state-
ment of teaching interests and experience, list of publi-
cations, and a selection of no more than 5 representative
papers. Candidates should also arrange for 3 letters of
reference to be uploaded. Apply via website https:/-
/academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/1145 . Inquiries can
be directed to either of the co-chairs of the search com-
mittee: Prof. Richard G. Harrison or Prof. Amy R.
McCune at evodevosearch@cornell.edu. Review of ap-
plications will begin December 1, 2011, and continue
until the position is ﬁlled. Salary: Competitive, com-
mensurate with background and experience.
Qualiﬁcations: Applicants should have a Ph.D., demon-
strated excellence in research in the ﬁeld of “evo-devo,”
a strong interest in collaborative research, and a dedi-
cation to excellence in teaching of evolutionary biology.
Post-doctoral experience is highly desirable. Cornell
University is an aﬃrmative action/ equal opportunity
employer and educator.
Apply Here: http://www.Click2apply.net/s93pp5q
mmcder2010@hotmail.comEarlhamCollege TeachingEvolution
*Earlham College: Visiting Assistant Professor of Ecol-
ogy, Evolution and Conservation Biology*
* *
Earlham College invites applications for a biologist with
teaching and research interests in ecology, evolution,
and/or conservation biology. This is a full-time, one-
year appointment in the Biology Department as a visit-
ing professor with the potential of a two-year appoint-
ment. The position begins in August 2012.
The Department seeks an individual who is ﬁrst and
foremost excited about teaching in lecture, laboratory
and research venues to bright and motivated undergrad-
uates in a nationally ranked department at a small lib-
eral arts college.
Teaching responsibilities will include contributing to in-
troductory team-taught courses in ecology and biodi-
versity, and upper-level courses in the applicant’s area
of expertise. Applicants who have an expertise in one
or more of the following areas are especially attractive:
conservation, population and community ecology, evo-
lutionary biology, ﬁeld research. There are also oppor-
tunities for student-faculty collaborative research.
A Ph.D. or equivalent is preferred; teaching or post-
doctoral experience is desirable.
For an expanded description about Earlham College
and the Biology Department please visit: http://-
www.earlham.edu/biology To Apply: Arrange for
three letters of reference to be emailed (see email
address below), and please send, as a single pdf,
curriculum vitae, a statement of teaching philoso-
phy, and a statement of research interests to: but-
leer@earlham.edu. Review of applications will begin
on Dec. 1 and continue until the position is ﬁlled.
Please direct questions to Dr. Chris Smith
(smithch@earlham.edu)
Earlham College continues to build a community that
reﬂects the gender and racial diversity of the society
at large, and, therefore, we are particularly interested
in inviting and encouraging applications from African
Americans, other ethnic minorities, and women. Earl-
ham also is eager to solicit applications from members
of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers). Earlham
is an Aﬃrmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer.44 EvolDir November 1, 2011
Chris R. Smith Assistant Professor Department of Bi-
ology Earlham College 801 National Road West Rich-
mond, IN 47374 USA tel: 765-983-1377
crsmith.ant@gmail.com
Ecuador FieldAssist
AvianConservation
Field assistant for studying a cooperative breeding bird
in Ecuador
We are looking for a highly motivated ﬁeld assistant
to join us in our study on the cooperative breeding
system of the endangered El Oro parakeet (Pyrrhura
orcesi). Characteristical for this species is its coop-
erative behaviour, which has seldomly been observed
in parakeets before. Our work focuses on the factors
underlying the development of delayed dispersal and
cooperative breeding. More details about the project
can be found at: www.biologie.uni-freiburg.de/data/-
bio1/schaefer/nadine.html Fieldwork will take place at
Buenaventura reserve ( www.fjocotoco.org ) near Pinas,
southwest Ecuador. Fieldwork includes capturing birds
with mist nets and inside artiﬁcial nest boxes, taking
morphometric measurements and blood samples, band-
ing of birds and ﬁeld observation of parakeet ﬂocks. The
parakeet ﬂocks are distributed throughout the whole re-
serve and adjacent areas, therefore long and exhausting
daily treks across the foothills of the Andes are unavoid-
able. Fieldwork will be done during rainy season and
we will work 5-6 days per week. In addition, batter-
ies (~3kg) for nest cameras have to be changed every
two days. The project will cover the costs for ﬂight
and accommodation at the reserve. If required, a letter
of recommendation can be drawn up. The position is
vacant from January to the end of April 2011. Appli-
cation for a shorter period, preferably from January to
the end of February, is possible.
If interested please send an email with a short CV and
application letter (why you are interested) to: michael-
bauer@gmx.net
Michael Bauer <Michael-Bauer@gmx.net >EmoryU SoftwareProg
GalaxyProject
The Taylor Lab ( http://bx.mathcs.emory.edu/joining/-
sw/) in the Biology and Math and Computer Science
departments at Emory University is looking for am-
bitious individuals to ﬁll multiple software engineer-
ing positions working on the Galaxy Project ( http:/-
/galaxyProject.org/ ). Galaxy is a software framework
that (a) enables researchers to store, analyze, visualize
and share genomic data and (b) provides genomic tool
developers with the ability to deploy their tools within a
complete analysis framework. Thousands of researchers
worldwide use Galaxy on a daily basis. Galaxy is an
open source project committed to the openness of sci-
entiﬁc enterprise and is free for all.
Galaxy has active projects in many areas. Current ar-
eas of expertise sought include:
* Distributed computing and systems programming.
We are engaged in the development of workﬂow sys-
tems, cloud computing based solutions, and other
projects involving high performance and data intensive
computing. * Web-based visualization and visual ana-
lytics. We are building novel interactive visualizations
of next-generation sequence data that leverage cutting
edge web technologies. * Informatics and data analysis
and integration. We build and use tools to analyze large
datasets generated by high-throughput sequencing of
DNA to understand genomes and genome function. *
Bioinformatics application areas such as re-sequencing,
de novo assembly, metagenomics, transcriptome analy-
sis and epigenetics.
However, regardless of area of expertise we seek tal-
ented, self-motivated individuals to join our team.
Galaxy is developed in an academic research environ-
ment, and members of the Galaxy team work closely
with experimentalists on projects at the leading edge
of data-intensive biological research.
Python is the primary implementation language for
the Galaxy framework. Galaxy’s primary user in-
terface is web-based, and makes substantial use of
javascript, canvas, and other modern web technologies.
Many of the analysis components of Galaxy are perfor-
mance critical, implemented largely in C, C wrapped in
Python, or other languages as appropriate.
Note that these are full time positions located in At-November 1, 2011 EvolDir 45
lanta, GA – we cannot take on contractors at this time.
Please contact james.taylor@emory.edu. – http:/-
/galaxyproject.org/ http://getgalaxy.org/ http://-
usegalaxy.org/ http://galaxyproject.org/wiki/ Dave
Clements <clements@galaxyproject.org >
FloridaIntlU 3 Bioinformatics
Three Tenure-Track faculty Positions, rank open, and
three lecturer positions at FLORIDA INTERNA-
TIONAL UNIVERSITY
Bioinformatics The Department of Biological Sci-
ences at Florida International University ( http://-
casgroup.ﬁu.edu/Biology/ ) is seeking applicants for an
open-rank tenure-track position in BIOINFORMAT-
ICS. The successful candidate will be expected to main-
tain an externally funded research program, super-
vise graduate students in our Ph.D. program, as well
as teach undergraduate courses including genetics and
other courses in their areas of expertise. Areas of
prospective research foci may include but are not lim-
ited to: genomics, metagenomics, proteomics, compu-
tational biology, systems biology, genome-wide asso-
ciation mapping, and phylogenetics. Candidates uti-
lizing theoretical approaches are encouraged to apply.
To ensure full consideration, applications should be re-
ceived by November 21, 2011. Screening of applica-
tions will begin on that date and continue until a suit-
able candidate is selected. Applications will only be
accepted electronically as PDF ﬁles. Interested appli-
cants should submit a 1) cover letter, 2) curriculum vi-
tae, 3) statement of research interests, teaching goals,
and service interests, and 4) arrange to have three or
more references sent independently to Eric von Wet-
tberg at eric.vonwettberg@ﬁu.edu. Interested appli-
cants are also required to submit their applications on-
line via www.ﬁujobs.org, reference position 35537. FIU
is a member of the State University System of Florida
and is an Equal Opportunity, Equal Access Aﬃrmative
Action Employer.
Marine Geneticist The Florida International Univer-
sity (FIU) is seeking applicants for a Marine GENETI-
CIST (rank open, senior applicants are encouraged) for
a tenure track position in the Department of Biological
Sciences ( http://casgroup.ﬁu.edu/Biology/ ). He or she
will participate in the Marine Science Program ( http:/-
/casgroup.ﬁu.edu/marine/ ), a new and growing inter-
disciplinary initiative emphasizing research and teach-ing in coastal marine science. The Marine Science Pro-
gram is housed in a recently completed building in FIU
Biscayne Bay Campus in the city of North Miami, and
currently is home to 12 research laboratories, 2 teach-
ing laboratories, wet labs, a mesocosm facility, and run-
ning sea water systems. The successful candidate will
be expected to maintain an externally funded research
program, supervise graduate students in our Ph.D. pro-
gram, as well as teach undergraduate courses including
General Genetics and other courses in their areas of
expertise. Areas of prospective research foci may in-
clude but are not limited to: genomics/phylogenetics,
metagenomics, population genetics, ecological genetics,
and environmental microbiology. To ensure full con-
sideration, applications should be received by Novem-
ber 21, 2011. Screening of applications will begin on
that date and continue until a suitable candidate is se-
lected. Applications will only be accepted electroni-
cally as PDF ﬁles. Applications should include a cover
letter, curriculum vitae, a summary of research inter-
ests and teaching goals. Please submit applications to
trexlerj@ﬁu.edu. In addition, applicants should arrange
for three letters of reference to be sent directly to the
same e-mail address. Interested applicants are also re-
quired to submit their applications online via http:/-
/www.ﬁujobs.org reference position 35538. FIU is a
member of the State University System of Florida and
is an Equal Opportunity, Equal Access Aﬃrmative Ac-
tion Employer.
Comparative Immunologist The Department of Biolog-
ical Sciences at Florida International University is seek-
ing a Comparative Immunologist (open rank) to ﬁll a
tenure-track position. All candidates must have post-
doctoral experience and strong publication and funding
records. Senior candidates should have a demonstrated
history of leadership and consistent extramural funding
in the ﬁeld of comparative immunology. The depart-
ment has a broad range of faculty for potential collab-
orative interactions ( http://casgroup.ﬁu.edu/Biology/-
). Teaching expectations include a general undergrad-
uate course in immunobiology and graduate specialty
courses. All application materials should be submit-
ted electronically as PDF ﬁles to: Dr. Laurie Richard-
son, Chair, Comparative Immunology Search Commit-
tee, Laurie.Richardson@ﬁu.edu and received by Novem-
ber 21, 2011. Each application should include a cover
letter, curriculum vitae, and a summary of professional
and teaching interests. In addition, applicants should
arrange for three to four letters of reference to be e-
mailed directly to the same e-mail address. Interested
applicants
/46 EvolDir November 1, 2011
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
FordhamU MicrobialEvolution
ECOLOGIST POSITION, FORDHAM UNIVER-
SITY. Applications are invited for a tenure-track po-
sition at the ASSISTANT or ASSOCIATE PROFES-
SOR level in the Department of Biological Sciences. We
seek an evolutionary and/or population ecologist work-
ing in microbial ecology, and who conducts hypothesis-
driven research using molecular methods and/or ge-
nomics. The successful applicant will establish a re-
search program at Fordhams biological ﬁeld station,
the Louis Calder Center, and can participate in our
Center for Urban Ecology (CUE). There are also op-
portunities to collaborate with scientists at the New
York Botanical Garden, Wildlife Conservation Soci-
ety, and the American Museum of Natural History. A
commitment to undergraduate and graduate teaching
and research is required. Assistant Professor candi-
dates must demonstrate the potential to use regional
resources to develop a rigorous, externally funded re-
search program. Associate Professor candidates must
have a proven record of external, peer-reviewed funding
and indicate future directions using regional resources.
Applicants should email one PDF application ﬁle con-
taining a cover letter, curriculum vitae, contact infor-
mation for three references, teaching and research state-
ments, and three reprints to jdlewis@fordham.edu. The
cover letter should be addressed to Dr. J.D. Lewis,
Chair, Department of Biological Sciences, Fordham
University, Bronx, NY 10458. Review of applications
will begin November 1st, 2011.Fordham University is
an independent, Catholic university in the Jesuit tradi-
tion that welcomes applications from men and women
of all backgrounds. Fordham is an EOE.
Evon R. Hekkala Assistant Professor Dept. of Bio-
logical Sciences Larkin Hall- Room 360 441 E Ford-
ham Rd. FordhamUniversity New York, NY 10458
Ehekkala@Fordham.edu
evon hekkala <ehekkala@yahoo.com >HongKong MycorrhizaSystematists
we are actually looking for a mycorrhiza systema-
tists/molecular ecologist, who investigates mycorrhizal
diversity for restoration ecology. People, who for ex-
ample publish in journals like New Phytologist are the
target group.
Kadoorie Farm & Botanic Garden Corporation
Notice of Vacant Post: Restoration Ecologist (Mycor-
rhizae & Soil)
JOB SUMMARY Applications are invited for a perma-
nent Restoration Ecologist position at Kadoorie Farm
and Botanic Garden (KFBG) in Hong Kong. The gen-
eral remit of the post is to use the ﬁndings of research
in ecology and diversity of mycorrhizal fungi and the
physical, chemical, biological and nutrient properties of
soils to facilitate forest restoration projects. The suc-
cessful candidate will conduct ﬁeld work to collect soil
samples from a range of environments, produce maps of
soil types, monitor and conduct laboratory analysis of
soil samples and investigate the diversity of mycorrhiza
species using traditional as well as DNA ﬁngerprinting
and sequencing methods in Hong Kong, South China
and Indochina.
Applicants should have a PhD in the ﬁeld of soil sci-
ence or molecular ecology with particular focus on
mycorrhizal research. Strong communication skills
(written and oral), advanced knowledge of popula-
tion and statistical genetics, and computational skills
(Linux/Windows/MacOsX) are required. Additional
knowledge of the regional ﬂora, GIS, analysis of high-
throughput sequencing data and computer program-
ming (Perl/Python/R/) would be a distinct advantage.
Interested parties should send a detailed CV, expected
salary, and a short essay (describing relevant work ex-
perience and reasons for interest in the post) to:
Dr. Gunter Fischer, Head of Flora Conservation De-
partment, Kadoorie Farm & Botanic Garden Corpora-
tion Lam Kam Road, Tai Po, N.T., Hong Kong Email:
gﬁscher@kfbg.org
Gunter Fischer <gﬁscher@kfbg.org >November 1, 2011 EvolDir 47
IdahoStateU Pocatello Chair
Our department is searching for a Chair. We have a
strong research group in evolutionary biology and bioin-
formatics and would like to encourage individuals with
research programs in these ﬁelds to apply.
Department Chair and Professor of Biology
Idaho State University, Pocatello, ID
Department: Biological Sciences
Primary Purpose: Serve as a faculty member and Chair
of Biological Sciences.
Minimum Qualiﬁcations: Doctoral Degree and creden-
tials to qualify for tenure and appointment at the level
of full professor.
Preferred Qualiﬁcations: The successful applicant will
have a Doctorate in biological sciences or related ﬁeld, a
commitment to undergraduate and graduate education,
an excellent record of publication and extramural sup-
port, and strong leadership qualities; candidate should
have a proven track record in research.
Salary/Pay Information: Commensurate with qualiﬁ-
cations and experience. Competitive beneﬁts package.
Term of Employment: 12 Month /Full-time
Location: Pocatello
Special Instructions to Applicants: Please submit a
cover letter which includes a statement of leadership
philosophy, research and teaching interests, current
vita, and a list of 3 references.
Closing Date: Open Until Filled; review of applications
will begin October 31, 2011.
Application Process: For full consideration, please ap-
ply through the Idaho State University Human Re-
sources
website ( www.isujobs.net ).
Janet Loxterman <loxtjane@isu.edu >
Ifremer Brest Phytoplankton
BiodiversityJob opportunity:
Resercher on Phytoplankton Biodiversity Ifremer-
Centre de Brest Laboratory DYNECO/PELAGOS BP
70 29280 Plouzan ˜Ac/circlecopyrtFRANCE
The laboratory DYNECO / Pelagos wishes to extend
its research activities on phytoplankton ecology and on
the dynamics of toxic species to the ﬁeld of phytoplank-
ton biodiversity. This new research topic was validated
by the Scientiﬁc Council of Ifremer and identiﬁed as
one of the main future project of the Institute. The
laboratory is seeking for a researcher able to conduct
innovative projects on the theme of phytoplankton bio-
diversity. Placed under the direct authority of the head
of the laboratory DYNECO / Pelagos, he / she con-
ducts research with the following aims: - describe spa-
tial and temporal changes of phytoplankton diversity
(from pico-to nano and microphytoplankton) - improve
the knowledge of phytoplankton functional diversity -
assess the impacts of global change on speciﬁc and func-
tional biodiversity of phytoplankton in the Channel and
French Atlantic coastal areas, - understand phytoplank-
ton assemblages structuring, especially when harmful
algal blooms occur.
The candidate must be able to apply and develop in-
novative researches and methods to obtain the required
knowledge, accounting for Ifremer assignments, such as
the observation and monitoring of marine ecosystems
status. The research will be carried out within the
Pelagos laboratory, in collaboration with other Ifremer
teams and in connection with other research or mon-
itoring activities (such as the scientiﬁc exploitation of
REPHY network data). The candidate will be asked
to develop activities within international research net-
works and coordinate funded research projects at na-
tional and / or international level. The position will be
based at Ifremer in Brest.
Initial training : ˆ a PhD in biological oceanography or
similar
Speciﬁc knowledge : ˆ a Molecular strategies and meth-
ods for the study of phytoplankton biodiversity (includ-
ing toxic species) ˆ a Knowledge of classical and molecu-
lar taxonomic appreciated ˆ a Understanding of sanitary
quality issues of sea products ˆ a Fluency in English
Career : ˆ a Post-Doctoral experience ˆ a International ex-
perience whished ˆ a Experience at sea appreciated
Personal qualities : ˆ a Adhesion to Ifremer research pri-
orities, ˆ a Open-mindedness, interpersonal skills, taste
for team work ˆ a Liking for the innovation in research
methods and the understanding of biological mecha-
nisms ˆ a Ability to establish national and international
relations48 EvolDir November 1, 2011
internet link to proﬁle: http://wwz.ifremer.fr/-
institut eng/Ifremer-careers/Oﬀres-d-emploi-Oﬀres-
de-stage/Chercheur-en-biodiversite-du-phytoplancton-
H-F internet link for application: http://-
ifremer.proﬁlsearch.com/fo form cand.php?idifremer=
11%20-%20130 e-mail for application: re-
crute@ifremer.fr
Raﬀaele SIANO <Raﬀaele.Siano@ifremer.fr >
KansasU Genomics
Three tenure-track faculty positions are available at
the University of Kansas. Microbial Ecology Evolu-
tionary/Ecological Genomics Amphibian/Reptile Bio-
diversity Microbial Ecologist: We invite applications
for a joint tenure-track position at the Assistant Pro-
fessor (EEB) /Assistant Scientist (KBS) level with re-
search expertise in Microbial Ecology to begin as early
as August 18, 2012. We seek an ecologist investigat-
ing interactions between microbes and the abiotic and
biotic environment in aquatic or terrestrial ecosystems
utilizing cutting-edge techniques. Areas of specializa-
tion may include but are not limited to: population
dynamics; community structure and interactions (e.g.
food-web dynamics, symbioses, etc.); ecosystem pro-
cesses; microbial diversity and function; evolution. The
successful candidate will be expected to: teach courses
and seminars in ecology and in areas of her or his spe-
cialization; develop and maintain an externally funded
program of research; and have a commitment to service
within the department, the Kansas Biological Survey,
College, University, and the profession. Initial review of
applications begins October 17, 2011. Position Number
0006620 Evolutionary/Ecological Genomics: We invite
applicants for an Assistant Professor (Tenure track) po-
sition focusing on ecological or evolutionary genomics
to beginas early as August 18, 2012. Those perform-
ing interdisciplinary research at the interface of diﬀer-
ent ﬁelds of Biology are strongly encouraged to apply.
Responsibilities include teaching two courses per aca-
demic year;directing a productive research program, as
evidenced by scholarly publications, communication of
current research at appropriate professional meetings,
and acquiring of external funding; and service to the
department, College, University, and to the profession.
Initial review of applications begins October 27, 2011.
Position number 00004339. Amphibian/Reptile Biodi-
versity: We invite applications for a tenure-track joint
position as Assistant Professor (50%) and Assistant Cu-rator (50%) that focuses on the Biodiversity and Evolu-
tionary Biology of Amphibians and Reptiles. Appoint-
ment is expected to begin as early as August 20, 2012.
The successful candidate will: (a) utilize systematic
techniques to address research questions in the biodi-
versity and evolutionary biology of amphibians and/or
reptiles; (b) teach courses in systematic herpetology,
general biology, and additional areas of expertise (typ-
ically one 3 hr course and one graduate seminar/yr);
and (c) assist in the stewardship of the Biodiversity
Institute’s extensive herpetological collections. Initial
review of applications begins October 17, 2011. Po-
sition Number 00002289 Additional position informa-
tion and application portal can be found at: https:/-
/jobs.ku.edu . Search for respective job using the job
position numbers. In addition, three letters of recom-
mendation should be submitted as PDF attachments to
an e-mail sent to the attention of: Dorothy Johanning:
jdorothy@ku.edu.
Justin Blumenstiel Assistant Professor
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Uni-
versity of Kansas 1200 Sunnyside Avenue Haworth
Room 7026 Lawrence, KS 66045
jblumens@ku.edu 785-864-3915 http://www2.ku.edu/-
˜eeb/faculty/blumenstiel.shtml jblumens@ku.edu
KentStateU PlantConservationBiol
Herrick Endowed Chair in Plant Conservation Biology
Department of Biological Sciences Kent State Univer-
sity
Kent State University seeks an internationally recog-
nized biologist to ﬁll the Herrick Endowed Chair in
Plant Conservation Biology in the Department of Bi-
ological Sciences. The successful candidate will join
a growing department with a rich academic history in
this ﬁeld and a mission to develop our expertise into
the modern era of conservation biology. We view the
successful candidate as providing leadership for growth
as well as an established and distinguished record of
research scholarship.
We especially seek applications from individuals who
use the modern tools of biology to address questions
in this ﬁeld. Preference will be given to an individ-
ual whose interest and expertise are in, or associated
with, plant conservation from a broad perspective. This
includes work in related areas that impact plant con-November 1, 2011 EvolDir 49
servation, such as plant evolution, ﬁeld botany, plant
ecology, plant genetics, and the cellular and molecular
study of plants.
Candidates for the Herrick Endowed Chair should be
mid-career scientists with an exceptional research and
publication record, and with recognized potential for
continued prominence in their ﬁeld, evidenced by a sub-
stantive and sustained track record of extramural fund-
ing and international recognition for contributions in
their area of expertise. The Herrick Endowment sup-
ports a highly competitive salary and startup package.
Kent State University provides an outstanding aca-
demic environment for the study of plant conser-
vation biology. For information about the Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences and the Herrick En-
dowed Chair, please visit us at www.kent.edu/biology/-
and http://www.kent.edu/biology/careers/herrick/-
chair.cfm . Applications and inquiries should be
submitted by email at conservationchair@kent.edu or
online http://www.kent.edu/biology/careers/herrick/-
apply.cfm . Interested candidates should send a curricu-
lum vita, summary of qualiﬁcations and interest, and
contact information for at least three references. Ap-
plicants selected for further consideration will be asked
for permission to contact references.
We are actively soliciting nominations, which can be
provided by email at at conservationchair@kent.edu
or online at http://www.kent.edu/biology/careers/-
herrick/nominate.cfm . Further inquiries can be di-
rected to: Chair, Herrick Endowed Chair Search Com-
mittee Department of Biological Sciences Kent State
University Kent, Ohio 44242 Tel : 330-672-3614
Kent State University is an Aﬃrmative Action/Equal
Opportunity Employer and encourages applications
from candidates who would enhance the diversity of
the University’s faculty.
“ROCHA, OSCAR” <orocha@kent.edu >
Leiden Netherlands
MuseumBioinformatician
Dear all (Please forward to whom would be interested),
NCB Naturalis ( http://science.naturalis.nl/ ) has a po-
sition available for a:
Bioinformatician
full-time (36 hours/week)The focus of NCB Naturalis is biodiversity. NCB Nat-
uralis curates a collection of 37 million specimens; this
is one of the world’s largest natural history collections.
We present the history of our planet and the diversity
of life on Earth with permanent and temporary exhibi-
tions, educational programmes and websites. Our re-
search and education are maintained at a high academic
level.
NCB Naturalis is appealing to a wide audience, attract-
ing over 250,000 visitors and 5 million hits to its website
annually. Co-operation with international institutions,
including three renowned Dutch universities, and the
outstanding collections, are all factors that attract hun-
dreds of visiting scientists every year.
Expectations and ambitions for the next few years are
high. We will develop new exhibitions and plan to inte-
grate several collections. NCB Naturalis will invest sig-
niﬁcantly in infrastructure for collections and research,
including new buildings. In short, we are a develop-
ing, world-class institution, and present this exciting
opportunity for you to help us achieve our ambitions
and meet our challenges.
Position
The analysis of large datasets plays a major role in bio-
diversity research. Such datasets of species traits, total
genome and other DNA sequence data, combinations
of geo-referenced observations and collection data are
essential in the NCB Naturalis research programmes.
The bioinformatician will cooperate with our scientists
and students on assemblage, storage, linkage and anal-
ysis of these datasets. He or she will also contribute
to the planning and development of a new information
architecture for the institute.
Proﬁle
ˆA a specialist in e-taxonomy and/or analysis of
DNA/RNA sequencing data,
ˆA an internationally recognized specialist on bioinfor-
matics or biodiversity informatics, with an outstanding
record of scientiﬁc papers in high-impact journals,
ˆA a team-player,
ˆA at least three years of experience in a similar position
after PhD,
ˆA prepared to develop and contribute to courses in the
ﬁelds of bioinformatics or biodiversity informatics for
university students, and willing to supervise BSc and
MSc students.
We oﬀer
A fulltime contract (36 hours per week) for four years.
A competitive salary of ˆA 2,988 - ˆA 4,014 gross per50 EvolDir November 1, 2011
month (or up to ˆA 4,574 after evaluation of this posi-
tion) depending on experience and qualiﬁcations. All
our employees are incorporated into a pension fund.
Procedure
Further information on this position can be obtained
from Dr. Jan van Tol, associate director for research
and education, telephone +31 71 5687 606. Please send
your application with motivation and curriculum vi-
tae, including list of publications, before 20 October
2011, to NCB Naturalis, HR Department, P.O. Box
9517, 2300 RA Leiden, The Netherlands, or by e-mail
to sollicitaties@ncbnaturalis.nl.
Nico Davin <nicolasdavin@hotmail.com >
London NHM Bioinformatician
Post: Bioinformatician/ Computational Biologist
Salary: circa from £38,812 per annum plus beneﬁts
Contract: Permanent
Closing date: 24 October 2011
The Natural History Museum is one of the worlds lead-
ing museums, internationally recognised for its dual role
as a centre of excellence in scientiﬁc research and as a
leader in the presentation of natural history through
exhibitions, public programmes, publications and the
web.
The advent of Next Generation Sequencing (NGS)
has already had a signiﬁcant impact on NHM re-
search. Researchers from all life science groups are en-
gaged in metagenomics, genomics and high-throughput
amplicon-based sequencing projects to address ques-
tions in systemactics, evolution and ecology.
We are now looking to appoint an independent re-
searcher engaged with current and future NGS technol-
ogy to lead an independent programme of NGS-oriented
research.
Youll be able to demonstrate a strong track record in
disciplines such as comparative genomics, metagenom-
cis and gene regulation underpinned by NGS technolo-
gies.
With a PhD or equivalent in a relevant scientiﬁc disci-
pline and a vision for the future of NGS technologies,
youll have proven leadership with the ability to quickly
build a rapport and promote collaboration with teams
and key stakeholders.For a full job description and to apply on-
line please visit the Natural History Museum
website: www.nhm.ac.uk/jobs mark wilkinson
<mw@bmnh.org >
LouisianaStateU
MammalogistCurator
Anticipated/Tenure-track
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR AND CURATOR
(Mammalogist)
Department of Biological Sciences
The Department of Biological Sciences and Museum
of Natural Science at Louisiana State University invite
applications for an anticipated tenure-track Assistant
Professor and Curator position. Responsibilities: De-
velops and maintains a vigorous extramurally funded
research program; contributes to undergraduate and
graduate teaching; collects mammal specimens; curates
the Museum’s mammal collection; participates in ex-
tracurricular activities in Biological Sciences and the
Museum. Required Qualiﬁcations: Ph.D. or equivalent
degree (A.B.D. candidates must have Ph.D. by May
2012); a successful record of independent research in
mammal biology; and curatorial experience in build-
ing, managing, and using a mammal collection. Ad-
ditional Qualiﬁcations Desired: Postdoctoral experi-
ence. An oﬀer of employment is contingent on a sat-
isfactory pre-employment background check. Applica-
tion deadline is January 6, 2012 or until a candidate
is selected. Anticipated start date is August 2012.
We encourage applications from women and minori-
ties. Apply online and view a more detailed ad at:
www.lsusystemcareers.lsu.edu Position #006434.
LSU IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY/EQUAL AC-
CESS EMPLOYER
Quick link at ad URL: https://-
lsusystemcareers.lsu.edu/applicants/-
Central?quickFind=53557
Jenn
Jennifer A. Randazzo
Coordinator, Staﬃng and Employment Center Oﬃce of
Human Resource Management 103 Thomas Boyd Hall
Louisiana State University Phone: (225) 578-8830 Fax:
(225) 578-9499November 1, 2011 EvolDir 51
jrandazzo@lsu.edu
www.lsusystemcareers.lsu.edu
Jennifer A Randazzo <jrandazzo@lsu.edu >
MiddleTennesseeStateU Genomics
Three Biology Faculty Positions, Cell Biologist (Po-
sition #103040), Genomics Biologist (Position #
103120), Microbiologist (Position # 103450). Middle
Tennessee State University, the largest unit in the Ten-
nessee Board of Regents system with over 26,000 stu-
dents, invites applications for three tenure-track posi-
tions at the Assistant or Associate Professor level be-
ginning August 1, 2012. The department oﬀers the
B.S., M.S. degrees, participates in the interdisciplinary
molecular biosciences Ph.D. program, and is committed
to quality classroom teaching, research and professional
service. A Ph.D. and post-doctoral experience are re-
quired. Faculty are expected to direct a vigorous, ex-
ternally funded research program and participate in the
molecular biosciences Ph.D. program. Candidates who
utilize molecular approaches or biomics (genomics, pro-
teomics, metabolomics, etc.) are encouraged to apply.
Application materials must be ﬁled on-line at https://-
mtsujobs.mtsu.edu . Complete application materials for
preliminary review to include: letter of interest indicat-
ing how your area of expertise would strengthen degree
programs, employment application, curriculum vita,
statement of research interests, statement of teaching
philosophy, and copies of transcripts. Review of appli-
cations begins October 31, 2011. Information on Mid-
dle Tennessee State University can be found at http:/-
/www.mtsu.edu . Cell Biologist - Position #103040.
Research interests must address fundamental problems
in cell biology. Individuals whose research bridges cell
biology with other disciplines are also encouraged to
apply. The successful candidate is expected to teach
an undergraduate/graduate cell biology class and di-
rect student research. Dr. Rebecca Seipelt, Committee
Chair, Box 60, MTSU, Murfreesboro, TN 37132. Ad-
ditional Information: E-mail: rseipelt@mtsu.edu.
Genomics Biologist - Position #103120. Research in-
terests must address fundamental problems in the ar-
eas of population, functional, or evolutionary genomics
using laboratory and computational approaches for the
analysis of genomes or gene expression of non-model
organisms. The successful candidate is expected to
teach undergraduate/graduate courses in organismalbiology and/or genomics and direct student research.
Dr. Bruce Cahoon, Committee Chair, Box 60, MTSU,
Murfreesboro, TN 37132. Additional Information: E-
mail: acahoon@mtsu.edu.
Microbiologist - Position #103450. Research inter-
ests must address fundamental problems in microbial
pathogenesis or ecology. The successful candidate is
expected to teach undergraduate/graduate courses in
microbiology and direct student research. Dr. Jeﬀ
Leblond, Committee Chair, Box 60, MTSU, Murfrees-
boro, TN 37132. Additional Information: E-mail: jle-
blond@mtsu.edu.
Sarah Bergemann Middle Tennessee State University
Department of Biology Davis Science 128 PO Box 60
Murfreesboro TN 37132 sbergema@mtsu.edu PH: 615-
494-7634 Oﬃce: 335 Jones Hall
sbergema@mtsu.edu
NewMexicoStateU Outreach
Educator
Please post the position below as NMSU-
HHMI.ScienceEducation.Outreach thank you
Title Mgr, Lab Instruction
Position Classiﬁcation Code R3015; Requisition #
0600110
POSITION SUMMARY: The major purpose of this po-
sition is to travel though out the state of New Mexico
with the portable molecular biology laboratory to in-
troduce high school students to basic molecular biology
techniques.
KEY DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES: * Develop
and implement outreach activities targeted to NM high
school science students and teachers. * To interface
with high school science teachers and their students as
part of the outreach eﬀorts of the HHMI-NMSU Pro-
gram and assist with programmatic assessment and dis-
semination. * Assist with summer outreach activities
directed toward providing high school science teachers
with an increased knowledge of molecular biology skills
and techniques. * Maintain strong working relation-
ships with program participants including high school
science teachers. * Supervise, direct, and evaluate work
of program participants. * Statewide travel is required.
* Performs related duties as required.
QUALIFICATIONS:52 EvolDir November 1, 2011
Knowledge of: Genomics and bioinformatics; genetic
and molecular genetics techniques, including PCR,
DNA isolation, restriction enzyme digests, gel elec-
trophoresis and DNA sequencing.
Skills in: Short-and long-range planning; problem anal-
ysis and resolution; oral and written communication;
creation and management of spreadsheets; public con-
tact and relations especially with high school science
teachers and their students; teaching experience and
expertise at the high school or higher education level;
molecular biology laboratory techniques; familiarity
with genomics.
Ability to: Qualify for NMSU drivers license; Direct,
evaluate, train, and supervise the work of program par-
ticipants; develop and maintain eﬀective working rela-
tionships with high school teachers and NMSU faculty
and staﬀ; maintain accurate and orderly records; use
independent judgment and initiative; organize and di-
rect activities; analyze and evaluate information; travel
extensively.
REQUIRED EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE: *
Masters degree in biology, biochemistry, molecular bi-
ology, microbiology or related ﬁeld. * Three (3) years
related experience.
Required Applicant Documents Supervisor and De-
partmental Contact: Dr. Ralph Preszler, rpres-
zle@nmsu.edu Associate Professor of Biology and Pro-
gram Director of NMSU-HHMI, Department of Biology,
New Mexico State University.
Letter of Interest; Resume of CV; Three References
with Contact Information Applicants will need to ﬁll
out an electronic application and attach required docu-
ments at https://jobs.nmsu.edu Review of applications
will begin on November 15, 2011 and applications re-
ceived after this date may be considered. Salary Range
$41,000 to $52,000. Position is contingent on external
funding.
New Mexico State University is an equal employment
opportunity/aﬃrmative action employer. Oﬀer of em-
ployment is contingent upon veriﬁcation of individu-
als eligibility for employment in the United States and
upon the availability of external funding.
Christin Slaughter NMSU HHMI Outreach Coordi-
nator Access to Science Center Department of Bi-
ology MSC3AF New Mexico State University PO
Box 30001 Las Cruces, NM 88003-8001 575-646-2175
hhmi asc@nmsu.edu
Christin Slayghter Biology <hhmi asc@nmsu.edu >StonyBrookU 2 HumanEvolution
Program for Human Evolutionary Biology Two Posi-
tions
As initial appointments in an interdepartmental initia-
tive in Human Evolutionary Biology, Stony Brook Uni-
versity invites applications for two tenure-track posi-
tions, one each in the Departments of Anthropology and
Ecology and Evolution, at the level of Assistant Profes-
sor, beginning September 2012. Successful candidates
for these positions will have an outstanding research
program, a commitment to excellence in teaching and
will participate in a new interdepartmental university
initiative in Human Evolutionary Biology.
The Department of Anthropology seeks an individual
specializing in an evolutionary approach to the study
of human behavior in traditional (living or historic) or
westernized human populations. Research areas may
include optimal foraging, mating strategies, sexual con-
ﬂict, life history theory, cooperation and aggression,
disease and immunology, or other areas in behavioral
ecology or evolutionary psychology. The successful can-
didate will be responsible for developing and teaching
an undergraduate course on the evolutionary basis of
behavior.
The Department of Ecology and Evolution seeks an in-
dividual specializing in human population genetics or
evolutionary genomics of primates, including humans.
Basic descriptive, statistical modeling, or bioinformatic
approaches will be considered. The successful candi-
date will be responsible for developing and teaching an
undergraduate course on human population genetics or
primate genomics.
Both candidates will be expected to teach additional
undergraduate or graduate courses in their area of ex-
pertise, secure external research funding and play an
active role in our highly ranked graduate programs.
Stony Brook is located on the north shore of eastern
Long Island, NY, amid extensive farmlands and vine-
yards, miles of beaches, and easy access to the cul-
tural resources of New York City. This is a great
place to establish a career and a nice place to be.
Applicants must have a Ph.D. by starting date and
a strong publication record. Applicants should ap-
ply by email and application should include a letter
of application (including research and teaching inter-
ests), curriculum vitae, up to three examples of pub-November 1, 2011 EvolDir 53
lications, and request that three letters of recommen-
dation be sent to: the Human Evolutionary Biology
Search Committee, at either the Department of An-
thropology or Ecology and Evolution (depending upon
position applied for), Stony Brook University, Stony
Brook, NY 11794. For full consideration applications
should be submitted before November 1, 2011. Applica-
tions for the Anthropology position should be emailed
to Megan.Alberti@stonybrook.edu and for the Ecology
and Evolution position they should be submitted on-
line at http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/recruitment.htm .
Questions about the search should be directed to Diane
Doran-Sheehy (ddoran@notes.cc.sunysb.edu) or Walt
Eanes (weanes@notes.cc.sunysb.edu). Stony Brook
University is an Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Action
Employer.
malberti@notes.cc.sunysb.edu
TromsuUMuseum Biosystematics
Researcher in Biosystematics, Tromsø University Mu-
seum
Application deadline: 10.11.11 The following reference
number must be quoted in your application: 2011/4579
The University of Tromsø has vacant a researcher po-
sition in Biosystematics. The period of appointment is
until 31 December 2014.
The position is attached to Tromsø University Museum,
Department of Natural Sciences
For further information, please contact project leader
Inger Greve Alsos, e-mail: inger.g.alsos@uit.no or head
of Department of Natural Sciences, Arne C. Nilssen,
e-mail: arnec.nilssen@uit.no, tel + 47 77 64 50 00.
The Department of Natural Sciences presently employs
25 staﬀ members, including 10 permanent scientiﬁc po-
sitions and 5 PhD students ( http://uit.no ). The de-
partment has large scientiﬁc collections, documenting
more than 130 years of research in North Norway and
other northern regions. The department includes a re-
search group in taxonomy and biodiversity. The group
focuses on diversity, phylogeography, and taxonomy of
northern organism using molecular as well as tradi-
tional methods.
The position is associated with the Norwegian-Swedish
Research School in biosystematics, ForBio (cf. http://-
www.nhm.uio.no/english/research/forbio/ ). ForBio isa teaching and research initiative coordinated by the
Natural History Museum (University of Oslo), Bergen
Museum (University of Bergen), Tromsø University
Museum (University of Tromsø) and the Museum of
Natural History and Archaeology (Norwegian Univer-
sity of Science and Technology). ForBio is funded by
the Norwegian Taxonomy Initiative and the Research
Council of Norway. ForBio is part of the Ministry of
Education and Research’s commitment to Norwegian
university museums and the Ministry of Environment’s
commitment to increased knowledge of the Norwegian
biodiversity.
The position involves 50 % research and 50 % teaching
and administration at the Research School. The suc-
cessful candidate will work strategically and practically
with the development of ForBio, and teach on theoret-
ical and/or ﬁeld courses oﬀered through this research
school. The development of the Research School will
take place in cooperation with representatives of the
other Norwegian university museums, and it is an ad-
vantage that the successful candidate has experience in
developing and/or management of research and devel-
opment projects.
For full advertise, see http://www.jobbnorge.no/-
job.aspx?jobid=78253 Sincerely yours, Inger Greve Al-
sos
Assoc. Prof. Inger Greve Alsos Tromsø University Mu-
seum NO-9037 Tromsø Norway
Telephone: +47 77 62 07 96 Telefax: +47 77
64 51 05 Email: inger.g.alsos@uit.no http:/-
/www.svalbardﬂora.net/ Alsos Inger Greve
<inger.g.alsos@uit.no >
UAlberta HostParasiteInteractions
Tier II Canada Research Chair in Host-Parasite Inter-
actions of Arthropods (Assistant/Associate Professor)
UNIVERSITY OF ALBERTA, DEPARTMENT OF
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES V We invite applications
for a tenure-track position at the Assistant or Asso-
ciate Professor level in entomology and parasitology.
We are interested in applications from excellent can-
didates who study parasitological aspects of arthropod
biology, including arthropods as hosts or as vectors. In
particular, we are seeking an individual who is inter-
ested in developing a research program on mechanisms
that control host-parasite associations. The candidate54 EvolDir November 1, 2011
must hold a PhD and have a proven record of leading-
edge entomology and/or parasitology research, as well
as demonstrated potential for excellence in teaching.
The Department of Biological Sciences
(www.biology.ualberta.ca ) is one of the largest in
North America, with 70 faculty members and 280
graduate students. This concentration of biolo-
gists oﬀers a collegial environment for collaboration
among ecologists, mathematical biologists, organismal
biologists, molecular biologists, physiologists, and
evolutionary biologists. Exceptional infrastructure
includes ﬁeld stations in Alberta and the Paciﬁc
Coast, microbial and plant growth facilities, museums
including entomological and parasitological collections,
and access to service units in chemical instrumentation,
molecular biology, plant/soil/water analysis, and mi-
croscopy. Members of Biological Sciences beneﬁt from
interdisciplinary connections with members of many
other departments in the Faculty of Science, Faculty of
Medicine and Dentistry, Faculty of Agriculture, Life,
and Environmental Sciences, and the School of Public
Health at the University of Alberta. The successful
candidate will be nominated as a Canada Research
Chair at the Tier II level. ( www.chairs-chaires.gc.ca ).
Candidates should submit curriculum vitae, a one-
page summary of research plans, a one-page state-
ment of teaching interests, and reprints of their three
most signiﬁcant publications preferably electronically
to recruitment1@biology.ualberta.ca or by mail. Appli-
cants must also arrange for three letters of reference
to be sent to the attention of the Chair to recruit-
ment1@biology.ualberta.ca.
Closing Date: December 15, 2011. The eﬀective date
of employment will be July 1, 2012.
Dr. Michael Caldwell, Chair Department of Biologi-
cal Sciences CW405 Biological Sciences Bldg University
of Alberta Edmonton, AB, Canada T6G 2E9 recruit-
ment1@biology.ualberta.ca
All qualiﬁed candidates are encouraged to apply; how-
ever, Canadians and permanent residents will be given
priority. The University of Alberta hires on the basis of
merit. We are committed to the principle of equity in
employment. We welcome diversity and encourage ap-
plications from all qualiﬁed women and men, including
persons with disabilities, members of visible minorities,
and Aboriginal peoples.
Linda Christensen <linda.christensen@ualberta.ca >UBern ScientiﬁcCoordinator
CausesOfCooperation
Scientiﬁc Coordinator for Graduate Research School.
The graduate research school (ProDoc) on “Proximate
and Ultimate Causes of Cooperation”, funded by the
Swiss National Science Foundation and hosted by the
University Bern, Switzerland, is seeking to ﬁll the posi-
tion of a Scientiﬁc Coordinator. The expected starting
date for this 50-75% position is 1. April 2012, and
the position is funded for the duration of the ProDoc
(3 years; possibly 1-2 year longer if a prolongation the
ProDoc will be granted). Salary level will be set de-
pending on experience of the applicant.
The successful candidate will have a MSc or PhD degree
in one of the biological sciences, a keen interest in the
evolution of cooperation, and excellent communicative
and administrative skills.
This graduate research school is a builds on a coopera-
tive program involving 9 research groups from 5 Swiss
Universities:
M. Griesser, University Bern (PI); R. Bshary, Univer-
sity Neuchˆ atel; M. Chapuisat, University Lausanne; L.
Lehmann, University Lausanne; M. K¨ olliker, Univer-
sity Basel; M. Manser, University Z¨ urich; B. Taborsky,
University Bern; M. Taborsky, University Bern; C. van
Schaik, University Z¨ urich.
In addition, we have a number of international collab-
orators involved in research projects of the ProDoc.
The research covered by the participating groups uses
a combination of empirical and theoretical approaches,
using diverse study systems und techniques. The pro-
gram will contribute to the training and research of
about 30 PhD students from the involved research
groups.
Position Description: The successful applicant will or-
ganise and coordinate the common activities of the re-
search school (seminars, workshops, courses), organise
visits by invited scientists and actively participate in
research activities.
Requirements: 1) Excellent coordinating and organisa-
tional abilities 2) Proﬁcient communicator 3) Ability
to communicate ﬂuently in English, German (and/or
French) 4) MSc or PhD in biology, with a strong in-
terest in the theme of cooperation 5) Ability to workNovember 1, 2011 EvolDir 55
independently 6) Sociable personality 7) Basic knowl-
edge of creating and maintaining web pages would be
helpful
Deadline for application is 1 December 2011, but we
will accept applications until the position is ﬁlled.
Applications - including a CV, a letter of mo-
tivation (1 page) and the names of two referees
(preferably as a single PDF)- should be send to:
michael.griesser@iee.unibe.ch
Michael Griesser Institute for Ecology and Evo-
lution University Bern 3012 Bern Switzerland
http://www.iee.unibe.ch/content/staﬀ/griesser/-
index eng.html
michael.griesser@iee.unibe.ch
UBritishColumbia
MarineEukaryoticEcology
Canada Research Chair in Marine Eukaryotic Micro-
bial Ecology Assistant Professor (tenure-track) Depart-
ments of Botany and Zoology University of British
Columbia
The Departments of Botany and Zoology at the Univer-
sity of British Columbia invite applications for a Tier
2 Canada Research Chair (CRC) in Marine Eukaryotic
Microbial Ecology. This is a tenure track position, with
initial appointment to be made at the Assistant Profes-
sor level, beginning no earlier than July 1, 2012. We
seek an outstanding applicant whose research program
examines the ecological functions of marine microbial
eukaryotes (e.g., protists, protozoa, algae) in the con-
text of their natural environment. The program should
address fundamental ecological questions and include a
strong ﬁeld component.
Applicants must have a PhD and preferably postdoc-
toral research experience. The successful applicant will
be a member of the UBC Centre for Microbial Di-
versity and Evolution ( www.cmde.science.ubc.ca ) and
will also be considered for appointment as a Scholar in
the Canadian Institute for Advanced Research program
in Integrated Microbial Biodiversity ( www.cifar.ca/-
integrated- microbial-biodiversity).
Responsibilities of the position include establishing and
conducting an internationally competitive and exter-
nally funded research program, teaching at the under-
graduate and graduate levels, supervising graduate stu-dents, and participating on service committees for the
departments, university, and academic/scientiﬁc com-
munity.
Applicants should send a cover letter, curriculum vitae,
statement of research, statement of teaching accom-
plishments and/or interests, and up to four publications
to Dr. Brian Leander at ecologysearch@zoology.ubc.ca.
Letters of support from three referees should be sent to
ecologyreferences@zoology.ubc.ca. Applications should
be submitted on or before November 27, 2011.
Canada Research Chairs are open to individuals of
any nationality. The position is subject to review
and ﬁnal approval by the CRC Secretariat. More in-
formation about the CRC program can be found at
www.chairs.gc.ca . UBC hires on the basis of merit and
is committed to employment equity. UBC is strongly
committed to diversity within its community and es-
pecially welcomes applications from visible minority
group members, women, Aboriginal persons, persons
with disabilities, persons of any sexual orientation or
gender identity, and others who may contribute to the
further diversiﬁcation of ideas.
bleander@mail.ubc.ca
UCalifornia LosAngeles
EvolutionaryBiol
Passing this on for a friend - ﬁeld is open to all of Life
Sciences, including EEB. Sounds like an intriguing op-
portunity.
R. Deborah Overath, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Biol-
ogy Local Program Director Hispanic Leaders in Agri-
culture and the Environment Department of Life Sci-
ences (ST 312) 6300 Ocean Drive, Unit 5800 Texas
A&M - Corpus Christi Corpus Christi, TX 78412
Phone: (361) 825-2467 Cell: (361) 876-4542 Fax: (361)
825-2742
Life Sciences Open Rank Faculty Search University of
California Los Angeles
The Division of Life Sciences
(www.lifesciences.ucla.edu ) in the UCLA College
of Letters and Sciences announces a special initiative
to recruit excellent research scientists with a history
and commitment to the mentorship of students from
underrepresented and underserved populations. We
seek individuals who will lead and facilitate Life56 EvolDir November 1, 2011
Science programs focused on providing research and
professional development opportunities for our diverse
student body. Candidates should have outstanding
records of scholarly publications, research support,
and teaching. Successful candidates will have the
same opportunities and expectations for a successful
research program as other UCLA faculty, but with
teaching loads and service adjusted for participation
in this special initiative. These positions will have
an Academic Senate appointment in one of ﬁve Life
Science departments (Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy; Microbiology, Immunology, & Molecular Genetics;
Molecular, Cell, and Developmental Biology; Integra-
tive Biology and Physiology; and Psychology) at a
professorial rank commensurate with current academic
standing and achievement. UCLA oﬀers competi-
tive salaries, research set-up funds, and recruitment
allowances.
Nominations and questions should be sent to: Dr. Paul
Barber (paulbarber@ucla.edu) or Dr. David O. Sears
(sears@psych.ucla.edu). Application packages should
contain 1) a cover letter that speciﬁcally details his or
her philosophy and record of mentoring of underrepre-
sented and underserved students, 2) curriculum vitae
and 3) a statement of research and teaching interests
and 4) the names of three references. Submit these
materials as attachments to diversity@psych.ucla.edu.
Review of the applications will begin on November 15,
2011, and will continue until the positions are ﬁlled (Job
#: 0875-1112-03).
UCLA is ranked the 2nd best public university in the
U.S. by US News & World Report and is Califor-
nia’s largest university with an enrollment of nearly
38,000 undergraduate and graduate students. The
UCLA College of Letters and Science and the univer-
sity’s 11 professional schools feature renowned faculty
and oﬀer more than 323 degree programs and majors.
The Biomedical, Behavioral and Life Sciences areas at
UCLA have more than 300 faculty members, includes
many top ten ranked departments, and is consistently
in the top ten in NIH funding. The UCLA College has a
tradition of outstanding teaching and mentorship of un-
dergraduates, which the Division of Life Sciences hopes
to enhance through this special initiative. As a cam-
pus with a diverse student body, we encourage appli-
cations from women, minorities, and individuals with a
history of mentoring underrepresented minorities in the
sciences. UCLA is an aﬃrmative action/equal opportu-
nity employer with a strong institutional commitment
to the achievement of faculty and staﬀ diversity.
Deborah.Overath@tamucc.eduUCalifornia LosAngeles
PlantEvolution
University of California, Los Angeles Professor and Di-
rector of the Mildred E. Mathias Botanical Garden
The University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) De-
partment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology seeks to
ﬁll an open-rank (tenure track or tenured) faculty posi-
tion in Plant Sciences. We are interested in all subﬁelds
within organismal plant biology but especially in can-
didates with strong interests in cross-disciplinary ap-
proaches to plant ecology, plant evolutionary biology,
conservation science, and biogeography. The success-
ful candidate is expected to establish an internation-
ally recognized and externally funded research program
and will assume faculty directorship of the Mildred E.
Mathias Botanical Garden, a seven-acre garden on the
UCLA campus. We encourage applicants with experi-
ence relevant to botanical garden administration and
development but will consider applicants with other
leadership experience or potential. As a campus with
a diverse student body, individuals with a history of
mentoring under-represented minorities in the sciences
are encouraged to discuss their activities in their cover
letter. Applicants should submit application materials
online to www.eeb.ucla.edu/botgard including a cover
letter, curriculum vitae, statements of research, teach-
ing and interdisciplinary interests, and the names and
contact information of four references by December 1,
2011. Please use job number 0830-1112-01in all corre-
spondence.
Additional information about the Botani-
cal Garden and the Department may be
found at http://www.botgard.ucla.edu/ and
http://www.eeb.ucla.edu/, respectively. Inquiries
regarding the position should be directed to Search
Chair, Professor Philip Rundel <rundel@ucla.edu >.
Women and minority applicants are encouraged to ap-
ply. UCLA is an aﬃrmative action/equal opportunity
employer with a strong institutional commitment to
the achievement of faculty and staﬀ diversity.
Phillip Spinks <pqspinks@ucdavis.edu >November 1, 2011 EvolDir 57
UCincinnati LabTech
HumanVariation
The Molecular Computational and Human-variation
Analysis (MoCHA) Laboratory seeks to hire a junior
research associate with experience in molecular biol-
ogy and/or genetics. Duties include maintaining DNA
sample stocks and dilutions, preparation of standard
laboratory solutions, DNA extraction, PCR, gel elec-
trophoresis, sample preparation for DNA sequencing,
the cleaning and maintenance of laboratory equipment
and supplies, maintenance of chemical logs, coordinat-
ing the ordering and receiving of laboratory supplies
and DNA samples, basic data analyses, and the super-
vision/training of undergraduate and graduate students
working in the lab. The minimum requirements are 1-2
years experience working in a molecular genetics labo-
ratory, however, the ideal candidate will have a B.S. in
biology or a related ﬁeld. Individual should be familiar
with basic methods of DNA extraction, ampliﬁcation,
and sequencing, and will have excellent organizational
skills. Basic knowledge of unix, perl or R is a plus, but is
not required. Review of applications will begin October
12, 2011 and will continue until position is ﬁlled. Three
letters of recommendations will be requested from the
top three applicants.
The University of Cincinnati is an equal opportu-
nity/aﬃrmative action employer. Women, people of
color, people with disability and veterans are encour-
aged to apply. Interested candidates can complete an
online application at www.jobsatuc.com and reference
the job posting number 211UC1848.
Heather L. Norton Assistant Professor Department of
Anthropology 474 Braunstein Hall PO Box 210380 Uni-
versity of Cincinnati Cincinnati, OH 45221-0380 Oﬃce:
513-556-3594 heather.norton@uc.edu
“Norton, Heather (nortonhr)”
<nortonhr@UCMAIL.UC.EDU >
UColoradoBoulder CuratorBotany
Curator of Botany and Assistant Professor in Ecology
and Evolutionary BiologyThe University of Colorado Museum of Natural History
and Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
(EBIO), University of Colorado Boulder, invite applica-
tions for a joint, tenure-track appointment as Curator
of Botany and Assistant Professor. This position will
be the ﬁrst ofseveral positions in phylogenetic biology
as part of a broad initiative to enlarge and strengthen
comparative and evolutionary biology at the University
of Colorado. Primary responsibilities will be to develop
an active research program on any group of plants us-
ing phylogenetic and systematic approaches, to curate
and develop the Museum’s botany collections, and to
teach in the Museum and Field Studies program and
EBIO. The successful candidate will be expected to
take a leadership position in advancing the role of the
Herbarium. The Herbarium houses a diverse collection
of approximately a half million specimens of vascular
plants, bryophytes, and lichens and has strong hold-
ings from the southern Rocky Mountain region. This
regional strength is enhanced by collections from west-
ern North America, the American Arctic, the Altai and
the Caucasus Mountains of Central Asia, the European
alpine, and the Sierra Madre Occidental of Mexico. Ad-
ditional information about EBIO and the CU Museum
and Herbarium can be found on the web at: http:/-
/cumuseum.colorado.edu andhttp://ebio.colorado.edu.
Applicants must have a doctoral degree; curatorial
experience is important. Job applications must be
submitted through the Jobs@CU website, Posting #
814981 ( http://www.jobsatcu.com/ ), beginning Octo-
ber 1. The application package should include curricu-
lum vitae, 3 representative publications, statements of
research, teaching, and curatorial experience and vi-
sion, along with names and addresses of four refer-
ences. Review of applications begins December 1, 2011.
Contact: Deane.Bowers@colorado.edu The University
of Colorado is committed to diversity and equality in
education and employment.
Regards, Rob Guralnick Curator of Zoology and As-
soc. Professor CU Museum of Nat. Hist. and Dept. of
Ecol. and Evol. Biol. University of Colorado Boulder
Boulder CO 80309-0265 http://sites.google.com/site/-
robgur robgur@gmail.com
UEdinburgh ResTech
SexualSelection
Dear EvolDir,58 EvolDir November 1, 2011
Based in the Institute of Evolutionary Biology, Uni-
versity of Edinburgh, UK, a research technician is
sought to work on a project studying the genet-
ics of mate choice and sexual selection in stickle-
backs (Gasterosteus aculeatus). The successful can-
didate will be required to organise, manage and
maintain the laboratory population of ﬁsh (stickle-
backs) and assist with experiments and data collec-
tion including genotyping under the supervision of Dr
Craig Walling ( http://wildevolution.biology.ed.ac.uk/-
lkruuk/CraigWalling.html ). Ideally candidates should
have a BSc (or equivalent) in biology or related subject
and a strong interest in evolutionary biology and/or
animal behaviour. Good interpersonal/time manage-
ment/organisational skills are essential. Previous ex-
perience in ﬁsh handling and molecular techniques e.g.
PCR, primer design and sequencing would be advanta-
geous.
The university of Edinburgh reference for this job is
3015006 and the salary scale is £20,409 - £23,661.
The closing date for applications is 18-Nov-2011.
For more information and to apply for this po-
sition please visit the University of Edinburgh’s
job page ( http://www.jobs.ed.ac.uk/vacancies/-
index.cfm?fuseaction=vacancies.detail&vacancy ref=-
3015006 ). Informal inquiries should be addressed to
craig.walling@ed.ac.uk.
Craig A Walling Institute of Evolutionary Biology
School of Biological Sciences University of Edinburgh
Edinburgh, EH9 3JT, UK
– The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body,
registered in Scotland, with registration number
SC005336.
Craig Walling <craig.walling@ed.ac.uk >
UGeorgia EvolutionaryGenetics
The Department of Genetics at the University of Geor-
gia invites applications for a tenure-track faculty posi-
tion in any area of prokaryotic or eukaryotic genetics
at the Assistant Professor level. We are interested in
strengthening and complementing our existing broad
program in Genetics. Applicants researching topics in
molecular genetics, genetics of model organisms, or epi-
genetics are especially welcome. The successful candi-
date will hold a Ph.D. or equivalent in a relevant ﬁeld,
have postdoctoral experience, and will be expected to
maintain a rigorous, externally-funded research pro-gram and to contribute to undergraduate and gradu-
ate teaching. For information about the department,
seehttp://www.genetics.uga.edu . Applications should
be sent by email as a single PDF ﬁle that includes a
cover letter, CV, and brief statements of research and
teaching interests to: “genetics@uga.edu”. Three let-
ters of recommendation should be emailed separately
as PDFs to genetics@uga.edu, or (less preferred) sent
in hard copy to the Genetics Search Committee, De-
partment of Genetics, Davison Life Sciences Building,
University of Georgia, Athens, GA 30602-7223. Review
of applications will begin on November 7, 2011 and con-
tinue until the position is ﬁlled.
The Franklin College of Arts and Sciences, its many
units, and the University of Georgia are committed to
increasing the diversity of its faculty and students, and
sustaining a work and learning environment that is in-
clusive. Women, minorities and people with disabilities
are encouraged to apply. The University is an EEO/AA
institution.
Daniel Promislow <promislow@uga.edu >
UHawaii ConservationBotany
Assistant Professor, University of Hawai‘i Manoa, Col-
lege of Natural Sciences, permanent, tenure track, 9-
month, full-time, general funds, pending authorization
to ﬁll, to begin August 1, 2012. Position #85019,
The Department of Botany at the University of
Hawaii Manoa seeks an Ethnobotanist or Conserva-
tion Biologist who works at the interface between
human communities and plant conservation. Appli-
cants whose research centers on human-modiﬁed en-
vironments (e.g., agroecosystems, community-managed
forests, community-managed marine areas, agroforests,
remaining natural areas) at any ecological scale (from
genes to ecosystems) are encouraged to apply.
The successful candidate will be expected to develop
an active research program that complements existing
departmental strengths in Ethnobotany and/or Conser-
vation Biology. Teaching duties will include undergrad-
uate and graduate courses in Ethnobotany and Conser-
vation. Minimum qualiﬁcations: A completed PhD in
Botany or related ﬁeld. Documented scholarly achieve-
ment, demonstrated ability as a teacher, poise and good
address for meeting and conferring with others. Desir-
able qualiﬁcations: Post-doctoral research. Pay range:
Commensurate with qualiﬁcations and experience.November 1, 2011 EvolDir 59
To apply: Submit a cover letter indicating how you
satisfy the minimum and desirable qualiﬁcations along
with statements of research and teaching interests and
experience, three letters of recommendation, curricu-
lum vitae, and oﬃcial transcripts. Copies of transcripts
are acceptable but originals are required for hire.
Application packets without letters of reference
should be sent as a single pdf ﬁle electronically to
botany@hawaii.edu
by November 15, 2011 with hardcopies to follow
to Chair, Ethnobotany/Conservation Biology Search
Committee, Department of Botany, University of
Hawaii at Manoa, 3190 Maile Way, St. John 101, Hon-
olulu, HI. 96822.
Inquiries: Dr. Tamara Ticktin, ticktin@hawaii.edu .
Review of applications will begin on November 15, 2011
and will continue until the position is ﬁlled.
Anthony Amend <aamend@uci.edu >
UKentucky Evolution
Assistant Professor of Biology University of Kentucky
The Department of Biology at University of Kentucky
seeks an Integrative Biologist at the Assistant Profes-
sor level. Any area of modern biological research will
be considered, but we are particularly interested in sci-
entists whose research interests are most likely to com-
plement existing strengths, especially the interests of
several recently hired Assistant Professors including de-
velopment, evolution, genomics and neuroscience. Re-
sponsibilities for the successful candidates include es-
tablishment of an independent research program that
is supported by awards from extramural agencies and
contribution to the teaching mission of the Department.
For more details on the department and the univer-
sity, visit our website ( http://biology.uky.edu ) or con-
tact Dr. Vincent Cassone, Chair, Department of Biol-
ogy, vincent.cassone@uky.edu or (859) 257-6766. Appli-
cants should send a letter of application, a curriculum
vitae, statements on teaching philosophy and experi-
ence, and a description of the applicant’s research pro-
gram electronically to biosearch@uky.edu. Applicants
should also arrange for three letters of recommenda-
tion in pdf format on oﬃcial letterhead to be sent to
the same electronic address. The review of applica-
tions will begin November 1, 2011. The University of
Kentucky is an Aﬃrmative Action/Equal Opportunity
University that values diversity and is located in an in-creasingly diverse geographical region. It is committed
to becoming one of the top public institutions in the
country. Women, persons with disabilities, and mem-
bers of other underrepresented groups are encouraged
to apply. The University also supports family-friendly
policies.
David Weisrock
Department of Biology University of Kentucky
david.weisrock@uky.edu
UMaryland EvolutionaryBiology
TENURE-TRACK OPEN RANK PROFESSOR: IN-
TEGRATIVE ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTIONARY
BIOLOGY
The Department of Biology at the University of Mary-
land, College Park invites applications for a tenure-
track position in integrative ecology and evolutionary
biology, rank open. We seek outstanding candidates
taking experimental, informatic and/or theoretical ap-
proaches to address major questions that complement
interests of our ecology, evolution and developmental
biology groups. Research topics include, but are not
limited to, the inﬂuence of environment on the devel-
opment of multicellular organisms, and the role of envi-
ronment or interspeciﬁc interactions on ecological and
evolutionary processes. Applicants must have a doctor-
ate degree and should have developed, or demonstrate
the potential to develop, an outstanding research pro-
gram and a record of extramural funding. Applicants
must also exhibit a commitment to excellence in teach-
ing. Postdoctoral experience is preferred.
The University of Maryland, College Park is the ﬂag-
ship campus of the University System of Maryland and
is one of the most rapidly advancing public research
universities in the country. The University sponsors
the NSF-funded Socio-Environmental Synthesis Center
in Annapolis and has an NSF Advance grant. Our close
proximity to Washington D.C., the Chesapeake Bay
and the Appalachian mountains facilitates interactions
with researchers at an extraordinary range of institu-
tions and ﬁeld stations (e.g., Smithsonian Institution,
NIH, NSF, USDA, USGS Patuxent Research Center,
USFWS, Smithsonian Environmental Research Center,
University of Maryland Center for Environmental Sci-
ence). In addition, several major non-governmental or-
ganizations have their world headquarters in Washing-60 EvolDir November 1, 2011
ton, DC (e.g., Conservation International, The Nature
Conservancy, World Wildlife Fund).
Applicants should apply electronically to https://-
jobs.umd.edu, specifying Integrative Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology (faculty position #106165). Appli-
cations should consist of a single PDF ﬁle containing
(1) a letter of application, (2) a curriculum vita, (3) a
statement of research interests and plans, (4) a state-
ment of teaching experience and interests, and (5) pdfs
of up to two publications. Please arrange for three
recommendation letters to be submitted directly to
https://jobs.umd.edu, specifying the same information
as above. For best consideration, applications should
be complete by November 15, 2011.
The University of Maryland is an equal opportu-
nity/aﬃrmative action employer. Applications from
minorities and women are encouraged.
CARLOS A. MACHADO Associate Professor
Department of Biology University of Maryland
machado@umd.edu
“Carlos A. MacHado” <machado@umd.edu >
UMinnesota Duluth
EvolutionaryGenetics
*Geneticist Search, 2011-12: JOB AD*
The Department of Biology at the University of
Minnesota Duluth (UMD) invites applications for a
tenure-track Assistant Professor position in GENET-
ICS, broadly deﬁned, beginning August 2012. We
seek a person with research experience in genetics, or
closely related ﬁeld, who will instruct lecture and lab-
oratory courses in genetics, and develop at least one
advanced course in their area of specialization. The
area of specialization is open; applications from candi-
dates with expertise ranging from population genetics
to genomics will be equally considered. The success-
ful candidate will establish an independent, externally
funded research program involving undergraduates, and
M.S. and Ph.D. students. Service to the department,
college and University is also expected. Opportunities
exist for collaboration with researchers at UMD’s Nat-
ural Resources Research Institute, Large Lakes Obser-
vatory, College of Pharmacy, School of Medicine and
the EPA Mid-Continent Ecology Division. State-of-
the-art research and instruction facilities and compet-
itive startup funding are available. Essential qualiﬁ-cations include a Ph.D. or terminal degree in the bio-
logical sciences, evidence of potential for achievement
in teaching appropriate for appointment at the Assis-
tant Professor level, peer-reviewed publications, and
strong oral and written communication skills. The Uni-
versity of Minnesota requires that you apply online
for this position. For a complete position description
and information on how to apply online, visit http://-
employment.umn.edu/, and search for Job Requisition
174713. Complete applications will be reviewed begin-
ning *November 22, 2011* and continue until the posi-
tion is ﬁlled. The University of Minnesota is an equal
opportunity educator and employer.
–
Julie R. Etterson University of Minnesota Duluth De-
partment of Biology 207 Swenson Science Building 1035
Kirby Drive Duluth, MN 55812-3004
Oﬃce: (218) 726-8110 Lab: (218) 726-7408 Fax: (218)
726-8142 Email: jetterso@d.umn.edu
Julie Etterson <jetterso@d.umn.edu >
UMontreal
AquaticMicrobialEvolution
Although this job description does not explicitly ask for
an evolutionary Aquatic Microbial Ecology - applicants
with an evolutionary angle are most welcome to apply.
Thank you, Chris Cameron
D´ epartement de sciences biologiques Facult´ e des arts et
des sciences
Professor of Aquatic Microbial Ecology
The Department of Biology invites applications for
a tenure-track position as an Assistant Professor in
Aquatic Microbiology or Aquatic Microbial Ecology.
Responsibilities The successful candidate will be ex-
pected to teach at all three levels of the curriculum,
supervise graduate students, engage in ongoing research
and publication, and contribute to the academic life and
reputation of the University. Upon arrival, the priority
will be to develop an undergraduate course in microbial
ecology or microbiology of aquatic ecosystems.
Requirements Ph.D. in aquatic microbiology, microbial
ecology or a related ﬁeld. Postdoctoral research expe-
rience is an asset. Strong publication record in inter-
national journals with high visibility. Innovative re-November 1, 2011 EvolDir 61
search program in aquatic microbiology and aquatic
microbial diversity of prokaryotes and/or eukaryotes.
Use of meta-genomic, meta-transcriptomic and meta-
proteomic techniques would provide complementary ex-
pertise in the department. Candidates are also ex-
pected to have a ﬁeld component to their research pro-
gram. Candidates will be encouraged to join and collab-
orate with the Groupe de Recherche Interuniversitaire
en Limnologie (GRIL), an interactive group of aquatic
researchers from several Quebec universities. Interest
in interdisciplinary research and openness to collabo-
ration with members of the Biology Department and
other departments of the University. Excellent apti-
tude for teaching in higher education and incorporat-
ing new technologies. Proﬁciency in the French lan-
guage. The Universit´ e de Montr´ eal is a Qu´ ebec univer-
sity with an international reputation. French is the
language of instruction. To renew its teaching fac-
ulty, the University is intensively recruiting the world’s
best specialists. In accordance with the institution’s
language policy [ http://www.direction.umontreal.ca/-
secgen/recueil/politique linguistique.html], the Univer-
sit´ e de Montr´ eal provides support for newly-recruited
faculty to attain proﬁciency in French.
Salary The Universit´ e de Montr´ eal oﬀers a competitive
salary and a complete range of employee beneﬁts.
Starting Date >From June 1, 2012.
Deadline The complete application, including a cover
letter, a curriculum vitae, a description of the research
program (2 pages maximum), copies of 3 recent publica-
tions or research documents, and a statement of teach-
ing philosophy should be sent by December 15, 2011.
Three letters of recommendation are to be sent directly
to the department chair at the following address:
Madame Bernadette Pinel-Alloul, (Interim Chair)
Monsieur Marc Amyot, (Chair as of December 2012)
D´ epartement de sciences biologiques Universit´ e de
Montr´ eal C.P. 6128, succ. Centre-ville Montr´ eal
(Qu´ ebec) H3C 3J7
For more information about the Deprtment of Biology,
please consult the Web site at: www.bio.umontreal.ca
. Conﬁdentiality The Universit´ e de Montr´ eal applica-
tion process allows all regular professors in the De-
partment to have access to all documents unless the
applicant explicitly states in her or his cover letter
that access to the application should be limited to the
selection committee. This restriction on accessibility
will be lifted if the applicant is invited for an inter-
view. Employment Equity Program The Universit´ e de
Montr´ eal upholds the principles of employment equity
and welcomes applications from women, ethnic and vis-
ible minorities, aboriginals and people with disabili-ties. Applicants who belong to one of these groups
are asked to complete the employment equity identi-
ﬁcation questionnaire posted www.fas.umontreal.ca/-
aﬀaires- professorales/documents/quest-acces-emploi-
EN.pdf and attach it to their application. Immigration
Requirements In compliance with Canadian immigra-
tion requirements, priority shall be given to Canadian
citizens and permanent residents.
Cameron Christopher <c.cameron@umontreal.ca >
UMontreal
EvolutionaryAdaptivePhysiology
This position is open to evolutionary biologists of Ani-
mal Ecophysiology or Adaptive Physiology.
Cordially, Chris Cameron
Department of Biological Sciences Faculty of Arts and
Science
Professor of Animal Ecophysiology or Adaptive Physi-
ology
The Department of Biological Sciences invites applica-
tions for a full-time tenure-track position as Assistant
Professor in Animal Ecophysiology or Adaptive Physi-
ology.
Responsibilities The successful candidate will be ex-
pected to teach at all three levels of the curriculum,
supervise graduate students, engage in ongoing research
and publication, and contribute to the academic life and
reputation of the institution.
Requirements PhD in Biology with a specialization in
animal physiology, ecophysiology, development or en-
docrinology. Postdoctoral research experience. Ex-
cellent publication record in international scientiﬁc
journals. Development of an innovative, competitive
world-class research program in animal physiology in-
tegrating adaptive and evolutionary aspects with re-
spect to the environment. Able to integrate compar-
ative and molecular approaches in the research pro-
gram. Open to interdisciplinary and collaboration with
department members. Ready to assume teaching of
comparative physiology and adaptive ecology at the
undergraduate level. Proﬁciency in the French lan-
guage. The Universit´ e de Montr´ eal is a Qu´ ebec uni-
versity with an international reputation. French is the
language of instruction. To renew its teaching fac-
ulty, the University is intensively recruiting the world’s62 EvolDir November 1, 2011
best specialists. In accordance with the institution’s
language policy [ http://www.direction.umontreal.ca/-
secgen/recueil/politique linguistique.html], the Univer-
sit´ e de Montr´ eal provides support for newly-recruited
faculty to attain proﬁciency in French.
Salary The Universit´ e de Montr´ eal oﬀers a competitive
salary and a complete range of employee beneﬁts.
Starting date >From June 1, 2012.
Deadline The complete application, including a cover
letter, a curriculum vitae, copies of 3 recent publica-
tions or research, a description of their research pro-
gram (2 pages maximum), and their teaching philoso-
phy should be sent by December 15, 2011.
Three letters of recommendation are to be sent directly
to the department chair at the following address:
Madame Bernadette Pinel-Alloul, (Interim Chair)
Monsieur Marc Amyot, (Chair as of December 2011)
D´ epartement de sciences biologiques Universit´ e de
Montr´ eal C.P. 6128, succ. Centre-ville Montr´ eal
(Qu´ ebec) H3C 3J7
For more information about the Department of Biology,
please consult the Web site at : www.bio.umontreal.ca .
Conﬁdentiality The Universit´ e de Montr´ eal application
process allows all regular professors in the Department
to have access to all documents unless the applicant ex-
plicitly states in her or his cover letter that access to
the application should be limited to the selection com-
mittee. This restriction on accessibility will be lifted if
the applicant is invited for an interview.
Employment Equity Program The Universit´ e de
Montr´ eal upholds the principles of employment equity
and welcomes applications from women, ethnic and
visible minorities, aboriginals and people with disabili-
ties. Applicants who belong to one of these groups are
asked to complete the employment equity identiﬁcation
questionnaire posted www.fas.umontreal.ca/aﬀaires-
professorales/documents/quest-acces-emploi-EN.pdf
and attach it to their application.
Immigration Requirements In compliance with Cana-
dian immigration requirements, priority shall be given
to Canadian citizens and permanent residents.
Cameron Christopher <c.cameron@umontreal.ca >
UNeuchatel Evolution ParasitesThe University of Neuchˆ atel, Switzerland, invites ap-
plications for a position of Full professor in Biology of
Parasites
Job description: The successful candidate is expected
to establish an internationally recognized research pro-
gramme in parasitology. We are particularly interested
in researchers using original and innovative approaches
to work on host-parasite interactions in animal systems.
The appointee will teach at all levels of the biology cur-
riculum (bachelor, master and doctoral school). A non-
French speaking appointee would be asked to achieve
ﬂuency in French following a period of adaptation to
teach undergraduate courses in French.
Starting date: 1st August 2012 or upon agreement.
Requirement: PhD degree in biology or in another life
science discipline, as well as an internationally recog-
nized research record.
Applications should be sent by regular mail to the Dean
of the Faculty of Science, Prof. Peter Kropf, Rue Emile
Argand 11, 2000 Neuchˆ atel, Switzerland, as well as
by email to (doyen.sciences@unine.ch). Deadline: 15
November 2011.
Applications should include a letter of motivation and a
r´ esum´ e (CV) containing lists of obtained research fund-
ing, publications and teaching experience. The appli-
cation should also include copies of academic degrees, a
brief teaching statement (max. 1 page) and a research
statement that details the candidate’s research interests
and the projects he/she plans to develop at the Univer-
sity of Neuchˆ atel (max. 2 pages). The candidate will
ask 3 experts to send a reference letter by email directly
to the head of the Hiring Committee, Prof. F. Kessler
(felix.kessler@unine.ch).
The University of Neuchˆ atel encourages women to ap-
ply.
Additional information can be requested from
the head of the Hiring Committee, Prof. F.
Kessler (felix.kessler@unine.ch) or to the Dean
(doyen.sciences@unine.ch). Further details can
be found at www.unine.ch/sciences . mjvoor-
douw@gmail.com
UOregon 4 BioMath
Colleagues,
The University of Oregon is searching for four new fac-November 1, 2011 EvolDir 63
ulty to join a growing cohort of researchers working at
the interface of mathematics and biology. We are con-
ducting two separate, but related, searches to ﬁll these
positions. The ﬁrst is a cluster of three faculty hires
into the Departments of Mathematics and Biology, and
the second is a position in the Robert D. Clark Hon-
ors College in Biophysics and Computational Biology.
These are new positions created because the research
and educational mission of the University has grown
substantially over the last decade. Successful candi-
dates will therefore be part of an exciting new growth
area at the University of Oregon that will build upon
existing strengths in evolution, molecular biology, neu-
roscience, development and genomics.
See below for more information and details on how to
apply.
Sincerely, Bill
****
1) Faculty Positions Bridging Mathematics and Biology
The Departments of Biology ( http://-
biology.uoregon.edu ) and Mathematics ( http://-
math.uoregon.edu ) at the University of Oregon
announce a cluster hire of three tenure-related faculty
positions in Fall 2012. At least one of these positions
will be at the level of Associate or Full Professor with
indeﬁnite tenure. These hires are part of an integrated
eﬀort to strengthen research and scholarship at the
nexus of mathematics and biology at the University of
Oregon, and will serve as a catalyst for future growth
in this area. We are broadly interested in recruiting
candidates working in areas integrating mathematical
approaches into biological inquiry, or who develop
mathematical or statistical methodology related to the
life sciences.
Examples of these areas include, but are not limited to,
systems biology and functional genetics, dynamical sys-
tems in biology, statistical analysis of large data sets,
algorithms for analyzing sequence data, game theory,
stochastic models for population genomics and molecu-
lar evolution, and machine learning. Applicants work-
ing to integrate biology and math in other areas are also
encouraged to apply. Successful candidates will bolster
our emerging strengths in biomathematics, maintain an
outstanding research program that focuses on solving
core problems in this area, and have a commitment to
excellence in teaching. Ph.D. required. Position re-
sponsibilities include undergraduate teaching.
Interested persons should apply online to the MATH-
BIO SEARCH, University of Oregon at https://-
www.mathjobs.org/jobs/jobs/3063 . Applicants should
submit a cover letter, a curriculum vitae including apublication list, a statement of research accomplish-
ments and future research plans, a description of teach-
ing experience and philosophy, and three letters of rec-
ommendation. To be assured of full consideration, ap-
plication materials should be uploaded by November
15th, 2011, but the search will remain open until the
positions are ﬁlled. Women and minorities are encour-
aged to apply.
2) Faculty Position in Biophysics and Computational
Biology
The Robert D. Clark Honors College of the University
of Oregon invites applications for a tenure track as-
sistant professor position in biophysics and/or compu-
tational biology. We seek specialization in theoretical
and/or computational approaches. Scholars employ-
ing bioinformatics, molecular biophysics and/or sys-
tems biology to investigate fundamental questions re-
garding the structure and function of biological sys-
tems are particularly encouraged to apply. Applicants
should demonstrate an outstanding record of research
accomplishment and evidence of exceptional promise
in teaching as well as innovative, interdisciplinary ap-
proaches to honors science education. The successful
candidate will be expected to establish a vigorous, ex-
ternally funded research program. The CHC expects
faculty research of the highest quality and applies pro-
motion and tenure standards for scholarship in the fac-
ulty member ˆE1
4s primary scientiﬁc ﬁeld. The successful
candidate will teach primarily within the Clark Honors
College and will share responsibility for its introduc-
tory science curriculum and science advising. Research
activities and graduate teaching and advising will be fa-
cilitated via membership in the appropriate UO science
departments and institutes.
The Clark Honors College is a liberal arts college of
about 700 undergraduate students and 15 faculty in
the arts and sciences within the larger research uni-
versity. The mission of the CHC is to provide high-
achieving students with an intensive small college ex-
perience and to foster lively conversation across the arts
and sciences. The CHC curriculum emphasizes under-
graduate research; courses in all ﬁelds are taught in a
discussion-based seminar format. Completion of a PhD
in physics, biology, or a related ﬁeld is required.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html64 EvolDir November 1, 2011
URhodeIsland ResTech
EvolEcolGenet
Research Technician: University of Rhode Island
The Kolbe lab in the Department of Biological Sci-
ences at the University of Rhode Island seeks a full-
time research technician and laboratory manager. Re-
search in our lab focuses on the evolutionary ecology
and evolutionary genetics of invasive species, particu-
larly Anolis lizards. This position requires a B.S. in
biology or a related ﬁeld, molecular genetic and/or evo-
lutionary genetic laboratory research experience includ-
ing PCR, and preferably, experience with microsatellite
or SNP genotyping. Strong organizational, communi-
cation, and interpersonal skills are required.
Duties will include ordering lab supplies; preparing so-
lutions and reagents; carrying out of DNA extractions,
PCR, sequencing and genotyping; and conducting phy-
logenetic and population-genetic analyses of molecu-
lar data. Will supervise adherence to Chemical Safety
and IACUC and related policies and practices; main-
tain live animals (lizards); train students in molecular
techniques; and maintain lab equipment. Must be self-
motivated and interested in collaborating with the PI
and students on all aspects of the research process.
Please direct questions to Dr. Jason Kolbe at
jjkolbe@mail.uri.edu and visit our website at https:/-
/jobs.uri.edu to view complete details and apply for
posting # (6000557). Online applications will require
two PDF attachments: 1) a cover letter, and 2) a re-
sume to include the names/addresses/email addresses
for 3 references. Online applications will close Octo-
ber 21, 2011. The University of Rhode Island is an
AA/EEOD employer and values diversity.
Jason J. Kolbe Department of Biological Sci-
ences University of Rhode Island CBLS 189, 120
Flagg Rd. Kingston, RI 02881 USA Email:
jjkolbe@mail.uri.edu Website: http://web.me.com/-
jjkolbe jjkolbe@gmail.com
UTexas 2 EvolutionaryBiol
Two Tenure-track Faculty Positions: Ecologist and
Evolutionary Biologist, The University of Texas Arling-ton
As part of an ongoing expansion, The University of
Texas at Arlington Department of Biology seeks to hire
two biologists at the rank of Assistant Professor. Suc-
cessful applicants are expected to have a strong pub-
lication record, the potential to establish a nationally
recognized and extramurally funded research program,
and to contribute to both undergraduate and graduate
education.
Ecologist: The ﬁrst position is open to individuals with
expertise in any area of ecology. Research specialties
might include, but are not limited to, population and
community ecology, urban ecology, behavioral ecology,
paleoecology or global change.
Evolutionary Biologist: The second position is open
to individuals with expertise in using integrative ap-
proaches to understand the evolutionary mechanisms
underlying responses of organisms to their environ-
ments. Research specialties might include, but are
not limited to, biodiversity/speciation, ecology and
evolution of infectious disease, ecological genomics or
metagenomics.
Any questions regarding these positions may be di-
rected to Dr. Sophia Passy, sophia.passy@uta.edu.
The University of Texas Arlington is a comprehensive
university, oﬀering a wide range of undergraduate and
graduate degree programs. Current enrollment at the
university exceeds 33,000. UT Arlington is part of the
University of Texas System and is located in the heart
of the Dallas-Fort Worth metropolitan area.
Applicants should submit a curriculum vitae; state-
ments of research and teaching interests; names, and
e-mail addresses of four persons who can provide letters
of reference. Send applications by email attachment to
Ms. Linda Taylor, lktaylor@uta.edu or by regular post
to Department of Biology, University of Texas at Ar-
lington, Box 19498, Arlington, TX 76019-0498; indicate
in the application for which position you are applying.
For full consideration, the applications must be received
before November 1, 2011. Applicants who are selected
for interviews must be able to show proof that they will
be eligible and qualiﬁed to work in the United States
by the time of hire.
UT Arlington is an Aﬃrmative Action/Equal Opportu-
nity Employer. Women, minorities, veterans, and indi-
viduals with disabilities are encouraged to apply. This
is a security sensitive position, and a criminal back-
ground check will be conducted on ﬁnalists. The use of
tobacco products is prohibited on UT Arlington prop-
erties.November 1, 2011 EvolDir 65
paulc@uta.edu
WestVirginiaU
ComputationalGenomics
Computational Genomics: West Virginia University in-
vites applications for a tenure-track position at the
Assistant or Associate Professor level in the Depart-
ment of Biology beginning August 2012. We are seek-
ing applications from individuals with a broad biology
background and a computationally-intensive research
focus. Successful applicants may participate in existing
programs in genomics, microbiology, neurobiology, and
molecular, developmental, and environmental biology.
The successful applicant should function eﬀectively
in university-wide interdisciplinary research initiatives,
with opportunities for collaborations in computer sci-
ence, mathematics, and statistics, as well as the above
areas of biology. Candidates must demonstrate ex-
cellent written and oral communication and teaching
skills and the potential to secure external funding. APhD or equivalent is required, with preference given
to candidates with postdoctoral experience, a strong
record of scholarly publications, and evidence of eﬀec-
tive teaching at the undergraduate and graduate lev-
els. Applicants at the Associate Professor level should
have a demonstrated ability to obtain signiﬁcant exter-
nal funding and possess an outstanding publication and
teaching record.
Qualiﬁed applicants should submit statements of re-
search interests and teaching philosophy, curriculum vi-
tae, representative publications, and a list of three po-
tential references to WVUBiology@mail.wvu.edu. Re-
view of applications will commence on November 8 and
continue until the position is ﬁlled.
For more information about the position contact
Stephen DiFazio, spdifazio@mail.wvu.edu. See
www.as.wvu.edu/biology/faculty/positions.htm for
more information about WVU and the city of Morgan-
town. Women, minorities, and persons with disabilities
are strongly encouraged to apply, and the university
is supportive of the needs of dual career couples.
West Virginia University is an Equal Opportunity,
Aﬃrmative Action Employer and the recipient of an
NSF ADVANCE award for gender equity.
Stephen DiFazio <Stephen.DiFazio@mail.wvu.edu >
Other
Allele size permutation tests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Amphibian conservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
ASN Award and Nomination Deadlines . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Boreal forest conservation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Drosophila MRCA dates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Evolution blog . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Evolution in Biostatistics course . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Funding advice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Heritability in nonnormality data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Identifying msats using NGS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Large mirrored trees answer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Msats via NGS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
mtDNA variation data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72Noninvasive DNA extraction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Online QTL course info . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Passing of AlanWilton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Phrase EvolutionistsDelight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Phrase EvolutionistsDelight answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
qPCR Normalization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Rohlf Medal Lecture Dinner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
UManchester Phylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Videos Conference EvolutionaryRescue . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
Videos Conference EvolutionaryRescue 2 . . . . . . . . . . 75
Videos Conference EvolutionaryRescue 3 . . . . . . . . . . 7566 EvolDir November 1, 2011
Allele size permutation tests
I have a questions regarding the microsatellite allele
size permutation tests of Hardy et al. 2003 (Genet-
ics 163: 1467-1482), as implemented in the software
SPAGeDi. By permuting the allele sizes (number of re-
peats) among the alleles within the loci (ASaAwL in
SPAGeDi), one may test whether stepwise allele size
shifts inform population diﬀerentiation. If so, observed
Rst will be signiﬁcantly larger than mean permuted Rst
(pRst). The null hypothesis is that diﬀerences in allele
size do not contribute to diﬀerentiation.
SPAGeDi returns results for all loci and for each locus .
Here is my conundrum. For all of the 31 loci across 10
populations, the hypothesis is validated (Rst >pRst)
at p (1-sided test, H1: obs >exp) <0.01, however, only
6 out of 31 loci are signiﬁcant for this test. pRst tracks
Fst almost exactly - further support of the null hypoth-
esis. Why is the H1 signiﬁcant across all loci?
Thanks, Alan
Alan W. Meerow, Ph.D., Research Geneticist and
Systematist USDA-ARS-SHRS, National Germplasm
Repository 13601 Old Cutler Road, Miami, FL 33158
USA voice: 786-573-7075; FAX: 786-573-7102 email:
alan.meerow@ars.usda.gov
“Meerow, Alan” <Alan.Meerow@ARS.USDA.GOV >
Amphibian conservation
Dear colleagues,
Global pandemic aﬀects amphibians - Are you ready to
react?
With this widely distributed email, I am aiming for
your help and assistance in ﬁlling in a questionnaire for
my work and distributing this email to your friends,
colleagues and acquaintances, so that I may get a rep-
resentative sample across Europe. I would be really
grateful, if you could ﬁnd the time to follow the link
below and ﬁll in the questions.
English: http://www.bd-maps.eu/survey/ French:
http://www.bd-maps.eu/survey/?lang=fr German:
http://www.bd-maps.eu/survey/?lang I thank youin advance for your help With kindest regards Dirk
Schmeller
The context of the study: Chytridiomycosis is an infec-
tious disease that aﬀects amphibians worldwide. It is
caused by the chytrid fungus (Batrachochytrium den-
drobatidis), a fungus capable of causing sporadic deaths
in some amphibian populations and 100% mortality in
others. In the Pyrenees mass die-oﬀs in amphibian pop-
ulations at high altitude were already documented in
2007, and the disease is spreading fast. How the dis-
ease can spread so fast is still enigmatic and subject
of an international project (RACE, www.bd-maps.eu ).
At the Station dEcologie Experimentale du CNRS ` a
Moulis (St. Girons, Ariege, France), Dirk S. Schmeller
and his team try to collect data on hiking habits and
attitude towards possible conservation measures. The
survey will help this group of researchers to develop
mitigation and conservation strategies adapted to the
public. Once you have ﬁnished the survey you will be
directed to a page with more information concerning
the amphibian disease. In case, you would want to be
informed about events related to amphibian diseases,
feel free to provide your email address.
Thank you very much for your collaboration.
“Dirk S. Schmeller” <dirk.schmeller@dr14.cnrs.fr >
ASN Award and Nomination
Deadlines
Nominations for ASN Executive Committee Members
of the American Society of Naturalists (ASN) are in-
vited to submit nominations for the Executive Com-
mittee (EC). Elections will be held in 2012 for Presi-
dent, Vice President, and Secretary. The President will
serve on the EC from 2013 through 2017 and act as
President in 2014. The Vice President will serve on the
EC from 2013 through 2014 and attend EC meetings ex
oﬃcio in 2015. The VP symposium will be presented
at the meetings in 2014. The Secretary will serve on
the EC from 2013 through 2015 as Secretary and from
2016 through 2018 as Past Secretary. Letters of nom-
ination should be submitted by December 1, 2011, to
asn@press.uchicago.edu. Please indicate Nomination in
the subject line.
Nominations for 2012 Sewall Wright Award The Sewall
Wright Award is given annually and honors a senior but
active investigator who is making fundamental contri-
butions to the Societys goals, namely promoting theNovember 1, 2011 EvolDir 67
conceptual uniﬁcation of the biological sciences. The
award includes an honorarium of $1,000. The recipient
need not be a member of the Society. For the 2012 Se-
wall Wright Award, the nomination packet, which must
include a letter of nomination and a curriculum vitae
including a publication list, should be sent by Decem-
ber 1, 2011, to asn@press.uchicago.edu. Please indicate
Wright Award in the subject line.
Nominations for 2012 Edward O. Wilson Naturalist
Award The Edward O. Wilson Naturalist Award is
given to an active investigator in midcareer who has
made signiﬁcant contributions to the knowledge of a
particular ecosystem or group of organisms. Individ-
uals whose research and writing illuminate principles
of evolutionary biology and an enhanced aesthetic ap-
preciation of natural history will merit special consid-
eration. The recipient need not be a member of the
Society. The award will consist of an especially appro-
priate work of art and a prize of $2,000, presented at
the annual meeting of the American Society of Natural-
ists. For the 2012 Edward O. Wilson Naturalist Award,
a nomination packet that includes a letter of nomina-
tion, a curriculum vitae including a publication list, and
three key publications should be sent by December 1,
2011, to asn@press.uchicago.edu. Please indicate . O.
Wilson Award in the subject line.
Applications for 2012 Jasper Loftus-Hills Young Inves-
tigators Award The Jasper J. Loftus-Hills Young In-
vestigators Award was established in 1984 to recognize
promising, outstanding work by investigators who re-
ceived their doctorates in the three years preceding the
application deadline or who are in their ﬁnal year of
graduate school. Jasper Loftus-Hills (1946V1974) was
an Australian biologist of exceptional promise, who had
published 16 articles in the three years after receiving
his degree. He was killed by a hit-and-run driver while
tape recording frog calls along a Texas highway. The
recipient need not be a member of the Society. The
award includes presentation of a research paper at the
annual meeting of the ASN, an award of $500, a travel
allowance of $700, and a supplement of $500 in case
of international travel. The prize committee requests
applications for the 2012 award from anyone support-
ing the objectives of the Society. Suggested names and
addresses of people who should be encouraged to ap-
ply are also welcome. Applications should consist of
no more than three pages (excluding tables, ﬁgures,
and references) that summarize the applicants work, no
more than four appropriate reprints, a curriculum vitae,
and two letters from individuals familiar with the appli-
cants work. Application materials should be sent via e-
mail by December 1, 2011, to asn@press.uchicago.edu.
Please indicate Investigators Prize in the subject line.Applications for ASN Student Research Award The
ASN announces the ﬁrst annual Student Research
Awards, which support research by student members
that advances the goals of the society: the concep-
tual uniﬁcation of ecology, evolution, or behavior. The
award consists of a $2,000 check to the candidate. An
applicant must be a member of the ASN (membership
is international), must hold a bachelors degree or equiv-
alent, must have passed to candidacy in a PhD program
or equivalent, and must be at least one year from com-
pleting the PhD. Applicants should send a two-page
proposal (not including references). In addition, appli-
cants should include a budget with justiﬁcation (one
page), a short curriculum vitae (two pages), a state-
ment from the PhD supervisor that veriﬁes that the
applicant meets the eligibility requirements, and the su-
pervisors recommendation supporting the research pro-
posed by the student (one page). Projects in all types of
research (i.e., laboratory, ﬁeld, theory) are encouraged.
Proposals will be judged
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
Boreal forest conservation
Dear Evolutionary Biologists,
I’m sending this conservation issue on behalf of an ecol-
ogist in my Department, Dr. Jeremy Kerr. It relates to
what is likely the largest conservation commitment in
history and the current situation is that Quebec Pre-
mier Jean Charest is wobbling *a lot* about whether
he’ll conserve vast tracts of boreal areas as wilderness
(what he said he’d do) or allow logging to proceed in
these wilderness areas.
If you agree, please do consider adding your name to
the letter. We have used this approach in the past and
it has sometimes proven very helpful.
Dear Fellow Scientist,
This is a critical moment for the conservation of the
Boreal Forest in Quebec, Canada. The government of
Quebec is in the process of writing legislation for its
Plan Nord region which, if implemented as promised,68 EvolDir November 1, 2011
could result in over 600,000 square kilometers (140 mil-
lion acres) in the North set aside for the protection of
biodiversity and natural heritage and safeguarded from
industrial development.
In order to show our support and hold Premier Jean
Charest to his commitment of protecting half of north-
ern Quebec, we have put together a scientist sign-on
letter in the hopes of gathering large numbers of signa-
tures from scientists around the world.
We invite you to follow this link http://-
www.borealbirds.org/petition-quebec/ to read the
letter to Premier Charest and consider adding your
name in support.
Sincerely, The Canadian Boreal Initiative and the Bo-
real Songbird Initiative
—–
Cher coll` egue scientiﬁque,
Nous nous trouvons ` a un moment critique pour la con-
servation de la forˆ et bor´ eale au Qu´ ebec. Le gouverne-
ment du Qu´ ebec en est ` a l’´ etape d’´ ecrire une loi pour
la r´ egion couvrant le territoire du Plan Nord.
Si cette loi est bien appliqu´ ee, tel que promis, elle pour-
rait se traduire par plus de 600.000 kilom` etres carr´ es du
Nord mis de cˆ ot´ e pour la protection de la biodiversit´ e,
du patrimoine naturel et prot´ eg´ es du d´ eveloppement
industriel.
Aﬁn de d´ emontrer notre appui et de tenir le Premier
Ministre Charest garant de son engagement de prot´ eger
la moiti´ e du nord du Qu´ ebec, nous avons mis en place
une lettre ´ electronique ` a signer par les scientiﬁques en
esp´ erant recueillir un grand nombre de signataires de
partout ` a travers le monde.
Nous vous invitons ` a suivre ce lien http://-
www.borealbirds.org/petition-quebec/?lng=frpour lire
la lettre au Premier Ministre Charest et consid´ erer y
ajouter votre nom ` a l’appui.
Cordialement, L’Initiative Bor´ eale Canadienne et la
Boreal Songbird Initiative
Howard D. Rundle, Associate Professor Department of
Biology, 30 Marie-Curie Priv. University of Ottawa,
Ottawa, ON, K1N 6N5, CANADA Ph: +1 613-562-
5800 x2835; Fax: +1 613-562-5486; Skype: howard-
drundle http://www.science.uottawa.ca/ ˜ hrund050
http://www.evolution.uottawa.ca for
Jeremy Kerr CFER - Canadian Facility for Ecoinfor-
matics Research Biology, University of Ottawa 30 Marie
Curie, Ottawa ON K1N6N5 jkerr@uottawa.ca http://-
www.macroecology.ca howard.rundle@uottawa.caDrosophila MRCA dates
Hi!
*Without* looking at the literature, please attempt
to answer the following questions:
[1] When was the most recent common ancestor of
Drosophila melanogaster and Drosophila simulans?
[2] When was the most recent common ancestor of the
subgenera Sophophora and Drosophila (from example,
the MRCA of D.melanogaster and either D. virilis or
D. mojavensis. This is the date at the root of the 12-
genomes phylogeny).
Please send any answers by email to dar-
ren.obbard@ed.ac.uk
My aim is to survey the community’s opinion (including
any errors or misapprehensions), not to directly survey
the literature. So PLEASE answer questions [1] and [2]
without looking them up ﬁrst. If you wish, you can also
name any paper that you might have in mind when you
give your answer - but again PLEASE DO NOT look
at that paper to check your answer. All answers will be
treated anonymously, and the results published here in
due course.
If you distrust point estimates (as you should) please
give conﬁdence intervals. These could be a point es-
timate plus-or-minus a standard error, or a point esti-
mate with 95% conﬁdence intervals, or a ﬂat stepped
distribution of your choice (for example, “anywhere be-
tween X and Y million years ago”). I am also happy
to take a multi-spiked distribution (“either X or Y mil-
lion years ago”), including one with a zero-bound (“less
than Z million years ago”) or any speciﬁc distribution
of your choice (e.g. paste in the R-code).
If you have absolutely no informed opinion, but you
have persisted in reading this far anyway, you are
clearly the sort of person whose wild guess I would like
to hear about. Please just take a guess (with any er-
ror distribution you feel is appropriate) and just let me
know that it is an uninformed guess.
Thank you for taking the time to read this email, and
I look forward to hearing any and all (un)informed
guesses.
Best wishes,
Darren –November 1, 2011 EvolDir 69
Darren Obbard Institute of Evolutionary Biology Uni-
versity of Edinburgh, UK darren.obbard@ed.ac.uk
The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, regis-
tered in Scotland, with registration number SC005336.
Darren Obbard <darren.obbard@ed.ac.uk >
Evolution blog
*Application deadline: December 1, 2011*
Are you a blogger who is interested in evolution?
For the third year in a row, the National Evolu-
tionary Synthesis Center (NESCent) is oﬀering two
travel awards to attend ScienceOnline2012 <http:/-
/scienceonline2012.com/ >, a science communication
conference to be held January 19-21, 2012, at North
Carolina State University.
The awards oﬀer the opportunity to travel to North
Carolina to meet with several hundred researchers,
writers, editors and educators to explore how online
tools are changing the way science is done and commu-
nicated to the public. Each winner will receive $750 to
cover travel and lodging expenses to attend the confer-
ence. For more information about the program for this
year’s conference, visit http://scio12.wikispaces.com/-
Program+Suggestions . To apply for an award, writers
should submit a blog post that highlights current or
emerging evolutionary research. In order to be valid,
posts must deal with research appearing in the peer-
reviewed literature within the last ﬁve years. Posts
should be 500-1000 words, and must mention the NES-
Cent contest. Two recipients will be chosen by a panel
of judges from both NESCent and the science blogging
community.
You can submit your blog by emailing it to us at
travel.award@nescent.org. Please send your name, con-
tact information, the title and date of your blog post,
and a URL.
Winners will be notiﬁed by December 15th, 2011.
For more information contact Craig McClain
at cmcclain@nescent.org or Robin Smith at
rsmith@nescent.org.
–
Robin Ann Smith, Ph.D. Science Writing and Commu-
nications National Evolutionary Synthesis Center 2024
W. Main Street, Suite A200 Durham, NC 27705 Tel:
919-668-4544 rsmith@nescent.orghttp://robinannsmith.com/ http://twitter.com/-
NESCent www.nescent.org/ Robin Smith
<ras10@duke.edu >
Evolution in Biostatistics course
Dear friends,
I am teaching Ecology, Evolution and also Statistics for
Biology students and I would like to use some kind of
quantitative activity in the Statistics course using the
subject of evolution.
I am teaching about t tests, ANOVA, correlation, re-
gression, nonparametric tools, and I would like not just
to show lots of numbers in a spreadsheet but to create
something like a short term project. So, the students
would collect the data to analyse them after that.
I am thinking about DNA or chromossome band com-
parision among species. Maybe using chromossome pic-
tures and DNA sequencies but... I would like to ask for
some help about ideas and materials!
I am doing ﬁeld classes to colect ecological data to be
used in the Statistics course but now I would like to do
something about evolution! I dont have a lab here or
a budget for something more complex like Drosophila
growth, reproduction and mutation and thats why I am
thinking about something using models, pcitures, etc.
Any materials and ideas to share?
Thanks for any help!
Voltolini
Prof. Dr. J. C. VOLTOLINI Universidade de
Taubate - Departamento de Biologia Taubate,
SP. 12030-010. E-Mail: jcvoltol@uol.com.br *
Grupo de pesquisa ECOTROP CNPq: http://-
dgp.cnpq.br/buscaoperacional/detalhepesq.jsp?pesq=-
8137155809735635 * Curr´ ıculo Lattes: http:/-
/lattes.cnpq.br/8137155809735635 * Fotos de
Cursos e Projetos no Orkut e Facebook:
http://www.orkut.com.br/Main#Proﬁle?uid=-
17608429643840608483 http://www.facebook.com/-
VoltoliniJC?v=info “Siamo tutti angeli con un’ala e
possiamo volare soltanto se ciabbracciamo”
jcvoltol@uol.com.br70 EvolDir November 1, 2011
Funding advice
“ Funding Advice
I was very much hoping that someone may be able to
give me some good suggestions/advice. I am a British
National currently employed by a Thai University to
do both Macroecology, global change/biodiversity and
systematics/evolution/biogeography research. I need
funding to conduct the research itself (mainly ﬁeld-
work) but seem ineligible to most schemes, which re-
quire either Nationals of a country in a developing coun-
try, or developed country researchers (employed in that
country) to conduct research either in that country-or
collaboratively outside”.
I would really appreciate any suggestions!
Thanks in advance
Alice Hughes PSU post-doctoral research fellow Prince
of Songkla University
Thanks so much! Alice
alice Hughes <drachughes@hotmail.co.uk >
Heritability in nonnormality data
Hi all,
Linearity and additivity are fundamental assumptions
of most polygenic or multifactorial models, however
I d like ask about Heritability analysis in non nor-
mality data. Its reasonable calculate heritability to
logweight? I d appreciate any comment
Thanks in advance Regards Rodrigo
Rodrigo Badilla. Biologo Marino. Candidato a Doc-
tor en Acuicultura. Laboratorio de Genetica Marina.
ULPGC, Espa˜ na
Rodrigo Badilla <rodrigo.badilla@gmail.com >Identifying msats using NGS
Dear Evodir members,
We are embarking on a microsatellites development
project for two invertebrate species. From previous
posts in Evoldir it seems that next generation sequenc-
ing platforms are the recommended way nowadays. I
was wondering if there are companies/labs performing
this service using the Ion Torrent platform in order to
do a whole genome sequencing and identify msats from
the reads. What is the cost in such a case? I already
have an idea about the cost using other NGS platforms
through the posts in Evoldir. Any clues will be greatly
appreciated.
All the best,
AP
–
ARIS PARMAKELIS, MSc., PhD. Biology Building
Department of Ecology and Taxonomy (Room 41)
University of Athens Panepistimioupoli Zografou GR-
15784, ATHENS, GREECE Tel.: ++302107274736
aparmakel@biol.uoa.gr parmakel@nhmc.uoc.gr par-
makel@edu.biology.uoc.gr http://uaeco.biol.uoa.gr/-
uameco http://publicationslist.org/aparmakel Aristei-
dis Parmakelis <aparmakel@biol.uoa.gr >
Large mirrored trees answer
All,
Nearthe beginning of the year I posted the email be-
low regarding large mirrored trees. I received about a
dozen responses, some of which instructed me to use
R (which I haven’t done), and others suggesting that
I use Mesquite or Treemap3. The mirror tree option
in Mesquite doesn’t do exactly what I wanted, and I
never could get Treemap3 to work correctly. However,
I recentlydownloaded the new Dendroscope3 http:/-
/ab.inf.uni-tuebingen.de/software/dendroscope/ . This
package does exactly what I wanted. Concatenate two
competing newick ﬁles, open with Dendroscope, and
click the button on top tab that says “Connect all taxaNovember 1, 2011 EvolDir 71
of the same name...”. Another term used for this dia-
gram is tanglegram, which helps if you go googling.
Thanks again to everyone who replied, and I hope this
helps those who were in the same boat,
Mike Sandel
—–
Hello all,
I’m hoping to ﬁnd a program that will simultaneously
display two competing topologies in a mirrored image
(which illustrates topological discordance). I have two
large trees with equivalent taxon samples (n9), but it
will be a pain to illustrate topological discordance by
hand in Adobe.
Any help or info is appreciated!
Michael Sandel <kwksand@yahoo.com >
Msats via NGS
Dear all,
I am posting the responses I received from a previous
post of mine relating to NGS and msats development.
Many of you asked me to put together the responses
I would get from Evoldir members. I am posting my
original question and the responses. It seems that 454
is the platform that most users are suggesting. Thanks
again to all the members of Evoldir that responded.
Aris
=== Question
Dear Evodir members,
We are embarking on a microsatellites development
project for two invertebrate species. From previous
posts in Evoldir it seems that next generation sequenc-
ing platforms are the recommended way nowadays. I
was wondering if there are companies/labs performing
this service using the Ion Torrent platform in order to
do a whole genome sequencing and identify msats from
the reads. What is the cost in such a case? I already
have an idea about the cost using other NGS platforms
through the posts in Evoldir. Any clues will be greatly
appreciated.
—–
Response 1.
Whatever the seqencing platform you use, you maywant to try this option to identify msats in your NGS
sequence results ( http://evopipes.net/ﬁndssr.html ).
Best wishes,
Taki
—–
Response 2.
You may check out http://www.genoscreen.com/ They
do it for about 2000 ˆ a ¬, Ibelieve.
Best wishes,
Christoph
—–
Response 3.
We aren’t, but the Josephine Bay Paul Center at
the Marine Biological Laboratory has a Roche 454, a
HiSeq2000 and an Ion Torrent. http://jbpc.mbl.edu/
Email Hillary Morrison or Mitch Sogin.
Jed
—–
Response 4.
Dear Aris,
the attached paper (Journal of Heredity
doi:10.1093/jhered/esq069) might be of interest
for you. I am currently following the same approach
for msat developement and it works just ﬁne! However,
you should not forget about the costs of additional
primer pairs which you will need to order and which
will not lead to nice/variable lociˆ a
Corine
—–
Response 5.
You can ﬁnd some really good information on
all the NGS platforms in the attached paper and
here: http://www.molecularecologist.com/next-gen-
ﬁeldguide/ Good luck! -MLJ
—–
Response 6.
Hi Aris,
See here: http://seqanswers.com/forums/-
showthread.php?t=11302 A couple of questions;
Is your main objective just to recover microsatellites?
If so, why do you want to sequence the entire genome
using Ion Torrent? De novo assembly of an Ion
tTorrent generated genome is not a trivial task, and
I imagine it would produce less satisfactory results in72 EvolDir November 1, 2011
microsat acquisition compared to the already published
protocols using 454 sequencing (whch focus speciﬁcally
on isolating micros, and not sequencing an entire
genome). 454 sequencing has shown to produce great
results in developing micros. In my opinion there is no
point trying to reinvent the wheel using Ion torrent.
Cheers,
Jack
–
ARIS PARMAKELIS, MSc., PhD. Biology Building
Department of Ecology and Taxonomy (Room 41)
University of Athens Panepistimioupoli Zografou GR-
15784, ATHENS, GREECE Tel.: ++302107274736
aparmakel@biol.uoa.gr parmakel@nhmc.uoc.gr par-
makel@edu.biology.uoc.gr http://uaeco.biol.uoa.gr/-
uameco http://publicationslist.org/aparmakel
aparmakel@biol.uoa.gr
mtDNA variation data
Dear all,
As a part of an ongoing study on mitochondrial poly-
morphism in animals, we are collecting data on varia-
tion in mitochondrial DNA within natural populations.
If you have any unpublished data along with any in-
formation about the number of individuals analyzed,
the number of genes sequenced, population size, popu-
lation connectivity etc., or are aware of any such data
that might be in sources that are not easily found on
Web of Science searches (e.g. book chapters), we would
greatly appreciate if you could share it with us. If this
study leads to a publication, we will properly cite and
acknowledge all contributors. Any pointers would be
appreciated!
Thank you,
Erem Kazancioglu
Uppsala University, Evolutionary Biology Centre
erem.kazancioglu@ebc.uu.se
Noninvasive DNA extractionHi Everyone,
Can somebody please help me with the issue below.
I am new to DNA extraction from animal tissues (as
Ive only worked with plants), and Id like to wonder
what non-invasive sampling technique can be recom-
mended for small mammals (as wed like to work with a
highly endangered animal no liver, heart, etc. samples
are normally available)? What storage conditions can
be recommended before DNA extraction? Does 95%
ethanol provide good samples for ampliﬁcation of frag-
ments >1 kb? (In plants it does not.) The general
practise in plants to store plant tissue before extrac-
tion in silica-gel, and it usually provides high quality
DNA. Does this work in animals? We would also like
to work with (old) museum preserved specimens and
skeletal samples found in owl pellets. Is there a good
method to extract DNA from these tissues where we
expect to have small quantities of fragmented DNA?
Thanks a lot!
Cheers to the community, Orsi
Horvth Orsolya <horsolya@gmail.com >
Online QTL course info
Hi all,
I am a PhD student in the area of ﬁsh genetic, actually
i am ﬁnishing my thesis and i am interesting in some
course about QTL analysis.
I d like know if someone have some information about
some online QTL course , i have good experience in
molecular markers, quantitative genetics and softwares.
i would appreciate any information about it.
Thanks in advance Regards Rodrigo
Rodrigo Badilla <rodrigo.badilla@gmail.com >
Passing of AlanWilton
It is with deepest regret that I, Mark Wilton, must an-
nounce the passing of Alan Wilton.
Yesterday afternoon he had enjoyed a ride in his wheel
chair along the promenade of his beloved Coogee Beach.November 1, 2011 EvolDir 73
He was not in any pain and had a comfortable night.
He passed away peacefully early this morning.
Thank you all for all the support in recent times.
Funeral arrangements are being made and will be com-
municated soon.
It is Alan’s, Barbara’s and the family’s wishes that
ﬂowers are not sent. Instead we hope to make a fa-
cility where donations can be made to one of Alan’s
passions, to adopt a dingo at the Dingo Sanctuary, or
alternatively donations can be made to cancer research
in memory of Alan.
This email sent by Mark Wilton 0407-077959
Alan Wilton School of Biotechnology and Biomolecu-
lar Sciences University of New South Wales NSW 2052
Australia
CRICOS Provider Code 00098G
Phone +61 2 9385 2019 Fax + 61 2 9385 1483 Mobile
0422 736 425
Website http://www.babs.unsw.edu.au/-
directory.php?personnelID Canine DNA Test-
ing Information http://www.babs.unsw.edu.au/-
canine genetics facility.php Forms for DNA testing of
CL or TNS http://web.science.unsw.edu.au/˜awilton/
Mark Wilton <markw@csas.com.au >
Phrase EvolutionistsDelight
Dear All,
I should be very grateful to learn who coined / was the
ﬁrst to use in print the phrase “taxonomist’s nightmare
- evolutionist’s delight”.
Many thanks, Florian
Florian M. Steiner Molecular Ecology Group, Institute
of Ecology University of Innsbruck, Technikerstr. 25,
A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria Phone ++43-512-507-6120,
Fax ++43-512-507-6190 http://www.uibk.ac.at/-
ecology/forschung/molecular ecology.html bir-
git.ﬂorian@gmail.com
Phrase EvolutionistsDelight answersMany thanks to all who have replied to my request of
14 October! My request read: “I should be very grate-
ful to learn who coined / was the ﬁrst to use in print
the phrase ”taxonomist’s nightmare - evolutionist’s de-
light“.”
Here is how I see the situation now, based on the
replies: MACINTYRE (1967) was the ﬁrst to use the
phrase in print but it was also attributed to Arthur J.
Cain (UZZELL & ASHMOLE 1970) and used, in plural
form and apparently independently, by WOODRUFF
(1978). MACINTYRE, G.T. (1967): Foramen pseu-
dovale and quasi-mammals. - Evolution 21: 834-841.
UZZELL, T. & N.P. ASHMOLE (1970): Suture-zones
- an alternative view. - Systematic Zoology 19: 197-
199. WOODRUFF, D.S. (1978): Review: mechanisms
of speciation. - Science 199: 1329-1330.
Please ﬁnd the compiled replies below.
Warmest, Florian Florian M. Steiner Molecular
Ecology Group, Institute of Ecology University of
Innsbruck, Technikerstr. 25, A-6020 Innsbruck,
Austria Phone ++43-512-507-6120, Fax ++43-512-
507-6190 http://www.uibk.ac.at/ecology/forschung/-
molecular ecology.html Compiled replies in the order
received: ### Google retrieved this article by McIn-
tyre. http://www.jstor.org/pss/2406777 Hope thats
what you’re looking for. Vikram
### I used it in the 1970’s but I’m traveling between
Bangkok and San Francisco today so it will be a day or
two before I can check my date. I used in connection
with hybrid zones and species deﬁnitions perhaps in the
context of the land snail Cerion. I don’t think I ever
claimed to have coined the phrase. To be continued
David
### I’m afraid that I don’t know, but if you do ﬁnd
out who it was, I would appreciate your letting me know
as well! Thanks, Melissa
### I believe it was A.J. Cain. See: Thomas
Uzzell and N. Philip Ashmore. Suture-Zones: An
Alternative View Syst Biol (1970) 19(2): 197-199
doi:10.2307/2412459
### The phrase (which refers to clines) comes from a
review of John Endler’s 1977 book by David Woodruﬀ
(1978. Review: Mechanisms of Speciation. Science 199:
1329-1330.) Erik
### Google’s your friend. Thomas Uzzell and N.
Philip Ashmole (Systematic Zoology Vol. 19, No. 2,
Jun., 1970) attributed it to A.J. Cain.
### Hello, I don’t know if this is the right paper.
I did a quick google search gave me this paper from
1967. (see attached) Foramen Pseudovale and Quasi-74 EvolDir November 1, 2011
Mammals www.jstor.org/stable/2406777 by GT Mac-
Intyre - 1967 - Cited by 31 - Related articles a tax-
onomist’s nightmare when compared to the classic cat-
egories of Reptilia and. Mammalia. Contrariwise, they
are an evolutionist’s delight because they have .. Sheila
### Check this out. It appears to be attributed to
A.J. Cain. Best, Paul
### It sounds like A. J. Cain (of Cain and Sheppard).
If you go to an old paper in Systematic Zoology, vol. 19,
No. 2, June 1970, the Points of View section, you will
ﬁnd a short comm by Uzzell and Ashmole, in which they
point out that A. J. Cain once told them that “the tax-
onomist’s nightmare is the evolutionist’s delight.” This
may lead to the answer.
### Woodruﬀ DS 1978. Mechanisms of speciation.
Science 199: 1329-1330. [last sentence] I subsequently
used a paraphrase in the Abstract of a 1980 paper on
the land snail Cerion [Biol J Linn Soc] Macintyre’s us-
age was spead out over two sentences on [p. 835] and
was unknown to me. David
###
birgit.ﬂorian@gmail.com
qPCR Normalization
Hi Dearcolleagues,
I am going to do qPCR in sturgeons. I have tested
several reference genes to obtain a stable housekeeping
gene for normalization. Unfortunately, there is not any
stability. I am going to do normalization against quan-
tiﬁcation cDNA. Would you please advise me, which
methods is suitable for cDNA quantiﬁcation. I would
beappreciated if I receiving your answers.
Kind regardsMahtab
mahtab yarmohammadi
<mahtab yarmohammadi@yahoo.com >
Rohlf Medal Lecture Dinner
ROHLF MEDAL FOR EXCELLENCE IN MORPHO-
METRIC METHODS AND APPLICATIONSThe Rohlf Medal was established in 2006 to mark the
70th birthday of F. James Rohlf, longtime Stony Brook
University faculty member. Recipients of the Medal are
recognized for their body of work in morphometrics.
Please go to life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/people/rohlfdinner
for further information.
Please join us on October 24, 2011 for the presentation
of the ﬁrst Rohlf Medal to Fred L. Bookstein, Profes-
sor of Statistics, University of Washington and Univer-
sit¨ atsprofessor of Morphometrics, Department of An-
thropology, University of Vienna and to celebrate the
career of Prof. F. James Rohlf, John S. Toll Professor
of Ecology and Evolution, Stony Brook University.
4:30 pm -“ Presentation of the Rohlf Medal and Provost
Lecture by Fred L. Bookstein: -Biology and Mathe-
matical Imagination: the Meaning of Morphometrics.-
Charles B. Wang Center, Lecture Hall. (Lecture open
to the public.)
6:00 pm -” Rohlf Medal Dinner and Celebration,
Charles B. Wang Center, Zodiac Gallery. $60.00 per
person for the dinner only. Please register by Oc-
tober 14, 2011 at: http://naples.cc.sunysb.edu/Pres/-
confsecct.nsf/rohlf . Michael A. Bell, Professor Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolution Stony Brook Univer-
sity Stony Brook, NY 11794-5245, USA Oﬃce Phone:
1-631-632-8574 http://life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/belllab/
mabell@life.bio.sunysb.edu
UManchester Phylogenomics
We seek a high calibre current PhD student for an in-
ternship with a duration of 6 months (or longer, by mu-
tual agreement), supervised jointly between the School
of Mathematics and the Faculty of Life Sciences at the
University of Manchester. The internship, beginning in
January 2012 or earlier, is paid at £300 gross per week
and is open to all current PhD students from the UK
and EU.
A PhD internship involves a current student taking
time oﬀ their studies to work on a short, focused project
which broadens their research experience. This post is
a collaboration between Dr John Moriarty in Mathe-
matics and Dr Chris Knight in Life Sciences (Computa-
tional and Evolutionary Biology Research Group). The
successful intern will apply the methods presented in
Jones and Moriarty, ’Evolutionary Inference for Func-
tional Data: Using Gaussian Processes on Phylogenies
to Study Shape Evolution’ ( arXiv:1004.4668v1 ) andNovember 1, 2011 EvolDir 75
recently discussed in the opinion piece ’Phylogenetic
inference for function valued traits: speech sound evo-
lution’ (Trends in Ecology and Evolution, in press) to
systematically compare evolutionary data obtained in
Dr Knight’s group. The goal is to make statistical in-
ference about the evolution of protein physical proper-
ties across thirteen yeast species. Strong computational
skills in R, MATLAB or a related language are required;
additionally, strong mathematical skills and an interest
in evolutionary biology would be desirable.
The School of Mathematics is the largest uniﬁed math-
ematics School in the UK, with approximately 80 aca-
demic staﬀ. It is located in the purpose-designed Alan
Turing Building, situated centrally on campus. Com-
putational and Evolutionary Biology is a department-
sized group within Manchester’s uniﬁed Faculty of Life
Sciences, which the research assessment exercise put
among the top three in the country for Biological Sci-
ences.
Informal enquiries may be made by 30th November to
John Moriarty: john.moriarty@manchester.ac.uk
+44 (0)161 2755883 or Chris Knight:
chris.knight@manchester.ac.uk +44 (0)161 2755378.
Dr Christopher Knight Michael Smith Building Well-
come Trust RCD Fellow Faculty of Life Sciences Tel:
+44 (0)161 2755378 The University of Manchester room
B.2012 Oxford Road tinyurl.com/knightLab/ Manch-
ester M13 9PT UK
Videos Conference
EvolutionaryRescue
In June 2011 a conference on Evolutionary Rescue was
organized in Montpellier with the support of the French
Ecological Society.The aim of this conference was to
synthesize recent advances improving our understand-
ing of the role of evolutionary mechanisms in species
responses to global change.
The video of this conference will be realeased online
on our website during the month of october 2011 (one
topic every week). The video are open to comments
and we hope you will participate to this very original
experience of /lessmuchvirtual /greatermuchconference by posting your
questions. The authors will try to respond online, this
is a unique opportunity to bring the scientiﬁc discussion
beyong the limit of a one day conference !
The ﬁrst topic (“A race between decline and extinc-tion”) can be viewed here :
http://www.sfecologie.org/blog/2011/09/30/-
evolrescueonline-topic-1/ Please forward this email to
anyone interested by the experience.
Oph´ elie Ronce <ophelie.ronce@univ-montp2.fr >
Videos Conference
EvolutionaryRescue 2
In June 2011 a conference on Evolutionary Rescue was
organized in Montpellier with the support of the French
Ecological Society.The aim of this conference was to
synthesize recent advances improving our understand-
ing of the role of evolutionary mechanisms in species
responses to global change. The second topic : “Mi-
gration, plasticity and adaptation” is now online with
talks by : Mark Kirkpatrick (University of Texas, USA)
Andrew Gonzalez (McGill University, Canada) Frank
Schurr (Potsdam University, Germany) & Katja Schif-
fers (LECA France) http://www.sfecologie.org/blog/-
2011/10/12/evolrescueonline-topic-2/ The ﬁrst topic
“A race between decline and extinction” is still on-
line with talks by : Richard Gomulkiewicz (Wash-
ington State University, USA) Graham Bell (McGill
University, Canada) Anne Charmantier & Olivier
Gimenez (CEFE, France) http://www.sfecologie.org/-
blog/2011/09/30/evolrescueonline-topic-1/ The video
are open to comments and we hope you will participate
to this very original experience of /lessmuchvirtual /greatermuchconfer-
ence by posting your questions. The authors will try
to respond online, this is a unique opportunity to bring
the scientiﬁc discussion beyong the limit of a one day
conference !
Oph´ elie Ronce, Fadela Tamoune et Nicolas Mouquet
Oph´ elie Ronce <ophelie.ronce@univ-montp2.fr >
Videos Conference
EvolutionaryRescue 3
Subject : Evolrescue online Topic #3 : Evolving com-
munities in changing environments
Text :76 EvolDir November 1, 2011
Dear all, Cher tous,
In June 2011 a conference on Evolutionary Rescue was
organized in Montpellier with the support of the French
Ecological Society.The aim of this conference was to
synthesize recent advances improving our understand-
ing of the role of evolutionary mechanisms in species
responses to global change.
The third topic : Evolving communities in changing
environments is now online with talks by :
Robert Holt (University of Florida, USA) R ˜Ac/circlecopyrtgis
Ferri ˜Are (ENS, France) Gregor Fussmann (McGill Uni-
versity, Canada)
http://www.sfecologie.org/blog/2011/10/20/-
evolrescueonline-topic-3/ The ﬁrst topic A race
between decline and extinction is still online with talks
by :
Richard Gomulkiewicz (Washington State University,
USA) Graham Bell (McGill University, Canada) Anne
Charmantier & Olivier Gimenez (CEFE, France)
http://www.sfecologie.org/blog/2011/09/30/-
evolrescueonline-topic-1/ The second topic : Mi-
gration, plasticity and adaptation is still online with
talks by :
Mark Kirkpatrick (University of Texas, USA) An-
drew Gonzalez (McGill University, Canada) Frank
Schurr (Potsdam University, Germany) & Katja Schif-
fers (LECA France)http://www.sfecologie.org/blog/2011/10/12/-
evolrescueonline-topic-2/ The video are open to
comments and we hope you will participate to this
very original experience of ˆA/lessmuchvirtual ˆA/greatermuchconference
by posting your questions. The authors will try to
respond online, this is a unique opportunity to bring
the scientiﬁc discussion beyong the limit of a one day
conference !
Please forward this email to anyone interested by the
experience.
Cordialement, all the best !
Les organisateurs Oph ˜Ac/circlecopyrtlie Ronce, Fadela Tamoune
et Nicolas Mouquet
With the help of : ANR, CEFE, CFI, CNRS, CRC,
EVORANGE, ISEM, NSERC-CRSNG, R ˜Ac/circlecopyrtgion LR,
SFE, SFR MEB, UM2
Nicolas Mouquet
Evolutionary Community Ecology Institut des Sciences
de lˆ aEvolution - CNRS UMR 5554 - Universit ˜Ac/circlecopyrtde
Montpellier II - CC 065 34095 MONTPELLIER Cedex
05
nmouquet@univ-montp2.fr Tel +33 4 67 14 93 57 Fax
+33 4 67 14 40 61 Skype : nmouquet
personal web site : http://nicolasmouquet.free.fr/-
group web site : http://www.eec.univ-montp2.fr/
Nicolas Mouquet <nmouquet@univ-montp2.fr >
PostDocs
Berlin Bioinformatics Metagenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
BrownU AdaptationMechanisms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
CNRS ULille EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
CornellU 2 DrosophilaBacteria . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
EmoryU Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Frankfurt PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Frankfurt Population Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
GoettingenU AmphipodSymbiosis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
HarvardU Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
HarveyMuddC EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
ImperialCollege London ComputationalSystemsBiol 83Lyon BacterialComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Marseille DrosophilaPigmentationEvolution . . . . . . . 84
MaxPlanckInst Leipzig HumanEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 85
MaxPlanckInst PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
MichiganStateU BEACON EvolutionBiol . . . . . . . . . . 86
Montpellier 2 PlantEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . 86
Paris PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
RoslinInst Scotland QuantGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
SangerInst ComputationalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
SaoPaulo SugarcaneBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
SmithCollege CiliateSequencing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89November 1, 2011 EvolDir 77
TexasAustin TumorEvolutionaryModels . . . . . . . . . . . 90
UArizona EvolutionaryPhysiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
UBern PlantBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
UCalgary EcoEvoDynamics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
UCalifornia Davis ComparativeFungalGenomics . . . 92
UCalifornia Davis Heterosis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
UCalifornia SantaCruz ExperimentalEvolution . . . . 93
UCBerkeley EvolutionGlobalChangeGenomics . . . . . 94
UEdinburgh HostParasiteEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
UEdinburgh HostParasiteEvolution 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
UExeter EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
UFlorida Phylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
UFribourg DaphniaEvolGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
UHawaii Manoa CopepodGeneFlow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
UKansas Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
ULiverpool DaphniaEpigenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98UMelbourne DenguePopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . 98
UMinnesota SpeciationAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
UNorthCarolina ChapelHill EvolutionaryTheory . . . 99
UNotreDame Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99
UProvence BacterialPhylogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
URhodeIsland PhytoPlanktonPopGenetics . . . . . . . 101
USaoPaulo CnidariaPhylogenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
USheﬃeld EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
UStAndrews CricketEvolGenomics 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
UVirginia Evolution Ecology Physiology . . . . . . . . . 103
UWyoming ComputationalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
UWyoming PlantEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . 104
Vienna thermal adaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
WayneStateU GenomicsData . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
Berlin Bioinformatics Metagenomics
Post-doc - Metagenomics / Bioinformatics in Freshwa-
ter Biodiversity
The Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland
Fisheries (IGB)( www.igb-berlin.de ) in Berlin, Germany
invites applications for a post-doctoral researcher in
the ﬁeld of metagenomics, metatranscriptomics, and/or
bioinformatics. The successful candidate will work on
a large collaborative project between IGB (Martin All-
gaier, Hans-Peter Grossart, Michael T Monaghan) and
Argonne National Laboratory (Jack Gilbert) research-
ing microbial biodiversity in freshwaters. The post-doc
has considerable freedom to develop their own research
direction(s) within the project. The successful candi-
date would be based at the newly formed Berlin Center
for Genomics in Biodiversity Research, with state-of-
the art NGS and computational facilities, located in
the Botanical Museum (bgbm.de) on the campus of the
Freie Universitaet Berlin ( www.fu-berlin.de ).
The position requires a PhD in biology, informatics, or
a related ﬁeld; and experience with analysis of metage-
nomic or similar data. The ideal candidate would have
experience using bioinformatic pipelines or perl/python
scripts to analyse large NGS data sets. The working
language is english.
Berlin is the most dynamic, least inexpensive, and ar-
guably the liveliest European capital, oﬀering an abun-
dance of social and cultural activities. (As our former
mayor once famously said, Berlin is “poor but sexy”).
For more information see http://www.visitberlin.de/enThe position is available immediately and is funded for
two years, with the possibility for extension. In keep-
ing with the IGB’s policy regarding gender equity, fe-
male applicants are particularly encouraged. Disabled
people with identical qualiﬁcations will be favoured.
Please contact Michael T Monaghan (monaghan@igb-
berlin.de) for more information and for details on the
application procedure.
Michael Monaghan <monaghan@igb-berlin.de >
BrownU AdaptationMechanisms
SEEKING POSTDOC INTERESTED IN APPLY-
ING METHODS OF PROTEIN BIOLOGY TO UN-
DERSTAND THE MOLECULAR MECHANISMS OF
ADAPTATION.
An NIH-funded position with Dr. Daniel Weinreich at
Brown University is available immediately to dissect the
mechanistic determinants of antibiotic resistance muta-
tions in TEM-1 beta-lactamase alleles. This system is
well-suited to the broader question because the enzyme
is soluble and apparently operates ’atomically’ in the
periplasm (i.e. independently of any other enzymes).
The ideal candidate will take substantial ownership of
all phases of the project, and thus must - have a PhD
and bench experience in relevant methods; - be intellec-
tually curious, mature, creative, highly motivated and
comfortable with quantitative reasoning.
Importantly, while initial funding is for work on beta-
lactamase, individuals with related research systems are78 EvolDir November 1, 2011
strongly encouraged to apply.
The Weinreich lab is broadly interested in how genetic
novelty fuels evolution by natural selection. Using tools
from computer science and mathematics we model the
evolutionary consequences of epistasis (functional in-
teractions) within the genome. This motivates comple-
mentary experimental work using techniques of molec-
ular biology, microbiology and protein biology to mea-
sure patterns and causes of epistasis within genes and
genomes of bacteria and bacteriophage. This experi-
mental work in turn drives novel theory. See http:/-
/research.brown.edu/myresearch/Daniel Weinreich for
further details on current work in the lab.
Professor Weinreich is an assistant professor in the De-
partment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology ( http:/-
/www.brown.edu/Departments/EEB/ ) and the Cen-
ter for Computational and Molecular Biology ( http://-
www.brown.edu/Research/CCMB/ ).
Brown University is an intellectually vital university
with ample opportunities for collaboration across de-
partments. It is located in Providence, Rhode Island,
one of the oldest cities in the United States and now
an exciting and eclectic mix of communities with beau-
tiful architecture, a diverse nightlife and ready access
to Newport, Boston and New York City as well as to
Block Island, Cape Cod and the mountains of northern
New England.
Interested individuals should email their CV, represen-
tative publications and the names of three references
directly to Dr. Weinreich (weinreich at brown dot edu).
Daniel M. Weinreich, Assistant Professor Department
of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, and Center for
Computational Molecular Biology Oﬃce: 300 Wal-
ter Hall, 80 Waterman Street Lab: Sydney Frank
Hall/LSB 157, 60 Olive Street Brown University, Provi-
dence, RI 02912 Oﬃce phone: 401/863-3937 lab 3-2749
fax 3-2166 http://research.brown.edu/myresearch/-
Daniel Weinreich daniel weinreich@brown.edu
CNRS ULille EvolutionaryGenomics
A two-years postdoctoral position is available at the
plant population genetics and evolution laboratory
(GEPV, CNRS-Universit´ e Lille 1) in Lille, France. The
candidate will develop a project on the evolution and
diversity of small non-coding RNAs controlling domi-
nance/recessivity in sporophytic self-incompatibility inArabidopsis species.
Dominance/recessivity is one of the most basic prop-
erties of inheritance mechanisms, yet its genetic ba-
sis and evolution have been among the most highly
debated topics in evolutionary genetics (reviewed in
Billiard & Castric 2011). A recent study of the self-
incompatibility locus in ﬂowering plants provided em-
pirical evidence that small non-coding RNAs control
dominance–recessivity by mediating methylation of the
promoter of the recessive allele. On the basis of
this functional model, we investigate the patterns of
molecular evolution and level of functional constraint
on the small non-coding RNAs present at the self-
incompatibility locus, as well as the patterns of co-
evolution between the small RNAs themselves and their
putative targets in closely related Arabidopsis species.
The successful applicant should have a Ph.D. in biol-
ogy or a related discipline (e.g. bioinformatics) with
experience in evolutionary genomics and/or molecular
biology. The ability to manage large experimental de-
signs for phenotypic analysis, including plant controlled
crosses wil be an asset. Fluency in English is also ap-
preciated.
The postdoc will join a young and interactive re-
search group focusing on the ecology, evolution and
genomics of self-incompatibility, including theoreti-
cians and experimentalists. The group has recently
been awarded a /lessmuchYoung investigator /greatermuchgrant from
ANR (ANR Jeunes Chercheurs). Lille is a vi-
brant cultural city with a central location in Eu-
rope, just 35 minutes from Bruxelles, 58 minutes from
Paris and 2h15 from London by TGV. More infor-
mation about the group is available on the web at:
http://gepv.univ-lille1.fr/ and about the city of Lille
at : http://www.lilletourism.com/visite 360.php?lg=-
fr&nav typ=1 . Candidates from all countries are eli-
gible. Monthly salary is 2,500 euros. Applications will
be considered until the position is ﬁlled, ideally at the
begining of 2012. To apply, email your CV (including
a publication list), a brief statement of research inter-
ests, and arrange to have two emails of recommendation
sent directly to both Sylvain.Billiard@univ-lille1.fr and
Vincent.Castric@univ-lille1.fr. Please email questions
regarding the position to either of us.
Vincent Castric & Sylvain Billiard
Billiard S & Castric V. 2011. Evidence for Fisher’s
dominance theory: how many ’special cases’? Trends
in Genetics 27(11) :441-445.
– Vincent CASTRIC CR1 CNRS, HDR.
UMR 8016 Laboratoire de Genetique et Evolution des
Populations Vegetales CNRS - Universite de Lille 1November 1, 2011 EvolDir 79
Batiment SN2, bureau 108 59655 Villeneuve d’Ascq -
FRANCE Tel: +33 3 2033 5923 - Fax: +33 3 2043
6979 http://gepv.univ-lille1.fr/ Vincent.Castric@univ-
lille1.fr
CornellU 2 DrosophilaBacteria
Two postdoctoral positions are available in Brian Laz-
zaro’s lab at Cornell University to study the evolu-
tionary and functional genetics of Drosophila interac-
tions with opportunistically infectious bacteria. The
ﬁrst position is to conduct mechanistic study of the ge-
netic mechanisms linking metabolism and immunity in
Drosophila. The second position is in comparative and
functional bacterial genetics as it relates to infection of
the Drosophila host. Anticipated start date on both
positions is Fall 2012, but this is negotiable. Salary is
to be paid on the standard NIH postdoctoral scale.
Both positions are part of growing in interest in my lab
to ﬁguring out how host and pathogen genetics com-
bine with environmental contributions to modulate the
dynamics of bacterial infection in Drosophila. Our ul-
timate goals are to gain insight into the mechanistic
basis for GxE in the Drosophila host, mechanisms of
host-pathogen GxG (and GxGxE), and the evolution-
ary consequences of these interactions. Opportunity
exists to work on any of several experiments, or poten-
tially on a project of the postdoc’s own devising, de-
pending on the skills and interests of the person ﬁlling
each post.
POSITION 1: Genetic Mechanisms Linking
Metabolism and Immunity. Dietary nutrition can
have strong impact on the ability of insects to resist
infection. Drosophila show diet-dependent alteration
in the ability to tolerate and resist bacterial infection,
but the mechanistic linkages between dietary nutrition
and immune defense are largely unknown. The candi-
date hired into this position would be responsible for
designing and executing genetic experiments aimed at
elucidating crosstalk between metabolic and immune
pathways, and for determining how nutritional intake
might inﬂuence overall defense against infection. Ideal
applicants will have experience in Drosophila functional
genetics and/or in insect metabolism and physiology
and an interest in the evolutionary consequences of
physiological pleiotropy.
POSITION 2: Comparative and Functional Bacterial
Genomics Our laboratory experiments emphasize sev-eral bacterial species that were originally isolated as in-
fections of ﬁeld-captured Drosophila. These strains and
species vary widely in their pathology and virulence to
experimentally infected Drosophila, as well as in other
basic characteristics. I am seeking a postdoctoral scien-
tist with experience in bacterial comparative genomics
and functional bacterial genetics to lead experiments
exploring how opportunistic infections become estab-
lished in insect hosts. This work will ideally extend
deeper than classical virulence mechanisms and host
immune responses, and will include physiological inter-
actions between the host and microbe. One ultimate
objective is to establish the biology that underlies host-
genotype by pathogen-genotype interactions. Microbial
taxa of particular interest include Serratia marcescens,
various species of Providencia, and Enterococcus fae-
calis, but work on other microbes is also possible.
Candidates interested in either position should email a
CV and brief statement of research background and in-
terests to Brian Lazzaro at bplazzaro@cornell.edu. In-
terested and qualiﬁed candidates may contact me at the
same address for more information about either posi-
tion.
Brian P. Lazzaro, Ph.D. Associate Professor, Insect Ge-
nomics Director of Graduate Studies, Entomology De-
partment of Entomology 3134 Comstock Hall Cornell
University Ithaca, NY 14853 USA
tel: 607-255-3254 fax: 607-255-0939 http:/-
/www.lazzaro.entomology.cornell.edu bplaz-
zaro@gmail.com
EmoryU Bioinformatics
The Taylor Lab ( http://bx.mathcs.emory.edu/ ) in the
Biology and Mathematics & Computer Science depart-
ments at Emory University is currently recruiting post-
doctoral scholars with expertise in Bioinformatics and
Computational Biology. The lab currently has research
interests a number of areas:
* The Galaxy Project ( http://galaxyproject.org ),
which builds software and infrastructure to make com-
putational biology more accessible to experimentalists.
Research foci include both the development of analysis
and data management tools, and the development of
novel user interfaces and interactive visualizations for
analyzing large-scale data.
* Distributed and high-performance computing for data80 EvolDir November 1, 2011
intensive science, speciﬁcally genomics.
* Vertebrate functional genomics, particularly through
the development of novel machine learning, data min-
ing, and data integration methods incorporating ge-
nomic sequence and experimental data.
* Genomics and Epigenomic mechanisms of Gene reg-
ulation, the role of transcription factors and chromatin
structure in global gene expression, development, and
diﬀerentiation.
We are seeking post-docs with complementary research
interests. Well developed research plans that com-
plement but extend the lab’s current interests will be
looked upon favorably. Speciﬁc area of academic back-
ground is ﬂexible. Our group is located in the Biol-
ogy Department; however because our work is largely
computational, programming / software development
experience is important.
Applicants should submit a CV, a statement of re-
search interests or research plan, and a few references
to james.taylor@emory.edu.
–http://galaxyproject.org/ http://getgalaxy.org/
http://usegalaxy.org/ http://galaxyproject.org/wiki/
Dave Clements <clements@galaxyproject.org >
Frankfurt PopulationGenomics
The Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre (BiK-
F) is a interdisciplinary institute with the mission to
carry out internationally outstanding research on the
interactions of biodiversity and climate change on the
organism level. It has been founded by the Senckenberg
Gesellschaft f¨ ur Naturforschung, the Goethe-University
Frankfurt am Main, and other partners. The Centre is
funded by the Federal State of Hesse through its Initia-
tive for the Development of Scientiﬁc and Economic Ex-
cellence (LOEWE). It provides a new, dynamic research
environment that integrates a variety of disciplines from
both natural and social sciences. The Project Area D
ˆ aLaboratory Centreˆ a (Molecular Ecology Laboratory;
headed by Markus Pfenninger) invites applications for
the position of a
Postdoctoral researcher in ˆ aPopulation Genomicsˆ a
Project D1.1 [Ref. #D27a]
The applicant is expected to carry out cutting edge
research in the ﬁeld of population genomics with the
model organisms (land- , freshwater snails, non-bitingmidges) of the group. Central aim is the identiﬁcation
of genes involved in the local adaptation to diﬀerent
climate regimes. Participation in university teaching
is possible, while the acquisition of external research
funding is highly desired.
The applicant should hold an earned Ph.D. in biol-
ogy, with a strong background in population genet-
ics, evolutionary ecology and/or genomics. She or he
should already have experience with large data sets and
should be interested in linking evolutionary and climate
change issues. Practical experience in molecular work
is desired. Applicants should have a strong publication
record. Very good written and oral English language
skills, willingness to learn at least basic German and
interest in joining a exciting multidisciplinary research
team are required, as well as proven organizing abilities.
Salary and beneﬁts are according to a public service
position in Germany (TV-H E13). The Research Cen-
tre BiK-F advocates gender equality. Women and men
are therefore strongly encouraged to apply. Equally
qualiﬁed severely handicapped applicants will be given
preference.
The contract shall start 1th of January 2012 and will
be restricted to 24 months. Review of the application
starts on November 1st 2011 and will continue until the
position is ﬁlled. The duty station will be Frankfurt am
Main, Germany.
Please send your application by post or preferably e-
mail, including a detailed CV, 3 reference contacts, a
list of publications and up to ﬁve selected re/e-prints
before October, 31st 2011 to Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. V. Mos-
brugger, Scientiﬁc Coordinator Biodiversity and Cli-
mate Research Centre, Senckenberganlage 25, D-60325
Frankfurt am Main, Germany. E-mail to Service & Ad-
ministration: recruiting@senckenberg.de.
For scientiﬁc enquiries about the position please con-
tact Prof. Dr. M. Pfenninger
pfenninger@bio.uni-frankfurt.de
Frankfurt Population Genomics
The Biodiversity and Climate Research Centre (BiK-
F) is a interdisciplinary institute with the mission to
carry out internationally outstanding research on the
interactions of biodiversity and climate change on the
organism level. It has been founded by the Senckenberg
Gesellschaft f¨ ur Naturforschung, the Goethe-UniversityNovember 1, 2011 EvolDir 81
Frankfurt am Main, and other partners. The Centre is
funded by the Federal State of Hesse through its Initia-
tive for the Development of Scientiﬁc and Economic Ex-
cellence (LOEWE). It provides a new, dynamic research
environment that integrates a variety of disciplines from
both natural and social sciences. The Project Area D
ˆ aLaboratory Centreˆ a (Molecular Ecology Laboratory;
headed by Markus Pfenninger) invites applications for
the position of a
Postdoctoral researcher in ˆ aPopulation Genomicsˆ a
Project D1.1 [Ref. #D27a]
The applicant is expected to carry out cutting edge
research in the ﬁeld of population genomics with the
model organisms (land- , freshwater snails, non-biting
midges) of the group. Central aim is the identiﬁcation
of genes involved in the local adaptation to diﬀerent
climate regimes. Participation in university teaching
is possible, while the acquisition of external research
funding is highly desired. The applicant should hold
an earned Ph.D. in biology, with a strong background
in population genetics, evolutionary ecology and/or ge-
nomics. She or he should already have experience with
large data sets and should be interested in linking evolu-
tionary and climate change issues. Practical experience
in molecular work is desired. Applicants should have a
strong publication record. Very good written and oral
English language skills, willingness to learn at least ba-
sic German and interest in joining a multidisciplinary
research team are required, as well as proven organizing
abilities.
Salary and beneﬁts are according to a public service
position in Germany (TV-H E13). The Research Cen-
tre BiK-F advocates gender equality. Women and men
are therefore strongly encouraged to apply. Equally
qualiﬁed severely handicapped applicants will be given
preference.
The contract shall start 1th of January 2012 and will
be restricted to 24 months. Review of the application
starts on November 1st 2011 and will continue until the
position is ﬁlled. The duty station will be Frankfurt am
Main, Germany.
Please send your application by mail or preferably e-
mail, including a detailed CV, 3 reference contacts, a
list of publications and up to ﬁve selected re/e-prints
before October, 31st 2011 to Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. V. Mos-
brugger, Scientiﬁc Coordinator Biodiversity and Cli-
mate Research Centre, Senckenberganlage 25, D-60325
Frankfurt am Main, Germany. E-mail to Service and
Administration: recruiting@senckenberg.de.
For enquiries about the position contact Prof. Dr. M.
Pfenninger (E-mail: pfenninger@bio.uni-frankfurt.de).– Prof. Dr. Markus Pfenninger Forschungszentrum
Biodiversit¨ at& Klima Molekulare ˜Akologie Gruppe
Geb¨ aude A BioCampus Siesmayerstraße D 60054
Frankfurt am Main Germany
Tel.: ++ 49 69 798 24714 Fax : ++ 49 69 798
24910 eMail: Pfenninger@bio.uni-frankfurt.de http:/-
/user.uni-frankfurt.de/˜markusp pfenninger@bio.uni-
frankfurt.de
GoettingenU AmphipodSymbiosis
The $B!H(BGeomicrobiology and Symbiosis$B!I(B re-
search group in the Courant Research Centre (CRC)
for Geobiology, University of Goettingen, Germany, in-
vites applications for a postdoctoral position to study
the ecology and evolution of gut symbioses in ground-
water amphipods.
Niphargus is a diverse genus of primarily subterranean
amphipods distributed across most of Europe, and
some species live in sulﬁdic caves, such as Frasassi
caves (Italy) and Movile cave (Romania). Unlike most
subterranean ecosystems that are fed by aboveground
photosynthetic input, Frasassi and Movile caves are
supported by chemoautotrophic microbial productiv-
ity. Three Niphargus species are found in Frasassi (Flot
et al., BMC Evolutionary Biology 2010, 10:171), and
preliminary analyses suggest that they all harbor gut
symbionts, some of which are closely related to gut mi-
crobes of shrimps living at sulﬁdic deep-sea hydrother-
mal vents! The postdoctoral project will examine the
ecology and evolution of Niphargus gut symbionts, us-
ing samples collected from Frasassi and other sulﬁdic
and non-sulﬁdic groundwaters across Europe. Topics
such as (but not limited to) the potential role of gut
symbionts in invasion of sulﬁdic ecosystems, and possi-
ble host-symbiont co-evolution will be addressed.
Goettingen is a quaint German university town with
an international student-based community. The
CRC Geobiology, funded through the German Ex-
cellence Initiative, oﬀers state-of-the-art facilities and
an excellent environment for interdisciplinary re-
search. The successful candidate will join a small
but growing group ( http://www.uni-goettingen.de/-
en/102704.html ) established in August 2008.
A PhD degree in Biology, a strong background in molec-
ular biology and phylogenetic analyses, and ﬂuency in
English are required. Previous ﬁeldwork experience is
desired. The position is funded through the German82 EvolDir November 1, 2011
Excellence Initiative, and salary is based on the Ger-
man TVL-13 scale. Initially, a one-year contract start-
ing on March 1, 2012 will be oﬀered. Based on satis-
factory performance of the selected candidate, the con-
tract may be extended until July 31, 2014. The Univer-
sity of Goettingen is an equal opportunities employer
and places particular emphasis on fostering career op-
portunities for women. Qualiﬁed women are therefore
strongly encouraged to apply as they are underrepre-
sented in this ﬁeld. Disabled persons with equivalent
aptitude will be favored.
Applications should be sent to Dr. Sharmishtha
Dattagupta (sdattag@uni-goettingen.de) by November
31, 2011, and include a curriculum vita, copies of one or
two recent publications, a statement of research inter-
est (or letter of motivation), and contact information
of two referees. Informal inquiries are welcome.
Sharmishtha Dattagupta <sdattag@uni-
goettingen.de >
HarvardU Bioinformatics
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN BIOINFORMAT-
ICS AND COMPUTATIONAL BIOLOGY
The Lemos laboratory at Harvard University is search-
ing for a postdoctoral fellow in bioinformatics / compu-
tational biology interested in pursuing research in epige-
nomics, population genomics, genotype-environment
interaction, and the architecture of complex diseases.
The fellow should be interested in working with com-
putational data analysis, and be motivated by research
that combines careful genetics and extensive compu-
tational and statistical analyses of genome-wide data
from a variety of experimental sources.
The Lemos laboratory is housed at the Harvard School
of Public Health located within a vibrant research com-
munity that also comprises the Harvard Medical School,
and several aﬃliated hospitals. The school has signif-
icant strengths in computational biology, biostatistics,
genomics, and engineering that will be all within close
reach of the fellow. Applicants must be extremely curi-
ous and motivated by science, be genuinely enthusias-
tic, and have the ability to work independently within a
collegial and collaborative team. Applicants should ex-
pect a fun and creative research environment in which I
can provide plenty of individual mentoring and support
to develop your own interests and ideas.Applicants must have a PhD at the time of the appoint-
ment and have a strong analytical background with pro-
ﬁciency in one or more programming languages.
Applications should be sent to ble-
mos@hsph.harvard.edu. Please send a cover letter
describing your research interests and experience, a
C.V. and contact information for three references.
Review of applications will start on November 15th,
and will continue until the position is ﬁlled.
Informal enquires of interested candidates with other
backgrounds are also welcome.
Bernardo Lemos Assistant Professor Harvard School of
Public Health http://www.hsph.harvard.edu/faculty/-
bernardo-lemos/ blemos@hsph.harvard.edu
blemos@oeb.harvard.edu
HarveyMuddC EvolBiol
The post-doc advertised below is a great opportunity
for someone with an interest in both teaching and re-
search. The area of the search is open; evolutionary
biologists are strongly encouraged to apply.
—–
The Harvey Mudd College Biology Department invites
applications for a Teaching & Research Postdoctoral
Fellowship in Biology to commence in the fall semester
of 2012. The successful candidate will have the poten-
tial for excellence in teaching and have a strong and
ongoing research program. The fellow will teach one
course per semester and supervise undergraduate re-
search. Candidates from all areas of biology are encour-
aged to apply. Experience with or demonstrated ability
to eﬀectively teach students from diverse backgrounds
will be considered among the criteria for appointment.
Harvey Mudd College is a highly selective undergradu-
ate institution of science, engineering and mathematics,
located 30 miles east of downtown Los Angeles. Further
information may be found at http://www.hmc.edu/bio
. Applicants should submit; a single page cover letter,
a three page CV, a single page description of their cur-
rent research program, a single page teaching statement
and the names of three referees. Candidates are also
encouraged to include a single page statement about
their personal eﬀorts working in and promoting diverse
academic environments. The cover letter should ad-
dress how their research interests and teaching philoso-
phy complement or match the existing strengths in theNovember 1, 2011 EvolDir 83
department. All application materials should be sent
as PDF ﬁles to https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/-
jobs/1114 . Review of applications will begin November
15, 2011. For further information contact: Associate
Professor Robert A. Drewell (drewell@hmc.edu), Chair,
HHMI Postdoctoral Fellowship Search Committee.
Harvey Mudd College is an aﬃrmative action and equal
opportunity employer and is committed to the recruit-
ment of candidates historically underrepresented on col-
lege faculties.
—–
Daniel Stoebel Assistant Professor of Biology Harvey
Mudd College 301 Platt Blvd. Claremont, CA 91711
USA
909.607.1141
Daniel Stoebel@hmc.edu
ImperialCollege London
ComputationalSystemsBiol
Research Associate In Computational Systems Biol-
ogy*
Department of Computing
Fixed Term for up to 3 years
Preferred start date 1 ^st January 2012
*Salary: 31,300 - 39,920 per annum*
The Department of Computing is one of the leading
departments of Computer Science in the world. In the
UK, it has consistently been awarded the highest re-
search rating (5*) in Research Assessment Exercises
(RAE), coming 2nd in the UK 2008 RAE, and was
rated as “Excellent” in the previous national assess-
ment of teaching quality. In the 2010 Times Higher
Education, it is ranked as the 9 ^th best in the world.
An exciting opportunity has arisen for a Research Asso-
ciate (post-doctoral) for the prestigious European Re-
search Council Starting Grant funded project on anal-
ysis of biological networks. The purpose of the project
is to develop and apply sophisticated graph theoretic
algorithms and models carefully tuned to extract bi-
ological knowledge from topologies of real-world bio-
logical networks, including protein-protein interaction,
metabolic, transcriptional regulation, and disease asso-
ciation networks. The aim is to mine biological network
data for new biological insight that would complementthe knowledge that can be obtained from mining ge-
netic sequence data. The developed graph theoretic
tools will further be applied to other network domains
including economic, social, and computer networks.
The successful applicant will be responsible for devel-
oping new graph theoretic models and algorithms for
some of the foremost problems in computational sys-
tems biology, including network alignment and network
integration of various types of data.You will design and
implement the models and algorithms, apply them to
real-world biological network (and other domain) data
from public and private sources, statistically analyze
the results, write research papers, present the work at
international conferences, and contribute to updating
our open source software package, GraphCrunch, with
the new methods.
To apply you will have a PhD (or equivalent) in
Computer Science, Engineering, Mathematics, Physics,
Bioinformatics, or a related discipline. You should
have a proven knowledge and track record in several
of the following areas: graph and complexity theory,
algorithms, bioinformatics, programming in C, C++, a
scripting language and Matlab, using a parallel com-
puting environment, scientiﬁc computing, data analy-
sis, statistics and machine learning.
Preference will be given to applicants with a proven
research record and publications in relevant areas.All
applicants must be ﬂuent in English.
You will be part of the Computational Systems Biol-
ogy Research Group, in the Computing Department
and based at the South Kensington campus. For fur-
ther information on the group and related projects see:
http://www.doc.ic.ac.uk/˜natasha/
How to apply:
Our preferred method of application is online via our
website at: http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/employment
(please select job search then enter the job title or
vacancy reference number *EN2011XXXBD* into key-
words).Please complete and upload an application form
as directed.
Applications must include the following:
* A college application form - quoting reference number
*NP 10 11* on the form * A full CV including: Univer-
sity degrees and dates, past and present posts and list
of publications. * A 2-page statement indicating what
you see are interesting research issues relating to the
above post and why your expertise is relevant.
For queries regarding the application process contact
Joanne Day by email to research.oﬃcer@doc.ic.ac.uk
*Closing date for applications: November 7, 2011*84 EvolDir November 1, 2011
/Committed to equality and valuing diversity.We are
also an Athena Silver SWAN Award winner and a
Stonewall Diversity Champion.
Natasa Przulj <n.przulj@imperial.ac.uk >
Lyon
BacterialComparativeGenomics
A 24 months post-doctoral position is available to work
on the comparative genomics of piezophilic microorgan-
isms, i.e. bacteria and archaea adapted to high pres-
sure such as those living next to deep-sea hydrother-
mal vents, at the LBBE (Biometry and Evolutionary
Biology lab) of the university of Lyon, France ( http:/-
/lbbe.univ-lyon1.fr/?lang=en ).
The successful candidate should have a PhD in a ﬁeld
closely related to Bioinformatics and Comparative Ge-
nomics, have a strong background in Phylogenetics,
Molecular Evolution and Statistics and good program-
ming skills. Some knowledge of structural biology
would be a plus. He/she will have to interact with
microbiologists and biochemists in the context of a
larger project funded by the ANR (National Research
Agency) in collaboration with labs in Lyon, Grenoble
and Brest, France. The aim of this project is to under-
stand the genetic basis of life at high pressure.
The work will be conducted by Vincent Daubin from
the Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Genomics Group
and Laurent Gueguen, from the Baobab group.
The BBE lab oﬀers a highly stimulating scientiﬁc en-
vironment, and Lyon is a beautiful, history rich, lively
city. Net salary is around 2000 per month.
Please send a CV, motivation letter and the names of
two referees to Vincent Daubin (vincent.daubin@univ-
lyon1.fr) and Laurent Gueguen (laurent.gueguen@univ-
lyon1.fr).
Keywords: Phylogenetics, comparative genomics, mod-
els of sequence evolution, biochemistry
Vincent Daubin <vincent.daubin@univ-lyon1.fr >Marseille
DrosophilaPigmentationEvolution
Post-doctoral Position: Evolution and Development of
Drosophila Pigmentation VMarseille, FranceV
A postdoctoral position funded for 3 years by the
French National Research Agency (ANR) is available in
the lab jointly headed by Nicolas Gompel and Benjamin
Prudhomme at the IBDML, in Marseille (France).
The lab is interested in understanding the genetic and
molecular mechanisms underlying the evolution of mor-
phological traits. Developmental genetics studies have
shown that the formation of any given trait is governed
by gene regulatory networks (GRNs), and in turn, that
morphological changes can result from changes in the
interactions among the components of the GRNs. In
this frame, we want to understand how are changes
leading to a morphological novelty distributed in GRN
and how do new regulatory functions evolve.
To address these questions were using the wing pigmen-
tation patterns that have evolved and diversiﬁed among
Drosophila species. Were using functional approaches
in multiple Drosophila species to reconstruct the GRN
responsible for the formation of wing pigmentation pat-
terns.
The project will involve ChIP-seq experiments on pupal
wings to identify the target sequences of a transcription
factor that has evolved novel target genes and plays a
key role in the formation of wing pigmentation pattern
and the functional characterization of these target se-
quences in an evolutionary perspective.
Other lines of research pertaining to our system, such
as the characterization of functionally distinct cis-
regulatory elements, can also be discussed and sugges-
tions are welcome.
Applicants will have a background in either devel-
opmental biology and/or evolutionary biology and a
strong interest to tackle mechanistic questions. A train-
ing in molecular biology is required and a training in
computational biology to analyze high-throughput se-
quencing data is deﬁnitively a plus. Experience with
Drosophila is not necessarily required but is obviously
welcome.
Application should include a CV, a brief state-
ment of interest (why do you want to join ourNovember 1, 2011 EvolDir 85
lab speciﬁcally), and contact information for three
references. Applications and any questions should
be directed to nicolas.gompel@univmed.fr and ben-
jamin.prudhomme@univmed.fr.
For more information about our lab and our
institute please visit our websites: http://-
www.ibdml.univ-mrs.fr/equipes/BP NG/index.html
http://www.ibdm.univ-mrs.fr/index gb.php Benjamin
Prud’homme
IBDML, CNRS UMR 6216, case 907, Parc scientiﬁque
de Luminy 13288 Marseille cedex 9, France Oﬃce: +
33 4 91 26 92 06 Fax + 33 4 91 26 97 26
benjamin.prudhomme@univmed.fr
Lab website IBDML website
benjamin prud’homme <benjamin.prudhomme@univmed.fr >
MaxPlanckInst Leipzig
HumanEvolution
TITLE: *Post-Doctoral Position in Physical Anthro-
pology*
The */Department of Human Evolution/* of the
Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology,
Leipzig (Germany) invites applications for a post-
doctoral position in Physical Anthropology. In the de-
partment, palaeoanthropological research is conducted
within a multidisciplinary environment involving three
main groups of scientists: biological anthropologists,
Palaeolithic archeologists, and archaeological scien-
tists/geochronologists. More information about the
Department of Human Evolution may be found at
http://www.eva.mpg.de/evolution . The position is a
research post. We expect the successful candidate
to work closely with Professor Jean-Jacques Hublin
on the analysis of the */Middle to Late Pleistocene
cranio-dental fossil record. /*The selected candidate
will have a Ph.D. and a signiﬁcant trackrecord of re-
search. The initial length of the appointment is two
years but the contract is extendable. For further infor-
mation please contact Professor Jean-Jacques Hublin
(hublin@eva.mpg.de). Applications, including cover
letter, curriculum vitae, reprints of selected publica-
tions, a short statement of research interests, and the
names of three referees should be sent by mail before
the 31 ^st of December, 2011 to: *Jean-Jacques Hublin,
Department of Human Evolution, Max Planck Institute
for Evolutionary Anthropology, Deutscher Platz 6, D-04103 Leipzig (Germany)*
Kind Regards,
Alyson Reid **
Alyson Reid <alyson reid@eva.mpg.de >
MaxPlanckInst PopulationGenomics
Postdoctoral Fellowship - Population Genomics
The newly formed group for Biophysics and Evolution-
ary Dynamics at the Max-Planck-Institute for Dynam-
ics and Self-Organization in G¨ ottingen is looking for
a highly motivated postdoc to work with Oskar Hal-
latschek on controlled evolution experiments involving
microbial colonies and bioﬁlms.
On the basis of detailed models of the mutation ac-
cumulation process in structured asexual populations,
we aim at elucidating evolutionary processes that are
speciﬁc to the formation of bioﬁlms (see, e.g., http:/-
/www.pnas.org/content/104/50/19926.abstract ). The
project is primarily experimental but will involve com-
parison with theoretical and computational approaches.
The successful applicant should have a PhD in Biology,
experienced with state of basic techniques of molecular
biology and have some previous experience with micro-
bial evolution experiments.
The postdoc will join a young and interactive research
group focusing on nonequilibrium statistical physics
and evolutionary dynamics, including theoreticians and
experimentalists. We cultivate an international at-
mosphere and the everyday working language is En-
glish. The MPI DS is located close to the center of
the medieval town of G¨ ottingen. More information
about the group is available on the web at: http://-
www.evo.ds.mpg.de The successful applicant will re-
ceive a 2 years postdoctoral fellowship. The net salary
starts at approximately euro 2100,- per month depend-
ing on age and experience. Interested candidates should
send a cover letter summarizing their research back-
ground and interest in the position, CV, and contact
information of three potential referees as a single PDF
ﬁle to: oskar.hallatschek.applications@gmail.com
Applications will be reviewed beginning November 30,
2011. Interviews will be held in December. If you have
any speciﬁc questions (e.g. details of the project), feel
free contact the group leader.
The Max-Planck-Institute for Dynamics and Self-86 EvolDir November 1, 2011
Organization is an Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Ac-
tion Employer and has an aﬃrmative action for the
disabled.
oskar.hallatschek.applications@googlemail.com
MichiganStateU BEACON
EvolutionBiol
*BEACON Center for the Study of Evolution in Ac-
tion*
*BEACON Distinguished Postdoctoral Fellows Pro-
gram*
**
BEACON is an NSF Science and Technology Center
headquartered at Michigan State University with part-
ners at North Carolina A&T State University, Univer-
sity of Idaho, University of Texas at Austin, and Uni-
versity of Washington. BEACON brings together biol-
ogists, computer scientists, and engineers to study evo-
lutionary dynamics using biological and computational
techniques and to apply evolutionary principles to en-
gineering problems. We seek outstanding post-doctoral
scholars to pursue interdisciplinary research on evolu-
tion in action with BEACON faculty members, in the
ﬁelds of biology, computer science, and/or engineering.
Applicants will propose a research project within the
scope of BEACON’s mission and must have two BEA-
CON faculty sponsors who will serve as research men-
tors should the fellowship be awarded. At least one
sponsor must be from the MSU faculty; the other spon-
sor may be from any of the ﬁve BEACON institu-
tions. Preference is given for interdisciplinary research.
The postdoc fellow will be based at Michigan State
University in East Lansing. Please see our website
(http://www.beacon-center.org ) for information about
BEACON’s mission, participants and ongoing research
projects.
Applicants must submit the following, in a single PDF,
to BEACON Managing Director Danielle Whittaker via
email (djwhitta@msu.edu):
1.CV
2.A two-page description of their research plan
3.A one-page summary of their doctoral research
4.Letters of support from two BEACON sponsors (at
least one must be from MSU)5.Two additional letters of recommendation
Fellowships include a salary of $50,000/year and mod-
est funds to support research and travel. The successful
applicant will help foster collaborations among faculty
and disciplines and serve as a professional model for
pre-doctoral trainees.
A Ph.D. in biology, computer science, engineering or re-
lated ﬁelds is required. Current MSU graduate students
or postdocs are not eligible for this fellowship. Minority
applicants are especially encouraged to apply. MSU is
an Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer.
The deadline for applications is December 15 of each
year. Finalists will be invited to give research seminars
in January/February, and the award will be announced
in late February.
Danielle J. Whittaker, Ph.D. Managing Director BEA-
CON Center for the Study of Evolution in Action 1441
Biomedical and Physical Sciences Building Michigan
State University East Lansing, MI 48824 (517) 884-2561
djwhitta@msu.edu http://beacon-center.org “Danielle
J. Whittaker” <djwhitta@msu.edu >
Montpellier 2
PlantEvolutionaryGenomics
Two post-doc positions in plant evolutionary genomics
are available in Montpellier (France).
The two post-doctorate scientists will participate to
the ARCAD program (2009-2013), ˆ aAgropolis Resource
Center for Crop Conservation, Adaptation and Diver-
sityˆ a ( www.arcad-project.org ) and will work on the
project ˆ aComparative population genomics in wild and
crop plantsˆ a.
Post-doc 1: Comparative population genomics of the
evolution of GC-content in angiosperms
The aim of the project is to analyse the evolutionary
forces (mutational bias, selection, biased gene conver-
sion) aﬀecting GC-content dynamics in several species
distributed over the angiosperm phylogeny, including
several monocot and eudicot species. The candidate
will analyze large polymorphism and divergence dataset
issued from high-throughput sequencing of transcrip-
tomes to test population genetics predictions (mu-
tation bias vs selection vs GC-biased gene conver-
sion) and to infer population genetic parameters (se-
lection/conversion intensity, mutational bias).November 1, 2011 EvolDir 87
Eligibility criteria of the funding agency: The applicant
should not have resided or carried out his/her main ac-
tivity (work, studies, etc) in France for more than 12
months in the last 3 years and should have obtained
his/her PhD degree for no more than 3 years upon the
date of application
Performance period: 18 months from January 2012
Location: The post-doctorate will be lo-
cated both in the ISE-M lab ( http://-
www.isem.cnrs.fr/spip.php?rubrique380&lang=en )
and in the AGAP unit in Montpellier ( http:/-
/www.montpellier.inra.fr/centre etunites/un-
itesetcampus/les unites ducentre/agap)
Salary: Commensurate with qualiﬁcations and ex-
perience, beneﬁts included. Gross salary around
2400ˆ a¬(3600$)
Application Deadline: 15 December 2011, or until suit-
able a candidate is found Please send a detailed CV,
a letter of motivation, and 2 referentsˆ a names. Con-
tact: Jacques David and Sylvain Gl ˜Ac/circlecopyrtmin Email
: jacques.david@supagro.inra.fr and glemin@univ-
montp2.fr
Post-doc 2: Comparative genomics of gene and gene
families
The aim of this project is to document genomic varia-
tions in selective patterns among several crops species
and their wild relatives in order to answer diﬀerent
questions related to functional evolution: documenting
general tendencies in terms of gene family content and
dynamics along the angiosperm phylogeny, comparing
selective constraints between genes contrasted for their
expression level, functional category or belonging to
gene family diﬀering for their size and dynamics, com-
paring selective constraints in gene families involved in
agronomical important metabolic networks.
Performance period: 18 months from January 2012
Location: The post-doctorate will be lo-
cated AGAP unit in Montpellier ( http:/-
/www.montpellier.inra.fr/centre etunites/-
unites etcampus/les u-nites ducentre/agap)
Salary: Commensurate with qualiﬁcations and ex-
perience, beneﬁts included. Gross salary around
2400ˆ a¬(3600$)
Application Deadline: 30 November 2011, or until a
suitable candidate is found Please send a detailed CV, a
letter of motivation, and 2 referentsˆ a names. Contact:
Nathalie Chantret , Jean-Fran ˜ADufayard, Sylvain
Gl˜Ac/circlecopyrtmin Email : nathalie.chantret@supagro.inra.fr
, jeanfrancois.dufayard@gmail.com, glemin@univ-
montp2.frSylvain Gl ˜Ac/circlecopyrtmin Charg ˜Ac/circlecopyrtde Recherche - CNRS In-
stitut des Sciences de l’Evolution. CC64 Universit ˜Ac/circlecopyrt
Montpellier II Place Eug ˜Ane Bataillon 34095 Mont-
pellier cedex 5 France Tel : 04 67 14 35 87 http:/-
/www.isem.cnrs.fr/spip.php?article993&lang=en Syl-
vain Glemin <glemin@univ-montp2.fr >
Paris PopulationGenomics
1 postdoctoral position: Population Genomics
A postdoctoral position is available for 1 year, but that
will be most likely turned into a permanent position,
for population genomics on fungi at the Department of
Ecology, Systematics and Evolution of the University of
Paris Sud (Orsay). The project aims at understanding
the evolution of sex chromosomes in fungi.
Applicants should have a Ph.D. in a relevant area (e.g.
evolutionary biology, genomics), with strong evolution-
ary biology and genomics skills, and a vivid interest in
fundamental research.
The Department of Ecology, Systematics and Evolution
is a well-funded and vibrant research institution, with
excellent facilities in a lively University in the South of
Paris
Inquiries and applications should be sent to:
tatiana.giraud@u-psud.fr Applications should be
sent by November 30, and should include a CV, a
one-page statement of research interests, and names
of 2-3 referees. Only applications with all these
information will be considered.
–
Tatiana
Tatiana Giraud
Departement Genetique et Ecologie Evolutives Labo-
ratoire Ecologie, Syst´ ematique et Evolution UMR 8079
CNRS-UPS-AgroParisTech Bˆ atiment 360 Universit´ e de
Paris-Sud 91405 Orsay cedex France
phone: +33 1 69 15 56 69 + 33 6 34 64 45 14 fax: +33
1 69 15 46 97
English: http://www.ese.u-psud.fr/-
article211.html?lang=en Francais: http://www.ese.u-
psud.fr/article223.html http://www.ese.u-psud.fr/
Tatiana Giraud <tatiana.giraud@u-psud.fr >88 EvolDir November 1, 2011
RoslinInst Scotland QuantGenet
The Division of Genetics and Genomics at The Roslin
Institute seeks to appoint a postdoctoral researcher
with a PhD in statistical or quantitative genetics
or a related ﬁeld (two year appointment) for a
BBSRC-funded project on canine genomics. Recent
developments in molecular biological and statistical
technologies now allow a genomic approach to breed-
ing against complex diseases. These techniques are
currently being applied in livestock but this is one
of the ﬁrst such studies in dogs, for which the large
number of diseases with complex inheritance makes
them prime candidates for this approach. This project
applies these techniques to the case of hip dysplasia, a
common and highly disabling canine disease, using one
of the largest datasets of its kind worldwide. The main
responsibilities of the postdoctoral fellow will be to
conduct genomic evaluations of predisposition to hip
dysplasia and genome-wide association studies of hip
score and other traits. The fellow will have close links
with other researchers at the University of Edinburgh
and at the Animal Health Trust (Newmarket, Eng-
land). For further information, contact Pam Wiener
(pam.wiener@roslin.ed.ac.uk). To apply or for further
details, go to http://www.jobs.ed.ac.uk/vacancies/-
index.cfm?fuseaction=vacancies.detail&vacancy ref=-
3014939 Closing date: 2 November 2011.
Pam Wiener The Roslin Institute University of Edin-
burgh Roslin Midlothian EH25 9PS phone: 44 (0) 131
651 9223 email: pam.wiener@roslin.ed.ac.uk
pam.wiener@roslin.ed.ac.uk
SangerInst ComputationalGenomics
A postdoctoral position in Computational Genomics is
available at the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute un-
der the leadership of Dr Daniel Gaﬀney. The project
will focus on understanding the role of regulatory varia-
tion in the functional architecture of complex traits, in
particular susceptibility to autoimmune disorders, us-
ing HapMap cell lines and human pluripotent stem cells
as model systems. The post-holder will develop compu-tational methods to analyze and integrate a wide vari-
ety of high-throughput sequencing data, with the goal
of understanding how variation in gene regulation and
expression aﬀects complex phenotypes and disease sus-
ceptibility. Our lab combines computational and exper-
imental methods to address research questions and the
successful candidate will have the opportunity to in-
teract closely with wet-lab researchers and have access
to novel high-throughput, next generation sequencing
data.
We welcome candidates with a background in Biol-
ogy and strong quantitative skills. Candidates from
Physics, Statistics or Computer Science with strong in-
terests in computational biology and/or population ge-
netics are also encouraged to apply. Excellent program-
ming skills, experience with very large data sets and an
ability to work as part of a team are essential.
Essential Skills
PhD in a relevant subject area (Computational Bi-
ology, Population Genetics/Genomics, Computer Sci-
ence, Physics) Excellent programming skills (C, C++,
Perl, Python, Ruby) Strong statistical and quantitative
skills Familiarity with statistical modeling and software
Ability to communicate ideas and results eﬀectively and
to publish results in high-impact journals Ability to
work well with other team members Ability to work
to tight deadlines
Ideal Skills Experience with analysis of -omics data sets
Previous experience with genetics of gene regulation,
QTL analysis
Other information
Although genetic variation in gene regulation is thought
to play an important role in evolution and disease, the
pathway from regulatory mutation, via gene expression
to phenotype is still poorly understood. Understand-
ing this pathway will be an essential component in the
application of genomics to personalized medicine. The
Sanger Centre oﬀers a world-class academic environ-
ment, access to cutting edge sequencing facilities and
extensive expertise in genome analysis and human ge-
netics. As such, we are in a prime position to begin to
address some of these fundamental questions. The ulti-
mate goal of our lab is to be able to predict the impact
of new mutations on gene regulation and to understand
how such changes impact phenotype. To achieve this,
we combine of sequence and genome analysis, compar-
ative genomics and population level, expression QTL-
mapping.
Postdoctoral Fellows are typically in their ﬁrst or sec-
ond postdoctoral position as part of a period of early
career research training. Successful applicant(s) whoNovember 1, 2011 EvolDir 89
have submitted their PhD thesis and are awaiting their
PhD award to be conﬁrmed will be placed on a tran-
sitional pay point, currently £26,103. On conﬁrmation
applicants will be moved on to the pay scale above.
This position is initially for a ﬁxed term of 3 years. For
further information please contact Daniel Gaﬀney on
dg13@sanger.ac.uk or visit: http://www.sanger.ac.uk/-
research/faculty/dgaﬀney/ . The closing date for appli-
cations is 9th November 2011. This is a 3 year ﬁxed-
term position. Salary range £28280 to £34778 per an-
num dependent on experience.
Daniel Gaﬀney Career Development Fellow Wellcome
Trust Sanger Institute Wellcome Trust Genome Cam-
pus Hinxton, Cambridge, CB10 1SA UK
Tel: ++44 (0) 122 349 6866
Daniel Gaﬀney <dg13@sanger.ac.uk >
SaoPaulo SugarcaneBioinformatics
PD position: Sugarcane Bioinformatic
A three-year Post-Doctoral position in Bioinformatics is
available to integrate the group of Dr. Marie-Anne Van
Sluys at Universidade de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
Outstanding and motivated candidate is expected to
develop the integration of sugarcane genomic databases
currently being established within the FAPESP-BIOEN
research program. Also, among the current objectives is
the development of cloud computing based algorithms
to establish a Systems Biology algorithm for compar-
ative genomics studies between Poaceae. Our group
has a strong tradition of studying the association of
Transposable elements and genomes and their impact in
gene/genome structure and gene regulation. The aim is
to integrate high throughput technologies, such as DNA
and RNA sequence analyses and heterogeneous data
such as plant phenotypes and metabolic proﬁles. Ex-
pertise in R package, Bioperl, GMOD, Chado and ba-
sic software development are desirable skills. The ideal
candidate would have a Ph.D. in bioinformatics, math-
ematics, electric engineering, computer science, physics
or statistics with a solid background in at least one of
the other areas.
Fellowship: R$54K/year (Brazilian real) (approx
$26K/year (US dollar)) plus R$16K/year bench fees to
support the research (approx $8K/year (US dollar))
S˜ ao Paulo city is culturally active and famous for itsgastronomy. A snapshot of the city may be viewed at
http://www.cidadedesaopaulo.com/sp/en . For addi-
tional information, visit our web site at
GaTE Lab http://gate.ib.usp.br/GateWeb/ BIOEN
program http://bioenfapesp.org/ Applications should
be sent to: mavsluys@usp.br Each application should
include in one single pdf ﬁle: (1) a curriculum vitae, (2)
letter with a brief description of research experience and
interests, and (3) the names of 3 references along with
their postal and e-mail addresses by November 15th.
Marie-Anne Van Sluys, Professor GaTE Lab (Genomes
and Transposable elements) Departamento de
Botˆ anica-IBUSP rua do Matao, 277 05508-090;
S˜ ao Paulo, SP, BRASIL tel: 55-11-30917759 fax:
55-11-30917724
Marie-Anne Van Sluys, Full Professor GaTE Lab
(Genomes and Transposable elements) Departamento
de Botˆ anica-IBUSP rua do Matao, 277 05508-900;
S˜ ao Paulo, SP, BRASIL tel:55-11-30917759 fax:55-11-
30917724 email:mavsluys@usp.br
mavsluys@usp.br
SmithCollege CiliateSequencing
Postdoctoral Position: Next-gen sequencing of marine
ciliate communities
Smith College invites applications for a full-time
postdoctoral research position focusing on next-gen
sequencing of nearshore ciliate communities. The
initial appointment is for one year, with the possi-
bility of extending for additional years. The position
will be housed in Professor Laura Katz’s laboratory
in the Department of Biological Sciences ( http://-
www.science.smith.edu/departments/Biology/lkatz/-
Research.htm ); questions should be directed to
lkatz@smith.edu.
The goals of the project are to elucidate patterns of
diversity of ciliates in near-shore environments and to
explore the ecological processes that underlie this di-
versity. The project is collaborative between Laura
Katz at Smith College and marine ecologist George
McManus at the University of Connecticut ( http://-
microzooplankton.uconn.edu/ ). Work on the project
combines next-generation sequencing, mesocosm anal-
yses, and community footprints through DGGE. Hence,
applicants should have skills in molecular evolution and
bioinformatics.90 EvolDir November 1, 2011
Research in the Katz lab aims to elucidate principles of
the evolution in eukaryotes through analyses of micro-
bial groups, and to assess how these principles apply (or
fail to apply) to other organisms. Currently we focus on
four interrelated areas: (1) Characterizing evolution-
ary relationships among eukaryotes; (2) Reconstruct-
ing the ciliate tree of life through multi-gene analyses;
(3) Exploring the evolution of ciliate and foraminiferan
genomes; (4) Describing the phylogeography of coastal
marine ciliates.
To apply, submit application at http://jobs.smith.edu
with letter of application, C.V., a statement of research
interests, representative publications, and the names
and contact information of three references. Review of
applications will begin November 1st, 2011.
Smith College is a member of the Five College Consor-
tium with Amherst, Hampshire, and Mount Holyoke
Colleges and the University of Massachusetts Amherst.
Smith College is an equal opportunity employer encour-
aging excellence through diversity.
lkatz@smith.edu
TexasAustin
TumorEvolutionaryModels
POSITION TITLE: Postdoctoral Researcher
POSITION SUMMARY: The Center for Computa-
tional Neuroscience at NeuroTexas Institute at St.
David’s HealthCare seeks a highly motivated individ-
ual who is interested in the genetics and genomics of
glioblastoma multiformae (GBM). Of particular inter-
est, is the development of evolutionary-genetic mod-
els suitable for studying the dynamics of mutations
within growing GBM tumors and related bioinformatic
approaches for model validation using DNA/RNA se-
quence data from GBM tumors.
NeuroTexas Institute is a highly multidisciplinary clini-
cal, research and educational institute aﬃliated with St.
David’s HealthCare in Austin, TX. The Institute enjoys
an open and highly productive relationship with the ad-
jacent University of Texas at Austin. This particular
research is part of an ongoing collaboration with Claus
Wilke at UT - Austin, and there may be opportunities
for conducting novel DNA/RNA sequencing studies of
tumors specimens collected at the Institute.
The two-year position is available beginning January 1,
2012. Candidates must have completed their PhDs incomputational biology, computer science, mathematics
or physics. Ideal candidates will be familiar with evo-
lutionary theory and modeling, DNA/RNA sequence
analysis and bioinformatics, and systems biological ap-
proaches. Previous knowledge and experience with can-
cer genomics and modeling is an additional plus.
Please submit a letter of intent, curriculum vitae and
the names and addresses of two references to:
Dr. Matthew C. Cowperthwaite Center for Com-
putational Neuroscience NeuroTexas Institute at St.
David’s HealthCare 1015 East 32nd Street, Suite 404
Austin, Texas 78705
Matthew.Cowperthwaite@stdavids.com
UArizona EvolutionaryPhysiology
Postdoc: Evolutionary Ecology and Physiology
University of Arizona
Postdoctoral position is available in the lab of Dr. Re-
nee Duckworth in the Department of Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology ( http://www.u.arizona.edu/ ˜ rad3 )
on an NSF-funded project studying maternal eﬀects on
colonizing behavior. We are looking for a candidate
with an interest in integrating concepts and method-
ologies from evolutionary physiology, developmental bi-
ology and genetics to gain a detailed understanding of
the proximate basis of complex behavioral traits.
A Ph.D. in biology is required, with preference given
to candidates with a strongbackground in evolutionary
biology. Ideal candidate will have hands-on experience
in laboratory physiological (e.g., EIA, HPLC) and/or
molecular genetics methods and a demonstrated ability
to integrate across biological disciplines. Prior expe-
rience of working with birds or other vertebrates is a
plus. The postdoc will work closely with the PI to de-
sign and lead research in the lab, and prepare grant
proposals and manuscripts.
Application Procedure: To apply, please submit on-
line ( https://www.uacareertrack.com, posting number
48825) a cover letter detailing your research interests
and experience, curriculum vitae, and contact informa-
tion for three references.
Review of applications will begin November 10, 2011,
but the position will remain open until a suitable can-
didate is found. Position can begin as early as January
2012, but later start dates can be arranged. This is aNovember 1, 2011 EvolDir 91
one-year appointment and is renewable for up to two
years, contingent upon available funding and satisfac-
tory performance.
Contact Dr. Renee Duckworth
<rad3@email.arizona.edu > for informa-
tion about the position and Lili Schwartz
<hildaq@email.arizona.edu >for information about
application procedures.
rad3@email.arizona.edu
UBern PlantBiodiversity
Post Doc position in plant ecology at the University of
Bern, Switzerland
We are seeking a Post Doc highly motivated to
work on the eﬀect of land use on the biodiversity
of plants. The work will be part of the Biodi-
versity Exploratory project ( http://www.biodiversity-
exploratories.de ) funded by the German Science Foun-
dation (DFG), which involves ﬁeld work at three sites in
Germany, experimental studies in the ﬁeld, and multi-
species experiments in greenhouse and common garden.
Ideally, the candidate for this position should have a
background in vegetation science, experimental ecology,
or plant population biology and sound knowledge of sta-
tistical methods, in particular multivariate methods for
vegetation analyses.
The position will be with Prof. Dr Markus Fischer
and Dr. Daniel Prati in the Plant Ecology group
at the Institute of Plant Sciences of the University
of Bern, Switzerland, ( http://www.botany.unibe.ch/-
planteco/index.php ). Bern is a beautiful city with a
world-heritage old town and oﬀers a high quality of
living. The city is close to the mountains and there-
fore ideal for hiking or skiing. The institute oﬀers a
stimulating international research environment and ex-
cellent facilities. In addition to projects on biodiver-
sity, our group is involved in projects on evolutionary
and molecular plant ecology, plant population biology,
Alpine ecology and invasion biology. The position is
funded by the German Science Foundation for an ini-
tial period of 3 years.
Requirements for the positions include a PhD degree in
biology, ecology or environmental sciences, a drivers li-
cense, ﬂuency in English and good collaboration skills.
Working knowledge in German is advantageous.
Applicants should e-mail a letter of application, acurriculum vitae, a list of publications and con-
tact details of two references to Markus Fischer
(Markus.Fischer@ips.unibe.ch). In the letter of appli-
cation, the applicant should include a statement on his
or her research interests and should motivate why she
or he wants to work on biodiversity. The applicant
should also present details on her or his experimental
and statistical skills. The application deadline is Oc-
tober 30, 2011. For more information on this position,
the project and research in our lab contact Daniel Prati
(daniel.prati@ips.unibe.ch).
– Daniel Prati Institute of Plant Sciences University
of Bern Altenbergrain 21 CH - 3013 Bern SWITZER-
LAND Tel.: + 41 31 631 49 23 Fax.: + 41 31 631 49
42 daniel.prati@ips.unibe.ch
“Prati, Daniel (IPS)” <daniel.prati@ips.unibe.ch >
UCalgary EcoEvoDynamics
I am once again seeking applicants for the Killam post-
doc. This is a competitive, 2-year postdoc awarded
by the University of Calgary in any academic dis-
cipline. The award provides a salary of $45,000
CAD/year, health beneﬁts, and a research/relocation
allowance of $6000. For more on the Killam
postdoc, see http://www.grad.ucalgary.ca/awards/-
award competitions/killam postdoctoral awards
The awardee would be expected to develop their own
independent research on some topic of mutual inter-
est to themselves and their faculty mentor (that would
be me). I welcome applicants interested in pursu-
ing fundamental theoretical and/or empirical research
in any area of evolutionary ecology (especially eco-
evolutionary dynamics), as well as population and com-
munity ecology. For more on my lab, see http://-
homepages.ucalgary.ca/%7Ejefox/Home.htm To be el-
igible, you must have completed your PhD sometime
after Sept. 1, 2009, or else anticipate completion by
Sept. 1, 2012.
The University of Calgary is home to a strong group
of evolutionary biologists and ecologists, who are part
of a large Dept. of Biological Sciences ( >60 faculty,
>170 graduate students). The city of Calgary is a vi-
brant city of one million people, close to the Rocky
Mountains with all the opportunities for research and
recreation that implies.
Application deadline is Dec. 15, 2011 (that’s the de-92 EvolDir November 1, 2011
partmental deadline; one applicant will be selected by
my dept. for consideration at the university level in
Jan. 2012). The application needs to include a re-
search proposal; prospective applicants should contact
me well in advance to discuss this.
-Jeremy Fox
Associate Professor Dept. of Biological Sciences Uni-
versity of Calgary 2500 University Dr. NW Calgary,
AB T2N 1N4 Canada http://homepages.ucalgary.ca/-
˜jefox/Home.htm Jeremy Fox <jefox@ucalgary.ca >
UCalifornia Davis
ComparativeFungalGenomics
Post-doctoral Position in Comparative Fungal Ge-
nomics
Department of Plant Pathology, University of Califor-
nia Davis, Davis, CA, USA
A Post-doctoral position is available in the ﬁeld of Com-
parative Fungal Genomics at the department of Plant
Pathology, University of California Davis (UCD) and
the newly established lab of Dr Ioannis Stergiopou-
los. The position is part of an ongoing recruitment
process of scientiﬁc personnel for the lab, directly
funded by UCD. The interdisciplinary research group
focuses on the genetics, genomics and evolution of
plant-microbe interactions, aiming at gaining a deeper
level of understanding on the molecular mechanisms
of fungal pathogenesis and host-speciﬁcity ( http://-
plantpathology.ucdavis.edu/faculty/stergiopoulos/ ).
The project will focus on the evolution of virulence and
host-speciﬁcity in fungal plant pathogens and will in-
volve the genome sequencing of several Dothideomycete
species using next generation sequencing platforms (Il-
lumina, 454, etc), bioinformatics analyses, and follow-
up experiments to investigate the biological signiﬁcance
of the data generated by the in silico analyses. Em-
phasis will be given in comparative secretomes analyses
and the characterization of virulence and pathogenicity
factors from selected Dothideomycete plant pathogens.
Sequencing of these pathogens has already been initi-
ated at the department of Biological Sciences at Van-
derbilt University, TN, USA, as part of ongoing collabo-
rations and will continue at the UCD Genome Research
Center. The candidate will also collaborate with labs
in the Netherlands and the US for the exchange of data
and expertise in the ﬁelds of comparative genomics,evolutionary biology and molecular plant-microbe in-
teractions. Finally, the person ﬁlling this position is
expected to work closely with other members of the
group currently under recruitment who will perform
the experimental validation of the data generated by
the bioinformatics analyses.
Required qualiﬁcations for this position are a PhD in
Bioinformatics, Computational Sciences, Evolutionary
Biology, Statistics or equivalent. Excellent knowledge
in programming (Perl/Python, etc), use of Unix/Linux
and demonstrated previous experience with analyzing
large genomic data sets generated by next generation
sequencing platforms (Illumina, 454, etc) are manda-
tory. Molecular Evolutionary Biologists with an in-
terest on studying fungal speciation events and host-
adaptation are encouraged to apply. Previous working
experience with plant pathogens is desirable but not re-
quired. A strong publication record and excellent oral
and written communication skills are also highly de-
sirable attributes. The position is for 2 years (1+1)
but could be extended if additional funding is avail-
able. Salary is based on experience and qualiﬁcations
according to NIH guidelines. The University of Califor-
nia Davis provides a highly vibrant intellectual atmo-
sphere, a pleasant college environment and career de-
velopment activities speciﬁcally designed for Post-docs.
Please send in a single pdf ﬁle a full CV, a short descrip-
tion of your research experience relevant to this posi-
tion and contact details of three references to Dr Ioan-
nis Stergiopoulos (istergiopoulos@ucdavis.edu) and Cc
to Mrs Janet Brown-Simons (jbsimmons@ucdavis.edu).
Closing date for applications is January 10, 2012 but
the position will remain open until ﬁlled.
istergiopoulos@ucdavis.edu
UCalifornia Davis Heterosis
Postdoc in the genomic basis of heterosis at University
of California, Davis
A postdoctoral position in plant evolutionary genomics
is available in the Ross-Ibarra lab at the University of
California, Davis. Current funding is for one year, but
opportunities for extending the position beyond one
year are likely. The start date is ﬂexible, but the posi-
tion is available to start immediately.
The funded project will investigate the genetic basis
of heterosis in maize using full-genome sequence of 12November 1, 2011 EvolDir 93
inbred lines in conjunction with phenotypic data from
a diallel cross of the same lines. Data for the project
is already being generated; the applicant would be re-
sponsible for analysis of the genome sequence data to
investigate the genetic basis of heterosis for phenotypic
traits.
Applicants should have a PhD in evolution, genetics,
genomics, computational biology, or a similar disci-
pline. Demonstrated experience with high-density SNP
data or next-generation sequence data and familiarity
with a unix environment and at least one program-
ming/scripting language is strongly desired. Salary will
be competitive and dependent on background and ex-
perience.
Applicants should send a cover letter, a CV with publi-
cations, and contact information for three references.
Applications or queries should be directed to rossi-
barra@ucdavis.edu.
More information on the lab can be found at
www.rilab.org and on UC Davis at www.ucdavis.edu
. Jeﬀrey Ross-Ibarra
Dept. of Plant Sciences and Genome Center 262 Rob-
bins Hall, Mail Stop 4 University of California One
Shields Ave Davis, CA 95616
Tel: 530-752-1152 Fax: 530-752-4604 www.rilab.org
rossibarra@ucdavis.edu
UCalifornia SantaCruz
ExperimentalEvolution
The University of California, Santa Cruz invites appli-
cations for the position of Postdoctoral Scholar in the
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, un-
der the direction of adjunct Assistant Professor Saman-
tha Forde. The selected candidate will participate in re-
search on experimental evolution of generalist and spe-
cialist viruses.
The selected candidate will participate in interdisci-
plinary collaboration between the experimental evolu-
tion group of Dr. Forde at the University of California
Santa Cruz and the mathematical modeling group of
Dr. Ivana Gudelj at the University of Exeter, UK. This
project will employ a pioneering combination of math-
ematical modeling and experimental microbial evolu-
tion to answer the following question: Why do some
viruses evolve to be specialists while others are gener-
alists? The selected candidate will work collaborativelywith the PI and help oversee undergraduate student as-
sistants. The selected candidate will have considerable
independence and intellectual input into the execution
of the project. The selected candidate will be highly
motivated, have strong written and oral communication
skills, and be able to work well both independently and
as part of a small team.
RANK: Postdoctoral Scholar V Employee
SALARY: $38,496 - $43,500 annually, commensurate
with qualiﬁcations and experience
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS: Ph.D. or equivalent
in Biology, Ecology, Evolution, Microbiology, or re-
lated ﬁeld. Expertise in experimental evolution of
bacteria and bacteriophage, including one or more of
the following areas: determining infectivity, host-range,
burst rate, and bacterial growth rates, working with
chemostats, and creating knock-out mutants.
PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS: Preference will be
given to candidates with a track record of successful
grant funding and publishing in leading journals. A
strong interest in the evolutionary ecology is preferred.
Some familiarity with bioengineering bacteria and/or
bacteriophage is a deﬁnite asset.
TERM OF APPOINTMENT: Initial appointment is
for one year, with the possibility of extension up to
three years. Should hiring unit propose reappointment,
a review to assess performance will be conducted. In
addition, reappointment is contingent upon availability
of funding. For appointments within the University of
California, the total duration of an individuals post-
doctoral service may not exceed ﬁve years, including
postdoctoral service at other institutions. Under cer-
tain circumstances, a sixth year may be considered.
START DATE: As soon as possible after closing date.
TO APPLY: Electronic submission (with attachments
in pdf format) is preferred. Applicants should send a
cover letter describing their research background and
interests, a curriculum vitae, and three letters of rec-
ommendation by email to forde@biology.ucsc.edu. Al-
ternate mailing address: Dr. Samantha Forde Ecol-
ogy and Evolutionary Biology Please refer to Position
#T12-18 in your reply. University of California 1156
High Street Santa Cruz, CA 95064
CLOSING DATE: Position is open until ﬁlled. Initial
consideration of applications will begin on November
21, 2011. Full consideration will be given to applica-
tions received by that date .
Samantha E Forde <sameford@gmail.com >94 EvolDir November 1, 2011
UCBerkeley
EvolutionGlobalChangeGenomics
UCBerkeley EvolutionGlobalChangeGenomics
The Rosenblum Lab will be moving to UC Berkeley
in January 2012 and will have openings for postdoc-
toral researchers. Research in the lab focuses on the
processes that generate and impact biological diversity
with an emphasis on the mechanisms of rapid organis-
mal change. We are particularly interested in both sides
of the evolutionary speciation/extinction “coin” and
speciﬁcally how changing environments impact these
processes. Conceptually, our research addresses inte-
grative questions with evolutionary, ecological, and con-
servation relevance. Methodologically, we favor an in-
tegrative genes-to-communities approach and use tech-
niques from functional genomics to ﬁeld ecology. The
Rosenblum Lab will be housed in UC Berkeley’s Envi-
ronmental Science Policy and Management Department
(ESPM), and will be aﬃliated with the Museum of Ver-
tebrate Zoology (MVZ) and the Berkeley Initiative in
Global Change Biology (BiGCB).
The postdoctoral researcher will contribute substan-
tially to projects addressing mechanistic questions
about speciation and extinction in reptile and amphib-
ian assemblages of the western US. Speciﬁcally, we are
studying adaptation and ecological speciation in White
Sands lizards and disease-related declines and extinc-
tions in amphibians. Details on these projects can
be found at http://nature.berkeley.edu/rosenblum/-
. There will also be several new projects, which will
be shaped in collaboration with the postdoc. Demon-
strated strengths in bioinformatics, population genetics
and/or molecular genetics preferred.
Please email CV and brief description of research inter-
ests to rosenblum@uidaho.edu by Nov 15th.
rosenblum@uidaho.edu
UEdinburgh HostParasiteEvolution
Post Doc in the ecology and evolution of host-parasite
interactions as the University of EdinburghSeehttp://www.jobs.ed.ac.uk, vacancy ref014969
Three-year NERC-funded Post-Doctoral research posi-
tion to study maternal eﬀects on a hosts’ ability to re-
sist parasites. A recent publication on this research is:
Stjernman & Little. 2011. Genetic variation for mater-
nal eﬀects on parasite resistance. Journal of Evolution-
ary Biology DOI: 10.1111/j.1420-9101.2011.02363.x.
The work will utilise the crustacean Daphnia as
host, and the bacterium Pasteuria ramosa as para-
site. This is a naturally coevolving host-parasite sys-
tem, and thus the project provides an excellent op-
portunity to gain insight in to how maternal con-
dition will impact evolutionary and coevolutionary
outcomes. The lab where the work will be car-
ried out (see http://www.biology.ed.ac.uk/research/-
groups/tlittle/ ) usually focuses on experimental stud-
ies, life-history evolution and ﬁeld-work, but depending
on the motivation of the applicant, theory or investiga-
tion into the molecular mechanisms of maternal eﬀects
is also possible.
Applicants must have, or will shortly obtain a PhD.
Ideally, the candidates PhD or other past research will
be in evolutionary biology or ecology. We are looking
for a highly motivated candidate with deep interests in
host-parasite evolutionary ecology and life histories, as
opposed to someone with a speciﬁc laboratory skill set.
Start date: Dec 1 (ﬂexible)
Duration: 36 months
Supervisor: Tom Little
Informal enquiries: tom.little@ed.ac.uk
Salary will be based on standard UK scales, and will
be adjusted based on the age etc of the candidate.
Apply at See http://www.jobs.ed.ac.uk, vacancy
ref014969
Informal enquiries to tom.little@ed.ac.uk
Tom Little Wellcome Trust Senior Research Fellow in
Basic Biomedical Sciences Institute of Evolutionary Bi-
ology Kings Buildings University of Edinburgh EH9
3JT UK
+44 131 650 7781
tom.little@ed.ac.uk
http://www.biology.ed.ac.uk/research/groups/tlittle/
Tom Little <Tom.Little@ed.ac.uk >November 1, 2011 EvolDir 95
UEdinburgh HostParasiteEvolution
2
Reminder that the closing date for the following job is
soon (and the vacancy reference number was chopped
oﬀ in the original!)
Post Doc in the ecology and evolution of host-parasite
interactions as the University of Edinburgh
Seehttp://www.jobs.ed.ac.uk vacancy ref 3014969
Three-year NERC-funded Post-Doctoral research po-
sition to study maternal eﬀects on the ability to re-
sist parasites. A recent publication on this research is:
Stjernman & Little. 2011. Genetic variation for mater-
nal eﬀects on parasite resistance. Journal of Evolution-
ary Biology DOI: 10.1111/j.1420-9101.2011.02363.x.
The work will utilise the crustacean Daphnia, and
the pathogenic bacterium Pasteuria ramosa. This
is a naturally coevolving host-parasite system, and
thus the project provides an excellent opportunity to
gain insight in to how maternal condition will im-
pact evolutionary and coevolutionary outcomes. The
lab where the work will be carried out (see http:/-
/www.biology.ed.ac.uk/research/groups/tlittle/ ) usu-
ally focuses on experimental studies, life-history evo-
lution and ﬁeld-work, but depending on the motivation
of the applicant, theory or investigation into the molec-
ular mechanisms of maternal eﬀects is also possible.
Applicants must have, or will shortly obtain a PhD.
Ideally, the candidates PhD or other past research will
be in evolutionary biology or ecology. We are looking
for a highly motivated candidate with deep interests in
host-parasite evolutionary ecology and life histories, as
opposed to someone with a speciﬁc laboratory skill set.
Start date: Dec 1 (ﬂexible)
Duration: 36 months
Supervisor: Tom Little
Informal enquiries: tom.little@ed.ac.uk
Salary will be based on standard UK scales, and will
be adjusted based on the age etc of the candidate.
Apply at See http://www.jobs.ed.ac.uk, vacancy ref
3014969
Informal enquiries to tom.little@ed.ac.uk
Tom Little Wellcome Trust Senior Research Fellow inBasic Biomedical Sciences Institute of Evolutionary Bi-
ology Kings Buildings University of Edinburgh EH9
3JT UK
+44 131 650 7781
tom.little@ed.ac.uk
http://www.biology.ed.ac.uk/research/groups/tlittle/
Tom Little <Tom.Little@ed.ac.uk >
– Pedro Vale Tel: +33 (0)6.37.19.98.85
Tom Little Wellcome Trust Senior Research Fellow in
Basic Biomedical Sciences Institute of Evolutionary Bi-
ology Kings Buildings University of Edinburgh EH9
3JT UK
+44 131 650 7781
tom.little@ed.ac.uk
http://www.biology.ed.ac.uk/research/groups/tlittle/
Tom Little <tom.little@ed.ac.uk >
UExeter EvolutionaryBiol
Biosciences CLES Polyandry and sex ratio drive Post-
doctoral Research position (Ref: P42567) Salary will
be in the range £26,629 to £30,870 Fixed Term for 36
months
Biosciences, Cornwall, wishes to recruit a Post-Doctoral
Research Assistant to work in the laboratory of Profes-
sor Nina Wedell on a Natural Environment Research
Council (NERC) funded research project on polyandry
and sex ratio drive in fruit ﬂies. The successful ap-
plicant will be involved in determining the causes and
consequences of variation in degree of female multiple
mating for the fate of a sex ratio distorter in natural
populations using molecular, genetic, and behavioural
approaches in the fruit ﬂy Drosophila pseudoobscura.
The position is available from the 1st February 2012.
Ideally applicants will possess a PhD in evolutionary
biology and/or behavioural ecology/molecular biology,
preferably with a background in Drosophila. Knowl-
edge of techniques for ﬂy behavioural experiments, dis-
section and microscopy, QTL, microarray and candi-
date gene analysis and would be desirable. Prior expe-
rience with modelling would also be an advantage. The
applicant should be a conﬁdent, independent scientist
with broad knowledge in the discipline and would be ex-
pected to be capable of preparing data for publication
and assist in training of graduate students. For fur-96 EvolDir November 1, 2011
ther information please contact Professor Nina Wedell,
e-mail: n.wedell@ex.ac.uk or telephone (01326) 371863.
To apply, please send your CV and covering letter with
the contact details of three referees to Professor Nina
Wedell, Professor of Evolutionary Biology, Daphne du
Maurier, University of Exeter, Cornwall Campus, Pen-
ryn, Cornwall, TR10 9EZ (e-mail: n.wedell@ex.ac.uk)
quoting the job reference P42567.
The closing date for completed applications is Friday
4th November 2011. Interviews are likely to be held in
the week commencing 21st November 2011.
The University of Exeter is an equal opportunity em-
ployer and promotes diversity in its workforce and,
whilst all applicants will be judged on merit alone, is
particularly keen to consider applications from groups
currently underrepresented in the workforce.
Tom Price Institute of Integrative Biology Biosciences
Building, Crown Street University of Liverpool Liver-
pool L69 7ZB
+44 151 795 4558
T.Price@liverpool.ac.uk
UFlorida Phylogenomics
The Kawahara Lab at the University of Florida,
Gainesville, is currently seeking a postdoctoral fellow
to study the phylogenomics of Lepidoptera (butterﬂies
and moths).
Required: Familiarity with Next Generation Sequenc-
ing, computer programming/scripting in Perl/Python.
An interest in insect evolution is desired, but not nec-
essary.
The position centers around research on comparative
genomics of Lepidoptera (butterﬂies and moths), specif-
ically the Gracillariidae (leaf-mining moths). Responsi-
bilities include sample preparation of genomic libraries
for NGS and analysis. The successful candidate will
work closely with technicians and students in the lab.
Position available Jan 1, 2012 or until the position is
ﬁlled.
To apply, submit a cover letter, CV, and 3 ref-
erence contacts to kawahara@ﬂmnh.uﬂ.edu. Any
questions can be addressed to Akito Kawahara
at kawahara@ﬂmnh.uﬂ.edu. A lab website can
be found at: http://www.ﬂmnh.uﬂ.edu/mcguire/-kawahara/ – Akito Y. Kawahara Assistant Cu-
rator of Lepidoptera McGuire Center for Lepi-
doptera and Biodiversity Florida Museum of Nat-
ural History University of Florida 3215 Hull Road
Gainesville, FL 32611-2710 USA Tel: 352.273.2018 Fax:
352.392.0479 Email: kawahara@ﬂmnh.uﬂ.edu http://-
www.ﬂmnh.uﬂ.edu/mcguire/kawahara/
kawahara@ﬂmnh.uﬂ.edu
UFribourg DaphniaEvolGenetics
A Postdoc position in evolutionary genetics
is available at the Ecology and Evolution unit, Uni-
versity of Fribourg, Switzerland. I am looking for a
highly motivated candidate with interest in a keen evo-
lutionary biology. A solid background in population
genetics, molecular evolution and/or evolutionary ge-
nomics is helpful. Possible topics include breeding sys-
tem evolution, evolution of senescence, and evolution in
small vs. large populations, using Daphnia magna as
main study organism. However, the exact project will
be worked out together with the successful candidate.
Previous experience with Daphnia is not required, but
excellent written, verbal, and interpersonal skills, good
work ethics, and the ability to think creatively and crit-
ically are desired. The starting date is from January
2012 onwards. The position is funded for 2.5 years (or
3 years at 80%) and comes with a competitive salary.
The postdoc will be part of Christoph Haag’s group
working on evolutionary genetics of Daphnia. Details
about the group can be found at
http://www.unifr.ch/biol/ecology/haag/-
haag labhome.html Please send your application
by E-mail to christoph.haag@unifr.ch. Applications
should include a single pdf-ﬁle containing CV, a list of
publications and a 1 page description of your research
interests and motivation. Please give names and email
addresses of two persons who are willing to write
a letter of recommendation. Applications received
before 28 October 2011 will be given full consideration.
Interviews will be held as soon as possible afterwards.
Contact information:
Christoph Haag University of Fribourg Department of
Biology Unit of Ecology & Evolution Chemin du Mus´ ee
10 CH-1700 Fribourg Switzerland
Phone: +41 (0)26 300 88 71 Fax: +41 (0)26 300 96 98November 1, 2011 EvolDir 97
E-mail: christoph.haag@unifr.ch http://-
www.unifr.ch/biol/ecology/haag/haag labhome.html
HAAG Christoph <christoph.haag@unifr.ch >
UHawaii Manoa CopepodGeneFlow
POSTDOCTORAL FELLOWSHIP - ZOOPLANK-
TON MOLECULAR ECOLOGY University of Hawaii
at Manoa Department of Oceanograph Applications are
invited for a postdoctoral fellowship position in zoo-
plankton molecular ecology in E. Goetze’s laboratory in
the Department of Oceanography, University of Hawaii,
at Manoa.
The postdoctoral scientist will lead eﬀorts in nuclear
marker development for an NSF-funded project on pop-
ulation connectivity and dispersal in oceanic plank-
ton species. The project aims to test the hypothe-
sis that depth habitat and vertical migration behavior
are keys traits that inﬂuence dispersal and gene ﬂow
among plankton populations in open ocean habitats.
Our approach is comparative, and we are working to
resolve the spatial patterns of gene ﬂow among popu-
lations of eight copepod species that utilize very dif-
ferent depth habitats (surface 1000 m) The postdoc’s
primary responsibilities on this project will be to (1)
develop new microsatellite (or RAD tag) markers for
1-2 planktonic copepods, and (2) apply these markers
across a global collection of material (Atlantic, Paciﬁc,
and Indian Oceans; subtropical and tropical waters).
454 sequencing will be used for marker development,
and applicants with skills in handling these datasets are
particularly desired. If interested, opportunities would
exist to participate in ﬁeldwork at sea, gain university
teaching experience at the graduate and undergradu-
ate levels, attend training workshops, and obtain ex-
perience in writing research grants. Support will be
provided to present research results at national or in-
ternational meetings. Initial appointment is for 1 year.
The School of Ocean and Earth Science and Tech-
nology (SOEST) was established at the University of
Hawaii at Manoa to promote excellence in interdisci-
plinary research and graduate education in marine, at-
mospheric, and geological sciences. This postdoctoral
position is within the Department of Oceanography at
SOEST, and is located on the main Manoa campus.
Additional information about the Biological Oceanog-
raphy Division and the Department of Oceanogra-
phy can be found at: http://www.soest.hawaii.edu/-oceanography/ . Qualiﬁcations: The successful candi-
date will have a PhD in oceanography, marine biology,
zoology or a related ﬁeld, and strong molecular skills.
While not required, ideal candidates will have experi-
ence with nuclear marker development in other organ-
isms, and will have some experience with handling large
genetic datasets (from 454 or Illumina platforms).
How to apply: Electronically submit a coverletter, CV,
brief statement of research experience and interests,
and names and contact information for three references
to egoetze@hawaii.edu. Review of applications will be-
gin on November 4, 2011 and will continue until a suit-
able candidate is found. An ideal start date would be in
Winter 2011-2012 (or sooner). Feel free to contact Dr.
Goetze with questions about the research or position.
Erica Goetze Department of Oceanography University
of Hawaii at Manoa Marine Science Building, # 606
1000 Pope Road Honolulu, HI 96822
Erica Goetze <egoetze@hawaii.edu >
UKansas Biodiversity
Postdoctoral Researcher in Biodiversity Science at the
University of Kansas
The research group of Andrew Short in the Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and Bio-
diversity Institute at the University of Kansas invites
applications for the position of postdoctoral researcher.
We seek applicants with research interests and demon-
strated experience in modern Biodiversity Science (in-
cluding, but not limited to molecular and morphological
systematics, phylogeography, ecological niche model-
ing, biogeography, and bioinformatics) to conduct both
independent and collaborative research on or utiliz-
ing aquatic beetles as the focal/model taxa. We are
particularly interested in ecological diversiﬁcation in
aquatic habitats, Neotropical biogeography, and molec-
ular methods in systematics. The position is available
for 18 months with possible 6- month extension. The
successful applicant will plan, conduct, and publish re-
search in the biodiversity sciences independently and in
collaboration with lab personnel; contribute to the pro-
fessional development of undergraduate and graduate
students; and assist with lab management and opera-
tions. Required qualiﬁcations: Ph.D. in Biology, Ento-
mology, or related ﬁeld by date of employment. Record
of excellence in research as demonstrated by publica-
tion in peer-reviewed journals and written statement of98 EvolDir November 1, 2011
research experience and interests. Demonstrated expe-
rience with modern molecular methods in systematic
biology.
Desired qualiﬁcations: Research experience in
Coleoptera or aquatic insects. Fieldwork experience in
challenging conditions. Demonstrated knowledge or
ﬂuency in Spanish or Portuguese
Applications: Apply to: https://jobs.ku.edu and search
for Position #00000300. Applicants should submit a
current CV, statements of research experience and re-
search interests, and three professional references. Re-
view of applications to begin November 1, 2011 and will
continue until the position is ﬁlled. Target start date:
June 1, 2012 (very ﬂexible). For more information on
our research group visit http://sites.google.com/site/-
theshortlab/ . Inquiries may be directed to Andrew
Short (aezshort@ku.edu). EO/AA employer.
Andrew Short Assistant Professor & Curator Division
of Entomology, Biodiversity Institute Department of
Ecology & Evolutionary Biology University of Kansas
Lawrence, KS 66045
Oﬃce: 785.864.2323 Email: aezshort@ku.edu http:/-
/sites.google.com/site/theshortlab/ Andrew Short
<aezshort@ku.edu >
ULiverpool DaphniaEpigenetics
Daphnia epigenetics post-doc, UoLiverpool Stewart
Plaistow, Steve Paterson, Daimark Bennett
Closing date for receipt of applications: 11 November
2011
You will join a 3 year NERC funded project to de-
termine the role of non-genetic inheritance (parental
eﬀects, epigenetics) in explaining contemporary evolu-
tion. Using Daphnia pulex and its response to various
pollutants as a model system, we will combine ecotoxi-
cology, novel molecular genomic techniques, and exper-
imental evolution into a single study. The project rep-
resents an exciting opportunity to determine the evo-
lutionary and ecological signiﬁcance of non-genetic in-
heritance while simultaneously developing novel envi-
ronmental risk assessment tools using state of the art
molecular genomic techniques. You should have a PhD
in evolutionary biology or similar and relevant experi-
ence.
Further details and application pack fromhttp://www.liv.ac.uk/working/job vacancies/-
research/R-574466.htm Informal enquiries contact
s.plaistow@liv.ac.uk or s.paterson@liv.ac.uk
– Steve Paterson
Institute of Integrative Biology University of Liv-
erpool Liverpool, L69 7ZB, UK Tel +44 151 795
4521 Fax +44 151 795 4408 Mob +44 151 794 7668
s.paterson@liv.ac.uk
“Paterson, Steve” <S.Paterson@liverpool.ac.uk >
UMelbourne
DenguePopulationGenetics
RESEARCH FELLOW - NHMRC - ASIA PACIFIC
CENTRE FOR INNOVATIVE DENGUE PREVEN-
TION (RE-ADVERTISED)
Department of Genetics, Faculty of Science, The Uni-
versity of Melbourne
Salary: $56,226* - $76,299 p.a. (*PhD entry level:
$71,081 p.a.) plus 9% superannuation
This Postdoctoral Research position based at The
University of Melbourne Parkville Campus, oﬀers the
unique opportunity to work with one of Australia’s
leading ARC Laureate Fellows as part NHMRC- funded
Asia Paciﬁc Centre for Innovative Dengue Prevention.
You will work as part of a team of internationally
renowned scientists towards implementing exciting new
methods for the reduction of dengue transmission in
Australia and ultimately worldwide.
The role requires a PhD in spatial ecology or ecological
/ population genetics, or equivalent qualiﬁcation, ex-
pertise in experimental design and insect handling, as
well as familiarity with population genetics theory and
the theory of age structured populations, and have a
proven track record in publications.
Re-advertised position, previous applicants need not
apply. Employment Type: Full Time (Fixed-term) po-
sition, available 2 years (1 October 2011 - 30 September
2013) Enquiries only to: Emily Thomson, Tel +61 3
8344 2522, Email emilyct@unimelb.edu.au Close date:
6 November 2011
For position information and to apply online
go to www.hr.unimelb.edu.au/careers <http://-
www.hr.unimelb.edu.au/careers >, click on ’Job
Search’ and search under the job title or job numberNovember 1, 2011 EvolDir 99
0027392.
Lynne Pryor <lpryor@unimelb.edu.au >
UMinnesota SpeciationAdaptation
Post-doctoral Position: Ecological Genetics and Popu-
lation Genomics of Speciation
A post-doctoral position is available in the Moeller Lab-
oratory in the Department of Plant Biology at the Uni-
versity of Minnesota. The post-doc will participate in
an NSF-funded project examining ecological speciation
in the genus Clarkia using both ﬁeld experiments and
population genomics.
Our research investigates the role of natural selection in
the evolution of reproductive isolation between incipi-
ent species, including studies of prezygotic and postzy-
gotic isolating mechanisms. In particular, we are exam-
ining the role of mating system divergence in the evo-
lution of prezyogtic isolation using manipulative ﬁeld
experiments in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada of Cali-
fornia. We are also examining the population genomics
of local adaptation and species divergence using next
generation sequencing.
Candidates should have a strong background in ecolog-
ical and/or evolutionary genetics. Previous experience
with complex ﬁeld experiments, molecular population
genetics, and the analysis of next generation sequence
data is desirable but not required. I am particularly in-
terested in creative, highly motivated, and independent
researchers with interests in the integration of ecologi-
cal and molecular approaches to examine fundamental
questions in evolutionary biology.
More information on my lab and our current re-
search can be found at: http://www.cbs.umn.edu/-
labs/moeller Applicants should send an email to
moeller@umn.edu describing their background and in-
terests, CV, and the names and contact information of
at least two references. The position includes a com-
petitive salary and beneﬁts package and is renewable
for up to 2.5 years contingent upon performance. The
start date of the position is ﬂexible.
David Moeller Assistant Professor Department of Plant
Biology St Paul, MN 55108 (612) 624-1037 http://-
www.cbs.umn.edu/labs/moeller/ moeller@umn.eduUNorthCarolina ChapelHill
EvolutionaryTheory
Postdoctoral Position at the University of North Car-
olina, Chapel Hill
A position is available for a Postdoctoral Research As-
sociate in the lab of Maria Servedio at the University
of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, to work on theoretical
models of male and mutual mate choice. The applicant
will be expected to develop an independent research
project(s) in addition to collaborating with the PI on
theoretical projects. Prior experience with theoreti-
cal modeling techniques, a strong mathematical back-
ground, and programming skills is preferred. A Ph.D.
and a strong background in evolution is required.
Research in the Servedio lab concentrates developing
mathematical models of speciation and mate choice.
Please see http://www.bio.unc.edu/Faculty/Servedio/-
Lab/Home.html or contact Maria Servedio (serve-
dio@email.unc.edu) for more information on projects
ongoing in the lab.
The appointment is for 2 years with a ﬂexible start
date. Send applications including a CV, description
of research experience and interests, brief description
of background in theory and related skills, and names
and addresses of three references to Maria Servedio at
servedio@email.unc.edu
Informal inquiries are welcome as well. Review of ap-
plications will begin on October 30 and continue until
the position is ﬁlled.
servedio@email.unc.edu
UNotreDame Genomics
The University of Notre Dame Environ-
mental Change Initiative (ND-ECI; http://-
environmentalchange.nd.edu/ ) is seeking three
Postdoctoral Fellows (PDF) to work in the area
of environmental genomics. The ND-ECI is a recent
addition to a series of targeted investments to grow
excellence in environmental science, genomics, and100 EvolDir November 1, 2011
bioinformatics at the University of Notre Dame. Re-
searchers in the ND-ECI will ﬁnd a rich environment
for collaboration through the EckInstitute for Global
Health <http://globalhealth.nd.edu/index.html >,
the Interdisciplinary Center for Network Science and
Applications <http://icensa.nd.edu/ >, and state-of-
the-art equipment in the Genomics and Bioinformatics
Core Facility <http://globalhealth.nd.edu/index.html
>. Successful applicants will be integral members of
a dynamic multidisciplinary team, including faculty,
research staﬀ, and graduate students, exploring genetic
and genomic aspects of environmental change. There
will be abundant opportunities for collaboration,
granstmanship, mentoring of graduate students, and
professional development.
We seek one PDF to work with a team of bi-
ologists and computer scientists to forge links be-
tween microbialecophysiological traits, genome con-
tent, and the role of microbial communities in ecosys-
tem function and global change scenarios. Appli-
cants should have earned or will soon earn a Ph.D.
in some area of biology or bioinformatics and pos-
sess experience in aquatic or soil microbial ecology
and/or microbial genomics. A successful applicant
would work closely with Drs. Stuart Jones ( http://-
biology.nd.edu/people/faculty/jones/ ), Michael Pfren-
der ( http://biology.nd.edu/people/faculty/pfrender/ ),
and Scott Emrich ( http://www.nd.edu/˜semrich/ ).
We seek a second PDF with expertise in conserva-
tion genetics and molecular ecology to collaborate with
faculty and graduate students on the early detection
ofaquatic invasive species using environmental DNA.
Qualiﬁed candidates should have completed their Ph.D.
by January 2012 and have a well-documented publica-
tion record. The ideal candidate would have experience
in marker design, qPCR, and sample preparation for
high-throughput sequencing. Experience with aquatic
systems is preferred but not required. A successful ap-
plicant will be a member of the David M. Lodge Lab
(http://nd.edu/˜lodgelab/ ).
We seek a third PDF in the area of environmental ge-
nomics to examine the relationship between gene func-
tion and adaptation in changing environments. Ap-
plicants that have earned or will soon earn a Ph.D.
in biology or bioinformatics and possess experience in
genomics, population genetics, metagenetics, computa-
tional biology or related ﬁelds are encouraged to apply.
Knowledge of statistics, in particular high-throughput
sequence and microarray data analysis, is also highly
desired. A successful applicant will be a member
of the Michael Pfrender Lab ( http://www.nd.edu/-
˜mpfrende/ ).Applicants should send one single pdf with a cover let-
ter explaining how their research experience and tra-
jectory could contribute to ND-ECI and a CV, plus the
names of at least three references, to the Environmen-
tal Change Initiative at eci@nd.edu. Please put “Envi-
ronmental Genomics Application” in the subject line.
The University of Notre Dame is an equal opportunity
employer with a strong institutional and academic com-
mitment to diversity.
– Environmental Change Initiative University of
Notre Dame http://environmentalchange.nd.edu/ Of-
ﬁce (574) 807-9322
Innovation Park 1400 E. Angela Blvd., Unit #117
South Bend, IN 46617
“environmental change initiative ( eci ) - ( eci )”
<eci@nd.edu >
UProvence BacterialPhylogenomics
Position available : 2 years EBM lab and URMITE lab
subject
Rickettsia species are obligate intracellular bacteria
that include major human pathogens, such as Rick-
ettsia prowazekii, the agent of epidemic typhus. Ge-
nomic studies by our laboratories demonstrated that
these bacteria undergo a paradoxal reductive genomic
evolution, where progressive gene loss co-exists with
multiplication of genes or repeated genomic fragments.
The objectives of the project are: 1) to identify in ge-
nomic sequences from all Rickettsia species repeated
and common fragments enabling the design of molec-
ular detection tools; 2) to identify in genomic se-
quences from all Rickettsia species the most variable
fragments enabling the design of genotyping tools; 3) to
study the gene loss phenomena associated to increase in
pathogenicity; and 4) to deﬁne genomic citeria enabling
the taxonomic classiﬁcation of these bacteria.
The candidate should have a good back ground in bioin-
formatics and phylogenetic analysis
Pierre Antoine Pontarotti
Directeur de Recherche CNRS Responsable de l’Equipe
Evolution biologique et Mod´ elisation UMR 6632 Uni-
versit´ e de Aix Marseille/CNRS . http://sites.univ-
provence.fr/evol/ Pr´ esident de l’Association pour
l’Etude de l’Evolution Biologique http://sites.univ-
provence.fr/aeeb/ we are organizing the 16th Evo-November 1, 2011 EvolDir 101
lutionary Biology Meeting at Marseilles http://-
sites.univ-provence.fr/evol-cgr/ Pierre PONTAROTTI
<Pierre.Pontarotti@univ-provence.fr >
URhodeIsland
PhytoPlanktonPopGenetics
*Postdoctoral research associate position : Phytoplank-
ton PopGen*- Connecting local, regional and global
scales of gene ﬂow in planktonic marine diatoms. The
Rynearson lab, at the University of Rhode Island’s
Graduate School of Oceanography invites applications
for a Postdoctoral Research Associate position. The
research project combines genetic, physiological and
physical oceanographic approaches to investigate gene
ﬂow in phytoplankton.
*Responsibilities and Duties*: The postdoctoral asso-
ciate will be responsible for conducting laboratory and
ﬁeld research on grant-funded work to examine global
patterns and rates of gene ﬂow in planktonic diatoms,
and for disseminating results in publications and pre-
sentations. The individual will be required to con-
tribute to the functioning of the lab, assist with gradu-
ate and undergraduate student mentoring, perform out-
reach and educational activities and develop future re-
search projects.
*Qualiﬁcations*: Candidates are required to have a
Ph.D. degree by January 2011 in Oceanography, Bi-
ology (Ecology or Evolution) or a related ﬁeld. Ex-
cellent command of the English language (written and
verbal) and quantitative analytical skills are required.
Candidates should possess demonstrable experience in
the ﬁeld of ecology or evolution as well as some of the
following: conceiving, designing and conducting empir-
ical research; ability to work with and analyze molecu-
lar markers; familiarity with genetic and bioinformatics
techniques; computer programming; simulations and
modeling; quantitative and statistical analyses.
*Appointment*: The position is for 12-months, com-
mencing January or February, 2012 with the possibility
of renewal depending on performance. The successful
candidate will receive training in research collaboration,
presentation and publication of results, and outreach
and mentoring. There will be opportunities for teach-
ing and development of research proposals.
*To Apply*: Applications must include (1) a maxi-
mum 3-page statement of career goals, research visionand interests; (2) curriculum vitae, (3) reprints of rele-
vant publications and (4) names and addresses of three
referees willing to write conﬁdential letters of recom-
mendation. All materials should be emailed as a single
pdf document to: rynearson at gso.uri.edu with ’Post-
Doc Application’ in the subject line. Candidates will
be selected based on overall excellence, including aca-
demic qualiﬁcations, letters of recommendation, and
prior skills, experience, and research goals that are com-
patible with the goals of the funded research. The po-
sition is compensated through a competitive salary and
excellent beneﬁts package. *Closing date*: For full con-
sideration, applications must be received by Novem-
ber 16, 2011 or until the position is ﬁlled.Further in-
formation: - Rynearson lab: http://www.gso.uri.edu/-
users/rynearson - URI Graduate School of Oceanog-
raphy: http://www.gso.uri.edu/ Tatiana Rynearson
<rynearson@gso.uri.edu >
USaoPaulo CnidariaPhylogenetics
Postdoctoral Position at the University of S˜ ao Paulo
(USP)
A 2-year post-doctoral fellowship is available starting in
November, 2011 as part of a FAPESP ( www.fapesp.br )
grant to study micro and macroevolutionary processes
underlying diversiﬁcation in cnidarians. The speciﬁc
post-doctoral project focuses on the development of
novel analytical approaches to incorporate rRNA sec-
ondary structures into phylogenetic analysis. The can-
didate is expected to help mentor and manage an active
team of graduate and undergraduate students working
on a variety of grant-supported projects. The candi-
date will also have the opportunity to develop and lead
collaborative research project(s) if directly related to
cnidarian phylogenetics and/or biodiversity.
Applicants should have a track record of peer-reviewed
publications in systematics, molecular biology, RNA
secondary structures and cnidarian phylogenetics (em-
phasis on medusozoans is preferred).
Qualiﬁcations:
- A Ph.D. (concluded in the previous 5 years) in biology,
genetics, zoology, or related
- Fluency in English (knowledge of Spanish and/or Por-
tuguese is a plus) - Proﬁciency in at least one computer
language
Fellowship: R$ 64.000,00 per year (aprox. US$102 EvolDir November 1, 2011
40.700,00 )- FAPESP fellowships are tax free (see de-
tails in http://www.fapesp.br/en/5427 . Deadline is
November 06, 2011, or until position is ﬁlled. To apply
please submit curriculum vitae, statement of research
interests (maximum two pages) and two letters of rec-
ommendation by email to the lead PI - Prof. Antonio C.
Marques, Dept of Zoology IB University of S˜ ao Paulo,
Rua do Mat˜ ao Trav. 14 no. 101, 05508-900, S˜ ao Paulo
SP, Brazil . For further information please contact Dr.
Marques at marques@ib.usp.br. Applications already
submitted on previous searches will be reconsidered.
Marcos Barbeitos <msbarbeitos@gmail.com >
USheﬃeld EvolutionaryGenomics
Postdoctoral position: evolutionary and ecological ge-
nomics at the University of Sheﬃeld
The laboratory of Patrik Nosil ( http://-
ebio.colorado.edu/labs/nosil/ ) will be moving to
the University of Sheﬃeld, UK in January 2012. The
lab is seeking applicants to ﬁll a postdoctoral position
around this same time period. The position is funded
by the European Research Council (ERC starter
grant) and will require the integration of ecological,
evolutionary, and genomic methodologies. The overall
project is aimed at using replicated ﬁeld experiments in
herbivorous Timema walking-stick insects to measure
selection directly at the genomic level. Speciﬁcally,
ﬁeld experiments measuring ﬁtness will be combined
with high-throughput genotyping by sequencing to
estimate the distribution and intensity of selection
on genomic regions in nature. Such experiments will
be conducted across multiple taxon-pairs within the
genus Timema and will reconstruct how genomes vary
as speciation unfolds from beginning to end.
The postdoctoral fellow would be responsible for data
analysis of large, population genomic datasets. A Ph.D.
is required for the position. Previously demonstrated
expertise and facility in the following areas would be
beneﬁcial and well-suited to the position: UNIX envi-
ronment and HPC computing, programming in R, Perl,
C, etc., applied probability and hierarchical Bayesian
models and existing population genomic models.
The successful applicant would receive salary with ben-
eﬁts for two years and would join a lab that is strongly
funded for research on speciation and genomics (i.e., via
the aforementioned ERC starter grant, roughly 2.7 mil-
lion US dollars in funding over the next ﬁve years). Ad-ditionally, the successful applicant would beneﬁt from
collaboration with the Buerkle lab (U. Wyoming) on
major analytical and computational developments in
evolutionary genomics.
The target start date for the position is early 2012.
However, the position will remain open until a suitable
applicant is found. Applicants should email their C.V.
and a short statement of interest to Patrik Nosil at the
following address: patrik.nosil@colorado.edu
Patrik.Nosil@Colorado.EDU
UStAndrews CricketEvolGenomics 2
This is a reminder about an approaching deadline for
a 3-year evolutionary genomics postdoc at the Univer-
sity of St Andrews - the full ad is below. Applications
should be received by 07 October, 2011 for full consid-
eration, and informal enquiries can be made to Nathan
Bailey (nwb3@st-andrews.ac.uk).
—–
A 3-year postdoctoral position in developmental and
evolutionary genetics is available in Nathan Baileys lab
at the University of St. Andrews.
Project Description: The postdoctoral researcher will
work on a NERC-funded project examining genomic
and transcriptomic changes underlying rapid evolution
in the wild. The project is based at St. Andrews and
is a collaboration with Michael Ritchie (St. Andrews,
UK) and Marlene Zuk (UC Riverside, USA). A con-
temporary morphological mutation eliminates sound-
producing structures on male cricket wings in a wild
population of the ﬁeld cricket Teleogryllus oceanicus.
The primary role of the postdoc will be to perform
mapping crosses, genome and transcriptome sequenc-
ing, and RAD-mapping with three main goals: (1)
identify markers associated with the mutation and con-
struct a linkage map to pinpoint the causative muta-
tion(s), (2) identify candidate genes associated with the
mutant morphology, and (3) examine the cascade of
transcriptomic changes resulting from the mutation(s).
Qualiﬁcations: A PhD (or soon to be awarded) in a
relevant ﬁeld is required. The ideal candidate will have
molecular genetics experience and a strong bioinformat-
ics background with evidence of suitable programming
and analytical skills. A strong publication record for
the applicants career stage and a commitment to dis-
semination of results are required. A signiﬁcant portionNovember 1, 2011 EvolDir 103
of the postdocs role will be to organize day-to-day labo-
ratory activities related to the project, work with tech-
nical staﬀ at St. Andrews, and liaise with the NBAF
sequencing facilities at the Universities of Edinburgh
and Liverpool, so the candidate should also possess ex-
cellent interpersonal skills. The position is open to can-
didates of any nationality.
Career Development: The postdoc will be encouraged
to develop additional lines of research suited to his/her
interests. The project is collaborative, so there is scope
for interactions with the co-PIs plus travel to collabo-
rating laboratories.
Informal Enquiries: Please contact Nathan Bai-
ley (nwb3@st-andrews.ac.uk) with any informal en-
quiries. Further information about the lab is
available at: www.ﬂexiblephenotype.org . Appli-
cation: Please apply through the University of
St. Andrews HR website: https://www.vacancies.st-
andrews.ac.uk/welcome.aspx and search for job refer-
ence number ML1042. Applications should include a
cover letter, CV, a brief ( ~1 page) statement detailing
your research interests and career goals, and two letters
of reference.
Closing date: 07 October 2011
Nathan Bailey <nwb3@st-andrews.ac.uk >
UVirginia Evolution Ecology
Physiology
Postdoctoral Researcher in Evolutionary Ecology and
Physiology
The Department of Biology at the University of Vir-
ginia invites candidates for a post-doctoral Research
Associate in the lab of Dr. Robert Cox. ( http://-
faculty.virginia.edu/coxlab/Cox Lab/Home.html ).
The focus of this research position will be tailored to
the skills and expertise of the successful applicant, but
will ultimately complement the lab’s interests in sexual
conﬂict, life-history evolution, vertebrate endocrinol-
ogy, and evolutionary physiology. The post-doc will
work closely with the PI and lab personnel to design
and lead research in the ﬁeld and lab, prepare grant
proposals and manuscripts, mentor undergraduate and
graduate students, and contribute to a vibrant and col-
laborative group of ecologists and evolutionary biolo-
gists at UVA ( http://dept.biology.virginia.edu/eebio/ ).A Ph.D. in Biology or a related discipline is required,
with preference given to candidates with a strong back-
ground in evolutionary biology. Candidates with exper-
tise in molecular genetics and genomics are encouraged
to apply, as the lab seeks to connect emerging ques-
tions in evolutionary physiology with existing depart-
mental strengths in these areas. The ideal candidate
will demonstrate the ability to integrate across biologi-
cal disciplines and use this appointment as an opportu-
nity to develop and pursue novel and exciting questions.
Application Procedure: To apply, please submit a Can-
didate Proﬁle including (1) cover letter detailing your
research interests, (2) curriculum vitae, and (3) con-
tact information for three references. Candidate Pro-
ﬁles should be submitted online through Jobs@UVA
(https://jobs.virginia.edu ). Search for posting number
0608675.
Review of applications will begin October 28, 2011.
However, the position will remain open until ﬁlled.
Ideal start date is January 2012, but timing is ﬂexible
and earlier or later start dates can be arranged. This
is a one-year appointment, however appointment may
be renewed for an additional two, one-year increments,
contingent upon available funding and satisfactory per-
formance.
Questions regarding the position should be directed to
Robert Cox: rmc3u@virginia.edu
Questions regarding the Candidate Proﬁle process or
Jobs@UVA should be directed to Mary Liberman:
ml5ac@virginia.edu
The University of Virginia is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer. Women, Minorities,
Veterans and Persons with Disabilities are encouraged
to apply.
– Robert M. Cox Assistant Professor Department of
Biology University of Virginia P.O. Box 400328 Char-
lottesville, VA 22904-4328 Phone: 434-982-1987 http:/-
/faculty.virginia.edu/coxlab/ cox.robert.m@gmail.com
UWyoming ComputationalGenomics
Postdoctoral Position in Computational Comparative
Genomics
A postdoctoral position is immediately available in the
Liberles Group at University of Wyoming in the ﬁeld
of computational comparative genomics. The project104 EvolDir November 1, 2011
involves developing new models to detect positive se-
lection and for the evolution of gene duplicates and to
apply new and existing models to a large Chordate
comparative genomic dataset. The successful candi-
date will have strong skills in programming coupled to
experience with databases and with genomic sequence
data and/or gene family analysis. The position is grant
funded and includes a competitive salary and beneﬁts
package. University of Wyoming is located in Laramie,
WY, 2 hours north of Denver in the Rocky Mountains.
It is an ideal location for those with interests in out-
door activities in the mountains. To apply, please send
a CV, letter of motivation, and contact information for
three references to liberles@uwyo.edu. Review of appli-
cations will continue until the position is ﬁlled.
Required disclaimer written by the University of
Wyoming Oﬃce of Diversity: The University of
Wyoming is committed to diversity and endorses prin-
ciples of aﬃrmative action. We acknowledge that di-
versity enriches and sustains our scholarship and pro-
motes equal access to our educational mission. We seek
and welcome applications from individuals of all back-
grounds, experiences, and perspectives.
David Liberles <liberles@uwyo.edu >
UWyoming
PlantEvolutionaryGenetics
Agroecological annotation of gene function and net-
work characterization in Brassica rapa. One post-
doctoral position in Evolutionary Genetics is available
to study in the lab of Cynthia Weinig at the University
of Wyoming. The position is associated with a ﬁve-year
multi-investigator NSF project that includes collabora-
tors from Dartmouth College, Kansas State University,
and University of California-Davis. The overarching
aims of this project are to 1) annotate shade-avoidance
genes using diverse genotypes and agroecologically rel-
evant conditions in order to understand variability in
yield, and 2) elucidate the shade-avoidance network
via computational methods that predict plant archi-
tecture from complex genotypes and that are applica-
ble to other traits. These objectives are highly com-
plementary in that phenotypic and environmental data
collected to annotate gene function can be used with
genetic regulatory information as inputs to develop sys-
tems biology models of shade avoidance.
Preference will be given to candidates with a strongbackground in evolutionary genetics, particularly quan-
titative genetics, and candidates with either molecu-
lar genetic or modeling experience. The position oﬀers
opportunities to learn new measurement and analyt-
ical techniques in alternative disciplines through col-
laboration with other labs. Activities of the diﬀer-
ent labs will include function-value trait characteriza-
tion, quantitative-genetic analysis and QTL mapping
in RILs and natural accessions of B. rapa, ﬁne-scale
mapping and transgenic rescue to clone QTL, RNAseq
in lab and ﬁeld settings, and development and dissem-
ination of B. rapa genetic resources for enhancing K12
and undergraduate education. In addition, the posi-
tion requires data analysis, publication of manuscripts
and participation in workshops on career development.
Applicants should send a Curriculum Vitae, a brief let-
ter stating speciﬁc research interests, research accom-
plishments, and future research objectives as well as
the names and contact information for three profes-
sional references as a single pdf ﬁle to Cynthia Weinig
(cweinig@uwyo.edu). A Ph.D. is required by the time
the successful applicants start a position. Review of ap-
plications will begin Nov. 1 and continue until suitable
candidates are identiﬁed. The start date is negotiable
and salary will be competitive with full beneﬁts.
The University of Wyoming is committed to diver-
sity and endorses principles of aﬃrmative action. We
acknowledge that diversity enriches and sustains our
scholarship and promotes equal access to our educa-
tional mission. We seek and welcome applications from
individuals of all backgrounds, experiences, and per-
spectives.
Cynthia Weinig Associate Professor Departments of
Botany and Molecular Biology 1000 E. University Ave,
3165 Laramie WY, 82071 Email: cweinig@uwyo.edu
TEL: 307 766-6378 FAX: 307 766-2851
Cynthia Weinig <cweinig@uwyo.edu >
Vienna thermal adaptation
Postdoctoral position: genetics of thermal adaptation
in Drosophila
A postdoctoral position is available at the Institute
of Population Genetics, Vetmeduni Vienna (Austria).
The research focus of the Institute of Population Genet-
ics is on understanding the genetics of adaptation. This
central question in evolutionary biology is being tackled
using up-to-date methods and a variety of approaches,November 1, 2011 EvolDir 105
including experimental evolution, quantitative genetics,
examination of life history traits, Evo-Devo, empirical
population genetics, bioinformatics and statistics.
The successful candidate will have access to an excel-
lent data set on thermal adaptation in Drosophila in-
cluding: 1) Genome-wide polymorphism data from lab-
oratory selection experiments exposing Drosophila to
diﬀerent temperature regimes. 2) Gene expression data
of Drosophila populations evolved to diﬀerent tempera-
tures in the laboratory 3) GWAS data for traits related
to thermal adaptation 4) Genome-wide polymorphism
data for natural populations from environments with
diﬀerent temperatures
We are searching for a candidate with a keen inter-
est to understand thermal adaptation in Drosophila
by combining information from these proprietary data
sets. Given the scale of the experiment, sound statis-
tical knowledge is essential and programming skills are
beneﬁcial.
In recent years, Vienna has developed into one of
the leading centers in evolutionary biology ( http:/-
/www.evolvienna.at ). In addition, Vienna is home
to the VDRC Stock Center, and a high-proﬁle
Drosophila research community, most notably at the
IMP ( http://www.imp.ac.at/ ) and the IMBA ( http:/-
/www.imba.oeaw.ac.at/ ). In addition to a stimulating
scientiﬁc environment, Vienna also oﬀers an extraordi-
narily high quality of life. Aﬀordable housing, excellent
public transport, great restaurants, a range of inter-
national schools, two operas, two music centers, many
theaters and museums in combination with a pleasant
climate make Vienna one of the most attractive cities
in Europe.
The position is available from the beginning of
2012. The application should be emailed to chris-
tian.schloetterer@vetmeduni.ac.at as a single pdf con-
taining CV, list of publications, a statement of research
interests, and the names of three references with contact
details. While the search will continue until the posi-
tion is ﬁlled, applications should be received by October
28, 2011 to ensure full consideration.
Christian Schl¨ otterer Institut f¨ ur Populationsgenetik
Veterin¨ armedizinische Universit¨ at Wien Josef Bau-
mann Gasse 1 1210 Wien Austria/Europe
phone: +43-1-25077-4300 fax: +43-1-25077-4390
http://i122server.vu-wien.ac.at/pop Vienna Gradu-
ate School of Population Genetics http://www.popgen-
vienna.at/ schlotc@gmail.comWayneStateU GenomicsData
Job Title: Postdoctoral fellow
Location: Center for Molecular Medicine and Genetics
(CMMG), Wayne State University School of Medicine.
The CMMG is a unique interdisciplinary unit within
Wayne State Universityˆ as School of Medicine. The
center is built around modern molecular genetics, and
comprises basic researchers, physician-scientists, com-
putational scientists, and genetic counselors. For more
information please see http://cmmg.biosci.wayne.edu/
. Description: Full-time position. We are seeking a
postdoctoral fellow or research analyst who can take
the lead on analyzing genomic data from multiple in-
terrelated projects with the potential to yield multiple
high-impact papers. Position would be jointly funded
by two PIs with an extensive history of collabora-
tion (Wildman and Uddin); successful applicants would
work closely with both PIs.
Job Functions: ˆ a Develop and implement statistically
robust, systems biology approaches to analyzing gene
expression and DNA methylation microarray data.
ˆ a Develop and implement statistical analyses of ge-
nomic data integrated across multiple levels (i.e.
miRNA expression, gene expression, DNA methylation
and DNA sequence variation).
ˆ a Analyze next generation sequencing data and com-
pile the results from multiple species for evolutionary
analysis.
ˆ a Draft manuscripts in part (i.e. methods, results) or
whole, as the project requires.
ˆ a Provide oral and written progress updates to PIs and
other lab members.
Qualiﬁcations: PhD in biostatistics or genomics re-
quired. Familiarity with analyzing genomic data (in-
cluding gene expression and methylation microarray,
next generation and exome sequencing) as well as ex-
pertise in evolutionary genetic and genomic analysis
preferred. Experience with and facility using R, Bio-
conductor required; knowledge of SAS a bonus. Strong
written and oral communication skills a must. Salary
commensurate with experience.
Contact: Please send CV, including the contact infor-
mation for three references, to Richelo Soliven: rso-
liven@wayne.edu
“Soliven, Richelo” <rsolive@med.wayne.edu >106 EvolDir November 1, 2011
WorkshopsCourses
CzechRepublic Genomics Jan8-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
London SystematicsAssociationLecture 5thOct . . . 107
Montreal HumanPopGenet Oct11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
Paris EvolutionaryGLMs Nov21-24 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108
Portugal BioinformaticsStatistics Oct24-28 . . . . . . . 108
Portugal GenomicsBioinformatics Nov7-9 . . . . . . . . 109SanAntonio AnthroGenomics Jan9-10 . . . . . . . . . . . . 109
Turku Finland TheoryOfSpeciation Aug19-26 . . . . 109
UColoradoBoulder BiodiversityInformatics Jun24-30
110
ULisboa Bioinformatics Nov21-25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
CzechRepublic Genomics Jan8-25
2012 Workshop on Genomics, ¨Aesk ˜A1
2Krumlov, Czech
Republic
Core Workshop: 8 - 21 January 2012 Advanced Topics
Session: 23 - 25 January 2012
Application Deadline: 15 November is the preferred ap-
plication deadline, after which time people will be ad-
mitted to the course following review of applications by
the admissions committee. However, later applications
will certainly be accepted.
Registration Fee: 1800 USD. Fee includes opening re-
ception and mid- course dinner, but does not include
other meals or housing. Special discounted pricing has
been arranged for hotels, pensions and hostels.
For general Workshop information: http://evomics.org
Direct Workshop Link: http://evomics.org/-
workshops/worksho...cesky-krumlov/ Direct Advanced
Topic Link: http://evomics.org/workshops/advanced-
topics/ Co-directors: Scott A. Handley, Naiara
Rodr ˜A’guez-Ezpeleta and Karin Rengefors
The Workshop on Genomics consists of a series of lec-
tures, demonstrations and computer laboratories that
cover various aspects of genomics focusing primarily on
the analysis of next-generation sequencing data. Fac-
ulty are chosen exclusively for their eﬀectiveness in
teaching theory and practice. The course is designedfor established investigators, postdoctoral scholars, and
advanced graduate students. Scientists with strong in-
terests in the uses of short-read sequence data, ana-
lytical methods, comparative structure of genomes, us-
ing next- gen sequence data to study non-model organ-
isms, SNP detection and analysis, genome visualization
tools and related areas are encouraged to apply for ad-
mission. Lectures and computer laboratories total ~90
hours of scheduled instruction. Admission is limited
and highly competitive, with admissions decisions de-
termined by an international committee. No program-
ming experience is required.
Topics to be covered include: - Sequencing technologies:
short-read sequencing technologies of various types -
Manipulation of sequence data using the command-line
and quality assessment and control techniques - Assem-
bly and alignment: basic analyses in de novo and re- se-
quencing studies - The use of next-generation sequence
data to study non-model organisms - RAD (Restriction
site Associated DNA) sequence analysis - Genome char-
acterization: gene content; genome structure; SNPs -
Assigning sequences to taxonomic groups in metage-
nomic studies - Transcriptome quantiﬁcation and map-
ping for expression and gene structure elucidation - The
use of frameworks (Galaxy) for genome data compre-
hension and analysis - Evolutionary genomics - Popu-
lation genomics Whatˆ as new this year? - New Website:
Updated design, content and application forms can be
found at http://evomics.org . Workshop schedules as
well as other detailed information can be found at this
site which is frequently updated.
- Advanced Topic Sessions: In addition to the core two-November 1, 2011 EvolDir 107
week Workshop curriculum we will be organizing 2-3
day Advanced Topic Sessions on Programming and on
the use R/Bioconductor for genomic analysis.
- Scholarships: A limited number of scholarships will
be provided to help oﬀ-set the costs of participating in
the Workshop. More details about these opportunities
will be made available very soon.
- Amazon Web Services Support: We have been
awarded a grant to provide cloud computing support
using Amazon Web Services. Every participant will
be provided with access during their participation in
the Workshop. Oﬀered in partnership with the Grad-
uate Research School in Genomic Ecology (GENECO)
http://www.geneco.se/ For more information and on-
line application see the Workshop web site - http://-
evomics.org handley.scott@gmail.com
London
SystematicsAssociationLecture
5thOct
The Systematics Association Sir Julian Huxley lecture
Taxonomy in the 21st century
Prof. Charles Godfray, University of Oxford.
The Linnean Society, Burlington House, Piccadilly,
London Wednesday 5th October 2011, 6 pm
The meeting is open to visitors. Wine will be served af-
ter the lecture to members and guests. Please advertise
this lecture as widely as you can.
Abstract: Taxonomy is one of the oldest branches of
biology and in a time of major loss of biodiversity of
critical importance today. But the subject currently
faces great threats and as well as great opportunities
- many tasks that traditionally required taxonomic ex-
pertise can now be performed by non-specialists using
modern molecular techniques, and the users of taxon-
omy expect information to be made available seamlessly
over the web. In the lecture I’ll explore some of the ma-
jor challenges facing the subject, drawing on the recent
NERC-sponsored report “Developing a National Strat-
egy in Taxonomy & Systematics”. I shall argue that
the future of taxonomy and systematics is assured, as
long as the subject takes the lead in redeﬁning itself as
a modern information science.
– The Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute is operated by
Genome Research Limited, a charity registered in Eng-land with number 1021457 and a company registered in
England with number 2742969, whose registered oﬃce
is 215 Euston Road, London, NW1 2BE.
James Cotton <james.cotton@sanger.ac.uk >
Montreal HumanPopGenet Oct11
ICHG Satellite Workshop
Populations of the New World: impact
of founder eﬀects on health
http://ichg2011popworkshop.yolasite.com/
Tuesday, October 11th, 2011, 8:00 am to 4:00 pm
Room 513CD, Montreal Convention Center
PROGRAM & SPEAKERS
1st Session: Genetics and genealogies
Marie? \H´ el` ene Roy? \Gagnon (U. of Montreal)
& Helene V´ ezina (U. of Quebec (Chicoutimi))
Genomic and genealogical investigation of the French
Canadian
founder population structure
Philip Awadalla ( U. of Montreal)
Interrogating the Genomic and Environmental Control
Points of
Chronic Disease in a Prospective Aging Quebec Cohort
?\CARTaGENE
Agnar Helgason (deCODE Genetics)
Using IBD segments to study admixture and popula-
tion structure in
Iceland
2nd Session: Amerindian Health Issues
David Reich (Harvard U.) The Genetic History of Na-
tive Americans
Robert Hanson (NIDDK, NIH) Genetic Studies of Di-
abetes Mellitus in Pima Indians
Predicting risk for sudden death: The power of clinical
and basic
Laura Arbour (U. of British Columbia)
science with communities
3rd Session: Admixtures108 EvolDir November 1, 2011
Nelson B. Freimer (UCLA) Mapping Disease genes in
Latin American founder populations
Carlos D. Bustamante (Stanford U.) Population genet-
ics and genomics of admixture in the Americas
Rick Kittles (U. of Chicago) Genetic Histories of
Africans in the New World
John Novembre (UCLA) Admixture and Recombina-
tion in African? \Americans
4th Session: Selection and adaptation
Anna Di Rienzo (U. of Chicago) Adaptations to local
environments in Native Americans
David Goldstein (Duke U.) Identifying pathogenic mu-
tations in whole genome sequence data
Meeting organizers: Damian Labuda & Guy Rouleau,
U.of Montreal
Meeting secretary: Ron Lafreniere
PRE? \REGISTRATION (free) required - TO REG-
ISTER send email to RON LAFRENIERE AT
RON.RMGA@GMAIL.COM
No registration to ICHG/ASHGM required
Dr Damian Labuda <damian.labuda@umontreal.ca >
Paris EvolutionaryGLMs Nov21-24
The laboratory of Ecology & Evolution (UMR7625
Paris, France) and the Research School Ecology & Evo-
lution of the Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary
Studies (Groningen, Netherlands) jointly organize a
PhD level course on Generalized Linear Models and
Mixed Models, which are essential statistical tools in
evolutionary biology. The course also provides an in-
troduction to the use of the statistical freeware R.
Aims Ecological and evolutionary data are often com-
plex, with many interacting variables. The most basic
tools to analyse such data are “generalized linear mod-
els”, where generalized means that the techniques can
be used for many statistical distributions. Generalized
linear models are therefore used to analyse count data,
proportions, survival times, etcetera. The models are
versatile and allow you to investigate the relevance of
many explanatory variables, which can either be cat-
egorical or continuous variables. When the technique
is extended with the estimation of variances of random
eﬀects, one obtains mixed models. An example is thefamous “animal model”, essential when investigating
additive genetic variances and heritabilities.
In this course, students are introduced to modelling
data in general, and to model selection among glm’s
and mixed models speciﬁcally. The course consists of
lectures, computer exercises in which your own data
can be used and discussion.
Computer exercises are used to make all participants
acquainted with R statistical software. Everyone is ex-
pected to bring a dataset to be analysed. In order to
assure that all participants have easy access to com-
puter facilities, it is advised to bring your own laptop.
This year the course will be held from 21 - 24 Novem-
ber 2011 at the CEREEP-ECOTRON station in Saint-
Pierre-les-Nemours ( ±1 hour from Paris) in France.
More information and instructions for registration
can be found at: http://www.rug.nl/fmns-research/-
rsee/phdcourses/glmecologists?lang=en As an af-
terthought, we’d like to let you know that we intend
to compensate for the CO2 emissions caused by travel-
ling to the meeting and the meeting itself and we plan
to do this by planting trees at the station. Participants
can contribute to this.
Course lecturers: Tom Van Dooren (CNRS, UMR7625
Ecology and Evolution, Paris, France) Wolf Mooij
(NIOO, Wageningen, Netherlands) Thomas Tully
(IUFM, UMR7625 Ecology and Evolution, Paris,
France) Francois Mallard (ENS, UMR7625 Ecology and
Evolution, Paris, France)
vandoore@biologie.ens.fr
Portugal BioinformaticsStatistics
Oct24-28
Deadline Oct 17th *BFB11 Biostatistical Founda-
tions in Bioinformatics* Fully based in *R*. this
course revisits Statistics on subjects that matter
for Bioinformatics. From Probability to HMMs,
for example. Course dates: Oct 24th and
28th 2011 http://gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt/bicourses/-
BFB11 Pedro Fernandes Instituto Gulbenkian de
Ciˆ encia Apartado 14 2781-901 OEIRAS Tel +351 21
4407912 http://gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt Pedro Fernan-
des <pfern@igc.gulbenkian.pt >November 1, 2011 EvolDir 109
Portugal GenomicsBioinformatics
Nov7-9
Deadline Oct 17th *BIG11 Bioinformatics for In-
tegrative Genomics* Integration, analysis and vi-
sualization of genomics data Course dates: Nov
7th, 8th and 9th 2011 http://gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt/-
bicourses/BIG11 – Pedro Fernandes Instituto Gul-
benkian de Ciˆ encia Apartado 14 2781-901 OEIRAS Tel
+351 21 4407912 http://gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt Pedro
Fernandes <pfern@igc.gulbenkian.pt >
SanAntonio AnthroGenomics
Jan9-10
AGAR: Application of Genomics to Anthropological
Research
Dates: Monday, January 9th - Tuesday, January 10th,
2012 Location: The Texas Biomedical Research In-
stitute, San Antonio, Texas Organizers: The Ameri-
can Association of Anthropological Genetics (AAAG)
Education Committee in collaboration with the Texas
Biomedical Research Institute <http://txbiomed.org/
>(details below)
The Application of Genomics to Anthropological Re-
search (AGAR) Workshop aims to provide students and
scholars interested in evolutionary anthropology with a
thorough introduction into the theory and application
of state-of-the-art genomic research. The workshop will
be led by experts from across the ﬁeld of human ge-
nomics, who will instruct and interact with participants
in both semi-formal and casual settings. Speciﬁcally,
the workshop will comprise (1) keynote lectures from
leaders in anthropological genomics, (2) formal pre-
sentations describing general as well as anthropology-
speciﬁc applications of genomic tools, (3) Q&A sessions
that address the practical issues of genomic research,
(4) informal chalk-talk sessions in which the partici-
pants can discuss their own projects, and (5) social
events to foster contacts and future collaborations. The
goal of this event is to provide anthropologists previ-
ously unfamiliar with the ﬁeld of genomics suﬃcient
knowledge to apply (and at a minimum to understandthe application of) genomic tools to their future re-
search.
Please visit http://www.anthgen.org/AGAR for more
information and registration.
ˆ a Graciela S. Cabana, Ph.D. ˆ a Assistant Professor of
Anthropology ˆ a Director, Molecular Anthropology Lab-
oratories ˆ a University of Tennessee ˆ a 250 South Sta-
dium Hall ˆ a Knoxville, Tennessee 37996-0720 ˆ a ph |
865.974.6989 ˆ a fx |865.974.2686 ˆ a http://web.utk.edu/-
˜anthrop/faculty/cabana ˆ a ˆ a
gcabana <gcabana@utk.edu >
Turku Finland TheoryOfSpeciation
Aug19-26
The Helsinki Summer School on Mathematical Ecology
and Evolution 2012: THEORY OF SPECIATION
Dear Colleagues,
We are pleased to invite students and young researchers
to the summer school Theory of Speciation to be held
between 19 and 26 August 2012 in Turku, Finland. The
core program of the school consists of ﬁve series of lec-
tures,
Sergey Gavrilets: Population genetics of speciation
Nick Barton: Multilocus models of speciation Sander
van Doorn: The role of sexual selection in speciation
Eva Kisdi: The ecology of speciation Daniel Bolnick:
Theory and empirical speciation research
All young researchers working in mathematical ecol-
ogy/evolution can apply from all countries, especially
from Europe and the Mediterranean. The school is
aimed at PhD students of biology with suﬃcient theo-
retical background and at PhD students of mathemat-
ics with interest in ecology and evolution, but we also
welcome advanced undergraduates and postdocs. The
deadline for applications is 15 April 2012. There is no
fee for registration.
For more details and application, see http://-
wiki.helsinki.ﬁ/display/huippu/mathbio2012 . Eva
Kisdi and Tadeas Priklopil
kisdi@mappi.helsinki.ﬁ110 EvolDir November 1, 2011
UColoradoBoulder
BiodiversityInformatics Jun24-30
Call for Applications: VertNet Biodiversity Informatics
Training Workshop
We are excited to announce a call for applications
for VertNets ﬁrst biodiversity informatics workshop.
Please share this information with your colleagues, stu-
dents, friends, and anyone else whom you believe would
be interested in this opportunity.
[image: Univ. of Colo Boulder Image]The *Biodi-
versity Informatics Training Workshop (BITW), June
24-30, 2012*, will provide participants with the train-
ing and experience to work with primary biodiversity
data sources and new tools necessary to become pro-
ﬁcient in biodiversity informatics and conduct biodi-
versity research. Led by experienced informaticists and
researchers, the BITW will emphasize the use and anal-
ysis of aggregated biodiversity data from VertNet, and
other sources, for a wide of variety of research.
During the course of ﬁve days, participants will work
closely with trainers to address compelling biodiversity
research questions, focusing on the entire scope of a re-
search project, from initial data acquisition to tools for
data evaluation to analysis and ﬁnally, project dissem-
ination and outreach. The workshop will include large
and small group exercises on a common curriculum
as well as the opportunity for participants to discuss
and explore individual research questions with train-
ers. During the workshop, participants will explore and
utilize:
- Data sources for discovery, acquisition, data stan-
dards, database creation and organization (e.g., Vert-
Net, GBIF, Darwin Core) - Organization, analysis,
work ﬂow, and data improvement tools - Biodiver-
sity measurement and analyses techniques (e.g., species
richness, turnover) - Species distribution modeling
approaches - Dissemination, education and outreach
mechanisms (e.g., citizen science)
*Who should attend?* Advanced undergraduates, re-
cent post baccalaureates, and early-career graduate stu-
dents currently working, or interested in a career in a
biodiversity related ﬁeld, including, but not limited to,
ecology, conservation, geography, biology, environmen-
tal science, computer science, and library science.
*Workshop Selection and Support* Acceptance to theBITW is a competitive process and the workshop is lim-
ited to 25 participants. *All applications materials and
recommendations must be received by 11:59pm PT on
January 10, 2012 for consideration**.* Accepted par-
ticipants will be notiﬁed in March 2012. Individuals
selected for participation will receive support to cover
reasonable costs for transportation, accommodations,
and per diem. Accommodations will be provided on
the University of Colorado Boulder (CU) campus.
*Application materials are available at http://-
vertnet.org/about/BITW.php . Submit applica-
tion materials online (** http://vertnet.org/about/-
BITW.php** ) or send all completed materials and one
letter of recommendation to dbloom@vertnet.org or
David Bloom, VertNet Coordinator, Museum of Verte-
brate Zoology, UCB, 3101 Valley Life Sciences Building,
Berkeley, CA 94720.*
Carol L. Spencer, Ph.D. Staﬀ Curator of Herpetol-
ogy & Researcher Museum of Vertebrate Zoology 3101
Valley Life Sciences Building University of Califor-
nia, Berkeley, CA, USA 94720-3160 atrox10@gmail.com
atrox@berkeley.edu TEL: 510-643-5778 /FAX: 510-643-
8238
http://www.herpnet.org http://mvz.berkeley.edu/
http://www.vertnet.org Carol Spencer
<atrox@berkeley.edu >
ULisboa Bioinformatics Nov21-25
Dear all,
I would like to call your attention to the workshop that
we are organizing in Lisbon:
Practical workshop: Bioinformatics and Systems Mod-
elling
November 21st to 25th 2011
Faculty of Sciences, University of Lisboa, Portugal
Deadline for registration: October 30th 2011
Course aim
The technological advances of the last decade have al-
lowed for the easy generation of massive amounts of
data on the components, interactions and organization
of biological systems, heralding a new era for Systems
Biology. This course aims to give graduate and post-
graduate students with a background in biological sci-
ences, a hands-on perspective on how to obtain, in-November 1, 2011 EvolDir 111
tegrate and analyze complex data sets from multiple
experimental sources using inter disciplinary tools and
discuss the challenges that still have to be met in the fu-
ture. Topics include basic and intermediate concepts on
databases and data-mining, network analysis, systems
modelling and prediction, with an emphasis on gene
expression, protein interaction and signalling. *Target
audience*
MSc graduates, PhD students and junior post-doctoral
fellows in biochemical/biological/biomedical sciences
wishing to expand their knowledge on bioinformatics,
modelling and network analysis for systems biology.
*Course info, fees and registration:*
This course is an elective within the Advanced Training
Course Program for 1st year PhD students in Biochem-
istry of the Department of Chemistry & Biochemistry
(Bologna 3rd cycle) and is part of a workshop serieswithin the post-graduate programme in Molecular and
Cellular Biology of the Epithelium in Health and Dis-
ease (more information on: http://www.dqb.fc.ul.pt ).
The course is open to national and international stu-
dents on a ﬁrst come, ﬁrst serve basis, to a maximum
of 20 participants. Credits for external (Bologna) PhD
given upon request.
Registration fee: 200 euros (350 euros for participants
attending 2 workshops).
Andreia J. Amaral, PhD BioFIG - Center for
Biodiversity, Functional and Integrative Ge-
nomics Instituto de Medicina Molecular Univer-
sity of Lisbon Tel: +352 217500000 (ext. oﬃce:
28253) email:andreiaamaral@fm.ul.pt ; andreiaama-
ral@fc.ul.pt
andreia.fonseca@gmail.com
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here — Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from ‘blackballed’ addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned oﬀ and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf ﬁle.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
‘on vacation’, etc, style messages are automatically ﬁltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail’s your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word ﬁles, as HTML ﬁles, as L ATEX ﬁles, Excel ﬁles, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
“Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:” and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and ﬁlters. If the message is caught by one of the
ﬁlters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword112 EvolDir November 1, 2011
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.