E v o l D i r
August 1, 2011
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same ﬁeld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be “bulletin board” in nature, if there is a “discussion” style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 742 EvolDir August 1, 2011
Conferences
Cairns CoralAdaptation July . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
ColdSpringHarbor NematodeEvolution Apr3-6 . . . . . . 3
Edinburgh QuantGenetics Jun17-22 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Glasgow ConservationBiol Aug28-Sep1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Gottingen PrimateBrainEvolution Dec6-9 . . . . . . . . . . 4
Hawaii Biocomputing Jan3-7 Deadline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Jyvaskyla Coevolution Oct4-7 Reminder . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
KansasCity Genomics Nov4-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
London SexualSelection Dec1-2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Marseilles 15thEvolBiol Sep27-30 program . . . . . . . . . . 7NorthCarolina SEPEEG 2011 Oct21-23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Oxford Biogeography Sep23-25 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Porto Portugal AncientHumanDNA Nov23-25 re-
minder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Townsville QLD AustralasianEvolutionSociety Sep24-
27 registration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
UMunich MetazoanPhylogeny Oct11-14 Registration3
9
WoodsHoleMA NortheastMobileDNA Sept1-3 . . . . . . 9
Cairns CoralAdaptation July
ICRS mini-symposium “Genomic approaches to coral
reef biology” Reply-To: “Christian R. Voolstra”
<christian.voolstra@kaust.edu.sa >X-Mailer: Apple
Mail (2.1084)
Dear colleagues,
We would like to draw your attention to the mini-
symposium “Genomic approaches to coral reef biol-
ogy” at the 2012 International Coral Reef Symposium,
which will take place in Cairns in July 2012 ( http://-
www.icrs2012.com ). The abstract is below.
We very much look forward to your contribution and to
eventually seeing you in Cairns! If you have any ques-
tions with respect to this mini-symposium, please do
not hesitate to contact any of us!
With best regards,
Christian R. Voolstra <christian.voolstra@kaust.edu.sa >
David Miller <david.miller@jcu.edu.au >
Monica Medina <mmedina@ucmerced.edu >
Tim Ravasi <timothy.ravasi@kaust.edu.sa >
Sylvain Foret <sylvain.foret@anu.edu.au >
MINI-SYPOSIUM ABSTRACT:
Coral reefs are disturbed on a global scale by means ofhuman-induced environmental changes including global
warming and progressive rise of sea surface tempera-
tures as well as increases in carbon dioxide that lead to
ocean acidiﬁcation. Although the last decade has seen
a lot of progress in our understanding of the responses
and adaptation of the coral and its symbionts to these
environmental changes, still little is known about the
molecular mechanisms that underlie these responses.
Mostly, because to date there have been only few eﬀorts
to apply systems biology and genomic approaches to the
holistic understanding of the biology of coral reefs.
An important goal for the mini-symposium is to pro-
vide crash course introductions to some of the latest
achievements in coral genomics and systems biology ap-
proaches to coral reef biology. Another purpose is to
promote research in this direction and to promote in-
teraction between coral reef researchers from diﬀerent
areas. The speakers will present both the wide scope
of the topic and important new results. The mini-
symposium will be an excellent opportunity to shed
light on this new systems biology and genomics era for
coral reef biology.
OPENING DATE FOR SUBMISSION OF AB-
STRACTS: 1 July 2011
CLOSING DATE FOR SUBMISSION OF AB-
STRACTS: 1 October 2011
IMPORTANT: Please send your submission through
the ICRS website, and not directly to us.
Regards, ChrisAugust 1, 2011 EvolDir 3
– Christian R. Voolstra Assistant Professor of Marine
Science Coral Reef Ecological Genomics, Red Sea
Research Center King Abdullah University of Sci-
ence and Technology (KAUST) 23955-6900 Thuwal,
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Phone: +966 5 44 7000
87 E-mail: christian.voolstra@kaust.edu.sa Web:
http://faculty.kaust.edu.sa/sites/christianvoolstra/-
Pages/home.aspx “Christian R. Voolstra”
<christian.voolstra@kaust.edu.sa >
ColdSpringHarbor
NematodeEvolution Apr3-6
Greetings —
We are pleased to announce the 2012 Evolution of
Caenorhabditis and Other Nematodes meeting at Cold
Spring Harbor!
The meeting will take place April 3-6, 2012. The ab-
stract deadline is January 20, 2012. As per CSHL
customs, the majority of oral presentations will be se-
lected from the submitted abstracts (session chairs will
present too); the abstracts must present unpublished
research.
You can see our draft website at: http://-
meetings.cshl.edu/meetings/worms12.shtml As
you will see on the website, Marie-Anne F´ elix will
serve as our keynote speaker and we have attracted
a strong and diverse group of 12 worm evolutionary
biologists and genomicists to serve as session chairs.
Research presented and discussed at the meeting
will include C. elegans and other Caenorhabditis
evolutionary biology, the evolution of animal- and
plant-parasitic nematode species, and the biodiversity
and megagenetics of nematodes. This year, we have
also invited two session chairs (Holly Bik, Tom Moens)
who will bring expertise and knowledge in marine
nematodes. There will also be a strong emphasis on
genomics. We have applied to NSF for funding to help
support students and postdocs, and plan to pursue
additional support from NIH and corporate sources
this summer.
There will be one poster session, and we are currently
organizing our meeting around six themes that will
most likely serve as the themes for the six oral sessions:
Fundamental evolutionary forces Evolution of develop-
ment and reproductive mode Evolution of parasitism
and pathogenesis Metagenomics and biodiversity Com-putational genomics of Caenorhabditis species Compu-
tational genomics of other nematodes
We look forward to seeing your abstracts in January,
and everyone in April!
Dee Denver, Oregon State University Mark Blax-
ter, University of Edinburgh (the organizers) –
Dee R. Denver Associate Professor Department of
Zoology Center for Genome Research and Bio-
computing Oregon State University 3029 Cordley
Hall Corvallis, OR 97331 PH: 541-737-3698 FX:
541-737-0501 http://denverlab.cgrb.oregonstate.edu/
denvedee@cgrb.oregonstate.edu
Edinburgh QuantGenetics Jun17-22
Advance Notice: 4th International Conference on
Quantitative Genetics
Edinburgh 17-22 June 2012
http://www.icqg2012.org.uk/ Polygenic variation in
quantitative and other complex phenotypes underpins
most important traits in human health and disease,
agriculture, natural populations and evolution. This
conference provides an opportunity to learn about the
rapid advances in this ﬁeld from the worlds leading re-
searchers, as well as to present and discuss your own re-
sults. The meeting is being held in the impressive sur-
roundings of the Edinburgh International Conference
Centre at the centre of Scotlands historic capital.
Conﬁrmed speakers will include:
Eric Lander (Genetics Society Mendel Medal Lec-
ture) ¨Orjan Carlborg (Genetics Society Balfour Lec-
ture) Goncalo Abecasis, Piter Bijma, Ed Buckler, Mark
Blows, Gustavo de los Campos, Richard Durbin, Jar-
rod Hadﬁeld, Ben Hayes, Matt Hurles, Frank Jo-
hannes, Trudy Mackay, Mark McCarthy, Magnus Nord-
berg, Sergey Nuzhdin, Patrick Phillips, Chris-Carolin
Schoen, Nik Schork, Pak Sham, John Storey, Peter
Visscher, and Alastair Wilson.
The Conference will be arranged in nine broad sessions:
Genetic architecture - Evolutionary quantitative genet-
ics - Variation in the genome - Advances from new
numerical methods - Opportunities from technological
advances - Emerging areas - Bridging the genotype-
phenotype gap - Interactions among individuals and
with the environment - Genomic information in pre-
diction.4 EvolDir August 1, 2011
We shall also select papers for oral presentation from
submitted poster abstracts. There will be poster ses-
sions and also opportunities for small symposia to be
arranged by participants on Wednesday afternoon or at
lunchtimes/early evening.
Chairs who will lead and introduce sessions include
David Balding, Marie-Anne Felix, Michel Georges,
Greg Gibson, Mark Kirkpatrick, Theo Meuwissen,
Derek Roﬀ, Veronica van Heyningen and Bruce Walsh.
To receive further information about the conference and
to note interest (pre-registration), please go to http://-
www.icqg2012.org.uk/ The deadline for early registra-
tion and submission of abstracts for consideration for
oral presentation is 3 February 2012.
We look forward to seeing you in Edinburgh in June
2012.
Bill Hill, Lutz B¨ unger, Chris Haley, Mike Kearsey,
Loeske Kruuk, DJ de Koning, Josephine Pemberton,
and Alan Wright
– Prof W G Hill Institute of Evolutionary Biology
School of Biological Sciences University of Edinburgh
West Mains Road Edinburgh, EH9 3JT
e-mail: w.g.hill@ed.ac.uk Phone: +44-(0)131-650 5705
Fax: +44-(0)131-650 6564
The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, regis-
tered in Scotland, with registration number SC005336.
w.g.hill@ed.ac.uk
Glasgow ConservationBiol
Aug28-Sep1
Dear Colleagues,
The 3rd European Congress of Conservation Biology
will be held in Glasgow, Scotland, from 28 August to
1 September 2012, and is organised by the Society for
Conservation Biology -Europe Section and the Univer-
sity of Cumbria’s National School of Forestry. The
Call for symposia, workshops and training sessions is
now open with a deadline for proposals of 30 Septem-
ber 2011. Details are posted on the congress web-
site:www.eccb2012.org . This cornerstone international
event will bring academics, students, policy makers,
natural resource managers and NGO representatives
from all over Europe to address all aspects of conserva-
tion biology from research to application, from terres-trial to marine issues. Already three renowned plenary
speakers conﬁrmed their participation, Ian Boyd, Ilkka
Hanski and Peter Vitousek.
I do hope that the conference is of interest to you; please
distribute this letter for other interested parties.
Kind regards,
The Organisers – Andr´ as B´ aldi PhD DSc Animal
Ecology Research Group, HAS, Hungarian Natural
History Museum Chair, Scientiﬁc Committee, 3rd
European Congress of Conservation Biology http://-
eccb2012.org/ http://euroconbio.blogspot.com/ http:/-
/www.nhmus.hu/˜baldi/ Postal address: Baross u. 13.
Budapest, Hungary, 1088
–
Judit V¨ or¨ os PhD Collection of Amphibians and Rep-
tiles Hungarian Natural History Museum 1088 Bu-
dapest Baross u. 13. Tel: +36/1-267-71-00 Fax:
+36/1-267-34-62
Judit Voros <jvoros@nhmus.hu >
Gottingen PrimateBrainEvolution
Dec6-9
VIII. G¨ ottinger Freilandtage Behavioral Constraints
and Flexibility
06-09 December 2011 G¨ ottingen, Germany
Because primates have some of the relatively largest
brains, advanced cognitive and learning abilities, be-
cause they are large mobile animals that have the op-
portunity to encounter many diﬀerent microhabitats,
and because they may encounter changing conditions
or rare climatic crises during their relatively long lives,
they may be some of the most behaviorally ﬂexible an-
imals. On the other hand, many aspects of primate
behavior are suggestive of the existence of constraints
as the result of phylogenetic, cognitive, genetic or epi-
genetic factors. Because primates are the most diﬃcult
taxon for the study of these constraints because the
necessary experiments are not possible, a dialogue with
colleagues working with other model taxa may there-
fore advance our understanding of the determinants
of mammalian social behavior. The speciﬁc aims of
this meeting are therefore to bring together students
of primate and mammalian behavior and sociality for
a comprehensive analysis and synthesis of the factors
that either facilitate of constrain behavioral ﬂexibilityAugust 1, 2011 EvolDir 5
at all levels of natural organization, ranging from indi-
viduals to higher taxa. Conﬁrmed invited speakers in-
clude: Louise Barrett, Dan Blumstein, Josep Call, Tim
Clutton-Brock, Zoe Donaldson, Kay Holekamp, Jason
Kamilar, Andreas Koenig, Dieter Lukas, Denis R´ eale,
Norbert Sachser, Carsten Schradin, Benard Thierry,
Jenny Tung and Carel van Schaik.
http://www.soziobio.uni-goettingen.de/Kongresse/-
Freilandtage/gft2011/gft2011.php Prof. Dr. Peter
M. Kappeler Sociobiology/Anthropology University of
G¨ ottingen Kellnerweg 6 D-37077 G¨ ottingen +49-551-
397317 http://www.soziobio.uni-goettingen.de/ New
Animal Behavior Book: http://www.springer.com/-
life+sciences/behavioural/book/978-3-642-02623-2
“Kappeler, Peter” <pkappel@gwdg.de >
Hawaii Biocomputing Jan3-7
Deadline
In response to several requests, we are pleased to an-
nounce an EXTENDED DEADLINE for submitting
manuscripts for the Microbiome Studies special session
at the Paciﬁc Symposium on Biocomputing. Please
pass this along to any colleagues who you think may
be interested.
New Deadline: 25 July 2011
Here is the revised call for papers:
We invite you to submit manuscripts to be considered
for presentation at this special session of PSB. Papers
will be published in the peer- reviewed proceedings and
indexed in Medline. The objective of this Microbiome
Studies special session is to expand our understanding
of the composition, structure, and function of micro-
bial ecosystems and their impact on human health and
well-being. We particularly encourage studies that ap-
ply “next generation” sequencing technologies, and re-
ports of tools that support the analysis and sharing of
data from such studies. Problems of speciﬁc interest
may include, but are not limited to:
Algorithm, statistical, software, and database develop-
ment for analyzing data from shotgun metagenomics,
16S hypervariable region surveys, and microbial tran-
scriptomics.
Association studies of microbial consortia with human
health, agriculture, bioremediation, climate change,
and engineering.Theoretical and simulation studies of microbial ecol-
ogy, function, and evolution.
The role of microbial consortia in natural ecosystems.
Interactions among diﬀerent microbial systems and
macrobiological systems
Other topics within the subject area are welcome. Note
that all submitted papers should make clear their rel-
evance for the study of Microbiome Studies. If unsure
whether your paper ﬁts the session theme, please con-
tact one of the co-chairs.
For details, see the special session website: http://-
psb.stanford.edu/cfp-ms We invite you to submit your
work to this year’s special session!
Submission deadline is 25 July 2011
James A. Foster Jason Moore Jack Gilbert John Bunge
foster@uidaho.edu
Jyvaskyla Coevolution Oct4-7
Reminder
Symposium on CoEvolution 4th - 7th October 2011,
Jyv¨ askyl¨ a, Finland
We are pleased to announce a special symposium on
Coevolution in Jyv¨ askyl¨ a, Finland (October 4th 7th,
2011).
The symposium is organized by the post-docs of the
Centre of Excellence in Evolutionary Research and the
Division of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology from the
University of Jyv¨ askyl¨ a. We are particularly keen to
give post-docs a chance to present and discuss their
work on coevolution together with other interested re-
searchers.
Our keynote speakers will be Dr. Sheena Cotter from
Queens’ University (Belfast), Dr. Mario Vallejo Mar´ ın
from University of Stirling (Scotland) and Dr. Dagmar
Voigt from University of Kiel (Germany) in addition to
contributions from local professors (a.o. Prof. Johanna
Mappes, Prof. Hannu Yl¨ onen).
We are accepting oral presentations and posters cov-
ering all aspects of coevolution with emphasis on the
following themes:
1. Mutualism 2. Insect-plant interactions 3. Predator-
prey interactions 4. Multitrophic interactions 5. Sexual
conﬂict 6. Virulence evolution 7. Gene-gene interac-6 EvolDir August 1, 2011
tions
Registration deadline is August 31st and deadline for
abstract submission is July 31st. Registration fee is 80
Euro. This includes Tuesday dinner and social evening,
Wednesday festive dinner, Friday excursion and coﬀee
and tea.
For more information or to register, please visit:
https://www.jyu.ﬁ/bioenv/en/divisions/eko/-
coeevolution/coevolution-symposium You can also
contact us through coevo.symposium@jyu.ﬁ.
Looking forward to meeting you in Jyv¨ askyl¨ a!
On behalf of the organizing committee,
Dr. Sandra Varga Postdoctoral Researcher Department
of Biological and Environmental Science PO Box 35,
FI-40014 University of Jyv¨ askyl¨ a Finland
http://users.jyu.ﬁ/ ˜ savarga/ http://-
jyu.academia.edu/SandraVarga sandra.varga@jyu.ﬁ
KansasCity Genomics Nov4-6
Save the dates
...and plan to attend the 9th Annual “Genes in Ecol-
ogy, Ecology in Genes” Symposium on November 4, 5,
& 6, 2011, in Kansas City. We will convene in the
Muehlbach/Marriott Hotel in downtown Kansas City
at 6:00 p.m. and conclude on Sunday at noon. Regis-
tration will be opening soon!
Ecological Genomics is a ﬁeld at the interface of ecol-
ogy, evolution and genomics that seeks to place the
functional signiﬁcance of genes and genomics into an
ecological and evolutionary context.
We have an outstanding lineup of speakers for the 2011
Symposium and we encourage you to attend!
PLENARY SPEAKER: Louis Bernatchez - Universit´ e
Laval
FEATURED SPEAKERS:
Bryon Adams - Brigham Young University Justin
Borvitz - University of Chicago Daniel Buckley - Cor-
nell University John Colbourne - Indiana University
John Jaenike - University of Rochester Brian Lazzaro
- Cornell University Jeremy Marshall - Kansas State
University Emilie Snell-Rood - University of Minnesota
Victoria Sork - University of California-Los AngelesPOSTER SESSIONS: A poster session will be held on
Saturday afternoon. Poster topics should be related to
the ﬁeld of Ecological Genomics. A LIMITED NUM-
BER OF SUBMITTED POSTER ABSTRACTS WILL
BE SELECTED FOR ORAL PRESENTATIONS.
Please share this announcement with colleagues and
students who are interested in learning more about the
ﬁeld of Ecological Genomics. If you have questions,
please contact Michael Herman or Loretta Johnson.
Funding for this symposium is provided by Kansas
State University.
Ecological Genomics Institute Directors:
Dr. Loretta Johnson, johnson@ksu.edu Dr. Michael
Herman, mherman@ksu.edu Kansas State University,
Division of Biology 116 Ackert Hall, Manhattan, KS
66506-4901 ecogen.ksu.edu
Michael Herman Division of Biology Kansas State Uni-
versity 266 Chalmers Hall Manhattan, KS 66506 Of-
ﬁce: (785) 532-6741 Lab: (785) 532-6773 FAX (785)
532-6653 Email : mherman@ksu.edu http://www.k-
state.edu/hermanlab Learn about the Kansas State
University Ecological Genomics Institute at http://-
ecogen.ksu.edu mherman@ksu.edu
London SexualSelection Dec1-2
Association for the Study of Animal Behaviour Win-
ter Meeting, 1st & 2nd December 2011, The Zoological
Society, London.
SECOND CALL FOR ABSTRACTS: Deadline July 31
2011
Why do animals mate with the “wrong” partner?
Organisers David Shuker and Nathan Bailey, University
of St Andrews.
Animals often attempt to mate with partners that ap-
pear to be of “low quality”. Such partners range from
apparently low ﬁtness individuals of the opposite sex
but of the same species, through to members of the
same sex or even members of a diﬀerent species, from
which no ﬁtness beneﬁts should accrue. In this two-day
meeting we will explore the evolutionary causes and
consequences of seemingly “sub-optimal” mate choice
behaviour. There are two questions we hope will be ad-
dressed. First, are behaviours such as reproductive in-
terference between species or same-sex matings within
species biologically relevant or merely quirky patholo-August 1, 2011 EvolDir 7
gies that oﬀer little insight? Second, to what extent do
mate choices in one context (getting the “right” species
or sex, or the “sexiest” partner) inform us about mate
choice in other contexts?
We hope to stimulate behavioural ecologists to think
again about what we expect from mate choice and to
consider whether unusual mate choices may help or hin-
der our view of mating systems and sexual selection.
Although mate choice is our focus, we expect the dis-
cussion to be wide-ranging and relevant to those in-
terested in animal decision-making, especially context-
dependent choice, and individual variation in behaviour
more generally.
We delighted that Professor Marlene Zuk (University of
California Riverside) and Professor Karin Pfennig (Uni-
versity of North Carolina) will be our plenary speakers.
If you would like to contribute a talk (20 + 5 minutes)
or poster to the meeting, please email an abstract (200
words max.) to Dave Shuker at:
david.shuker@st-andrews.ac.uk
The deadline for abstract submission for spoken pre-
sentations will be July 31st 2011. Poster presentations
may be considered after that date, depending on avail-
able space. We hope to provide a preliminary schedule
of talks sometime in August.
We are also delighted that Professor Gene Robinson
(University of Illinois) will be giving the 2011 Tinbergen
Lecture during the meeting, and that Dr Sarah Pryke
(Macquarie University) will be giving her Christopher
Barnard Award for Outstanding Contributions by a
New Investigator talk.
As is traditional, the ASAB Winter Meeting has no fee
and does not require registration. However delegates
make their own arrangements for travel, accommoda-
tion and main meals. For further details and updates
about the programme of the conference, and for ideas
about accommodation, please visit our website:
http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/shuker/ASAB-
Winter-Meeting-2011.html Dr David M Shuker
NERC Advanced Research Fellow School of Biology
University of St Andrews Harold Mitchell Building St
Andrews Fife KY16 9TH UK Email: david.shuker@st-
andrews.ac.uk
LAB WEBSITE: http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/-
shuker Tel: +44 1334 463 376 Fax: +44 1334 463
366
dms14@st-andrews.ac.ukMarseilles 15thEvolBiol Sep27-30
program
The 15th EBM program is available http://sites.univ-
provence.fr/evol-cgr Few spots for posters are available
Please note The 16th EBM meeting will take place the
last week of september 2012
best regards Pierre
Pierre PONTAROTTI <Pierre.Pontarotti@univ-
provence.fr >
NorthCarolina SEPEEG 2011
Oct21-23
SouthEastern Population Ecology and Evolutionary
Genetics (SEPEEG 2011) - October 21-23, 2011
We are happy to announce the 37th annual SEPEEG
(formally SEEPAGE) meeting, which is hosted this year
by The University of North Carolina Chapel Hill. The
meeting will take place October 21-23 at The Besty-Jeﬀ
Penn 4H center in Reidsville, NC (about 40 minutes
north of Greensboro, NC).
http://sepeeg.bio.unc.edu The conference registration
fee (which isnt quite ﬁnal but will be very soon) will
cover on-site housing, meals, and entertainment. Keep-
ing with the tradition of SEPEEG, the 2011 meeting
will be informal and accommodations will be on the
rustic side. Participants may register to give an oral
presentation and/or poster. A poster session will be
held during the social event after dinner Saturday. A
keynote address will be given on Saturday afternoon.
Keynote Speaker: Dr. Haven Wiley, University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill
This meeting is a great opportunity for early career sci-
entists to present their work in a congenial setting.
Questions can be emailed to SEPEEG@bio.unc.edu
On Behalf of SEPEEG,
Dr. Corbin D. Jones
Organizer8 EvolDir August 1, 2011
Corbin Jones <cdjones@email.unc.edu >
Oxford Biogeography Sep23-25 2
The International Biogeography Society will convene
its Early Career “Advances in Biogeography” Con-
ference from 23rd to 25th September, 2011, in Ox-
ford, UK. Registration is only GBP40 with IBS mem-
bership. The deadline for registration is 31st July
2011. For more information and access to reg-
istration, please visit http://www.biogeography.org/-
html/Meetings/2011Oxford/index.html . A special
opportunity exists to also attend the Oxford Uni-
versity’s Biodiversity Institute Symposium on “Bio-
diversity conservation beyond protected areas” (21st
- 22nd September) which immediately precedes the
IBS Early Career Conference. A reduced registra-
tion fee (GBP10) is being oﬀered to IBS members
who are attending the IBS Early Career Conference;
for more information please visit the symposium web-
sitehttp://biosymposium.moonfruit.com/ . A list of
presentations accepted for the IBS meeting is avail-
able at http://www.biogeography.org/html/Meetings/-
2011Oxford/presentations weeklyupdate.html .Limited
spaces for oral presentations and posters are still avail-
able.
If you have any questions, please write to the organizing
committee at ibsearlycareerconference@gmail.com
Michael Dawson mdawson@ucmerced.edu Interna-
tional Biogeography Society
Michael N Dawson <dawson.mn@gmail.com >
Porto Portugal AncientHumanDNA
Nov23-25 reminder
Dear Evoldir Members,
The ***call for abstracts*** concerning the inter-
national conference “COMPARING ANCIENT AND
MODERN DNA VARIABILITY IN HUMAN POPU-
LATIONS” to be held in Porto (Portugal), November
23-25, 2011 will close the 15th of July, 2011, Do not
miss the deadline!The aim of the conference is to compare the results
emerging everywhere about the genetic variability of
ancient populations with the modern variability of their
supposed descendants, or with populations inhabiting
the same region. Research on animal domestication is
also welcome! Contemporary ancient DNA technology
allows the typing of several specimens and a population
genetics approach of ancient and remote populations is
now emerging. With this meeting we want to give em-
phasis to this new dimension of ancient DNA studies
that equally challenges scholars working with modern
or ancient material.
For more details we invite you to check the fol-
lowing website: http://www.mnhn.fr/mnhn/-
ecoanthropologie/Porto2011/Porto2011 index.html
Thank you!
Franz Manni and Jorge Rocha, convenors
Franz Manni <manni@mnhn.fr >
Townsville QLD
AustralasianEvolutionSociety
Sep24-27 registration
Dear Evolutionary Biologists,
I would like to invite you to join us for the 7th Bi-
ennial meeting of the Australasian Evolution Soci-
ety ( http://aes.eriophora.com.au/events/evolution11/-
index.html ) to be held in Townsville, Queensland from
24-27 September 2011. This year our conference will be
held jointly with the International Union for the Study
of Social Insects (Australian Section).
Registration and abstract submission is now open! For
more information, and to register, please go to http:/-
/aes.eriophora.com.au/events/evolution11/index.html .
Registration includes entry to all sessions, the con-
ference ice-breaker/welcome function, the conference
dinner, all lunches, morning and afternoon teas, a
conference pack, and membership to the Australasian
Evolution Society.
’Evolution & Sociality Conference 2011’ will be held at
the Rydges Convention Centre in Townsville, situated
within the heart of the restaurant and hotel region of
the town and only a short walk to the beach and ferry
to Magnetic Island. Pre-conference drinks and registra-
tion start on the evening of Saturday 24 September at
the Townsville Yacht Club. Presentation sessions willAugust 1, 2011 EvolDir 9
run each day from Sunday 25 September to Tuesday
27 September. The Conference dinner will be held on
the evening of Monday 26 September at the Museum
of Tropical Queensland.
Finally, please assist us by advertising ’Evolution & So-
ciality Conference 2011’ to your fellow colleagues and
students.
We hope you will join us and look forward to seeing you
in sunny Townsville in September!
On behalf of the organising committee,
Megan Higgie
Vice-President Australasian Evolution Society
Dr Megan Higgie Lecturer / ARC Australian Post-
doctoral Fellow School of Marine and Tropical Biology
James Cook University Townsville QLD 4811 Australia
T: + 61 7 4781 5734 E: megan.higgie@jcu.edu.au
“Higgie, Megan” <megan.higgie@jcu.edu.au >
UMunich MetazoanPhylogeny
Oct11-14 Registration3
Dear colleagues,
the *registration and poster abstract submission* for
the “Deep Metazoan Phylogeny 2011 - new data, new
challenges” conference, to be held from October 11-14,
2011 at the University of Munich (Germany) *has been
extended to August 1, 2011, 23:59h CEST (UTC + 2)!*
*However, ONLY abstract submission for POSTERS
are possible until the ﬁnal deadline!*
Full list of conﬁrmed keynote speakers can be found at
<www.palmuc.de/dmp2011 >, and you can register
and submit your abstract for a poster directly here: <
https://www.conftool.com/dmp2011/ >!
We look forward to welcoming you in Munich in Octo-
ber!
for the organizing team
Gert Woerheide
Prof. Dr. Gert Woerheide Molecular Geo- &
Palaeobiology Department of Earth and Environmental
Sciences & GeoBio-CenterLMU Ludwig-Maximilians-
Universitaet Muenchen Richard-Wagner-Strasse 10
80333 Muenchen GermanyPhone: +49 (89) 2180-6718 Fax: +49 (89) 2180-6601
E-Mail: woerheide@lmu.de www.palmuc.de |www.mol-
palaeo.de
Lab publications: www.molecularpalaeobiology.eu
www.researcherid.com/rid/C-1080-2008 woer-
heide@lmu.de
WoodsHoleMA
NortheastMobileDNA Sept1-3
CALL FOR ABSTRACTS
North East Mobile Genetic Element Meeting - 2011
Swope Center MBL - Woods Hole, MA September 1
-3, 2011
Registration is now open for the 3d North East Mobile
Genetic Element Meeting in Woods Hole, MA, Septem-
ber 1 -3, 2011. ˆAThe registration deadline is *August
8*:http://ws2.mbl.edu/conference/register.asp?conf=
3DMOBILE11 This is an opportunity for investiga-
tors from the North East U.S. and nearby institutions
in Canada to meet and share the latest research infor-
mation relevant to mobile genetic elements, their role
in genome function and evolution, and mechanisms of
transposition. ˆA The meeting especially oﬀers a chance
for junior investigators, postdoctoral fellows and grad-
uate students to present their research work. ˆA
Meeting abstracts should be submitted separately
by e-mail to the organizers, Irina Arkhipova
<iarkhipova@mbl.edu >or Bill Reznikoﬀ <
breznikoﬀ@mbl.edu >. Please indicate in your
message whether you would like to present a talk or a
poster.
We scheduled 4 sessions with half hour talks, a poster
session, and a two-hour excursion on the MBLˆ as 50’
collecting vessel. ˆAPlease contact the meeting organiz-
ers directly if you need ﬁnancial assistance or if you
wish to attend the excursion. ˆAAll students and post-
docs from minority groups traditionally underrepre-
sented in science will have their registration, accommo-
dation, and meals covered from the conference funds.
Please inform us by e-mail if you are eligible, and in-
dicate ˆ acheck/money orderˆ a as the payment method
during registration.
We look forward to seeing you in Woods Hole this fall!
Bill Reznikoﬀ
Irina Arkhipova10 EvolDir August 1, 2011
Co-organizers
Marine Biological Laboratory Woods Hole, MA 02534USA
iarkhipova@mbl.edu
GradStudentPositions
Australia AdaptationToEnvironmentalChange . . . . . 10
EastCarolinaU PlantEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . 10
MichiganStateU LivestockWholeGenomePrediction 11
Munich Zurich HostParasite . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
UAdelaide Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
UAdelaide Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
UAntwerp EvolutionaryParasitology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
UArkansas 2 MiteSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14UBasel 2 FishEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
UGuelph MarineInvertBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
UHawaii SnailSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
UInnsbruck IntegrativeBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
UNewcastle OrganelleEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
URegensburg PlantEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . 18
UWesternSydney Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Australia
AdaptationToEnvironmentalChange
Please follow the link to ﬁnd details for PhD scholar-
ships within the Hawkesbury Institute for the Environ-
ment at the University of Western Sydney, Australia.
http://www.uws.edu.au/hie/hie/-
scholarships2#HIEHDRS Deadline: 29 July 2011
The HIE is a new multi-million dollar research insti-
tute oﬀering comprehensive ﬁeld and laboratory based
facilities for research from genes to ecosystems. Dedi-
cated to answering crucial questions about the impact
of environmental change on terrestrial ecosystems, the
Institute’s multidisciplinary research team is exploring
how these ecosystems, and their components, respond
to changes in atmospheric CO2 concentration, temper-
ature, drought, land use, ﬁre and biotic invasion.
We are seeking excellent doctoral candidates to under-
take research within the broad areas of:
- Ecology, biodiversity, and sustainability of terrestrial
ecosystems, particularly forests, savannas and grass-
lands;
- Soil science and molecular microbial ecology includingplant-microbe interactions, soil biogeochemistry and
ecological genomics;
- Plant-animal and plant-insect interactions, including
animal ecology, insect herbivores and their multitrophic
interactions;
- Ecology, physiology, biochemistry and genetics un-
derpinning adaptation of plants to a changing environ-
ment.
Applicants should discuss their research aspirations and
eligibility with potential supervisors in the Hawkesbury
Institute: http://www.uws.edu.au/hie/people Contact
the Research Training, Policy and Programs Oﬃcer
to discuss enrollment and scholarships: Ms Sandra
Lawrence: sg.lawrence@uws.edu.au
jeﬀpowell2@googlemail.com
EastCarolinaU
PlantEvolutionaryGenomics
GRADUATE STUDENT POSITIONS: POPULA-
TION GENETICS, PHYLOGENOMICS, AND COM-
PARATIVE GENOMICS OF LEGUMES AT EASTAugust 1, 2011 EvolDir 11
CAROLINA UNIVERSITY
Multiple graduate student (Ph.D. or M.S.) positions
are available in the laboratory of Dr. Ashley N. Egan
in the Department of Biology, East Carolina Univer-
sity. We seek highly motived colleagues to study
evolutionary genetics and genomics of the plant tribe
Phaseoleae (family Leguminosae/Fabaceae) that in-
cludes many species of economic importance (soybean,
common bean, jicama, etc). Research interests in
our lab include bioinformatics, computational biology,
molecular systematics, evolutionary and population ge-
netics, and evolutionary comparative genomics.
Research activities can involve ﬁeldwork in the US and
abroad, next-generation DNA sequencing, and phylo-
genetic, phylogenomic, andcomparative genomic anal-
yses. Opportunities exist for students to develop inde-
pendent projects making use of considerable 454 tran-
scriptome data collected from several species across
phaseoloid legumes. For an outline of current projects
and prospective projects in thelab, please go to http:/-
/www.ecu.edu/cs-cas/biology/egan ashley.cfm .
Prospective students with a background in genomics,
botany, phylogenetics, and/or population genetics are
encouraged to apply. Evidence of robust quantita-
tive/analytical skills, strong work ethic, passion for in-
vestigating scientiﬁc questions, ability to work in both
ﬁeld and laboratory conditions and collaborative skills
will all be vital for the success of potential candidates.
Students will be supported by a combination of research
and teaching assistantships.
A National Science Foundation funded PhD position
is also available to study the phylogenetics, taxon-
omy, and population genetics of Kudzu, Pueraria lo-
bata, a highly invasive species in the U.S. This work
involves extensive ﬁeldwork in Asia and will involve col-
laborations with several international scientists. Field
and prior research experience is a plus. Work will in-
volve DNA extraction and ampliﬁcation, microsatellite
genotyping, next-generation sequencing and analyses,
phylogenetic and population genetic analyses and ge-
nomics.
Interested applications should send a cover let-
ter with statement of research interests, CV, and
transcripts (can be unoﬃcial) to Dr. Ash-
ley Egan (egana@ecu.edu). In addition, please
have three references sendletters to the same e-
mail address. More information about the de-
partment and graduate program admission pro-
cess can be found at the Department of Biology
(www.ecu.edu/biology ) and http://www.ecu.edu/cs-
cas/biology/applyingforadmission.cfm and, for PhD’s,
the Interdisciplinary Doctoral Program in BiologicalSciences ( www.ecu.edu/idpbs ) . Application review
begins immediately for a start date of fall or winter
semester 2011.
Ashley N. Egan, Ph.D. Assistant Professor, Depart-
ment of Biology North Carolina Center for Biodi-
versity Howell Science Complex - Mailstop 551 East
Carolina University Greenville, NC 27858-4353 Oﬃce:
N303a/N304 Lab: N304/N305 Phone (252) 328-4244
fax (252) 328-4178
egana@ecu.edu
MichiganStateU
LivestockWholeGenomePrediction
Dear colleagues,
Two PhD assistantships, both pertaining to whole
genome prediction/selection under heterogeneous envi-
ronments, are available at Michigan State University.
For full descriptions and details, please refer to my web-
site: www.msu.edu/˜tempelma . Please distribute this
post to potential candidates.
My apologies for any multiple postings.
Sincerely,
Rob Tempelman
Rob Tempelman <tempelma@msu.edu >
Munich Zurich HostParasite
Eawag, the Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science
and Technology, is a Swiss-based internationally ac-
tive research institute that is committed to the eco-
logical, economical and social management of water.
The Ludwig-Maximilians-University (LMU) in Munich
is among the top one hundred universities in the world,
and part of the German Excellence Initiative. These
institutions share common goals towards education, re-
search and technology transfer at the highest interna-
tional level.
The Department of Aquatic Ecology (Eawag) and the
Department of Biology (Evolutionary Ecology, LMU)
seek12 EvolDir August 1, 2011
Two PhD students in Evolutionary Biology
Project title: Host-parasite interactions in hybridizing
Daphnia, the role of variable environments
Both PhD students will participate in a collaborative
research project with Dr. Justyna Wolinska (LMU) and
PD Dr. Piet Spaak (Eawag) to study the role of vari-
able environments on host-parasite interactions in hy-
brid systems and on hybridization success per se, us-
ing Daphnia (waterﬂeas), which are a well-established
model in both host-parasite and hybridization research.
Speciﬁcally, we will study changes in parasite preva-
lence as well as changes in host and parasite popula-
tion structure, by using collections of zooplankton sam-
ples dating back to the beginning of the last century.
Then we will relate the observed patterns to experi-
enced changes in environmental conditions (like water
temperature or trophy level). Finally, by using the
’resurrection ecology’ approach (i.e. hatching Daphnia
clones of known age from diapausing eggs preserved in
lake sediments) we will test for adaptations of old and
recent clones to certain environmental conditions.
Both students will use molecular techniques and con-
duct laboratory experiments. However, the position at
LMU focuses on host-parasite interactions. The main
methods will be qPCR, cloning, sequencing, microscopy
and modeling. The position at Eawag focuses on in-
terspeciﬁc hybridization. Here the main methods are:
microsatellites, sequencing, experiments and ﬁeld work.
Although the students will be primarily hosted at their
given institution, the German student will spend a cou-
ple of weeks working in Switzerland and vice versa.
Moreover, the external collaborators on this project are
hosted in Konstanz (DE) and in Sheﬃeld (UK), and
students will have the opportunity to visit these exter-
nal labs as well. The students will take part in the
organized PhD programs (including attending various
skills courses) of their respective organization.
For this project, ﬁnanced by the Swiss and German
Science Foundations (SNF & DFG), we are looking for
highly motivated candidates with interests in the evo-
lutionary ecology of host parasite interactions.
We oﬀer a stimulating research environment in lively
and social institutes in Duebendorf (near Z¨ urich) and
in Munich. At both localities, the departments host
other research groups in ecology and evolution. The
position will be for a period of three years, and should
start as soon as possible (September 2011 or soon there-
after). The Eawag PhD student will be enrolled at the
Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) in Z¨ urich
the German PhD student at LMU. The ideal candi-
date should have good molecular skills and/or a strongbackground in evolutionary biology or population ge-
netics. Excellent communicational and writing skills in
English, good work ethics, and creative thinking are
desired. A Diploma or Masters degree (or equivalent)
in biology or related subject is necessary for admission.
The working language in the groups is English.
Applications should include 1) a letter of interest with
a description of pertinent experience (it should be spec-
iﬁed which position, LMU or Eawag, would be the ﬁrst
choice, 2) curriculum vitae, 3) abstract of the mas-
ter/diploma thesis, 4) a list of publications (if any),
5) the names (with e-mail addresses) of three potential
referees, and copies of certiﬁcates of academic qualiﬁ-
cations.
Applications can only be submitted online through
the Eawag website, using the following link http://-
internet1.reﬂine.ch/673277/0058/++publications++/-
1/index.html which can be found on the Eawag home
page: http://www.eawag.ch/jobs/index EN Please
submit your application by 5 August 2011. For further
information, consult
Justyna Wolinska: wolinska@bio.lmu.de http:/-
/www.uni-muenchen.de/index.html; http://-
sci.bio.lmu.de/ecology/evol e/people wolinska e.html
or Piet Spaak: spaak@eawag.ch www.eawag.ch; http:/-
/www.eawag.ch/forschung/eco/index EN – Justyna
Wolinska Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit¨ at M¨ unchen
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UAdelaide Biodiversity
Environmental Genomics for biodiversity assessment:
PhD opportunity at the Australian Centre for An-
cient DNA, Adelaide in association with Department
of Primary Industries and Resources of South Australia
(PIRSA)
A PhD position is available within a large environmen-
tal genomics project to apply next-generation DNA se-
quencing approaches to the analysis of environmental
samples and develop a new range of methods to perform
biodiversity surveys, taxonomic discovery, and under-
pin environmental impact reports. The project, which
is a $1M Australian Research Council-industry part-August 1, 2011 EvolDir 13
nership, will employ multiplexed PCR, 2nd/3rd Gen-
eration Sequencing, and advanced Bioinformatics and
Phylogenetics to develop novel systems for rapid and
accurate biodiversity assessment. This PhD will ap-
ply environmental genomics approaches to the follow-
ing areas: Developing new tools for assessing biodiver-
sity from environmental samples; Non-invasive meth-
ods to monitor the presence and abundance of threat-
ened species; Investigating the relationship between
biodiversity and biotic and abiotic factors, e.g. rainfall,
geology, land-use history.
We are looking for a highly motivated graduate stu-
dent, who enjoys independent and unusual research.
An interest in environmental biodiversity is a key re-
quirement, and a background in any of the following
would be useful: molecular ecology, molecular biology,
genetics, bioinformatics, chemistry/biochemistry. The
project is for 3 years, starting in 2011/2012.
International Students wishing to study at The Univer-
sity of Adelaide in 2012 should check the available schol-
arship opportunities ( http://www.adelaide.edu.au/-
graduatecentre/scholarships/postgrad/international/ )
as they provide payment of full tuition fees plus an an-
nual living allowance of approximately AUD$21,000 tax
free. Note the closing date for international scholarship
enrolment is 31st August, 2011 or 31st October for Aus-
tralian/NZ applicants. Please contact the following su-
pervisors and provide your CV/resume:
Prof. Alan Cooper (alan.cooper@adelaide.edu.au)
Dr. Laurence Clarke (laurence.clarke@adelaide.edu.au)
Australian Centre for Ancient DNA School of Earth &
Environmental Sciences THE UNIVERSITY OF ADE-
LAIDE SA 5005 AUSTRALIA
Telephone: +61 8 8303 3952 Facsimile: +61 8 8303
4364
http://www.adelaide.edu.au/acad/ lau-
rence.clarke@adelaide.edu.au
UAdelaide Bioinformatics
Bioinformatics for Environmental Genomics: PhD op-
portunity at the Australian Centre for Ancient DNA,
Adelaide in association with Biomatters (N.Z.)
A PhD position is available within a large environ-
mental genomics project to develop bioinformatic tech-
niques to perform biodiversity surveys, taxonomic dis-covery, and forensic analyses using next- generation se-
quencing data. The project, which is a $1M Australian
Research Council-industry partnership, will employ ad-
vanced bioinformatics and phylogenetic techniques to
develop novel systems for rapid and accurate biodiver-
sity assessment. This PhD will develop and apply novel
bioinformatic approaches in the following areas: Bio-
diversity analysis of environmental genomic data from
projects covering forensics, Antarctic biodiversity, wa-
ter systems (natural and water supplies), and terrestrial
ecosystems; Multigene comparative analysis of bio- and
phylogenetic relationships between sites; Developing
software for the Geneious bioinformatics workbench to
analyse large complex environmental datasets.
The successful candidate will be hosted at Biomatters,
Auckland for part of the project to facilitate training
in software development for the Geneious platform.
We are looking for a highly motivated graduate stu-
dent, who enjoys independent and unusual research.
An interest in environmental biodiversity is a key re-
quirement, and a background in any of the following
would be useful: bioinformatics, programming, statis-
tics/ mathematics, genetics, molecular biology. The
project is for 3 years, starting in 2011/2012.
International Students wishing to study at The Univer-
sity of Adelaide in 2012 should check the available schol-
arship opportunities ( http://www.adelaide.edu.au/-
graduatecentre/scholarships/postgrad/international/ )
as they provide payment of full tuition fees plus an an-
nual living allowance of approximately AUD$21,000 tax
free. Note the closing date for international scholarship
enrolment is 31st August, 2011 or 31st October for Aus-
tralian/NZ applicants. Please contact the following su-
pervisors and provide your CV/resume:
Prof. Alan Cooper (alan.cooper@adelaide.edu.au)
Dr. Laurence Clarke (laurence.clarke@adelaide.edu.au)
Australian Centre for Ancient DNA School of Earth &
Environmental Sciences THE UNIVERSITY OF ADE-
LAIDE SA 5005 AUSTRALIA
Telephone: +61 8 8303 3952 Facsimile: +61 8 8303
4364
http://www.adelaide.edu.au/acad/ lau-
rence.clarke@adelaide.edu.au
UAntwerp EvolutionaryParasitology14 EvolDir August 1, 2011
The Biology departement of the Faculty of Sciences has
an opening available (closing date 7th August 2011) for
a full-time
Ph.D. scholarship in Evolutionary Parasitology
The Evolutionary Ecology Group has a long tradition
in fundamental and applied population biology of verte-
brates, with a particular emphasis on patterns and pro-
cesses of dispersal and gene ﬂow. A major interest of
the group is the spatial ecology of host-parasite interac-
tions and infectious diseases. This PhD project focuses
on transmission mechanisms and population structure
of nidicolous ticks in relation to the ecology and spatial
behaviour of their avian hosts. The project is tightly
linked to a long-term population study of hole-breeding
great and blue tits. The study combines molecular ap-
proaches (microsatellite analyses, molecular host iden-
tiﬁcation) with laboratory and ﬁeld observations on be-
haviour and ecology of parasites as well as hosts.
We are looking for an enthusiastic and highly moti-
vated student with a strong interest in Evolutionary
Parasitology. Candidates should have a Master degree
in Biology or an equivalent degree in life sciences with a
suﬃcient background in population ecology, evolution-
ary biology and parasitology. Candidates should have
excellent study grades. Students in their graduation
year can also apply.
We oﬀer a Ph.D. scholarship for two years, with one
possible extension of two years after a positive evalua-
tion. Starting date is 1st October or November 2011.
Applications shoquld be done using the mandatory on-
line application form. More information can be found
at
http://www.ua.ac.be/main.aspx?c=-
3D*VACATURES&n=3D26394&ct=3Dc025734&e=-
3D268736 Or go to www.ua.ac.be/mobility >
vacancies
For more information, contact
erik.matthysen@ua.ac.be
erik.matthysen@ua.ac.be
UArkansas 2 MiteSystematics
Graduate Assistantships: Systematics of North Ameri-
can water mites (no mite experience necessary)
Two NSF-funded PhD positions are available to work
on a systematic revision of North American water mitesin the family Torrenticolidae with Dr. Ashley Dowling
at the University of Arkansas in the Department of En-
tomology. The project starts in January 2012 and is
in collaboration with Dr. Andrea Radwell (Univ. of
Arkansas) and Dr. Ian Smith (Canadian National Col-
lection).
Water mites (Acari: Hydrachnidiae) are among the
most numerous, diverse, ecologically important - and
unknown - groups of arthropods in freshwater ecosys-
tems, however, there are very few water mite experts
worldwide, and even fewer trained in modern system-
atics. The objective of this PEET project is to revise,
monograph, and disseminate data on a North American
water mite family, Torrenticolidae, while training two
PhD students in water mite systematics using modern
taxonomic and phylogenetic methods.
Research will include 1) ﬁeld collection in the North
American Rocky Mountains, Yukon and Alaska, the
Sierra Nevada Mountains in California, and Ap-
palachian Mountain drainages in Georgia and Florida;
2) species descriptions focusing on a digital workﬂow
and cybertaxonomic methods to speed up the time from
discovery to dissemination of data; and 3) a full phylo-
genetic revision of Torrenticolidae based upon molecu-
lar and morphological data.
Previous experience with mites is not required for work
on this project. We are primarily looking for students
with a good background in biology and a strong interest
in systematics and natural history. Students should be
self motivated and possess a desire to become an expert
in a group very few know much about.
For more information about the project or the graduate
assistantships, please contact Ashley Dowling at 479-
575-2482 or adowling@uark.edu. Information about
the University of Arkansas can be obtained at http:/-
/www.uark.edu and the Department of Entomology at
http://entomology.uark.edu/ . The PhD positions are
fully funded and include student stipend, healthcare
and tuition at the University of Arkansas.
Ashley Patrick Gregg Dowling <adowling@uark.edu >
UBasel 2 FishEvolution
Open PhD positions at the University of Basel to study
pattern and process in evolutionary radiations of fossil
and living actinopterygian ﬁshes
The group of Walter Salzburger at the UniversityAugust 1, 2011 EvolDir 15
of Basel in Switzerland ( http://evolution.unibas.ch/-
salzburger/ ) invites applications for two PhD positions.
The successful candidates will work in a Swiss National
Science Foundation supported research project (Siner-
gia) about patterns and process in evolutionary radi-
ations of fossil and living actinopterygian ﬁshes, con-
centrating on the speciation and phylogeny of extant
ﬁsh species ﬂocks. The project is a collaboration be-
tween M. Snchez ( http://www.msanchezlab.net/ ), H.
Furrer ( http://www.pim.uzh.ch/de/index.php ) and W.
Salzburger.
We are looking for highly motivated, open-minded, and
creative students, who are interested in evolutionary
biology in general and in adaptive radiation and spe-
ciation in particular. Successful candidates will have
research experience in at least one of these areas: evolu-
tionary biology, ﬁsh biology, phylogenetics, population
genetics, comparative anatomy, and/or morphometrics.
The working language in the SalzburgerLab is En-
glish. Basel is a highly attractive city in beautiful
surroundings at the boarder between Germany, France
and Switzerland, with a multinational population, and
many educational, cultural and other recreational op-
portunities.
To apply, please send a single PDF ﬁle merged from
the following parts: CV including publication list, a
statement of your research interests and motivation,
and two academic references. Please include the word
SinergiaSalzburger2012 in the subject line. The appli-
cation deadline is September 1, 2011. The positions are
available in fall of 2011, at a negotiable starting date.
Many thanks and kind regards,
Prof. Walter Salzburger (e-mail: wal-
ter.salzburger@unibas.ch)
Marcelo Snchez <m.sanchez@pim.uzh.ch >
UGuelph MarineInvertBiodiversity
Graduate Position in Marine Barcoding - University of
Guelph & Department of Fisheries and Oceans Canada
We are seeking an enthusiastic Ph.D. student with an
interest in applied evolutionary genetics and taxonomy
to conduct a DNA barcoding study on marine inver-
tebrates as part of a large multi-disciplinary network
conducting studies on aquatic invasive species (Cana-
dian Aquatic Invasive Species Network, CAISN). Thisbarcoding project is a collaborative one, involving re-
searchers at the University of Guelph, Fisheries and
Oceans Canada, and University of Windsor. Excel-
lent MSc candidates with undergraduate research ex-
perience will also be considered.
Many global invaders are marine invertebrates such as
crustaceans, molluscs, and ascidians that often present
taxonomic challenges, especially in early life history
stages. DNA barcoding has been identiﬁed as a robust,
widely applicable method that could serve as an inter-
national standard for the identiﬁcation of aquatic inva-
sive species on a global scale as it has practical advan-
tages over classical taxonomic methods. However, its
utility for this purpose needs to be validated-especially
when invaders and co-occurring native species are very
similar-and its usefulness is a function of the availability
of validated DNA barcoding datasets.
The successful candidate will apply DNA barcoding
methods to generate essential baseline data on inverte-
brate biodiversity in Canada’s coastal waters and will
then evaluate the utility of this approach for invasive
species identiﬁcation and detection. This project may
also involve generating molecular phylogenies based
on multiple nuclear markers where needed to resolve
taxonomic uncertainties of important marine invaders.
Species identiﬁcations will be obtained in collaboration
with taxonomic experts, and the relationship between
cryptic species diversity and body size will be explored
using the resulting datasets.
We are looking for a highly motivated candidate who
is interested in playing a substantial role in develop-
ing novel research directions for this project, using the
sequence data to address exciting questions in ecology
and/or evolution. Potential research topics include in-
vestigating the phylogenetic distribution of “invasive-
ness”; analyzing molecular evolutionary rates across
diﬀerent taxa; or comparing patterns of genetic diver-
sity, species diversity, species complementarity, and in-
vasive species prevalence among regions.
The student will be co-advised by Dr. Sarah Adamow-
icz (University of Guelph) and Dr. Cathryn Abbott
(Department of Fisheries and Oceans Canada) and will
also collaborate with other DFO and university re-
searchers. The successful candidate will be based at the
Paciﬁc Biological Station in Nanaimo, B.C. for a por-
tion of the studentship. This position provides the op-
portunity to conduct novel research in invasion biology,
ecology, and evolution and will serve as an outstanding
training ground for those interested in governmental,
academic, or private-sector careers in biology and envi-
ronmental science.
Stipend funding is available at NSERC network rates.16 EvolDir August 1, 2011
Canadian citizens and permanent residents are pre-
ferred as there are no project funds for international
student fees. The project start date is to be be-
tween May 2011 and January 2012. To be consid-
ered for this position please send your CV, a brief
summary of your research interests, and the names of
at least two references to <sadamowi@uoguelph.ca >
sadamowi@uoguelph.ca.
Sarah J. Adamowicz, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Bio-
diversity Institute of Ontario & Department of Inte-
grative Biology University of Guelph 50 Stone Road
East Guelph, Ontario N1G 2W1 Canada Email:
sadamowi@uoguelph.ca Phone: +1 519 824-4120 ext.
53055 Fax: +1 519 824-5703 Oﬃce: Science Complex
1458 Lab: Science Complex 1403/1404
http://www.dnabarcoding.ca/ http://-
www.barcodinglife.org/ http://www.uoguelph.ca/-
ib/people/faculty/adamowicz.shtml
sadamowi@uoguelph.ca
UHawaii SnailSystematics
We have National Science Foundation funding to sup-
port a graduate student at the PhD level to work on
systematics, evolution and conservation of Hawaiian
land snails. For full details and application instruc-
tions please go to http://www.hawaii.edu/cowielab/-
HLS GAnotice.htm –
Kenneth A. Hayes, Ph.D. University of Hawaii Cen-
ter for Conservation Research and Training 3050 Maile
Way, Gilmore 408 Honolulu, HI 96822 Tel: (808) 956-
0956 Fax: (808) 956-2647 Email: khayes@hawaii.edu or
hayesk@si.edu
khayes@hawaii.edu
UInnsbruck IntegrativeBiodiversity
MOLECULAR ECOLOGY, INSTITUTE OF ECOL-
OGY, UNIVERSITY OF INNSBRUCK
PhD position
Update: This position was originally announced via
EvolDir on June 17, 2011, with a very short deadline offour days. We have decided to prolong the application
deadline until August 10, 2011. Applications already
submitted remain valid and do not need to be re-sent.
The University of Innsbruck, Austria, seeks to hire at
the PhD student level in the area of molecular ecology.
The position is a 3-years position at the Molecular Ecol-
ogy Group of the Institute of Ecology, starting from 1
October 2011.
The Molecular Ecology Group uses the exciting oppor-
tunities oﬀered by the advance in molecular biology, to
study ecology as a snap-shot of evolving biodiversity.
Data from multiple sources are integrated to enhance
the success of biodiversity research. The research fo-
cuses on terrestrial animals.
***Responsibilities***
1. participation in an interdisciplinary and integrative
biodiversity research project on Palaearctic Tetramor-
ium ants, i.e., addressing of population genetic, phylo-
geographic, phylogenetic and taxonomic questions re-
lating to the delimitation of cryptic species, and the
evolution and evolutionary ecology of cryptic diversity
2. application of molecular genetic lab techniques
(e.g. mtDNA but also nuclear sequence loci, follow-
ing their NGS-based development) and associated in-
ference methods (e.g. gene ﬂow analysis, phylogenetic
reconstruction, phylogeographic analysis), morphomet-
rics and relevant statistical methods, and possibly fur-
ther disciplines (e.g., near-infrared spectroscopy, eco-
logical niche modelling)
3. preparation of manuscripts
4. participation in the PhD program of Innsbruck Uni-
versity
5. teaching of a maximum of 2 hours per semester, if
there is demand in the faculty
***Selection criteria***
A. completed study of biology, MSc level
B. demonstrated research experience in population ge-
netics, phylogeography, phylogenetics or taxonomy of
arthropods
C. keen interest in evolution and ecology, and a high
level of motivation
D. ability to work eﬀectively as part of a multi-
disciplinary team
E. ﬂexibility in the course of progressing research
F. ability to work independently
G. ability to work under pressure
H. good knowledge of oral and written EnglishAugust 1, 2011 EvolDir 17
***PhD supervisor***
Birgit C. Schlick-Steiner
***Salary***
The annual gross salary is an all-inclusive salary of EUR
25,811.80
***Further reading***
# Schlick-Steiner et al 2010 Annual Review of Ento-
mology 55: 421-438
# Schlick-Steiner et al 2006 Molecular Phylogenetics
and Evolution 40: 259-273
# Schlick-Steiner et al 2007 Trends in Ecology and Evo-
lution 22: 391-392
# Steiner et al 2010 Zoologischer Anzeiger 249: 223-254
# Moder et al 2007 Journal of Zoological Systematics
and Evolutionary Research 45: 82-87
# Steiner et al 2006 Myrmecologische Nachrichten 8:
175-180
# Schlick-Steiner et al 2007 Biological Journal of the
Linnean Society 91: 247-255
# Klarica et al. 2011 Journal of Chemical Ecology 37:
549-552
# Steiner et al 2008 Diversity and Distributions 14:
538-545
***How to apply***
To apply, please submit, by E-mail to <fss-
technik@uibk.ac.at >, with cc to <birgit.schlick-
steiner@uibk.ac.at >, and with the subject line “Chiﬀre:
BIO-6591 - Bewerbung um ein wissenschaftliche Stelle”:
a cover letter (including a reference to “Chiﬀre: BIO-
6591”), systematic point-by-point replies as to your
readiness for the responsibilities and how you meet the
selection criteria, brief statement of research interests,
list of relevant methods successfully applied thus far,
complete curriculum vitae, complete list of publica-
tions, and
facultatively up to three pdf ﬁles of published work.
Also, if possible, arrange for two letters of recommen-
dation to be sent to <birgit.schlick-steiner@uibk.ac.at >
Applications must be written in German or English.
The deadline for receipt of all applications is August
10, 2011.
The (legally binding) announcement in German can be
found at:
http://www.uibk.ac.at/service/c101/-
mitteilungsblatt/2010-2011/33/mitteil .pdf***The research institution and its environment***
The University of Innsbruck has a long-standing and
internationally renowned tradition in life sciences and
oﬀers a vibrant research atmosphere. It has approx.
21,000 students and 3,000 members of staﬀ. Innsbruck
is situated in the Alps and very close to Switzerland,
Germany and Italy; scenery and outdoor recreation are
fantastic.
***More information needed?***
For more information, please contact the PhD
supervisor: Birgit Schlick-Steiner <birgit.schlick-
steiner@uibk.ac.at >
Birgit C. Schlick-Steiner Professor of Molecular Ecology
Institute of Ecology University of Innsbruck Techniker-
str. 25 A-6020 Innsbruck, Austria Phone: +43 512
507-6120 Fax: +43 512 507-6190
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UNewcastle OrganelleEvolution
Early stage researcher (PhD fellowship) to study the
evolution and functions of the minimal mitochondria
(mitosomes) of parasitic microbial eukaryotes: Newcas-
tle upon Tyne, UNITED KINGDOM We are seeking
to ﬁll a fully funded PhD fellowship in molecular evolu-
tionary biology for the Marie Curie Initial training Net-
work3Symbiomics ’ Molecular Ecology and Evolution
of Bacterial Symbionts2. Symbiomics is funded by the
European Framework Program 7 Marie Curie Actions
with the purpose of oﬀering Early Stage Researchers
the opportunity to improve their research skills, join
established research teams and enhance their career
prospects.
Description: Many parasitic microbial eukaryotes pos-
sess highly reduced organelles related to mitochondria
called mitosomes that have lost many of the pathways
and proteins, including those used for energy genera-
tion, that make mitochondria essential components of
human cells. Mitosomes are thus excellent model sys-
tems for understanding the limits of mitochondrial re-
ductive evolution and for identifying the truly essential
features of these eukaryotic organelles of ancient en-18 EvolDir August 1, 2011
dosymbiotic origin. The research and training: The
project will be primarily based in the laboratory of
Martin Embley and Robert Hirt (Institute for Cell and
Molecular Biosciences) at Newcastle University. The
early stage researcher will receive training in compar-
ative bioinformatics of parasite genomes to formulate
hypotheses of mitosome evolution, functions and host-
mitosome interdependencies, and training in molecular
cell biology and advanced imaging techniques to test
those hypotheses experimentally. The successful can-
didate will join a multidisciplinary and multinational
group working at Newcastle on various aspects of par-
asite biology and evolution. Co-supervision by Prof
Thomas Schweider, including secondment to the Uni-
versity of Greifswald, will be used to provide synergis-
tic training in the proteomics of puriﬁed mitosomes.
The Symbiomics network includes 14 leading research
groups and participants from the private sector, and
will provide additional training through a combination
of local and network-wide activities that will include re-
search secondments, workshops and courses, soft skills
training, network and project meetings, regular thesis
committee meetings, and mentoring. At the end of the
training the students will have the skills they need for
successful careers in academia or industry in a broad
range of disciplines.
Beneﬁts: The contract duration will be 36 months for
the PhD position. The salary will be in accordance with
the EU FP7 Marie Curie ITN regulations and will con-
sist of salary, mobility allowance, a career exploratory
allowance and contribution to participation expenses.
Requirements: Master degree or equivalent in a bio-
logical sciences subject Applicants should have train-
ing and research experience in microbiology, molecular
biology, or related disciplines. Very good knowledge
of English in writing and speaking is required. Appli-
cants must satisfy the eligibility criteria for Marie Curie
Initial Training Networks. For PhD positions, the stu-
dents should have an MSc or equivalent degree that
enables them to begin their PhD studies. Researchers
must not have resided or carried out their main ac-
tivity (work, studies, etc.) in the country of the host
organization for more than 12 months in the 3 years
immediately prior to their recruitment.
Application To apply, please submit, by E-mail to
<martin.embley@ncl.ac.uk >, a cover letter including
your rational for applying for this post and how you
meet the selection criteria, a CV including the names
of at least two referees. Applications must be written
in English. The deadline for receipt of all applications
is August 23, 2011.
Dr. T. M. Embley Professor of Evolutionary Molecu-lar Biology & Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit
Award Holder Institute for Cell and Molecular Bio-
sciences Lab/oﬃce M2.041 (2nd ﬂoor Cookson Build-
ing). Framlington Place Newcastle University NE2
4HH UK
Tel 0191 222 7702 Fax 0191 222 7424
University Home page:
http://www.ncl.ac.uk/camb/staﬀ/proﬁle/-
martin.embley New Lab Webpage:
http://www.ncl.ac.uk/microbial eukaryotes/ Take a
look at our Molecular Systematics course Web Page - it
is also available in down-loadable (powerpoint) format:
http://bioinf.ncl.ac.uk/molsys
martin.embley@ncl.ac.uk
URegensburg
PlantEvolutionaryGenomics
*regensburg CENTRE for BIOCHEMISTRY AND
BIOPHYSICS.*
*Department of cell biology and Plant biochemistry.*
*Ph.D. position in Evolutionary Genomics of Plant Re-
productive Isolation *
We are looking for a candidate for a Ph.D. position
to investigate the genetic und developmental mecha-
nism behind the process of reproductive isolation in
plants. The project involves a comparative analysis of
the transcriptome of several species within the genus
Arabidopsis using Next Generation Sequencing meth-
ods. The candidate genes identiﬁed in this analysis will
be functionally characterized *in vivo* using molecular,
genetic, cell biological and biochemical techniques for
their role in reproductive isolation and plant defense.
This project is part of a consortium involving sev-
eral workgroups across Germany and Switzerland. As
part of this network the PhD candidate will interact
on a regular basis within a diverse group of experts
in plant reproductive biology, bioinformatics and ge-
nomics. Moreover, the PhD student will be oﬀered
a structured PhD program within the Regensburg In-
ternational Graduate School of Life Sciences (RIGeL).
Regensburg is an attractive university town in south-
eastern Germany (Bavaria). The universities and city
of Regensburg are proud of a recent poll by interna-
tional scholars rating Regensburg as the ˆ abest place toAugust 1, 2011 EvolDir 19
live and study in Europeˆ a.
We are looking for a motivated and well-organized stu-
dent who holds a Master of Sciences in Biology or equiv-
alent and has experience in molecular biology, espe-
cially in molecular plant sciences. We look for candi-
dates who are interested in plant developmental biology,
plant pathology and who are able to work and think me-
thodically and independently. Candidates should have
excellent communication skills in English and have fun
working in a team.
*For informal enquiries and additional information on
this position please send an e-mail to Dr. Mariana
Mondragon-Palomino. To apply please send in a single
PDF ﬁle your curriculum vitae, the contact information
of two recent references and a statement of research in-
terests. The position is immediately available and will
remain open until an appropriate candidate is identi-
ﬁed.*
*Contact: *
*Dr. Mariana Mondrag ˜A3n-Palomino*
Phone +49 941 943-4909 Telefax +49 941 943-3352 Uni-
versit¨ atsstraße 31 D-93053 Regensburg
mariana.mondragon@biologie.uni-regensburg.de
http://www.biologie.uni-regensburg.de/Zellbiologie/-
index.html www.biologie.uni-regensburg.de Mariana
Mondragon <mariana.mondragon@biologie.uni-
regensburg.de >
UWesternSydney Evolution
Doctoral Scholarships Hawkesbury Institute for the En-
vironment, University of Western Sydney, Australia
Advancing research on ecosystem function and environ-
mental change
The new Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment
(HIE) oﬀers comprehensive state of the art ﬁeld- and
laboratory based facilities for research from genes to
ecosystems. Dedicated to answering crucial questions
about the impact of environmental change on terrestrial
ecosystems, the HIE’s multidisciplinary research team
is exploring how these ecosystems and their components
respond to changes in atmospheric CO2 concentration,
temperature, drought, land use, ﬁre and biotic invasion.
HIE is located on the Richmond Campus, at the foot
of the Blue Mountains close to Sydney.
We are seeking excellent doctoral candidates to under-take research within the areas of the HIE: * Ecology,
biodiversity, and sustainability of terrestrial ecosys-
tems, particularly forests, savannas and grasslands; *
Soil science and molecular microbial ecology including
plant-microbe interactions, soil biogeochemistry and
ecological genomics; * Plant-animal interactions, in-
cluding vertebrate and insect ecology, herbivory, mul-
titrophic and symbiotic interactions; * Ecology, physi-
ology, biochemistry and genetics underpinning adapta-
tion of plants and insects to a changing environment.
Approaches will include laboratory, controlled environ-
ment and ﬁeld- based experiments as well as computer
modelling and simulation in the intersection of integra-
tive physiology, genomics, ecology and evolution. Dur-
ing the course of the project, you will have access to
leading International and Australian scientists for su-
pervision, consultation and advice. There is a possi-
bility of the successful candidate spending a period of
time at collaborating Institutions overseas to further
the scope of their research training.
Criteria: The successful applicant should: * demon-
strate excellent academic performance related to the
research areas listed above; * hold qualiﬁcations and
experience equal to an Australian First Class Bache-
lor Honours degree; * be highly motivated to under-
take further study at an advanced level; * international
applicants must also demonstrate a high level of pro-
ﬁciency in the English language. Please refer to the
University’s web site for information about English lan-
guage requirements at www.uws.edu.au/international/-
admissions/english lan- guage requirement
What does the scholarship provide? * Tax free stipend
of $32,860 per annum and a funded place in the doc-
toral degree. International candidates will receive a fee
waiver; * Funding is also available for project costs.
Need more information? * Applicants should contact
and discuss their research aspirations and eligibility
with potential supervisors in the Hawkesbury Insti-
tutehttp://www.uws.edu.au/hie/people prior to appli-
cation. * Contact the Research Training, Policy and
Programs Oﬃcer to discuss enrolment and scholarships:
Ms Sandra Lawrence: sg.lawrence@uws.edu.au
How to apply: Submit an application form,
research proposal and CV by the APPLICA-
TION CLOSING DATE 29 JULY 2011. De-
tails of what to include in your research proposal
can be found at http://www.uws.edu.au/research/-
future research students/apply#Requirements The ap-
plication form can be downloaded from the web:
www.uws.edu.au/research/scholarships Dr Markus
Riegler Insect Symbiosis Lab Hawkesbury Institute
for the Environment University of Western Sydney20 EvolDir August 1, 2011
Locked Bag 1797 Penrith NSW 2751 Australia email:
m.riegler@uws.edu.au oﬃce: +61-(0)2-4570 1229 fax:
+61-(0)2-4570 1314www.uws.edu.au/hie/markusriegler
M.Riegler@uws.edu.au
Jobs
CaliforniaStateU LA ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . 20
Crete IMBG 2 Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
EastCarolinaU LabTech EvolGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
FrenchGuiana 3yr ResAssist PlantPopGenetics . . . . 22
GriﬃthU ResFellow AdeliePenguins . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
GriﬃthU ResFellow AncientDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
NESCent WebDesign . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
PrincetonU EvolutionaryBiolPrincetonU Evolutionary-
Biol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
RutgersU Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
SaudiArabia Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
TexasAMU EvolutionaryMarineMolecularBiology . . 27
UCalifornia Berkeley ProfessorMuseumDirector . . . . 28
UCalifornia SantaBarbara ResTech DrosEvolGenomics29
UCambridge TempLectureship HumanEvolution . . . 29
UChester ConservationGenet ResAssist . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
UCollege London 2 EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
ULiverpool Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UMaryland ResAssist PopGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UMichigan EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UOklahoma CollectionAssistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
UOttawa EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
USFWS Washington ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . 33
UStAndrews ResFellow Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
UTuebingen FullProf PlantEvoEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
CaliforniaStateU LA
ConservationGenetics
Assistant Professor, Conservation Genetics
The Department of Biological Sciences, California
State University, Los Angeles, seeks to ﬁll a tenure-
track position in Conservation Genetics beginning Fall,
2012. A Ph.D. in Conservation Genetics or related
ﬁeld is required, with a minimum of one year re-
lated post-doctoral experience. The candidate is ex-
pected to teach undergraduate and graduate courses,
participate in course and program development, es-
tablish an externally funded research program in an
area of conservation genetics and involve undergrad-
uate and Master1s students in the research. While
any organismal focus will be considered, preference
will be given to candidates whose research focuses
on a plant system. Submit curriculum vitae, state-ment of research plans, statement of teaching phi-
losophy, transcripts, three letters of recommendation
and the University1s Application for Academic Em-
ployment form http://www.calstatela.edu/univ/hrm/-
docs/forms/Empl applic academic.pdf to Search Com-
mittee ’ Conservation Genetics, Department of Biolog-
ical Sciences, California State University, Los Angeles,
5151 State University Drive, Los Angeles, CA 90032
(nmcquee@calstatela.edu). Review of completed appli-
cations will begin October 17, 2011 and continue until
position is ﬁlled. EO/Title IX/ADA Employer.
Thanks again and let me know if there is some problem
with this. Nancy McQueen
– Nancy L. McQueen, PhD Professor of Microbiology
and Chair Department of Biological Sciences 5151 State
University Drive Los Angeles, CA 90032 Telephone:
323 343-2052 nmcquee@calstatela.edu
Nancy McQueen <nmcquee@exchange.calstatela.edu >August 1, 2011 EvolDir 21
Crete IMBG 2 Bioinformatics
Two positions in Bioinformatics/Computational Biol-
ogy
The Institute of Marine Biology and Genetics (IMBG)
of the Hellenic Centre for Marine Research (HCMR),
invites applications for two (2) experienced researchers
in the ﬁeld of Bioinformatics - Computational Bi-
ology. These positions are funded by the EU-FP7
“MARBIGEN” project “Supporting research potential
for MARine BIodiversity and GENomics in the East-
ern Mediterranean”( www.marbigen.org ). This project
aims at supporting IMBG excellence in the ﬁelds of bio-
diversity and genomics, by integration of phenotypic,
community ecology and genomic approaches within an
evolutionary context. It includes upgrading existing
and acquiring new equipment for automated 3D phe-
notyping, genomic data production and bioinformatics,
taking advantage of the knowledge and experience ex-
isting in excellent research entities of the EU though
exchanges of researchers, the organization of workshops
and seminars, and hiring incoming experienced scien-
tiﬁc personnel.
IMBG is located in Crete, Greece ( http://-
www.hcmr.gr/listview2.php?id=102 ), 15 km east
of the city of Heraklion by the seashore. Its focus
is on studying biodiversity at all levels of biological
organization, from genes to ecosystems. It leads
the Greek national network for biodiversity research
(related to ESFRI infrastructure “LIFEWATCH”),
is a member of the national network for genomic
research, and participates in the pan-European ESFRI
infrastructure “EMBRC” (European Marine Biological
Resource Centre).
Speciﬁcally, experienced researchers are to be recruited
for the following positions:
1. Bioinformatician / Computational Biologist with in-
terest / experience in applying genomic approaches in
organismic and population biology. Ability in analy-
sis of next generation sequencing data, gene annotation
and genome assembly will be considered.
2. Bioinformatician with experience in genomics and
metagenomics of microbial organisms. Experience in
analysis of data, produced by next generation sequenc-
ing will be considered.
Candidates must have a PhD in a related ﬁeld and atleast three years of postdoctoral experience, a demon-
strated record of signiﬁcant research and the potential
to make substantial contributions as independent in-
vestigators. The fellows are expected to be involved in
running projects of the Institute but also to develop
new research projects and to interact with the multi-
disciplinary research environment of the host Institute.
Applications should consist of a)a cover letter detail-
ing previous experience, research interests and moti-
vation for applying, b)an academic CV and c) con-
tact information for three referees (including e-mail
address), which should be submitted electronically to
magoulas@her.hcmr.gr until September 10, 2011.
The expected starting date for the positions is in Oc-
tober 2011. Gross salaries will be 4500 euro per month
and duration of contracts will be initially one year, ex-
tendable for one further year.
For more info please contact Dr. Giorgos Kotoulas
<kotoulas@her.hcmr.gr >
We are committed to increasing the proportion of fe-
male researchers at IMBG/ HCMR and strongly en-
courage applications from female candidates.
Dr. Antonios Magoulas
Director, Institute of Marine Biology and Genetics Hel-
lenic Centre for Marine Research (HCMR) P.O. Box
2214, 710 03 Heraklion, Greece Tel. +30 2810 337801
Fax +30 2810 337870
kasapidi@her.hcmr.gr
EastCarolinaU LabTech
EvolGenetics
Lab Technician - Molecular evolutionary genetics
Department of Biology East Carolina University
Greenville, NC
We seek a highly motivated lab technician to join the
lab of Dr. Ashley N. Egan at East Carolina University,
an active lab investigating population genetics, evolu-
tionary genomics, and phylogenetics of legume and in-
vasive species. For an outline of current and prospective
projects in the lab, please go to http://www.ecu.edu/-
cs-cas/biology/egan ashley.cfm . Applicants must have
experience with PCR and DNA sequencing and/or mi-
crosatellite genotyping. Responsibilities include DNA
extractions, sequencing and genotyping of plant sam-
ples, database entry and archiving and other duties as22 EvolDir August 1, 2011
required.
Minimum Qualiﬁcations: Bachelor’s or Master’s De-
gree in an appropriate ﬁeld such as Biological Sciences,
Molecular Biology, or Genetics, PLUS demonstrated re-
search experience that included performing DNA ex-
tractions and PCR, and facility with standard com-
puter software programs. Experience with microsatel-
lite genotyping and/or DNA sequencing is required.
Applicants should be US citizens. Preference will be
given to applicants with a Master’s degree or demon-
strated experience in the ﬁeld. This is a full time 1-yr
position to start September 2011. Applications are be-
ing accepted immediately and will be reviewed until the
position is ﬁlled.
Qualiﬁed candidates should submit (via email) a let-
ter of application describing qualiﬁcations for the po-
sition and reason for interest, CV, and letters from
three references detailing the applicant’s level of ex-
perience with DNA sequencing and/or genotyping, and
overall capabilities working in a laboratory setting to
egana@ecu.edu.
Ashley N. Egan, Ph.D. Assistant Professor, Depart-
ment of Biology North Carolina Center for Biodi-
versity Howell Science Complex - Mailstop 551 East
Carolina University Greenville, NC 27858-4353 Oﬃce:
N303a/N304 Lab: N304/N305 Phone (252) 328-4244
fax (252) 328-4178 egana@ecu.edu
FrenchGuiana 3yr ResAssist
PlantPopGenetics
Research assistant 36-month temporary contract
Duration: 36 months
Employer: INRA
Location: Joint Research Unit /lessmuchEcoFoG /greatermuch, Kourou,
French Guiana
Starting date: 1st September or 1st October, 2011
A 3-year Research assistant position is available in the
“Population Ecology” team of the Joint Research Unit
“Ecology of Guianese Forests” under the supervision
of Ivan Scotti (INRA) and Nadine Amusant (CIRAD).
The grant is provided by the ANIB@ROSA project,
supported by the EU-funded PO-FEDER 2007-2013
program.
The research assistant’s goals will be to (i) high-throughput sequence the transcriptome of Aniba
rosaeodora (Brazilian rosewood), a commercially im-
portant tropical forest tree species; (ii) develop an ar-
ray of high-throughput SNP / sequence markers for
the unique identiﬁcation (DNA ﬁngerprinting) of in-
dividual plantation trees (iii) validate the identiﬁcation
tool on plantation and spontaneous trees (iv) assess the
genome-wide distribution of genetic variation among
provenances (v) evaluate the past demographic history
and levels of selective pressure genome-wide and at in-
dividual gene loci, namely those coding for enzymes
involved in the biosynthesis of commercially important
compounds.
The research assistant will:
- Prepare cDNA libraries for high-throughput sequenc-
ing and co-operate with sequencing specialists to obtain
transcriptome sequence libraries
- Annotate the above libraries
- Develop an array of 500-1000 SNP/sequence markers
to be analysed by high-throughput sequencing
- Apply the markers to the ﬁngerprinting of plantation
trees
- Deﬁne the smallest set of markers allowing the unique
identiﬁcation of each tree
- Apply population genomics methods to the estimation
of past demographic changes in natural populations of
rosewood and to the identiﬁcation of loci undergoing
selection
- Publish scientiﬁc papers on his/her results in interna-
tional peer- reviewed journals.
The appointed research assistant will have a strong
background in genomics/molecular biology, bioinfor-
matics, statistics and population genetics; will be ﬂu-
ent in English and in French; will be at ease with text-
editing and spreadsheet software, web browsers and the
R package. He or she will have a taste for scientiﬁc
endeavour and technological development, engage in
scientiﬁc and technical exchange with other members
of the team, other project partners and the scientiﬁc
community at large and will be able to make decisions
autonomously and to work in tight collaboration with
other scientists and staﬀ members. The program will
be executed in the Ecological Genetics laboratory of the
Joint Research Unit “EcoFoG” and in other laborato-
ries worldwide when necessary.
Candidates must ﬁle their application, along with a CV
and two letters of reference, at the following e-mail ad-
dresses:
Ivan Scotti ivan.scotti@ecofog.gfAugust 1, 2011 EvolDir 23
Nadine Amusant nadine.amusant@cirad.fr Interviews
will take place either in person or by video call by the
end of June 2011.
VISITORS TO FRENCH GUIANA MUST HOLD A
VALID YELLOW FEVER VACCINE CERTIFICATE
Ivan Scotti INRA - UMR 0745 ECOFOG “Ecolo-
gie des Forˆ ets de Guyane” / “Ecology of Guiana
Forests” Team Leader /lessmuch Population Ecology
/greatermuch Campus agronomique, Avenue de France
BP 709 - 97387 KOUROU Cedex FRANCE
Phone +594 (0)59432-9274, -9285, -9278 Fax
+594 (0)59432-4302 e-mail: ivan.scotti@ecofog.gf,
i.scotti.inra.kourou@gmail.com; web: http://-
www.ecofog.gf Ivan Scotti <Ivan.Scotti@ecofog.gf >
GriﬃthU ResFellow AdeliePenguins
Dear Professor Golding,
Please ﬁnd below, a second job ad I would like to ap-
pear on your site for the position of Research Fellow
(Ancient DNA - Adelie Penguins):
Research Fellow (Ancient DNA - Adelie Penguins)
Reference: 492715 Element: Environmental Futures
Centre Work type: Fixed term (3 years)
Overview: The successful applicant will work at Nathan
Campus as a member of a team to conduct research into
the area of ancient DNA with the aim to recover DNA
sequences from both modern and ancient animal tissues
that will assist with the management and completion
of the Human Frontier Science Project.
This is a ﬁxed term (3 years), full time position based
at the Nathan campus, Queensland, Australia.
The role: The successful applicant will have a unique
opportunity work in collaboration with international
research teams on genomic studies of Adelie Penguins
in Antarctica. The position may involve ﬁeldwork in
Antarctica over the summer months.
Applicants will work in a state-of-the-art ancient DNA
facility as well as modern molecular biology laborato-
ries. This facility is equipped with a dedicated 454 DNA
sequencer and a real-time PCR facility. Laboratory
technologies will include PCR ampliﬁcation of DNA,
cloning, the construction of libraries for second gen-
eration DNA sequencing, quantitative PCR and DNA
capture methods.The person: Completion of a relevant Doctoral degree
such as Molecular Biology or Biochemistry. Expertise
in second-generation DNA sequencing and DNA cap-
ture technologies is required. In addition, ancient DNA
experience and some bioinformatics expertise would be
an advantage. An ability to work with a multi disci-
plinary team including mathematicians, archaeologists,
geologists is necessary.
Salary range: Research Fellow, Grade 1: AUD $59,533
- $70,030 per annum. Salary package including 17%
employer superannuation contribution: AUD $69,654 -
$81,935 per annum.
Further information: Obtain the information pack-
age and application requirements by visiting http://-
jobs.griﬃth.edu.au/jobSearch.asp For position queries,
contact Professor David Lambert, Environmental Fu-
tures Centre on +61 (0) 7 3735 5298.
For application queries, contact Mr Chris Delannoy, Re-
cruitment Oﬃcer on +61 (0) 7 3735 3505.
To apply please visit http://jobs.griﬃth.edu.au/-
jobSearch.asp All applications must be submitted on-
line.
Closing date: 5 August 2011 4.30 pm AEST.
Regards
Wayne Beech Recruitment Consultant |Recruitment
CARE Centre |HR Services Oﬃce of Human Resource
Management I Griﬃth University 1.26 Bray Centre
(N54), Nathan Campus, QLD, 4111 Ph: (07) 3735 5093
I Fax: (07) 3735 5371 l http://www.griﬃth.edu.au/
For Oﬃce of HRM Service Standards, click here “Grif-
ﬁth University - EOWA Leading Organisation for the
Advancement of Women 2010. Committed to an organ-
isational culture in which women participate as equals
at all levels”.
Email: w.beech@griﬃth.edu.au
Wayne Beech <w.beech@griﬃth.edu.au >
GriﬃthU ResFellow AncientDNA
Research Fellow (Ancient DNA - Sacred Ibis)
Reference: 492714 Element: Environmental Futures
Centre Work type: Fixed term (3 years)
Overview: The successful applicant will work at Nathan
Campus as a member of a team to conduct research into
the area of ancient DNA with the aim to recover DNA24 EvolDir August 1, 2011
sequences from both modern and ancient animal tissues
that will assist with the management and completion
of the Human Frontier Science Project.
This is a ﬁxed term (3 years), full time position based
at the Nathan campus, Queensland, Australia.
The role: The successful applicant will have a unique
opportunity work in collaboration with international re-
search teams on genomic studies of Sacred Ibis mum-
mies from ancient Egypt. The position may involve
ﬁeldwork in Egyptian catacombs.
Applicants will work in a state-of-the-art ancient DNA
facility as well as modern molecular biology laborato-
ries. This facility is equipped with a dedicated 454 DNA
sequencer and a real-time PCR facility. Laboratory
technologies will include PCR ampliﬁcation of DNA,
cloning, the construction of libraries for second gen-
eration DNA sequencing, quantitative PCR and DNA
capture methods.
The person: Completion of a relevant Doctoral degree
such as Molecular Biology or Biochemistry. Expertise
in second-generation DNA sequencing and DNA cap-
ture technologies is required. In addition, ancient DNA
experience and some bioinformatics expertise would be
an advantage. An ability to work with a multi disci-
plinary team including mathematicians, archaeologists,
geologists is necessary.
Salary range: Research Fellow, Grade 1: AUD $59,533
- $70,030 per annum. Salary package including 17%
employer superannuation contribution: AUD $69,654 -
$81,935 per annum.
Further information: Obtain the information pack-
age and application requirements by visiting http://-
jobs.griﬃth.edu.au/jobSearch.asp For position queries,
contact Professor David Lambert, Environmental Fu-
tures Centre on +61 (0) 7 3735 5298.
For application queries, contact Mr Chris Delannoy, Re-
cruitment Oﬃcer on +61 (0) 7 3735 3505.
To apply please visit http://jobs.griﬃth.edu.au/-
jobSearch.asp All applications must be submitted on-
line.
Closing date: 5 August 2011 4.30 pm AEST.
Regards
Wayne Beech Recruitment Consultant |Recruitment
CARE Centre |HR Services Oﬃce of Human Resource
Management I Griﬃth University 1.26 Bray Centre
(N54), Nathan Campus, QLD, 4111 Ph: (07) 3735 5093
I Fax: (07) 3735 5371 l http://www.griﬃth.edu.au/
For Oﬃce of HRM Service Standards, click here “Grif-
ﬁth University - EOWA Leading Organisation for theAdvancement of Women 2010. Committed to an organ-
isational culture in which women participate as equals
at all levels”.
Email: w.beech@griﬃth.edu.au
Wayne Beech <w.beech@griﬃth.edu.au >
NESCent WebDesign
User Interface Design and Web Application Developer
The National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NES-
Cent) seeks a creative and enthusiastic individual to
design user interfaces and web applications for scien-
tiﬁc applications that manage, analyze, visualize and
share data in support of evolutionary research. The in-
cumbent will work as part of a small informatics team
in close collaboration with domain scientists.
NESCent ( http://nescent.org ) is an NSF-funded cen-
ter dedicated to cross-disciplinary research in evolution-
ary science. Our informatics team works closely with
visiting and resident scientists to support their cus-
tom software and database development needs ( http://-
informatics.nescent.org ), and collaborates broadly with
other biodiversity informatics projects. All NESCent
software products are open-source, and the Center has a
number of initiatives to actively promote collaborative
development of community software resources. Above
all, we are enthusiastic about our work, about the mis-
sion of the Center, and about the contribution of infor-
matics to that mission.
Job description: The incumbent will design and develop
user interfaces and web applications for databases and
other software tools for sponsored scientists and staﬀ.
The job responsibilities include all stages of the software
development process, including requirements gathering,
design, implementation, release packaging and docu-
mentation, as part of a small team (typically 2-3 in-
dividuals). We expect the incumbent to present their
work at conferences and contribute to publications with
scientiﬁc collaborators; interact regularly with visiting
and resident scientists, other members of the informat-
ics team and Center staﬀ; and generally serve as an ex-
pert resource for Center personnel. The position pro-
vides opportunities for professional development and
encourages research into new technologies. Most infor-
matics staﬀ work at our Durham NC oﬃces, located
adjacent to Duke University, but we support a wide
range of technologies for virtual communication withAugust 1, 2011 EvolDir 25
oﬀ-site staﬀ and collaborators.
Salary range: $70,000 - $80,000, depending on educa-
tion and experience
Required Qualiﬁcations: * Demonstrated success col-
laborating with clients on custom software solutions *
Experience with various stages of the software develop-
ment cycle * Expertise in development and testing of
user interface designs * Excellent communication skills,
both virtual and face-to-face
Preferred Qualiﬁcations: * M.S. or Ph.D. in Com-
puter Science, Bioinformatics or related ﬁeld * Demon-
strated interest in science, particularly biology * Ex-
pertise in dynamic and interactive web technologies
(JavaScript, CGI) * Expertise in rapid application de-
velopment and respective programming technologies
and languages (e.g., modern scripting languages and
web-application frameworks such as Python/Django,
Ruby/Ruby-on-Rails, and Perl/Catalyst). * Exper-
tise in graphic design * Expertise in data visualization
and/or scientiﬁc data integration * Expertise in soft-
ware usability design and assessment * Expertise in web
service (SOAP, REST, XML, JSON) and semantic web
technologies * Fluency in Java programming * Prior
experience in relational database programming (Post-
greSQL or MySQL) * Experience with open-source, and
collaborative, software development
How to apply: Please send cover letter, resume and
contact information for three references to Dr. Karen
Cranston, Training Coordinator and Bioinformatics
Project Manager (karen.cranston@nescent.org); Please
also complete the online application at the University of
North Carolina HR website: http://bit.ly/r9HQ8r . In-
formal inquires or requests for additional information
may be directed to Dr. Cranston by email or phone
(+1-919-613-2275). Closing date is August 15, 2011.
–
Karen Cranston, PhD Training Coordinator and Infor-
matics Project Manager nescent.org
Karen Cranston <karen.cranston@nescent.org >
PrincetonU
EvolutionaryBiolPrincetonU
EvolutionaryBiol
ASSISTANT PROFESSORSHIP ECOLOGY, EVO-
LUTION AND/OR BEHAVIORPrinceton University’s Department of Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology plans to hire individuals at the level
of tenure-track Assistant Professor. We have broad in-
terests in ecology, evolution, behavior, functional biol-
ogy, conservation biology, disease and biogeochemistry;
a common appreciation of theory, natural history and
evolutionary thinking unites the Department. We seek
applicants who pursue research that aims for signiﬁcant
conceptual and/or empirical integration across tradi-
tional disciplinary boundaries and who have a strong
commitment to teaching. It is possible that an appoint-
ment may be joint with the Princeton Environmental
Institute, especially if the applicant’s research focuses
on problems of global or environmental change.
Applicants should write a vision statement, no longer
than two pages, that outlines the conceptual dimensions
of one or more major unsolved problems in their ﬁeld
and how their approach will contribute to solving them.
The vision statement should be more than a summary
of the applicant’s prior and current research.
Applications, including the vision statement, curricu-
lum vitae, three reprints and contact information for
three references should be addressed to Simon Levin,
Search Committee Chair, and submitted online via
http://jobs.princeton.edu . Screening of applications
will begin 12 September 2011.
Princeton University is an equal opportunity employer
and complies with applicable EEO and aﬃrmative ac-
tion regulations.
(Direct link to the online posting of Job Req #0110466:
https://jobs.princeton.edu/applicants/jsp/shared/-
position/JobDetails css.jsp?postingId=182122 )
Diane Carlino Department Manager Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology Princeton University 104A Guyot
Hall 609-258-5810 dcarlino@princeton.edu
Diane Carlino <dcarlino@Princeton.EDU >
RutgersU Genomics
Position Description A full-time bioinformatics staﬀ
position is available immediately in the Bhattacharya
Group (see http://dblab.rutgers.edu/ ) at Rutgers Uni-
versity (New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA) to carry
out genomic and bioinformatic research on a variety
of basic and applied research projects. The position
is associated with the newly established Genome Co-
operative (for details, see http://dblab.rutgers.edu/-26 EvolDir August 1, 2011
genome cooperative/ ).
This individual will report to Bhattacharya and other
Cooperative members and will support and perform col-
laborative research work in molecular biology and ge-
nomics using bioinformatic approaches. Duties include:
(1) to perform analysis of genome data using existing
computational tools and to interpret and present data
and results to collaborators, (2) to train other lab mem-
bers in the use of specialized tools for genome research,
and (3) to contribute to manuscript and grant prepara-
tion. Ideal candidates will have a computational bi-
ology/genomics background with signiﬁcant research
experience, proven scripting skills (PERL/Python), as
well as experience with relational databases (mysql or
similar) and publicly available genome resources.
Requirements The position requires a bachelor’s degree
in a biological or computer science or an equivalent
combination of education and/or experience. Work-
ing knowledge and experience in molecular evolu-
tion, genomics, phylogenetics, high-performance com-
puting and/or UNIX environment, are highly desirable.
Knowledge of web design, server management and/or
programming languages (C/C++/Java) is a plus.
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, is a
leading national public research university. It is the
only public university in New Jersey in the Association
of American Universities, a group comprising North
America’s 61 leading research universities. The Protein
Data Bank (PDB; http://www.pdb.org/ ) is hosted at
Rutgers.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: September 15, 2011. Po-
sition will remain open until ﬁlled.
SALARY is oﬀered based on qualiﬁcation and experi-
ence.
Any queries should be addressed directly to Debashish
Bhattacharya (bhattacharya@aesop.rutgers.edu). To
apply, please send the following items to the same email
address: (1) a cover letter stating potential start date
(2) a curriculum vitae, including contact information
for at least two references, and (3) a brief statement of
research interest and career goals
Rutgers is an equal opportunity/aﬃrmative action em-
ployer.
Debashish Bhattacharya Professor Department of Ecol-
ogy, Evolution and Natural Resources Institute of Ma-
rine and Coastal Sciences Foran Hall 102 Rutgers Uni-
versity, New Brunswick, NJ 08901, USA Telephone:
(732) 932-8193
bhattacharya@aesop.rutgers.eduSaudiArabia Biodiversity
The Red Sea Research Center at KAUST
(rsrc.kaust.edu.sa) is seeking qualiﬁed candidates
for positions as Lab Manager, Lab Technician and
Field Technician. We have active projects in Marine
Microbiology, Coral Genomics, Coral Reef Ecology,
Biodiversity, Marine Ecology, and Fisheries Ecology
in the Red Sea. Please reply to rsrc.director at
kaust.edu.sa with a statement of interest and CV.
Information about KAUST can be found on the general
website ( http://www.kaust.edu.sa ).
Lab Manager: To manage genetics/microbiology re-
search laboratory operations, team management, main-
taining research consumable supplies, and be able to
assist with faculty, staﬀ, and student research projects,
including visiting scientists and researchers.
Major Responsibilities: Maintenance of lab environ-
ment and performing or organizing equipment service;
ordering of lab equipment and consumables to ensure
continuous operations, and to follow up with suppliers
and Procurement where needed; completion and sub-
mission of safety training and all other administrative
reports to relevant departments; to attend and/or par-
ticipate in Center meetings and individual lab meetings
as requested; to coordinate administrative duties for
general Center technicians to ensure smooth and con-
tinuous lab operations, including leave scheduling; to
oversee and coordinate the general daily operations of
the lab including liaising for scientists and researchers
visiting the Center.
Competencies: Fluent in English, both spoken and
written; excellent written and verbal communication
skills; experience writing formal and scientiﬁc reports.
Qualiﬁcations: An undergraduate degree in biology, ge-
netics, marine biology, or related/relevant discipline.
Undergraduate degree or higher in a relevant discipline.
Minimum of 3 years experience working in a biological
research laboratory with preference for genetics or mi-
crobiology experience, with at least 1 year experience
in team or major project management; preferably will
have experience with all or most of the following instru-
ments, equipment, or techniques: Polymerase Chain
Reaction (PCR), Quantitative Polymerase Chain Re-
action (qPCR), bioanalyzer, incubation chambers, ﬂu-
orescence microscopes, liquid handling robots, ultracen-August 1, 2011 EvolDir 27
trifuge, liquid nitrogen handling, DNA extraction and
ampliﬁcation, freeze dryers.
Lab Technician: To assist with lab research as well as
maintain diverse research projects in collaboration with
local & international scientists. Some opportunity may
exist for independent projects.
Major Responsibilities: Preparation of samples for lab-
oratory analysis and/or culture; preparation, optimiza-
tion, and analyses of PCR reactions; maintenance of
lab environment and performance of minor equipment
maintenance; ordering of lab equipment and consum-
ables to ensure continuous operations, and to follow
up with suppliers and Procurement where needed; to
attend and/or participate in Center meetings and indi-
vidual lab meetings as requested; to assist with general
daily operations of the lab including liaising for scien-
tists and researchers visiting the Center; help oversee
students experiments in the lab if required by faculty;
DNA isolation; RNA isolation; PCR and cloning; oper-
ation of qPCR, bioanalyzer incubation chambers, ﬂuo-
rescence and other microscopes, liquid handling robots,
ultracentrifuge, liquid nitrogen handling, freeze dryers,
and next-generation library preparation (Illumina and
454)
Competencies: Fluent in English, both spoken and
written; excellent communication skills; experience
writing formal and scientiﬁc reports; broad knowledge
of tropical marine life / ecosystems as well as global
conservation issues; experience living/working abroad
for prolonged periods.
Qualiﬁcations: Undergraduate degree in biology, genet-
ics, marine biology, or related/relevant discipline; min-
imum of 1 year of experience working in a biological
research laboratory with preference for genetics or mi-
crobiology experience; experience living abroad; experi-
ence working in college or university also an advantage;
good understanding or ﬂuency in Arabic an advantage,
but not required.
Field Technician: To assist with ﬁeld research as well as
maintain diverse research projects in collaboration with
local & international scientists. Some opportunity may
exist for independent projects.
Major Responsibilities: Preparation of samples for lab-
oratory analysis, including sample preservation and cat-
aloging; sample collections in the ﬁeld; dissection and
processing of ﬁeld samples; maintenance of lab envi-
ronment and performance of minor equipment main-
tenance; ordering of ﬁeld equipment and consumables
to ensure continuous operations, and to follow up with
suppliers and Procurement where needed; to manage
inventory of Center ﬁeld gear; to attend and/or partic-ipate in Center meetings and individual lab meetings
as requested; to assist with general daily
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
TexasAMU Evolutionary-
MarineMolecularBiology
Dear Evoldir members,
We are searching for a marine molecular biologist. Al-
though the exact area of specialty is open, evolutionary
biologists and population geneticists using cutting-edge
molecular techniques to address questions of relevance
to marine systems are welcome to apply! I’m not on
the search committee, so please contact Paul Zimba
the search committee chair. His address is at the end
of the ad below.
Deb Overath
Details:
Assistant Professor: Marine Molecular Biology The
rapidly growing Marine Biology Program in the De-
partment of Life Sciences of Texas A&M University-
Corpus Christi invites applications for a tenure-track
Assistant Professor of Marine Molecular Biology. The
successful candidate will specialize in the use of cutting-
edge molecular approaches to address marine bio-
logical research problems. This position will fur-
ther expand and complement our existing program
(www.marinebiology.tamucc.edu ). The preferred start
date is January 2012, but no later than September 2012.
A competitive startup package will accompany this po-
sition.
Job Duties: The successful candidate will be expected
to develop a vigorous, externally-funded research pro-
gram, supervise graduate students, and teach under-
graduate and graduate courses supporting the Biol-
ogy B.S. and M.S. Programs, Marine Biology M.S.
Program, and, particularly, the joint Interdisciplinary
Ph.D. Marine Biology Program. Preferred Qualiﬁca-
tions: Candidates must have a Ph.D. degree in a bio-
logical (or closely related) discipline.
Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi is a rapidly
growing research university located on the Gulf of Mex-28 EvolDir August 1, 2011
ico overlooking Corpus Christi Bay. With over 10,000
students, it oﬀers a wide array of academic programs
with 18% of the students enrolled in graduate programs.
Applications are particularly encouraged from individ-
uals with active, federally-funded research programs
and strong external collaborations who can take ad-
vantage of our modern research laboratories and equip-
ment, including those associated with our core molecu-
lar and microscopy facilities. Ample opportunities ex-
ist for collaboration with researchers from the Depart-
ment of Life Sciences as well as from the University’s
strong portfolio of marine-oriented research institutions
such as the Harte Research Institute for Gulf of Mex-
ico Studies ( http://harteresearchinstitute.org ), Center
for Coastal Studies (http://ccs.tamucc.edu) and Con-
rad Blucher Institute ( http://www.cbi.tamucc.edu/ ).
Our unique location provides many opportunities for
marine-related research including proximity to exten-
sive bays and estuaries along the Gulf of Mexico.
With a population of ~300,000, Corpus Christi has nu-
merous urban conveniences while maintaining a small-
town atmosphere. Located in South Texas, Corpus
Christi is close to popular destinations, including Padre
Island National Seashore, San Antonio and Austin. Ap-
ply online at https://islanderjobs.tamucc.edu . Appli-
cation must include a cover letter describing qualiﬁca-
tions, research and teaching interests, curriculum vitae,
and the names and phone numbers of four or more ref-
erences.
The position will remain open until ﬁlled with
preference given to applicants submitting all re-
quested documentation by August 15, 2011. Con-
tact Information: Dr. Paul Zimba, Search Chair,
Paul.Zimba@tamucc.edu
R. Deborah Overath, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Biol-
ogy Local Program Director Hispanic Leaders in Agri-
culture and the Environment Department of Life Sci-
ences (ST 312) 6300 Ocean Drive, Unit 5800 Texas
A&M - Corpus Christi Corpus Christi, TX 78412
Phone: (361) 825-2467 Cell: (361) 876-4542 Fax: (361)
825-2742
“Overath, Deborah” <Deborah.Overath@tamucc.edu >
UCalifornia Berkeley
ProfessorMuseumDirector
*Professor of Integrative Biology and Director of theMuseum of Vertebrate Zoology*. The Department of
Integrative Biology and the Museum of Vertebrate Zo-
ology at the University of California, Berkeley invite ap-
plications for a joint tenuredfaculty appointment in the
evolutionary biology of vertebrates. We view vertebrate
evolutionary biology broadly, and the successful candi-
date’s research expertise might thus include (but not
be limited to) the areas of systematics, biodiversity in-
formatics, comparative phylogenetics, evolutionary ge-
nomics, conservation biology, evolutionary ecology, and
evolutionary and ecological dynamics in relation to en-
vironmental change. The successful candidate will be
expected to maintain a dynamic, ﬁeld collections-based,
extramurally funded research program, and will have an
inspired vision for the future of the MVZ and museum-
based research more generally. Candidates must have
a strong interest in undergraduate and graduate teach-
ing and will be expected to contribute to instruction in
general and specialized courses. A commitment to ex-
panding and utilizing museum collections in research,
education, and outreach is required. The MVZ and
IB are highly interested in candidates who have en-
gaged in service towards increasing the participation of
individuals from groups historically under-represented
in higher education. For further information about
the MVZ and IB, please visit our websites ( http://-
mvz.berkeley.edu/ and http://ib.berkeley.edu/ ). For
information regarding conﬁdentiality, please refer to:
http://apo.chance.berkeley.edu/evalltr.html . Please
submit application materials describing relevant qual-
iﬁcations and experience for the position, a cur-
riculum vitae, statements of research interests,
teaching philosophy and outreach to underrepre-
sented groups, a vision statement for the MVZ,
and the names and contact details for three
references. Applications should be submitted
electronically via http://ls-ourunit.berkeley.edu:80/-
candidate/selRegister.php?i=576 or via email to:
VertEvol.IB.MVZ@gmail.com.
If electronic submission is not possible, materials must
be sent by regular mail to:
Vertebrate Biology and MVZ Director Search Com-
mittee Department of Integrative Biology 3040 Valley
Life Sciences Building University of California, Berke-
ley Berkeley, CA 94720-3140 USA
Applications must be received electronically or post-
marked by September 7th, 2011.
Berkeley is committed to addressing the family needs
of faculty, including dual career couples and single par-
ents. The University of California is an Equal Oppor-
tunity/Aﬃrmative Action Employer.
Debra Downey <dmdowney@berkeley.edu >August 1, 2011 EvolDir 29
UCalifornia SantaBarbara ResTech
DrosEvolGenomics
The Ecology, Evolution, and Marine Biology Depart-
ment at UC Santa Barbara is currently recruiting an
intro-level Lab Technician to join the team of Dr.
Thomas Turner.
Information on the Turner lab is available here
(labs.eemb.ucsb.edu/turner). The Lab Technician
will perform several general duties relating to ongo-
ing projects on the evolutionary functional genomics
of behavior in Drosophila, including maintenance of
Drosophila populations and high-throughput quantiﬁ-
cation of behaviors. Broader participation in research
projects is possible for motivated and qualiﬁed appli-
cants. To apply online go to jobs.ucsb.edu, and search
positions for job #20110242.
Thomas Turner Assistant Professor Depart-
ment of Ecology, Evolution, and Marine Biol-
ogy University of California, Santa Barbara Web:
labs.eemb.ucsb.edu/turner/
thomas.turner@lifesci.ucsb.edu
UCambridge TempLectureship
HumanEvolution
Temporary Lectureship in Human Evolutionary Genet-
ics
Division of Biological Anthropology, Department of Ar-
chaeology and Anthropology
Start date: 15th September 2011
Limit of tenure applies*
Applications are invited for a Temporary Lectureship
in Human Evolutionary Genetics. The successful can-
didate will be expected to contribute to the teaching
and examination of the undergraduate and graduate
courses, administration in Biological Anthropology, and
to research activities. Some teaching will be speciﬁcally
in the area of Evolutionary Genetics.
Applicants should hold a PhD in the relevant ﬁeld, have
some experience of university teaching and research andshare an interest in multi-disciplinary approaches to hu-
man evolution.
The pensionable stipend will be £36,715 pro rata. This
post is part-time (80%).
Further particulars of the post can be found here:
Applications should consist of a University application
form, a covering letter, a CV with a full list of publica-
tions, and a one page statement of research and teach-
ing interests, as well as the names and addresses of three
referees who can be contacted. The application form
(CHRIS/6) needs to have parts 1 & 3 completed: it
is found at http://www.admin.cam.ac.uk/oﬃces/hr/-
forms/chris6/ or can be obtained from Mrs Jane Clare,
Administrative Secretary, Department of Archaeology
and Anthropology, University of Cambridge, Pembroke
Street, Cambridge CB2 3QY. Please submit one hard
copy of your application to Mrs Clare and also send
one single pdf ﬁle of the whole application to her at
jc478@cam.ac.uk.
Deadline for applications: 15th August 2011. Inter-
views are planned for early September.
*Limit of tenure: 12 months
The University values diversity and is committed to
equality of opportunity.
The University of Cambridge only advertises their own
and college vacancies on this website; we do not adver-
tise any external vacancies.
The University has a responsibility to ensure that all
employees are eligible to live and work in the UK.
Toomas Kivisild <tk331@cam.ac.uk >
UChester ConservationGenet
ResAssist
UNIVERSITY OF CHESTER APPLIED SCIENCES
-BIOLOGY CONSERVATION GENETICS RE-
SEARCH ASSISTANT FIXED TERM CONTRACT
UNTIL 31ST JULY 2012 21 HOURS PER WEEK
£19,261 - £21,021 PER ANNUM, PRO RATA
A vacancy has arisen for an experienced and motivated
research assistant, to carry out genetic analysis on a
number of conservation genetics projects. The results
will be used to directly manage endangered species both
in captivity and in the wild. Current projects include
working on Asiatic lions, Scottish wildcats, pygmy hip-30 EvolDir August 1, 2011
pos, chimpanzees and forest elephants. The project is
for 3 days per week and 12 months initially.
The successful candidate will have previous experience
of high throughput microsatellite genotyping and mi-
tochondrial sequencing, as well as a proven ability to
work with a range of sample materials (blood, tissue,
feather, faecal). This is an exciting opportunity for the
right candidate.
Candidates may download further details and an appli-
cation form from our website at www.chester.ac.uk/-
jobs/ or send an A4 SAE to HRM Services, University
of Chester, Parkgate Road, Chester CH1 4BJ quoting
reference number HRMS/10172.
Closing date: Wednesday 10th August 2011, 12 noon.
Many thanks Samantha Fenn HR Adviser
Telephone: 01244 512 044
Samantha Fenn <s.fenn@chester.ac.uk >
UCollege London 2 EvolutionaryBiol
Two Job Vacancies: Closing date: 31 July 2011
University College London, Department of Genetics,
Evolution and Environment
1. Reader <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/-
Reader (academic rank)>or Professor in Evolutionary
and Comparative Biology 2. Reader <http://-
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reader (academic rank)> or
Professor in Ecology and Biodiversity
Salary: UCL Reader scale, £50,902 - £55,362 per an-
num UCL Professorial scale: minimum salary nego-
tiable but not less than £61,960 p.a.
We invite applications from world class research sci-
entists for two positions available in the areas of Evo-
lutionary and Comparative Biology and Ecology and
Biodiversity.
This appointments are part of a major initiative to
strengthen and diversify research activity in evolution-
ary, population and environmental biology in newly re-
furbished laboratories within UCL.
The successful candidate will be expected to: play a
leadership role in this initiative and promote interaction
across the diverse disciplines represented in the Depart-
ment, the Division of Biosciences and across UCL; coor-
dinate eﬀorts to respond to national and internationalfunding initiatives; and contribute to existing and new
postgraduate training programmes and undergraduate
teaching.
For a Chair, he/she is expected to have a continuing
track record of external research grant funding over a
number of years, and doctoral research supervision. For
a Readership, he/she is expected to have past success in
obtaining external funding and experience of doctoral
research supervision. At either level, candidates are
also expected to have a track record in publishing high
impact original research articles, experience of teaching
at undergraduate or postgraduate level and excellent
interpersonal, oral and written communication skills.
Further information about this post, together
with application details, can be found at http://-
www.ucl.ac.uk/gee/jobs Informal enquiries concerning
the position in Evolution and Comparative Biology can
be made to Prof Max Telford (m.telford@ucl.ac.uk)
Informal enquiries concerning the position in Ecology
and Biodiversity can be made to Dr David Murrell
(d.murrell@ucl.ac.uk)
Max Telford Professor of Zoology Department
of Genetics, Evolution and Environment, Uni-
versity College London, Darwin Building, Gower
Street, London WC1E 6BT, UK. Tel: +44 (0)20
7679 2554 (Internal: 32554) Fax: +44 (0)20 7679
7096 http://www.ucl.ac.uk/biology/academic-staﬀ/-
telford/telford.html a new open access journal
EvoDevo: http://www.evodevojournal.com/ Telford
& Littlewood: Animal Evolution. OUP <http:/-
/ukcatalogue.oup.com/product/9780199570300.do
>
Software to align Nucleotide sequence according
to Amino Acid translation TranslatorX <http://-
www.translatorx.co.uk >
Files and software for downloading: <http:/-
/web.mac.com/maxtelford/iWeb/Work/-
Downloads.html >
Mrimpatient: If you cant wait to see latest result of
MrBayes analysis. Xstem and Ystem: Software for 2y
structure data in rRNA phylogenetic analyses. MtZoa
and MtHydro : new amino acid substitution matrices
Hacked version of MrBayes using these matrices
Xenoturbella You Tube video < http://-
uk.youtube.com/watch?v=3DyJXNcoxL2Xs >
The Linnean Society of London < http://-
www.linnean.org/ >
m.telford@ucl.ac.ukAugust 1, 2011 EvolDir 31
ULiverpool Bioinformatics
Team Leader: Computational Biology/Bioinformatics
Much of this job will involve the analysis of genetic
variation from next-gen sequence and so a evolution-
ary/population genetics background relevant, provided
accompanied by good computing skills.
The Centre for Genomic Research is a leading labo-
ratory for the application of genomic technologies and
bioinformatic analyses. Supported by the University,
MRC and NERC, it is applying cutting-edge technolo-
gies to environmental, biomedical and comparative ge-
nomic research. Providing guidance and oversight to a
team of bioinformaticians, you will have the primary
responsibility of developing and implementing next-
generation sequencing analyses. In addition, you will
also be responsible for providing direction to the devel-
opment of the CGR and ensure that the CGR remains
at the forefront of developments in computational biol-
ogy. The post is available for 3 years initially.
More details at: http://www.liv.ac.uk/working/-
jobvacancies/research/R-5736551.htm Dr Steve Pa-
terson Institute of Integrative Biology University of Liv-
erpool Liverpool L69 7ZB, UK Tel (+44) 151 795 4521
Mob (+44) 151 794 7668 Fax (+44) 151 795 4408 Email
s.paterson@liv.ac.uk
S.Paterson@liverpool.ac.uk
UMaryland ResAssist PopGenetics
A Faculty Research Assistant position in population
genetics and genomics is available to work with Dr.
Stephen Keller at the Appalachian Laboratory (AL) of
the University of Maryland Center for Environmental
Science (UMCES). The focus of the research is on using
genetic data to understand the impacts of changing en-
vironmental conditions on natural populations, includ-
ing eﬀects on population size, structure, connectivity,
and adaptation ( http://skeller.al.umces.edu/ ).
Duties and responsibilities: This position will focus pri-
marily in the lab on generating molecular genetic datafor evolutionary analysis. The position may also involve
computational data analyses, growth and maintenance
of plants in the greenhouse, ecological ﬁeld work, or-
dering of lab supplies and maintaining lab equipment,
contributing to manuscript preparation, and assisting
undergraduate and graduate students.
Qualiﬁcations: A B.S. or B.A. in the natural sci-
ences is required by the time of appointment. Candi-
dates should be proﬁcient in standard molecular biology
methods such as DNA/RNA extraction, electrophore-
sis, primer design, PCR, DNA sequencing, genotyping,
restriction digests, etc. A positive attitude, excellent
organizational skills, and a strong quantitative back-
ground are regarded favorably.
The position is available starting in late September
or early October, and can be ﬁlled at either half-time
(20hrs/wk) or full-time (40 hrs/wk). An excellent ben-
eﬁts package is available, including health, dental, and
retirement. Candidates should apply by emailing a let-
ter of interest, their CV, and contact information for
three references to porndorﬀ@umces.edu.
The close date for this position advertisement is
7/31/2011.
More information about AL, located in the central Ap-
palachian region of western Maryland, can be found
athttp://www.umces.edu/al . UMCES is an Aﬃrma-
tive Action/Equal Opportunity Employer.
kelle913@umn.edu
UMichigan EvolutionaryBiol
Diarmaid ´O Foighil Professor, Ecology & Evolutionary
Biology Director, Museum of Zoology The University of
Michigan 1109 Geddes Avenue Ann Arbor, MI 48109-
1079 Ph. 734 647 2193
EVOLUTIONARY BIOLOGY and EVOLUTIONARY
ECOLOGY
University of Michigan
The Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
at the University of Michigan invites applications for
a TENURE-TRACK POSITION (open rank) in evo-
lution. We seek outstanding individuals with research
and teaching interests in any area of evolutionary bi-
ology or evolutionary ecology. Particular foci of in-
terest include evolutionary or ecological genetics and
genomics, evolutionary theory, phylogenetics, and evo-32 EvolDir August 1, 2011
lution of morphology, function, and behavior. Also
strongly encouraged are research programs that take
advantage of the outstanding collections of the Mu-
seum of Zoology, Herbarium, and Museum of Paleon-
tology. For further information, see website: http://-
eeb.lsa.umich.edu. <http://eeb.lsa.umich.edu./ >
To apply, please see website: http://-
www.lsa.umich.edu/eeb/applications/, and arrange
to have three letters of recommendation submitted
through the same website. Review of applications will
begin on 10 September 2011. Women and minorities
are encouraged to apply and the University is support-
ive of the needs of dual career couples. The University
of Michigan is an Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative
Action Employer.
“O’Foighil, Diarmaid” <diarmaid@umich.edu >
UOklahoma CollectionAssistant
FULL-TIME POSITION AVAILABLE COLLECTION
ASSISTANT IN THE DEPARTMENT OF RECENT
INVERTEBRATES SAM NOBLE OKLAHOMA MU-
SEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY
The Department of Recent Invertebrates is looking to
ﬁll a full-time position that will provide assistance to
the Curator, Collection Manager, and Student Collec-
tion Assistant with a grant-funded project to catalog,
digitize (electronic data capture), and verify specimen
information for entomological specimens in the collec-
tion.
Typical job functions include: - Creating catalog
records in a database that includes specimen informa-
tion from specimen labels and associated materials -
Generating and installing specimen labels - Following
established protocols and standards for project tasks
- Maintaining records of workﬂow for assessments of
project benchmarks
See Job Requisition Number 12028 on the OU Hu-
man Resources website ( http://jobs.ou.edu/hr ) for ad-
ditional information, and required education, skills, and
proﬁciencies.
Salary: $10.25 per hour Beneﬁts: Yes Hours per week:
40
For further information, contact Dr. Janet K. Braun
(jkbraun@ou.edu, 325-0801) or Dr. Katrina L. Menard
(kmenard@ou.edu, 325-8534)Dr. Katrina Menard Collections Manager of Recent
Invertebrates Sam Noble Oklahoma Museum of Natu-
ral History University of Oklahoma Kmenard@ou.edu
(405) 325-8534
“Menard, Katrina L.” <kmenard@ou.edu >
UOttawa EvolutionaryBiol
*Tenure-track faculty position, Department of Biology,
University of Ottawa, CANADA
Note that the position advertised below is open to any
ﬁeld of biological research and those with evolutionary
interests are encouraged to apply. Preference will be
given to candidates who could contribute to the teach-
ing of ﬁeld biology.
—–
THE UNIVERSITY OF OTTAWA invites applications
for a tenureˆ atrack faculty position in the Department
of Biology. Candidates must have a solid research pro-
gram and the ability to contribute to our teaching in
ﬁeld biology. Exceptional candidates with interests in
other areas of Biology may also be considered. Appoint-
ments will normally be at the Assistant Professor level
although appointment at a higher rank may be possi-
ble. Candidates must have a PhD, a strong publication
record, and good communication and teaching skills.
The University of Ottawa is North Americaˆ as largest
bilingual university; the successful applicant must be
able to teach eﬀectively in both French and English.
The candidate will join a vibrant, research-intensive
Department ( www.biology.uottawa.ca ) of 40 faculty
members with strengths in bioinformatics, cellu-
lar/molecular biology, conservation, ecology, evolution,
and physiology. The Department is also home to inter-
disciplinary initiatives through the laboratory facilities
of the Center for Advanced Research in Environmental
Genomics ( www.careg.uottawa.ca ) and the Institute of
the Environment ( www.ie.uottawa.ca ). The successful
candidate will participate in undergraduate and grad-
uate teaching in the Biology, Biopharmaceutical Sci-
ences, Biomedical Sciences, and/or Environmental Sci-
ences programs.
Before September 30, 2011, applicants should send a
cover letter detailing their linguistic abilities, a cur-
riculum vitae, a 2-page description of their proposed
research program, a 1-page statement of teaching in-
terests and philosophy, and the names and contact in-August 1, 2011 EvolDir 33
formation of 3 referees.
All documents should be arranged in the above order
and sent as a single PDF ﬁle, named by the candidateˆ as
last and ﬁrst names, to biochair@uottawa.ca.
All qualiﬁed candidates are encouraged to apply; how-
ever, Canadians and permanent residents will be given
priority. Equity is a University of Ottawa policy;
women, Aboriginal peoples, members of visible minori-
ties and persons with disabilities are encouraged to ap-
ply.
The University of Ottawa is proud of its 160-year
tradition of bilingualism. Through its Oﬃcial Lan-
guages and Bilingualism Institute, the University pro-
vides training to staﬀ members and to their spouses in
their second oﬃcial language. At the time of tenure,
professors are expected to have the ability to function
in a bilingual setting.
http://www.academiccareers.uottawa.ca/node/349 —
–
Howard D. Rundle, Associate Professor Department of
Biology, 30 Marie-Curie Priv. University of Ottawa,
Ottawa, ON, K1N 6N5, CANADA Ph: +1 613-562-
5800 x2835; Fax: +1 613-562-5486 Skype: howarddrun-
dlehttp://www.science.uottawa.ca/˜hrund050 http://-
www.evolution.uottawa.ca howard.rundle@uottawa.ca
USFWS Washington
ConservationGenetics
Position/Title: Interdisciplinary Geneticist or Fish Bi-
ologist
Agency/Location: U. S. Fish & Wildlife Service,
Longview, WA
Responsibilities: Takes the lead in genetic data col-
lection, analysis, and report writing for a variety of
projects working with diﬀerent ﬁsh species and genetic
analysis methods (e.g. to address questions of pop-
ulation structure, population assignment, and species
and sex identiﬁcation). Provides overall technical co-
ordination and uses genetic methods to estimate the
relative reproductive success of hatchery and natural
origin Paciﬁc salmon in the wild. Performs statisti-
cal analyses and generates graphical representations of
study results, and incorporates these data into written
reports, scientiﬁc publications, and oral presentations.
Qualiﬁcations: Master’s degree or equivalent work ex-perience. Extensive work experience in: the principles,
theories, and techniques of molecular and population
genetics in order to determine pedigree relationships
based on multi-locus genotypic data; genetic analytical
and statistical techniques for determination of parent-
age, genetic variation within and among populations,
population assignment, population structure, and hy-
brid status; and demonstrated oral and written com-
munications skills.
Salary: $47,448.00 - $61,678.00 /year (GS-9 on the Fed-
eral pay schedule).
Closing Date: July 29, 2011
Contact: USAJOBS at http://www.usajobs.gov . US-
FWS, Abernathy Fish Technology Center web site:
http://www.fws.gov/aftc . Applicants MUST follow the
application process described in the vacancy announce-
ment to receive consideration. Below is the link to the
full text job opportunity announcement.
Interdisciplinary Fish Biologist (Genetics), GS-
0440/0482-09, VIN FS-484722-KB11
Denise Hawkins Regional Geneticist U.S. Fish &
Wildlife Service Abernathy Fish Technology Center
1440 Abernathy Creek Rd. Longview, WA, 98632
Phone: (360)425-6072 x339 Fax: (360)636-1855
Denise Hawkins@fws.gov
UStAndrews ResFellow Evolution
48-month Independent Research Fellowship, University
of St Andrews, Scotland
The School of Biology at the University of St Andrews
is seeking to appoint an enthusiastic independent re-
search fellow (IRF). The successful candidate will have
or develop an innovative and high-proﬁle research pro-
gramme in the biological sciences. The School has a
number of research strengths, but of key relevance for
Evoldir subscribers are those in Evolution, Behaviour
and Ecology, spanning molecules through to whole or-
ganisms. Ideally the IRF will conduct research comple-
mentary to the School’s current research expertise, for
instance as encompassed by the Centre of Evolution,
Genes and Genomics, the Scottish Oceans Institute,
and the Institute for Behavioural and Neural Sciences.
You will have a degree in the life sciences and will hold
a relevant PhD. We are looking to appoint an early ca-
reer stage researcher who is in the process of developing34 EvolDir August 1, 2011
their own research programme, and who will prove suc-
cessful in attracting funding for their research and pub-
lishing high-quality research ﬁndings in top-ranking in-
ternational journals. Candidates with existing or pend-
ing fellowships are strongly encouraged to apply.
This is a 48-month appointment with an anticipated
start date of 01 November 2011 or as soon as possible.
Informal enquiries to Prof Mike Ritchie, email: mgr@st-
andrews.ac.uk
Formal applications MUST be made through the
University’s Human Resources application proce-
dures. Please look for application reference
CD7082 at https://www.vacancies.st-andrews.ac.uk/-
welcome.aspx CLOSING DATE: Friday 15th July 2011
Dr David M Shuker NERC Advanced Research Fel-
low School of Biology University of St Andrews Harold
Mitchell Building St Andrews Fife KY16 9TH UK
Email: david.shuker@st-andrews.ac.uk
LAB WEBSITE: http://biology.st-andrews.ac.uk/-
shuker Tel: +44 1334 463 376 Fax: +44 1334 463
366
dms14@st-andrews.ac.uk
UTuebingen FullProf
PlantEvoEcology
The Biology Department of the Faculty of Science at
T¨ ubingen University, Germany, invites applications for
the position (starting April 1st, 2012) of
Full Professor (W3) for Plant Evolutionary Ecology
The successful candidate will pursue an internationally
high-end research agenda in the ﬁeld of evolutionary
biology, or the ecology of plants or fungi. Teachingobligations cover botany, ecology and/or evolution of
plants.
We are seeking individuals whose research interests
will focus on whole organisms. Possible research areas
include organismic interactions, evolutionary ecology,
community ecology and applied ecology and evolution.
We envisage a largely experimental approach, supple-
mented by theoretical or molecular methods. Active
participation in the exciting research environment pro-
vided by the Evolution and Ecology Forum T¨ ubingen
(EvE) is expected which enables collaborations within
the Departments of Biology and Geosciences and with
the Max-Planck-Institute for Developmental Biology.
Furthermore, collaborations with the T¨ ubingen Center
for Plant Molecular Biology (ZMBP) would be desir-
able.
A formal requirement for appointment is the “Habili-
tation” or equivalent scientiﬁc and educational experi-
ence.
The University of T¨ ubingen is committed to strengthen
the proportion of women in research and teaching, and
strongly encourages applications of qualiﬁed female sci-
entists.
Applicants with disabilities who possess equivalent
qualiﬁcations will be given preferential treatment.
Applications including a statement of interest, curricu-
lum vitae, list of publications, teaching experience and
visions of future research should be sent by e-mail
to the Dean of the Faculty of Science, University of
T¨ ubingen, Germany (dekanat@mnf.uni-tuebingen.de)
until August 31, 2011.
Any questions? - > Heinz Koehler,
heinz.koehler@uni-tuebingen.de - >Katja Tielboerger,
katja.tielboerger@uni-tuebingen.de
(Submitted by Nico Michiels, nico.michiels@uni-
tuebingen.de)
Nico Michiels <nico.michiels@uni-tuebingen.de >
OtherAugust 1, 2011 EvolDir 35
AFLP repeatability issue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Biogeography teaching exercises answers . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Bullet ant samples . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
CapeVerde VoluntaryFieldAssist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Data assessment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
DNA pH meter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Drawing Multiple Gene Trees answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Draw multiple gene trees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Genephor SSCP gels . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Help MasterBayes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Herbarium DNA Survey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Hybridlab software . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39Introns evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Introns evolution 2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Memorial for Bill Jordon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Methods for multilocus genotypes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
microsat NGS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
NESCent K12EvolutionEducation Proposals . . . . . . . 41
NESCent RequestProposals Meetings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
Software MEGA5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Software optiFLP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Software TreeComparision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
AFLP repeatability issue
Dear all,
I work with insect genomic DNA using AFLP for my
M.Sc. thesis, and I’m having problems with repeatabil-
ity - my duplicates (starting from restriction-ligation)
have an error rate of about 30%.
error rate = Jaccard distance between a pair of dupli-
cates = [#(1,0) + #(0,1)]/[#(1,0) + #(0,1) + #(1,1)],
where 1 is “peak present” and 0 is “peak absent”
Based on what I can gather from the literature, a Jac-
card distance of 30% is about normal. However, my
concern is that almost all the unrepeatable peaks have
high ﬂuorescence intensity in one duplicate, while are
absolutely nonexistent in the other (instead of just be-
ing small badly-shaped bumps that can’t be properly
scored by the software).
I hope that someone who has experience in AFLP can
illuminate me on the following questions: if you’ve done
the calculation, what is the Jaccard distance you usu-
ally get for duplicates starting from restriction-ligation?
For those peaks that are unrepeatable, do you ever get
tall peaks in one duplicate and absolutely ﬂat baseline
at the corresponding bp in the other duplicate? If so,
how do you deal with them?
I’ve tried using fresh reagents (except for the stock so-
lutions of primers). And selective PCR has been very
repeatable - I don’t know about the other steps. Please
see below for the AFLP protocol I’m following. I’m also
happy to share the .fsa ﬁles (or a screenshot if preferred)
of the duplicates if anyone wants to see them.
Many thanks for any assistance, Yue -
yuy965@mail.usask.caMy AFLP protocol: 1. Restriction: 250 ng of DNA, 1.5
ug of BSA, 1x NEBuﬀer4, 5 Units of EcoRI and 5 Units
of MseI (both from NEB). Total reaction volume = 30
uL. Incubated at 37 C for 3 hrs. 2. Ligation: 1x NEB-
uﬀer4, 5 uM of EcoRI adaptor, 5 uM of MseI adaptor,
60 cohesive end units of T4 DNA ligase (from NEB),
1 mM of ATP. A total volume of 10 uL to be added
to the restriction products. Final volume = 40 uL. In-
cubated at 12 C for 16 hrs, then 65 C for 20 min to
inactivate enzymes. 3. Pre-selective PCR: I use Qiagen
Type-it Microsatellite PCR Kit without Q solution, 0.5
uM ﬁnal concentration for each primer, 2.5 uL of 1:20
dilution of restriction-ligation products. Final reaction
volume = 10 uL. 95 C for 5 min, followed by 22 cycles
of (95 C for 30 sec, 56 C for 90 sec, 72 C for 60 sec),
followed by 60 C for 30 min. 4. Selective PCR: Qiagen
Type-it PCR Kit, 0.5 uM for each primer, 1 uL of 1:20
dilution of pre-sel products. 95 C for 5 min, followed
by a touchdown phase of 13 cycles of (94 C for 30 sec,
65 C for 60 sec, 72 C for 60 sec) with 0.7 C reduction
per cycle, followed by 12 cycles of (94 C for 30 sec, 56
C for 30 sec, 72 C for 60 sec), followed by 60 C 30 min.
Run on ABI 3130x and scored using GeneMapper.
yuy965@mail.usask.ca
Biogeography teaching exercises
answers
Below are the answers I received. Thanks to all who
replied, sorry for the delay in reposting. - Sarah Gilman
—–
Peter Unmack <peter.mail2@unmack.net >: I have a
lab written up based on Mega and phylogeny. It is
all very self contained / explained. This was based on36 EvolDir August 1, 2011
mega version 4, I haven’t checked the details on what
changes would need to be made to make it compatible
with version 5 (you can still download both versions).
http://www.megasoftware.net/ From memory it takes
around 1.5-2 hours or so to work through.
Cheers Peter
I’ve taught some “phylogeography” short courses in the
past, and I’ve posted my labs as PDFs here:
http://ﬁlogeograﬁa.dna.ac/labs.html I hope 1 or 2
might be useful for you. Be aware some are a bit old,
but the newest were updated in 2009. Some assume
a speciﬁc data set, but most are general enough to be
applied to any DNA sequence data matrix. Feel free to
use or modify these labs to your own needs.
I recently started to use GIS in conjunction
with phylogeography/biogegraphy hypothesis test-
ing, and I found this paper really useful (link
above), because it tests several interesting hypoth-
esis and also comes with tutorials to replicate
their study. http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/-
article/pii/S1055790311000480 I have posted the
materials for a phylogeny exercise I have done
with high school students and high school teachers
athttp://www.eebweb.arizona.edu/Grads/mherron/-
Darwin/Darwin.html .This may be aimed a bit low,
but I’m sure it could be adapted for advanced under-
graduates.
I would be very grateful for a summary of your re-
sponses.
I don’t have any prepared resources, but am aware of
several on-line resources that might help. First, you
could use genbank (at NCBI) and let them choose or-
ganisms and genes, then conduct a phylogenetic recon-
struction. For element occurrence data, you might try
NatureServe. I don’t know how much that helps, but
they’re ideas for starters. If you choose to pursue either
one and have questions, I’d be happy to help sort them
out.
Getting beginners up and running with GIS is tricky,
b/c current Arc software is so complex. In my Con-
servation Biology course I use DIVA-GIS, which is free
and downloadable - and there’s a tutorial in this book:
Gibbs, Hunter, and Sterling. 2008. Problem-solving in
conservation biology and wildlife management, 2nd ed.
Blackwell.
Might be some other good stuﬀ in there - I think the
table of contents is available on-line.
The tutorial took some re-working on my part but
works OK - takes 3 weeks of 3 hour labs to do (1 as
tutorial for novices, 2 to do the exercise).What textbook do you plan to use? Lomolino is very
comprehensive and fairly aﬀordable (still $100, but you
get a lot for that) but has a jillion typos. We played
“ﬁnd the typo” in my class...
I’d be interested in what other exercises people submit
- my Biogeography class is lecture-only.
My students were expected to ﬁnd out if the plants from
family Apiaceae that are edible or used as spices form
a monophyletic group. We used the GenBank search
command ’“apioid superclade” rpl16 not genome’ to
obtain the sequences. They were analysed in RAxML.
The students found researching food fascinating and
the subsequent discussion about interpretation of the
phylogeny yielded one of the most fruitful discussions
in my course.
I’m not sure if this is what you’re looking for, but I had
an interesting project in an Evolution class that went
something like this:
We were given about 15 cactus species and told to con-
struct a phylogeny based on their morphology. We were
to determine which characteristics we wanted to use. If
you wanted to be sneaky, you could add in a non-cactus
species that looked like a cactus (my entire class was
fooled!).
You could probably use other organisms, but cactus is
really easy to work with. Hope this helps!
—–
Sarah Gilman, Ph.D.
Joint Science Department Keck Science Center The
Claremont Colleges 925 N. Mills Avenue Claremont,
CA 91711
http://faculty.jsd.claremont.edu/sgilman
sgilman@jsd.claremont.edu 909-607-0715
SGilman@jsd.claremont.edu
Bullet ant samples
Bullet ant (Paraponera clavata) samples requested for
molecular work.
As a postdoc in Dr. Corrie Moreau’s lab at the
Field Museum I have recently developed microsatellite
primers for the bullet ant, Paraponera clavata. I am
particularly interested in two questions:
(i) the phylogeography throughout the distributionAugust 1, 2011 EvolDir 37
range of the species, (ii) whether colony structure
changes throughout the distribution range of the
species.
For question (i) one individual per colony would be
helpful from as many colonies as possible. For ques-
tion (ii) I would need 12-15 workers from a single a
colony from as many colonies as you are able to get that
number of works - these colonies could also be used for
question (i).
Any and all samples, regardless of the preservation
method, would be greatly appreciated (please send
specimens to the address below). Please feel free to
contact me or Corrie Moreau with questions.
Stefanie Kautz Department of Zoology Field Mu-
seum of Natural History 1400 South Lake Shore Drive
Chicago, IL 60605 USA
Corrie Saux Moreau, Ph.D. Assistant Curator, Di-
vision of Insects Department of Zoology Field Mu-
seum of Natural History 1400 South Lake Shore
Drive Chicago, IL 60605 USA Oﬃce: (312) 665-7743
Fax: (312) 665-7754 cmoreau@ﬁeldmuseum.org http:/-
/ﬁeldmuseum.org/users/corrie-moreau *** NOTE
NEW LAB WEBSITE: www.moreaulab.org ***
Corrie Moreau <cmoreau@ﬁeldmuseum.org >
CapeVerde VoluntaryFieldAssist
Field Assistant in Cape Verde, North Africa ? Sept to
Dec 2011
We are seeking 1 Voluntary Field Assistant for a ﬁeld-
based project on mating system evolution in the Re-
public of Cape Verde. The assistant is required from
15 September until 15 December 2011. The position is
funded, except the assistant has to cover his/her jour-
ney to (and from) Maio, Cape Verde.
The project We are investigating mating system and
parental care of Kentish plover Charadrius alexandri-
nus in Cape Verde by monitoring colour-ringed individ-
uals. This is an all-year resident population and many
individuals are already ringed from previous years.
The place The study sites are in Maio Island, Cape
Verde, at the Salina Porto Ingles and nearby lagoons
(see the Bradt Guide to Cape Verde Islands). Accom-
modation on the islands is in an apartment, with occa-
sional water and electricity. The island has spectacu-
lar wildlife, including endemic birds, corals and marinemammals; it is a beautiful and inspiring place to work.
However, the island is a small and isolated place with
basic commodities, the weather can be harsh, and a
great deal of walking and cycling are required.
The job The ﬁeldwork will run from 15 September to
mid December 2011. It will be unsupervised, and will
involve ? among other tasks ? searching for plover
nests and marked plovers and their families, taking be-
havioural observations and monitoring nest survival. It
will also involve capturing, ringing and bleeding adults
and young.
The candidates This is a voluntary post ? applicants
must be willing to pay for their own transport to Maio.
Once in Maio, however, accommodation, basic food and
expenses associated with research will be covered. In
addition, 100 Euro per month may be oﬀered to the
deserving Assistant. Phone calls and internet costs will
not be covered.
You will be a keen birder with sharp eyes and plenty
of experience in trapping, handling and ringing birds.
Clean driving licence is essential. You must be person-
able and happy to engage with locals to explain the
project; some Spanish or Portuguese is helpful. You
must be physically ﬁt, hard-working and meticulous,
and have a proven ability to work independently.
As you will appreciate from its description, the project
will involve many diﬀerent challenges. A proven abil-
ity to collect high-quality data is essential (i.e. a good
degree in a biological subject or equivalent experience),
and you should be prepared to type up your data in
the evenings! You must have a positive attitude and
an ability to look after yourself ? this means cooking
your own meals, dealing with logistics, and most im-
portantly being capable of organising your own work
for a long period of time.
If you like chatting on the phone, or feel the need to
text and email people all the time, this position is not
for you. The cost of living is high, and fancy food is
expensive.
Costs It is possible to ﬂy through Lisbon from the UK
that costs about £700. Internal ﬂights from Praia to
Maio should be under £100 one way, and the Praia-
Maio ferry costs about £15.
Interested? Please send a current CV with an email
stating why you feel you are a strong candidate to me
(Professor Tamas Szekely) at T.Szekely@bath.ac.uk.
Application deadline: 31st July 2011. Interviews will
be carried out as the applications coming in, and an
oﬀer will be made by 6th August 2011.
I will also need the contact details (email and tele-38 EvolDir August 1, 2011
phone) of two referees. If you have any questions, please
direct them to me at the same email address, or call me
at +31 50 363 8085.
Professor Tamas Szekely Professor of Biodiversity
Dept of Biology and Biochemistry, University of
Bath, Bath BA2 7AY, UK 01225 383676 (phone),
01225 386779 (fax), T.Szekely@bath.ac.uk (email)
http://www.bath.ac.uk/bio-sci/biodiversity-lab/-
index.htm NEW: Social Behaviour: Genes, Ecology
and Evolution Edited by Tamas Szekely, Allen J
Moore & Jan Komdeur Cambridge University Press,
2010 http://www.cambridge.org/gb/knowledge/isbn/-
item5708507/?site locale=en GB bssts@bath.ac.uk
Data assessment
Would anybody like to explain or give me some guid-
ance on: - conducting preliminary data assessment for
an assignment test - what assumptions should be con-
sidered regarding the test and how to test the assump-
tions ?
any suggestion, clue or reference will be highly appre-
ciated.
Thank you very much.
Regards
sena
Sena A Subrata <sena.subrata@wildlife.uni-
freiburg.de >
DNA pH meter
I am looking for any recommendations for a pH meter
that will measure DNA pH in very small sample sizes -
any suggestions very welcome - the cheaper the better.
Alan Forrest A.Forrest@rbge.ac.uk
– The Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh is a Charity
registered in Scotland (No SC007983)
Alan Forrest <A.Forrest@rbge.ac.uk >Drawing Multiple Gene Trees
answers
Thanks to everyone for your quick responses!!
Responses to Draw Multiple Gene Trees:
Lars Arvestad’s PrIMETV draws embedded trees:
http://prime.sbc.su.se/ The authors provide a web-
based version as well, which is very easy to use. I was
able to draw the individual gene trees within the same
species tree, then merge all the images in Adobe Illus-
trator.
DensiTree http://www.cs.auckland.ac.nz/ ˜ remco/-
DensiTree/DensiTree.html I used this program to il-
lustrate the trees ( >8000) produced by a Bayesian run.
Very eﬀective for showing the major patterns plus their
relative occurrences.
Other Suggestions I did not try:
Dendroscope
http://topiaryexplorer.sourceforge.net/ Check out ms
by R. R. Hudson:
http://home.uchicago.edu/ ˜ rhudson1/source/-
mksamples.html Jaime Elizabeth Blair, PhD As-
sistant Professor of Biology Franklin & Marshall
College Lancaster PA 17604 Oﬃce (717) 291-3959
jaime.blair@fandm.edu http://edisk.fandm.edu/-
jaime.blair Jaime Blair <jaime.blair@fandm.edu >
Draw multiple gene trees
I am looking for a way to draw multiple gene trees
within a given species tree, similar to Mesquite’s con-
tained trees. Does anyone know of software that will do
this, preferably with Nexus formatted trees as input?
Thank you! Jaime Blair
–
Jaime Elizabeth Blair, PhD Assistant Professor of
Biology Franklin & Marshall College Lancaster PA
17604 Oﬃce (717) 291-3959 jaime.blair@fandm.edu
http://edisk.fandm.edu/jaime.blair Jaime Blair
<jaime.blair@fandm.edu >August 1, 2011 EvolDir 39
Genephor SSCP gels
I have been using a Genephor electrophoresis apparatus
(Amersham, then GE Healthcare) to identify alleles of
polymorphic loci since 2005, with much success. From
around June 1, I have not been able to obtain new gels
and then found out that GE has discontinued them,
even though the apparatus and the supplies are still
listed in their catalog as of today (July 25). It has not
been possible to obtain any indication of whether GE is
hoping to provide them again. Have other users found
alternatives?
Any help will be greatly appreciated!
Andr´ e Lachance
Andr´ e Lachance <lachance@uwo.ca >
Help MasterBayes
Hi all,
I am A PhD student in aquaculture and genetic from
Chile. Actually I am doing one paternity analisis with
microsatellite markers, I did it with colony2 but now
I would like compare my results with Master Bayes,
lamentably I am very new in R and I can not run the
package with R. I would appreciate any comment.
Thanks in advance Regards Rodrigo
Atte. Rodrigo Badilla. Marine Biologist Can-
didato a Doctor en Acuicultura. Laboratorio
de Genetica Marina. ULPGC, Espa˜ na Celu-
lar:62202469 http://www.gi.ulpgc.es/iusa2/es/node/-
146 rodrigo.badilla@gmail.com
Herbarium DNA Survey
This is a notice to welcome contributions to the Syn-
thesys herbarium DNA project. Synthesys is a Euro-
pean Union funded project which aims to create anintegrated European infrastructure for researchers in
the natural sciences. This project aims to collate pub-
lished and unpublished techniques used by scientists
to extract DNA from herbarium specimens across land
plants, and their relative success for any given taxon.
Emails have already been sent out to selected re-
searchers, but if you have experience of extracting DNA
from herbarium samples please do let us know your ex-
periences by completing the questionnaire on Survey
Monkey.
Survey accessed at: http://www.surveymonkey.com/-
s/VDFPYNL Information obtained will be stored on a
publically available online database, and published in a
high impact review paper. All contributions will be ac-
knowledged by reference to you by name and/or paper
citation as you wish.
Please feel free to forward the survey to colleagues and
collaborators who may have additional information. If
you have any queries, please feel free to contact me.
Many thanks,
Alex Woodcraft
Alex Woodcraft Herbarium DNA researcher Jodrell
Laboratory, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew Richmond,
Surrey, TW9 3DS, United Kingdom Tel: +44 (0)20
8332 5372; fax: +44 (0)20 8332 5371
A.Woodcraft@kew.org
Hybridlab software
Dear all,
I need to use the software Hybridlab by Nielsen et al.
Nielsen, E. E., Bach, L. A. and Kotlicki, P. (2006), Hy-
bridlab (version 1.0): a program for generating sim-
ulated hybrids from population samples. Molecular
Ecology Notes, 6: 971-973. It should be available
at: http://www.difres.dk/ﬃ/uk/populationgenetic/-
hybridlab/index.asp but the link seams to be broken.
Maybe one could provide me with the program ﬁle? I
would be very grateful.
Best regards, Aleksandra Biedrzycka
Institute of Nature Conservation Polish Academy of
Sciences Al. Mickiewicza 33 31-120 Krak´ ow tel. 12
370 35 51
biedrzycka@iop.krakow.pl40 EvolDir August 1, 2011
Introns evolution
Dear all
Does anyone knows which models of evolution can we
use for introns ? Microsatellites such as Inﬁnite Allele
Model (IAM) and Stepwise Mutation Model (SMM) or
Sequence models like GTR, HKY, etc... Thank you
very much. Best regards
– Goncalo Silva PhD student
BEE - Biogeographical Evolution and Ecology
CCMAR/CIMAR-LA- Centre of Marine Sciences of the
University of Algarve
Adress: Universidade do Algarve, Campus de Gambe-
las, Faculdade de Ciˆ encias e Tecnologia, Edif´ ıcio 7, lab.
2.51, 8005-139 Faro, Portugal
Mobile: +351 966647732 Fax: +351 289800051
Goncalo Silva <gfsilva@ualg.pt >
Introns evolution 2
Dear all,
I would like to reformulate my question regarding in-
trons evolution since the answers I got didn’t clarify my
doubt, I guess I didn’t explain it very well...
I’m studying the genetic variation of an intron of a sin-
gle species and I would like to know which models of
evolution I can use for this sequence alignment. I’m
not sure that introns mutate under the same models
as mitochondrial DNA or nuclear coding regions. I
can have two types of “changes”: nucleotide mutations
and indels. Developed nucleotide evolutionary mod-
els (JC, HKY, GTR, etc...) included information such
as base frequencies, Gamma distribution, substitution
rates or number of parameters and introns should ﬁt on
nucleotide evolutionary models. However, introns have
indels that not represent any function or have no mean-
ing (as far as I know). Moreover, these indels seems to
appear randomly, more or less like microsatellites size
changes. From my data, I can’t understand if the step
between 3 and 5 bp gap is a gap of 4bp and I’m not
sure if it has to be like that. Are intron gain/loss ofnucleotides random? If so, I can code indels like mi-
crosatellites (lenght size), but I will loose mutations
information. Does anyone knows which evolutionary
models are more appropriate for introns? Thank you
very much.
Goncalo Silva PhD student
BEE - Biogeographical Evolution and Ecology
CCMAR/CIMAR-LA- Centre of Marine Sciences of the
University of Algarve
Adress: Universidade do Algarve, Campus de Gambe-
las, Faculdade de Ciˆ encias e Tecnologia, Edif´ ıcio 7, lab.
2.51, 8005-139 Faro, Portugal
Mobile: +351 966647732 Fax: +351 289800051
Goncalo Silva <gfsilva@ualg.pt >
Memorial for Bill Jordon
Dr Bill Jordan Memorial Evening
27th July, 2011
Mappin Pavilion, ZSL London Zoo
Dr Bill Jordan, Senior Research Fellow at the Institute
of Zoology, passed away on 25th May.
For a tribute to Bill’s life, see http://www.zsl.org/-
science/ioz-staﬀ-students/jordan,1078,AR.html
The Zoological Society of London will be holding an
evening to celebrate Bill’s life, at London Zoo, Regent’s
Park from 6.00-7.30 pm on 27th July at the Mappin
Pavillion.
Please note that there will be a formal part to the pro-
ceedings at 6:30pm, when some of Bill’s friends and
colleagues will say a few words. The evening will con-
tinue at the Zoo Sports and Social Club from 7:30pm
onwards (directions will be given at the end of the for-
mal part of the evening).
Entrance will be via the Prince Albert Gate, referenced
on the map attached and car parking will be available
from 5:30pm until 11:30pm in the main car park.
Please let Amelia Scudamore
(amelia.scudamore@zsl.org) know if you’d like to
attend, or if you have any questions or queries.
Jon Bridle <jon.bridle@bristol.ac.uk >August 1, 2011 EvolDir 41
Methods for multilocus genotypes
Dear All,
I’m curious if anyone could suggest ways to generate
multilocus genotypes from the following of data. The
ultimate aim is to analyze the data with phylogenetic,
population genetic and allele frequency spectrum meth-
ods to probe population histories.
We’re planning to conduct next-gen (454) amplicon
sequencing (20-40 loci) on a microsporidia (/Nosema
bombi/) pathogen of bumble bees. Prior to this, we
used a genome enrichment method to discover poly-
morphic loci and enable primer design. The samples
are /Nosema /spores taken directly (not cultured) from
the the guts of bees (n >100). All spore sequences for
a particular locus from a single bee will be barcoded
with the ID for that bee.
Because there are likely to be multiple strains of
/Nosema /in each bee, alleles (belonging to each strain)
may be in linkage disequilibrium. /Nosema/ is thought
to be largely clonal, but they may reproduce sexually
occasionally (the jury is still out on this).
Given enough depth of sequence coverage at each locus,
I’m wondering if there’re ways to generate multilocus
genotypes of each strain (with some sort of probability)
using LD or index of association information?
Many thanks in advance.
Haw Chuan Lim Postdoctoral Research Associate
Dept of Entomology 320 Morrill Hall University of
Illinois 505 S Goodwin Ave Urbana, Illinois 61801
USA Tel: (217)333-2170 Fax: (217)244-3499 Web-
site: http://sites.google.com/site/bigriverforest/ haw-
clim@life.illinois.edu
microsat NGS
Dear all,
I was wondering if any of you have information on se-
quencing microsatellite repeats (amplicons) on a 454
platform.
Essentially, I would like to get some information on theaccuracy when sequencing microsatellite amplicons. Do
you get the two alleles (e.g. heterozygotes) in equal pro-
portions or do you get a distribution of several repeat
lengths due to pcr-errors? If so, what kind of coverage
(50x, 100x) do you need to estimate the “correct” alle-
les? And is there any diﬀerence between di-, tri, tetra
or penta-repeats as you would expect?
I would be gratefull if any of you could point me to some
papers on this topic or share your experience. Thanks!
Note: I do not ask for info on how to use 454 seq to
develop new microsats as there are plenty of papers on
that.
Koen
kdegelas@gmail.com
NESCent K12EvolutionEducation
Proposals
K-12 Evolution Education for Underrepresented Mi-
norities: Request for Proposals
Deadlines: September 1, 2011 or January 1, 2012
NESCent - The National Evolutionary Synthesis Cen-
ter (Durham, NC)
As part of NESCent’s ongoing eﬀorts to increase diver-
sity in evolutionary science, the center is sponsoring a
range of targeted activities in the general area of K-
12 Evolution Education for Underrepresented Minori-
ties. We are seeking to support one or more Catalysis
Meetings, Working Groups or other synergistic activi-
ties that lead to the creation of new programs, activi-
ties or initiatives designed to increase exposure to, and
participation in evolutionary science by K-12 minority
students who are historically underrepresented in the
discipline.
In particular, proposals that are signiﬁcantly interdis-
ciplinary, and that demonstrate a mix of senior and
emerging researchers, including graduate students, are
encouraged. Competitive proposals will not only de-
ﬁne the target audience(s) and outline strategies for de-
veloping innovative activities, but will include detailed
plans for implementation and assessment. Proposals
should also indicate how activities and programs align
with state and/or federal education standards.
NESCent invites researchers to submit proposals for
two kinds of meetings:42 EvolDir August 1, 2011
Catalysis Meetings: These one-time meetings bring to-
gether ~30 scientists from diverse disciplines to focus
on a major question or research area in evolutionary
science. These meetings typically last for 3-5 days.
Working Groups: Working Groups involve small groups
of scientists (10-12 participants) collaborating inten-
sively on the analysis or synthesis of data, models or
both, to address a major question in evolutionary sci-
ence. The working groups will typically meet 3-4 times
over two years, with each meeting lasting 3-5 days.
Synergistic Activities: We also strongly encourage link-
ages among our science programs (see URL below). We
invite proposals that plan synergistic activities between
two or more of the following: working groups, cataly-
sis meetings, postdoctoral fellows, sabbatical scholars,
short-term fellows, and graduate students. Proposals
for each of these must be submitted separately; they
should include a clear statement of linkage between pro-
posals (including clear identiﬁcations in each of the sep-
arate proposals of which proposals are linked).
NESCent will not support collection of new data or
ﬁeld research, but encourages the mining of public and
private databases. NESCent is committed to making
data, databases, software and other products that are
developed as part of NESCent activities available to the
broader scientiﬁc community.
To learn more about the various types of propos-
als, and the proposal process, please visit https://-
www.nescent.org/science/proposals.php, or contact Dr.
Allen Rodrigo (a.rodrigo@nescent.org) or Dr. Jory
Weintraub (jory@nescent.org).
Jory Weintraub <jory@nescent.org >
NESCent RequestProposals
Meetings
Evolution and the Social Sciences: Request for Propos-
als
Deadline: September 1, 2011 or January 1, 2012
Proposals are now being accepted for meetings, work-
ing groups, and other synergistic activities, which ex-
plore the intersection of the evolutionary and social sci-
ences at the US National Evolutionary Synthesis Center
(NESCent).
We welcome proposals that seek to understand the
value of evolutionary thinking in a particular social sci-ence, or conversely, how social science can inform evo-
lutionary studies of human (and perhaps, other species)
biology. In particular, proposals that are signiﬁcantly
interdisciplinary, and that demonstrate international
participation and a mix of senior and emerging re-
searchers, including graduate students, are encouraged.
Minority participation is also an important considera-
tion in evaluation.
NESCent invites researchers to submit proposals for
two kinds of meetings:
Catalysis Meetings: These one-time meetings bring to-
gether ~30 scientists from diverse disciplines to focus
on a major question or research area in evolutionary
science. These meetings typically last for 3-5 days.
Working Groups: Working Groups involve small groups
of scientists (10-12 participants) collaborating inten-
sively on the analysis or synthesis of data, models or
both, to address a major question in evolutionary sci-
ence. The working groups will typically meet 3-4 times
over two years, with each meeting lasting 3-5 days.
Synergistic Activities: We also strongly encourage link-
ages among our science programs (see url below). We
invite proposals that plan synergistic activities between
two or more of the following: working groups, cataly-
sis meetings, postdoctoral fellows, sabbatical scholars,
short-term fellows, and graduate students. Proposals
for each of these must be submitted separately; they
should include a clear statement of linkage between pro-
posals (including clear identiﬁcations in each of the sep-
arate proposals of which proposals are linked).
NESCent will not support collection of new data or
ﬁeld research, but encourages the mining of public and
private databases. NESCent is committed to making
data, databases, software and other products that are
developed as part of NESCent activities available to the
broader scientiﬁc community.
To learn more about the various types of propos-
als, and the proposal process, please visit https://-
www.nescent.org/science/proposals.php, or contact Dr.
Allen Rodrigo (a.rodrigo@nescent.org) or Dr. Craig
McClain (cmcclain@nescent.org).
Craig R. McClain, Ph.D. Assistant Director of Science
National Evolutionary Synthesis Center 2024 W. Main
St. Suite A200 Box 104403 Durham, NC 27705 919-
668-4590
cmcclain@nescent.org
Associate Editor for Journal of Biogeography: http:/-
/www.wiley.com/bw/journal.asp?ref=0305-0270 Deep-
Sea News: http://deepseanews.com/ National Evolu-
tionary Synthesis Center: http://www.nescent.org/-August 1, 2011 EvolDir 43
Research Homepage: http://craigmcclain.com/ Mc-
Clain Craig <cmcclain@nescent.org >
Software MEGA5
We announce the release of MEGA5 (Molecular Evo-
lutionary Genetics Analysis version 5). MEGA5 is
a biologist-friendly software with a graphical user in-
terface for comparative analysis of molecular sequence
data. MEGA provides utilities for mining online
databases, building sequence alignments and phyloge-
netic trees, as well as many widely used statistical anal-
yses such as tests of selection, variance estimation, and
bootstrap conﬁdence tests.
The newest addition in MEGA5 is a collection of Max-
imum Likelihood (ML) analyses for inferring evolution-
ary trees, selecting best-ﬁt substitution models (nu-
cleotide or amino acid), inferring ancestral states and
sequences (along with probabilities), and site-by-site
estimation of evolutionary rates. ML algorithms in
MEGA5 compared favorably with other software pack-
ages in terms of computational eﬃciency and the ac-
curacy of the estimates of phylogenetic trees, sub-
stitution parameters, and rate variation among sites.
MEGA5 is intended for the Windows platform, and it
has been conﬁgured for eﬀective use on Mac OS X and
Linux desktops. It is available FREE of charge from
www.megasoftware.net .
A detailed description of MEGA5 and new
results are now published in MBE (2011;
doi:10.1093/molbev/msr121). A preprint PDF
is available from: www.kumarlab.net/pdf new/-
TamuraKumar11.pdf .
The full complement of features implemented in
MEGA5 includes:
[1] Sequence Alignments: Direct DNA, codon, and pro-
tein alignments; both manual and automated align-
ments with trace ﬁle Editor. Built-in automated align-
ers: CLUSTALW and MUSCLE.
[2] Select Best Fit Substitution Model (ML); Substi-
tution Models (+F With and Without Empirical Fre-
quencies; REV = Reversible). Rate Variation and
Base Compositions: Gamma rates (G) and Invari-
ant sites (I) models; Incorporate Compositional Het-
erogeneity. DNA: General-Time- Reversible (GTR),
Tamura-Nei, Hasegawa-Kishino-Yano, Tamura 3- Pa-
rameter, Kimura 2-Parameter, Tajima-Nei, Jukes-Cantor; Codons: Nei- Gojobori (original and mod-
iﬁed), Li-Wu-Lou (original and modiﬁed); Protein:
Poisson, Equal-Input, Dayhoﬀ (+F), Jones-Taylor-
Thornton (+F), Whelan-And-Goldman (+F), Mito-
chondrial REV (+F), Chloroplast REV (+F), Reverse
Transcriptase REV (+F)
[3] Estimate Substitution Pattern (MCL, ML); Es-
timate Rate Variation among Sites (ML); Estimate
Transition/Transversion Bias (MCL, ML); Estimate
Site-by-Site Rates (ML) [4] Infer Phylogenetic Trees
(NJ, ML, ME, MP); Phylogeny Tests (Bootstrap &
Branch-length tests); Branch-and- Bound Exact Search
(MP); Heuristic Searches (ML, ME, MP), including
Nearest-Neighbor-Interchange (NNI), Close-Neighbor-
Interchange (CNI), and Max-Mini.
[4] Compute Distances: Pairwise and Diversity;
Within- & Between-Group Distances; Bootstrap and
Analytical Variances; Separate distances by Site Degen-
eracy, Codon Sites; Separation of Distances in Transi-
tions and Transversions; Separate Nonsynonymous and
Synonymous Changes
[5] Tests of Selection: For Complete Sequences or Set of
Codons; Sequence Pairs or Groups (Within & Between)
[6] Ancestral Sequences: Infer by ML with Relative
Probabilities for states or by MP (all parsimonious
pathways); both DNA and Protein
[7] Molecular Clocks: Tajima’s 3-Sequence Clock Test;
Likelihood Ratio Test (ML) for a Topology; Estimate
Branch Lengths under Clock
Sudhir Kumar Center for Evolutionary Medicine & In-
formatics (CEMI) Biodesign Institute & School of Life
Sciences Arizona State University Tempe, AZ 85287-
5301, USA
s.kumar@asu.edu s.kumar@asu.edu
Software optiFLP
We are happy to announce optiFLP, a new member of
our family of AFLP analysis software.
When using automated AFLP scoring software, having
good scoring parameters is the key to achieving good
binary proﬁles from a raw set of data. Using our earlier
published tinyFLP software, it became obvious that it
is not enough to test a few diﬀerent parameter sets in
the hope that the best one will be among them. There
are thousands of possible sets, and an automated solu-44 EvolDir August 1, 2011
tion is needed to check all of them and identify promis-
ing parameterisations. This is the major intention of
optiFLP: the user may deﬁne intervals and stepwidths
for all scoring parameters, and the software will search
this parameter space and perform Analysis of Ranked
Similarities (ANOSIM) in order to ﬁnd settings which
maximise the contrast between groups of proﬁles.
optiFLP supports a supervised mode when it is feasible
and desirable to use information on sample grouping,
such as place of collection or population assignment,
but also a novel unsupervised mode where no a priori
information about the genetic structure of a sample has
to be provided.
optiFLP will return the best parameter settings identi-
ﬁed, a tree, results of pairwise tests between all groups
of samples to identify each group’s contribution to the
detected signal, and outﬁles that can be readily used
as input for as broad range of population and phyloge-
netic software like MrBayes, Structure and GenAlEx.
The program can be used via an interactive menu or in
command line mode.
optiFLP v1.31 is available at http://sourceforge.net/-
projects/optiﬂp/ The original paper describing the
software is Arthofer W., Schlick-Steiner B.C. and
Steiner F.M. (2011) optiFLP: software for automated
optimization of ampliﬁed fragment length polymor-
phism scoring parameters. Molecular Ecology Re-
sources, doi: 10.1111/j.1755-0998.2011.03043.x.
Please note that updated versions of tinyFLP and tiny-
CAT are avilable at http://sourceforge.net/projects/-
tinyﬂp/ Wolfgang Arthofer Birgit C. Schlick-Steiner
Florian M. Steiner
University of Innsbruck Molecular Ecology Group 6020
Innsbruck, AustriaWolfgang Arthofer <Wolfgang.Arthofer@uibk.ac.at >
Software TreeComparision
Dear Community,
We just made available two new tools at: www.exelixis-
lab.org/software.html Simon Berger designed a simple
visual tree comparison tool that allows you to highlight
diﬀerences between two and up to four trees. This may
be useful when you want to compare a Bayesian versus
a ML tree or if you have diﬀerent ML trees that are not
statistically signiﬁcantly diﬀerent from each other.
Denis Krompass has designed a stand-alone GUI for the
RAxML Evolutionary Placement Algorithm described
in:
S.A. Berger, D. Krompaß, A. Stamatakis: “Perfor-
mance, Accuracy and Web- Server for Evolutionary
Placement of Short Sequence Reads under maximum-
likelihood”. In Systematic Biology 60(3):291-302, 2011.
This is a stand-alone graphical user interface (that also
oﬀers visualization and reference tree building) which
will make using the Evolutionary Placement Algorithm
for short reads really easy.
Many thanks to Denis and Simon for implementing all
this.
Alexis
alexandros.stamatakis@gmail.com
PostDocs
BostonU TeachingEvolutionToChildren . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Brussels AfricanPlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Cornell GermlineStemCellGeneEvolution . . . . . . . . . . 47
CornellU CanineGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
CornellU PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47EPFL Lausanne ComputationalPopGen . . . . . . . . . . . 48
ETH Zurich MolEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
GriﬃthU 2+2Grad AncientDNA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
KansasStateU ModelingPlantNetworks . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
MPI Plon SticklebackCoevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50August 1, 2011 EvolDir 45
NewYorkU PlantGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Ottawa FungalTaxonomyGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
OxfordU 1yr ComparativeGenomicsSoftware . . . . . . 51
Paris CaenorhabditisViral Coevolution . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Paris GeneticStatistics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
PennsylvaniaStateU Craniofacial EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . 53
Plouzane France PhytoplanktonDiversity . . . . . . . . . . 54
RutgersU Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
SangerInst ComputationalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Stuttgart PlantPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
SyracuseU Speciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
TexasAMU 2 Bioinformatics Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
UBarcelona ArtiﬁcialSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
UBath HoneyBeeEpidemiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
UBritishColumbia ForestPathogen PopulationGe-nomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
UCambridge HumanEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . 60
UChicago PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
UEdinburgh BacterialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
UGhent Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UMaryland AlgalBiodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
UMontana PlantEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
UMontreal HumanPopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
UParisSud Radionuclide adaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Uppsala AmbrosiaGeneticDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
UStellenbosch AfricanAntelope . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
UZurich FishEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
YaleU SexualSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
BostonU
TeachingEvolutionToChildren
*Post-Doctoral Fellow*
*Child Cognition Lab, Department of Psychology,
Boston University*
The Child Cognition Lab at Boston University (PI:
Deborah Kelemen, PhD) invites applications for a 1-2
year post-doctoral research position. The post-doctoral
fellow will play a leadership role in the everyday man-
agement of existing grant-funded projects on the teach-
ing of natural selection to elementary school children
and the development of teleological reasoning. Respon-
sibilities will include: facilitating relationships with
schools and teachers; conducting and supervising re-
search and data collection with young children in the
lab / classroom; development of age-appropriate in-
structional and assessment materials; development and
implementation of qualitative data coding protocols;
quantitative data analysis; co-supervision of a large
team of research assistants; writing reports for fund-
ing agencies; presentations at conferences; authorship
(under PI guidance) of publications in peer-reviewed
journals.
*Job requirements:*
Doctoral degree in science/ biology education or evolu-
tionary biology; background in quantitative and qual-
itative research; strong experimental design and sta-
tistical analysis skills (SPSS preferred); experience su-
pervising research assistants; evidence of independent,
creative scholarship; strong authorship /writing skills,and publication productivity in peer-reviewed journals.
Developmental psychology knowledge and/or prior ex-
perience working with young children and in schools
strongly preferred (e.g. elementary school teaching ex-
perience a bonus).
Review of applications will begin 20 July 2011 and con-
tinue until the best candidate is found. Please submit a
cover letter, CV, and a list of 3 professional references
to childlab@bu.edu
Direct any inquiries to Becca Seston (Lab Manager,
Child Cognition Lab) at childlab@bu.edu.
Check www.bu.edu/childcognition for information
about the Child Cognition Lab.
Deborah Kelemen, Ph.D. Associate Professor Boston
University Department of Psychology 64 Cummington
Street Boston MA 02215
Email: dkelemen@bu.edu Oﬃce Phone: (617) 353-2758
Child Cognition Lab Phone: (617) 358-1738 Fax: (617)
353-6933 URL: http://www.bu.edu/childcognition de-
bkelemen@gmail.com
Brussels AfricanPlantEvolution
*Postdoc on evolutionary genetics / ecology of African
plants in Brussels *
The team of Dr Olivier Hardy at the Universit´ e Libre
de Bruxelles (Belgium) is seeking a candidate for a 16
months postdoctoral position to work on evolutionary
genetics / evolutionary ecology of central African plant
species. The candidate should have experience in pop-46 EvolDir August 1, 2011
ulation genetics, phylogeography, phylogenetics and/or
community ecology modeling. Some laboratory expe-
rience in molecular genetics is required. Experience
with tropical plants and/or next-generation sequenc-
ing techniques is a plus. The candidate will contribute
to new projects funded by the Belgian National Fund
for Scientiﬁc Research (FNRS). One project is entitled
“Population dynamics of trees and herbaceous species
characteristic of central African rain forests in relation
to past human and climate perturbations”, and the
other “Organization of plant biodiversity across African
rain forests at diﬀerent levels of integration using ge-
netic markers: phylogeography, DNA barcoding, and
phylogenetic structure of communities”. The research
project of the candidate will be ﬂexible and adapted
to his/her previous experience. The candidate will be
based in Brussels, will have access to a molecular lab
and could realize ﬁeld missions in Africa. Candidates
must have a PhD obtained less than 6 years ago and
cannot be of Belgian nationality or be residing in Bel-
gium for more than 2 years (conditions imposed by the
FNRS grant). Interested candidates should send their
CV to Olivier Hardy (ohardy@ulb.ac.be) as soon as
possible (deadline 31 August 2011). More details about
the projects will be provided. The FNRS grant can
start by end 2011 or early 2012. The monthly net salary
is ca. 2000 euros. The team lead by Olivier Hardy
(cf.http://ebe.ulb.ac.be/ebe/Hardy.html ) is currently
composed of 4 postdocs and 4 PhD students. Research
topics focus on African rainforests and include phylo-
geographic studies of several forest dwelling tree, herba-
ceous and epiphyte (orchids) species; population and
quantitative genetics of some timber tree species; stud-
ies on seed and pollen dispersal; development of DNA
barcoding approaches for plant species; (phylo)diversity
patterns of tree communities and plant-environment
relationships. Most ﬁeld work occurs in Cameroon,
Gabon or Benin in collaboration with local researchers.
Olivier Hardy also performs modeling studies in pop-
ulation genetics and community ecology, and develops
software for data analyses.
Some recent publications of the team:
Micheneau C, et al. (2011) Cost-eﬀective method for
the development of microsatellite loci: a case study
with /Pericopsis elata/ (Fabaceae). /American Jour-
nal of Botany /(in press)
R´ ejou-M´ echainM, Hardy OJ (2011) Properties of sim-
ilarity indices under niche-based and dispersal-based
processes in communities. /The American Naturalist/
177: 589-604.
Koﬃ KG; Hardy OJ, Doumenge C, Cruaud C, Heuertz
M (2011) Diversity gradients and phylogeographic pat-terns in a widespread African tree typical of mature
rainforests, /Santiria trimera/ (Burseraceae). /Ameri-
can Journal of Botany/ 98: 254-264.
Parmentier I, et al. (2011). Predicting alpha diver-
sity of African rain forests: models based on climate
and satellite-derived data do not perform better than
a purely spatial model. /Journal of Biogeography /38:
1164-1176.
Debout GDG, Doucet J-L, Hardy OJ(2011)Population
history and dispersal ecology inferred from spatial
genetic structure of a Central African timber tree,
/Distemonanthus benthamianus/ (Caesalpinioideae).
/Heredity /106:88-99.
Duminil J, Heuertz M, Doucet J-L, Bourland N, Cru-
aud C; Gavory F; Doumenge C, Navascu´ es M, Hardy
OJ (2010) CpDNA-based species identiﬁcation and
phylogeography: application to a complex of African
tropical tree species. /Molecular Ecology/ 19: 5469
5483.
Da¨ ınou K, Bizoux J-P, Doucet J-L, Mahy G, Hardy
OJ, Heuertz M (2010) Forest refugia revisited: SSRs
and cpDNA sequences support historical isolation in a
wide-spread African tree with high colonization capac-
ity, /Milicia excelsa/ (Moraceae). /Molecular Ecology/
19:4462-4477.
Ley A, Hardy OJ (2010) Species delimitation in the
Central African herbs /Haumania/ (Marantaceae) us-
ing georeferenced nuclear and chloroplastic DNA se-
quences. /Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution/
57:859 867.
Navascu´ es M., Hardy O. J., Burgarella C. (2009) Char-
acterization of demographic expansions from pairwise
comparisons of linked microsatellite haplotypes. /Ge-
netics/ 181: 1013-1019.
Hardy O. J. (2008) Testing the spatial phylogenetic
structure of local communities : statistical perfor-
mances of diﬀerent null models and test statistics on
a locally neutral community. /Journal of Ecology/ 96:
914 926.
Hardy O. J., B. Senterre (2007). Characterising the
phylogenetic
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.htmlAugust 1, 2011 EvolDir 47
Cornell
GermlineStemCellGeneEvolution
POSTDOC AT CORNELL UNIVERSITY WITH
CHIP AQUADRO AND DANIEL BARBASH FUNC-
TIONAL ANALYSIS OF EVOLUTIONARY DIVER-
GENCE IN GERMLINE STEM CELL REGULA-
TORY GENES IN DROSOPHILA
My colleague Daniel Barbash and I are searching for
a postdoctoral researcher to work on an NIH-funded
project to investigate the evolutionary causes and func-
tional consequences of rapidly evolving germline stem
cell regulatory genes in Drosophila species, including
genes such as Bam and Bgcn (Mol Biol Evol. 23: 655-
62, (2006); Mol Biol Evol. 24: 182-91 (2007)). We
are particularly interested in candidates who are in-
terested in applying developmental, biochemical, ge-
netic and molecular evolutionary approaches to test-
ing hypotheses generated from population genetic anal-
yses. Starting date is ~Jan. 2012 but is ﬂexible.
Please contact Chip Aquadro for further information at
CFA1@cornell.edu. Our labs and the Cornell commu-
nity provide an excellent research, training and living
environment with fantastic, interactive colleagues and
excellent laboratory facilities and resources.
Chip Aquadro ( http://mbg.cornell.edu/cals/mbg/-
faculty-staﬀ/faculty/aquadro.cfm ) Daniel Barbash
(http://mbg.cornell.edu/cals/mbg/faculty-staﬀ/-
faculty/barbash.cfm ) Department of Molecular
Biology and Genetics, Cornell University, Ithaca,
NY Cornell Center for Comparative and Population
Genomics ( http://3cpg.cornell.edu )
cfa1@cornell.edu
CornellU CanineGenomics
Dr. Adam Boyko’s laboratory at Cornell University
is focused on studying the rapid evolution and diver-
siﬁcation of dogs and genetic basis of complex traits
and disease. A postdoctoral position is available to de-
velop and apply genomic methods for understanding
canine evolution and biology. Speciﬁc subprojects in-
clude: developing bioinformatic approaches for discov-
ering variants underlying complex phenotypes and dis-
entangling complex demographic history; collection andgenetic analysis of indigenous “village dog” populations
throughout the world; and understanding the inﬂuence
of natural versus artiﬁcial selection in shaping standing
genetic variation and the genetic architecture of quan-
titative traits in dogs. The applicant should have a
Ph.D. in biology, bioinformatics, statistics or related
ﬁeld, proﬁciency in computer programming, and experi-
ence in computational genomics. The fellow can expect
to be part of cutting-edge studies involving genome-
wide association studies, next-generation sequencing,
and RNA-seq in dogs, with ample opportunities for
collaboration with researchers in Biomedical and Clin-
ical Sciences and for developing independent research
projects. To apply, send a CV, cover letter, statement
of research interest and contact information for 3 ref-
erences to Dr. Adam Boyko: boyko at cornell dot edu.
Review of applications will begin August 31. Informal
inquiries are welcome, and start date is negotiable.
arboyko@gmail.com
CornellU PopulationGenomics
Postdoctoral Position in bioinformatics/population ge-
nomics at Cornell University
A POSTDOCTORAL POSITION is available to de-
velop bioinformatic tools for improved SNP geno-
typing and population genetic/phylogeographic anal-
ysis using next generation sequence data from non-
model species (i.e., no reference genome). The can-
didate will be expected to participate in both meth-
ods development and data analysis. Projects in-
volving existing data include a sensitivity analysis of
SNP genotyping accuracy from Illumina genotype-by-
sequence (GbS) data both with and without beneﬁt
of a reference genome; phylogeography and coalescent
analysis of whole genome pathogen SNPs based on
GbS, and transcriptome assembly for SNP calling and
RNA-seq. The candidate will be jointly supervised
by Kelly Zamudio (Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy; http://www.eeb.cornell.edu/zamudio/KZ Home/-
Welcome/Welcome.html ) and Matt Hare (Natu-
ral Resources; http://www.dnr.cornell.edu/cals/dnr/-
people/faculty.cfm?netId=mph75 ); interactions also
will be facilitated with pertinent genomics labs at Cor-
nell (Siepel, Keinan, Aquadro, Clark) and with per-
sonnel at the Computational Biology Services Unit at
Cornell.
Qualiﬁcations: a Ph.D. in computer science, genetics,48 EvolDir August 1, 2011
evolutionary biology, or comparative genomics; strong
population genetics knowledge and demonstrated ex-
pertise in analyzing large population-level data sets;
programming skills. Preference will be given to ap-
plicants with demonstrated ability to develop creative
solutions to bioinformatic challenges.
Applications will be reviewed starting August 15 and
the position can begin as soon as a suitable appli-
cant is chosen. Funds for this position come from
the Atkinson Center for a Sustainable Future ( http://-
www.sustainablefuture.cornell.edu/grants/AVF/ ) and
the Cornell Center for Comparative and Population
Genomics ( http://3cpg.cornell.edu/ ). The position is
available for one year with the possibility of extension
pending approval of funds.
To apply, send (PDFs preferred) CV, a short statement
of interest and qualiﬁcations, and contact info for three
references to Dr Matt Hare: mph75 at cornell dot edu.
Informal inquiries are welcome.
About Cornell
Cornell is home to a large, active community of re-
searchers interested in evolutionary genomics and popu-
lation genetics (see http://3cpg.cornell.edu/ ), and has a
strong campus-wide emphasis on sustainability studies
(see http://www.sustainablefuture.cornell.edu ). Gen-
eral information on postdoc life at Cornell is avail-
able from the Oﬃce of Postdoctoral Studies at Cor-
nell ( http://www.postdocs.cornell.edu/ ). Cornell Uni-
versity is an aﬃrmative action/equal opportunity em-
ployer.
Dr. Matthew Hare Associate Professor Department of
Natural Resources 213 Bruckner Hall Cornell Univer-
sity
mph75@cornell.edu
EPFL Lausanne
ComputationalPopGen
Postdoctoral Positions in Computational & Theoretical
Population Genetics
Two postdoctoral positions are available in the Jensen
Lab in the School of Life Sciences at the Ecole Poly-
technique Federale de Lausanne (EPFL).
Research in the Jensen Lab focuses on adaptation in
natural populations - and includes theory, methodologi-
cal and statistical development, and data analysis. Cur-rent and on-going projects range from the development
of approximate Bayesian statistics for the joint infer-
ence of recurrent hitchhiking and demographic param-
eters, to Neanderthal genomics, to direct measures of
the distribution of ﬁtness eﬀects of new mutations using
experimental yeast data. Additional information may
be found on the lab web page: http://jensenlab.epﬂ.ch
Requirements for this position include a PhD, a strong
background in population genetics, and experience in
programming and statistical analysis. The positions are
open until ﬁlled, though review of applicants will begin
on September 01 - thus, in order to ensure full consid-
eration, applications are encouraged prior to that date.
Applicants should email a CV, contact information for
three references, and a brief statement of research in-
terests to: jeﬀrey.jensen@epﬂ.ch
Starting dates are ﬂexible, and salary is commensurate
with experience (starting postdoc salary is 81,100 CHF
/ euro 63,300 / $93,800 per year.)
The EPFL provides an intellectually engaging research
community at the interface of biology, computer sci-
ence, mathematics and statistics; additionally sup-
ported by a strong population genetics community
across western Switzerland. EPFL is an extremely in-
ternational campus, with over half of the faculty alone
coming from abroad (with all lab and campus interac-
tions being conducted in English). Campus is located
on the southern edge of Lausanne, along the shores of
Lake Geneva, and at the foot of the Alps. http://-
sv.epﬂ.ch/ jeﬀrey.jensen@epﬂ.ch
ETH Zurich MolEvolution
Postdoc fellowship / Ph.D. studentship / IT-
Programmer
Successful candidates will have a strong background
in bioinformatics, computer science, statistics, and/or
computational biology. Fluency in a major scripting
language, and experience in software development is a
must. Some background in biology is desirable, but
interest in biology and bioinformatics is required. Can-
didates should be highly motivated and have the ability
to work independently. As the research will involve a
mix of disciplines, candidates with experience in sev-
eral ﬁelds will be preferred (bioinformatics, genetics,
protein structure, computational science, mathematics,
physics, statistics).
ETH Zurich boasts excellent facilities for studying andAugust 1, 2011 EvolDir 49
recreation. The working language in the group is En-
glish, which is also widely used in Switzerland. CBRG
is a member of the Swiss Bioinformatics Institute (SIB)
and beneﬁts from SIB training courses and networking.
Zurich is located less than one hour from the Alps, and
is a small but vibrant city oﬀering one of the best liv-
ing standards in teh world. Zurich is well connected
to major European cities and has a large international
community.
Salary and social beneﬁts are very competitive.
To apply please send a single PDF to Dr Maria Anisi-
mova (maria.anisimova@inf.ethz.ch) containing:
**CV (with publication list if applicable)
**Scanned academic transcripts (list of grades in uni-
versity courses)
**Three references
In addition, Postdocs and PhD students are asked to
submit:
** A short statement of research interests, mentioning
research topics of master/diploma theses (not exceeding
two pages)
** Reprints of up to 3 representative publications, if
available.
When applying, please mention the type of position you
are seeking in the subject of your email. The position
is open until ﬁlled (quick response is recommended).
maria.anisimova@inf.ethz.ch
GriﬃthU 2+2Grad AncientDNA
Australian Postdoctoral and PhD scholarships in an-
cient DNA: Expressions of Interest
Two postdoctoral positions are available in the An-
cient DNA Laboratory at Griﬃth University in Bris-
bane, each for a period of three years. Expertise in
second-generation DNA sequencing and DNA capture
techniques is preferable. In addition, ancient DNA ex-
perience and some bioinformatics expertise would be
an advantage. The successful applicants will work on
genomic studies of Sacred Ibis mummies from ancient
Egypt (as part of a Human Frontier Science project).
Alternatively funding is also available for a project deal-
ing with the recovery of genomes of modern and ancient
Ad´ elie penguins (as part of an ARC Linkage research
project). The former may involve ﬁeldwork in Egyp-tian catacombs and the latter in Antarctica over sum-
mer months. Postdoctoral minimum salary is $67,547
RF 1.4 but remuneration will depend on experience and
qualiﬁcations.
Two PhD scholarships (3 years) are also available to
work on the above projects. These provide a unique
opportunity for students to work in collaboration with
an international team of researchers. Applicants will
work in a state-of-the-art ancient DNA facility as well
as modern molecular biology laboratories based at
the Nathan campus of Griﬃth University in Brisbane.
These laboratories comprise a dedicated 454 DNA se-
quencer and a real time PCR facility. PhD scholarships
pay $22,860 living expenses. Course costs do not apply
for Australian or New Zealand students.
A description of the laboratory’s research can
be found at http://www.griﬃth.edu.au/professional-
page/david-lambert Curriculum vitae and a covering
letter should be sent to: Prof David Lambert Griﬃth
School of Environment and School of Biomolecular and
Physical Sciences Griﬃth University Nathan 4111, Aus-
tralia Email d.lambert@griﬃth.edu.au.
Prof David Lambert PhD FRSNZ Professor of Evolu-
tionary Biology Griﬃth University N55 -2.13H (oﬃce)
N34 2.05 (Laboratory) 170 Kessels Road, Nathan Qld
4111 Australia
Phone +61 7 373 55298 (Oﬃce) Phone +61 7
373 57262 (Lab) Fax +61 7 373 57459 Email
d.lambert@griﬃth.edu.au
David Lambert <d.lambert@griﬃth.edu.au >
KansasStateU
ModelingPlantNetworks
Postdoctoral Research Scientist: Computational Mod-
eling of Plant Gene Networks
Description of the Position A postdoctoral position is
available in the department of Electrical & Computer
Engineering at Kansas State University, Manhattan,
Kansas. The person will work on an on-going research
project funded by the NSF, ˆ aAgroecological annota-
tion of gene function and computational analysis of
gene networksˆ a with Dr. Stephen M. Welch (Divi-
sion of Agronomy, KSU) and Dr. Sanjoy Das (Elec-
trical & Computer Engineering, KSU) to develop ana-
lytical/computational approaches to model Arabidopsis
and Brassica Rapa genetic networks.50 EvolDir August 1, 2011
The successful candidate should be a highly motivated
individual with a Ph.D. in electrical engineering, bioin-
formatics, computer science, mathematics, statistics, or
another closely related area. Requirements include an
excellent background in analytical, computational and
machine learning techniques for modeling and optimiza-
tion; strong programming skills in MATLAB as well
as C/C++; plus a commitment to plant genomics re-
search.
Application Process The position will be for an initial
period of 3 years, at a starting salary of $42,000 - 45,000
per annum. The candidate will report to Dr. San-
joy Das. Review of applications will begin on July 15,
2011 and continue until the position is ﬁlled. Applicants
should submit curriculum vitae with a list of three ref-
erences in pdf format to plantmodelpostdoc@gmail.com
(cc: sdas@ksu.edu and/or welchsm@ksu.edu). Fur-
ther details will be available at: www.ece.ksu.edu/-
˜ sdas EEO/AA Policy Kansas State University is an
equal opportunity employer and actively seeks diversity
among its employees. Background check required.
Chassy Nichols Program Coordinator Electrical &
Computer Engineering Kansas State University 2061D
Rathbone Hall Manhattan, KS ˆA66506 P-785-532-5601
F-785-532-1188 E-chassy@ksu.edu
Chassy Nichols <chassy@ksu.edu >
MPI Plon SticklebackCoevolution
Postdoctoral position in host-parasite co-evolution in
sticklebacks
The Department of Evolutionary Ecology of the Max
Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology at Pl¨ on,
Northern Germany, studies the evolution of sex and
mate choice. Both sexual reproduction and mate choice
may be strategies in the co-evolutionary arms race be-
tween hosts and parasites. With the model organism
three-spined stickleback we study with methods from
immunology, immunogenetics, molecular biology, para-
sitology, behavioural ecology and population/ﬁeld ecol-
ogy whether mate choice continuously optimises the
resistance of the oﬀspring against ever changing nat-
ural parasites in lab and ﬁeld experiments. We fur-
ther study whether this process can maintain the enor-
mous polymorphism of the MHC-immunogenes of ver-
tebrates through parasite mediated balancing selection.
With its pleiotropic role in parasite resistance and mate
choice the MHC provides an exceptional tool to studyhost-parasite co-evolution and ultimately understand
the maintenance of sexual reproduction. Furthermore,
because they occur in rivers, lakes and the Baltic Sea,
sticklebacks oﬀer an intriguing opportunity to investi-
gate immunogenetic local adaptation and the role of
MHC in speciation ( http://www.evolbio.mpg.de/ ).
The position is part of our interdisciplinary research
program. The position is primarily devoted to re-
search, but there is the possibility to teach an advanced
course in our International Max Planck Research School
(http://imprs.evolbio.mpg.de/ ). The position is open
for two years with potential prolongation. The success-
ful candidate has research experience in evolutionary
biology and brings any complementary expertise and
skills to our team. She/he shares our enthusiasm for
studying host-parasite co-evolution experimentally in a
competitive ﬁeld. Our institute oﬀers an international
environment with English spoken in the labs. It oﬀers
an excellent infrastructure allowing for the most recent
techniques.
Pl¨ on is in the middle of the Schleswig-Holstein lake-
district within a very attractive and touristic environ-
ment near the Baltic Sea, close to the university towns
of L¨ ubeck and Kiel. Hamburg and L¨ ubeck are the clos-
est airports.
Applicants should send a CV, list of publications, state-
ment of research interests, and contact information of
3 referees as a single PDF to Manfred Milinski (milin-
ski@evolbio.mpg.de). Review of applications will con-
tinue until the position is ﬁlled.
The Max Planck Society is an equal opportunity em-
ployer.
– Britta Baron Max-Planck-Institute for Evolution-
ary Biology phone ++49(0)4522-763-253 August-
Thienemannstrasse 2 fax ++49(0)4522-763-310
24306 Ploen email baron@evolbio.mpg.de Ger-
many http://www.evolbio.mpg.de Britta Baron
<baron@evolbio.mpg.de >
NewYorkU PlantGenomics
POSTDOC IN PLANT EVOLUTION-
ARY/ECOLOGICAL SYSTEMS BIOLOGY
A postdoctoral scientist position to study rice evolu-
tionary/ecological systems biology is open in the lab-
oratory of Michael Purugganan at the NYU Center
for Genomics and Systems Biology. Applicants shouldAugust 1, 2011 EvolDir 51
have (1) a strong background in plant molecular bi-
ology/systems biology, (2) experience in experimental
and computational analyses of genome-wide gene ex-
pression and (3) interest in plant evolutionary and eco-
logical genomics. Interested parties can email an in-
quiry and their CV to mp132@nyu.edu
Michael Purugganan Dorothy Schiﬀ Professor of Ge-
nomics
Department of Biology Center for Genomics and Sys-
tems Biology 12 Waverly Place New York University
New York, NY 10003
Tel. (212) 992 9628 Web: http://biology.as.nyu.edu/-
object/MichaelPurugganan.html mp132@nyu.edu
Ottawa FungalTaxonomyGenomics
POSTDOCTORAL FELLOWSHIPS IN FUNGAL
TAXONOMY AND GENOMICS. Keith Seifert is look-
ing for two post-docs, one interested in the identiﬁ-
cation of microfungi, and the other interested in par-
ticipating in a genome project, for two-year positions
in Ottawa, Canada. The ﬁrst position is funded by
the A.P. Sloan Foundation. A large and diverse col-
lection of 6000-7000 strains isolated by a dilution-to-
extinction method from a global survey of house dust
needs to be characterised for comparison with exist-
ing pyrosequencing data (see Amend et al. 2010.
PNAS 107: 13748-13753). The second position is
funded by Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada and other
sources, and will require expertise in the bioinformat-
ics around genome characterization, with the goal of
developing real-time PCR assays for an economically
important fungal species. Please contact Keith at
keith.seifert@agr.gc.ca if you are interested.
Keith A. Seifert Research Scientist |Chercheur sci-
entiﬁque Biodiversity (Mycology and Microbiology) |
Biodiversit´ e (Mycologie et Microbiologie) Agriculture
and Agri-Food Canada |Agriculture et Agroalimentaire
Canada 960 Carling Avenue |960 Carling Avenue Ot-
tawa, Ontario |Ottawa (Ontario) K1A 0C6
keith.seifert@agr.gc.ca
Telephone |T´ el´ ephone: 613-759-1378 Facsim-
ile|T´ el´ ecopieur: 613-759-1701 Teletypewriter |
T´ el´ eimprimeur 613-773-2600
“Seifert, Keith” <Keith.Seifert@AGR.GC.CA >OxfordU 1yr
ComparativeGenomicsSoftware
Mathematics, Physical and Life Sciences Division
DEPARTMENT OF STATISTICS
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCH ASSISTANT
Fixed term appointment of 1 years’ duration
Grade 7: Salary £29,099 - £35,788 p.a
(Grade 6: Salary £25,854 - 30,870 p.a for a non-
doctoral applicant)
READVERTISEMENT
The Research Project: “COGANGS” - Comparative
Genomics and Next Generation Sequencing - Software
Development for Annotation of very large number of
genomes
Applications are invited for a full-time Postdoctoral
Research Assistant to commence as soon as possi-
ble. This is a ﬁxed-term post (1 year initially,
with a possibility of extension for a further year)
funded by the European Union. Candidates should
have a relevant background and research experience
in computer science/mathematics or a related ﬁeld.
The project involves collaboration between CLC Bio,
BIOBASE, deCODE Genetics, Renyi Institute, Univer-
sity of G¨ ottingen, and Novel Computing Systems in Bi-
ology and Professor Jotun Hein (Oxford, UK) to work
on the development of software.
The successful applicant will be expected to have a doc-
torate in a relevant subject area or equivalent research
experience in a relevant scientiﬁc ﬁeld is an advantage,
but not a prerequisite. Biologists with a demonstrated
ability to work on large software development projects
will also be considered.
Applications are to be submitted electronically. Please
read the “Person Speciﬁcation and Job Description”
before preparing your application. You will need to up-
load a supporting statement, Curriculum Vitae, list of
publications, details of teaching experience, statement
of research interests and names and contact details of
two referees.
Informal enquiries to: the Administrator (email:
jobs@stats.ox.ac.uk) quoting reference: 100573
To apply for this role and for further details, including52 EvolDir August 1, 2011
the job description and selection criteria, please click
on the link:
https://www.recruit.ox.ac.uk/pls/hrisliverecruit/-
erqjobspec version 4.jobspec?p id=100573 Only
applications received before 12:00 noon, UK time on
Friday 5 August 2011 can be considered.
Interviews to be held on Friday 12 August
Christine
—–
Christine Stone Administrative and Personal Assis-
tant Department of Statistics, University of Oxford 1
South Parks Road Oxford OX1 3TG Tel: +44 (0)1865
272866/60 Fax: +44 (0)1865 272595
Christine Stone <cstone@stats.ox.ac.uk >
Paris CaenorhabditisViral
Coevolution
Postdoc position, F´ elix lab, Paris, France Co-evolution
of Caenorhabditis and viral pathogens
A postdoctoral position is available for three years in
the laboratory of Marie-Anne Felix, at the Ecole Nor-
male Sup´ erieure, Paris, France.
For interested candidates, please send a letter of mo-
tivation, a Curriculum Vitae and a list of three refer-
ees to: Marie-Anne F´ elix e-mail: felix@ijm.univ-paris-
diderot.fr
The team is presently located in the Jacques Monod
Institute in Paris and will be moving in the fall to
the Department of Biology at the Ecole Normale Su-
perieure: http://www.ibens.ens.fr/spip.php?rubrique2
Marie-Anne Felix <felix@ijm.univ-paris-diderot.fr >
Paris GeneticStatistics
Postdoctoral position in Genetic/Statistics Position are
available at AgroParisTech and Le Moulon Plant Ge-
netics Lab located in Paris (France).
*Subject:* Genome wide association study between
structural variation, agronomical traits variation and
heterosis in maizeContext:* The project aims at demonstrating the ef-
ﬁciency of combining innovative genome sequencing
methods, microarrays, bioinformatics, statistics and as-
sociation mapping to accelerate the identiﬁcation and
the use of structural variants in maize breeding. The
Moulon Plant Genetics laboratory main scientiﬁc in-
terest is to decipher the genetic determinism of com-
plex traits. For this purpose, they develop comple-
mentary strategies based on QTL detection with link-
age and association genetics approaches. The MIA
lab (AgroParisTech) is a statistical group involved in
bioinformatics application. They are interested in the
general problem of breakpoint detection, particularly
for large scale comparative genomic hybrididization
(CGH) analysis. In the context of the ANR CNV-Maize
project, both laboratories join eﬀorts to address the ef-
fect of structural variation on complex traits in plants,
considering maize as a model.
*Program: * The post-doc will work ﬁrst with the
MIA lab (AgroParisTech) in order to devise suitable
statistical methods for pangenomic CGH array signal
analysis. Next the post-doc will apply these methods
to the data from the 300 inbred lines covering the maize
diversity hybridized on the pangenomic CGH array and
perform association studies between the structural vari-
ants and some agronomic traits in the Moulon Lab. *
Background: *The applicant should have a strong
background in genetics and/or in applied statistics; typ-
ically a PhD in one of these ﬁelds. The person will
be in charge of the statistical analysis of high-density
CGH proﬁles and of their interpretation. He/she will
collaborate with both geneticists from Le Moulon and
statisticians from AgroParisTech. She/he will also con-
tribute to develop new methods for the speciﬁc aim of
the project, in particular to take into account speci-
ﬁcities of CNV to develop original association genetics
models. To achieve these tasks, she/he will beneﬁt from
the expertise of the two teams and will therefore col-
laborate in an inter-disciplinary context.A strong back-
ground statistics and/or statistical quantitative genet-
ics is required. A strong experience in programming is
also highly desirable.
*Localization: *The UMR AgroParisTech /
INRA Applied Mathematics and Computer Sci-
encesˆ a(MIA lab) is located in center of Paris ( http://-
www.agroparistech.fr/mia/ ). The UMR INRA/Univ.
Paris XI/CNRS/AgroParisTech “G ˜Ac/circlecopyrtn˜Ac/circlecopyrttique
V˜Ac/circlecopyrtg˜Ac/circlecopyrttale du Moulon” (Moulon lab) is located in
the south of Paris (30km) and close to the University
of Paris XI ( http://moulon.inra.fr/ ). Both labs are
located along the express train RER B.
Salary:* 1900 per month including health insuranceAugust 1, 2011 EvolDir 53
(2200 before taxes).
Contacts:* St˜Ac/circlecopyrtphane Robin
(robin@agroparistech.fr); St ˜Ac/circlecopyrtphane Nicolas
(snicolas@moulon.inra.fr; Emilie Lebarbier (emi-
lie.lebarbier@agroparistech.fr)
Applications should be sent and should include a CV, a
statement of research interests, and names of referees.
References:* Picard F < http://-
www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=-
%22Picard%20F%22%5BAuthor%5D >, Lebarbier
E<http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=-
%22Lebarbier%20E%22%5BAuthor%5D >, Hoebeke
M<http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=-
%22Hoebeke%20M%22%5BAuthor%5D >, Rigaill
G<http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=-
%22Rigaill%20G%22%5BAuthor%5D >, Thiam B
< http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=-
%22Thiam%20B%22%5BAuthor%5D >, Robin S
< http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed?term=-
%22Robin%20S%22%5BAuthor%5D >.
(2011) Joint segmentation, calling, and normaliza-
tion of multiple CGH proﬁles. /Biostatistics,/
doi:10.1093/biostatistics/kxq076 Ducrocq S., Madur
D., Veyrieras J.B., Camus-Kulandaivelu L., Kloiber-
Maitz M., Presterl T., Ouzunova M., Manicacci D.,
Charcosset A. (2008) Key impact of Vgt1 on ﬂowering
time adaptation in maize: Evidence from association
mapping and ecogeographical information.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
PennsylvaniaStateU Craniofacial
EvoDevo
Post doctoral position at The Pennsylvania State Uni-
versity Department of Anthropology
Position: Post doctoral associate Focus: craniofacial
development and anatomy, craniosynostosis, morpho-
metrics, image analysis, developmental genetics
We are looking for excellent post doctoral researchers
to work on a large collaborative project concerning
the genetics of craniosynostosis and normal craniofa-
cial development. Craniosynostosis is a common mal-formation, deﬁned as the premature fusion of one or
more calvarial sutures with an incidence of 3 to 5 per
10,000 live births in all racial populations. Although
substantial advances have been made in understanding
the clinical and molecular aspects of syndromic cran-
iosynostosis caused by single gene mutations, knowl-
edge of associated phenotypic variability, its develop-
mental basis, modiﬁable and genetic risk factors, and
outcomes is limited. The project, funded by the Na-
tional Institutes of Craniofacial and Dental Research
of NIH, seeks to understand the developmental basis
of craniosynostosis and shed light on the interaction of
skeletal and neural tissue in the development and evolu-
tion of neurocranial shape. The data needed to obtain
our stated goals require the collection of morphometric
(landmark coordinate and other types of 3D measures)
data from large samples of micro-computed tomogra-
phy (CT) scans of embryonic mouse skulls with known
genetic mutations and micro-magnetic resonance im-
ages of their brains. The post doctoral associate will
be responsible for the collection of the cranial data sets
from the micro-CT images, but will be involved in other
aspects of the project including the collection of alter-
nate skeletal data sets, the study of embryonic neural
and skeletal development, quantitative analysis of mor-
phological and genetic data, meetings among collabora-
tors, manuscript preparation, and further grant writing.
Experience in one or more of the following specialties
is required: developmental biology and genetics, image
analysis, craniofacial anatomy, morphometrics, molec-
ular laboratory methods. We are looking for some-
one deeply interested in applying modern technologies
and methods to the understanding of the developmen-
tal processes involved in the production of the head as
well as craniofacial evolution. Applicants should send
a current curriculum vita, a statement of research in-
terest and experience, and a list of three references to
Joan Richtsmeier via e-mail: jta10@psu.edu. Earliest
start date: September 1, 2011. Institution: The Penn-
sylvania State University ( http://www.psu.edu ) Loca-
tion: State College, PA ( http://www.statecollege.com ).
Salary: commensurate with experience at NIH levels.
Duration of appointment: one year with 2 additional
years possible depending upon funding. For more in-
formation on the lab and the project see: http://-
getahead.psu.edu Penn State is committed to aﬃrma-
tive action, equal opportunity and the diversity of its
workforce.
“Faye L. Maring” <fmaring@la.psu.edu >54 EvolDir August 1, 2011
Plouzane France
PhytoplanktonDiversity
Postdoctoral position
AˆA/lessmuchphytochips ˆA/greatermuch: a new tool to study the toxic
phytoplankton diversity in the bay of Seine.
The aims of this project is to develop a new molecu-
lar tool as alternative means to provide fast, safe and
complete identiﬁcation of Harmful Algal Bloom (HAB)
species. Monitoring of phytoplankton is actually based
on the microscopic identiﬁcation and counting of the
cells of interests. It is time consuming, tedious and no
challenging. Microarray or Phylochips have been cho-
sen since this technology allows a genetic identiﬁcation
of the target organisms. It can be used to achieve si-
multaneous detection of phytoplankton species and to
estimate the number of taxons in the seawater samples.
This study is a part of the project called ˆ aComancheˆ a,
which one of the objectives is to study the origin of the
toxic algae blooms and to investigate their impact on
the scallop ﬁsheries in the Bay of Seine. In this area, re-
current toxic events, ASP (Amnesic Shellﬁsh Poisoning)
and DSP (Diarrheic Shellﬁsh Poisoning) events occur in
the eastern Channel aﬀecting the scallop ﬁshery. The
identiﬁcation of the Pseudo-nitzschia species is crucial
to evaluate the potential risk of samples since all of the
species belonging to this genus do not produce phyto-
toxin. The determination of these species requires an
electronic microscopy analysis, which is inappropriate
for extensive monitoring. This novel Phylochip will al-
low us to discriminate the toxic species within Pseudo-
nitzschia genus, to quantify the biodiversity of phyto-
plankton and follow their dynamic and distribution in
bay of Seine as well.
Key words : Microarray, Biodiversity, Pseudo-nitzschia,
Dinophysis, Phylochips, Phytoplankton.
- Expertises : PhD candidate with a strong background
in microarray technique, bioinformatics and statistics
expertises. Knowledge in phytoplankton ecology is not
necessary, but will be appreciated.
- Investigators : : Informal enquires to Dr. Cather-
ine Dreanno (Catherine.dreanno@ifremer.fr) and to
V˜Ac/circlecopyrtronique Le Berre Anton (veronique.leberre@insa-
toulouse.fr)
-Funding : Ifremer- ANR 18 months- Location : Laboratoire ou Service et Unit ˜Ac/circlecopyrt
dˆ aaccueil : Service Interfaces et Capteurs, Unit ˜Ac/circlecopyrt
Recherches et D ˜Ac/circlecopyrtveloppement Technologiques, Ifre-
mer, centre de Brest, 29280 Plouzane, France. And
Laboratoire d’Ing ˜Ac/circlecopyrtnierie des Syst ˜Ames Biologiques
et des Proc ˜Ac/circlecopyrtd˜Ac/circlecopyrts (LISBP) UMR INSA/CNRS
5504/INRA 792 INSA - 135, avenue de Rangueil 31077
Toulouse, France.
Caution the candidate will work in these two laborato-
ries.
Web site : To apply for this position, please send a
letter of intent and a CV to Dr. Catherine Dreanno
(Catherine.dreanno@ifremer.fr) or visit our web site :
http://wwz.ifremer.fr/institut/Travailler-a-l-Ifremer/-
Bourses-de-recherche/Bourses-post-doctorales-2011-
2012, before September 12th 2011.
–
Dr. Catherine DREANNO (PhD)
Service Interfaces & Capteurs IFREMER BP 70 29280
Plouzan ˜Ac/circlecopyrt, FRANCE Tel : (+33) 02.98.22.40.99
http://www.ifremer.fr/ic/ Catherine DREANNO
<Catherine.Dreanno@ifremer.fr >
RutgersU Bioinformatics
POSITION DESCRIPTION: A full-time postdoctoral
position is available immediately in the Bhattacharya
Group ( http://dblab.rutgers.edu/ ) at Rutgers Univer-
sity (New Brunswick, New Jersey, USA) to carry out
computational and bioinformatic research on prokary-
ote evolution, speciﬁcally on the early evolution of re-
dox enzymes with respect to diversiﬁcation of life dur-
ing the Great Oxidation event.
Duties and responsibilities include (1) developing (im-
proving existing) automated pipeline for large-scale
phylogenetic/phylogenomic analysis of prokaryote pro-
teins, (2) formulating and testing biological hypotheses
relevant to prokaryote evolution (e.g., horizontal gene
transfer), (3) co-supervising postgraduate student(s)
and being highly proactive in generating high-quality,
high-impact journal publications, and (4) present-
ing research ﬁndings at national/international meet-
ings/conferences.
This position is part of a three-year project funded
by the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation ( http://-
www.moore.org/ ) to uncover how the metal-containingAugust 1, 2011 EvolDir 55
enzymes responsible for the critical electron transfer
reactions that turn basic elements (e.g. H, O, C, S,
and N) into biologically active molecules have evolved.
Funding will be used to develop bioinformatic ap-
proaches to produce independent evolutionary relation-
ships based on protein sequence/structure and to gener-
ate hypotheses for how the bio-catalyzed electron trans-
fer reactions arose and now function. The collaborative
team consists of experts within various departments at
Rutgers in the ﬁelds of genome evolution, protein struc-
tures, microbiology, biochemistry, and geoscience.
QUALIFICATIONS: Ideal candidates will have a com-
putational biology/genomics background with over two
years of full-time research experience, proven scripting
skills (PERL/Python), as well as experience with rela-
tional databases (mysql or similar) and publicly avail-
able genome resources.
Working knowledge and experience in molecular evolu-
tion, genomics, phylogenetics, high-performance com-
puting and/or UNIX environment, are highly desirable.
Knowledge of web design, server management and/or
programming languages (C/C++/Java) is a plus.
The successful applicant will be highly organized, have
strong interpersonal skills, and demonstrate high-level
ability to write in clear, grammatically correct English.
GROUP DESCRIPTION: Our group has a long-term
interest in genome evolution of microbes, speciﬁcally
among algae and protists, with a heavy focus on plastid
origin, endosymbiosis, and organellogenesis. The lab is
equipped with an Illumina GAIIx sequencer for gen-
erating genomic, transcriptomic, and epigenomic data,
with excellent in-house high-performance supercomput-
ing facilities and pipelines for routine genome assem-
blies, annotation and large-scale phylogenomic analy-
ses. The candidate will have complete access to the fa-
cilities and the opportunities to be involved one or more
of the many projects currently underway. Recent publi-
cations: Science 2011, 332:714; Curr Biol 2011, 21:328;
Biol Direct 2011, 6:12; Plant Physiol, 2011 155:1561.
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, is a
leading national public research university. It is the
only public university in New Jersey in the Association
of American Universities, a group comprising North
America’s 61 leading research universities. The Protein
Data Bank (PDB; http://www.pdb.org/ ) is hosted at
Rutgers.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: September 15, 2011. Po-
sition will remain open until ﬁlled.
SALARY is oﬀered based on qualiﬁcation and experi-
ence.Any queries should be addressed directly to Debashish
Bhattacharya (bhattacharya@aesop.rutgers.edu). To
apply, please send the following items to the same email
address: (1) a cover letter stating potential start date
(2) a curriculum vitae, including contact information
for at least two references, and (3) a brief statement of
research interest and career goals
Rutgers is an equal opportunity/aﬃrmative action em-
ployer.
Debashish Bhattacharya Professor Department of Ecol-
ogy, Evolution and Natural Resources Institute of Ma-
rine and Coastal Sciences Foran Hall 102 Rutgers Uni-
versity, New Brunswick, NJ 08901, USA Telephone:
(732) 932-8193
bhattacharya@aesop.rutgers.edu
SangerInst ComputationalGenomics
Postdoctoral Fellow: Computational Genomics
Genomics of gene regulation
A postdoctoral position is available in Computational
Genomics at the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute under
the leadership of Dr Daniel Gaﬀney. The long-term goal
of the lab is to understand how genetic change inﬂu-
ences gene regulation, using a combination of statistical
and experimental approaches. The speciﬁc project is
ﬂexible, and the successful applicant will be expected to
develop their own interests, but current research themes
include
(i) Regulatory and gene expression variation in humans
(ii) The impact of regulatory change on disease suscep-
tibility and evolution (iii) Comparative genomics and
molecular evolution of gene regulatory regions
We welcome candidates with a background in Biol-
ogy and strong quantitative skills. Candidates from
Physics, Statistics or Computer Science with strong in-
terests in computational biology and/or population ge-
netics are also encouraged to apply. Excellent program-
ming skills, experience with very large data sets and an
ability to work as part of a team are essential. Our lab
also has access to wet-lab facilities and personnel - as
part of their research, the successful candidate will also
have the opportunity to generate novel high-throughput
data sets and to test hypotheses in an experimental set-
ting.
Essential Skills56 EvolDir August 1, 2011
PhD in a relevant subject area (Computational Bi-
ology, Population Genetics/Genomics, Computer Sci-
ence, Physics) Excellent programming skills (C, C++,
Perl, Python, or R) Strong statistical and quantitative
skills Ability to communicate ideas and results eﬀec-
tively Ability to work well with other team members
Independent research goals and objectives
Ideal Skills
Experience with analysis of -omics data sets Previous
experience with genetics of gene regulation, QTL anal-
ysis
Other information
Although genetic variation in gene regulation is thought
to play an important role in evolution and disease, the
pathway from regulatory mutation, via gene expression
to phenotype is still poorly understood. Understand-
ing this pathway will be an essential component in the
application of genomics to personalized medicine. The
Sanger Centre oﬀers a world-class academic environ-
ment, access to cutting edge sequencing facilities and
extensive expertise in genome analysis and human ge-
netics. As such, we are in a prime position to begin to
address some of these fundamental questions. The ulti-
mate goal of our lab is to be able to predict the impact
of new mutations on gene regulation and to understand
how such changes impact phenotype. To achieve this,
we combine of sequence and genome analysis, compar-
ative genomics and population level, expression QTL-
mapping.
This is a 3 year ﬁxed-term position. The closing date
for this position is 10th August 2011. Salary range is
£28,280 to £34,778 dependent on experience.
Postdoctoral Fellows are typically in their ﬁrst or sec-
ond postdoctoral position as part of a period of early
career research training. Successful applicant(s) who
have submitted their PhD thesis and are awaiting their
PhD award to be conﬁrmed will be placed on a tran-
sitional pay point, currently £26,103. On conﬁrmation
applicants will be moved on to the pay scale above.
This position is initially for a ﬁxed term of 3 years. Ap-
plications can be made on the Sanger jobs website at:
https://jobs.sanger.ac.uk and follow the link for “Post-
doctoral Fellow - Computational Genomics - Genomics
of Gene Regulation”
For further information please contact Daniel Gaﬀney
on dg13@sanger.ac.uk and visit the lab website at:
http://www.sanger.ac.uk/research/faculty/dgaﬀney/
Daniel Gaﬀney Career Development Fellow Wellcome
Trust Sanger Institute Wellcome Trust Genome Cam-
pus Hinxton, Cambridge, CB10 1SA UKTel: ++44 (0) 122 349 6866
Daniel Gaﬀney <dg13@sanger.ac.uk >
Stuttgart PlantPopulationGenomics
We are looking for a
POSTDOCTORAL SCIENTIST
to work on a project within the DFG-funded German
Priority Program “Adaptomics - Evolutionary Plant
Solutions to Ecological Challenges”. The project in-
volves the population genomic analysis of the two en-
demic plant species Arabidopsis pedemontana and Ara-
bidopsis cebennensis to study the relationship between
genetic diversity, reproductive system and natural se-
lection in species with small distribution ranges and
small eﬀective population sizes. Investigating the inter-
play of genetic drift and natural selection in response
to environmental change will be a central focus of the
work and will be done by genome resequencing, genetic
mapping, and additional methods. The project will be
carried out in close collaboration with the group of Mar-
cus Koch (University of Heidelberg) and other partners
in the priority program.
Highly motivated candidates with a Ph. D. degree, a
background in botany, population/conservation genet-
ics or evolutionary biology, and a record of scientiﬁc
publications are welcome to apply. The ideal candidate
has experience with population genetic simulations and
statistical analysis, scripting skills (e.g., R or Python)
and a good knowledge of modern genomics methods.
The project requires the ability to coordinate and to
conduct ﬁeld work in the Piemontese Alps (Italy) and
the Cevennes (France) together with local botanists.
The successful applicant will be appointed for three
years. The salary will be according to the German
government salary scale (TV-L E13) and depends on
previous experience, age and marital status. The Uni-
versity of Hohenheim is an equal opportunity employer.
Women and members of minority groups are strongly
encouraged to apply.
We are located on a beautiful campus in the South Ger-
man city of Stuttgart with a rich cultural life and a nice
surrounding. There is a critical mass of researchers in
Hohenheim wo work on plant population and quanti-
tative genetic analysis (mostly in a plant breeding con-
text) for interaction and collaboration. Further infor-
mation about our group can be obtained from http://-August 1, 2011 EvolDir 57
evoplant.uni-hohenheim.de or the address below.
Please send your application (Cover letter, CV, list of
publications, letter of research interests, addresses of at
least two references) until 15 September 2011 as a single
PDF document with the subject line “Adaptomics” by
email to B¨ arbel Hessenauer (baerbel.hessenauer@uni-
hohenheim.de).
Dr. Karl Schmid Professor of Crop Biodiversity and
Breeding Informatics Institute of Plant Breeding, Seed
Science and Population Genetics Fruwirthstrasse 21 D-
70599 Stuttgart, Germany Phone: +49 711 459 23487
karl.schmid@uni-hohenheim.de
SyracuseU Speciation
Postdoctoral Position in Ecological Speciation.
A postdoctoral position to study ecological speciation
in yucca moths is available in the laboratory of David
Althoﬀ at Syracuse University. Speciﬁcally, the role of
host plant use in the evolution of morphological and
reproductive traits will be combined with analyses of
genetic structure to test hypotheses about the process
of speciation. The position will require ﬁeld studies, be-
havioral experiments, insect rearings, and use of molec-
ular tools to analyze genetic structure. Daily tasks
will include insect cultivation, morphological measure-
ments, behavioral assays, and collection and analysis of
population genetic data.
The position will be awarded for one year with the
possibility of renewal for additional years. The ideal
candidate will be proﬁcient in studying insect behav-
ior, microsatellite and sequencing techniques, popula-
tion genetic analyses, and willing to travel for extended
periods for ﬁeld studies and collections. Additionally,
the person should be willing to train undergraduates
and assist in other on-going projects in the lab.
Applicants should send an e-mail to dmalthof@syr.edu
explaining their interest in the position, a CV, and the
names and contact information for at least two refer-
ences. The position will begin after September 1, 2011.
Thank you,
David
David Althoﬀ Assistant Professor Dept. of Biology
Syracuse University 107 College Place Syracuse, NY
13244 Oﬃce: 315.443.1096 FAX: 315.443.2012 plante-
cology.syr.edu/althoﬀ/David M Althoﬀ <dmalthof@syr.edu >
TexasAMU 2 Bioinformatics
Genomics
Two Post Doctoral positions available in the Depart-
ment of Veterinary Integrative Bioscience at Texas
A&M University. Please see the descriptions below.
POSITION #1 TITLE: Post-Doctoral Research Asso-
ciate in Bioinformatics LOCATION: Texas A&M Uni-
versity, College Station, TX SALARY: Commensurate
with experience CLOSING DATE: Open until ﬁlled
DURATION: Two years with a possibility of extension
depending on performance and funding
DESCRIPTION: The Chowdhary & Cai lab ( http:/-
/vetmed.tamu.edu/labs/cytogenics-genomics &http:/-
/www.genomezoo.net ) is seeking a joint appointment
post-doc that will apply the latest bioinformatics
tools towards understanding equine diseases (includ-
ing laminitis, recurrent airway obstruction, and stal-
lion subfertility), phenotypes, and evolution of equids.
The Chowdhary lab is focusing on characterizing ge-
netic factors involved in major equine diseases, sex-
ual development, and reproductive disorders. The ap-
proaches applied include genetic association analysis
using the equine SNP chip, microsatellites, copy num-
ber variation tiling array, re-sequencing of candidate
genes, gene expression microarrays, next-generation se-
quencing, protein expression analysis, RT-PCR, RH
mapping, karyotyping, and FISH. In addition, the lab is
also working on describing the PAR and the MSY of the
equine Y chromosome including gene loss, gain, func-
tion, and the roles Y genes play in stallion fertility. The
Cai lab focuses on the interaction between the genotype
and phenotype using computational genomics to iden-
tify the causal variants underlying genetic disorders and
complex traits of diﬀerent organisms. Projects will fo-
cus on applying next-generation sequencing to follow
up associations found with more traditional methods.
The work is funded by USDA-CREES, USDA-NIFA,
American Quarter Horse Foundation, and Morris Ani-
mal Foundation.
We seek a motivated postdoc that is interested in ap-
plying the latest bioinformatics tools to understand the
genomic factors that play a role in diseases and pheno-
types of horses, and other important domestic, agricul-
tural, and wild animals. The post-doc will be required
to write manuscripts and proposals, and will have op-58 EvolDir August 1, 2011
portunities to develop additional projects in line with
their areas of interest. The successful applicant will
work as part of a multidisciplinary team and will de-
velop skills in bioinformatics, genomics, and transla-
tional medicine.
REQUIREMENTS: Ph.D. in a relevant biological disci-
pline with previous research experience using genomic
bioinformatics tools. Knowledge of both genomics and
computational analysis of genomic data is required, as
is familiarity with Linux, Python, Matlab, and Perl,
and the ability to write scripts. Excellent writing, com-
munication skills, and the ability work as part of a team
are also required. Previous work with large data sets,
SNP analysis, and next-generation sequencing data is
preferred. Knowledge and experience with horses, other
domestic animals, or wildlife is also preferred.
TO APPLY: For inquiries or to apply, email Dr. Jan
Janecka (jjanecka@cvm.tamu.edu) a (1) a 1-page cover
letter with as summary of your primary research ex-
perience and interests, (2) your CV, (3) and contact
information for three references.
Bhanu P. Chowdhary Associate Dean for Research and
Professor Department of Veterinary Integrative Bio-
sciences Texas A&M University College Station, TX
77843 - 4458 Tel. 979-845-5092
POSITION #2 TITLE: Post-Doctoral Research Asso-
ciate in Genomics LOCATION: Texas A&M University,
College Station, TX SALARY: Commensurate with ex-
perience CLOSING DATE: Open until ﬁlled DURA-
TION: Two years with a possibility of extension de-
pending on performance and funding
DESCRIPTION: The Chowdhary lab ( http://-
vetmed.tamu.edu/labs/cytogenics-genomics ) is seeking
a post-doc that will use the latest genetic tools towards
understanding equine diseases (including laminitis,
recurrent airway obstruction, and stallion subfertility),
phenotypes, and evolution of equids. The Chowdhary
lab is focusing on characterizing genetic factors in-
volved in major equine diseases, sexual development,
and reproductive disorders. The approaches applied
include genetic association analysis using the equine
SNP chip, microsatellites, copy number variation
tiling array, re-sequencing of candidate genes, gene
expression microarrays, next-generation sequencing,
protein expression analysis, RT-PCR, RH mapping,
karyotyping, and FISH. In addition, the lab is also
working on describing the PAR and the MSY of
the equine Y chromosome including gene loss, gain,
function, and the roles Y genes play in stallion fertility.
Projects will integrate diverse methods, but focus on
applying/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UBarcelona ArtiﬁcialSelection
POSTDOC OPPORTUNITY IN BARCELONA
Our group is interested in analyzing the impact of arti-
ﬁcial selection and of domestication on genomewide nu-
cleotide diversity. We are looking for a motivated and
dynamic postdoc to work in statistical and population
genetics issues arising from Next Generation Sequenc-
ing (NGS) data. Broadly, there are two topics on which
the postdoc could focus:
-Use of realistic simulations to model complex demo-
graphic and selective scenarios to mimic, eg, the use-
fulness of genomic selection, SNP ascertainment bias or
the power of diﬀerent tests to identify selection.
-Development of software to seamless carry out diverse
variability tests from NGS data.
We will pay special attention to livestock or domes-
tic plants, where artiﬁcal selection has been strong. In
addition, we are carrying diverse studies to to unravel
the adaptation of pigs to extreme climates using new
sequencing technologies or to identify genes related to
meat quality also in pigs, so ample opportunities also
exist to get involved in analyzing real data from live-
stock.
The postdoc will join a multidisciplinary group with ex-
pertises in quantitative, population and molecular ge-
netics. The work will be developed in a new center in
Agrigenomics ( www.cragenomica.es )within the campus
of Universitat Autonoma of Barcelona ( www.uab.es ).
Initially, the position is for one year with possible ex-
tensions, salary will be commensurate with CV. Expe-
rience in NGS data analyses is not required but we do
ask for good programming skills. We require the can-
didate is competitive at the national level to be eligible
for a Juan de la Cierva or similar postdoc. This means
that the PhD should NOT have been obtained earlier
than 2008 and should have a good publishing record.
Interested persons please email CV, letter of motiva-
tion and of interests, and name and email of at least
two scientists who can provide references.August 1, 2011 EvolDir 59
–
Miguel Perez-Enciso ICREA professor Centre
for Research in Agricultural Genomics (CRAG)
and Facultat de Veterinaria UAB Campus Uni-
versitat Autonoma Barcelona Bellaterra E-
08193 Spain Tel: +34 935636600 ext 3346 Fax:
+34 935636601 miguel.perez@uab.es http://-
www.icrea.cat/Web/ScientiﬁcStaﬀ/Miguel-Perez-
Enciso-255 http://bioinformatics.cragenomica.es/-
numgenomics/ Sociedad Espanyola de Genetica:
http://www.segenetica.es/ Miguel Perez-Enciso
<miguel.perez@uab.cat >
UBath HoneyBeeEpidemiology
A two-year postdoctoral position at the University of
Bath in evolutionary genetic aspects of European Foul
Brood (EFB) in honey bees.
Deadline: Monday 25, July
Applicants must have a PhD in evolutionary genetics,
and / or experience with infectious disease modelling.
Applicants are likely to be closely considered if they
have previous experience in the following ﬁelds: apicul-
ture, genetic modelling of processes involving admix-
ture, spatial genetic modelling, epidemiology and bioin-
formatics. A strong record of publication and a passion
for cutting-edge research is highly desired. Standard
experience with molecular biology and bioinformatics
techniques would be highly desirable.
For details about the position and application proce-
dures, see the following:
https://www.bath.ac.uk/jobs/Vacancy.aspx?ref=-
JK608 Dr. Nick Priest (n.priest@bath.ac.uk)
Lecturer in Evolutionary Genetics Dr. Ed Feil
(e.feil@bath.ac.uk) Reader in Microbial Evolution
Department of Biology & Biochemistry Bath, UK
N.Priest@bath.ac.uk
UBritishColumbia ForestPathogen
PopulationGenomics
Population genomics of forest pathogensDepartment of Forest Sciences University of British
Columbia Supervisors: Richard Hamelin and Kermit
Ritland
A post-doctoral fellowship is available in the area of
population and evolutionary genomics of forest fun-
gal pathogens. You will participate in the following
projects. (1) De-novo whole-genome sequencing of one
species each of Pucciniales (rusts), Oomycetes (cankers
and root diseases) and Dothydeomycetes (cankers and
blights). (2) Genome resequencing of representative
strains within these taxa. In these ﬁrst two projects
the role will be supportive, as this sequencing will be
handled by the Genome Sciences Center in Vancouver,
and the strains will be collected and cultured by oth-
ers in the project. The major roles for you will then
be: (3) Identifying genome-wide SNPs and haplotype
proﬁles for each strain, and the use of such data for
inferring the origin of pathogen introduction, mapping
of migration routes, and identifying genomic regions in-
volved with pathogenicity using evolutionary compar-
isons. (4) Development of new approaches for inferring
migrational history of taxa, and inferring the sexual
history of these fungi with genome-scale data.
Applicants should have a background in population ge-
nomics which involves strong computational or statis-
tical skills. By no means is this position restricted to
people with fungal experience; the methods transcend
this kingdom and applicants who have worked with any
organism are welcomed, as long as population genomics
skills are present. Experience with fungi will broaden
your perspective of the diversity of life. You will also
have the opportunity to interact with several other stu-
dents and post-docs in this project. This project in-
volves the Canadian Forest Service, Forest Products
Innovations, and Canadian Food Inspection Agency, so
you will be exposed to a diversity of end-users. It should
be noted that the other major component of this project
is deﬁning sets of genes at various hierarchical levels
that can be translated to the important application of
detection and monitoring of these pathogens. You may
be interested in participating in this activity.
To apply, submit a CV, a cover letter and names and
contact information of three referees to Kermit Ritland
(kermit.ritland@ubc.ca). The start date can be imme-
diate or until January 1, 2012, and the duration can
be up to 3 years, pending satisfactory initial reviews
of progress. This project is funded by Genome BC
and Genome Canada, with matching from the Cana-
dian Forest Service.
“Ritland, Kermit” <kermit.ritland@ubc.ca >60 EvolDir August 1, 2011
UCambridge
HumanEvolutionaryGenetics
Post-Doctoral Research Associate Department of Ar-
chaeology and Anthropology Salary: £27,319 Limit of
tenure: 30 months Department of Archaeology and An-
thropology is pleased to announce a full time Research
Associate Fellowship with the eﬀect from 1 September
2011 or soon after that date. The Research Associate
would be funded by a grant from the ERC titled, An
inter-disciplinary approach for identifying evolutionary
active regions in the human genome. The project in-
volves research on the variation of human genome in
populations from various climate zones. It will com-
bine evidence from Humanities and Natural Sciences
to build realistic models of population dispersals over
the past 100 thousand years and using high-throughput
genotyping and second generation sequencing meth-
ods will attempt to reveal regions in the genome that
have been aﬀected by natural selection due to environ-
ment and life style diﬀerences. Applicants should have,
or must be expecting to complete, a Ph.D. in Popu-
lation Genetics, Bioinformatics or related ﬁeld before
they take up this position. A good knowledge of mod-
els, methods, and theory in human population genet-
ics and working experience with genomic data bases is
required. In addition, programming skills, experience
with computer simulations and familiarity with analy-
sis tools designed for genome-wide genotype and sec-
ond generation sequencing data will be an advantage.
Informal inquiries may be addressed to Dr. Toomas
Kivisild at tk331@cam.ac.uk Applications consisting of
a full CV, letter of application and a signed CHRIS/6
application cover sheet (Parts 1 and 3 only) with the
names and contact details of two referees should be
sent to Mrs. Jane Clare, Department of Archaeology
and Anthropology, Pembroke Street, CB2 3DZ, e-mail:
jc478@cam.ac.uk to arrive no later than August 15
2011. A CHRIS/6 application cover sheet can be down-
loaded from www.admin.cam.ac.uk/oﬃces/hr/forms/-
chris6/ Interviews will take place on 26th August 2011.
Closing date: 15 August 2011. The University values
diversity and is committed to equality of opportunity.
The University of Cambridge only advertises their own
and college vacancies on this website; we do not ad-
vertise any external vacancies. The University has a
responsibility to ensure that all employees are eligible
to live and work in the UK.PhD Studentship in Human Evolutionary Genetics De-
partment of Archaeology and Anthropology Limit of
tenure: 36 months
Department of Archaeology and Anthropology is
pleased to announce a PhD studentship in Human Evo-
lutionary Genetics to start in October 2011. The three-
year studentship is available as part of an ERC funded
project entitled,
An inter-disciplinary approach for identifying evolu-
tionary active regions in the human genome.
Start date: October 1st, 2011
Supervisor: Dr. Toomas Kivisild, Dept. Biological An-
thropology, University of Cambridge
Co-supervisor/Advisor: Dr. Chris Tyler-Smith, WT
Sanger Institute
The project involves research on the variation of hu-
man genome in populations from various climate zones.
It will combine evidence from Humanities and Natural
Sciences to build realistic demographic models of pop-
ulation diﬀerentiation and dispersals over the past 100
thousand years and using high-throughput genotyping
and second generation sequencing methods will attempt
to reveal regions in the genome that have been aﬀected
by natural selection due to environment and life style
diﬀerences.
Applicants should have a Masters degree and/or the
equivalent of at least a high 2:1 UK honours degree in
one of the following areas: Population Genetics, Bioin-
formatics, Computational Biology or similar ﬁeld. Pro-
gramming skills, experience with computer simulations
and familiarity with analysis tools designed for genome-
wide genotype and second generation sequencing data
will be an advantage.
Funding: The studentship provides a starting stipend
of£19,619 pa which is expected to cover all college
and University composition fees and basic maintenance
costs for the duration of the studentship. The stu-
dentships are open to all home and EU students. Non-
EU applicants can only be considered if they already
have the means to cover the fees diﬀerential for over-
seas students.
Informal inquiries may be addressed to Dr. Toomas
Kivisild at tk331@cam.ac.uk
Applications consisting of a full CV, letter of ap-
plication and a signed CHRIS/6 application cover
sheet (Parts 1 and 3 only) with the names and
contact details of two referees should be sent to
Mrs. Jane Clare, Department of Archaeology and
Anthropology, Pembroke Street, CB2 3DZ, e-mail:
jc478@cam.ac.uk to arrive no later than August 15August 1, 2011 EvolDir 61
2011. A CHRIS/6 application cover sheet can be down-
loaded from www.admin.cam.ac.uk/oﬃces/hr/forms/-
chris6/
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/˜brian/evoldir.html
UChicago PopulationGenetics
Postdoc position, University of Chicago
A postdoctoral position is available in Molly Prze-
worski’s lab at the University of Chicago. Current work
in the group focuses on the causes and consequences of
variation in recombination, as well as on a wide range
of topics in evolution and population genetics; for more
information, see http://przeworski.uchicago.edu/ . The
successful candidate will have considerable latitude to
design his/her project.
Applicants for the position must have a background in
theoretical population genetics or come from a quan-
titative ﬁeld (such as statistics or computer science)
and have a demonstrated interest in genetics and evo-
lution. Strong programming and bioinformatics skills
are essential. Informal inquiries as well as applications
(including a CV, copies of relevant publications and two
letters of recommendation) should be emailed to Molly
Przeworski at mfp@uchicago.edu. The starting date is
negotiable but could be as early as fall 2011.
The group shares space and weekly lab meetings with
those of Jonathan Pritchard and Matthew Stephens
and enjoys close ties with other members of the Human
Genetics and Ecology & Evolution departments, no-
tably Anna Di Rienzo, Dick Hudson and Carole Ober.
Moreover, it beneﬁts from the large and outstanding
community of researchers in population genetics, statis-
tics and genomics at the University of Chicago.
Molly Przeworski Howard Hughes Medical Institute
Dept. of Ecology & Evolution and Dept. of Human
Genetics University of Chicago
molly.przew@gmail.comUEdinburgh BacterialEvolution
Research Fellow in Bacterial Evolutionary Genomics
£29,972 - £35,788
A research fellow position is available in the Labora-
tory for Bacterial Evolution and Pathogenesis at The
Roslin Institute, University of Edinburgh with Dr J.
Ross Fitzgerald. The 3 year BBSRC-funded project will
investigate the evolution of virulence in Staphylococcus
aureus, the major human and animal pathogen using a
comparative next generation sequencing approach. De-
pending on the background of the successful candidate,
a combined approach including phenotypic and viru-
lence analysis may be employed to understand the ge-
netic and functional basis for host-adaptation. Overall,
the project will aim to identify and characterise the
evolution of new virulent clones of S. aureus aﬀecting
humans and animals with a long term goal of design-
ing ways for preventing or controlling infections. The
candidate will have experience of handling next gen-
eration sequences for comparative genomic and evolu-
tionary analyses. In addition, experience in molecu-
lar microbiology would be a distinct advantage. The
Roslin Institute is a new world-class centre for biomed-
ical research of relevance to both animal and human
health with a strong focus on infectious diseases. The
Institute has state of the art research facilities for imag-
ing, proteomics, and genomics, including next-gen se-
quencing (Illumina, HiSeq). Within the University of
Edinburgh the project will also involve collaborations
with the Institute for Evolutionary Biology and other
research groups within Edinburgh Infectious Diseases.
Please contact Ross.Fitzgerald@ed.ac.uk for more in-
formation or informal discussion.
Relevant selected references:
Guinane et al and J. Ross Fitzgerald. 2010. Evolution-
ary genomics of Staphylococcus aureus reveals insights
into the origin and molecular basis of ruminant host
adaptation. Genome Biol Evol 2:454-66
Lowder BV, et al and J. Ross Fitzgerald. 2009. Re-
cent human-to-poultry host jump, adaptation, and pan-
demic spread of Staphylococcus aureus Proc Natl Acad
Sci U S A. 106:19545-50
– J. Ross Fitzgerald, Ph.D., Laboratory for Bacterial
Evolution and Pathogenesis, The Roslin Institute and
Centre for Infectious Diseases, University of Edinburgh,62 EvolDir August 1, 2011
Easter Bush, Midlothian EH25 9RG, Scotland, UK
Email: Ross.Fitzgerald@ed.ac.uk Tel: +44 (0)131
6519235 http://www.roslin.ed.ac.uk/ross-ﬁtzgerald/ –
The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, regis-
tered in Scotland, with registration number SC005336.
Ross Fitzgerald <Ross.Fitzgerald@ed.ac.uk >
UGhent Bioinformatics
Dear all,
We have a job opening for a postdoctoral scientist in
Bioinformatics who will be involved in the integrative
analysis of RNA-seq data and growth phenotype data.
Please forward to any interested colleagues.
Kind regards, Stefanie De Bodt
(our apologies for multiple posting)
Postdoctoral Scientist Bioinformatics
The Department of Plant Systems Biology, VIB, Uni-
versity Ghent ( www.psb.ugent.be ) is an internationally
renowned and dynamic research institute that employs
molecular genetics, genomics and bioinformatics to un-
ravel developmental processes in plants. The Systems
Biology of Yield group, headed by Prof. Dirk Inz´ e,
is focusing on the integration of multiple data sources
(genomics, transcriptomics, phenotyping) to investigate
the complex regulation of plant growth in relation to
the environment.
- Job description: We want to recruit an enthusias-
tic postdoc in bioinformatics/systems biology. With
the advent of sequencing technologies, we are now able
to exploit the natural variation of plants to study
growth and development in the model species Ara-
bidopsis thaliana as well as the crop species Zea mays
(corn). You will be involved in the integrative analy-
sis of RNA-seq data and growth phenotype data. The
successful applicant will be working in close collabora-
tion with our experimental team, to develop and apply
computational methods to analyze inhouse generated
data.
- Proﬁle: You have a PhD degree in Bioin-
formatics, Computational Science or in Biotechnol-
ogy/Biochemistry/Bioengineering or equivalent. You
have a good knowledge/experience in programming
(one or more of the following: Perl/Python, R, SQL,
Java and/or C++), proﬁciency in Unix/Linux. Ex-perience with next-generation sequencing and/or mi-
croarray data analysis, genome-wide association map-
ping, machine learning and/or network inference is a
plus Strong background in statistics is a plus Good
knowledge of plant biology is a plus You speak English
ﬂuently. You have good communication skills and like
to work in a team. You can work independently and
like to take initiative.
- The contract will be for a period of 3 years. We of-
fer a diverse job in a young international team, an open
and informal work atmosphere and in modern facilities.
The institute is located in the vibrant university city of
Ghent.
- Start date: as soon as possible, the position remains
vacant until a suitable candidate is found.
- Application: Send your letter of motivation, your CV
and references to Christine Tir´ e (christine.tire@psb.vib-
ugent.be). Further information can be obtained by
contacting Stefanie De Bodt (stefanie.debodt@psb.vib-
ugent.be).
Stefanie De Bodt, PhD
VIB Department of Plant Systems Biology, UGent
Technologiepark 927 B-9052 Gent Belgium Tel: 32 (0)9
3313692 Website: http://www.psb.ugent.be Stefanie
De Bodt <stefanie.debodt@psb.vib-ugent.be >
UMaryland AlgalBiodiversity
Community Phylogenetics and Green Algal Biodiver-
sity
We seek highly motivated postdoctoral researchers to
participate in two NSF-funded, collaborative research
projects studying biodiversity and systematics in green
algae, working in the laboratory of Dr. Charles Del-
wiche at the University of Maryland College Park. We
are using high-throughput sequencing of expressed se-
quences to study phylogenetics, ecology, and evolution
in green algae. These studies will collect very large se-
quence datasets that will entail substantial challenges
in informatics and analysis. The successful candidates
will work at the cutting edge of research in biological
diversity, and will have the opportunity to explore the
interconnections between evolutionary history, cellular
metabolism, and community function. Willingness to
work in a highly collaborative environment including
postdocs, graduate students, and undergraduates will
be essential. There will also be opportunities for theAugust 1, 2011 EvolDir 63
candidate to pursue his or her own research program
within the broad context of the grant proposal, and in
collaboration with the PI, lab, and outside collabora-
tors.
Two positions are open, one to be ﬁlled immediately,
and one to be ﬁlled in Fall/Winter, 2011. Both posi-
tions require a Ph.D. in the biological sciences, bioinfor-
matics, or a related ﬁeld, and preference will be given to
candidates having experience with algal/plant biodiver-
sity, RNA biology, high-throughput sequencing, and/or
sequence analysis. An initial commitment of one year
will be expected, and can be extended upon mutual
agreement to at least three years. Beneﬁts include va-
cation, health insurance, and retirement contributions.
Opportunities for career development will be available
as a part of the project and through the broader Uni-
versity environment. The University of Maryland is
located in College Park, a suburb of the Washington,
D.C. Metropolitan Area, and provides a vibrant cul-
tural and academic environment with easy access to a
vast array of Federal research facilities.
The starting date is ﬂexible and will remain open un-
til ﬁlled, but for best consideration applications should
be received no later than July 30. Informal inquiries
are encouraged, prior to formal application. To apply
formally, please send the following:
1. A curriculum vitae 2. Names of 3 referees willing
to provide a letter of recommendation upon request 3.
A brief statement of how your research goals ﬁt with
research on algal biodiversity, systematics, and evolu-
tionary biology.
Email applications are preferred, and should be sent to:
aaalgeee@gmail.com
todd.oakley@lifesci.ucsb.edu
UMontana
PlantEvolutionaryGenetics
A postdoctoral position is available in the lab of Lila
Fishman at the University of Montana. We study the
genetic mechanisms underlying selﬁsh evolution, adap-
tation, and speciation in *Mimulus* (monkeyﬂowers):
<http://dbs.umt.edu/research labs/ﬁshmanlab/ >.
The postdoc will focus on a project investigating the
mechanisms and consequences of female meiotic drive
in yellow monkeyﬂowers.
Female meiotic drive, in which homologous chromo-somes compete for access to the single product of fe-
male meiosis, is predicted to be a ubiquitous evolution-
ary force and may account for fundamental features
of plant and animal chromosomes. The *Mimulus*
meiotic drive system (see Fishman & Saunders 2008,
Science 322, 1559), which is polymorphic within and
among species, represents a rare opportunity to empiri-
cally test controversial hypotheses about selﬁsh chrom-
somal evolution. The overall project includes cytoge-
netic experiments to test whether female meiotic drive
is centromeric in origin and mechanism, genetic map-
ping of drive modiﬁers, molecular evolution studies of
drive-associated loci, and ﬁeld/greenhouse experiments
to fully characterize the costs of drive. These projects
are facilitated by newly available genome resources, in-
cluding a full reference genome (of drive line) and nu-
merous resequenced lines/populations. The postdoc’s
primary responsibility will be conducting the genetic
mapping, molecular evolution, and cytogenetic compo-
nents of this integrative project. The postdoc will also
be encouraged to develop independent research projects
on selﬁsh evolution, speciation or adaptation within the
emerging model genus *Mimulus*, and to participate in
outreach and training activities.
The successful candidate will have excellent laboratory
and analytical skills in cytogenetics, genetics, and/or
genomics/bioinformatics, as well as demonstrated writ-
ing ability and a strong interest in evolutionary pro-
cesses.
The postdoc position will be based at the University of
Montana in beautiful Missoula, MT (halfway between
Yellowstone and Glacier National Parks), but may also
involve periods of work in collaborating labs. Funding
is available for two years, subject to review after the
ﬁrst year, with an annual salary range of $35,000-38,000
(plus beneﬁts) depending on qualiﬁcations. Preferred
start date: December 2011, but ﬂexible.
HOW TO APPLY:
Position open until ﬁlled. Screening of applications will
begin August 15, 2011.
For more information about the position and appli-
cation process, please contact Dr. Fishman directly
(lila.ﬁshman@mso.umt.edu).
To apply, please submit a letter of interest, CV, and
list of three references via the listing on the UM Em-
ployment page (* https://umjobs.silkroad.com/* )
ADA/EOE/AA/Veteran’s Preference As an Equal Op-
portunity/Aﬃrmative Action employer, we encourage
applications from minorities, veterans, and women.
Qualiﬁed candidates may request veterans’ or disabili-
ties preference in accordance with state law64 EvolDir August 1, 2011
– Lila Fishman, Ph.D. Associate Professor Division
of Biological Sciences University of Montana Missoula,
MT 59802
oﬃce: 406 243-5166 cell: 406 274-4996 fax: 406 243-
4184
lilaﬁshman@gmail.com
UMontreal
HumanPopulationGenomics
Postdoc: Human Genomics and Population Genomics,
University of Montreal A postdoctoral position is avail-
able in the population and evolutionary genomics
laboratory at the University of Montreal of Philip
Awadalla ( http://www.philip-awadallalab.org/ ). Re-
searchers will be involved in the development of meth-
ods and collection/analysis of data generated in our on-
going studies of human genomics and disease. The suc-
cessful candidate will be trained in population or sta-
tistical genetics, or have strong computational or sta-
tistical skills. Postdoctoral research scientists can work
on interesting projects of their choosing related to the
labs’ general research interests or our current projects.
Possible/related projects include: 1) Next-generation
tools and development of model and non-model based
methods to study the role of common and rare genetic
variants responsible for a number of human traits or
disorders, mostly related to child health (cancer, im-
munodeﬁciencies, etc.). 2) Next-generation genomics
applications for studying the critical co- regulatory
factors associated with humans and malaria, sampled
from populations globally. A “population biology”
approach to identifying key genes and gene networks
associated with infection and resistance in both hu-
mans and pathogens. 3) Molecular and statistical ge-
nomics projects examining the severity of sickle-cell
disease in Africa and the North and South Amer-
ica. 4) Genetic and genomic epidemiology of en-
dophenotypes from a deeply phenotyped Quebec co-
hort of 20,000 participants ages 40-69 - CARTaGENE
(www.cartagene.qc.ca ). CARTaGENE is an infrastruc-
ture for population genomics research. This resource
will contribute to the development of better diagnosis,
treatment and disease prevention programs.
Interested individuals with a Phd should please write
to Philip Awadalla (philip.awadalla@umontreal.ca).
philip.awadalla@umontreal.caUParisSud Radionuclide adaptation
Postdoc position to model the spread of radionuclides
from ﬁres in areas aﬀected by Chernobyl and the con-
sequences for human health, ecology and biodiversity
Description: We seek applications for a Postdoctoral
Fellow position to model radionuclide redistribution as
a consequence of ﬁres that occur in the vicinity of Cher-
nobyl. The disaster at the Chernobyl power plant in
1986 released more than 130 PBq of radioactivity, with
most deposited in nearby areas of Ukraine, Belarus and
Russia. Approximately half of this material still re-
mains after natural decay of radionuclides. More than
10,000 km2 were heavily contaminated, and most hu-
man activity including forestry ceased in these areas,
causing accumulation of ﬁrewood for the last 25 years.
Because climate change has in addition caused an in-
crease in temperatures and a decrease in precipitation,
there is an increased risk of forest ﬁres. Such ﬁres are
disproportionately located in contaminated areas as re-
vealed by satellite images. Forest ﬁres produce radioac-
tive smoke that can be transported and subsequently
deposited in densely populated areas such as Kiev and
Moscow, depending on wind direction and patterns of
rainfall. Such redistribution of radioactivity could have
dramatic consequences for public health, but also ani-
mals and plants, and for the possibility to grow crops
and practice farming in large areas that are not contam-
inated today. The objective of this Postdoctoral Fel-
lowship is to assess the consequences of diﬀerent kinds
of forest ﬁre (minor ﬁres, intermediate ﬁres that aﬀect
30% of the area, worst case scenario of the entire area
being aﬀected by ﬁre) on re-distribution of radioactive
material. The project will use a state of the art earth
system model in which a ﬁre model, SPITFIRE, has
been embedded. We will model climate change, risk
and distribution of forest ﬁres and determine risk of de-
position of radioactive material transported by smoke.
We will calculate radioisotopes concentration and depo-
sition ﬁelds from which exposure doses can be derived.
This will allow health experts to quantify public health
and biological consequences of such re-distribution of
radioactive material. At an early stage in this work
a workshop will bring together ﬁre experts, health ex-
perts and ecologists to assess the current state of un-
derstanding and the uncertainties associated with mod-
eling ﬁres and radionuclides. The position is for 24
months, and we would like the candidate to start at orAugust 1, 2011 EvolDir 65
close to September 1st 2011.
Candidate background: We seek candidates that have a
thesis, a superior ability to write papers, and familiar-
ity with numerical modeling. The applications should
include a resume, a statement of research interests and
the names of at least two references including e-mail
addresses and telephone numbers.
Contacts: Yves Balkanski Anders Moller IPSL/LSCE
Lab. Ecologie, Systematique (Lab. des Sciences
du Climat et de et Evolution l’Environnement)
LSCE UMR 8212 CEA-CNRS-UVSQ UMR 8079
CNRS-Universite Paris-Sud XI-AgroParisTech
L’Orme des Merisiers - Bat 712, Bat 362 Univer-
site Paris-Sud XI Point Courrier 132 F-91191 Gif
sur Yvette Cedex F-91405 Orsay Cedex T +33 1
6908-7725 yves.balkanski@lsce.ipsl.fr anders.moller@u-
psud.fr http://www.researcherid.com/rid/A-
6616-2011 http://129.175.106.17/pages perso/-
spip.php?article47&lang=fr Anders Møller Labo-
ratoire Ecologie, Systematique et Evolution UMR
8079 CNRS-Universit´ e Paris-Sud XI-AgroParisTech
Batiment 362 Universit´ e Paris-Sud XI F-91405
Orsay Cedex http://www.ese.u-psud.fr/pages perso/-
spip.php?article47&#12296;=en Anders Pape Moller
<anders.moller@u-psud.fr >
Uppsala AmbrosiaGeneticDiversity
*Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences*
Faculty of Natural Resources and Agricultural Sciences
Department of Crop Production Ecology, Uppsala Post
doctoral position within the project Genetic diversity
and invasiveness in Ambrosia artemisiifolia
Ambrosia artemisiifolia, a native plant from North
America, has been recognized as the most serious weed
in large parts of eastern Europe. It constitutes a health
problem causing allergic reactions and is diﬃcult to
control in agricultural production. Studies of genetic
diversity would form a base for future investigations of
the potential for this species to adapt to North Euro-
pean conditions, and e.g. indicate whether its spread
is restricted by the critical photoperiod for initiation of
ﬂowering.
The position will be based at the department of Crop
Production Ecology, but you will be working in a group
of researchers from three departments, with expertise
in molecular biology, plant ecology and weed biology.In addition, you will be a part of the scientiﬁc environ-
ment within a larger research programme, Adaptability
of invasive weeds and pests.
*Duties:* The post doc position will focus on the ge-
netic diversity in A. artemisiifolia as a base for future
studies of its invasive potential. We expect the candi-
date to have an interest in genetics and ecology with
good knowledge in molecular genetic methods. She/he
will be working with the characterisation of phenotypic
and genotypic diversity in populations of A. artemisiifo-
lia from North America, Middle East and Europe. The
ﬁrst phase will include scanning of phenotypic varia-
tion as regards photoperiod requirement, and neutral
genetic variation. Future plans include a follow-up of
these studies by identiﬁcation of quantitative trait loci
(QTL) for variation in photoperiod requirements.
*Qualiﬁcations:* Prerequisites for the position include
i) a PhD in ﬁeld relevant to population genetics or
molecular ecology, and ii) demonstrated skill in molec-
ular genetic methods, preferably experience in working
with QTL. To be appointed as a post doc, the applicant
should have been awarded her/his PhD no more than
three years at the time of application.
Form of employment: The position encompasses a two-
year period (24 months). Extent: 100% Starting date:
By agreement
*Further information:* Lars Andersson Professor
+46(0)18 673366 Lars.Andersson@slu.se
and:
http://www.slu.se/sv/for-dig-som/lediga-
anstallningar/ mikael.lonn@sh.se
UStellenbosch AfricanAntelope
UStellenbosch MolecularCytogeneticsAfricanAntelope
A postdoctoral fellowship is available immediately in
the Robinson lab to study molecular cytogenetic rela-
tionships of bovids, and African antelope in particu-
lar. The Bovidae are noteworthy for the dominance
of Robertsonian (Rb) chromosomal fusions in shaping
the genomes of many species. Our recent work on
this group shows the use of these rearrangements in
determining evolutionary relationships is problematic,
and that homoplasy predominates in the chromosomal
dataset. In sharp contrast, variation in the morphol-
ogy of the X chromosome appears to hold considerable66 EvolDir August 1, 2011
promise for resolving some of the persistent problems
associated with the classiﬁcation of this group of mam-
mals.
We propose to: (i) Identify intrachromosomal rear-
rangements of the X chromosome using high density
BAC mapping and analysis by microdissected painting
probes and FISH. (ii) Develop high-resolution compar-
ative maps that deﬁne the borders and orientation of
rearranged segments in a species-rich taxonomic sam-
ple, and test these data for deﬁning evolutionary rela-
tionships among species of the subfamilies and tribes of
Bovidae.
A strong background in molecular and classic cyto-
genetic techniques including chromosomal preparation,
ﬂuorescent in situ hybridization/chromosome painting,
karyotyping, the use of Cytovision or other image anal-
ysis platforms and experience with cell culture is re-
quired. A strong interest phylogenetics would be an
advantage.
Applicants should provide a CV, statement of research
experience and names of three academic referees to:
Professor Terry Robinson (E-mail: tjr@sun.ac.za) De-
partment of Botany & Zoology Stellenbosch University
Private Bax X1 Matieland 7602 South Africa http://-
www.sun.ac.za/botzoo
Tel: +27 21 808 39 55 Fax: +27 21 808 24 05
“Robinson, TJ, Prof <tjr@sun.ac.za >”
<tjr@sun.ac.za >
UZurich FishEvolution
Open postdoctoral position at the University of Zurich
to study pattern and process in evolutionary radiations
of fossil and living actinopterygian ﬁshes
The Evolutionary Morphology and Palaeobiology of
Vertebrates group at the Palaeontological Institute
and Museum of the University of Zurich ( http://-
www.msanchezlab.net/ ) invites applications for a post-
doctoral position. The successful candidate will work
in a Swiss National Science Foundation supported
research project (Sinergia) about patterns and pro-
cesses in evolutionary radiations of fossil and living
actinopterygian ﬁshes, concentrating on the speciation
and phylogeny of a basal Triassic clade. The project is
a collaboration between M. Snchez, H. Furrer ( http:/-
/www.pim.uzh.ch/de/index.php ) and W. Salzburger(Basel, http://evolution.unibas.ch/salzburger/ ).
We are looking for an individual who has received his
or her PhD within the last ﬁve years, who is highly
motivated and can work independently on the project.
A successful candidate will have substantial research
experience in at least one of these areas: phylogenet-
ics, comparative anatomy, morphometrics and skele-
tochronology. The selected candidate will be expected
to help in teaching and writing a proposal for funding.
The position oﬀers a highly competitive salary of up to
three years on annually renewable contracts.
The working language in the laboratory is English.
German skills, although very helpful, are not essential.
Zurich is a highly attractive city in beautiful surround-
ings, with a multinational population, and many cul-
tural, educational and recreational opportunities.
To be considered, please send a single (!) PDF ﬁle
merged from the following parts: CV including publica-
tion list, a statement of research interests not exceeding
three pages, and three academic references. Please in-
clude the word SinergiaSnchez2012 in the subject line.
The application deadline is August 15, 2011. The posi-
tion is available in fall of 2011, at a negotiable starting
date.
Many thanks and kind regards,
Prof. Marcelo Snchez (e-mail: m.sanchez@pim.uzh.ch)
Marcelo Snchez <m.sanchez@pim.uzh.ch >
YaleU SexualSelection
*Postdoctoral Position Available To Study Sexual Se-
lection and Social Interactions*
A NSF-funded postdoctoral position is currently avail-
able in the lab of Suzanne Alonzo (PI) at the Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at Yale Uni-
versity to develop theory on how individual social or
behavioral interactions aﬀect evolutionary dynamics,
with a focus on reproductive and social traits. The
postdoctoral researcher will work independently and in
collaboration with the PI to determine the precise ques-
tions to be addressed. A Ph.D. in evolution, ecology, or
mathematical biology is required. A background in sex-
ual selection, social evolution or evolutionary ecology is
preferred. Applicants should have a background in evo-
lutionary or ecological theory and have previous experi-
ence developing mathematical models. Individuals withAugust 1, 2011 EvolDir 67
experience with inclusive ﬁtness methods, adaptive dy-
namics, game theory or quantitative genetics are espe-
cially encouraged to apply. The position is currently
open and can start as soon as possible.
Application deadline is July 31, 2011. Position will re-
main open until ﬁlled.
In the cover letter, applicants should describe their the-
oretical background and experience with mathemati-
cal modeling and evolutionary theory explicitly. Please
submit a curriculum vita, brief statement of researchinterests, up to 3 relevant manuscripts and contact in-
formation for 3 references to Suzanne H. Alonzo by
email (Suzanne.Alonzo@Yale.edu). Applicants should
also give their earliest potential start date
Yale University is an Equal Opportunity/Aﬃrmative
Action Employer. Men and women of diverse
racial/ethnic backgrounds and cultures are encouraged
to apply.
“Suzanne H. Alonzo” <suzanne.alonzo@yale.edu >
WorkshopsCourses
Adelboden Switzerland TheoryCooperation Aug11-13
67
Barcelona StatisticalGenetics Aug22-26 . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
CSHL ComputationalComparativeGenomics Nov9-15
68
Edinburgh RADSequencing Sep6-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Manchester Morphometrics Nov7-Dec16 . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Montana ConGen Sep27-Oct1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70Montreal FounderEﬀects Oct11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71
Portugal TeachingEvolution Sep27-30 2 . . . . . . . . . . . 71
Portugal TeachingEvolution Sep27-30 3 . . . . . . . . . . . 72
Trento Italy ConsPopulationGenetics Sep20-22 Deadli-
neExt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
UCalifornia Berkeley BayesianPylogeny Aug15-19 . 73
Adelboden Switzerland
TheoryCooperation Aug11-13
CUSO Workshop on ’The Theory of Cooperation’ Au-
gust 11-13, 2011 Adelboden, Switzerland
Dear colleagues,
The behavioural ecology group at the University of
Bern is organizing a workshop on ’The Theory of Co-
operation’, which is to be held on August 11 - 13, 2011,
in Adelboden, Switzerland. This meeting is funded
by the Conf´ erence Universitaire de Suisse Occidentale
(CUSO), and the Doctoral Program in Ecology and
Evolution of the western Swiss Universities. Students
from the aﬃliated institutions can apply for full reim-
bursement of travel/participation and accommodation
costs.Interested students (MSc, PhD), postdocs and re-
searchers from other institutions are very welcome to
attend this workshop as well; we can usually admit
about 25 non-CUSO participants. A preliminary pro-
gram with the list of speakers, further information
about the workshop and instructions on how to register
can be found on:
http://behav.zoology.unibe.ch/index.php?pp=-
3D56&p=3D67 The deadline for registration is
July 15. We would appreciate your help in forwarding
this announcement to students in your group who
would potentially be interested in participating.
Best wishes, Sander van Doorn Michael Taborsky
Institute of Ecology and Evolution Etho-
logical Research Station Hasli Wohlen-
strasse 50a CH-3032 Hinterkappelen Switzer-
land http://behav.zoology.unibe.ch/
sander.vandoorn@iee.unibe.ch68 EvolDir August 1, 2011
Barcelona StatisticalGenetics
Aug22-26
The course is ﬁlling fast, but we have a few more open
spaces. Applications will be accepted until all spaces
are ﬁlled
STATISTICAL GENETICS SHORT COURSE 22-26
August 2011
Barcelona, Spain Hosted by Centre Nacional d’An` alisi
Gen` omica (CNAG)
http://www.genetics.ucla.edu/courses/statgene email:
statgene@mednet.ucla.edu
We are oﬀering a ﬁve full-day intensive workshop on
state-of-the-art statistical methods for detection of ge-
netic loci for complex traits.
Each day will include hands-on computer exercises us-
ing statistical genetics computer programs, especially
the Mendel software package, with its new graphical
front-end.
We will cover the general theory behind the methods as
well as emphasize the practical aspects needed to give
the best chances of success. The Course is designed to
assist people who will be performing statistical analy-
ses to discover the genetic basis of complex traits. The
methods covered are appropriate to both human and
non-human populations. Topics will include:
* Statistical Reviews * Genetic Study Design * Quality
Control and other data issues * Haplotyping * Analy-
sis of Qualitative and Quantitative Traits including: -
Parametric and Non-Parametric Linkage (NPL) analy-
sis - Methods for Large Pedigrees - Genome-Wide Asso-
ciation Studies (GWAS), or smaller scale, including: +
Case/Control or Random Sample + Family-based De-
signs + Complex Pedigrees derived from Inbred Strains
* Ethnic Admixture Analysis * Gene Co-Expression
Network Analysis * Rare Variant Analysis Methods Ap-
plicable to SNP or Genome Sequence Data
Participants in the Course need no prior experience
with these methods or programs. Participants will be
required to bring a laptop computer to run the analysis
exercises.
The Course features instructors from the Statistical Ge-
netics Group of the UCLA Department of Human Ge-
netics and other leading genetic researchers:- Kenneth Lange - Simon Heath - Steve Horvath -
Jeanette Papp - Janet Sinsheimer - Eric Sobel - Hua
Zhou
The cost of the course, which includes lunch and snacks
every day and a group dinner on Thursday, is:
900 EUR for students from non-proﬁt institutions 1200
EUR for postdocs, staﬀ, and faculty from non-proﬁt
institutions 1600 EUR for individuals from for-proﬁt
institutions
Transportation and lodging are not included.
The course will be held 22-26 August 2011 in Barcelona,
Spain.
For more information, including the sim-
ple application process, please visit http://-
www.genetics.ucla.edu/courses/statgene Please
email statgene@mednet.ucla.edu for more information
or to submit the simple application material.
JanetS@mednet.ucla.edu
CSHL ComputationalCompara-
tiveGenomics
Nov9-15
Course announcement:
Cold Spring Harbor COMPUTATIONAL & COMPAR-
ATIVE GENOMICS
November 9 - 15, 2011 Application Deadline: July 15,
2011
—–
INSTRUCTORS: William Pearson, University of Vir-
ginia, Charlottesville, VA <Lisa Stubbs, University of
Illinois, Urbana, IL
This course presents a comprehensive overview of the
theory and practice of computational methods for the
identiﬁcation and characterization of functional ele-
ments from DNA sequence data. The course focuses
on approaches for extracting the maximum amount of
information from protein and DNA sequence similarity
through sequence database searches, statistical analy-
sis, and multiple sequence alignment. Additional topics
include:
* Alignment and analysis of “Next-Gen” sequence data
* The Galaxy environment for high-throughput analy-
sis * Identiﬁcation of conserved signals in aligned andAugust 1, 2011 EvolDir 69
unaligned sequences * Regulatory element and motif
recognition * Integration of genetic and sequence in-
formation in biological databases * The ENSEMBL
genome browser and BioMart
The course combines lectures with hands-on exercises;
students are encouraged to pose challenging sequence
analysis problems using their own data. The course is
designed for biologists seeking advanced training in bi-
ological sequence and genome analysis, computational
biology core resource directors and staﬀ, and for scien-
tists in other disciplines, such as computer science, who
wish to survey current research problems in biological
sequence analysis. Advanced programming skills are
not required.
The lecture/lab schedule for the 2010 course can be
found at http://fasta.bioch.virginia.edu/cshl Speakers
in 2011 course will include:
Aaron Mackey, U. of Virginia, Next-Gen analysis
pipelines
Bert Overduin, European Bioinformatics Institute, UK,
ENSEMBL and BioMart
Frances Ouelette, Ontario Cancer Research Institute,
Databases for Biological Function
William Pearson, U. of Virginia, Similarity Searching,
Multiple Alignment
Lisa Stubbs, U. of Illinois, Urbana, Genome browsing,
Comparative genomics
James Taylor, Emory, Galaxy and genome analysis
pipelines
The primary focus of the computational and compara-
tive genomics course is the theory and practice of algo-
rithms used in computational biology, with the goal of
using current methods more eﬀectively and developing
new algorithms. Students more interested in the prac-
tical aspects of software development are encouraged to
apply to the course on Programming for biology. Stu-
dents who would like in-depth training in the analysis
of next-generation sequencing data (e.g., SNP calling
and the detection of structural variants) should apply
to the course on Advanced Sequencing Technologies &
Applications.
—–
To apply to the course, ﬁll out and send in the form at:
http://meetings.cshl.edu/course/-
courseapp instr.shtml William Pearson
<wrp@virginia.edu >Edinburgh RADSequencing Sep6-7
3rd UK RAD SEQUENCING MEETING
12.30 6th September 2011 to 17.00 7th September 2011
John McIntyre Conference Centre Edinburgh, UK
Registration: www.radseq.info The 3rd UK meeting
on RAD (Restriction-site Associated DNA) Sequenc-
ing will be held in Edinburgh on the 6th and 7th of
September 2011.
RAD Sequencing is a novel method for sequencing thou-
sands of genetic markers in tens of individuals from any
organism using next-generation sequencing. This meet-
ing, the third RAD meeting organized by the GenePool
Sequencing and Bioinformatics Facility in Edinburgh,
will bring together expert RAD-Seq practitioners and
researchers either currently using RAD-Seq or planning
to use it.
Dr. Paul Etter and Dr. Julian Catchen, RAD-Seq ex-
perts from the University of Oregon, where the method
was invented, will be attending the meeting to present
and discuss their newly published RAD-Seq protocols
and software. We will also hear from a range of re-
searchers making use of RAD-Seq in the UK and be-
yond.
To register and submit an abstract for the meeting,
please visit www.radseq.info For enquiries, please con-
tact genepool-meetings@ed.ac.uk.
Supported by the UK Natural Environment Research
Council.
– The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body,
registered in Scotland, with registration number
SC005336.
John Davey <john.davey@ed.ac.uk >
Manchester Morphometrics
Nov7-Dec16
Dear colleagues
I am pleased to announce this year’s morphometrics
course from the University of Manchester. This year’s70 EvolDir August 1, 2011
course will run in the six weeks from 7 November to 16
December 2011.
The course information can be found on the following
we site: http://www.ﬂywings.org.uk/MorphoCourse
Course content: * Data acquisition: the kinds of data
and the equipment used to collect them. * Deﬁni-
tions of size and shape * Geometric methods to char-
acterise shape from a conﬁguration of landmark points
(Procrustes superimposition) * Statistics of variation,
scatter plots, basic multivariate statistics * Principal
component analysis * Measurement error and outliers
* Shape transformations and ’warping’ – the thin plate
spline * Analysis of outline shapes * Distinguishing
between groups (taxonomy, clinical diagnosis, etc.) *
Allometry and size correction * Inﬂuence of external
factors on shape (ecomorphology, dose- response stud-
ies) * Symmetric forms and measurement of asymme-
try. * Morphometric inferences on developmental pro-
cesses, morphological integration, modularity * Genet-
ics of shape: analyses of resemblance between relatives,
QTL analyses. * Phylogeny: reconstructing the evolu-
tion of shape
Practice examples: As far as possible, practical exer-
cises are provided to accompany the course content.
These practice exercises consist of data sets and expla-
nations on how to run the respective analyses using
the MorphoJ software ( http://www.ﬂywings.org.uk/-
MorphoJ page.htm ). Participants who already have
their own data are encouraged to use those and to dis-
cuss them as part of the course. I hope there will be a
bit of a ’workshop’ feel to the course unit.
Group work: Participants will work in small groups
to prepare web presentations of possible morphome-
tric studies (blogs or wikis prepared by the groups).
This activity stimulates discussion and provides a broad
overview of the broad range of questions that can be
addressed with morphometric methods.
The fee for the course is GBP 260.00 (I’m afraid it’s
gone up again slightly from last year – this is out of my
control).
All prospective participants need to pre-register for the
course. The deadline for this is the *18 September
2011*.
For further details and the pre-registration form, see
the course web page: http://www.ﬂywings.org.uk/-
MorphoCourse Best wishes, Chris
Christian Peter Klingenberg Faculty of Life Sciences
The University of Manchester Michael Smith Building
Oxford Road Manchester M13 9PT United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 161 275 3899 Fax: +44 161 2755082 E-mail: cpk@manchester.ac.uk Web: http://-
www.ﬂywings.org.uk Skype: chris klingenberg
cpk@manchester.ac.uk
Montana ConGen Sep27-Oct1
ConGen COURSE IN MONTANA - 2nd Announce-
ment
To beneﬁt of a low-fare fee register until 15th July. Ap-
plications for 2011 edition are yet open but few places
are left!
5th ConGen- Population Genetics Data Analysis
Course: Recent Approaches for Estimation of Popu-
lation Size, Structure, Gene-ﬂow, Selection Detection
focusing on conservation and beyond
27-Sep/1-Oct 2011, Flathead Lake Biological Station,
Montana, USA
Objective: To provide training in conceptual and prac-
tical aspects of data analysis for the conservation ge-
netics of natural and managed populations. Empha-
sis will be on interpretation of output from recent
novel statistical approaches and software programs.
The course also will allow daily discussions among
young researchers and top-researchers to help develop
the next generation of conservation geneticists, and to
identify developments needed to improve data analy-
sis approaches. This course will cover analysis meth-
ods including the coalescent, Bayesian, approximate
Bayesian, and likelihood-based approaches.
Who should apply: Ph.D. students, post-docs, and pop-
ulation biologists with a background of at least one
semester university-level course in population genetics
and a course in population ecology. Applicants must
have a basic background in population genetic data
analysis, including testing for Hardy-Weinberg propor-
tions and gametic disequilibrium. Participation will be
limited to 25 people allowing eﬃcient instruction with
hands-on computer exercises during the course. Pri-
ority will be given to persons with their own data to
analyze (for example graduate students at the end of
their degree program).
Deadline for application is 30 July, 2011
Course/Workshop Format: For each subject, we pro-
vide 30-45 minutes of background, theory, discussion
and introduction to concepts. Immediately following,
we will conduct data analyses together for 30-60 min-August 1, 2011 EvolDir 71
utes using relevant software programs and real data
sets. Evening hands-on computer sessions and hous-
ing together of instructors and students in the same
location will allow for extensive exchange and facilitate
learning.
Conﬁrmed Instructors/Speakers
Fred Allendorf Robin Waples Oscar Gaggiotti Gordon
Luikart Jonathan Pritchard Mike Schwartz Mark Miller
Tiago Antao Ted Cosart Paul Hohenlohe David Tall-
mon Albano Beja-Pereira
For detailed information see http://popgen.eu/-
congen2011/ congen@popgen.eu
Albano Beja-Pereira <albanobp@fc.up.pt >
Montreal FounderEﬀects Oct11
ICHG Satellite Workshop
Populations of the New World: impact of founder ef-
fects on health
http://ichg2011popworkshop.yolasite.com/
Tuesday, October 11th, 2011, 8:00 am to 4:00 pm
Salle Saint Antoine (9th ﬂoor), Westin Hotel, 270 St.
Antoine West, Montreal, QC
Located across the street from the Montreal Convention
Center
PROGRAM & SPEAKERS
1st Session: Genetics and genealogies
Marie? \H´ el` ene Roy? \Gagnon (U. of Montreal) & He-
lene V´ ezina (U. of Quebec (Chicoutimi)) Genomic
and genealogical investigation of the French Canadian
founder population structure
Philip Awadalla ( U. of Montreal) Interrogating the Ge-
nomic and Environmental Control Points of Chronic
Disease in a Prospective Aging Quebec Cohort ? \
CARTaGENE
Agnar Helgason (deCODE Genetics) Using IBD seg-
ments to study admixture and population structure in
Iceland
2nd Session: Amerindian Health Issues
David Reich (Harvard U.) The Genetic History of Na-
tive Americans
Robert Hanson (NIDDK, NIH) Genetic Studies of Di-abetes Mellitus in Pima Indians
Laura Arbour (U. of British Columbia) Predicting risk
for sudden death: The power of clinical and basic sci-
ence with communities
3rd Session: Admixtures
Nelson B. Freimer (UCLA) Mapping Disease genes in
Latin American founder populations
Carlos D. Bustamante (Stanford U.) Population genet-
ics and genomics of admixture in the Americas
Rick Kittles (U. of Chicago) Genetic Histories of
Africans in the New World
John Novembre (UCLA) Admixture and Recombina-
tion in African? \Americans
4th Session: Selection and adaptation
Anna Di Rienzo (U. of Chicago) Adaptations to local
environments in Native Americans
David Goldstein (Duke U.) Identifying pathogenic mu-
tations in whole genome sequence data
Meeting organizers: Damian Labuda & Guy Rouleau,
U.of Montreal
Meeting secretary: Ron Lafreniere
PRE? \REGISTRATION WILL BE REQUIRED
SINCE ATTENDANCE WILL BE LIMITED TO
80 PARTICIPANTS DUE TO ROOM LIMITA-
TIONS. PLEASE CONTACT RON LAFRENIERE
AT RON.RMGA@GMAIL.COM TO REGISTER OR
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION.
Damian Labuda <damian.labuda@umontreal.ca >
Portugal TeachingEvolution
Sep27-30 2
Dear all,
This is the 2nd call for applications to the Faculty Insti-
tutes for Reforming Science Teaching (FIRST) IV-like
Workshop being held at CIBIO-UP next fall, now with
some changes in eligibility criteria for applicants.
Key elements of FIRST IV include active learning, as-
sessment, and diversity in teaching. FIRST IV-like
workshop aims at bringing together professionals inter-
ested in teaching and science communication, providing
teaching skills and connecting the participants to the
FIRST IV network on teaching.72 EvolDir August 1, 2011
As such, FIRST IV-like workshop is indicated for all
those who are interested in science communication or
science education at any level or target audience.
Some details are given bellow or you can visit the web-
page http://popgencibio.org/web/ We hope to see you
in September!
Please share this e-mail with who might be interested.
Kind regards, Rita Campos Rui Faria
Important dates: Registration: July 1 - July 17 2011
Notiﬁcation of acceptance: July 23 2011 Conﬁrmation
of registration (payment): July 23 - 29 2011 Course:
September 27 - 30 2011
Instructor: Diane Ebert-May, Professor Department
of Plant Biology Michigan State University http:/-
/www.plantbiology.msu.edu https://www.msu.edu/-
˜ ﬁrst4/ https://www.msu.edu/course/bs/110/-
ebertmay/ Registration: Merge the completed
application form with all the required materials to
create the ﬁnal application ﬁle, which will include: -
Application form with the ﬁelds completed - Statement
explaining your reason for applying to FIRST IV and
expected outcomes from your participation in relation
to your career goals - Curriculum Vitae - Statement of
Teaching Philosophy
Please name your completed application ﬁle: Last-
nameFirstname FIRSTIVCIBIOapp.pdf
Email the ﬁnalized application to ritacam-
pos@mail.icav.up.pt
Price: 360 euros
The course fee includes lunch, morning and afternoon
coﬀee-breaks, room and instructional materials. Shared
rooms are entitling to a discount. If you don’t need
housing, please contact us after being accepted to at-
tend the workshop.
rita.ml.campos@gmail.com
Portugal TeachingEvolution
Sep27-30 3
Dear colleagues,
We would like to recall that the deadline to apply to the
workshop FIRST IV at CIBIO is approaching (23h59m
of July 17).
Faculty Institutes for Reforming Science Teaching(FIRST) IV Workshop aims at bringing together pro-
fessionals interested in teaching and science commu-
nication, providing teaching skills and connecting the
participants to the FIRST IV network on teaching.
FIRST IV-like workshop is open to graduate students,
posdocs and faculty and also to science communicators
and educators.
You can ﬁnd more information at WEB Program page:
http://popgencibio.org/web/ We would also appreci-
ate if you could forward this e-mail to your colleagues
and within your research groups and institutions.
Best regards Rita Campos Rui Faria
rita.ml.campos@gmail.com
Trento Italy
ConsPopulationGenetics Sep20-22
DeadlineExt
Workshop: POPULATION GENETICS FOR ANI-
MAL CONSERVATION III 20-22 September 2011,
Trento, Italy.
DEADLINE FOR REGISTRATION AND AB-
STRACT SUBMISSION HAS BEEN POSTPONED
TO JULY 15th
All relevant information, including registration and
abstract forms, can be found at: http://pgac3.fem-
environment.eu/ Brief description The Third edition
of the workshop will be focussed on a well-recognized,
yet unsolved issue in conservation genetics: how to
bridge the gap between scientists and end-users, i.e.
non-scientists such as policymakers, administrators, or
park rangers that are directly involved in animal con-
servation and would like to design, implement and/or
apply management and conservation plans using the
most modern strategies and tools
Therefore, this workshop intends addressing this gap by
focussing on ﬁve main themes identiﬁed as top priori-
ties during a recent survey conducted by the European
consortium ConGRESS of 100 end-users from across
Europe:
1) Identifying units for conservation 2) Population con-
nectivity and isolation 3) Reconstructing past popula-
tion dynamics 4) Detecting and planning translocations
and reintroductions 5) Genetic diversity and adapta-
tion Each theme will be tackled in one 2-hour session
(with lectures from invited speakers and contributionsAugust 1, 2011 EvolDir 73
from attendees) with ﬁnal-day round tables discussions
where scientists and end-user will have the opportunity
to examine, vis-a-vis, unresolved issues and possible so-
lutions.
PGAC III hopes to bring together researchers from dif-
ferent ﬁelds (e.g. population genetics, ecology, conser-
vation biology and related) and end-users with basic
scientiﬁc knowledge and a strong desire to know more
about applying population genetics tools to their par-
ticular conservation problem. The major aim will be
to promote an eﬀective interaction, using a common
language, to fully exploit the potential of population
genetics as applied to animal conservation.
Invited speakers: Giorgio Bertorelle (University of
Ferrara, Italy) Josef Bryja (Academy of Sciences,
Czech Republic) Mike Bruford (University of Cardiﬀ,
UK) Oscar Gaggiotti (Universit J Fourier, Grenoble,
France) Rus Hoelzel (University of Durham, UK) Jacob
Hoglund (University of Uppsala, Sweden) Craig Moritz
(University of California, Berkeley, USA) Richard
Nichols (Queen Marys College, UK) Craig Primmer
(Univeristy of Turku, Finland) Gernot Segelbacher
(University of Freiburg, Germany) Hans Siegismund
(University of Copenhagen, Denmark) Per Sjogren-
Gulve (Swedish Environmental Protection Agency)
Carles Vil (CSIC, Spain) Raj Whitlock (University of
Liverpool, UK)
The Scientiﬁc Committee: Giorgio Bertorelle, Uni-
versity of Ferrara, Italy Mike Bruford, University of
Cardiﬀ, UK Heidi Hauﬀe, Fondazione Edmund Mach,
S. Michele all’Adige, Trento, Italy Cristiano Vernesi,
Fondazione Edmund Mach, Viote del Monte Bondone,
Trento, Italy
Cristiano Vernesi Department of Biodiversity and
Molecular Ecology Research and Innovation Centre -
Fondazione Edmund Mach address: Centro di Ecologia
Alpina, Viote del Monte Bondone - 38040 Trento - Italy
tel +390461939523 - fax +390461948190 - skypename:
cvernesi
Please, consider your environmental responsibility be-
fore printing this emailCristiano Vernesi <vernesi@cealp.it >
UCalifornia Berkeley
BayesianPylogeny Aug15-19
SYMPOSIUM / WORKSHOP on Bayesian inference of
phylogeny
There will be a mini-symposium on Bayesian inference
of phylogeny to be held on the UC Berkeley campus
from August 15th to 19th. There will be two days
of talks (August 15th and 16th) on various aspects of
Bayesian inference as it applies to the phylogeny prob-
lem. The following three days will be a workshop for
people interested in developing for the RevBayes pro-
gram. RevBayes implements an R-like language for
specifying complex evolutionary models and (attempts)
to perform solid statistical estimation of a model’s pa-
rameters.
Where: UC Berkeley (e-mail John Huelsenbeck for de-
tails about the room location) When: August 15 - 16
(talks), August 17 - 19 (workshop on RevBayes for
interested developers) How: RSVP John Huelsenbeck
(johnh@berkeley.edu) if you intend to attend.
Conﬁrmed speakers include: Michael Jordan (UC
Berkeley), Ian Holmes (UC Berkeley), Jeﬀ Thorne
(NCSU), Fredrik Ronquist (Swedish Natural History
Museum), Jeet Sukumaran (KU), Sebastian Hoehna
(Stockholm University), Tracy Heath (UC Berkeley),
and John Huelsenbeck (UC Berkeley).
John Huelsenbeck University of California, Berkeley
Department of Integrative Biology 3060 VLSB # 3140
Berkeley, CA 94720-3140
E-mail: johnh@berkeley.edu Phone: (510) 502-5887
johnh@berkeley.edu
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed74 EvolDir August 1, 2011
in the same order as presented here — Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from ‘blackballed’ addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned oﬀ and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf ﬁle.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
‘on vacation’, etc, style messages are automatically ﬁltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail’s your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word ﬁles, as HTML ﬁles, as L ATEX ﬁles, Excel ﬁles, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
“Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:” and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and ﬁlters. If the message is caught by one of the
ﬁlters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.