E v o l D i r
September 1, 2013
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in
the same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary.
The nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you
would like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .63
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1052 EvolDir September 1, 2013
Conferences
Asilomar ASN Jan13-15 RegistrationOpen . . . . . . . . . .2
Austin InsectSpeciation Nov10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Austin Texas CellEvoDevo Jan3-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Barcelona EvolutionMulticellularity Sep30-Oct1
RegExtended . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
Bogota EvolutionBehavior Sep10-12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Canberra Biogeography Jan7-10 Deadline . . . . . . . . . . .5
Canberra Biogeography Jan7-10 EarlyCareer . . . . . . . 6
ColdSpringHarbor MobileDNA Oct24-26 . . . . . . . . . . . 6
ColdSpringHarborLab MobileGeneticElementEvol
Oct24-26 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Heraklion MediterraneanMarineBiodiversity Oct7-9 3
7
KITP UCaliforniaSantaBarbara EvolutionOfDrugRe-
sistance Jul21-Sep19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8
KansasCity EcologicalGenomics Nov1-3 . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Kunming InternationalBarcoding Oct27-31 . . . . . . . . . 9London EvolutionBehaviouralMechanisms Dec5-6 . 10
London EvolutionBehaviouralMechanisms Dec5-6 Ab-
stDeadline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
MLBS UVirginia SEPEEG2013 Sep27-29 Deadline 11
Marseilles 17thEvolutionaryBiology Sep17-20 4 . . . . 11
Montreal MathematicsSequenceEvolution Sep23-27 11
Oldenburg Germany Phylogenetics Nov22-24 . . . . . . 12
Paluzza InsectEvolution Sep19-22 RegExtended . . . 13
Raleigh ASN Jun20-24 CallSymposia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Rosco France EvolutionCancer Nov2-6 ExtDeadline
13
UNSW Sydney EvolutionEconomics Feb2-5 . . . . . . . .14
UNSW Sydney EvolutionEconomics Feb2-5 2 . . . . . .15
USydney Systematics Dec1-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
UVirginia SEPEEG Sep27-29 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Asilomar ASN Jan13-15
RegistrationOpen
Registration is now open for the 2014 Asilomar
conference of the American Society of Naturalists.
To register, visit: http://w3.biosci.utexas.edu/-
amnatasilomar/registration.html Lodging must be
booked separately: http://w3.biosci.utexas.edu/-
amnatasilomar/lodging.html Seating for this confer-
ence is limited to 200 people due to meeting space
constraints, so we expect the conference will ll up
completely. We therefore encourage potential atten-
dees to register shortly after the registration period
opens.
The American Society of Naturalists will be holding
a small independent meeting at the Asilomar Confer-
ence Center on the Monterey Peninsula in coastal Cal-
ifornia, January 13-15, 2014. The goal of the meeting
is to promote integration between evolution and ecol-
ogy by attracting a more diverse community of biolo-
gists than typically attend the evolution meetings heldjointly each summer by ASN, SSE, and SSB. Note that
ASN will continue to meet jointly with SSE and SSB
for the evolution meeting in the summer.
Information about the conference can be found on
the conference website: http://w3.biosci.utexas.edu/-
amnatasilomar/index.html including a general schedule
and information about three afternoon symposia and
evening events.
We look forward to seeing you there!
Sincerely,
Dan Bolnick Past Secretary, ASN
Dr. Daniel I. Bolnick
Early Career Scientist Howard Hughes Medical Insti-
tute
Associate Professor Section of Integrative Biology One
University Station C0990 University of Texas at Austin
Austin, TX 78712
512-471-2824 fax 512-471-3878 danbol-
nick@austin.utexas.edu https://webspace.utexas.edu/-
dib73/TheBolnickLab/Home.html \Bolnick, Daniel I"
<danbolnick@austin.utexas.edu >September 1, 2013 EvolDir 3
Austin InsectSpeciation Nov10
The following symposium at the 2013 Entomol-
ogy meeting in Austin, Texas <x-apple-data-
detectors://0 >, may be of interest to evolutionary
biologists, particularly those interested in insect
speciation and insect diversity:
Announcing \Guy Bush and Santa Rosalia: Speciation
with Gene Flow and the Extraordinary Diversity of In-
sects," a Systematics and Evolutionary Biology Section
Symposium at the annual meeting of the Entomological
Society of America (November 10-13, 2013 <x-apple-
data-detectors://1 >in Austin, Texas). This sympo-
sium celebrates the work and continuing legacy of Dr.
Guy Bush, one of the pioneers of modern insect evolu-
tionary biology. Speakers are leaders and future leaders
in insect evolutionary ecology, and include several for-
mer students and postdocs of Dr. Bush. Dr. Bush will
be in attendance and will close the symposium with
some words of reection. A full description of sym-
posium themes and a list of speakers is appended be-
low. The Entomology meetings also oer myriad other
exciting Evolution-related symposia and activities this
year so plan to come for the symposium (Nov 10; 1-
6pm) and stay for the meeting! (program: http://-
www.entsoc.org/entomology2013)
Andrew Forbes (University of Iowa; andrew-
forbes@uiowa.edu) & Glen Hood (University of
Notre Dame; ghood@nd.edu), symposium organizers.
Full description: Guy Bush and Santa Rosalia: Speci-
ation with Gene Flow and the Extraordinary Diversity
of Insects
A view long held by evolutionary biologists is that geo-
graphic barriers to gene ow are necessary for species to
diverge. In the last ~25 years however, there has been a
renaissance in our understanding of speciation; namely
that new species can form in the face of gene ow as a
result of ecologically based divergent selection. Perhaps
no group has been more vocal in advocating this view
than entomologists studying parasitic insects, and at
the front lines of this movement was Guy Bush. Bush's
experimental work on the incipient sympatric specia-
tion of the apple maggot y, Rhagoletis pomonella, and
his theoretical writings on modes of speciation inspired
many evolutionary entomologists. Today, theoretical,
ecological, and genetic studies have produced evidence
that insects may often diverge in the face of gene owas a consequence of ecological interactions.
In 1993, Bush authored a \revistiation" of G. Evelyn
Hutchinson's Santa Rosalia paper, in which he argued
that the sheer number of small, often cryptic, special-
ist insect species found on Earth stands as implicit ev-
idence that speciation with gene ow must be impor-
tant in generating insect diversity. And indeed, contem-
porary ecological genetic studies are revealing extraor-
dinary patterns of diversity in insect form and func-
tion that favor the Hutchinsonian (and Bush-ian) world
view of, as Joe Felsenstein put it, \a dierent species
on every bush."
This symposium celebrates the legacy of Guy Bush and
explores current research in insect evolutionary ecology
by featuring examples of speciation-with-gene-ow in
insects alongside ecological genetic studies of insect di-
versity.
Speakers: Jose Andres, University of Saskatchewan
Stewart Berlocher, University of Illinois Guy Bush,
Michigan State University (Emeritus) Scott Carroll,
University of California, Davis Marty Condon, Cornell
College Scott Egan, Rice University Je Feder, Univer-
sity of Notre Dame Matt Forister, University of Nevada,
Reno Doug Futuyma, SUNY Stony Brook Julie Hebert,
Rutgers University Steve Heard, University of New
Brunswick Glen Hood, University of Notre Dame Chris
Nice, Texas State University M. Alex Smith, Univer-
sity of Guelph John Stireman, Wright State University
George Weiblen, University of Minnesota
andrew-forbes@uiowa.edu
Austin Texas CellEvoDevo Jan3-7
Symposium: The cell's view of animal body plan
evolution Society for Integrative and Compara-
tive Biology (SICB) Annual Meeting January 3-
7, 2014 Austin, TX http://www.sicb.org/meetings/-
2014/symposia/cellevo.php Abstract submission dead-
line: August 26 2013 Registration deadline: November
9, 2013
Understanding how diverse animal body plans evolved
remains one of the most exciting and challenging goals
for evolutionary and developmental biologists alike.
Over the past few decades, genomic and molecular ge-
netic approaches have provided insights into which gene
networks regulate cell fate specication. It is less well
understood how specication states launch specic cell4 EvolDir September 1, 2013
biological properties, such as polarity, migration, and
adhesion. Yet, cells are the fundamental unit of all bi-
ological structures and phenomena - evolution shapes
phenotypes by ultimately tinkering with cellular char-
acteristics. With recent advances in applying mod-
ern molecular, live-imaging, and modeling techniques
to a broader range of experimental systems, can we
now compare cell types across animal species to under-
stand how they have mediated organismal evolution?
This symposium will bring together researchers who
use varied approaches to test hypotheses at multiple
levels of biological organization, ranging from systems-
level studies of gene regulatory networks for cell behav-
iors to modeling cytoskeletal dynamics that drive tissue
morphogenesis.
\Cellular Evolutionary Developmental Biology" does
not exist as a codied eld. Because of recent break-
throughs in research methods, this is the ideal time to
discuss what it will look like in the near future. The
diversity of expertise and perspectives present at the
annual SICB meeting makes it an ideal venue to con-
sider such an integrative topic. We hope that this sym-
posium will stimulate a synthesis that can inform new
directions in the eld in the future. The invited speaker
symposium covers topics including cytoskeletal dynam-
ics underlying patterning and morphogenesis of tissues,
specication and gene regulatory networks leading to
cellular behaviors and comparative cell biology of re-
generation.
A poster session will follow this day long symposium. A
complementary session of shorter contributed talks will
be held on a dierent day. We encourage researchers
to submit abstracts on a broad range of research topics
pertaining to the evolution of development and devel-
opmental cell biology. We will select 10-15 short (15
minute) talks from submitted abstracts. We have a lim-
ited number of travel scholarships available to support
the participation of students, postdoctoral researchers,
and earl-career professors.
Make sure to select our symposium from the pull
down menu when you submit your abstract (http:/-
/www.sicb.org/meetings/2014/). Feel free to contact
the organizers if you have any questions.
Organizers: Deirdre Lyons, Postdoctoral Researcher,
Duke University (deirdre.lyons@duke.edu) Mansi
Srivastava, Postdoctoral Fellow, Whitehead In-
stitute (mansi@wi.mit.edu) Mark Martindale,
Directory, Whitney Marine Laboratory (mq-
martin@whitney.u.edu)
Funding Opportunities: Some funding is available for
those who present a poster or talk as part of this
symposium to help defray the cost of attending themeeting. Preference will be given on a primarily need
basis to junior scientists (students, post-docs and ju-
nior faculty), current members of the Society for De-
velopmental Biology (SDB), and those from under-
represented minorities and those with disabilities. To
apply, send an email by September 1, 2013 to Dede
Lyons (deirdre.lyons@duke.edu) with the following in-
formation: 1) Name, institution, lab and position (stu-
dent, post-doc, etc.) 2) The title and abstract of your
poster or talk. Please indicate if you requested a talk or
poster 3) Indicate whether you are a current SDB mem-
ber and/or belong to an under- represented minority or
have a disability 3) Cost of attending the meeting, bro-
ken down by travel, lodging, and registration costs 4)
Alternative funding sources and amounts available to
you 5) The amount you are requesting for funding from
the symposium
Other sources of funding are available through SICB:
http://www.sicb.org/students/awards.php3#support
http://www.sicb.org/students/skinner.php3 Con-
rmed Speakers:
Sally Horne-Badovinac Assistant Professor, Molecu-
lar Genetics and Cell Biology University of Chicago)
(http://shb-lab.org/) Title: 'Mechanisms of egg cham-
ber elongation in Drosophila'
Ed Munro Professor, Molecular Genetics and
Cell Biology University of Chicago (http://-
munrolab.bsd.uchicago.edu/index.html)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Barcelona EvolutionMulticellularity
Sep30-Oct1 RegExtended
REGISTRATION DEADLINE EXTENDED to Au-
gust 20th, 2013
ICREA CONFERENCE ON THE EVOLUTION
OF MULTICELLULARITY BARCELONA, SPAIN,
SEPTEMBER 30-OCTOBER 1, 2013
We are pleased to announce the ICREA Conference on
the Evolution of Multicellularity to be held Septem-
ber 30th - October 1st, 2013, in Barcelona (Spain).
The transition to multicellular life represents one of theSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 5
most important events in the history of life. Yet, de-
spite its signicance, little is known about the mech-
anisms involved in this transition. In recent years,
emerging data from various elds are providing new
insights into this major evolutionary transition. With
advances in theoretical, molecular/cell biology and ge-
nomics approaches, there is a clear need for further
conversation and collaborative eorts between exper-
imentalists and theoreticians. The ICREA Conference
on the Evolution of Multicellularity will bring together
researchers with diverse backgrounds with the goal of
stimulating and fostering inter-disciplinary discussion
and collaborations. The talks will be organized around
six mini-symposia encompassing the major topics and
approaches related to the evolution of multicellularity.
The six symposia are: 1) Origins and mechanisms; 2)
Development and Gene regulation; 3) Genomics ap-
proaches and insights; 4) Theoretical approaches; 5)
Social Evolution; 6) Computational and synthetic ap-
proaches. For additional information and updates (in-
cluding conrmed speakers, preliminary program, reg-
istration and abstract submission) please visit the Con-
ference page at www.multicellularity2013.com/).
Please note that registration is free but limited to 100
participants.
Organizers:
I naki Ruiz-Trillo, Institut de Biologia Evolutiva (UPF-
CSIC) Ricard V. Sol e, Institut de Biologia Evolu-
tiva (UPF-CSIC) Aurora Nedelcu, University of New
Brunswick
Aurora M. Nedelcu University of New Brunswick De-
partment of Biology PO Box 4400 Fredericton, NB
Canada E3B 5A3 phone: (506) 458-7463
Aurora Nedelcu <anedelcu@unb.ca >
Bogota EvolutionBehavior Sep10-12
INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY FOR COMPARATIVE
PSYCHOLOGY FIRST ANNOUNCEMENT Septem-
ber 10th-12th, 2014 Bogot a, Colombia
We are pleased to announce the 17th Biennial Meeting
of the International Society for Comparative Psychol-
ogy. The meeting will take place on September 2014, in
Bogot a, Colombia. We invite you to take part of this
event to promote the comparative study of behavior.
Scientists interested in comparative psychology, animalbehavior, animal cognition, behavioral ecology, evolu-
tion of behavior, neuroscience, behavior analysis, and
related areas, are invited to present their research in a
relaxed, academic setting.
This meeting is an opportunity for all scientists work-
ing on the study of behavior from a comparative per-
spective to discuss their current research, future direc-
tions, and international development of our eld. The
meeting format will include lectures by distinguished
invited speakers, symposiums, oral presentations, and
poster sessions. Graduate and undergraduate students
are particularly encouraged to submit presentations.
For further information, check our webpage
(www.iccp2014.org). We welcome your suggestions.
Germ an Guti errez, Ph.D. Director Departamento de
Psicolog a Universidad Nacional de Colombia
bicamolo2003@gmail.com
Canberra Biogeography Jan7-10
Deadline
FINAL CALL FOR ABSTRACTS: DEADLINE 31
AUGUST 2013
A reminder that abstract submission is open for
the 2014 INTERNATIONAL BIOGEOGRAPHY SO-
CIETY EARLY CAREER CONFERENCE, organ-
ised jointly by the International Biogeography Soci-
ety (IBS) (http://www.biogeography.org/), the ANU
Centre for Macroevolution and Macroecology (http:/-
/macroevoeco.com/) and the ANU-CSIRO Centre for
Biodiversity Analysis (http://cba.anu.edu.au/).
The conference will take place in Canberra, Australia,
between the 7th and the 10th of January 2014, and
aims to bring together early career researchers, along
with more experienced scientists, working on many as-
pects of biogeography.
To submit your abstract, please visit:
http://www.biogeography.org/html/Meetings/-
2014ECC/index.html CONFIRMED KEYNOTE
SPEAKERS:
Dr Michael Kearney, University of Melbourne Dr
Catherine Graham, Stony Brook University Dr Simon
Ferrier, CSIRO Dr Matthew Fitzpatrick, University of
Maryland Dr H el ene Morlon, Ecole Polytechnique Prof
Craig Moritz, Director of CBA, ANU-CSIRO6 EvolDir September 1, 2013
THE FOLLOWING FOUR WORKSHOPS WILL BE
RUN:
1. Introduction to species distribution modelling
2. Modelling compositional turnover using generalised
dissimilarity modelling
3. An Introduction to R for beginners
4. Free your mind: Model comparison and model test-
ing in historical biogeography with the R package 'Bio-
GeoBEARS'
REGISTRATION FOR THE CONFERENCE AND
WORKSHOPS IS NOW OPEN. PLEASE REGISTER
BEFORE 31 OCTOBER 2013.
For more information about the conference, please visit
the conference website.
Student participation will be supported by awards of-
fered by the IBS. To apply for a student award, please
follow the instructions given on the website.
We look forward to welcoming you to Canberra in Jan-
uary 2014!
The ANU Organising Committee
Haris Saslis-Lagoudakis Peter Cowman Dan Warren
Dan Rosauer Renee Catullo Marcel Cardillo
ibsconference2014@gmail.com
@ibs2014
The local organising committee, IBS Early Career Con-
ference 2014 @ibs2014
IBS Early Career Conference 2014
<ibsconference2014@gmail.com >
Canberra Biogeography Jan7-10
EarlyCareer
International Biogeography Society Early Career Con-
ference 2014
7-10 January 2014 Canberra, Australia http://-
www.biogeography.org/html/Meetings/2014ECC/-
index.html The IBS Early Career Conference is an
intimate forum (up to ~100 attendees) for acquiring
skills, sharing knowledge, and networking in Biogeog-
raphy. The meeting is designed specically to provide
opportunities for young biogeographers to meet and
mix with each other and with experienced researchers
in the eld. Situated in Canberra, Australia, themeeting is intended to increase accessibility of IBS
events while maintaining the same feel, high standards,
and international appeal of the biennial conferences.
Travel awards are available to students through open
competition. For more information see: http://-
www.biogeography.org/html/Meetings/2014ECC/-
index.html The meeting covers the breadth of
biogeography, with focal topics and conrmed keynote
speakers including:
Species distributions across space and time Dr Michael
Kearney, University of Melbourne Dr Catherine Gra-
ham, Stony Brook University Biodiversity turnover
across spatial scales Dr Simon Ferrier, CSIRO Dr
Matthew Fitzpatrick, University of Maryland Advances
in phylogenetic methods for biogeography Prof Craig
Moritz, Director of CBA, ANU-CSIRO Dr H el ene Mor-
lon,Ecole Polytechnique
Workshops will be held on the following topics: Intro-
duction to R for biogeographers BioGeoBEARS: bio-
geographic tools in R Modeling turnover using general-
ized dissimilarity modeling Concepts and methods for
modeling species distributions
Target date for registration is 31 August 2013.
The meeting is convened by the IBS (http://-
escholarship.org/uc/fb), the ANU Centre for
Macroevolution and Macroecology (http://-
macroevoeco.com/), and the ANU-CSIRO Centre
for Biodiversity Analysis (http://cba.anu.edu.au/-
), and sponsored by Frontiers of Biogeography -
the Open Access society journal for biogeography
(http://escholarship.org/uc/fb).
mdawson@ucmerced.edu
ColdSpringHarbor MobileDNA
Oct24-26
2013 REGIONAL MEETING ON MOBILE GENETIC
ELEMENTS - CALL FOR ABSTRACTS
Dear Colleagues,
The abstract submission and registration deadline for
the regional meeting on Mobile Genetic Elements (Oc-
tober 24-26, 2013, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory,
Cold Spring Harbor, NY) is *September 15, 2013*.
All transposon-related research in all systems is wel-
come, including the evolutionary history of transpos-
able elements in dierent systems and the impact ofSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 7
transposons on genome function and evolution. For
further information and to register / submit an ab-
stract, please visit the CSHL meetings website: http:/-
/meetings.cshl.org/meetings/2013/transpose13.shtml .
All sessions will include talks selected from submit-
ted abstracts, and participation of graduate students,
post-doctoral fellows, and junior investigators is par-
ticularly encouraged. Students and postdocs are eli-
gible for nancial support towards registration costs,
with full support granted to under-represented minori-
ties. Please contact kcreasey@cshl.edu providing Insti-
tution/ lab, research topic related to transposable el-
ements, and talk/ poster preference. Awards shall be
conrmed via email directly, and reimbursed from the
registration costs (checks and credit cards are accepted
for the minimal payment).
Please bring the 2013 Regional Meeting on Mobile Ge-
netic Elements to the attention of all interested col-
leagues. We look forward to seeing you in Cold Spring
Harbor in October!
Rob Martienssen and Irina Arkhipova, organizers Kate
Creasey, co-organizer
iarkhipova@mbl.edu
ColdSpringHarborLab
MobileGeneticElementEvol
Oct24-26
Regional Meeting on Mobile Genetic Elements at CSHL
Dear Colleagues,
We would like to bring to your attention the re-
gional meeting on Mobile Genetic Elements, October
24th - 26th, 2013, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory,
Cold Spring Harbor, NY. Transposon-related research
in all systems is welcome, without any geographical
or subject limitations. For further information and
to register/submit abstracts, please visit the CSHL
meetings website: http://meetings.cshl.org/meetings/-
2013/transpose13.shtml. The abstract submission and
registration deadline is 15th September.
All sessions will include talks selected from submitted
abstracts. Participation of graduate students, post-
doctoral fellows, and junior investigators is particu-
larly encouraged. Students and postdocs are eligi-
ble for nancial support towards registration costs,
full support may be granted to qualied individu-
als underrepresented in the sciences. Please contactkcreasey@cshl.edu providing Institution/lab, research
topic related to transposable elements, and talk/poster
preference. Awards shall be conrmed via email di-
rectly.
Unpublished material presented at the meeting may be
submitted to Mobile DNA for consideration for publica-
tion within a three-month period, during which article
processing charges for accepted manuscripts will be re-
duced.
The unique element of this meeting is the bringing to-
gether of researchers in all systems, at CSHL, an en-
vironment rich in transposon biology, both past and
present. We look forward to an interactive meeting,
sharing recent advances in transposon research and dis-
cussing emerging trends in the eld.
Regards,
Rob Martienssen and Irina Arkhipova, organizers Kate
Creasey, co-organizer
Kate M. Creasey, PhD Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory
One Bungtown Road Cold Spring Harbor, NY 11724
\Creasey, Kate" <kcreasey@cshl.edu >
Heraklion
MediterraneanMarineBiodiversity
Oct7-9 3
CONFERENCE: \Mediterranean marine biodiversity
in view of climate change and the invasion of alien
species"
Heraklion, Crete, Greece
7th to 9th of October, 2013
WE ARE PLEASED TO ANNOUNCE THAT AB-
STRACT SUBMISSION DEADLINE HAS BEEN EX-
TENDED UNTIL SEPTEMBER 3RD.
The Institute of Marine Biology, Biotechnology and
Aquaculture (IMBBC) of the Hellenic Centre for Ma-
rine Research (HCMR) announces the conference on
\MEDITERRANEAN MARINE BIODIVERSITY IN
VIEW OF CLIMATE CHANGE AND THE INVA-
SION OF ALIEN SPECIES" to be held in the premises
of Heraklion Chamber, Crete, Greece, from 7th to 9th
October 2013. The conference will be organized in
the context of the EU (FP7-REGPOT-2010-1) project
\Supporting Research Potential for Marine Biodiversity
and Genomics in the Eastern Mediterranean" (MAR-8 EvolDir September 1, 2013
BIGEN, http://www.marbigen.org/).
The conference aims to bring together researchers of dif-
ferent elds in order to promote the multidisciplinary
and integrated research regarding the response of bio-
diversity to the climatic change and the impact of the
invasion of alien species in the Mediterranean and ad-
jacent regions.
Invited Speakers
Prof. Daniel Golani University of Jerusalem, Israel Dr.
Stelios Katsanevakis EC, Joint Research Centre, Bel-
gium Dr. Wiebe Kooistra Stazione Zoologica Naples,
Italy Prof. Steven Palumbi Stanford University, USA
Ass. Prof. Vassilis Zervakis University of the Aegean,
Greece
Abstract submission and early registration deadlines
are set for:
Abstracts Submission Deadline 3 SEPTEMBER 2013
Early Registration Deadline 30 AUGUST 2013 Late
Registration Deadline 15 SEPTEMBER 2013
More information can be found on the conference web-
site http://conference2013.marbigen.org/index.html .
We look forward to welcoming you in Heraklion, Crete
for a scientically stimulating and socially enjoyable
meeting.
With best regards,
On behalf of the Organizing Committee
Dr. Antonios Magoulas MARBIGEN Co-ordinator
Dr. Antoniou Aglaia (Cilia) Institute of Marine Biol-
ogy and Genetics (IMBG) Hellenic Centre for Marine
Research (HCMR) Gournes Pediados, P.O.Box 2214,
71003, Iraklio, Crete, Greece Tel.: +30 2810 337826
Fax: +30 2810 337820
Hellenic Center for Marine Research This message was
sent using IMP, the Internet Messaging Program.
\Antoniou Aglaia (Cilia)" <antoniou@her.hcmr.gr >
KITP UCaliforniaSantaBarbara
EvolutionOfDrugResistance
Jul21-Sep19
Dear Colleagues,
We are writing to announce the program Evolution
of Drug Resistance to be held at the Kavli Institutefor Theoretical Physics at the University of California,
Santa Barbara, during the period July 21 - September
19, 2014, and to alert you that applications are now be-
ing accepted. We also encourage you to inform others
who you think might be interested in applying.
A summary and the latest information about
the program can be found online at: http:/-
/www.kitp.ucsb.edu/activities/dbdetails?acro=-
3Dsuperbugs14 .Note the Application Deadline is
September 30, 2013.
KITP programs dier from many conferences and work-
shops in that they create a situation where scientists
learn from each other and actually do substantive re-
search, often collaborating with other participants. To
foster these interactions, KITP strongly encourages
theorists to stay for as long as possible, with three weeks
being the minimum stay for a regular participant. We
understand, however, that bench scientists with labo-
ratory responsibilities often cannot manage long visits
but can have a big impact even in a week, so we can be
more exible for them.
Some level of nancial support will be available, the
amount depending on the needs of the participants and
availability of funds. Supplementary funds are avail-
able to help support families wishing to make extended
visits. To apply, go to the aforementioned web page,
and click on the Apply link. Late applications will be
considered as budget and space permits. Due to space
and nancial constraints, however, we may not be able
to accommodate everyone who applies.
KITP provides oce and computing facilities on-site at
UC Santa Barbara and also provides help nding living
accommodations. It is necessary for every prospective
participant to set up an account and apply online, even
if we have already corresponded with you about the
program. Actual commitments of oce space and -
nancial support can be made only by written formal
invitations from the KITP Director, Lars Bildsten, re-
gardless of any communications you may have had with
us.
If you think you might like to participate, it will help
us with our planning if you could apply early, including
your proposed length of stay and any nancial require-
ments. If you have any questions, please contact one of
the coordinators.
Sincerely yours,
Richard Neher <richard.neher [at] tuebingen.mpg.de >
Ville Mustonen <vm5 [at] sanger.ac.uk >Daniel Wein-
reich <daniel weinreich [at] brown.edu >
myvisit@kitp.ucsb.eduSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 9
KansasCity EcologicalGenomics
Nov1-3
Subject: Ecological Genomics Symposium, Kansas
City, 11/1-3/2013
11th Annual Ecological Genomics Symposium Novem-
ber 1-3, 2013 Marriott Country Club Plaza, Kansas
City, MO Symposium website: http://ecogen.ksu.edu/-
symp2013 The 11th Annual Ecological Genomics Sym-
posium will be held November 1-3, 2013 at the Marriott
Country Club Plaza hotel in downtown Kansas City.
The meeting will convene Friday at 7:00 p.m. and con-
clude on Sunday at noon.
We have an outstanding lineup of speakers for the 2013
symposium and we encourage you to attend!
For a brochure and complete information regard-
ing poster abstract submission, registration and ho-
tel reservations, please visit our symposium web-
site:ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2013.
REGISTRATION: Please register online today at:
www.ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2013. You may also register
to attend the optional Saturday night banquet for an
additional fee of $50. Deadline for registration: Friday,
October 4, 2013.
POSTER ABSTRACTS: Poster topics should be re-
lated to the eld of ecological genomics. A LIMITED
NUMBER OF SUBMITTED POSTER ABSTRACTS
WILL BE SELECTED FOR ORAL PRESENTA-
TIONS. Instructions for submitting your abstract
online are at: http://ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2013/-
abstract.html. DEADLINE: Friday, October 4, 2013.
VENUE: The symposium will take place at the Kansas
City Marriott on the beautiful Country Club Plaza
in Kansas City, Missouri. Reserve your hotel room
online by visiting ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2013 or this
link:http://tinyurl.com/me8l5x2 Deadline for room
block: Friday, October 11, 2013.
FEATURED SPEAKERS: Anne Bronikowski, Iowa
State University Comparative genomics of vertebrate
aging and stress-response pathways
Asher Cutter, University of Toronto Hyperdiversity and
hypodiversity in genome evolution of Caenorhabditis
nematodes
Ana L. Caicedo, University of Massachusetts Amherst
Convergence and the evolution of weediness: The casefor red rice
Rob Knight, University of Colorado The Earth Micro-
biome Project
Marcus Kronforst, University of Chicago Population ge-
nomics and ecological speciation in Heliconius butter-
ies
Bradley J.S.C. Olson, Kansas State University Peering
into the pond for clues to multicellularity
Michael Pfrender, University of Notre Dame Genetic
and regulatory basis of adaptation in stressful environ-
ments
Jerey Ross-Ibarra, University of California Davis Evo-
lutionary genetics of highland adaptation in maize and
teosinte
Annelie Wendeberg, Helmholtz Centre for Environ-
mental Research Population-targeted metagenomics of
anaerobic methane-oxidizing consortia
Andrew Whitehead, University of California Davis The
genomics of evolved resistance and resilience in killish
resident in dynamic and static environments
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION will be posted on our
website,www.ecogen.ksu.edu/symp2013, as details are
nalized.
FUNDING for this symposium is provided by Kansas
State University.
Ecological Genomics Institute Directors: Dr. Loretta
Johnson, johnson@ksu.edu Dr. Michael Herman,
mherman@ksu.edu Kansas State University, Divi-
sion of Biology 116 Ackert Hall, Manhattan, KS
66506-4901 www.ecogen.ksu.edu Ecological Genomics
Institute Program Coordinator: Alexandra Boyd,
alexboyd@ksu.edu (785) 532-0115
Michael Herman <mherman@ksu.edu >
Kunming InternationalBarcoding
Oct27-31
The Chinese Academy of Sciences' and Kunming Insti-
tute of Botany are pleased to host the 5th International
Barcode of Life Conference:
http://www.dnabarcodes2013.org <
http://www.dnabarcodes2013.org/ >
The conference will consist of four days of plenary and
parallel sessions. Preconference events, such as dis-10 EvolDir September 1, 2013
cussion meetings focusing on advances in sequencing
and informatics techniques will be held on the Sun-
day before the conference. There is also a Training
Course associated with the conference (max 30 dele-
gates). Past conferences have brought together par-
ticipants from over 60 countries, including researchers,
students, government ocials, and representatives of
NGOs and private companies. This year's conference
hosts have provided a venue that can host up to 500
participants.
The current list of invited speakers for the plenary ses-
sions includes:
Michael Balke, Zoologische Staatssammlung Mu-
nich Tania Bubela, University of Alberta Elizabeth
Clare, Queen Mary University of London Mehrdad
Hajibabaei, Biodiversity Institute of Ontario Ger-
hard Haszprunar, Zoologische Staatssammlung Munich
Paul Hebert, Biodiversity Institute of Ontario Pete
Hollingsworth, Royal Botanic Gardens Edinburgh Da-
Wei Huang, Chinese Academy of Sciences John Kress,
National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian In-
stitution Richard Lane, Natural History Museum, Lon-
don De-Zhu Li, Kunming Institute of Botany Dario
Litjmaer, Museo Argentino de Ciencias Naturales Scott
Miller, National Museum of Natural History, Smithso-
nian Institution Bob Murphy, Royal Ontario Museum
Jan Pawlowski, University of Geneva Tomas Roslin,
University of Helsinki Linda Santschi, Coastal Marine
Biolabs Gary Saunders, University of New Brunswick
Graham Stone, University of Edinburgh Michelle Van
der Bank, University of Johannesburg Alfried Vogler,
Imperial College London Zhu-Liang Yang, Kunming In-
stitute of Botany Douglas Yu, Kunming Institute of
Zoology Baoli Zhou, Chinese Academy of Sciences
A detailed program can be found at http://-
www.dnabarcodes2013.org/dct/page/70039. It also
lists the expected themes for the parallel sessions.
Abstract (for parallel and poster sessions)
submission deadline -15. August 2013
(http://www.dnabarcodes2013.org/dct/page/-
70044) Registration is already open: http:/-
/www.dnabarcodes2013.org/dct/page/65554
Further information on venue, accommodation
etc. can be found at the conference website:
http://www.dnabarcodes2013.org < http://-
www.dnabarcodes2013.org/ >
{
Dr. Dirk Steinke
Director, Education and Outreach iBOL Outreach Bio-
diversity Institute of Ontario University of Guelph 50
Stone Road East Guelph, ON, N1G2W1email dsteinke@uoguelph.ca
http://dna-barcoding.blogspot.ca http://-
www.educationandbarcoding.org/ http://-
malaiseprogram.ca *** Barcoding online course:
http://www.dnabarcodingcourses.ca/ ***
dsteinke@uoguelph.ca
London
EvolutionBehaviouralMechanisms
Dec5-6
There are just 2 weeks left to submit an abstract for this
year's ASAB Winter Conference on 'The Evolution of
Behavioural Mechanisms' (deadline: 16 August).
The conference will be held on 5-6 December at the
Zoological Society of London. For more information,
please visit http://tinyurl.com/winterasab2013 or con-
tact us at madorganiser@gmail.com.
We look forward to seeing you in London!
Tim Fawcett, Andy Higginson & Pete Trimmer Mod-
elling Animal Decisions (MAD) group, University of
Bristol
{
Dr Tim W. Fawcett Room B72 School of Biological Sci-
ences University of Bristol Woodland Road Bristol BS8
1UG United Kingdom
+44 117 9287478 (oce) +44 7789 126382 (mobile)
tim.fawcett@cantab.net
www.timwfawcett.com tim.fawcett@gmail.com
London
EvolutionBehaviouralMechanisms
Dec5-6 AbstDeadline
The abstract deadline for this year's ASAB Winter
Conference on 'The Evolution of Behavioural Mecha-
nisms' has been extended to 25 August. This will be
the nal deadline, so if you wish to present your work at
this meeting please make sure you submit your abstract
as soon as possible using the form on the conferenceSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 11
website (http://tinyurl.com/winterasab2013).
The conference will be held on 5-6 December at the
Zoological Society of London. For more information,
please visit http://tinyurl.com/winterasab2013 or con-
tact us at madorganiser@gmail.com.
We look forward to seeing you in London!
Tim Fawcett, Andy Higginson & Pete Trimmer Mod-
elling Animal Decisions (MAD) group, University of
Bristol
Dr Tim W. Fawcett Room B72 School of Biological Sci-
ences University of Bristol Woodland Road Bristol BS8
1UG United Kingdom
+44 117 9287478 (oce) +44 7789 126382 (mobile)
tim.fawcett@cantab.net
www.timwfawcett.com tim.fawcett@gmail.com
MLBS UVirginia SEPEEG2013
Sep27-29 Deadline
REMINDER: The registration deadline for SEPEEG
2013 is this Friday, August 30th.
SEPEEG 2013 University of Virginia Department of
Biology Mountain Lake Biological Station September
27-29
We are pleased to announce the 2013 SouthEastern
Population Ecology & Evolutionary Genetics Confer-
ence!
SEPEEG is returning to the University of Virginia's
Mountain Lake Biological Station from September 27-
29. SEPEEG is an excellent opportunity for students,
postdocs, and faculty from across the southeastern US
to gather and discuss their research ideas and ongoing
work.
This year's keynote address will be given by Dr. Mark
Rausher from Duke University. Dr. Rausher's work has
explored the evolution of oral color, morphology, and
biochemistry at the levels of phenotypes, genes, and
metabolic networks. This integrative approach to the
study of adaptation and speciation, involving both eld
and lab-based investigation, perfectly encompasses the
focus and goals of the SEPEEG conference.
Registration for all attendees is now open and the regis-
tration deadline will be Friday, August 30. Registration
for the meeting is capped due to space constraints, sowe strongly recommend registering before the deadline.
Full registration is $125 and covers accommodations at
MLBS, meals, and participant costs. Thanks to gen-
erous support from The American Society of Natural-
ists (http://www.amnat.org), we are able provide a dis-
counted registration rate for a limited number of under-
graduate and graduate student ASN society members
on a rst come, rst serve basis.
For full details and to register, please visit the SEPEEG
website: http://mlbs.org/SEPEEG2013 Questions?
Write to us at seepeg2013@virginia.edu
SEPEEG 2013 is sponsored by Princeton University
Press, Roberts and Company Publishers, University of
Chicago Press, and Sinauer Associates.
Benjamin Blackman Assistant Professor Department of
Biology University of Virginia PO Box 400328 Char-
lottesville, VA 22904
Tel: 434.924.1930 E-mail: bkb2f@virginia.edu Web:
http://people.virginia.edu/ ~ bkb2f/Blackman Lab/
bkb2f@virginia.edu
Marseilles 17thEvolutionaryBiology
Sep17-20 4
Dear all
The program of the 17Th evolutionary biology meet-
ing at Marseilles has been updated http://sites.univ-
provence.fr/evol-cgr/ Few spots for poster presenta-
tions are still available
all the best Pierre
Pierre PONTAROTTI <pierre.pontarotti@univ-
amu.fr >
Montreal
MathematicsSequenceEvolution
Sep23-27
CRM Workshop on Mathematics of Sequence
Evolution: Biological Models and Applications
Dates: September 23-27 2013 Venue: Centre de
Recherche Math ematiques - University of Montreal,12 EvolDir September 1, 2013
Montr eal, Canada Information and registration:
http://www.crm.umontreal.ca/2013/Sequence13/-
index e.php Contact information: Mathieu Blanchette
- blanchem@cs.mcgill.ca
Topic: This workshop will investigate the latest
mathematical and computational approaches to the
development of sophisticated biology-grounded se-
quence/genome evolution models, the latest evolution-
ary biology studies on the way in which selection im-
poses constraints and dependencies on sites, and the
use of such models for the investigation of the func-
tion/structure of biological sequences. The participants
will come from the elds of applied evolutionary bi-
ology, phylogenetics, genome evolution, protein/RNA
structural biology, and population genetics, but will be
expected to share a certain degree of mathematical so-
phistication.
Invited speakers: Louis Bernatchez - Universit e Laval
Mathieu Blanchette - McGill University Guillaume
Bourque - McGill University Tony Capra - Vander-
bilt University C edric Chauve - Simon Fraser Univer-
sity Richard Goldstein - University College London
Glenn Hickey - UC Santa Cruz Simon Joly - Univer-
sit e de Montr eal Claudia Kleinman - McGill University
Christian Landry - Laval University Nicolas Lartillot
- Universit e de Montr eal Herv e Philippe - Universit e
de Montr eal Nicolas Rodrigue - Universit e d'Ottawa
Hughes Roest Crollius - Ecole Normale Sup erieure An-
drew Roger - Dalhousie University Edward Susko - Dal-
housie University J er^ ome Waldipsuhl - McGill Univer-
sity
Organizers: Mathieu Blanchette - McGill University
Herv e Philippe - Universit e de Montr eal
blanchem@mcb.mcgill.ca
Oldenburg Germany Phylogenetics
Nov22-24
Dear colleagues,
>From November 22-24, the 55th (German) Phyloge-
netic Symposium will take place at the Carl von Ossiet-
zky University in Oldenburg, Germany under the theme
\The time for phylogenetics: inferring and applying
timetrees in evolutionary biology". The symposium
features eight international experts who will discuss a
variety of methodological, empirical, and applied as-
pects of timetrees in biology:Prof. Dr. Susanne Renner (Ludwig-Maximillan-
Universit at M unchen) - New advances in molecular
clocks.
Prof. Mike Benton (University of Bristol) - Fossil dat-
ing and calibrations.
Dr. Mario dos Reis (University College London) -
\Bayesian estimation of species divergence times".
Dr. Tanja Stadler (ETH Zurich) - \A unied frame-
work for inferring speciation and extinction rates from
phylogenies with fossils".
Dr. Isabel San Martin (Real Jardin Botanico Madrid) -
Timetrees and the historical biogeography of the \Rand
Flora".
Dr. Chuck Bell (University of New Orleans) - Co-
evolution and timetrees.
Dr. Nuno Faria (University of Oxford) - Viral time-
trees.
Prof. Dr. Peter Linder (University of Zurich) - \The
radiation of the Fagales: combining molecular and fossil
data".
|
Despite this being the German Phylogenetic Sympo-
sium, all talks will be held in English.
Attendance at the symposium is free, but pre-
registration is strongly encouraged.
This year, through the support of both the Gesellschaft
f ur Biologische Systematik and the Deutsche Botanis-
che Gesellschaft, we have instituted a set of up to 40
\student stipends" valued at 50 Euros apiece to help
early career scientists (= those having received their
doctorate within the last three years) oset their costs
in attending the symposium.
More information about the symposium, including how
to register and details about the student stipends,
can be found at http://www.molekularesystematik.uni-
oldenburg.de/62317.html Hope to see you in Novem-
ber!
Olaf Bininda-Emonds & Dirk Albach
Prof. Dr. Olaf R.P. Bininda-Emonds AG System-
atik und Evolutionsbiologie IBU - Fakult at V Carl von
Ossietzky Universit at Oldenburg 26111 Oldenburg Ger-
many
Phone: +49 441 798 3965 Fax: +49 441 798
193965 e-mail: olaf.bininda@uni-oldenburg.de WWW:
http://www.molekularesystematik.uni-oldenburg.de/
olaf.bininda@uni-oldenburg.deSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 13
Paluzza InsectEvolution Sep19-22
RegExtended
Dear member
the deadline for sending your registration to 4th An-
nual Meeting of the European PhD Network in Insect
Sciencehas now expired. However, since the maxi-
mum number of participants have not been reached yet,
we decided to postpone the closing date for registration
which is now xed for the end of August. Anyway, we
would recommend you to register as soon as possible
so that we can start organizing the detailed program of
the meeting.
We would like to remind you that the meeting will start
with lunch of Thursday 19th of September and end with
lunch of sunday 22nd of September. Please consider
that the location of the conference is about 3 hours
drive from nearest airport. The time table of the shut-
tle service from the airports to Paluzza has not yet been
organized since we need to know the number of people
potentially interested and their expected arrival time.
Looking forward of meeting you in Paluzza,
Andrea Battisti and Francesco Nazzi
Francesco Nazzi Dipartimento di Scienze Agrarie
e Ambientali Universit di Udine via delle Scienze
206 33100 Udine tel.: 0432-558513 fax: 0432-
558501 e-mail: francesco.nazzi@uniud.it http://-
people.uniud.it/page/francesco.nazzi Francesco Nazzi
<francesco.nazzi@uniud.it >
Raleigh ASN Jun20-24
CallSymposia
The American Society of Naturalists
Call for Symposium at 2014 Annual Meeting
The 2014 annual meeting of the American Society of
Naturalists will be held June 20-24 in Raleigh, North
Carolina. The Executive Council of the Society invites
proposals for a sponsored half-day symposium to be
held in conjunction with the meeting. Symposium top-ics should support the Society's goal to advance knowl-
edge of organic evolution and other broad biological
principles. Proposals are encouraged on topics that are
synthetic, interdisciplinary or that address important
emerging issues in evolution, ecology and behavior.
Proposals should include (1) a title; (2) a description
of the symposium topic (one page); (3) a tentative
list of six speakers, including institutional aliations;
(4) a justication for the symposium explaining why
the topic and speakers are appropriate for a Society-
sponsored symposium (up to one page); and (5) a state-
ment that all potential speakers have agreed to partic-
ipate.
Proposals must be submitted by 5pm Eastern Standard
Time on October15, 2013 by email (mag9@cornell.edu)
as a single pdf attachment, under subject heading: ASN
Symposium Proposal. Proposals that include women,
young investigators and individuals from underrepre-
sented groups are especially encouraged.
The Society's selection committee will evaluate propos-
als based on the signicance and timeliness of the topic,
and on it being dierent from recent symposia spon-
sored by the Society. All applicants will be notied of
the decision by mid-November 2013. The Society pro-
vides partial support for travel and/or registration for
organizers and participants.
Monica Geber ASN Symposium Committee Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Cornell Uni-
versity Ithaca, NY 14853-2701
mag9@cornell.edu
Rosco France EvolutionCancer
Nov2-6 ExtDeadline
Jacques Monod Conference - 'Ecological and Evolution-
ary Perspectives in Cancer' - Rosco, France, Novem-
ber 2-6, 2013
Registration deadline: September 10th, 2013
The Jacques Monod Conference 'Ecological and Evolu-
tionary Perspectives in Cancer' aims to promote this
emerging discipline by addressing some of the most
important questions about cancerogenesis. The con-
ference will cover three main themes: interspecic
patterns and processes, progression, and therapies.
Jacques Monod Conferences organized by CNRS, are
known for the high scientic quality of the talks and14 EvolDir September 1, 2013
discussions, in a relaxed atmosphere.
Please note that participation at this conference is not
limited to research on carcinogenesis: we will consider
applications from scientists with anities towards the
themes of the conference, and working on related top-
ics from ecology and the evolutionary sciences, includ-
ing social evolution, evolution of multicellularity, resis-
tance management, evolutionary medicine of diseases,
and species invasions.
Conference website: http://www.darevcan.univ-
montp2.fr/?page id\1 Conference fee (includes
lodging, meals and conference banquet) 400 euros for
PhD students; 520 euros for other participants
Registration The total number of participants is lim-
ited to 115 and all participants are expected to attend
for the whole duration of the conference. Scientists in-
terested in the meeting should send the proposed ti-
tle and abstract of their presentation. Postdocs and
PhD students should send in addition: their curricu-
lum vitae, and a list of their main publications for the
3 last years. Applications should be sent to the Chair-
person of the conference (mehochberg@gmail.com) by
September 10th. Except in some particular cases ap-
proved by the Chairperson, it is recommended that all
selected participants present their work during the con-
ference, either in poster form or by a brief in-session
talk. The organizers choose the form in which the pre-
sentations are made. No payment will be sent with
the application. Information on how and when to pay
will be mailed in due time to those selected. <http://-
www.eec.univ-montp2.fr/people/ >
Michael Hochberg <mhochber@univ-montp2.fr >
UNSW Sydney EvolutionEconomics
Feb2-5
Cooperation & Conict in the Family
A Conference at the Interface of Evolution and Eco-
nomics
February 2 - 5 2014, UNSW, Sydney
www.evolvingeconomics.com SECOND AN-
NOUNCEMENT Abstract Submission <http://-
evolvingeconomics.com/call-for-abstracts/ > Now
Open - Closes 31 August 2013 Early-Bird Registration
<http://evolvingeconomics.com/registration/ >Now
Open - Closes 30 September 2013The Cooperation and Conict in the Family conference
will be held at UNSW in Sydney, Australia from Febru-
ary 2-5 2014.
We will bring together leading economic and evolution-
ary researchers to explore the nature of conict and
cooperation between the sexes in the areas of mating,
fertility, marriage and family life. The conference pro-
vides an opportunity for researchers to discuss the eco-
nomic and evolutionary biology approaches to these is-
sues, explore common ground and identify collaborative
opportunities.
Sydney makes a magnicent year-round destination,
but is especially splendid in February. The Confer-
ence and social events will all happen in Randwick and
Coogee, near some of Australia's most famous beaches,
and a short bus or cab ride from the City Centre.
Call for abstracts (http://evolvingeconomics.com/call-
for-abstracts/) The majority of the conference will be
dedicated to submitted talks. We are pleased to invite
you to submit abstracts for talks at the Cooperation
and Conict in the Family Conference. Submission is
now open and closes on Friday 30 August 2013. Please
submit your abstract by going to the abstract submis-
sion page <http://evolvingeconomics.com/abstract-
submission/ >.
We aim to run two parallel sessions of submitted talks.
Each session will follow a theme, and we will ensure a
mix of disciplines within each session. Speakers will be
provided 15 minutes during which to present, plus ve
minutes for questions and changeover.
Submitted talks will be chosen on the basis of abstracts.
Talks can address any topic related to the theme of the
conference, including: conict in mating, sexual strate-
gies, mating markets, fertility decisions, conicts over
child-rearing or parental investment, the demographic
transition, cooperation and conict over household de-
cisions, family labour supply, the history of human mat-
ing systems, the history of sexual conict, and the evo-
lution or economics of family structures.
Abstracts should have a descriptive title (no more than
140 characters) and contain no more than 300 words of
text. We also invite you to select which disciplines your
work best represents, and to nominate up to four key
words.
Public Lectures Paul Seabright: What role is there for
biology in explaining gender outcomes in the 21st cen-
tury workplace? Monique Borgerho Mulder: \My Kin
are Witches" - Life in an African Village in an Era of
Globalization
Invited Speakers David P. Barash: The evolutionarySeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 15
mysteries of female sexuality Alison Booth: Gender
Dierences in Risk Aversion: Do Single-Sex Environ-
ments Aect their Development? Lena Edlund: I do,
I do, I do - family law and how the West won Michael
Jennions: A biologist's perspective on sexual conict
in humans. Just another animal? Hillard Kaplan: An
ecological framework for understanding the role of men
in families Hanna Kokko: How to make sense of male
care strategies Jason Potts: Cooperation and Conict
in Innovation Commons
rob.brooks@unsw.edu.au
UNSW Sydney EvolutionEconomics
Feb2-5 2
Cooperation & Conict in the Family A Conference at
the Interface of Evolution and Economics
February 2 - 5 2014, UNSW, Sydney
www.evolvingeconomics.com SECOND ANNOUNCE-
MENT
Abstract Submission Now Open - Closes 30 August
2013 Early-Bird Registration Now Open - Early bird
rates available until 30 September 2013
The Cooperation and Conict in the Family conference
will be held at UNSW in Sydney, Australia from Febru-
ary 2-5 2014.
We will bring together leading economic and evolution-
ary researchers to explore the nature of conict and
cooperation between the sexes in the areas of mating,
fertility, marriage and family life. The conference pro-
vides an opportunity for researchers to discuss the eco-
nomic and evolutionary biology approaches to these is-
sues, explore common ground and identify collaborative
opportunities.
Sydney makes a magnicent year-round destination,
but is especially splendid in February. The Confer-
ence and social events will all happen in Randwick and
Coogee, near some of Australia's most famous beaches,
and a short bus or cab ride from the City Centre.
Call for abstracts http://evolvingeconomics.com/call-
for-abstracts/ We are pleased to invite you to submit
abstracts for talks at the Cooperation and Conict in
the Family Conference. Submission is now open and
closes on Friday 30 August 2013. Please submit your
abstract by going to the abstract submission page.
The majority of the conference will be dedicated to sub-mitted talks. Submitted talks will be chosen on the
basis of abstracts. Talks can address any topic related
to the theme of the conference, including: conict in
mating, sexual strategies, mating markets, fertility de-
cisions, conicts over child-rearing or parental invest-
ment, the demographic transition, cooperation and con-
ict over household decisions, family labour supply, the
history of human mating systems, the history of sex-
ual conict, and the evolution or economics of family
structures.
Public Lectures
Paul Seabright: What role is there for biology in ex-
plaining gender outcomes in the 21st century work-
place? Monique Borgerho Mulder: \My Kin are
Witches" - Life in an African Village in an Era of Glob-
alization
Invited speakers
David P. Barash: The evolutionary mysteries of female
sexuality
Alison Booth: Gender Dierences in Risk Aversion: Do
Single-Sex Environments Aect their Development?
Lena Edlund: I do, I do, I do - family law and how the
West won
Michael Jennions: A biologist's perspective on sexual
conict in humans. Just another animal?
Hillard Kaplan: An ecological framework for under-
standing the role of men in families
Hanna Kokko: How to make sense of male care strate-
gies
Jason Potts: Cooperation and Conict in Innovation
Commons
Please circulate this announcement and the attached
conference yer to colleagues who may be interested in
the conference.
rob.brooks@unsw.edu.au
USydney Systematics Dec1-6
Systematics Without Borders Earlybird registration
closes Aug 30, 2013
Abstract submission is open for the 2013 joint confer-
ence of the Society of Australian Systematic Biologists,
Invertebrate Biodiversity an Conservation and the Aus-
tralasian Systematic Botany Society.16 EvolDir September 1, 2013
The conference will take place in Sydney, Australia,
between the 1st and the 6th of December 2013, at the
University of Sydney. It aims to bring together all re-
searchers that use systematics, and to promote inter-
disciplinary connections.
To submit your abstract, please visit: http://-
www.systematics2013.org/abstracts.php CON-
FIRMED KEYNOTE SPEAKERS: Prof Craig Moritz
(ANU, Australia) Em Prof Phil Garnock-Jones (UW,
New Zealand) Dr Lynn Cook (UQ, Australia)
Conference themes include: Cultivating interdisci-
plinary research Linking biosecurity eorts Crossing
borders with technology Understanding geographic bor-
ders
A full list of symposia are at available at http://-
www.systematics2013.org/theme/ For more informa-
tion about the conference, please visit the conference
website. http://www.systematics2013.org/ Student
participation is supported by some partial travel awards
outlined on the website.
We look forward to welcoming you to Sydney in De-
cember 2013! On behalf of the organising committee,
Nerida Wilson (Australian Museum)
Wildlife Photographer of the Year Exhibition 8 June to
7 October 2013
www.australianmuseum.net.au/event/Wildlife-
Photographer-2012 Nerida.Wilson@austmus.gov.au
UVirginia SEPEEG Sep27-29
SEPEEG 2013 University of Virginia Department of
Biology Mountain Lake Biological Station September
27-29
We are pleased to announce the 2013 SouthEasternPopulation Ecology & Evolutionary Genetics Confer-
ence!
SEPEEG is returning to the University of Virginia's
Mountain Lake Biological Station from September 27-
29. SEPEEG is an excellent opportunity for students,
postdocs, and faculty from across the southeastern US
to gather and discuss their research ideas and ongoing
work.
This year's keynote address will be given by Dr. Mark
Rausher from Duke University. Dr. Rausher's work has
explored the evolution of oral color, morphology, and
biochemistry at the levels of phenotypes, genes, and
metabolic networks. This integrative approach to the
study of adaptation and speciation, involving both eld
and lab-based investigation, perfectly encompasses the
focus and goals of the SEPEEG conference.
Registration for all attendees is now open and the regis-
tration deadline will be Friday, August 30. Registration
for the meeting is capped due to space constraints, so
we strongly recommend registering before the deadline.
Full registration is $125 and covers accommodations at
MLBS, meals, and participant costs. Thanks to gen-
erous support from The American Society of Natural-
ists (http://www.amnat.org), we are able provide a dis-
counted registration rate for a limited number of under-
graduate and graduate student ASN society members
on a rst come, rst serve basis.
For full details and to register, please visit the SEPEEG
website: http://mlbs.org/SEPEEG2013 Questions?
Write to us at seepeg2013@virginia.edu
SEPEEG 2013 is sponsored by Princeton University
Press, Roberts and Company Publishers, University of
Chicago Press, and Sinauer Associates.
Benjamin Blackman Assistant Professor Department of
Biology University of Virginia PO Box 400328 Char-
lottesville, VA 22904
Tel: 434.924.1930 E-mail: bkb2f@virginia.edu Web:
http://people.virginia.edu/ ~ bkb2f/Blackman Lab/
bkb2f@virginia.edu
GradStudentPositionsSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 17
AarhusU ArcticEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Barcelona PrimateGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18
GhentU GreenAlgalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
INIA Spain ForestGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Liverpool CooperativeMammal . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
McGillU 2 Genomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Melbourne Algal Stoichiogenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
MonashUniversity EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . .21
MonashUniversity HostPathogenEvolution . . . . . . . . 21
NHM London FossilDeerEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .22
NotreDameInst EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
NottinghamTrentU CampylobacterDiseaseDynamics
22
NottinghamTrentU ExperimentalEvolution . . . . . . . . 23
OhioStateU Phylogeography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .23
RJB-CSIC Spain AfricanBiogeogrEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . .23
UAntwerp BehaviouralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
UBern EAWAG Switzerland CichlidSpeciation . . . . .86UCambridge ComputationalBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
UCollegeLondon ComputationalBiology . . . . . . . . . . . 26
UFSSouthAfrica AdaptiveEcologicalNetworks . . . . . 27
UFSSouthAfrica AdaptiveEcologicalNetworksSouthAfrica
SoilMicrobes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
UJaen Spain GrassDroughtAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
ULouvain ButterySexualSelection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
UMontreal MicrobialEvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . 31
UQueensland MarinePopulationGenet . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
UTuebingen EvolutionFishColoration . . . . . . . . . . . . . .32
UTulsa InvasiveInsectEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .33
UValencia EnvironmentAdaptation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
UZaragoza Spain BrachypodiumComparativeGenomics
34
UZurich 2PhD EvolutionaryGeneticsOfAdaptation 34
UppsalaU SpeciationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
WashingtonStateU EvolutionTasmanianDevil . . . . . .36
AarhusU ArcticEvolution
Ph.D. position, Department of Bioscience, Aarhus Uni-
versity
Applications are invited for a PhD position within the
project Evolutionary potential and contemporary evo-
lution in a changing Arctic environment: Arctic charr
and three-spine stickleback in Greenland , funded by
the Danish Council for Independent Research.
Climate change and its consequences for the persis-
tence of species and populations is considered one of
the most important problems in the biological sciences.
Whereas much attention has been devoted to eects
on the level of ecosystems and the possibility of range
shifts of species, there is an emerging understanding
that populations and species may also respond to cli-
mate change through contemporary evolution.
This project will test hypotheses concerning evolution-
ary potential and contemporary evolution of Arctic char
and three-spine stickleback in western Greenland. This
is one of the regions on Earth where climate change is
predicted to be - and already is - most severe. It will
be tested if these two sh species are able to adapt to
altered climate conditions, using population and land-
scape genomics analyses. Data will be generated by
next-generation sequencing methods (RAD sequencing
and related approaches). The project also involves eld
work in Greenland for collecting samples.
The Ph.D. student will become part of a research groupwith a creative and stimulating environment. The
project also includes employment of a postdoc. The
precise allocation of tasks among participants in the
project will be agreed upon after employment.
Applicants should have a strong interest in evolutionary
biology and population genetics/genomics, and should
have taken relevant courses within these elds. Other
relevant competences include experience with bioinfor-
matics and/or GIS, and in general good computational
skills. Good skills in scientic writing in English are
also important.
The place of employment is Aarhus University, De-
partment of Bioscience, Ny Munkegade 114, DK-8000
Aarhus C, Denmark.
The salary for Ph.D. students in Denmark depends on
experience and the specic model (3 or 4 years), but
is typically around 4500 US$/month (+ pension 630
US$/month) before tax for a 3 year Ph.D.
For more details, see: http://talent.au.dk/phd/-
scienceandtechnology/opencalls/specic-projects/-
evolutionary-potential-and-contemporary-evolution-
in-a-changing-arctic-environment-arctic-charr-and-
three-spine-stickleback-in-greenland/ For further
information please contact: Prof. Michael M. Hansen,
e-mail mmh@biology.au.dk, tel. +45 40247191
Applications MUST be submitted online: http://-
talent.au.dk/phd/scienceandtechnology/opencalls/
Choose November 2013 Call with deadline 1 November
2013. You will be directed to the call, and must choose
the programme Bioscience.
Michael M. Hansen Professor, Deputy Head of De-18 EvolDir September 1, 2013
partment Department of Bioscience Aarhus University
Ny Munkegade, Bldg. 1540 DK-8000 Aarhus C Den-
mark E-mail: michael.m.hansen@biology.au.dk Web
page: http://person.au.dk/michael.m.hansen@biology
Tel.: +45 40247191
Michael M cller Hansen
<michael.m.hansen@biology.au.dk >
Barcelona PrimateGenomics
*Universitat Pompeu Fabra in Barcelona, Spain*
* *
*PhD fellowship available*
The Comparative Genomics Group in the Compar-
ative and Computational Genomics program of the
IBE (http://www.ibe.upf-csic.es/) is willing to recruit
a PhD student.
The research group that the successful candidate will
join studies all kind of variation (genomic, transcrip-
tomic and epigenetics) in humans compared to great
apes.
The group is located at the Evolutionary Biology Unit
of the Pompeu Fabra University (http://www.upf.edu)
and is part of the Barcelona Biomedical Research Park
(http://www.prbb.org), a renowned centre for Biomed-
ical research that hosts, besides the University, other in-
stitutions such as the CRG (Centre for Genomic Regu-
lation) or the CMRB (Barcelona's Centre for Regenera-
tive Medicine). All these organizations share a thrilling
and dynamic scientic atmosphere, driven by leading
groups in elds such as bioinformatics, molecular bi-
ology and evolution. The PRBB is located close to
Barcelona's City Centre (right in front of the beach).
Candidates should hold a Bachelor's degree (or equiv-
alent) in Biology, Computer science or similar. Can-
didates with strong programming, knowledge on next-
generation sequence methods (454, Illumina, Solid) and
experimental background are especially encouraged to
apply.
Motivated and potentially competitive applicants
should send, before September 5th and preferably via
e-mail, a CV and a short letter of interest including the
names of two persons able to provide references to:
Tomas Marqu es-Bonet (tomas.marques@upf.edu) Fer-
ran Casals (ferran.casals@upf.edu){ Tomas
tomas.marques@upf.edu
GhentU GreenAlgalEvolution
*PhD position: green algal evolution *
The *Phycology Research Group (UGent)* and *Com-
parative & Integrative Genomics lab (VIB-UGent)* are
looking for a highly motivated PhD student who is keen
to work on evolution of green algal seaweeds.
*Background: *
Green seaweeds encompass macroscopic multicellular
plants as well as several types of giant-celled organ-
isms with unique morphological, cellular, and physio-
logical characteristics. Little however is known about
the mechanisms (cellular V molecular) that enabled this
transition from small microscopic algae to large and
complex seaweeds and eventually vascular plants.
*Study/Research project*:
The project aims to elucidate the genetic correlates of
key innovations in green algal seaweeds and should pro-
vide insights on the mechanisms underlying the evolu-
tionary success of this group of organisms. The stu-
dent will apply transcriptome sequencing of normalized
cDNA libraries using next generation sequencing tech-
nology of a representative set of ulvophycean algae se-
lected on the basis of their phylogenetic position, cyto-
logical characteristics, ease of culturing and ecological
signicance. In addition the student will develop a cen-
tralized online infrastructure (pico-PLAZA) where all
information generated by green algal sequencing initia-
tives (genome as well as transcriptome) is integrated,
in combination with advanced methods for data min-
ing. This platform will be the green algal equivalent
of PLAZA, a comparative genomics resource to study
gene and genome evolution in land plants (Proost et al.
*Plant Cell* 21:3718-31).
*What is expected from candidates*:
1. EU citizenship
2. A Master of Science degree relevant to the subject
(e.g. Biology, Bioscience Engineering, Marine Biodiver-
sity and Conservation, Geography, ...)
3. Computer literacy. Experience in bioinformatics is
viewed as a plus.
4. Excellent study results and a scientic, critical atti-September 1, 2013 EvolDir 19
tude
5. English language prociency
*What we oer:*
We oer of a fellowship of 4 years. Interested candidates
email Olivier De Clerck (Olivier.declerck@ugent.be)
and Klaas Vandepoele (klaas.vandepoele@psb.vib-
ugent.be) with a motivation letter and CV before *15
September 2013*. Preselected candidates will be in-
vited for an interview (in person or by skype). The
nal decision will be communicated at latest on Octo-
ber 1st , 2013.
*More info:*
For further information on the project and/or applica-
tion procedure, please contact Prof. O. De Clerck by
e-mail (Olivier.declerck@ugent.be).
http://www.phycology.ugent.be/ https://-
www.facebook.com/groups/Phycology.UGent/
http://bioinformatics.psb.ugent.be/cig/* * Olivier
Olivier De Clerck Onderzoeksgroep Algologie, UGent.
Krijgslaan 281, S8, 9000 Gent; Belgium Tel -32-
9-2648500 http://www.phycology.ugent.be/ http://-
www.facebook.com/groups/Phycology.UGent/ Olivier
De Clerck <odclerck@gmail.com >
INIA Spain ForestGenetics
The Population Genetics and Evolution research team
at INIA-CIFOR (Madrid, Spain) is searching highly
motivated graduate students with interest in forest ge-
netics and evolutionary biology.
The Spanish Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness
is about to launch a new call of 4-year pre-doctoral
grants associated to already ongoing projects (FPI
grants). The expected application period is from late
August until September 10 (see link at the end of this
message).
We oer one PhD thesis associated to the project
AGL2012-40151-C03-02 FENOPIN. This is a prelimi-
nary call to contact interested candidates and facilitate
interaction prior to the ocial call.
The project is centered in local adaptation of Mediter-
ranean pines. More specically, we intend to address
the intra-specic genetic variation and phenotypic plas-
ticity of key life history traits and trade-os between
them, as well as modeling the interplay between geneow and divergent selection that could help under-
standing observed variation patterns.
The ultimate target is to understand the evolution-
ary processes related to wild populations adaptation to
varying stress (both abiotic and biotic) and perturba-
tion regimes and inferring the possibilities to adapt to
future environmental challenges through adaptive plas-
ticity, local genetic change and/or migration.
The PhD student will be supervised by Dr. Jos e Cli-
ment in close collaboration with Drs. R. Al a and JJ.
Robledo-Arnuncio from INIA-CIFOR and Drs.Rafael
Zas from MBG-CSIC and Jordi Voltas from Univ. of
Lleida, (Univ of Lleida also participates in Erasmus
Mundus Medfor). Further collaborations with top Eu-
ropean scientists in forest genetics and evolution will be
encouraged.
Brief description of the group research activity can be
found in: http://wwwsp.inia.es/en-us/Investigacion/-
centros/CIFOR Interested candidates please send an
email with your motivation and CV to Jose Cli-
ment (climent@inia.es) with CC to Juan Jos e Robledo-
Arnuncio (robledo.juan-jose@inia.es).
Informative note from the Ministry of Economy and
Competitiveness, mentioning the imminent FPI-grant
call:
http://www.idi.mineco.gob.es/portal/site/MICINN/-
menuitem.edc7f2029a2be27d7010721001432ea0/-
?vgnextoid=ecc4a91e89e20410VgnVCM1000001d04140aRCRD&lang choosen=
es jjrobledo@gmail.com
Liverpool CooperativeMammal
We are looking for a highly motivated graduate student
to join a team of researchers using the banded mongoose
(Mungos mungo) as a model system to investigate the
evolution of cooperative societies.
The PhD will use a 17 year dataset of life-history and
behavioural data of a pedigreed population of banded
mongooses to examine the role of genes and the envi-
ronment in determining patterns of helping behaviour.
There is also potential for extending the project into
other areas of understanding the evolution of cooper-
ative breeding, depending on the interests and experi-
ence of the successful candidate. While the project will
be largely computer-based, it will involve at least one
visit to the eld site in Uganda and there is some po-
tential for conducting relevant eld-based experiments20 EvolDir September 1, 2013
e.g. on mechanisms of kin recognition.
The successful candidate will: - have a good honours
degree (minimum 2:1) in zoology or a closely related
discipline. - demonstrate knowledge of vertebrate social
systems, an interest in the application of genetic tech-
niques to understanding animal behaviour and compe-
tence in learning new computer software.
The ideal candidate will also have experience of
analysing life-history data, of conducting statistical
analyses e.g. GLMMs, and/or of analysing pedigree
data using quantitative genetic methods (e.g. the ani-
mal model).
Funding: - stipend of $13,750. - available from 30th
September 2013 for 3 years. - candidate must be eligi-
ble for fees at UK/EU rates.
Please see http://www.ndaphd.com/search/-
ProjectDetails.aspx?PJID=3D46356&LID=2457
for application details.
For informal enquiries contact Dr Hazel Nichols:
h.j.nichols@ljmu.ac.uk
H.J.Nichols@ljmu.ac.uk
McGillU 2 Genomics
Two PhD Positions in Ecological Genomics and Bioin-
formatics, McGill University
Two PhD positions beginning January 2014 and
September 2014 are available at McGill University (Bi-
ology Department). These positions are funded by the
NSERC CREATE training program in Aquatic Ecosys-
tem Health (ERASMUS) and a Canada Research Chair
in Ecological Genomics. The ERASMUS program pro-
motes collaborative and innovative multi-disciplinary
research.
Graduate students will study multiple stressors in
aquatic environments with special emphasis on the
metal-induced mutation process from genomes to popu-
lations. We use lab experiments, eld studies and com-
putational analyses of large-scale sequence data to test
speciation patterns, the genetics of habitat transitions
and local adaptation in freshwater crustaceans.
We are looking for highly motivated individuals with
strong analytical and computational skills. Successful
applicants must have obtained a research-based MSc
degree in a related discipline (e.g., evolution, molecu-
lar ecology, genomics, bioinformatics) and demonstrateinterest and/or experience in team-based and interdis-
ciplinary projects. International students with strong
credentials (competitive GPA, strong English pro-
ciency) and publications in peer-reviewed journals are
encouraged to apply.
Interested student should send their CV, a brief state-
ment of research interest, along with a list of 3 ref-
erences to Dr. Melania Cristescu at Email: mela-
nia.cristescu@mcgill.ca
Melania Cristescu <melania.cristescu@mcgill.ca >
Melbourne Algal Stoichiogenomics
A PhD scholarship in evolutionary algal stoi-
chiogenomics is available in the Verbruggen lab at the
University of Melbourne, Australia.
You will study genomes, transcriptomes and proteomes
of algae to investigate their utilization of key elements
(e.g. N, S, trace elements). The resulting stoichiome-
tries will be studied in a phylogenetic context to infer
the evolutionary dynamics of element utilization. You
will interpret the evolutionary patterns in a paleoenvi-
ronmental context and test specic hypotheses about
the inheritance of elemental stoichiometry during plas-
tid endosymbiosis. The project involves generation of
molecular data (if desired) and comparative evolution-
ary bioinformatics. Computational skills are a key se-
lection criterion for this position.
To be successful you will: * satisfy the requirements for
a PhD degree at the University of Melbourne (http://-
goo.gl/VGRgQ) * have had exposure to molecular biol-
ogy and bioinformatics * have a strong interest in algal
biology and bioinformatics * evidence strong oral and
written communication skills
To nd out more about the lab, go to http://-
www.phycoweb.net To apply, send your CV, a rep-
resentative piece of English writing (e.g. MSc the-
sis), and the names and contact information of two
or more references (at least one former supervisor)
to heroen.verbruggen@unimelb.edu.au. Informal en-
quiries are welcome.
Heroen Verbruggen
{ www.phycoweb.net algal evolution blog: phy-
coweb.wordpress.com
heroen.verbruggen@gmail.comSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 21
MonashUniversity
EvolutionaryGenomics
*PhD positions, plant ecological genomics*
The Hodgins lab is currently seeking outstanding PhD
candidates interested in studying plant ecological ge-
nomics (www.hodginslab.com). Our laboratory stud-
ies the genetic basis for adaptation in plants. We are
particularly interested in using introduced species as a
model for studying rapid adaptation. We also study
adaptation to climate in forest trees and plant domes-
tication. To address evolutionary questions relating to
these topics, we use a combination of genomics, ecolog-
ical eldwork and experimental approaches.
The project can commence any time during 2014 and
will be developed in collaboration with the student.
Teaching is not required for the duration of the PhD
(3.5 years in Australia). Research funding as well as
attendance in one conference per year is guaranteed.
A top-up scholarship will be awarded to the successful
recipient of an Australian Postgraduate Award (tax-
free 2013 rate of approximately $25,000 AUD, top up
of $5000).
In addition, two fully funded PhD stipends are avail-
able for either Australian/NZ domestic or international
students. The stipends include all course fees plus ap-
proximately $25,000 AUD per annum tax-free.
Melbourne is diverse and thriving city with a desirable
climate. It is one of the most livable cities in the world
and is a cultural and recreational hub.
Monash is a member of the Group of Eight, a coali-
tion of top Australian universities recognized for their
excellence in teaching and research. The School of Bi-
ological Sciences is a dynamic unit with strengths in
both ecology and genetics and the nexus between these
disciplines.
Please send your CV, a transcript, a brief statement of
your research interests and the contact details of two
referees to hodgins@zoology.ubc.ca. The deadline for
scholarship applications at Monash University is Octo-
ber 31, 2013 for a January 1, 2014 start date.
Kathryn Hodgins, PhD Botany Department University
of British Columbia 3529-6270 University Blvd Vancou-
ver, B.C. V6T 1Z4 Phone: 604-710-6876 Fax: 604-822-
6089Kay Hodgins <hodgins@zoology.ubc.ca >
MonashUniversity
HostPathogenEvolution
**PhD position, evolutionary genetics of infectious dis-
ease**
Two PhD positions are available in the group of
Matthew Hall at Monash University (School of Biolog-
ical Sciences). We are looking for a highly motivated
candidate with broad interests in the evolutionary ge-
netics and genomics of host-pathogen interactions. The
starting date can be any time during 2014 and the PhD
project will be developed in collaboration with the stu-
dent to accommodate research interests and strengths.
Our research group studies the evolution of host de-
fence strategies using Daphnia magna and its bacterial
parasite Pasteuria ramosa (see mattdhall.com for more
information). We are interested in how host resistance
and tolerance ts in with a broader life-history and age-
ing framework, how pathogen virulence evolves, and
the underlying genetic basis of host and parasite tness
components. To address these evolutionary questions,
we use a combination of quantitative genetics, genomics
and experimental approaches.
**Scholarship details** Each PhD stipend is fully-
funded for a period of 3.5 years and is open to both
Australian/NZ domestic and international students.
The stipends include all course fees plus approximately
$25,000 AUD per annum tax-free. Domestic students
will be encouraged to apply for an Australian Postgrad-
uate Award, with a top-up scholarship awarded to suc-
cessful recipients (tax-free 2013 rate of approximately
$25,000 AUD, top up of $5000). Research funding as
well as attendance in one conference per year is guar-
anteed.
**Monash and the School of Biological Sciences**
Monash is a member of the Group of Eight, a coali-
tion of top Australian universities recognized for their
excellence in teaching and research. The School of Bio-
logical Sciences is a dynamic unit with strengths in both
ecology and genetics and the nexus between these disci-
plines (monash.edu/science/about/schools/biological-
sciences/). The University is located in Melbourne, one
of the most liveable cities in the world and a cultural
and recreational hub.
**Application process** Interested candidates should22 EvolDir September 1, 2013
send a cover letter outlining their research interests and
motivation, together with a CV and academic tran-
script to matt.hall@unibas.ch. Applicants must pos-
sess a Bachelor's or equivalent degree with rst-class
Honours, Master of Science or MPhil. Short-listed can-
didates will be asked for further information and will
be interviewed via video conference. The deadline for
scholarship applications at Monash University is Octo-
ber 31, 2013 for a January 1, 2014 start date.
Matthew D. Hall Universit at Basel, Zoologisches Insti-
tut, Vesalgasse 1, CH-4051 Basel, Switzerland Phone:
+41 (0)61 267 0371, Fax: +41 (0)61 267 0362
www.mattdhall.com twitter: @mattd hall
matt.hall@unibas.ch
NHM London FossilDeerEvolution
Leverhulme funded (UK/EU fees, plus stipend) PhD
position, supervised by Adrian Lister (Earth Sci-
ences, NHM London) and David Richards (Geogra-
phy, U. Bristol), investigating evolutionary patterns in
Mediterranean island deer (fossil ones!):
http://www.nhm.ac.uk/research-curation/training/-
phd/studentships-2013/index.html It's a good student
project, with the opportunity for eldwork/excavation,
and the chance to become part of our wider research
program into the evolution of island dwarsm.
the deadline is very soon - 5th September! Please pass
on to anyone you think might be interested.
Tori
Dr. Victoria Herridge Scientic Associate, Earth Sci-
ences, Natural History Museum, London, SW7 5BD,
UK +44 20 7942 5477 (w) +44 7904349707 (mob)
skype: victoriaherridge research: http://bit.ly/-
QuOtDq twitter: @ToriHerridge
victoriaherridge@mac.com
NotreDameInst EvolutionaryBiol
The Notre Dame Institute for Advanced Study
(NDIAS) supports research in all academic disciplinesthat is directed toward or extends inquiry on ultimate
questions and questions of value. Fellows are encour-
aged to reect on broad questions that link multiple ar-
eas of inquiry and to explore the relationship between
the descriptive and the normative in an engaging aca-
demic community of scholars, scientists, artists, and
professionals.
NDIAS oers three types of residential fellowships.
Each fellowship oers a stipend, funds for research ex-
penditures, participation in NDIAS weekly seminars,
computer, printer, and oce space. Residential Fel-
lows receive stipends of up to $60,000. Graduate Stu-
dent Fellows receive stipends of up to $25,000. Distin-
guished scholars with extensive records of accomplish-
ment are invited to apply for Templeton Fellowships
at the NDIAS. Templeton Fellows must address one of
four major questions, as detailed on the NDIAS web-
site, and they receive stipends of up to $100,000. Appli-
cants may submit proposals for one type of fellowship
only per year.
Application deadline for all fellowships is October 15,
2013. Awards will be announced in spring 2014.
NDIAS is committed to excellence and diversity. All
those with promising and appropriate projects are in-
vited to apply.
Details are available at http://ndias.nd.edu/-
fellowships/ . Thank you,
Nick Ochoa Research Assistant Notre Dame Institute
for Advanced Study
Notre Dame Institute for Advanced Study
<ndias@nd.edu >
NottinghamTrentU
CampylobacterDiseaseDynamics
PhD position at Nottingham Trent University. Real-
Time Epidemiology of Campylobacter infections.
Funding covers UK/EU fees. Application deadline: Au-
gust 23rd (17.00 GMT).
This project will combine whole-genome sequenc-
ing approaches with anonymised patient informa-
tion to undertake the rst ever real-time epi-
demiological study of notied Campylobacter infec-
tions in a single health trust site. Candidates
should have Microbiology (and some bioinformat-
ics) experience. For a full description and eligi-September 1, 2013 EvolDir 23
bility criteria please visit: http://www.ntu.ac.uk/-
research/document uploads/144836.pdf For infor-
mal queries please contact Dr Alan McNally:
alan.mcnally@ntu.ac.uk Or Dr Georgina Manning:
georgina.manning@ntu.ac.uk
Benjamin Dickins Lecturer in Molecular Genetics Not-
tingham Trent University
http://www.bendickins.net/ http://-
softsweep.wordpress.com/ \Dickins, Benjamin"
<benjamin.dickins@ntu.ac.uk >
NottinghamTrentU
ExperimentalEvolution
PhD position at Nottingham Trent University in Exper-
imental Evolution. Funding covers UK/EU fees. Start
time: on or after October 2013. Application deadline:
August 23rd (17.00 GMT).
This is an opportunity for candidates with expe-
rience in Microbiology, Molecular Genetics or Evo-
lutionary Biology to pursue an experimental ap-
proach to understanding fundamental evolutionary
processes. The starting point is measurement and
manipulation of the mutation rate in bacteriophage
phiX174. Next-generation sequencing will be used
to track population changes. For further particu-
lars, including full eligibility details and the applica-
tion procedure please visit: http://www.ntu.ac.uk/-
research/document uploads/144835.pdf For infor-
mal queries please contact Dr Ben Dickins: ben-
jamin.dickins@ntu.ac.uk bendickins.net
\Dickins, Benjamin" <benjamin.dickins@ntu.ac.uk >
OhioStateU Phylogeography
***Grad Student***
The Carstens lab at The Ohio State University
is looking for Ph D students who are interested
in phylogeography in general and developing new
approaches to the analysis of comparative phy-
logeographic data in particular. Please see <
http://carstenslab.org.ohio-state.edu/ >and<https:/-/sites.google.com/site/bryanccarstens/ >for general
information about the lab, and contact Bryan directly
if interested at <carstens dot 12 at osu dot edu >. I
anticipate that the positions would start in the Fall of
2014.
Bryan C. Carstens Department of Evolution, Ecology,
& Organismal Biology The Ohio State University 318
W. 12th Avenue Columbus, OH 43210-1293
web: http://carstenslab.org.ohio-state.edu/ web:
https://sites.google.com/site/bryanccarstens/ skype:
bryan carstens oce: 614.292.6587 cell: 734.474.8527
Bryan Carstens <bryan.c.carstens@gmail.com >
RJB-CSIC Spain
AfricanBiogeogrEvol
*PhD position in African biogeography & evolution*
Please help me advertise this position to any potential
applicants.
Thank you and best wishes, Isabel.
*Position description *
PhD Position. Fixed-term employment, four years
Available at the Royal Botanical Garden - Spanish Na-
tional Research Council (RJB-CSIC, Madrid, Spain).
.
Closing date: September 1st, 2013.
You will analyze the genetic structure of selected sub-
tropical and tropical species, or closely related plant
taxa, with a widespread or disjunct distribution in
Africa (project AFFLORA) in order to: disentangle
the impact of neutral processes (isolation, genetic drift,
gene ow), infer the location of potential Pleistocene
refuges, estimate the timing of range disjunctions, and
assess the level of gene ow across geographic barri-
ers. You will also test for the existence of a spatially
and temporally congruent demographic history, imply-
ing range shifts of entire communities (fragmentation,
extinction) as opposite to idiosyncratic histories sug-
gesting individualistic responses to climate change and
independent colonization.
To achieve these goals ideally you will: I) mine plant
transcriptomes and identify markers for targeted se-
quencing using NGS techniques; II) produce popula-
tion (SNPs) and species level (amplicon sequencing)24 EvolDir September 1, 2013
molecular data using NGS techniques; III) reconstruct
gene trees (inter-population divergence) and trace the
spatial distribution of populations (lineages) through
time; IV) infer geographical genetic structure or loca-
tion of gene pools using Bayesian clustering models; V)
use population demographic models based on coales-
cent theory to estimate gene ow across barriers and to
estimate past population size changes; VI) assess con-
gruence among phylogeographic patterns of the studied
species and test alternative hypotheses on community-
building in African oras using novel full Bayesian and
Approximate Bayesian Computing techniques.
*Requirements *
Candidates should have completed their Masters
or be done with it by the end of 2013 (this is
a requirement of the Spanish fellowship program
which cannot be waived; please, see call descrip-
tion at: http://www.boe.es/boe/dias/2013/08/14/-
pdfs/BOE-A-2013-8984.pdf [in Spanish]). The date in
which that degree (Master or Bachelor if lacking) was
obtained should be later than January 1, 2010. Once
selected, the candidate can choose the PhD program
they wish to join among the available Spanish universi-
ties. Preference will be given to candidates with prior
knowledge on bioinformatics and/or computational bi-
ology (e.g., Masters in Bioinformatics). Good commu-
nication skills (written and spoken) in English are nec-
essary, and language skills in Spanish are advantageous.
Experience working with lab techniques in molecular
phylogenetics and/or NGS data, and knowledge in phy-
logenetic and population genetic software and/or pro-
gramming languages applied to these, such as R, Perl,
Python, or C++ are advantageous. We are seeking a
candidate who is independent, self-motivated, and in-
terested in the use or development of new methods and
approaches, in short, a person willing to go beyond the
state-of-the-art in the eld. We will attach great impor-
tance to personal characteristics and independence in
learning and working, creativity and documented pro-
ductivity. Priority will be given to those candidates
who have co-authored one scientic publication before
the deadline.
*How to apply *
Candidates should send their CV to Dr. Isabel San-
mart n ( isanmartin@rjb.csic.es) no later than Septem-
ber 1st, 2013. Applications will be screened as they
arrive, thus we encourage each applicant to send their
CV as soon as possible.
Dr. Isabel Sanmart n
Senior Researcher
Dept. of Biodiversity and Conservation, RJB-CSICPlaza de Murillo, 2, 28014 Madrid, Spain
E-mail: isanmartin@rjb.csic.es
Phone: 91 420 30 17 (Ext 213)
Fax: 91 420 01 57
*Doctorado en biogeograf a y evoluci on africanas*
Por favor, ay ~Aodenme a distribuir esta convocatoria
entre posibles candidatos/as
Muchas gracias con mis mejores deseos, Isabel.
*Descripci on del puesto*
Contrato predoctoral por cuatro a nos.
Disponible en el Real Jard n Bot anico - Consejo Supe-
rior de Investigaciones Cient cas (RJB-CSIC, Madrid,
Espa na)
Vencimiento del plazo: 1 de Septiembre de 2013.
Objetivos: An alisis de la estructura gen etica de diver-
sos taxones de plantas emparentadas de distribuci on
geogr aca discontinua (disjunta) subtropical en ~Africa
(proyecto AFFLORA) con el objeto de: Desentra nar el
impacto de procesos evolutivos neutrales (aislamiento,
deriva gen etica, ujo gen etico); Inferir la ubicaci on de
refugios potenciales pleistocenos; datar distribuciones
disjuntas; y evaluar los niveles de ujo gen etico a
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UAntwerp BehaviouralEvolution
The University of Antwerp is a knowledge center with
4000 employees that performs ground-breaking and in-
novative research of international standing. The uni-
versity takes special care to ensure optimum support
and supervision of students, and pays constant atten-
tion to educational innovation. The university is an
autonomous pluralistic institution that is committed
to the enhancement of an open, democratic and multi-
cultural society, and it pursues an equal opportunities
policy.
The University of Antwerp is seeking to ll the follow-
ing vacancy (m/f) at the Department Biology-Ethology
of the Faculty of Sciences:September 1, 2013 EvolDir 25
Ph.D. student/Post-doc in Behavioural and Evolution-
ary Ecology
Job description: Bird song has been a fascinating and
productive area of research among other in the context
of sexual selection, and it is now commonly assumed
that bird song forms a sexually selected trait. Bird song
represents a learned behaviour, which makes it an even
more fascinating trait, given that learned forms of vocal
communication are a rather exceptional phenomenon.
In this project particular attention will be paid to: *
The genetic basis of song characters in order to predict
their potential to respond to directional selection and
the existence of (genetic) learning preferences and pre-
dispositions as sources of individual variation in song
* Indirect selection on the underlying endocrinological
control mechanisms for the evolution of bird song and
the evolution of suites of traits * Testing predictions of
evolutionary theory in the context of sexual selection
(indirect and direct benets to mate choice, condition
dependence,...) * Variation in the environmental con-
ditions during development, trade- os across dierent
life-history stages, and transgenerational consequences
Prole and requirements: * you have a Master degree
in Biology or an equivalent degree in life sciences * you
are an enthusiastic and highly motivated student with
a strong interest in Behavioral and Evolutionary Ecol-
ogy, preferentially with experience in related research *
post-doctoral candidates should be qualied young sci-
entists with a strong background in Behavioral or Evo-
lutionary Ecology. Evidence of independent thinking
and a good publication record are desirable * you have
good organizational, writing and presentation skills and
should be able to work well both independently and in
a team environment
We oer: * a Ph.D. scholarship for one year, and
extension for another three years after positive eval-
uation. The post-doctoral position is for two years
* the possibility to join a dynamic and stimulating
group of researchers working on all 4 major aspects
of animal behaviour (causation, development, func-
tion, evolution), with emphasis on sexual selection,
parental care, and hormone-behaviour relationships
in birds (See http://www.ua.ac.be/wendt.muller and
http://www.ua.ac.be/marcel.eens) * starting date: 1st
of November 2013 - 1st of January 2014
Interested? * Please send all application material in-
cluding 1) your curriculum vitae 2) a brief (250 words)
summary of your reasons for applying and 3) con-
tact information of max. 2 referees) as single PDF-
le to: wendt.muller@ua.ac.be. Closing date: 13.10.13.
* For more information, contact Prof. Wendt M uller
(wendt.m uller@ua.ac.be) or Prof. Marcel Eens (mar-cel.eens@ua.ac.be)
Wendt M uller University of Antwerp Department of
Biology-Ethology Campus Drie Eiken C-1.27 Univer-
siteitsplein 1 2610 Antwerp (Wilrijk), Belgium
e-mail: Wendt.Muller@uantwerpen.be web: http://-
www.ua.ac.be/wendt.muller tel +32 32652292 fax +32
32652271 mobile:+32 473567276
M uller Wendt <Wendt.Mueller@uantwerpen.be >
UBern EAWAG Switzerland
CichlidSpeciation
PhD ecological genomic of speciation in cichlid sh,
University of Bern and Eawag
A fully funded Swiss Science Foundation PhD position
is available immediately for a duration of three years in
the Seehausen group at University of Bern and Eawag
to work on constraints to speciation in cichlid sh, us-
ing a combination of African eldwork, next generation
sequencing, and ecological and phenotypic data analy-
sis.
We are a large and interactive research group, with sev-
eral PhD students, Postdocs and faculty working on
speciation and adaptive radiation in African cichlid sh
and postglacial European sh, and others working on
eld-based and experimental community ecology and
conservation biology.
We are looking for an enthusiastic and interactive young
researcher, with a Masters degree in ecology, evolution,
genetics, genomics or similar, a strong background in
ecology and evolutionary biology and a desire to study
speciation in an exceptionally diverse group of animals.
Experience with eldwork in the tropics, experience
with NGS data analysis and good knowledge of the
R programming environment will all be very helpful
but are not absolutely required. The project will in-
clude eld work in East Africa, collection and analysis
of ecological and phenotypic data, experimental breed-
ing of cichlids in our aquarium facilities in Switzerland,
preparation of DNA libraries for next generation se-
quencing, QTL mapping, advanced population genomic
data analysis, and the writing of several manuscripts for
leading journals in the eld.
This PhD position is fully funded for three years by
the Swiss Science Foundation with salary according
to Swiss Science Foundation salary scheme. It is one26 EvolDir September 1, 2013
of several new and recent Swiss Science Foundation
funded positions on cichlid speciation in the group, and
it will involve close interaction with several other PhD
students, Postdocs and senior scientists.
Our research group is part of the Institute of
Ecology & Evolution (IEE) of the University of
Berne (http://www.shecology.ch/index EN), and
the EAWAG Center for Ecology, Evolution and
Biogeochemistry (CEEB) in Luzern/Kastanienbaum
(http://www.eawag.ch/forschung/cc/ceeb/index EN).
Our well-equipped labs are situated in the CEEB,
right on the shores of Lake Lucerne (a lake that has
its own endemic sh radiations) and in the IEE in
Bern. Switzerland is home to an impressive number of
universities in close geographic proximity, aording the
opportunity for interaction with a large community of
ecologists and evolutionary biologists.
Applications should be sent before September
30 to Susanne.maurer@iee.unibe.ch with cc to
ole.seehausen@eawag.ch. Please include cv, tran-
scripts of your Masters degree certicate and email
addresses of 3 referees. For information please write to
ole.seehausen@eawag.ch.
We look forward to receiving your application
Ole Seehausen
Ole.Seehausen@eawag.ch
UCambridge ComputationalBiology
Description of work 3 year doctoral position in the
Department of Computer Science at the University of
Cambridge. This position is part of a EU Project, EPI-
HEALTHNET and Involves Bioinformatics and Com-
putational Biology modelling of Epigenetic mechanisms
early in life and developmentally relevant metabolic sig-
nalling, which create biological variation and have a
long term eect on the health of individuals across the
lifespan. The candidate will analyse data in several
relevant models (diabetes, obesity and assisted repro-
ductive technologies (ART)), human samples, stem cell
lines, animal models) and will develop bioinformatics
tools to decipher some of the most important pathways
and to oer options for early intervention to avoid ad-
verse health eects. The aims are to a) discovery of the
key genes and pathways aecting epigenetic and im-
printing sensitivity in early stages of development in or-
der to create intervention tools against epigenetic mis-programming; and B) Link with bioinformatics tools
the longevity related pathways and those susceptible to
early epigenetic perturbations in order to explain how
early events inuence the health and lifespan of indi-
viduals; C) Studying the possibilities of early interven-
tion by controlling the maternal environment. Famil-
iarity with general programming languages (C/C++,
Java) and with computational packages (Mathematica,
R, Matlab) would be helpful. Enquiries to
Dr Pietro Lio' Computer Laboratory University of
Cambridge pl219@cam.ac.uk
[Pietro Lio' ][http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/users/pl219 ]
Pietro Lio' <pl219@cam.ac.uk >
UCollegeLondon
ComputationalBiology
PhD studentship in Computational Biology at UCL
Fully-funded 3 year position, starting as soon as possi-
ble
THE OPPORTUNITY
Recent breakthroughs in sequencing technologies are
transforming biosciences. Increasingly, individual labo-
ratories perform de novo genome and transcriptome se-
quencing eorts. But due to the relatively short length
of current reads, assembly remains challenging. The
problem is particularly acute with plant genomes be-
cause of their large size, polyploidy, and massive gene
expansions and contractions.
The successful applicant will contribute to on-going
eorts in the lab to exploit orthologous sequences in
closely related species to identify split and incomplete
genes in draft genome and transcriptome assemblies.
The project is part of a larger collaboration between
the Dessimoz Lab at UCL and Bayer CropScience NV
(Ghent, Belgium), leading agronomical company, for
the development of new methods and resources to bet-
ter characterise evolutionary and functional relation-
ships between model plant genomes and agronomically-
relevant crop genomes. This project will enable more
eective crop biotechnology, which is key to ensure food
security and sustainable agriculture.
The successful applicant will be provided with strong
mentorship and be given ample scientic training op-
portunities. She or he will based at UCL in the Blooms-September 1, 2013 EvolDir 27
bury area of London, but will have the opportunity to
do short-term visits to the collaborator in Ghent.
The successful applicant will receive a tax-free stipend
of currently $15,726 per annum. There will be addi-
tional opportunities to be sponsored for attending in-
ternational conferences. The PhD study fees will be
covered by the project (UK/EU rates).
PROFILE SOUGHT
- Strong (rst or upper second class) undergraduate or
postgraduate degree in quantitative discipline (bioin-
formatics, computer science, statistics, mathematics,
or related subjects) - High degree of self-motivation -
Good ability to work independently and as part of a
team - Eective written and oral communication skills
- Demonstrated programming skills - Ideally, prior ex-
perience in computational biology research
Applicants must be either UK/EU/Swiss nationals or
resident in the UK for three years prior to starting the
PhD.
HOW TO APPLY
To apply, please send the following documents as single
PDF by email to Dr Christophe Dessimoz (c.dessimoz
at ucl.ac.uk):
- a covering letter highlighting your reasons for apply-
ing and your suitability for this studentship - a copy
of your CV - the names and contact details of 2-3 ref-
erences - if available, links to your Bachelor or Master
thesis, publications, code projects (e.g. GitHub repo)
are appreciated
To ensure full consideration, applications should be re-
ceived by 16 Sep 2013 at 5pm UK time.
For informal enquiries, please contact Dr Dessimoz to
this above address.
ABOUT US
At the interface between biology and computer sci-
ence, the Dessimoz Laboratory seeks to better un-
derstand evolutionary and functional relationships be-
tween genes, genomes, and species. The lab is part of
both the UCL Department of Genetics, Evolution and
Environment and the UCL Department of Computer
Science. More information on the lab is available at
http://lab.dessimoz.org . UCL is one of the world's top
universities. Based in the heart of London, it is a mod-
ern, outward- looking institution. At its establishment
in 1826, UCL was radical and responsive to the needs
of society, and this ethos - that excellence should go
hand-in-hand with enriching society - continues today.
UCL's sta and former students have included 21 No-
bel prizewinners. It is a truly international community:more than one-third of our student body - nearly 27,000
strong - come from 150 countries and nearly one-third
of sta are from outside the UK. UCL is independently
ranked as the most productive research university in
Europe (SIR). The Thomson Scientic Citation Index
- which catalogues journal articles and citations in the
sciences, social sciences and arts and humanities - shows
that UCL is the second most-highly cited European uni-
versity.
UCL Department of Genetics, Evolution & Environ-
ment UCL Department of Computer Science Darwin
Building, Gower St, London, WC1E 6BT, UK Tel: +44
20 7679 0079 (Int. 30079) Mobile: +44 7721 047 648
http://lab.dessimoz.org Twitter: @cdessimoz
c.dessimoz@ucl.ac.uk
UFSSouthAfrica
AdaptiveEcologicalNetworks
SA-YSSP FELLOWSHIPS FOR YOUNG SCIEN-
TISTS
We are looking for creative PhD students from around
the world who would like to participate in a three-
month research program in South Africa. We welcome
applications by students with a general interest in theo-
retical ecology and evolution, and are particularly inter-
ested in hosting research projects related to modeling
adaptive ecological networks, food-web dynamics, spe-
ciation, coevolution, and evolutionary community as-
sembly. Research projects will be carried out at the
University of the Free State in Bloemfontein, South
Africa, from 24 November 2013 until 22 February 2014,
and are meant to result in a published article and a cor-
responding chapter in an applicant's PhD thesis. Ap-
plicants will have the chance to work under the joint
mentorship of Cang Hui (Centre for Invasion Biology,
Department of Botany and Zoology, Stellenbosch Uni-
versity, South Africa), ~Ake Br annstr om (Department of
Mathematics and Mathematical Statistics, Ume ~A Uni-
versity, Sweden), and Ulf Dieckmann (Evolution and
Ecology Program, International Institute for Applied
Systems Analysis, Laxenburg, Austria). Funding to
cover travel to Bloemfontein and living expenses while
there is available for successful applicants.
THEMATIC DETAILS
Stability and complexity of adaptive ecological net-
works28 EvolDir September 1, 2013
Forty years ago, Robert May published his iconic book,
Stability and Complexity in Model Ecosystems. In this
book, May challenged a popular belief of ecologists that
species-rich ecosystems are more stable than species-
poor ones. Using a mathematical model of dierential
equations, May derived the opposite conclusion: com-
plexity leads to instability. May's principle of ^ asimple
means stable' has guided the design of durable and ro-
bust complex systems by reducing the number of com-
partments. Learning from ecological systems, here we
envisage a paradigm shift departing from May's princi-
ple by incorporating adaptive compartments. For this
purpose, we aim to expand the methodology of adap-
tive dynamics theory, a mathematical toolbox recently
developed for examining phenotypic evolution in real-
istic ecological settings. The new perspective we pro-
pose emphasizes that complex adaptive systems assem-
ble their members and often cause these to diverge into
functional clusters.
An important assumption in the early theories is that
species in a community are not allowed to have ecolog-
ical novelty or evolutionary novelty. Ecological novelty
refers to the ability of species to increase their tness
by deciding, adaptively and at ecological time scales,
how strongly they interact with extant other species.
Evolutionary novelty refers to the ability of species to
increase their tness by adapting their heritable traits
via natural selection. Here we propose to build a math-
ematical model that incorporates both ecological and
evolutionary novelties in a large ecosystem with a real-
istic number of species. Using adaptive dynamics the-
ory, we plan to rst construct an ecosystem following
May's approach; that is, a Lotka-Volterra model with
each species described by a dierential equation. The
mutualistic and antagonistic relationships among these
species will be described by Holling-type-II functional
responses. We will allow species to choose their interac-
tion partners and adapt their interactions through the
mutation and selection of the underlying traits. In this
way, we will design the rst model that allows changes
both in the interaction matrix and in the benet ma-
trix. The relationship between diversity and complexity
will be assessed by this innovative adaptive model.
In addition to the research theme summarized above,
we are open to supervising projects in all other ar-
eas of theoretical ecology and the analysis of complex
adaptive systems. This includes studies of the dynam-
ics and evolution of cooperation; adaptive response of
metapopulations, ecosystems, and biodiversity patterns
to environmental changes; evolution of virulence and
resistance in diseases; adaptive management of land-
scapes, vegetation structures, and sheries; as well as
analyses of systemic risks. Projects in all of these areasmay have an analytical component, and will typically
involve a simulation-based numerical approach.
Applicants should have mastered at least one program-
ming language (such as Matlab, Mathematica, R, C,
C++, Basic, Delphi, or Pascal) and should ideally be
familiar with the stability analysis of dierential equa-
tions, methods of adaptive dynamics theory, and stan-
dard models in population ecology, community ecology,
and evolutionary ecology.
+ Allesina, S. & Tang, S. (2012). Stability crite-
ria for complex ecosystems. Nature 483: 205-208.
Available online at http://www.nature.com/nature/-
journal/v483/n7388/full/nature10832.html
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UFSSouthAfrica AdaptiveEcologi-
calNetworksSouthAfrica
SoilMicrobes
SA-YSSP FELLOWSHIPS FOR YOUNG SCIEN-
TISTS
We are looking for creative PhD students from around
the world who would like to participate in a three-
month research program in South Africa. We wel-
come applications by students with a general interest
in theoretical ecology and evolution, and are particu-
larly interested in hosting research projects related to
modeling the eects of soil microbes on plant diversity
and productivity. Research projects will be carried out
at the University of the Free State in Bloemfontein,
South Africa, from 24 November 2013 until 22 Febru-
ary 2014, and are meant to result in a published article
and a corresponding chapter in an applicant's PhD the-
sis. Applicants will have the chance to work under the
joint mentorship of Wijnand J. Swart (Department of
Plant Sciences, University of the Free State, Bloem-
fontein, South Africa), Gergely Boza (Department of
Plant Systematics, Ecology and Theoretical Biology,
E otv os Lor and University, Budapest, Hungary), and
Ulf Dieckmann (Evolution and Ecology Program, Inter-
national Institute for Applied Systems Analysis, Lax-
enburg, Austria). Funding to cover travel to Bloem-
fontein and living expenses while there is available forSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 29
successful applicants.
THEMATIC DETAILS
Modelling mechanisms inuencing above- and below-
ground diversity and productivity in plant communities
Soil microbes inhabiting the rhizosphere play a cru-
cial role in determining plant tness, productivity, and
health. Their role has been highlighted in studies of
mutualistic and antagonistic interactions, both in nat-
ural ecosystems aecting the diversity and stability of
communities, and also in agro-ecosystems directly af-
fecting crop yields. Besides the biological aspects often
studied, also various biochemical mechanisms inuence
rhizosphere diversity, which in turn stabilizes interac-
tions that positively or negatively aect plant species
and community diversity, stability, or resilience. Al-
lelopathy, the inhibition of others by chemicals, is one
potential mechanism responsible for determining agri-
cultural productivity and plant community structure.
Modeling allelopathy in a multi-species set-ting in spa-
tially explicit models will contribute to a broader un-
derstanding of the diversity, stability, and productivity
of above- and below-ground communities.
This project will focus on modeling plant community
dynamics in a multi-species setting. At the same time,
it will interface this objective with the consideration of
multi-player cooperation models, thus creating a link
between modeling plant community dynamics and co-
operation research. Cooperation research focuses on
the evolution and stability of dierent strategy types
involved in potentially co-operative interactions - for
example, investing more or less into producing chemi-
cal products that may inhibit other members of a com-
munity. Interaction between these dierent strategies
will then aect the diversity, stability, or productivity
of communities. Among the numerous theoretical ap-
proaches, agent-based modeling is an appropriate tool
for the theoretical study of plant community dynamics
with such complex interactions. Agent-based models
can also be used for modeling spatially explicit pop-
ulations, in which individuals have limited movement
and localized interactions, which ts the study of plant
communities. The scope of this project is to develop
and/or analyze such a model for understanding plant
community dynamics in a multi-species setting consid-
ering interactions through chemical products. In addi-
tion to these theoretical aspects, the project will also
con-sider applied aspects of plant community dynam-
ics, by comparing model results with data, and by mak-
ing predictions about the eect of human actions, such
as fertilization strategies or crop-mixing strategies, on
plant community diversity, stability, and productivity.
Applicants should be familiar with ecological mod-eling, microbial ecology, spatially explicit modeling,
agent-based modeling, associated mathematical meth-
ods, Matlab/ C/ Delphi (or a similar programming
platform), and share an interest in interactions between
species and their abiotic environment.
+ Blanco, J.A. (2007). The representation of
allelopathy in ecosystem- level forest models. Eco-
logical Modelling 209: 65-77. Available online
at http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/-
pii/S0304380007003225 + Boza, G., Kun, ~A.,
Scheuring, I. & Dieckmann, U. (2012). Strategy
diversity stabilizes mutualism through investment
cycles, phase diusion, and spatial bubbles. PLoS
Computational Biology, 8: e1002660. Available
online at http://www.ploscompbiol.org/article/-
inf-o%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pcbi.1002660 +
Inderjit, Wardle, D.A., Karban, R. & Callaway R.M.
(2011). The
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UJaen Spain
GrassDroughtAdaptation
<<A PhD position at the Universiy of Ja en in south-
ern Spain. Period 2014-2017.
Topic: Natural selection and adaptive signicance of
candidates genes associated to drought resistance in the
temperate grass Brachypodium distachyon (Poaceae)
Water stress is one of the main abiotic factors that
limit the distribution and abundance of plants and one
of the major selective forces that promote local adap-
tation in plants. For these reasons, understanding the
mechanisms of how plants cope with water stress has
been a recurrent and central topic in plant ecology,
plant physiology and evolution. Water use eciency
(WUE) is a key trait intrinsically related to dehydra-
tion avoidance, which has a direct impact on plant pro-
ductivity. Intraspecic natural variation and the ge-
netic architecture underlying this variation is almost
unknown. This proposed research will provide a com-
prehensive evolutionary analysis of the genetic basis of
Brachypodium distachyon adaptation to dry environ-
ments, and will further shed light on the genome-level30 EvolDir September 1, 2013
evolutionary patterns among other natural or crop tem-
perate grass species. Specically, we will address the
following major goals: (1) to identify candidates genes
related to variation in WUE through the analysis of
the transcriptome; (2) to clone and sequence alleles
candidates underlying variation in WUE, in order to
transform the B. distachyon line Bd21, which genome
has been recently sequenced; (3) to evaluate gene func-
tion and tness of these selected candidate genes in ex-
perimental conditions. Finally, we propose to test the
hypothesis that local adaptation is caused by the ex-
istence of genetic tradeos (antagonistic pleiotropy) at
these candidate genes. This project is funded by the
Spanish Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness.
More info: www.ajmanzaneda.org Requisites:
Demonstrable experience in molecular work is required
for this position (preferably on plants or fungi) Evo-
lutionary knowledge desirable. Medium-High level of
Spanish desirable (not excluding criteria).
Interested candidates send CV and letter describing in-
terests to amavila@ujaen.es
Contact information:
Dr. Antonio J Manzaneda Departamento de Biolog a
Animal, Biolog a Vegetal y Ecolog a. Area de Ecolog a.
Universidad de Ja en. Paraje las Lagunillas s/n. 23071.
Ja en. SPAIN
e-mail: amavila@ujaen.es http: www.ajmanzaneda.org
in twitter: @AntonioJManzane
Antonio J Manzaneda <amavila@ujaen.es >
ULouvain ButterySexualSelection
nes: 160
PhD on the plasticity of multimodal communication
under sexual selection in a buttery, Bicyclus anynana
PhD Position in Behavioral Ecology (f/m)
Biodiversity Research Centre { Earth and Life Institute
Universit e catholique de Louvain (UCL)
Project title Plasticity of multimodal communication
under sexual selection in a buttery, Bicyclus anynana
Available position A full time four-year PhD posi-
tion is available at the Biodiversity Research Cen-
tre, Earth and Life Institute, University of Louvain-la-
Neuve (UCL) in Belgium (http://www.uclouvain.be/-en-bdiv.html).
Description of the project Individuals often show large
phenotypic variation in sexual traits (signals and pref-
erences), which aect their reproductive success. Phe-
notypic variation may be due to their genotype, to the
environment(s) in which their phenotype is present, and
to genotype-by-environment interactions (GEIs). The
impact of GEIs on sexual selection has only recently
drawn the attention of researchers. The project aims
at assessing the role of GEIs on the variation observed
in sexual traits and tests whether such variation has an
adaptive value in mate choice. An integrative approach
will allow investigating: 1) multiple phenotypic (visual,
olfactory, gustatory) traits to grasp the full phenotype
of the organism, forming its \lifestyle", and 2) the adap-
tive value of phenotypic plasticity in both sexual sig-
nals and preferences in both sexes. More specically,
the project will aim at identifying the extent of plas-
tic and genetic eects in male-female interactions due
to signaling and preference for signals. Methods will
include behavioral, chemical and statistical analyses to
test the extent with which sexual signals and prefer-
ence depend on individual quality, experience and on
environmental conditions (e.g. [1,2]). The species un-
der focus is an African tropical buttery Bicyclus any-
nana, in which mutual mate choice and ornamentation
has recently been shown [3]. This species is a model
lab-reared system for studies in phenotypic plasticity,
sexual selection and multimodal sexual communication
[4]. Several sexually selected signals have recently been
identied, namely male sex pheromones in our labora-
tory [5-7] and the UV-reectance of male and female
forewing eyespot centres [3,5]. We expect the results
to contribute signicantly to our understanding of the
role phenotypic plasticity in sexual traits and other life
history traits may play population or species adaption
to reproduce in their environment.
Tasks The successful applicant will have the opportu-
nity to develop various theoretical and technical skills in
an integrative manner while carrying out the scientic
research as detailed in the project description. She/he
will have the opportunity to develop additional ques-
tions related to the main research project. She/he is
expected to produce several manuscripts for publication
in international peer-reviewed journals and disseminate
this work at international conferences.
Requirements We are looking for a strongly motivated
candidate with a MSc degree in Biology, with advanced
courses in Evolutionary and/or Behavioral Biology and
Ecology. Experience in behavioral and/or chemical
ecology and written and oral communication skills in
English are a plus, as is the ability to work eciently,
independently as well as in collaboration. The grantSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 31
will be delivered upon successful written application
(submission deadline: September 3rd 2012) and an oral
interview in Brussels (October-November 2012), which
can both be done either in English or French. The se-
lected applicant will be supervised throughout the pro-
cess. The degrees obtained abroad (outside Belgium)
or in the Flemish Community will require an equiv-
alence (necessary to provide documentation of passed
examinations for 300 credits including a research work
of at least six months during master with a scientic
report; more information: http://www.uclouvain.be/-
356107.html). We ll review applications immediately
and until the position is lled.
Work environment The PhD student will work in a
highly active and integrated academic environment, in
the research team of Prof. C Nieberding, including
Dr. MJ Holveck and other postdocs and PhD students,
and will interact with members of other research teams
of the Institute, including Prof. H. Van Dyck. Our
University is an Equal Opportunity/Armative Action
Employer, and is in a French-speaking region, but the
language for meetings and scientic interactions is En-
glish. For background information about our university,
see http://www.uclouvain.be/en-index.html . Salary
Salary ranges between 21.349 to 23.659 euros brutto
per year (approx. 1700 euros netto per month) and
includes all social benets such as
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UMontreal
MicrobialEvolutionaryGenomics
PhD or MSc in Microbial Evolutionary Genomics at
Universit de Montral
Graduate studentships are available in the Shapiro
lab in the Biological Sciences department at Univer-
sit de Montral. The student will work on either of
two projects: (1) the evolutionary dynamics and pop-
ulation genomics of cyanobacterial blooms (funded by
NSERC), or (2) genomics of cholera transmission and
microevolution (funded by CRC). The Shapiro lab is a
new research group, with interests spanning microbial
evolution and ecology, population genomics and com-
putational biology. More details are on the lab webiste:http://www.shapirolab.ca/ Applicants should have a
strong background (either BSc or MSc) in biology, mi-
crobiology, genomics, computational biology or evolu-
tionary biology (or all of the above), and a GPA of 3.6
(out of 4) or higher.
Bilingualism (French and English) is an asset, but not
required. Note that Universit de Montral (UdeM) is
a francophone university (the largest in Canada, and
the second largest in the world), so a certain degree of
openness and comfort in French is required. UdeM is
located in the heart of Montral, a wonderful city with
4 major universities, great festivals, bars and cafs, and
a very reasonable cost of living.
To apply, send the following to
jesse.shapiro@umontreal.ca in a single PDF or
text document:
- CV - a statement of your background, research inter-
ests, and what you would like to work on - the names
and contact information for 3 references - copy of your
academic transcript
The positions will remain open until lled. Start date is
exible (September 2013, January 2014, Summer 2014')
B. Jesse Shapiro Canada Research Chair // Chaire
de recherche du Canada Microbial Evolutionary Ge-
nomics // Gnomique microbienne volutionnaire As-
sistant Professor // Professeur adjoint Department
of Biological sciences // Dpartement de sciences bi-
ologiques Universit de Montral www.shapirolab.ca
jesse.shapiro@umontreal.ca
Jesse Shapiro <jesse.shapiro@gmail.com >
UQueensland
MarinePopulationGenet
**Graduate positions in marine population genet-
ics/genomics ** Supervisor: Cynthia Riginos Univer-
sity of Queensland, Australia
I am seeking two outstanding PhD students to under-
take projects in marine population genetics and ge-
nomics. My research group has broad interests in evo-
lutionary and ecological genetics, biogeography, biodi-
versity, dispersal, land & seascapes, adaptation and se-
lection (www.cynthiariginos.org) and student projects
overlap with many of these areas.
The two projects are: 1) Comparative genomics and
physiology of native and invasive mussel species in Aus-32 EvolDir September 1, 2013
tralia, and 2) Range wide population connectivity and
demography of a tidepool sh. Although core aspects
of each project are delineated there is much scope for
individualization based on student interest and apti-
tude. Both projects will involve a mix of eld work,
wet lab work, genetic bench work and computing. En-
thusiasm and demonstrated aptitude in written com-
munication and quantitative skills are necessary. Ex-
perience/knowledge in the following areas may be help-
ful although not strictly required: population genetics,
physiology, bioinformatics, genomics, spatial analyses,
and environmental niche modeling.
**Qualications** Applicants must possess a Bache-
lor's degree with Honours, Master of Science, MPhil
or equivalent degrees. International applicants must
have published in well-respected peer-reviewed jour-
nals. Australian and New Zealand applicants must
have received rst class Honours degrees. Scholar-
ship schemes at the University of Queensland are
highly competitive. The UQ Graduate School web-
site provides further information on the entry require-
ments for admission to the PhD program (http://-
www.uq.edu.au/grad-school/our-research-degrees) and
scholarship details. Individuals successful in gaining a
tuition-fee waiver scholarship usually also obtain a liv-
ing stipend.
**Application process** Interested candidates should
send a cover letter describing their motivation and re-
search interests along with a CV to c.riginos@uq.edu.au
by Sept 8 2013. Short-listed candidates will be asked
to provide further information and documentation and
will be interviewed by video conference. Following, the
nal appliancts will be invited to apply for a PhD at
UQ. For further information on the UQ application pro-
cess please contact the Postgraduate Administration
Ocer Gail Walter gj.walter@uq.edu.au
**UQ and the School of Biological Sciences** The
School of Biological Sciences is a large and research
intensive unit at the University of Queensland, one of
Australia's most prestigious Universities. The School
has broad expertise across the disciplines of ecology and
evolution, molecular and quantitative genetics, devel-
opmental biology, behaviour, plant and animal phys-
iology, and conservation biology. Our research pro-
grams span all scales of biological organisation, from
molecules and cells, to organisms, populations, species
and communities, and take advantage of study ani-
mal and plant systems in a large variety of habitats
(see http://www.biology.uq.edu.au/ for detailed infor-
mation on our research programs).
Cynthia Riginos Senior Lecturer School of Biological
Sciences University of Queensland St. Lucia, QLD 4072Australia
tel: +61 7 3365 2152 fax: +61 7 3365 1655
www.cynthiariginos.org c.riginos@uq.edu.au
UTuebingen
EvolutionFishColoration
PhD position in Marine Visual Ecology at the Univer-
sity of Tuebingen, Germany: A 3-year PhD position
is available in the Animal Evolutionary Ecology group.
For the last 6 years, this group has been examining the
functions, evolution, and proximate mechanisms sur-
rounding newly-described, natural, red uorescent col-
oration in reef sh. This specic project will be super-
vised jointly by Dr. Michiels and Dr. Melissa Mead-
ows. Its aim is to test the exciting possibility that red
uorescent emission facilitates prey detection. This hy-
pothesis will be assessed in a setup with 40 aquaria,
each with an experimentally controlled light environ-
ment. Foraging eciency will be evaluated under light
conditions that enhance or suppress the eectiveness of
uorescent emission as a detection mechanism.
The selected student will have the opportunity to use
state-of-the-art spectrometry, photography, computer-
programmed lighting, and extensive aquarium equip-
ment and to work in an international environment at
one of Germanys Universities of Excellence. The stu-
dent will be encouraged to develop similar lines of in-
quiry related to the main project, and will be expected
to produce manuscripts for publication in top scientic
journals.
We seek a highly-motivated candidate with a MSc or
4-year BSc in Biology and previous research experience,
preferably in animal behavior, animal coloration or vi-
sual ecology. We use English as our working language,
and the project will be supervised in part by an Amer-
ican postdoc. Therefore, English language skills are re-
quired, and German prociency is not necessary within
the scope of the scientic working environment.
The pay scale classication refers to the German federal
public service scale 13 TV-L 65%. Disabled candidates
will be given preference over other equally qualied ap-
plicants. The University seeks to raise the number of
women in research and teaching and therefore urges
qualied women to apply.
Questions about the position may be emailed to
melissa.meadows@uni-tuebingen.de.September 1, 2013 EvolDir 33
Please send a single PDF to
oce.michiels@biologie.uni-tuebingen.de including
a motivation letter as well as a full CV plus two
letters of reference. Closing date for application is 15
September 2013.
Prof. Dr. N. Michiels, University of T1bingen, Faculty
of Science, Institute of Evolution and Ecology, Animal
Evolutionary Ecology, Auf der Morgenstelle 28, 72076
T1bingen, Germany
\Dr. Melissa Meadows" <melissa.meadows@uni-
tuebingen.de >
UTulsa InvasiveInsectEvolution
Graduate research opportunity to study the molecular
ecology of invasive insects
Department of Biological Sciences - University of Tulsa
A graduate student at the M.S/Ph.D level (3-5 years) is
sought to work with Dr. Warren Booth in the Depart-
ment of Biological Sciences at The University of Tulsa,
Oklahoma. The successful applicant will develop a the-
sis research project focused on the evolutionary dynam-
ics and population structure of invasive insects.
Research will be addressed using microsatellite mark-
ers, mtDNA sequencing, RAD-SEQ, and Transcrip-
tomics.
Within the department we have LiCor and ABI DNA
sequencers and an Illumina MiSeq next gen sequencer.
Applicants for this position should have a strong
background in population genetics, molecular ecology,
evolutionary biology, or ecology, and meet the admis-
sion requirements for the Department of Biological
Sciences graduate program. (http://www.utulsa.edu/-
academics/colleges/college-of-engineering-and-natural-
sciences/departments-and-schools/Department-of-
Biological-Science.aspx). Previous lab experience
would be benecial.
Applications should include the following: 1) A letter of
interest (not exceeding two pages). 2) A curriculum vi-
tae. 3) Names and email addresses for at least two aca-
demics/researchers willing to provide a letter of recom-
mendation 4) Copies of undergraduate/graduate tran-
scripts 5) Electronic copies of published manuscripts, if
any.
For more information about this opportunity, contact
Dr. Booth (warren-booth@utulsa.edu). Due to nan-cial restrictions, we are unable to support the nancial
outlay of international VISA's. Therefore, US citizens
only at this time. Anticipated start date is January
2014, however this may be sooner or delayed if required.
Anticipated annual stipend is $19,000 and includes tu-
ition and medical
Additional information regarding our research can be
found at my lab website - www.booth-lab.org Dr. War-
ren Booth Assistant Professor of Molecular Ecology De-
partment of Biological Sciences University of Tulsa 315
Oliphant Hall Tulsa, OK74104
Tel. (918) 631-3421 - Oce (918) 631-3136 - Lab De-
partmental website Lab Website
\Booth, Warren" <warren-booth@utulsa.edu >
UValencia EnvironmentAdaptation
Adaptation of rotifers to impredictable habitats
PhD fellowship position (ICBiBE, University of Valen-
cia, Spain)
The Evolutionary Ecology laboratory at the Ca-
vanilles Institute (ICBiBE) is developing research on
zooplankton in uctuating environments ( <http:/-
/www.uv.es/biodiver/c/inve/grup ecoevolut.htm >
ecoloevol ICBiBE). The Spanish Ministry of Economy
and Competitiveness (MINECO) has open a call to
grant a fellowship associated to the ongoing project
'Adaptation to environmental unpredictability in
rotifer populations (CGL2012-30779)', leaded by
Mar a Jos e Carmona (maria.j.carmona@uv.es) at the
ICBiBE.
The project focuses on the hypothesis that unpre-
dictability selects for traits related to sexual reproduc-
tion patterns and timing of dormancy breakage. An
advantage of higher and earlier sex investment in unpre-
dictable environments is expectable. Additionally, envi-
ronmental unpredictability is expected to select for risk
spreading through intermediate diapausing egg hatch-
ing proportions. These hypotheses will be tested in
eld and laboratory populations, using correlational
evidence and selection analysis. Besides using pop-
ulation ecology techniques, we will take advantage of
next-generation sequencing technologies to explore the
genetics of life cycle adaptation to environmental un-
predictability. Therefore, a strong background in pop-
ulation ecology and evolution is required to be granted
with the above mentioned fellowship. Skills in statis-34 EvolDir September 1, 2013
tics, population genetics, molecular biology and com-
puter programming will be welcome.
Candidates for the four-year fellowship interested
on performing a thesis within the outgoing project
must have a degree which allow them the access
to doctorate studies at the University of Valen-
cia ( <http://www.uv.es/uvweb/universitat/ca/-
estudis-postgrau/doctorats/programes- doctorat-rd-
99/2011/doctorats-mencio-excel-lencia/programa-
doctorado-biodive rsidad-biologia-evolutiva-
1285888753911/Titulacio.html?id85887567209&plan
tilla=UV/Page/TPGDetaill&p2=5-1 > doctorado-
biodiver-biol-evol). The date in which that degree was
obtained should be later than January 1, 2010.
Application for the fellowship available on
MINECO website from August 26 to Septem-
ber 10, 2013. For more information visit this
link: call <http://www.idi.mineco.gob.es/portal/-
site/MICINN/menuitem.dbc68b34d11ccbd5d5
2eb801432ea0/?vgnextoidheb71d255dcf310VgnVCM1000001d04140aRCRD >
)
Dra Mar a Jos e Carmona Navarro Grupo de Ecolog a
Evolutiva Institut Cavanilles Biodiversitat i Biologia
Evolutiva Universitat de Valencia. Apartado Ocial
22085 46071 Valencia
e-mail: Maria.J.Carmona@uv.es Tel: +34 963543665
fax: +34 963543670
M Jos e Carmona <maria.j.carmona@uv.es >
UZaragoza Spain Brachypodium-
ComparativeGenomics
Dear colleagues,
The Spanish Ministry has ocially announced a call
for PhD grants associated to research projects. One
of the grants has been allocated to our project. The
deadline for applications will be from the 26th of Au-
gust to the 10th of September 2013. Applicants should
have a degree in Biology, Agriculture or similar forma-
tion (obtained from 1st.January.2010 onwards). Mas-
ter/graduate students are welcome. The subject of the
PhD thesis would be \Comparative genomics and phy-
logenomics of Brachypodium". The thesis will be cosu-
pervised by Prof. Pilar Catalan and Dr. Bruno Contr-
eras at the University of Zaragoza-CSIC, Spain. Please
nd more details in the attached announcement.Prof. Pilar Catalan Escuela Politecnica Superior de
Huesca Universidad de Zaragoza Ctra. Cuarte km
1 22071 Huesca (Spain) phone +34 974232465/+34
974239301 fax +34 974239302
Pilar Catalan <pilar.catalan09@gmail.com >
UZurich 2PhD
EvolutionaryGeneticsOfAdaptation
Institute of Evolutionary Biology and Environmental
Studies University of Zurich, Switzerland
2 PhD positions in Evolutionary Genetics of Adapta-
tion
I am seeking two self-motivated PhD candidates with
keen interests in evolutionary biology to work on 1) a
theory and 2) an experimental project focusing on the
genetics of adaptation to environmental change. Our
lab is expanding and joins the Institute of Evolutionary
Biology and Environmental Studies at the University of
Zurich, Switzerland (http://www.ieu.uzh.ch) this com-
ing Fall 2013. We have broad interests in evolutionary
and ecological theory as well as in experimental and
data-driven studies.
The two positions are supported by a Swiss SNF profes-
sorship grant for three years and are expected to start
no latter than beginning of 2014. Gross per annum
salary starts at 41,400CHF, up to 47,400CHF.
deadline for application: September 6th, 2013 (posi-
tions open until lled)
1) Theory project
The focus of our research is understanding how the ge-
netic characteristics of living systems aect the pro-
cess of adaptation and how such characteristics may
be molded by evolutionary forces. More specically,
we study both the adaptive consequences (constraints)
and the evolution of gene pleiotropy. The context of
this project is broad and the details will be worked
out with the candidate. Possible topics are: - co-
evolution of gene pleiotropy and gene expression, - evo-
lution of the genotype-phenotype map of correlated
traits (e.g., evolutionary dynamics of the G-matrix,
epistatic pleiotropy and the evolution of modularity of
the g-p map), - eco-evolutionary dynamics of species'
ranges under shifting environmental conditions, using
a multivariate quantitative genetics approach in a spa-
tially and genetically explicit context.September 1, 2013 EvolDir 35
Required are a true enthusiasm for, and documented
skills in modeling, either in population/quantitative
genetics, or ecology. The project will mix com-
putational and mathematical approaches. Knowl-
edge of a programing language (esp. C/C++)
and acquaintance with *NIX operating systems are
recommended. The lab develops and maintains
Nemo, an individual-based simulation platform (http:/-
/nemo2.sourceforge.net) that will serve as the basic
computational simulation tool for the project.
2) Experimental evolution in Tribolium castaneum
We study the genetics of adaptation using experimen-
tal populations of T. castaneum adapting to contrasted
environmental conditions. Several experimental lines of
T. castaneum have been evolved in the lab for ca. 12
generations and high-throughput transcriptomics data
are available for a subset of the lines. The RNA-seq
data will be used to nd candidate genes for adaptation
to thermal and humidity gradients. Expression level of
candidate genes will be assessed using high- through-
put RT-qPCR. Gene (co)expression patterns across en-
vironments will be associated with phenotypic data to
unravel the genetic basis of adaptation and estimate
the adaptive capacity in the experimental lines. The ex-
perimental setting will be used to test hypotheses about
the evolution of local adaptation in the presence of gene
ow using multivariate quantitative genetics theory. A
lab technician is associated with this project.
Required are strong self motivation and capacity to
work hard on a long- term evolution experiment, and
prior practice with molecular technics (e.g., DNA, RNA
extractions).
General requirements are a Diploma/Master degree in a
relevant discipline, strong quantitative skills, and back-
ground in evolutionary population/quantitative genet-
ics, or evolutionary ecology. The ideal candidates will
have strong oral and written communication skills in
English and the ability to work and share ideas in a
collaborative environment. Knowledge of German is
not essential but may help with everyday life. The stu-
dents will have the opportunity to learn cutting edge
next generation sequencing techniques, new modeling
techniques, and to work in a dynamical research envi-
ronment. The Institute hosts two seminar series with
high-caliber international speakers and works in close
collaboration with scientists in the neighboring research
institutions (ETH, EAWAG, WSL, etc.) The two PhD
positions will be embedded in the Zurich Life Science
Graduate School's program in Evolutionary Biology
(http://www.lifescience-graduateschool.ch/).
Interested students should send their application
package to frederic.guillaume@env.ethz.ch with \PhDproject 1" or \PhD project 2" on the subject line. The
package must include, in one PDF le, 1) a cover let-
ter expressing research interests in accordance with the
position, 2) a complete CV, and 3) reference letters of
two academic referees. Please also attach low resolution
copies of ocial academic
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UppsalaU SpeciationGenomics
*Ph.D. Position in Speciation Genomics*
*a**t the Department of Ecology and Genetics, EBC,
Uppsala University, Sweden.*
A 4-year Ph.D. position in speciation genomics is avail-
able in the research group of Dr. Jochen Wolf at
the Evolutionary Biology Centre in Uppsala, Sweden.
Starting date as soon as possible or as agreed upon.
*Background.*Understanding the mechanistic under-
pinnings of speciation remains one of the major chal-
lenges in fundamental biological research. The genomic
revolution is progressing at full speed, and for the rst
time in history we are equipped with the necessary
tools to investigate the genomic architecture of speci-
ation at base-pair resolution in wild organisms of our
choice. In our lab, we use crows and ravens of the genus
Corvus as a model system. The genus is character-
ized by the phylogenetically independent recurrence of
a pied colour-pattern across a general all-black plumage
in the clade. Building on the idea that colour polymor-
phism can promote speciation, black and pied species
pairs can be positioned along a time line representing
dierent stages of the speciation process. This com-
parative framework allows us to study the genetics of
speciation across dierent stages of species divergence
and provides a promising entry point to the fascinating
theme of parallel evolution.
*The project.*More specically, we use a combination
of eld work, gene expression quantication, population
genetic and comparative genomic approaches to under-
stand the genetic basis of the speciation process. The
successful applicant will work with high quality assem-
blies of several species in the genus and has access to
extensive RNA-seq data and full-genome re-sequencing36 EvolDir September 1, 2013
data of >120 individuals from broad population sam-
pling. Depending on the qualication and interests of
the PhD candidate, this data can be used to char-
acterize the genomic landscape of speciation through
time, use pattern of genetic variation to understand the
species' demographic history, identify candidate genes
potentially promoting speciation, address questions like
the role of alternative splicing / allele-specic expres-
sion in the speciation process or ask questions of molec-
ular evolution in crows. The project will mostly in-
volve the analysis of large next generation sequencing
datasets, but also oers opportunities for eld or lab
work. At a later stage, the candidate may also choose
to participate in pinniped (seals, sea lion, walruses) ge-
nomics projects that are currently being developed in
the lab. If you have any further questions visit our
website:
http://www.ebc.uu.se/Research/IEG/evbiol/-
research/Wolf *The environment.*The Evolutionary
Biology Centre (http://www.ebc.uu.se/) is one of the
world's leading research institutions in evolutionary
biology. It is part of Uppsala University which has been
ranked rst place among all European Universities in
the subject of biology (CHE European ranking) and
successfully bridges a broad variety of disciplines in
the biological sciences. It is placed in the beautiful
small town of Uppsala, that oers rich opportunities
in cultural and outdoor activities and is strongly
inuenced by the 40 000 students living here. Sweden's
capital Stockholm is less than an hour's train ride
away. Our lab is part of the Department of Ecology
and Genetics that excels in many aspects of genetics
and evolution and oers an inspiring international
atmosphere. As a member of the Science for Life Lab-
oratory (http://www.scilifelab.se/) we have excellent
access to advanced laboratory infrastructure and high
performance computing resources.
*Qualications:*If you are enthusiastic about evolu-
tionary biology, have a good understanding of popula-
tion genetic and (molecular) evolution theory, and are
skilled in bioinformatic programming you are most wel-
come to apply for the position. To apply for the posi-
tion you must hold a master of science (or your national
equivalent) in Biology or related elds.
*Conditions. *The PhD training comprises four years
of full time research and studies. The successful candi-
date will receive a fellowship the rst year and a PhD-
student position year 2-4. The position can be com-
bined whit up to 20% of teaching assistantship, which
will then prolong the position accordingly.
*How to apply.*Your application should include:
(1) a letter of motivation describing your research in-terests, relevant previous experience and specic moti-
vation for the position,
(2) a short summary of your Master's (or comparable)
studies,
(3) CV including contact details of two scientic pro-
fessionals that can provide a personal reference letter,
(4) and attested copies of your academic degree(s).
*You are welcome*to submit your application *no later
than October
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
WashingtonStateU
EvolutionTasmanianDevil
PhD Assistantships Available
Washington State University
School of Biological Sciences
We are seeking PhD students to work on popula-
tion, landscape and evolutionary genomics of Tasma-
nian devils and Tasmanian devil facial tumor disease.
This NSF-funded international collaboration between
the US, UK and Australia builds on over 15 years of
research tracking the spread of this unique infectious
cancer across Tasmania and consequent endangerment
of the iconic Tasmanian devil. Students will have an un-
precedented opportunity to capitalize on the availabil-
ity of numerous genetic resources available to develop a
competitive PhD project. Graduate students will work
in the lab of Dr. Andrew Storfer (www.wsu.edu/~stor-
fer) in the Washington State University School of Bio-
logical Sciences. Positions are available starting Spring
or Fall semester, 2014. Please contact Andrew Stor-
fer (astorfer@wsu.edu) for more information about the
project, the lab, or the program.
*The WSU School of Biological Sciences* provides re-
search specialties in ecology, evolution, molecular bi-
ology, physiology, and systematics for plant and ani-
mal systems. With 34 research faculty and 50+ grad-
uate students, SBS provides an interactive graduate
experience, including weekly formal and informal re-
search seminars and a variety of reading groups. Nu-September 1, 2013 EvolDir 37
merous awards and fellowships are available, including
signicant funding for o-campus research, travel to
meetings, and eld work. All students are guaranteed
funding, a tuition waiver and health insurance upon
admission to the program. For more information on
our graduate program, or to apply, please see http://-
sbs.wsu.edu/grad-studies/index.html . {Andrew Storfer, PhD Eastlick Distinguished Professor
Associate Director for Graduate Studies School of Bio-
logical Sciences Washington State University Pullman,
WA 99164 USA Phone: (509) 335-7922 Fax: (509)
335-3184 astorfer@wsu.edu www.wsu.edu/~storfer an-
drew.storfer@gmail.com
Jobs
AlbertEinsteinCollegeMedicine ComputationalBiology
37
CentralFloridaU IntegrativeBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .38
EastCarolinaU EvolutionDisease . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Eawag Switzerland EvolutionaryGenomicsFish . . . . 39
GeorgiaTech EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Kalahari FeildResesarchAssist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
MasseyU EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .41
MaxPlanckInstOrnithology AvianLabAssist . . . . . . . 41
MichiganStateU EntomologyChair . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42
NHM ImperialCollege London BiodiversityOmics . . 42
NewMexicoStateU PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .43
Okinawa ResTech EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
PennsylvaniaStateU PathogenEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 45
PrincetonU AssistantProfessor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
RutgersU ComputationalGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
SAfrica ResearchAssistant SocialMolerats . . . . . . . . . 47
SenckenbergResInst Frankfurt MammalianEvolution
47
StonyBrookU ChairEcologyEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . .48
StonyBrookU LabTech ExperimentalEvolution . . . . 49
TempleU ComputationalGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .50TuftsU EvolutionaryMicrobiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
TulaneU EvolutionEcosystemDynamics . . . . . . . . . . . .51
UAlabama ComputationalBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
UCDavis EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
UCalgary BioinformaticsCompBio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
UFlorida QuantitativeGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
UHelsinki EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
UIdaho MathematicalSystemsBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
UKentucky EvoDevo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
UKentucky MathBio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
UPennsylvania EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
USouthCarolina EvolutionaryPhysiology . . . . . . . . . . 57
USouthCarolina LabTech PlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . .57
UUppsala MolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
UVirginia LabAssist EvolGeneticsBehavior . . . . . . . . 59
UWisconsin-Milwaukee Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . .59
UWyoming EvolutionaryBiologist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Valdivia Chile Evolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
WesternWashingtonU EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . 61
XTBG China MolecularEvol LabManager . . . . . . . . . 62
AlbertEinsteinCollegeMedicine
ComputationalBiology
The Albert Einstein College of Medicine, one of the
leading medical schools in New York City, is seeking to
ll multiple tenure track faculty positions in the newlyformed Department of Systems and Computational Bi-
ology. Established in April 2008, the main goal of the
new department is to advance our understanding of liv-
ing systems by developing theoretical, computational
and experimental approaches to study complex biolog-
ical systems.
The College has 750 medical students, 325 graduate
students and 360 post-doctoral fellows in training and
boasts a strong research faculty covering broad areas of
experimental biology, oering outstanding opportuni-38 EvolDir September 1, 2013
ties for collaborative interactions. The 200,000 square
foot Center for Genetic and Translational Medicine at
Einstein, which opened in late 2007, locates compu-
tational, systems and experimental scientists in physi-
cal proximity to foster interdisciplinary communication
and collaboration. Highly competitive start-up pack-
ages are available.
We seek outstanding scientists with broad experience
and demonstrated collaborative interactions with ex-
perimental or clinical investigators.
Candidates should have strength in a physical, math-
ematical or computational eld at the Ph.D. or equiv-
alent level. Experience applying these skills to a bio-
logical or biomedical area (demonstrated through pub-
lications or support) is also required. Areas of inter-
est include, but are not limited to: Modeling cellular
processes, such as signaling, transcriptional regulation
and immune response; Pathway analysis; Genetic net-
works; Functional proteomics and genomics; Evolution
of structure and function; Computational neuroscience;
Mathematical and computational modeling of complex
traits and diseases; QM and dynamic approaches to en-
zymatic catalysis and drug design.
Applicants should send a letter of interest, C.V., state-
ment of research and teaching interests, and names of
three referees, in electronic format to:
Systems and Computational Biology Search Commit-
tee Albert Einstein College of Medicine Jack and Pearl
Resnick Campus 1300 Morris Park Ave. Price Center,
Rm. 153 Bronx, New York 10461
E-mail Address: sysbio@einstein.yu.edu Subject line
should be: SCB Faculty Search
Human Resources <mmcder2010@hotmail.com >
CentralFloridaU IntegrativeBiology
Faculty Position in Integrative Biology
The Department of Biology at the University of Cen-
tral Florida invites applicants for a tenure-track faculty
appointment in Integrative Biology at the rank of Assis-
tant Professor. All scales of research are welcomed from
subcellular processes to interactions among organisms
or their environment. The candidate's research should
utilize innovative approaches and must possess an over-
arching evolutionary or ecological perspective while fo-
cusing on cellular, developmental, genetic or physiolog-ical processes. Candidates must have a demonstrated
ability or strong potential to establish and maintain a
vigorous, extramurally funded research program. The
successful candidate will contribute to our core under-
graduate and graduate programs (Master's and Ph.D.)
by teaching molecular, cellular and/or genetic themed
courses and by mentoring graduate students. The Uni-
versity of Central Florida maintains a strong research
emphasis with competitive startup funds and teaching
loads. UCF is designated by the Carnegie Foundation
as a research university of very high activity (RU/VH),
and is one of the top ve 'Up-and-Coming Schools' as
published in the 2012 U.S. News and World Report. See
http://biology.cos.ucf.edu for departmental details.
Successful candidates must have a Ph.D. and appropri-
ate post-doctoral training. Applicants must complete
an online job application at www.jobswithucf.com for
position #39286. In a separate e-mail, applicants must
send a single PDF document that includes a letter of in-
tent, curriculum vitae, a two-page statement of research
plans, and a one-page teaching philosophy statement to
Dr. Ken Fedorka, Search Chair (bio-search@ucf.edu)
and arrange for three letters of recommendation to be
sent to the above email address. Review of applica-
tions will begin October 1st, 2013, with an anticipated
start date of August 2014. Groups traditionally under-
represented in the Biological Sciences are encouraged
to apply. The University of Central Florida is an Af-
rmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer. As an
agency of the State of Florida, all application materials
and selection procedures are available for public review.
Ken Fedorka Associate Professor Department of Biol-
ogy University of Central Florida Orlando, FL 32816
Voice: 407-823-6685 Fax: 407-823-5769 E-mail: fe-
dorka@ucf.edu
Kenneth Fedorka <Kenneth.Fedorka@ucf.edu >
EastCarolinaU EvolutionDisease
Faculty Position in the Ecology and Evolution of Dis-
ease
The Department of Biology at East Carolina University
(the third largest university in the UNC system) invites
applications for a tenure-track position at the Assistant
Professor level in ecology and evolution of disease, in-
cluding host-parasite interactions; to begin Aug. 18,
2014. Possible research approaches include integration
of empirical studies with theory, or of ecological andSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 39
evolutionary investigations; but all qualied candidates
are encouraged to apply. The successful candidate
is expected to establish an externally funded research
program, advise undergraduate, Masters and Doctoral
level students, and help promote diversity/equal oppor-
tunity in higher education. Candidates will have ex-
cellent opportunities to establish collaborations within
the Department and/or with other academic units (e.g.,
Brody School of Medicine, College of Technology and
Computer Science, Institute for Coastal Science and
Policy, Center for Biodiversity, etc.). Appointment at
the Associate Professor or Professor level may be con-
sidered for a candidate with a well-established record
of teaching and research.
Applicants must complete a candidate prole and sub-
mit a letter of application, statements of research in-
terests and of teaching interests and philosophy, and
a curriculum vitae online at www.jobs.ecu.edu using
the position number 001682, and arrange to have three
current letters of reference sent to: Ecology and Evolu-
tion of Disease Search Committee Chairs, Department
of Biology V Mail Stop 551, Howell Science Complex,
East Carolina University, Greenville, NC, 27858-4353
or emailed to ruggierol@ecu.edu. Ocial transcript and
original hardcopy reference letters are required upon
employment.
Inquiries can be directed to Dr. Trip Lamb
(lamba@ecu.edu) or Dr. Kyle Summers (sum-
mersk@ecu.edu), Search Committee Chairs, Depart-
ment of Biology, East Carolina University, Greenville,
NC, 27858-4353. Screening of applications will begin on
November 15 and continue until the position is lled.
East Carolina University is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action University that accommodates
individuals with disabilities. Individuals requesting ac-
commodation under the Americans with Disabilities
Act (ADA) should contact the Department for Disabil-
ity Support Services at [252] 737-1016 (Voice/TTY).
Proper documentation of identity and employability are
required at the time of employment.
Kyle Summers Dept. of Biology East Carolina Univer-
sity Greenville, NC 27858 252-328-6304
\Summers, Kyle" <SUMMERSK@ecu.edu >
Eawag Switzerland
EvolutionaryGenomicsFishEawag, the Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Science
and Technology, is a Swiss-based and internationally
networked aquatic research institute within the ETH
domain (Swiss Federal Institute of Science and Technol-
ogy). It is committed to the ecologically, economically
and socially responsible management of water resources
and aquatic ecosystems.
The Fish Ecology & Evolution Department located in
Kastanienbaum (Lucerne) has a vacancy for a Group
Leader in Ecological and Evolutionary Genomics of
Fish (Tenure Track)
Applications are sought from individuals with an ex-
cellent research record in ecological or evolutionary ge-
nomics, an earned doctorate in a relevant eld (e.g.,
genetics or evolution), and an interest in applying ge-
nomic research to understanding the genetic basis of
variation in the behavior, ecology and adaptations of
sh. Experience with studying sh is desirable but not
absolutely required.
The Center for Ecology, Evolution & Biogeo-
chemistry (http://www.eawag.ch/forschung/cc/ceeb/-
index EN) and the Department of Fish Ecol-
ogy and Evolution (http://www.eawag.ch/forschung/-
shec/index EN) at Eawag provide excellent opportu-
nities for collaborative research. The CEEB is a cluster
of research groups dedicated to the integration of evo-
lutionary biology and ecosystem science. The Depart-
ment is also closely aliated with the Institute of Ecol-
ogy & Evolution at the University of Bern through the
joint appointment of Prof. Ole Seehausen. The success-
ful candidate should take advantage of this collabora-
tive environment and of Eawag's world-class infrastruc-
ture and facilities to develop a strong research program,
acquire third party funding to support it, recruit PhD
and Masters students, and contribute to Eawag's man-
date in teaching and expert consulting. A successful
conclusion of the tenure track will lead to a permanent
position at Eawag.
Applications must be submitted by 30 September 2013
and should include an application letter describing your
interests and their relevance to this position, a CV and
list of publications, and the names and contact infor-
mation for three references. Applications from women
are especially welcome. Applications from mid-career
and established researchers are encouraged; the level
of the appointment will be commensurate with experi-
ence. Eawag is committed to promote equal opportu-
nities for women and men and to support the compati-
bility of family and work. The earliest starting date for
the position is anticipated to be 1 April 2014. For fur-
ther information, please contact Prof. Ole Seehausen
(ole.seehausen@eawag.ch).40 EvolDir September 1, 2013
We look forward to receiving your application. Please
click on the link below to send your application, any
other way of applying will not be considered. The link
will take you directly to the application form. http://-
internet1.reine.ch/673277/0213/++publications++/-
1/index.html Ole Seehausen ole.seehausen@eawag.ch
http://www.eawag.ch/forschung/shec/-
schwerpunkte/biodiversity dynamics/index EN
Ole.Seehausen@eawag.ch
GeorgiaTech EvolutionaryBiology
The Georgia Institute of Technology is one of the top
ranked educational/research institutions in the country
and is rated as one of the best places to work. Geor-
gia Tech aims to meet several grand challenges in the
life sciences based upon current strengths and areas of
growth, including Environment & Health, Biomedical
Therapies, and Complex Biological Systems. Research
in these interdisciplinary elds at Georgia Tech benets
from strong interactions between biologists and faculty
of diverse disciplines including engineering, computing,
policy, and other sciences. As part of substantial expan-
sion in the biological sciences, the School of Biology is
seeking applications for multiple tenure-track positions
from candidates whose research would thrive in this
community.
* Assistant or Associate Professors in Biology. We
welcome applications from candidates in all research
areas relevant to activities in the School of Biology
(http://www.biology.gatech.edu/research/), including
those working in synthetic & chemical biology, predic-
tive health, or the genomics of health & behavior.
* Endowed Full Professor in Experimental Integrative
or Structural Biology. We are seeking an outstanding
senior investigator in the molecular biosciences. Fields
of interest include the temporal, structural and spatial
understanding of cellular biochemistry, the dynamics of
cellular organization and function, and protein interac-
tomics.
Candidates should submit an application online at
http://searches.biology.gatech.edu, including a letter of
application, curriculum vitae, statement of research in-
terests and plans, and contact information for three ref-
erences. Review of applications begins October 1, 2013
and will continue until positions are lled.
Georgia Tech is a unit of the University System of Geor-
gia and an Armative Action/Equal Opportunity Em-ployer and requires compliance with the Immigration
Control Reform Act of 1986.
frank.stewart@biology.gatech.edu
Kalahari FeildResesarchAssist
FIELD RESEARCHERS NEEDED
Cooperation in Sparrow Weaver Societies Kalahari
desert, South Africa
3 positions: approx 15th Oct 2013 V 30th April 2014
(exible)
We are seeking three enthusiastic research assistants to
join our team studying white-browed sparrow weavers
in the Kalahari desert, South Africa. The project is
investigating the social dynamics of cooperative breed-
ing, by asking evolutionary and mechanistic ques-
tions about parenting, cooperation and dispersal. The
project is led by Andy Young, University of Exeter,
and is based in Tswalu Kalahari Reserve where we
have been studying 30+ groups for the past 3 years.
For more information on the sparrow weaver project
see www.animalsocieties.org The positions will entail
work during the peak breeding season (15th October
V 30th April; with some exibility). The eldwork will
involve the collection of key behavioural and life-history
data from eggs, chicks and birds, and the capture and
processing of adult birds. Applicants should be en-
thusiastic, hardworking and physically t and hold a
driving licence. Previous eld experience (particularly
any bird handling/ringing experience) is desirable, but
not essential V training in all eld skills will be pro-
vided. Food and accommodation expenses will be cov-
ered while in the eld and a contribution can also be
made towards travel costs.
Please email a CV & covering letter ASAP (by 18th
August latest) to sparrowweaverproject@gmail.com
Andrew Young BBSRC Research Fellow Centre for
Ecology and Conservation University of Exeter Corn-
wall Campus Tremough, Cornwall TR10 9EZ
Tel: +44 1326 254241 www.animalsocieties.org
\Young, Andrew" <A.J.Young@exeter.ac.uk >September 1, 2013 EvolDir 41
MasseyU EvolutionaryGenetics
Dear EvolDir,
We are currently advertising a Genetics faculty position
(lecturer, equivalent to an Assistant Professor position
in the US) in the Auckland campus of Massey Univer-
sity in New Zealand.
Candidates in all areas of Genetics are welcome to ap-
ply, and the successful candidate will join the grow-
ing biology faculty on the Auckland campus of Massey
University. Auckland is one of the most livable cities
in the world, and this position is based in the multi-
disciplinary Institute of Natural and Mathematics Sci-
ences (INMS).
We are looking for someone with a PhD, experience
in undergraduate teaching and/or postgraduate super-
vision, together with a demonstrably high quality re-
search track record in Genetics. We want someone who
will establish their own research laboratory and under-
take research of an international calibre, as well as su-
pervise postgraduate students. The successful candi-
date will also teach in the new Genetics major that has
just been established on this campus, as well as into
an exciting new interdisciplinary degree, the Bachelor
of Natural Sciences. We are seeking someone who will
actively seek external funding, and who will provide
administrative and professional service to the Univer-
sity and broader academic or professional communities.
Candidates whose research program will complement
and enhance the existing genetics research capabilities
within INMS, which currently has strengths in yeast ge-
netics, microbial genetics and evolutionary genetics, are
particularly encouraged to apply. The ideal candidate
will also establish collaborations with researchers from
other disciplines within INMS, which has strengths in
Ecology, Evolutionary Biology, Computational Biology,
Computer Science, Statistics, Theoretical Chemistry,
and Physics, as well as more broadly.
If you have any questions about the posi-
tion, then please contact Dr. Austen Ganley
(a.r.ganley atmassey.ac.nz).
For more information about the position and to
apply, please visit the position's webpage: http:/-
/jobs.massey.ac.nz/PositionDetail.aspx?p=3D7945
(Note: if this link doesn't work, please navigate to
the position from here: http://jobs.massey.ac.nz/-Content/Massey/Welcome.aspx Mailing list lters
sometimes modify URLs)
Best regards,
Austen
{ Austen Ganley (PhD) Senior Lecturer, Albany Ge-
netics Major Leader Room 14.05 Institute of Natural
& Mathematical Sciences Massey University (Albany)
Auckland NEW ZEALAND
Website: http://rdnaome.org <http://rdnaome.org/
>http://www.massey.ac.nz/~aganley/ Phone +64-9-
414-0800 ext 41512 Fax +64-9-441-8142
Mailing address: Building 11, INMS Massey University
(Albany) Private Bag 102-904 North Shore Mail Centre
Auckland NEW ZEALAND
MaxPlanckInstOrnithology
AvianLabAssist
*LABORATORY ASSISTANT needed for songbird
recording analysis at the Max Planck Institute for Or-
nithology*
Website:http://www.orn.mpg.de/2622/-
Department Kempenaers./ /
Location: Seewiesen, Bayern, Germany.
Duration: 5 months (from September 2013 to January
2014).
Job description: The assistant will help ex-
tracting data from song recordings of a variety
of songbirds collected during the breeding sea-
son by Arnaud Da Silva, PhD Student at the
Max Planck Institute for Ornithology (website:http:/-
/www.orn.mpg.de/206596/Arnaud DaSilva). The
project is about the impact of articial night lighting
(light pollution) on dawn singing. Automated sound
recordings were obtained each morning during a period
of 3 months (March to May) in eight forest patches
with experimental night lighting. The assistant will
help extracting data from these recordings. Likely
species of interest are: the Great Tit (/Parus major/),
the Blue Tit (/Cyanistes caeruleus/), the Common
Chanch (/Fringilla coelebs/), the European Robin
(/Erithacus rubecula/), the Common Blackbird (/Tur-
dus merula/), the Song Thrush (/Turdus philome-
los/), the Eurasian Wren (/Troglodytes troglodytes/),
the Dunnock (/Prunella modularis/) and late migrants
such as the Pied Flycatcher (/Ficedula hypoleuca/), the42 EvolDir September 1, 2013
Eurasian Blackcap (/Sylvia atricapilla/), the Common
Redstart (/Phoenicurus phoenicurus/) and the Wood-
lark (/Lullula arborea/).
Qualications: Candidates should have a BSc in Biol-
ogy or a related eld. They must have good ornitholog-
ical knowledge, especially regarding bird vocalizations.
Applications from candidates that are very enthusias-
tic about learning bird songs will also be taken into
account. If possible, candidates should have some ex-
perience with computer analysis although the use of
the sound analysis software (i.e. Song Scope) is rather
straightforward. The ideal candidate is highly moti-
vated, rigorous, careful about data, and able to work
well in collaboration with the PhD student. Non-EU
applicants should make sure that they are eligible for
an extended stay in Europe.
This is a full-time position. The assistant will ob-
tain free accommodation in the guesthouse of the Max
Planck Institute for Ornithology in Seewiesen plus a
small stipend to cover living expenses.
Applicants should send (1) a cover letter detailing their
motivation and (2) a short resume or CV to Arnaud
Da Silva (email: asilva@orn.mpg.de) as soon as possi-
ble. The successful candidate will be selected after an
interview.
Arnaud DA SILVA
PhD Student Max Planck Institute for Ornithology De-
partment of Behavioural Ecology & Evolutionary Ge-
netics Eberhard-Gwinner-Strasse 7, 82319 Seewiesen,
Germany
Tel. 0049 (0) 15223230588
asilva@orn.mpg.de
Arnaud Da Silva <asilva@orn.mpg.de >
MichiganStateU EntomologyChair
Michigan State University seeks a chairperson for the
Department of Entomology, and the Position Descrip-
tion is attached. We are contacting your organization as
part of our eorts to distribute this document broadly.
We hope you will assist by forwarding this announce-
ment, and also highlighting this exciting opportunity to
suitable candidates.
With best wishes,
Rufus Isaacs Search Committee Chair Department ofEntomology Michigan State University 202 CIPS, 578
Wilson Road East Lansing, MI 48824, USA
\Smith, Courtneay" <smit1542@cns.msu.edu >
NHM ImperialCollege London
BiodiversityOmics
Imperial College London
Faculty of Natural Sciences
Department of Life Sciences
Academic Position in Biodiversity Omics (Lec-
turer/Senior Lecturer/Reader/Chair)
Joint appointment between Imperial College London
and the Natural History Museum
Lecturer salary in the range $45,040 - $50,190 per an-
num Senior Lecturer/Reader minimum starting salary:
$55,340 per annum Chair minimum starting salary:
$70,350 per annum
Imperial College London's Department of Life Sciences
and the Natural History Museum's Department of Life
Sciences are looking to make one academic appoint-
ment in the broad area of biodiversity omics. The
successful applicant will be employed as a member of
academic sta in the Department of Life Sciences at
Imperial College London, and the post will be based
primarily at Imperial's Silwood Park Campus (http:/-
/www3.imperial.ac.uk/silwoodparkcampus). The suc-
cessful candidate will also be a member of research sta
of the Department of Life Sciences at the Natural His-
tory Museum.
The appointee will contribute to the missions of the
Departments of Life Sciences at both Imperial College
London and the Natural History Museum, and further
develop and promote the College's and Museum's work
in biodiversity omics. The scientic goal is to improve
fundamental scientic understanding of biological di-
versity and systems. In addition, you will be required to
contribute to joint postgraduate teaching that is based
at the Natural History Museum.
The Departments are seeking to appoint a candidate
with expertise in relevant areas of biodiversity science.
We anticipate that this appointment will be at Lec-
turer level. However, there is potential for the appoint-
ment to be made at more senior academic levels (Senior
Lecturer/Reader/Chair), and we welcome applicationsSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 43
from more senior researchers.
Reporting to the Deputy Head of the Department of
Life Sciences at Imperial College, you will be expected
to identify opportunities in biodiversity omics and con-
tribute to teaching and administration within both De-
partments. You will be required to raise nancial sup-
port, manage your own innovative research programme
of international quality in the areas of biodiversity
omics that would expand on and complement existing
activities within the Departments of Life Sciences at
Imperial College London and the Natural History Mu-
seum.
The successful candidate will be expected to have a
good honours degree and a doctorate (or equivalent) in
a relevant subject area. You will also have an interna-
tional reputation for research and innovation in biodi-
versity omics commensurate with the current stage of
your career, underpinned by a record of rst-class jour-
nal publication. You must also be able to demonstrate
the potential to raise signicant research funding from
UK and EU sources to maintain and enhance the Col-
lege's leading research activities. Experience of working
in an interdisciplinary environment is essential. Expe-
rience of teaching at undergraduate and Masters' level,
and postgraduate student supervision, are not essential,
but would be an advantage. You must have excellent
interpersonal, verbal and written communication skills,
with an ability to convey ideas and concepts clearly and
eectively to a range of audiences through a variety of
methods and media. You will also have the ability to
lead a research team, managing the nances and your
sta. You will also be expected to demonstrate the abil-
ity to communicate and inspire students as you will be
expected to contribute to our undergraduate and post-
graduate teaching programmes. For appointment to
Senior Lecturer/Reader, in addition to the above, can-
didates must also have an exceptionally strong research
record in biodiversity omics or a closely related subject,
and a proven track record of securing research funding.
You will also be expected to have extensive experience
in postgraduate teaching and undergraduate teaching
across a range of subjects within (or close to) the elds
of Biodiversity Omics, together with a track record of
successful postgraduate student supervision and post-
doctoral mentoring.
For appointment to the position of Chair, in addition to
the above, you will also be expected to have an interna-
tional reputation for your research, and strong leader-
ship qualities in areas which enhance and extend those
of the Group.
The potential for productive research collaboration
with existing sta at the College and the Museum, andfor facilitating collaboration within between these in-
stitutions more broadly, will also be carefully assessed.
For informal queries, please contact Professor Vincent
Savolainen (Deputy Head of Life Sciences at Imperial
College London, v.savolainen@imperial.ac.uk) and/or
Professor Ian Owens (Director of Science at the Natu-
ral History Museum, i.owens@nhm.ac.uk).
Holders of independent fellowships are welcome to ap-
ply.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
NewMexicoStateU PlantEvolution
Plant Biologist
The Department of Biology at New Mexico State Uni-
versity invites applications at the Assistant Professor
level in Plant Biology (9 month, tenure track position).
Applicants for this position must have a Ph.D. in Biol-
ogy or a related eld, a strong track record of research
productivity commensurate with experience, a demon-
strated commitment to undergraduate and graduate
education and a minimum of one year of postdoctoral
experience. The successful candidate will be expected
to develop an externally-funded research program and
to teach courses in plant biology and related areas at
the undergraduate level as well as graduate courses in
his/her area of expertise. Applicants from any area of
plant biology will be considered, including physiology,
ecology, cell/developmental biology and microbe inter-
actions.
Applicants should submit a single pdf consisting of a
cover letter, CV, and concise (2-pages each, maximum)
statements of (a) research interests and accomplish-
ments and (b) teaching philosophy and experience by
email to biologysearch@nmsu.edu. Enquiries may also
be directed to this address. Applicants should arrange
to have three letters of reference sent by e-mail to the
same address. Preference will be given to applications
completed (including references) by the initial review
date of October 18, 2013. Applications lacking required
components may not be reviewed.
NMSU is a public, land grant, minority-serving institu-
tion. The Department of Biology is a thriving commu-44 EvolDir September 1, 2013
nity of 24 faculty members supporting undergraduate
majors in Biology, Microbiology, Genetics and Conser-
vation Ecology. More than 70 graduate students are
currently enrolled in MS and PhD Biology programs.
The department supports core facilities for microscopy,
isotope chemistry, tissue culture, next-generation se-
quencing as well as natural history collections and the
Jornada Basin Long Term Ecological Research site.
Opportunities exist to participate in NIH-, NSF- and
HHMI-sponsored training programs. Las Cruces is lo-
cated in the northern Chihuahuan Desert, a botani-
cally rich and topographically diverse area with many
endemic species. Large tracts of public lands are acces-
sible for eld research and outdoor activities.
Details of the position (Requisition # 2013002155)
are available at http://www.nmsu.edu/ ~ personel/-
postings/faculty/. NMSU is an EEO/AA employer. All
oers of employment are contingent upon the verica-
tion of information required by federal law, state law
and NMSU policies/procedures, which may include the
completion of a criminal history check.
Giancarlo Lopez-Martinez, PhD Assistant Professor
Department of Biology New Mexico State University
365 Foster Hall Las Cruces, NM 88003
575-646-3091 (oce) 575-646-7478 (lab)
Giancarlo Lopez-Martinez <gclopez@nmsu.edu >
Okinawa ResTech EvolutionaryBiol
The Economo Lab (http://arilab.unit.oist.jp/) at the
Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology (http:/-
/www.oist.jp/) is seeking qualied applicants for two
Research Technician positions. The lab works at the in-
terface of evolution, ecology and natural history, with
an empirical focus on ant biodiversity. We use a va-
riety of approaches to understanding the biodiversity
of communities, including eld expeditions, collections-
based research, 3D imaging and morphometrics, phy-
logenetics, large-scale databasing, ecological genomics,
computational modeling, and quantitative theory.
RESEARCH TECHNICIAN
Duties: The chosen candidate will manage a research
collection of ant specimens, including mounting, label-
ing, sorting, databasing, measurement, and imaging, as
well as supervising students and assistants to perform
these tasks. The individual will also perform in various
scientic duties in support of lab research projects in-cluding data collection and analysis, image processing,
DNA extraction and sequencing, and eld work. Other
duties include assisting in laboratory management in-
cluding ordering and maintenance/organization of lab
equipment, and participation in outreach activities.
Qualications: A BS/MS in Biology or a related
eld, scientic research experience, familiarity with
databases and handling scientic data, and basic com-
puter skills are required. Experience working with bio-
diversity collections, and/or experience with molecular
techniques and DNA sequencing are highly desirable,
but not required. The ideal candidate will have a strong
ability to focus and good organizational skills, and be
procient at multitasking, prioritizing responsibilities,
time management, and an ability to interact with all
levels of sta in a multicultural environment.
Job Data: OIST (http://www.oist.jp/) is a newly es-
tablished international graduate university located in
the resort area of Onna-son, Okinawa, Japan, and of-
fers a high quality of life and good working conditions in
an international environment. Logistical and nancial
assistance with relocation will be provided, along with
a competitive salary and benets package. OIST is an
English-language working environment and knowledge
of English is required, knowledge of Japanese is helpful
but not necessary.
To apply, please send a cover letter, CV, and
list of three references with contact information to
<economo@oist.jp >. Informal inquiries are also wel-
come at the same address. Application review will be-
gin immediately and will remain open until the position
is lled.
RESEARCH COMPUTING TECHNICIAN
Duties: The hired individual will be responsible for
computational support of lab research including; de-
signing and maintaining research databases, maintain-
ing lab websites, assist with design and maintenance of
data analysis pipelines, application support for utiliz-
ing HPC resources, and desktop support to lab mem-
bers. In addition, there are opportunities lead or partic-
ipate in development of new technologies that facilitate
and/or accelerate biodiversity research.
Qualications: A BS/MS in science or technical elds,
and experience with scientic research computing is re-
quired. As this position is not tied to a single appli-
cation or task, the ideal candidate would have a good
baseline of programming and scripting skills, includ-
ing familiarity with both compiled (e.g. C/C++) and
interpreted (R, Matlab, Python) languages, and abil-
ity to learn independently. Prociency with Linux,
SQL-based database design and administration, and atSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 45
least basic familiarity with server administration are
required. Experience with one or more of the follow-
ing would be highly desirable but is not required; GIS,
bioinformatics, ecoinformatics, parallel computing, and
statistical computing.
Job Data: OIST (http://www.oist.jp/) is a newly es-
tablished international graduate university located in
the resort area of Onna-son, Okinawa, Japan, and of-
fers a high quality of life and good working conditions in
an international environment. Logistical and nancial
assistance with relocation will be provided, along with
a competitive salary and benets package. OIST is an
English-language working environment and knowledge
of English is required, knowledge of Japanese is helpful
but not necessary.
To apply, please send a cover letter, CV, and
list of three references with contact information to
<economo@oist.jp >. Informal inquiries are also wel-
come at the same address. Application review will be-
gin immediately and will remain open until the position
is lled.
{
Evan P. Economo Assistant Professor Biodiversity and
Biocomplexity Unit Okinawa Institute of Science and
Technology 1919-1 Tancha Onna-son, Kunigamigun
Okinawa, Japan 904-0495
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
PennsylvaniaStateU
PathogenEvolution
An academic research position is available immediately,
working with Dr. Andrew Read in the Department of
Biology at The Pennsylvania State University. This po-
sition requires the full range of scholarly scientic activ-
ity, from conception of research projects, planning and
execution of experiments, analysis of data, and produc-
tion of scientic papers. Research in Dr. Read's lab is
in the general area of parasite evolutionary biology, and
will largely involve work with malaria, Marek's disease
and any other infection models which become available.
The role of this position will be to lead all aspects of the
molecular work in the laboratory, but particularly thequantitative pcr and genomic work. As well as develop-
ing your own science, the successful candidate will be
required to help in developing new molecular assays to
be used in the lab, trouble-shoot problems which arise
in normally routine assays, direct students, and keep on
top of rapidly evolving technology. Some bioinformatics
work may be necessary, but the emphasis is on bench
work. The successful candidate will purchase and man-
age the required equipment, and manage the associated
laboratory and health and safety paperwork.
Some travel may be required, particularly to confer-
ences and collaborator laboratories in the U.S. and in-
ternationally, and some weekend work may occur from
time to time, as determined by experimental require-
ments. This position will report to Dr. Read, and is
expected to interact with members of the Center for
Infectious Disease Dynamics and the Departments of
Biology and Entomology. The successful candidate will
have degree(s) in genetics, biology or a related eld,
and ve or more years of highly relevant experience.
Preference will be given to applicants with a substantial
laboratory experience in qPCR, rtPCR, sequencing and
genomics. This is a xed-term appointment, funded for
one year with a good possibility of re-funding.
Interested applicants should email Dr. Read at
a.read@psu.edu, providing a cover letter detailing their
experience, a current CV, and contact information for
three references. Review of applications to begin imme-
diately, and continue until position is lled. Employ-
ment will require successful completion of background
check(s) in accordance with University policies. Penn
State is committed to armative action, equal oppor-
tunity and the diversity of its workforce.
{ Andrew Read PhD, Director, Center for Infectious
Disease Dynamics, Alumni Professor in the Biological
Sciences and Professor of Entomology, The Pennsylva-
nia State University, University Park PA16802, USA
www.thereadgroup.net www.cidd.psu.edu
www.bio.psu.edu www.ento.psu.edu +814 867-2396
(oce, biology) +814 863-4444 (oce, entomology)
+814 867-2397 (lab) +814 865-9131 (fax) +814
321-5004 (cell) Sta Assistant Monica Arismendi
mha15@psu.edu; +814 863-6471
a.read@psu.edu
PrincetonU AssistantProfessor46 EvolDir September 1, 2013
ASSISTANT PROFESSORSHIP ANIMAL BEHAV-
IOR Princeton University's Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology plans to hire a tenure track assis-
tant professor focusing on animal behavior. The De-
partment has broad interests in behavioral ecology, be-
havioral dynamics, behavioral mechanisms, behavioral
genetics, behavioral endocrinology and physiology, and
behavioral links to other features of organismal biol-
ogy. We seek applicants who pursue research that aims
for signicant conceptual and/or empirical integration
of animal behavior in broader contexts of complex sys-
tems, neuroscience, genomics, ecology and evolution,
and who have a strong commitment to teaching. A joint
appointment with the Princeton Environmental Insti-
tute is possible, especially if the applicant's research
focuses on problems of global or environmental change.
Applicants should write a vision statement, no longer
than two pages, that outlines the conceptual dimensions
of one or more major unsolved problems in their eld
and how their approach will contribute to solving them.
The vision statement should be more than a summary
of the applicant's prior and current research. Applica-
tions, including the vision statement, curriculum vitae,
three reprints and contact information for three letters
of recommendation, can be submitted online via http:/-
/jobs.princeton.edu, requisition #1300555. Screening
of applications begins September 23, 2013. Princeton
University is an equal opportunity employer and com-
plies with applicable EEO and armative action regu-
lations.
Diane Carlino Department Manager Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology Princeton University 104A Guyot
Hall 609-258-5810
dcarlino@Princeton.EDU
RutgersU ComputationalGenetics
Senior Faculty Position in Computational Genetics
The Department of Genetics in the School of Arts and
Sciences at Rutgers, The State University of New Jer-
sey seeks an outstanding senior scientist to complement
the existing faculty in computational genetics, moving
our program into exciting new areas and expanding our
existing strengths. Tenured appointment will be made
at the Associate or Full Professor level. Areas of inter-
est include, but are not limited to, population or evo-
lutionary genetics, bioinformatics, statistical genetics,
computational genomics, and analysis of complex ge-netic diseases. The successful candidate will be a mem-
ber of the newly founded Center for Genome Variation
and Evolution within the Genetics Department. Senior
hires with appropriate leadership experience would be
considered for directorship of this Center. Appropriate
candidates will also be appointed to the Human Genet-
ics Institute of New Jersey. Core resources and generous
startup funds will be provided. Research space, includ-
ing wet lab if needed, will be provided in the newly
constructed Life Sciences Building.
The Department of Genetics is home to over 30 fac-
ulty with diverse interests and numerous well-funded
research programs, and is part of a vibrant life sci-
ences and computational community. Our computa-
tional group collaborates with other Department of Ge-
netics faculty and Rutgers scientists within the Divi-
sion of Life Sciences, the Departments of Computer Sci-
ence and Statistics, the Waksman Institute, the Center
for Advanced Biotechnology and Medicine, the Robert
Wood Johnson Medical School, the BioMaPS Insti-
tute for Quantitative Biology, and the Center for Dis-
crete Mathematics and Theoretical Computer Science
(DIMACS). The New Brunswick/Piscataway campus
is located in suburban central New Jersey, close to
New York City, Philadelphia, beaches, and countryside.
For more information on the Department and Rut-
gers see: http://genetics.rutgers.edu/faculty/faculty-
recruitment. Candidates must have a Ph.D. and/or
M.D., demonstrated record of signi research, the po-
tential to make substantial contributions as an inde-
pendent investigator, and have a commitment to teach-
ing undergraduate and graduate students. Applicants
should submit a CV, a detailed statement of research
interests, a teaching statement, and full contact infor-
mation for three individuals willing to provide letters of
reference. Applications should be submitted electroni-
cally at http://apply.interfolio.com/22156 and inquiries
made to Ms. Laura Bu e, bue@dls.rutgers.edu. Review
of applications will begin October 15, 2013 and continue
until the position is  .
Rutgers University is an equal opportunity/armative
action employer committed to diversity. Women, mi-
norities, and members of under-represented groups are
encouraged to apply
Andrew Kern Assistant Professor of Genetics Rutgers
University kern@biology.rutgers.edu
Kern@dls.rutgers.eduSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 47
SAfrica ResearchAssistant
SocialMolerats
SAfrica.ResearchAssistant.SocialMolerats
Field research assistants needed
Cooperative breeding in subterranean Damaraland
mole-rats (Fukomys damarensis)
2 Positions for a minimum of 6 months between Octo-
ber 2013 and April 2014;
Field researchers are needed to conduct research on a
completely subterranean, highly social mole-rat. Our
main interest is individual variation in cooperative be-
haviour and the consequences for life-histories and in-
dividual tness in the cooperatively breeding Damara-
land mole-rat (Fukomys damarensis). At the same time
we are also investigating the hormonal mechanisms un-
derlying cooperative behaviour.
We launch a study of permanently marked, wild mole-
rats at the <http://www.kalahari-meerkats.com/-
index.php?id=krr >Kuruman River Reserve (North-
ern Cape, South Africa). The study is initiated by
Prof. Tim Clutton-Brock, University of Cambridge.
The mole-rats will be trapped, marked and measure-
ments such as blood samples, urine samples and mor-
phometrics will be taken. Animals in their natural bur-
row systems will be monitored by identity chips and
radio telemetry. Although the majority of work hap-
pens in the eld research assistants are also welcome
to get involved in behavioural observations of captive
mole-rats held in tunnel systems at the research station.
Applicants should be enthusiastic, willing to work hard
and keen to get involved in a research project in the
African bush. Research assistants are expected to stay
in the eld over night when trapping mole-rats and need
to be physically t as capturing mole-rats requires a
fair amount of digging. Applicants must be holders of
a driving license. A zoology related degree and/or pre-
vious eld experience will be considered an asset.
The successful applicants will work in a small team of
5-6 persons working on mole-rats. The research sta-
tion is also the home of several other projects studying
meerkats (www.kalahari-meerkats.com), pied babblers,
forktailed drongos and hornbills resulting in a stimu-
lating scientic environment. Around 20-30 research
assistants are based at the station year round. Re-search assistants will learn a range of skills such as ra-
dio telemetry, endocrine sampling techniques, capture-
mark-recapture techniques, behavioural observations,
data handling and management.
Accommodation is provided, and research assistants are
paid a monthly allowance to cover their food. A contri-
bution to their travel costs can be provided at the end
of their stay.
To apply (CV + Corverletter) or enquire further infor-
mation contact:
Dr Markus Z ottl Research associate University of Cam-
bridge
Mz338@cam.ac.uk
Phone: +441223336673
Markus Z ottl <mz338@cam.ac.uk >
SenckenbergResInst Frankfurt
MammalianEvolution
Link to our job oer: http://www.senckenberg.de/-
les/content/stellenausschreibungen/01-
13028 stellenausschreibung wiss- masb.pdf Senck-
enberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung has an
international reputation in all elds of Natural History
research. It runs six research institutes and two
museums in Germany and is also custodian of the
UNESCO World Heritage Site at Messel.
The Senckenberg Research Institute and Nature Mu-
seum in Frankfurt am Main, Department of Palaeoan-
thropology and Messel Research (Section Mammalian
Biology) invites applications for a tenure-track
Research scientist in Mammalian Biology Ref. #01-
13028 (fulltime)
Your tasks: scientic research in the area of biodi-
versity and systematics of Mammalia curation of the
extensive Senckenberg mammal collection in Frankfurt
am Main interdisciplinary cooperation with other re-
search groups in the institute and national and inter-
national collaborations external fund raising public
outreach: communication of research results
Your prole: Ph.D. in biology or a related eld at the
time of appointment experience with the morphology
and systematics of mammals experience with curation
strong publication record of internationally recognized
research in the area of biodiversity and systematics of48 EvolDir September 1, 2013
Mammalia, with a specialty in morphology, taxonomy,
systematics, evolution or ecology experience with mod-
ern methods of 3D-data analysis, particularly computed
tomography is desirable. very good written and oral
communication skills highly motivated, able to work
independently disposition for team work
Salary and benets are accordance with a public ser-
vice position in Germany (TV-H E13). The contract
shall start March, 1st 2014 and will be initially lim-
ited to a 5-year term. The Senckenberg Research In-
stitute supports equal opportunity of men and women
and therefore strongly invites women to apply. Equally
qualied handicapped applicants will be given prefer-
ence. The type of handicap should not prevent work
needed to conduct the research. The duty station will
be Frankfurt am Main, Germany. The employer is the
Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung.
Please send your application before September, 13th
2013 preferably by e-mail (attachment in a single pdf
document) , mentioning the reference of this position
(Ref. #01-13028) and including a letter outlining your
suitability for the post, a detailed CV, contact details
of 2 references, and, if available, publications to both
addresses below.
Frau Britta Werner Head of Personnel and
Social Aairs Senckenberg Gesellschaft f ur
Naturforschung Senckenberganlage 25 60325
Frankfurt am Main recruiting@senckenberg.de
stephan.schaal@senckenberg.de
For scientic enquiries please contact Dr. Stephan
Schaal, stephan.schaal@senckenberg.de
In addition please indicate in your application how our
job advertisement came to your attention.
Mit freundlichen Gr uen /Best Regards
i.A. Stefanie Ulrich Team Recruiting
SENCKENBERG Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung
Service & Administration - Personal und
Soziales/Personnel and Social Aairs Senckenber-
ganlage 25 60325 Frankfurt/Main
Telefon/Phone: 0049 (0)69 / 7542 -
Leiterin Personal und Soziales/Head of Personnel and
Social Aairs - 1456 Werner, Britta
Teamleiterin Personalbeschaung/Team Leader Re-
cruiting - 1282 Ohl, Anette
Team Personalbeschaung/Team Recruiting - 1205 Ul-
rich, Stefanie - 1310 Treuberg, Sascha - 1313 Kurt, Sibel
Fax: 0049 (0)69 / 7542-1440 Mail: recruit-
ing@senckenberg.de Homepage: www.senckenberg.deSENKENBERG Gesellschaft f ur Naturforschung
Rechtsf ahiger Verein gem a x22 BGB Senckenbergan-
lage 25 60325 Frankfurt am Main Direktorium: Prof.
Dr. Dr. h.c. Volker Mosbrugger, Prof. Dr. An-
dreas Mulch, Prof. Dr. Katrin B ohning-Gaese, Prof.
Dr. Uwe Fritz, Dr. Johannes Heilmann, PD Dr. Ilka
Kr oncke Vorsitzende des Pr asidiums: Dr. h. c. Beate
Heraeus Aufsichtsbeh orde: Magistrat der Stadt Frank-
furt am Main (Ordnungsamt)
P Before printing, think about the environment
recruiting@senckenberg.de
StonyBrookU
ChairEcologyEvolution
CHAIR- Department of Ecology and Evolution Stony
Brook University, Stony Brook, NY, United States
The Department of Ecology and Evolution at Stony
Brook University is seeking an individual with an out-
standing academic background in any eld of ecology or
evolutionary biology to serve as the Department Chair.
The successful candidate should have internationally
recognized research credentials, a track record of extra-
murally funded research, demonstrated commitment to
excellence in research and teaching, and proven lead-
ership skills in an academic environment. Applicants
should present a compelling vision to guiding the fu-
ture trajectory of the Department, and capitalizing on
the new initiatives put forward by the Department and
University. The successful candidate will teach gradu-
ate and/or undergraduate courses according to his or
her area of expertise.
The Department is a dynamic and growing department
in a Tier I, AAU university oering competitive teach-
ing loads and startups. Information about department
faculty and our strong graduate training program is
available at http://life.bio.sunysb. edu/ee/. Areas of
strength in our program include population genetics,
conservation ecology, molecular evolution and phylo-
genetics, evolutionary genomics, species interactions,
invasion ecology, biogeography, mathematical ecology,
and marine and freshwater ecology. The Department
has recently beneted from new University initiatives
that include faculty hiring in a new cross-departmental
human evolution major, and active involvement in
a number of campus-wide multi' disciplinary cluster
hires. SUNY 2020 has reinvigorated Stony Brook Uni-September 1, 2013 EvolDir 49
versity with increasing resources and a drive for aca-
demic excellence. The University is a member of the
prestigious Association of American Universities and
co-manager of nearby Brookhaven National Labora-
tory, a multidisciplinary research laboratory supporting
world class scientic programs utilizing state of-the-art
facilities. Stony Brook University Medical Center is
Suolk County's only academic medical center and ter-
tiary care provider. Collaborations are also possible
with Cold Spring Harbor Laboratories, the American
Museum of Natural History, the New York Botanical
Garden, and other nearby institutions. The campus is
close to marine and terrestrial research sites, includ-
ing 50,000 acres of legally protected pine barrens and
woodlands. While in the New York metropolitan area,
Stony Brook is located on the north shore of eastern
Long Island, NY, with access to farmlands, vineyards,
miles of beaches, and convenient access to the cultural
resources of New York City.
Applicants must hold a PhD in Ecology, Evolution,
Statistics or related eld, and have demonstrated excel-
lence in research and leadership. Applications are due
September 30, 2013. Applicants should complete the
Academic Jobs application process online at https:/-
/academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/2939. The applica-
tion process consists of: 1) State employment appli-
cation, 2) cover letter detailing administrative leader-
ship experiences and philosophy, 3) research and teach-
ing experience, 4) resume, and 5) the names and con-
tact details of three academic referees for recommenda-
tion. Electronic submission via academicjobsonline is
strongly preferred.
Alternatively, applicants may submit the application
materials by mail to: Douglas Futuyma, Chair of
Search Committee, c/o Donna DiGiovanni, Assistant
to Chair, Department of Ecology and Evolution, Life
Sciences Building, Room 650, Stony Brook Univer-
sity, Stony Brook, NY 11794-5245, For a full posi-
tion description, application procedures, and to apply
online, visit https://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/jobs/-
2939 . Douglas J. Futuyma Distinguished Professor De-
partment of Ecology and Evolution Stony Brook Uni-
versity Stony Brook, NY 11794-5245 Tel, (631) 632-
1411 Fax (631) 632-7626 futuyma@life.bio.sunysb.edu
StonyBrookU LabTech
ExperimentalEvolutionStonyBrookU.LabTech.ExperimentalEvolution
Research technician position in yeast evolution and ge-
netics at Stony Brook University, Long Island, NY.
The Levy Lab at the Laufer Center for Physical and
Quantitative Biology is seeking an organized, enthu-
siastic, and motivated scientist to ll a lab manager
position in our new research lab. We develop high-
throughput technologies to study the evolutionary dy-
namics of large competing populations, using the model
yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
The research technician will assist in the set up and
management of the lab, with specic attention to order-
ing and maintaining equipment, stocking the lab, gen-
erating and supporting of a productive work culture,
and maintaining compliance with environmental and
safety procedures. Additionally, the research technician
will assist in various projects in the lab involving plas-
mid and yeast cloning, experimental evolution, high-
throughput microscopy and next-generation sequenc-
ing.
Minimum Qulications: - Bachelor's or Master's degree
in biology, genetics or a related eld or equivalent edu-
cational experience - Strong organizational skills, drive,
and an ability to accomplish tasks independently - Ex-
cellent communication skills, willingness to follow spe-
cic instructions, ability to direct others when needed -
Extreme attention to detail - Experience in a molecular
biology or genetics wet lab - Experience with prepar-
ing reagents/buers, gel electrophoresis, PCR, cloning
- Strong desire to learn new biology techniques - Strong
aptitude with computers - Ability to learn and execute
laboratory Standard Operating Procedures and safety
requirements.
Also desired: - Previous full time experience in a molec-
ular biology or genetics lab - Experience with Saccha-
romyces cerevisiae culture and genetics - Aptitude for
technology and desire to learn programming - Experi-
ence with next-generation sequencing - Experience with
epiuorescent microscopy - Experience with large data
sets
To apply, please visit the ad posted
on the SBU Job Opportunities web-
site http://naples.cc.sunysb.edu/Admin/-
CampusJob.nsf/ebb5a78b9e8848868525659c0072eafe/-
b1fb27209970906385257bbf004afa51?OpenDocument
.Previous experience in the laboratory should be
highlighted in both the cover letter and letters of
recommendation wherever possible. Interviews will
take place on the Stony Brook campus the rst week
of September. The chosen applicant will ideally start
work in November or December, but no earlier than50 EvolDir September 1, 2013
November 10.
This is a full-time position, initially appointed for a pe-
riod of 12 months at a yearly salary of $29,500 - $34,750
(depending on qualications), plus benets. The posi-
tion duration could be extended, depending on perfor-
mance and availability of research funds.
Sasha Levy, Ph.D. Laufer Endowed Chair Assistant
Professor of Physical and Quantitative Biology Depart-
ment of Biochemistry and Cell Biology The Laufer Cen-
ter Stony Brook University Stony Brook, NY
sashaevy@gmail.com
TempleU ComputationalGenomics
Assistant Research Professor in Computational Genet-
ics/Genomics at Temple University (Grant Funded) An
experienced postdoctoral researcher in computational
genetics/genomics is sought to ll a key position as Re-
search Faculty in the new Center for Computational
Genetics and Genomics (CCGG) at Temple University.
Potential research areas include but are not limited to:
- The development of methods and/or tools for assem-
bling and analyzing high throughput data
- The development of data mining pipelines for identi-
fying candidates of biological or medical interest
- Evolutionary genomics
The successful candidate will very likely have extensive
experience in computer programming and in mathe-
matical or statistical aspects of analyzing genomic data.
The Assistant Research Professor will work closely with
other CCGG faculty as well as postdocs, graduate
students, and undergraduates. The specic research
pursuits will depend on the intersection of the candi-
dates interests and skills with ongoing CCGG research
projects, with a key goal of developing the research in-
dependence (including grant funding) for the Research
Professor. The position also carries opportunities for
teaching, both in the classroom and in the laboratory.
The CCGG is a new Research Center in the Depart-
ment of Biology, directed by Jody Hey who has re-
cently joined Temple University. The mission of the
Center is to foster research and education at the inter-
face of quantitative methodologies and genomic data.
The CCGG currently includes the Hey and Kulathinal
labs with expected new faculty hires in Biology duringthe next two years.
Please send a CV and a statement of research interests
and career goals to:
Jody Hey Professor, Department of Bi-
ology Temple University hey@temple.edu
https://bio.cst.temple.edu/heylab Jody Hey
<tuf29449@temple.edu >
TuftsU EvolutionaryMicrobiology
{003654CA338375E07498007BD15408709FE2C3CEC89SSVMEXDAG01MB03
Content-Type: text/plain;
charset=\Windows-1252" Content-ID:
<B3F78608F95E3440B5B9892FD6524B8E@exchange.tufts.edu >
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable
The Department of Biology at Tufts University invites
applications for a tenure-track Assistant Professor in
Microbiology to begin fall 2014. We seek a creative
scholar with primary expertise in comparative or func-
tional genomics, ecology of microbial populations, or
genome evolution of microbial communities. Someone
with the ability to work on multiple biological scales,
ranging from the molecular to the community, is pre-
ferred. The successful candidate will use modern re-
search techniques of computational genomics to address
fundamental questions in evolution and ecology. We
seek a scientist who will complement and add to our
strengths, allowing new collaborations and synergis-
tic research to occur within our department as well as
across departments. The Biology department has ex-
pertise in genome structure and function, genome evo-
lution, and the physiology and ecology of host organ-
isms (see http://ase.tufts.edu/biology/).
The candidate will develop an active externally funded
research program involving graduate and undergradu-
ate students. Instructional duties will include an un-
dergraduate microbiology course and an associated mi-
crobiology laboratory course, as well as contributions to
other undergraduate or graduate courses based on the
expertise and interests of the new faculty member. A
clear commitment to teaching excellence at the under-
graduate and graduate levels is essential. Doctoral de-
gree, post-doctoral experience and a record of research
productivity are required.
Tufts University is a private, coeducational institution,
whose main campus serves approximately 5,100 under-
graduates and over 1,500 graduate students in a broadSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 51
spectrum of programs. We are located in the towns
of Medford and Somerville, within the Greater Boston
metropolitan area. The Biology Department has 25
full time faculty members working in diverse specialties
spanning molecular, organismal, and population biol-
ogy. We maintain an active graduate training program
at the master's and doctoral levels. We are strongly
committed to quality research and education in basic
and applied biology. The department is closely allied
with other programs including Biomedical Engineering,
Chemistry, and Computer Science. Individual members
of the department also maintain active collaborations
with colleagues at the Tufts Schools of Medicine, Vet-
erinary Medicine, Nutrition and Dental Medicine.
To Apply: Applicants should use the link https:/-
/secure.interfolio.com/apply/21916 to submit a cover
letter, curriculum vitae, and separate statements of (1)
research interests and plans and (2) teaching experience
and philosophy. Submission of 1-3 selected reprints in
PDF format is encouraged. Applicants should also en-
sure that three condential letters of reference are sub-
mitted to this link.
Review of applications begins October 1, 2013, and con-
tinues until the position is lled.
Tufts University is an Armative Action/Equal Oppor-
tunity employer. We are committed to increasing the
diversity of our faculty. Members of underrepresented
groups are strongly encouraged to apply.
{003654CA338375E07498007BD15408709FE2C3CEC89SSVMEXDAG01MB03
TulaneU
EvolutionEcosystemDynamics
This search is very interested in candidates with exper-
tise in evolutionary ecology, population genetics, mi-
crobial genomics and metagenomics, and / or compu-
tational and evolutionary approaches for understanding
human-natural ecosystem dynamics.
Tulane University School of Public Health and Tropical
Medicine invites applications for multiple tenure track
faculty positions in the Department of Global Environ-
mental Health Sciences at any level, with rank deter-
mined by experience and accomplishments.
Successful candidates or teams will expand the depart-
ment's role in research and teaching across the con-
tinuum of basic-, clinical-, and population-based envi-ronmental health sciences. Applicants should demon-
strate strong interest or experience in interdisciplinary
environmental public health research and teaching with
respect to one or more of the following areas: water
and wetland resources, climate change, and environ-
mental/environmental health eects modeling.
Candidates with expertise in environmental quality,
management, and sustainability of urban and rural
riverine and coastal environments including disciplinary
themes in constructed wetlands, contaminated sedi-
ments, environmental microbiology, seafood safety, eco-
toxicology, and spatial and temporal modeling among
themes are encouraged to apply.
High ranking candidates or teams would be those with
a track record of research and teaching in the elds
outlined above and who demonstrate expertise in devel-
oping a globally recognized, externally funded research
program. In addition to individual research and teach-
ing requirements, the candidate is expected to collab-
orate in research and teaching within the Department
of Global Environmental Health Sciences and other de-
partments in the School of Public Health and Tropical
Medicine, and Tulane University. Applicants must pos-
sess a doctorate in environmental health sciences or rel-
evant eld and demonstrate excellence in research and
teaching at the undergraduate and graduate levels.
Application review will begin immediately and continue
until the positions are lled. Applicants should submit
a cover letter, CV, research plan, and contact informa-
tion for ve references to:
Jerey K. Wicklie, Ph.D., Search Committee Chair
Department of Global Environmental Health Sciences
Tulane University School of Public Health & Tropical
Medicine 1440 Canal Street, Suite 2100 New Orleans,
LA 70112-2704 Tel: 504-988-3910 jwicklif@tulane.edu
Tulane is an Equal Opportunity/Armative Action
employer.
Michael J. Blum
Associate Professor, Dept of Ecology & Evolution-
ary Biology Eugenie Schwartz Professor of River &
Coastal Studies Director, Tulane-Xavier Center for
Bioenvironmental Research Tulane University New Or-
leans, LA 70118 504-862-8295 (phone) 504-862-8706
(fax) www.tulane.edu/ ~ mjblum \Blum, Michael J"
<mjblum@tulane.edu >52 EvolDir September 1, 2013
UAlabama ComputationalBiology
Dear EvolDir members:
The Department of Biological Sciences at The Univer-
sity of Alabama is seeking a new tenure-track faculty
member at the rank of Assistant Professor in Compu-
tational Biology.
All areas of computational biology and bioinformatics
will be considered. Applications from candidates with
a demonstrated record of developing and/or applying
computational approaches to study biological questions
in areas including comparative genomics and transcrip-
tomics, evolutionary genomics, phylogenomics, compu-
tational ecology/ecoinformatics, cell and molecular bi-
ology, and systems biology are especially encouraged to
apply.
Candidates must have a Ph.D. degree in the Biological
Sciences or related eld, postdoctoral experience, evi-
dence of the ability to establish an extramurally funded
research program and mentor students. The success-
ful applicants will be expected to develop an active re-
search program, develop new courses in his/her area
of expertise and participate in the teaching of existing
undergraduate and graduate courses. Faculty in the
Biological Sciences Department have diverse research
interests and have interdisciplinary collaborations with
UA faculty in the Departments of Chemistry, Chemi-
cal and Biological Engineering, Geography, Geological
Sciences, and Metallurgical and Materials Engineering.
Applicants may contact Dr. Juan Lopez-Bautista the
chair of the computational biology search committee,
at jlopez@ua.edu, if additional information is desired.
To apply, go to https://facultyjobs.ua.edu, complete
the online application (Job Requisition #0808399), and
upload (1) an application letter with a list of three to
ve references (including contact information); (2) CV;
(3) statement of research interests and goals; and (4)
statement of teaching interests and philosophy. Con-
sideration of applications will begin October 15, 2013,
and continue until the positions are lled. Prior to the
hiring, the nal candidate(s) will be required to pass a
pre-employment background investigation. Anticipated
start date is August 16, 2014, although candidates seek-
ing a January 1, 2014 as start date will be considered.
Additional information on the Department of Biolog-
ical Sciences and the available positions can be foundon our website at http://bsc.ua.edu . The University of
Alabama is an Equal Opportunity/Equal Access Em-
ployer and actively seeks diversity among its employees.
Juan M. Lopez-Bautista Professor and College of
Arts and Sciences Leadership Board Fellow The Uni-
versity of Alabama, Department of Biological Sci-
ences 500 Hackberry Lane, Mary Harmon Bryant
Hall #309 Tuscaloosa, AL 35487-0345 http://-
www.phycolab.ua.edu Ph Oce (205) 348-1791 Lab
(205) 348-7383 Postdocs & students (205)-348-5828
phykosis@gmail.com
UCDavis EvolutionaryBiology
ECOLOGIST, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA,
DAVIS { The College of Biological Sciences, University
of California, Davis invites applications and nomina-
tions for a tenure-track position in the Department of
Evolution and Ecology at the ASSISTANT PROFES-
SOR level. Candidates must have a Ph.D. (or equiv-
alent) in the biological sciences or related elds. We
seek a terrestrial or freshwater ecologist with research
interests that will complement and build upon existing
faculty strengths to address important ecological ques-
tions. We welcome applicants who address important
ecological questions at any spatial or temporal scale.
We seek a colleague who is committed to participat-
ing in the departmental community through collabora-
tive teaching, research, service and graduate mentoring.
Letters of recommendation should specically address
this aspect of the application. The successful candidate
will be expected to teach in undergraduate and gradu-
ate programs, and should be committed to mentoring
and fostering diversity.
Applicants should submit materials online at https:/-
/recruit.ucdavis.edu/apply/JPF00130 which contains
additional information about the position. These
should include: cover letter, curriculum vitae, descrip-
tion of current and projected research, summary of
teaching interests and experience, and three publica-
tions. Applicants should also provide the informa-
tion requested for three referees (fourth referee op-
tional). Once entered, applicants will electronically re-
quest letters from referees who will then be prompted
by email with upload instructions for their letters. Clos-
ing Date: Open until lled, but all application ma-
terials, including letters of recommendation, must be
received by October 15th, 2013 to assure full consid-September 1, 2013 EvolDir 53
eration. Administrative contact: Carla Munoz (ca-
munoz@ucdavis.edu). Faculty contacts: Jay Stachow-
icz (jjstachowicz@ucdavis.edu), Sharon Strauss (sys-
trauss@ucdavis.edu). The University of California is an
Equal Opportunity/Armative Action Employer with
a strong institutional commitment to the development
of a climate that supports equality of opportunity and
respect for dierences.
jjstachowicz@UCDAVIS.EDU
UCalgary BioinformaticsCompBio
AIHS CAIP Translational Chair in Bio-
informatics/Computational Biology
Department of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Science,
University of Calgary
In partnership with Alberta Innovates - Health Solu-
tions (AIHS), the Department of Biological Sciences,
Faculty of Science, at the University of Calgary in-
vites applications for a tenure-track position as an
Assistant Professor (Tier 2 Chair) in Bio-informatics
and/or Computational Biology. This position is part
of the prestigious Campus Alberta Innovates Program
(CAIP).
The holder of this Chair will conduct conceptually-
motivated research concerning the imprint of environ-
mental change on genomic diversity and associated phe-
notypic consequences within and among species. This
research program will incorporate the application and
development of statistical and computation techniques
for inferring demographic and evolutionary parameters
and simulating their consequences for adaptation, evo-
lution and diversication. Research with implications
for practical applications is particularly relevant to a
position as an AIHS Translational Chair. In particu-
lar, this position aligns closely with a Tier 1 Chair in
Personalized Genomics, and synergies arising from as-
sociated interactions are anticipated. The Chair in Bio-
informatics/Computational Biology will also comple-
ment research conducted by recently recruited faculty
studying ecological genomics, environmental genomics,
and biocomplexity and networks in the Department of
Biological Sciences.
We seek a productive, innovative scientist who will es-
tablish an independent, externally funded, internation-
ally recognized research program that actively engages
and trains students in conceptually-based enquiry. Thesuccessful candidate will be expected to teach at the
undergraduate and graduate levels in the Department
of Biological Sciences, consistent with the expectations
for other Chairs. Excellent communication and leader-
ship skills, and the ability to manage student projects,
are expected.
Applications must include a curriculum vitae, state-
ment of research interests, statement of teaching inter-
ests, evidence of teaching eectiveness, and ve recent
publications, as well as the names, addresses, phone
numbers and email addresses of three referees. Review
of applications will begin on 1 November 2013 and con-
tinue until the position is lled.
Applications for the Chair should be sent to:
Dr. Robert Barclay, Head, Department of Biological
Sciences University of Calgary, 2500 University Drive
Calgary, AB T2N 1N4
Sean RogersjAssistant Professor jGenomics for Ecol-
ogy and Evolution Research Unit Alberta Innovates -
Technology Futures New Faculty jBiological Sciences,
University of Calgary Oce: BI379D jPhone: Lab
403.220.7907, Oce 403.210.8573, Cell 403.473.3498 j
Website: http://people.ucalgary.ca/ ~ srogers/ Until
July 25, 2013 :
Bameld Marine Sciences Centre 100 Pachena Rd,
Bameld, BC Canada, V0R 1B0
srogers@ucalgary.ca
UFlorida QuantitativeGenetics
Assistant/Associate Professor of Quantitative Genetics.
A position is available in the Department of Animal Sci-
ences, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences, at
the University of Florida. This is a 12-month tenure-
track position with a 70% research and 30% teaching
assignment. Major duties are to develop and implement
a strong research and teaching program in quantitative
genetic analysis and bioinformatics and related sub-
ject areas that will benet Florida animal agriculture
and human health industries. The research focus may
include theoretical, computational, and applied ap-
proaches to quantitative genetics and genomics, bioin-
formatics, population genetics, mixed model methodol-
ogy, and genetic-genomic evaluation and selection. The
teaching assignment includes teaching an undergradu-
ate and graduate course in bioinformatics applications
to agriculture and medicine. The successful candidate54 EvolDir September 1, 2013
is also expected to teach a graduate level course in the
area of quantitative methods in genetic analysis. The
faculty member will participate in extension programs
as appropriate. Qualications are an earned Ph.D. (for-
eign equivalent acceptable) in animal breeding, genetics
or a closely related discipline. Evidence of success in
developing and maintaining a signicant, extramurally
supported research and teaching program is required.
Screening of applicants will begin September 15, 2013.
The positions will be available October 1, 2013 and will
be lled as soon thereafter as an acceptable applicant
is available.
Both nominations and applications are welcome.
Nominations should be sent to PJ Hansen at
pjhansen@u.edu. Individuals wishing to apply should
go online to the position description at http://-
jobs.u.edu/postings/43537 and submit an application,
cover letter, CV which includes description of current
position and responsibilities, and names and contact
information of three references. The successful appli-
cant will also be asked to submit an ocial transcript
documenting awarding of Ph.D. degree.
Dr. Peter J. Hansen, Chair, Physiology Search and
Screen Committee, University of Florida, Department
of Animal Sciences, P.O. Box 110910, Gainesville, FL
32611-0910; Phone:352-392-5590; Fax: 352-392-5595;
email: pjhansen@u.edu (please refer to Position #
0001-3053).
Charlie Baer <cbaer@u.edu >
UHelsinki EvolutionaryGenomics
Tenure track Assistant professorship in Ecological and
Evolutionary Genomics (Helsinki)
The Faculty of Biological and Environmental Sciences,
University of Helsinki, is announcing an open tenure-
track position in
Ecological and evolutionary genomics
The position is located at the Department of Bio-
sciences of the Faculty of Biological and Environmental
Sciences which is Finland's largest and most prominent
institution engaged in the research and teaching of
the biosciences. The Department of Biosciences,
based in the Viikki Science Park, is among the
largest departments of the University. Its budget is
^ a:24million; anditemploysover 300people:TheDepartmentisdividedintosixdivisions; namelythoseofbiochemistry; ecologyandevolutionarybiology; physiologyandneuroscience; plantbiology; genetics; andgeneralmicrobiology:TheDepartmentcoordinatestheadministrationandprovisionofbasicteachingforallstudentsduringthefirstfewyearsofstudy; buteachoftheabovemajorsubjectdivisionsareindependentlyresponsiblefortheirteachingandresearch:Duties: The duties of the assistant professor will in-
clude research, teaching and supervision of theses and
dissertations, as well as involvement in administrative
and support tasks and community relations. The main
focus of research is expected to be relevant to the spe-
cial eld of the professorship. The assistant professor is
expected to lead projects in the eld of ecological and
evolutionary genomics and acquire external funding for
their implementation.
The assistant professor will be responsible for research
conducted in ecological and evolutionary genomics and
for advancing teaching in bioinformatics, which sup-
ports the aforementioned eld. Furthermore, the du-
ties of the position include the advancement of teach-
ing in evolutionary biology. The assistant professor-
ship is based in the Division of Ecology and Evolution-
ary Biology, which has professorships in the following
elds: zoology, population genetics, population ecol-
ogy, mathematical ecology, conservation decision anal-
ysis and evolutionary biology (Swedish as teaching lan-
guage). The Division's research and teaching activities
are supported by the Molecular Ecology and System-
atics Laboratory (MES). The Division is host to the
Metapopulation Research Group (Academy of Finland
Centre of Excellence), a section of the Centre of Excel-
lence in Biological Interactions as well as two Research
professors.
Qualications: The University will recruit talented,
motivated academics who have completed their doc-
toral degree within the last ten years and have since
gained additional academic and other relevant quali-
cations and merit in their eld. Successful applicant
will be employed as assistant professor. The duration
of the employment contract will be two to ve years,
depending on the appointee's background and experi-
ence. If the appointee completes the duties of the assis-
tant professorship successfully and in accordance with
pre-determined criteria, employment may be continued
with a second xed-term contract, after which the ap-
pointee may obtain tenure as a professor.
The academic qualications and teaching experience of
applicants will be considered when making the selec-
tion. Additional merit will be granted for working out-
side Finland, other international experience and expe-
rience in acquiring research funding.
Applications must be accompanied by the following
English-language documents: a CV, a list of publica-
tions, a report on experience and merits relevant to
assessing the applicant's teaching skills as well as other
documents that may be relevant to the selection; or,
alternatively, an English-language academic portfolio
containing the above-mentioned documents and infor-September 1, 2013 EvolDir 55
mation (for instructions, see http://www.helsinki./-
bio/faculty/materials/portfolio-ohjeet eng.pdf).
In addition, applicants are requested to enclose with
their application a report (max. two pages, in English)
on how they intend to develop research in the eld, if
appointed. Applicants are kindly asked to be ready to
submit for assessment the 10 publications indicated on
their list of publications after the application period.
The publications must be submitted via email as PDF
les.
For the position overview, see http://www.helsinki./-
bio/faculty/administration/open/index.html).
Applications addressed to the Faculty of Biological and
Environmental Sciences, together with the required en-
closures, must be delivered to the following address:
Registry of the University of Helsinki, PO Box 33
(Yliopistonkatu 4), 00014 University of Helsinki, Fin-
land, or sent by email to hy-kirjaamo@helsinki.. The
closing date for applications is September 27, 2013.
(The Registry closes at 15.45 local Helsinki time.)
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UIdaho
MathematicalSystemsBiology
The Department of Mathematics at the University of
Idaho invites applications for a tenure-track faculty po-
sition in Mathematical Biology. This is part of a three-
position cluster hire to be lled (with the other two
in Statistics and Physics) that will address aspects of
Systems Biology. This is an academic year (9-month)
position at the rank of Assistant Professor beginning
August 12, 2014. Responsibilities include: carrying out
an active research program and teaching courses at the
undergraduate and graduate levels. Women and mi-
norities are especially encouraged to apply. AA/EOE
Opportunities for interdisciplinary interactions abound.
The Department of Biological Sciences has strengths
in evolutionary biology, microbial ecology, reproductive
biology, cellular and molecular biology and biochem-
istry. The Institute for Bioinformatics and Evolution-
ary Studies (IBEST) includes researchers from manydepartments (Biology, Computer Science, Mathemat-
ics, Statistics, Physics, and Chemistry) and focuses on
research in evolution through a variety of approaches
(experimental evolution of microorganisms, mathemat-
ical/computational modeling, genomics, and eld biol-
ogy).
CLOSING DATE: Review of applications will begin
November 1, 2013, and continue until a suitable ap-
plicant pool is identied. Please direct any questions
regarding this position to math@uidaho.edu.
For a complete description of the announcement, how
to apply, and information about the department, visit
http://www.uidaho.edu/math . \Krone, Stephen"
<krone@uidaho.edu >
UKentucky EvoDevo
*Developmental Biologist Faculty Position*
The Department of Biology at the University of Ken-
tucky invites applications for a tenure-track faculty
position in developmental biology starting in the fall
of 2014. We anticipate making an appointment at
the level of Assistant Professor; however, exceptionally
qualied candidates at the Associate or Full Professor
level will also be considered. Research programs of in-
terest include, but are not limited to: stem cell biology,
cellular reprogramming, epigenetics and development,
the regulation of cell division and growth, organogene-
sis, regeneration, and the dysregulation of developmen-
tal processes in disease. We are interested in a wide
variety of experimental approaches and model organ-
isms. The successful candidate will complement exist-
ing departmental strengths in cell and developmental
biology, genetics, genomics, and evolutionary biology.
With more than 500 life sciences faculty on campus,
there are excellent opportunities for scientic interac-
tion and collaboration with programs in the Colleges of
Medicine, Pharmacy, Agriculture, and Arts & Sciences,
the Markey Cancer Center, the Sanders-Brown Center
on Aging, and the Center for Clinical and Translational
Science, among others. Competitive start-up funds and
renovated laboratory space will be provided. Candi-
dates must have a Ph.D. or equivalent degree and post-
doctoral experience demonstrating excellence in their
eld. Candidates will be expected to establish a vigor-
ous and innovative extramurally funded research pro-
gram, and to contribute to the departments teaching
activities at the graduate and undergraduate levels.56 EvolDir September 1, 2013
Applicants should submit a CV, a research plan, and a
description of teaching interests through our website
(http://bio.as.uky.edu/employment-bio). Candidates
should also arrange for three letters of recommendation
to be submitted. *Consideration of applications will
begin September 15, 2013 and continue until the posi-
tion is lled.* Questions may be directed to the Search
Committee Chair, Doug Harrison <dough@uky.edu >
or the Biology Department Chair, Vincent Cassone
<Vincent.Cassone@uky.edu >.
*The University of Kentucky is an Armative Ac-
tion/Equal Opportunity University that values diver-
sity and is located in an increasingly diverse geograph-
ical region. It is committed to becoming one of the
top public institutions in the country. Women, per-
sons with disabilities, and members of other underrep-
resented groups are encouraged to apply. The Univer-
sity also supports family-friendly policies.*
Jeramiah Smith <jeramiahsmith@gmail.com >
UKentucky MathBio
Assistant Professor of Mathematical/Computational
Biology The Department of Biology at the University of
Kentucky seeks an innovative researcher/educator us-
ing mathematical, statistical, or computational meth-
ods to address compelling questions in any area of bi-
ology. The department has strengths in cell biology,
developmental biology, ecology, evolutionary biology,
and behavior; applicants with research focused in one
or more of these areas and complementary to exist-
ing expertise within Biology and with other units (e.g.
Mathematics and Statistics) will receive special consid-
eration. Candidates must have a Ph.D. or equivalent
degree and postdoctoral experience demonstrating ex-
cellence in their eld. Responsibilities for the success-
ful candidate include establishment of an independent
research program and contribution to the teaching mis-
sion of the Department.
Applicants should submit a CV, a research plan, and a
description of teaching interests through our website
(http://bio.as.uky.edu/employment-bio). Candidates
should also arrange for three letters of recommendation
to be submitted as instructed at the application web
site. Review of applications will begin September 20,
2013 and continue until the position is lled. Questions
may be directed to the Search Committee Chair, David
F. Westneat or the Biology Department Chair, VincentCassone. For more details on the department and the
university, visit our website (http://biology.uky.edu) or
contact Dr. Cassone, Chair, at (859) 257-6766.
The University of Kentucky is an Armative Ac-
tion/Equal Opportunity University that values diver-
sity and is located in an increasingly diverse geograph-
ical region. It is committed to becoming one of the
top public institutions in the country. Women, per-
sons with disabilities, and members of other underrep-
resented groups are encouraged to apply. The Univer-
sity also supports family-friendly policies.
Dave Weisrock (dweis2@uky.edu)
david.weisrock@uky.edu
UPennsylvania EvolutionaryBiology
The School of Arts and Sciences at the University of
Pennsylvania seeks to add to the faculty of our newly
formed Evolution Cluster. We invite applicants for a
tenure-track assistant professor appointment in evolu-
tion, broadly interpreted. We are interested in ex-
ceptional scientists who will establish a research pro-
gram to empirically study the evolution of dynamical
processes using eld or laboratory experiments or the
construction and analysis of massive data sets. Ar-
eas of interest include, but are not limited to: the
evolution of neural, social, ecological or linguistic dy-
namics and networks; evolution of early life or exo-
biology; biochemical, neuronal, or cooperative inter-
actions and exchange of information at the molecu-
lar, cellular, human, or ecosystems scales; directed
evolution of organisms or processes; analyzing extant
structures and networks, from molecules to popula-
tions, along with their evolutionary trajectories, in-
cluding the development of new modalities to extract
data from the geologic, genetic, or linguistic histor-
ical records. The successful candidates primary ap-
pointment will be in a single department in the nat-
ural sciences: Biology, Chemistry, Earth and Environ-
mental Science, Linguistics, Mathematics, Physics and
Astronomy, or Psychology. Secondary appointments
in other departments can be arranged, as appropriate.
The successful candidate will have a strong interest in
building a program that generates interaction with re-
searchers from other disciplines who are working within
the overarching theme of evolution and will teach
courses in his or her home department and participate
in the development of curricula pertinent to the Evolu-September 1, 2013 EvolDir 57
tion Cluster (See http://evolutioncluster.sas.upenn.edu
for more information). The University of Penn-
sylvania is an Armative Action/Equal Opportu-
nity Employer and is strongly committed to estab-
lishing a diverse faculty: http://www.upenn.edu/-
almanac/volumes/v58/n02/diversityplan.html Appli-
cations should be submitted on-line at http://-
facultysearches.provost.upenn.edu/postings/23 and in-
clude a curriculum vitae, a research statement that in-
cludes the candidates perspective on how she or he ts
into one of the core departments, links to no more than
three journal publications, and the contact information
for three individuals who will provide letters of recom-
mendation. Review of applications will begin 1 Novem-
ber 2013 and will continue until the position is lled.
Randall D. Kamien Vicki and William Abrams
Professor in the Natural Sciences http://-
www.physics.upenn.edu/~kamien/ +1.215.898.5940
\Randall D. Kamien" <kamien@physics.upenn.edu >
USouthCarolina
EvolutionaryPhysiology
The following ad for a Comparative Animal Physiol-
ogist in the Department of Biological Sciences at the
University of South Carolina will appear shortly in Sci-
ence. The Department has a strong and growing evo-
lutionary biology group, including Jill Anderson, Carol
Boggs, Je Dudycha, Bert Ely, Bob Friedman, Jerry
Hilbish, Austin Hughes, Tim Mousseau, Joe Quattro,
Roger Sawyer, Dick Vogt, and Ward Watt. The Depart-
ment is also conducting faculty searches in the areas of
Gene Expression and Neurobiology.
Assistant Professor in Comparative Animal Physiology
The Department of Biological Sciences at the Univer-
sity of South Carolina at Columbia invites applications
for a tenure track position at the rank of Assistant Pro-
fessor in the area of Comparative Animal Physiology.
The position is a 9-month academic year appointment.
A Ph.D. or equivalent is required at the time of ap-
pointment and post-doctoral experience is highly pre-
ferred. Applicants should have a record of research ex-
cellence. The successful candidate will be expected to
teach majors-level physiology and contribute to the un-
dergraduate and graduate curriculum. Review of appli-
cations will begin September 15, 2013 and continue un-
til the position is lled. Applications should be emailedin .pdf format to physiologysearch@biol.sc.edu. Appli-
cations should include a cover letter, C.V., and research
and teaching statements. Applicants should also ar-
range for three letters of reference to be sent to the
above address.
The University of South Carolina has been designated
as one of only 73 public and 35 private academic institu-
tions with 'very high research activity' by the Carnegie
Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. The Uni-
versity is located in Columbia, the capital of South Car-
olina, which has a population of over 650,000 in the
greater metropolitan area. Columbia is located in the
center of South Carolina only two to three hours away
from the Appalachian Mountains and the beautiful At-
lantic coastline. More information on the Department,
the University, and the city of Columbia can be found
at www.biol.sc.edu . The University of South Carolina
is an armative action, equal opportunity employer.
Minorities and women are encouraged to apply. The
University of South Carolina does not discriminate in
educational or employment opportunities or decisions
for qualied persons on the basis of race, color, religion,
sex, national origin, age, disability, sexual orientation,
or veteran status.
{
Jery L. Dudycha Associate Professor Dept. of
Biological Sciences University of South Carolina
Columbia, SC 29208 dudycha [at] biol.sc.edu http:/-
/www.biol.sc.edu/~dudycha dudycha@biol.sc.edu
USouthCarolina LabTech
PlantEvolution
USouthCarolina.LabTech.PlantEvolutionaryEcol
The Anderson lab at the University of South Carolina
is searching for a temporary full time lab tech from
late-August to late-October 2013. The position could
be extended for a full year upon satisfactory perfor-
mance. The successful candidate will help prepare juve-
nile plants for outplanting in the eld in Colorado in Oc-
tober. Specic duties will include: planting seeds, wa-
tering and fertilizing plants, organizing plants into the
proper order for planting, labeling plants and collecting
initial size data while in South Carolina, and traveling
to southwestern Colorado (the Rocky Mountain Bio-
logical Laboratory) in late September/early October to
install the experiment. Addition duties could include
processing leaf tissue and assisting with a growth cham-58 EvolDir September 1, 2013
ber experiment. The ideal candidate will have some
experience hiking or living in high elevation environ-
ments. The Anderson lab seeks to understand the evo-
lutionary consequences of climate change, focusing on
Boechera stricta (Brassicaceae), a mustard native to
the US Rocky Mountains. In the fall 2013, we will
be planting a common garden experiment at 5 sites,
ranging in elevation from 2500 m ' 3340 m (8202 feet
to 11000 feet). In total, we will plant ~8000 juvenile
Boechera stricta, and ~8000 seeds and we will have as-
sistance from several other people. The Rocky Moun-
tain Biological Lab (http://www.rmbl.org/) is located
in Gothic, Colorado near the wildower capital of Col-
orado (Crested Butte). We are oering $12/hour for
a full time eld assistant (40 hours/week) from late-
August through midlateOctober. The start and end
dates are negotiable We will cover housing costs and
station fees at the Rocky Mountain Biological Labora-
tory during the eld work, but the lab tech would be
responsible for her/his food costs. The candidate must
be prepared to conduct eldwork in a remote location
in Colorado for 2-3 weeks in September and October
2013.
The application consists of a short cover letter detail-
ing your qualications, a CV/r esum e and contact infor-
mation for two references, all of which can be emailed
to Jill Anderson at: jtanders@mailbox.sc.edu Applica-
tions are due by August 16th, 2013.
Feel free to contact Jill if you have any questions about
the position. Additional information about the An-
derson lab can be found at: http://www.biol.sc.edu/-
node/492 http://people.duke.edu/ ~ ja89/Home.html
Jill Anderson <JTAnders@mailbox.sc.edu >
UUppsala MolecularEvolution
Tenure Track Position as Assistant Professor in molec-
ular biosciences/evolution (UFV-PA 2013/2112)
Department of Ecology and Genetics / Faculty of Sci-
ence and Technology
Uppsala University is an international research univer-
sity focused on the development of science and educa-
tion. Our most important assets are all the individuals
who with their curiosity and their dedication make Up-
psala University one of the 100 best universities in the
world and one of Sweden's most exciting work places.
Uppsala University has 40,000 students, 6,000 employ-
ees and a turnover of SEK 5,500 million.This position can be placed at the Department of Ecol-
ogy and Genetics (http://www.ebc.uu.se/Research/-
IEG/), although the actual organizational placement
of the position within the faculty of Science and Tech-
nology will depend upon the research interests of the
successful candidate.
The position is part of the SciLifeLab Fellows program
2014-2019
SciLifeLab (www.scilifelab.se < http://-
www.scilifelab.se/ >) is a national center for large
scale and hypothesis driven research within molecular
bioscience. SciLifeLab is a collaboration between
four universities in Uppsala and Stockholm: Uppsala
University, The Royal Institute of Technology, Karolin-
ska Institutet and Stockholm University. SciLifeLab
is now recruiting 8 excellent research group leaders
to strengthen the research environment in Uppsala
and Stockholm. One of these recruitments is being
made within the faculty of Science and Technology at
Uppsala University.
*Description of Subject Area:* The subject area of
molecular biosciences is here dened broadly, includ-
ing sub-domains such as molecular evolution, genomics,
proteomics, computational biology and bioinformatics.
*Duties:* The position includes research, teaching and
administration. Research includes leading a research
group within the area of molecular biosciences and co-
operating with other groups within SciLifeLab and Up-
psala University and to actively contribute to the re-
search at SciLifeLab. Teaching duties include course
responsibility, course administration and supervision of
second- and third-cycle students. The holder shall also
keep abreast of developments within the subject area
and the developments in wider community that are sig-
nicant for the work at the university. A position as as-
sociate senior lecturer is intended to qualify the holder
for a teaching position with higher qualication require-
ments.
*Appointment Period:* The position can be held for a
maximum of four years. An associate senior lecturer
can apply for promotion to senior lecturer. If the asso-
ciate senior lecturer is deemed suitable and fullls the
criteria for promotion established by the Faculty Board
he/she shall be promoted to and employed as senior
lecturer.
*Qualications Required: *According to the Swedish
Higher Education Ordinance those qualied for ap-
pointment as associate senior lecturer are persons who
have obtained a doctoral degree or achieved the equiv-
alent competence no more than seven years prior to the
end of the application period.September 1, 2013 EvolDir 59
According to Uppsala Universitys appointments regula-
tions, teaching expertise is an eligibility requirement for
appointment as an associate senior lecturer. To obtain
teaching expertise, the applicant should have partici-
pated in teacher training for higher education of rel-
evance to operations at the University, comprising at
least ve weeks, or be considered to have acquired the
equivalent competence. If it has not been possible to
acquire this qualication prior to employment, qualify-
ing training for teachers in higher education shall be
completed during the rst two years of employment.
A general eligibility requirement is that the appli-
cant must possess the personal capabilities necessary
to carry out fully the duties of the appointment.
Documented ability to teach in Swedish and/or English
is a requirement unless special reasons prevail. The
holder is expected to be able to teach in Swedish within
two years.
*Assessment Criteria/Ranking Research Expertise and
Teaching Expertise:* The ranking of eligible applicants
will be based primarily on research and teaching ex-
pertise. Research expertise comprises research merits
as well as the applicants potential to contribute to the
future development of both research and teaching. In
assessing research expertise special weight will be at-
tached the applicants ability to use and develop new
technology within the area of molecular bioscience to
study fundamental biological questions.
As much attention shall be given to the assessment of
teaching expertise as to the assessment of research ex-
pertise. Teaching expertise comprises educational and
teaching qualications. In assessing teaching expertise
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UVirginia LabAssist
EvolGeneticsBehavior
LABORATORY AND RESEARCH SPECIALIST
The Brodie Laboratory in the Department of Biology
is seeking a Laboratory and Research Specialist I. This
position maintains insects and reptiles before, during
and after experiments, and breeds animals for stud-
ies. Incumbent performs DNA extraction, isolation andpreparation, PCR and sequencing reactions including
microsatellite analysis, BAC library screening. Incum-
bent is also responsible for data collection, entry, analy-
sis, and presentation, including analysis and transcrip-
tion of video records of behavior. Cleans and maintains
experimental equipment and cages and is responsible
for day-to-day administration of the laboratory includ-
ing: training and coordination of student personnel as-
sociated with animal care eorts, and purchasing and
receiving of laboratory supplies. Incumbent interacts
with and assists other laboratories with similar tech-
niques.
A Bachelor's degree in Biology or a related eld is
required. At least one year of work in a laboratory
setting, including experience handling and caring for
animals for behavioral studies and experience manag-
ing DNA analysis equipment and molecular techniques.
Experience as a student will be considered.
To apply, please complete an application on-line and
attach a cover letter, Resume/CV, and the contact in-
formation for three references through Jobs@UVA {
https://jobs.virginia.edu { search on posting number
0612620.
The University of Virginia is an armative ac-
tion/equal opportunity employer committed to diver-
sity, equity, and inclusiveness.
bbrodie@virginia.edu
UWisconsin-Milwaukee
Bioinformatics
Position: Assistant Researcher (Bioinformatics Special-
ist) Appointment: Academic Sta, Fixed Term Ap-
pointment, 100% time Anticipated Starting Date: Im-
mediately
The Great Lakes Genomics Center at the University of
Wisconsin-Milwaukee, School of Freshwater Sciences,
is seeking a highly qualied individual to assist in pro-
viding bioinformatics support for functional, compara-
tive, and environmental genomics projects. The Great
Lakes Genomics Center has been formed to develop ge-
nomic resources that will expand our ability to answer
key questions in freshwater sciences, such as the im-
pact of contaminants, the composition of bacterial com-
munities in freshwater systems, examination of popula-
tion changes of key freshwater organisms and identica-
tion of biomarkers for environmental studies. The indi-60 EvolDir September 1, 2013
vidual hired will manage bioinformatics resources per-
taining to multiple on-going, multi-disciplinary projects
including development of project-specic bioinformat-
ics (computational and database) tools in conjunction
with faculty, students, and academic sta; training and
technical support for bioinformatics software; analy-
sis of genomic and sequence data; oversight of compu-
tational and informatics resources including software
and hardware; liaise with sta at the UWM com-
puting cluster facility. Analysis will include analyz-
ing genomic data including de novo assemblies of non-
model species, multiple sequence alignment with next-
gen high-throughput sequencing data, management of
large datasets, gene and protein prediction, neural net-
work analysis, and analysis of microarray data. Expe-
rience in programming with Perl, BioPerl or other pro-
gramming related to sequence analysis, statistical pack-
ages (such as R or MATLAB), familiarity with UNIX
environments and computing clusters desired. The As-
sistant Researcher position is a 12-month, 100% xed
term Academic Sta appointment. This position may
be renewable on an annual basis. Salary will be within
Academic Sta salary Range and will be commensurate
with experience.
Applicants must apply online by visiting https://-
jobs.uwm.edu/postings/15304. All applicants must
submit a cover letter outlining qualications and inter-
ests, along with a resume that includes names of three
references that can speak to the applicants abilities,
and contact information for all three references. Any
questions can be directed to Dr. Rebecca Klaper, Di-
rector of the UWM Great Lakes Genomics Center at
rklaper@uwm.edu.
Review of applications will begin on August 12, 2013
and will continue until the position is lled.
Rebecca D Klaper <rklaper@uwm.edu >
UWyoming EvolutionaryBiologist
The Biodiversity Institute, a division of the Haub
School of Environment and Natural Resources, and the
Departments of Botany and Zoology and Physiology
at the University of Wyoming seek to hire one evolu-
tionary biologist and one population ecologist whose
research programs are strongly aligned with conserva-
tion biology and biodiversity issues. The primary ap-
pointment for the population ecologist will be in the
Department of Zoology and Physiology and the evolu-tionary biologist will be in the Department of Botany;
neither position is restricted taxonomically. The scien-
tists will contribute to the academic missions of their
departments, the interdepartmental Ph.D. program in
Ecology, and the applied mission of the Biodiversity
Institute.
>Learn more at http://www.uwyo.edu/biodiversity/-
hiring.html .
Evolutionary Biologist
We seek an individual with a Ph.D. and a demonstrated
track record of excellence in applied and conceptual
aspects of genetics and evolution. The position will
be a joint appointment between the Biodiversity Insti-
tute and the Department of Botany (www.uwyo.edu/-
botany).
Population Ecologist
We seek an individual with a Ph.D. and expertise in in-
tegrating quantitative population ecology with applied
issues related to conservation or biodiversity. The po-
sition will be a joint appointment between the Biodi-
versity Institute and the Department of Zoology and
Physiology (www.uwyo.edu/zoology).
Application information
Review of applications will begin September 9, 2013
and continue until suitable candidates are found. Fur-
ther information, including a list of required applica-
tion materials, is available on the Biodiversity Institute
website (www.uwyo.edu/biodiversity).
The University's policy has been, and will continue to
be, one of nondiscrimination, oering equal opportu-
nity to all employees and applicants for employment on
the basis of their demonstrated ability and competence
without regard to such matters as race, sex, gender,
color, religion, national origin, disability, age, veteran
status, sexual orientation, genetic information, politi-
cal belief, or other status protected by state and federal
statutes or University Regulations.
The University of Wyoming is committed to providing
a safe and productive learning and living community.
To achieve that goal, we conduct background inves-
tigations for all nal candidates being considered for
employment. Background checks may include, but are
not limited to, criminal history, national sex oender
search, employment and motor vehicle history. Oers
of employment are contingent upon the completion of
the background check.
Brenna.Marsicek@uwyo.eduSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 61
Valdivia Chile Evolution
Assistant (or Associate) Professorship in Ecology and
Evolution (Valdivia, Chile).
The Faculty of Sciences, University Austral of Chile
(www.uach.cl), is announcing an open tenure-track
position in Ecology and evolution. The position
is located at the Institute of Environmental Sci-
ences and Evolution, and is based in Valdivia,
Region de Los Rios ( http://www.ciencias.uach.cl/-
instituto/ciencias ambientales evolutivas/index.php;
http://www.ecolevol.cl).
Duties: The duties of the assistant (or Associate, de-
pending on CV) professor will include research, teach-
ing and supervision of theses and dissertations, as well
as involvement in administrative tasks. The main fo-
cus of research is expected to be relevant to the special
eld of the candidate. The professor is expected to lead
projects in the elds of ecology and/or evolution, par-
ticularly in those areas where the use of molecular tools
is essential (e.g. genetics, molecular ecology, conserva-
tion, etc).
Qualications: The University will recruit talented,
motivated academics that since obtaining the PhD de-
gree gained additional academic and other relevant
qualications and merit in their eld. The successful
applicant will be employed as assistant or associate pro-
fessor depending on the CV. The use of molecular tools
as part of the past, ongoing and future research is es-
sential.
Applications must be accompanied by the following
English-language documents:
(i) Doctoral degree
(ii) CV and list of publications as pdf
(iii) 2 reference letters
(iv) Motivation letter
The closing date for applications is October 15, 2013.
The professor is expected to start working on January
2, 2014. Applications have to be send by postal mail to
\Direcci on de Personal, Concurso N ^Ao18, Universidad
Austral de Chile, Independencia 641, Valdivia, Chile".
Further information about the position may be ob-
tained from the Head of the Department of Bio-
sciences Mauricio Soto (mrsoto@uach.cl; msotogam-boa@gmail.com). In addition to postal mail, applica-
tions might also be sent to Mauricio Soto via email.
Leonardo D Bacigalupe
Instituto de Ciencias Ambientales y Evolutivas Facul-
tad de Ciencias Universidad Austral de Chile Campus
Isla Teja s/n Valdivia Chile
Leonardo Bacigalupe <lbacigal@gmail.com >
WesternWashingtonU
EvolutionaryGenetics
Assistant Professorship in Genetics About the Position:
The Biology Department at Western Washington Uni-
versity invites applications for a tenure-track, assistant
professor position in GENETICS, beginning September
16, 2014. We seek an individual who is committed to
undergraduate and MS student education and who will
establish a vigorous research program that involves stu-
dents. Our department is committed to increasing the
quantitative skill set of biology majors and emphasizing
quantitative approaches to biological research. Success-
ful applicants for this position will demonstrate a strong
quantitative approach in a genetics research program.
They will also clearly articulate how they can translate
their enthusiasm for quantitative work into a rigorous
statistics course and how they can contribute to a ge-
netics course reecting contemporary problems in ge-
netics. The Biology Department is committed to the
University's strategic goal of recruiting and retaining a
diverse faculty and welcomes applications from diverse
candidates.
About the Department: Biology
Position Responsibilities: - Teach our core course in
Genetics (Biol 321) - Teach the introductory statistics
course for majors (Biol 340, Biometrics) - Teach one
course in our introductory biology sequence - Teach
a 400-level course in area of expertise - Establish an
active research program - Mentor undergraduate and
graduate (Master's) students' research projects - Seek
extramural funding for research program
^ aRequired Qualications: - Ph.D. in biological sciences,
mathematics or related eld - Postdoctoral experience
in genetics using quantitative or statistical approaches
including, but not limited to, modeling or ^ a bioinfor-
matics - Evidence of the potential to teach Biol 321
(Genetics) - Evidence of the potential to teach Biol 340
(Biometrics) - Evidence of the potential to contribute62 EvolDir September 1, 2013
to our 400-level curriculum - Evidence of eective schol-
arship in genetics - Evidence of the potential to estab-
lish a research program in area of expertise that in-
cludes mentoring undergraduate and ^ agraduate (Mas-
ter's) students ^ a
Preferred Qualications: - Evidence of potential to
teach Biol 432 (our capstone course in evolution) - Evi-
dence of potential to teach Biol 324 (molecular biology
laboratory course) - Demonstrated ability to work with
a diverse student body - Ability to collaborate eec-
tively with students and colleagues
Academic Emphasis: Genetics^ a
Job Location: Western Washington University, Belling-
ham, WA^ a
Salary: Commensurate with experience and qualica-
tions^ a
Bargaining Union: United Faculty of Western Wash-
ington^ a
Application Instructions and Requested Documents:
Interested candidates must apply online. Note: You
will need to use Internet Explorer to utilize the on-
line application system. For application information
and instructions, go to the WWU Employment website
http://www.wwu.edu/jobs . Attach a cover letter ad-
dressing the required and preferred qualications, cur-
riculum vitae, a statement of teaching philosophy and
interests, and a detailed statement of research plans.
Arrange for three (3) recommendation letters to be sent
to: MaryAnn.Merrill@wwu.edu
Or to:^ aGeneticist Search Committee^ aDepartment of
Biology, MS-9160^ aWestern Washington University^ a516
High Street Bellingham, WA 98225-9160
Other Information: Follow Western Employment on
Facebook and WWUEmployment on Twitter Job
Posted: 8/12/2013
Closing Date Notes: Application review (including at-
tached materials and letters of recommendation) begins
October 21, 2013; position is open until lled
Recruitment #: 130397
Western Washington University (WWU) is an equal op-
portunity and armative action employer committed
to assembling a diverse, broadly trained faculty and
sta. Women, minorities, people with disabilities and
veterans are strongly encouraged to apply. In com-
pliance with applicable laws and in furtherance of its
commitment to fostering an environment that welcomes
and embraces diversity, WWU does not discriminate on
the basis of race, color, creed, religion, national origin,
sex, disability, age, veteran status, sexual orientation,gender identity or expression, marital status or genetic
information in its programs or activities, including em-
ployment, admissions, and educational programs. See
WWU's Policy on Providing Equal Opportunity and
Nondiscrimination. EO/AA inquiries may be directed
to the Vice Provost for Equal Opportunity and Em-
ployment Diversity, Title IX Coordinator, Equal Op-
portunity Oce, Western Washington University, Old
Main 345 (MS 9021), 516 High Street, Bellingham, WA
98225; 360.650.3307 (voice) or 711 (Washington Relay);
EOO.
WWU is committed to providing reasonable accommo-
dations to qualied individuals with disabilities upon
request. To request this document in
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
XTBG China MolecularEvol
LabManager
The Ecological Evolution group at the Chinese
Academy Of Sciences, Xishuangbanna Tropical Botan-
ical Garden (XTBG), Yunnan invites applications for a
laboratory manager position. We are looking for a bilin-
gual individual, with strong command of written and
spoken English and Chinese, with at least a MSc degree
and laboratory experience. Experience in Molecular Bi-
ology and/or Bioinformatics would be preferred, but
training can be provided if necessary. The lab manager
duties include: 1) the daily management of a Molecu-
lar Ecology lab, including stock management, inventory
and ordering, 2) assisting the PI and other lab mem-
bers with molecular experiments, including DNA/RNA
extractions, PCR, RT-PCR, qPCR, preparation of li-
braries for next-generation sequencing... 3) voucher in-
ventory and management, 4) assisting the PI with ad-
ministrative duties, 5) training new students and sta
in molecular techniques. Established in 2007 within
China's largest botanical garden, the Ecological Evo-
lution Group in the Xishuangbanna Tropical Botani-
cal Gardens aims to promote research on biodiversity
and evolution of the Asian tropics within the Chinese
Academy of Sciences and internationally. We inte-
grate experience across a wide range of scientic ap-
proaches and techniques in Molecular Ecology, fromSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 63
phylogenetics to population genomics. For more in-
formation about XTBG and our research group, please
visit www.xtbg.ac.cn and www.ecologicalevolution.org
.Salary will be commensurate with the qualication and
experience of the candidate. The position is available
immediately. Candidates with a strong record of ac-
complishment should submit a CV, please include at
least one potential reference who could provide lettersof recommendation. Please send the application to Dr.
Yann Surget-Groba (yann <at>xtbg.org.cn). Informal
inquiries to the same address are welcome.
Yann Surget-Groba, P.I. Ecological Evolution Group
Key Laboratory of Tropical Forest Ecology Xishuang-
banna Tropical Botanical Garden Chinese Academy of
Sciences Menglun, Mengla, Yunnan 666303 China
yann@xtbg.org.cn
Other
ArticialSelection Simulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .63
ArticialSelection Simulation answers . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Code blog . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .64
Grant assessment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Hirsh book . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
LifeHistoryTheory mrLife . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Mito-nuclear conict explanations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
PhylogeneticsSymposium Recordings available . . . . .66
Reference request2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66Reference thanks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Request reference . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
SSB SymposiaProposals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Software DNA fragment analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
Software jMHCversion1 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
USNatlAcademySci ReviewAward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
Unanticipated reuse of papers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
ArticialSelection Simulation
Does anyone know of/has written an interactive
computer-based simulation demonstrating the mecha-
nism of articial selection, particularly with respect to
agriculture, suitable for a general audience? Thank you
in advance for your suggestions! Please email to: re-
becca.gray@zoo.ox.ac.uk.
Rebecca Gray <atlasrrg@gmail.com >
ArticialSelection Simulation
answersThank you for the suggestions to my question about
programs demonstrating articial selection. Several
people have asked me to share the responses I received.
Henry Schaer has written some programs:
http://www.cals.ncsu.edu/gn/ex/mit-eve.html -
With Full Genetic construction of each ospring <
http://www.cals.ncsu.edu/gn/ex/inbreed.html >-
With Emphasis on the pattern of heterozygosity
over generations <http://www.cals.ncsu.edu/gn/ex/-
inbreedc.html >
and also one for full sib lines Inbreeding - Full Sib Lines
<http://www.cals.ncsu.edu/gn/ex/inbfs.html >
Another recommendation was the Populus software de-
veloped by Don Alstad and colleagues at the University
of Minnesota particularly suitable for Biology Under-
grads or have background in Biology.
Also suggested was net logo.
Rebecca Gray <atlasrrg@gmail.com >64 EvolDir September 1, 2013
Code blog
Share your code on the Molecular Ecologist blog
Almost everyone has written a useful script or other
piece of code to accomplish a task. Sharing these more
widely would save the rest of the community from re-
peating the eort.
To help get all this code into the public
sphere, the Molecular Ecologist blog (http://-
www.molecularecologist.com/) is starting a new series
of posts: anyone can send in a piece describing their
code, and well put it up on the blog. The code itself
will be placed on our GitHub page for easier access.
Submissions can be sent to molecularecolo-
gist@gmail.com and viewed at https://github.com/-
TheMolecularEcologist . More detailed in-
formation can be found on the blog itself:
http://www.molecularecologist.com/2013/08/-
want-to-share-your-code/ Kimberly Gilbert
<kgilbert@zoology.ubc.ca >
Grant assessment
I'm interested in doing some research on the assess-
ment of grants and how these assessments are used in
deciding whether a grant be funded. To this end I'm
looking for details of grant schemes in which numerical
or quasi-numerical scores (e.g. very good, good...etc)
are given by reviewers of the grant. If people could
send me (a.c.eyre-walker@sussex.ac.uk) details of any
such schemes I would be very grateful.
Adam Eyre-Walker Professor of Biology School of Life
Sciences University of Sussex Brighton BN1 9QG
tel : 01273 678480
www.lifesci.sussex.ac.uk/home/Adam Eyre-Walker/-
Website/Welcome.html a.c.eyre-walker@sussex.ac.ukHirsh book
When Aaron Hirsh, a biologist and writer, leads twelve
college students to a remote shing village on the Sea
of Cortez, they come upon a bay of dazzling beauty
and richness. But as the group pursues various threads
of investigation ecological and evolutionary studies, the
stories of villagers, the journals of conquistadors they
recognize that the bay, spectacular and pristine though
it seems, is but a ghost of what it once was.
It is a painful realization, but the travelers' experiences
also reveal a way forward. After weathering a great
hurricane and facing a rare whale that follows in its
wake, they realize that the bay's best chance of recov-
ery may in fact reside in our own human stories, which
can reweave a compelling memory of the place. But the
most surprising discovery is that those tales lead also to
other frontiers with which we've unwittingly lost touch.
Hirsh's voice resounds with depth and compassionate
humanity. This is science writing of the very rst or-
der, transcending the genre to become literature.
Aaron Hirsh thinks like a scientist and writes like a
poet. Telling Our Way to the Sea is a captivating,
deeply illuminating exploration of the sumptuous natu-
ral world we have, and of its origins in the many worlds
we've lost. A moving and important and utterly be-
guiling book. William Souder, author of On a Farther
Shore: The Life and Legacy of Rachel Carson
A book as rich and intricate as the oceanic world it
evokes, Telling Our Way to the Sea is hard to pigeon-
hole but easy to savor. Using the dramatic backdrop of
the Sea of Cortez fertile waters rimmed by brutal desert
Hirsh plumbs marine biology, evolutionary change, eco-
logical memory, the history of science, and much more
to explore the past and possible future of this fecund
ecosystem. One of the most thoughtful books on na-
ture, and our place in it, that I've read in years. Scott
Weidensaul, author of Living on the Wind and The
First Frontier
\Roberts and Co." <info@roberts-publishers.com >
\Roberts and Co." <info@roberts-publishers.com >September 1, 2013 EvolDir 65
LifeHistoryTheory mrLife
I am pleased to announce http://mrLife.org - a new
website on inevitable life history evolution
It is the site of Malthusian Relativity; that shows
how density dependent interactive competition selects
for evolution from self-replicating molecules over large-
bodied organisms with sexual reproduction to eusocial
colonies, including exponents of body mass allometries
and the eco-evolutionary dynamics of population cycles.
http://mrLife.org provides concepts, predictions and
evidence - together with free downloads of original work
since 1995.
Please enjoy the wonders of unfolding life
Lars Witting
Greenland Institute of Natural Resources
P. O. Box 570, 3900 Nuuk
Greenland
Email: lawi@natur.gl
Mito-nuclear conict explanations
Dear colleagues,
I've been working with the molecular systematics of a
group of octocoral genera. I did a tree of the mito-
chondrial gene mtMutS and one of the nuclear gene
28S rDNA. In general they are quite congruent EX-
CEPT for a couple of genera, let's call them A and B.
Each genera has two subclades each, A1, A2, B1, and
B2. The 28S (nuclear) tree recovers A and B as mono-
phyletic and as sister groups, which is consistent with
morphological data (i.e. taxonomy). The MutS (mito-
chondrial) however, recovers A and B as polyphyletic.
All support values of ML bootstrap and posterior prob-
ability are high in both markers.
Basically it looks like this:
28S rDNA & MORPHOLOGY
+||{+ A1jj+||+jjjjj +||{+ A2j|+jj
j+||{+ B1jjjj +||+jj+||{+ B2MutS
+||{+ A1jj+||+jjjjj +||{+ B1j|+jj
j+||{+ A2jjjj +||+jj+||{+ B2
(remember A1, A2, B1 and B2 are not species, but sub-
clades of species)
Trying to nd an explanation, I found that normally
is the other way around: mitochondrial data is mono-
phyletic and nuclear data isn't, due to dierences in
inheritance and eective population size. Main expla-
nations of mito-nuclear conict are:
- Incomplete lineage sorting (ILS): Normally, one ex-
pects to have ILS in the nucleus, because it evolves
more slowly (the opposite of what I have). I think bal-
ancing selection would be needed to maintain it in the
mitochondria. But pair-wise Ka/Ks of all sequences of
A and B are all less than 0.01, so one would expect
negative selection.
- Homoplasy: Although mitochondrial markers are
more prone to homoplasy than nuclear genes, it seems
somewhat unlikely to me since these taxa diverge
very recently and plotting numbers of transitions and
transversions vs genetic distance give very straight
lines.
- Undetected paralogs: I have no frame-shifts nor stop
codons. Also, I don't think there is any evidence of
the mtMutS gene being somehow moved to the nucleus
or something like this, for example. Also, a number
of gains and losses would be necessary to recover the
exact same topology, so it looks like a rather forced
explanation.
- Hybridization: I think this could work. Maybe some
events of hybridization happened during the early di-
vergence of A and B. Mitochondrial genome introgress
faster, it seems. Still, it would require maybe more than
one event and it's also a complex scenario.
Obviously there are always problems in using only one
locus per genome but since the 28S is consistent with
morphology I think we could argue that it reects the
species tree. What it's happening with the mtMutS
then?
Any other ideas? Also, how do you think I could tack-
led each explanation?
Thanks a lot!!
Sandra Ament
seelament@gmail.com66 EvolDir September 1, 2013
PhylogeneticsSymposium
Recordings available
Recordings from the Third Annual Spring Symposium,
Genome-scale Phylogenetics, hosted by NMNH's Fron-
tiers in Phylogenetics Program are now available on
iTunesU for free.
You can access the recordings using this link:
https://itunes.apple.com/us/itunes-u/frontiers-in-
phylogenetics/id677376797?mt=10 ^A Frontiers in
Phylogenetics 3rd Annual Spring Symposium Baird
Auditorium, National Museum of Natural History
Washington, DC, May 20 & 21, 2013
Symposium 9:45-10:30 My Students Could Do My The-
sis in Five Minutes; How to Cope with the Next Gen-
eration Rob DeSalle, Sackler Institute of Comparative
Genomics, AMNH
10:30-11:00 Using Whole Genomes to Resolve the Avian
Tree of Life Erich Jarvis, Duke University Medical Cen-
ter
11:00-11:30 Break
11:30-12:00 Molecular Phylogenies, Genomics and the
Bacterial Species Concept Margaret Riley, University
of Massachusetts Amherst
12:00-12:30 Phylotranscriptomics to Bring the Under-
studied Ostracoda into the Fold Todd Oakley, Univer-
sity of California Santa Barbara
12:30-14:00 Lunch Break
14:00-14:30 Evolution via the Grape Vine - Insights
from Transcriptome Sequence Data Jun Wen, Depart-
ment of Botany, NMNH
14:30-15:00 Genome-scale Phylogenetics of Rapid
Adaptive Radiation: RAD Sequence Data Illuminates
the History of Lake Victoria Cichlids Catherine Wag-
ner, Eawag, Swiss Federal Institute for Aquatic Science
and Technology
15:00-15:30 Break
15:30-16:00 Shotgun in the Dark or a Rie in the Day-
light? The Case for Using Single Copy Orthologous
Gene Capture in Phylogenetics Gavin Naylor, Hollings
Marine Lab, College of Charleston and Medical Univer-
sity of South Carolina
16:00-16:30 Achieving Phylogenomic Nirvana: Ultra-conserved Elements (UCEs) Capture History at the
Species, Population, and Individual Levels Brant Fair-
cloth, Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biol-
ogy, University of California, Los Angeles
\Kingston, Sarah" <KINGSTONS@si.edu >
Reference request2
Hi, all:
Trying this again - my rst attempt generated gibber-
ish - apologies for giving you something worthless that
required tossing. I am not sure what went wrong - what
I sent was not what went out - so I'm hoping the same
thing doesn't happen this time. If it does, I promise
to give up - and my second set of apologies in advance,
just in case.
The reference I'm hoping someone out there has a .pdf
copy of:
Alexander, R. D. 1961. Aggressiveness, territoriality,
and sexual behavior in eld crickets (Orthoptera: Gryl-
lidae). Behaviour, 17: 130-223.
My institution doesn't have access to this journal.
Thanks in advance.
Paul Mack
Paul Mack, Ph.D Associate Professor of Biology De-
partment of Sciences and Mathematics Mississippi Uni-
versity for Women 1100 College Street, MUW-100
Columbus, MS 39701 662-329-4987
pmack@as.muw.edu
Reference thanks
Dear evoldir:
Many thanks to all who responded to my request for
this paper! The response was indeed impressive - 20
.pdfs sent so far with several other indirect oers of
help.
Thanks so much!
Cheers, Paul MackSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 67
Paul Mack, Ph.D Associate Professor of Biology De-
partment of Sciences and Mathematics Mississippi Uni-
versity for Women 1100 College Street, MUW-100
Columbus, MS 39701 662-329-4987 dfdf \I do not feel
obliged to believe that the same God who has endowed
us with sense, reason and intellect has intended for us
to forego their use." - Galileo
pmack@as.muw.edu
Request reference
Hi, all:
By any chance, does anyone have a .pdf of the R. D.
Alexander reference below?
Alexander, R. D. 1961. Aggressiveness, territoriality,
and sexual behavior in eld crickets (Orthoptera: Gryl-
lidae). Behaviour 17: 130-223.
My institution doesn't have access to this journal.
Thanks in advance.
Paul Mack
Paul Mack, Ph.D Associate Professor of Biology De-
partment of Sciences and Mathematics Mississippi Uni-
versity for Women 1100 College Street, MUW-100
Columbus, MS 39701 662-329-4987 dfdf \I do not feel
obliged to believe that the same God who has endowed
us with sense, reason and intellect has intended for us
to forego their use." - Galileo
pmack@as.muw.edu
SSB SymposiaProposals
The Society of Systematic Biologists invites proposals
for symposia at the 2014 Evolution meeting, to be held
June 20-24, in Raleigh, North Carolina, USA. Propos-
als should include a tentative list of speakers, as well
as a short ( ~1 paragraph) description of the subject
and importance of the proposed Symposium. Funds to
defer the cost of travel are available for speakers. All
proposals, as well as any questions, should be directed
to the SSB Program Chair Bryan Carstens <carstens
dot 12 at osu dot edu >. Proposals are due by October1, 2013 and will be voted on by the SSB Council shortly
thereafter.
Bryan C. Carstens Department of Evolution, Ecology,
& Organismal Biology The Ohio State University 318
W. 12th Avenue Columbus, OH 43210-1293
web: http://carstenslab.org.ohio-state.edu/ web:
https://sites.google.com/site/bryanccarstens/ skype:
bryan carstens oce: 614.292.6587 cell: 734.474.8527
\Carstens, Bryan C." <carstens.12@osu.edu >
Software DNA fragment analysis
Dear colleagues,
I'm searching for an alternative program to Applied
Biosystem's GeneMapper software for the analysis of
DNA fragment results (microsatellites, SNPs, AFLPs)
from Applied Biosystem's 3500 Genetic Analyzer. Ap-
plied Biosystem does have a freely available program
called Peak Scanner that will do the task required. Un-
fortunately, while this program is compatible with les
generated by most Applied Biosystem sequencing plat-
forms, it is not compatible with those from Applied
Biosystem's 3500 Genetic Analyzer.
I'd like to receive recommendations or researchers' opin-
ions/experiences on programs that they may have used
that are capable of analyzing DNA fragment results
from Applied Biosystem's 3500 Genetic Analyzer.
Cheers, Paul
Paul Bloor Instituto de Gen etica Universidad Na-
cional de Colombia C odigo Postal 111321 Bogot a D.C
- COLOMBIA Tel.: +57-1-3165000 Ext. 11614 Fax.:
+57-1-3165526
pbloor@gmail.com
Software jMHCversion1 5
Dear colleagues,
We are happy to announce the NEW public release of
jMHC 1.5
Update release includes:68 EvolDir September 1, 2013
* great speed-up of imports, exports and output pro-
cessing. * changes in graphical interface, now GUI is
more user friendly * some bug-xes
jMHC is user friendly graphical interface software for
genotyping of multilocus gene families using next gen-
eration amplicon sequencing.
jMHC is written in Java and runs on Microsoft Win-
dows, GNU/Linux OS and Mac OS. Current version:
binaries, source code, sample data and user manual are
available athttp://code.google.com/p/jmhc/. Program
is published under the terms of the GNU General Pub-
lic License v3.
Best wishes,
Michal Stuglik
Michal Stuglik, PhD student Institute of Environ-
mental Sciences Molecular and Behavioral Ecology
Group Jagiellonian University Gronostajowa 7 30-
387 Krakow, Poland www: http://www.eko.uj.edu.pl/-
molecol/michal.stuglik michal.stuglik@gmail.com
USNatlAcademySci ReviewAward
Here is an award nomination announcement that seems
to me tting for the EvolDir:
The U.S. National Academy of Sciences invites nomina-
tions for its 2014 award for Scientic Reviewing, in the
area of \Human Bio-social Interactions." { the inter-
face between aspects of biology (genetics, physiology,
evolution etc.) and human sociality. The award is for
synthetic reviews (one or more articles, books, mono-
graphs) that have been inuential in a eld. They can
be from any date(s) and the nominee from anyplace in
the world. The deadline in September 30. More infor-
mation at:
http://www.nasonline.org/about-nas/awards/-
scientic-reviewing.html Mary Jane West-
Eberhard Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute
mjwe@sent.com phone/fax +506 2228-0001 AIRMAIL
and courier: c/o Escuela de Biologia frente a Agrono-
mia Ciudad Universitaria Universidad de Costa RicaCosta Rica
Mary Jane West-Eberhard <mjwe@sent.com >
Unanticipated reuse of papers
Dear Colleagues,
I've recently discovered that some commercial publish-
ers are re-editing articles from open-access journals and
publishing them as multi-author books, without the au-
thors' knowledge (example here). Although most au-
thors I've spoken with nd this objectionable it's quite
legal, since open-access articles are usually published
under Creative Commons attribution-only (CC-BY) li-
censes.
Before pressing for any changes I'd like to get a broad
survey of researchers' opinions on this, so I've prepared
a short (3 question) survey. Here's the link: http://-
www.surveymonkey.com/s/5SFQSG2 . Please feel free
to pass this survey link on to other researchers or sci-
entic email lists.
Thanks,
Rosie
p.s. If you'd like more information I've also
discussed this issue on my blog: http://-
rrresearch.eldofscience.com/2013/07/apple-
academic-press-predatory.html; http://-
rrresearch.eldofscience.com/2013/07/informing-
authors-of-real-consequences.html; http://-
rrresearch.eldofscience.com/2013/08/how-
many-for-prot-publishers-are.html; http://-
rrresearch.eldofscience.com/2013/08/who-edits-
books-for-apple-academic-press.html . Dr. Rosemary
J. Redeld redeld@interchange.ubc.ca
Professor, Dept. of Zoology Univ. of British Columbia
Rm. 2551 Life Sciences Centre, Vancouver, B.C. V6T
1Z3 Canada Oce: (604) 822-3744 Lab: (604) 822-6323
Cell: (778) 960-4950 Fax: (604) 822-2416
Web site: http://www.zoology.ubc.ca/ ~ redeld
Research blog: http://rrresearch.blogspot.com red-
eld@zoology.ubc.caSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 69
PostDocs
AlbertEinstein StatGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
BostonU BatMHC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
Cincinnati ComputationalGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
ColumbiaU PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
CzechRepublic ComputationalEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . 71
FCRM RepulicCongo EvolutionTropicalDisease . . . .71
FredHutchinson VirusEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
FrenchGuiana EvolutionaryModeling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
GothenburgU EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .73
LiberEro CanadianConservationScience . . . . . . . . . . . .74
MaxPlanckInst Rostock EvolutionAging . . . . . . . . . . . 75
McGill PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
McGillU Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
MichiganStateU NitrogenaseGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . .77
MonashU SharkEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
Montpellier PopulationGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
NatlUSingapore ButteryEvolutionaryGenomics . . .78
NewYorkU EvolutionaryGenomicist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
NorthCarolinaStateU MaizePopulationGenetics . . . .79
OhioStateU ComparativePhylogeographics . . . . . . . . 79
OhioStateU MicrobialGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Paris DrosophilaEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .80
PurdueU EvolutionBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
SUNY Bualo EvolutionaryAnthropologicalGenomics
82
SantaFeInst EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82
StonyBrook NY TetrapodDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83Sydney PlantTraitEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
TaiwanU EvolutionFish . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
TempleU PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .85
TexasAMU MolPopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .85
UBath EvolutionaryQuantitativeGenetics 2 . . . . . . . .86
UBergen FishEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
UBern EAWAG Switzerland CichlidSpeciation . . . . .86
UCalifornia SanFrancisco StatPopGenetics . . . . . . . . 87
UFSCar UBath EvolutionaryQuantGenet . . . . . . . . . 88
UFlorida PhylogeneticsSystematics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
UFlorida systems . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
UHull 2 PhylogeneticComparativeAnalyses . . . . . . . . 89
ULausanne EvolutionDrosophilaMicrobiome . . . . . . . 90
UMinnesota EvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .90
UMontpellier CancerEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91
UOregon EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .91
UTexas Austin PlantBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
UYork HeliconiusEvolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
UZurich EvolutionaryBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .93
UZurich SocialEvolution ComparativeApproach . . . 93
UZurich UGrenoble EcoEvoModelingClimateChange
94
VanderbiltU EvolutionofPregnancy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
YaleU EcoEvolutionaryDynamics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .95
YorkU EvolGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
AlbertEinstein StatGenetics
A postdoctoral position is available in the laboratory
of Dr. Adam Auton, in the Department of Genetics at
Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York, USA
(http://autonlab.einstein.yu.edu/). Research goals of
the lab are to use statistical methods in conjunction
with high-throughput DNA sequencing to understand
patterns of genetic diversity, and to quantify how these
patterns vary across individuals. We are interested in
a variety of problems, including investigation of the in-
uence of mutation, recombination, and natural selec-
tion. Much of our current work is focused on humans
and other mammals, but we are potentially interested
in other organisms.We welcome candidates with a demonstrated inter-
est in genetics and evolution, with a background in
Population and Statistical Genetics, Bioinformatics,
Computer Science, or related disciplines. Strong pro-
gramming skills are essential. Experience with high-
throughput sequencing data and/or experimental tech-
niques would be an advantage. Salary will be based
on the NIH scale. Please email a CV including
list of publications and names of two references to
adam.auton@einstein.yu.edu. Informal inquiries are
also welcome.
The Albert Einstein College of Medicine is a leading
medical research institution located in a residential area
of the Bronx, NY, and is a short commute from Man-
hattan. The Auton Lab is part of the Computational
Genetics Division, situated in the Michael F. Price Cen-
ter for Genetic and Translational Medicine.70 EvolDir September 1, 2013
adam.auton@gmail.com
BostonU BatMHC
White-nose Syndrome and Immune System Genes in
Little Brown Bats
I am seeking a postdoctoral researcher to work on
molecular genetic/genomic analyses of immune system
genes in little brown bats (Myotis lucifugus). East-
ern populations of this species have been devastated by
white-nose syndrome (WNS), an invasive fungal disease
caused by Geomyces destructans. The project will in-
clude a comparison of genetic diversity in immune sys-
tem genes in pre- and post-exposure populations as well
as the opportunity to develop additional research ideas.
Candidates with an interest in immunogenetics, ex-
perience in vertebrate eld biology, population genet-
ics, molecular genetics/genomics (incl. fragment li-
brary preparation for high throughput DNA sequenc-
ing), and/or bioinformatics are particularly encouraged
to apply. The postdoc will join an active laboratory
that includes other ongoing research on bats and WNS
as well as population genomic studies of birds. The
position is available immediately; start date is nego-
tiable, but preference will be given to candidates who
are available sooner rather than later.
Please contact Michael Sorenson (msoren@bu.edu) di-
rectly for more information. If you are interested in
applying, please send a CV, statement of interests, and
contact information for three references.
Michael Sorenson Professor and Chair Department of
Biology Boston University 5 Cummington Mall Boston,
MA 02215
(617) 353-6983 FAX: (617) 353-6340
msoren@bu.edu
Cincinnati ComputationalGenetics
An up to three-year postdoctoral position is available
immediately for a computational biologist in the evo-
lutionary genetics lab at Cincinnati Children?s Hospi-
tal Medical Center. We are looking for a candidate towork at the interface of comparative genomic data with
quantitative and developmental genetics; aiming at de-
veloping approaches that incorporate insights from de-
velopmental structure and its evolution into genomic
analyses.
The overall research topic of the lab is the evolution of
pleiotropic eects, and the context- dependency of ge-
netic eects; we strive to connect population-genetic
phenomena to their mechanistic bases. The specic
questions that postdoctoral researcher will be involved
in focus on exploring the genetic basis of birth timing
and the genetic basis of divergence of vertebrate limbs.
Quantitative and computing skills are essential for the
position, understanding of molecular biology is advan-
tageous. The ability for team work across disciplines as
well as independence in research are necessary skills.
Enquiries may be directed to Dr Mihaela Pavlicev
via email: mihaela.pavlicev@cchmc.org (Skype or tele-
phone conversation can be arranged)
Please send the applications consisting of CV, publica-
tion list and a letter of interest, to the following email:
mihaela.pavlicev@cchmc.org
Cincinnati Children's hospital oers an outstanding
academic environment, with an explicit commitment to
basic research.
mihaelap@ulrik.uio.no
ColumbiaU PopulationGenetics
POSTDOC IN POPULATION GENETICS,
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
A postdoctoral position is available in Molly Prze-
worski's group at Columbia University.
Research in the group focuses on understanding recom-
bination in humans and other species, and on mod-
eling and detecting the footprints of natural selection
in genetic variation data. For more information, see
http://przeworski.uchicago.edu/wordpress/ The spe-
cic postdoctoral project will be focused on the analysis
of recombination patterns in birds. Applicants for the
position must have a strong background in bioinformat-
ics, including experience with genomic data analysis, as
well a sincere interest in the genetics and evolution of
non-model organisms. Programming skills in R and
Perl/Python are essential.September 1, 2013 EvolDir 71
The lab is located in the Biology department on the
main (Morningside Heights) campus of Columbia Uni-
versity, contiguous to groups run by Harmen Buss-
maker, Dana Pe'er and Guy Sella. It benets from close
ties with these groups as well as that of Itzik Peer, and
more generally from the stellar research communities at
Columbia and neighboring NY institutions.
Postdoctoral fellows at Columbia have access to nice,
subsidized housing within walking distance of campus.
Informal inquiries as well as applications (including
a CV, copies of relevant publications and two letters
of recommendation) should be emailed to Molly Prze-
worski at <molly.przew@gmail.com >. The start date
can be any time but no later than Jan 2014.
Molly Przeworski Dept. of Human Genetics Dept. of
Ecology and Evolution University of Chicago
As of fall 2013 Dept. of Biology Columbia University
molly.przew@gmail.com
CzechRepublic
ComputationalEvolution
Postdoc in computational inference for evolutionary
studies
A 22 month postdoc position is available at
the Studenec campus of the Institute of Verte-
brate Biology, Academy of Sciences of the Czech
Republic (http://www.ivb.cz/working-places-external-
research-facility-studenec.html) within the framework
of the EU funded project \Next-generation technolo-
gies in evolutionary genetics" to apply multilocus pop-
ulation genetics approaches to the analysis of genomic
data, in particular analysis of dense SNP data from ad-
mixture systems, inference over combined geographic
and genomic data from hybrid zones and introgression
analyses of natural species barriers.
The successful candidate will have wide interests and
a thirst for deep understanding. They will be intel-
lectually mature, quick to learn, but slow to rush to
hasty conclusions. They will have experience in sev-
eral of the following: algorithmics, population genetics,
probability, inference, high dimensional visualisation,
information theory, evolution, languages, the scientic
method. They will be interested in several more of these
topics. The postdoc academic advisors are trained in
computer science, population genetics, classical genet-ics and have long experience of inference in evolutionary
studies. The candidate's existing and proposed work
will be judged on its quality and utility to the scientic
community rather than gross number of publications.
Those hoping for large numbers of hasty publications
need not apply.
The Studenec campus is situated in woods beside a lake
in the Czech highlands, half an hour from Brno, the
second city of the Czech Republic. The region's rolling
hills and woods are popular with cyclists. The candi-
date will work in the joint oce and lab building re-
cently constructed with funding from Academy of Sci-
ences of the Czech Republic. The campus faculty are
heavily biased toward early-career researchers, with a
good gender balance at all levels, many young families
and shared cr eche/ childcare services. On campus work
discussion is in international English, though an initial
high level in English is not required for the postdoc,
only a willingness to learn. The position is well suited
to candidates who wish to broaden their experience and
skills in an area of evolutionary study that will always
be in demand, while at the same time maintaining a
healthy work/life balance.
Candidates should submit a short CV and letter of in-
terest to Stuart JE Baird (stuartj.e.baird@gmail.com)
and Josef Bryja (bryja@brno.cas.cz). These will be read
directly by the academic advisors and interviews will be
held until a suitable candidate is found.
The deadline for applications is 31st of August 2013,
the contract can start as early as September 2013.
Mgr. Olga Ruzickova Institute of Vertebrate Bi-
ology Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic
http://www.ivb.cz/sta-mgr-olga-ruzickova.html
http://provaz.ivb.cz/lide/6-oruzickova http://-
www.nextgen.ivb.cz/realizacni-tym.html Olga
RAA3
4iAkov a <olga.ruzickova@email.cz >
FCRM RepulicCongo
EvolutionTropicalDisease
Fondation Congolaise pour la Recherche M edicale
*(FCRM)*, Brazzaville, Republic of Congo, and Insti-
tute of Tropical Medicine, Tuebingen, Germany, jointly
seek to recruit an outstanding young group leader to
lead a molecular biology lab at FCRM, Brazzaville to
create a new research team in the eld of tropical dis-
eases. The person will work in closer cooperation with72 EvolDir September 1, 2013
the Director of FCRM Prof. Dr. Francine Ntoumi.
http://www.fcrm-congo.com/ http://-
www.cantam.org/ Applicants should have a PhD,
MD or equivalent degree in genetics/genomics, molec-
ular biology, microbiology, biochemistry, population
genetics, infectious diseases or equivalent. The ideal
candidate should have a vast experience with molecular
biology techniques, genomics, should have independent
trouble shooting capabilities and good management
skills and should be resourceful. The candidate should
be willing to travel to Europe to foster cooperation
with research laboratories.
The position is available as early as this autumn and is
oered initially for a two years with possibility of ex-
tension. The position oers an exceptional opportunity
for independent research in the molecular biology lab
with access to cutting-edge data. Salaries equivalent
to European standards are foreseen depending on can-
didates experience. Paid holidays for a month with a
return ticket is provided as additional perk.
Candidates with excellent track record are invited
to submit a single le including their CV, the com-
plete list of publications, a summary of scientic
achievements, and contact details for two referees to
Dr.Velavan at velavan@medizin.uni-tuebingen.de. Any
informal queries should be sent to Ms.Carine Kades at
kcaryel@yahoo.fr. Or info@fcrm-congo.com
We equally encourage women candidates and African
applicants for this vacancy. The deadline for applica-
tion is 30 September 2013. The review of applications
will begin immediately and will continue until the po-
sition is lled.
marcinekpatrick@googlemail.com
FredHutchinson VirusEvolution
FredHutchinson.ComputationalEvolutionAndImmunology
A new postdoctoral position is available in Trevor Bed-
ford's group at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research
Center located in Seattle, WA. Research will focus on
virus evolution and the immune responses elicited af-
ter infection. A primary goal is to characterize cross-
immunity patterns among circulating strains and to
build a genotype-to-phenotype mapping of viral se-
quence to antigenic phenotype. An accurate descrip-
tion of virus phenotype and cross-immunity would al-
low better targeting of vaccines to strains that elicitmore cross-protective immune responses.
Previously, Dr. Bedford has developed methods to
assess evolution in the human inuenza virus using
virus-to-serum binding assay data (hemagglutination
inhibition) and viral sequence data (http://arxiv.org/-
abs/1304.3637). Here, the data was modeled using a
Bayesian analog of multidimensional scaling and pa-
rameters estimated using Markov chain Monte Carlo
(MCMC). This project would extend this work to other
viral systems and other data sources. Similar cross-
immunity datasets are available through collaborators
at the Fred Hutchinson for dengue virus and HIV. Ad-
ditionally, this project seeks to extend methodology
to incorporate the eects of polyclonal sera and more
mechanistically include virus sequence as a predictor of
cross-immunity.
The ideal candidate has experience with high-
throughput biological data and a strong interest in com-
putational and statistical methods development. Can-
didates should also have programming experience in
at least one scripting language (e.g. R, Python, Perl)
and/or one compiled language (Java ideal) and a proven
track-record of peer reviewed publications. Candidates
with PhDs from diverse backgrounds are encouraged
to apply, including biology, mathematics, statistics,
physics and computer science.
The position is immediately available with exible
starting dates for a 2-year appointment with possibil-
ity of extension. Informal inquires are welcome. Ap-
plications will be accepted until the position is lled.
The Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center oers
competitive salaries commensurate with experience and
skills, complete with benets.
To apply please send (1) cover letter that includes the
names and contacts for three references and a short
statement of research interests, (2) a current CV and
(3) code samples or links to published/distributed code
to Trevor Bedford (tbedford@fhcrc.org).
Trevor Bedford Assistant Member Vaccine and In-
fectious Disease Division Computational Biology Pro-
gram Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center
http://www.trevorbedford.com \Bedford, Trevor"
<tbedford@fhcrc.org >
FrenchGuiana
EvolutionaryModelingSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 73
A post doctoral position is available at the Institute
National of Research in Agronomy, French Guiana -
Kourou in the framework of the ECOFOG Research
Unit (http://www.ecofog.gf/).
We are looking for an Ecologist or Atmospheric Scien-
tist (young or with experience) with strong expertise in
analyzing and interpreting eddy covariance data, strong
interests in evolutionary biology and community ecol-
ogy, and a solid background in the modeling of ecolog-
ical and/or evolutionary dynamics.
The researcher will (i) analyze inter- and intra-annual,
climate driven, variations in net ecosystem exchange
in CO2 and H2O at our undisturbed tropical rainfor-
est site in French Guiana, South America, (ii) quan-
tify seasonal and annual ecosystem carbon balance, (iii)
combine eddy covariance and biomass data to analyze
net productivity, and (iv) invest in modeling of carbon
uxes in tropical rainforest and in Forest / Savannah
transitions (eddyux data also available). He will also
take part to the management of the ux tower site.
Candidates should have a PhD and excellent written
skills as illustrated by their publication record. They
should be able to communicate in English but are
aware that French Guiana is a French speaking coun-
try. Salary will be adjusted for research work experi-
ence (starting from around 2600 net / month).
Deadline for application is September 30st, 2013. The
position is a 36-month xed-term contract, available
from October2013 - February 2014. To apply, send an
email with CV, list of publications, and motivation let-
ter to both Dr. Damien BONAL (bonal@nancy.inra.fr,
+33 3 83 39 73 43) and Eric MARCON (Head of Ecofog
Unit, eric.marcon@ecofog.gf).
Benoit Burban
Ecophysiologie foresti ere INRA Kourou - UMR Eco-
fog BP 709 - 97387 Kourou cedex Guyane Fran caise
(French Guiana)
tel : 05 94 32 92 71 (+594 594 32 92 71) fax
: 05 94 32 43 02 port : 06 94 24 93 59 m el :
benoit.burban@ecofog.gf web site : http://ecofog.gf
Guyaux web site : http://guyaux.ecofog.gf Beno ~At
Burban <Benoit.Burban@ecofog.gf >
GothenburgU EvolutionaryBiol
Where: University of Gothenburg, SwedenWhat: Postdoc in Evolutionary Biology
Gothenburg University is one of the larger European
Universities with more than 38,000 students and 6,000
sta. The education and research are broad and of high
quality and the competition strong for positions. Post-
doctoral Fellowship in Evolutionary Biology, specialis-
ing in oxidative biology and its role in animal signalling
Duration of employment: Two years (with possible ex-
tension)
Form of employment: 100 %, Full time
Placing of position: The Department of Biology and
Environmental Sciences, Gothenburg, Sweden
Start of employment: 2014-01-01 (or per negotiation,
as soon as possible)
The department of biology and environmental sciences
(Bioenv) was formed in 2012 and is a fusion of the pre-
vious departments Marine Ecology, Botany and Envi-
ronmental Sciences, and Zoology. Our research and
education activities are wide-ranging, covering multi-
ple ecosystems and organisational levels, from genes to
populations, and from proximate mechanisms to ulti-
mate causation (evolution). Bioenv is situated in four
main places in Gothenburg, and have two marine re-
search stations. The current position will be placed on
Medicinareberget (the former Zoology department) in
central Gothenburg, with components of eld work just
south of Gothenburg and internationally, depending on
model system under study.
Subject area Evolutionary Ecology
Project description This is a highly interdisciplinary
project made up of three main components, (i) telomere
biology, (ii) free radical interference with cell biology,
and (iii) animal communication (evolution of colour sig-
nals). Telomeres are chromosomal DNA-protein caps
with several functions, such as dierentiating chromo-
somal ends from repair-requiring DNA breaks and pro-
tecting the coding nucleotides from erosion when cells
divide. Their length and rate of attrition (shortening)
show wide variation among taxa, tissue, sex and de-
gree of senescence. One chemical group of moderators
of telomere length by attrition is free radicals. Under-
standing the underlying genetic principles of the evo-
lution of ROS generation and depletion is crucial for
evaluating alternative hypotheses for the evolution of
senescence. This is perhaps no better demonstrated
than in the work by Masashi Tanaka, who reported the
remarkable phenomenon that two thirds of Japanese
people that lived to be a hundred years old shared the
same single nucleotide change in the genetic code for a
subunit of complex I in the respiratory transport chain74 EvolDir September 1, 2013
compared to 45 per cent for the rest of the population.
Thus, this genotype alone makes you 50 per cent more
likely to live to a hundred. Furthermore, you are only
half as likely to end up in hospital, for any reason at all ,
in the second half of your life, and you are also likely to
suer less from any age-related disease. The underlying
reason for these extraordinary results is likely to be that
people carrying these mutations have a tiny reduction
in the rate of free-radical leakage from the respiratory
transport chain. At any given moment, this advantage
may be next to imperceptible. Over a lifetime, however,
the cumulative benets of a reduced attack rate, on
e.g. mitochondrial DNA, of aggressive molecules leak-
ing from the thousands of respiratory transport chains
in each mitochondrion will reduce the risk of cancer and
other disease and be evolutionarily signicant. Telom-
eres and reactive oxygen species (ROS), per se and in
combination, thus have tremendous impact on the or-
ganism, perhaps more than any other combination of
characters, with profound and prolonged tness conse-
quences. It would be remarkable if their impact went
undetected by selection from a perspective of animal
communication, where genetic and phenotypic health
and vigor is a prime aspect of broadcasting and per-
ception; indeed our work has shown that ROS and
telomeres are linked to such traits. This project tar-
gets questions in this area in two species of lizards, the
Swedish sand lizard (Lacerta agilis) and the Australian
painted dragon lizard (Ctenophorus pictus). Previous
work forms a foundation and most methods are already
tested and in place.
Postdoctoral duties The fellow is to integrate the three
areas of telomere -, free radical and signalling biology in
an evolutionary context. In particular, we are looking
for a person with a strong biochemical and molecular bi-
ology background that can complement our evolution-
ary ecology skills, with long and deep laboratory expe-
rience, working with a range of assays and techniques
(e.g., estimation of levels of reactive oxygen species, in-
nate antioxidants, and telomere length, using methods
such as a variety of kit assays, ow cytometry, qPCR
and telomere restriction fragment analysis). In addi-
tion, the fellow will be encouraged to partake in eld
work in Sweden and Australia.
Eligibility criteria Eligibility criteria are outlined in the
university regulation
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlLiberEro
CanadianConservationScience
Dear Colleagues,
We are delighted to announce the second call for post-
doctoral applications for the Liber Ero Fellowship Pro-
gram. With funding from Canadian donors, the newly
formed Liber Ero Fellowship Program supports excep-
tional post-doctoral fellows who address pressing con-
servation challenges of relevance to Canada. The Pro-
gram aims to develop the next generation of conserva-
tion scientists, trained in the latest methods and in the
skills necessary to aect policy and improve conserva-
tion of Canada's wild places and natural resources.
The Liber Ero Fellowship is open to candidates from
any country whose research furthers conservation goals
within Canada. Fellows must be hosted at a Canadian
institution, with mentorship teams drawing from ex-
pertise in non-governmental organizations, government,
and universities. Applications are now being accepted,
with a deadline of November 1, 2013. See http://-
liberero.ca/ for more details.
We are also pleased to announce the 2013 cohort of
fellows:
- Anja Carlsson. Monitoring and managing the eects
of industrial development on disease and stress in cari-
bou and moose - Christina Davy. Combining novel
genetic methods for conservation and management of
Canadian bats - Brett Favaro. Evidence-based solu-
tions for reducing the impacts of commercial shing on
bycatch and benthic habitat in the Canadian arctic -
Kevin Fraser. Tracking migration and declines of song-
bird populations: Conservation of a declining aerial in-
sectivore, the Purple Martin.
To read more about their projects, please see http://-
liberero.ca/meet-the-fellows/ . Sincerely, Sally Otto
|{
Bonjour,
Nous avons le plaisir d'annoncer le deuxi eme appel  a
candidatures du programme postdoctoral Liber Ero.
Gr~Ace  a de g en ereux donateurs canadiens, le nouveau
programme Liber Ero soutient des postdoctorantes
et postdoctorants exceptionnels qui d esirent relever
d'importants d es de conservation de la nature au
Canada. Le programme vise  a former la prochaine
g en eration de scientiques en conservation de la na-
ture aux plus r ecentes m ethodes et  a leur donnerSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 75
les comp etences n ecessaires pour inuencer les poli-
tiques de gestion des ressources naturelles et des lieux
sauvages du Canada, et am eliorer la conservation de ces
derniers.
Le programme Liber Ero est ouvert aux scientiques
de tous les pays qui d esirent travailler  a promouvoir les
objectifs de conservation du Canada. Les chercheurs
post-doctorants devront Auvrer au sein d'une organi-
sation (universit e, organisme) canadienne, et recevoir
le support d'une  equipe de mentorat dont les membres
proviennent d'organisations non gouvernementales, du
gouvernement, ou d'universit es.
Les candidatures sont accept ees d es maintenant et
jusqu'au 1er novembre 2013 (date limite). Consultez
http://liberero.ca/fr pour plus de d etails. Nous vous
invitons  a faire circuler cette information aupr es de can-
didates et candidats  eventuels.
Nous sommes  egalement heureux d'annoncer les sta-
giaires nanc es en 2013:
- Anja Carlsson. Monitoring and managing the eects
of industrial development on disease and stress in cari-
bou and moose - Christina Davy. Combining novel
genetic methods for conservation and management of
Canadian bats - Brett Favaro. Evidence-based solu-
tions for reducing the impacts of commercial shing on
bycatch and benthic habitat in the Canadian arctic -
Kevin Fraser. Tracking migration and declines of song-
bird populations: Conservation of a declining aerial in-
sectivore, the Purple Martin.
Pour en savoir plus sur leurs projets, consultez la page
suivante: http://liberero.ca/meet-the-fellows/ . Cor-
dialement, Sally Otto
Dr. Sarah (Sally) Otto, FRSC Director, Biodiver-
sity Research Centre Director, Liber Ero Fellowship
Program Department of Zoology University of British
Columbia 6270 University Blvd. Vancouver, Canada
V6T 1Z4 otto@zoology.ubc.ca 604 822 2778 (work) 604
822 2416 (fax)
Sarah Otto <otto@zoology.ubc.ca >
MaxPlanckInst Rostock
EvolutionAging
Dear all,
The MaxNetAging Research School (MNARS) is seek-
ing applications for Doctoral and Postdoctoral Fellow-ships to start in February 2014. MNARS is an interna-
tional graduate program launched by the Max Planck
International Research Network on Aging (MaxNetAg-
ing).
Traditionally the focus of the MNARS Fellowships has
been on human aging, but we wish to encourage ap-
plications from candidates interested in studying de-
mography and aging across a broader taxonomic range
including non-human animals and plants. We are par-
ticularly interested in candidates wishing to undertake
studies on the evolution of aging across large clades us-
ing matrix modeling and comparative phylogenetic ap-
proaches. See http://tinyurl.com/compadre3 for brief
details of some of our data.
Candidates interested in these particular areas will
work both with researchers at the Max Planck Insti-
tute for Demographic Research (MPIDR) in Rostock,
and with us [Dr. Owen Jones (Max-Planck Center on
the Biodemography of Aging, Odense, Denmark) and
Dr. Roberto Salguero-Gomez (University of Queens-
land, Australia)].
Each fellow enrolled in the MNARS will be aliated
with a participating Max Planck Institute, in our case
this will be the MPIDR in Rostock, Germany. During
the rst six months of the MNARS all doctoral and
postdoctoral fellows will study together in Rostock.
Please visit www.maxnetaging.mpg.de for more infor-
mation on the program and the other participating Max
Planck Institutes.
Applications should include:
- a CV, - a statement about the level of the job you
are seeking (as doctoral or postdoctoral student) and
why you are interested in working in the MaxNetAging
Research School, details of qualications, including in-
formation about honors, awards, or evaluations of your
educational degrees (e.g., \cum laude"), - a list of pub-
lications, if any, - names and addresses of 2 people we
can contact about you, and, - for postdoctoral fellows
a brief outline about your research agenda in the up-
coming two years.
Applicants should also indicate the Max Planck Insti-
tute they wish to be aliated with (in this case, the
MPIDR in Rostock, Germany).
The Max Planck Society wishes to increase the share
of women in areas where they are underrepresented,
and strongly encourages women to apply. The Max
Planck Society is committed to employing more hand-
icapped individuals and especially encourages them to
apply. Applications should be addressed to the MaxNe-
tAging Director Prof. James W. Vaupel and sent by76 EvolDir September 1, 2013
e-mail at the latest by September 6, 2013 to appl-
mnars@demogr.mpg.de.
E-mail inquiries concerning the application process and
other aspects of MNARS should also be sent to appl-
mnars@demogr.mpg.de.
Informal enquiries can be made with Owen Jones
(jones@biology.sdu.dk) or Roberto Salguero-Gomez
(r.salguero@uq.edu.au)
Best wishes, Owen Jones and Roberto Salguero-Gomez
\Aliud iter ad prosperitatem nos est: id est omnibus
rebus vincere"
Rob Salguero-G omez, PhD Postdoctoral Fellow at
the University of Queensland Research Fellow of the
Max Planck Society http://doodle.com/meetRob E:
r.salguero AT uq.edu.au or salguero AT demogr.mpg.de
A: School of Biological Sciences. Centre for Biodi-
versity and Conservation Science. Goddard Building
(#8), oce 263. The University of Queensland. St Lu-
cia, QLD 4072, Australia T: +61 7 3365 1376 jW:
sites.google.com/site/RobResearchSite Skype: rober-
tosalguerogomez Twitter: @drobcito
Roberto Salguero-Gomez <r.salguero@uq.edu.au >
McGill PopulationGenetics
Job title: Postdoctoral position in statistical and pop-
ulation genetics
A new postdoctoral position in statistical and popu-
lation genetics is available in Simon Gravel's group at
McGill University in Montreal, Canada. The group fo-
cuses on population genetics methods to understand
human evolution and demography, and on the analy-
sis of high-throughput genomic data. The postdoctoral
researcher will be involved in conceptual methods devel-
opment, implementation, and applications to cutting-
edge data.
The ideal candidate has experience with high-
throughput biological data or population genetics and
a strong interest in quantitative biology and methods
development. Programming experience in at least one
scripting language (e.g., perl, R, python) and/or one
compiled language is preferred. We welcome appli-
cations from qualied candidates from diverse back-
grounds, including biology, anthropology, mathematics,
physics, computer science, and related elds.The position oers an exceptional opportunity for inde-
pendent research in a quantitative and theoretical lab
with access to cutting-edge data. The McGill Human
Genetics department and the McGill and Genome Que-
bec Innovation Centre, together with numerous nearby
institutes in Montreal, provide a thriving academic en-
vironment.
Applications and queries should be sent to simon.gravel
at mcgill.ca, and the subject line should include the job
title. Please include a research statement and a CV,
one of which should address programming experience{
code samples or links to published/distributed code are
welcome. Contact information for three references is re-
quired. Review of applications will begin immediately
and will continue until the position is lled.
Simon Gravel,
Assistant Professor
McGill University and G enome Qu ebec Innovation
Center
Dept of Human Genetics, McGill University
Simon Gravel McGill University and G enome Qu ebec
Innovation Center Dept of Human Genetics, McGill
University 740 Dr. Peneld - Room 7206 514-398-4400
#0753
simon.gravel@mcgill.ca
McGillU Bioinformatics
Postdoctoral Fellow Position in Bioinformatics; Biology
Department, McGill University, Canada
We invite applicants for a two-year postdoctoral posi-
tion in Bioinformatics and Environmental Genomics at
McGill University, Biology Department.
The position is funded by the Canadian Aquatic In-
vasive Species Network (CAISN). The CAISN net-
work oers ample opportunities for interactions with
researchers across Canada. The Biology Department
at McGill oers a highly collaborative environment and
excellent ecological-genomics facilities.
The Postdoctoral Fellow will be involved in developing
early detection tools and will use pyrosequencing of en-
vironmental samples collected from key port areas and
ballast water of arriving vessels to identify the comple-
ment of aquatic invasive species as well as the native
species present along the Canadian Coasts. See ourSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 77
web pages at http://www.caisn.ca/; for a description
of CAISN related research projects.
Experience with next gen sequencing or sequence data
and related bioinformatic/ computational/ program-
ming skills is strongly desired. Familiarity with one or
more of the following would be an advantage: genomics,
phylogenetic analysis, selection, genome evolution. Ex-
perience working with aquatic invertebrates is an asset.
The candidate should have a strong publication record
and the ability to work well in a collaborative research
environment.
The position is for one year, but can be renewed for a
second year and can begin as early as January 2014. In-
terested applicants should send their CV, a brief state-
ment of research interest,
For more information and inquiries about the po-
sition please contact Melania Cristescu at mela-
nia.cristescu@mcgill.ca
Melania Cristescu <melania.cristescu@mcgill.ca >
MichiganStateU
NitrogenaseGenomics
Nitrogen is one of the most limiting nutrients in ter-
restrial ecosystems. A new joint project between
the Friesen lab at Michigan State University and the
Rutherford & Buck labs at Imperial College London
seeks to isolate and characterize microbes with novel bi-
ological nitrogen-xation capabilities. A talented and
collaborative individual is sought to join the Friesen
lab as a postdoc to contribute to this project. Desired
skills include microbiology, biochemistry, and genet-
ics/genomics. The position will be located at MSU in
East Lansing, MI, with opportunities to participate in
eld collections and collaborative stays in London. The
successful candidate will be encouraged to develop inde-
pendent lines of research and will benet from an egal-
itarian and highly interactive lab environment. Start
date is exible. Please send CV and ~1-page statement
of research interests to mfriesen@msu.edu
I will be attending the ESA meeting next week{please
drop me a line if you'd like to meet in person.
Maren L. Friesen Assistant Professor, Dept. Plant
Biology Michigan State University 612 Wilson Rd,
East Lansing, MI USA 48824-6481 phone: +1 (323)
454-3023jjoce: +1 (517) 844-6947 jjfax: +1
(517) 353-1926 http://friesen.plantbiology.msu.edu/maren.l.friesen@gmail.com
MonashU SharkEvolution
A post doctoral fellowship is available in the lab-
oratory of Peter Currie at the Australian Regener-
ative Medicine Institute at Monash University Mel-
bourne Australia to study the developmental biology
and evolution of sharks and chimeras. The Currie
group focuses on the development and evolution of
skeletal muscle (http://www.armi.org.au/Research1/-
Research Groups/Currie Group.aspx) and the success-
ful applicant will undertake research to understand how
dierent muscle populations have evolved in the verte-
brate lineage using the shark and chimera embryos that
are available for study in the laboratory. The Aus-
tralian Regenerative Medicine Institute has recently
completed the construction of a state of the art ma-
rine facility, which will hold a brood stock of dierent
shark species, which are utilised to provide embryonic
material for year round study. The successful applicant
will have a strong track record in developmental biol-
ogy and demonstrate an excellent grasp of evolutionary
concepts. A key feature of the position is a willing-
ness to develop and invent protocols for studying shark
and chimeria embryology. The successful applicant will
possess a strong work ethic and ability to work inde-
pendently. Interested applicants are asked to send a
cover Letter outlining their reason for interest in the
position, a full CV and the names and contact details
of three referees to peter.currie@monash.edu. *Appli-
cations close 31/8/2013*.
{ Professor Peter D. Currie NHMRC Principal Re-
search Fellow. Head, EMBL Australia Melbourne
Node. Deputy Director, Australian Regenerative
Medicine Institute. Level 1, Building 75 Monash Uni-
versity, Wellington Road Clayton VIC 3800 Australia
Tel +61 3 99029602 fax +61 3 99029729
Peter Currie <peter.currie@monash.edu >
Montpellier PopulationGenomics
A two-year Post-doctoral position in population ge-
nomics is available immediately.78 EvolDir September 1, 2013
This is a joint project between the Institut des Sci-
ences de l'Evolution in Montpellier, France (http:/-
/www.isem.univ-montp2.fr/, Pierre Boursot), and
the CIBIO in Porto, Portugal (http://cibio.up.pt/-
cibio.php, Jos e Melo-Ferreira and Paulo C. Alves),
jointly funded by the French ANR and the Portuguese
FCT. The candidate will be based and paid in France.
The project is centered on two biological models, house
mice and hares. In both cases it aims at reconstructing
the histories of recent divergence and secondary admix-
ture between dierentiated taxa, and to have a genomic
approach of various questions such as the evolution of
genetic incompatibilities, the inuence of selection and
genetic conicts on divergence and introgression.
The candidate will participate in the analysis of high-
throughput genomic sequence data collected on popu-
lation samples of the dierent species and subspecies
of the two taxa, in situations of hybridization and in-
trogression. In particular, the post-doc will develop
approaches to test on both biological models historical
and geographic scenarios of dierentiation and admix-
ture, and identify outlier genomic regions with discor-
dant histories, using or instance Approximate Bayesian
Computation methods.
The candidate should have established skills in one or
several of the following areas: bioinformatics for ge-
nomics, theoretical population genetics, statistics for
population genomics.
Please send inquiries to <Pierre.Boursot@univ-
montp2.fr >
To apply send CV, letter of motivation and coordinates
of a minimum of two references to the same address.
Deadline for application: Sept. 29, 2013.
{
Dr. Pierre BOURSOT Institut des Sciences de
l'Evolution (UM2-CNRS UMR5554, IRD UMR226)
Universite Montpellier 2 Case Courrier 063 Place Eu-
gene Bataillon 34095 Montpellier cedex 5 FRANCE
tel: +33 (0)4 67 14 46 86 Email: Pierre.Boursot@univ-
montp2.fr
Pierre Boursot <Pierre.Boursot@univ-montp2.fr >
NatlUSingapore
ButteryEvolutionaryGenomicsButtery Evolutionary Genomics
A 3-year postdoctoral position is open in the lab of
Ant onia Monteiro in the Department of Biological Sci-
ences, National University of Singapore, to study the
genetic basis of eyespot number variation in nymphalid
butteries. Nymphalid butteries display tremendous
diversity in eyespot number but the genetic basis of
this variation in currently unknown. The lab model
Bicyclus anynana displays variation in eyespot number
across individuals and mutant strains. This project will
involve performing a comparative RNA-Seq experiment
at multiple times during development, with mutant and
wt strains diering in eyespot number, to identify eye-
spot network genes and downstream targets of the mu-
tation. In addition, this project will complement on-
going investigations aimed at identifying genomic loci
causing eyespot number variation in this species using
RAD-Tag approaches.
The postdoctoral candidate will be part of an interna-
tional team of researchers who are involved in dierent
aspects of this research project, including Hopi Hoek-
stra (Harvard), Riccardo Papa (Puerto Rico), Jerey
Townsend (Yale), and Bethany Wasik (Yale).
Postdoctoral candidates with interest in evo-devo, with
strong quantitative skills, and with experience in one
or more of the following areas will be given preference:
next generation sequencing, genomics, bioinformatics,
molecular biology, and developmental biology. Salary
will be commensurate with experience. Preferred start
date is between Oct 2013 and before the end of 2013.
For further information please contact Ant onia Mon-
teiro at antonia.monteiro@nus.edu.sg
Lab page:
http://viburnum.peabody.yale.edu/~monteiro/ Refer-
ences:
1. Monteiro A (2008) Alternative models for the evolu-
tion of eyespots and of serial homology on lepidopteran
wings. BioEssays 30: 358-366.
2. Monteiro A, Chen B, Ramos DM, Oliver JC, Tong
X, et al. (2013) Distal- less regulates eyespot patterns
and melanization in Bicyclus butteries. J Exp Zool
part B 320: 321-331.
3. Monteiro A, Chen B, Scott L, Vedder L, Prijs JH, et
al. (2007) The combined eect of two mutations that
alter serially homologous color pattern elements on the
fore and hindwings of a buttery. BMC Dev Biol 8: 22.
4. Monteiro A, Prijs J, Bax M, Hakkaart T, Brakeeld
PM (2003) Mutants highlight the modular control of
buttery eyespot patterns. Evol Dev 5: 180-187.
5. Oliver JC, Tong X, Gall LF, Piel WH, Monteiro ASeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 79
(2012) A single origin for nymphalid buttery eyespots
followed by widespread loss of associated gene expres-
sion. PLoS Genet 8(8):e1002893.
Ant onia Monteiro <antonia.monteiro@yale.edu >
NewYorkU EvolutionaryGenomicist
POSITION FOR A POSTDOCTORAL EVOLUTION-
ARY GENOMICIST AT NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
A postdoctoral position is available for a highly mo-
tivated evolutionary genomicist with strong computa-
tional biology skills at the Center for Genomics and
Systems Biology at New York University. The position
is part of an NIH-funded International Center of Excel-
lence in Malaria Research, and a collaborative project
between the laboratory of Program Director Jane Carl-
ton at NYU and the Broad Institute.
The postdoctoral fellow will drive the evolution-
ary/phylogeographic exploration of data from Illumina
sequencing of several hundred malaria parasite genomes
collected from around the globe and sequenced at the
Broad Institute. Strong computational abilities to ma-
nipulate large datasets an asset but not as essential as
expertise in population genomics theory and analytical
approaches to studying genome evolution of microbes.
Applicants should have: (1) A detailed knowlege of next
generation sequence data analysis. (2) Prociency in
evolutionary genomics methods and interpretation. (3)
An ability to work with an interdisciplinary team. (4)
Good spoken and written English.
Interested parties should email a CV and names of
three references to Lab Manager Becca Susko at
rs3357@nyu.edu, with Carlton Lab Evolutionary Ge-
nomics Position in the subject line. Applications re-
ceived before Sept 1 2013 will receive full consideration.
The position is available immediately.
The Carlton lab (http://cgsb.as.nyu.edu/object/-
JaneCarlton.html) is located in historic Greenwich Vil-
lage in downtown Manhattan, New York City. NYU is
one of the worlds leading research universities and the
Center for Genomics and Systems Biology is housed
in a new, state-of-the-art facility. The Centers 14
faculty members study genomics and systems biology
across all kingdoms of life, supported by a genome se-
quencing facility. For more information on the Center,
see http://cgsb.as.nyu.edu/page/home . Jane Carlton
<carltj01@nyu.edu >NorthCarolinaStateU
MaizePopulationGenetics
A postdoctoral research associate position is immedi-
ately available at North Carolina State University in the
Crop Science Department. The researcher will conduct
research on maize population genetics. Maize landraces
representing the range of environments in the Americas
to which maize is adapted have been collected. Se-
quence variation in candidate adaptation genes will be
evaluated to test for geographic or ecological clines in
allele frequencies.
Requirements: A Ph.D. in population genetics, plant
genetics, plant evolutionary biology, or related eld.
Experience with DNA markers, sequencing, and genetic
data analysis. Knowledge of population genetics.
Interested persons can apply directly at jobs.ncsu.edu.
Search for position number 00101211.
For further information, contact:
Jim Holland Department of Crop Science North Car-
olina State University Raleigh, NC 27695-7620
919-513-4198
james holland@ncsu.edu
Jim Holland <james holland@ncsu.edu >
OhioStateU
ComparativePhylogeographics
***Post doc***
The Carstens lab at The Ohio State University is look-
ing for a post doctoral researcher who is interested
in phylogeographic data analysis in general and de-
veloping new approaches to the analysis of compara-
tive phylogeographic data in particular. Please see <
http://carstenslab.org.ohio-state.edu/ >and<https:/-
/sites.google.com/site/bryanccarstens/ >for general
information about the lab, and contact Bryan directly
if interested at <carstens dot 12 at osu dot edu >. The
position could start as early as 2014.80 EvolDir September 1, 2013
Bryan C. Carstens Department of Evolution, Ecology,
& Organismal Biology The Ohio State University 318
W. 12th Avenue Columbus, OH 43210-1293
web: http://carstenslab.org.ohio-state.edu/ web:
https://sites.google.com/site/bryanccarstens/ skype:
bryan carstens oce: 614.292.6587 cell: 734.474.8527
Bryan Carstens <bryan.c.carstens@gmail.com >
OhioStateU MicrobialGenomics
Postdoctoral Researcher position
Genomics and microbial ecology of detritovorous in-
sects
Qualications: PhD in microbiology, molecular biology,
biochemistry, evolutionary biology, population genetics
or equivalent. Experience with command-line bioinfor-
matics and genomics tools. Knowledge of Perl, Python,
Ruby, C and/or C++.
Project: Two year (w/ a possible third year) position
investigating the role of microbes in detritovorous insect
host physiology and trophic niche choice. Microbial
cultivation, genome sequencing, population dynamics
modeling and uorescence microscopy tools will be used
to address this area of interest.
Salary: $40K+ w/ benets (commiserate with experi-
ence).
Contact: Zakee L. Sabree, PhD (sabree.8@osu.edu) and
include \Postdoc2014" in the Subject Heading.
Please send CV/resume, three professional references
and one (co-)authored, published paper. A link to the
paper is ne.
Informal inquiries are welcome and applications will be
reviewed until the position is lled.
Zakee L. Sabree jAssistant Professor Department
of Evolution, Ecology and Organismal Biology The
Ohio State University https://u.osu.edu/sabreelab/
\Sabree, Zakee L." <sabree.8@osu.edu >
Paris DrosophilaEvolution
Dear all,Please nd below an announcement for a 3-year post-
doctoral position in my group.
With best regards,
Virginie
{ Virginie ORGOGOZO Institut Jacques Monod -
CNRS UMR7592 - Universit e Paris Diderot B^ atiment
Buon - 4e  etage - 444B 15 rue H el ene Brion 75205
Paris cedex 13 France tel : (33) 1 57 27 80 43 fax : (33)
1 57 27 80 87 www.virginie.orgogozo.org |{
Evolution of a New Stable Bristle Phenotype in
Drosophila
A 3-year postdoctoral position is available to work on
the evolution and stabilization of a recently-evolved
phenotype in Drosophila. The successful candidate will
join the team \Evolution of Drosophila", which is led
by Virginie Orgogozo and funded by an ERC Starting
Grant, at the Institut Jacques Monod in Paris.
Most of the visible characteristics of an organism form
during development in a very precise and reproducible
manner, despite the noise at the molecular level. Such
phenotypic robustness against developmental noise or
external perturbations can be seen by comparing the
right and left side of bilateral animals or by comparing
dierent organisms with the same genotype. For exam-
ple, insects display left and right wings of the same size,
and this is clearly important for ight. This project ad-
dresses an important yet overlooked question, which is
how do we go from one stable phenotype to another
new stable phenotype during evolution? Is the derived
phenotype rst unstable and then get stabilized due to
new mutations? Or does it directly evolve as a stable
trait? What are the genes that stabilize newly-evolved
phenotypes? So far we have no answer to these impor-
tant questions. Previous genetic studies of phenotypic
robustness have focused on traits that do not evolve
between species and have shown that there are genetic
mechanisms that can stabilize a phenotype. However,
the genetic basis for the evolution of new stable pheno-
types is unknown. The postdoc will work on a simple
and promising model system, the evolutionary loss of
two genital bristles in Drosophila santomea, and resort
to all the available resources and techniques to fully un-
derstand how this new phenotype evolved. Given their
position, these bristles must be important for reproduc-
tion and should thus be relevant for evolution.
Approaches: - developmental biology: comparison of
bristle development in D. santomea, D. yakuba and D.
melanogaster (antibody staining, confocal microscopy,
GFP transgenic D. santomea and D. yakuba ies, in
vivo microscopy) - behavioral biology: laser ablation of
bristles, examination of mating behavior and reproduc-September 1, 2013 EvolDir 81
tive success - quantitative genetics: construction and
analysis of introgression lines, high-resolution recom-
bination mapping using D. yakuba and D. santomea
visible markers, high-resolution genetic mapping using
D. melanogaster deciency lines and D. santomea/D.
melanogaster hybrids, whole genome analysis of mul-
tiple wild-type strains - classical genetics: analysis
of various D. melanogaster scute mutants, test of re-
porter constructs to identify the scute cis-regulatory
element(s) involved in the genital bristle loss in D. san-
tomea - eld work: collection of D. santomea and D.
yakuba ies in the natural hybrid zone in Africa.
The successful candidate should be highly motivated
and will develop his/her own experimental project.
Gross salary will be in accordance with French national
regulations for post-doctoral researchers (27.000-42.000
euros per year depending on experience). Candidates
should have a PhD in developmental biology or evolu-
tionary biology. Good experience with Drosophila or
another genetic model organism is required. Strong
background in developmental biology would be ideal.
Candidates of all nationalities can apply. Fluency in
French is not required, as our lab meetings are in En-
glish, but some knowledge of French would make life in
France easier.
Timeline The initial appointment will be for one year
and should begin around December 2013. Appli-
cation Deadline is 30 September 2013. To apply,
please email Virginie Orgogozo <orgogozo@ijm.univ-
paris-diderot.fr >and send: - your CV - a short mo-
tivation letter describing your research interests - the
name, phone number and e-mail address of at least two
references.
More details are available at: http://-
www.normalesup.org/ ~ vorgogoz/postdocERC1-
Orgogozo.html Virginie Orgogozo
<orgogozo@ijm.univ-paris-diderot.fr >
PurdueU EvolutionBiol
Purdue Post-doctoral Scholars in Natural Resources
Purdue University's Department of Forestry and Nat-
ural Resources seeks candidates for 1-2 postdoctoral
positions in natural resources science or management.
The department has a broad environmental scope with
nationally ranked doctoral programs, emphasizing in-
terdisciplinary approaches across a spectrum of re-
search areas including ecology, evolution, genetics, for-est biology, wildlife, sheries and aquatic sciences, and
human dimensions of natural resource management
(www.ag.purdue.edu/fnr). Departmental faculty mem-
bers actively participate in interdisciplinary initiatives
including the Center for the Environment, Purdue Wa-
ter Community, Purdue Interdisciplinary Center for
Ecological Sustainability, Hardwood Tree Improvement
and Regeneration Center, and Purdue Climate Change
Research Center.
Requirements for the position(s) include a Ph.D. in nat-
ural resources or related discipline, evidence of initia-
tive, independence, and productivity, and a commit-
ment to conservation of natural resources. The program
is open to U.S. and non-U.S. citizens.
Positions will be 2-year appointments at a salary of
$45,000, plus benets and a discretionary fund of
$5,000/year in addition to any research funds that are
provided by mentors.
Application Process: Before applying, interested indi-
viduals should contact prospective postdoctoral men-
tors in the department to discuss project ideas. A list of
faculty mentors is available at https://ag.purdue.edu/-
fnr/Pages/dirpostdocprgrm.aspx. Mentoring may be
sought from individual faculty or by faculty teams,
whichever is more appropriate to successfully conduct
the proposed work.
To apply to the Natural Resources Scholars program
candidates must submit a) names of one or more faculty
who have agreed to serve as mentors for the proposed
project, b) a curriculum vitae, c) a proposal describing
the work to be undertaken, d) two letters of reference,
and e) a 1-page statement of support from the proposed
mentor(s). Materials should be submitted as pdf les
via email to mmann@purdue.edu with the subject line
\Application: Postdoc Scholars in Natural Resources".
Letter writers should submit their recommendations di-
rectly using the email address above. The deadline for
receiving completed applications is 15 October 2013.
Applicants may propose projects that complement, ex-
tend, or synthesize existing eorts and interests of the
faculty. The proposal should identify the issue to be
addressed, summarize the current level of knowledge
as it relates to the issue, describe the objective(s) of
the proposed work, provide the study design and meth-
ods used to meet the objective(s), explain expected re-
sults and deliverables, and highlight their scientic and
broader signicance. The proposal is limited to a 300-
word summary page and three (3) single-spaced pages,
not including references, using one-inch margins and a
minimum 11 point standard font.
Applications will be judged on overall quality includ-82 EvolDir September 1, 2013
ing prior performance, support letters, and the scien-
tic and technical merit and feasibility of the proposal.
For additional information, please contact Rob Swihart,
Professor and Head (rswihart@purdue.edu).
Purdue University is an equal opportunity/equal ac-
cess/armative action employer fully committed to
achieving a diverse workforce.
Andrew DeWoody Purdue University West
Lafayette, IN 47907-1159 765-496-6109
http://www.gradschool.purdue.edu/pulse/-
faculty cascade.cfm?alias=3Ddewoody de-
woody@purdue.edu
SUNY Bualo EvolutionaryAnthro-
pologicalGenomics
Evolutionary and anthropological genomics postdoc-
toral position - University at Bualo, State University
of New York
The Gokcumen Lab (gokcumen.wordpress.com) cur-
rently focuses on studying the impact of genomic struc-
tural variation to human evolution. Genomic struc-
tural variants (SVs) involve dierences in copy num-
ber (i.e., deletions and duplications), orientation (i.e.,
inversions) or genomic location (i.e., translocations) of
large segments of DNA between individuals. We believe
that SVs represent a huge and unexplored area of evo-
lutionary genomics that is ripe for studies focusing on
their impact to human disease and biology. Within this
framework, we are currently working on several specic
questions:
(i) Investigating the mechanisms of SV formation and
their impact on primate genome evolution. (Represen-
tative paper: Gokcumen and Tischler et al. Primate
genome architecture linked with formation mechanisms
and functional consequences of structural variation.
(2) Identifying and scrutinizing gene duplications that
contribute to species-specic phenotypes.
(3) Explaining the evolutionary processes that main-
tain variation in contemporary human populations and
their impact on human health
********
Our laboratory has both wet and dry lab compo-
nents. The successful candidates will have a chance
to work with large genomic datasets involving multi-
ple primate species, as well as utilize state-of-the-artDNA/RNA quantication technologies, such as digital
PCR, Nanostring, etc. We have ongoing collaborations
with researchers from anthropology, population genet-
ics, evolutionary and molecular biology, cancer genetics
and virology.
********
The candidate should have a Ph.D. (or MD) prefer-
ably in population/human/anthropological genet-
ics/genomics or computational biology/bioinformatics.
Experience in handling large datasets (e.g., experience
in handling next-gen sequencing data), programming
and scripting (e.g., PERL, R) and familiarity with
UNIX/LINUX operating environment is a major plus.
*********
If you are interested, please contact Omer (Gokcumen)
- omergokc@bualo.eduwith a CV, names of three refer-
ences and a brief cover letter outlining research interests
and career goals.
Applications will be accepted until the position is lled.
gokcumen@gmail.com
SantaFeInst EvolutionaryBiology
Santa Fe Institute Omidyar Postdoctoral Fellow
The Omidyar Fellowship at the Santa Fe Institute oers
you:
- transdisciplinary collaboration with leading re-
searchers worldwide - up to three years in residence
in Santa Fe, New Mexico - discretionary research and
collaboration funds - competitive salary and gener-
ous benets - a structured leadership training pro-
gram - unparalleled intellectual freedom Apply online
www.santafe.edu/ofellowship
We will accept applications for the 2014 Cohort begin-
ning 12 August and ending 25 October 2013. We will
conduct candidate interviews in late January 2014 in
Santa Fe, NM.
The Omidyar Fellowship at the Santa Fe Institute is
unique among postdoctoral appointments. The Insti-
tute has no formal programs or departments. Research
is collaborative and spans the physical, natural, and
social sciences. Most research is theoretical and/or
computational in nature, although some research in-
cludes an empirical component. SFI averages 10 res-
ident faculty, 100 external faculty, and 250 visitorsSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 83
per year. SFI's research themes and interests of its
faculty and current fellows can be found at http://-
www.santafe.edu/research . As thought leaders who
shape the future of science, Omidyar Fellows partici-
pate in a provocative training program structured to de-
velop leadership skills throughout their three-year resi-
dencies and beyond. The program focuses on sustained
mentoring relationships with SFI resident and exter-
nal faculty, skill development workshops, o-campus
research and teaching experiences, and the variety of
scholarly leadership and science management opportu-
nities at SFI.
Requirements:
- a Ph.D. in any discipline (or expected Ph.D. by
September 2014) - strong computational and quanti-
tative skills - an exemplary academic record - a proven
ability to work both independently and collaboratively
- a demonstrated interest in multidisciplinary research
- evidence of the ability to think outside traditional
paradigms Applications are welcome from:
- candidates from any country - candidates from any
discipline - women and members of underrepresented
groups are encouraged to apply SFI is an Equal Op-
portunity Employer.
Application Materials:
Interested candidates must submit the following:
Curriculum vitae (including publications list). State-
ment of research interests (max. 2 pages) including a
short description of the research you would like to pur-
sue and why.
Description of interest in SFI (max. 1 page) that de-
scribes your potential contribution to the SFI com-
munity and also explains the potential impact of SFI
on your research. Consider addressing one or more of
the following: What kind of input from other elds
would most improve your future research? What type
of multidisciplinary workshop might you want to or-
ganize during your Fellowship? What aspects of your
present or future research are dicult to pursue in a
traditional academic environment?
Three letters of recommendation from scholars who
know your work. (The letters should be sent indepen-
dent of the application. When you complete the online
application, please be prepared to provide e-mail ad-
dresses of the three individuals who will recommend
you. SFI will contact them directly with instructions
for submitting letters.)
(Optional) A copy of one paper you have written in
English, either published or unpublished.
Inquiries: email to ofellowshipinfo@santafe.eduHilary Skolnik <hilary@santafe.edu >
StonyBrook NY TetrapodDiversity
See description here: http://-
natureserve.iapplicants.com/ViewJob-483521.html
Location: Stony Brook, NY Review of applications
begins Tuesday, 2 September 2013.
Description: This postdoctoral position will support a
novel, global analysis of the genetic, taxonomic, and
functional diversity of tetrapods. The project will ex-
amine what ecological and evolutionary factors inu-
ence the relationships among the three dimensions of
biodiversity (trait, taxonomic and phylogenetic), and
use extinction risk data to predict impending changes
in these relationships. These analyses have both im-
portant theoretical and practical implications. Com-
parison of dierent dimensions will allow us to better
determine processes underlying global patterns of di-
versity; the degree to which the dimensions covary will
determine the eciency possible in their conservation.
Our PI institutions comprise four universities and Na-
tureServe, the latter of which provides a channel for in-
corporation of results into conservation decisions. The
project is described further at http://www.nsf.gov/-
news/news summ.jsp?cntn id=122098 Specically, the
postdoc will be responsible for developing novel appli-
cations using the data, varied data analyses of both
spatial and tabular data, often involving extensive
lists of species from throughout the Americas. This
work may include measuring compositional diversity
by developing species distribution models from speci-
men point localities and remotely sensed environmen-
tal data, and mapping dissimilarity. Another aspect
is measuring trait diversity using categorical metrics of
place, food, time, and metabolic niches. The work may
also include disseminated data via existing, open ac-
cess databases. Finally, the postdoc will take the lead
in writing manuscripts.
The position will be located administratively within the
Science Division of NatureServe, reporting to the head
of Species Science. Physically, the position will be lo-
cated full time at the Department of Ecology and Evo-
lution at Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY,
under the guidance of Dr. Catherine Graham (http:/-
/life.bio.sunysb.edu/ee/grahamlab).
Duties: The tasks, duties, and responsibilities of the po-
sition are as follows: a) Perform statistical and spatial84 EvolDir September 1, 2013
analyses of large distribution and trait data sets. b)
Collaborate and interact with multidisciplinary team
of senior scientists and students to carry out the objec-
tives of the project. c) Write manuscripts describing
the results of the research.
The essential job functions listed above are not meant
to be all-inclusive and may be subject to change at any
time.
Qualications: REQUIRED EXPERIENCE AND
QUALIFICATIONS: The successful candidate will
have the following experience and qualications: a)
Ph.D. in Ecology, Environmental Biology, or related
eld. b) Strong R and statistical skills c) Experience
with GIS/RS and spatial analyses. d) Proven record of
senior-authored papers, preferably in high-impact jour-
nals. e) Ability to collaborate and share data eectively
on a multi-institutional project. f) Permission to work
in the United States.
PREFERRED EXPERIENCE AND QUALIFICA-
TIONS: a) Prociency in remote sensing. b) Interest in
being exposed to a fast-paced conservation non-prot.
c) Experience with cross-disciplinary research. d) Ad-
vanced statistical or mathematical modeling. e) Ex-
perience with large biodiversity databases. f) Experi-
ence with Bayesian analyses. g) Experience with con-
servation planning. h) Ability to communicate in Span-
ish and/or Portuguese. i) Experience coordinating or
working with undergraduate assistants.
ESSENTIAL PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS a) Abil-
ity to travel independently within the U.S. and overseas
to attend meetings and workshops with partners and
others. b) Ability to converse verbally and in writing
with others regarding organizational goals and needs.
c) Ability to use organizational technology and multi-
phone systems.
sbh1@psu.edu
Sydney PlantTraitEvolution
Postdoctoral Research Fellow in Biology
The Westoby Ecology and Evolution Lab at Macquarie
University in Sydney has an opportunity to recruit tal-
ented researchers. The Ecology group's research aim
is to understand and predict from evolutionary prin-
ciples the physiognomy and traits of vegetation and
why they vary round the world. For more information,
please visit: http://bio.mq.edu.au/ecology/research/The Role: An opportunity for ground-breaking research
that bridges between theory and real-world data for ter-
restrial ecology. The Ecology Group has developed a
new model for ecology and evolution of traits in vege-
tation. Appointees will assemble real-world data, test
the alignment of data with model predictions, and in-
terpret successes and failures of the model.
Essential Selection Criteria: - PhD or equivalent, to-
gether with one or more of the following - Experience
with eld plant ecology and with quirks and limita-
tions of eld-ecology datasets; - Strong grasp of con-
cepts and literature in community or functional ecology;
- Experience with R stats package, with curating large
datasets, with stochastic simulations; - Experience with
advanced statistical techniques such as Bayesian meth-
ods, machine-learning algorithms, multi-level modeling,
data assimilati
Full details: http://jobs.mq.edu.au/cw/en/job/-
493272/postdoctoral-research-fellow-plant-trait-
ecology-in-biological-sciences Appointment Type:
Full-time, Fixed-term for 2 years
Enquiries: Daniel Falster on daniel.falster@mq.edu.au
or +61-2-9850-9258
Applications Close: Sunday 8 September 2013,
11:59pm (AUS)
Daniel Falster <daniel.falster@mq.edu.au >
TaiwanU EvolutionFish
A new post-doc position (one year contract; renewable
for another year) is currently available in Dr. Wei-Jen
Chens lab, Institute of Oceanography, National Taiwan
University. Our research group focuses on three re-
search axes (1) Phylogeney of ray-nned shes at both
large and small evolutionary time scales; (2) Evolu-
tionary genomics, particularly the species diversica-
tion in relation to gene duplication; (3) Biogeography
(historical biogeography and comparative phylogeogra-
phy) of the Indo-West Pacic shes. We are seeking
for a post-doctoral researcher with interest/expertise
in these three research axes (specially, the third one).
The successful applicant will involve in high throughput
generation and analysis of genetic/genomic data of ray-
nned shes. Our currently confusing species/groups
for the studies are from the Percomorpha, Lethrinidae,
Pomacentridae, and Sciaenidae. Candidates are wel-
come to suggest other species or group of shes ofSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 85
his/her interest as models for the study. A good knowl-
edge on sh taxonomy will be helpful, but not very
necessary for conducing the studies. The ideal candi-
date should have experience with molecular genomics
and/or bioinformatics. However, candidates with re-
search experience in any the following will be consid-
ered in priority: next generation sequencing; statisti-
cal phylogeography (involving coalescence theory, e.g.);
applied methods in likelihood and Bayesian statistics
(e.g., BEAST) to evolutionary biological studies. Fi-
nally, interested candidates should be highly motivated,
organized, and independent for the lab work, and will-
ing to board on research vessel and/or go to remote
islands for conducting prospective eldwork for taxon
sampling.
Applicants should by email a brief cover letter de-
scribing research interests/experiences, a CV, and the
names and contact information for 2-3 references to
wjchen.actinops@gmail.com. A 4 ~8 pages of research
proposal and scans of Ph.D diploma/certicate of work-
ing experience will be required from the nal selected
candidate for processing the ocial request of the po-
sition from the University. This process will take
around 1 ~2 months. Review of applications will begin
immediately and continue until the position is lled.
For more information, visit our Lab website (https:/-
/sites.google.com/site/wjchenactinops/) or contact by
email.
- 21 August 2013
Wei-Jen CHEN <wjchen.actinops@gmail.com >
TempleU PopulationGenetics
A postdoctoral position in population genetics is avail-
able in the lab of Jody Hey at Temple University.
The research will involve developing methods for study-
ing divergence using population genomic data. These
methods will be used to study problems in the diver-
gence of human populations, as well as in other systems.
The position is part of an NIH funded collaboration be-
tween the Hey lab, Andy Kern of Rutgers University,
and Sarah Tishko of the University of Pennsylvania.
The new postdoc will also join a new Center for Compu-
tational Genetics and Genomics taking shape at Temple
University.
Candidates with research experience in any the follow-
ing will be considered: - Population Genetics Theory
- Statistical Phylogeography or Divergence PopulationGenetics - The use of stochastic methods in likelihood
and Bayesian statistics
In addition it is important that candidates have expe-
rience in developing computer programs to implement
methods in evolutionary genetics or statistics. Appli-
cants should email a CV and any other relevant infor-
mation to:
Jody Hey hey@temple.edu https://bio.cst.temple.edu/-
~hey/ Position Reference number: JHTPD1
Hey@dls.rutgers.edu
TexasAMU MolPopulationGenetics
Postdoctoral Research Scientist - Molecular Population
Genetics/Ecology
Location: A new, collaborative, state-of-the-art fa-
cility established for molecular-genetic studies of ma-
rine organisms, located at the Harte Research Insti-
tute at Texas A&M University - Corpus Christi, Corpus
Christi, Texas 78412-5869.
Responsibilities: Position responsibilities involve devel-
opment and assay of nuclear-encoded single nucleotide
polymorphisms (SNPs), microsatellites, and mitochon-
drial DNA sequences for projects involving population
genetics and molecular ecology, primarily of marine
shes. Central responsibilities include data acquisition
and analysis, and preparation of reports and publica-
tions.
Qualications: Dissertation or postdoctoral work in
molecular population genetics and/or molecular ecol-
ogy is required, as is documented experience with mi-
crosatellite and mtDNA data acquisition and analysis.
Documented experience with major software programs
(e.g., Arlequin, Genepop, Migrate, LdNe, etc.) also is
required. Individuals with documented experience in
analysis of next-generation-sequencing data, primarily
RAD-seq and genome assembly, will be given highest
priority. Applicants should be ambitious, able to work
collaboratively with other group members, and capable
of taking initiative and assuming responsibility.
Salary: Salary range is from $35,000 - $40,000/year and
will depend on experience. Benets include health care
and retirement. Position is for 12-24 months.
Closing date: Position will remain open until lled.
Contact: Send curriculum vitae, description of research86 EvolDir September 1, 2013
experience/interests, and names, addresses, phone
numbers, and e-mail address of three references to
Dr. John R. Gold at goldsh@tamu.edu. Interna-
tional applicants will be considered if they hold the cor-
rect visa(s). The Harte Research Institute and Texas
A&M University-Corpus Christi are Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action/Equal Access Employers.
John Gold <goldsh@tamu.edu >
UBath
EvolutionaryQuantitativeGenetics 2
This is the formal announcement following up on an in-
formal announcement I posted earlier (includes the link
for the online application system):
Evolutionary quantitative genetics of complex traits
We are excited to be recruiting a postdoctoral re-
searcher to work on a BBSRC funded 36 month project
focused on the genetic basis of evolutionary changes
in complex multidimensional traits. The project com-
bines deep phenotyping and genome wide molecular
data in a large pedigree population derived from a
mouse model system in which selection regimes have
been used to reshape patterns of growth and develop-
ment. Research questions are focused on understand-
ing how selection has been able to alter the relationship
between traits, with a particular emphasis on the evolu-
tion of pleiotropy. The project also oers the success-
ful candidate signicant exibility to examine related
questions about the structure and evolution of genetic
architecture and its consequences for multivariate evo-
lution.
The successful candidate will have a background in
evolutionary genetics and an excellent understanding
of multivariate statistics. Quantitative and computing
skills are essential (especially the ability to work with
data manipulation programs and statistical packages
such as R and SAS) as is the ability to work both in-
dependently and collaboratively as part of a research
team. Candidates should have a demonstrated ability
to publish high impact science as well as good inter-
personal and communication skills. Some skills or an
interest in obtaining skills in theoretical quantitative
genetics is preferred but not required.
The successful candidate will have the opportunity to
work with collaborators at the University of Exeter and
the University of Sao PauloThe position is xed-term of 36 months and available
to start as early as 1 January 2014 and no later than
the 28 February 2014.
Informal enquiries may be directed to Dr Jason Wolf via
email: j.b.wolf@bath.ac.uk (telephone or Skype consul-
tations can be arranged)
Applications are accepted only through the University
of Bath online system at:
http://www.bath.ac.uk/jobs/Vacancy.aspx?ref=-
VH1894 jason@evolutionarygenetics.org
UBergen FishEvolution
Postdoctoral fellow in evolutionary ecology
A 3-year position as a postdoctoral fellow in evolution-
ary ecology is available in the EvoFish research group
at the Department of Biology, University of Bergen.
The position is part of the project 'An experimental
evaluation of sheries induced evolution' using guppies
as the model system to study harvest-induced evolu-
tion. We welcome both experimental, theoretical, and
genetic approaches taking advantage of our on-going
guppy experiment. For more information, see http:/-
/www.jobbnorge.no/job.aspx?jobid=95624 . Applica-
tion deadline: August 25, 2013
Best wishes, Mikko Heino EvoFish, University of
Bergen
Mikko Petteri Heino <Mikko.Heino@bio.uib.no >
UBern EAWAG Switzerland
CichlidSpeciation
Postdoc Ecological genomic of speciation in cichlid sh,
University of Bern and Eawag
A Swiss Science Foundation postdoctoral researcher po-
sition is available immediately in the Seehausen group
at University of Bern and Eawag to work on constraints
to speciation in cichlid sh, using a combination of
African eldwork, next generation sequencing, and eco-
logical, phenotypic and genomic data analysis.
We are a large and interactive research group, withSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 87
many people working on speciation and adaptive ra-
diation in African cichlid sh and postglacial European
sh, and others working in eld-based and experimental
evolutionary ecology, community ecology and conserva-
tion biology.
We are looking for an enthusiastic and interactive re-
searcher, with a strong background in ecology and evo-
lutionary biology and good knowledge of the R pro-
gramming environment. Experience with eld work in
the tropics, ideally with sh, will be very helpful. Ex-
perience with NGS data analysis will be very helpful
too but is not absolutely required. Full funding is now
available for one year, with possibilities for extension.
Responsibilities include leading a eld expedition with
a small researcher team to several sites in East Africa,
data collection and analyses and paper writing. This
postdoc position is one of several new and recent Swiss
Science Foundation funded positions on cichlid specia-
tion in the group, and it will involve close interaction
with PhD students and other scientists in the group.
Our research group is part of the Institute of
Ecology & Evolution (IEE) of the University of
Berne (http://www.shecology.ch/index EN), and
the EAWAG Center for Ecology, Evolution and
Biogeochemistry (CEEB) in Luzern/Kastanienbaum
(http://www.eawag.ch/forschung/cc/ceeb/index EN).
Our well-equipped labs are situated in the CEEB,
right on the shores of Lake Lucerne (a lake that has
its own endemic sh radiations) and in the IEE in
Bern. Switzerland is home to an impressive number of
universities in close geographic proximity, aording the
opportunity for interaction with a large community of
ecologists and evolutionary biologists.
Applications should be sent before September
30 to Susanne.maurer@iee.unibe.ch with cc to
ole.seehausen@eawag.ch. Please include cv, publica-
tion list and email addresses of three referees. For
information please write to ole.seehausen@eawag.ch.
We look forward to receiving your application
Ole Seehausen
Ole.Seehausen@eawag.ch
UCalifornia SanFrancisco
StatPopGenetics
Postdoctoral Fellowship in Statistical Population Ge-
netics at U.C. San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USAA postdoctoral position is available starting between
July and December, 2013 in the laboratory of Bryan
Greenhouse in the Division of Infectious Diseases at
U.C. San Francisco. The current position will focus
on development and application of statistical models
incorporating parasite genetics and epidemiologic data
to characterize transmission and evolution of malaria
parasites. The successful candidate will have the oppor-
tunity to work closely with a diverse team of scientists
at UCSF and international collaborators on projects
spanning work in malaria elimination to regions with
the highest burden of malaria in the world. The fellow
will be encouraged to develop an independent line of
work under the co-mentorship of Bryan Greenhouse and
Rasmus Nielsen (U.C. Berkeley), including presentation
and publication of ndings. Our work is directly con-
nected to on-the-ground malaria control and elimina-
tion eorts, and the scientic output from this position
is expected to directly aect interventions in the eld
in addition to leading to academic publications. Com-
petitive salary including full benets will be provided
commensurate with experience and qualications.
Required Skills
* PhD in a relevant eld (e.g. population genetics,
statistics, computational biology)
* Excellent background in population genetics
* Strong statistical and computational skills, includ-
ing proven ability to develop and implement statistical
methods beyond utilizing existing software packages
* Demonstrated ability to produce independent, cre-
ative work
* Ability to work well as member of a team
* Strong written and oral communication skills
Ideal Skills
* Experience with analysis of pathogen transmission
trees / phylogenetic data
* Experience developing and implementing MCMC
methods
* Experience with geospatial data / visualization
To Apply: Please send a detailed CV including publica-
tions, brief statement of research/career interests, and
contact information for 3 references to Bryan Green-
house, MD, MA at bryan.greenhouse@ucsf.edu
\Greenhouse, Bryan" <bgreenhouse@medsfgh.ucsf.edu >88 EvolDir September 1, 2013
UFSCar UBath
EvolutionaryQuantGenet
A postdoctoral position (up to three years funding) will
soon be available at the Universidade Federal de Sao
Carlos (UFSCar) working with Reinaldo A. de Brito,
in collaboration with Jason Wolf (University of Bath).
The collaboration oers the opportunity for the post-
doc to spend time in both Bath (UK) and Sao Carlos
(Brazil), with empirical components being done in Sao
Carlos and computational work being split between in-
stitutions.
The project is focused on understanding the genetic
architecture of species dierences in South American
fruit ies of the group Anastrepha fraterculus (Diptera:
Tephritidae). The primary goal of the project is to un-
derstand the nature of variation underlying traits that
distinguish species (including major ecologically rele-
vant traits as well as traits potentially involved in mate
recognition) and how the species dierences relate to
within species variation.
The postdoc will contribute to empirical and computa-
tional components of the project. Empirical work will
involve implementation of multigenerational breeding
schemes, phenotyping and next-generation genotyping.
Computational work will involve genome scale analysis
of associations using marker and sequence data.
The position should be open very soon, so we are look-
ing for people interested in discussing the details of the
project and the application process. Please contact ei-
ther of us for more information or to express interest.
Reinaldo A. de Brito brito@ufscar.br CCBS- Depto de
Genetica e Evolucao Universidade Federal de Sao Car-
los
Jason B. Wolf Jason@evolutionarygenetics.org Dept. of
Biology & Biochemistry University of Bath
jason@evolutionarygenetics.org
UFlorida PhylogeneticsSystematics
Postdoctoral Researcher position in buttery systemat-ics at University of Florida
A Postdoctoral Researcher position is available at the
Florida Museum of Natural History's McGuire Center
for Lepidoptera and Biodiversity, University of Florida.
The postdoc will form an integral part of the team
working on the NSF-funded project \ARTS: Phylogeny
and systematic revision of the diverse and cryptic Eup-
tychiina (Lepidoptera, Nymphalidae, Satyrinae)", and
will be responsible for coordinating research on the
higher-level phylogeny of the group.
The deadline for applications is September 15th,
2013, with the position available from January
2014 for two years. Information on the position
and application instructions are available here:
http://www.mnh.u.edu/butteries/neotropica/-
postdoc2013.html Please contact me (kwill-
mott@mnh.u.edu) with any questions.
Keith Willmott Associate Curator for Lepidoptera
McGuire Center for Lepidoptera and Biodiversity
Florida Museum of Natural History 3215 Hull Road,
Powell Hall PO Box 112710 Gainesville, FL 32611
(USA) Tel: ( 1 352) 273 2012 Fax: (1 352) 392 0479
kwillmott@mnh.u.edu
UFlorida systems
There are up to three postdoctoral positions available
with Lauren McIntyre at the University of Florida,
United States. These positions are exible in their
scope. One is focused on Maize, one on Drosophila and
one on metabolomics. For the Maize and Drosophila
positions, a background in quantitative genetics or pop-
ulation/evolutionary genetics with an interest in work-
ing on transcriptional data of populations and tying
large scale transcriptional data to phenotype. For
metabolomics a statistics background with an emphasis
on variable selection is desired.
-Maize: Using a systems biology approach this project
focuses on Maize response to global climate change, us-
ing the NAM population with data collected at DNA,
RNA, Metabolite and phenotypic levels. This position
is the key position for data integration and analysis.
Experimental design, predictive modeling and creative
insights will be important qualications for the success-
ful applicant.
-Drosophila: We will transform network modeling fromSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 89
a descriptive to a predictive exercise. A genotype to
phenotype map which allows reasonable predictions
across species and conditions bypasses the need for ex-
tensive individual gene validations. We hypothesize
that specic casual mutations vary within a population
and across species. We further hypothesize that the
relationship among genes in networks will be largely
conserved across species. This position will be instru-
mental in developing a predictive modeling framework
for genotype to phenotype mapping. By focusing on
locomotory and courtship behavior and the impact of
ethanol on these behaviors, we will integrate environ-
mental eects into a network approach to complex trait
genetics and identify robust targets for modication of
these focal traits.
-Metabolomics: In many biological problems early de-
tection and prediction of phenotype are critical prob-
lems that are often the rate limiting step in progress
toward deeper understanding. Metabolomics seeks
to identify small molecule metabolites that are criti-
cal components of biochemical processes. Metabolites
can separate dierent groups (e.g. disease/normal)
and/or be associated with a quantitative phenotype
(avor preference). The goal is to identify metabolites
(select variables) that are early diagnostic predictors.
Metabolomics gives us tools to measure the outcomes
of complex cellular processes, in essence to be one step
closer to the phenotype and therefore a useful tool in
constructing the genotype to phenotype map.
The lab is housed in the recently constructed Univer-
sity of Florida Genetics Institute with modern facili-
ties Candidates with a Ph.D. and/or M.D. and relevant
postdoctoral experience should send their curriculum
vitae, names of three references, and a brief descrip-
tion of research interests to: Dr. Lauren McIntyre,
Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology,
University of Florida, College of Medicine, Gainesville,
FL 32610-3610. Email: mcintyre@u.edu. For further
information about the lab visit our website: http://-
bioinformatics.u.edu/McIntyre Lab/. Review of ap-
plications will begin immediately. The search may re-
main open until the position is lled. UF is an Equal
Opportunity Institution with a strong commitment to
excellence through diversity.
mcintyre@u.edu
UHull 2
PhylogeneticComparativeAnalysesPostdoctoral/Research Assistant in PhylogeneticCom-
parative Analyses of Vertebrate Invasion Success (2
Posts)
School of Biological,Biomedical and Environmental Sci-
ences, University of Hull
We are looking to appoint twoResearch Assistants; a) a
Post-Doctoral Research Assistant suitably qualiedand
experienced in the areas required and, b) a Research
Assistant who ispresently working towards completing
their PhD and looking to gain and developtheir expe-
rience in this eld.
The PDRA/ RA will workin thecomparative biology
lab within the School of Biological, Biomedical andEn-
vironmental Sciences at the University of Hull. The two
posts are funded for 3 years, full time, by a NERC New
Investigator Award to Dr Isabella Capellini (http://-
tinyurl.com/icapellini), entitled Understanding biolog-
ical invasions: aphylogenetic comparative approach.
The successful applicants will bemembers of a team
that uses state of art phylogenetic comparative ap-
proaches toanswer an array of fundamental questions in
biology and ecology. Within theSchool, the successful
applicants will also benet from a rich and diversere-
search environment that includes the Ecology and En-
vironment Group and theEvolutionary Biology Group.
The University of Hull also oers a comprehensiveSta
Development Program.
Using alien (non-native)vertebrates as model organ-
isms and state of art phylogenetic comparativemeth-
ods, the projects rst goal is to test which biologi-
cal characteristicspromote species success in space and
time, as predicted by key hypotheses inmacroecology
and evolution. The second goal is to quantify the con-
tribution ofhuman related factors in vertebrate inva-
sion success.The successful applicants willcollaborate
closely and build a database on invasion success of
mammals,reptiles, amphibians and sh, reproductive
and ecological characteristics foreach species in the
database, and human related factors likely to inuen-
ceinvasion success. The PDRA/RA will use cutting
edge phylogenetic comparativemethods to investigate
the relative contribution of species traits and human-
related factors in vertebrate invasion success, draft the
papers forpublication in high impact journals, and build
and maintain the project websiteand database. If re-
quired, there is also the opportunity to gain further-
experience in phylogenetic comparative methods in the
lab of Dr Chris Venditti(University of Reading).
Essential: working towards a PhDin biology or re-
lated discipline; knowledge of modern phylogenetic
comparativemethods, strong quantitative skills, evi-90 EvolDir September 1, 2013
dence of work of publishable quality, excellent oral and
written communication skills, demonstrable ability to
workas an eective team member, and be reliable, self-
motivated and wellorganized.
Desirable: PhD in biology orrelated discipline,
experience with phylogenetic comparative meth-
ods,experience in testing hypotheses in macroecology
and phenotypic evolutionacross species, strong publi-
cation record, experience with R.
The positions are xed term for 3 years. The start date
of the project is xed to 6 January 2014.
Salary range: $25,504 to $30,424 pa - Starting salaries
according to qualication and experience.
You can learn more about thisposition and apply online
at: www.hull.ac.uk/jobs(Vacancy ref: FS0025)
Informal enquiries to DrIsabella Capellini
(I.Capellini@hull.ac.uk)
Closing date 08 September 2013
Interviews 24 & 25 September 2013
Isabella Capellini <isab972@yahoo.co.uk >
ULausanne
EvolutionDrosophilaMicrobiome
Postdoctoral position: experimental evolution of
Drosophila gut microbiome under chronic malnutrition
University of Lausanne, Switzerland
We are looking for a postdoctoral researcher for
a project on the contribution of gut microbes to
evolutionary adaptation to chronic malnutrition in
Drosophila melanogaster. The project builds upon
an evolution experiment in which replicate popula-
tions of fruit ies have been maintained under lar-
val malnutrition over 150 generations, acquiring high
tolerance to this nutritional stress. This is a collab-
orative project between the laboratories of Tadeusz
J. Kawecki (Department of Ecology and Evolution)
and Jan van der Meer (Department of Fundamental
Microbiology). It involves a combination of micro-
biome sequencing and experimental approaches, such
as microbiome transplants and assaying their conse-
quences for Drosophila tness. We are looking for a
candidate with experience in experimental microbiol-
ogy, preferably in the context of interactions between
pathogenic or commensal microbes and invertebratehosts, and a broad understanding of evolutionary con-
cepts. Bioinformatics skills and/or experience with
Drosophila are a plus but are not required. For more
information about our respective research groups see
http://www.unil.ch/dee/page47688.html and http://-
www.unil.ch/dmf/page14867 en.html .
The initial contract will be for one year, extendable to
a maximum of ve years; currently funding is assured
for two years, with the minimum annual gross salary of
about CHF 60,000 in the rst year (about US$ 65,000
or Euro 50,000). The research environment is English-
speaking and no-preexisting knowledge of French is re-
quired, but learning basic French would make living in
Lausanne easier.
Lausanne is a medium-sized city on the shores of Lake
Geneva, surrounded by a wine growing region recog-
nized as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, and within
one hour of the Alps. It oers a great variety of cultural,
recreational and outdoor opportunities. The Depart-
ment of Ecology and Evolution (www.unil.ch/dee) is a
vibrant research community, with 22 research groups,
over 100 graduate students and over 40 postdocs, and
is the lead institution of the inter-university Doctoral
Program in Population Genomics. The High Perfor-
mance Computing Center of the Lausanne University
(VitalIT) oers excellent computational infrastructure
and support for the project.
To apply, send a single pdf le with a motiva-
tion letter, cv, a description of your research ex-
perience and interest, and names of 2-3 referees to
tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch, with \Postdoc position" in
the subject line. The review of applications will start
on September 9, 2013 and will continue until a suitable
candidate is found.
Tadeusz J. Kawecki Associate Professor Department
of Ecology and Evolution University of Lausanne Bio-
phore, oce 3111 CH 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland
tadeusz.kawecki@unil.ch
UMinnesota EvolutionaryGenetics
Post-doctoral position - association mapping and evo-
lutionary genetics University of Minnesota
I have available a post-doctoral position to work on
association and evolutionary genomics of the model
legume Medicago truncatula. Collaborators and I have
recently collected genome sequence for >200 accessionsSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 91
and have used these data for GWAS and population ge-
nomic analyses. We are currently working to rene our
understanding of genomic variation segregating within
this species and are particularly interested in the evo-
lutionary genetics of the symbiosis between Medicago
and Sinorhizobia. The successful applicant will have
considerable freedom to develop research in their area
of interest.
This position is part of a multi-investigator project
(www.medicagohapmap.org/home/view) and the post-
doc will have opportunities to work closely with Nevin
Young and members of his lab, as well as the labs of
other Univ. of Minnesota members of the project in-
cluding Micheal Sadowsky and Robert Stupar. Primary
funding for this project comes from the Plant Genome
Program of the NSF.
If interested please apply by September 15th, although
applications will be considered until the position is
lled. The start date is exible.
Applicants should send a CV, short statement of re-
search interests, and names and contact information of
three references.
If you have questions or would like to discuss the project
or position please contact me at ptin@umn.edu.
Peter Tin http://www.cbs.umn.edu/tin/ Dept. of
Plant Biology University of Minnesota
ptin@umn.edu
UMontpellier CancerEvolution
Postdoctoral research opportunity - Evolutionary mod-
els of cancer progression and therapies - University of
Montpellier, France
We are looking for a motivated Postdoctoral researcher
to employ mathematical and/or computer models to
better understand the evolutionary dynamics of cancer
progression and chemotherapeutic treatments. We are
especially interested in applications of ecology, evolu-
tion, and population genetics towards general descrip-
tions and ultimately predictive theories. Candidates
having a rm background in quantitative modelling,
but also having experience working with either cancer
or bacterial cell cultures are particularly welcome.
The Postdoc is for two years, with a starting date on
or before January 1, 2014. The contract is funded by
INSERM Plan Cancer and is in collaboration with twocell biology research laboratories (Pr. Urszula Hibner
and Pr. Daniel Fisher, IGMM).
Selection criteria: (1) PhD; (2) Considerable experience
in mathematical or computer modeling in the context
of cell biology, population ecology and/or evolutionary
biology; (3) Command of written scientic English; (4)
Demonstrated track record of refereed publications in
leading journals; (5) Capacity to work under limited
supervision.
Interested candidates should send (1) a letter of moti-
vation, (2) a CV, and (3) the names, institutional ad-
dresses, and emails of 3 persons who can be contacted
for references, on or before August 15, 2013 to Michael
Hochberg (mhochber@univ-montp2.fr). Information
about our interdisciplinary research group can be
found at http://www.eec.univ-montp2.fr/people/mike-
hochberg/ <http://www.darevcan.univ-montp2.fr/-
?page id=221 >
{
Michael Hochberg
Research Director, CNRS
External Faculty, Santa Fe Institute Fellow, Wis-
senschaftskolleg zu Berlin (9/2013-7/2014)
EEC Team <http://www.eec.univ-montp2.fr/people/
>
Michael Hochberg <mhochber@univ-montp2.fr >
UOregon EvolutionaryGenomics
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION IN ECOLOGICAL
GENOMICS OF SPECIATION; INSTITUTE OF
ECOLOGY AND EVOLUTION, UNIVERSITY OF
OREGON
A postdoctoral position is available in the Streisfeld lab
at the University of Oregon as part of a NSF-funded
project to identify the ecological genomic changes that
drive the early stages of species formation in Mimulus.
The project will involve greenhouse, eld, and labo-
ratory components that include high-throughput SNP
genotyping, next generation sequencing, QTL mapping,
and eld estimates of divergent selection. The postdoc
will be involved in all aspects of the project, from data
collection to publication, and will be actively encour-
aged to pursue side projects of his/her own interest.
PhD in evolutionary genetics or a related eld is re-92 EvolDir September 1, 2013
quired. Experience with next-generation sequencing
and bioinformatics analysis is preferred. The ideal can-
didate will be independent, highly motivated, produc-
tive, and able to work eectively in a team with mem-
bers from a variety of diverse backgrounds. She/he will
have an excellent understanding of experimental design
and a proven publication record.
The Streisfeld Lab (www.uoregon.edu/~mstreis) in the
Institute of Ecology and Evolution oers a broad and
interactive environment for research in plant evolution-
ary biology. We share close ties with other evolutionary
biology labs on campus, and benet from shared facil-
ities, such as the genomics core research facility. The
University of Oregon is an AAU research institution lo-
cated in Eugene, OR, one of the most outstanding small
cities in the US. The campus is one hour from the beau-
tiful Oregon coast and one hour from hiking and skiing
in the Cascade Mountains.
To apply for this position, please send a state-
ment of research interests, publications, CV, and
letters from three references to Matt Streisfeld via
ie2jobs@uoregon.edu (preferred) or c/o Postdoctoral
Search # 13120, Institute of Ecology and Evolution,
5289 University of Oregon, Eugene, OR 97403-5289.
The position is available for one year with the possi-
bility of renewal depending on research progress. Al-
though the position is available immediately, the start
date can be exible based on the needs of the candidate.
The position will remain open until lled.
Women and members of groups underrepresented in sci-
ence are encouraged to apply. The University of Oregon
is an EO/AA/ADA institution committed to cultural
diversity.
mstreis@gmail.com
UTexas Austin PlantBioinformatics
The Juenger lab at the University of Texas at Austin
is recruiting a bioinformatics postdoctoral position to
work on NSF and DOE funded research. The focus of
the research is to explore the genetics and genomics of
adaptation in switchgrass (Panicum virgatum), a po-
tential bioenergy crop, to drought and future climate
change scenarios.
The project is a multidisciplinary eort including ecol-
ogists, physiologists, genomic scientists and modelers.
The candidate will play a lead role in analyzing next-generation sequencing data including RNA-sequencing
studies of gene expression responses to stress and the
construction of mapping populations using a variety
of genotyping methods. In addition, the candidate
will have opportunities for analyzing transcriptome
datasets, genomic sequence, and resequencing data of
Panicum hallii, a diploid relative of agronomic switch-
grass, in collaboration with sequencing eorts at the
DOE Joint Genome Institute.
We are open to a wide array of applicants, but individ-
uals with experience and interest in the development of
pipelines for the analysis of next-gen data and statis-
tical genomics are especially encouraged to apply. Ap-
plying candidates should email as a single PDF 1) a
cover letter detailing interests and qualications, 2) a
CV listing education and relevant publications, and 3)
names of three contacts that can provide letters of ref-
erence to Tom Juenger (tjuenger@austin.utexas.edu).
tjuenger@austin.utexas.edu
UYork
HeliconiusEvolutionaryGenetics
Job: Postdoctoral Research Associate in Evolutionary
Biology
Department of Biology, University of York, UK Up to
36 months xed-term appointment $29,541 - $36,298
a year Application deadline: 11 September, 2013
We are seeking a skilled and motivated postdoctoral
researcher to investigate the importance of gene ow
in speciation using the Heliconius model system. Re-
search on Heliconius butteries has greatly increased
our knowledge of how species form. With the publica-
tion of the draft Heliconius melpomene genome in 2012,
many advances have been in made in understanding ge-
nomic patterns of speciation using this system.
This NERC funded project in the laboratory of Dr.
Kanchon Dasmahapatra will investigate the importance
of gene ow in speciation in Heliconius using eld-based
and genomic approaches. The work will involve 12-18
months of eldwork in Peru creating appropriate Heli-
conius mapping crosses, as well as the analysis of RAD
and genome re-sequence data from high-throughput se-
quencing platforms. You will be responsible for the
project on a day-to-day basis. You should hold a PhD
in evolutionary biology or a related discipline, and have
relevant eldwork and analytical experience.September 1, 2013 EvolDir 93
This post is available from 1 October 2013 for a period
of up to three years.
Informal enquiries can be made directly to
Dr. Kanchon Dasmahapatra (email: kan-
chon.dasmahapatra@york.ac.uk).
For a full job description and to apply online, please
visit: http://jobs.york.ac.uk The University of York is
committed to promoting equality and diversity.
{
Dr Kanchon Dasmahapatra Lecturer in Evolutionary
Biology Department of Biology University of York
York YO10 5DD Tel: +44 (0)1904 328635 http://-
www.york.ac.uk/res/dasmahapatra/
UZurich EvolutionaryBioinformatics
URPP Evolution in Action
Job Advertisement Embedded Bioinformatician
Postdoctoral Fellow om Evolutionary Bioinformatics
A postdoctoral fellowship in evolutionary bioinformat-
ics is available in the laboratory of Andreas Wagner
at the University of Zurich. The lab is collaborating
with multiple research groups as part of a university-
funded research program in evolutionary biology. The
candidate will be able to choose among several collabo-
rative projects on the evolutionary genomics of animals,
plants, and microbes, whose common thread is the anal-
ysis of high-throughput genome sequence or functional
genomic data (See also http://www.evolution.uzh.ch/-
research/researchprojects.html). The fellow would be
jointly aliated with the Wagner lab and with one or
more of the research group(s) whose data he or she
would help analyze.
We are looking for an individual who has received his
or her PhD within the last ve years, who is highly
self-motivated and independent, yet willing to support
the computational research of his collaborators in a
team-eort. Fluency in a major scripting language
such as perl, and experience in software development
is a must. The successful candidate will have experi-
ence with computational analyses of high-throughput
data in genomics or population genomics. Applications
without a demonstrated interest and research history
in evolutionary biology will not be considered further.
The position oers a highly competitive salary of up to
three years on annually renewable contracts.The working language in the laboratory is English.
German skills, although helpful, are not essential.
Zurich is a highly attractive city in beautiful surround-
ings, with a multinational population, and many edu-
cational and recreational opportunities.
To be considered, please send a single (!) PDF
le merged from the following parts to an-
nette.schmid@ieu.uzh.ch: CV including publication
list, a statement of research interests not exceeding
three pages, and three academic references. Please
include the word EVOBIO2013 in the subject line.
The application deadline is Sep 6, 2013. The position
is available in January of 2014.
Annette Schmid Administrative Assistant of Prof. A.
Wagner University of Zurich Institute of Evolutionary
Biology and Environmental Studies Wagner lab, Y27-
J52 Winterthurerstrasse 190 CH-8057 Z1rich Switzer-
land Mail to: annette.schmid@ieu.uzh.ch Phone +41
(0)44 635 61 42 Fax +41 (0)44 635 61 44 at the oce
on Tuesday and Friday
annette.schmid@ieu.uzh.ch
UZurich SocialEvolution
ComparativeApproach
The evolution of family living in birds - a comparative
approach
A postdoc position in Evolutionary Biology is avail-
able at the Institute of Anthropology, University Zurich
(Switzerland) in the lab of Michael Griesser to investi-
gate the factors which promote family living in birds.
The full-time position is funded for up to 1.5 years,
starting October 2013. The salary is according to the
salary brackets of the Swiss National Research Council.
I am looking for a highly motivated Postdoc to work
on a large-scale comparative data set to understand
the role of ecology and life-history for the evolution of
family living in birds. While we have a good under-
standing which factors promote cooperative breeding,
we still lack insight into the factors which drive family
living. We work in my lab to ll in this crucial gap of
knowledge in social evolution.
The Anthropological Institute & Museum at the Uni-
versity Zurich oers a stimulating, international work
environment with top researchers working in related,
relevant topics (cooperative breeding and social evo-
lution in primates, birds and dolphins). The working94 EvolDir September 1, 2013
language at the Institute is English.
Required qualications:
1) PhD in evolutionary biology, ecology, behavioural
ecology or similar, using comparative methods
2) A strong interest in evolution of sociality and coop-
eration
3) Previous knowledge of comparative analyses, prefer-
ably also RangeMapper and BayesTraits
4) Procient user of R, experience with phylogenetic
controlled models (e.g the MCMCglmm module)
5) Experience from working on a cluster
6) Proven writing up skills
7 Project management skills and ability to work inde-
pendently
8) Excellent spoken and written English
Applications received before 15th September 2013 will
be given full consideration.
If you wish to apply, send a motivation letter, CV, pub-
lication list, three contacts for references and a state-
ment of research interests not exceeding 2 pages (as a
single PDF) to: michael.griesser@uzh.ch
Michael Griesser Anthropological Institute & Museum
University of Zurich - Campus Irchel Winterthur-
erstrasse 190 8057 Z urich Switzerland
http://www.aim.uzh.ch/Research/birdfamilies/-
mgriesser.html http://www.prodoc-evolcoop.uzh.ch/-
index.html michael.griesser@uzh.ch
UZurich UGrenoble
EcoEvoModelingClimateChange
ZURICH-GRENOBLE POSTDOCTORAL POSI-
TION IN ECO-EVOLUTIONARY MODELING
A post-doctoral position is available at the Institute
of Evolutionary Biology and Environmental Studies
(IEBES), University of Zurich, Switzerland to work
in collaboration with Frederic Guillaume (IEBES)
and Wilfried Thuiller (Laboratoire d'ECologie Alpine
(LECA), Uni Grenoble, France) on a eco-evolutionary
modeling project funded by Swiss SNF and ERC grants.
We seek a candidate with strong interests in evolution-
ary biology and community ecology, and a solid back-
ground in the modeling of ecological and/or evolution-ary dynamics.
The aim of the project is to model the eco-evolutionary
dynamics of species' range evolution caused by environ-
mental changes and to predict shifts in species distri-
butions at continental scales under climate change tak-
ing account of both adaptive and ecological processes.
The project will blend existing modeling approaches in
quantitative genetics, metapopulation dynamics, and
metacommunity ecology and be applied to datasets on
large-scale species distributions for a large number of
species.
The candidates will have a PhD in a relevant area,
be highly self-motivated, and able to work indepen-
dently. We expect the candidates to have a strong
theoretical background in one of evolutionary quanti-
tative genetics, metapopulation genetics/dynamics, or
(meta)community ecology, and be able to show exper-
tise in deploying complex computational approaches
and in the statistical analysis of high-dimensional
datasets. Programming skills are highly recommended
with at least one scripting language (R, Matlab, Math-
ematica, Python, etc.) Knowledge of C/C++ will be
preferred.
The position is for 18 months with possibility of ex-
tension. Possible starting dates are between November
2013 and January 2014. The candidate will be hosted
at IEBES in Zurich with possibilities for frequent stays
at LECA, Grenoble. The candidate should be able to
travel between Zurich and Grenoble (or midway, ex-
penses covered) for report meetings. Flexibility and
willingness to accommodate with dierent geographi-
cal locations will be guarantied from all parties.
LECA (www-leca.ujf-grenoble.fr) is part of the Univer-
sity Joseph Fournier in Grenoble, France. Grenoble is
set close to some of the most beautiful mountains of the
Alps with excellent connections to Lyon and Geneva.
IEBES (www.ieu.uzh.ch) is at the University of Zurich,
Switzerland. Zurich is renown for its quality of liv-
ing and has a multinational population with many ed-
ucational and recreational opportunities. LECA and
IEBES host a large and vibrant community of excellent
scientists to interact with. Working language is english
at both locations.
Deadline for application: September 6, 2013, (position
open until lled)
Application package in a *single* PDF le should in-
clude (1) CV with list if publications in peer-reviewed
journals, (2) cover letter explaining research inter-
ests and t to the position requirements (max three
pages), and (3) three academic references. Appli-
cations should be sent to Frederic Guillaume (fred-September 1, 2013 EvolDir 95
eric.guillaume@env.ethz.ch).
For informal inquires, please contact us:
Frederic Guillaume frederic.guillaume@env.ethz.ch +41
(0)44 632 52 78
Wilfried Thuiller wilfried.thuiller@ujf-grenoble.fr +33
(0)4 76 51 44 97
frederic.guillaume@env.ethz.ch
VanderbiltU EvolutionofPregnancy
A postdoctoral position is available in the Abbot &
Rokas' labs at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Ten-
nessee to study the evolution and comparative genomics
of pregnancy and pre-term birth in humans. We are
seeking candidates with strong backgrounds in evolu-
tionary genetics, molecular evolution, or genomics, and
particularly encourage candidates to apply who have
broad and diverse training in quantitative approaches
to evolutionary biology.
The candidate will be encouraged to develop indepen-
dent research and training directions, but will join a
team in the Abbot (http://vanderbilt.edu/abbotlab/-
Home.html) & Rokas (http://as.vanderbilt.edu/-
rokaslab/) labs who are developing the computational
and conceptual tools necessary for generating a com-
prehensive evolutionary synthesis of human pregnancy.
Our goal is to generate a set of database tools that
will build bridges between evolutionary biologists,
geneticists, developmental biologists, physiologists,
obstetricians, and social anthropologists, and to
exploit the power of cross-species comparisons and
macroevolutionary history in order to elucidate human
birth timing and disease susceptibility.
Please feel free to inquire for more information and/or
send a CV and contact information for three references
to Dr. Patrick Abbot, patrick.abbot@vanderbilt.edu.
The position is eective immediately.
patrick.abbot@Vanderbilt.Edu
patrick.abbot@Vanderbilt.Edu
YaleU EcoEvolutionaryDynamicsA three-year postdoctoral position is available immedi-
ately in the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology at Yale University through the Yale Institute
for Biospheric Sciences Program in Eco-Evolutionary
Dynamics. We are seeking a highly motivated and
creative individual to assist in developing and operat-
ing an experimental test-bed for validating the predic-
tions of eco-evolutionary theory. The successful can-
didate will engage in regular working groups combin-
ing international leaders in experimental and theoret-
ical approaches to eco-evolutionary dynamics and will
conduct experiments utilizing high-throughput, auto-
mated measures of evolving microorganisms and liquid-
handling robotics. Experience with these technologies
is preferred, but all strong candidates will be consid-
ered.
The YIBS program in Eco-Evolutionary Dynamics is
co-directed by David Vasseur, David Post, and Paul
Turner. The successful candidate will be appointed
within the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Bi-
ology; more information on the department is available
at www.yale.edu/eeb .More information about post-
doctoral appointments at Yale is available at http:/-
/www.yale.edu/postdocs/. Applications should be
emailed to David Vasseur (david.vasseur@yale.edu) and
include a CV, short statement of research interests, and
contact information for three references. Applications
will be considered beginning on September 1, 2013.
\Turner, Paul" <paul.turner@yale.edu >
YorkU EvolGenomics
Postdoctoral position - Evolutionary genomics of social
insects; Toronto, Canada.
The laboratory of Dr. Amro Zayed at the Department
of Biology at York University (Toronto, Canada) has a
2-yr postdoctoral position available - starting this fall -
for a highly motivated biologist with expertise in pop-
ulation genetics or genomics. The postdoctoral fellow
will work with exciting datasets to investigate the re-
lationship between recombination, the evolution of be-
havior, and adaptation in social insects. Please visit
www.yorku.ca/zayedlab to learn more about the lab.
Qualied candidates must have a doctoral degree, sev-
eral rst author-publications in relevant elds, and ex-
cellent communication skills.
Please submit your CV, a summary of your research96 EvolDir September 1, 2013
background, and contact information for 3 referees to zayed(at)yorku.ca before September 15th 2013.
amroyu@gmail.com
WorkshopsCourses
CRM Montreal Biodiversity Nov4-8 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
CeskyKrumlov CzechRepublic Genomics Jan12-24 .97
China PopulationGeneticAnalysesofNGSData Oct14-
19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97
Gottingen LandscapeGenetics Mar10-15 . . . . . . . . . . . 98
Kourou Biogeography Oct10-12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
Manchester Morphometrics Nov4-Dec13 . . . . . . . . . . . 99
MontSaintHilaire Quebec Biodiversity Nov25-Dec6 99Oulu Finland EvolDevPopGenetics Sep12-13 . . . . . 100
Oulu Finland PopGenetics Sep12-13 URLupdates 101
Poznan Poland TeachingEvolution Sep15-19 . . . . . . 101
Tromso Phylogeography September2013 . . . . . . . . . . 102
UOtago MarineMammalGenomics Dec8 . . . . . . . . . . 103
Vilnius Lithuania Conservation Nov4-8 . . . . . . . . . . . 103
YaleU PhylogeneticsNGS Nov4-7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
CRM Montreal Biodiversity Nov4-8
On behalf of the CRM, and as part of the Thematic
Semester on Biodiversity and Evolution (2013), we are
pleased to announce the workshop:
*Biodiversity and Environment: Viability and Dynamic
Games Perspectives, November 4-8, 2013.*
Details of the meeting, including registration can be
found at the following site:
http://www.crm.umontreal.ca/2013/Environment13/-
index e.php Overview:
Although alarming news are accumulating by the day
on the impact of human activities on biodiversity,
ecosystems and climate change, the response by the in-
ternational community has not yet been up to the faced
challenges. The pursuit of self-interest has often been
pointed out as a major obstacle to reach the much-
needed global or regional agreements to tackle these
problems. Another diculty in dealing with these is-
sues is that they are of the long-term variety and in-
volve a high degree of uncertainty. Indeed, the severity
of some threats made to the environment and to bio-
diversity is not yet fully understood, while changingconsumption patterns, nding less-polluting technolo-
gies, for instance, require time and resources. This
means that dealing with global environmental (in a
large sense) issues requires a long-term perspective,
which contrasts with the typical views and interests of
short-term lived governments and corporations. In this
respect we may learn from solutions found in nature for
surviving and evolving.
This workshop aims at bringing together experts in via-
bility theory, dynamic optimization and dynamic games
interested in biodiversity and environmental issues from
a biological, economical, social or interdisciplinary per-
spective and at fostering collaboration and informa-
tion exchange between them. A large place will be
devoted to the mathematical modeling of complex sys-
tems under uncertainty, the evolution of cooperation
through individual or species interactions in common
goods games, and the design of mechanisms for adap-
tation and survival. This should contribute to reconcile
all parties concerned by global environmental issues.
Conrmed speakers:
*Benjamin Allen* (Harvard) *Jean-Baptiste Andr e
*(CNRS Paris) *Tibor Antal* (Edinburg) *Marco
Archetti *(Basel) *Pierre Bernhard *(INRIA Sophia
Antipolis) *Noel Bonneuil* (INED, Paris) *Raouf
Boucekkine* (Aix-Marseilles II & Louvain) *Ross
Cressman *(Wilfrid Laurier) *Michel De Lara *(Paris-
Est) *Luc Doyen *(CNRS Paris) *Marie-H el ene Du-September 1, 2013 EvolDir 97
rand *(Montpellier 3) *Andy Gardner *(Oxford) *Peter
Hammerstein *(Humboldt) *Christoph Hauert *(UBC)
*Alain Haurie *(Gen eve) *Larry Karp *(Berkeley)
*Jacek Krawczyk *(Victoria University of Welling-
ton) *Vlastimil Krivan *(Academy of Sciences of the
Czech Republic) *Jes us Mar n-Solano *(Barcelona)
*Jorge Navas* (Barcelona) *Martin Nowak* (Harvard)
*Hisashi Ohtsuki *(Graduate University for Advanced
Studies, Japan) *Jorge Pacheco *(Minho, Portugal)
*Kristan Schneider* (Mittweida, Germany) *Katheline
Shubert* (Paris School of Economics) *Mabel Tidball
*(INRA, Montpellier) *Arne Traulsen* (Max-Planck-
Institute for Evolutionary Biology, Germany) *Ngo
van Long *(McGill University) *Matthijs van Veelen
*(Amsterdam) *Bernhard Voekl *(Oxford) *Geo Wild
*(Western Ontario)
Organizing committee:
*Hassan Benchekroun* (McGill) *Mich ele Breton *
(HEC Montr eal) *Sabin Lessard * (Montr eal) *Patrick
Saint-Pierre* (Paris-Dauphine) *Georges Zaccour*
(HEC Montr eal)
Sabin <lessards@DMS.UMontreal.CA >
CeskyKrumlov CzechRepublic
Genomics Jan12-24
2014 Workshop on Genomics, Cesky Krumlov, Czech
Republic Dates: 12-24 January, 2014
Application Deadline: 15 October, 2013 is the preferred
application deadline, after which time people will be ad-
mitted to the course following application review by the
admissions committee. However, later applications will
certainly be considered for admittance or for placement
on a waiting list.
Registration Fee: $1800 USD. Fee includes opening re-
ception and access to all course material, but does not
include other meals or housing. Special discounted pric-
ing has been arranged for hotels, pensions and hostels.
Information regarding housing and travel will be made
to applicants following acceptance.
APPLY HERE: http://evomics.org/registration-form/-
2014-workshop-on-genomics/ Useful Links:
Direct Link to the Full Workshop Schedule: http:/-
/evomics.org/workshops/workshop-on-genomics/-
2014-workshop-on-genomics-cesky-krumlov/ General
Workshop information: http://evomics.org Fre-quently Asked Questions (FAQ) about the Workshop
and Cesky Krumlov can be found here: http://-
evomics.org/workshops/faq/ Workshop Overview:
The Workshop on Genomics consists of a series of
lectures, demonstrations and computer laboratories
that cover various aspects of genomics focusing pri-
marily on the analysis of modern sequencing data.
Faculty are chosen exclusively for their eectiveness in
teaching theory and practice. The course is designed
for established investigators, postdoctoral scholars,
and advanced graduate students. Scientists with
strong interests in the uses of modern sequence data,
analytical methods, and the use of modern sequence
data to study non-model organisms, SNP detection
and analysis, genome visualization tools and related
areas are encouraged to apply for admission. Lectures
and computer laboratories total ~90 hours of scheduled
instruction. No programming experience is required.
Topics to be covered include: - Sequencing technologies
- Genomics study design - Manipulation of sequence
data using the command-line and quality assessment
and control techniques - Analyzing genomic data in
the \cloud" using Amazon Web Services (AWS) - As-
sembly and alignment: basic analyses used for de novo
and re- sequencing studies - The use of next-generation
sequence data to study non-model organisms - RAD
(Restriction site Associated DNA) sequence analysis -
Variant detection - Metagenome analysis - Transcrip-
tome quantication and mapping for expression and
gene structure elucidation - An introduction to us-
ing python and iPython notebook - Evolutionary ge-
nomics Co-directors: Naiara Rodr guez-Ezpeleta, Scott
A. Handley, Konrad Paszkiewicz, and Karin Rengefors
Oered in partnership with the Graduate Research
School in Genomic Ecology (GENECO) http://-
www.geneco.se/ . For more information and on-
line application see the Workshop web site - http://-
evomics.org shandley@mrce.wustl.edu
China PopulationGeneticAnaly-
sesofNGSData
Oct14-19
Course in Human Population genetics Analyses with an
emphasis on Next generation Sequencing data.
Where: Beijing Genomics Institute (BGI) in Shenzhen,
China (next to Hong Kong).98 EvolDir September 1, 2013
When: October 14-19
The course will provide a mixture of lectures on the-
ory and hands-on computer exercises. Topics include:
Base calling, mapping and ltering. SNP calling and
Genotype calling. Estimation of allele frequencies from
NGS data. Pooled and un-pooled samples. Coales-
cence theory and its applications. Detection of natural
selection. Genome- wide scans. Inferences regarding
population structure and demographic history. Linkage
disequilibrium and association mapping. Methods for
inferences of relatedness and identity-by-descent. Ad-
mixture mapping and IBD mapping.
Instructors: Noah Rosenberg (Stanford) , Rasmus
Nielsen (UC Berkeley), Jun Wang (BGI), Andesr Al-
brechtsen (U. of Copenhagen), Thornn Korneliusen
(U. of Copenhagen), and Ida Moltke (U. of Chicago).
Course fee: $200
Included in the fee is instruction, housing (dormitory
style), three meals a day, coee breaks and a half-day
excursion to the Splendid China & China Fold Culture
Village'.
Apply by Sept. 1st. For sign up and questions, please
email: cphsummercourse@gmail.com .
Hope to see you there,
Rasmus Nielsen
Gottingen LandscapeGenetics
Mar10-15
We are happy to announce the Spring School
*\A practical, hands-on introduction to landscape ge-
netics" *
from March 10 ^th to 15 ^th , 2014 in G ottingen, Ger-
many.
Learn how to conduct the three analytical steps of land-
scape genetics, discuss challenges and future opportu-
nities with your peers, and meet others interested in
this rapidly-developing eld.
The Spring School is funded by the VW Foundation
and consists of a 5-day hands-on workshop plus a 1-
day symposium. It is intended for PhD students and
postdocs with little or no experience in landscape ge-
netics.
*Workshop lecturers: *Erin Landguth - University of Montana, USA Gernot
Segelbacher - University of Freiburg, Germany Niko
Balkenhol { University of G ottingen, Germany
*Keynote speakers for the symposium:*
Rachael Dudaniec - Lund University, Sweden Helene
Wagner - University of Toronto, Canada Rodney Dyer
{ Virginia Commonwealth University, USA Ian Wang
{ Stanford University, USA
The application deadline is *September 15 ^th , 2013.*
For more information and to apply, visit
*www.LandscapeGenetics.info *
{
Oce Days: Wednesday and Thursday
Do not expect an immediate response to emails - I am
checking emails once a day.
Think green - keep it on the screen.
Interested in conservation? visit: http://-
www.congressgenetics.eu PD Dr. Gernot Segelbacher
Wildlife Ecology and Management University Freiburg
Tennenbacher Str. 4 D-79106 Freiburg Germany
+49 761 203 8592
gernot.segelbacher@wildlife.uni-freiburg.de
http://www.wildlife.uni-freiburg.de/-
mitarbeiterinnen/segelbacher Gernot Segelbacher
<gernot.segelbacher@wildlife.uni-freiburg.de >
Kourou Biogeography Oct10-12
First CEBA Thematic School on 'neotropical biogeog-
raphy'. Kourou, October 10-12, 2013
One of the major issues in biodiversity research is to
understand when and how the vast biodiversity we ob-
serve today in Amazonia has emerged. New techniques
are available to construct more accurate scenarios of the
history of Neotropical biodiversity (phylogenomic, an-
cestral range estimation, paleoclimatic models). The
CEBA rst Thematic School will oer an advanced
training in these new approaches. It is open PhD stu-
dents, post-doctoral researchers, early-career scientists,
or professionals in neotropical conservation. The num-
ber of participants is limited to 15.
For more information: download the presentation le
of the Thematic School : http://www.labex-ceba.fr/-September 1, 2013 EvolDir 99
10-12-octobre-2013-le-ceba-organise-sa-premiere-ecole-
thematique-sur-la-biogeographie-neotropicale/ Amaya
IRIBAR-PELOZUELO <amaya.pelozuelo@univ-
tlse3.fr >
Manchester Morphometrics
Nov4-Dec13
I am pleased to announce this year's morphometrics
course from the University of Manchester. This year's
course will run in the six weeks from 4 November to 13
December 2013.
The course information can be found on the following
we site: http://www.ywings.org.uk/MorphoCourse
Course content: * Data acquisition: the kinds of data
and the equipment used to collect them. * Deni-
tions of size and shape * Geometric methods to char-
acterise shape from a conguration of landmark points
(Procrustes superimposition) * Statistics of variation,
scatter plots, basic multivariate statistics * Principal
component analysis * Measurement error and outliers
* Shape transformations and 'warping' { the thin plate
spline * Analysis of outline shapes * Distinguishing be-
tween groups (taxonomy, clinical diagnosis, etc.) * Al-
lometry and size correction * Inuence of external fac-
tors on shape (ecomorphology, dose-response studies)
* Symmetric forms and measurement of asymmetry. *
Morphometric inferences on developmental processes *
Morphological integration and modularity * Genetics of
shape: analyses of resemblance between relatives, QTL
analyses. * Phylogeny: reconstructing the evolution of
shape
Practice examples: As far as possible, practical exer-
cises are provided to accompany the course content.
These practice exercises consist of data sets and expla-
nations on how to run the respective analyses using
the MorphoJ software (http://www.ywings.org.uk/-
MorphoJ page.htm). Participants who already have
their own data are encouraged to use those and to dis-
cuss them as part of the course. I hope there will be a
bit of a 'workshop' feel to the course unit.
Group work: Participants will work in small groups
to prepare web presentations of possible morphome-
tric studies (blogs or wikis prepared by the groups).
This activity stimulates discussion and provides a broad
overview of the broad range of questions that can be
addressed with morphometric methods.
The fee for the course is GBP 310.00.All prospective participants need to pre-register for the
course. The deadline for this is the *13 September
2013*.
For further details and the pre-registration form, see
the course web page: http://www.ywings.org.uk/-
MorphoCourse Best wishes, Chris
{
Christian Peter Klingenberg Faculty of Life Sciences
The University of Manchester Michael Smith Building
Oxford Road Manchester M13 9PT United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 161 275 3899 Fax: +44 161 275
5082 E-mail: cpk@manchester.ac.uk Web: http://-
www.ywings.org.uk Skype: chris klingenberg
cpk@manchester.ac.uk
MontSaintHilaire Quebec
Biodiversity Nov25-Dec6
FRENCH VERSION FOLLOWS...
The Quebec Centre for Biodiversity Science (QCBS) is
oering an intensive course in biodiversity science. The
two-week course is taught by internationally renowned
members of the QCBS, and targets graduate students,
postdocs and professional biologists interested in ac-
quiring state-of-the-art knowledge in all aspects of bio-
diversity science. Topics include systematics, phyloge-
netics, biodiversity theory, links between biodiversity
and ecosystem function and services, conservation and
economics.
The course is open to a maximum of 25 participants.
We welcome applications from institutions in Qu ebec,
Canada and abroad. Priority will be given to trainees
within the QCBS network. Participants will be ex-
pected to work full time (approximately 90 hours, in-
cluding lectures and workshops) and participate in all
aspects of the course.
The course will be held from 25 November to 6 Decem-
ber at the Gault Nature Reserve at Mont Saint-Hilaire
in Quebec, Canada,
Course coordinators for this year are Jonathan Davies
(McGill University), Pedro Peres-Neto (UQAM) and
Jean-Philippe Lessard (McGill University). Guest lec-
turers include Graham Bell, Andrew Gonzalez, Cather-
ine Potvin, Melania Cristescu, Jaye Ellis, Virginie Mil-
lien, Rowan Barrett, Pierre Legendre, Mark Vellend,100 EvolDir September 1, 2013
Christian Messier, Steven Kembel, Dominique Gravel,
and many more.
Additional information can be found on the
course website: http://qcbs.ca/training/summer-
school/2013-biodiversity-science-intensive-course/
For inquiries, please contact Philippe Auzel:
philippe.auzel@mcgill.ca
|{
Le Centre de la science de la biodiversit e du Qu ebec
(CSBQ) ore chaque ann ee un cours intensif en science
de la biodiversit e.
H eberg es dans une station de recherche de terrain
durant deux semaines, vous pourrez suivre les inter-
ventions de scientiques de renomm ee internationale,
membres du CSBQ ou invit es  a l'occasion du cours. Ce
cours s'adresse aux  etudiants des cycles sup erieurs, aux
stagiaires postdoctoraux et aux biologistes profession-
nels qui souhaitent  elargir leurs connaissances sur les
sujets de l'heure en science de la biodiversit e. Les sujets
abord es traiteront de la syst ematique phylog en etique,
de la th eorie de la biodiversit e, des liens entre la bio-
diversit e, du fonctionnement des  ecosyst emes, des ser-
vices rendus par les  ecosyst emes, ainsi que de la gestion
ou de l' economie de la biodiversit e.
Le cours est ouvert  a un maximum de 25 par-
ticipants. Nous acceptons les demandes provenant
d' etablissements au Qu ebec, au Canada et  a l' etranger.
La priorit e sera n eanmoins donn ee aux  etudiants du
r eseau du CSBQ. Les candidats retenus doivent par-
ticiper activement  a tous les aspects du cours et suivre
un enseignement  a temps plein (environ 90 heures) du-
rant lequel les conf erences alternent avec les ateliers de
travail.
Le cours aura lieu  a la R eserve naturelle Gault au Mont
Saint-Hilaire, Qu ebec, Canada, du 25 novembre au 6
d ecembre 2013.
Comit e organisateur des conf erences :Jonathan Davies
(Universit e McGill), Pedro Peres-Neto (UQAM) et
Jean-Philippe Lessard (Universit e McGill).
Conf erenciers invit es : Graham Bell, Andrew Gonzalez,
Catherine Potvin, Melania Cristescu, Jaye Ellis, Vir-
ginie Millien, Rowan Barrett, Pierre Legendre, Mark
Vellend, Christian Messier, Steven Kembel, Dominique
Gravel. D'autres conf erenciers s'ajouteront  a cette liste
d'invit es.
Pour plus d'informations veuillez consulter le site
du cours: http://qcbs.ca/training/summer-school/-
2013-biodiversity-science-intensive-course/ Pour de
plus amples informations et si vous avez des ques-
tions, merci de contacter le coordonnateur du CSBQ:philippe.auzel@mcgill.ca
Jean-Philippe Lessard Quebec Center for Biodiversity
Science Postdoctoral Fellow
Department of Biology McGill University Stewart Biol-
ogy Building 1205 ave Docteur Peneld Montreal, Que-
bec H3A-1B1, CANADA
Tel: 514-398-4455 ext: 6428 Fax: 514-398-5069
Email: jean-philippe.lessard@mcgill.ca Web-
site: www.jeanphilippelessard.com < http://-
www.jeanphilippelessard.com/ >
\Jean-Philippe Lessard, Mr" <jean-
philippe.lessard@mcgill.ca >
Oulu Finland EvolDevPopGenetics
Sep12-13
Welcome to the Workshop on Evolutionary, De-
velopmental and Population Genetics, September
12-13, 2013 <https://wiki.oulu./display/genetics/-
Workshop+on+Evolutionary%2C+Developmental+and+Population+Genetics%2C+September+12-
13%2C+2013 >, in Oulu Finland!
The event is organized in cooperation by the
Biocenter Oulu Doctoral Programme <http://-
www.oulu./biocenter/doctoral-programme >(BCO-
DP), the Finnish German doctoral Training Network
in Developmental Biology <http://www.helsinki./-
vgsb/FinGerDevNet/ >(FinGerDevNet) and the Na-
tional Population Genetics Doctoral Program <http:/-
/www.oulu./biology/PopGenSchool/ >.
Workshop home page: https:/-
/wiki.oulu./display/genetics/-
Workshop+on+Evolutionary%2C+Developmental+and+Population+Genetics%2C+September+12-
13%2C+2013 Program:
Thursday - 12 September 09.00-09.30. Get together
coee 09.15-09.30 TED Virtual Lecture - Orientation
to the subject 09.30-09.45. Opening and orientation
by Seppo Vainio & Tanja Pyh aj arvi 09.45-10.30. Bran-
don Gaut (USA): \Methylation and the evolution of
plant genes and genomes" 10.30-11.15. Jukka Jernvall
(Finland): \Comparative enhancer landscapes of tooth
genes" 11.15-11.45. Coee/Tea break and social ac-
tivity 11.45-12.30. Hadi Valadi (Sweden): \Exosomes
shuttle RNA between cells, a potential vector for de-
livery of therapeutic nucleic acids to cells" 12.30-13.30
Lunch break 13.30-14.15. Benedetta Bussolati (Italy):
\Nanovesicles in control of progenitor cells and kidneySeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 101
function" 14.15-15.15. Student - speaker discussions on
the topics (Please register to the teams)
1. Evolutionary biology 2. Nanovesicles/exosomes 3.
Developmental Biology 15.15-16.00 Ram Reshef (Is-
rael): \Hox genes and the establishment of the kid-
ney morphogenetic eld" 16.00-16.45 Rachel Giles (Hol-
land): \Evolution of the kidney"
Friday 13 September 09.00-09.30. Get together coee
- TED lecture in lecture hall 09.30-10.00. Summaries
and reviews of the discussions from the 1-3 miniteams
given by the students 10.00-10.45. Mark Hankins (UK):
\The evolution of non-visual photoreceptors in the ver-
tebrates". 10.45-11.30 Moises Mallo (Spain): \Vari-
ations in rib numbers among vertebrates: a story of
small dierences with a big impact". 11.30-12.15 Bran-
don Gaut (USA). \The molecular and functional diver-
sity of adaptive convergence." Closing of the workshop
by Seppo Vainio and Tanja Pyh aj arvi
Venue: Linnanmaa, Oulu (Lecture halls will be an-
nounced later) Contact: Tanja Pyh aj arvi or Seppo
Vainio (rstname.lastname@oulu.)
Registration Here < https:/-
/docs.google.com/forms/d/-
1tPjJcws67zrcT6RnL14BY6uBo06xtw3fTxaLHZd27 E/-
viewform >
Tanja Pyh aj arvi, Senior Research Fellow Univer-
sity of Oulu, Department of Biology Room KE244-
2 (tel. 48 1521) Mobile +358 50 3504932 email:
tanja.pyhajarvi@oulu.
Mail: Department of Biology PL 3000 90014 University
of Oulu FINLAND
Tanja Pyh aj arvi <tanja.pyhajarvi@oulu. >
Oulu Finland PopGenetics Sep12-13
URLupdates
Regarding the Workshop on Evolutionary, Develop-
mental and Population Genetics, September 12-13,
2013 in Oulu, Finland,
Unfortunately the URL addresses of all our wiki-pages
changed during a recent update. This is a new link to
Workshop wiki-page:
https://wiki.oulu./conuence/display/genetics/-
Workshop+on+Evolutionary%2C+Developmental+and+Population+Genetics%2C+September+12-
13%2C+2013 Registration:https://docs.google.com/forms/d/-
1tPjJcws67zrcT6RnL14BY6uBo06xtw3fTxaLHZd27 E/-
viewform Best regards, Tanja
Tanja Pyh aj arvi, Senior Research Fellow University of
Oulu, Department of Biology
tanja.pyhajarvi@gmail.com
tanja.pyhajarvi@gmail.com
Poznan Poland TeachingEvolution
Sep15-19
Hello,
I would like to announce a last minute call for a 4-day
workshop on Scientic Teaching, to be held in Poznan,
Poland, between 15-19 of September 2013. Due to the
last minute funding decision, we now have places avail-
able for international participants.
We invite faculty, postdoctoral fellows and PhD grad-
uate students to join us to address the strategies for
implementing learner-centered biology instruction and
how to redesign curricula that reect the biological sci-
ences in the 21st century.
During a highly interactive 4 full days (Mon-Thu), the
participants will learn the goals and theory of scien-
tic teaching, why and how to create a learner-centered
classroom, how to design an entire course framework,
how to develop and use student assessments to inform
evidence-based instruction, how to create active learn-
ing classes, how to implement cooperative learning, and
how to build and sustain a professional network for
teaching and learning. Throughout the workshop, we
will address the practical realities of classroom logistics
and time for processing and analyzing student assess-
ment data. By the end of the workshop, participants
will have more tools and data to support their deci-
sion to teach science as it is practiced, that is, scientic
teaching. The workshop is an excellent preparation
for biologists who plan to teach during their careers,
but participants with all life science background are
encouraged to apply. This course is the second Euro-
pean edition of the US-based FIRST project ( https:/-
/www.msu.edu/ ~ rst4/About.html). It is funded by
the Foundation for Polish Science, organised by Adam
Mickiewicz University in Poznan by prof. Izabela
Maka ccowska and Joanna Ciomborowska and will be
run by prof. Diane Ebert-May from Michigan State
University, USA and Dr Jarek Bryk from the National102 EvolDir September 1, 2013
Centre for Biotechnology Education at the University
of Reading, UK. The course is a part of the Foundation
for Polish Science's SKILLS workshop series.
Participants aliated with Polish academic institutions
may be eligible for the course fee waiver thanks to fund-
ing from the Foundation for Polish Science and EU
FP7 programme. For others the course costs 300 Euro,
which includes accommodation and food but does not
include travel to/from Poznan.
Registration deadline: Midnight on Wednesday,
September 5th (NEXT WEEK!). To apply, please send
us:
1. Your name, aliation and position held including
if/how much teaching you do and to what audience;
2. An up to 200 words long statement explaining your
reason for applying to the workshop and expected out-
comes from your participation in relation to your career
goals;
3. Curriculum Vitae;
4. An up to 200 words long statement of teaching phi-
losophy;
Please combine all the les into a single pdf le, name
it * LastnameFirstname FIRSTIVPoland.pdf* and
email the nalized application to j.bryk@reading.ac.uk.
Please use the same email with any questions about the
workshop.
Some more information about the course is avail-
able at http://scienticteaching.wordpress.com
yotiao@gmail.com
Tromso Phylogeography
September2013
ForBio Phylogeographic Methods course 16 - 24
September 2013, University of Tromso
Language of instruction: English? Course ma-
terials: Curriculum/reading list ca. 10?12 pa-
pers Course contact person: Sergei V. Drovetski
(sdrovetski@gmail.com) Teachers: Dorothee Ehrich
(University of Troms, dorothee.ehrich@uit.no),
Andreas Tribsch (University of Salzburg, Austria,
andreas.tribsch@sbg.ac.at) and Edson Sandoval-
Castellanos (Swedish Museum of Natural History,
edson.Sandoval@nrm.se)
Applications accepted until the course is lled on the\rst come, rst serve basis"
Introduction: Phylogeography literally combines phy-
logeny with biogeography and investigates the geo-
graphic distribution of intra- or interspecic genetic
variation. Observed patterns reect the biogeograph-
ical and evolutionary history of a species or a species
complex. Phylogeographic studies address questions
about colonization pattern, historical range contrac-
tions or expansions in reaction to past climate change
or other environmental inuences, ice age refugia or hy-
bridization. The phylogeographic approach has become
increasingly important in taxonomic research as well as
in the eld of conservation biology. Despite its origi-
nal focus on genetic lineages and sequence data, also
allele frequencies and other types of genetic data are
frequently used.
Course focus and activities: In this course we will in-
troduce the theoretical basis of phylogeography, genetic
markers used, and data analysis. The main part will be
a computer course in analyzing and interpreting phylo-
geographic data based on model datasets and/or data
sets of participants. We will start with basic analyses
such as estimating diversity and dierentiation and in-
troduce more advanced methods such as Isolation with
migration models, historical demography, and approx-
imate Bayesian calculation using the coalescent. The
course is also meant to be a workshop, where it will be
possible to discuss concepts, ideas and analyses of the
participants own data sets.
General information: Course participants are expected
to have basic knowledge in evolutionary biology and
population genetics. Some knowledge of biogeography
is an advantage.?Participants will receive a number of
scientic articles (10-12) on the topic to study before
the course. Evaluation will be based on a project re-
port to be delivered after the course. There is no
exam and successful course participation will certied
as \passed".
Required previous knowledge/course specic require-
ments Master degree in biology
Assessment - Project report
Assignment A report and participation in course activ-
ities. Grade pass/fail.
Course start: 16 September 2013 at 12:00 Course end:
24 September at 17:00
Course costs: No course fee. Travel and accommoda-
tion is refunded for members of the Norwegian-Swedish-
Danish Research School in Biosystematics (ForBio).
Food is not refunded for courses organized at a uni-
versity campus.September 1, 2013 EvolDir 103
Terms for reimbursement: For travel reimbursement
you will have to ll out the standard Norwegian
travel form and send it with original receipts to Sergei
V. Drovetski (Troms University Museum, NO-9037
Troms Norway). For the travel we will cover your ac-
commodation and transportation expenses. You must
order ight tickets within 4 days after you receive con-
rmation from us; this is to get access to the cheapest
tickets possible. Other types of transportation (bus,
trains, etc.) that can be pre-booked, should also be
booked as early as possible. Do not book hotels on your
own, ForBio will book accommodation. Rooms (2-3
persons per room) will be reserved at Sydspissen Hotel
(http://www.sydspissenhotell.no/EN/index.html).
Application: Persons with a genuine interest in biosys-
tematics who want to participate in this course,
rst have to register as ForBio member or asso-
ciates (please visit ForBio membership page (http:/-
/www.forbio.uio.no/membership/). After registration
as ForBio associate, please send an e-mail to Sergei V.
Drovetski (sdrovetski@gmail.com) expressing your in-
terest in course attendance and briey describing your
research interest(s)/project(s).
Sergei V. Drovetski Researcher Troms University
Museum NO-9037 Troms Norway e-mail: sdrovet-
ski@gmail.com
sdrovetski@gmail.com
UOtago MarineMammalGenomics
Dec8
A one-day workshop entitled 'Marine Mammal
Genomics: applications to evolution, ecology, and
conservation' will be held at the University of Otago
on December 8, 2013, immediately prior to the Society
for Marine Mammalogy's (SMM) Biennial Conference.
The workshop will consist primarily of invited talks,
focusing on both genome sequencing/annotation and
the use of genomics to study speciation, popula-
tion structure, and adaptation in marine mammals.
For a more complete description of the workshop,
please see the conference workshop website ( http://-
www.marinemammalscience.org/index.php?option=-
com content&view=article&idU8&Itemid36 ).
Student Travel Grants: With support from the Amer-
ican Genetic Association, publishers of the Journal of
Heredity (http://www.theaga.org/), we are pleased to
announce the availability of eight awards of $1,000 eachto support graduate student registration and travel to
the workshop. The award will also support a one-
year AGA student membership. Students who wish
to be considered for the award should submit a CV
and 2-3 paragraph (no more than 250 words) essay
describing why they should be supported. A small
committee of marine mammal scientists using genomic
techniques will review the applications. Award recip-
ients will be selected based on 1) demonstrated inter-
est in marine mammal genomics (i.e. publications, on-
going research projects); and 2) nancial need. We
hope to support a diverse group of students. Appli-
cations must be submitted by September 1 via email to
kristina.cammen@duke.edu.
Registration: With generous support from an Ameri-
can Genetic Association Special Event Award, we are
able to oer reduced registration fees to all partici-
pants. Registration fees will be $25 for students who
are members of SMM, $60 for all other members of
SMM and students who are not members, and $100
for non-members. These fees cover the cost of space,
audio-visual equipment, and catering (lunch and cof-
fee breaks). Registration will soon be available at the
above conference workshop website.
For more information about registration or any
other questions about the workshop, please contact
kristina.cammen@duke.edu.
Kristina Cammen Duke University Marine Lab
Kristina Cammen <kristina.cammen@duke.edu >
Vilnius Lithuania Conservation
Nov4-8
Dear all,
Nordic Genetic Resource Center (NordGen) is arrang-
ing a workshop*\Optimal Contribution Selection"* in
Vilnius, Lithuania 4th-8th of November 2013.
The main goals of the workshop are
to introduce the theory and implementation of Opti-
mal Contribution Selection in sustainable management
of breeding and conservation programs
to promote independent use of EVA (EVolutionary Al-
gorithms) software with hands-on exercises
To maximize the learning experience of all participants,
the workshop is divided into two parts. Participants
may choose to register for *both* *or only one* of104 EvolDir September 1, 2013
the consecutive parts: \/Part I { Introductory"/ and
\/Part II { Advanced"/.
For a closer description of the workshop program, reg-
istration and practical information, please, follow the
link below
https://sites.google.com/a/nordgen.org/workshop-
optimal-contribution-selection/ Feel free to distribute
this invitation amongst your colleagues.
Best regards
Anne Prbel NordGen - Nordic Genetic Resource Cen-
ter P.O. Box 115, NO-1431 As, Norway Street address:
Raveien 9, 1430 As Phone: +47 64949700, mobile: +47
40557652
torsten.nygaard@nordgen.org
www.nordgen.org Torsten Nygaard Kristensen
<torsten.nygaard@nordgen.org >
YaleU PhylogeneticsNGS Nov4-7
MPS for NGS Workshop Massively Parallel Sequenc-
ing using Next Generation Sequencing for Phylogenet-
ics and Phylogeography
Where: Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut
When: 4-7 November, 2013
Presented by: Yale Institute for Biospheric Studies-
Molecular Systematics and Conservation Genetics Cen-
ter and Life Technologies
Instructors: Danielle Edwards (Yale) (https://-
sites.google.com/site/drdanielleedwards/), Ben Evans
(Yale), Erin Schnettler (Yale), Jennifer Stover (Life
Technologies)
Registration Fee: $400, due by 1 October, 2013. In-
cluded in the fee is instruction, light continental break-fast, lunch and afternoon coee break. Parking passes
can be provided for those who drive to campus.
Accommodations: We can facilitate staying with a Yale
graduate student host for $30/night. Alternative Hotel
accommodations must be made separately. There are
a few hotels in the area, within walking distance to the
Environmental Science Center, 21 Sachem Street.
Limited number of openings V maximum of 15 partic-
ipants
Registration Deadline: 1 October, 2013, for more infor-
mation, expressions of interest and to register contact:
Dr. Danielle Edwards (danielle.edwards@yale.edu)
Workshop Overview:
While focus will be on techniques specic to the Ion
Torrent PGM, the library preparation and bioinformat-
ics portions of the workshop will be general enough to
apply to any NGS platform. The workshop will be a se-
ries of classroom lectures, and hands on demonstrations
with extensive troubleshooting suggestions.
Day 1& 2 Library Preparation for any NGS platform
PCR Amplicon pooling (Fluorometry), Optimization &
size selection (instructions for using various equipment
including the E-Gel, Pippin Prep and BioAnalyzer), in-
dividual pooling & quantitation. Day 2 will close with
a demonstration of the Ion Torrent One Touch PCR
machine and PGM, semi-conductor sequencing.
Day 3 Working with the Ion Torrent Server Hosted by
Life Technologies featuring Field Application Special-
ist, Jennifer Stover. How to set up runs, analyzing gen-
eral run statistics, and server capabilities.
Day 4 Bioinformatics & Data Processing (any NGS
platform) Alignment, SNP calling, Extracting useable
data.
For more information, expressions of interest
and to register contact: Dr. Danielle Ed-
wards (danielle.edwards@yale.edu) (https://-
sites.google.com/site/drdanielleedwards/)
Carol Mariani <carol.mariani@yale.edu >
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoralSeptember 1, 2013 EvolDir 105
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a
once monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope),
but should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain
old ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better
chance of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.