E v o l D i r
February 1, 2021
M o n t h i n R e v i e w
Foreword
This listing is intended to aid researchers in population genetics and evolution. To add your name to the directory
listing, to change anything regarding this listing or to complain please send me mail at Golding@McMaster.CA.
Listing in this directory is neither limited nor censored and is solely to help scientists reach other members in the
same eld and to serve as a means of communication. Please do not add to the junk e-mail unless necessary. The
nature of the messages should be \bulletin board" in nature, if there is a \discussion" style topic that you would
like to post please send it to the USENET discussion groups.
Instructions for the EvolDir are listed at the end of this message.
/
Foreword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
GradStudentPositions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
Jobs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Other . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .43
PostDocs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
WorkshopsCourses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Instructions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .85
Afterword . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 862 EvolDir February 1, 2021
Conferences
Online 150thAnniversaryOfTheDescentOfMan Feb2-
Apr20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Online CIGENE Feb10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Online ConservationAndCovid Jan15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Online EvolCompGen Jan28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3Online EvolutionEcology Feb-Mar . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Online ExploringTheEukaryoticTreeOfLife Apr28 . . . 4
Online InHonourProfJohnAWoolliams . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Online MICPhylogenomics Feb15-17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5
Online 150thAnniversaryOfTheDes-
centOfMan
Feb2-Apr20
The Center for the Dynamics of Social Complexity
(http://dysoc.org) is happy to announce a series of free
webinars on
\Human origins and cultural evolution: Celebrating the
150th anniversary of The Descent of Man" .
This series is a continuation of the Fall 2020
DySoC/NIMBioS Webinar Series on Cultural Evolution
http://www.dysoc.org/ces webinars Register once for
the entire series: https://tennessee.zoom.us/webinar/-
register/WN yJ5vObgNTPSTXP 94OiUxA Schedule:
Feb 2, 12:15 p.m. EST, Joe Henrich (Human Evolu-
tionary Biology, Harvard Univ.) \The Secret of Our
Success" Feb 9, 11:45 a.m. EST, Marta Lahr (Human
Evolutionary Studies, Univ. of Cambridge, UK) Topic
TBA Feb 16, 11:45 a.m. EST, Johannes Krause (Max
Planck Institute for the Science of Human History, Jena,
Germany) Topic TBA Feb 23, 11:45 a.m. EST, Chris
Stringer (Human Evolution, Natural History Museum,
London, UK) \What is Homo sapiens?" Mar 2, 11:45
a.m. EST, Polly Wiessner (Human Evolution and So-
cial Change, Arizona State Univ.) \The Embers of
Society: Firelight Talk among the Ju/'hoansi Bushmen"Mar 9, 12:15 p.m. EST, Michael Muthukrishna (Eco-
nomic Psychology, London School of Economics, UK)
\Cultural Brain Hypothesis, Collective Brains, and the
Evolution of Intelligence" Mar 16, 11:45 a.m. EDT,
Louise Barrett (Psychology, Univ. of Lethbridge, Al-
berta, Canada) \Thinking Outside the Head: Cognitive
Ecologies and Evolutionary Psychology" Mar 23, 11:45
a.m. EDT, Sarah Mathew (Human Evolution and So-
cial Change, Arizona State Univ.) \War and Peace:
The Cultural Evolution of Large-scale Conict and Co-
operation" Mar 30, 11:45 a.m. EDT, Fiona Jordan
(Anthropology, Univ. of Bristol, UK) \'A subject too
large and complex' for Darwin: The cultural evolution
of kinship terminology" Apr 6, 11:45 a.m. EDT, Man-
vir Singh (Human Evolutionary Biology, Institute for
Advanced Studies, Toulouse, France) \Human social or-
ganization during the Late Pleistocene: Challenging the
nomadic-egalitarian model" Apr 13, 11:45 a.m. EDT,
Thomas Currie (Cultural Evolution, Biosciences, Univ.
of Exeter, UK) \The descent of rules: Investigating
the cultural evolution and ecology of institutions" Apr
20, 11:15 a.m. EDT, Maria Lapinski (Health and Risk
Communication Center, Michigan State Univ.) \Com-
municating Cultural and Social Norms"
More detail: http://www.dysoc.org/dom webinars Pre-
vious webinars: http://www.dysoc.org/seminars Sergey
Gavrilets Distinguished Professor Department of Ecol-
ogy and Evolutionary Biology Department of Mathe-
matics Associate Director for Scientic Activities Na-
tional Institute for Mathematical and Biological Syn-
thesis (NIMBioS) Director, Center for the DynamicsFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 3
of Social Complexity (DySoC) University of Tennessee,
Knoxville, TN 37996 Research Aliate School of An-
thropology, University of Oxford 51-53 Banbury Rd,
Oxford OX2 6PE External Faculty Complexity Science
Hub Vienna Josefstadter Strasse 39, A1080 Vienna
phone: (865) 974-8136 fax:|| (865) 974-3067 e-mail:
gavrila@tiem.utk.edu web: www.tiem.utk.edu/ ~gavrila
NIMBioS: www.nimbios.org DySoC: www.dysoc.org
Sergey Gavrilets <gavrila@tiem.utk.edu >
Online CIGENE Feb10
Dear EvolDir members,
We are pleased to announce that the online CIGENE
seminars are now up. We kick-o the semester with a
presentation by Rishi De-Kayne, EAWAG, 10th Febru-
ary 2021 at 12:00-12:50 (Oslo time). He will talk about:
Genomic insights into the evolution of the Alpine white-
sh radiation.
For abstract and updated information on CIGENE sem-
inars, please visit: https://cigene.no/cigene-seminar-
series/ Anybody interested except for Zoombomber is
welcome. Recording is not planned.
Best wishes,
Marie SAITOU, Ph.D. Tenure-Track Principal Investiga-
tor, Centre of Integrative Genetics (CIGENE), Faculty
of Biosciences, Norwegian University of Life Sciences
https://sites.google.com/view/saitou-lab Marie Saitou
<marie.saitou@nmbu.no >
Online ConservationAndCovid
Jan15
I would like to announce this webimar on the impact
of Covid on Conservation Worldwide, which I think
would be of interest to evolutionary biologist. It brings
together speakers from IUCN, Oxford University, TRAF-
FIC, Europarcs Foundation and the Jaguar Rescue Cen-
ter. Below you can nd the link to the entire program,
The webinar free of cost, will take place on the 15th of
January, 0800-1200 CST.
https://www.jaguarrescue.foundation/-Portals/0/Images/Webinars/Enero2021/-
JRCWebinar JAN15th.pdf KInd regards
Cristina Chaminade
Cristina Chaminade, PhD Full Professor Lund Uni-
versity School of Economics and Management Direc-
tor of the Master in Innovation and Global Sustain-
able Development Lund University Box 7083, 22007
LUND Sweden cristina.chaminade@ekh.lu.se and ccha-
minade@gmail.com www.cristinachaminade.com chami
<cchaminade@gmail.com >
Online EvolCompGen Jan28
Dear colleagues,
You are invited to the next online journal club on Evolu-
tion and Comparative Genomics organized by ISCB and
SMBE (as part of the ISCBacademy series of webinars)
on Evolution and Comparative Genomics.
The next seminar will take place next week, Thursday
January 28, at 11:00AM EDT: A phylogenetic simu-
lation framework for gene and subgene evolution by
Soumya Kundu (University of Connecticut).
Participation is free for any member of ISCB or SMBE,
but registration is required. To register, please fol-
low the link below: https://www.iscb.org/iscbacademy-
upcoming#kundu A link to the article: Kundu, S.,
& Bansal, M. S. (2019). SaGePhy: An improved phy-
logenetic simulation framework for gene and subgene
evolution. Bioinformatics, 35(18), 3496-3498. https://-
doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btz081 If you are inter-
ested in presenting, or you want to suggest an article of
interest for the journal club, please send an abstract to
webinar@evolcompgen.org with \Abstract for Webinar"
as the title of your message.
All the best,
Aida Ouangraoua, on behalf of the organizing commit-
tee.
A da Ouangraoua <Aida.Ouangraoua@USherbrooke.ca >4 EvolDir February 1, 2021
Online EvolutionEcology Feb-Mar
Dear EvolDir,
Join us for the new year of our popular online seminar
series in Evolution and Ecology. We have now released
the schedule of seminars for February and March; please
see details below. Talk titles to be announced soon.
|
Wed 10 Feb
Professor Gerald Carter
(Dept. of Evolution, Ecology & Organismal Biology,
The Ohio State University, USA)
|
Wed 17 Feb
Professor Walter Salzburger
(Dept. of Environmental Sciences, University of Basel,
Switzerland)
|
Wed 24 Feb
Dr. Siobhan O'Brien
(Dept. of Integrative Biology, University of Liverpool,
UK)
|
Wed 3 March
Dr. Melissah Rowe
(Dept. of Animal Ecology, Netherlands Institute of
Ecology, Wageningen, NL)
|
Wed 10 March
Professor Li Zhao
(The Rockefeller University, New York, USA)
|
Wed 17 March
Dr. Pavitra Muralidhar
(Dept. of Organismic & Evolutionary Biology, Harvard
University, USA)
|Wed 24 March
Professor Tracey Chapman
(School of Biological Sciences, University of East Anglia,
UK)
|
Wed 31 March
Professor Troy Day
(Depts. of Mathematics and Biology, Queen's University,
Canada)
|
When: 5PM GMT / 9-10AM PST, Wednesdays.
Where: talks live-streamed to our YouTube
channel https://www.youtube.com/channel/-
UCMsYvoHLNVm4rbcTLj162zQ , post your questions
for our speakers via Slack
Publicity: upcoming talks promoted on Slack
& Twitter @EvoEcoSeminars (https://twitter.com/-
EvoEcoSeminars)
How to join: our Slack 'Evolution and Ecology Seminars'
here https://join.slack.com/t/evolutionecol-xl54980/-
shared invite/zt-ev4fe0io-M7B ~D6p74blV ZRcDtmAcg
Please follow our Twitter feed and join the Slack group
for details of future upcoming talks.
Hope that you can join us. Feel free to circulate to
anyone who may be interested.
Many thanks,
Dr. Elizabeth Duxbury Dr. Andreas Sutter Dr. Iulia
Darolti Dr. Wouter van der Bijl
Dr. Elizabeth Duxbury Senior Postdoctoral Research
Associate Prof. Alexei Maklakov Group School of Bi-
ological Sciences University of East Anglia Norwich
Research Park UK
\Elizabeth Duxbury (BIO - Sta)"
<E.Duxbury@uea.ac.uk >
Online
ExploringTheEukaryoticTreeOfLife
Apr28
Calling for abstracts for the \Exploring the Eukaryotic
Tree of Life" session that will take place during the 2021
Annual Conference Online of the Microbiology SocietyFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 5
on Wednesday, 28th of April (14:00 - 17:00 UK time).
This session, under the umbrella of Protistology-UK,
will complement the new UK initiative \Darwin Tree
of Life Project", which aims to sequence and annotate
the genomes of 66,000 UK species of animals, plants
protists and fungi. This initiative is part of the \Earth
BioGenome Project", which targets to sequence all 1.5
million known eukaryotic species on earth. Protists
and fungi are the main contributors to this list and
we will explore their vast diversity, not only within
the UK, but globally. We are inviting speakers to
discuss which branches of the eukaryotic tree of life
have been over/underestimated based on recent metage-
nomics data and which regions have been under-sampled
to explore the evolution of potentially new branches of
the eukaryotic tree.
Invited speakers include: Prof. Neil Hall (Earlham In-
stitute, UK) Prof. Patrick Keeling (UBC, Canada) Dr.
Sarah Hu (Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute, USA)
Organisers: Dr. Anastasios Tsaousis (University of
Kent, UK) and Dr. Sonja Rueckert (Edinburgh Napier
University, UK)
Abstact submission deadline: 15 February 2021 https:/-
/microbiologysociety.org/event/annual-conference/-
annual-conference-online-2021.html#tab-2 For more
information, please visit the Microbiology Society's
website: https://microbiologysociety.org/event/annual-
conference/annual-conference-online-2021.html#tab-0
For more information regarding Protistology-UK can
be found here: https://www.protistology.org.uk Kind
regards,
Anastasios Tsaousis Vice President of Protistology-UK
Dr. Anastasios D. Tsaousis jReader in Molecular & Evo-
lutionary Parasitology School of Biosciences, University
of Kent, Canterbury, Kent, CT2 7NJ, UK
Homepage <https://www.adtsaousis.com >jKent
Homepage <https://www.kent.ac.uk/biosciences/-
people/653/tsaousis-anastasios >jORCID <https://-
orcid.org/0000-0002-5424-1905 >jGoogle Scholar <
MCBBAAAAAJ&hl=en&oi=srahttps://-
scholar.google.co.uk/citations?user gMCBBAAAAAJ&hl=
en&oi=sra >jScopus <https://www.scopus.com/-
authid/detail.uri?authorId&535313800 >jTwit-
ter: @ADTsaousis jSkype: tsaousislab jEmail:
a.tsaousis@kent.ac.uk jTel: +44 (0) 1227 82 7007 j
Oce: Ingram 220 jLab: Ingram G48
Anastasios Tsaousis <A.Tsaousis@kent.ac.uk >Online
InHonourProfJohnAWoolliams
Hi,
Please note that we have further increased the number
of available registrations for the Symposium in honour
of Professor John A. Woolliams that is taking place
on-line on the 28th January
https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/symposium-in-honour-
of-professor-john-a-woolliams-tickets-129488510621 On
behalf of the organising committee.
With regards!
University of Edinburgh Gregor Gorjanc, PhD Roslin
Institute Chancellor's fellow in Easter Bush Data Driven
Innovation for AgriTech Midlothian twitter: @Gre-
gorGorjanc EH25 9RG mail: gregor.gorjanc <at>
roslin.ed.ac.uk Scotland, UK
Gregor Gorjanc <gregor.gorjanc@roslin.ed.ac.uk >
Online MICPhylogenomics Feb15-17
Dear EvolDir Community,
We would like to inform you that the deadline for work-
shop registration and abstract submission for MIC-Phy
2021 is approaching: **15th January 2021**.
The **Mathematical, Inferential, and Computational
Phylogenomics** (MIC-Phy) workshop will take place
online from 15th to 17th February 2021. It intends to
stimulate a broader discussion on novel phylogenomic
models, focusing on the computational and statistical
aspects of using large and heterogeneous sequences to
build species trees and perform inference. We welcome
submissions on recent advances in phylogenetic method
development (both theoretical and computational), as
well as key insights into new or old data gained using
novel methods.
Keynote speakers: * Ziheng Yang (University College
of London, UK) * Tracy Heath (Iowa State University
of Science and Technology, USA)
We will hold small computer tutorials entitled **New6 EvolDir February 1, 2021
approaches to phylogenetic inference**. The main focus
will be polymorphism-aware phylogenetic models and
software sessions in RevBayes and IQ-TREE.
MIC-Phy is supported by the WWTF and VetMedUni
Vienna, and there is no registration fee!
You can nd more information about the workshop at
https://mrborges23.github.io/micphy2021/ . Important
dates: * 15th January 2021: Deadline for workshop reg-istration and abstract submission * 1st February 2021:
Notication of oral/poster presentation and workshop
acceptance * 9th February 2021: Registration and poster
submission deadline
Best wishes, Rui Borges and Carolin Kosiol (On behalf
of the organizing committee)
ruiborges23@gmail.com
Rui Borges <ruiborges23@gmail.com >
GradStudentPositions
CharlesU AvianSecondarySympatry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
FUBerlin TermiteGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
iDiv Germany TreeDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
IndianaUPennsylvania ConservationGenomics . . . . . . 8
LMU Munich 2 BehaviouralEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
NorthernArizonaU TreeEvolGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Paris EvolutionaryMachineLearning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
UAberdeen EvolutionInvasiveInsects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11
UBasel AlpinePlantEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
UBern EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
UGhent EvolutionGenomeDuplication . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13UGhent SpiderUrbanisation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
UHohenheim LocalAdaptationPopGenHoneybees . . 15
ULausanne PlantEvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
UNorthCarolina Greensboro MammalEvolution . . . 16
UNorthDakota WildlifeGenomicsPaleoecology . . . . . 17
UNottingham EvolutionOfMimicry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
UReading PlantDiseaseEpidemiologyEvolution . . . . 18
UTasmania SexChromosomeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
WesternSydneyU BacterialEvolutionAndDiagnostics 20
CharlesU AvianSecondarySympatry
PhD POSITION in ECOLOGY at CHARLES UNIVER-
SITY IN PRAGUE
PROJECT *Ecology and evolution of secondary sympa-
try in birds across spatial scales*
We are seeking a highly motivated and creative PhD
candidate to join a new project assessing secondary
sympatry in birds across spatial scales (funded by theCzech Science Foundation). The research is focused
on the evolution of secondary sympatry in birds glob-
ally. The evolution of secondary sympatry is of central
importance, because it allows the buildup of species di-
versity. Special emphasis will be placed on teasing apart
local vs regional scales of species coexistence. You will
learn and use a range of modern analytical approaches,
disentangling macroecological patterns within a broad
macroevolutionary framework. You will work with large-
scale occurrence data from citizen-science projects, mu-
seum measurements, and phylogenies. The length of
study is 4 years. The successful applicant will be super-
vised by Dr. Vladimir Remes (www.vladremes.eu) at
the Department of Ecology, Faculty of Science, CharlesFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 7
University in Prague.
*We oer*
- attractive research topic addressing major ecological
and evolutionary questions
- 25000 CZK net per month (student scholarship and
part-time employment), comfortably covering living ex-
penses in the Czech Republic
- healthcare insurance and other benets included
- friendly, supportive, and international environment
*We expect*
*Essential:
- MSc degree in biology (ideally focused on ecology,
evolution or behavior)
- enthusiasm for nature, science, ecology and evolution;
independent thinking
- ability to work as a team member
- uency in English in both speaking and writing
- basic command of R statistical environment and a
dedication to learn more
*Desirable:
- research experience evidenced by (co)authoring scien-
tic papers or conference contributions
- experience with analyzing geographical or phylogenetic
data
- programming experience (e.g. R, Python, Matlab or
similar environments)
Please provide a structured CV (including BSc/MSc
grades and projects), contacts for at least two academic
referees (email, phone and aliation), and a cover letter
stating your previous work, research interests, moti-
vation and qualications for this project. All these
materials, as well as informal questions, should be sent
to Vladimir Remes (vlad.remes@gmail.com). Review
of applications will start 15 March 2021. Selected ap-
plicants will be interviewed online in late March/early
April 2021. The successful applicant will have to apply
ocially via webpage of the Faculty of Science, Charles
University, before 30 April 2021. The position starts 1
October 2021, and the length of study is 4 years.
Vladim r Reme ^A1<vlad.remes@gmail.com >FUBerlin TermiteGenomics
** Doctoral position on termite genomics. Deadline for
applications: 1st February 2021 **
A 3-year doctoral position (TVL-13, 65%) is available at
the Institute of Biology of the Freie Universit at Berlin.
The position is part of a project funded by the Deutsche
Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG) that aims to take ad-
vantage of recent developments in genomic sequencing
to gain new insights into a major milestone in evo-
lution: the emergence of sociality. The transition to
sociality that exists across termites and their nearest
cockroach relatives represents a powerful framework for
understanding the genomic changes behind this signi-
cant evolutionary transition. The main objective of the
project is to sequence, assemble and annotate platinum-
grade genomes from a range of representative species
spanning the origin and subsequent diversication of
termites. These data will be used to investigate the
molecular mechanisms underpinning the evolution of
termite eusociality and to elucidate the origins of ter-
mite division of labour. Genomes will be combined
with transcriptomic as well as proteomic data to further
explore the evolutionary origins of termite sociality.
The project will be carried out as a close collaboration
between Prof. Dino McMahon (FU Berlin) and Dr.
Mark Harrison from the University of M unster.
Responsiblities: Research in the eld of genomics, with
emphasis on genomic drivers of termite sociality; Prepa-
ration and analysis of transcriptomics (RNA-seq) and
genomic data: Programming in R and Python / Statis-
tical data analysis; Design of experiments (experimental
design) and formulation of hypotheses; Preparation and
execution of experiments; Working with live insects;
Familiarization with project-related literature.
Qualications for an application are a Bachelor and
Master's degree (or soon to be competed) in natural
sciences. Other desirable qualications: background /
strong interest in genome research and evolution; labora-
tory experience with molecular biology; good knowledge
in programming; uency in spoken and written English;
good team and communication skills; ability to work
independently; Experience: Completed projects or in-
ternships on research relevant topics are an advantage.
Applications should be written in English and include
the following documents: (1) A cover letter with a brief8 EvolDir February 1, 2021
explanation of motivation (not more than one page).
(2) A curriculum vitae with details of your research
experience and any publications.
(3) Names of 2-3 potential contacts as references. When
sending your application by e-mail (preferred), please
send as a pdf-document.
For informal enquiries about the position, please get
in touch with Dino McMahon (dino.mcmahon@fu-
berlin.de).
Deadline for applications: 1st February 2021 Application
documents (CV, 1-page research statement), including
contact details of 2 or 3 referees, should preferably be
sent by PDF to the above contact, or by post to: Prof.
Dr. Dino McMahon Unter den Eichen 87 12205 Berlin
Germany
\McMahon, Dino Peter" <dino-
peter.mcmahon@bam.de >
iDiv Germany TreeDiversity
M.Sc. thesis opportunity studying wood traits along
environmental gradients at the German Centre for Inte-
grative Biodiversity Research (Halle Jena Leipzig (Ger-
many)
An opportunity for a Master thesis is open at the Evo-
lution and Adaptation research group at the German
Centre of Integrative Biodiversity Research (iDiv) in
Leipzig - Germany. The topic of the thesis is centered
on the study of wood functional trait and climatic vari-
ation along an environmental gradient with a focus on
the species Enterolobium cyclocarpum. The species of
study is a Neotropical deciduous tree, found in season-
ally tropical dry forests from central Mexico to northern
South America. The project is part of a PhD research
on the drivers of adaptation to drought on E. cyclo-
carpum along water stress gradients in dry forests from
Colombia, for which genomic (RAD-seq) and functional
trait data are being currently collected and generated.
Tasks of the master student: - Participation in eld work
activities in Colombia for trait data collection (optional).
- Processing of wood samples. - Analysis of wood traits
(wood density, vessel density, vessel diameter, porosity,
ber length and tracheid length among others). - Assess-
ing the link between wood traits and climatic variation.
- Participation in co-authored publications.
The master student will be supervised by the doctoralstudent, Francisco Vel asquez, and Dr. Renske Onstein
(leader of the Evolution and Adaptation group at iDiv).
If you are motivated and feel this topic is of your in-
terest then please send your C.V. (including skills and
courses taken) along with a short motivation letter to:
francisco.velasquez puentes@idiv.de
\Francisco J. Vel asquez P."
<velasquez.puentes.francisco@gmail.com >
IndianaUPennsylvania
ConservationGenomics
The Emel lab https://sarahemel.weebly.com/ is seeking
a motivated master's student to take part in funded re-
search on Appalachian cottontail conservation genomics
at Indiana University of Pennsylvania (IUP). A 2-year
Research Assistantship to cover tuition and stipend
is available. This position starts in Fall 2021 in In-
diana, PA, with an opportunity for related remote or
on-campus employment in Summer 2021.
Appalachian cottontails have specic forested habitat
requirements and are restricted to ridgetops in the
Appalachian mountains, making them susceptible to
changes in human land use patterns and other distur-
bances. In collaboration with the labs of Je Larkin
and Joe Duchamp at IUP, this interdisciplinary project
aims to determine the current status of this species,
along with snowshoe hare, in the state of Pennsylvania,
and to evaluate the genetic and ecological responses to
landscape change and management practices. To study
patterns of genetic diversity and gene ow across the
landscape, the Emel lab is developing genomic tools for
high-throughput species identication and SNP geno-
typing of native Lagomorphs.
The master's student will be instrumental in developing
and applying these genomic tools to assess genetic struc-
ture and diversity. As a result, they will gain experience
in the molecular laboratory methods, bioinformatics,
and analysis of genomic data, with potential extensions
depending on research interests. There will also be
eldwork opportunities if desired.
The IUP MS in Biology https://www.iup.edu/biology/-
grad/ oers coursework in molecular genetics, statistics,
ecology, evolutionary biology, and special topics includ-
ing landscape/conservation genetics. Graduates of the
program go on to top PhD programs, state and federal
agencies, non-governmental conservation organizations,February 1, 2021 EvolDir 9
and industry.
Desired qualications: Bachelor's degree in Biology,
Computer Science, or a related eld. Coursework in
genetics, ecology, and evolutionary biology. Ability to
work both independently and collaboratively. Strong
written and oral communication skills and coursework
in statistics and computer science preferred. Applicants
with bioinformatic or coding experience in any language
(R, python, bash, etc.) are especially encouraged to
apply.
Interested candidates should email the following materi-
als to Dr. Sarah Emel (semel@iup.edu). Review begins
February 8; applications accepted until position lled:
1) Subject line reading \Emel Lab Graduate Position" 2)
Brief description of your research interests and relevant
experience 3) CV or resume 4) Unocial undergraduate
transcript 5) Contact information for 3 references
Informal inquiries are also welcome. The IUP Biol-
ogy graduate program has rolling admissions, and top
candidates will be instructed to apply.
Sarah L. Emel, Ph.D. Assistant Professor Department
of Biology Indiana University of Pennsylvania
semel@iup.edu
LMU Munich 2
BehaviouralEvolution
*Ecology and evolution of social impact and responsive-
ness in a wild sparrow population* Two PhD-positions
in Behavioral Ecology at LMU Munich. Application
deadline: 28.02.2021
*Project description *
Social interactions characterize all wild populations and
aect evolution whenever heritable traits are plastic in
response to heritable traits of conspecics. The evolu-
tion of \social responsiveness" to and \social impact"
on other' ^As phenotypes has attracted theoretical atten-
tion, but progress requires addressing key outstanding
questions: Do wild populations contain individual vari-
ation in degrees of social impact and responsiveness?
Does selection act on this variation, and which processes
maintain it? These key challenges will be addressed in
a research programme to understand social evolution.
The overarching aim is to combine the strengths of
cutting-edge behavioural ecology and quantitative ge-
netics theory to uniquely study the interplay betweensocial interactions and social selection in the wild. We
will focus on social foraging strategies in house sparrows
on Norwegian islands that use either private informa-
tion and actively nd food (\producers' ^A) or social
information to exploit food patches found by others
("scroungers\). Game theory predicts socially respon-
sive shifts towards scrounging when others produce,
and vice versa. Using innovative high-throughput be-
havioural screening of entire populations, we aim to
assay >600 birds for their producer-scrounger social im-
pact and responsiveness in >4,000 assays and determine
genomic relatedness, survival, and reproductive tness
for all individuals. We will address the following key
objectives:
*PhD-project 1* will establish whether individuals are
repeatable in (i) average level of producing-scrounging
("personality\), (ii) level of adjustment in producing-
scrounging to phenotypes expressed by partners ("social
responsiveness\) and (iii) producing-scrounging elicited
in partners ("social impact\). We will quantify co-
variances between these ' ^Atraits' ^A, describe (social)
environmental sources of variation within and among
individuals, and test for covariances with various key
behavioural (aggression, exploratory tendency) and mor-
phology traits (body size and shape) predicted by adap-
tive theory. *PhD-project 2* will quantify how natural
selection acts on producing-scrounging reaction norms
and study whether selection pressures covary with key
socioecological conditions; and thus determine the path-
ways (components of tness) by which selection acts on
this variation in the social phenotype in this well-studied
system. This will make it possible to start exploring
the potential evolutionary consequences of selection on
social impact and responsiveness in the wild, thereby
providing crucial new insights into the evolution of social
behaviour and the role of social interactions in ecological
and evolutionary processes.
*Research and Project group* The PhD-students will
be embedded in the Behavioural Ecology Group of the
Ludwig Maximilian' ^As University of Munich, located in
Martinsried. The group works broadly on two topics:
individual behaviour and life-history (Prof. NJ Dinge-
manse) and pre- and post-copulatory sexual selection
(Dr. C Tuni). Our group consists of ve PhD-students
and two postdocs, oering a dynamic social environ-
ment. The PhD-projects are part of a collaboration
with the Centre for Biodiversity Dynamics at NTNU
(Trondheim). International collaborators: Profs. B-E
Saether, H Jensen, T-H Ringsby, J Wright (NTNU),
Prof. A. Wilson (Exeter) and Prof. J. Morrand-Ferron
(Ottowa). PhD-students have the opportunity to apply
for admission to the International Research School for
Organismal Biology of the Max Planck Institute for Or-10 EvolDir February 1, 2021
nithology, which oers high-quality teaching programs
for PhD-students and ample opportunity for networking
and collaboration.
*Requirements * The two successful candidates should
have background training in evolutionary biology and
behavioural ecology. We are looking for candidates that
have experience with eldwork, bird handling, and are
able to work independently. Coding skills are required
for programming electronics equipment (sophisticated
PIT-tag readers) and performing complex statistical
analyses (e.g. multivariate animal models to estimate
IGEs). Social skills and ability to ourish in a team are
important for winter eldwork in Norway and various
collaborative aspects. Successful candidates speak uent
English. Command of Norwegian is a pro.
*Project duration and starting date* Successful candi-
dates will be oered a three-year PhD-position funded
by a grant of the German Science Foundation to Prof.
NJ Dingemanse. Starting date is 01.09.2021.
*Application package* Candidates should send a moti-
vation letter and CV to Prof. N. Dingemanse
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
NorthernArizonaU
TreeEvolGenomics
Graduate Research Assistantship in Evolutionary Ge-
nomics of Tree species
The School of Forestry at Northern Arizona University
(NAU) is seeking one highly motivated Master of Science
student to join the Forest Genomics Lab. The position
includes a stipend, tuition waiver, and health benets
for 2 years.
The student will use genomic tools to assess how hy-
bridization and adaptive introgression contribute to eco-
logical divergence and drought adaptation in Douglas
r. This position involves data analyses, molecular lab
work, and greenhouse work.
Minimum qualications: - Bachelor's degree in Genetics,
Forest Sciences, Biology, Plant Sciences, Evolutionary
Biology, Bioinformatics or related elds of study. - Have
taken at least one course in Genetics and Evolution. -Ability to program in R, Perl or Phyton (familiarity
with Linux is a plus) - Willingness to work with big
data sets in a computer cluster. - Availability to start
by July 1st, 2021. - Molecular lab experience is desired.
How to apply: Please send a 1-page statement of inter-
est, CV, unocial copy of transcripts, GRE scores, and
TOEFL scores (international students), and the names
and contact information of 3 references by February
10th, 2021. If found to be a good match for the position,
you will be encouraged to apply to the graduate program
at NAU. Please note that NAU has the following admis-
sion requirements: GPA equal or higher than 3.0 and
TOEFL 213 (computer-based) or 80 (internet-based).
Contact Information: Dr. De La Torre, Amanda.de-la-
torre@nau.edu Lab https://treegenomicslab.com Insti-
tution: Northern Arizona University is a 29,000 student-
institution with its main campus in Flagsta, a four-
season community of about 70,000 at the base of the
majestic San Francisco Peaks. Flagsta has all-year
easy access to the Arizona snow bowl ski resort and is
located at 1-hour drive from the Grand Canyon.
Useful links: School of Forestry- http://nau.edu/forestry
SOF M.S. program- http://nau.edu/CEFNS/Forestry/-
Degrees/MS/ Amanda De La Torre <Amanda.de-la-
Torre@nau.edu >
Paris EvolutionaryMachineLearning
A PhD position on Creating AI/ML techniques to
enhance mechanistic eco-evolutionary computer simula-
tionsis available in H el ene Morlon's research group
at the Biology Institute of the Ecole Normale Sup erieure
in Paris (France), in collaboration with Florian Hartig
at the University of Regensburg (Germany) and Loic
Pelissier at the ETH Zurich (Switzerland). The PhD
is part of a Horizon 2020-COFUND European doctoral
programArticial Intelligence for the Sciences and
will start in September 2021. Deadline for application:
February 26th 2021.
Applicants should not have lived or carried out their
main activity (work, studies, etc.) in France for more
than 12 months in the 3 years immediately before the
deadline of the call (MSCA Mobility rule), namely be-
tween the 27th of February 2018 to the 26th of February
2021.
Link to the project https://euraxess.ec.europa.eu/-
jobs/581234 Link to the doctoral program https:/-February 1, 2021 EvolDir 11
/psl.eu/en/recherche/grands-projets-de-recherche/-
projets-europeens/programme-doctoral-ai4thesciences
If you are interested, please contact H el ene Morlon
<helene.morlon@bio.ens.psl.eu >and/or Florian Hartig
<orian.hartig@biologie.uni-regensburg.de >
H el ene MORLON <helene.morlon@bio.ens.psl.eu >
UAberdeen EvolutionInvasiveInsects
UAberdeen Evolutionary Ecology of Invasive Insects
A PhD position on the evolutionary ecology of inva-
sive insects is currently available in Dr Manfredini re-
search group at the University of Aberdeen, Scotland
- see full details below. This is a 3.5 years project,
part of a competition funded byQUADRAT NERC DT-
Pand in collaboration withProf Jaimie Dick(Queen's
University Belfast),Dr Greta Bocedi(University of Ab-
erdeen),Prof Helen Roy(UK Centre for Ecology & Hy-
drology) andDr Lori Lawson Handley(University of
Hull).The DTP is open to International applicants. In-
terested candidates are encouraged to contact Dr Man-
fredini (fabio.manfredini@abdn.ac.uk) before they sub-
mit an application - here is the link to the group web-
site https://www.abdn.ac.uk/people/fabio.manfredini/-
#panel research .Prospective candidates can nd full
details about the project, including criteria and eligi-
bility, onFindAPHDor on theQUADRATwebsite (links
below).Deadline to apply to this program isMonday,
18th January, 2021.
FindAPHD advert: https://www.ndaphd.com/-
phds/project/quadrat-dtp-predicting-the-ecological-
impacts-of-invasive-alien-insects-at-multiple-levels-from-
genes-to-communities/?p125540 QUADRAT website:
https://www.quadrat.ac.uk/projects/predicting-the-
ecological-impacts-of-invasive-alien-insects-at-multiple-
levels-from-genes-to-communities/ Predicting the
ecological impacts of invasive alien insects at multiple
levels: from genes to communities
Biological invasions are global phenomena that impact
ecosystems, the economy and human, animal and plant
health (1). The rate at which biological invasions occur
has grown exponentially in recent times, due to global
trade that has increased the pathways for organisms to
be transported across the globe at unprecedented speed
(2). It is therefore of high importance to understand
in advance the impact that alien organisms might pose
to the ecosystems that they invade (3). Among inva-
sive animals, top predators are of particular interest, asthey directly impact on a wide range of organisms that
they prey upon, and also cascade their eects indirectly
through, for example, enemy release.
In this PhD project, the student will adopt a series
of experimental approaches, that span from molecular
methods to behavioural and community analyses, to
characterize whether key traits of insect top predators
have shifted after biological invasions and also their
actual and predicted impacts on ecosystems. The stu-
dent will comparatively analyse two high prole insect
invaders: the Asian hornet Vespa velutina (a recent
invader) and the harlequin ladybird Harmonia axyridis
(established in Europe). Hence, the two systems present
a great opportunity to compare key ecological traits
associated with a relatively \old" invasion (Harmonia)
vs. a more recent one (Vespa), with an enhanced poten-
tial to predict the type of impact that these two insects
might have across invaded ecosystems.
The student will perform eld work in the UK, Europe
and North America to sample insects of the two species
from dierent populations representing a gradient in
their history of invasion, and they will perform experi-
ments in the lab to test behavioural and physiological
traits that could be associated with successful invasions.
Two traits will be prioritised: feeding behaviour/ecology
and immunocompetence. Feeding analyses will combine
density dependent patterns of prey consumption and
preference (3) with stable isotope analyses and DNA
metabarcoding, to characterize the composition of the
diet of the two insects at a broader scale, and also with a
high-throughput metagenomic approach to identify prey
items at the highest resolution. For immunocompetence,
a candidate gene approach will be used to characterize
the expression patterns of key genes associated with
constitutive and induced responses. This experimental
approach will lay the ground for a statistical analysis to
model the impact that Vespa and Harmonia are having
on the ecosystem. This will be followed by another
modelling approach to predict how top predators could
impact UK ecosystems over time.
The project will provide a unique opportunity to inter-
act with a supervisory team of scientists who display
a wide range of expertise and share the same passion
for the ecology of invasive alien species. In particular,
the candidate will work under the supervision of Prof
Dick (Belfast) and Prof Roy (CEH Wallingford) who
are leading experts in the eld of invasion biology, Dr
Lawson-Handley (Hull) and Dr Manfredini
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-12 EvolDir February 1, 2021
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UBasel AlpinePlantEvolution
PhD position in Alpine Ecology/Plant Evolution, Uni-
versity of Basel, Switzerland A 4-year PhD position
(100%) is available in the group of Plant Ecology
and Evolution at the University of Basel, Switzerland
(https://duw.unibas.ch/en/ecoevo/). Research in the
group focuses on the extent to which climate adaptation
is possible, what the sources of evolutionary constraints
are, and how they will aect future species distribution
under global warming.
The evolutionary causes of elevational range limits are
poorly known. Theory points to changes in the se-
lection regime and genetic limitations. The selection
regime may be important if environmental gradients are
multivariate or steep at the lower and upper limit of el-
evational distribution. Genetic limits may arise because
of low genetic variation in individual environmental tol-
erances or because of genetic correlations antagonistic
to the direction of selection.
Your Tasks: Working with a few alpine and lowland
plant species, the student will perform eld surveys on
species distribution, population genetic analyses and
the study of selection in nature. Fieldwork will be an
important part of the project and take place in Switzer-
land, in collaboration with research partners at other
Swiss universities.
Your Prole: Candidates should have an enthusiastic
interest in plants, their ecology and evolution, and a
strong background in quantitative thinking, experimen-
tal design, statistical analysis/bioinformatics, and rear-
ing plants. Applicants must have a university degree in
natural sciences that allows entrance to a PhD program
(ideally in ecology or evolutionary biology), and very
good organizational, analytical, and scientic writing
skills. Applicants should have a driver' ^As license.
We oer: The project is based at the Department of
Environmental Sciences, University of Basel, Switzer-
land. The Department oers a stimulating environment,
including a rich spectrum of research activities in life
sciences (plant ecology, population genetics, evolution-
ary biology, plant physiology and molecular and cell
biology). Students will be enrolled in the PhD program
of the Z ^A^A1rich-Basel Plant Science Center. Basel is
a mid-sized Swiss city, well connected and oering abroad range of cultural and recreational activities. Ideal
starting date is March 2021 but is open to negotiation.
Contact: For more information, contact Yvonne Willi
(yvonne.willi@unibas.ch). Motivated applicants should
submit (1) a one-page letter that summarizes interests
and relevant experience, (2) their CV, (3) copies of un-
dergraduate and masters/diploma transcripts, and (4)
contact information of two references (all as a ***single
PDF***) to: franziska.grob@unibas.ch. Applications
are welcome until the position is lled and will be re-
viewed starting on February 15, 2021.
Yvonne Willi <yvonne.willi@unibas.ch >
UBern EvolutionaryGenomics
4-year PhD position in Evolutionary Genomics in Bern,
Switzerland
A PhD position is available to work with Dr Milan Ma-
linsky (https://www.milan-malinsky.org) in the context
of his Swiss National Science Foundation (SNSF) funded
project to study evolution of recombination rates. The
position is based at the Institute of Ecology and Evo-
lution at the University of Bern, Switzerland, is fully
funded for 4 years including student fees and a generous
stipend, and is open to applicants worldwide.
Recombination is a fundamental genetic process. It con-
tributes to generating the genetic diversity upon which
natural selection acts and mechanistically it ensures
proper formation of sperm and egg cells. Studies of ne-
scale distribution of recombination along chromosomes,
and how this is regulated, have so far been possible
only in a limited number of species. This is now chang-
ing. In this project, we are going to construct ne-scale
recombination maps for over 30 species to (i) explore
links between recombination and genetic dierentiation
in pairs of populations or closely related species; and
(ii) to follow up on preliminary results suggesting the
mechanisms for specifying recombination hot-spots in
a large group of shes (Percomorpha) may be distinct
from other vertebrates.
We are looking for a highly motivated candidate with
a strong interest in evolutionary biology, genetics, ge-
nomics, and bioinformatics. Candidates should hold a
Master' ^As degree, demonstrate scientic curiosity, ini-
tiative, problem-solving skills, and be able to condently
communicate in English. On the technical side, de-
nite advantages include strong numeracy, understandingFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 13
of statistics and probability, and previous experience
with computer scripts/coding. We are committed to
increasing diversity, equity and inclusiveness in evolu-
tionary biology and would like to especially encourage
applications from underrepresented groups.
Milan is a young new PI, oering close focus on the
project and supervision of the PhD candidate, while the
project benets from access to large unique genomic
datasets and a world-class network of collaborators, in-
cluding Ole Seehausen (formal co-supervisor) and Katie
Peichel in Bern; Richard Durbin in Cambridge, UK;
Walter Salzburger in Basel, Switzerland; and Molly
Przeworski at the Columbia University in New York.
There is the potential for the PhD candidate to spend
up to eight months visiting at the Prof. Przeworski' ^As
lab in New York within the framework of this collabora-
tion. Bern itself is within a short distance of some of
the most iconic peaks of the Swiss Alps.
Applications should include a motivation letter, a CV,
and contact details for at least two referees and should
be sent, ideally as a single PDF document, to Milan
Malinsky (millanek@gmail.com). The start date for the
PhD is between 1st April 2021 and 30th September 2021,
to be agreed with the successful applicant. Screening of
applications will commence immediately and continue
until the position is lled.
Applicants interested in more scientic background may
nd the following articles useful: - Coop, G. & Prze-
worski, M. An evolutionary view of human recombina-
tion. Nat. Rev. Genet. 8, 23'V34 (2007). - Baker, Z. et
al. Repeated losses of PRDM9-directed recombination
despite the conservation of PRDM9 across vertebrates.
Elife 6, 403 (2017). - Shanfelter, A. F., Archambeault,
S. L. & White, M. A. Divergent Fine- Scale Recombi-
nation Landscapes between a Freshwater and Marine
Population of Threespine Stickleback Fish. Genome
Biology and Evolution 11, 1573'V1585 (2019).
Dr. Milan Malinsky Principal Investigator Institute of
Ecology and Evolution University of Bern, Switzerland
email: millanek@gmail.com Personal website: https:/-
/www.milan-malinsky.org Google Scholar: https://-
scholar.google.ch/citations?user=xiFJz70AAAAJ
Milan Malinsky <milan.malinsky@unibas.ch >UGhent
EvolutionGenomeDuplication
Vacancy for a PhD fellow 'V The eco-evolutionary dy-
namics of whole-genome duplication
Department: Biology
Occupancy rate: 100%
Type of contract: limited duration
Closing date: 15th March 2021
Diploma: MSc degree related to the subject area
Job description: The VIB - UGent Center for Plant Sys-
tems Biology, Department of Plant Biotechnology and
Bioinformatics and the Department Biology from Ghent
University is oering a PhD scholarship (R1-level) in
2021 for an evolutionary biologist with strong interest
in the modelling of eco-evolutionary dynamics 'V the
dynamic interaction between ecological and evolutionary
processes at contemporary timescales.
Polyploidy, i.e. the possession of multiple sets of chro-
mosomes that results from whole-genome duplication
(WGD), is a widespread phenomenon mainly associ-
ated with plants but has also been found in numerous
insects and vertebrates. WGD is historically viewed
as a source of novel genetic variation across the en-
tire genome that allows fast adaptation to changing
habitats. Multiple disadvantages do however constrain
these adaptive capacities and evidence is accumulating
that species with WGD may predominantly invade and
persist under stress. In many species, whole genome
duplication is associated with an increase in cell and/or
body size, and mass-specic metabolism. The success of
polyploidization is therefore anticipated to be governed
by physiological responses that directly mediate ecologi-
cal and evolutionary processes. The PhD student will
study these dynamics interactions by means of ODE
(Ordinary Dierential Equation) and individual based
models.
The PhD student will be part of a vibrant interdisci-
plinary research group lead by Prof. Van de Peer and
Prof. Dries Bonte. The successful candidate will be ex-
pected to tightly collaborate with colleagues in related
scientic disciplines using experimental evolution and
genomics.
Job prole: Candidates should have a strong background14 EvolDir February 1, 2021
in ecological/evolutionary modelling and/or computa-
tional biology. Applicants should have a keen interest
in the tight coupling between demographic and evolu-
tionary processes. The position is available for a 4-years
period, pending a positive intermediate evaluation. Ap-
plicants demonstrate excellent study results and good
English skills. We expect the PhD student to provide
some assistance in the group' ^As regular teaching activi-
ties. As criteria for the assessment of your qualication,
emphasis will also be laid on previous publications (if
any) and relevant experience. We aim to hire students
that reect the diversity of society and thus welcome
applications from all qualied candidates regardless of
personal background. We equally welcome applications
from students graduating before July 2021.
Application procedure: Send your CV, overview of study
results, full details of 3 references, and your application
letter, in English, to the two supervisors of the project.
Further information: For specic information about the
PhD scholarship, please contact the principal supervisors
prof. Yves Van de Peer (yves.vandepeer@psb.ugent.be)
and Dries Bonte (Dries.Bonte@Ugent.be).
More information about the research of Prof. Dries
Bonte can be found at: https://www.ecology.ugent.be/-
terec/research/spatial-ecology-and-evolution-group/
More information about the research of Prof. Yves Van
de Peer can be found at: http://www.vandepeerlab.org/
Dries Bonte <Dries.Bonte@UGent.be >
UGhent SpiderUrbanisation
Vacancy for a PhD fellow:
Thermal and nutritional adaptations to city life in the
garden spider Araneus diadematus (SPIN-CITY).
Last application date: Mar 15, 2021 00:00 Department:
WE11 - Department of Biology, Ghent University, Bel-
gium Contract: Limited duration Degree: MSc degree
related to the subject area Occupancy rate: 100% Va-
cancy type:Research sta
Job description
The Department Biology of Ghent University is oer-
ing a PhD scholarship (R1-level) in 2021 commencing
latest on July1st. The PhD student will be hosted
at both the EON (Research group Evolution and
Optics of Nanostructures, https://www.ugent.be/we/-
biology/en/research/eon) and TEREC (Terrestrial Ecol-ogy, https://www.ugent.be/we/biology/en/research/-
terec) research group. Supervision by prof. Dries Bonte
(Dries.Bonte@Ugent.be) and dr. Bram Vanthournout
(Bram.Vanthournout@Ugent.be). Urbanisation leads to
a strong homogenisation of biodiversity, as many species
go extinct while few species are able to persist in cities
across the world. This persistence is caused by tolerance
or adaptations towards stressors like urban heating and
altered resources. Orb web spiders are predators that
experience strong changes in prey composition but also
a performance reduction due to thermal stress. Changes
in body colouration are an important adaptation to
thermal conditions, but they are constrained by nutri-
tional conditions. As city life would select for paler
colouration, reduced costs of producing pigments may
provide an explanation for rescue under poor nutritional
conditions in urban environments.
The student will participate in a research project funded
by the Research Foundation ??? Flanders (FWO) and
study the interplay between thermal and nutritional
urban selection pressures in the garden spider. This
will be achieved by a further development of an on-
going citizen-science project (www.spiderspotter.com),
combined with an extended survey of prey availability
and nutritional quality in a research platform in Flan-
ders and the quantication of body colouration across
urban gradients in Europe. Targeted translocation ex-
periments will subsequently allow understanding of the
adaptive value of these phenotypic changes, as well as
the potential for genetic evolution.
Job prole
Candidates should have a strong background in relevant
subjects such as thermal, food web or urban ecology and
evolution. Experience in conducting biological experi-
ments or molecular analyses using arthropods (spiders)
as a model is seen as an advantage. Applicants should
have a keen interest/prior experience in citizen science
and science communication in general. The position is
available for a 4-years period, pending a positive inter-
mediate evaluation. Applicants demonstrate excellent
study results and good English skills. As criteria for the
assessment of your qualication, emphasis will also be
laid on previous publications (if any) and relevant expe-
rience. We aim to hire students that reect the diversity
of society and thus welcome applications from all quali-
ed candidates regardless of personal background. We
equally welcome applications from students graduating
before July 2021.
How to apply
Send your application letter, CV, overview of study re-
sults and full details of 3 references, in English, to the
two supervisors of the project.February 1, 2021 EvolDir 15
Bram Vanthournout <Bram.Vanthournout@UGent.be >
UHohenheim
LocalAdaptationPopGenHoneybees
University of Hohenheim, Department of Livestock Pop-
ulation Genomics, Institute of Animal Science, Germany
*PhD position - Local adaptation to high elevation habi-
tats in the honey bee Apis mellifera*
Application deadline: 15.02. 2021
We invite applications from highly motivated candidates
with the passion for and experience in animal popula-
tion genetic analyses. Specically, we will investigate
the molecular mechanism underlying the local adapta-
tion to high elevations habitats in the honey bee. Of
particular interest here are chromosomal inversions on
two chromosomes identied previously that have shifted
to high frequency on dierent haplotypes of otherwise
lowly dierentiated chromosomes between highland and
lowland populations. Funded by the German Research
Foundation (DFG), the project will be performed in
close cooperation with Prof. Ricarda Scheiner (Uni-
versity W urzburg), a second doctorate candidate and
partners in East Africa.
Of particular relevance for the announced PhD position
will be the in-depth analyses of honey bee genomes and
transcriptomes, thus experiences in bioinformatics and
a background from a population genetic lab is advanta-
geous. Further, we will use CRISPR/Cas9 method to
understand the role of selected candidate genes, thus
organismic and molecular work is included.
We oer: DFG-funded PhD position (65% TV-L E13)
for the duration of 3 years, work with up-to-date method-
ologies in a stimulating, friendly and international at-
mosphere. This work includes a eld-trip to East Africa
and research visits at the University W urzburg.
Embedded in an attractive and green environment, the
University Hohenheim combines the advantages of a
small campus area with the close vicinity to Stuttgart
as lively and cultural centre.
Your Prole: M.Sc. degree (or equivalent) in Evolu-
tionary Genetics/Populations Genetics/Biology strong
interest and proven skills in molecular genetic tech-
niques/genome analyses strong interest in evolution-
ary/population genetic questions strong communication
skills (including English)Starting date: as soon as possible
Please send your application including a cover letter
detailing your motivation and research interests, de-
tailed CV and two references by email (as a single pdf)
to Prof. Dr. Martin Hasselmann, popgenomik@uni-
hohenheim.de. Review of the applications will start
on 15th February 2021 and continue until the position
is lled. Interviews for shortlisted applicants will take
place via video conference.
The University Hohenheim is committed to promoting
the careers of women and therefore actively welcomes
applications from female candidates. As an equal oppor-
tunities employer, we also encourage applications from
suitably qualied disabled candidates.
For more information, please visit https://-
popgenomik.uni-hohenheim.de/en and contact
directly:
Prof. Dr. M. Hasselmann by email
(martin.hasselmann@uni-hohenheim.de)
Dr. Martin Hasselmann Professor (Department Chair)
University of Hohenheim jInstitute of Animal Science
(460)jDepartment of Livestock Population Genomics
(460h) Garbenstrasse 17 j70599 Stuttgart Tel: ++49
711-459 22481 (Oce) j++49 711-459 23581 (Secretary)
Fax: ++49 711-459 24246
Web: https://popgenomik.uni-hohenheim.de
Martin Hasselmann <martin.hasselmann@uni-
hohenheim.de >
ULausanne
PlantEvolutionaryBiology
PhD studentship, Department of Ecology and Evolution,
University of Lausanne, Switzerland
A PhD studentship in plant evolutionary biology is
available in the research group of John Pannell in the
Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of
Lausanne. The student will consider the evolution and
ecology of dispersal in the context of plant sexual sys-
tems, but the precise nature and focus of the student's
research will depend on his or her specic interest. The
project may include a mix of empirical research on,
and theoretical modelling of, the evolution of disper-
sal at dierent spatial scales in the context of dierent
life histories and reproductive systems. Empirical as-
pects may range from considerations of the biophysics of16 EvolDir February 1, 2021
short-range dispersal in one or more plant species with
specialised dispersal mechanisms, to the characterisation
of dispersal kernels under controlled and eld conditions
using genetic markers. Theoretical work, which would
be jointly supervised by Charles Mullon in the same
department, could extend to considerations of dispersal
and kin selection. The project will integrate into cur-
rent research in the lab on conict between male and
female components of reproduction and dispersal, on
adaptations that (partially) resolve such conict, and on
the evolution of sex chromosomes: for details and a list
of publications, see https://www.unil.ch/dee/pannell-
group . Research scope and skills sought
The student's specic research will be tailored to his or
her background, interests and personal training objec-
tives. He or she should be able to demonstrate a strong
interest in evolutionary ecology and/or population genet-
ics. Experience and an interest in working with plants
is not essential but could be an advantage, e.g., includ-
ing managing glasshouse, common garden and/or eld
experiments. The successful candidate should also have
good communication and interpersonal skills, an ability
to work in a team, and a willingness to contribute to
the Department's teaching.
Host department and university
The Department of Ecology and Evolution hosts a broad
range of research groups, and its members enjoy a lively
intellectual and social life. Although the University of
Lausanne is francophone, the department is highly in-
ternational, and all its research activity and seminars
are conducted in English. The University has seven
faculties and approximately 14,300 students and 3,900
researchers from over 120 countries. It is situated on a
beautiful campus on the shore of Lake Geneva, and is
close to the Swiss and French Alps.
Applications
Informal enquiries should be sent to John Pannell
(john.pannell@unil.ch). Formal applications should be
made through the University of Lausanne platform
(https://bit.ly/39FMD22), which also provides addi-
tional information about the post. Applications (in-
cluding a cover letter detailing your research interests,
experience and motivation for applying, a CV, and the
names of two or three referees) should be uploaded as
a single PDF through the University of Lausanne plat-
form. All applications received by 12 February 2021 will
receive full consideration.
Application link
https://bit.ly/39FMD22 University equality policy
The University of Lausanne promotes an equitable rep-resentation of men and women among its sta and en-
courages applications from women and minority groups.
John Pannell <john.pannell@unil.ch >
UNorthCarolina Greensboro
MammalEvolution
The McLean Lab (https://www.mclean-lab.org/) at
University of North Carolina Greensboro (http://-
www.uncg.edu/) is recruiting motivated graduate stu-
dents at the MS level to investigate evolution of small
mammals in the Eastern North America. We are es-
pecially interested in the merger of population geo-
graphic/phylogeographic datasets with phenotypic and
life history trait information (e.g., pelage color, litter
size, breeding phenology) that allows reconstruction
of mammalian adaptation and global change response
in ecosystems ranging from Appalachian Mountains to
coastal savannahs of the Deep South.
Research in the McLean lab is integrative and com-
bines historic data streams (e.g., museum specimens)
with new eld surveys and collections to understand
environment-life history dynamics and the potential for
change in traits like those listed above, through space
and time. Our work is highly integrative, and we value
lab members with broad interests in natural history,
mammalogy, specimen-based research, spatial analysis,
and biodiversity data analysis. Prospective applicants
will be encouraged to develop research projects that
leverage one or more of these tools.
Successful applicants will begin graduate school in Au-
gust 2021, with the option to work as a eld or lab
technician on eld projects here in the beautiful moun-
tains of NC during summer 2021. To inquire about
positions, email Bryan McLean (b mclean@uncg.edu) as
soon as possible and describe: a) your areas of interest
and passion in mammalogy and evolution, including any
previous research experiences; 2) how these may t with
ongoing research in the McLean lab; and 3) a current
CV.
The deadline for application to the Masters in Biology
Program is 1 April 2021. Students accepted into the
program at UNCG will be provided a tuition waiver
and a competitive stipend. Additional competitive fel-
lowships may also be available by specic application.
*Note that application does NOT require GRE scores,
but applicants with a rst language other than English
must submit scores on the Test of English as a ForeignFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 17
Language (TOEFL).
For more information about the UNCG Graduate Pro-
gram in Biology, please visit:
https://biology.uncg.edu/graduate/mission/ . We are
located in the beautiful Piedmont of NC with easy ac-
cess to the Southern Appalachian Mountains. For more
information about the HIGH quality of life and LOW
cost of living in Greensboro, please visit:
https://www.greensboro-nc.gov/i-want-to https:/-
/realestate.usnews.com/places/north-carolina/-
greensboro Bryan McLean Assistant Professor
University of North Carolina Greensboro Greensboro,
NC 27402 www.mclean-lab.org Bryan McLean
<bmclean@uncg.edu >
UNorthDakota
WildlifeGenomicsPaleoecology
U. North Dakota. WildlifeGenomicsPaleoecology.
The Laboratory of Evolutionary and Forensic Genetics
at the University of North Dakota (www.und.edu) is
inviting applications from highly motivated students
who pursue a PhD degree. MS candidates will be also
considered.
Students will be engaged in a project on the historic,
current, and future status of bison herds from biolog-
ical, ecological, and cultural perspectives. This cross-
disciplinary project represents an opportunity to get
intensive training in the methods of ancient and modern
DNA analyses including high-throughput genome se-
quencing, stable isotope studies, computational analysis
and statistical modelling. The examples of our recent
publications: Ovchinnikov et al. Diversity and Origin
of the Feral Horses in Theodore Roosevelt National
Park. PLoS One, 2018, 13(8); Davies et al. Isotopic
Paleoecology of Northern Great Plains Bison during the
Holocene. Scientic Reports, 2019, 9(1): 16637. Al-
though the wildlife project is focused on bison genetics
and paleoecology, we have opportunities to develop new
projects on computational analysis of big oral and envi-
ronmental microbiome data as well as on genomics and
microbiome study of human migrations and evolution.
Candidates should demonstrate motivation for hard
laboratory work and strong interest in genomics and
computational biology. Preference will be given to can-
didates with a proven record of computational analysis
and bioinformatics skills. Additional experience in se-quencing technologies is a plus.
If you are interested, you need to apply to the University
of North Dakota Biology Graduate Program using the
regular procedure. Requirements and How to Apply
procedure can be found in the UND Biology Graduate
School websites:
https://und.edu/programs/biology-phd/-
requirements.html https://und.edu/admissions/-
graduate/apply.html The additional information can
be also found in the Biology Department website:
https://arts-sciences.und.edu/academics/biology/ The
position starts in August 2021. To receive full consider-
ation, the Biology Graduate Program needs to receive
your application and required materials by February 15,
2021 for priority consideration.
Potential graduate students are also encouraged to con-
tact Dr. Igor Ovchinnikov.
Contact information:
Dr. Igor Ovchinnikov Associate Professor Lab. of Evo-
lutionary and Forensic Genetics Department of Biology
University of North Dakota
Email: igor.ovtchinnikov@und.edu
\Ovtchinnikov, Igor" <igor.ovtchinnikov@und.edu >
UNottingham EvolutionOfMimicry
The evolution of mimicry in a changing world: how
shifting bumblebee communities aect selection on a
colour-polymorphic hovery
Applicants are invited for a fully-funded PhD stu-
dentship at the University of Nottingham (UK), in col-
laboration with the Centre for Ecology and Hydrology,
starting Sep/Oct 2021. Deadline for application: Jan-
uary 13th 2021. Funding is now available for both UK
and international students.
Link: http://www.envision-dtp.org/2020/the-
evolution-of-mimicry-in-a-changing-world-how-shifting-
bumblebee-communities-aect-selection-on-a-colour-
polymorphic-hovery-2/ Complex species interactions
make the impacts of global environmental change
dicult to foresee. Understanding the ecological and
evolutionary relationships between species, and the way
that the tness of a species is aected by changes in
community composition, is essential to predict shifts
in species distributions and patterns of biodiversity.18 EvolDir February 1, 2021
In this project, we will investigate a fascinating
interaction between an important group of pollinators
and their charismatic parasite, with the ultimate aim of
predicting the consequences of environmental change
for the species concerned. Along the way, we will
gain some valuable insights into the genetic origins of
Batesian mimicry. The project involves an unusual
combination of practical ecology and behaviour, species
distribution modelling, and cutting-edge genomics.
Larvae of the hovery Volucella bombylans infest the
nests of bumblebees. They eat bumblebee brood cells,
pollen stores and detritus, but the impact on host t-
ness, and hence the degree of parasitism, is not known.
Adult ies display a striking colour polymorphism, with
individuals resembling dierent bumblebee species. We
think they are Batesian mimics, fooling predators into
thinking that palatable and harmless ies are heavily-
defended and unpalatable. In the era of species distri-
bution modelling and genome sequencing, this system
provides unique opportunities to address two fascinating
research questions. Firstly, how will global environmen-
tal change aect the relationship between a putative
parasite and its hosts, when those hosts also act as
a model for mimicry? Secondly, which genes are re-
sponsible for Batesian mimicry, and how is selection
on those genes inuenced by variation in community
composition?
The successful applicant will conduct eld sampling,
laboratory experiments, genomic analysis and species
distribution modelling, with the focus of the work being
shaped by the student's interests. They will work with a
cross-disciplinary supervisory team, and receive training
in entomology, bioinformatics and modelling.
Essential: The student should hold at least a good un-
dergraduate degree or equivalent in a biological science;
they should have experience of ecology, evolutionary bi-
ology and genetics; they should have practical research
project experience and laboratory skills.
Highly desirable: A Masters-level qualication in a rele-
vant subject area; full UK-compatible driving licence;
experience of statistical/mathematical modelling; expe-
rience of practical entomology; experience of PCR and
other basic molecular laboratory skills.
If you are interested, please email Dr Tom Reader,
School of Life Sciences, University of Nottingham, Not-
tingham, NG7 2RD; tom.reader@nottingham.ac.uk.
Dr Tom Reader (he/him/his) Associate Professor School
of Life Sciences University Park University of Not-
tingham NG7 2RD Tel. 0115 9513213 Web: ecol-
ogy.nottingham.ac.uk/tomreader
Tom Reader <Tom.Reader@nottingham.ac.uk >UReading
PlantDiseaseEpidemiologyEvolution
PhD studentship, University of Reading, UK, open to
UK, EU, and international students. Deadline 8 Febru-
ary 2021.
Title: \Smart control of crop diseases: how can we best
combine fungicides and plant resistance genes?"
About the project:
This multidisciplinary PhD project will investigate the
epidemiology and evolutionary adaptation of the ma-
jor fungal pathogen of wheat Zymoseptoria tritici (Zt)
to control measures { fungicides and disease resistance
genes, thereby using evolutionary biology to tackle one of
the most urgent problems in agriculture. The methodol-
ogy combines mathematical modelling, machine learning
and eld experimentation.
Zt causes septoria tritici blotch (STB), the most dam-
aging disease of wheat in Europe and one of the largest
constraints on wheat production globally. The disease
is especially serious in the UK because of conducive
climatic conditions. It is becoming increasingly dicult
to control STB, because Zt is capable of rapidly evolving
resistance to fungicides and adapting to disease-resistant
wheat varieties and environmental conditions. It is rec-
ognized that no single control measure is durable in
the face of the pathogen's notorious adaptive capacity,
hence the two key control methods - fungicides and
disease resistance genes in wheat - need to be combined
in a manner that optimizes not only control ecacy
in the short term, but also their sustainability in the
longer term. This interdisciplinary project will make a
major contribution to this goal using a powerful com-
bination of large-scale eld experimentation with novel
high-throughput phenotyping techniques, bioinformatic
analyses, state-of-the-art machine learning and mathe-
matical modelling approaches.
In the rst phase, a eld experiment will be conducted
during two consecutive years to investigate the STB epi-
demic development in a large number of dierent wheat
genotypes. The amount of disease will be measured us-
ing both the conventional visual assessments and novel
digital phenotyping approaches, and the daily weather
data will be recorded. The data on epidemic develop-
ment will be linked to genomic data already available for
the wheat population under study, and in this way youFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 19
are likely to identify new genetic bases of STB resistance
in wheat. In the second phase, powerful machine learn-
ing techniques will be used to combine the three types
of data (disease measurements, weather data and wheat
genomic data) and construct a model predicting the sea-
sonal STB epidemic development. Finally, in the third
phase of the project, the outcomes of the two previous
phases will be incorporated into a mathematical mod-
elling framework (epidemiological/evolutionary model)
that describes how the pathogen population changes
over time in its interaction with the host population of
wheat plants. The model will incorporate the eect of
two control measures: fungicides and STB resistance
genes in wheat. This will allow you to optimize choices
of fungicide treatment programmes and disease-resistant
wheat cultivars that maximize net benet of growers
over a short term of a single growing season. You will
then be able to compare the outcomes with the pre-
dicted net benet over a longer term of a number of
consecutive growing seasons, taking into account disease
levels, weather variables and wheat genomes.
Training opportunities:
The student will acquire inter-disciplinary skills in de-
signing and conducting large-scale eld experiments
with crop pathogens, acquiring large datasets with the
help of novel digital phenotyping approaches, use ma-
chine learning and mathematical modelling to extract
knowledge from data. The student will receive extensive
training by the supervisory team in computer program-
ming to handle large and complex data sets and conduct
mathematical and computational modelling using Linux,
Python and R. The student will have access to advanced
computational infrastructures, such as the high- per-
formance computing clusters available at Aberystwyth
University, and via Supercomputing Wales, and receive
appropriate training in their usage. The student will be
embedded within the extensive international collabora-
tive network of the supervisory team that includes plant
pathologists, genomics experts, modellers and practice-
oriented researchers, enabling the student to make use
of these diverse sets of expertise. A three-month place-
ment with Syngenta will provide the student with the
industry's perspective on the project's outcomes, ex-
panding the range of possible employment options after
the completion of the project. The unique combination
of empirical, mathematical and computational skills as
well as a valuable professional network developed in the
course of the project will increase the student's chances
to nd a high-prole job in academia, governmental
agencies or industry.
Student prole:
/This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UTasmania
SexChromosomeEvolution
Graduate position: Sex chromosome evolution in a
viviparous reptile with genotypic and temperature-
dependent sex determination
Project theme:
Sex-determination controls the most signicant varia-
tion within animals- the division into males and females.
While the dierent systems of sex-determination involv-
ing genetic or environmental control are relatively well
understood, transitions between these systems remain
enigmatic in evolutionary biology. This project aims to
address this gap by revealing the molecular and cytoge-
netic changes required to transition between modes, us-
ing one of only two known lizard species exhibiting both
genetic and temperature control of sex. This knowledge
will have important implications for species conservation,
facilitating predictions of highly biased sex ratios under
climate change, plus potential commercial applications
for species where the production of one sex is favoured.
A PhD position is available to contribute to this research.
This student will conduct advanced cytogenetic research
on species of Australian lizards to help understand the
genomic changes accompanying transitions between ge-
netic and temperature-dependent sex determination.
This collaborative research project is funded by an
Australian Research Council Discovery Project grant
awarded to the University of Tasmania (Assoc Profs
Chris Burridge and Erik Wapstra) and the University of
Canberra (Prof Tariq Ezaz). This PhD project will be
based at the cytogenetics laboratory of Prof Tariq Ezaz
(University of Canberra). However, the successful PhD
candidate will spend signicant time at the University
of Tasmania to perform eldwork and some molecu-
lar genetic analysis. The Cytogenetic techniques to be
employed include C-banding, Comparative Genomic Hy-
bridisation (CGH), chromosome microdissection, uores-
cence in situ hybridisation (FISH), BAC library screen-
ing, and Next-Generation Sequencing (NGS). Bioinfor-
matics such as comparative mapping will be also be
conducted.
The Ideal Candidate20 EvolDir February 1, 2021
The ideal candidate is expected to have knowledge in
molecular cytogenetics (e.g. cell culture, chromosome
preparation, FISH), and genomics (e.g. genomic data
mining, experience and familiarisation with sequence
analyses and NGS technology). Knowledge of chromo-
some biology and sex determination is also desirable.
The candidate will be self-motivated and well-organised,
with a demonstrated capacity to learn and apply the
broad skill set necessary for the successful completion
of a research project. The successful candidate will
be able to work alongside a wide variety of people in
multi-function and multicultural laboratories. The suc-
cessful candidate will also have a strong commitment to
excellence in research and scholarship.
Scholarships
Financial support for domestic and international stu-
dents is expected to be available for a high achieving stu-
dent through a University of Tasmania scholarship round
(applications close 30 September). These scholarships
are highly competitive. To be competitive, candidates
should have a rst-class honours degree or equivalent
in a relevant area and other evidence of research poten-
tial (such as publications and relevant work experience).
The scholarship and project are for three years. More in-
formation on the scholarships and admission process can
be found at https://www.utas.edu.au/research/degrees
Eligibility
The University of Tasmania scholarships are open to
all nationalities. However, overseas candidates for
whom English is not a rst language must secure
an IELTS score of 7.0 and have no individual score
falling below 6.5 to satisfy our English language re-
quirements. More information and equivalent scores
under dierent schemes (e.g. TOEFL) can be found
at https://www.utas.edu.au/research/degrees/what-is-
a-research-degree How to Apply
Interested applicants should submit a CV, a copy
of their academic transcript, a sample of your writ-
ten scientic work, and a cover letter outlining their
research interests to chris.burridge@utas.edu.au and
tariq.ezaz@canberra.edu.au
Chris BurridgejAssociate Professor, Molecular Ecology
& Evolution
School of Natural Sciences jUniversity of Tasmania j
Private Bag 55jHobartjTasmania 7001jAustralia
Room 320a Life Sciences Building jPh +61 3 6226 7653
jFax +61 3 6226 2698 j
https://rmdb.research.utas.edu.au/public/rmdb/-
q/indiv detail warp trans/3975#research-tab-5
http://scholar.google.com.au/citations?user=-3D4cYH8ZYAAAAJ&hl=3Den evogentas.org
\chris.burridge@utas.edu.au"
<chris.burridge@utas.edu.au >
WesternSydneyU
BacterialEvolutionAndDiagnostics
PhD scholarship position at the Hawkesbury Institute
for the Environment, Western Sydney University, Aus-
tralia
Project title: Boosting diagnostics for plant production
industries: using Xanthomonas as a model organism for
increasing bacterial diagnostic capacity
Project description: Identifying sources of bacterial in-
fection of crop plants is essential to the maintenance
of a safe food supply and the protection of Australia's
food sources from exotic disease incursions. In recent
years, the use of genomics has revolutionised source
identication during outbreaks of pathogenic bacteria.
Comparison of bacterial genomes with phylogenetic ap-
proaches can provide high-quality evidence that two or
more infections from dierent locations are linked by
a common source, however, the analysis required for
this is time-consuming and not user-friendly. Further-
more, the incorporation of new data often requires a
complete reanalysis, which is highly undesirable in out-
break situations where samples are processed in small
batches over an extended time-period. An alternative to
phylogenetics is the use of dened multilocus sequence
typing (MLST) schemes based on thousands of gene
sequences identied from whole genomes. MLST-based
methods are rapid, comparable to phylogenetics in ac-
curacy, and importantly, allow the incorporation of new
data without complete reanalysis of the entire dataset.|
This project will construct genome-wide MLST schemes
for important bacterial pathogens of the genus Xan-
thomonas, which cause plant diseases that reduce the
quantity and quality of many fruit, vegetable, grain and
bre crops and are a signicant risk to agriculture in Aus-
tralia. The student will construct, validate and compare
these schemes to phylogenetic methods with real-world
datasets and work closely with molecular epidemiologists
and bacteriologists at the NSW Department of Primary
Industries to further analyse the genome sequences of
several signicant Xanthomonas species. The student
will aim to improve the understanding of Xanthomonas
strains and types, and correlate relationships identiedFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 21
by genome sequencing with classical epidemiological,
genotypical and phenotypical data.|
This project is part of a larger project funded through
the GRDC as part of the Rural R&D for prot program.
The results of this work will have real world implica-
tions for farmers, scientists and biosecurity and will
train a Higher Degree Research student at the forefront
of research relevant to plant health and biosecurity.|
More details and link to application at:
https://www.westernsydney.edu.au/schools/grs/-
scholarships/current scholarships/current scholarships/-
boosting diagnostics forplant production industries using xanthomonas asamodel organism forincreasing bacterial diagnostic capacity
What does the PhD scholarship provide?| - Domestic
students will receive a tax-free stipend of $30,000 per
annum for 3.5 years and a funded place in the doctoral
degree; - International students will receive a tax-free
stipend of $30,000 per annum for 3.5 years. Those
with a strong track record will receive a tuition fee
waiver; - All International students are required to
hold an Overseas Student Health Care (OSHC) policy
covering the duration of their studies in Australia.
The HIE will provide funding for a single Overseas
Student Health Cover policy; - The project will also
provide substantial benets in terms of additional
operational funding for project eldwork and data
collection, and travel and conference attendance. |Eligibility criteria: We welcome applicants from a range
of backgrounds who are keen to apply their skills to
the project topic. The successful applicant should:| -
Hold qualications and experience equal to one of the
following (i) an Australian Bachelor Honours degree,
(ii) a coursework Masters with at least a 25% research
component, (iii) a Master of research degree or (iv)
equivalent overseas qualications; -|Demonstrate
strong academic performance in microbiology, plant
pathology and/or molecular biology; - Have proven skills
in biological sequence data analysis; - Be enthusiastic
and highly motivated to undertake further study at an
advanced level; - Possess excellent written and verbal
communication skills; - International applicants must
demonstrate English language prociency.
How to apply? 1. Contact Associate Professor
Markus Riegler <m.riegler@westernsydney.edu.au >, Dr
Toni Chapman <toni.chapman@dpi.nsw.gov.au >or Dr
Daniel Bogema <daniel.bogema@dpi.nsw.gov.au >to
discuss your eligibility, the project requirements and
your intention to apply.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Jobs
ArizonaStateU NEONSamplePreparator . . . . . . . . . . .22
BritishColumbia ResTech MarineEvolution . . . . . . . . 22
ClemsonU HerbariumCurator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
ClemsonU HumanEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
ClemsonU PlantEvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
CRITFC GenomicsLabSpecialist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
DonanaBiolStation Seville EvolutionaryBiol . . . . . . . 26
DurhamU EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Edinburgh UK InsectQuantitativeGenetics . . . . . . . . 27HungarianNatHistMuseum LabManager . . . . . . . . . . . 27
IllinoisStateMuseum DigitalAssets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .27
IndianaStateU MammalianConservation . . . . . . . . . . . 28
KU Leuven EvolutionaryGenomics Reminder . . . . . . 28
MaxPlanck Director EvolutionaryBiology . . . . . . . . . .29
Medellin Colombia MolecularEvolBiology . . . . . . . . . .30
MortonArboretum Chicago ResAssist Bioinformatic-
sGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
MuensterGermany MicrobePlantHerbivoreEvolution 3122 EvolDir February 1, 2021
NMBE Bern CuratorMammalogy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
RiceU Technician BehaviorEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
RZSS EdinburghZoo ConservationGenetics . . . . . . . . 33
SanAngelo Texas CollectionsManager . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
SangerInstitute 6 EvolBiol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
SpelmanC Atlanta ResTech Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . 35
UAmsterdam EvolutionaryEcology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36
UCaliforniaSanDiego ComputationalBiology . . . . . . . 37
UFlorida MuseumNaturalHistory MuseumAI . . . . . . 37UFlorida PopulationGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
UNewHampshire MicrobialEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
UPuerto Rico Mayaguez EvolutionaryMicrobiology 40
UPuertoRico Mayaguez Genetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
UTexas Austin FieldTech PlantEcologyGenomics . . 41
UTours EcologyEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Vienna GroupLeaders MolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . 42
Vienna WildlifeSciences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
ArizonaStateU
NEONSamplePreparator
NEON Biorepository Sample Preparator
The School of Life Sciences at Arizona State University
is seeking a Sample Preparator (Research Technician) for
the National Ecological Observatory Network (NEON)
Biorepository. NEON is expected to run for 30 years.
For each project year, the NEON Biorepository at ASU
will receive, process, store, and make available for re-
search an average of 100,000 samples from more than 80
sites across the United States. We will facilitate this by
creating a data portal to support discovery and tracking
of sample occurrences and sample data linkages, sample
transactions, and research use.
The NEON Sample Preparator will make critical con-
tributions to the project through a variety of curatorial
support and sample or specimen preparation and data
publication tasks; focused mainly but not exclusively
on mammal study skin and alcohol preparations and
specimen digitization ( ~85%); and herbarium voucher
preparations and digitization ( ~15%). If the position
is funded beyond the initial 6-month period, then posi-
tion contributions may shift to mammal study skin and
alcohol preparations and specimen digitization ( ~75%);
and herbarium voucher preparations and digitization
(~20%), and sorting, databasing and imaging of select
invertebrate samples ( ~5%). The position therefore re-
quires a relatively broad scope of research collection and
sample preparation and data publication skills. Critical
skills will revolve around preparing (small) mammal
skins, skulls, skeletons, tissues, organs, and other par-
tial samples, taking standard measurements, and other
procedures that will maximize the long-term suitability
of these NEON samples for varied research purposes.
Candidates who consider themselves well experienced or
highly motivated to acquire these skills and hence com-
plement the existing strengths of the NEON Bioreposi-tory team, are strongly encouraged to apply. An ability
to develop new data products to leverage the research po-
tential of NEON Biorepository samples with the greater
community is highly desired.
Direct link for more information and how to apply:
https://sjobs.brassring.com/TGnewUI/Search/Home/-
Home?partnerid=25620&siteid=5494#jobDetails=-
4164905 5494 Or go to: https://cfo.asu.edu/applicant
Job code: 65101BR
Inquiries: nico.franz@asu.edu (website: https://-
isearch.asu.edu/prole/1804402)
Nico Franz <nico.franz@asu.edu >
BritishColumbia ResTech
MarineEvolution
Aquatic Research and Animal Care Technician: The
Bameld Marine Sciences Centre (BMSC) is searching
for a team player passionate about marine life, ecology
and interested in making meaningful contributions that
will support life-changing exploration and discovery in
coastal and marine environments. For almost 50 years
the BMSC has supported year-round research and ed-
ucation on the west coast of Vancouver Island, British
Columbia.
Job Prole: This is a regular, full-time position. Re-
porting to the senior Research Coordinator and working
closely with the Animal Care Coordinator, the Aquatic
Research and Animal Care technician will be respon-
sible for assisting with the day-to-day provision of re-
search services and the ethical care of animals used in
research. Responsibilities include assisting the animal
care committee with administration, including regular
communication of CCAC regulatory requirements and
research permit compliance to researchers and instruc-
tors. The position involves orienting new researchers,
facilitating collaborative research, informing users ofFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 23
available resources, and assisting with the maintenance
and organization of aquatic and research equipment,
spaces, and inventory. The position involves working
collaboratively with the organization, including partici-
pating in strategic initiatives that enhance community
engagement and partnerships for the BMSC as well as
supporting clients.
For more info on the position and living in Bameld,
British Columbia: http://www.bameldmsc.com/-
about/bmsc-overview/employment-opportunities/-
detail/aquatic-research-and-animal-care-technician-at-
the-bmsc Interested applicants can submit a cover
letter, CV and the names of three references to Dr. Sean
Rogers, BMSC Director (director@bameldmsc.com)
Review of applications by the search committee will
begin on Jan 5, 2021 and continue until the position is
lled.
Sean Rogers <srogers@ucalgary.ca >
ClemsonU HerbariumCurator
Herbarium Curator and Lecturer, Clemson University
The Department of Biological Sciences seeks applicants
for a 12-month, full-time Herbarium Curator and Lec-
turer. This is a renewable, non-tenure track position
with opportunity for promotion.
The successful applicant will serve as Curator
of the Clemson University Herbarium (https:/-
/www.clemson.edu/science/departments/biosci/-
research/herbarium/). The regionally focused collection
includes approximately 90,000 specimens of vascular
plants and lichens that is the second largest herbarium
collection in South Carolina, and part of the Bob
and Betsy Campbell Museum of Natural History
(https://www.clemson.edu/science/departments/-
biosci/research/museum/index.html).
POSITION RESPONSIBILITIES:
Responsibilities as a Curator will include inventory and
loan management, specimen preparation, repair, and
maintenance, and maintenance of the Herbarium digital
collection information system and library. Responsi-
bilities as a Lecturer will include teaching 1-2 lecture
courses with associated labs per year on topics including
plant taxonomy/systematics and eld-based botany, as
well as supporting inquiry-based learning related to the
Herbarium.The Herbarium Curator/Lecturer will also collaborate
with the Curator of the Vertebrate Collection to pro-
mote the discovery, learning, and engagement missions
of the Museum of Natural History through outreach
associated with plant identication, public presenta-
tions, tours, and special events. The Curator/Lecturer
will supervise students and volunteers, and work closely
with faculty, students, and sta to facilitate use of the
collection as a resource for research and education.
The Herbarium moved into newly renovated space
in Summer 2020, providing an expanded location
for the collection and its use by researchers and
students. The Curator/Lecturer will help develop
new exhibits that promote the use of the collection
for discovery, learning, and engagement. For more
information on the new herbarium renovation, see:
https://newsstand.clemson.edu/mediarelations/-
renovation-of-clemsons-herbarium-provides-new-
home-for-global-collection-of-priceless-specimens/
QUALIFICATIONS:
Successful candidates must have an M.S. in Botany,
Biology, or a related discipline at the time of appoint-
ment, with a Ph.D. preferred. Ideal candidates will
demonstrate signicant herbarium curatorial experience,
strong computing skills (including experience working
with database management systems and GIS), expertise
in vascular plant identication, successful experience
teaching university-level biology lecture and laboratory
courses, and a commitment to promoting and enhancing
diversity and inclusion. Knowledge of the ora of the
Southeastern US is preferred, as is experience with spec-
imen digitization, collections information systems and
standards (e.g., Symbiota, Darwin Core, GBIF), georef-
erencing, and digital collection access management.
HOW TO APPLY:
Apply today at: https://apply.interfolio.com/74178
Please submit a (1) cover letter, (2) curriculum vitae,
(3) statement of curatorial/collection management ex-
perience, (4) statement of teaching philosophy, experi-
ence, and interests including strategies currently used
or planned to foster diversity and inclusion, as well as
strategies for integrating use of the herbarium in teach-
ing, and (5) names and contact information for three
professional references.
For full consideration, applications should be submitted
by February 3, 2021. Review will continue until the
position is lled.
Please contact Search Chair Rick Blob with questions
(rblob@clemson.edu).
Matthew Koski Assistant Professor Clemson University
Dept. of Biological Sciences he/him/they/them https:/-24 EvolDir February 1, 2021
/koskimatt.wixsite.com/matthewhkoski Matthew
Harold Koski <mkoski@clemson.edu >
ClemsonU HumanEvolution
Clemson University Assistant Professor in Human Ge-
netics Clemson University invites applications for a
tenure-track Assistant Professor as part of a Cluster
Hire at the Center for Human Genetics, with an ex-
pected start date of August 2021. Clemson University
oers competitive salaries, benets and start-up funds.
The successful applicant will have an accomplished
research record at the forefront of human genet-
ics/genomics. Applicants whose research combines
experimental laboratory work and computational ap-
proaches are especially desirable.
The Center for Human Genetics (https://-
scienceweb.clemson.edu/chg/) is housed in Self
Regional Hall, a new 17,000-square-foot building
located in Greenwood, South Carolina on Greenwood
Genetic Center Partnership Campus. The Center
for Human Genetics provides a vibrant interactive
research environment with state-of-the-art genomic and
computational resources, and is ideally congured for
collaborative research with excellent bioinformatics
facilities and state-of-the-art molecular laboratories.
The Center for Human Genetics and the Greenwood
Genetic Center are well-equipped for genomics, pro-
teomics and metabolomics research, including NovaSeq
6000 and PacBio Sequel II sequencers. Successful
applicants will be part of a collaborative and inter-
disciplinary environment that includes the research,
diagnostic and clinical geneticists at the Greenwood
Genetic Center, the genetics, genomics, statistics
and bioinformatics faculty at Clemson University,
the USC School of Medicine in Greenville and the
Greenville Health System. The home department will
be determined by the t of the applicant's research
interests with the mission of one of the departments
in the College of Science (www.clemson.edu/-
science), including the Department of Genetics and
Biochemistry (www.clemson.edu/science/departments/-
genetics-biochemistry/index.html), the Department of
Mathematical Sciences (www.clemson.edu/science/-
departments/mathematical-sciences/index.html)
and the Department of Biological Sciences
(www.clemson.edu/science/departments/biosci/-
index.html).The University and Center for Human Genetics are com-
mitted to building a diverse and inclusive community of
faculty scholars dedicated to working and teaching in a
multi-cultural environment (http://www.clemson.edu/-
inclusion/). We encourage applications from women,
minorities and individuals with a commitment to men-
toring colleagues and students from demographic groups
underrepresented in the sciences. We are also supportive
of the needs of dual-career couples.
Successful candidates must hold a doctoral degree and
have postdoctoral experience. Competitive candidates
will demonstrate an ability to develop a vigorous and in-
dependent, externally funded and nationally recognized
research program; demonstrate teaching excellence and
a commitment to diversity inclusion; and participate
in relevant undergraduate and graduate education pro-
grams.
Applicants should submit the following items via In-
terfolio at http://apply.interfolio.com/82505: (1) cover
letter; (2) Curriculum Vitae; (3) statement of research
interests including future plans; (4) statement of teach-
ing interests and experience; (5) statement describing
past experience and/or future plans to promote diversity
and inclusion; and (6) up to three reprints in one PDF.
Applicants should also arrange, through Interfolio, the
submission of three condential letters of recommenda-
tion on their behalf. Review of applications will begin
on February 15, 2021 and continue until the position is
lled.
Inquiries should be directed to Dr. Trudy Mackay
(tmackay@clemson.edu) Clemson University is an
AA/EEO employer and does not discriminate against
any person or group on the basis of age, color, disability,
gender, pregnancy, national origin, race, religion, sex-
ual orientation, veteran status or genetic information.
Clemson University is building a culturally diverse fac-
ulty and sta committed to working in a multicultural
environment.
TRUDY F. C. MACKAY, PhD, FRS
SELF FAMILY ENDOWED CHAIR OF HUMAN GE-
NETICS DIRECTOR, CENTER FOR HUMAN GE-
NETICS PROFESSOR OF GENETICS AND BIO-
CHEMISTRY Center for Human Genetics Clemson Uni-
versity
110 Self Regional Hall 114 Gregor Mendel Circle Green-
wood, SC 29646
w 864-889-0522 c 919-604-6531
tmackay@clemson.eduFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 25
ClemsonU PlantEvolutionaryBiology
Tenured Associate or Full Professor in Ecology and/or
Evolutionary Biology
The Department of Biological Sciences at Clemson Uni-
versity invites applications at the Associate or Full Pro-
fessor level for an Ecologist and/or Evolutionary Biol-
ogist, who addresses cutting-edge research questions,
particularly in plant systems. Clemson University, the
College of Science, and the Department of Biological
Sciences are committed to building a community of in-
clusive excellence, where faculty scholars are dedicated
to working and teaching in a multi-cultural environ-
ment (http://www.clemson.edu/inclusion/). We are
supportive of the needs of dual career couples. For full
consideration, please apply by March 15, 2021. Review
of applications will begin immediately. The search will
remain posted for applications until lled. The antici-
pated start-date is January 2022 or later.
We expect the candidate to bring an innovative and
high-impact research program to Clemson while com-
plementing existing and enhancing the Department's
research strengths (http://www.clemson.edu/biosci/).
The candidate will also contribute to the teaching mis-
sion of the department.
The Department of Biological Sciences is a found-
ing member of the newly formed College of
Science, a central player in both the univer-
sity's strategic plan, ClemsonFORWARD (https:/-
/www.clemson.edu/forward/) and college's SciFOR-
WARD plan (https://www.clemson.edu/science/about/-
scienceforward.html). The Department awards under-
graduate and graduate degrees in Biological Sciences and
Microbiology, and a graduate degree in Environmental
Toxicology.
Located on Lake Hartwell in the foothills of the Blue
Ridge Mountains, Clemson University is South Car-
olina's public land-grant University. As a Carnegie
R1 Institution, the University has excellent research
resources including the globally ranked Palmetto high
performance computing cluster, the Clemson Univer-
sity Genomics and Bioinformatics Facility (including
a NovaSeq and PacBio Sequel II), Center for Human
Genetics, state-of-the-art light and electron microscopy,
excellent greenhouse facilities, a multi-user analytical
laboratory, and the Bob and Betsy Campbell Museum
of Natural History (including an herbarium with 92,000specimens of vascular plants in renovated space). Ad-
ditional resources include: the South Carolina State
Botanical Garden on Clemson's campus, the 17,500-
acre Clemson Experimental Forest, and the Belle W.
Baruch Institute of Coastal Ecology and Forest Science.
There are many opportunities for collaboration across
a wide group of partners on and o campus, including
faculty in other departments in the College of Science
as well as other colleges such as College of Agriculture,
Forestry, and Life Sciences.
Qualications Qualied candidates will have a PhD and
tenure or equivalent at their current institution. They
will also have with an excellent record and trajectory
of accomplishment leading a successful academic, feder-
ally funded research program that includes graduating
doctoral students, mentoring postdoctoral fellows, and
fostering diversity and inclusion.
Application Instructions Applicants should submit the
following items through http://apply.interfolio.com/-
XXX: (1) cover letter that includes a description of
teaching interests and experience, why the applicant is
interested in making a move at this point, and what
draws the applicant to this position; (2) CV including at
least three references for potential contact after initial
review; (3) statement of research interests and future
plans; (4) statement describing past experience and/or
future plans to promote diversity and inclusion; and (5)
up to three reprints in one PDF.
For inquiries about the position, please contact Christo-
pher L. Parkinson, chair of the search committee
(viper@clemson.edu).
Christopher L Parkinson <viper@clemson.edu >
CRITFC GenomicsLabSpecialist
Genomics Laboratory Specialist
Closing Date: Feb 28, 2021
The Columbia River Inter-Tribal Fish Commission
(CRITFC) is seeking a Genomics Laboratory Specialist
with experience in genetics/genomics methods and a
strong background in molecular biology and genetics.
The position is part of the Fishery Science Department
and will be located at theHagerman Fish Culture Exper-
iment Station in Hagerman, ID. The employee will work
under the Lead Geneticist, in association with CRITFC
geneticists and technicians, as well as sta of the Fishery
Science Department in Portland, OR. Eorts will focus26 EvolDir February 1, 2021
on developing, maintaining, and trouble-shooting lab
protocols to generate empirical data to address questions
related to conservation and recovery of steelhead, Chi-
nook, sockeye, and coho salmon, white sturgeon, Pacic
lamprey, and other shes of the Columbia Basin. This
role includes full/partial supervision and coordination
of lab technicians and their duties.
https://www.critfc.org/blog/jobs/genomics-laboratory-
specialist/ Shawn Narum, PhD Lead Geneticist
Columbia River Inter-Tribal Fish Commission 3059-F
National Fish Hatchery Rd Hagerman ID 83332 Phone:
208-837-9096 x1120 Email: nars@critfc.org
Shawn Narum <nars@critfc.org >
DonanaBiolStation Seville
EvolutionaryBiol
Junior Group Leader positions at Do nana Biological
Station:
The Do nana Biological Station (Estaci on Biol ogica de
Do nana, EBD; Seville, Spain) is seeking to incorpo-
rate Junior Group Leaders though the Ram on y Cajal
program, nanced by the Spanish government.
We are looking for researchers that have leadership skills
and an excellent track record in evolutionary biology,
conservation biology, ecology or global change. This
opportunity is open to researchers of all nationalities,
and we are particularly interested in cultural diversity.
Candidates should have a PhD title obtained between
January 1st 2010 and December 31st 2017. Contracts
have a duration of 5 years and candidates are eligible
to apply to permanent positions. Deadline for appli-
cations: January 31st 2021. Website for application:
https://www.ciencia.gob.es/portal/site/MICINN/-
menuitem.dbc68b34d11ccbd5d52eb801432ea0/-
?vgnextoid=8bad309550af5710VgnVCM1000001d04140aRCRD&lang choosen=
en The Estaci on Biol ogica de Do nana is an institute of
the Spanish National Research Council (CSIC). EBD
has close to 200 employees, including 44 researchers,
postdoctoral fellows, PhD students, eld and lab
technicians, and administrative personnel. EBD has
several unique aspects: -EBD manages two eld
reserves, one within Do nana National Park (Huelva,
Spain) and the other in the Sierra de Cazorla, both
devoted to ecological and evolutionary research. -The
eld reserve in Do nana National Park is a Singular
Scientic-Technical Infrastructure (ICTS-RBD) thatoers services and facilities to researchers around the
world. -The institute, located in Seville, is equipped
with six laboratories maintained by technical sta, that
oer services to all researchers: Molecular Ecology,
GIS and Remote Sensing, Chemical Ecology, Aquatic
Ecology, Ecophysiology, Stable Isotopes. -The institute
has also an Animal Experimentation Unit and a green
house. This includes 11 walk-in climatic chambers and
animal care facilities. Our Animal Welfare personnel
train and conduct certication courses for our personnel.
-The institute houses the second largest scientic
collection in the country which focuses on vertebrates
and includes almost 100,000 specimens. -We actively
participate in MSc and PhD programs at the University
of Seville and Pablo de Olavide University. We also
host PhD students from many other national and
international universities as well.
Despite the rich resources available to scientists at EBD,
the main advantage of EBD is the quality of the re-
searchers. Several of them are among the most cited
researchers in their elds and are internationally recog-
nized. EBD is currently looking to expand the number
of investigators and lines of research through the recruit-
ment of young, engaged and brilliant minds. EBD is
welcoming researchers from all over the world.
If you need any additional information about the
Estaci on Biol ogica de Do nana, please check http:/-
/www.ebd.csic.es/inicio or contact us at proyec-
tos@csic.es
Carles Vila <carles.vila@ebd.csic.es >
DurhamU EvolutionaryBiology
The Department of Biosciences at Durham University
seeks to appoint a talented individual to the role of Assis-
tant Professor in Ecology or Evolutionary Biology. We
welcome applications from those with research and teach-
ing interests that are consistent with research priorities
in the Department and whose research is complementary
to other sta in the Ecology, Evolution and Environ-
ment research group. We are seeking applications from
a broad range of talented applicants working in all areas
of ecology and evolutionary biology, in particular those
working in areas such as climate change, biodiversity,
conservation, and/or natural capital/ecosystem services,
consistent with our future strategy. The Department
of Biosciences is consistently ranked in the top 5 UK
Biological Sciences Departments in the Complete Uni-February 1, 2021 EvolDir 27
versity Guide and was ranked 8th for Research Impact
in REF2014.
For more information and to apply, see:
https://durham.taleo.net/careersection/-
duext/jobdetail.ftl?job=20000884&tz=-
GMT%2B00%3A00&tzname=Europe%2FLondon
Jonathan Drury <jonathan.p.drury@gmail.com >
Edinburgh UK
InsectQuantitativeGenetics
Hi,
We are looking for an ambitious post-graduate to work
on the quantitative genetics platform DATA-BEAST
for an insect breeding operation - a Knowledge Trans-
fer Partnership between The Roslin Institute and Beta
Bugs Ltd., at the Easter Bush Campus of University of
Edinburgh. To learn more about Knowledge Transfer
Partnership see http://www.ktp-uk.org/graduates The
Opportunity:
The Roslin Institute is a world-class centre for research
on management and improvement of populations (http:/-
/roslin.ed.ac.uk), while Beta Bugs Ltd. is the rst ded-
icated insect genetics company (http://betabugs.uk),
developing high-performance Black Soldier Fly genet-
ics. Both organizations are based at the Easter Bush
Campus, facilitating working across both organizations.
The Knowledge Transfer Partnership associate will work
under the supervision of Dr. Gregor Gorjanc and Dr.
Andreas Kranis at Roslin and Samuel Grainger and Dr.
Thomas Farrugia at Beta Bugs.
The post comes with a signicant training and travel
budget for personal and professional development. The
post is for 30 months with a possibility for longer-term
employment (conditional on the success at this post).
Informal enquiries can be made to Gregor Gorjanc
(Gregor.Gorjanc@roslin.ed.ac.uk) and Thomas Farrugia
(thomas@betabugs.uk), while formal applications should
be submitted through The University of Edinburgh
website. https://elxw.fa.em3.oraclecloud.com/hcmUI/-
CandidateExperience/en/sites/CX 1001/job/358/-
?utm medium=jobshare Your skills and attributes for
success:
* You are passionate about genetic management and im-
provement of populations and want to make a practical
change.* You either come from the quantitative genetics and
breeding background or computer science / data science
/ bioinformatics background with aspiration to learn
application of the other background.
* You are independent, organised and you thrive in col-
laboration with multidisciplinary teams working in a
rapidly emerging sector.
* Please inspect the call documentation re-
garding the essential and desirable knowledge,
skills and experience needed for the post.
https://elxw.fa.em3.oraclecloud.com/hcmUI/-
CandidateExperience/en/sites/CX 1001/job/358/-
?utm medium=jobshare With regards!
University of Edinburgh Gregor Gorjanc, PhD Roslin
Institute Chancellor's fellow in Easter Bush Data Driven
Innovation for AgriTech Midlothian twitter: @Gre-
gorGorjanc EH25 9RG mail: gregor.gorjanc <at>
roslin.ed.ac.uk Scotland, UK
Gregor Gorjanc <gregor.gorjanc@roslin.ed.ac.uk >
HungarianNatHistMuseum
LabManager
Lab Manager position at the Hungarian Natural History
Museum (Budapest) Molecular Taxonomy Laboratory.
Primarily for Hungarian speaking applicants
Direct link for more information and how to ap-
ply: http://www.nhmus.hu/allas/laborvezeto for
additional information contact Andr as Gub anyi
(gubanyi.andras@nhmus.hu)
Zolt an Feh er <feher.zoltan@nhmus.hu >
IllinoisStateMuseum DigitalAssets
The Illinois State Museum Society, Springed IL, is hir-
ing a Digital Assets Manager and research assistant in
Anthropology.
http://www.illinoisstatemuseum.org/-
DigitalAssetsManager Meredith Mahoney
<mahoneymer@gmail.com >28 EvolDir February 1, 2021
IndianaStateU
MammalianConservation
Mammalian Vertebrate/Conservation Ecologist
The Department of Biology at Indiana State University
(ISU) invites applications for a tenure track position
focused on mammalian/vertebrate ecology and conser-
vation. This position is available at the Assistant Pro-
fessor level. Applicants should have a Ph.D. in biology
or related areas, and demonstrated expertise in utilizing
specic techniques from a wide array of disciplines, from
molecules to ecosystems, to address research questions
in ecology and/or evolution; an emphasis in cellular de-
velopmental, molecular, physiological, landscape and/or
quantitative/computational techniques may also be con-
sidered. Postdoctoral experience (or equivalent) and
experience working with bats is desirable. The ideal
candidate will demonstrate their promise for a strong
research agenda through their publication record and
potential to secure external funding for their research
program at ISU.
Once their research program is successfully established
at ISU, the candidate will be expected to assume the po-
sition of Director of ISU's Center for Bat Research, Out-
reach, and Conservation (http://www.isubatcenter.org/-
). Therefore experience in leadership and conservation
is desirable.
The successful candidate will participate in undergrad-
uate (e.g. majors and/or non-majors) and graduate
instruction, as well as, direct graduate students in the
Department's doctoral and master's programs. Many
opportunities exist for collaborative research within the
Department.
All applicants must submit their application online at
https://jobs.indstate.edu/postings/32931. Along with
their application, candidates are required to submit a
letter of interest, curriculum vitae, a statement of leader-
ship philosophy, research accomplishments/interests, a
statement of teaching philosophy/excellence, and three
letters of reference. Arrange for three condential letters
of recommendation to be submitted as part of the online
application process. Please note that the references you
provide on your application will receive a notication
request for a recommendation letter immediately.
Review of applications will begin February 15, 2021,
and will continue until the position is lled. Inquiriesshould be directed to Rusty Gonser, Search Committee
Chair (rusty.gonser@indstate.edu).
ISU welcomes diversity and encourages applications
from women and minorities. ISU seeks to recruit and
retain a diverse workforce as a strategic priority and as
a reection of our diverse student body and our com-
mitment to inclusive excellence. The university has
been named a Green College by the Princeton Review;
progressive initiatives include a community garden, car-
share program, local food options on campus, and a
Climate Action Plan. Terre Haute, which sits just east
of the Wabash River, is a major regional center for
health care, higher education, industry, and the arts.
Indiana State University is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action employer. All are encouraged
to apply including women, minorities, individuals with
disabilities and protected veterans.
Rusty Gonser Professor, Department of Biology Direc-
tor, The Center for Genomic Advocacy NCAA Fac-
ulty Athletic Representative Aliate Faculty, Rich and
Robin Porter Cancer Research Center Indiana State
University Terre Haute, IN 47809
Rusty Gonser <Rusty.Gonser@indstate.edu >
KU Leuven EvolutionaryGenomics
Reminder
At the KU Leuven and the Royal Museum for Cen-
tral Africa (Belgium) we have an opening for a 50%
tenure track Assistant Professor and 50% work leader
in cichlid evolutionary biology (evolutionary genomics)
Application deadline is 01 February 2021 Starting date
is September 2021
The Department of Biology, Division of Ecology, Evolu-
tion & Biodiversity Conservation at KU Leuven and the
Section Vertebrates of the Royal Museum for Central
Africa (RMCA) jointly oer a full-time position (each
with an appointment of 50 %). We are looking for candi-
dates with an excellent research record and educational
competence in the eld of biology at the intersection
of taxonomy and evolution of aquatic vertebrate radia-
tions.
Duties Research You develop a research program at an
international level in the evolutionary history of African
cichlid sh radiations using an integrative approach
combining morphology, ecology and genomics, within
the framework of a FED-tWIN collaboration betweenFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 29
KU Leuven and the Royal Museum for Central Africa
(Project CichlidEcoEvo: Eco-evolutionary relationships
in African cichlid radiations). The focus of this re-
search prole is on the study of the cichlids of the Great
African lakes as a model group for evolutionary research
in Vertebrates.
The research must tie in with the ongoing research pro-
gramme that focuses on Lake Edward and its nearby
systems of lakes Kivu and Albert. On the mid and
long term, you are expected to develop research avenues
on the sh radiations of other African lakes and river
systems.
You develop a research group in line with the strategy
outlined in the FED-tWIN research prole and in syn-
ergy with research groups at KU Leuven and the RMCA.
This FED-tWIN research prole specically aims at de-
veloping a strong scientic collaboration between KU
Leuven and RMCA.
You publish at the highest scientic level in the domain,
you are able to obtain competitive nancing, you develop
international cooperation and you supervise master and
PhD students at an international level.
Teaching You provide high-quality education in the do-
main of vertebrate biology, phylogeny, evolution and
genomics, within the bachelor and master of Biology
at the KU Leuven, with a clear commitment to the
quality of the programme as a whole. You also con-
tribute to the pedagogical project of the faculty and
university by supervising bachelor projects and master
theses and as a promoter of PhD students. You de-
velop your educational project in accordance with the
vision of KU Leuven on activating and researched-based
education and make use of the opportunities for the
educational professionalization oered by the faculty
and the university.
Services Service provision is an important aspect of this
FED-tWIN prole. This includes science management,
science outreach, accommodating interns and visiting
scientists, organising and/or contributing to training
programmes, and answering questions from the general
public. Specically for the RMCA it also comprises the
supervision of students of partner institutes in Africa,
scientic advice for the set-up of permanent and tem-
porary exhibitions, the further development of the rich
sh and tissue collections, and contributing to the man-
agement of the associated databases, including genomic
data.
Prole You have a PhD in biological or environmental
sciences, obtained at the earliest 12 years before the sub-
mission date of the job application. The 12-year period
is extended by one year for each maternity, parentaland adoption leave, and for each long-term sick leave of
yourself or your immediate family.
You have a strong research curriculum within the domain
of biology, at the intersection of taxonomy and evolution
of aquatic vertebrate radiations, that addresses funda-
mental research topics using a genomic, morphometric
and phylogenetic toolbox. Expertise in the study of the
African cichlid sh diversity is a bonus. The quality of
your research is apparent from publications in leading
international journals in the eld. International research
experience is a plus. You should have experience with
eld work and collection-based research, preferably on
African shes, and prepared to organize and conduct
eld work in Africa.
You have demonstrable qualities for academic education;
educational experience is a plus. You have organiza-
tional skills and are collegial. You also have managerial
capacities in an academic context.
Prociency in English is required. The ocial adminis-
trative language at KU Leuven is Dutch. If you do not
speak Dutch (or do not speak it uently) at the start
of your employment, KU Leuven will provide language
training to enable you to take part in administrative
meetings. Before taking on teaching in Dutch or En-
glish, you will be given the opportunity to learn Dutch
or English, up to the required standard.
Oer Within the FED-tWIN framework, KU Leuven
oers a 50% appointment as
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
MaxPlanck Director
EvolutionaryBiology
The MPI for Evolutionary Biology in Pl on, https://-
www.evolbio.mpg.de, calls for applications or nomina-
tions for a
Max Planck Director in any area of Evolutionary Biology
We seek an outstanding individual to establish a new
Department. The successful candidate will have a record
of scientic and scholarly excellence, engage in creative,
innovative and ground-breaking science, and articulate30 EvolDir February 1, 2021
a visionary research programme. You will enjoy full
scientic freedom, exceptional long-term funding, out-
standing infrastructure and a high level of administrative
support.
Our institute enjoys rapid growth and currently consists
of three departments (with several integrated research
groups) and four Max Planck Research groups. Together
with our partner university in Kiel we are a major hub
of evolutionary research in Germany, with programs in
research and post graduate training.
A virtual search symposium to discuss new directions
and meet potential candidates will take place on April
29th -30th, 2021.
The Max Planck Society strives for gender equality and
welcomes nominations of candidates with diverse back-
grounds. We actively encourage nominations of persons
with disabilities.
To nominate an outstanding scientist, please provide
a letter of support. For applications, please send a
letter of motivation including a two-page research pro-
posal, a CV, a publication list and up to ve selected
publications. The deadline for applications is February
24th, 2021 and these should be send to Maren Lehmann,
lehmann@evolbio.mpg.de
Nominations and applications will be treated with
strictest condentiality.
Arne Traulsen <traulsen@evolbio.mpg.de >
Medellin Colombia
MolecularEvolBiology
Dear all,
A research position in molecular biology is available
at Vidarium'VNutrition, Health and Wellness Research
Center in Medellin (Colombia). Applicants should have
at least a master' ^As degree and three years of research
experience in molecular biology. The recruited candidate
will have to formulate and execute research projects, ma-
nipulate biological samples, analyze biological data, in-
cluding data obtained from next-generation sequencing,
elaborate reports and write scientic articles, participate
in the training of students and researchers, and establish
interdisciplinary and inter-institutional research teams
as well. The recruited candidate must be autonomous
and able to work in groups.
Interested applicants must send applications throughhttps://jobs.nutresa.com/job/Medell%C3%ADn-
Investigador%28a%29-Servicios-Nutresa-S AS-
Medell%C3%ADn-ANT/702441300/ (via the green
button: \*Enviar candidature **ahora*", send ap-
plication now). Applications can be in English or
Spanish.
The deadline for application is January 25th 2021.
Vidarium is a dynamic research group with young re-
searchers that focus on understanding and modulating
obesity and related cardiometabolic disorders in three
research arenas: gut microbiota, oxidative stress and
food components. For more information, please visit
www.vidarium.org/en or contact Dr. Juan S. Escobar
at jsescobar@serviciosnutresa.com.
Juan S. Escobar, PhD jsescobar@serviciosnutresa.com
Vidarium'XNutrition, Health and Wellness Research
Center Calle 8 sur N 50-67 Medellin - Colombia (+57-4)
285.66.00 ext. 44508
Juan Sebastian Escobar Restrepo
<jsescobar@serviciosnutresa.com >
MortonArboretum Chicago
ResAssist BioinformaticsGenomics
< <Research Assistant (RA) in Tree Conservation Biol-
ogy, Emphasis in Bioinformatics and Genomics >>
Are you interested in using genomic data, bioinformatics,
simulations, and ecology for conservation? The Hoban
Lab at The Morton Arboretum is hiring a two-year
Research Assistant in Tree Conservation Biology. We
seek to understand dynamics and adaptation of species,
communities, and genes over time (especially during
environmental change), and to develop evidence-based
conservation actions. A Bachelor's degree is required;
a Master's degree, or Bachelor's plus work experience,
is preferred. Applicants should have experience with
bioinformatic processing of next generation sequencing
data (e.g. RADseq/GBS), computer programming or
R, and/or computational simulations (e.g. SimCoal,
Slim, etc.). Preferred experience includes genetic data
analysis and interpretation. Experience teaching these
skills to others is a plus. **Note that this description
is more detailed than what is shown on the application
website.
Research Assistants (RAs) at The Morton Arboretum
are involved in all aspects of research: designing stud-
ies, planning and executing work, utilizing a varietyFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 31
of scientic approaches, testing protocols, performing
analysis, reading literature, interpreting results, and
editing manuscripts. The Morton Arboretum strongly
emphasizes professional development. There will be
opportunities to collaborate on scientic publications,
present research at scientic meetings, and spend time
building new skills. Three of four past Hoban Lab RAs
are now in graduate school at top-tier universities, and
the other is a laboratory manager and team leader for
an international conservation NGO.
This position is full time, term-limited (approx. 24
months), and grant-funded. The applicant should
be enthusiastic, curious, well-organized, passionate for
plant conservation and genomics, persistent, and self-
motivated. They should be able to work without con-
stant supervision, quickly learn new skills, solve prob-
lems, communicate clearly in person and electronically,
and cooperate with others in a team environment. Very
strong attention to detail and meticulous record keeping
(e.g. lab notebooks, coding) is essential.
APPLY HERE: https://www.mortonarb.org/join-
support/working-arboretum/open-positions .Please
explain your t for the position and describe your
experience in one or more of the following in your
application cover letter. Also, we have several open
positions at The Morton; state that you are applying
for the RA in Tree Conservation Biology.
-
Planning informatic and/or laboratory activities and
keeping detailed lab or digital code notebook; organizing
samples or data from multiple projects -
Experience in a managing NGS and/or microsatellite
data, from raw les to analysis -
Use of statistical software (SAS, JMP, STATA, R, etc.)
-
Use of simulation software, and which kind -
Computer programming including writing and trou-
bleshooting code; translating biological models into code;
genomic data analysis -
Interpreting genetic data in a conservation context -
Writing; literature search; meta-analysis or systematic
reviews; writing reports
Review of applications will begin immediately. The posi-
tion will start as soon as possible but at latest August 1st.
We are open to remote work for at least part of the rst
year due to the covid pandemic. If you have questions
please contact Sean Hoban (*shoban@mortonarb.org*).
The Morton Arboretum is a world renowned botanic
garden and plant science research institute with a re-search department of 30+ scientists, a highly collegial
and supportive atmosphere, a strong emphasis on work
life balance, a research building embedded in 1800 acres
of forest and gardens, close proximity to Chicago, and
a mission driven focus. {
Sean Hoban <shoban@mortonarb.org >
MuensterGermany
MicrobePlantHerbivoreEvolution
The Institute for Evolution and Biodiversity at the Uni-
versity of M unster, Germany, invites applications for a
Junior Group Leader Wissenschaftliche/r Mitarbeiter/in
(Salary level TV-L E13, 100%)
in the Plant Adaptation-in-Action group, headed by Prof
Shuqing Xu (https://www.uni-muenster.de/Evolution/-
plantadapt/people/shuqingxu.shtml). The successful
candidate may start as soon as possible, preferably be-
fore May 2021. The salary will initially be provided
for three years, with possibility of extension for another
three years. Plants are living in a microbial world and
with the threat of herbivores. However, it remains un-
clear how herbivores and microbes jointly shape plant
evolution in nature. In this DFG-funded project, the
candidate will lead a team in the Plant Adaptation-in-
Action group to address this challenging question using
an interdisciplinary approach.
During the course of the project, the candidate will ma-
ture his/her scientic skills and develop independence
in project planning and management skills. In addition,
the candidate will gain the opportunity to improve their
leadership skills by leading a research team consisting
of one PhD student and several MSc and BSc students.
The position serves as a stepping-stone for the candidate
to pursue a faculty position.
Requirements: We are looking for a highly motivated
researcher with a doctoral degree, or equivalent thereof,
in biology, evolutionary genetics, bioinformatics or com-
puter science. The candidate is expected to design,
conduct and organize large scale eld experiments and
analyse large amount of next generation sequencing
data, in particular, metagenomic data, with high degree
of independence. Thus, a background in bioinformat-
ics, evolutionary genetics and metagenomics is required.
Applicants must demonstrate experience in statistics,
metagenomics, data analysis and microbiology. Expe-
rience with eld work, plant-microbe interactions or
plant-herbivore interactions are a plus. Our group con-32 EvolDir February 1, 2021
sists of people of various nationalities and teamwork is
essential for all projects in the group. Therefore, ex-
cellent communication skills, as well as prociency in
spoken and written English are expected. Good knowl-
edge in German is a plus.
The University of M unster is an equal opportunity em-
ployer and is committed to increasing the proportion
of women academics. Consequently, we actively encour-
age applications by women. Female candidates with
equivalent qualications and academic achievements
will be preferentially considered within the framework
of the legal possibilities. The University of M unster
is committed to employing more sta with disabilities.
Candidates with recognized severe disabilities who have
equivalent qualications are given preference in hiring
decisions, although some restrictions related to specic
project-related tasks may apply. Applications must be
in English and include:
(1) a motivation letter stating the research interests
with reference to the stated requirements in no more
than 2 pages, (2) a detailed CV including academic and
extracurricular achievements, as well as details of all
research experience, (3) an abstract of the PhD thesis,
and (4) contact details of at least two referees.
Applicants should send their documents in one sin-
gle PDF le to Prof Shuqing Xu (shuqing.xu@uni-
muenster.de) with a subject line \Junior Group Leader
Position - Your Name". The application review will
commence on 1st February 2021. The position will
remain open until lled.
Shuqing Xu <shuqing.xu@uni-muenster.de >
NMBE Bern CuratorMammalogy
The Natural History Museum Bern(NMBE), Switzer-
land has a vacancy for the following position starting
March 1, 2021 at the earliest, or by agreement:
Curator of Mammalogy (80%).
The NMBE as one of the major research museums in
Switzerland owns a valuable scientic collection of mam-
mals, a modern research infrastructure (molecular genet-
ics, morphology) and a close connection to the University
of Bern. You can expect a responsible and versatile job
as curator of the mammal collection in the team of our
ever-changing museum operation.
Your tasks - Responsibility for the expansion, inventory,conservation and use of the mammal collection, includ-
ing loan transactions - Planning and implementation
of independent, collectionrelated research projects and
cooperations - Participation in public relations as well
as conception and realization of exhibitions - Collabora-
tion in the implementation of the educational mission
of the museum (popular scientic publications, guided
tours and lectures, information for laymen) - Interest in
university teaching is expressly desired.
Your prole - completed biology studies and PhD in rel-
evant eld (zoology, ecology) - successful scientic work
as a mammalogist with a focus on morphology,functional
morphology, molecular genetics, taxonomy and/or sys-
tematics - evidence of international publication activity
in peer-reviewed scientic journals - several years of
post-doctoral research experience - experience in the
acquisition of third-party funds - solid experience in
dealing with scientic collections - good IT skills (e.g.
databases, 3D reconstruction, analysis of scientic data)
- very good language skills in German and English
The NMBE is an institution of the Burgergemeinde
Bern, therefore employment is in accordance with their
personnel regulations. If we have aroused your interest,
please send your application with the usual documents
(CV, list of publications, letter of motivation) as well
as addresses of at least two references by 31 January
2021 (extended deadline) by e-mail (PDF document)
or by mail to: Natural History Museum Bern, Sec-
retariat, Bernastrasse 15, CH-3005 Bern, Switzerland
(hr@nmbe.ch).
For further information on the job description, please
contact the responsible department head, Dr. Stefan T.
Hertwig, stefan.hertwig@nmbe.ch, +41 31 350 72 80.
R uber Lukas <lukas.ruber@nmbe.ch >
RiceU Technician BehaviorEvolution
The Saltz lab at Rice University seeks a full-time lab
technician to start in March or April (dates exible).
The technician will be responsible for managing a large-
scale experiment investigating the evolution of aggressive
behavior in fruit ies. Our research focuses on under-
standing the evolutionary genetics of animal behavior
through the lens of individual variation in environments.
The ideal candidate will be passionate about science and
have exceptional organizational and time-management
skills, and attention to detail. This is a great positionFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 33
for a recent college graduate interested in obtaining re-
search experience before moving on to graduate school
or something else.
This hourly position pays approximately $30-35k per
year and includes health insurance and other benets.
The technician would join an inclusive and vibrant intel-
lectual community at Rice University, and a collabora-
tive lab environment with on-camera pets and terrible
puns. For more about our research, team, and lab values
see saltzlab.com.
Please note that this position cannot be conducted
remotely; the candidate would be required to be
physically on campus at Rice University for approx-
imately 40 hours per week. Rice University has
mounted a vigorous program to prevent covid-19
outbreaks on campus; for more information and data,
see here: https://coronavirus.rice.edu/?utm source=-
alert&utm medium=alert%20banner&utm campaign=-
Coronavirus .Of course, the technician would be
expected to enthusiastically comply with all lab safety
policies including those targeted at stopping the spread
of covid-19.
To submit an application, go to https://jobs.rice.edu/-
postings/25536 .The application will include your re-
sum e/CV, names and contact information for a few
references, and short descriptions of (1) why you are
interested in the position; (2) relevant previous experi-
ence (scientic or otherwise); and (3) a tentative plan
for safely relocating to Houston if necessary. Inquiries
can be directed to me at Julia.b.saltz@rice.edu.
Julia Saltz <julia.b.saltz@rice.edu >
RZSS EdinburghZoo
ConservationGenetics
Research Scientist - (3 years Fixed Term) Location:
Royal Zoological Society of Scotland - Edinburgh Zoo
About Us The charity that owns both RZSS Edinburgh
Zoo and RZSS Highland Wildlife Park are looking for
committed, compassionate and conservation-minded in-
dividuals to join our expert sta team. RZSS aims to
connect people with nature and safeguard species from
extinction, a mission that sees us work both here in
Scotland and in over 20 countries around the world.
From inspiring the next generation about wildlife in our
parks to protecting chimpanzees in the Ugandan rainfor-
est; looking after some of the world's most endangeredspecies to saving the Scottish wildcat, RZSS is making
a huge dierence and we need your help to continue to
grow.
The role An opportunity has arisen for a committed
Research Scientist (Conservation Genetics) to join the
Royal Zoological Society of Scotland's WildGenes lab.
Reporting to the Conservation Programme Manager
(WildGenes), the Research Scientist will assist with the
analysis of applied conservation genetic research data
delivered by the RZSS WildGenes laboratory.
Who we are looking for The successful candidate will
have a PhD in a relevant genetics discipline such as Con-
servation Genetics or Population Genetics/Genomics
and a desire to work as part of our team to support
conservation projects around the globe.
Interested? For full information on how to apply, please
visit the RZSS vacancy page and follow the instructions:
http://www.rzss.org.uk/job-vacancies/ Closing date:
Monday 18th January 2021.
Invitation to interview will be by email/phone and inter-
views will take place during the 2nd week of February.
For any questions and queries, please email Dr Alex
Ball at aball@rzss.org.uk quoting \Research Scientist"
as the subject.
Our mission is to connect people with nature and safe-
guard species from extinction.
The RZSS strives to be an equal opportunities employer.
Registered Charity SC00406
aball@rzss.org.uk
SanAngelo Texas
CollectionsManager
Job Title Collections Manager To learn more and apply,
visit Position Number https://employment.angelo.edu/-
postings/3447 998174 Department Biology Salary
$32,957 - $38,752 Job Summary/Description
Under supervision of the Curators and Department
Chair, manages the teaching and scientic specimen
collections and databases (Arctos and Symbiota) in the
Angelo State Natural History Collections (ASNHC), in-
cluding the Herbarium, Mammalogy, Ornithology, Her-
petology, and Frozen Tissue collections. Serves to pro-
mote the ASNHC, department, and university through
various forms of community outreach. Oversees un-34 EvolDir February 1, 2021
dergraduate and graduate student assistants, interns,
and volunteers working in collections. Participates in
providing input toward new facility design.
Typical Duties/Job Duties
Operational management of research and teaching col-
lections in the Angelo State Natural History Collections
(ASNHC), to include the Herbarium; Mammalogy, Or-
nithology, Herpetology, and Frozen Tissue collections.
ASNHC duties are varied, but typical job functions
include (but are not limited to):
- Accessioning, cataloging, and integrating specimens
into the ASNHC - Collecting and preserving scientic
specimens - Operating and maintaining the dermestid
skeletal preparation facility - Developing, implementing,
and maintaining an integrated pest management (IPM)
program - Improving and maintaining the collection
databases (Arctos and Symbiota) with georeferenced
locality data - Processing and managing loans - Creat-
ing and maintaining policies and procedures that are
cohesive with best practices - Providing assistance to
curators in research - Training, managing, and working
with undergraduate and graduate student assistants, in-
terns, and volunteers to carry out curation activities and
specimen preparation - Maintaining and developing the
ASNHC website - Producing and distributing regular PR
announcements including annual ASNHC newsletters -
Participating in providing input toward new facility de-
sign - Conducting tours, lectures, programs, and classes
on collection- related topics - Assisting in grant-proposal
preparations for collection-related projects - Coordinat-
ing and managing permits relating to collection activities
- Participating in museum programs, workshops, semi-
nars, and other forms of professional development in the
museum profession - Serving to promote the ASNHC,
department, and university in other various forms of
community outreach and social media
Knowledge, Skills and Abilities
- Knowledge of accepted museum standards and prac-
tices for collection care, collections management, spec-
imen conservation and preparation, and registration
methods - Skilled in curation of natural history col-
lections - Knowledge of IPM protocols and procedures,
including general knowledge of museum pests - Skilled in
operation of dermestid facility - Knowledge of georefer-
encing and specimen-based electronic database protocols
- Knowledge of imaging systems - Skilled in Microsoft Of-
ce - Skilled and database management software (Arctos
and Symbiota, preferred) - Ability to be detail oriented
for accuracy of data and information - Ability to be
highly organized and able to handle multiple projects
- Ability to communicate well and build rapport with
students, faculty and sta - Ability to complete workwithin deadlines - Ability to have strong initiative to
solve problems - Ability to work independently and
with interdepartmental teams and initiatives - Skilled
in having good presentation (oral and written commu-
nication) skills - Ability to use established occupational
health and safety practices - Ability to organize and
complete tasks in an accurate and timely manner - Abil-
ity to manage computerized les and records - Ability
to prepare written communications and reports indepen-
dently and proofread work accurately - Ability to work
with minimum supervision - Ability to perform basic
mathematical calculations - Ability to manage annual
budget
Minimum Qualications
B.S. degree in Museum Science, Biology, Zoology,
Botany or related eld and two years professional expe-
rience working in Museum Collection Management or
related eld.
Preferred Qualications
M.S. degree in Museum Science, Biology, Zoology,
Botany or related eld.
Physical Requirements
Position requires: - Frequent walking, standing, bending,
climbing stairs, and carrying and lifting (up to 30 lbs.).
- Reaching, kneeling, crouching - Visual and hearing
acuity - Basic manual dexterity with both hands
Incumbent works primarily indoors and has regular ex-
posure to dust, chemicals, fumes, and sharp instruments.
Occasional exposure to inclement weather conditions
when outdoor work is required.
EEO Statement
Angelo State University is an equal opportunity em-
ployer and is committed to promoting and ensuring
equal employment opportunity for all individuals
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 35
SangerInstitute 6 EvolBiol
Hi,
I want to highlight six job opportunities at the Wellcome
Sanger Insitute in the UK.
* In the Tree of Life Department, we have a research
assistant role that would be based in Scotland working
on the Darwin Tree of Life project doing collections
in the Borders Forest. https://jobs.sanger.ac.uk/-
vacancy/advanced-research-assistant-borders-forest-
trust-project-tree-of-life-433498.html * In the Parasites
and Microbes Department, we have just launced an
exciting Evolutionary and Epidemiology Postdoc
Fellowship scheme with a variety of pre-dened projects
but also chances to develop your own project https:/-
/www.sanger.ac.uk/about/careers/seed-fellowship-
sanger-evolutionary-and-epidemiological-dynamics/ *
In my group, which is alated with both departments
(Tree of Life, Parasites and Microbes), I have a Samples
and Partner relationship manager that would suit
someone with strong project management skills
https://jobs.sanger.ac.uk/vacancy/samples-and-
partner-relationship-manager-432594.html * and
I have a Senior Bioinformatician role https://-
jobs.sanger.ac.uk/vacancy/senior-bioinformatician-
432868.html * and I am looking for two postdocs, not
yet advertised, but would be excited to hear from PhD
students nearing completion or postdocs interested in
coming to the Sanger. The two projects are 1) using
long reads to do population genomics in Anopheles
and/or migrating hoveries and 2) helping to build,
operate, and analyse a UK-wide DNA barcoding project
to study species diversity and interactions on 200,000
ying insects/year over the next 5 years. Both of
these projects have sta, consumables, and sequencing
funding for the next 5 years, so would suit postdocs
interested in at least a 3 year commitment.
Please get in touch if you are interested in any
of the roles above. Thank you, Mara Lawniczak
mara@sanger.ac.uk https://www.sanger.ac.uk/group/-
lawniczak-group/ https://www.sanger.ac.uk/person/-
lawniczak-mara-k-n/ The Wellcome Sanger Institute
is operated by Genome Research Limited, a charity
registered in England with number 1021457 and a com-
pany registered in England with number 2742969, whose
registered oce is 215 Euston Road, London, NW1 2BE.Mara Lawniczak <mara@sanger.ac.uk >
SpelmanC Atlanta ResTech
Bioinformatics
This grant-funded Research Technician is responsible
for providing direct support for activities related to Bio-
logical Big Data research and our partnership with the
Broad.
Applications are invited for a full-time research tech-
nician in the Biology Department at Spelman College
Atlanta, GA. General research areas at the department
include microbiology, plant biology, cancer biology, evo-
lution and ecology.
We are looking for a candidate with strong background
or interest in computational biology (bioinformatics) in
areas of genome/transcriptome sequencing and analysis
(assembly and annotation). Ideally the candidate has ex-
perience or familiarity with next generation sequencing
techniques. The technician is also expected to
- Prepares DNA and RNA extracts;
- Prepares sequencing libraries and run using Oxford
Nanopore sequencing devices; - Performs PCR, gene
cloning and mutagenesis; - Performs various assays based
on electrophoresis (such as western blot) and immunou-
orescence; - Collects data and manage the storage of
collected data. This will include developing and main-
taining databases of activities for reporting, publishing
and tracking purposes; - Collaborates with PIs to de-
velop yearly budget reports and annual program activity
reports to submit via agency on-line system. - Maintains
project budget, order supplies, and monitor expendi-
tures for program activities; - Supervises undergraduate
research students; - Maintains equipment.
Minimum of a Bachelors degree in Biology or related
eld and at least two years of research experience in the
laboratory is required. The incumbent must have the
ability to read, analyze, and interpret professional jour-
nals, technical procedures, or governmental regulations.
The ability to write reports, business correspondence,
and procedure manuals is a plus. Additionally, the
ability to eectively present information and respond
to questions from other employees, and managers is
necessary.
Please email a letter of interest, CV, and names
of and contact information for 2 references to
ytekle@spelman.edu. Anticipated start date is exible36 EvolDir February 1, 2021
but ideally as soon as possible. For more information
on the labs follow this link: https://www.spelman.edu/-
academics/majors-and-programs/biology/faculty
.Please feel free to email me with questions at the above
email address.
Yonas Tekle Associate Professor Department of Biology
Spelman College 350 Spelman Lane SW Atlanta, GA
30314-4399 Oce: 404-270-5779
Yonas Isaak Tekle <yonastekle@gmail.com >
UAmsterdam EvolutionaryEcology
At the University of Amsterdam (UvA), at the Institute
for Biodiversity and Ecosystem Dynamics (IBED), we
have a new vacancy for a Tenure-track Assistant Profes-
sor in Evolutionary Ecology, specically host-microbe
interactions.
At IBED, we investigate how species relationships de-
termine the structure and stability of biological com-
munities, and how the integrity of these communities is
inuenced or compromised by processes such as species
extinction, the introduction of non-native invaders, and
the growth of harmful species. Within the department
of Evolutionary and Population Biology (EPB), our
research comprises fundamental and applied investiga-
tions at the level of individual variation, population
genetics and community dynamics, to understand the
process of speciation, the evolution of resistance, the
evolution of endangered and invasive species, and the
evolution in the face of climate change. Specically,
we are working on evolutionary questions related to
plant communities, plant-herbivore, herbivore-herbivore
and predator-herbivore interactions, both within and
between species.
Job responsibilities: Research We seek to appoint an
early-stage career tenure-track Assistant Professor, fo-
cusing on host-microbe or host-parasite interactions,
combining evolutionary theory with bioinformatic and
genomic analysis.
Our goal is to recruit someone who will develop com-
plementary research by contributing your skills and
expertise to our existing research program to achieve
common results.
Therefore, your research preferably links to existing
research systems that are already in place within
the Department of Evolutionary and Population Bi-
ology (EPB) (see https://ibed.uva.nl/content/research-departments/epb/epb.html), that ts within the re-
search focus of the Institute of Biodiversity and Ecosys-
tems Dynamics (IBED) and that can potentially con-
nect to the Research Priority Area Systems Biol-
ogy (see https://www.uva.nl/zwaartepunten/systems-
biology/systems-biology.html).
Teaching
The department is involved in the educational programs
of the BSc-programs (i) Biology and (ii) Future Planet
Studies, and the MSc-programs (i) Ecology and Evo-
lution and (ii) Future Planet Ecosystem Science. On
average, the IBED sta contributes 30-40% of their
time to education, including lecturing and supervising
of BSc- and MSc-students. Within IBED, we strive to
help and support early-career researchers to be(come)
successful, for which we have a mentoring system, and
the teaching load is lower in the rst 1-2 years of the
appointment. In addition, within the Faculty of Science,
newly appointed assistant professors follow a didactic
training trajectory, which upon completion results in
a University Teaching Qualication (Basis Kwalicatie
Onderwijs, BKO)) within two years.
In the course of the tenure track, we expect the assis-
tant professor to also organise course(s) and contribute
to courses in the eld of Evolutionary Ecology and de-
velop evolutionary ecology modules for MSc- and PhD-
students. We are especially interested in candidates who
can contribute to eldwork courses in the BSc-program
Biology.
More specic information on the job prole, salary and
qualication requirements can be found in this link:
https://www.uva.nl/shared-content/uva/en/vacancies/-
2021/01/21-032-tenure-track-assistant-professor-in-
evolutionary-ecology.html Do you recognize yourself in
the job prole? Then we look forward to receiving your
application by 16 February 2021.Please note that you
can apply online through this link.
Researchers of underrepresented minority groups are
especially encouraged to apply.
Do you have questions about this vacancy? Or do you
want to know more about our organisation? Check out
the websites and/or contact Prof dr. Astrid T. Groot,
Head of the Department of Evolutionary and Population
Biology (EPB), a.t.groot@uva.nl.
\Groot, Astrid" <a.t.groot@uva.nl >February 1, 2021 EvolDir 37
UCaliforniaSanDiego
ComputationalBiology
Assistant Teaching Professor in Biological Sciences The
Division of Biological Sciences at the University of Cali-
fornia, San Diego (www.biology.ucsd.edu) invites appli-
cations from outstanding candidates for a tenure-track
teaching faculty position at the Assistant level. All can-
didates must be committed to excellence in undergradu-
ate education and demonstrate a commitment to equity
and inclusion in higher education. We are especially in-
terested in candidates who have created or contributed
to programs that aim to increase access and success
of underrepresented students in the sciences, and/or
have detailed plans to accomplish such goals. The in-
cumbent's primary responsibility will be to expand our
undergraduate course oerings in one of two general ar-
eas: 1) bioinformatics, computational biology, biological
data science, or quantitative biology or 2) lower and
upper division laboratory courses. While candidates
with research backgrounds in any subeld of biology
will be considered, we are particularly interested in can-
didates with signicant experience in bioinformatics,
biostatistics, computational biology, laboratory instruc-
tion, and/or fostering equity and inclusion and student
success in undergraduate science education programs.
In addition to teaching and service, the incumbent will
also advance science education at UCSD and beyond
through professional activities such as conducting and
disseminating pedagogical research in science teaching
methodologies.
All candidates must have earned a Ph.D. or equiva-
lent degree in Biology or a related eld (at the time
of application) which should be documented and ex-
plained in the application. In addition, the successful
candidate is expected to have: - College-level teaching
experience, with demonstrated success teaching under-
graduates. Candidates should demonstrate knowledge
of and experience employing instructional strategies tied
to contemporary research on the science of learning (i.e.,
evidence-based teaching); - Knowledge of and/or ex-
perience in professional activities that advance science
education beyond a single institution, such as develop-
ment of a research program investigating the science
of learning and teaching related to the applicant's area
of expertise; - A commitment to equity and inclusion
in higher education. Demonstrated ability to address
the educational and academic needs of a diverse stu-dent population, including developing eective teaching
strategies for the educational advancement of students
from groups who are underrepresented in higher ed-
ucation; - Potential to serve as an eective leader in
the educational program of the Division of Biological
Sciences.
Salary is commensurate with qualications and based
on University of California pay scales. The Division of
Biological Sciences at UC San Diego is a vibrant center
of scientic discovery, innovation, education, and col-
laboration. Our large research base spans many areas
of biology and has one of the most celebrated graduate
programs in the country. We are committed to academic
excellence and diversity within the faculty, sta, and
student body.
Further details about the required application material
can be found at: http://biology.ucsd.edu/jobs/apply-
lrf-lsoe.html Applications must be submitted to the
UCSD online application collection system, AP-On-Line
Recruit, at: https://apol-recruit.ucsd.edu/JPF02623
UCSD is an Armative Action/Equal Opportunity Em-
ployer with a strong institutional commitment to excel-
lence through diversity (http://diversity.ucsd.edu/). All
qualied applicants will receive consideration for em-
ployment without regard to gender, race, color, religion,
sex, sexual orientation, national origin, disability, age
or protected veteran status.
Kim GravesjAcademic Personnel Analyst jUC San
Diego
Working remotely due to COVID-19 situation My pro-
nouns are she, her, hers
\Graves, Kim" <kjgraves@ucsd.edu >
UFlorida MuseumNaturalHistory
MuseumAI
AI Faculty Positions, Florida Museum of Natural His-
tory, University of Florida
The University of Florida (UF) (http://www.u.edu/-
) is embarking on a campus-wide strategic initiative
to hire clusters of faculty with expertise in Arti-
cial Intelligence (AI). As part of this initiative, the
Florida Museum of Natural History (FLMNH) (https:/-
/www.oridamuseum.u.edu/) is seeking qualied appli-
cants for two 12-month, tenure-track faculty positions
in AI, broadly envisioned, with innovative research in-
terests and experience. These positions will be lled at38 EvolDir February 1, 2021
the Assistant or Associate faculty level in the FLMNH
Department of Natural History. Salary is competitive
and negotiable based on experience.
The FLMNH, a college-level unit within UF, is a vibrant
community of about 300 employees, including 32 full-
time faculty, UF undergraduate and graduate students,
postdoctoral research associates, and museum collec-
tions, education, and administrative support sta. As
the ocial state museum of Florida, our core mission in-
cludes stewardship of 40 million specimens and artifacts,
award-winning exhibitions, diverse public programs, and
emerging virtual and digital engagement. The FLMNH
Department of Natural History's research and collections
programs are world class and attract about $10 million
annually in government and philanthropic support.
The FLMNH enjoys cross-campus collaborations with
many of the 16 UF colleges, including those of potential
relevance to these new faculty positions: Agricultural
and Life Sciences (Institute of Food and Agricultural
Sciences), Education, Engineering, Journalism and Com-
munications, Libraries, and Liberal Arts and Sciences.
These positions require a strong commitment to univer-
sity education, museum-based research, and outreach.
Interactions with allied academic departments include
aliate professorship status with responsibility for su-
pervision of graduate students and teaching at least one
formal course per year. Interdisciplinary UF institutes,
such as the Informatics Institute, Biodiversity Institute,
and Genetics Institute, oer additional opportunities
for collaboration.
Position 1 (#68327) AI and Biological and/or Cultural
Diversity Past and Present
We seek to strengthen FLMNH's global leadership role
in biodiversity informatics by hiring a creative, inter-
disciplinary scholar whose research and teaching focus
on innovative approaches using machine learning (ML)
and computer vision, as applied to natural history data
sources. This position is part of a multi-college cluster
hire under the theme of AI and the Resilient and Built
Environment. We invite candidates who ask and answer
questions about changes in biological and/or cultural
diversity through space and time and whose interests
include working with burgeoning media and information
generated from natural history datasets, community sci-
entists, and in-situ and remote sensors. Possible data
sources include 2D and 3D images, audio and video, and
genetic data from the domains of biodiversity, paleon-
tology, and archaeology. Preferred candidates will have
a strong foundation in statistical ML, deep-learning,
and working in scalable computing environments. We
especially encourage applications from candidates who
contribute to the diversity, inclusivity, and excellence ofthe academic community and who have experience work-
ing with underserved and/or underrepresented student
populations. FLMNH has made strategic investments
in biodiversity informatics and is a national and inter-
national leader in this area. Its leadership position is
further enhanced by iDigBio, the national hub for digiti-
zation of natural history specimens, and multiple funded
infrastructure projects in imaging and media creation.
The successful candidate will join other FLMNH faculty
who are currently using ML approaches. Qualications
include a Ph.D., or equivalent, in biology, anthropol-
ogy, geography, engineering, computer science, or other
relevant discipline. For inquiries concerning this posi-
tion, contact Dr. Pam Soltis, Search Chair, psoltis (at)
mnh.u.edu.
Position 2 (#68329) AI and Museum Education and
Outreach
We envision an innovative AI program in museum edu-
cation and outreach and seek a faculty member in this
emerging eld. Housed in the FLMNH, this position is
part of the UF AI Workforce and Education Cluster,
with links to our Thompson Earth Systems Institute and
other UF colleges. We invite applications from those
who have active research programs, external support,
vision, and experience in AI related to formal, informal,
and/or community audiences and learning. Applicants
with experience working with multicultural, underserved,
and/or underrepresented audiences are particularly en-
couraged to apply. Potential areas of interest include:
exploring how recognition systems can create innovative
exhibits and
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UFlorida PopulationGenetics
Job: University of Florida.Population Genetics
JOB DESCRIPTION The Department of Biology at the
University of Florida invites applications for a full-time,
nine-month tenure-track faculty position at the level of
Assistant Professor, beginning August 16, 2021. We in-
vite applicants in all areas of theoretical, computational,
and/or empirical population genetics who integrate the
development and/or application of articial intelligenceFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 39
(AI{including machine and deep learning) in their re-
search. The successful applicant is also expected to
address the societal and/or ethical implications of AI.
This search is part of a campus-wide eort by the Uni-
versity of Florida to expand the role of AI in higher ed-
ucation and research (https://ai.u.edu). This hire will
have a research focus that will contribute to understand-
ing the ethics, equity, and bias of AI methods applied
to genetics. The University is home to HiPerGator, one
of the most powerful high-performance computers at a
US public university, including the new HiPerGator AI
NVIDIA GPU SuperPod.
The successful candidate will be expected to establish
an extramurally funded, internationally recognized re-
search program. Expectations for teaching include un-
dergraduate instruction in Genetics as well as graduate
and undergraduate courses in the applicant's specialty
area. Interdisciplinary teaching interests are strongly
encouraged. The Department of Biology highly values
candidates with professional or lived experiences that
enhance competency in teaching, training, and mentor-
ing students from backgrounds that span and intersect
all axes of diversity.
The University of Florida is among the top ten public
universities in the United States. Research in the bi-
ological sciences, informatics, and ethics is conducted
by faculty in many departments, across several Colleges
and Institutes, including (but not limited to) the UF
Genetics Institute, the Informatics Institute, and the
UFHealth Precision Medicine Program, providing a rich
intellectual environment and extensive opportunities for
collaboration. The University is also home to presti-
gious colleges of Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy, and
Veterinary Medicine, as well as the UF Interdisciplinary
Center for Biotechnology Research, which provides state
of the art molecular biology core facilities.
JOB QUALIFICATIONS Successful candidates must
have obtained a Ph.D. or equivalent degree in a relevant
discipline by August 16, 2021. Strong preference will be
given to applicants with at least one year of postdoctoral
experience, but exceptional applicants at the Ph.D. level
may be considered.
INSTRUCTIONS For full consideration, appli-
cations must be submitted online at http://-
apply.interfolio.com/82466 and must include: (1)
a letter of application summarizing the applicant's
qualications, interests, and suitability for the position,
(2) a complete curriculum vitae, (3) a statement
on research goals, including work in ethics, equity,
and bias, (4) a statement of teaching philosophy,
including a demonstrated commitment to inclusivity,
diversity, equity, accessibility, and internationalism;and (5) a list of at least three references. After initial
review, applicants who are chosen to receive further
consideration will be asked to request condential
letters of recommendation from the references.
Applications will be reviewed beginning February 15,
2021, and the position will remain open until lled. Only
complete applications will be reviewed at this time. Ap-
plications received after this date may be considered at
the discretion of the committee and/or hiring authority.
All candidates for employment are subject to a pre-
employment screening which includes a review of crimi-
nal records, reference checks, and verication of educa-
tion.
The selected candidate will be required to provide an
ocial transcript to the hiring department upon hire.
A transcript will not be considered \ocial" if a desig-
nation of \Issued to Student" is visible. Degrees earned
from an educational institution outside of the United
States require evaluation by a professional credentialing
service provider approved by the National Association
of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES), which can
be found at http://www.naces.org/ . The University of
Florida is an equal opportunity institution dedicated to
building a broadly diverse and inclusive faculty and sta.
Searches are conducted in accordance with Florida's Sun-
shine Law. If an accommodation due to disability is
needed in order to apply for this position, please call
(352) 392-2477 or the Florida Relay System at (800)
955-8771 (TDD).
The Department of Biology particularly welcomes ap-
plicants who can contribute to a diverse and inclusive
environment through their scholarship, teaching, men-
toring, and professional service. Please
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UNewHampshire
MicrobialEvolution
The Department of Molecular, Cellular, and Biomedical
Sciences, College of Life Sciences and Agriculture at
theUniversity of New Hampshire (UNH) invites appli-
cations for a full-time (9-month) tenure-track Assistant40 EvolDir February 1, 2021
Professor ofMicrobial Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
starting Fall 2021.
We seek an engaged faculty member who demonstrates
strong potential to develop an internationally recognize-
dresearch program in Microbial Ecology and Evolution-
ary Biology. Specic research focus is exible, but can-
didatespursuing hypothesis-driven science in genomics,
environmental microbiology, microbial systems biology,
host-pathogen interactions, population dynamics, com-
munity ecology, or related elds using an evolutionary
orcomparative framework are encouraged to apply. A
commitment to enhancing diversity and inclusion is
required.
The successful candidate will interface with any of sev-
eral centers for excellence at the University of NewHamp-
shire including the Hubbard Center for Genome Studies,
the Research Computing Center, the Center ofIntegrated
Biomedical and Bioengineering Research,the New Hamp-
shire Agricultural Experiment Station, theNortheast
Center for Vibrio Disease and Ecology, and the School
of Marine Science and Ocean Engineering.Graduate
student training opportunities are provided through af-
liation with any of theMCBS-administeredgraduate
programs including Biochemistry, Genetics, Microbiol-
ogy, and Molecular and Evolutionary SystemsBiology.
Review of applications will begin in February 15, 2021
and will continue until the position is lled. We antici-
pate astart date of August 2021.For administrative ques-
tions related to application submission, please contact
Paul Boisselle atpaul.boisselle@unh.edu. For scientic
questions, please contact the chair of the search, Profes-
sor MatthewMacManes at matthew.macmanes@unh.edu
Please seehttps://jobs.usnh.edu/postings/38222for the
full announcement.
\MacManes, Matthew" <Matthew.Macmanes@unh.edu >
UPuerto Rico Mayaguez
EvolutionaryMicrobiology
The Biology Department of the University of Puerto
Rico at Mayaguez invites applications for the position
of assistant professor in microbiology. The selected can-
didate will teach undergraduate and graduate courses
according to departmental needs. Courses could include,
but are not limited to: General Microbiology, Industrial
Microbiology, Clinical Microbiology, and Food Micro-
biology. The candidate should design and develop newcourses in the area of expertise or adopt previously
created ones that are not currently oered. Other re-
sponsibilities include coordinating teaching laboratories,
attending faculty and departmental meetings, active
participation in departmental committees, and devel-
oping a successful, externally funded research program
in the required area of expertise. External funds, when
obtained, will allow eligibility for release time during
the academic year to a maximum of half the teaching
load (6 cr./hrs. out of a minimum of 12 credits per
semester). Furthermore, since our Institutional mission
is education, research, and service, faculty are expected
to publish and present the research work in conferences
and peer-reviewed journals, mentor undergraduate and
graduate students, participate in faculty committees,
professional and community service, and collaborate
with institutional activities.
Doctoral degree in Microbiology from an accredited insti-
tution or completion of all requirements by date of hire.
Demonstrate the potential for excellence in teaching
and research. Eective oral and written communication
skills in Spanish or English. Bilingual candidates are
preferred.
Interested candidates must send (only by e-mail) the
following documents: a cover letter, Curriculum Vitae,
research dossier and teaching interests, and three (3)
letters of reference on or before February 18, 2021 to
brendam.soto@upr.edu.
For further information, please contact: Prof. Ana V.
V elez D az University of Puerto Rico, Mayag uez Cam-
pus Department of Biology Call Box 9000 Mayag uez,
Puerto Rico 00681-9000 director.biol@uprm.edu
https://home.uprm.edu/hrjobs/showjob.php?id=824
UPRM Jobs <https://home.uprm.edu/hrjobs/-
showjob.php?id=824 >University of Puerto Rico
Mayag uez Campus Human Resources Oce Recruit-
ment Division Telephone: 832-4040 Ext. 3159, 3045
Fax 831-1720 home.uprm.edu
Sean Locke <sean.locke@upr.edu >
UPuertoRico Mayaguez Genetics
The Biology Department of the University of Puerto
Rico at Mayaguez is seeking applications for the position
of assistant professor in genetics. The selected candi-
date will teach undergraduate and graduate courses
according to departmental needs. Courses could in-February 1, 2021 EvolDir 41
clude, but are not limited to: General Genetics, Human
Genetics, Advanced Genetics, Population Genetics, Cy-
togenetics, and Eukaryotic Molecular Genetics. The
candidate should design and develop new courses in
the area of expertise or adopt previously created ones
that are not currently oered. Other responsibilities
include coordinating teaching laboratories, attending
faculty and departmental meetings, active participation
in departmental committees, and developing a success-
ful, externally funded research program in the required
area of expertise. External funds, when obtained, will
allow eligibility for release time during the academic
year to a maximum of half the teaching load (6 cr./hrs.
out of a minimum of 12 credits per semester). Fur-
thermore, since our Institutional mission is education,
research, and service, faculty are expected to publish
and present the research work in conferences and peer-
reviewed journals, mentor undergraduate and graduate
students, participate in faculty committees, professional
and community service, and collaborate with institu-
tional activities.
Doctoral degree in Genetics from an accredited institu-
tion or completion of all requirements by date of hire.
Demonstrate the potential for excellence in teaching
and research. Eective oral and written communication
skills in Spanish or English. Bilingual candidates are
preferred.
Interested candidates must send (only by e-mail) the
following documents: a cover letter, Curriculum Vitae,
research dossier and teaching interests, and three (3)
letters of reference on or before February 18, 2021 to
brendam.soto@upr.edu.|
For further information, please contact: Prof. Ana V.
V elez D az University of Puerto Rico, Mayag uez Cam-
pus Department of Biology Call Box 9000 Mayag uez,
Puerto Rico 00681-9000 director.biol@uprm.edu
https://home.uprm.edu/hrjobs/showjob.php?id=826
Sean Locke <sean.locke@upr.edu >
UTexas Austin FieldTech
PlantEcologyGenomics
We seek an energetic, motivated research technician to
participate in experiments on the ecology, physiology,
and genomics of switchgrass. This is an opportunity
to participate in integrative research studying the
genetic basis of ecological processes in an importantnative grass species. The position will be administered
through the University of Texas at Austin and stationed
with Philip Fay's group at the USDA Grassland,
Soil, and Water Lab in Temple, TX ( https://-
www.ars.usda.gov/plains-area/temple-tx/grassland-
soil-and-water-research-laboratory/people/philip-fay/).
This position is expected to continue for six months
with possible extensions based on job performance and
progress towards research goals.
To apply, please submit a cover letter, CV,
and contact information for three references
to https://utaustin.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/-
UTsta/job/Texas/Research-Engineering-Scientist-
Assistant|Temple R00011550-1 .Direct any ques-
tions about the position to Robert Heckman (
robert.heckman@utexas.edu). Review of applications
will begin immediately and the position will remain
open until lled. Start date is negotiable, but preference
will be given to applicants who are available earlier.
\robert.heckman@utexas.edu"
<robert.heckman@utexas.edu >
UTours EcologyEvolution
The Insect Biology Research Institute in Insect Biology
(IRBI - Tours France) is hiring a professor in Ecophysi-
ology and Behavioural Ecology
for more information contact david GIRON at
directeur.irbi@univ-tours.fr
*Job prole: *****
The Insect Biology Research Institute and the teaching
department of Animal Biology and Genetics are opening
a Professorship in ecology and evolution. Applicants
will have a strong record in teaching and research at
the interface of behavioural ecology and ecophysiology,
especially in insects.
*Research elds **: *
/*Biological sciences: evolutionary ecology, behavioural
ecology, ecophysiology, arthropods*/
Applicants are invited to present a research project ad-
dressing questions on the behavioural and physiological
responses of arthropods to their habitat. She/he can
also explore responses to environmental disruptions such
adjustments and adaptive responses to multiple stresses
and/or global changes.
{ GIRON David Directeur de l'Institut de Recherche sur42 EvolDir February 1, 2021
la Biologie de l'Insecte (IRBI) Directeur de recherche
CNRS
IRBI - UMR 7261 CNRS/Universit e de Tours Facult e
de Sciences et Techniques, Parc Grandmont, Avenue
Monge 37200 Tours FRANCE
directeur.irbi@univ-tours.fr
+33 2 47 36 69 11 (secr etariat) +33 2 47 36 69 74 (ligne
directe) +33 6 62 21 43 82 (portable)
http://irbi.univ-tours.fr DirecteurIRBI - David GIRON
<directeur.irbi@univ-tours.fr >
Vienna GroupLeaders
MolecularEvolution
The Research Institute of Molecular Pathology (IMP)
is one of the world's leading basic biomolecular research
institutes, located at the thriving and interdisciplinary
Vienna BioCenter. The Vienna BioCenter hosts 1900
scientists from over 70 nations, cultivating a dynamic
and collaborative work environment.
Researchers at the IMP conduct curiosity-driven re-
search across a wide range of topics in molecular cell
biology, developmental and regeneration biology, im-
munology and cancer research, with the aim to under-
stand the mechanisms of life.
The IMP is continuously looking for outstanding group
leaders in these areas and is particularly interested in
recruiting faculty members who will study mechanis-
tic aspects of development, regeneration, disease and
gene regulation at the organismal level, by using genetic,
molecular, and evolutionary approaches.
The next deadline for group leader applications is 15
February 2021.
Group leader positions are fully independent positions,
similar to assistant professorships. Successful candidates
will be oered an initial contract of ve years, with an
anticipated extension to eight years, subject to external
review. Salaries are internationally competitive and
group leaders are given generous funds for student, post-
doc and technician positions, investments and running
costs.
The IMP oers access to a broad range of excellent
service facilities and participates in the Vienna BioCen-
ter PhD Program and VBC Summer School, which are
amongst the most competitive and successful graduate
research programs in Europe.Vienna oers a lively multicultural environment with
high living standards, repeatedly ranking as the No. 1
city worldwide for the quality of living. Vienna is a safe,
family-friendly city with excellent public transporta-
tion and the Vienna BioCenter has its own childcare
facilities.
For general information on group leader functions
at the IMP, see https://www.imp.ac.at/career/group-
leaders/ or email Christopher Robinson at christo-
pher.robinson@imp.ac.at Applications should be sub-
mitted online via https://selapp.imp.ac.at/?selection=-
imp21 . Please include a CV with publication list, a
summary of research achievements and future research
plans, and the contact details of 3 referees. In your
publication list, please explain in a few sentences the
relevance of your most important publications.
Read more about the institute at www.imp.ac.at
Christopher Robinson, christopher.robinson@imp.ac.at
Christopher Robinson, christopher.robinson@imp.ac.at
Vienna WildlifeSciences
Dear all,
The *University of Veterinary Medicine, Vienna
(Vetmeduni Vienna)* is inviting applications for a
*Full professor (Chair) of Wildlife Sciences* <https://-
www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/infoservice/professorships/ >
The position is aliated with the Research Institute of
Wildlife Ecology, Department of Interdisciplinary Life
Sciences (FIWI; www.vetmeduni.ac.at/wi/). The suc-
cessful candidate will manage this Research Institute
and pursue wildlife sciences in research, teaching, con-
tinuing education and public services in collaboration
with other institutes and the University clinics of the
Vetmeduni Vienna. The newly appointed professor will
have access to state-of-the-art facilities for research and
teaching, both in the FIWI and in collaboration with the
other research institutes of the Department of Interdis-
ciplinary Life Sciences and possibly with stakeholders in
wildlife ecology and management (municipalities, hunt-
ing associa-tions, agriculture and agroforestry, nature
and species conservation agencies). The FIWI already
has well established interactions with such bodies.
Salary scheme: Salary scheme of the Collective
Bargain Agreement for University Sta, job group
A1. The minimum salary according to the Col-
lective Bargain Agreement for Univer-sity Sta isFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 43
^ a^A^A:73:438;40gross=year:Ahighersalaryma =ybeagreedduringtheappointmentnegotiations:Theprofessorshipisapermanentposition:
*Application deadline: January 31st, 2021*
To apply for this position, please read rst the
full job description, requested qualications of the
candidate, and application guidelines at: https://-
www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/infoservice/professorships/
Please nd attached the announcement for the Profes-sorship for Wildlife Sciences
Best regards,
Dr.med.vet. Pamela Burger Forschungsinstitut f ~A^A1
4r
Wildtierkunde und ~A-kologie Vetmeduni Vienna
Savoyenstra ~A^Ae 1 1160 Wien, Austria Tel: +43-(0)1-
25077-7141; Fax: -7941
Pamela Burger <pamela.burger@vetmeduni.ac.at >
Other
AGA SpecialEventsAwards Deadline Jan31 . . . . . . . . 43
CETAF CollectionsBasedAwards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
ESEB OutreachInitiativeFund DeadlineMar15 . . . . . 44
ESEB SpecialTopicNetworks Call Mar31 . . . . . . . . . . 44
Evolution Conchologist Grants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
FieldStations Funding Petition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
GordonConf 2022 requests . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Hawaii UndergraduateREU Biodiversity . . . . . . . . . . . 47NewPhytologist TansleyMedalApplications . . . . . . . . 48
Online Resource MetabarcodingBiodiversity . . . . . . . 48
PlantInvasionGenomics 24 SummerRes . . . . . . . . . . . . 48
PurchaseC NY SixMonthTeachingEvol . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
SSEGrants ForOutreach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .49
UPittsburgh EvolutionStudyGrants . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
AGA SpecialEventsAwards Deadline
Jan31
Thinking about oering a post-vaccination workshop?
The American Genetic Association grants awards each
year to its members for support of special events that
advance the mission of AGA, particularly to support
students to attend the event.
Eligible events include specialized workshops and short
courses in topical areas of organismal genetics and ge-
nomics, but any event relevant to AGA's purpose will be
considered, especially those that could lead to original
Journal of Heredity articles.Awards are between $1,000- $15,000, with a total of
$70,000 available for 2019. Funding is competitive, and
applications must follow the guidelines.
To apply, visit https://www.theaga.org/ Anjanette
Baker, AGA Manager
theaga@theaga.org
Anjanette Baker <theaga@theaga.org >44 EvolDir February 1, 2021
CETAF CollectionsBasedAwards
Dear All,
The E-SCoRe Award 2021, which is awarded to young
researchers for outstanding collections-based research
by the Consortium of European Taxonomic Facilities
(CETAF) will be open for new candidates to apply until
14 February 2021.
CETAF Community will celebrate for the second year
the new generation of scientists who have shown interest
in the collections that help to document, describe and
understand life on Earth. By awarding the E-SCoRe
award, CETAF wishes to highlight the signicance of
collections-based research in the ght against biodiver-
sity loss and climate change as well as to support early
career researchers in this eld.
More information on eligibility and criteria on our web-
site following this link: https://cetaf.org/news/apply-
e-score-award-until-14-february-2021#overlay-context
Best wishes Eva
Dr. Eva H aner Freie Universit at Berlin Science Pol-
icy Coordinator Botanischer Garten und Botanisches
Museum Berlin K onigin-Luise-Str. 6-8 14195 Berlin
Tel.: (030) 838 59964 Fax: (030) 838 4 59964 E-Mail:
e.haener@bgbm.org www.botanischer-garten-berlin.de
\H aner, Eva" <E.Haener@bgbm.org >
ESEB OutreachInitiativeFund
DeadlineMar15
**ESEB Outreach Initiative Fund**
The European Society for Evolutionary Biology (ESEB)
welcomes applications to the ESEB Outreach Initiative
Fund for projects that promote evolution-related activ-
ities. The goal of this initiative is to improve public
knowledge about evolution globally.
Applications for funding will be accepted for educational
initiatives that promote evolution, translation of evolu-
tionary material (books, lms, and websites) intended
for a general audience, public outreach seminars, public
exhibitions, etc.There will be a single call per year with a total budget
of 20,000 Euro. A single project can be funded with up
to 4,000 Euro, but smaller projects are welcome. We
are requesting a report after one year, at which time
the project should be completed.
Please use the ESEB application form to submit your
proposal and note the word limits given herein. The
form can be downloaded at the ESEB website: https:/-
/eseb.org/prizes-funding/outreach-fund/ Proposals will
be accepted until *15th March 2021* and should be
submitted by email to the ESEB oce (Email: of-
ce@eseb.org; Subject: Outreach 2021). Note that we
will acknowledge receipt of all applications within a
week. If you have not received our conrmation by then,
please contact the ESEB oce again!
Please note that scientic meetings are not supported
by ESEB Outreach Initiative funds. These fund also do
not work as a mechanism for continual funding. Once
the potential of a project has been demonstrated, this
should be used as a basis to convince other funding
sources on continuation funds. Hence, submissions by a
group that has been successful in past calls may be pe-
nalized if the proposals are mere follow-ups of previous
projects.
The applications will be evaluated by the Outreach
Initiative Committee:
Josefa Gonz alez, Chair (ES) Delphine Sicard (FR)
Karine Van Doninck (BE) Rhonda R. Snook (SE)
Dr. Ute Moniatte - ESEB Oce - oce@eseb.org Euro-
pean Society for Evolutionary Biology - www.eseb.org
ESEB <oce@eseb.org >
ESEB SpecialTopicNetworks Call
Mar31
***ESEB Special Topic Networks - Call for proposals***
Small symposia, workshops and courses in various for-
mats can perform functions complementary to those of
the ESEB Congresses, allowing more focused interac-
tions within specialist areas, forging new links between
previously separate areas or fostering interdisciplinary
and innovative ideas that merge specialized elds. One-
o events can be valuable but the returns for connected
series of events can be even greater. Therefore, ESEB in-
vites proposals for Special Topic Networks (STNs) that
will support dynamic and exible series of small meet-
ings and/or other networking opportunities in focusedFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 45
and currently active research areas.
Each STN will be funded for up to 6 years (subject to
review after 2 and 4 years of operation) with an annual
budget of up to 10,000 Euros. Four STNs have been
initiated since the start of the initiative (see https://-
eseb.org/prizes-funding/special-topic-networks/), and
further STNs will be initiated every other year. The
format of these STNs is up to their organisers and inno-
vative ideas are encouraged. All elds of evolutionary
biology are eligible. Applicants should provide a pro-
posal with the following components:
1) a description of the research area to be targeted,
showing why it is timely to address it in this way and
outlining the expected benets to the eld from the STN
(max. 1000 words), 2) a plan for the rst two years of
operation of the STN and an outline of activities over
the remaining years (max. 500 words), 3) the names and
aliations of the proposed organisers, with brief (max.
one page) CVs, and 4) a budget, with brief justication,
for the STN activities proposed for the rst two years.
Applicants should also identify an institution that is
prepared to open an account in which the funds can be
deposited and managed by the applicants. 'Overheads'
will not be paid to this institution but reasonable di-
rect administrative costs will be eligible. Funding for
each 2-year block will be subject to approval by the
STN Committee, established by Council, following re-
ceipt of a report of activities in the preceding 2 years.
The institution managing funds will be asked to pro-
vide a certied statement of expenditure to accompany
the report. The principal criterion for renewal will be
evidence that the funding provided had been used to
further interaction in the topic area.
Applications should be sent to the ESEB oce email
(oce@eseb.org) as PDF les by *** 31 March 2021***.
Updated versions of previously-submitted proposals are
welcome. Proposals will be assessed by an independent
STN Review Panel, appointed by the STN Committee
following the closing date and ensuring no conict of
interest by panel members. The STN Review Panel will
make funding recommendations to Council. The result
will be announced after the next Council meeting, at
latest on 31 August 2021.
The principal criterion for selection of an STN will be its
focus on an active area of research within the scope of
evolutionary biology. Preference might be given to STNs
that propose new connections between sub-disciplines
or that focus on the resolution of current controversies.
New STNs will address topicsdistinct from those covered
by currently-funded STNs. A score for this criterion
based on part (1) of the application will account for
50% of the overall panel score. It is primarily for theproposers to demonstrate the need for an STN, the po-
tential for it to stimulate progress and the activities
that will enable the network to be eective. A typi-
cal STN might organise one small discussion meeting
per year but it might also organise training events and
its members might work together to generate resources
or publications. Interaction among members might be
fostered, between meetings, using social media, online
discussion forums or similar. A score for the eective
and innovative nature of the plans laid out in part (2)
of the proposal will account for 25% of the overall panel
score. The nal 25% of the score will be based on the
budget and adherence to the following guidelines:
1. A proposal should be supported by at least three
ESEB members (membership in date on the closing
date for applications), from at least two and typically
three countries and taking gender issues into account,
who commit to organising the STN for its duration (or
to nding appropriate replacements if forced to step
down). A member should support no more than one
proposal in a given application round and organisers
of current STNs should not be proposers of new STNs.
2. STNs should organise at least one meeting in the
non-Congress year following its inception and one in its
nal non-Congress year. Complementing these meetings
with an innovative range of other activities is strongly
encouraged.
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Evolution Conchologist Grants
Conchologists of America (COA) Academic Grants,
2021 Deadline: February 28, 2021 Please see the web-
site:http://www.conchologistsofamerica.org/grants/ El-
igibility: - Degree-seeking students and anyone engaging
in malacological research, including University/College
faculty and Museum researchers, is eligible. Typically,
80'V90% of applicants are degree- seeking students, and
80'V90% of award recipients are degree- seeking students.
- Persons of any nationality and country of residence may
apply. - Applicants from previous years may re-apply.
- Recipients of previous years may re-apply, but must
include a submitted manuscript to or published article
in the American Conchologist based on the previous46 EvolDir February 1, 2021
award. - Degree-seeking students must have a letter
of recommendation by their advisor emailed tojannven-
detti@yahoo.comby the Feb. 28th deadline with the
applicant's name is the subject line.
Rules & Guidelines: - All submissions must be submit-
ted via email as a .doc, or .pdf., preferably in one le.
Keep le size under 3 MB. - The proposal must concern
a malacological topic with any molluscan taxon or taxa
as the focus, e.g., parasite studies should focus on the
molluscan side of the interaction. All disciplines from
autecology to zoogeography, including paleontology, are
eligible. - The project must be self-contained. In other
words, with the funding requested it must be possible to
answer the question posed. However, the proposal may
be a component of the applicant's overall research. - Per-
manent equipment is not an allowable expense. Time
using a piece of permanent equipment (for example,
SEM beam time) is allowable. - Institutional overhead
is not permitted. - The maximum award is $2500 US.
Smaller amounts can be requested and may be more
likely to receive funding. Partial funding is possible at
the discretion of the Academic Grants Committee. -
If a grant is awarded, please consider options to avoid
having to pay personal income tax on it (US citizens and
residents must provide their social security number if
given award and paid individually.). Many educational
and non-prot organizations manage such grants; please
inquire with such entities. COA and/or its representa-
tives are not liable for any tax consequences of the award.
- All recipients are expected to submit a summary of
their work to American Conchologist within 12 months
of receiving the award. - All applications are evaluated
by the Academic Grants Committee composed of three
professional malacologists appointed by the Chair of the
COA Academic Grants program. - The decisions of the
Committee are nal.
Application: Must include 3 components: a proposal,
budget, and CV.
Proposal(2'V4 pages): Title Abstract of project, not
to exceed 150 words Body including background in-
formation necessary to understand the project and its
signicance, materials and methods, and proposed plan
of research, and Illustrations if necessary literature cited
single-spaced, 12 point font Budget (1 page): List of esti-
mated expenses List of grants applied to for same/similar
project CV/Academic Biography (I page): Include ad-
dress, phone number, email address of applicant, aca-
demic and/or relevant professional history
Applications are judged by the COA Grants Commit-
tee. Awardees will be notied via email in (or before)
May 2021, then announced at COA's annual convention
(if it is held). Awardees need not be present at theconvention.
THE DEADLINE FOR APPLICATIONS IS FEBRU-
ARY 28 All application materials must be emailed as
electronic documents to:jannvendetti@yahoo.com
Jann Elizabeth Vendetti, Ph.D.
she/her/hers
Associate Curator & Twila Bratcher Chair in Malacol-
ogy Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County
900 Exposition Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90007
Jann Vendetti <jvendetti@nhm.org >
FieldStations Funding Petition
Colleagues,
Please consider signing a petition
< https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/-
1FAIpQLSdHj4ktYfUzvQY Iz2JQ9f0Ja dPnmHytFloQvYgjSsMVZA0g/-
viewform >to protect funding for eld stations, marine
labs, and eld courses imperiled by COVID. Essentially
all eld courses have been canceled and remain closed
except for a few essential research projects. Revenue
streams to these facilities and their sta have been
moribund since March 2020. Worse, virtually all
university and parent institutions will be grappling
with multi-million dollar decits for the next two
years. Already, many stations are laying o sta and
eliminating positions.
A eld course or eld station was the natal ground for a
great many of the thousands of us. For those, no essay
on their quintessential importance to the recruitment,
retention, and training of students in ecology, evolu-
tionary biology, geology, oceanography, global change
biology, and myriad other disciplines is necessary.
Please go the signature petition <
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/-
1FAIpQLSdHj4ktYfUzvQY Iz2JQ9f0Ja dPnmHytFloQvYgjSsMVZA0g/-
viewform >to lend your support'Xit takes less than 30
seconds to sign.
Below is the petition language, which is a brief pitch
about their importance that we hope to submit to a
journal at the end of January. A longer article about
the importance of preserving funding for eld stations,
marine labs, and eld courses has been accepted at Bio-
Science'Xthe viewpoint will be published on 27 January
2021 (a link to the BioScience proof is available on theFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 47
petition website).
Thank you for your consideration!
Fredric Janzen, Director Kellogg Biological Station
Michigan State University
On behalf of leading members of the Organization for
Biological Field Stations...
Petition - Field Stations and Field Courses Imperiled All
basic requirements for life and civilization are inexorably
linked to natural resources and the wellbeing of our en-
vironment. As the human population skyrockets toward
8 billion and beyond, our impacts soar, leading us into
a multi-dimensional crisis. Much broader public un-
derstanding and engagement are necessary to overcome
these mounting challenges. More than ever, extensive
environmental data are urgently needed to guide local,
regional, and global policies toward functional solutions.
Fortunately, eld stations, strategically positioned
across the globe, have for generations amassed and ana-
lyzed crucial information about our planet - its climate,
endangered species, resource exploitation, environmen-
tal health, emergent diseases, and more - yielding many
long-term data sets integral to developing practical ap-
proaches to modern struggles. Research stations are
invaluable in situ hubs of exploration and discovery for
the training of students and early career scientists in the
fundamentals of diverse STEM disciplines. By aording
access to wildlife observation, they also inspire innu-
merable planetary stewards and promote responsible
ecotourism that, in turn, benets both nature and lo-
cal economies while spreading environmental awareness
among employees, neighbors, and visitors.
Unfortunately, current circumstances, especially
COVID-related travel restrictions, have truncated cash
ow to eld stations thereby debilitating their capacity
to generate essential data, conduct outreach activities,
and oer unique learning experiences. At a time when
environmental issues demand heightened attention, we
simply cannot risk undermining the continuum of sci-
entic endeavors and education. Field stations and the
courses they deliver are integral to scientic literacy and
remain critical to the protection of Earth' ^As natural
heritage and its life-sustaining ecosystem services.
We the undersigned hereby exhort governments, foun-
dations, and universities to commit to supporting sci-
entic research stations and their educational program-
ming throughout current pandemic adversities and sub-
sequently, to augment resources at a level commensurate
with their expanding importance to science and society.
\Janzen, Fredric" <janzenf1@msu.edu >GordonConf 2022 requests
The 2021 Gordon Conference on Microbial Population
Biology has been postponed to 2023, but we're hoping
to ll the gap with a 2022 conference or workshop series.
Tell us your heart's desires in this short survey: https:/-
/forms.gle/XyGRruWCSoALPXL88 . Rosie Redeld
<redeld@zoology.ubc.ca >
Hawaii UndergraduateREU
Biodiversity
Please share with undergraduate students interested in
a summer research experience using DNA methods to
study biodiversity in the Hawaiian Islands.
The University of Hawaii at Manoa is oering an NSF-
funded Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU)
during the summer of 2021 focused on the use of DNA
methods to study Hawaiian biodiversity. Participants
will take advantage of high-throughput DNA sequencing,
phylogenetic, population genetic, and genomic methods
to study the evolutionary and biogeographic origins of
Hawai ^Ei's native, endemic and invasive organisms.
REU participants will be mentored by a diverse faculty
from the School of Life Sciences, the Hawai^ aInstitute of
Marine Biology, and the Department of Tropical Plant
and Soil Sciences.
Applicants from backgrounds underrepresented in
STEM elds, including Native Hawaiians, Pacic Is-
landers and students currently enrolled in community
colleges are encouraged to apply. Previous research ex-
perience is not required. The 10-week REU summer
program provides participants with stipends and covers
the costs of accommodations, food, and travel to the
REU site. This unique experience allows participants
to gain hands-on research experience, providing an ex-
cellent stepping stone for future graduate studies in
ecology, evolution, and conservation biology.
The REU program website and application form can be
found here: https://biodiversity-reu.manoa.hawaii.edu.
Although the program is subject to change depending on
the status of the COVID-19 pandemic, we are currently48 EvolDir February 1, 2021
planning for the REU to be an in-person experience in
summer 2021.
If you have questions, please direct them to Drs.
Stephanie Kraft-Terry and Peter Marko at uhm-
reu@hawaii.edu.
Stephanie Kraft-Terry Peter Marko Associate Professor
Associate Professor School of Life Sciences School of
Life Sciences
Peter Marko <pmarko@hawaii.edu >Peter Marko
<pmarko@hawaii.edu >
NewPhytologist
TansleyMedalApplications
Dear all,
The New Phytologist Tansley Medal is an annual prize
awarded to an early career researcher for excellence
in plant science. The competition is open to students
and researchers with up to ve years' experience since
gaining / defending their PhD (career breaks excluded).
The winner receives 2,000 (GBP) and all nalists author
Tansley insight reviews, published in New Phytologist
and highlighted by an Editorial.
The application deadline for this year's New Phytologist
Tansley Medal is 29 January 2021 - nd all the informa-
tion you need here: https://www.newphytologist.org/-
grants/tansleymedal You can read about the most
recent winners and nalists in this issue of New
Phytologist: https://nph.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/toc/-
14698137/2020/228/6 Please feel free to get in touch
with any questions, and good luck!
Mike
Dr Mike Whiteld (pronouns: he / him) Develop-
ment Coordinator, New Phytologist Foundation | new-
phytologist.org Twitter:|@NewPhyt| Instagram:|
@NewPhyt| Facebook:|fb.com/NewPhytologist |
The New Phytologist Foundation, registered charity
number 1154867
2019 Impact Factor|8.512
COVID-19. We are mindful that many aspects of day-
to-day life are currently aected by the COVID-19 pan-
demic, and appreciate that this may delay activities or
responses. If you require any assistance, or if we can
help in any way, please don't hesitate to contact us.
\Whiteld, Mike" <m.whiteld@lancaster.ac.uk >Online Resource
MetabarcodingBiodiversity
Dear colleagues,
Following our successful online workshop, \Theory and
Practice in Metabarcoding for Biodiversity", the iBio-
Gen consortium are pleased to be able to share our prac-
tical materials as a self-contained online course available
free at:
learnmetabarcoding.github.io
This comprises a comprehensive set of tutorials cover-
ing a range of topics in metabarcoding bioinformatics,
suitable for the complete novice to learn step-by-step or
for an experienced bioinformatician to nd something
new.
We hope this will be a valuable resource for the metabar-
coding community!
We are grateful to Dr. Thomas J. Creedy, Prof. Al-
fried P. Vogler and Liam Penlington who generated this
online resource. The iBioGen project has received fund-
ing from the European Union's Horizon 2020 research
and innovation programme under grant agreement No
810729.
www.ibiogen.eu
PlantInvasionGenomics 24
SummerRes
The Consortium for Plant Invasion Genomics (CPING;
https://www.invasiongenomics.com/) is seeking appli-
cants for twenty-four (24) in-person undergraduate re-
search positions for Summer 2021.
Each student will be paired with a CPING mentor and
will gain experience in eld collection, use of herbar-
ium specimens, genomics, and bioinformatics. Specic
projects will vary by CPING mentor, but students will
form an interactive cohort that will receive training in ca-
reer development, research best practices, and scientic
communication.
The CREU session will run from June 1st 'V AugustFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 49
12th, 2021, which concludes with a professional con-
ference at which students can present their work. Re-
search sites span 20 mentor labs across 14 U.S. states.
Undergraduates in their second year and beyond (in-
cluding graduating seniors) with interests in invasive
species, botany, and/or genomics are encouraged to
contact individual CPING mentors prior to applica-
tion. List of mentors can be found here: (https://-
www.invasiongenomics.com/creu.html). Students are
encouraged to contact potential mentors prior to apply-
ing.
Due to funding restrictions, students must be
U.S. citizens or permanent residents, but stu-
dents who come from underrepresented groups in
STEM, have limited research opportunities at their
home institutions, and/or live or study in EPSCoR
states ( https://www.nsf.gov/od/oia/programs/epscor/-
nsfoiiaepscor EPSCoRstatewebsites.jsp) are encour-
aged to apply!
Successful applicants will receive a stipend of $4,000,
another $2000 for travel and living expenses, $1000 in
research funds and full travel funds to the CPING an-
nual conference in August 2021. Applications are due
February 28th, 2021.
Brittany Sutherland <blsutherland@gmail.com >
PurchaseC NY
SixMonthTeachingEvol
Dear Colleagues,
We are looking for evolutionary biologists, ecologists,
and general biologists who are recent or soon-to-be PhD
graduates for a 6 month teaching fellowship.
At Science Corps, we are a small group of scientists
running a non-prot that sends recent PhD graduates
to improve life science education in under-resourced
areas. Science Corps oers fully paid fellowships to
upcoming and recent PhD graduates (up to four years
after graduation) to build science capacity at one of our
host locations. Fellows travel to partner institutions to
develop science curriculum, teach in secondary school
classrooms, train teachers, and build community-based
research projects.? We are currently seeking late stage
PhD student and postdoc applicants for our fellowships.
Should travel continue to be restricted, fellows will have
the opportunity to work remotely and then visit the
host site once it is safe to do so.We are presently interested in recruiting immediately for
fellowships starting within the next year. The deadline
for this application round is January 31st, but we still
encourage you to contact us if you would like to be
considered for a later appointment.
To nd out more about us, where our host sites are
located, and to apply, please go to https://science-
corps.org . Also, if you know of any institutions world-
wide that may share our goals, we would sincerely ap-
preciate it if you could point us their way.
Stephen E Harris, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Bi-
ology Purchase College, SUNY Purchase, NY 10577
stephen.harris@purchase.edu
\Harris, Stephen" <stephen.harris@purchase.edu >
SSEGrants ForOutreach
SSE Grants for Local and Regional Outreach Promoting
the Understanding of Evolutionary Biology
This is a call for proposals from Society for the Study of
Evolution <http://www.evolutionsociety.org/ >(SSE)
members for support for local and regional educational
outreach activities to take place during 2021. It is our
hope that these projects will lead to ongoing outreach
collaboration in future years. Preference will be given to
new collaborations, but extensions of previous projects
that have evidence of success are allowed.* Proposals
will be accepted until February 20, 2021.*
Guidelines for applying for funds to support SSE 2021
outreach projects are as follows:
1. Proposal: Clearly but briey state your plans in NO
MORE THAN one single-spaced page.
2. Amounts requested may be up to $1000. Include a
short justication for the use of the funds. Indicate any
additional matching funds and include letters of com-
mitment from collaborative partners. NOTE: Projects
under $500 will receive funds upon award. Projects
from $500 - $1000 will receive funds upon completion
of the project and submission of receipts.
3. Send your request by email attachment (subject
heading 'SSE Outreach 2021') to Robert Pennock [pen-
nock5@msu.edu] no later than 20 February 2021.
Applications will be ranked by an SSE Education Com-
mittee working group according to the following criteria:
1. Clarity and quality of the proposed evolution outreach50 EvolDir February 1, 2021
activity;
2. Expected impact in terms of reaching a critical or
broad audience;
3. Evidence, in the form of matching funds, of partner-
ship outside of your immediate academic department;
4. Indication as to how the project might lead to new
or ongoing successful outreach collaborations.
We expect to fund in the range of 5-10 projects, with
announcement of awards to take place by March 1, 2021.
Examples of past outreach activities have included
public lectures, exhibits, student competitions, and
professional development events for teachers. We
especially encourage proposals that focus on discussing
and implementing evolution education reforms recom-
mended in the *Vision & Change in Undergraduate
Biology Education: Chronicling Change, Inspiring
the Future* report <http://visionandchange.org/-
les/2015/07/VISchange2015 webFin.pdf > or on
dialogues between undergraduate instructors and
K-12 teachers around the emphasis on evolution
in the *AP Biology Curriculum Framework* <
https://secure-media.collegeboard.org/digitalServices/-
pdf/ap/ap-biology-course-and-exam-description.pdf >
and the *Next Generation Science Standards * <
http://www.nextgenscience.org/next-generation-
science-standards >. We look forward to your
applications!
Even if you are not interested in applying for funding
from the SSE, we encourage you to engage through
whatever means are at your disposal in opportunities to
promote public understanding of evolutionary biology.
Sincerely,
Robert T. Pennock
Chair, SSE Education Committee Outreach Grants Pro-
gram
{
*Kati Moore*she/her/hers *Communications
Manager* *Society for the Study of Evo-
lution* communications@evolutionsociety.org
www.evolutionsociety.org SSE Communications
<communications@evolutionsociety.org >UPittsburgh EvolutionStudyGrants
*Pymatuning Lab of Ecology Early Career Fellowship*
The University of Pittsburgh's Pymatuning Labora-
tory of Ecology (PLE) is pleased to oer the Frank J.
Schwartz Early Career Research Fellowship of up to
$10,000 plus up to three months of station fees and
residency costs for the primary investigator (PI). PLE
is a vibrant research and education facility located on
Lake Pymatuning in Northwest Pennsylvania. PLE's
research facilities are spread across 350 acres and include
access to a variety of aquatic and terrestrial ecosystems.
Its 10,000+ square feet of laboratory facilities include a
eld laboratory adjacent to an open eld that can be
used for large-scale replicated experiments, a modern
molecular laboratory, and facilities for animal, plant
and aquatic studies.
This opportunity is open to researchers holding PhD
degrees in any science discipline that can benet
from PLE's resources ( https://www.ple.pitt.edu/ple-
research). The purpose of the fellowship is to permit
researchers to explore new projects or collect preliminary
data. Fellowship funds can be used at the PI's discretion
to facilitate the research but not for PI compensation.
Preference will be given to individuals and projects with
the potential to develop into long-term research activi-
ties at PLE. We especially encourage applications from
individuals in the postdoctoral or early faculty phases
of their careers, but researchers holding PhD degrees at
all stages of their careers are also encouraged to apply.
We welcome projects related to the study of evolution.
Information on the application procedure and format
can be found at https://www.ple.pitt.edu/research/-
fellowships-and-grants/schwartz-early-career-research-
fellowship . <https://www.ple.pitt.edu/research/-
fellowships-and-grants/schwartz-early-career-research-
fellowship >The deadline for submission is *February
24, 2021*.
For more information about the fellowship program or re-
search opportunities at PLE, please contact the Director,
Dr. Cori Richards-Zawacki ( cori.zawacki@pitt.edu).
|{
*Pymatuning Lab of Ecology Research Grants*
The University of Pittsburgh's Pymatuning Laboratory
of Ecology (PLE) invites applications for Grants in AidFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 51
of Research. PLE is a vibrant research and education
facility located on Lake Pymatuning in Northwest Penn-
sylvania. PLE's research facilities are spread across 350
acres and include access to a variety of aquatic and
terrestrial ecosystems ( https://www.ple.pitt.edu/ple-
research). Its 10,000+ square feet of laboratory facilities
include a eld laboratory adjacent to an open eld that
can be used for large-scale replicated experiments, a
modern molecular laboratory, and facilities for animal,
plant and aquatic studies. Projects related to the study
of evolution are encouraged.
Research Grants are intended to support researchers
in the early stages of their ecological and evolutionary
research programs at PLE. Grant proposals are sub-mitted each year in February and several awards are
made, generally not exceeding $3,500. Most awards go
to graduate students, but consideration will be given to
recent Ph.D.'s and more senior researchers interested in
initiating new work at PLE. *The due date for grant
proposals is February 24, 2021. *
Please visit our website for further details about the
application process:
https://www.ple.pitt.edu/research/fellowships-and-
grants/ple-research-grants For more information about
the grants program or research opportunities at PLE,
please contact the Director, Dr. Cori Richards-Zawacki
(cori.zawacki@pitt.edu).
PostDocs
AarhusU Denmark PopulationDemographics . . . . . . .52
Barcelona EvolutionaryBioinformaticsGenomics . . . 52
BOKU Vienna ForestGeneticsGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . 52
CE3C Portugal PopulationGenomicsAndHybridization
53
ColdSpringHarborNY MolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . 54
Dalhousie Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
DalhousieU CompartiveGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
DalhousieU PhylogeneticModeling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .56
DonanaBiolStation Spain EvolutionaryBiology . . . . 57
EarlhamInst GutMicrobeEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
EawagSwitzerland EvolutionaryGenomics . . . . . . . . . 58
FMNH Chicago HistoricalContemporaryGenomics . 59
Guam CoralMolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
ImperialC London Covid19InSewage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Kiel PDF PhD EvolutionMicrobesCelegans . . . . . . . . 61
MaxPlanck Jena PredatorCognitionPreyDefence . . .62
MichiganStateU PlantResilience . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
NaganoU EelEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Postdoc:UCaliforniaLosAngeles PlantPhylogenomics 64
SangerInst InsectDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .65
Senckenberg Frankfurt ComparativeGenomics . . . . . 65Southampton UK PlasticityGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
SussexU TransposableElements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .66
UAlberta InsectMolecularEvolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67
UAutonoma Madrid NetworksPaleontology . . . . . . . . 68
UBritishColumbia EvolMarineMeiofauna . . . . . . . . . . 69
UChicago HumanStatisticalGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .69
UHelsinki ComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70
UHohenheim PlantEvolutionaryBiochemistry . . . . . . 71
UHohenheim ResAssist PopGenMolEvol . . . . . . . . . . .72
UIdaho ComparativeGenomics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72
UIllinois UrbanaChampaign EvolutionPunctureMechan-
ics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
UMaine EcoEvolutionaryModeling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73
UMemphis InsectBioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
UMichigan EvolGenomicsLifeHistory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
UOslo PDF PhD FaunalDiversity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
UVirginia CoevolutionaryGenetics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .76
Wageningen Kiel Bioinformatics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
WashingtonU ComputationalPhylogenetics . . . . . . . . 77
WSL Birmensdorf Switzerland EcologicalGenomics 7852 EvolDir February 1, 2021
AarhusU Denmark
PopulationDemographics
The Department of Biology, Aarhus University, invites
applications for a 2-year bioinformatics postdoc posi-
tion to help overcome key knowledge gaps about past
megafauna population dynamics, their drivers, and,
linked to this, uncertainties about restoration targets.
http://bit.ly/megageno2 The team is looking for early-
career scientists with strong bioinformatics expertise
including on population demographic reconstructions.
It's not necessary to have worked with megafauna or
mammals, but having an interest is of course important.
*Application deadline is April 1st 2020* and expected
start date August 1st
To apply, nd more details about the position, the
application process and the working environment at:
http://bit.ly/megageno2 Applicants seeking further
information are invited to contact: Professor Jens-
Christian Svenning, phone +45 28992304, e-mail: sven-
ning@bio.au.dk
Good luck!
Maud C Quinzin <mquinzin@mit.edu >
Barcelona EvolutionaryBioinformat-
icsGenomics
Postdoc Position in Evolutionary Bioinformatics and
Genomics
We are seeking to incorporate a postdoctoral researcher
through the Juan de la Cierva program, nanced by
the Spanish government, to work on the role of human
recurrent mutations in genome function, evolution and
diseases. This study is part of the INVFEST project and
aims to investigate the evolutionary history of recurrent
inversions across mammal genomes and determine their
potential impact during evolution.
The successful candidate will form part of an interdis-
ciplinary and dynamic research team located at the
Institut de Biotecnologia i de Biomedicina (IBB) of the
Universitat Aut ~A2noma de Barcelona (UAB). The IBB
is a multidisciplinary research institute located at theUAB, which has been selected Campus of International
Excellence in Biomedicine. It is located in Bellaterra,
a small residential town just 30 min away from the
Barcelona center.
Candidate requirements and conditions: We are seek-
ing highly motivated and talented individuals with an
excellent track record from all nationalities.
Candidates could apply to the following calls: - Juan
de la Cierva Formaci on 2020: 2 year contracts for re-
searchers that have obtained a PhD between January
1st 2019 and December 31st 2020.
https://www.ciencia.gob.es/portal/site/MICINN/-
menuitem.dbc68b34d11ccbd5d52eb801432ea0/-
?vgnextoid=5cd919af71af5710VgnVCM1000001d04140aRCRD
- Juan de la Cierva Incorporaci on: 3 year contracts for
researchers that have obtained a PhD between January
1st 2016 and December 31st 2018.
https://www.ciencia.gob.es/portal/site/MICINN/-
menuitem.dbc68b34d11ccbd5d52eb801432ea0/-
?vgnextoid=056fe027b89f5710VgnVCM1000001d04140aRCRD&vgnextchannel=
deef865dd69b2610VgnVCM1000001d04140aRCRD
Application deadline: Please send expression of interest
and a CV to Mario C aceres (mcaceres@icrea.cat) before
January 17th 2021, since ocial application on the
program webpage has to be nished by January 19th
2021 or January 21th 2021 depending on the specic
call.
Additional information: InvFEST project: https://-
invfest.uab.cat/ Comparative and Functional Genomics
group: http://grupsderecerca.uab.cat/cacereslab/
Mario Caceres <mcaceres@icrea.cat >
BOKU Vienna
ForestGeneticsGenomics
The Department of Forest- and Soil Sciences, Institute
of Silviculture is currently seeking a Postdoctoral Re-
search Associate PhD position / project employment
(Reference code: 20)
Extent of employment: 30 hours per week Duration of
employment: 1st of April 2021, limited to 31st of March
2024 Workplace: 1190 Vienna, Peter-Jordan-Strae 82
Gross monthly salary and pay grade in terms of collec-
tive agreement for university sta (payable 14 times per
year): B1 lit. b, euro 2.959,40
The BiodivERsA project ACORN (identifying seedFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 53
sources for highly adaptable oak forests in a chang-
ing climate) deals with genetic adaptation of oaks to
drought stress. An international team of six research
institutions from ve European countries cooperates in
the frame of the project. They will address the question
how drought-tolerant oak populations can contribute as
seed sources for establishing highly adaptable forests in
a changing climate. We search for a highly motivated
scientic associate (post-doc) who will undertake both
research and coordination activities in the project.
Responsibilities -Planning and implementation of eld
collections in oak stands -Organisation and supervision
of molecular genetic analyses in the lab -Conception
and conduction of environmental association analyses
(between environmental parameters and adaptive ge-
netic variation) based on next-generation sequencing
(NGS) data and bioinformatic analysis -Contribution to
data management, administration, activity coordination,
exchange with stakeholders and dissemination to the
public -Publication of the results in scientic journals
and practice-oriented media
Required skills and qualications -Doctoral degree/PhD
in forest / environmental sciences, biology or other equiv-
alent subject -Diploma degree in forest / environmental
sciences, biology or other equivalent university degree
-Expertise in population genetics -Very good knowledge
of statistics, R and bioinformatics -Willingness to work
in eld trips for several days, also on steep slopes -
Excellent knowledge of spoken and written English; a
good knowledge of the German language is an advantage
-Teamwork and communication skills
Desirable skills and qualications -Experience with work
in research projects and data management -Experience
in landscape genomics (environmental association anal-
yses) -Ability to deal with the Unix/Linux-operating
system -Knowledge of computer programming languages
(e.g. Pearl, Python) -Knowledge and experience in the
eld of forest reproductive material and forest genetics
Applications can be submitted until: 16th of February
2021
University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences Vi-
enna seeks to increase the number of its female fac-
ulty and sta members. Therefore qualied women are
strongly encouraged to apply. In case of equal qualica-
tion, female candidates will be given preference unless
reasons specic to an individual male candidate tilt the
balance in his favour.
People with disabilities and appropriate qualications
are specically encouraged to apply. Please send your
job application incl. motivation letter, CV and copies
of diplomas and certicates to Personnel department,University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences,
Peter-Jordan-Strae 70, 1190 Vienna; E-Mail: ker-
stin.buchmueller@boku.ac.at. (Reference code: 20)
We regret that we cannot reimburse applicants travel
and lodging expenses incurred as part of the selection
and hiring process. www.boku.ac.at Dr. Charalambos
Neophytou Senior Scientist Institut f ur Waldbau
Dept. f ur Wald- und Bodenwissenschaften
Universit at f ur Bodenkultur Peter-Jordan-Strae 82/II
A-1190 Wien Telefon: +43 1 47654-91335 charalam-
bos.neophytou@boku.ac.at
http://short.boku.ac.at/neophytou.html Charalambos
Neophytou <charalambos.neophytou@boku.ac.at >
CE3C Portugal PopulationGenomic-
sAndHybridization
Postdoc in population and speciation genomics
Dear Evolvir Community,
The Evolutionary Genetics group at CE3C, led by Vi-
tor Sousa, is looking for a postdoc in population and
speciation genomics, who is interested in developing
inference methods to study hybridization in natural
populations. The candidate will be part of a team work-
ing on the collaborative Human Frontiers in Science
Program (HFSP) project ???Chance or Curse? The con-
sequences of hybridization in a changing world??? (see
also the simultaneous postdoc opportunity in Claudia
Bank???s lab at https://banklab.github.io/positions/).
Once thought to be rare, we now know that hybridiza-
tion is quite common. There has been a longstanding
debate about the importance of hybridization because it
can have both benecial and harmful eects. By creat-
ing new phenotypes, hybridization can help organisms
adapt, but it can also drive extinction by generating
harmful combinations of genes. Past work has pro-
posed that in stressful environments, the benets of
hybridization may outweigh the costs, but this idea has
not been clearly tested. Understanding these dynam-
ics has become more pressing as rates of hybridization
have increased due to the stresses of rapidly changing
environments. As part of the funded HFSP grant in col-
laboration with Drs. Molly Schumer, Chelsea Rochman
and Claudia Bank, we will combine diverse and multi-
disciplinary expertise to tackle fundamental questions
via eld observations, laboratory experiments, compu-54 EvolDir February 1, 2021
tational tools, and mathematical models.
The research of the postdoc hired for this position will
aim at detecting regions of the genome involved in hybrid
incompatibilities, jointly inferring the demographic his-
tory of populations, disentangling the genetic signatures
of incompatibilities from other selective processes (e.g.
introgression load and adaptive introgression). This
will involve population genomics modeling, simulations,
method development and data analysis.
The ideal candidate has a strong background in statis-
tical and theoretical population genomics and a keen
interest in method development, modeling and coales-
cent theory. Individuals with a background in biology,
mathematics, statistics and related disciplines are en-
couraged to apply.
The research will be done at cE3c, FCUL in Lisbon. The
group of the PI works on population genomics and bioin-
formatics, and on its applications ranging from human
genetics to conservation and speciation. In addition to
independently developing this project, the candidate
is expected to contribute with his/her expertise to the
group, interacting with the other team members and
co-mentoring junior lab members.
We provide a dynamic and interdisciplinary work
environment within the research group (https://-
ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/team/EG), and within the col-
laborator team (Claudia Bank, University of Bern
https://banklab.github.io/; Molly Schumer, Stanford
University, https://schumerlab.com/; Chelsea Rochman,
University of Toronto, https://rochmanlab.com/).
If desired by the candidate, short or mid-term visits
of the collaborator labs are encouraged, and the candi-
date is expected to present and discuss their work at
international workshops and conferences.
The salary will be commensurate with qualications and
experience, according to the host institution statutes (ap-
proximately ranging from 32,000-36,000 EUR gross per
year, including social security and pension funds). Fund-
ing for this position is currently available for 12months
renewable up to 3 years.
Contact and Application
If interested, please prepare a detailed CV, a motivation
letter explaining the t for the position and the desired
starting date, and contacts of up to 3 referees. You
will need to submit your application online (http://-
concursos.fciencias-id.pt). Details about the position
and the required documtnts can be found here: http:/-
/www.eracareers.pt/opportunities/index.aspx?task=-
showAnuncioOportunities&jobId=130395&idc=1
Evaluation of the applications will begin on 18 January2020 and continue until the position is lled, with a
desired starting date as early as possible. Following
the policy of the host institution, it is expected that
the candidate relocates to Portugal in time for the
starting date of the position. Please contact me if you
are interested and have questions (vmsousa@fc.ul.pt).
Vitor Sousa
Assistant Professor Evolutionary Genetics group CE3C -
centre for ecology, evolution and environmental changes
Department of Animal Biology Faculdade de Ci??ncias
da Universidade de Lisboa
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
ColdSpringHarborNY
MolecularEvolution
A post-doc position in molecular evolution is available
in the McCandlish group at Cold Spring Harbor Lab-
oratory. This is a fully-funded position to study the
role of mutational biases in molecular adaptation. The
position is available immediately and applications will
be reviewed on a rolling basis.
Full job ad below and at https://cshl.peopleadmin.com/-
postings/17570 Informal inquiries welcome, please e-
mail: mccandlish@cshl.edu
David M. McCandlish Assistant Professor Simons Cen-
ter for Quantitative Biology Cold Spring Harbor Labo-
ratory
1 Bungtown Road Cold Spring Harbor, NY 11724 mc-
candlish@cshl.edu
A fully-funded 2-year post-doctoral position in molecu-
lar evolution is available in David McCandlish's group
in the Simons Center for Quantitative Biology at Cold
Spring Harbor Laboratory.
The aim of this project is to study the role of muta-
tional biases in molecular adaptation. The successful
candidate will leverage emerging data on the mutations
responsible for adaptive evolution at the amino acid level
to determine when and how mutational biases inuence
the genetic basis of molecular adaptation. While the
main focus is empirical, there will also be opportunitiesFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 55
to develop new population-genetic theory. In addition,
the candidate will have the opportunity to work closely
with Dr. Arlin Stoltzfus at the National Institute of
Standards and Technology, who will be a collaborator
on this project.
The successful candidate will conduct bioinformatic and
statistical analyses, and undertake a wide-scale sur-
vey of documented cases of molecular adaptation. The
successful candidate will also have the opportunity to
collaborate on other ongoing projects in the McCandlish
lab, which more broadly focuses on the computational
analysis of empirical genotype-phenotype maps and the
consequences of complex genotype-phenotype relation-
ships for molecular evolution.
This position is aliated with the Simons Center for
Quantitative Biology (SCQB).
Education: Applicants must hold a PhD in molecular
evolution or a related eld such as evolutionary genetics,
computational biology, or bioinformatics.
Experience/Skills: The candidate should have prior
exposure to the literature on the evolution of protein
coding sequences, and prociency in at least one com-
putational environment for statistical and bioinformatic
analysis such as R, Mathematica, Matlab, Julia, Python,
C, etc.
Interested candidates should apply online to posi-
tion #02798-R using the following link: https://-
cshl.peopleadmin.com/postings/17548. Please include a
CV and publication list, a statement of research interest
and contact information of three references.
We oer a highly collaborative social and scientic envi-
ronment as well as a competitive salary and benets.
Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory is a world-renowned
research and educational institution with programs in
cancer, neuroscience, plant biology, genomics and bioin-
formatics. The Laboratory is recognized internationally
for its excellence in research and educational activities.
For more information about CSHL, please visit us at
www.cshl.edu CSHL is an EO/AA Employer. All quali-
ed applicants will receive consideration for employment
and will not be discriminated against on the basis of
race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender iden-
tity, national origin, age, disability or protected veteran
status.
VEVRAA Federal Contractor
Dave McCandlish <david.mccandlish@alum.swarthmore.edu >Dalhousie Bioinformatics
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION Bioinformatics, com-
parative genomics, gene transfer, endosymbiosis, algae
Archibald Lab Department of Biochemistry and Molec-
ular Biology, Dalhousie University Halifax, Nova Scotia
CANADA I am looking for a highly skilled and self-
motivated researcher at the postdoctoral level to study
endosymbiosis from a comparative genomic perspective.
Organisms of interest include (but are not limited to)
cryptophyte algae and Paramoeba species.
The Archibald Lab is part of a collegial and internation-
ally recognized community of comparative genomics and
molecular evolution researchers at Dalhousie University.
The successful applicant will have the opportunity to
work collaboratively with these researchers and with
those at other institutions. Demonstrated skills in bioin-
formatics and comparative genomics are essential, as
are strong written and oral communication abilities.
The position is available starting May 1, 2021 (actual
start date negotiable) and will run for an initial 1-year
period, with the possibility of extension to 3 years given
satisfactory performance. All qualied and interested
persons are encouraged to apply. Applicants should
email (1) a brief cover letter outlining their qualica-
tions and research interests, (2) a Curriculum Vitae
and (3) contact information for three references to John
Archibald: jmarchib@dal.ca
John M. Archibald, Ph.D.
University Research Professor Director, Centre for Com-
parativeGenomics & Evolutionary Bioinformatics De-
partment of Biochemistry & MolecularBiology, Dal-
housie University
Web:http://johnarchibald.ca Phone:(902) 494-2536 Ge-
nomics: A Very Short Introduction 'XOxford University
Press, 2018
John Archibald <John.Archibald@Dal.Ca >
DalhousieU CompartiveGenomics
POSTDOCTORAL POSITION56 EvolDir February 1, 2021
Bioinformatics, comparative genomics, gene transfer,
endosymbiosis, algae
Archibald Lab Department of Biochemistry and Molec-
ular Biology, Dalhousie University Halifax, Nova Scotia
CANADA
I am looking for a highly skilled and self-motivated re-
searcher at the postdoctoral level to study endosymbiosis
from a comparative genomic perspective. Organisms
of interest include (but are not limited to) cryptophyte
algae and Paramoeba species.
The Archibald Lab is part of a collegial and internation-
ally recognized community of comparative genomics and
molecular evolution researchers at Dalhousie University.
The successful applicant will have the opportunity to
work collaboratively with these researchers and with
those at other institutions. Demonstrated skills in bioin-
formatics and comparative genomics are essential, as
are strong written and oral communication abilities.
The position is available starting May 1, 2021 (actual
start date negotiable) and will run for an initial 1-year
period, with the possibility of extension to 3 years given
satisfactory performance. All qualied and interested
persons are encouraged to apply. Applicants should
email (1) a brief cover letter outlining their qualica-
tions and research interests, (2) a Curriculum Vitae
and (3) contact information for three references to John
Archibald: jmarchib@dal.ca
John M. Archibald, Ph.D. University Research Professor
Director, Centre for Comparative Genomics & Evolu-
tionary Bioinformatics Department of Biochemistry &
Molecular Biology, Dalhousie University
Web: http://johnarchibald.ca Phone: (902) 494-2536
Genomics: A Very Short Introduction 'X Oxford Uni-
versity Press, 2018
John Archibald <John.Archibald@Dal.Ca >
DalhousieU PhylogeneticModeling
A fully funded, 2-3 year, postdoctoral research posi-
tion in statistical phylogenetic modeling is available
immediately to work with Andrew J. Roger and Ed-
ward Susko at Dalhousie University. The research
project is focused on developing new phylogenetic mod-
els/approaches aimed at resolving deep tree of life re-
lationship. Specically, the successful candidate will
develop, implement and apply novel phylogenetic statis-tical models/phylogenomic methods to determine billion-
year relationships related to the origin of eukaryotes.
Roger and Susko are part of the world-renowned Centre
for Comparative Genomics and Evolutionary Bioinfor-
matics (CGEB: http://cgeb.dal.ca ) 'V a large collab-
orative group of faculty and trainees at Dalhousie uni-
versity with shared research interests in deep evolution,
comparative genomics, phylogenetics, microbiomics and
computational biology.
The successful candidate will become part of an interna-
tional collaborative team involving the Dalhousie group,
Dr. Laura Eme in Orsay, France and Dr. Minh Bui
in Canberra, Australia, creator of IQ-TREE) that will
be addressing the dicult phylogenetic problems that
are key to understanding the origin of eukaryotic cells
(e.g. the root of the eukaryote tree, the positions of
eukaryote nucleocytoplasm and mitochondria in the tree
of life, etc.). The goals are to develop new more realis-
tic phylogenetic models including approaches to model
heterogeneity in the process of protein sequence evo-
lution across sites and branches of phylogenetic trees
and accommodate multiple dierent phylogenetic his-
tories for dierent genes or sites. New models will be
implemented in a maximum likelihood framework in
IQ-TREE (http://www.iqtree.org/) and their statistical
properties will be investigated.
The ideal candidate should have a Ph.D. evolution-
ary biology, phylogenetics, computational biology, or
related disciplines. Knowledge and expertise in phyloge-
nomics and implementation of phylogenetic models in a
maximum likelihood or Bayesian framework are assets.
Programming experience using C++ (or C) and the R
statistical package are especially important qualica-
tions.
For more information about the Roger
and Susko labs and the CGEB Cen-
tre see http://rogerlab.biochem.dal.ca,
https://www.mathstat.dal.ca/ ~tsusko/ and http:/-
/cgeb.dal.ca To apply please send an application
package consisting of:
1. a cover letter that describes why you are interested
in this position and highlights your expertise,
2. your curriculum vitae (CV), and
3. the names and contact details of 2 or more individuals
who have agreed to write reference letters.
The applications should be emailed to: Andrew Roger:
andrew.roger@dal.ca
Review of applications will occur continuously until the
position is lled. Only those candidates chosen to con-
tinue on through the selection process will be contacted.February 1, 2021 EvolDir 57
Dalhousie University is committed to fostering a colle-
gial culture grounded in diversity and inclusiveness. We
encourage applications from individuals from all equity-
seeking groups including qualied people who identify
as indigenous, African Nova Scotians, dierently-abled,
ethnic minorities, minority sexual orientations and gen-
der identities, and all other qualied candidates who
would contribute to the diversity of our community.
Andrew Roger <Andrew.Roger@Dal.Ca >
DonanaBiolStation Spain
EvolutionaryBiology
Postdoctoral Researcher positions at /Do nana Biological
Station:/
The /Do nana Biological Station/ (Estaci on Biol ogica de
Do nana, EBD; Seville, Spain) is seeking to incorporate
postdoctoral researchers though the Juan de la Cierva
program, nanced by the Spanish government.
We are looking for researchers that have an excellent
track record in evolutionary biology, conservation biol-
ogy, ecology or global change. This opportunity is open
to researchers of all nationalities, and we are particularly
interested in cultural diversity. Candidates could apply
to the following calls:
-Juan de la Cierva Formaci on 2020: 2 year contracts
for researchers that have obtained a PhD title between
January 1 ^st 2019 and December 31 ^st 2020. Deadline
Jan 21 ^st .
https://www.ciencia.gob.es/portal/site/MICINN/-
menuitem.dbc68b34d11ccbd5d52eb801432ea0/-
?vgnextoid=5cd919af71af5710VgnVCM1000001d04140aRCRD
-Juan de la Cierva Incorporaci on: 3 year contracts for
researchers that have obtained a PhD title between
January 1 ^st 2016 and December 31 ^st 2018. Deadline:
Jan 19 ^th .
https://www.ciencia.gob.es/portal/site/MICINN/-
menuitem.dbc68b34d11ccbd5d52eb801432ea0/-
?vgnextoid=056fe027b89f5710VgnVCM1000001d04140aRCRD&vgnextchannel=
deef865dd69b2610VgnVCM1000001d04140aRCRD
Candidates should locate a research group that
could host them. For the application the candidates
will need to submit their CV and that of the host
researcher. For information about the research carried
out at the Estaci on Biol ogica de Do nana, please
check http://www.ebd.csic.es/inicio The Estaci onBiol ogica de Do nana is an institute of the Spanish
National Research Council (CSIC). EBD has close to
200 employees, including 44 researchers, postdoctoral
fellows, PhD students, eld and lab technicians, and
administrative personnel. EBD has several unique
aspects:
-EBD manages two eld reserves, one within Do nana Na-
tional Park (Huelva, Spain) and the other in the Sierra
de Cazorla, both devoted to ecological and evolutionary
research.
-The eld reserve in Do nana National Park is a Singu-
lar Scientic-Technical Infrastructure (ICTS-RBD) that
oers services and facilities to researchers around the
world.
-The institute, located in Seville, is equipped with six
laboratories maintained by technical sta, that oer
services to all researchers: Molecular Ecology, GIS and
Remote Sensing, Chemical Ecology, Aquatic Ecology,
Ecophysiology, Stable Isotopes.
-The institute has also an Animal Experimentation Unit
and a green house. This includes 11 walk-in climatic
chambers and animal care facilities. Our Animal Wel-
fare personnel train and conduct certication courses
for our personnel.
-The institute houses the second largest scientic collec-
tion in the country which focuses on vertebrates and
includes almost 100,000 specimens.
-We actively participate in MSc and PhD programs at
the University of Seville and Pablo de Olavide University.
We also host PhD students from many other national
and international universities as well.
Despite the rich resources available to scientists at EBD,
the main advantage of EBD is the quality of the re-
searchers. Several of them are among the most cited
researchers in their elds and are internationally recog-
nized. EBD is currently looking to expand the number
of investigators and lines of research through the recruit-
ment of young, engaged and brilliant minds. EBD is
welcoming researchers from all over the world.
For further information, contact us at proyectos@csic.es
Carles Vila <carles.vila@ebd.csic.es >58 EvolDir February 1, 2021
EarlhamInst GutMicrobeEvolution
Dear Colleagues,
please nd a link to a ERC funded postdoc position to
work on the evolution of bacteria and microbial eukary-
otes in relation to human host colonization:
https://quadram.ac.uk/vacancies/research-scientist-
evolutionary-gut-microbiomics/ best wishes,
Falk HildebrandQuadram / Earlham InstituteExt.:
5359 (QIB), 2629 (EI), +44 1603 255359Norwich Re-
search Parkwww.falk.science \Falk Hildebrand (QIB)"
<falk.hildebrand@googlemail.com >
EawagSwitzerland
EvolutionaryGenomics
Eawag, the Swiss Federal Institute of Aquatic Sci-
ence and Technology, is an internationally net- worked
aquatic research institute within the ETH Domain
(Swiss Federal Institutes of Technology). Eawag con-
ducts research, education and expert consulting to
achieve the dual goals of meeting direct human needs
for water and maintaining the function and integrity of
aquatic ecosystems.
The Department of Fish Ecology and Evolution (FishEc)
located in Kastanienbaum (Lucerne) has a vacancy for
a Postdoctoral Fellow in Genomics of Rapid Adaptation
The notion that evolution can be rapid, when adaptive
changes and changes in population size occur at the same
time scale, raises questions regarding the genetic basis of
adaptive traits and the need to understand the temporal
dynamics of adaptive evolution, i.e., how frequent adap-
tive changes are and what inuences the rate of change.
Experiments with chemostat systems showed that host
(Chlorella green algae) and virus rapidly evolved re-
sistance and counter adaptation. The entanglement
of the coevolutionary and population size dynamics
(eco-evolutionary dynamics) makes this a fascinating
study system of rapid evolution. The experiments are
replicated and tness of the populations and individual
clones at dierent time can be assessed (see Retel etal. 2019; DOI: 10.1126/sciadv.aax0530). The postdoc
project advertised here is aiming to study the underly-
ing genomic changes evolving during experimental host
virus coevolution. A goal will be to dierentiate be-
tween neutral and adaptive changes and characterizing
the dynamics of those changes across the time course of
the experiments. This will require the development of
innovative analysis methods, which make full use of the
replicated and innovative experimental setup aiming to
disentangle the eect of selection and demography.
The successful candidate will have substantial opportuni-
ties to develop his or her own research skills and to assist
in the supervision of Bachelors, and Master students.
The work will consist of the analysis of next generation
whole genome data, the development of bioinformatics
pipelines and tools, and the interpretation and publica-
tion of the results. This study will be carried out in a
close collaboration between the Fish Genomics group at
Eawag Kastanienbaum and Lutz Becks and the group of
Aquatic Ecology and Evolution at the University of Kon-
stanz. Applications are sought from individuals with a
profound interest in Bioinformatics and Evolutionary
Genomics. Applicants should have earned a PhD in a
relevant eld of evolutionary biology, or bioinformatics.
Excellent communication skills in English and skills in
team work are essential. The duration of the position
will be one years, nanced by the Swiss National Sci-
ence Foundation. We are dedicated to the continue
this collaboration and eager to explore opportunities for
funding also together with the applicant.
We are a research department of Eawag (Department
of Fish Ecology and Evolution) and a division (Aquatic
Ecology) of the Institute of Ecology and Evolution of
the University of Bern, and the successful candidate will
have a unique possibility to take advantage of both these
excellent academic environments. The work place is at
Eawag' ^As Center for Ecology, Evolution and Biogeo-
chemistry in Kastanienbaum, Lucerne, which besides the
Fish Ecology and Evolution Department hosts research
group from the Department of \Surface Waters 'V Re-
search & Management" and oers a beautiful workplace
at the shores of Lake Lucerne, a friendly international
working climate and a strong cross-disciplinary research
environment.
Eawag is an equal opportunity employer. Women are
explicitly encouraged to apply to increase their share
in science and research. Applications should include a
concise statement describing your motivation to work
on this research project, curriculum vitae, copies of your
academic qualications and names for two references.
Applications must be submitted by 28 February 2021
or until the position is lled. The starting date for the
position is anticipated for July 2021 but can be dis-February 1, 2021 EvolDir 59
cussed. For further information, please contact Philine
Feulner (philine.feulner@eawag.ch; +41 58 765 21 06).
We look forward to receiving your application. Please
send it through this webpage, any other way of apply-
ing will not be considered. A click on the link below
will take you directly to the application form. https://-
apply.reine.ch/673277/0826/pub/1/index.html \Feul-
ner, Philine" <Philine.Feulner@eawag.ch >
FMNH Chicago
HistoricalContemporaryGenomics
The Field Museum of Natural History and Texas Tech
University invite applications for an NSF-funded post-
doctoral associate position that will be based at the
Field Museum in Chicago.
We seek a postdoctoral associate with interests in evo-
lutionary genomics and science communication and out-
reach. The postdoctoral associate will contribute to
multiple aspects of a project comparing historical and
contemporary populations of Eastern African birds us-
ing genomic and morphometric techniques. The post-
doctoral associate will work in collaboration with the
research groups of Ben Marks at the Field Museum and
Joseph Manthey at Texas Tech. The candidate should
be well versed in basic principles of evolutionary biology
and familiar with lab work utilizing historical preserved
specimens for DNA sequencing analyses. Experience an-
alyzing high-throughput DNA sequencing data is a plus.
Background in ornithology a plus, but not required.
Expected Duties - Genomic library preparation of his-
torical museum avian specimens - Analysis of genomic
datasets in hand and those to be developed - Work with
science outreach - Work with project team, including
PIs, students, etc. - Disseminate research outputs with
presentations at scientic meetings and with publica-
tion in peer-reviewed scientic journals - Potential for
eldwork (possible but not required; also depends on
current status of COVID pandemic)
Required Qualications - Ph.D. in evolutionary biology
or related eld by start date - Ability to work condently
as an independent researcher as well as part of a collab-
orative team - Enthusiasm for science communication
and outreach - Proven track record of publication
Preferred Qualications - Experience with extracting
DNA and/or library preparation from ancient or his-
torical DNA specimens ( >60 years old) - Experiencehandling and analyzing large high-throughput DNA
sequencing datasets
Timeline - Two year hire with an evaluation of satis-
factory progress at one year - Review of applications
starting late January 2021 and will continue until a suit-
able applicant is chosen - Start date between February
and June 2021
To apply, please submit a current CV and cover letter
(your application will not be considered without both)
at the following URL: https://careers.hireology.com/-
eldmuseum/482666/description If you have any ques-
tions about the project, please contact: Ben Marks
(bmarks@eldmuseum.org) and Joseph Manthey (
Joseph.Manthey@ttu.edu)
The Field Museum is committed to equity, diversity, and
inclusion. We strive to create a working environment
that is free of sexual, racial, and ethnic discrimination,
and one that promotes human dignity and mutual re-
spect among all sta. As such, it is the policy of the
Field Museum to hire without regard to race, religion,
color, national origin, age, sex, sexual orientation, dis-
ability, or veteran status.
The Field Museum strives to ensure that our career web-
site and recruiting process are accessible to all. If you
are unable or limited in your ability to use or access our
online application, or if you require reasonable accom-
modation in completing this application, interviewing,
completing any pre-employment testing, or otherwise
participating in the employee selection process, please
direct your inquiries to accessibility@eldmuseum.org.
Joseph Manthey <jdmanthey@gmail.com >
Guam CoralMolecularEvolution
Guam EPSCoR is recruiting a postdoctoral researcher
with expertise in molecular ecology to study how coral
microbiomes and photosymbionts aect the resistance
and resilience of corals to changing environmental condi-
tions. The postdoc will work at the Marine Laboratory
of the University of Guam and be able to leverage easy
access to eld sites for specimen collection and eld
experiments. A state-of-the-art genetics lab is on site at
the Marine Laboratory and high-throughput computing
resources are being implemented as part of the Guam
EPSCoR eorts to facilitate data intensive analyses.
The postdoc will be part of a dynamic team, including
several faculty researchers and graduate students with60 EvolDir February 1, 2021
expertise in coral ecology, genomics, and bioinformatics.
Together we work toward understanding the impacts of
environmental change on coral resilience in Guam and
the Micronesian region.
Minimum Qualications:
-PhD or postdoctoral experience in marine ecology, ge-
netics/genomics, or related eld -Experience in gener-
ating and analyzing complex genetic/genomic datasets
-Prociency in computational approaches to data analy-
sis (e.g., shell scripting)
Minimum Knowledge, Skills and Abilities -Strong quan-
titative skills and appropriate knowledge of statistical
data analysis- -Good organizational skills -High mo-
tivation and pro-active approach to work -Excellent
communication skills
Preferred Qualications: -Procient in Python and/or R
-American Association of Underwater Scientists (AAUS)
diving certication or equivalent
Initial review of applications will begin on Feb 1st 2021
but the position will remain open until lled.
For application requirements please see position an-
nouncement RC-21-25 posted on the website of the
Research Corporation of the University of Guam
(RCUOG).
https://www.uog.edu/rcuog/job-announcements For
questions and inquiries contact Dr. Bstian Bentlage (
bentlageb@triton.uog.edu).
Bastian Bentlage <bastian.bentlage@gmail.com >
ImperialC London Covid19InSewage
Covid 19 - Research Associate
Job summary Applications are invited for a Postdoc-
torate Research Associate to join our recently awarded
NERC grant \Mapping the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2
in sewage and environmental samples", led by Professor
Vincent Savolainen and in collaboration with several
groups at Imperial College (Ransome, Bell, Woodward,
Jones). Mapping the prevalence of COVID-19 cases
is essential for designing and tracking the ecacy of
control policies, such as social...
Closing date 28 January 2021
Location South Kensington Campus, Imperial College
LondonPosition type Full time, xed term until 30 November
2021 Salary GBP 40,858 - 48,340 plus benets
Job description
Applications are invited for a Postdoctorate Research As-
sociate to join our recently awarded NERC grant \Map-
ping the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 in sewage and envi-
ronmental samples", led by Professor Vincent Savolainen
and in collaboration with several groups at Imperial Col-
lege (Ransome, Bell, Woodward, Jones).
Mapping the prevalence of COVID-19 cases is essential
for designing and tracking the ecacy of control poli-
cies, such as social distancing and isolation. Community-
level estimates of disease prevalence should be sucient
to develop these mitigation strategies - especially when
the disease is widespread and infection is driven by com-
munity transmission. Given that there is now good
evidence that SARS-CoV-2 RNA is detectable in faeces
for prolonged periods (even for otherwise asymptomatic
individuals), it may be possible to map the prevalence
of COVID-19 using sewage samples. You will be part
of a multidisciplinary team of ecologists, virologists and
modellers, who are testing sewage, connected freshwa-
ter bodies and wildlife for SARS-CoV-2 and related
coronaviruses across the UK.
Your main role will be to help characterise new coro-
naviruses in bats by assembling sequence reads from
next generation sequencing (e.g. Illumina read from
RNA extractions of faecal samples). The potential for
sewage outows in the environment to contribute to
transmission to humans and wildlife will also be investi-
gated by assessing viral infectivity from environmental
samples. You will help to run coronavirus infectivity
assays, alongside our technician, in our dedicated con-
tainment level 3 (CL3) laboratory at Imperial College.
You will also help coordinate the collection and delivery
of sewage and environmental samples from across the
UK.
Duties and responsibilities
Your main role will be to assemble sequence reads from
next generation sequencing data (e.g. Illumina read
from RNA extractions of faecal samples) and to char-
acterise coronaviruses from bats, other wildlife and/or
other environmental samples.
The potential for sewage outows in the environment to
contribute to transmission to humans and wildlife will
also be investigated by assessing viral infectivity from
environmental samples. You will help to run coronavirus
infectivity assays in our dedicated CL3.
You will also help coordinate the collection and delivery
of sewage and environmental samples from across theFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 61
UK.
Essential requirements
Hold a PhD (or equivalent research, industrial or com-
mercial experience) in genetics, virology, molecular ecol-
ogy or a closely related discipline
Practical experience in a broad range of techniques in-
cluding genome/transcriptome/virome assembly
Knowledge of metagenomics and RNA-seq
Should you require any further details on the role please
contact: Vincent Savolainen vsavolainen@ic.ac.uk.
To apply visit https://www.imperial.ac.uk/jobs/-
description/NAT00842/covid-19-research-associate
Prof. Vincent Savolainen Professor of Organismic
Biology
Director of the Grand Challenges in Ecosystems and
the Environment Initiative
Imperial College London Department of Life Sciences
Silwood Park Campus Buckhurst Road, Ascot, SL5 7PY,
UK
Tel +44 (0)20 7594 2374
v.savolainen@imperial.ac.uk skype vincent.savolainen1
www3.imperial.ac.uk/people/v.savolainen
\Savolainen, Vincent" <v.savolainen@imperial.ac.uk >
Kiel PDF PhD
EvolutionMicrobesCelegans
PhD position and postdoc position on the evolution of
C. elegans-microbiota interactions
Deadline for applications: 31 January 2021
The positions are based in the Schulenburg group at
the University of Kiel in Northern Germany (https://-
www.uni-kiel.de/zoologie/evoecogen/). The PhD posi-
tion is available for 3 years, the postdoc position for 2.5
years. Both positions can start as soon as possible. They
are part of a larger research initiative on the origin and
function of Metaorganisms (https://www.metaorganism-
research.com/).
Area of research: The microbiome can aect host tness
and it can change fast, either in community composi-
tion or through genetic changes. As a consequence, the
microbiome can inuence how the host organism copes
with novel environments, thereby potentially aecting
host evolution. This project aims at understanding howexactly the microbiome modulates host adaptation. The
project is based on evolution experiments, in-depth phe-
notyping, genomics and/or functional genetic analyses.
For orientation, see the following papers:
Kolodny & Schulenburg 2020 (https://doi.org/10.1098/-
rstb.2019.0589) Dirksen et al. 2020 (https://doi.org/-
10.1534/g3.120.401309) Papkou et al. 2019 (https://-
doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1810402116)
Expected competences of the successful applicants: Ex-
cellent background in evolutionary biology and/or host-
microbiota research and/or C. elegans research. Ideally
publications in any of the above areas. Competences
and experience in experimental work in evolutionary
biology (ideally performance of evolution experiments),
and/or work with C. elegans and/or microbiota anal-
ysis. Comprehensive skills in statistical data analysis.
Ideally skills in genome data analysis, microbiological
techniques, and/or functional genetic analyses. Excel-
lent English language skills.
Additional information: The University is committed
to increasing the proportion of women in research and
teaching and therefore strongly encourages applications
from appropriately qualied women. Women will be
given priority in cases of equal aptitude, ability and
professional performance.
The university is committed to the employment of
severely disabled persons. Therefore, applicants with
severe disabilities will be given preferential consideration
if they are suitable.
We expressly welcome applications from people with a
migration background.
Applications: Applications should include a motivation
letter (max. 2 pages long), CV, publication list, names
and contact details of two referees (who are familiar
with the applicant's work), and copies of certicates
(only for the last relevant university degree).
Deadline for applications is 31 January 2021. Ap-
plications should be sent as a single pdf-document
by email to: Prof. Dr. Hinrich Schulenburg,
hschulenburg@zoologie.uni-kiel.de
Hinrich Schulenburg
Evolutionary Ecology and Genetics Christian-Albrechts-
Universitaet zu Kiel 24098 Kiel, Germany Tel: +49-
431-880-4143/4141 Email: hschulenburg@zoologie.uni-
kiel.de
www.uni-kiel.de/zoologie/evoecogen/ https:/-
/transevo.de/ http://www.evolbio.mpg.de/-
3248501/antibioticresistance www.kec.uni-kiel.de
www.metaorganism-research.com www.evolbio.mpg.de/-
imprs evolung.fz-borstel.de62 EvolDir February 1, 2021
Hinrich Schulenburg <hschulenburg@zoologie.uni-
kiel.de >
MaxPlanck Jena
PredatorCognitionPreyDefence
A postdoc is available to work with Dr Hannah Row-
land (Max PlanckInstitute for Chemical Ecology) and
Dr John Skelhorn (University ofNewcastle) toexplore-
various aspects of masquerade.
Background:Masqueradeis an antipredatordefence strat-
egy inwhichspecies resemble inedible objects, often inani-
mate, such as twigs, stonesand bird-droppings(Skelhorn,
2015; Skelhorn, Rowland, & Ruxton,2010;Skelhorn,
Rowland, Speed, & Ruxton, 2010).Masqueraders aremis-
classiedby theirpredatorsfor the objectthatthey resem-
ble(Skelhorn, Rowland, Speed, et al., 2010). The func-
tion of masqueradehas been tested and conrmed in the
lab,but not in the eld.
This post:we willexplorethe antipredator benets of mas-
querade in theeld, and theinformation ecology that
predators do (or don't) use aboutmasquerade.The ap-
pointed postdoc will design and conduct a series oeld-
basedpredationexperimentsusing articial prey, andwork
towardsusingsocial networkinformationabout predation
that can be collected onPIT tagged populations of bird-
predators.
Requirements:We arelooking for someone who can
lead eld-basedpredationexperiments, and manage a
team oeld assistants. Excellenteld skills will be
paramount, includingexperienceof creating articial-
prey,conductingintensive and long-periods of predation-
experiments,and managing multiple sites and experimen-
tal blocks. Applicants shouldhavethe strong communica-
tive skillsthateldwork requires. Experiencein studying
animal cognition is desirable. The candidatewillalsobe-
willing to learnhow toincorporatesocial behavioural data
into theirexperimentaldesignand analysis.This project
willinvolve eldwork inboth Germany and the UK, and
will be based inGermany.
Further information
Specic skills and experience: please
seehttps://drive.google.com/le/d/-
17BVF4cxbE3jGihtF02e6xN6jRbc- xGr/view?usp=-
sharing Start date:March2021 or sometime shortly
after. Flexibility instart date may berequired (and
provided) in light of the currentpandemic.Funding:Until 31/01/2023
Location:Max Planck Institute for Chemical Ecology,
Field sites:Jena, Germany,andUniversity ofCambridge-
Madingley Wood
Can I work remotely?Field-basedcomponents of the
researchwill take place inJena and Cambridge. It
is anticipated that theappointed postdoc will spend
approx.9-12months in the eld (notnecessarily continu-
ously).Thecandidate will be based inJena, but may be
able to work remotely especially in light of the current
pandemic.
Is there money to cover the postdocattending confer-
ences?Yes. Roughly 1 per year of appointment.
How to apply?Submit your CV, a coverletter outlining
how yout the selection criteria, and names of 3 people
who will write youa letter of recommendationpredator-
sandpreympg@gmail.com
For further informationcontact HannahRowlandpreda-
torsandpreympg@gmail.com
Closing date 12.02.21
Hannah Rowland <hrowland@ice.mpg.de >
MichiganStateU PlantResilience
We are excited to announce that the Plant Resilience
Institute at Michigan State University is planning a
new postdoctoral fellowship program in plant resilience
broadly dened. The goals of the program will be to
advance our understanding of the resilience of plants
and plant-systems in a variable and changing world and
to enhance collaboration within the Plant Resilience
Institute by recruiting dynamic early career researchers.
Fellows will identify two faculty members to serve as
sponsors and advisors and design a collaborative re-
search project on a plant resilience topic that bridges at
least two labs. At least one of the sponsors needs to be
a core faculty member of the Plant Resilience Institute
(see below for link). We expect to start two fellows in
the rst year of the program. The initial appointment
will be for one year and renewable for up to three years
of total support with a $60k/yr salary and $10k/yr in
research funds.
We will begin reviewing applications on February 3rd.
We strongly encourage interested candidates to reach
out to potential Plant Resilience Institute sponsors asFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 63
soon as possible. Early communication will facilitate
development of a strong application by the due date.
Please see here for more information: https://-
plantresilience.msu.edu/pri-postdoctoral-fellows/ Plant
Resilience Institute faculty members can be found here:
https://plantresilience.msu.edu/directory/faculty/
Please e-mail questions to committee co-chairs: Hatem
Rouached (rouached \at" msu.edu) and David Lowry
(dlowry \at" msu.edu).
Michigan State University is an Equal Opportu-
nity/Armative Action employer, and actively encour-
ages applications and/or nominations of women, persons
of color, veterans, and persons with disabilities.
David Lowry <dlowry@msu.edu >
NaganoU EelEvolution
Job Opportunities:
Postdoctoral Researchers (temporary job)
Nagano University - Nagano, Japan
Nagano University is planning to seek a few trained
postdoctoral researchers (Statistician and/or Pop-up
Argos tag researcher) to work with a team on a study
about the population dynamics and sheries manage-
ment of Japanese eel (Project Head: Professor Hiroshi
Hakoyama). The project is supported by the Fisheries
Agency of Japan, and is going to last for at least several
years. The outcome of the project is expected to con-
tribute to discussions at FAO, IUCN and CITES and
policy design and implementation on the management
of Japanese eel.
Duties & Responsibilities
(1) Statistician (frequentist, time-series analysis, mixed-
eects models, sheries management, mathematical
modeling): analyzing spatiotemporal multivariate time-
series of sheries and environmental data of Japanese
eel in frequentist approaches; developing statistical and
mathematical methods for sheries management.
(2) Pop-up Argos tag, experimental researcher, eld-
worker: conducting eld experiments to track silver eels
using pop-up Argos tags at several locations in Japan;
conducting laboratory experiments using yellow eels for
developing the new pop-up Argos tag cooperating with
Little Leonardo Co.
Moreover, all postdoctoral researchers should cooperatewith each other, write papers with co-workers, partici-
pate in team discussions, assist the members of the team
and the lab in all respects, and accept other duties as
assigned.
Information
Minimum education: Ph.D. in a related eld
Applications: When applying for this position, please
send a CV/cover letter and letters of recommendation
from the research supervisor or the department head to
Hiroshi Hakoyama, hiroshi.hakoyama@nagano.ac.jp by
e-mail with the title \Nagano 2021".
Deadline to apply: Ongoing (Open until lled)
Location: 1088 Komaki, Ueda, Nagano 386-0031, Japan
Employment period: from 2021/04/01 (if possible, as
soon as possible) to 2022/03/31. The employment pe-
riod may be extended based on performance and avail-
ability of funding.
Regular work hours: 8:30-17:30 (Break time 12:00-
13:00), Monday-Friday
Salary: 360,000{470,000 yen a month (according to
research experience and achievements). The absence
deduction will be calculated based on the amount of
absence hours/days in accordance with the laws on em-
ployment.
Employee benet: Employee must join the Japanese
national social (health) insurance and pay employment
insurance in accordance with laws of Japan. A part of
the costs are borne by Employee and deducted from the
monthly post-tax remuneration each month on payday
(inquiry e-mail address: soumu@nagano.ac.jp). Nagano
University will pay the cost of the LCC ticket from
your country to Japan at the start of contract , and
also pay the cost of the return ticket at the end of con-
tract. Nagano University will pay the cost of a registered
guarantor for your apartment.
<hiroshi-hakoyama@nagano.ac.jp >64 EvolDir February 1, 2021
Postdoc:UCaliforniaLosAngeles
PlantPhylogenomics
Postdoctoral position: Hawaiian plant phylogenomics,
systematics, and historical biogeography
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Zap-
ata Lab, University of California, Los Angeles https://-
www.zapatalab.org Project
We are hiring for a NSF-funded postdoctoral research
position.The research will join the lab of Dr. Felipe
Zapata, located in the Department of Ecology and Evo-
lutionary Biology at the University of California, Los
Angeles (UCLA). The Zapata Lab studies questions in
evolutionary and comparative biology integrating eld
biology, natural history collections, genomics, and com-
putational biology. Learn more about the Zapata Lab at
https://www.zapatalab.org The postdoctoral researcher
will use available collections supplemented by collabora-
tive eldwork in Hawaii to perform molecular work for
phylogenomic analyses to study the systematics, tax-
onomy, biogeography, and ecology of one dozen largely
unsequenced clades of Hawaiian endemic plants. The
research will advance the systematics of understudied
Hawaiian plant groups as well as inform the biogeog-
raphy and evolution of the Hawaiian ora using new
phylogenetic models for historical biogeography. The
postdoc will have opportunities to mentor undergradu-
ate researchers, to teach at computational biogeography
workshops, publish rst-author articles, and present at
national conferences.
The postdoctoral researcher will also interact regu-
larly with other collaborators on the project, includ-
ing Dr. Michael Landis (Washington University in St.
Louis-WUSTL), Dr. Nina R ~A^Ansted (National Tropical
Botanical Garden, Hawaii), Dr. Warren Wagner (Smith-
sonian Natural History Museum), Dr. Bruce Baldwin
(UC Berkeley), and Dr. Will Freyman (23andMe). In
addition to this position, the team will recruit a post-
doctoral researcher to be hired by WUSTL, who will
develop inference methods for modeling historical bio-
geography, lineage diversication, and paleogeographical
dynamics in the Bayesian phylogenetic modeling frame-
work, RevBayes (revbayes.com). Both postdocs will be
in close contact to validate and inform theoretical mod-
els with empirical data. A third postdoctoral position
based at NTBG in Hawaii focused on plant systematics
of a selection of the twelve lineages will be advertisedlater and could be an extension of the position in the
Zapata lab at UCLA.
Qualications
Candidates must hold a PhD in biology, evolution, sys-
tematics, or a related eld, and have a track-record of
publishing research in phylogenomics, preferably with a
strong botanical interest. The applicant must have sig-
nicant experience in wet lab techniques for genomics,
preferable with plants and non model systems. Rel-
evant techniques include DNA extraction from di-
cult/limited tissues and taxa (from fresh, silica dried,
and herbarium samples) and library preparation ap-
proaches. Previous experience with the Angiosperm 353
technique is preferable, but not required. In addition,
the candidate must have demonstrated experience with
standard bioinformatics practices in phylogenomics in-
cluding familiarity with Unix-based Operating Systems,
use of high performance computing environments, and
analysis and manipulation of high throughput sequence
data, including but not limited to, quality control, assem-
bly of loci (from enriched libraries and reference-based
approaches), and phylogenetics software. Experience
with biogeographical analyses is an advantage but not
required.
Employment
The position is 1 year full-time ( ~37.5 hrs/wk) with
potential for extension up to 2 years and follows
the UCLA payscale, starting at $53,460. Intended
starting date is May 1st, 2021, subject to covid19
restrictions and potential visa requirements. The
candidate must hold a PhD degree at the start date
of the position. UCLA oers outstanding benets,
including health, dental, vision, and life insurance
(https://www.postdoc.ucla.edu/resources/appointment-
information/postdoctoral-scholar-health-benets/). Los
Angeles is a large, multicultural metropolis in Southern
California, with excellent access to food, music, art,
and nature.
Application
Application review will begin on Feb 1st, and continue
until a candidate is hired.
To apply for this position, visit https://-
recruit.apo.ucla.edu/JPF06082 and enter job id
JPF06082. The application will require you to submit
(i) your current CV, (ii) a 1-2 page cover letter that
briey addresses your background and research interests,
previous research experience and accomplishments, and
your t for this position, (iii) two relevant research
papers (preprints, submitted, published, etc.) that
you authored, and (iv) contact information for two
potential references.February 1, 2021 EvolDir 65
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
SangerInst InsectDiversity
A postdoctoral opportunity to work on targeted se-
quence data generation and analysis for two projects
- one aiming to study species dynamics and interac-
tions using DNA barcoding over time and space for
1million ying insects in the UK - one aiming to study
mosquito species diversity, population structure, and
malaria transmission using targeted sequencing of multi-
ple nuclear loci for 500k Anopheles mosquitoes in Africa
over 5 years.
Please nd more information and link to apply
here: https://jobs.sanger.ac.uk/vacancy/postdoctoral-
fellow-435393.html Any questions, please get in touch
at mara@sanger.ac.uk
Thank you, Mara Lawniczak
The Wellcome Sanger Institute is operated by Genome
Research Limited, a charity registered in England with
number 1021457 and a company registered in England
with number 2742969, whose registered oce is 215
Euston Road, London, NW1 2BE.
Mara Lawniczak <mara@sanger.ac.uk >
Senckenberg Frankfurt
ComparativeGenomics
Postdoc Position in Comparative Genomics
The Hiller Lab at the LOEWE Center for Translational
Biodiversity Genomics (TBG) in Frankfurt, Germany
is looking for an ambitious Postdoc to investigate the
genomic basis of phenotypic dierences between species.
Project: The project aims at linking phenotypic adap-
tations to genomic dierences, which is a central goal
in the genomics era. The postdoc is expected to capi-
talize on a powerful repertoire of genomic methods aswell as genome alignments and comparative data for
several hundred mammals and birds that the lab has
generated. A large list of interesting adaptations includ-
ing metabolic, physiological and morphological traits
in bats, dolphins, other mammals and vertebrates is
available to be studied, and choices can be inuenced
by the preference of the postdoc.
Our lab: The mission of our group is to understand how
nature's fascinating phenotypic diversity has evolved
and how it is encoded in the genome. Work in the
lab includes genome sequencing and assembly, genome
alignment and annotation, development and application
of comparative genomic methods to discover dierences
in genes and cis-regulatory elements, and the use of
statistical approaches to link phenotypic to genomic
changes [1-8].
Our lab is part of TBG (https://tbg.senckenberg.de/)
and Senckenberg Research Society, and is based near
the city center of Frankfurt am Main, Germany. The
TBG provides access to cutting-edge computational in-
frastructure (HPC, genome browser) and lab facilities
to sequence genomes of diverse creatures. English is
the working language in our lab. Frankfurt is a vibrant
and highly-international city at the heart of Europe
that combines a skyscraper skyline with ample park and
green areas.
Requirements: Applicants should have a degree in bioin-
formatics/computational biology, genomics or a related
area, and a strong publication record. Solid program-
ming skills in a Linux environment and experience with
shell scripting and Unix tools are required. Previous
experience in large-scale comparative genomic data anal-
ysis is an advantage.
How to apply: If interested, please email (i) your CV
including publication list and contact information for
at least two references and (ii) a summary of pre-
vious research experience (max 1 page) to Michael Hiller
(Michael.Hiller@sen ^A:^A:^A:^A:de):Furtherinformation :
https : ==tbg:senckenberg:de= -
personen=hiller=Thepositionisfully  
funded:SalaryandbenefitsareaccordingtoTV  
HE13100% :Thepositionwillbeinitiallyfor 2years; butfundingisavailabletoextenditfurther:TheemployeristheSenckenbergSocietyforNatureResearchinFrankfurtamMain:Senckenbergsupportsequalopportunityofmenandwomenandthereforestronglyinviteswomentoapply:Equallyqualifiedhandicappedapplicantswillbegivenpreference:
Application deadline is February 26th 2021. The posi-
tion is available immediately and the search continues
until the position has been lled.
Recent publications: [1] Jebb et al. Six reference-quality
genomes reveal evolution of bat adaptations. Nature,
583, 578-584, 2020 [2] Huelsmann et al. Genes lost dur-
ing the transition from land to water in cetaceans high-
light genomic changes associated with aquatic adapta-
tions. Science Adv, 5(9), eaaw6671, 2019 [3] Hecker et al.66 EvolDir February 1, 2021
Convergent gene losses illuminate metabolic and phys-
iological changes in herbivores and carnivores. PNAS,
116(8), 3036-3041, 2019 [4] Roscito et al. Phenotype
loss is associated with widespread divergence of the gene
regulatory landscape in evolution. Nature Communica-
tions, 9:4737, 2018 [5] Langer et al. REforge associates
transcription factor binding site divergence in regulatory
elements with phenotypic dierences between species.
MBE, 35(12), 3027-3040, 2018 [6] Lee et al. Molecular
parallelism in fast-twitch muscle proteins in echolocat-
ing mammals. Science Adv, 4(9), eaat9660, 2018 [7]
Sharma et al. A genomics approach reveals insights
into the importance of gene losses for mammalian adap-
tations. Nature Communications, 9(1), 1215, 2018 [8]
Nowoshilow et al. The axolotl genome and the evolution
of key tissue formation regulators. Nature, 554(7690),
50-55, 2018
Michael Hiller, PhD Professor of Comparative Ge-
nomics LOEWE Centre for Translational Biodiversity
Genomics, Senckenberg Society for Nature Research &
Goethe University, Frankfurt am Main, Germany
Michael Hiller <michael.hiller@senckenberg.de >
Southampton UK
PlasticityGenomics
Dear Evoldir,
We are looking to recruit a postdoc for our project
looking at the role of plasticity in adaptive divergence.
We are using a new model system to test previous the-
ory surrounding the importance of plasticity. Please
nd below some key info and check out: https://-
jobs.soton.ac.uk/Vacancy.aspx?id=24541 Best wishes,
Mark (m.chapman@soton.ac.uk)
We seek a Research Fellow to work on the project
$B!H(BThe contribution of plasticity to adaptive
divergence: domestication as a model $B!I(B. The
NERC/BBSRC co-funded project provides support un-
til 31/12/2021 (with the possibility of extension) from
1st March 2021 (or as soon as possible thereafter) to
work with Dr Mark Chapman in the Ecology and
Evolution group at the University of Southampton
( https://www.southampton.ac.uk/biosci/about/sta/-
mc1c12.page), co-supervised by Dr Tom Ezard in Ocean
and Earth Science ( https://www.southampton.ac.uk/-
oes/about/sta/te1e12.page).
The goal of this project is to study the evolution of plas-ticity, comparing crops to their wild relatives, as a model
for understanding the genetic basis and role of plasticity
in adaptive divergence and the early emergence of new
taxa. The project has been running for 2 years and
we have generated genomic, transcriptomic and pheno-
typic data from multiple generations of plants. This will
allow the candidate to compare both acclimation and
adaptation responses to stress. { Dr Mark A. Chapman
M.Chapman@soton.ac.uk +44 (0)2380 594396
Biological Sciences University of Southampton Life Sci-
ences Building 85 Higheld Campus Southampton SO17
1BJ
Mark Chapman <markchapman4774@gmail.com >
SussexU TransposableElements
Applications are invited for the post of Postdoctoral
Research Fellow in Molecular Biology/Genetics based in
the School of Life Sciences at the University of Sussex;
one of the UK's most prestigious universities.
Undertaking research in a vibrant, inter-disciplinary
research environment with an excellent international
reputation, you will work as a key member of a research
team investigating the function and evolution of plant
genomes and transposable elements (TEs).
TEs represent the majority of eukaryotic DNA, for ex-
ample they occupy 55% of the human genome and up
to 80-90% of the genomes of some plants. Our lab is in-
terested in understanding the interactions between TEs
and their host genomes by focusing both on mechanistic
and evolutionary perspectives.
We are seeking for a skilled molecular biologist to in-
vestigate the interplay between the 3D genome and
transposable elements. In particular, we are aiming to
elucidate the role of chromosome topology in guiding
TE integration patterns. For our studies, we will use
the plant model species A. thaliana. You will perform
TE activation assays, identify TE integration sites by
deep sequencing and analyse epigenetic modications.
The aim of the project is to combine analyses of TE,
epigenetic and chromosome conformation capture (Hi-C)
data to characterize the epigenetic and 3D structure of
the host cells where the new TE copies have inserted.
To this end, the project includes collaborations with
colleagues in UK (Dr. Hans-Wilhelm Nuetzmann, Dr.
Davide Michieletto) and US (Prof. Keith Slotkin).February 1, 2021 EvolDir 67
This is an excellent opportunity for a molecular biologist
wishing to apply their skills to an innovative area of
science. Through the collaborations, you will have the
opportunity to further acquire new skill sets, for exam-
ple in Hi-C technologies. The position is supported by a
grant of the Royal Society and is associated with gener-
ous research funds. We aim for funding to be available
after the completion of the Royal Society support.
The position is primarily lab-based. You should have
a PhD in Molecular Biology/Genetics, excellent molec-
ular biology skills and be interested to work at the
cutting-edge of plant genetics/epigenetics. Please con-
tact Alexandros Bousios (alex.bousios@sussex.ac.uk) for
informal enquiries. To learn more about the lab, visit
http://www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/bousioslab/, and to
apply https://www.sussex.ac.uk/about/jobs/research-
fellow-ref-5294 . Alexandros Bousios, PhD Royal Society
University Research Fellow
University of Sussex jUK
alexandros.bousios@gmail.com jemail http://-
www.sussex.ac.uk/lifesci/bousioslab/ jwww http://-
infspire.org/jwww alexandros bousios jSkype
Alexandros Bousios <alexandros.bousios@gmail.com >
UAlberta InsectMolecularEvolution
A postdoctoral position is available in the Agricultural
and Ecological Entomology Laboratory under the super-
vision of Dr. Boyd Mori at the University of Alberta.
The laboratory revolves around agricultural entomology
using chemical, behavioural, and molecular ecological
approaches to investigate insect-plant interactions and
develop integrated pest management strategies for insect
pests in eld crops.
The candidate will investigate the mechanisms of insec-
ticide susceptibility and tolerance of two key ea beetle
pests of canola on the Canadian Prairies. This work will
be conducted in collaboration with Dr. Nat Kav (Uni-
versity of Alberta) and other research institutes across
Canada (Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada, University
of Manitoba) and the USA (United States Department
of Agriculture, Texas A&M University, University of
Kentucky). Specic research activities include coordinat-
ing eld collections and bioassays, resistance screening,
generation of large genomic and transcriptomic datasets,
and their analyses. In addition, the candidate may be
involved in other ongoing projects in the laboratory re-lated to insect genomics and host plant resistance. The
candidate is expected to work both independently and
as part of a large research team, and may supervise
technical sta and students.
We are seeking a candidate with: Strong interper-
sonal skills Strong written and oral communication
skills Experience in wet-lab molecular biology (e.g.
DNA/RNA extraction, PCR) Experience in generat-
ing transcriptomic/genomic data (e.g. RNAseq, NGS
library preparation, GBS) Experience in bioinformatic
analysis of high-throughput sequence data Experience
in entomological bioassays will be considered an asset,
but not required Minimum PhD in entomology, biology,
genetics, or a similar eld
Salary and Appointment: CAD $50,000 plus health ben-
ets per year. The appointment will be for one year
(Start date: 1 May 2020, some exibility), with the
possibility of extension for two additional years (3 years
total).
To Apply: Please forward your CV, letter of research
interests, and contact information for three references to
Dr. Boyd Mori (bmori@ualberta.ca). Please use \Insect
Molecular Ecology PDF" in the subject line.
Closing date: Interested candidates should apply by
February 28, 2021, but review of applications will com-
mence immediately.
We thank all applicants for their interest; however, only
those individuals selected for an interview will be con-
tacted.
The University of Alberta is committed to an equitable,
diverse, and inclusive workforce. We welcome applica-
tions from all qualied persons. We encourage women;
First Nations, M etis and Inuit; members of visible mi-
nority groups; persons with disabilities; persons of any
sexual orientation or gender identity and expression;
and all those who may contribute to the further diversi-
cation of ideas and the University to apply.
Boyd A. Mori, PhD, PBiol
Assistant Professor & NSERC Industrial Research Chair
in Agricultural Entomology Department of Agricultural,
Food and Nutritional Science 4-10 Agriculture/Forestry
Centre University of Alberta Edmonton, AB, T6G 2P5
Tel: 780.492.6412 Fax: 780.492.4265
Boyd Mori <bmori@ualberta.ca >68 EvolDir February 1, 2021
UAutonoma Madrid
NetworksPaleontology
Postdoc in Network Analysis for Paleontology
We are looking for a highly motivated and dynamic
researcher for a 2-year postdoc position, commencing
April-May 2021. The candidate will work on understand-
ing and modelling species interactions from the fossil
record of the Las Hoyas site, a Lower Cretaceous (Bar-
remian, 129-125 Mya) paleowetland from Spain, focusing
on interspecic ecological interactions, and in applying
and developing new algorithms to such end. The po-
sition will be based at the Unit of Paleontology, Dept.
of Biology at the Universidad Aut onoma de Madrid
(UAM). Information on the department can be found at:
https://www.uam.es/Ciencias/DBIO . Our group and
research The successful candidate will be part of the
Paleobiology Group at the UAM and CIPb- (Center for
the integration of Paleobiology (https: //www.uam.es/-
UAM/CIPB?language=es). We are a small group, oer-
ing a creative and stimulating working conditions in a
dynamic research and teaching environment, addressing
fundamental questions on vertebrate, invertebrate and
plant macroevolution, on the one hand, and the multidis-
ciplinary study of the Las Hoyas fossil site, connecting
diversity, palaeoecology and taphonomy, in particular.
Project description and your job This project aims to
describe and understand the community structure of the
paleowetland, by taking a multi-species complex network
modelling approach. The project's team and collabo-
rators are compiling data on the biotic interactions of
the fossil species to integrate these into multi-species
networks. The models should be implemented by pro-
gramming algorithms in languages such as Python, R
or Julia. The postdoc is expected to focus specically
on the multi-species network analysis and programming,
but other collaborative projects are open within the lines
of research of the team (both in their areas of expertise
and research on the site) and would also be expected
to assist in teaching and supervise undergrad thesis
projects in the Biology Undergraduate program. The
project is funded by the Ministry of Science and Technol-
ogy of Spain. Principal Investigators are: J. Marug an
Lob on (jesus.marugan@uam.es) and A.D. Buscalioni
(angela.delgado@uam.es).
Prole We are looking for a highly motivated and en-
thusiastic scientist with the following competencies andexperience:
Essential experience and skills:
- A PhD in sciences (Biology and Ecology preferred,
but Physics, Math and/or elds that tackle math ex-
tensively are accepted), at the time of expected start
in the position. - A reasonable publication record in in-
ternational peer-reviewed literature. - Experience with
scientic data analysis and modelling. - Experience
with a computer language such as Julia, Python or R. -
Demonstrated communication skills and ability to work
in teams. - Excellent English skills, written and spoken.
Desirable experience and skills:
- Experience in Paleontology and in macroevolutionary
approaches. - Experience in working with inter-specic
interactions and their evolutionary and ecological con-
sequences. - An interest in combining paleontological
eld work data with modelling. - Experience in teaching
and supervising undergraduate and MSc students. - A
curious and open mind-set
Place of employment The place of employment is at the
Department of Biology, UAM, with direct collaboration
with members of CIPb. The Universidad Aut onoma's
campus is situated in a beautiful suburban area less
than 20' from the city and it's one of the best ranked
universities in Spain. The city of Madrid is consistently
rated among the most livable, culturally appealing and
accessible cities in the world.
Terms of employment The employment as postdoc is a
full time and xed-term position for 2 years, starting
in April-May 2021. Questions For further information
please contact Profs. Jes ~Aos Marug an Lob on or Angela
Delgado Buscalioni.
Application procedure Your online application must
be submitted in English to the e-mail: re-
dek2123@gmail.com, including the following docu-
ments/attachments - all in PDF format: 1. Motivated
letter of application (max. one page). 2. Short CV incl.
education, work/research experience, programming and
language skills, plus other skills relevant for the position.
3. A certied/signed copy of PhD certicate. 4. List of
publications.
Application deadline 25 February 2021, 23.59pm CET
We reserve the right not to consider material received
after the deadline, and not to consider applications that
do not live up to the abovementioned requirements.
The further process After the expiry of the deadline for
applications, the authorized recruitment management
team will select applicants for assessment to
/February 1, 2021 EvolDir 69
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
UBritishColumbia
EvolMarineMeiofauna
Postdoctoral Research Position: Evolutionary Morphol-
ogy of Marine Meiofauna
Applications are invited for a three-year postdoctoral
research fellowship centered on species discovery, evo-
lutionary morphology and trophic/symbiotic interac-
tions of marine meiofauna. As a member of the Le-
ander Lab (www3.botany.ubc.ca/bleander) at the Uni-
versity of British Columbia and in collaboration with
researchers at the Hakai Institute (www.hakai.org), the
PDF will have the opportunity to apply their specic
expertise in marine organismal diversity and natural
history by routinely sampling novel meiofaunal animals
from the Pacic Northwest. The eld collections and
sample-specic processing will primarily target dier-
ent marine environments near the Hakai eld stations
on Quadra Island and Calvert Island (www.hakai.org/-
quadra and www.hakai.org/calvert). The goals of the
research are to discover novel organisms and character-
ize their morphological traits, behaviors, feeding prefer-
ences, symbiotic/parasitic interactions and phylogenetic
relationships using high-resolution microscopy and ge-
netic/genomic techniques.
The primary responsibilities of the position include
leading eldwork, collecting molecular and morpholog-
ical data using state-of-the-art approaches, building
manuscripts for publication, presenting research ndings
at conferences, and contributing to the day-to-day train-
ing of other researchers in the lab. The candidate is en-
couraged to develop their own research ideas and will be
part of a dynamic team of other researchers at UBC and
the Hakai Institute with expertise in marine biodiversity.
The successful applicant must have a PhD in a relevant
eld and a competitive publication record centered on
comparative anatomy, evolutionary biology, systematics,
molecular phylogenetics and high-resolution microscopy
(e.g., DIC-LM, CLSM, SEM, TEM and FIB-SEM) of
marine invertebrates. This three-year PDF position is
paid at a rate of $55,000 CAD per year plus Mandatory
Employment Related Benets with an opportunity for
renewal provided satisfactory performance and funding
availability.To apply, please send a concise statement of research in-
terests, CV and the names/emails of three references as
a single PDF to Brian Leander (bleander@mail.ubc.ca).
Review of applications will begin on March 1, 2021 in
anticipation of lling the position on September 1, 2021
(negotiable).
Equity and diversity are essential to academic excellence.
An open and diverse community fosters the inclusion of
voices that have been underrepresented or discouraged.
We encourage applications from members of groups that
have been marginalized on any grounds enumerated un-
der the B.C. Human Rights Code, including sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, racialization,
disability, political belief, religion, marital or family sta-
tus, age, and/or status as a First Nation, Metis, Inuit,
or Indigenous person.
\Leander, Brian" <bleander@mail.ubc.ca >
UChicago HumanStatisticalGenetics
A postdoctoral scholar position is available in the re-
search group of Dr. Xuanyao Liu at the University of
Chicago. The Liu lab develops statistical methods to
understand the genetic basis of complex traits. The
exact projects for the scholars will be exible, though
based around trans gene regulation and complex traits,
understanding genetic architectures of cis and trans-
gene expression regulation, understanding trans-ethnic
genetic architectures of gene expression and complex
traits, and improving polygenic score portability. The
scholar will be working closely with me, and my goal is to
provide ample supervision and support for the scholar to
be successful in academia and industry. The candidate
will also benet from training at a campus with reinforc-
ing strengths in statistical genetics and human genetics.
We maintain close interactions with groups focusing on
statistical/computational problems in human genetics
(e.g., Stephens, Novembre, Li, He, Imm, Abney and
Dahl) and genetic studies of gene regulation (e.g., Gilad,
Li). Suitable candidates may come from a wide vari-
ety of quantitative / data science backgrounds. Those
with strong expertise in computational and statistical
genetics will be preferred. The expected start date is
negotiable, and the salary will be competitive and based
on the level of experience. To apply please send a brief
cover letter, curriculum vitae, and contact information
for two references to xuanyao@uchicago.edu. Please see
https://voices.uchicago.edu/liulab/members/ to learn70 EvolDir February 1, 2021
more about the group.
Many thanks,
Xuanyao
Xuanyao Liu <xuanyao.yao@gmail.com >
UHelsinki ComparativeGenomics
Insect Symbiosis Ecology and Evolution Research Group
at the Organismal and Evolutionary Research Program,
the University of Helsinki, Finland invites applications
for a
POSTDOCTORAL RESEARCHER
in Comparative genomics, Bioinformatics, Symbiosis,
Microbiome, Insects
The project is in collaboration with Uppsala University,
Sweden and it is a fully funded 2-year postdoc position.
The aim of the project is to investigate genomic patterns
of evolution in maternally inherited symbionts that have
transferred horizontally, and showed the ability to estab-
lished in naive hosts. The postdoc will utilize genomic
assemblies of diverse microbial endosymbionts of Lepi-
doptera to conduct comparative genomic studies. The
tasks of the postdoc will include bioinformatic analysis
of DNA and RNA-seq data and writing of manuscripts.
Additional duties such as preparing DNA extractions
for additional sequencing from available material, mi-
croinjection, microscopy, cell culture and insect rearing,
might also be completed depending on the interests of
the chosen candidate. For this position experience in
analyses of next-generation sequencing data is necessary.
We are thus seeking a candidate with a PhD degree in
evolutionary biology, genetics/genomics or bioinformat-
ics.
The position is available in the group of Dr. Anne DU-
PLOUY, starting as soon as possible, no later than May
2021.
Position is currently funded for 2 years, with potential
extension for up to an extra year. There are also several
funding opportunities that the candidate may consider
acquiring their own funding (from at least both Finnish
and European funding agencies).
Please see here for further information about the host-
ing research group: https://researchportal.helsinki./-
en/organisations/wwwanneduplouynet Collaborators in-
clude Dr. Lisa Klasson from Uppsala University, Swe-den: https://katalog.uu.se/prole/?id=N0-409 . The
salary of the postdoctoral researcher will be based on
level 5 of the demands level chart for teaching and
research personnel in the salary system of Finnish uni-
versities. In addition, the appointee will be paid a
salary component based on personal performance. The
starting gross salary of the postdoctoral researcher will
be ca. 3200???3500 euros/month, depending on the
appointees??? qualications and experience.
The application should include the following attach-
ments as a single pdf- le (in English): 1) a short state-
ment on your background and motivation to join the
research group (How do you t?, what would you bring?,
what do you seek?, ...?), 2) CV, 3) list of publications
(preprints included and quick description of your con-
tributions to the works), and 4) the names and contact
details of at least two references.
To apply, please submit the application through the
University of Helsinki electronic recruitment system by
clicking on Apply for the position. Internal applicants
(i.e., current employees of the University of Helsinki)
please submit your applications through the SAP HR
portal.
https://www.helsinki./en/open-positions/-
postdoctoral-researcher-in-comparative-genomics-
bioinformatics-symbiosis-microbiome-insects The
closing date is February 15th, 2021 but review of
applications will begin immediately and continue until
the position is lled.
For more information: Anne Duplouy,
anne.duplouy(at)helsinki.
The University of Helsinki and the ISEE research group
are strongly committed to diversity and equity, and wel-
come applications from persons of any background, who
may contribute to the further diversication of ideas.
Thank you
Dr. Anne DUPLOUY
Academy of Finland Research Fellow
Insect Symbiosis Ecology and Evolution (ISEE), PI
Organismal & Evolutionary BiologyResearch Pro-
gramme (Organismi- ja evoluutiobiologiantutkimuso-
hjelma) Faculty of Biological & EnvironmentalSciences
University of Helsinki, Finland
www.anneduplouy.net @duplouy anne
\Duplouy, Anne M R" <anne.duplouy@helsinki. >February 1, 2021 EvolDir 71
UHohenheim
PlantEvolutionaryBiochemistry
Evolutionary biochemistry of plant hydrocarbon biosyn-
thesis ??? 65% Scientist position (3 years) at post-doc
or PhD student level
We seek a highly motivated person as a PhD student or
post-doc with a keen interest in evolutionary biochem-
istry in the context of plant hydrocarbon (especially
alkene) biosynthesis. The successful candidate will be
part of an international team investigating the ecologi-
cal, molecular and genomic basis of pollinator-mediated
reproductive isolation and ecological speciation between
sexually deceptive orchids of the genus Ophrys.
The project seeks to biochemically characterise key genes
and proteins underlying the biosynthesis of pollinator-
relevant hydrocarbon-based oral odour. In particular,
it will aim to characterise the substrate specicities of
very-long-chain fatty acid (VLCFA) biosynthetic en-
zymes such as ??-ketoacyl-CoA synthases (KCSs) and
aldehyde decarbonylases (CER1/CER3 homologues) in
a nonmodel plant, using heterologous expression in other
organisms (e.g. yeast or other plants), purication and
in vitro activity assays as well as analysis via GC/MS.
Results will be incorporated in an evolutionary analysis
of protein function. For background information on the
study system, please see e.g. Schl??ter & Schiestl (2008,
Trends Plant Sci.), Schl??ter & al. (2011, PNAS) and
Sedeek & al. (2013, PLoS One; 2016, Curr. Biol.).
In addition to research, this position will also involve
teaching basic plant science/botany at undergraduate
level. While the working environment is primarily
English-speaking, German will be required in the con-
text of teaching. The ideal candidate should be highly
motivated and able to articulate her/his motivation for
this project clearly in the cover letter. S/he should
be intellectually rigorous, well organised, scientically
independent and resilient, with a thorough understand-
ing of plant biochemistry (especially VLCFA synthesis),
plant molecular and evolutionary biology. The candi-
date is expected to be procient and independent in the
molecular lab, with experience in recombinant protein
expression, protein biochemistry and GC/MS analysis.
Ideally, also with some experience with HPLC and data
analysis in R, genomic techniques and phylogeny.
Prociency in English and good communication skillsare essential and the proven ability to carry out research
independently. German skills and the willingness to
gain prociency and uency in German are also highly
desirable. Academically, this position requires either
(a) a completed MSc degree (or equivalent) in biology,
biochemistry, molecular biology or a related discipline,
allowing the enrolment as a PhD student, or (b) a PhD
degree to work as a post-doc. If applying at post-doc
level, experience in student/TA supervision is expected
as well as the (willingness to gain) experience in writing
grant applications.
We oer a 3-year position as a post-doc or PhD student
at the University of Hohenheim, Germany (initial salary
level 65% TVL-E13 commensurate to experience), an
innovative and international research university in the
south of Stuttgart. The pleasant campus is close to the
airport and hosts a well equipped research infrastructure,
a baroque palace, and rambling parks. The successful
candidate will be a member of the Institute of Biology
and will work in a young, active and interdisciplinary en-
vironment and will have access to state-of-the-art tools
and techniques. The University of Hohenheim seeks to
increase the proportion of women in research and teach-
ing and strongly encourages qualied female scientists
to apply. With equal qualications, preference will be
given to candidates with disabilities.
Your application should consist of a letter of motiva-
tion (1-2 pages), your CV and publication list, and the
names and e-mail adresses of three academic referees.
The letter of motivation should detail why you are per-
sonally interested in the project, why you nd it relevant
and why you think you are well-suited to undertake it.
Please send your application (or any requests for further
information) electronically to Prof. Philipp Schl??ter
(sekretariat-210@uni-hohenheim.de) as a single PDF
le. Deadline for applications is 14 February 2021 and
interviews are tentatively planned for 22 February 2021.
Expected start date is 1 April 2021.
Margaret Eppli <m.eppli@uni-hohenheim.de >72 EvolDir February 1, 2021
UHohenheim ResAssist
PopGenMolEvol
University of Hohenheim, Institute of Animal Science,
Stuttgart, Germany
*Postdoctoral Research Assistant in Population Genet-
ics/Molecular Evolution*
The Department of Livestock Population Genomics at
the University Hohenheim (Chair Prof. Dr. Martin
Hasselmann) invites applications for a
Postdoctoral Research Assistant (m/f/d).
Starting date: March 1st 2021 or by agreement Du-
ration: 3 Years (with the possibility of extension for
another 3 years) Salary: German salary scale (TV-L
E13), 100% Teaching obligation (in German or English):
4 hours per week
We invite applications from highly motivated, team
spirited and creative candidates who have received
a PhD/doctorate in the eld of Population Genet-
ics/Evolutionary Biology. A strong background in pop-
ulation genetics, evolutionary biology, bioinformatics
and a variety of molecular techniques is required. Ex-
periences in the analyses of high-throughput sequenc-
ing data, including e.g. whole genomes, trancriptomes
and/or ddRAD are essential. Participation in mod-
erate teaching at Bachelor/Master level (4 Semester
periods per week) is expected. The successful candi-
date should bring a strong interest to investigate evolu-
tionary processes of organismic interaction with their
abiotic and biotic environment at the molecular level,
the focus of our lab. We oer a stimulating scien-
tic environment and well-equipped research labora-
tories, including experimental facilities (see also https:/-
/popgenomik.uni-hohenheim.de/en for more information
on research projects).
The University of Hohenheim is a modern university
with a long tradition in the elds of agricultural and nat-
ural sciences. Research and teaching are characterized
by internationality, innovation, multidisciplinary, and
consistency subject to high scientic standards. Em-
bedded in an attractive and green environment, the
University Hohenheim combines the advantages of a
small campus area with the close vicinity to Stuttgart
as lively and cultural centre.
The University of Hohenheim is an equal opportunityemployer that tries to increase the number of women in
research and teaching. Applications of disabled persons
will be given preference if appropriately qualied.
Please send your applications, including CV with list
of publications, copies of degree certicates, detailed
statement of research interest (1-2 pages) and names
of 2-3 referees as one single pdf by email to Prof. Dr.
M. Hasselmann, martin.hasselmann@uni-hohenheim.de.
For more information, please contact Prof. Dr. M.
Hasselmann by email.
Applications are considered until the position is lled.
University of Hohenheim jInstitute of Animal Science
(460)j
Department of Livestock Population Genomics (460h)
Garbenstrasse 17 j70599 Stuttgart, Germany Tel: ++49
711-459 22481 (Oce) j++49 711-459 23581 (Secretary)
Web: https://popgenomik.uni-hohenheim.de/
Martin Hasselmann <martin.hasselmann@uni-
hohenheim.de >
UIdaho ComparativeGenomics
Postdoc: Genomics of Pipeshes and Seahorses
An NSF-funded postdoctoral position is available in
Adam Jones' Lab at the University of Idaho to study the
evolution and development of the male's brood pouch in
syngnathid shes (seahorses, pipeshes and seadragons).
The project is being conducted in collaboration with
Dr. William Cresko's group at the University of Oregon.
The postdoc will be involved in studies of comparative
genomics across the family Syngnathidae, investigations
of brood pouch morphology, and characterization of the
brood pouch microbiome. The position will be funded
for two years, with the possibility of a third year. The
postdoc will be based at the University of Idaho and
will interact extensively with the Cresko Lab at the
University of Oregon.
The University of Idaho is in Moscow, a small college
town located in Northern Idaho on the Washington bor-
der. Moscow is widely considered to be a great place
to live, and it's known for a pleasant downtown, active
farmer's market, and nearby recreational opportunities.
All of Moscow is within biking or walking distance of
the University of Idaho. For more information about
Moscow, see https://visitmoscowid.com/ . The Uni-
versity of Idaho has very strong faculty in evolutionFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 73
and genomics in multiple departments and interdisci-
plinary programs. Of particular note are the Bioin-
formatics and Computational Biology Program (BCB:
https://www.uidaho.edu/sci/bcb/people/faculty) and
the Institute for Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Stud-
ies (IBEST: https://www.ibest.uidaho.edu/index.php).
In addition, the University of Idaho is only eight miles
from Washington State University in Pullman, and fac-
ulty from the two institutions interact and collaborate
extensively.
Minimum qualications include: a Ph.D. in biological
sciences, bioinformatics, or a related discipline; experi-
ence conducting research in genomics or evolutionary
biology, as evidenced by publications in peer-reviewed
journals; and evidence of strong written and oral com-
munication skills. Experience analyzing next-generation
sequence data and familiarity with the genomics of ma-
rine shes are desirable but not required.
Apply at: https://uidaho.peopleadmin.com/postings/-
30003 Review of applications will begin January 15,
2021. The start date is exible.
The University of Idaho is an equal opportu-
nity/Armative Action/equal access employer.
Informal inquiries are encouraged and can be directed
to Adam Jones (adamjones@uidaho.edu).
\adamjones@uidaho.edu" <adamjones@uidaho.edu >
UIllinois UrbanaChampaign
EvolutionPunctureMechanics
A postdoctoral researcher position is available in the
Anderson lab in the Department of Evolution, Ecol-
ogy and Behavior at the University of Illinois, Urbana-
Champaign. The Anderson lab seeks a post-doctoral
scholar with a strong interest in some combination of
the following: biomechanics, fracture mechanics, impact
dynamics, mathematical modeling and/or evolutionary
analyses. The applicant will work alongside the PI
and lab members to assess how physical principles un-
derlying functional performance inuence evolutionary
processes. The focus of this specic project is how en-
ergy ow through biological puncture events impacts
the evolution of these systems (e.g. teeth, spines and
stingers).
Requirements:
Ph. D. in biology or engineeringPublication record in recognized journals
Some experience in a combination of the following:
comparative biomechanics, fracture mechanics (experi-
mental or modeling), impact dynamics, and/or compar-
ative evolutionary analyses.
The start date for this position is negotiable. Evaluation
of applications will begin immediately and priority will
be given to applications that are complete by March 1st.
The position will remain open until a suitable candidate
is found.
Please nd the full advertisement with application in-
structions here: https://www.philipslanderson.com/
Phil Anderson andersps@illinois.edu
\Anderson, Philip S L" <andersps@illinois.edu >
UMaine EcoEvolutionaryModeling
Postdoc position in eco-evolutionary modeling available
starting Fall 2021!
We seek an enthusiastic postdoctoral researcher to join
the EcoEvoMatics lab (https://www.ecoevomatics.org;
principal investigator Dr. Andy Rominger) at the Uni-
versity of Maine.
We are seeking applicants with strong quantitative
and computational backgrounds, as well as experi-
ence in next-generation sequencing-enabled approaches
to studying biodiversity. The postdoc is expected
to contribute to the Rules of Life Engine (RoLE;
https://role-model.github.io) project, specically ex-
panding the functionality of the RoLE model and test-
ing it across a diversity of datasets. These data come
from close collaborators of the project and include
impressive quantications of the biodiversity in sys-
tems such as Hawaiian terrestrial arthropods (https://-
nature.berkeley.edu/hawaiidimensions), marine inverte-
brates in Palau (http://mnd.ucmerced.edu/Research/-
Overview.html), birds and arthropods in the Brazil-
lian Atlantic Forest (https://www.carnavallab.org/-
biodiversity-prediction), and the entirety of publicly
available data provided by the National Ecological Ob-
servatory Network (https://www.neonscience.org).
Qualications: - Conferral of a PhD degree before 1
September 2021 - Experience with scientic computing,
ideally including strength in Python, R, Bash, C++ -
Experience with design of UX/UI for scientic software
- Experience in developing open software as part of a74 EvolDir February 1, 2021
team (e.g. familiarity with Git and an online Git reposi-
tory such as GitHub) - Familiarity with next generation
sequencing approaches for the study of biodiversity (e.g.
metabarcoding)
The EcoEvoMatics lab is jointly housed in the School of
Biology and Ecology (https://sbe.umaine.edu) and the
Maine Center for Genetics in the Environment (https://-
umaine.edu/mcge). The postdoc will also join a vibrant
community of researchers working together as part of
Maine-eDNA (https://umaine.edu/edna) and a network
of collaborators contributing to the Rules of Life Engine
project.
In the EcoEvoMatics lab we value diversity and strive
to be a safe and welcoming space for all researchers.
Please read more about our lab philosophy on our group
website (https://www.ecoevomatics.org/philosophy).
The anticipated salary for this position is $50,000 com-
mensurate with experience and qualications. Ideal
start date is 1 September 2021 with some room for
exibility.
To apply please submit materials through the o-
cial job posting: https://umaine.hiretouch.com/job-
details?jobid=66549. Required materials are:
- a cover letter discussing your interest in joining the
EcoEvoMatics lab and the Rule of Life Engine project;
this letter is a space to discuss your research interests,
desired outcomes of a postdoc in our group, and your
engagement with diversity, equity, and inclusion - a re-
sume/curriculum vitae - contact information for three
professional references
Please send any questions to Andy Rominger (an-
drew.rominger@maine.edu). Review of applications will
begin March 1, 2021 and continue until the position is
lled.
The University of Maine is an EEO/AA employer and
does not discriminate on the grounds of race, color,
religion, sex, sexual orientation, transgender status, gen-
der expression, national origin, citizenship status, age,
disability, genetic information or veteran's status in
employment, education, and all other programs and
activities. The following person has been designated to
handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies:
Director of Equal Opportunity 101 North Stevens Hall
University of Maine Orono, ME 04469-5754 (207) 581-
1226, TTY 711 (Maine Relay System)
Andy Rominger <andrew.rominger@maine.edu >UMemphis InsectBioinformatics
A 4-year postdoctoral fellowship in insect phylogenomics,
comparative genomics, ecology & evolution (with a fo-
cus on bioinformatics) is available in the laboratory of
Dr. Duane McKenna at the University of Memphis
(http://www.duanemckenna.com).
Position Summary: The successful applicant will be
primarily responsible for data analysis and wet lab work
associated with a variety of comparative genomic, phy-
logenomic, and evolutionary studies of insects, and will
work closely with Dr. McKenna and other members of
the McKenna lab. All applicants with relevant back-
ground will be considered, regardless of the organism(s)
previously studied. The position oers opportunities for
mentoring students and for being mentored, building
new collaborations, writing grants and scientic papers,
and learning/developing/implementing cutting-edge an-
alytical and laboratory methods and tools.
The position oers a competitive salary plus benets.
The initial appointment is for one year, and is renewable
for at least 3 additional years, contingent upon outstand-
ing annual performance evaluations and availability of
funding. Applications must be submitted online at
https://workforum.memphis.edu/ and include a cover
letter, CV, two representative publications, and contact
information (not letters) for at least three professional
references.
Required Qualications: A Ph.D. in bioinformatics,
computational biology, data science, ecology, evolution,
genetics, genomics, phylogenomics, systematic biology,
or similar. A strong record of scientic publication.
Experience generating and analyzing various kinds of
genomic/molecular data. Strong communication and
interpersonal skills, including a proven ability to work
both independently and as part of a team.
The McKenna Lab: Lab members study insect sys-
tematics, genomics, ecology, evolution and diversity.
Focal areas of study include the phylogeny and evolu-
tion of beetles (order Coleoptera) and other insects,
the evolution and genomic basis of plant-feeding in
beetles, and interactions between insects and plants
on ecological and evolutionary time scales. The lab
hosts a highly-collaborative group of postdocs, PhD
research associates, a research assistant professor, grad-
uate and undergraduate students, and volunteers. We
are part of a large community of biodiversity scientistsFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 75
associated with the Center for Biodiversity Research
(www.umbiodiversity.org) in the Department of Biolog-
ical Sciences (https://www.memphis.edu/biology/) at
the University of Memphis'Xa leading metropolitan re-
search and teaching institution in Memphis, TN, U.S.A.
Application deadline: The position is open until
lled. For more info. and to apply, visit: http:/-
/workforum.memphis.edu/postings/25665 Contact for
questions: Duane McKenna (dmckenna@memphis.edu)
Duane McKenna PhD William D. Hill Professor
of Biology Department of Biological Sciences Uni-
versity of Memphis Director, Center for Biodiver-
sity Research Director, Agriculture & Food Tech-
nologies Research Cluster, FedEx Institute email:
dmckenna@memphis.edu http://duanemckenna.com
www.umbiodiversity.org \Duane McKenna (dmckenna)"
<dmckenna@memphis.edu >
UMichigan
EvolGenomicsLifeHistory
Postdoctoral position in avian evolutionary genomics
The lab of Dr. Ben Winger in the Department of Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology and the Museum of Zoology at
the University of Michigan is accepting applications for
a postdoctoral scientist position in avian evolutionary
genomics.
We conduct research on diverse topics related to avian
evolution and evolutionary ecology. For this position,
we are interested in a candidate with experience in the
collection and analysis of genomic data and expertise
in areas such as any of the following: genome evolution,
population genetics and historical demography, land-
scape and spatial genetics, introgression and gene ow,
and/or gene expression. The position involves oppor-
tunities to advance ongoing collaborative projects, as
well as to develop new projects that leverage our cur-
rent datasets and ongoing data collection. The specic
focus of the project will depend somewhat on the ex-
perience and interests of the applicant, but will involve
the relationship between life history (especially seasonal
migration) and evolutionary processes such as gene ow,
population dierentiation, range expansion and molec-
ular evolution. We are mainly using North American
birds as a study system, but the research may involve
other systems as well.
Critical to the success of the position will be the abilityand desire to work both independently and collabora-
tively with other members of the lab. Duties may involve
project coordination and development, analysis of ge-
nomic data and bioinformatics, wet lab work (including
preparation of genomic libraries), training of gradu-
ate and undergraduate students, and dissemination of
results through manuscript writing and conference pre-
sentations.
A successful applicant will have a PhD in evolution-
ary biology or a related eld prior to their start date,
demonstrated success in publication of original research,
a passion for biodiversity, expertise in one or more of the
areas mentioned above, and a commitment to fostering a
supportive and inclusive work environment. Knowledge
of avian biology and avian diversity is desirable but not
essential.
This Postdoctoral Fellowship is intended to be a two-
year position, pending a successful performance review
after the rst year. Desired start date is by Septem-
ber 2021. Applicants should send a letter ( <2 pages)
describing relevant experience, expertise and interests,
a CV, and list of three references to Dr. Ben Winger
(wingerb@umich.edu) by February 19th, 2021.
More information on our lab and our research is at
www.wingerlab.org and our department at https://-
lsa.umich.edu/eeb and https://lsa.umich.edu/ummz. In-
formation on Postdoctoral life at UM is available at
https://rackham.umich.edu/postdoctoral-fellows/ Ben
Winger <wingerb@umich.edu >
UOslo PDF PhD FaunalDiversity
Postdoc and PhD position available at the Centre for
Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis (CEES), Depart-
ment of Biosciences, University of Oslo.
Both positions are associated with the project \EvoCave:
Investigating 122 000 years of high-latitude faunal di-
versity using palaeozoology, archaeology, palaeoecology
and ancient DNA" funded by the Research Council of
Norway.
The EvoCave project forms a close collaboration be-
tween the CEES (University of Oslo), the University
Museum of Bergen, the Department of Earth Sciences
at the University of Bergen (UiB), the Norwegian Uni-
versity of Life Sciences (NMBU), the Centre for Palaeo-
genetics (Stockholm), The Arctic University Museum of
Norway and the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary76 EvolDir February 1, 2021
Anthropology.
Please nd the full advertisements with application
instructions here: https://www.jobbnorge.no/-
en/available-jobs/job/199560/phd-research-
fellow-in-palaeoecology-and-ancient-dna https://-
www.jobbnorge.no/en/available-jobs/job/199576/-
postdoctoral-research-fellow-in-quaternary-geology-
and-palaeoecology Application deadlines: 21.02.2021.
Starting date PhD: 01.09.2021. Starting date postdoc:
01.06.2021 (with absolute latest start date 01.08.2021).
Questions about the position can be directed to Dr.
Sanne Boessenkool (sanne.boessenkool@ibv.uio.no)
Sanne Boessenkool <sanneboessenkool@gmail.com >
UVirginia CoevolutionaryGenetics
The Department of Biology at the University of Virginia
invites applicants for a post-doctoral Research Associate
position in the lab of Professor Amanda Gibson as part
of a 5-year NIH-funded project.
The big questions we're pursuing with this project are:
* How do organisms adapt to rampant uncertainty? *
In what ways does context, both environmental and
genetic, change the alleles that matter for tness? * To
what extent do these genetic interactions confound our
ability to map genotype to phenotype? (and can we
overcome this?)
We use resistance to parasites as a model trait to get
at these questions. The work will make use of the ex-
perimental tools and resources available for the model
nematode C. elegans and its natural parasites, including
experimental evolution, cryogenic preservation, high-
throughput phenotyping, transgenic methods, wild iso-
lates with whole genome sequences, and public resources
for genetic mapping. You can nd read more about the
position and the lab at https://coevolving.org/join-us/
https://coevolving.org/join-us/ REQUIRED QUALI-
FICATIONS:
* A PhD in Biology or a related eld by the start date
* Excellent written and oral communication, demon-
strated by a strong publication record, consistent with
the candidate's career stage, and presentations at con-
ferences * Demonstrated ambition, creativity, indepen-
dence, and ability to work well with others * A strong
background in experimental design, data analysis, and
data management * Interest and condence in develop-
ing new techniques for hypothesis testing * Experiencein mentoring undergraduate students and a dedication
to promoting underrepresented groups in STEM
PREFERRED QUALIFICATIONS:
* Demonstrated strengths in evolutionary genetics, host-
parasite coevolution or closely allied elds * Experience
with analysis and interpretation of genomic data and
design of mapping studies
The Biology Department at UVA
(https://bio.as.virginia.edu/http://bio.as.virginia.edu/)
is an excellent training environment for curious, highly
motivated scientists. The successful applicant can
expect to interact frequently with the department's
strong, collegial group of evolutionary ecologists and
geneticists (https://www.eebvirginia.org/https://-
www.eebvirginia.org/). In joining the lab, new members
sign on to our commitment to promoting an inclusive
and safe environment, supporting all the members of
our team in realizing their full potential, and actively
valuing the creativity and productivity that comes from
the meeting of diverse minds.
APPLICATION PROCEDURE: Apply online
at https://uva.wd1.myworkdayjobs.com/en-US/-
UVAJobs/job/Charlottesville-VA/Research-Associate-
in-Biology R0021083 and attach a cover letter,
curriculum vitae, 2-3 writing samples (preferably
rst-author publications, published or in prep), and
contact information for three individuals who can
provide professional reference letters. In the cover
letter, please address your t with the qualications
above and your experience in mentoring undergraduates.
Applications by members of underrepresented groups
are strongly encouraged. Please note that multiple
documents can be uploaded in the box.
APPLICATION DEADLINE: Review of applications
will begin on February 10, 2021. The University will
perform background checks on all new hires prior to
employment.
This is a one-year appointment; however, appointment
may be renewed for an additional two, one-year incre-
ments, contingent upon available funding and satisfac-
tory performance.
Interested applicants are invited to email Amanda
Gibson, Assistant Professor, at amandakgib-
son@virginia.edu to discuss the position.
For questions about the application process, please con-
tact Richard Haverstrom, Faculty Search Advisor, at
rkh6j@virginia.edu.
For information on the benets available to postdoc-
toral associates at UVA, visit postdoc.virginia.edu and
hr.virginia.edu/benets.February 1, 2021 EvolDir 77
The University of Virginia, including the UVA Health
System which represents the UVA Medical Center,
Schools of Medicine and Nursing, UVA Physician's
Group and the Claude Moore Health Sciences Library,
are fundamentally committed to the diversity of our
faculty and sta. We believe diversity is excellence ex-
pressing itself through every person's perspectives and
lived experiences. We are equal opportunity and ar-
mative action employers. All qualied applicants will
receive consideration for employment without regard to
age, color, disability,
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Wageningen Kiel Bioinformatics
The Evolutionary (Meta-)genomics group in the Bioin-
formatics Group at Wageningen University invites ap-
plications for a postdoc position. The position is for
one year with the possibility for extension depending
on funding.
We are interested in the evolution and function of
CRISPR associated (Cas) genes in archaea. CRISPR-
Cas is the adaptive immune system of bacteria and
archaea and, in addition, some cas genes occur outside
of CRISPR-Cas loci, where they are potentially involved
in functions beyond defense. For example, casposons
are mobile genetic elements encoding Cas1. We are
interested in detecting such non-canonical cas genes in
archaea, predicting their function, and studying their
evolution. We oer the opportunity to develop the focus
of the project with respect to own research interests.
Candidate qualication and competences: PhD in bioin-
formatics or a related eld; excellent background in
high-throughput sequencing analysis and comparative
genomics; interest in close collaborations with exper-
imental biologists; high self-motivation; excellent En-
glish language skills; ideally background in microbial
genomics, evolution, and mobile elements.
The position is based at Kiel University and the project
will be led by Dr. Anne Kupczok (Wageningen Uni-
versity, Netherlands) in collaboration with Prof. Ruth
Schmitz-Streit (Kiel University, Germany). The project
can be carried out at either place or also remotely.Applications should include a motivation letter (max.
2 pages), CV, publication list, and names and contact
details of at least two referees in a single pdf. Evaluation
of the applications will begin immediately and continue
until the position is lled, with a desired starting date
as early as possible.
To apply or for enquiries regarding the position
and research topic, please contact Anne Kupczok:
anne.kupczok@wur.nl
http://www.wur.nl/en/Expertise-Services/Chair-
groups/Plant-Sciences/Bioinformatics.htm https://-
annecmg.github.io/ Dr. Anne Kupczok Assistant
Professor Bioinformatics, Department of Plant Sciences,
Wageningen University
\Kupczok, Anne" <anne.kupczok@wur.nl >
WashingtonU
ComputationalPhylogenetics
Project
We are hiring for a NSF-funded postdoctoral research
position. The researcher will join the lab of Dr. Michael
Landis, located on the Danforth Campus in the De-
partment of Biology at Washington University in St.
Louis (WUSTL). The Landis Lab studies problems in
phylogenetics, biogeography, and trait evolution by de-
signing statistical models, developing inference methods
as software, and analyzing biodiversity data.
The postdoctoral researcher will develop inference meth-
ods for modeling historical biogeography, lineage di-
versication, and paleogeographical dynamics in the
Bayesian phylogenetic modeling framework, RevBayes (
revbayes.com). The research will advance how evolution-
ary biologists model and understand the relationships
between speciation, extinction, molecular evolution, bio-
geography, and time-varying geographical barriers. The
postdoc will have opportunities to mentor graduate and
undergraduate researchers, to teach at computational
biogeography workshops, publish rst-author articles,
and present at major conferences.
The postdoctoral research will interact regularly with
other project team members, including Dr. Felipe Za-
pata (University of California, Los Angeles), Dr. Nina
Rnsted (National Tropical Botanical Garden, Hawaii),
Dr. Warren Wagner (Smithsonian Natural History Mu-
seum), Dr. Bruce Baldwin (UC Berkeley), and Dr. Will
Freyman (23andMe). The team will also recruit a sec-78 EvolDir February 1, 2021
ond postdoctoral researcher to be hired by and based
at UCLA who will collect plants and perform phyloge-
nomic analyses to study the systematics, biogeography,
and ecology of one dozen largely unsequenced clades of
Hawaiian endemic plants. A third postdoctoral position
based at NTBG in Hawaii focused on plant systematics
of a selection of the twelve lineages will be advertised
later.
Qualications
Candidates must hold a PhD in biology, bioinformatics,
computer science, statistics, or a related eld, and have
a track-record of publishing research for biological meth-
ods. Applicants must be able to demonstrate their expe-
rience developing models and methods for phylogenetics
and/or population genetics. The researcher will develop
within the phylogenetics modeling software, RevBayes
(revbayes.com), and collaborate with an international
team of researchers and developers. Programming ex-
perience is necessary, with preference for C/C++/Java
over Python/R. Experience with biogeographical meth-
ods is an advantage but not required.
Employment
The position is full-time ( ~37.5 hrs/wk) and is funded
for three years, with a salary following the NIH Salary
Guidelines. Intended starting date is May 1st, 2021,
subject to Covid-19 restrictions and potential visa re-
quirements. The candidate must hold a PhD degree at
the start date of the position. WashU oers outstanding
benets, including health, dental, vision, and life insur-
ance (https://hr.wustl.edu/benets/postdoctoral/). St.
Louis itself is both an exciting and family-friendly city,
with aordable housing and excellent access to food,
music, art, and public spaces.
Application
Application review will begin on Feb 1st, 2021, and
continue until a candidate is hired.
Visit https://jobs.wustl.edu and enter job ID 50059 or
visit https://bit.ly/3hJnoiJ to apply for this position.
The application will require you to submit (i) your cur-
rent CV, (ii) a 1-2 page cover letter that briey states
your research interests, previous research experience
and accomplishments, and your t for this position,
(iii) two relevant research papers (preprints, submitted,
published, etc.) that you authored, (iv) links to any
examples of code you wrote (e.g. GitHub), and (v)
contact information for two potential references.
WUSTL is an Equal Opportunity Employer. All quali-
ed applicants will receive consideration for employment
without regard to race, color, religion, age, sex, sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, national ori-gin, genetic information, disability, or protected veteran
status.
Contact
Please feel welcome to email michael.landis@wustl.edu
with any questions regarding this posting. Learn more
about the research group at landislab.org .
Michael Landis <michael.landis@wustl.edu >
WSL Birmensdorf Switzerland
EcologicalGenomics
In the frame of the BiodivERsA project ACORN, the
Research Group Ecological Genetics is searching for 2
years (with option of extension), starting April 1, 2021,
a highly motivated (f/m/d)
Post-Doc in Ecological Genomics (80%)
You plan and perform samplings of plant material for
DNA extraction and seeds in natural populations of
three white oak species in Switzerland. You estab-
lish and maintain a large common garden experiment
with juvenile plants. You genotypically and pheno-
typically characterize the seedlings and perform geno-
type?phenotype associations to elucidate the genomic
basis of tness-relevant traits. In collaboration with
the European project partners, you publish the results
in international scientic journals and present them at
dedicated conferences. Your applied ndings will be
transferred to the practitioners via dedicated forestry
media. You have acquired a PhD in biology, forest or
environmental sciences, with a strong background in
ecological genetics and evolutionary biology as well as
competence in bioinformatics. You should be acquainted
with the combined statistical analysis of phenotypic and
genomic data. You have experience with experimental
work and you like to work in the eld. You are ambi-
tious to communicate and collaborate in uent English
with an international consortium and are used to a high
standard of independence. Furthermore, you have a
well-structured and careful working attitude and you
demonstrate a high level of team spirit.
Please send your complete application to Mich ele Bucher,
Human Resources WSL, by uploading the requested doc-
uments through our webpage. Applications via email
will not be considered. Christian Rellstab, phone +41
(0)44 739 25 42 or christian.rellstab(at)wsl.ch, will be
happy to answer any questions or oer further informa-
tion. The WSL strives to increase the proportion ofFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 79
women in its employment, which is why qualied women
are particularly called upon to apply for this position.
The Swiss Federal Institute for Forest, Snow and Land-
scape Research WSL is part of the ETH Domain. Ap-
proximately 600 people work on the sustainable use and
protection of the environment and on the handling of
natural hazards. The Research Unit Biodiversity and
Conservation Biology studies the diversity of life in its
various forms, from genetic diversity to the diversity of
species and ecosystems as well as their interactions.
Dr. Christian RellstabSenior Researcher Associate Editor of Tree Genetics &
Genomes
Biodiversity and Conservation Biology Ecological Ge-
netics Swiss Federal Institute WSL Z urcherstrasse 111
8903 Birmensdorf Switzerland
Room: Bi MG C 39 Phone WSL: +41 44 739 2542 Phone
mobile: +41 79 256 44 06 Phone home oce: +41 43
536 67 15 E-mail: christian.rellstab@wsl.ch https://-
www.wsl.ch/en/employees/rellstab.html Oce days:
tuesday - friday
christian.rellstab@wsl.ch
WorkshopsCourses
Online Biodiversity Mar15-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Online BiologyIntegrationInst May18-19 . . . . . . . . . . .80
Online EnvironmentalMetagenomics Apr19-23 . . . . . 81
Online GenomeAssemblyNanopore Feb22-26 . . . . . . .81
Online GeometricMorphometrics Apr12-16 . . . . . . . . 82
Online LandscapeGeneticDataAnalysisUsingR Mar15-19 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .82
Online Metabarcoding Mar1-28 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .83
Online RADSeq Feb8-11 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
Online UnixForBioinform Apr26-30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .84
UMichigan EvolDiversity May3-6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .85
Online Biodiversity Mar15-19
ONLINE COURSE 'V
Functional ecology from organism to ecosystem: the-
ory and computation (FEER02) This course will be
delivered live
https://www.prstatistics.com/course/functional-
ecology-from-organism-to-ecosystem-theory-and-
computation-feer02/ 15 March 2021 - 19 March
2021
This is a ' ^A LIVE COURSE' ^A 'V the instructor willbe delivering lectures and coaching attendees through
the accompanying computer practical' ^As via video link,
a good internet connection is essential.
TIME ZONE 'V Central European Time (CET) 'V
however all sessions will be recorded and made avail-
able allowing attendees from dierent time zones to
follow a day behind with an additional 1/2 days support
after the ocial course nish date (please email oliv-
erhooker@prstatistics.com for full details or to discuss
how we can accommodate you).
Course Overview:
The course will describe dierent aspects and methods
in the eld of functional ecology, combining theoretical
lessons with hands-on real data. Lectures will provide
the theoretical and mathematical basis for dierent ap-80 EvolDir February 1, 2021
plications of functional traits at organismal, community
and ecosystem levels, with examples across dierent
trophic levels. This will serve as a basis for exploring
the practical tools to connect the eect of land-use and
climate change on biodiversity to the eect of biodiver-
sity on to multiple ecosystem functions and ecological
services. An overview of existing computational meth-
ods, including recent developments authored by the
lecturers, will be provided during the course and the
students will learn how to apply them using functions
and scripts run in R. Students are welcome to apply
these tools to their own data, or use the data provided,
to be analysed during the course while beneting from
advise by the lecturers. As such, compared to other
courses given by the lectures, this is a slightly a more
advanced and data oriented course which concentrates
on detailed and practical aspects in functional traits
related applications, especially computational ones. The
aim of the course is to provide participants with a handy
synthesis of existing concepts, tools and trends in func-
tional ecology and guide them to apply these tools to
their own eld of interest. As the eld of functional
ecology is rapidly expanding, participants will be ready
to exploit the potential of the main trait approaches.
Upcoming courses
Model-based multivariate analysis of abundance data
using R (MBMV03) 1 February 2021 - 12 February
2021 https://www.prstatistics.com/course/model-
based-multivariate-analysis-of-abundance-data-using-
r-mbmv03/ Making beautiful and eective maps
in R (MAPR02) 17 February 2021 - 18 February
2021 https://www.prstatistics.com/course/making-
beautiful-and-eective-maps-in-r-mapr02/ Stable
Isotope Mixing Models using SIBER, SIAR, MixSIAR
(SIMM07) 22 February 2021 - 25 February 2021 https:/-
/www.prstatistics.com/course/stable-isotope-mixing-
models-using-r-simm07/ Introduction to statistics
using R and Rstudio (IRRS03) 24 February 2021 - 25
February 2021 https://www.prstatistics.com/course/-
introduction-to-statistics-using-r-and-rstudio-irrs03/
Introduction to generalised linear models using R
and Rstudio (IGLM03) 3 March 2021 - 4 March 2021
https://www.prstatistics.com/course/introduction-to-
generalised-linear-models-using-r-and-rstudio-iglm03/
Species distribution modelling with Bayesian statis-
tics in R (SDMB02) 8 March 2021 - 12 March
2021 https://www.prstatistics.com/course/species-
distribution-modelling-with-bayesian-statistics-in-r-
sdmb02/ Introduction to mixed models using R and
Rstudio (IMMR04) 10 March 2021 - 11 March 2021
https://www.prstatistics.com/course/introduction-to-
mixed-models-using-r-and-rstudio-immr04/ Landscape
genetic data analysis using R (LNDG04) 15 March2021 - 19 March 2021 https://www.prstatistics.com/-
course/landscape-genetic-data-analysis-using-r-lndg04/
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.html
Online BiologyIntegrationInst
May18-19
Andrea Brennan, PhD jProject Coordinator, Biology
Integration Institute Design
The Morton Arboretum j4100 Illinois Route 53 jLisle,
Illinois 60532 765-427-7419 jabrennan@mortonarb.org j
mortonarb.org
The Center for Tree Science (CTS) at The Morton
Arboretum is a hub for independent and innovative
research centered on trees and the role they play in
globally diverse environments. In September 2020, we
were awarded funding from the National Science Founda-
tion to design a Biology Integration Institute (BII) with
the intent of submitting a proposal in January 2022.To
broaden our network and facilitate new collaborations
and transformative research, we are soliciting potential
collaborators for a workshop to design a Biology Inte-
gration Institute focused on the theme of Terrestrial
Responses to Emerging Environments through Time,
Integrated from Moments to Eons (TREETIME).
Workshop participants will take part in periodic asyn-
chronous activities this spring to rene the theme of the
proposed BII, culminating in a 2-day workshop on May
18th (Tuesday) and 19th (Wednesday) in which we will
build team cohesion, nalize the scope of the BII, and
develop research projects and hypotheses. Further infor-
mation and details regarding the workshop and design
of the BII at the The Morton Arboretum are available
on the attached document as well as here. Additionally,
on January 19, 1:00-2:00 PM (Central Time), we will be
holding a live, virtual Q&A session that you can join to
learn additional information (details forthcoming). You
may register for the event here. You may also reach out
to any of us (contact information included below) for
further information.
As an independent, nonprot organization, The Morton
Arboretum has a responsibility to serve the public good.February 1, 2021 EvolDir 81
This responsibility is best informed by including diverse
perspectives at all levels, including the design, execution,
and application of our scientic research. Interested col-
laborators must share this commitment and positively
contribute to advancing inclusion, diversity, equity, and
accessibility.
If you are interested in applying to participate in the
TREETIME BII research development workshop, please
complete the application here. If preferred, you can
instead copy and paste the following URL into your
browser: https://tinyurl.com/y6nnn66d Applications
will be evaluated on an ongoing basis to generate a di-
verse and cohesive group. We anticipate a rst round
of invitations in late January with a nalized list of
participants by the end of February. We encourage
you to share this information on TREETIME and our
workshop application with any interested individuals or
groups.
We are excited about the possibility of collaborating on
TREETIME!
Sincerely,
Andrea Brennan, PhD Project Coordinator, BII Design
The Morton Arboretum abrennan@mortonarb.org
Chuck Cannon, PhD Director, Center for Tree Science
The Morton Arboretum ccannon@mortonarb.org
Luke McCormack, PhD Tree Root Biologist & BII Re-
search Subgroup Leader The Morton Arboretum lmc-
cormack@mortonarb.org
Christy Rollinson, PhD Forest Ecologist & BII Re-
search Subgroup Leader The Morton Arboretum
crollinson@mortonarb.org
Andrea Brennan <abrennan@mortonarb.org >
Online EnvironmentalMetagenomics
Apr19-23
Dear all,
registrations are now open for the Physalia course
on Environmental Metagenomics, which will take
place ONLINE from the 19th to the 23rd of April:
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/-
environmental-metagenomics/ Instructors: Dr. Antti
Karkman and Dr. Igor S Pessi (University of Helsinki,
Finland).
During this one week course you will learn state-of-the-art bioinformatic approaches to analyse metagenomic
data. We will cover both read- and assembly-based
methods, focusing on the strenght of each of these meth-
ods depending on the research question. We will use
data from both short- (e.g. Illumina) and long-read
(e.g. Nanopore) sequencing platforms, as it improves
dramatically metagenome-assembled genomes (MAG)
assembling and binning compared to short-read-only
methods.
Learning Outcomes
By completing this course, you will:
- Understand the basics of metagenomic sequencing and
bioinformatic approaches to the analyis of metagenomic
data
- Be able to plan and execute a metagenomic sequencing
project
- Have an up-to-date knowledge on the bioinformatic
tools and best practices for the analysis of metagenomes
- Be able to choose the right tools and approaches to
answer your specic research question
- Have condence to learn new methods needed to answer
your research question
Program: https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-
workshops/course55/curriculum55/ The full list of
our online courses can be found here: ( https://-
www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/ )
All the best,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIREC-
TOR info@physalia-courses.org ( http://www.physalia-
courses.org/ ) Twitter: @physacourses mobile:
+49 17645230846 ( https://groups.google.com/forum/-
#!forum/physalia-courses )
\info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org >
Online GenomeAssemblyNanopore
Feb22-26
Dear all,
we have last places available on the 2nd edition of
the course \GENOME ASSEMBLY USING OXFORD
NANOPORE SEQUENCING, which will be delivered
remotely in February, 22nd-26th.82 EvolDir February 1, 2021
Course website: ( https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/course59/ )
This course will introduce the audience with a spectre
of methods which are present in a usual assembly work-
ow, starting from raw data and nishing with a fully
assembled genome. We will see how to obtain nucleotide
sequences from raw signals, dive deeper into the most
used assembly paradigm for long fragments, try out and
compare several state-of-the-art assemblers, and at last,
assess the quality of the obtained assembly with and
without a reference genome.
This course is intended for researchers interested in
learning the concepts of algorithms for de novo genome
assembly with Oxford Nanopore Technologies data.
Here is the full list of our courses and Workshops: (
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/ )
Should you have any questions, please feel free to contact
us: info@physalia-courses.org
Best regards,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org mobile: +49 17645230846 Fol-
low us on ( https://twitter.com/Physacourses )
"info@physalia-courses.org\ <info@physalia-
courses.org >
Online GeometricMorphometrics
Apr12-16
Dear all,
registrations are now open for the 4th edition of the
Geometric Morphometrics course with Dr. Carmelo
Fruciano (CNR, Italy).
Dates and time: ONLINE, 12-16 April (1-8 pm Berlin
time).
This course covers the main common practices of mod-
ern geometric morphometrics, including: acquiring data,
analysing it, visualizing and interpreting the results.
This course is aimed at beginners and intermediate users.
In other words, it is aimed at researchers who intend
to use geometric morphometrics or who have started
performing geometric morphometric analyses but feel
they need a more structured background.
Course website: ( https://www.physalia-courses.org/-courses-workshops/course22/ )
The full list of our online courses can be found here: (
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/ )
Should you have any questions, please feel free to contact
us at: info@physalia-courses.org
Best regards,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org mobile: +49 17645230846 Fol-
low us on ( https://twitter.com/Physacourses )
\info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org >
Online LandscapeGeneticDataAnaly-
sisUsingR
Mar15-19
ONLINE COURSE 'V Landscape genetic data analysis
using R (LNDG04) This course will be delivered live
https://www.prstatistics.com/course/landscape-genetic-
data-analysis-using-r-lndg04/ 15 March 2021 - 19
March 2021
This is a ' ^A LIVE COURSE' ^A 'V the instructor will
be delivering lectures and coaching attendees through
the accompanying computer practical' ^As via video link,
a good internet connection is essential.
TIME ZONE 'V Eastern Standard Time 'V however
all sessions will be recorded and made available al-
lowing attendees from dierent time zones to follow
a day behind with an additional 1/2 days support af-
ter the ocial course nish date (please email oliver-
hooker@prstatistics.com for full details or to discuss how
we can accommodate you).
Course Overview: The term ' ^A landscape genetics' ^A
has been applied studies that integrate ecological con-
text and intervening landscape into population genetic
analyses of contemporary processes such as gene ow
and migration. This course will cover the basics of both
quantitative landscape ecology and population genetics,
focusing on how we develop and evaluate spatial/genetic
analyses using the R platform.
Upcoming courses
Model-based multivariate analysis of abundance data
using R (MBMV03) 1 February 2021 - 12 FebruaryFebruary 1, 2021 EvolDir 83
2021 https://www.prstatistics.com/course/model-
based-multivariate-analysis-of-abundance-data-using-
r-mbmv03/ Making beautiful and eective maps
in R (MAPR02) 17 February 2021 - 18 February
2021 https://www.prstatistics.com/course/making-
beautiful-and-eective-maps-in-r-mapr02/ Stable
Isotope Mixing Models using SIBER, SIAR, MixSIAR
(SIMM07) 22 February 2021 - 25 February 2021 https:/-
/www.prstatistics.com/course/stable-isotope-mixing-
models-using-r-simm07/ Introduction to statistics
using R and Rstudio (IRRS03) 24 February 2021 - 25
February 2021 https://www.prstatistics.com/course/-
introduction-to-statistics-using-r-and-rstudio-irrs03/
Introduction to generalised linear models using R
and Rstudio (IGLM03) 3 March 2021 - 4 March 2021
https://www.prstatistics.com/course/introduction-to-
generalised-linear-models-using-r-and-rstudio-iglm03/
Species distribution modelling with Bayesian statis-
tics in R (SDMB02) 8 March 2021 - 12 March
2021 https://www.prstatistics.com/course/species-
distribution-modelling-with-bayesian-statistics-in-r-
sdmb02/ Introduction to mixed models using R and
Rstudio (IMMR04) 10 March 2021 - 11 March 2021
https://www.prstatistics.com/course/introduction-to-
mixed-models-using-r-and-rstudio-immr04/ Landscape
genetic data analysis using R (LNDG04) 15 March
2021 - 19 March 2021 https://www.prstatistics.com/-
course/landscape-genetic-data-analysis-using-r-lndg04/
Data visualization using GG plot 2 (R and Rstudio)
(DVGG02) https://www.prstatistics.com/course/data-
visualization-using-gg-plot-2-r-and-rstudio-dvgg02/ 17
March 2021 - 18 March 2021
Functional ecology from organism to ecosystem: theory
and computation (FEER02) 22 March 2021 - 26
March 2021 https://www.prstatistics.com/course/-
functional-ecology-from-organism-to-ecosystem-theory-
and-computation-feer02/ Model selection and model
simplication (MSMS01) 24 March 2021 - 25 March
2021 https://www.prstatistics.com/course/model-
selection-and-model-simplication-msms01/ Data
wrangling using R and Rstudio (DWRS02) 31 March
2021 - 1 April 2021 https://www.prstatistics.com/-
course/data-wrangling-using-r-and-rstudio-dwrs02/
Introduction to Python and Programming in Python
(PYIN02) 7 April 2021 - 8 April 2021
/
This message has been arbitrarily truncated at 5000 characters.
To read the entire message look it up at http://life.biology.-
mcmaster.ca/~brian/evoldir.htmlOnline Metabarcoding Mar1-28
Hello,
The University of Guelph has an upcoming continuing
education course in Metabarcoding running online this
winter.
Metabarcoding March 1 'V 28, 2021 Online Instructor:
Dr. Dirk Steinke
Thank you, Meghan
Meghan ClarkjManager, Marketing, Communications
and Enrolment OpenEd jUniversity of Guelph Rm 145
Johnston Hallj50 Stone Rd EjGuelph, ONjN1G
2W1 519-824-4120 Ext. 53755 jmclark35@uoguelph.ca
OpenEd.uoguelph.ca
Meghan Clark <mclark35@uoguelph.ca >
Online RADSeq Feb8-11
The University of Connecticut's Computational Biology
Core is oering a workshop on assaying genetic varia-
tion using restriction site associated DNA sequencing,
or RAD-Seq.
The workshop will cover basic concepts and walk
through a complete analysis on a high performance
computing cluster. The analysis will start with raw
reads and go through some very basic analyses of pop-
ulation genetic structure. The core learning goal is to
familiarize attendees with the steps necessary to ana-
lyze RAD-seq data, the tools available, common data
formats, and possible pitfalls they may encounter.
We'll analyze several hundred samples collected for a
landscape genetic study of arctic grayling, a freshwater
sh, using the ddRAD method (Peterson et al. 2012).
All code required to complete the full analysis will be
provided in a public github repository. Session record-
ings will be made available to all participants in the
afternoon after each session and will be accessible for
several months following the workshop.
The workshop will take place over 4 days for three hours
each day.84 EvolDir February 1, 2021
Dates: February 8-11 (4 days)
Time: Feb8: 8:30am - 12pm, Feb9-11: 9.00am - 12.00pm
Location: Online
Cost: $300
Workshop schedule:
Day 1: Introduction to Linux/HPC
Day 2: Introduction to RADSeq, high throughput se-
quencing data, quality control, read mapping
Day 3: Reference-based and de novo variant discovery
approaches.
Day 4: Manipulating, ltering, reformatting output les.
Basic population genomic analyses.
Registration
To register, please follow this link: https://forms.gle/-
Khsxm54tmC8jeG7Y6 Workshop FAQ
Who should attend?
Anyone who wants to learn the fundamentals of RAD-
seq analysis.
What are the prerequisites?
Prior bioinformatic experience is not required. We have
dedicated the rst day of the workshop to the basics of
Linux and high performance computing.
What do I need?
You will need your own laptop to use, have a recent
version of R, RStudio installed, and some other ap-
plications. We will send you details of software and
installation instructions with your registration acknowl-
edgement email.
Can I bring my own data?
We will provide an experimental dataset for use during
the workshop, as this helps to keep the workshop mov-
ing. There will be time, however, to discuss your own
datasets and how you might work with them outside of
the workshop.
How much does it cost?
The registration fee is $300.
How do I pay?
The fee is due at the time of registration. UConn af-
liates can use KFS accounts. The only other means
of payment we currently accept is credit card. Due to
some complications we cannot accept international wire
transfers at this time.
Where is the workshop?
It will be held on Blackboard-Collaborate platform, andwill run from 9:00am to 12:00pm on the dates indicated.
How do I apply?
All registration is \rst-come, rst-served." There is
no application process. Sign up as soon as possible to
ensure your place in the workshop.
Questions?
If you have any questions, please don't hesitate to
contact us at cbcsupport@uconn.edu or visit our web-
site at https://bioinformatics.uconn.edu/ \Reid, Noah"
<noah.reid@uconn.edu >
Online UnixForBioinform Apr26-30
Dear all,
applications are now open for our course \Unix and shell
scripting for bioinformatics", which will be delivered
remotely on April, 26th-30th.
Course website: https://www.physalia-courses.org/-
courses-workshops/unix/ In this course, students will
be introduced to the most powerful Unix commands
and they will learn how to connect to external re-
sources/servers, install specialist tools and ultimately
to combine commands into scripts for automation and
reproducibility. Hands-on sessions will focus on ap-
plying those tools to process biological data, explicitly
next-generation sequencing (NGS) data.
This course assumes no prior knowledge of Unix and
shell scripting. Since most examples will be focused on
biological data, some background in biology is desired.
Learning outcomes:
1) Mastering most popular Unix commands 2) Creating
and editing les using the command line 3) Processing
large les using Unix and bash scripting 4) Automat-
ing bioinformatics pipelines by writing shell scripts 5)
Managing system tasks and resources usage
Here is the full list of our courses and Workshops: (
https://www.physalia-courses.org/courses-workshops/ )
Should you have any questions, please feel free to contact
us: info@physalia-courses.org
Best regards,
Carlo
Carlo Pecoraro, Ph.D Physalia-courses DIRECTOR
info@physalia-courses.org mobile: +49 17645230846 Fol-February 1, 2021 EvolDir 85
low us on ( https://twitter.com/Physacourses )
\info@physalia-courses.org" <info@physalia-
courses.org >
UMichigan EvolDiversity May3-6
NextProf Science workshop
We wish to invite interested evolutionary biologists, ecol-
ogists, and organismal biologists to the NextProf Science
workshop at the University of Michigan.
NextProf Science(Virtual) Future Faculty Workshop
The University of Michigan will oer a NextProf Sci-
ence workshop, May 3-May 6, 2021. The workshop isaimed at encouraging talented scientists and mathemati-
cians with a demonstrated commitment to diversity to
consider academia as a career.
This year the workshop will be virtual but there will be
many opportunities to interact with faculty and other
participants and have your questions answered!
Participants will develop strategies to prepare them to
pursue academic careers. The workshop is targeted
at scholars ready to take the next step^ a euro \post-
doctoral fellows and very advanced doctoral students.
Underrepresented minorities and women are especially
encouraged to apply.
Deadline for submission of the application and reference
letter is January 25, 2021.
Learn more at: https://sites.lsa.umich.edu/nextprof-
science U-M EEB NextProf Organizing Committee
(Tom Duda & Andre Green)
"tfduda@umich.edu\ <tfduda@umich.edu >
Instructions
Instructions: To be added to the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. At
this time provide a binary six letter code that determines which messages will be mailed to you. These are listed
in the same order as presented here | Conferences; Graduate Student Positions; Jobs; Other; Post-doctoral
positions; WorkshopsCourses. For example to receive the listings that concern conferences and post-doctoral
positions this would be 100010. Messages are categorized on the basis of their subject headings. If this subject
heading is not successfully parsed, the message will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. In addition, if it
originates from `blackballed' addresses it will be sent to me at Golding@McMaster.CA. These messages will only
be read and dealt with when I have time. The code 000000 has all channels turned o and hence gets only a once
monthly notifcation of the availability of a monthly review pdf le.
To be removed from the EvolDir mailing list please send an email message to Golding@McMaster.CA. Note that
`on vacation', etc, style messages are automatically ltered and should not be transmitted to the list (I hope), but
should you wish to avoid the e-mail's your code can be temporarily changed to 000000.
To send messages to the EvolDir direct them to the email evoldir@evol.biology.McMaster.CA. Do not include
encoded attachments and do not send it as Word les, as HTML les, as L ATEX les, Excel les, etc. . . . plain old
ASCII will work great and can be read by everyone. Add a subject header that contains the correct category
\Conference:, Graduate position:, Job:, Other:, Postdoc:, Workshop:" and then the message stands a better chance
of being correctly parsed. Note that the colon is mandatory.86 EvolDir February 1, 2021
The message will be stored until the middle of the night (local time). At a predetermined time, the collected
messages will be captured and then processed by programs and lters. If the message is caught by one of the
lters (e.g. a subject header is not correctly formated) the message will be send to me at Golding@McMaster.CA
and processed later. In either case, please do not expect an instant response.
Afterword
This program is an attempt to automatically process a broad variety of e-mail messages. Most preformating is collapsed to save
space. At the current time, many features may be incorrectly handled and some email messages may be positively mauled. Although
this is being produced by L ATEX do not try to embed L ATEX or T EX in your message (or other formats) since my program will strip
these from the message.